
               			ELLON.                         903

period, the Bishop of Aberdeen also had lands of considerable ex-
tent in this parish.
  Ellon appears to have been, from the most ancient period to
which record extends, the head place of jurisdiction of the Earl-
dom of Buchan.  Among other proofs in evidence of this point,
is a charter now in the possession of Captain Ferguson of Pitfour,
granted before the year 1206, by which Fergus Earl of Buchan,
in conveying certain lands to John, the son of Uthred, takes him
bound to yield, alone, with his other vassals, suit and presence
thrice a year at the Earl's head court of Ellon.  The court in
question was held, according to primitive usage, in the open air.
Its sessions took plaee on a slight eminence, rising up from the
left, bank of the Ythan, about eighty or ninety yards below the
site of the bridge of Ellon.  This eminence, now occupied by the
stables and farm-yard of one of the principal inns of the village,
bore anciently the name of the moot hill of Ellon, but was com-
monly called in later times " The Earl's hill." It is specially men-
tioned in the charters of the Buchan family.  Thus, in 1476, a
seisin or livery of the earldom of Buchan was given unto James
Earl of Buchan, super montem de Ellone, (attestation by the
sheriff of Aberdeen, 28th October 1476), afterwards called Earl's
bill. James was succeeded by his eldest son Alexander, and
Alexander by his son John.  This John was seised in the Earldom
of Buchan, and Earl's hill thereof, as nearest kin to his father
Alexander, on the 4th day of August 1547.  The Earl's hill is
included in a new charter of the Earldom, granted in 1574 ; and
in 1615, Mary Douglas was infeft in the Earldom of Buchan and
Earl's hill.  The slight eminence or mound to which these char-
ters and infeftments make reference, has now disappeared ; its site,
as has been already observed, being otherwise occupied, but per-
sons are still living in the village of Ellon who remember the time
when the Earl's hill retained both its place and name.
   The tenure of the lands of Kenmuick, now called the lands of
Ellon in this parish, may have some interest for the antiquary.
There is attached to the proprietorship of these lands the herita-
ble office of constable of Aberdeen.  This office, which at one time
was of considerable dignity and importance, is probably as old as
the thirteenth century, when the Castle of Aberdeen would seem
to have been built.  The lands of Kenmuick or Ellon are now in
the possession of the Honourable William Gordon, second son of
the late Earl of Aberdeen; but the name of the old family of


