
                      CROSS AND BURNESS.                    105

above the ground, much the same in size and appearance as those
found in other parts of Orkney, especially in the parish of Firth
and Stenness.  Concerning the one here, there is no tradition either
as to its original use or the period of its erection.

                       III.-POPULATION.
   Habits of the People.-The customs of the people are much
the same as those prevalent in other parts of Orkney.  One only
seems to be quite peculiar, and is almost uniformly observed at
funerals,-the nearest of kin present being always expected to throw
upon the coffin the first spadeful of earth.  In the case of near re-
latives, this comes to be a very painful service; but it is regarded
as a sacred duty, and is not declined even by the most afflicted
widow.  What may have been the origin of the practice, it is per-
haps impossible to ascertain; but now, it is evidently considered'as
a proper mark of tenderness and respect towards the deceased.
It is reported in the former Statistical Account, that the popu-
lation was then (1791) 420,-211 males and 209 females.  By
the census taken in 1831, the population was 522,-247 males
and 275 females; exhibiting an increase in forty years of 102 in-
habitants.  The amount in April 1836 did not exceed 480, which
is owing to a new division of the lands having been made in 1832,
when the number of houses was reduced, and about eighty persons
left the island.

	The total number of families,	                                                112
	                    inhabited houses.                                            85
	The yearly average of births for the last five years, (not having data to go far-
	    ther back),                                                                  18
	The early average of marriages,                                               	  3
                             deaths                                                       6 2/6
	Number or unmarried men above 50 years of age,                                    0
	          widowers,                                                               3
	          unmarried women above 45,					          5
   These facts will be found to speak very highly for the general
healthfulness and prosperity of the population of the island.  There
is not a single person at the age of fifty, who has not felt himself
able. or at least thought he was so, to support a wife and family,
all who have reached that age being married; and what is perhaps
still more extraordinary, out of the whole number, three only are
widowers, and these very old men, while there are but five females,
who may be said to be without hope of marriage.  Then look to the
small number of deaths as compared with the number of births, the
one being little more than one-third of the other; and what is most
extraordinary of all, the small number of deaths in proportion to the
whole population.  The rate of mortality, judging from the last


