
                        AYR.                                      49

to six inches in depth, on a substratum very retentive of moisture,
the fields are all well subdivided and fenced in with thorn hedges,
the ridges are as straight as the nature of the surface will admit,
and the ploughing and dressing appear as well executed as could
be expected in such circumstances. The rotation of cropping here
followed is, 1. oats from lea; 2. fallow dressed with lime and dung;
3. wheat, and lastly, hay; after which it is laid down in pasture for
three or four years. As a considerable portion of the land must thus
remain in grass, much attention is paid to the produce of the dairy,
for which a ready sale is found at the market-town, or by purchas-
ers from Glasgow. Tile-draining has been practised to a consi-
derable extent, and with great advantage on such a soil as this;
and the farmer is sometimes aided by his landlord in the necessary
expense thus incurred, by an allowance made when a new lease is
granted. In the lower and more level parts of the parish, the soil
is rich and loamy, either on a clay bottom, or an open porous sub-
soil, and is from five inches to two feet in depth. The rotation
followed is, 1. oats; 2. green drilled crops of potatoes, turnips, &c.;
3. wheat; 4. hay; and lastly pasture. Tile-draining is here also
practised extensively, and with the happiest effects. Irrigation
is little tried in the parish, though in many parts it might be at-
tended with good results. The most enlightened and extensive
improvers of land, are, Archibald Hamilton, Esq. Rozelle; James
Ballantine, Esq. of Castlehill; Andrew Hunter, Esq. of Doon-
holm; Colonel M'Neight of Barns; and John Robb, Esq. of
Blackburn, who may be said to have new made his small estate.
By some of these, the subsoil plough has been used with ad-
vantage. Some farmers, where the soil is deep enough to admit
of it, have begun to try the experiment of deep ploughing; and it
cannot fail to succeed, as new earth is thereby turned up and work-
ed upon in the room of the surface mould, which is apt to lose its
strength and freshness, by repeated cropping from only a few inches
depth of soil. It must have an effect somewhat akin to trenching,
which is always productive, and we wonder why it is not more ge-
nerally practised. A considerable extent of ground near the sea
has been converted from heaps of barren sand, into tolerably good
soil. The principal obstacle to cultivation here is the want of ad-
hesion, but a remedy has been tried for this, and we believe with
success; by mixing the sand with clay, great quantities of which
had been thrown out in digging for coal, in the vicity of the har-
bour. Leases are generally held for nineteen years.
   AYR.                             D


