
			     RESCOBIE.			       607

is still visible; but the fort is entirely demolished, only one or two
of the foundation stones remaining, and these almost wholly cover-
ed over with grass.
	The Castle of Rescobie has been already mentioned. There
were, till lately, the ruins of another place called Weems or
Wemyss Castle,-a little to the north-east of the farm of West-
mains of Turin. It is said to have been possessed by one Lind-
says, who was a relative of another of the same name of Balgavies
in the parish of Aberlemno, and where the ruins of a castle are
still distinctly visible. These two Lindsays, it is said, united their
forces, and beat off Kemp, the possessor of the stronghold on the
top of the Hill of Turin, and compelled him to retire to another
castle that he had at Dunnottar. The ruins of this castle or fort
were, a few years ago, completely removed.
	There is a place on the farm of Rescobie, belonging to Mr
Anderson of Clacksbriggs, which was formerly called the Bloody
Butts. Perhaps this is a corruption of Blood-witts, which was a
fine paid to the superior in cases of manslaughter, on account of
the proprietor losing so much of his property or live-stock,-for so
the common people were once accounted, being viewed as adscripti
glebae. This portion of land, then, may have once been paid as a
compensation for blood that had been shed.
	When the railroad was forming, the workmen came upon
one of those subterraneous buildings called weems, probably from
the Gaelic wumb, a cave. It was on the farm of Wemyas of Pits-
candly, in the third field from the farm-house, and near to where
the briges is, that crossed the railroad. There was an ancient
hand-mill, called a quern, found in it, and a good deal of ashes
towards the inner end. Some think that these subterraneous build-
ings were hiding-holes, formed by the ancient inhabitants, for the
purpose of concealing both their persons and property, during sea-
sons of danger. Others, again, have supposed that they were
winter habitations of the rude natives.
	There is on the estate of Balmadies, or Ochterlony, and farm
of Chapelton, a cemetery, called the chapel-yard. In that bury-
ing-ground, there are 18 stones, 15 of which are in a row, belong-
ing to the Pearsons of Balmadies. The oldest date which can be
discovered on the stones is 9th June 1625, and the latest 10th
November 1771. It is probable that his had been a Roman
Catholic erection.
        Modern Buildings.-The mansion-houses in the parish are those
	FORFAR.			              R r


