
238                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   Trees.-The planting of wood has been carried on to a consi-
derable extent on the estate of Thurston, by the present proprie-
tor, and also by his father. The grounds immediately around the
mansion-house comprehend a variety of the hard woods. Some of
the trees are upwards of a hundred years old. In the year 1783,
a part, amounting to 160 imperial acres, of what formerly consti-
tuted Innerwick common, was planted with fir by the late Mr
Hunter of Thurston. The wood thus planted has made very dif-
ferent degrees of progress, and some of it so lately as last year
(1835,) appeared, though still alive, not to have advanced at all.
On the whole, however, this somewhat bold effort of planting has
succeeded, and Thurston High Wood, as this piece of scenery is
called, forms a fine variety among the neighbouring hills. On
farms belonging to the estate of Thurston, a few small plantations
have been formed. At a place, in the western part of the parish,
called by the various names, or varieties of the same name, Wood-
ley, Woodyley, Waldalee, and Weatherly, the banks of a ravine
are clothed with what appears to be natural wood, the wild beauty
of which breaks finely in on the surrounding scenery. Much of
the wood is oak, and the whole covers seventy acres. At the op-
posite extremity of the parish, the property of Branxton, which is
planted to the extent of thirty-six acres, exhibits trees of consi-
derable age and growth; and wood, but in small quantity, forms
one of the objects in that scene of simple beauty where the Castle
of Innerwick mingles its grey ruins with the fresher elements of
nature. The names Braidwood, Woodhall, Noodley, and perhaps
also, Aikengall, Elmscleuch, Birkiemuir, and Monynut, afford rea-
son for supposing that the places in the parish which they respec-
tively denote were formerly wooded, as, indeed, Woodley still is.
                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Landowners.-Under this head, a few details may be given re-
specting the state of property in the parish in ancient times. From
David I. Walter Stewart received the manor of Innerwick. The
grant was confirmed in 1157 by Malcolm IV.; and the superiority
of the Stewarts over Innerwick continued till the time of Charles
II. Ranulph de Kent, one of Walter's vassals, obtained from
him a right to a merk of silver annually from his mill of Innerwick;
and in the thirteenth century, a family called Glay-also, it is
probable, attached to the Stewarts by the law of vassalage,-held
part of the estate. In the time of David II., Isabel, daughter of
Roger de Glay, by her marriage with John de Hambleton, second


