
                        INVERESK.                              283

celebrated Routing Well, said to predict a storm, is situated in a
strip of plantation skirting the field to the south-west. The late
Dr Carlyle has explained this phenomenon, and we suspect right-
ly, on natural causes. "The case is, that this well, being dug
many fathoms deep, through a rock, in order to get below the
strata of coal that abound in the field, it communicates through
the coal-rooms that are wrought, with other shafts; which oc-
casions a rumbling noise, that does not precede, but accompanies
a high wind."*
   New Hailes, the seat of the celebrated author of "The An-
nals of Scotland," and other valuable works connected with the
ancient laws and literature of our country, is about half a mile
north-west from Stonyhill, and contains the library of his Lord-
ship, so rich in antiquarian lore. The grounds are beautifully laid
out, and near the house is a column, erected to the memory of
the great Earl of Stair. The ruins of the chapel of St Magda-
lone were at the north-west extremity of this estate; but, save an
occasional tombstone which has been dug up, no vestige of its
site remains. Parts of buildings nearer the sea, and, indeed, now
covered by it, appear to have been offices belonging to, this sacred
institution.
   In conclusion, we may mention, that among the more ancient
buildings of the place, are the Musselburgh Kilwinning Lodge,
built in 1612, in the back street called the Dambrae, in which is
also an ancient well, noted by housewives for the excellence of its
water in the infusion of tea, and still known as "the Vicar's Well,"
from having been attached to the vicarage of St Michael's. This,
from its immediate vicinity, stood in all probability on the site of
the present manse, which was built in 1806. The former manse
was built in 1681. +

<FOOTNOTE>Maitland in his "Perambulation of divers miles round Edinburgh," (1758.)
gives a pretty similar solution, which perhaps the Doctor might have seen. Nor is
this phenomenon peculiar to Monckton. Camden (Brit. in Com. Glamorg.) men-
tions something very similar in the Isle of Barry, near the mouth of the Taf, in
the chink of a rock; and at Stackpool Bosher in South Wales is a pit of immense
depth, which foams and bubbles before stormy weather, and makes a noise, some-
times to be heard at the distance of miles.
     During the incumbency of Dr Carlyle, this manse was a favourite resort of the
distinguished literati of the last age. Robertson and Hume, Mackenzie and Campbell,
Logan and Stuart, Home and Smollet, adn Beattie and Hill, were often its cherished
visitants. Great part of the Tragedy of Douglas was here composed; and it was here,
after Mackenzie and the late Lord Kinneder had attempted to fill up the hiatus, that
the long lost copy of Collins's sublime "Ode on the Superstitions of the Highlands"
was at length discovered in its perfected state. At a still earlier period, the sermons
of the pious and scholastic Williamson were dated from this place.
      For other minor antiquities in this parish see MS.


