
50	                   BANFFSHIRE.

there are montly or weekly meetings held, and contributions made
for religious purposes. The whole amount thus collected will
probably not exceed L. 25 per annum.
   The average amount of extraordinary collections in the parish
church for the last five years, (after deduction, in each case, of a
sum equal to an ordinary collection,) has been L. 25. About
three-fifths of the amount has been devoted to charitable, the re-
mainder to religious purposes.
   Education.-An academy was formed in 1786, * under the di-
rections of Dr Chapman, formerly rector of the grammar school at
Dumfries, and author of a work on Education of some character at
that period. The classes are taught by a rector and two masters:
Latin, Greek, and French by the rector; writing and mathema-
tics, together with book-keeping, geography, and navigation, by
one of the masters; English reading, elocution, and grammar, by
the other. Drawing is also taught by a separate master. The
expense of education varies, of course, according to the number
and description of branches in which each pupil takes lessons; but
the highest expense for a (principally) classical education, does
not ordinarily exceed 12s. 6d. per quarter; for a trading education,
9s. 6d.; an elementary, 6s. Course of book-keeping, L. 1, 1s.; na-
vigation, 10s. 6d.; French, 10s. 6d.
   The number of boys attending the academy has, of late years,
been about 150; of girls at separate hours, about 20. Each of
the masters, besides the fees of his class, receives a certain fixed
sum from the town. The rector also has the salary of parish
schoolmaster.
   The academy has 16 bursaries, one of which (in the disposal
of the Presbytery of Fordyce) is of the annual value of the
interest of L. 600. The value of the other 15 is from L. 2 to
L. 3, 4s. +

<FOOTNOTE>There is evidence of there having been a grammar school at Banff, as far back
as 1544. The charter (formerly mentioned) granted by the Carmelite brethren, to
Sir Walter Ogilvie of Dunlugas, bears to be witnessed, among others, "Gulliermo
Clerk, preceptore scholse grammatices de Banff."
     In the year 1585, Bishop Cunningham of Aberdeen granted a charter, confirmed
by James VI, in 1592, assigning the tenths of the King's rents of certain lands in the
county, for the maintenance of the grammar schools in Banff, the teacher to be appoint-
ed by the Provost, Bailies, and Town Council of Banff, but the trial of his fitness to
be with the Bishops of Aberdeen, or, failing them, the principal of King's College,
Aberdeen. These tenths amounted to L. 44, 10s. 6d. per annum; but it does not
appear that they have, up to a late period, or even ever been drawn. The charter,
(but recently discovered,) has been printed, with some additional notices regarding
the ancient state of the school.
     Three of these were endowed by Bailie Winchester,-of whom, as formerly men-
tioned, the Laird of Gight borrowed a trifle in 1644.


