
                          STRATHDON.                         531

the Kindy, the eastern boundary of the parish, all which take
their rise in the glens of their respective names. *  At the manse
the Don is about 70 feet wide, and is of very considerable veloci-
ty.  The Don, as well as the lesser streams, is here justly held in
high repute for angling, few places perhaps in Scotland affording
better rod-fishing.  The trouts are not large in general, perhaps
not averaging three-fourths of a pound; although instances are
occasionally met with reaching three, four, and even sometimes
five pounds.  A few salmon every season find their way up, but
the number is so small, that it is only in trouting that the angler
can find amusement.
   Rising in the mountains, and receiving so many mountain tri-
butaries, the Don often " comes down" with amazing rapidity.
The most destructive inundation in the memory of man, was in
1829.  The keystone of the arch of Pooldhulie bridge is 25 feet
above the river, and on that occasion the water, it is said, reached
within a few feet of it.  Much is now doing in the way of making
embankments, to guard against the devastation of the more ordi-
nary floods.  They have been more frequent since 1829, which is
believed to be occasioned by the shiftings that then took place in
the channel of the river. +
   Geology, &c.-The prevailing rock in this parish, and particular-
ly along the line of the Don, is sienite, generally of a granitic ap-
pearance.  It is composed of white felspar and hornblende.  These
minerals are oftentimes in pretty large crystals; and in veins the
hornblende is to be found in large crystallized masses.  Veins or
beds of compact felspar are found in this sienite.  Garnets also-
occur in some places.  The most remarkable vein, however, by
which this rock is traversed, is one of graphite, about four feet
wide.  This graphite is intimately mixed with dark-green chlo-
rite, which may be partly separated from it by rubbing in a mor-
tar, diffusing the powder in water, and knowing subsidence to take
place.  The difference in specific gravity, and the scaly form of
the chlorite, cause the powders to arrange themselves in two dis-.
tinct layers.  The graphite is not compact, but like soft clay,
probably from, this intermixture of chlorite.  The rock on each

<FOOTNOTE>In a curious old poem entitled " Don," printed in London, 1655, the tributaries
of the Don in this parish are described.
          Two or three years ago the proprietors of machinery on the Don contemplated
holding three extensive reservoirs in this parish, for a constant and regular supply of
water; one on the head of the Don, a second on the Nochty, and a third on the
Deskry.  Surveys were made, and, it is said, L.30,000 was to be expended.  Whether
the idea is now abandoned the writer cannot tell.


