
	                      KINGLASSIE.                 201

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Village and Means of Communication.-The only village in the
parish is that of Kinglassie, whose present population is 375. Its
inhabitants consist principally of weavers, and other handicraft
tradesmen. About twenty-four looms are now in use,-several of
which are plied by females. The comparatively small income
arising from that occupation induced, of late years, a considerable
proportion of men to exchange it for agricultural employments.
There are 3 public-houses, and the same number of small gro-
cery shops. Brewing of small-beer, ale, and porter is regularly
carried on. Bread and butcher-meat are constantly supplied by
professional tradesmen. Two fairs occur in the course of the
year;-one on the third Wednesday of May, old style; the other on
the Thursday immediately preceding Michaelmas, old style. An
agricultural association, formed upwards of twenty years ago, holds
its annual meeting here in the month of August. It consists of
about forty practical farmers; and its objects are countenanced by
the membership of several landed proprietors. Last season there
were exhibited 110 head of cattle and 43 horses.
   The village lies about six miles to the northward of Kirkaldy,
which is the post-town. Communication with that burgh is enjoy-
ed by means of several individuals, whose business as carriers re-
peatedly leads them thither in the course of the week. Easy ac-
cess to metal has, in connection with other circumstances, produ-
ced a very material improvement on the state of the principal roads-
But although much has been done in this respect, it must be con-
fessed, that not a little remains unaccomplished. There are no toll-
bars within the parochial precincts. The east end of the parish is
intersected by the road leading from Kirkaldy to Cupar, on which
coaches betwixt Edinburgh and Dundee run daily. lt has lately
been also traversed regularly by a coach betwixt the metropolis
and Perth. There are about twelve small stone bridges.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The only place of public worship is the
parish church. Situated within a mile of the south-west boundary,
and distant several miles from a considerable proportion of the po-
pulation, its locality subjects not a few to great inconvenience. But
although some parishioners are so remote as nearly five miles; yet
as the village, where the church is placed, contains a third of the
population, and as its immediate vicinity is interspersed with seve-
ral agricultural hamlets, the ecclesiastical edifice may, upom the
whole, be viewed as standing in the most eligible spot. The


