
			FETTERCAIRN.                      123

bearing crops. By these, and other operations, more than 200
acres of waste ground were converted into productive land, and let
to industrious tenants at a moderate rent. Belts of wood were also
planted, and miles of excellent roads were made.
	Many improvements, on a smaller scale, have also been effect.
ed by intelligent and industrious tenants, on the farms occupied by
them on the different estates throughout the parish, which want of
space makes it here impossible to detail. Most of them have have
erected thrashing-mills at their own expense. The number of
thrashing-mills in the parish is 27.
	Produce.--The gross amount of the value of raw produce raised
annually in the parish m`y be estimated at from L. 15,000 to
L. 16,000, though it is impossible to ascertain it exactly. About
two-fifths of this sum may arise from grain and flax, and the re-
maining three-fifths from cattle and other kinds of live-stock, and
the produce of the dairy.
	Manufactures.--There is a small establishment at Arnhall, for
carding and manufacturing wool into coarse cloth, in which a few
women, but no children, are employed. Their hours are moderate.
There is another establishment at Nethermill, near the village, for
distilling whisky from malt alone, in which men only are employed.
The nature of their operations necessarily renders their hours irre-
gular. No decidedly bad effects seem to be produced by either of
these establishments on the health or morals of those immediately
engaged in them. Both yield, apparently, a fair remuneration to
the persons who have capital embarked in them.
	Fettercairn Club.--The only association in the parish, for the en-
couragement of any branch of industry, is the Fettercairn Club. It
was established in 1826, principally by the influence of Captain
Ramsay, one of the Balmain family, then residing at Balbegno
Castle. Its primary object was the improvement of the district of
country around Fettercairn, in whatever related to the interests of
agriculture. At present it is composed of about 86 melbdrs, from
among the proprietors and principal tenants in the neighbourhood,
and gentlemen at a greater distance, who feel interested in its suc-
cess. Each member contributes annually L. 1 to the funds of the
institution, by means of which a library is kept up for the use of
the club, prizes are provided for certain purposes specified in the
regulations, and the expenses connected with its management de-
frayed. The Highland or Agricultural Society of Scotland has
patronized it, for some years back, by submitting part of their funds
to its disposal every alternate year.


