
             892                          PERTHSHIRE.

             ground near its southern extremity, and contains 108 inhabitants.
             The latter, which is more central, stands in the vale through which
             the turnpike-road passes, and contains a population of 122.  At
             this village a post-office, in connection with Kinross on the south
             and Bridge of Earn on the north, was established bv the post-
             office authorities in January 1838.  This arrangement, which was
             much needed, proves a great accommodation to the surrounding
             district.
                Market-Towns.-The chief market-towns are Kinross and
             Perth, the former being seven and the latter ten miles distant
             from the centre of the parish. Newburgh, at which a stock-mar-
             ket is held every Tuesday, is principally frequented by the far-
             mers, for the sale of agricultural produce; and Milnathort, at
             which only samples of grain are exhibited, is resorted to by some,
             on Wednesday, for a similar purpose.
                Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which is situated on gently
             elevated ground, was built in 1806, and is a plain but substan-
             tial edifice. If the present turnpike-road had been formed pre-
             vious to its erection, it would in all probability have been placed
             in the vicinity of Damhead ; but as it occupies a central position,
             and only a few families are distant from it upwards of two miles,
             it is by no means inconveniently situated for the great mass of the
             population. It was found necessary, in 1821, on account of the
             increasing demand for church accommodation, to erect galleries,
             by which 140 additional sittings were obtained.  The whole of the
             sittings in the church, amounting to 380, belong exclusively to the
             heritors, who in general gratuitously accommodate their tenants
             and other parishioners.
                The manse, a substantial and commodious edifice,'was built in
             1828, and finished in 1829.  The offices, which were erected at
             the same period, though equally substantial, are scarcely of suffi-
             cient extent. The glebe, including the site of the manse and
             offices, comprehends little more than the statutor allowance.
             But, in 1829, it was slightly augimented by Mrs Lang, a relative
             of the incumbent, who purchased upwards of an imperial acre-of
             land contiguous to it, and, by a legal deed, secured the same to
             him and his successors in office.  The whole, if let, would brng
             about L. 9 per annum.  The sum of L.20 Scots is paid, in lieu of
             a grass glebe, by the proprietors of the kirk-lands.
                The stipend, including the allowance for communion elements,
             averages L. 179.  It consists of the whole teinds of the parish,


