
          COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                    313

by Government, partly by Sir John Hall, Bart. Unfortunately it
is found to be of much less advantage than was anticipated, the
consequence, we believe, of a change in the direction of the main
pier from that originally proposed, which, though intended as an
improvement, has turned out the very reverse. The entrance,
likewise, is too wide, admitting too much sea. Though intended
principally as a protection for fishing-boats, larger vessels, never-
the less, occasionally come in laden with coals, bone-dust, &c. It
will hardly, however, admit with safety vessels above sixty tons
burden.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, though situated much nearer
one corner of the parish than any other, may, nevertheless, be
described as so far convenient, that it stands in the most populous
part of it. It is only about half a mile from the extremity of the
parish in one direction, while in some others, it is fully four and
five miles distant. . We have sometimes found, however, that those
who come the farthest attend most regularly. When the church
was built, I have never been able to discover. It is, however, an
ancient structure;-one of the stones taken from it at a late re-
pair bearing the date of 1163. It remained long in a most un-
comfortable state; but repairs at various times have been made
upon it, especially in 1807, when it was newly seated and ren-
dered more comfortable; and again to a trifling extent in 1826.
Additional repairs have been obtained since the writer of this
account was settled in the parish, 100 new sittings having been
added, and the church-yard, which before his settlement was in a
most disgraceful state, having, been well-fenced and made as neat
as any church-yard in the county. With the late additional sit-
tings, there is accommodation for about 400 people. The seats
belong entirely to the heritors.
   I have never been able to learn at what time the manse was
built. The greater part of it, however, is evidently-ancient. It
was repaired in 1791, and again in 1808. Some additional re-
pairs were also obtained about two years ago, which have made a
comfortable, though certainly by no means either an elegant or
very commodious mansion.
   The glebe measures about 7 1/2 English acres, and is let at the
rate of L. 3 per acre, including the driving of coals and the quan-
tity of potatoes required by the minister.
   The stipend modified in March 1831 is seventeen chalders,
half meal and half barley, at the highest Merse fiars prices, with,


