
72                            LANARKSHIRE.

Brown, tenant at Mains, was the first to introduce the improved
system of husbandry into this parish.
   Leases are granted for nineteen years.  The farm-buildings are
in general commodious, and in good repair.  But the enclosures
are few, and in a very indifferent condition.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for food of man or the domestic
 animals,        -    -   -       -      -        -        -         L. 3864   0   0
Of potatoes,          -          -        -          -          -        270   0   0
Of turnips,	   -          -        -          -         -               1940   0   0
Of bay, whether meadow or cultivated,            -          -    -       750   0   0
Of land in pasture, rating at L. 3 per cow or full-grown ox graze,
  or that may be grazed for the season,            -         -           978   0   0
Of land in pasture, rating at 5s. per ewe or full-grown sheep pastured,
  or that may be pastured for the year,           -      -        -     1250   0   0
                                                                      ---------------
                   Total yearly value of raw produce,	       -       L. 9052   0   0

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns, &c.-The nearest market-towns are Carnwath
and Biggar: the former, about 6 miles from the village of Dun-
syre, where there is a weekly market held on Friday, which may
be said to be the chief resort for farm produce from this parish.
Biggar is about 8 miles distant, and is attended from this parish
principally for seed-corn in spring on Thursday, every week, and
its fairs are frequented for horses, cattle, and lambs.  Linton,
however, in Tweeddale, which is about 6 miles distant, constitutes
the principal sheep and wool market.
   Village.-Dunsyre village consists of a population of about 50
souls, chiefly composed of tradesmen, for the accommodation of
the parish,-smiths, masons, wrights, tailors, shoemakers, &c.
There was once a considerable village at Weston.  But now the
remaining cottages are chiefly inhabited by the servants and fami-
lies belonging to the farms of that name.
   Means of Communication.-Dunsyre keeps up a weekly commu-
nication with Edinburgh by means of carriers; and the parish is
traversed three or four times a-week by carriers from the vicinity
of the metropolis.  They purchase butter, eggs, and fowls, which
are generally sold at the Saturday market.
   There is no post-office in the parish.  Carnwath is the chief
post-town for Dunsyre.  A runner from the post-office at Linton
to Roberton, in


