
     Statistical Account

name, the superstition of our ancestors led them to apply it.
At Invercarity there is a Gothic building of cut stone in
good repair.  When it was erected, is uncertain; but it must
have been before the 15th century.  It consists of 4 stories,
and each storey, except the uppermost, which is divided into
2, of only one apartment.  The walls are about 9 feet thick
project considerably near the top, and terminate in a parapet
not more than a foot thick.  Between the parapet and roof,
there is a space for 2 or 3 men to walk abreast, and imme-
diately above the gate 3 square apartures, through the pro-
jection of the wall, so placed, that a stone dropped through
them must fall upon a person standing at the gate.  To the
E. of the gate which fronts the S., are some vestiges of 2
wing, demolished, it is said, by the Earl of Crawford, in
1445, in some family feud between the Lindsays and Ogilvies,
one of whom was then proprietor of Invercarity*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*This town was in great distress in 1782, not so much from a scarcity of vic-
tual, for some of the farmers never had a better crop, as from a resolution en-
tered into by the people not to give above a certain price.  Consequently the
farmers carried their victual to the best market; and this place was threatened
with a famine.  To prevent this in future, a society was established in 1785,
called the Weaver Society.  Each member, at his admission, pays a certain
sum, and so much a quarter afterward; and, in case of sickness, or inability to
work, he is entitled to a certain allowance a-week; and in the event of his
having a widow, she receives a small annuity.  The funds, which are now con-
siderable, are employed in purchasing meal, which is sold to the members at
prime cost, and to others, at a trisling profit.  This society has been of great
use to the parish.  Another, on much the same plan, called the Society of Shoe-
makers, was established some months ago.  There are 3 mosses in the parish
and several others on the boundaries of it.  From these, the common people
are supplied with fuel; but the mosses being much exhausted, it is now pro-
cured with difficulty; and after a wet season, the poor are almost starved.
This is the chief disadvantage under which the parish labours; and is likely to
be, in some measure, remedied by the great quantity of thriving timber lately
planted here, and in the neighbourhood; and by the turnpike road making to
Dundee, the nearest sea port.


