
42                            KINCARDINESHIRE.

	This parish can boast of no family of noble blood within its
boundaries, not even of a residing heritor; nor is there any dwel-
ling commonly called a mansion-house in it. The whole eight
proprietors are each possessed of land of the yearly value of L.50
and upwards.

	Character of the People.--In their general character, the people
are quiet, industrious, and regular in. attendance on divine ordinan-
ces; and they pay much more attention to cleanliness and neat-
ness in their persons and dwellings, than formerly. Altough
there be nothing foolishly showy, yet the outward appearance of
the congregation on a Sabbath, forms a striking, pleasing, and re-
spectable contrast to what it was forty years ago. Now the la-
bouring classes, both males and females, appear in church as neat-
ly and respectably dressed, as the laird's or minister's family did
then. Indeed this is often carried too far. Comparatively few
young men or women of the labouring classes, while they remain
unmarried, ever think of s`ving any part of their wages; and,
tberefore enter on house-keeping without any previous provision
for the probable expenses of their humble establishment. Hence
that poverty but too generally prevails, which might, in a good
measure, be prevented, by prudently laying up, in the Savings
Bank, a small moiety at every term.

	Neither poaching nor smuggling is known among the parish-
ioners; but the Hill of Garvock is often infested with poachers
from other quarters.

	That vile and demoraliZiDg system of banishing male servants
from the ha'board to bothies, or apartments where they must eat
as well as sleep by themselves, has unfortunately found its way in-
to this sequestered parish. It may be advantageous in a present
or economical point of view; but is most disadvantageous for mo-
ral, intellectual, and religious improvement. In fact, many of
them are really hot-beds of irreligion, immorality, and vice; and,
consequently, of mischief and ruin not only to the rising genera-
tion, but to society in general.

<TABLE=Industry>

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
        Males employed in agriculture,                             240
                             retail trade and handicrafts           12
        Professional and educated men,                               3
        Male servants above 20 years old,                          102

                        under 20 years old,                         17
        Female servants,                                            40
	Agriculture.--The whole contents of this parish amount to
8466 imperial acres, which way be classed as follows:--


