
			WAMPHRAY.                         141

that apple-trees do not thrive well in some gardens here. But
as that happens only in certain soils it seems rather to be owing
to a subsoil of ferruginous till, which is in juniors to the roots. It
may also be observed, that, though the wooded plantations thrive
tolerably well, yet ash as an indigenous, and larch as an exotic,
appear to suit our soil full better than any other.

                   	II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Characters.--There was a celebrated clergyman in this
parish, some time before the Restoration, of the name of Brown.
Soon after that event he was, on account of his principles and sen-
timents, thrown into prison; and when, in consequence; of having
contracted bad health, he petitioned for a release, he was required
either to languish in its un wholesome dungeon, or sign his last-
ing expatriation. He adopted the latter sad alternative, and re-
tired to Holland, where he was afterwards appointed minister
of the Scotch Church in Rotterdam, and continued in that of-
fice till his death. During his exile he published many volumi-
nous works on religious subjects, which were then much read.
Some of them have been lately republished in this country, and
have been well received. There is also a MS. history of the
Church of Scotland, written by him in Latin, and deposited in the
College Library at Edinburgh,--well spoken of by those who have
seen and consulted it.
	This parish is also famous for being for some time the residence
and the burial-place of the late Dr Rogerson of Wamphray. He
appears to have been born in the parish of Johnstone, but to have
spent his earlier years in this parish. *
	Land-owners.--Dr Rogerson is the principal proprietor. The
other land-owners are the Earl of Hopetoun, who is also patron
of the parish, General Sharpe of Hoddam, Mr Graham of Shaw,
Mr Carruthers of Milhouses, Mr Rogerson of Girth-head, Mr
Carruthers of Stenrieshill, (the three last only residents,) and Mr
Proudfoot of Hazlebank. The Duke of Buccleuch, it has been
lately discovered, has a large tract of hill pasture in this parish,
though that land was long lost out of the county books, and paid
no public dues, being joined to a farm in Moffat parish, and ge-
nerally supposed to belong to that parish.
	Parochial Registers.--There are no parochial registers in the
possession of the present incumbent previous to the year 1794.

<FOOTNOTE>See Account of Johnstone.


