
     Statistical Account

   2. Funds.-These amount to not less than L.80 Sterling
per annum.  They consist of the collection at the church-
doors, which are equal yearly to L. 26; of fees for procla-
mations, use of the mors-cloth, etc. L. 3; of the interest of
stock in the hands of the session, nearly L. 4; of L. 28 Scots
paid in consequence of a mortification by one of the Dukes
of Atholl*; and of the funds of the hospital of St George,
which are, at an average, L. 45 Sterling+.
   Besides these permanent funds, great exertions never sail
to be made for the relief of the poor, when any extraordi-
nary emergency calls for them.  In 1782, the Duke of
Atholl bought 500 bolls of meal, drove it at his own ex-
pence to Dunkeld, and sold it at a reduced price to the
poor of the town and its neighbourhood.  And his Grace,
in 1796, subscribed L.50, which, with the same sum sub-
scribed by the inhabitants, was employed in purchasing

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Duke of Atholl, with consent of the minister, names the objects
of this charity.  It is paid, "in full contentation and satisfaction of all that
"the poor of the city of Dunkeld can ask furth of the Croft called the
"Chancellor's Croft, by Andrew Burt his deed of mortification."  Burt's
deed of mortification is given in Dallas' Styles, p. 840. "as a good style,
"that may be a rule to the like."  He gives the subjects mentioned "in pu-
"ram eleemosyanam et in manum mortuam pro precibus et sussragus of the 
"poor, in the most ferious, pious, and devout manner, for his MAJESTY's
"sacred person, and his lineal and lawful successors well-being, health,
"wealth, prosperity, and happy peaceable reign, over this has Majesty's an-
"cient kingdom, and all other his Majesty's kingdoms, dominions, and
"territories, (whiles fun and moon endureth in the firmament), and for
"crowning them with an everlasting crown of glory hereafter."

+This hospital, according to Abbot Mill, was founded by Bishop Brown.
It was destined for the support of seven old men, who were each to have a
tree house, and to receive five bolls of meals, and five merks Scots yearly.
Prior to 1750, the hospital houses were low ruinous cottages; at that time
they were pulled down, and substantial buildings raised on their site.  The
Commissary has the sole administration of the hospital and its funds.


