
114                            FIFESHIRE.

about 200 years old, several of them measuring 16 feet 8 inches,
at 4 feet from the ground.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  The village being a burgh of barony, holding under the Earls of
Rothes, there are two bailies and sixteen councillors. The records
go back for nearly 300 years; but there is nothing generally inte-
resting in them.
  The Earl of Rothes, Robert Douglas, Esq. of Strathendry, and
General Balfour of Balbirnie, have many exact maps of their va-
rious properties in the parish; and by comparing these together, a
very near approximation may be made of the extent of arable, pasture,
and other land, and also of the number of acres under plantation.
  Ancient Documents-Pictures.-In the depositories of the Earl
of Rothes, there are a great number of letters and ancient docu-
ments, relating not only to the family history and affairs, but it is
believed that many would be found highly interesting in a public
point of view,-many of that noble family having acted a very con-
spicuous part in the history of their country. There is a very in-
tereting account given of the fifth Earl of Rothes, in a work edited
by James Nairne, Esq. W. S. as one of the members of the Banna-
tyne Club, entitled ''a Relation of the Proceedings concerning
the Affairs of the Kirk of Scotland. From August 1637 to July
1638, by John Earl of Rothes." In Leslie Rouse there are also
several-valuable pictures,-the fifth Earl and his Countess, by
Jamieson of Aberdeen, styled the Scottish Vandyke; the Duke
and Duchess of Rothes; the Duke and Duchess of Lauderdale;
Princess of Modena; General John Earl of Rothes, by Sir Joshua
Reynolds; Archbishop Tillotson, said to be an original; a por-
trait by Renabrandt of himself. There is, besides these, a large
collection of family.portraits. The tapestry in the house is very
fine. 1. The story of Leander; 2. The history of the children
of Israel's journey through the wilderness; 3. The anointing of
Saul, with several other pieces.

   <FOOTNOTE>I may here take notice of the rooks who tenant these high trees. Their police
is indeed very strict, and to watch their habits very entertaining, especially at the time
Of building their nests,-an instance of which-bas just come under my own notice. A
pair fixed on a site in a high beech tree, and commenced building, they carried on their
operations for some days with great assiduity, when one espying a very tempt-
ing rafter in a nieghboor's dwiling, which he seemed to think would do extremity
well for his own, made an attempt to possess himself of it; but his neighbour being on
the alert, he was for the time disappointed ; when in the  after part of the day, his
neigbbours left their nest, immediately the new comer laid hold on a large twig, and
conveyed it in triumph to his own nest. In a short time the robbed pair returned,
missed their property, assailed the delinquents, in which they were joined by the rest
of the rookery, and literally demolished the nest, and severely punished them for their
offence with their long bills.


