
                               YARROW.                          57

the date of the last Statistical Account.  The Cheviot have super-
seded the black-faced sheep; and, with the breed, the manage-
ment has been materially altered.  There is no ewe-milking as
formerly, and no hog hirsel kept, but the different parts of the
stock roam promiscuously and at large.  In very severse snow-storms
the flocks on the higher grounds used to be removed to the low
country of Annandale in quest of food, but now a store of hay is
cut from the bogs, and forms ample winter provision for the sheep
during any stnrm; while stells, or enclosures for sheep, at the same
time, are more numerous and accessible.  Within the last forty
years, too, the country has been thoroughly drained.  Equally
great have been the improvements in the agriculture of the parish.
The system of having outfield and infield was long practised; the
milk ewes and cattle being folded at night, and the ground thus
manured for cultivation.  Cropping, too, went on till the particular
spot was exhaursted.  But now a better system prevails, the arable
and meadow land being enclosed and subdivided,-- the two-horse
plough used,-- turnip husbandry introduced,-- a regular rotation of
cropping followed,-- and wheat, so long deemed unsuited to our
soil and climate, frequently raised with success. During the same
period, however, the principle of non-residence has been largely
acted on; and out of forty-five farms in the parish, twenty are led
farms.  On many of these were formerly large families, with ser-
vants and cottagers, and there are five such lying adjacent,-- a state
of things the more to be regretted, when its only advantage is a
trufling addition of rent, and the saving of outlay on farm buildings.
  The new houses of the tenants have for the most part been built
in better style and situations than the old, which were small
thatched cottages, placed generally on some sloping bank, or
up some secluded burn, where security was sought in marauding
times.  The roads also have been greatly improved, and are
far more frequented.  Besides, all classes are better fed and
clad.  The dress is no longer of home produce or manufacture.
What used to be the luxuries have become the necessaries of
life, so that, instead of a single carrier on foot as formerly, a
number of carts supply the Yarrow vale with wheaten bread.  A
solitary newspaper formerly made its passage up the water by
slow stages and through many hands, contrasting forcibly with the
regular and rapid circulation of periodicals at present.  Vithal,
there has been a striking change in the habits of the peasantry.
Local attachments have given way to general knowledge.  The


