
     490                    ARGYLESHIRE.

        Daniel Corrie, late Bishop of Madras.-This truly apostolical
     man, whose name is associated with the progress of Christianity
     in India, and whose memory will long be regarded there and
     wherever he was known with love and veneration, was a native of
     this parish, though his ancestors resided in Dumfries-shire. His
     father, when a student of theology, was appointed parochial school-
     master of Ardebattan, and married more than sixty years aao it
     respectable young woman of the parish of the name of Mac Nab,
     by whom he had a family, Daniel being the eldest. My inform-
     ants, some of whom were Mr Corrie's scholars, think that Daniel,
     or, as they named him, Donald, was between six and seven years of
     age when the father was induced to leave this place, and to to settle in
     England. He there obtained ordination, and a living in the Etig-
     lish church. While it the University of Cambridge the son
     gave indications of no ordinary piety and talents, and was appointed
     a chaplain in the East India Company's establishment in the pre-
     sidency of Bengal, the duties of which office he discharged with
     singular fidelity, zeal, and success. Corrie was the friend of
     Brown and Buchanan, and Henrx Martyn, of Bishops Middle-
     ton, Heber, and Turner, and of the other devoted men whose
     lives and Tabour in the east shed such a lustre nn our sister church,
     and, after having long  'borne the burden and heat of the day,"
     he was, to the credit of all concerned, raised from being Arch-
     deacon of Calcutta to the see of Madras. That high station he
     was permitted to adorn but for a short period, having, soon after
     his consecration, been released from all his labours, and called to
     the enjoyment of that rest which remiaineth to the people of God.
        General Campbell of Lochnell established strong claims to ho-
     notirable notice in any enumeration of the eminent characters con-
     nected with this parish. In very early life he succeeded his uncle,
     Sir Duncan Campbell, Knioht, seventh in succession of the Locti-
     bell family, a gentleman highly and deservedly esteemed in hir
     day, and who long represented in Parliament the county of Ar-
     gyle. After finishing his education, the General, then Mr Canip-
     bell, entered the army and received, when an officer in the Guards,
     about the ear 1793, letters of service for raising a Highland re-
     giment, which he soon cnmpleted, a goodly proportion of the men
     being from his own estates. In command of his regiment, now
     numbered the 9Ist or Argyleshire, he served at the Cape of Good
     Hope; and. on his return to Britain was appointed to the com-


