
                            ROSLIN.                           339

and this may be regarded as one cause of the celebrity of the sur-
rounding district.
   Coal-mines.--In one district of the parish, which is named
Rosewell, are situated several coal-mines, from which an abundant
supply of fuel is obtained by the inhabitants of the neighbourhood;
but the price is high on account of the vicinity of the metropolis.
There are 51 families, consisting of 269 individuals, wholly de-
pendent on these coal-works for their support.
   Lately, two eminent engineers gave in a report to George
Mercer, Esq. of Dryden, which states that, on his property, there
are not less than 30,000,000 of tons of coal.  The coal in this
property was wrought to a considerable extent in former times
and arrangements are now being made for working it to a great
extent.
                   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Manuscript Account.--In the Advocates' Library there is a
beautiful manuscript, in three volumes folio, consisting of historical
records, dated in 1700, and written by Father Richard Augustine
Hay, Prior of St Piermont in France, and a cadet of the family
of Rosslyn.  There is, inter alias, in this work, "a Genealogie of
the Saint Claires of Rosslyn," including "the Chartellary of
Rosslyn."  In 1835, an accurate copy of this Genealogie and
Chartellary was printed in quarto from the original manuscript.
But it is scarce, as only 12 copies large paper, and 108 copies
mall paper, were published: the price of each of the large copies
being L.2, 12s. 6d., and that of the small being 18s.
   Published Accounts.--In the year 1827 was published a "His-
torical and Descriptive Account of Rosslyn Chapel and Castle,
with eight engravings."  There has also been published, without
a date, but some years later than the preceding work, "M'Dow-
all's New Guide to Roslin, being a Historical and Descriptive
Account of the Chapel and Castle of Roslin and Hawthornden,
with engravings on steel."  Both of these publications are small;
and some use of them, as well as of the manuscript mentioned
above, will be made in this Statistical Account.
   Ancient Battle.--On the 24th of February 1302, a little way
to the north of Roslin village, there was fought a very famous
battle, or rather succession of battles,  between the  Scotch and
the English armies, when the Scotch forced consisting, of 8000
men, under the command of Sir Simon Frazer and John Comyn,
defeated the forces of the English, consisting of 30,000 men, and


