
502                          FIFESHIRE.

dation has been provided for them in St Salvator's Chapel, where
the St Leonards' congregation assemble for public worship.
   There are no blind nor deaf and dumb persons in the parish;
but there are two persons in a fatuous state.

			   IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.-The number of acres standard imperial measure
in the parish, which are in a state of cultivation, is 654; and the
waste or pasture grounds amount to 327 acres.  No part of the,
latter, it is understood, could be profitably kept in tillage. There
are no plantations in the parish.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent per imperial acre of the ar-
able land in that district of the parish, which is most remote from
the church, is about L. 1, 10s.; but the district in the vicinity of
the city yields an average rent of L. 4 Sterling per acre. The
former is partly enclosed, and the farm-buildings and enclosures
are in a good state of repair; but the latter is not enclosed, being
rented by the citizens and others in small allotments.
   Quarries.-The distant district abounds in free or sandstone,
of which several quarries have been opened, and the stone, though
soft, has been found to be durable, and adapted to the various pur-
poses of the builder.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<Table>     Grain of all kinds,               L. 1450
            Potatoes and turnips,             600
             Pasture grass,                   180
             Hay and cut grass,               230
             Gardens and orchards,            100
             All other produce,               50
                                            -------
                        Total yearly value L. 2610

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The original church of the parish of St
Leonards was situated in the immediate vicinity of the college of
the same name, and for more than two centuries it was occupied
by the parishioners.  About seventy years ago it required exten-
sive repairs, the expense of which would have fallen chiefly on the
funds of the United College. A few years prior to this period,
however, the Colleges of St Salvator and St Leonards had been
incorporated by Act of Parliament; and to St Salvator's there
had been attached by the founder a large chapel, which was still
in a good state of repair, and, was now the property of the United
College; and it became a subject of discussion among the masters,
					4


