
	               PARISH OF RAFFORD.

      	PRESBYTERY OF FORRES, SYNOD OF MORAY.

	     THE REV. GEORGE MACKAY, A. M., MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Boundaries, &r.-THE origin of the name of this parish
is not certainly known. It has undergone so many alterations as to
defy all attempts at fixing its etymology. In a charter, granted by
Pope Innocent to the Bishop of Moray, in the thirteenth century,
it is styled Ratheforde; and in another charter of the same period,
Rathefd. In records of subsequent dates, it is designated Rathed,
Rathat, Raffart, Raffort, Raffard, and Rafford; the last of which is
its present orthography. If we were to hazard a conjecture amidst so
much uncertainty, we would assign an origin to the name, derived
from the situation of the parish, and which is in some measure sanc-
tioned by the high authority of Chalmers. He says, * " The hill
forts in Ireland, which are called Raths in the Irish language,
were the strengths of the ancient Irish; and those raths are si-
milar in their site and structure to the bill forts of the ancient
Britons. The raths were placed on the summits of hills"  If,
therefore, we give a Celtic origin to the name, and take into con-
sideration the eminences around this place, adapted for strengths
or keeps, we may perhaps arrive at as reasonable a conjecture as
may be formed on the subject.
  Extent, &c.-The length of the parish is about 8 miles; its
breadth, varying from 3 to 5. It is bounded on the east, by the
parishes of Alves and Elgin ; on the north, by Kinloss and For
res; on the west, by the river Findhorn;  and on the soutb, by
Dallas and Edenkillie. It is of a very irregular figure, and is in-
tersected near its northern extremity by a narrow neck of the pa-
rish of Forres, which stretches for two miles into the interior;
while it again encroaches on what might be supposed to be the
proper boundaries of that parish, and reaches a point not farther

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. i. p. 95.


