
                             FETTERESSO.                   253

former proprietors, which will soon be of great value, and much,
planted by the present Mr Barclay, in a thriving state. Around
a great part of the domain, a high wall of stone and lime has been
buill. This is, perhaps, one of the finest seats in any part of the
country.
   About a mile west of Ury, and also on the north bank of the
Cowie, is Rickarton, where is an excellent modern house, beau-
tifully situated, but not having the advantage of a surrounding
park.
   At  Netherley, the property of George Silver, Esq. there is
large commodious house, and much has been done, under unfa-
vourable circumstances, to improve and ornament the neighbour-
bood of it.
   At Muchalls, too, the property of the same gentleman, there
is a venerable old house, already noticed as long the residence of
the family of Burnett, Bart. of Leys. It is situated on a rising
ground, near the sea, about four miles north of Stonehaven, and
around it is a large tract of valuable land, generally kept in grass.
   Elsick, now belonging to the Rev. Dr Morison, for a long time
the property and place of residence of the family of Bannerman,
Bart. has a mansion-bouse of no great extent, surrounded with trees.
   There is a small house on the estate of Cowie, the property of
William Innes, Esq. with a neat paddock and garden embowered
in wood, close by the sea, immediately north of Stonehaven.
   At Newhall and Berrybill, there are good dwelling-houses.


                          III.--POPULATION.
      Amount of population in 1755, return to Dr Webster,  -    3082
                              1764, by an exact survey,-        3500
                              1790,      do. -     -            3370
                              I801, by cenus,                                                                                                                                                          3687
                              1811,   do.  -        -     4252
                              1821,   do.                 4486
                              1831,   do.   -      -      5109
                              1841,   do.   -     -       5155
				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--Until after the year 1760, there was, in this dis-,
trict, little change in the system of agriculture from that which
had been practised for many generations. In fact, no regular
system was pursued, and the produce of the land must have been
very little, in comparison to that which has since taken place, and
which is to be principally attributed to the late Mr Barclay of
Ury. By his sound judgment, undaunted resolution, and unfailing
steadiness, a complete revolutions in agriculture was effected, not
Only on his own estate in this parish, but through all the adjoining


