
598		           LANARKSHIRE.

traction are, the city of Glasgow with its extensive suburbs and
surrounding villages; the towns of Rutherglen and Paisley, and
the whole of the fertile vale of Clyde from Hamilton to Dumbar-
ton, with numerous views of the windings of the river, now crowded
with trading vessels and steam-boats conveying goods and pas-
sengers in every direction. The distant objects chiefly worthy of
notice are, to the east, Arthur's seat, and the Pentland hills, in
the immediate vicinity of Edinburgh, to the north Benlomond,
Benledi, and the neighbouring heights, and to the west, the bills
of Arran and different parts of Argyleshire.
	Climate, &c.--The atmosphere is remarkably pure and healthy,
and though, from the elevation of the parish, rather cold than
otherwise, has been much ameliorated in this respect within the
last forty years, by the increased quantity of plantation and gene-
ral improvements that have been made in agriculture. The pa-
rish, however, is still very subject lo early and late frosts. The
prevailing winds are the south-west, the west, and north-east.
The wind from the south-west is often very boisterous, and ge-
nerally accompanied with rain. I cannot state any diseases as pe-
culiar to the climate, and few places afford so many instances of
longevity. It is seldom that any epidemic spreads in the district,
and it is worthy of remark, that though during the late visitation
of Asiatic cholera, (1832), there were cases of that frightful ma-
lady in all the surrounding parishes, not one took place in the pa-
rish of Carmunnock.
	Hydrography.--The parish everywhere abounds with perennial
springs of excellent water, and there are no fewer than five public
wells in the village, which even in seasons of the greatest drought
seldom fail to afford an abundant supply. There are a few springs
slightly impregnated with carbonate of iron, but there is none per-
ceptibly chalybeate to the taste. It is mentioned in the last Sta-
tistical Account (published in 1796,) that the parish had been
surveyed some time previously, with the view of ascertaining
whether a quantity of water sufficient for the supply of the city of
Glasgow. could be procured. This speaks at once for the quantity
and quality of the springs; but it was found upon the survey, that,
if all the springs on the brow of the hill were collected, they could
only afford 70 scents pints in the minute, a supply even then two-
thirds less than what was required. There are no natural lakes
of any extent in the parish, and the only stream running through
any part of it is a small rivulet called, the Kittoch. The White


