
724                      FIFESHIRE.

About 500 acres of the arable land is occupied by the proprietors
themselves, and the extent let to tenants is 1480. The leases
under which it is held are generally for nineteen years; though
some now nearly expired are for ninety-nine years. A proportion
of the rents are payable according to the fiars' prices of grain, and
the average rent, under recent leases, may be estimated at L.I,
12s. per imperial acre.
   Part of the land adjoining the river Eden, and consisting of
rich alluvial clay, is exceedingly fertile, and has been known to
produce 64 bushels of wheat on a Scotch acre. Of late years,
however, the crops of this grain have been very unproductive,
partly from the inclemency of the seasons, and partly, it may be
supposed, from the gradual exhaustion of the chemical elements
in the soil, which are most favourable to its production. One
farm, held under a long lease, has for many years been constantly
in pasture, some of the inclosures of which were let during the
last season for above L.6 per Scotch acre.
   A considerable extent of the lands of Blebo were feued by a
former proprietor of that estate, and about 100 acres are now held
in this way, in lots of from two to fifteen acres, at moderate feu-
duties, nearly all of it having been reclaimed from unproductive
heath. The number of resident families in possession of these
feus is about twenty, and most of them are partly or principally
employed in other handicrafts, or as labourers on the adjoining
farms.
   Wages.-The average wages of farm-labourers is, for men, 1s.
8d.; and for women, 8d. per day.
   The usual number of horses kept for agricultural purposes is
about fifty-four. There are nine thrashing-machines, seven of
which are worked by horse-power, one by steam, and one by water.
   Manufactures.-There are two mills for spinning yarns in the
parish, both occupied by Mr David Yool, and both situated on
the Kame or Ceres Burn: 1. Yoolfield Mill, built in 1839,
driven by a water wheel of 39 feet diameter, and 10, feet wide,
assisted, when the water is scarce, by a steam-engine. There are
now employed at it 98 women and girls, earning on an average
5s. per week; 7 wrights, at 12s. 6d.; 10 men, at 12s.; 7 boys, at
4s.; 6 labourers, at 9s.; and, 30 hecklers. 2. Blebo mills, further
up the stream, worked by a water-wheel and steam-engine of ten-
horse power, at which are employed 4 men at an average at 13s.
per week; 3 boys, at 4s.; and 37 females, at 10s. 3d.


