
50                          FORFARSHIRE.

By Mr Webster's bequest, (already-mentioned,) thirty boys, (ex-
elusive of those at the academy,) and as many girls, receive, the
boys L. 2, and the girls L. 1, 10s. each a-year, for the purposes
of education. The trustees on this charity are, the provost of the
burgh, James Webster of Balmuir, Sir D. Wedderburn, Mr R.
Graham, merchant in London, Mr D. Wedderburn of Percy, Dr
Stormonth, and Mr C. Kerr. Captain Ramsay's mortification, in
1774, affords to eight boys, two of them L. 6, 10s. each, and six
of them L. 4 each, and to three aged persons, L. 5 each annually.
This same individual also bequeathed the interest of L. 20, for the
preaching of a sermon yearly, on the "Wonders of Divine Provi-
dence;" the preachers to be the ministers of the presbytery of
Dundee in rotation. This sermon has only been three times
preached; and the money bequeathed amounts now to L. 73. Bailie
William Roger's mortification, in 1658, gives to seven bursars, for
four years, L. 4 each annually, and L. 3, 6s. 8d. as apprentice fee.
By Guthrie's bequest, in 1674, thirty-eight bursars have about
L. 3 each yearly; and by James Pullar's mortification, in 1804,
the capital sum of L. 3000 affords annually L. 10 to the infirmary,
L. 5 to the poor of the nine trades, and the same sum to the poor
of the parish,-the remaining annualrent being for the mainte-
nance and education of ten poor boys, and'the support of as many
old men or women. By Dr John Brown's mortification, in 1768,
twenty bursars receive to an amount not exceeding L. 6 each a-year,
and the boys L. 8 as an apprentice fee. The widows' fund, begun
by the spouse of Bailie William Roger, and increased by others, af-
fords to thirty-two widows 1s. 6d. a week; and Anderson's bequest
gives the same sum to twelve old men. By Whyte's mortification,
twenty-two bursars receive L. 5 a-year,-the original patrons
still acting, being Messrs James Jobson and Andrew Pitcairn.
We shall state only the sums paid yearly for education, &c. by
other five mortifications:-Steven's, L. 70; Constable's, L. 112;
George Brown's, L. 60; Ferguson's, L. 50; and Halyburton's,
(for maiden ladies of respectable families,) L. 41.
   The following are the payments made yearly to charities, or the
support of members, by another class of institutions: The Hospital,*

<FOOTNOTE>The Hospital of Dundee was founded several centuries ago by the Earl of Craw-
ford and Lyndsay, who bequeathed, for the maintenance of the poor citizens of Dun-
dee, certain buildings upon the site of the old academy at the foot of South Tay Street,
and same yearly rents to be used in maintaining them, as a Poor-House, or Maison
Dien. This establishment was afterwards augmented by bequests and donations
from other individuals; and Queen Mary, in 1567, granted to the Hospital of Dun-
dee, the lands, tenements, &c. belonging to the Dominican and Franciscan Friars


