
		INVERAVEN.                           133

   as to be unworthy of preservation, the latter said to have been of
   the size of half-crowns, but which, having been privately sold to a
   silversmith, who has left the country, cannot now be particularly
   described.  Numerous traces of Druidical temples are to be found,
   succeeded by almost an equal number of chapels and Christian
   places of worship, of which there were one at Phona, at Nevie,
   Deskie, and Chapelton of Kilmaichlie; but no traces now remain
   of any of them except the latter, the outlines of which are still
   visible, with some appearances of graves close by.  The burial
   ground of Downan is still used, and occasionally also that of Buit-
   terlach; in the near neighborhood of which, there is a very large
   cairn, supposed to be raised over the grave of a person of note.
   A small spot, in a field on the farm of Haughs of Kilmaichlie,
   appears clearly to have been also a place of sepulture.  In order
   to protect it from the sacrilegious invasion of the plough, the pro-
   sent occupant of the farm has, with proper taste and feeling, caus-
   ed it to be planted.  At Blairfindy, are to be seen the ruins of a
   hunting seat of the Earls of Huntly; and at Drumin, on a high
   promontory near the confluence of the Livet with the Aven, stands
   part of the old castle of Drumin, now affording shelter only to
   jackdaws and pigeons.  The wall, which is of great height and
   thickness, is pretty entire on the east and north, and half of the
   west side; but the other half of the west and the whole south wall
   are gone, and the stability of a considerable part of what remains of
   the structure seems to rest on a single stone of a few inches in
   diameter, placed in a curious position on its edge, and not on what
   builders call the bed,
	The house of Ballindalloch, the residence of the proprietor,
   and, it is said, one of the most perfect specimens extant of the
   old Scottish castle, may also be classed among the antiquities
   of the parish.  This large structure consists of a square build-
   ing flanked by three circular towers,-the centre one, which is
   the largest, containing the ancient door and turnpike stair, sur-
   mounted by a square watch-tower termed the " Cape House,"
   with a window to each of the four sides, and an aperture in the
   wall immediately above the entrance, so as to admit of boiling lead
   or other missiles being thrown clown, in the event of the enemy
   making good his approach. Over the chimney ,in one of the reoms,
   is carved 1546.  The Cape House seems to have been added by Pa-
   trick Grant in 1602, and about the beginning of last century a fur-
   ther addition was made of two large and commodious wings. This mas-


