
			CROSSMICHAEL.                    197

be exactly similar to that found between the Dee and the Urt,
and presented to the Antiquarian Society of Scotland in the year.
1782 by Ale ander Copland, Esq. of Coliston." (See Caledonia
Vol. iii.  p. 233.)
	The present church was built in 1751, and has been repeatedly
enlarged and repaired since. The manse was built in 1744, and
has received two large additions and frequent repairs since that
period. There are three mansion-houses in the parish of consi-
derable size and elegance, on the estate of Greenlaw, Mollance
and Danevale.
                        III.-POPULATION.
	Upwards of eighty years ago, the population amounted to 613.
In January 1791, it amounted tn 772. In 1831, it had increased
to 1325; and when the last census was taken in 1841, it amount-
ed to 1320.
	Smuggling long ago existed in Galloway, but has now disap-
peared; but poaching in game is still persevered in by a few idle
and otherwise ill-disposed persons, in spite of the punishment
which is occasionally inflicted upon them.  Many young men have
hitherto been in the habit of going from Galloway to England,
and becoming travelling dealers in tea or cloth, some of whom,
by their persevering and regular habits, have succeeded in accu-
mulating a few thousand pounds. These fortunate adventurers
generally return to spend the latter part of their days in their na-
tive land, and are very respectable members of society.
	The little distance between this place and Ireland has induced
many of the needy and forward adventurers of that country to mi-
grate thither in a state of great poverty and ignorance, which, in
many instances, has a most injurious effect on those with whom
they are led to associate.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture.-Many parts of the parish are susceptible of great
improvement, which, from the amount of the necessary outlay,
would require to be executed by the proprietors. These im-
provements would consist chiefly of draining; and, from the re-
tentive nature of the subsoil in many places, the drains would
require to be very numerous. The practice, too, of taking in
succession a number of corn crops, ought to be abandoned, and
the land more carefully cleared of weeds and stones. The prac-
tice of feeding sheep with turnip on the ground, is becoming
very common. Large quantities of bone-dust are yearly or-


