
8                         RENFREWSHIRE.

shores of this inland frif,-the little insular hills having been
banks and islands. And it forms an interesting corroboration of this,
that the ancient names of several places indicate such a state.
Even the name Renfrew may have originally marked a mere point
of land, generally surrounded with water; and the frequency of the
name "Inch"-island, as applied to inland districts, probably refers
to an earlier period than the mere branching Of the Clyde. And
what is still more remarkable, an ancient seat on the border of this
plain is still called "Garscadden"-"The Herring Yair," although
now at a distance of probably a mile and a-half from the Clyde. It
ir perhaps farther confirmatory of this, that in charters of the twelfth
and thirteenth centuries, the herring fishing of the Clyde is spoken
of as important, and as being possessed by the community of Ren-
frew, and other parties farther up the river. That the level of
the tide was also at one time much higher than at present, is de-
monstrated from the appearance of the banks all the way down
the frith, and even on the southern extremity of the island of Ar-
ran. The cause of this important change furnishe's a tempting
field of speculation; on which it would be injudicious at present to
enter.
  Under the alluvial matter thus described, the different strata
seem very much to agree with those in the adjacent districts.
They consist of diluvial clay, and similar materials containing
boulders, chiefly of trap rock, and resting on the coal formation,
common to this whole district of country. About the middle of
the last century, both coal and lime were wrought on the farm of
Porterfield,-about a mile south of the burgh. The working of
these was frequently interrupted; but it continued at intervals
down to about 1814. They were found at a depth of about thirty-
five fathoms, and corresponded in quality with those found at Hur-
let, but wholly different from the above mentioned deposit. The
gentleman who last wrought these, mentions his having found a
fossil fish, nf considerable dimensions, imbedded in the limestone
rock, at that depth. It was sent to Glasgow, and is probably deposit-
ed in some one of the museums. Coal has long been wrought on
the north side of the Clyde, in the lands of Scotstown and Jordan-
hill.  We have now before us an account of the working of this coal,
drawn up by the manager, and from which we shall furnish an ab-
stract. The Skaterigg and Annisland coal is quite distinct from
the general field already described. It rests on more elevated
strata, is of a different quality, and is disposed in seams of much


