
     Statistical Account

in winter the air is very penetrating upon the hills, yet in
the vallies, where the inhabitants mostly reside, it is much
milder than in less elevated situations.  This, no doubt, is
owing to the hills that environ and protect them from the 
piercing wind, which blow from the N. and E. and to the
reflected rays of the fun.  It may also deserve notice, that
when the post-road, 10 miles northward, is rendered al-
most imnassable by the snows, the ground here is scarcely 
covered, the quantity always decreasing as you approach 
the Solway frith.

   Minerals, Springs etc.-Lead has been discovered many
years ago upon the farm of Westwater, belonging to the
Duke of Buccleugh.  A company from Derbyshire have
lately contracted to work it, but they have not yet begun
their operations.  Some veins of the same metal have also

<FOOTNOTE>

present incumbent to this parish, August 11, 1791, three men have died,
whose ages were 90, 89, and 83; and five women, whose ages were 88, 
86, 84, and 79.  Wiliam Nicol a respectable tenant of the Duke of 
Buccleugh, is now living upon the farm of Cawfield, and enjoying good
health at the age of 90, who, a few years ago, married his thad wife, by
whom he has a young family.  He is still active and healthy, attends
fairs and markets, and is very shrewd and accurate in all his transactions.
In the town, and within a mile of it, 10 men are now living, whose ages
are 90, 86, 85; a who are 83; and 3 82, 81, and 79; 6 women are also 
alive, whose ages are 88, 87, 85, 83, 82, and 81.  Without detailing
the ages of performs from 70 to 60, of whom there is a confiderable num-
ber, the above instances of longvity may suffice to show, that though the
climate be moist, yet it is not adverse to health.  Indeed, there are seldom
any epidemical diseases either in the town or country; few fevers occur;
and when they do, they are rarely fatal; for these last two years, none
have died of them.  The prejudices againts inoculation are, in a great
measure removed, and people of all denominations have early recourse to
this happy discovery, in order to avert from their children the dreadful
effects of the small pox by natural infection.  If we except the poorer
classes of the people, who are, often from poverty and damp houses, af- 
flicted with the rheumatism, there are no endemic disorders prevalent. 


