
                        GLASGOW.                         193

the sum of L.487, 1s. 7d. surplus revenue, is much more than
would pay the interest of the expense of building the Established
churches. The poor in this city, as is elsewhere stated, are support-
ed by an assessment on the inhabitants, whether belonging to the
Established Church or to the Dissenters. The collections at the
doors of the Established churches go to reduce that assessment, but
those received at the doors of the Dissenters chapels do not go to
the fund, but are applied to purposes connected with their own body
	City Mission.--The want of church accommodation, and the
total inability of the clergymen of the city to attend to the religi-
ous wants of a numerous class of the community, many of whom
have no desire for religious instruction, led to the formation of the
City Mission. The society was instituted upon the 1st of Janu-
ary 1826, for the purpose of promoting the spiritual welfare of the
poor of Glasgow and its neighbourhood, by employing persons of
approved piety, and otherwise properly qualified, to visit the poor
in their own houses, for the purpose of religious discourge, and to
use other means of diffusing and increasing amongst them a know-
ledge of evangelical truth. In December 1831, there were twenty-
two licentiates or students of divinity employed at salaries of L.40
each; twenty of these were on full time, viz. four hours per day, and
the other two on two-thirds time. In addition to the city mission,
a parochial mission was instituted in 1832, and there are now one
missionary in every parish, and two or three in the largd ones.
	Roman Catholics.--The number of Roman Catholics has greatly
increased in Glasgow of late years. The following is a brief ac-
count of their rise and progress.
	Although popular opinion ran very stong against the exercise
of the Roman Catholic religion in this city till after the mitigation
of the penal statutes, Bishop Hay occasionally came from Edin-
burgh, and celebrated mass in a clandestine manner in a room in
Blackstock's back tenement, Salt Market Street, to the few Catho-
lics who at that time reside here.
	An act of Parliament having been passed for repealing certain
penal statutes in England enacted against the Roman Catholics,
in the 11th and 12th years of Williams III., a bill was brought in-
to Parliament for repealing these statues in Scotland, which ex-
cited assembled on 3d February 1779, and burnt Bishop Hay's
house and valuable library, and the house of Principal Robertson
would have shared the same fate, had it not been protected by the


