
448                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	In the reign of James VI., the lands of Mouswald, with the ad-
vowson of the church, belonged to Sir James Douglas of Drum-
laurig, who conferred them upon his second son, James Douglas
of Mouawald, whose descendants enjoyed them in the reign of
Charles II. They were held of the chiefs of the Douglas family
when they returned to the Duke of Queensberry's property. On
the death of Duke William, in 1810, the property of Mouswald,
with the patronage of the church, fell to Sir Charles Douglas of
Kelhead, Bart. who, at the same time, succeeded to the title of
Marquis of Queensberry.
	The present church is a very handsome modern building, erect-
ed within these few years. It is very centrical, and stands on a
fine eminence, and is visible from every farm in the parish dxcept
three. It may contain about 386 sitters. The manse and office-
houses are also newly built. They are finished in a substantial
manner, affording every comfort and convenience. The glebe
contains 16 acres, 11 of which are arable, 3 of bog hay, and 2 of
woodland and pasture.
	The stipend is 15 chalders, half meal, half barley, payable ac-
cording to the highest fiars of the county, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements. The last augmentation was granted upon the
4th December 1822. The stipend, converted into money, may
average, for the last five years, L. 213; glebe, manse, garden, &c.
L. 45; total, L. 258. The number of families which attend the
Established Church is 140; of those attending chapels of Dissen-
ters in Dumfries, 10. There are no Episcopalians in the parish.
Roman Catholics, 3. The average number of communicants is
about 170. The only fixed yearly collection for charitable objects
is for the Dumfries and Galloway Infirmary.
	Education.--There ard two schools in the parish, and one for
young girls. The parish schoolmaster's salary is L. 25, 13s. 5d.,
with the legal accommodation. The branches of instruction taught
are, English reading, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, geography,
Latin, and Greek. Emoltments arising from school fees, L. 10.
The other school has a small endowment of L. 2 per annum, left
by a late schoolmaster, a nativd of the parish. From its situation
it is tolerably well attended. The fees are the same as in the pa-
rish school, but none of the higher branches of education are taught.
	There is not a single native of this parish betwixt six and fif-
teen years of age who cannot read and write a little. The people
in general are alive to the benefits of education, and there is a


