
                   WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                     811

   Mineralogy.-Neither coal, lime, nor freestone, is to be found
in this parish.  The first is brought from Rigside in Douglas,
or from Ponfeigh in Carmichael. Lime of good quality is to be had
at Newton of Wistoun, about four miles distant, on the property
of. Mr Baillie of Lammingtoune. Freestone is got from Stonehill
in Carmichael, or from Carnwath ; and slates can only be had either
at Stobo in Tweeddale, or at Glenochar in Crawfordmuir, fifteen
miles distant.  Porphyry prevails throughout Lammingtoune, and
also on the farm of Hillhouse, in Wandell.  The transition, however,
from porpbyry to greywacke, takes place at Hartside burn, a mile
to the south of the manse; and the latter runs throughout the re-
mainder of Wandell.  Scots pebbles are frequently found in the
brows and channel of the Clyde; and some fine large specimens,
agates, I believe, were dug out of a well at Townfoot, near
the manse, last autumn ; some of those are very beautiful,  and
would make fine seals.  Lead was once attempted to be wrought
on the hill of Snickertknees, on the farm of Birnock in Wandell,
but the operation was never, I believe, attended with much suc-
cess.
   Zoology.-Deer are said to have existed in abundance in this pa-
rish, in former times.  Hence the name of Hartside, still applied
to a portion of what is now denominated Wandell. A stray animal
of this species was said to have been seen upon the hills of Lam-
mingtoune, about fifteen years ago.  Hares are plentiful, and
black-game, grouse, and partridges are tolerably abundant. Otters
are said to have abounded at one time, and may be met with oc-
casionally still.  Hence the name of a farm in Lammingtoune,
Otterburns.  Foumarts and weasels, and hedgehogs, and bats, are
often seen.  Foxes may occasionally have been seen, but they find
no cover in the parish.  Adders, if they exist here at all, are not
numerous.  Herons, coots, snipes, and wild-ducks, frequent the
low-grounds and bed of the river. Crows are plentiful, and though
there is no rookery within the parish, they find Abundant shelter in
the woods of Bagbie on the opoosite side of the river, in Robertoun.
The magpie and hawk are also here, but they are sought out and
destroyed, as being hurtful to game, by eating the eggs and car-
rying off the young.  Squirrels are seen in the Culter planta-
tions, on the eastern boundary of Lammingtoune.  Rats are nu-
merous, chiefly the large Muscovy kind, which have in a great
measure, however, extirpated the native and smaller Scots rat.
Birds of all kinds are numerous.  A goatsucker and a king-


