
280			KINCARDINESHIRE.

and Elizabeth Trent, his wife," from whose representatives it was
purchased, about fifty years ago, by its late proprietor, Mr Brand,
At that time, the only parts of the building remaining were, a por-
tion of a very strong circular wall, which had formed the western
enclosure of the castle, a tower of a square form at one extremity
of this wall and built on a projecting ledge of the precipice, along
the edge of which the wall was carried, and a portion of the an-
cient chapel. These remains of the fortress are preserved, by
having been incorporated, some years after the purchase of the
lands by Mr Brand, into a spacious and elegant modern mansion. *
	The Kaim of Mathers, or camp of Mathers, so called from its
situation on the lands of Mathers, is a ruin on a rocky and almost
inaccessible peninsula, overlooking the sea, about a mile and a-
half southward of the house of Lauriston. The isthmus, connect-
ing the rock with the mainland, was guarded by two rows of bat-
tlements, one of which still remains in a state of considerable pre-
servation. There are traces of building around the greater part
of the rock; and, on its sea-ward extremity, there are the remains
of a square tower, which can only be `pproached by a leap over
a chasm of about 60 feet in depth. This place is supposed to
have been the residence of certain of the ancestors of Mr Barclay
of Ury, and to have been used as a place of retreat, by one of
that family, in the time of James I. The tradition respecting it
is connected with the story of the death of Melville, Sheriff of the
Mearns and appears, according to Sir Walter Scott, to have had
some foundation in fact; while, according to the author of the
Agricultural Survey of the Mearns, "the origin of the Kaim of
Mathers is generally cited in testimony of the truth of the extra-
ordinary manner of Melville's death, just in the same way as Queen
Fenella's journey from Fettercairn to Den Fenella, on the tops
of the trees, is alleged, as proof positive, that the country was then
thickly covered with wood." +

<FOOTNOTE>The lands of Lauriston and Easter Mathews were purchased this year by Mr
Lyall, from Miss Watson, to whom they had fallen, as heir-at-law, on the death of
Mr Brand in 1839.
	  In a note on the story of Lord Soulis. in the Minstrelsy of the Border, Sir
Walter says,--"The tradition regarding the death of Lord Soulis, however singular,
is not without a parallel in the real history of Scotland. The same extraordinary
mode of cookery was actually practised (horresco referens), upon the body of a She-
riff of the Mearns. This persons, whose name was Melville of Glenbervie, bore his
faculties so harshly, that monarch answered, in a moment of unguarded impatience,
" Sorrow gin the Sheriff were sodden and supped in broo!" The complainers re-
tired perfectly-satisfied.  Shortly after, the lairds of Arbuthnott, Mathers, Lauriston,


