
                           JURA.                            543

   Mr Campbell of Jura, about four years ago, acted in the most
liberal and exemplary manner towards the poor resident upon
his property in the parish.  At that time, he invested the sum
of L.260 in the purchase of shares in the Edinburgh Gas Light
Company (old stock,) which yields at present a yearly dividend of
I.7, 10s.  He has also, by liberal donations to the Royal Infir-
mary and Asylum of Glasgow, made these benevolent institutions
accessible to every poor and distressed patient residing on his pro-
perty.  Whatever additional sum is given for the support of the
poor is supplied by voluntary contribution.
  Time was, and the period is not far distant, when a noble spirit
of independence pervaded even the lowest and the most indigent
class of the inhabitants of this parish; when application for pa-
rochial relief was considered by poor individuals as degrading.
The writer is sorry to say, that this spirit seems to be fast dying
away.
   Means of Gommunication.--There are three established ferries
in the Island of Jura, each of them furnished with quays, and
what is usually denominated slips, to facilitate the shipping and
landing of cattle.  Two of these communicate with the mainland.
There is the ferry at Kenuachdrach, to Craignish; the ferry of
Lagg, to North Knapdale; the ferry of Feolin, at the Sound of
Islay, situated at the south end of Jura, and directly opposite
to Portaskaig, in Islay.  From Feolin Ferry to that of Lagg, (a
distance of seventeen miles) there is a Government road, which
is kept in the best state of repair, and is of incalculable advantage
to the island.  Of late years, the attention of Mr Campbell of
Jura has been directed to the advantages resulting from the erec-
tion of bridges, and the construction of roads leading to the prin-
cipal farms on his property; and good substantial roads, equal-
ling the Government road, are either now finished or in pro-
gress.
  The mail from Edinburgh, Glasgow, and other places is con-
veyed over the Sound of Jura, and landed at Lagg, thence by a
runner to Feolin Ferry, at the Sound of Islay.  Letters from
London arrive here in the short space of four days.  There is a
sub-office or receiving-house for letters at Lagg.
  Inns and Public-Houses.--There are two licensed public houses
it, Jura.  Only a small proportion of the means of the parish-
ioners is now expended in the deleterious practice of dram-drink-
ing, and in spirituous liquors.  Weddings, Funerals, and pub-


