
 766                         PERTHSHIRE.

 was appropriate, so these were the only Abthanedums in Scotland,
 and, at his death, they all reverted to the Crown. " This will
 likewise account," says Skene, " for the appellation given by For-
 dun to Crinan. At that period there was certainly no such title
 in Scotland; but it is equally certain that there were no char-
 ters; and although Crinan had not the name, he may have been
 in fact the same thing. He was certainly Abbot of Dunkeld, and
 he may have likewise possessed that extensive territory, which,
 from the same circumstance, was afterwards called the Abthane-
 dum of Dull. Fordun certainly inspected the records of Dunkeld;
 and the circumstance can only be explained by supposing that
 Fordun may have seen the deed granting the Abthanedum of Dull
 to Ethelred, Abbot of Dunkeld, which would naturally state that
 it had been possessed by his proavus Crinan, and from which
 Fordun would conclude, that, as Crinan possessed the thing, he
 was also known by the name of  " Abthanus de Dull." *
   The religious structure which thus gave the title of Abthane to
 a prince of the blood-royal of Scotland, we imagine to have been
 an abbey or monastery of a useful class of monks, being likely of
 of Tyronenses, who had here a college of industrious
 artisans, in which were to be found smiths, masons, joiners, &c.
 This conjecture is not only borne out by the names of different lo-
 calities in and about the village of Dull, for which there existed
 no justifying cause from time immemorial, such as Sraid nan
 Gaibhnean, Straid nan clachairean, &c. i. e. " the smith's street,"
 " the mason's street," &c. ; but there also existed, and still exists
 a popular tradition in this country, that a college was established
 here at a very early period, but which was afterwards transferred
 to St Andrews, -a tradition which is so far founded upon fact that
 Hugh, Bishop of Dunkeld, granted the Monastery of Dull to the
 Priory of St Andrews by charter, upon condition of " Reditu vi-
 ginti solidorum qui nos et clericos nostros contingit de Abthania
 de Dull."+
   The church or chapel attached to this establishment was dedi-
 cated to St Ninians, the companion of St Columba, and one of
 the fathers of the Scottish Church, but there is not a vestige of
 it now to be seen. There is a heap of ruins in the field below
 Dull, which is said to be the remains of the abbey church, but
 whether it is that or the ruins of a pit or tolbooth which was

 <FOOTNOTE> See Skene's Highlanders of Scotland, Vol. ii. Chap. v.; and also Brown's His-
 tory of the Highlands, Vol. iii. chap. vi. Highland Clans.
   + Chartulary of St Andrews.


