
     of Lillies-Leaf.

need assistance.  When a person is admitted a pauper, a
bond is signed, conveying a right to the heritors of what
effects they have.  This prevents imposition.  If in value
the effects exceed the expenditure, the surplus is given to
the nearer relations of the deceased.

   Antiquities*.-In this parish lies the seat of the ancient

<FOOTNOTE>

*Upon inclosing the grounds of Bewliehill, the workmen
came to loose earth, soft and black, and found a great number
of human bones, seemingly burnt to a certain degree.  The
space was upwards of 20 feet diameter, being of a circular form,
and seems to have been an outpost of a Roman camp, the ves-
tiges of which are to be seen in a neighbouring parish, at 3 miles
distance.  The rage of conquest knows no bounds, but the Al-
mighty brings good out of evil; for, by the invasion of the Ro-
mans, and the success attending their arms, Providence paved
the way for publishing and introducing Christianity into this
island.  Military weapons have been found, and spears sharp on
both sides; large quantities of human bones, some with ribs
adhering to the back bone; heads, in some the teeth almost fresh.
One body was pretty entire; contiguous to it were the remains
of a horse.  Frequent skirmishes had occurred in that corner of
the parish, with the soldiers of Charles II.  A numerous party
of Presbyterians, who were marching to join their brethren at
Bothwell Bridge, being attacked by some troops of dragoons,
fled to Bewlie Moss for refuge; unable to extricate themselves,
many perished in the mud.  When the old church of Lillies-
Leaf was taken down, in 1771, there was found, below one of
the seats, a coffin containing several human heads.  We may
suppose that they had been cut off by friends, that they might
not be fixed upon the ports of any of the neighbouring bo-
roughs, as it was not possible to drag out the bodies without be-
ing discovered.  What a blessed toleration do we now live un-
der?  And if the constitution under which we live, in the course
of time, needs repairs, tender and delicate should the hand be
that touches it.  Our fathers told us of frequent meetings in
Lillies-Leaf muir, for the worship of God.  The devout assem-
bled at the hazard of their lives; the place they chose was retir-
ed; and one of their number was placed on a rising ground, to
give the alarm on the appearance of danger.-ALEXANDER


