

                            CRAIL.

called upon to pay his proportion of the expenses either as quoad
sacra or quoad oinnia in the parish, he refused all, and was ex-
empted from payment, upon pleading that his property formed a
portion of the King's muir of Crail. And in 1828, when the seat-
ing of the church of Crail was enlarged, Mr Hannay attended the
meetings of heritors, and claimed his position as a proprietor in
the parish, together with the right of himself and his, tenants to
be admitted to all the privileges of parishioners. His claim was
admitted, seats in the church were allocated to him, and instrue-
tions given to the kirk-session accordingly. Since that date, there-
fore, Kingsmuir has.been considered as an integral part of the
parish of Crail, and its poor have been supported but of the com-
mon funds. It may be here observed, that in no place in this
quarter has the judicious management of a resident landlord been
more remarkable than in the case of Kingsmuir. Within the last
twenty-five or thirty years, Mr Hannay and his tenants have by
their skill and industry, brought hundreds of acres, which before
were considered a barren waste, into very productive corn land;
and where, before that date, neither man nor beast could pass
without the risk of sticking in the mire, luxuriant crops of wheat
now grow. This alteration Mr Hannay has effected by paring,
burning and Timing where any heather grew, and by draining and
enriching the boggy land. The estate is now nearly all under
cultivation, and we hope and trust that the spirited proprietor will
be spared to reap the reward of all his personal exertion, and his
liberality towards his tenantry.
   Wormistone, the residence of David Aytone Lindesay, Esq.,  is
a fine old house surrounded by hard-wood trees of considerable
size, and the only place in the parish in which, for hundreds of
years, the same family have had their abode. This property,
Sibbald says, belonged of old to a family of the name of, Spenst
descended from Maeduff, Earl of Fife ; but in the beginning of
the 17th century it came into the possession of Patrick Lindesay,
a descendant of Lord Lindesay of the Byres. John Lindesay,
son of the first proprietor of this name, (as shown in the account
of Airdrie,) was, like Lord Balcomie and the landholders in this
quarter in general, a strenuou of Charles the First and
Second; as his descendants afterwards were of King James and
Prince Charles; and much the family suddered  consequence 
their attachment to that infatuated race.  This gentleman
had to submit to the degradation of appearing before the con-
             

