
338                      BERWICKSHIRE.

most distinctly and broadly marked, which, from its circular form,
seems to be Danish. The hill on which it stands is called Hab
or Habchester. The remains of this camp consist of two tren-
ches, 18 or 20 feet high, which seem to have been faced with
stones. Half of the circle remains entire, which half is in Mor-
dington parish, and in which it would seem no change has taken
place since its construction. The form of the other half, lying
in the parish of Ayton, is scarcely discernible, having been plough-
ed down. No station could have been better selected for observ-
ing the movements of an enemy, and for keeping up a commu-
nication with the German Ocean, which is not more than a mile
distant from it.* Another eminence, about a mile south-east of
Habchester, is the spot where the last person burned for witchcraft
is alleged to have undergone that fate,-so late as the beginning
of the seventeenth century. It is still called the Witch's Knowe.
   The ground falls by a gentle and gradual descent from this place
towards the south, for more than half the length of the parish, till it
reaches the river Whitadder, its southern boundary. On the east,
it descends towards the sea. The coast of the parish exhibits a
continued unbroken line of abrupt rocks, which contain some ca-
verns that were much used by smugglers in foreign spirits, before
the erection of a Preventive station at Burnmouth. Detached mas-
ses of rock of considerable size stand out into the sea in one or two
places, and some of them present an aspect of grandeur and subli-
mity. The romantic and sequestered fishing village of Ross, at
the northern extremity of the parish, is too much an object of in-
terest to the admirers of picturesque scenery not to be noticed. It
stands at the foot of a ledge of almost perpendicular rocks divided
by a rivulet, which, in rainy seasons, forms many beautiful cas-
cades,-while the sea foam beneath, and the cottages standing
almost close upon high water mark, give the scene a very striking
appearance.
   Climate.-The climate of this parish is generally salubrious.
The prevailing winds are west and south, which are frequently vio-
lent. The east winds on the coast are cold; but the inhabitants
are generally healthy and robust. Among the labouring classes,
rheumatism is the most common complaint: there are no distem-
pers, however, peculiar to the district.
   Hydrography-The Whitadder is the only river in the parish,
And forms its southern boundary; its many windings and precipi-
<FOOTNOTE>Of this camp, further notice is taken in the Account of the parish of Ayton.


