
            1098                                        PERTHSHIRE.

           principal are the Spanish chestnut, several centuries old, and
           mostly in a state of decays.  These, interspersed with planes
           and ashes, considerably old, and with a profusion of under-
           wood, more particularly the Spanish filbert, form an appropriate
           accompaniment to the ruins of the priory, which, embosomed in
           this forest, is seen in glimpses from the nortbern shore, where from
           twenty to thirty full-grown park trees, the plane, the Spanish
           chestnut, and the oak, scattered over the fields, and around the
           richly-wooded hill of Coldon, heighten the effect.  From an emi-
           nence north-west of the lake, and over which the public road passes,
           the whole prospect, including the islet of Talla, which, too, is pro-
           fusely wooded, and contains the ruins of a castle of the late Earls of
           Monteith, is enhanced by Stirling Castle in the remote distance,
           with a considerable tract of country still more remote, seen over
           the hills of Inchy covered with thriving plantations, and Lochend,
           adorned by an extensive grove of full-grown trees.
            Tradition, as intimated by an intelligent statist, who wrote an
           account of this parish above a century since, asserts that the vale
           of Monteith contained an arm of the ocean as far as the south-west
           confine of the parish, the hill of Gartmore; and this is countenanced
           by the lowness and flatness of the surface to that point, where, as
           stated by the author now referred to, there was in his day a stone
           with a hole in it, and in which there was an iron ring for tying
           boats to; " which stone," he says, " is to this day called clack-nan-
           loang, or the ' ship or boat-stone."'  This name, it may be added,
           still marks a place or small farm on the hill of Gartmore. *
             It may be mentioned that, above twenty years since, in driving
           a level in a ditch which, due east of the church port, forms the
           march betwixt the estates of the Duke of Montrose and General
           Graham Stirling, the exuvivae of the marine mussel, the periwinkle,
           and other shell-fisb, were thrown up from seven feet below the sur-
           face of the incumbent soil, consisting of from three to four feet of
           gravel, and, next, of a substance resembling pipe-clay, and appli-
           table to the same domestic use.
             Zoology.-The osprey built, till lately, in a tall oak at the east
           end of the ruined church of Inchmahome, but scared by the re-
           peated plunder of her nest, has deserted the lake.  The white-
           horned owl builds in the ruins of both islands.  Various species of
           the hawk hover about the lake.  The Falco gentiles has his eyrie

  <FOOTNOTE> MS. by Alexander Graham, Esq. of Duchray, in Advocates' Library, Edin-
           burgh.
                                              3

