
                               INVERNESS.                         11

     their encounters with the piratical Gothic hordes of Norway and
     Denmark, who occupied the greater portion of the Hebrides and
     the Orkney and Shetland Isles, with the northern parts of the
     main coasts of Scotland.  Hence but little light could now be
     cast, even did the present work admit of such a disquisition, on
     the ancient state of this or of any of the adjoining parishes, were
     it not that the existence, at a very early period, of the Royal
     burgh of Inverness, ever since regarded as the capital of the High-
     lands, attracts the eye to thd fortunes of its inhabitants; and through
     their transactions a faint picture may be drawn, not only of their own
     condition, but of that also of the surrounding districts.
          Burgh of Inverness.- From the researches of the antiquarian
     writers, mentioned in the subjoined note, * it has been shewn that
     Inverness, if not existing in the time of the Roman invasions of
     Britain, was soon thereafter the seat of the Pictish monarchy, and
     was of some importance during the sixth century, when it was vi-
     sited by St Columba, the first great Christian missionary to the
     Highlands.  Its local advantages early marked it out as a fit site
     for one of those large strongholds, by means of which the nobles and
     sovereigns were enabled to retain their sway over extensive dis-
     tricts, and hence we find that Macbeth, the Celtic maormor, or
     great Lord of Ross and Moray, had a castle here, which was pro-
     bably visited by the "good King Duncan," on account, as Shak-
     speare says, "of its pleasant seat; the air nimbly and sweetly re-
     commending itself unto his gentle senses," but which, on the, cruel
     murder of that monarch, was razed to the ground by his son, Mal-
     colm III. or Ceanmore, who erected a new fortress on a rising

     <FOOTNOTE>See the Acts ofthe Parliament of Scotland, folie edition, passim; Adamnan's Life
     of St Columba; Archeologia Scotica, or the Transactions of the Society of the Anti-
     quaries of Scotland; J. Anderson's History of the Family of Fraser, and his Prize
     Essay on the State of the Highlands, published by the Northern Institution for the
     Promotion of Science and Literature; Birt's Letters from the Highlands, (chiefly writ-
     ten from the old Castle of Inverness,) in 1725-26, 5th edition, edited by Jameson,
     London, 1822; Carey's Craig Phadric, and other poems published (with notes) at
     Inverness 1811, 8vo; Chalmers' Caledonia, 3 vols. 1817; Cordiner's Antiquitie's of
     the North of Scotland, London, 1780: Culloden Papers, a Collection respecting the
     Rebellions of 1715 and 1745, edited by the late H. R. Duff, Esq. of Muirtown, the
     parish of Inverness; Sir Robert Gordon's Genealogical Histoiy of the Earldom of
     Sutherland, folio, Edinburgh, 1813; Grose's Antiquities of Scotland; Dr Johnson's                                                                           to the Hebrides; Keith's Catalogue of the Scottish Bishops; Dr MacCulloehs.
     Tour to the Hebrides; Keith's Catalougue of the Scottish Bishops; Dr MacCulloch's
     Letters to Sir Waite, Scott on the Highlands, 4 vols. 8vo; Bishop Forbes's Ja-
     cobite Memoirs, edhted by Mr Robert Chambers, 8vo. 1834; "Memorabilia of In-
     verness," published originally in the Inverness Courier, now out of print, through
     very valuable and entertaining; Pitcairn's Ancient Criminal Trials; Rev. Lachlan
     Shaw's History of the Province of Moray, second edition, by Mr Grant of Elgin, 4to;
     Mr Fraser Tytler's History of Scotland so far as published, and Guide to the High-
     lands and Islands of Scotland, by Messrs G. and P. Anderson of Inverness, in which
     a whole chapter treats of the ancient and modern state of the burgh of Inverness,
     Murray, London, 1834.


