
	190                           SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

	differences, was finally adjusted and fixed by arbitration.  From
	the Ord to the Bay of Kintradwell, the sea shore is the southern
	boundary. The parish of Loth is therefore bounded on the west
	by the parish of Clyne; on the north by the parish of Kildonan;
	on the east by the parish of Latheron and on the south by the
	German Ocean, or rather by that part of it distinguished as the
	Moray Fritb, which is here about forty miles broad.
	    The whole length of the parish along its northern boundary is dis-
	tinguisbed by a ridge of high hills, which slope down towards the
	south with a steep descent, except at the contracted opening form-
	ed by the Strath of Kildonan, where the march crosses the low
	grounds of the valley from the summits of the hills that enclose
	it. This lofty range is placed nearly parallel with the line of sea
	coast which limits the parish to the south, and at a distance of
	from one to three miles from it; the intervening space between
	the hills and the sea being either gently sloping ground, partially
	cultivated, and otherwise yielding sound natural pasture; or a le-
	vel flat of rich alluvial soil, all arable, and in a high state of culti-
	vation ; but at the eastern extremity of the parish, the huge head-
	land of the Ord leaves no intermediate space between the moun-
	tain and the sea, but forms a sheer and abrupt wall, rising with
	great majesty from, and towering above, the ever-heaving and deep
	sea, whose only strand, at the lowest tides, is the perpendicular
	face of the rock.
            This headland of the Ord has been at all times an object of
	great interest to strangers; and before the present Parliamentary
	road from Sutherland into Caithness was formed, in the year 1811,
	the path for it did not deserve the name of a road-along the

      <FOOTNOTE>The oldest name of the Ord, with the exception of Verubium promontorium of
        Ptolemy, to be found in ancient writings, is Mons Mound, which appears in the cu-
        zious geographical fragment headed "De Situ Albanise," and which has been attri-
        buted to Andrew Bishop of Caithness, who died in 1185. He divides Scotland into
        seven parts, and, no doubt, alluding to the Diocese of Caithness, which included the
        counties of Sutherland and Caithness, says " Septima enim pars est Cathanesia
        citra montem et ultra montem; quid Mons Mound dividit Cathanesiam per medium."
          In the geographical collections in the Advocates' Library, called macfarlane's M.S.S,
        several references are also made to the Ord.  Thus: " All that tract of land which
        lies betwixt Port-na-couter(the Dornoch Frith) and Dungsbay, (Duncansbay head,)
        was of old called Cattery. That part of it which lies eastward from the hill Ord was
        this side the Ord, was called simply Cattey, and afterwards, for distinction's sake,
        South Cattey and Sutherland, which to this day, in the language of the natives and
        Highlanders, retains the name of Cattey, as the Sutherland men called Catteigh,
        ed and divided from Catteyness by the brook or stripe called Aldituver, (should be
        Ault-in-uder,) and by the hill called Ord or Mond, with a range of other hills
        which do strech from the south sea to the north ocean,"


