
54                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

All of these streams are remarkable for the deep and narrow hol-
lows, provincially dens, in which they now. The sides of the hol-
lows are sometimes formed of rock and sometimes of diluvium.
The diluvium, often very deep, is acted upon with great ease by
the current; and in floods, incredible quantities of boulders are
hurried along, immense beds of which are deposited in level places
on the banks of the stream.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-The prevailing rocks are old red
sandstone, and old red sandstone conglomerate. The dip is
a little to the west of south, and scarcely varies throughout the
parish, being preserved with scarcely any disturbance even in
the immediate vicinity of trap rocks. These occur to a consider-
able extent, chidfly in the higher parts of the parish. Dikes of
trap rock also cut the sandstone strata in directions somewhat va-
rious, but chiefly east and west. These dikes, probably from the
greater hardness and durability of their materials, sometimes stand
out a little above the surface of the sandstone. Some such may
be seen in the neighbourhood of the harbour at Johnshaven. The
breadth of these dikes is very various; some are so small as to be
mere veins, whilst one or two are many yards in breadth. The
same dike does not always preserve the same breadth, throughout
its whole course. The nature of the rocks composing them is also
various; some are porphyritic; others, of small size, are very hard,
compact, and homogeneous, with an appearance resembling that
of matter suddenly cooled from a state of fusion.
	The prevailing trap rock seems to be a kind of porphyry, whose
basis is wacke; but greenstone also occurs, and at some places
an amygdaloid, whose cavities are chiefly filled with green earth.
	The sandstone and conglomerate strata are of almost all possible
varieties, in respect of compactness and coarseness. Sometimes
the conglomerates are almost entirely formed of rolled pieces or
boulders of large size, very loosely united by an arenacous ce-
ment. Sometimes the cement is exceedingly firm, and the boul-
ders are with difficultx detached,-other strata are of sandstone,
so fine, that the particles can scarcely be detected by the eye;
but through almost all the sandstones strata, small pebbles of jasper
are scattered. The jasper thus occurring is sometimes fine, and
susceptible of a good polish. The strata are of very various thick-
ness; but in general, they seem to extend a considerable way with-
out changing their character, and seldom run into and another.
	At one place, the conglomerate may be seen in juxta-position


