
32                           AYRSHIRE.

as it is now in almost universal operation in all quarters of the
globe, to the unspeakable comfort and convenience of all tra-
vellers.
	Mr M'Adam was born at Ayr on the 21st of September 1756,
and was descended from an old respectable family, who held the
patrimonial property of Waterhead, in the parish of Carsphairn.
His father claimed kindred with the powerful clan Macgregor,
through a long line of ancestors, whose name had been changed
when the clan was proscribed. He received his education in the
parish school of Maybole, and was sent, when very young, to an
uncle in America, where he subceeded in realizing a considerable
fortune in New York, the greater part of which was lost by the
Revolution, he having taken an active part on the Royalist side.
Some time after his return to Scotland, he came to reside at Sau-
chrie, in this county, where he acted as a deputy-lieutenant, a road-
trustee, and the commander of a corps of artillery. On receiving
from Government the appointment of superintendent of the vic-
tualling department for the western counties of England, he went
to reside at Falmouth; afterwards he lived, for many years, in the
neighbourbood of Bristol, where he became a trustee on the turn.-
pike roads, and where, having the entire confidence of those acting
with him, he had full scope for carrying his plan of road-making
into operation. In consequence of this, he was extensively con-
sulted in this matter, and he and his sons became road-surveyors
of several districts in England. In 1820 he received a grant from
Parliament of L. 4000, to remunerate him for his trouble, and in-
demnify him for expenses he had incurred, in the services of the
post-office department. He died at Moffat, in November 1836,
at the advanced age of eighty-one, revered by his family as a kind
husband and parent, beloved by his friends for generous, steady,
and gentlemanly dispositions and manners, and respected by the
community at large for unostentatious piety, unflinching rectitude,
and public-spirited usefulness.
	Lord Alloway.--David Cathcart was born in Ayr in January
1764. His father, Elias Cathcart, was a respectable and influ-
ential merchant, who dealt in the French wine trade, and also
traded with Virginia, in North America, prior to the revolution
in that country. He enjoyed the honour of having been provost
of the burgh. His son, David, received the ground-work of his
education at Ayr schools, and afterwards prosecuted his legal stu-


