
     of Duffus.

   Fishing.-There is a good white fishing here; cod, skate,
ling, etc, are sold at present, from 1 d. to 1 1/2 d. the pound.
We have also hollibut, mackarel, whitings, seath, etc; but al-
though there are turbot on the coast, our people cannot fish them.
Haddocks have never entirely deserted our coast, but they are at
present in smaller numbers, and in deep water farther from
land:  Of consequence, they fell fix times dearer than they did
lately, being now at the rate of one penny each.  They are
larger in size than before.  Of late, a lobster fishing has been
set a going in the Moray frith by an English company.  On
the station, which included the coast of this parish, and of
Drainie, there were caught last summer, and sent to the London
market, 60,000 lobsters.  It is said that no lobster traps were
ever before seen on this coast.  If this be true, it shews how
long mechanical inventions are of becoming universal.  So
little are the people here accustomed to mechanical operations,
that after several fruitless attempts, they have not yet been
able to imitate with success this simple invention*.

   Proposed Improvement.-At the village of Burgh-head, upon
the west side of the promontory, nature has pointed out a sta-
tion well adapted for a deep, a capacious, and a safe harbour,
The property belongs to Sir Archibald Dunbar; and this gen-
tleman, as well as the country at large, would be much bene-
fited by such an erection.  It could be made at a moderate
expence, and with proper precautions, success would be cer-
tain.  When one considers, that there is not along the whole
south coast of the Moray Frith, from Buchanness to Inverness,

<FOOTNOTE>

*In Statistical accounts, the progress of mechanical inventions, ought not to
be omitted.  The benefit of such discoveries often remains confined to corners,
because the public is not made acquainted with them.  The improvement of
a plough, a loom, a spade, a wheel, a lever, etc. as well as of the more compli-
cated machinery of a ship, or of a spinning jenny, it is of importance to have
generally, and as quickly known as possible.


