
                         LUMPHANAN.            1038

    The evidence furnished by the ancient chroniclers has been re-
garded as sufficient by modern historians and antiquaries.
    "Malcolm," says Bishop Leslie, "having received from King
Edward ten thousand English soldiers, returned to Scotlands, and
hotly pursued Macbeth to Dounsinnan, and from thence to Lun-
fanan.  There Macduff, the Thane of Fife, whose wife and chil-
dren he had lately ordered to be slain, killed him, and, present-
ing his head as a gift to Maclolm, received the highest rewards."*
     "Macbeth," says Dalrymple, "retreated to the fastnesses of
the north, and protracted the war.  His people forsook his stan-
dard.  Malcolm attacked him at Lunfanan, in Aberdeenshire:
abandoned by his few remaining followers, Macbeth fell (5th De-
cember 1056)."
    "The Northumbriants," says Chalmers, "led by Siward and
his son, Osbert, penetrated probably to Dunsinan.  In this vici-
nity were they confronted by Macbeth, when a furious conflict
ensued.  The numbers of the slain evince the length of the battle,
and the bravery of the combatants.  Osbert was slain; yet Mac-
beth, after all the efforts of valour and vigour of conduct, was
overcome.  He retired into the north, where he had numerous
friends, and where he might find many fastnesses.  Siward re-
turned into Northumberland, and died at York in 1055.  Mean-
time, Macbeth continued his bloody contest with Malcolm; and
this uncommon character was at length slain at Lumphanan, on
the 5th December 1056, by the injured hand of Macduff."
    "Macbeth," says Sir Walter Scott, "engaged the foe in the
neighbourhood of his celebrated Castle Dunsinane.  He was
defeated, but escaped from the castle, and was slain at Lumphan-
an in 1056."
     A tradition prevails over a wide district of country, and has
been unhesitatingly received for ages, that the murder, or the
victor of "the gracious Duncan," was slain in Lumphanan, and
that the heap of stones, which to this day is called Macbeth's
Cairn, is the place of his sepulture.
    If, then, the evidence of the fact furnished by history and tra-
dition is so strong, why, it may be asked does Shakspeare, in a
drama which has been pronounced, by Augustus William Schlegel,

<FOOTNOTE>*De origine moribus et rebus gestis Scotorum libri decem, Auctore Joanne Les-
lwo Episcopo Rostensi, lib v. 85.
           Dalrymple's Annals, pp. 2-3.
           Chalmers's Caldedonia, vol. i. pp. 409-410
           Sir Walter Scott's History of Scotland, Vol. i. p. 18
           Lectures on Dramatic Art. Vol. ii. p. 204. 








































































