
<APPENDIX>

xlix

ous, when he returns to London, to be able to inform the King, that a
Work, of which his Majesty has expressed such particular approbation, has
been completed.  He therefore hopes, that it is now in your power to send
the Statistical Account of your parish, addressed to him at Edinburgh.  So
few remain unprinted, that if all the deficient Accounts are transmitted in
courts, or within a week from your receiving this, the whole Work may be
completed before the 25th of May 1795, or within five years from the com-
mencement of the inquiry.  Sir John depends upon every possible exertion
on the part of his friends in the Church, to prevent another year from com-
mencing, previous to the conclusion of the Work.

   WHITEHALL,
   3d April 1795.

     No IX.  Circular Note, dated 3d August 1795.

   SIR JOHN SINCLAIR being anxious to complete the Statistical History
of Scotland, begs the favour of Mr                    to send him the
Account of the parish of                 as soon as possible.
   Only a few parishes are now wanting, to accomplish that great national
Work; and the last volumes are going to the press immediately, so that
any delay would be attended with very great inconvenience.
   He will trouble Mr                          to write him in course,
when the Account may be expected, that measures may be taken accord-
ingly.  The weight of packets being now reduced to one oune, he re-
quests that circumstance may be attended to, in sending the Account, by
putting it in separate parcels.
   He has the pleasure of adding, that there are not above a dozen or two
of parishes, to which it will be necessary to send Statistical Missionaries,
the Clergy, in every other quarter, undertaking to draw up the Accounts
themselves, without such assistance.

     EDINBURGH,
     3d Aug 1769

     No X.  Circular Letter, dated the 3d of September 1795.

     SIR,

   I have returned from the camp, at Aberdeen, to complete the Statistical
Account of Scotland.  It will be impossible for me, consistently either
with my own character, or the credit of Scotland in general, and of its

     VOL. XX.   f


