
     of Inverkeithing.

and Turks, which last were joined by the Swedes, he, in the
Baltic, defeated the Swedish fleet, and had not a part of his
squadron, through cowardice, refused to come into action, he
probably had captured or sunk the most of them.  Soon after
this, he was seized with a fever, and died at Revels on the
26th October 1788.  He was no less illustrious for courage
and naval skill, than for piety, benevolence, and every pri-
vate virtue*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antiquities.-Upon the top of Lethem hill, there are some
large stones, placed in a circular form, said to have been a Drui-
dical temple.  King David the L. frequently resided in this place.
Some persons remember to have seen the ruins of a house at the
north end of the town, which commonly went by the name of
King David's House, but there remains not the smallest vestige.
At the North Ferry, there are the ruins of a chapel, which was
liberally endowed by King Robert the L. and served by the
Monks Of Dunfermline.  The Franciscans and the Dominicans,
or the black and grey Friars, had both of them convents in this
town.  There is a house called the Inns, which still has pecu-
liar privileges and exemptions, not being within the jurisdiction
of the magistrates, and appears to have been one of them, from
its form, vaults, high garden walls, and other buildings.  To-
wards the north part of the parish, there is a stone set up about
10 feet high, 2 1/2 broad, and 1 thick, commonly called the stand-
ing stone.  Many rude figures seems to have been cut upon it,
but are much defaced by the weather and length of time; how-
ever, two armed men on horseback, the one behind the other,
appear pretty discernible on the east side.  It is supposed, that
after some battle between the Scots and Danes, fought near this
place, some Dane of distinction had fallen, and been buried there,
and this stone, as was then very commonly done, raised as a
monument over his grave.  In this parish is the castle of Ro-
syth, almost opposite to Hopeton House; it is built upon rock,
and surrounded by the sea at full tide; it consists of a large
square tower, and some low ruinous walls adjoining to it, but
there is the appearance of larger and more extended buildings.
It cannot now be ascertained by whom it was built, or at what
time.  Above a door, upon the north side, there is a coat of
arms with a cross, a crown, etc. and M. R. 1561.  Upon the
stone bars of windows in the square tower, there is T. *S. and


