
408                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

antiseptic quality, the effects of which have been frequently ascer-
tained.  This is particularly obvious in the preservation (the report-
er may almost say the partial restoration to firmness) of salt water
fish brought from a distance, and deposited, in wicker baskets, under
the running stream for twenty-four or forty-eight hours after their
arrival.  It may be mentioned, however, as somewhat, singular, that
this effect is not perceptible on what are usually termed flat fish.
The Bogie is a beautiful little river, meandering through a fine valley
until it joins the Doveron at Huntly, about eleven miles from its for.
mation.  The Burn of Craig,, its original principal constituent, is ra-
pid and impetuous.  The course of this brook, from its source to its
junction with the sister stream at the commencement of the Bogie,
is not more than five miles; but it presents all the characteristics of
a mountain torrent, suddenly rising to a great height, and as
quickly falling to its ordinary level.  In passing through the Den
of Craig it forms several beautiful cascades; one in particular is
verv fine, where it is seen leaping from rock to rock in a zig-zag
direction, and finally dashing down a precipice of considerable alti-
tude.  The scenery here is of a romantic description.  It may be far-
ther mentioned that at this place, in the far-famed flood of 1829, the
burn was proved by measurement to have risen 18 feet perpendicu-
larly.  The only other rivers connected with this parish are the Don
and Mossat.  The Don forms its boundary for about two miles on
the south-east, after receiving the Mossat, a small stream wbich
divides it from Kildrummy on the south.
   Geology, &c.-Freestone of a very fine quality abounds in
one particular stratum in this parish.  It first presents itself in
the adjacent parish of Kildrummy on the south, then passes
through Auchindoir, and reaches the confines of Rhynie on the
north, where it dips and disappears.  The common whin or
moorstone is also found in huge blocks and immense quantity
on the estate of Craig.  Limestone is to be had both on the es-
tates of Clova and Craig, but its purity is not remarkable, and at
any rate, the distance even from imported coal is so very great,
that it has not been found expedient to work the quarries to any
noticeable extent.  The asbestos is also found on Mr Gordon's
estate; but in one place only, (a ravine in the bosom of a moun-
tain,) and in no great quantities.  There are also serpentine,
mica-slate, and a coarse laminated marble, in the hills of Tow-
enreef and Correen.  On the estate of Druminnor there has
lately been discovered a rather singular quarry, affording a hard


