
          116                 INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          proper management.  Lime is, however, expensive.  Besides the
          carriage from Inverness or Strathspey, there is the expense of
          tolls; and until this useful article is quarried within the parish,
          little can be expected.  That it does exist within the parish
          is beyond a doubt; but the property on which it has been found
          is under trust, and improvement requires the fostering band of
          a resident landlord.  A spirit of improvement is, however, rising
          up among the tenantry, and in a few years we hope to see a new
          syrtem introduced.  In fact, this is the only thing that can
          put a stop to emigration.  Our young men, for want of employ-
          ment, are leaving us to seek their fortunes in America, and the old,
          whom prejudice has fixed in favour of old measures, are left to
          proceed in the routine pointed out by their ancestors, centuries
          ago.  The young men can see the benefit of improvement, and can
          act upon it.  They go to work in other parts of the country, and see
          the improvements carrying on there, and can apply them on their
          return; but these are all leaving us for the new world, where, from
          the great and spirited improvements carrying on, they hope to better
          their fortunes.  Emigration is so far useful as an outlet for our super-
          abundant population; but the ease with which it is accomplished
          raises a spirit of discontent, anda desire of change in our people,
          which makes them feel restless and uneasy in their present con-
          dition.  The only true method of preventing it is by introducing
          a spirit of improvement among our tenantry; and when this is met
          by the liberality of the landlord, we shall hope to see the popula-
          tion of our Highland glens comfortable and happy, and not wish-
          ing to change their native land for what they may suppose to be
          the comforts of a foreign soil.

             January 1836.


