
     Statistical Account

   Manner of Living, etc.-It is to be observed, that, not-
withstanding the very great rise of rents, and of servants
wages, the farmers live much more comfortably, and make a
more decent and respectable appearance, than they did 50
years ago*.  Their rents are more regularly and punctually
paid, and there are fewer bankruptcies, or failures among
them.  There is, however, a still greater, and more striking
difference, in the dress and manner of living of the tradesmen,
than of the farmers.  A good deal of English broad cloth is worn
by the men; and both mistresses and servant-maids, (for in
point of dress there is little difference between them), have
their silk cloaks and bonnets, their muslin and calico gowns;
their ribbons and flounced petticoats, with cotton and thread
stockings.  Tradesmen do not live nearly so much on oatmeal
as they did in 1742.  There is scarcely one of their families
in which tea, with wheaten bread, is not used for breakfast;
and very few that do not drink it in the afternoon.  Farmers,
tradesmen, and day-labourers, have a good deal on butcher
meat, with potatoes.  In 1792, upwards of 200 fatted cows
were made use of, besides veal, lamb, and pork.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1742, the men wore strong coarse cloth; the greater part, if not the
whole, of which was spun in their own families, and woven and dressed in the
parish.  Knit woollen stockings were then only beginning to be used by a few
of the men.  Plaiding hose were still the general wear.  There were no hats;
bonnets were universally in use.-The wives of some of the more wealthy and
substantial farmers, and tradesmen, had silk plaids; but by far the greater part
of the married women, red or striped worsted ones.  Young women wore
woollen closks, with hoods of the same kind of cloth.  This cloth was of home
manufacture.  They had no buckles in their shoes; these were tied with a piece
of red or blue tape.  The women in general, and particularly the younger part
of them, seldom pur on shoes and stockings, excepting to the church, or to a
fair or market.  Their head-dress was extremely plain and simple.-They lived
chiefly on oatmeal and milk, or butter and skimmed milk cheese.  Butcher meat


