
     Statistical Account

of the interior circles of the former.  On the farm of
Flight, and near to the castle of Clintwood, there are two
camps at a little distance from each other; the one round,
and fortified with a stone wall* about 100 feet diameter;
and the other square, about 168 feet in length, with two
ramparts of earth+.

   Picts Works.-There are a great many round-abouts in
the parish, commonly called Picts Works.  They are all
circular, and strongly fortified by a wall, composed of large
stones.  They are frequently found, the one at a little di-
stance from, and opposite to the other.  There are two
nigh Heeds-house, two on the farm of Shaws, one on Toft-
holm, one on Foulshiels, one on Cocklaw, one on Black-
burn, and one on Shortbuttrees++.  On the farm of Mill-
burn there is a small circle enclosed by 9 stones, which seems
to have been a Druidical temple.  Tradition says Lord
Soules was burnt there.  The hill is called Nine-Stone Ridge.

   Cairns.-There are many cairns³³ in different places.
The most remarkable of these is on the farm of Whisgills.

<FOOTNOTE>

*This year (1793) the wall was carried away to build a stone dike,
and at a considerable depth, among some large stones, there was found
the head of some weapon, or instrument of fine brass, 4 1/2 inches long;
the one end is fitted to receive a shaft or handle, the other is widened, and
is formed and sharpened like the edge of a hatchet, The other article
found has the appearance of a small sword of mixed metal, about three
feet long, but was broken by the workman before the writer hereof could
get them into his possession.

+A learned gentleman informs me, that a Roman legion wintered in
Liddisdale, cut down wood, and drained marshes.

++ The stones of this last were lately removed; and on the south side
there was found a place 10 feet wide, and 20 feet long, paved with flat
stones, and inclosed by others on each side, set on edge, within which
there seemed to be ashes and burnt sticks.

³³On the farm of Cleugh-head one was removed, and an urn found full


