
                                  CARGILL.                          1169

      of a Roman station, now called the Castlehill; on one side, this
      encampment is defended by the steep banks of the Tay; on an-
      other, by a deep ravine; a high breast-work and strong entrench-
      ments guard it on all other sides where it was accessible.
      The fossae are perfectly discernible, and the aqueduct by which
      they were filled from a neighbouring rivulet, is still in high pre-
      servation; but the site of this encampment is now converted into
      a corn-field-Et seges est ubi Troja fuit.  In this camp, accord-
      ing to Boethius, the Romans took up their winter-quaiters under
      Tribellius, after Agricola left him, and preserved their communi-
      cation with other detachments of their troops who had advanced
      farther into the country, towards the foot of the Grampians.
      Upon the top of a high rock which rises perpendicular above the
      Linn of Campsey, in a most romantic situation, stand the ruins of
      an old religious house, dependent on the Abbey of Cupar.  Next
      to our Kings, the Hays of Errol were the principal benefactors
      of this monastery, and some stones picked up from the ruins
      still bear the arms of that family. Stobhall, a seat of the family
      of Perth, is situated on the banks of the Tay in this parish.  It
      is an old fabric, most fancifully situated on a narrow tongue of
      high land, and seems to have been built at different times and
      on different plans.  It has been in the possession of the family of
      Perth since the year 1360, when Sir John Drummond, by marry-
      ing Lady Mary, the eldest daughter and coheiress of Sir William
      de Montifex, Justiciar of Scotland, and head of a most ancient
      family, with her obtained the lands of Cargill and Stobhall,
      which then became the designation of the family.  A Roman
      road or paved way runs along the high grounds in this parish,
      which deserves particular notice.  This road, which is about twenty
      feet broad, and composed of rough round stones rudely laid together,
      can be plainly traced from Innerpeffry, through the parish of
      Gask, (where there is a camp,) to Duplin: from thence to Ber-
      tha, few vestiges of it can be discovered.  About a quarter of a
      mile above Bertha, (which seems to have been a Roman station
      from the number of urns that have been discovered there), a
      ridge of stones, which extend far into the river, and a great num-
      ber of large oak trees, which have been dug up there, and
      of which still remain in the water, give strong appearances of a
      military Roman bridge over the Tay there.  From thence the
      road is to be traced to Rome, (which probably got its name at
      that time), passed Sherifftown and Innerbuist, where there is a
         PERTH.                                      4 E



