
                        EDINBURGH.                  657

and Hospital of St Mary Magdalene. This was a small house for
the support of seven poor men, and was situated to the east of
Greyfriars.-Oratory of Mary of Lorraine. This was situated
in Blyth's Close, north side of Castle Hill.-Another private
chapel was in Tod's Close.-Chapel of Hollyrood and Maison Dieu.
The former was situated in the churchyard of St Giles; the
latter in Bell's Wynd.-St Mary's Chapel, founded in 1505 by
Elizabeth Countess of Ross, stood about the middle of Niddry
Wynd. It now belongs to the incorporation of wrights and masons.
-Convent of Cistertian Nuns was situated in St Mary's Wynd.
-Hospital of our Lady was founded in 1479 by Bishop Spens
of Aberdeen, for the support of twelve poor men. It was at the
foot of Leith Wynd, and is now called Paul's Work. Having come
into the hands of the town-council, it was by them converted into
a workhouse, and is now dwelling-houses.-Chapel of St Ninian.
This was situated to the south-east of the present Register
Office. The date of its foundation is unknown.-St Thomas's
Hospital was founded in the reign of James V., by George
Cleghorn, Bishop of Dunkeld. The building was situated to
the west of the Water Gate. The endowment was for the
support of chaplains and beadsmen, with candles, &c., for masses
for the souls of the King of Scots, the founder, and others men.
tioned in the endownment.-Chapel of St Mary, St Roque, and
St John the Baptist. These and several others were in the parish
of St Cuthbert's. St Roque's burying ground, in the Borough-
muir, was the place of burial of those who died of the plague.-
Monastery of St Catharine of Sienna was founded by Lady St
Clair of Roslin, and situated south of the Meadows, where the
site still retains the name, corrupted into Sheens. The nuns were
Dominicans. At the Reformation the town-council appropriated
the revenues, and the nuns were pensioned at the request of
Queen Mar.-There was another convent dedicated to St Mary
of Placentia, in the situation now called the Pleasance.-Chapel
of Knights-Templars. This was on a rising ground, Holy
Mount, corrupted into Mount Holy, to the east of Newington.-
Church of ii Restalrig, situate in the valley, a mile east of
Holyrood, was founded by James III., in honour of the Trinity.
James V. placed in it a dean, nine prebendaries, and two chanters.
The roof and part of the walls were demolished at the Reforma-
tion; but it has been lately rebuilt and converted into a preaching
station connected with South Leith.-St Anthony's Chapel and


