
360                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

whether the one is destined to supersede the other; or if both
should be retained, and kept distinct or crossed.
   Sheep are not reared in sufficient numbers to deserve any par-
ticular remarks.  The horses are also of the native breed, and are
well fitted for the cart or plough.  The following is nearly the
number of the live-stock in the parish in February 1837, viz.--
horses, 417; stots or oxen, 554 ; cows, 775 ; calves, 181; sheep,
108; swine, 99.
   Husbandry.-In the immdediate neighbourhood of the town, the
lands are let in small lots to the inhabitants on leases of eight years,
and the following rotations are followed:-A four-shift course, con-
sisting of one divirion in turnips or potatoes; one division in bear or
oats, sown with grass seeds; one division in grass; and one division
in bear or oats, after grass; or potatoes from two years old grass; oats
or bear after potatoes or turnips with grass seeds; first year's grass
and second year's grass.  In some instances, the lots are nearly all
in grass, in consequence of the rents received from fishermen em-
ployed in the herring fishery, who pay from L.2 to L.6 per acre
for the use of the ground to dry their nets.  Upon the farms in
the parish, the rotation is generally either a five or a seven-course
shift.  The five-course shift consists of two grass crops in two suc-
cessive years, one white crop after lea, a green crop or fallow, and
then another white crop.  The seven course shift consists of three
grass crops in three successive years, two white crops after lea, a
green crop or fallow and then another white crop.
   Within the last thirty years, the improvements in agriculture
have been very extensive; the whole lands in the parish have been
drained, and roads have been made for the accommodation of the
farms.  A regular system of farming has been adopted; the fields
have been laid out, and, in many cases, enclosed to answer the im-
proved system of cropping; and an extent of waste land, not less
than 1500 imperial acres, has been brought in to cultivation.  Much
benefit has been derived from deep ploughing, so as to mix
the subsoil with the topsoil, and to destroy the ferruginous incrus-
tation or pan, which in many places divided the one from the other,
and rendered the soil impervious to water.  By attending to the
improvements already effected, and adopting, when necessary, the
same means, much may still be done to increase the value of land
in this parish, as there are many facilities of obtaining manure
from the town of Peterhead, which do not exist in more remote
parishes.


