
1044                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

male schools, 1s. 6d. or 2s. per quarter. The greatest number of
children attending these schools during last spring, the busiest
season of the year, was nearly as follows: Parochial school about
140; new school, 128; infant school, 80;* sewing school, 30;
ladies' boarding-school, about 40; private adventure schools, 110;
total, 528. Deducting the numbers at the infant and sewing schools,
there are still about 420, most of them above six years of age,
in daily attendance at school. In summer, about a fourth of
these are withdrawn to be employed in herding and other country
labour. + Of the adult population, there are very few who cannot
read, and not many more unable to write. The people, in general,
are alive to the advantages of the mere elements of education; but
they are only as yet learning the advantages even of such branches
as geography, grammar, &c., and certainly they are not sufficiently
sensible of the necessity of the attendance at school being regular.
The country districts of the parish are not so well supplied.  In
the Dumbennan district, there is an Assembly's school, which, at
present, is not well attended; and in Kinoir, there is a private ad-
venture school for reading, writing, and accounts, taught with to-
lerable efficiency, and attended in spring by 50 or 60 children, and
another school conducted by a female, which is attended by about
20 or 30 little children.
	Of Sabbath schools there are in the town, one connected with
the new church, attended by nearly 200 scholars; another connect-
ed with the parish church with about 100 scholars; and a third
conducted by the Independents. The Roman Catholic priest, it
is understood, has also a Sabbath school. In Kinoir, there is an-
other Sabbath school connected with the new church,-the scho-
lars of which are about 30, and in Longhill, in the Dumbennan
parish, another conducted by Dissenters.
         Literature.-Besides the Farmers' Agricultural Library, there
is a circulating library maintained by the principal bookseller; an-
other called the Evangelical Subscription Library, which contains
some excellent books, but none of a controversial character; and a
Coffee and Reading room, with one or two provincial papers.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-About sixteen years ago, Dr
Scott, a native of this parish, died in India, leaving, in the hands

<FOOTNOTE>The infant school being only newly established on its present footing, is just
coming into favour: it numbers nearly I00.
   During last winter the teachers both of the parochial and new schools had also
evening classes, with upwards of 30 pupils to each.

					4


