
       186                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

       enced by the direction and force of the wind.  A gale of south-
       west wind often raises the water 4 feet above the elevation which
       it would otherwise attain, and at the same time causes it to rise
       half an hour sooner than the proper time of high water,-while a
       north or east wind produces the opposite effect.  The change of
       tide in Kyle-akin, in consequence of the water having to make the
       circuit of the island of Skye, before it comes to the entrance of
       this strait, is generally three hours later than in the other passage,
       although the distance between them does not exceed four miles.
         The whole of the inlet affords safe anchorage for shipping of
       any size. At the junction of Lochduich with Lochalsh, occurs the
       harbour of Ob-Inag, a creek of a semicircular form, having a suf-
       ficient depth of water, a muddy bottom, and shelter from every
       wind.  The bay of Ardintoul also, and that of Craigan-roy, at the
       south corner of Locbduicb, are safe and commodious harbours.
         Although the whole of this inlet, and particularly Locliduich
       proper, is sheltered by the barrier of mountains which inclose it
       from every wind, it is very subject to heavy squalls.  This is the
       consequence of the height and steepness of the hills, which inter-
       rupt the fair passage of the wind.  During a gale of south-west
       wind, which blows perpendicularly to the direction of the inner
       loch, the water is torn up in,spoondrift, and sometimes whirled
       about to a great height in the air.  On such occasions, the loch
       presents the appearance of an immense boiling and smoking caul-
       dron.  In fine weather, Lochduich assumes a remarkably pleasing
       character.  The view then presented from its entrance, when its
       verdant and finely variegated banks are seen, in contrast to the
       magnificent back ground formed by the mountains at its termina-
       tion, and when the whole scene is reflected from the glassy surface
       of the water, is one which combines loveliness with grandeur, in a
       degree seldom equalled, and certainly not exceeded, on the west
       coast of Scotland.
         In the eastern portion of the parish, two rivers of moderate size
       occur, each running from the eastward, with a course of about
       twelve -miles, and failing into the loch at its south and east corners.
       The water of both is remarkably clear, in consequence of their flow-
       ing from bigh mountains nearly destitute of moss.  Both are favourite
       resorts of salmon and trout.  The parish is abundantly supplied
       with springs, which gush out at short intervals ; distinguished from
       the superficial rivulets, by the channels in which they flow being
       no wider or deeper, than is necessary to contain the stream, and by


