                         AVOCH.                              393

the turnpike-road before the palm for strength and dexterity is
yielded.
  Habits and Character of the People.-The ordinary food of the
peasantry at their meals is oatmeal porridge, and potatoes and fish.
They are certainly destitute of many comforts; yet tbey seem,
upon the whole, contented with their situation and circumstances.
The general character of the people is decidedly moral and religi-
ous; yet it is remarkable how few in these regions are communicants.
  Superstitions.- When a fisherman's marriage takes place, there is a
superstitious practice, which never fails to be observed, even in these
enlightened days, with the view, it is said, of setting at defiance the
power of witchcraft; and it is this: When the bridegroom's party
arrives at the church door, the best man unties the shoe upon the
left foot of the bridegroom, and forms a cross with a nail or a
knife upon the right side post of the door. The shoe of course
remains untied till next morning. While many admit the absur-
dity of this relic of superstition, no one has had the hardihood yet
to move for its abolition.
  The fishermen here generally marry at an early age, and seldom
select a bride above nineteen years. The marriage is solemnized
in the church, on a Friday, but never before 12 o'clock. On one
occasion there were three marriages to be solemnized on one day.
The friends of the parties, as is usual, waited upon me previously
to engage my services; I assured them I should be at their com-
mand; and requested them to fix upon a convenient hour for the
three parties to be married at once. The friends of the parties
looked grave-shook their heads-said nothing. I was entirely at
a loss to divine what was meant by this sudden gravity of counte-
nance-the shaking of the head-and the profound silence-and
begged them to assign me their reason for this mysterious conduct
After some delay, and hesitation, and reluctance- upon their part,
I was given to understand, that if the three parties were to be mar-
ried at once serious consequences might ensue,for there would be
a struggle made by each party to get first out of the church; be-
lieving, as they did, that the party that should get out first would
carry the blessing. To prevent such serious consequences as might
ensue, under such circumstances; and these consequences might,
perchance, prove far more serious than the mere tearing of gowns.
and caps and coats, (and these their best of course,) I offered to
marry the parties in succession, But next came the question of pre-
cedence-a delicate and difficult point, at all times to settle, at least
  ROSS AND CROMARTY.                                  cc


