
                                 ANNAN.                      523

berties of the Scottish border, James V. did, in 1538, erect the
town of Annan into a free and royal burgh.
	From its vicinity to the English border, Annan was frequently
plundered, burnt, and its inhabitants put to the sword, during the
succession wars and the vexatious border forays. In the troublous
year of 1298, when waste seems to have been the great object of
war, the town and church were burnt by the English invaders.
Two years after this, a castle was either built or repaired by Ro-
bert Bruce, for the defence of the town, which he occasionally made
his place of residence. To this castle it was, that Edward Baliol,
in 1332, shortly after being crowned at Scone, had summoned the
Scottish nobility of the west, to do him homage; when Archibald
Douglas collected at Moffat a body of 1000 horse, marched
to Annan during the night, defeated `nd slew his guards, his
brother Henry, and many more of those opposed to the in-
terest of Bruce. Baliol, in the utmost alarm, and while half-
naked, mounted a horse without saddle or bridle, and fled to
Carlisle. There, he was kindly received by Lord Dacre, whose
estates suffered severely for the reception given to the fugi-
tive; for Douglas immediately collecting an army of 3000 men,
entered Cumberland, and ravaged and plundered a considerable
part of the county, but particularly that belonging to Lord Dacre.
In 1547, Wharton, accompanied by the forfeited Lennox, during
the protectorship of Somerset, made an inroad into Dumfries-shire,
and in his way through the county, plundered and burned the town,
after having met with an obstinate resistance from the inhabitants,
who having fortified the church, (the castle having been previous-
ly demolished,) baffled for a while the attempts of the assailants to
overpower them. " The church of Annan," says Patten, the
journalist of the incursion, "was a strong place, and very noisome
to our men as they passed that way."
	In 1548 and 1549, the town and district continued to be
harassed by the predatory incursions of the English border-
ers. The Governor Maxwell, therefore, ordered a tax of
L. 4000 to be levied on the prelates and clergy, for repairing
the castle for the defence of the place against the oppressive ag-
gressions of their" auld enemies of England." A treaty of peace
was, soon after, concluded between the two kingdoms, yet the
cessation of the barbarous system of predatory aggression was of
short continuance; and on the arrival of 6000 French soldiers from
Gascony in the Clyde, the Queen-Regent found it necessary to dis-


