
322                             LANARKSHIRE.

tween Lord Blantyre and his vassals it was subdivided and great-
ly improved. The peat on this moor becoming dry and unfit for
use, it was exchanged for Edge moss about fifty years ago, where
turf or peat for fuel is cut when required. There are four or five
acres of undivided common at Blantyre farm, and a few other small
patches scattered in different parts of the parish. The parish in
general is richly and tastefully wooded, but no plantations of great
extent occur.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land per acre is L. 1; but
some pieces of land let as high as L. 4 or L. 5 per acre. The
rental of the parish is L. 2579.
	Husbandry.--Very few sheep are kept, and the cows are almost en-
tirely of the Ayrshire breed. The general duration of leases is nine-
teen years, but as most of the farmers have long tacks or feus of their
lands, they are generally considered as lairds, and few leases of the
above description, or to so large an amount, occur. Draining has
been practised here to a great extent, and one individual has of
late laid down 2500 tons of stones for that purpose. The farm
houses in general are superior to those in the neighbouring pa-
rishes. About 96 horses are kept in the parish; 450 cows; and
250 pigs.
	Produce.--Average gross amount of raw produce raised in the
parish:

<TABLE>
		Produce of grain, hay, potatoes, &c,	    L. 4127
		Pasture, &c.	    			       1350
		All other produce,			       2260

						      Total L. 7737

	Manufactures--Blantyre Mills.--The first mill at these works
was erected in the year 1785, by the late Mr David Dale and his
partner, Mr James Monteith, for the spinning of that kind of cot-
ton yarn usually denominated water-twist. In 1791, another mill
was erected for the spinning of mule-twist, both of which are driven
by water power from the Clyde. The number of workers employ-
ed in the spinning-mills is 458, and the total number of spindles
in the mule and water-twist mills is 30,000. In the year 1813, a
weaving factory was built containing 463 looms,* which is partly
driven by water and partly by steam power. At present, an ex-
tensiop of the looms is going forward, which will increase the num-
ber to between 500 and 600. The hours for the mill workers,
five days in the week, are from six o'clock in the morning, till

<FOOTNOTE>The number of hand-loom weavers in the parish is 128.
				 4

