
1102                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

         Fuel.-There is, as has already been stated, abundance of moss
in the parish, so that most of the parishioners are well supplied
with peats. Wood is occasionally got from thinning of the young
plantations; and coals are brought from Aberdeen.

	January 1843.

                     PARISH OF LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.

	      PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

		   THE REV. ALEXANDER TAYLOR, MINISTER.

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name.-THE present parish of Leochel and Cusbnie consists
of the two old parishes of these names, with the addition, eccle-
siastically, of the lands of Corse, which are civilly in the parish of
Coull. In ancient documents, the following varieties of spelling
are found: Loychel, Loquhell, Lochel, Lochal, Leuchell, and
Leochell: Cussenin, Cussehene, Cusseny, Cuischnie, Cusney,
and Cushney. The etymology of Leochel, given in the former
Statistical Account, is evidently untenable. It is there derived
from Leath-Chuil, signifying the "half of Coull." But there is
no trace of the termination oul in any of the ancient forms of the
word, and the separate and independent existence of the parish of
Leochel can be established from about the year 1165, the begin-
ning of the reign of William the Lion. A much more probable
account is, that, as the parish takes its name from the burn or
water of Leochel, and as this stream rises from a cleft or hollow
in the Hhll of Cushnie, near an eminence called Crag-Leoch,
Leochel, or Leochal, is compounded of Leoch, the name of this
crag, and ale, signifying a "clear stream." But perhaps the
most probable derivation of all is from the Celtic Lli, signifying a
"stream," and uchzel, Signifying "high," a character very ap-
plicable, in consequence of the elevated ground from which the
Leochel descends in its course to the Don. Cussenin, the oldest
form of Cushnie, seems to be derived from Cash, foot, and Fainn,
height, in composition Coshnainn, "the foot of the height or hill,"
which is exactly descriptive of the place.
         Extent and Boundaries.-The form of the parish is irregular.
The middle portion may be considered as approaching to the figure



