

                               CAPUTH.                         681

      conveyance, that runs through any part of this parish,-which
      is a source of inconvenience to travellers.  About four years ago, a
      railway was projected between Perth and Dunkeld, which would
      have passed by Stanley mills, and then have crossed the Tay,
      and run westward through a great part of Caputh.  But upon a
      survey being made, the estimated expense was found far to exceed                                                                           e scheme has
      any profits ever likely to be realized by it, and the scheme has
      therefore been dropt.  Had it succeeded it would have been of
      very great advantage, not only to this part of the Stormont, but
      to a great part of the Highlands, by saving, carriage and cheapen-
      ing fuel.
         Bridges, Boats, &c.-The Tay, bounding the parish entirely
      upon the south, and the Isla on the east, must have presented a
      great obstacle to traffic in former times, when there were no bridges
      and but very hndifferent boats.  Now that obstacle is greatly reme-
      died, if not entirely removed.  Since the last Account was written
      two splendid bridges have been built, and two boats of a novel and
      ingenious construction have been erected, at the most suitable
      places on these rivers.  The elegant and spacious bridge of Dun-
      keld, erected by the late Duke of Atholl in 1809, supplies, the
      place of a dangerous ferry, which long existed a little to the east
      of it, called Eastferry.  Nearly about the time that this commo-
      dious outlet was formed at the west end of the parish, another was
      opened at the eastern extremity, by a bridge thrown over the Isla,
      a little above its jtnction with the Tay, and which connects the
      Perth and Blairgowrie roads.  Again, at Caputh Ferry, opposite
      the church, in the centre between these two extremes, in place of
      the common chain-boat which formerly plied there, in 1834, a
      boat was erected, under the superintendence of the late Sir Alex-
      ander Muir Mackenzie of Delvine, consisting of a largr platform
      placed upon two long narrow-pointed boats lying parallel to each
      other and at several feet distant, which by a simple machinery, are
      made to present their sides to the action of the stream, and are
      thus prnpelled to either side of the river, and the greater the
      strength of the current, the more rapid the conveyance across.  A
      chain is also stretched across the river, and which, passing over a                                                          di Which,,
      fly-wheel fixed to the side of the platform, keeps the boat in a
      straight course.  It is capable of taking four loaded carts at one
      time, without unyoking the horses, and the passage is perfomed
      in five minutes.  By this ferry access is obtained to Perth by
      Stanley, the former being distant from the best eleven miles and


