
                      ST FERGUS.                             213

one, the plan is impracticable.  But what calls loudly for such a
mode of distribution, is the well ascertained fact, that several of the
paupers are in the habit of expending the greater part of their
quarterly receipts from the parish funds on tea and tobacco, and
other luxuries, while they calculate on the bounty of the charitable
for the necessaries of life-thus aggravating, by the means intend-
ed to mitigate, the evils of their condition.  It is matter of hearty
regret that that spirit of independence which disdains to subsist on
any other exertion than its own, and which was formerly the boast
and ornament of our peasantry, is now far less characteristic of the
class-and to receive parochial relief is consequently not consider-
ed so humiliating and degrading as it was in a bygone generation.
The writer has, however, witnessed many cases of the utmost un-
willingness to receive the aid, which was but too manifestly needed,
and where the greatest delicacy was required in the ministrations
of charity, not to injure the fine feelings which had survived the
withering influence of the most desolating poverty.  There are
no travelling beggars belonging to the parish, but some of the
more necessitous of the paupers on the roll make frequent appli-
cations for meal, and milk, and other necessaries to their better
conditioned neighbours. The sympathies of the people are daily
besieged by sturdy beggars from other parts of the country, who
drain off, by their importunity, much of those supplies which would
more properly be made to refresh the habitations of our in dwelling
poor.  Various attempts have been made to rid the parish of this
nuisance-but that which seems to promise the only complete re-,
medy would be the employment of a sufficient number of constables
to perambulate the parish.  This was partially attempted, but fail-
ed from the want of funds to keep up an adequate vigilance.  From
the interest which the landed proprietors, in general, have in the
maintenance of the parochial funds, and the means of their increase,
it might be an experiment worth their trial to assess themselves,
in their several counties, according to their valued rent, in an an-
nual sum, to be augmented by parochial contributions, for the pur-
pose of organizing a constabulary of competent force to put down
the evil.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There are no prisons and no fairs held in
the parish, and it were most desirable that the same negative re
ply could be returned in regard to alehouses; but of these, besides
a small inn, which affords accommodation to travellers, there are


