
                                 MARNOCH.                              383

      able for a variety of very large and beautiful trees.  Somne larches
      in particular have have attained their largest dimensions.  They
      must have been planted about eighty years ago, soon after the
      larch was first introduced into Scotland.  The mansion-house on
      this property, occupied by William Stronach, Esq. commands an
      extensive view of the valley of the Doveron.  The grounds are
      regularly laid out, and are in the highest state of cultivation. The
      steep-wooded hill of Ardmellie is the highest ground in the pa-
      rish.  The manse stands at the foot of it on the bank of the river,
      at the junction of the Burn of Crombie.  The church is on a
      rising ground at a little distance, in the middle of a Druidical
      circle, two large stones of which now only remain.  The church-
      yard lies at the river-edge,-a site of peculiar interest and beauty.
      It contains several monuments of some architectural elegance.
      The most remarkable is that of "Reverendus et Pius Geo.  Mel-
      drum de Crombie, et quondam de Glass, Praeco."  He was Epis-
      copal minister or bishop of Glass, and laird of Crombie. in this pa-
      rish; died 1692, aged seventy-six.  The ornaments on the tomb
      are very rich and  well carved. There is a vault attached to it;
      and, in a recess in the centre of the elevated part of the Monti-
      ment, there is a half-length figure of the bishop, with cap on,
      and full sacerdotal robes, the hands holding a book, and altogether
      an uncommonly rich and highly-finished piece of architecture, in
      freestone from Elgin.  A portion of the old church still remains
      in the grave-yard.  It had been used as a Roman Catholic, Epis
      copal, and Presbyterian parish church in succession.  There is
      a very neat vault, erected by public subscription; in 1831, in Which
      the bodies of the dead are laid for two months pravious to being
      interred.  This plan orifinated in consequence of grave having
      been robbed of its dead, which occasioned a great sensation in the
      parish. The river, a little below this, at the farm of Euchrie,
      takes several most remarkable turns,-The bridge, built in 1806,
      is the next object of interest.  It consists of two arches, one of
      which is of a very wide span, and stands high on two opposite
      rocks. A little below, stands the old tower-looking mansion of
      Kinardy, on a promontory at the junction of the burn of the same
      name with the Doveron.  Its situation is peculiarly picturesque
      and commanding. This house is very ancient,- has been built as
      various periods,-and was, together with much of the property of the
      parish, held by the Chriehtons of Frendraught, whose chief resi-
      dence of Frendraught was in the neighbouring parish of Fergue,
      The rivers then winds its way towards the church, manse, and
        BANFF.					Bb


