
100                         RENFREWSHIRE.

ceived a similar report of the variety of trees on the estate of Mr
M'Dowall, but some of the plantations are younger than the woods
within the policy of Castle-Semple, which were managed with great
skill by the late proprietor, Mr M'Dowall of Garthland.
   Rent of Land, &c.-The rent of land varies from L.1 to L.4 per
acre in grass, and from L. 3 to L. 8 or L. 9 in crop, according to
situation and circumstances. These are so various that it would
be very difficult to find a fair average.
   A cow's grass during summer varies from L. 3 to L. 5, exclusive
of the expense of keeping it during winter.  A sheep may be pas-
tured for 8s. or 10s. on good land, but for less on the moor land.
   Rye-grass hay, with the seed, is sold at from L. 3 to L. 5 per
100 stones; meadow-hay from L. 1, 10s. to L. 3, 10s. ditto ; flax from
12s. to 15s. per stone; wool, from 5s. to L. I per stone ; cheese
from 7s. to 9s. per stone; butter, 13s. per stone; and beef, 6s. 4d
per stone. (I always speak of the local weights and measures,
never imperial.)
   Live Stock.-The best breed of cattle and sheep are reared in
the parish. All the farmers have the finest Ayrshire cows.
   Husbandry, &c.-Leases generally extend to nineteen years,
though some lands are let occasionally from year to year. This is an
injurious system, because the lands are not improved when a tenant
has not the certain prospect of holding it so long as to enjoy the be-
nefit of his improvements. The farm-buildings are in general sub-
stantial, comfortable, and slated. Those on Castle- Semple estate,
and the houses of some of the wealthier small proprietors, are ele-
gant, and superior to what is required for farm-houses. To contrast
with these there are one or two old buildings to remind us of the state
of things in a former century, and which would not seem out of
place in the Highlands. Most of the enclosures are thorn hedges,
but some are stone dikes.
   Much has been done in improving land during the last forty
years. Enclosures have become general-roads are formed through-
out the parish-the land has been drained and limed,-arfd the ro-
tation of crops improved. The embankments which separate Barr
Loch and Aird Meadow from in Castle-Semple Loch, formed by the
late proprietor, James Adam, Esq. W. S. and by which upwards
of 200 acres of ground have been made to produce most luxu-
riant, crops of oats or hay, are the most extensive improvements
that have token place in one quarter. * The late Andrew Moody,

<FOOTNOTE>Barr Loch is now the property of William M'Dowall, Esq., and Aird Meslow
of Colonel Harvey of Castle-Semple.


