
                          ROSENEATH.                           105

such points as the Tower of the Castle--the Gallowhill or Tam-
nahara, commanding the most panoramic views, may be, seen in
one direction perhaps dying away in remote distances, such soft
and graceful lines of beauty as vulgarize the most exquisite crea-
tion even of such a pencil as Claude; while at a glance of the
eye elsewhere, sublimer forms rise to the contemplation than ever
excited admiration around the bold and impetuous fancies of a Sal-
vator Rosa.
   Perhaps, in absence of more important materials of statistical
record, an instance or two may be given of the effect of these re-
markable scenes upon sensitive minds. A distinguished man, well
known as an eldgant religious author,and exhibiting in his works a
peculiar delicacy of perception of natural beauty, sat and wept like
a child, when he first looked down upon the Gareloch from
Baremman, so singularly bounded by the Castle point, the pro-
montory of Ardmor, the distant hills of Renfrewshire; the exqui-
site harmonies of the landscape were too much for even his eye,
so familiar with beauty. Another, scarcely less known, from a
different point, thus affected with the contemplation of the same
objects, one fine summer morning, the writer heard exclaiming,
"O! this is too much, this is too much!" and then his feelings
were relieved by bursting into tears. After a long silence, ab-
sorbed in gazing from Tamnahara on the rugged forms of the
mountains, rising abruptly from the waters of Loch Long and
Lochgoil; "Never"--did a certain graphic author thus exclaim,
creating terms for what be so admired, "Never did I see such
specimens of the statuary of nature." An English artist accom-
panied the minister one day to a cottager, who was labouring un-
der very acute disease. He betrayed no peculiar emotion as, he
heard the groans of the poor man, so expressive of his intense
endurance. No sooner, however, had he crossed the threshold,
than he exclaimed;--"O nature! O man!" waving his hand to-
wards the glories he looked upon. The contrast was indeed ir-
resistible. How much of the primeval order and beauty seemed
to adorn what surrounded the cottage how much of the misery
of man's primeval folly dwelt within it!
  Meteorology, &c.--There has been no register kept with suffi-
cient accuracy to afford any precise test of the comparative tem-
perature and pressure of our atmosphere. It may be stated, how-
ever, that the air is much milder here than at most other places
in the same neighbourhood, and on the same line across the coun-


