
     Statistical Account

it will influence others to follow their example, time will
show.  If they were to adopt it, certainly their grounds would
be much better prepared for succeeding crops.  Flax is sown
chiefly for family use, and but seldom for market.  Turnip-
farming was only introduced into the parish last year.  The
gentleman who introduced it, has succeeded, himself, in hav-
lug a large crop, which probably will induce others to follow
his example.  Potatoes is a crop universally raised by every
farmer, but seldom to any further extent, than barely for the
scanty use of his own family.  But I have long thought, that
every farmer might profitably consume, the double or triple
of the potatoes, he commonly raises.  If he were to cultivate
but one acre yearly, what a large provision does he lay in for
the support of man and beast?  One acre, if properly culti-
vated, will, on an average, yield 40 bolls, at 8 Winchester
bushels the boll, each bushel heaped.  And even more bolls
will be got, if the ground is good on which they are planted,
and proper dunging and cultivation given.  I have known a
large family, not under 15, plentifully supplied for 6 months
in the year, with a large quantity given every day to 2 or
3 horses instead of corn in the winter months, and also to
cows and poultry, and after all, selling 5 L. worth of them
that remained, and all from the produce of 1 acre.  No such
valuable crop then can be raised, and when freely given, will
fatten cows, horses, hogs, and poultry, to any degree you de-
sire.  An acre of potatoes of 40 bolls, at the low price of
1 s. the bushel, is 16 L.  It were to be wished, therefore, that
farmers were more attentive to their interest, and plant more
potatoes than they commonly do*.  The implements of hus-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The common method of planting this root, is ploughing and harrowing the
ground once, and doing the rest of the work with the spade; but this method
is both flow and expensive.  A better method is adopted by others, after giving


