
                         LANGTON.                       243

any speculative argument. The session was not only composed
of elders who had the spiritual superintendence of particular dis-
tricts which were marked out and assigned to each, but in accord-
ance with the Acts of Assembly, (which are still binding,) of a cor-
responding number of deacons who attended to the poor in their
several bounds, and assisted at the communion. The minutes
always run thus, "Sederunt minister, elders and deacons." It
does not appear whether they observed the directions of the Ge-
neral Assembly of 1723, and required the elders when they were
ordained to sign the formula contained in the 10th act of the As-
sembly 1694, but the attention which they paid to their other du-
ties renders this highly probable. They not only assembled from
time to time for the exercise of discipline, in which they appear
to have been mild and prudent, for electing commissioners to the
presbytery and synod, and for examining the communion-roll be-
fore the sacrament, but they had frequent meetings for prayer and
conference respecting the state of the parish. At these meetings
other members besides the moderator engaged in devotion, and he
was accustomed to give such exhortations as these,-that they
should be "faithful in the exercise of their offices, and give inform-
mation to the session what irregularities were committed in their
several quarters, that so a check might timeously be put to any
appearances of vice, and that they themselves should behave in and
exemplary manner in their respective bounds."
   And along with these attentions on the part of the elders to the
conduct of the members, and on the part of the deacons to the
necessities of the poor, a kind and steady superintendence was
maintained by the presbyters over the ministers and sessions in
the different parishes, which must have been followed by the most
beneficial results. It was common to call for their records once
in two years, and appoint them to be examined. The following
is an example of the vigilance which they exercised respecting the
deportment of ministers, and a striking proof of their solicitude for
their usefulness. "March 1, 1709.-The presbytery this day taking
again into consideration the affair anent the sacrament of the Lord's
Supper, and finding that there has offence been given by the
sumptuousness of dinners after sacraments, and the great number
of persons resorting thereto, do therefore discharge all the mem-
bers within their bounds from having any persons whatsomever on
the Munday or other days at their dinners, except the ministers
who have been assisting, and appoint that their discourse at that
time be spiritual." At the parochial visitations questions were


