
     Statistical Account

which belonged to the noble donor, in this, and the other
parishes now mentioned, in 1686*.

   The spring of the year 1782 falls to be noticed for a scarcity of proven-
der, and the ruin of many families, both in the Highlands and low country,
by the loss of their cattle, as the consequence of that scarcity.  It was occa-
sioned by a rainy and late harvest, and a 1ong continued frost and snow during
the winter and part of the spring, and at last rose to such a height, that in
the working season, neither straw nor hay could be had for any money.  This
parish shared in the common calamity, and some farmers were necessitated to
quit their farms and reduced to poverty.

<UNREADABLE>

   But these losses were forgotten in the miseries that followed them in the
year 1783, from the failure of the crop of the preceding year, and a real want
of bread for the use of man.  The want commenced early in the Highland
parts of the country, and in January of that year (1783) many came down to
this and other parishes of the low country, in search of provisions for their fa-
milies; as the season advanced, their wants, and numbers increased, and mul-
titudes from the heights of both Ross and Sutherland might be daily seen tra-
versing the different parishes, supplicating supplies of meal or corn, in any
quantity, for their money; and a pitrable case it was, to see persons young
and otherwise vigorous in this condition having hunger and distress of mind
painted in their countenanace.  'I'he price of corn rose from 15 s. to 20 s. and
21 s. and at length to 26 235 and 10 s. the boll.  The, late Admiral Sir John
Ross and some other gentlemen of property in the country, touched with the
general distress, ordered corn brought from other places to be given out amongst
their people in small quantities, according to their families, to be paid when
they should be in better condition.  Upwards of 12,000 bolls were imported
from the cast country to Irishness by means of Messes Fills of Dunbar and
others, and scattered over the different northern countries; and his Majesty',
paternal care, and the attention of his ministers, should be remembered with
gratitude, in sending at different times cargoes of barley, pease and flour
to be distributed amongst the indigent in several parishes, at the discretion of
the ministers and olders But for those supplies, disorder and rapine would
have prevailed, and the poor, rendered desperate by famine like so many
hungry wolves, would have broke loose, and laid hands on whatever they could
find The aid of government, then afforded this parish, amounted to 36 bolls,
which, were distributed at different times amongst householders in straits, to
the number of 415 and proved a most seasonable relief.

</UNREADABLE>


