
                           BOTHWELL.                        771

not be improper to mention, that, when the adjoining parishes on
every side were lately visited with cholera, some of them severely,
the parish of Bothwell was exempted from its ravages-only one
instance occurred among its numerous inhabitants, and that in the
case of a gentleman who attended the funeral of a relative that had
died of the disease in Glasgow.
   Hydrography.-The principal river in this part of Scotland is
the Clyde.  It takes its rise near Queensberry hill, at the south-
ern extremity of Lanarkshire, and after a winding course of about
seventy-four miles, and being enlarged by many tributaries, it reaches
the parish of Bothwell at Bothwell Haugh, opposite the race-course
of Hamilton.  Running in a north-west direction, it forms the south-
ern boundary of the parish for upwards of four miles and a-half, and
is here a broad majestic river.  From the nature of its channel its
waters are rather of a darkish hue.  Above Bothwell bridge it runs
through fertile haughs, which it sometimes overflows in winter.
Below the bridge the banks suddenly contract, attain in some places
a considerable elevation, and have long been celebrated for their
picturesque scenery.  There is a song of very ancient date com-
memorative of the beauty of these banks, beginning " Bothwell
Bank thou bloomest fair," regarding which & not uninteresting
story is quoted by Dr MacCulloch from Vestigan's Restitution of
decayed Intelligence in the last Statistical Account.
   The Clyde at Bothwell Bridge is upwards of 71 yards broad;
at Blantyre works, a little below the bridge, 120 yards, and at Both-
well Castle upwards of 80.  On the 25th of July 1835, when the
thermometer stood at 76&deg; in the shade, the temperature was 68&deg;.
The mean temperature of the springs is about 50&deg;.
   The north and south Calders have already been mentioned as
forming boundaries of the parish.  They are both tributaries to the
Clyde, which they join after a separate course of about fifteen miles;
the former takes its rise from the Black Loch in the parish of New
Monkland ; the latter from some marshes in the parishes of Shotts
and Cambusnethan.  As the name indicates, they are waters with
wooded banks, and throughout the greater part of their course are
extremely beautiful and romantic.  The bold rocks on either side
of these streams are of sandstone, and are richly adorned by over-
hanging woods, and a profusion of native plants.
   The beautiful and graceful kingfisher, and the common sand-
piper or killileepie, are often to be seen, frequenting the rocky beds


