
80                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

this ironstone has now been found to lie on the north side of this
water. The whole of the slaty band as yet worked in this parish
is in tack by the Shotts Iron Company, and Messrs Holdsworth
of Coliness. A number of pits have been sunk, and a number
of steam-engines are used for pumping and winding. There
are upwards of 200 workmen employed, who receive from
2s. 6d. to 3s. per ton for working the ironstone. The minerals
in this field dip to the north-west one foot in seven. The iron-
stone is worked in the Longwall or Shropshire manner, and a
subsiding of about eighteen inches takes place. Great care is
required in regulating the air-courses, and numerous air-pits are
sometimes required in consequence of the great quantity of sul-
phurous vapour exhaled from the ironstone. When brought to
the surface the ironstone is removed on railways a short distance
from the pits, where it is piled in large heaps for the purpose of
being calcined. These heaps vary in size, according as it is
found most convenient, from a few hundred up to 2000 tons.
Previous to being set on fire, the mass is covered with ashes, in
order to exclude the air, otherwise the ironstone becomes oxidated
and of a reddish colour. 1000 tons of ironstone is, when calcined,
reduced to 64 tons, and the quantity of iron got from the raw
stone is estimated as high, as forty-two per cent. When properly
calcined, it has a very open texture, in consequence of the carbo-
naceous matter having been consumed, for which reason it is, used
for mixing with other kinds of iron when put in the furnace, in
order to make them flow more easily. Whilst the process of cal-
cining is carried on, the smoke has a very stifling effect, in con-
sequence of the sulphurous vapour which is given out along with
it and sulphur is found deposited on the top of the heap. This
vapour has a most devastating effect on the vegetation around,
the ground in some places near the pits being totally devoid of
vegetation; and on the lands of Crofthead, a young plantation has
been totally destroyed. When the water was pumped out of the
old workings of Wester Handaxwood in spring 1840, it was so
much impregnated with sulphate of iron, that it killed the fish in
the Breich and Almond waters, into which it flowed. There are
a number of faults or dislocations in this field which generally
run in the, direction of the dip and rise, and vary in depth from a
few inches to about nineteen feet, but they are not of such extent
or frequency of occurrence as materially to impede the working of
the ironstone."


