
8                                NAIRNSHIRE.

from its mouth. On this brook, and within the parish, are four
corn-mills. The Muckle Burn, already alluded to, on which
there is one corn-mill within the parish, passes through its upper
part, and enters the river Findhorn not far from the sea. There
are a few small lakes in the parish, one of which, Lochlee, is ra-
ther below the level of the sea. The parish is is most places
well supplied with water.
   Geology and Mineralogy.- None of the rocks in this parish are
primitive. They are all of sandstone, some of them admirably
adapted for building, of which the beautiful suspension-bridge over
the Findhorn, near Forres, affords an excellent specimen. Its
towers are built of stones taken from a quarry in this parish, on the
estate of Mr Brodie of Brodie. Near the house of Boath, and on
the property of Sir Frederick William Dunbar, Bart. there is a
rock of black stone, which, on the application of fire, omits a flame.
From this some have imagined that coals might be found in the
parish. But it has been ascertained, that this description of rock,
though frequently found below coal, is never found above it. At
Clune, on the property of James C. Brodie, Esq. there has been
found a number of limestone nodules, containing such a variety of
fossil fishes as has of late much attracted the curiosity of geolo-
gists and others. Dr Malcolmson was the first who discovered the
contents of the limestones, as those who were engaged in carrying
on the lime-work had never thought of splitting them in such a
way as to exhibit the fossils they contained. On the Brodie
property there is a moss of considerable extent, called the Moss
of Inshoch, in which vast quantities of fir roots, and often whole
trees, are found imbedded. In the moss of Litie, on the property
of the Earl of Cawdor, there is an extensive bed of pure marl,
from the use of which the agriculturist has in many parts of the
parish experienced the greatest benefit. Marl is also found in
other parts of the parish.
   Botany.-The botany of this parish appears not to have under-
gone much investigation. Of late, however, a few discoveries have
been made, which render it highly probable, that, notwithstand-
ing a want of variety in the soil, the parish is every way worthy of
farther research. Of the plants lately discovered, some are addi-
tions to the Nairnshire flora, some to the more extensive flora of
the province of Moray, and one, Patamegeton praelongus, discover-
ed in 1832 by the Rev. Mr Brichan, to the flora of Britain.
The following list comprehends such plants as are of greatest in-



