
                   ST VIGEANS.                            507

visions are cheap, contingencies which rarely fail to coexist, the
wages of persons employed in these factories, with the exception
of the boys and young girls in the preparing departments, may be
considered as sufficient to maintain them, house-rents being here
comparatively moderate, and fish abundant and cheap; but in
periods of bad trade, such as has been experienced during the last
four or five years, when wages are low, and bread high, the remu-
neration is often inadequate to supply more than the necessaries
of life; and the parents of many of the children being in such
times either entirely idle, or only partially employed, it is obvious
that no small amount of destitution and suffering must unavoid-
ably ensue. Such, indeed, is unhappily the case, to some extent,
at the present moment; and this brings us to speak of the hand-
loom weavers, (and here there are none other,) than whom we
know of no class whose labour, even when full employment can be
got, is so scantily remunerated.
   In explanation of this, it seems necessary to take a brief review
of the causes which have led to a state of things so deeply to be
deplored, and, in a social as well as political point of view, so
pregnant with matter for serious consideration. In the earlier
stage of the application of steam to manufactures, and even up to
a period, as regards the linen trade, comparatively recent, the
whole of the yarns spun in the factories were manufactured into
cloth at home. This in prosperous times required a great num-
ber of hands, and, from the facility with which the weaving of or-
dinary fabrics can be acquired, the demand was soon supplied,
more especially in winter, when masons and other out-door han-
dicrafts, unable to pursue their usual callings, betake themselves,
to the loom. An immense number of weavers being thus thrown,
on the market, it was not difficult to perceive, that any derange-
ment of the ordinary course of business, independent altogether of
mere temporary stagnations,  would seriously affect this numerous,
body. Such a derangement has at length occurred, in the shape
of an extensive and daily-increasing exportation of yarns. It is
calculated that already about one-third of the yarns spun in the
factories here is exported to France;* and when it is taken into;
account, that, since the opening of this new market, no additional
mills have been erected to supply the deficiency thus occasioned,

<FOOTNOTE>A serious check has been given to this trade by the ordinance of the king of the
French, of 27th June, imposing a heavy additional duty on British linens and yarns
imported into France. It is impossible as yet to calculate the consequences of this
pernicious measure.-October 1842.


