
     of Peterhead.

ripened, and imported from England.  A gentleman in
the neighbourhood, who was always attentive to the inte-
rest of his tenants, by the advice of his overseer, purchased
about 18 bolls of these oats for his estate, and afterwards
came on purpose to thank the person who sold them, for
the fresh oats his tenants had received, which, he said, had
answered better than what had the appearance of being
much riper and fuller, but which had suffered from the
frost.  Part of the same oats were sown in this parish, and
there was no apparent difference of produce next crop, be-
tween them and oats of the best quality that had been im-
ported from England; they were only sown a little thicker
than other oats.  Two or three bolls of them were sent to
the mill, and a boll scarce yielded five pecks of meal.
   This strongly shows the fallacy of arguing a priori in
any thing relative to agriculture, as well as in other branches
of natural philosophy.  It is not supposed, that such oats
will be preferred for seed in ordinary years; but in years
of scarcity, and similar to 1782, the fact deserves attention.
   There were some peculiarities in crop 1784, which de-
serve being mentioned.  During the ordinary season for
sowing oats, which is from the beginning of March to the
end of April, there were constant showers of rain; the
fields were never dry; the greatest part of the farmers de-
layed sowing till the seed-time was nearly elapsed; the
grain was sown, but the rains continuing, the greatest part
was never covered with mould, the ground being much.
poached with the horses and cattle in attempting, and barely
attempting to harrow it; and great fears were entertained
concerning the crop.  The seed, however, that was not
covered, from the great moisture, all germinated, and took
root; and there was the richest crop, both of grain and fod-
der that has been known in this century; it has often since
been compared with crop 1775, which was a dray season,

     3


