
 	                             KILTEARIN.                          329

	alive to the benefits of education; but a closer view of the subject
	will lead to a very different opinion. Such is the general poverty,
	that the parent find it necessary to employ, thoseof their children
	who can do any work, to earn something for their maintenance:
	and it is only in winter, when no out-door employment is to be
	had, that the children can attend school at all. Small though the
	expense of education be, it could scarcely be expected that a poor
	man, with L. 6 a-year, could clothe himself, a wife, and.perhaps
	half-a-dozen children, and have any surplus to bestow on the edu-
	cation of his family. There are, it is true, some noble instances
	of parents submitting to the greatest sacrifices and privations in
	order to educate their children ; and widows bave been known to
	spend the day in bard toil, and the greater part of the night in
	spinning or knitting, with this laudable object in view. Such in-
	stances, however creditable to these individuals, cannot but indi-
	cate some defects in a system which requires such sacrifices, and
	presents such obstacles to the education of the poor. There is at
	least one-half of the population so distant from the school that the
	attendance of the children is rendered quite impossible: and two
	additional schools are in consequence-required; one more, indeed,
	is absolutely necessary.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
	receiving parochial aid, for some years back, amounts to 63. At
	present, there are 57 on the roll. This reduction in the number
	has been partly occasioned by the great mortality among tbe aged
	and poor in the spring of 1837, and partly by a regulation adopted
	by the heritors and session in that same year, which has the effect
	of preventing all who can do anything for their own maintenance
	from applying for relief. This re ulation requires of all who wish
	to be placed on the roll, to sign a disposition in favour of the kirk-
	session, leaving all their effects to the poor after their lawful debts
	are paid. When a husband or wife is admitted, the effects con-
	tinue in the possession of the survivor till death, when they fall to
	the session. The poor are divided into three classes. Those in
	the first class (at present containing 14,) receive 8s. a-year; the
	second class of 13, receives 6s. ; and the, third class, comprising
	chiefly those who can do something for their own support, contains
	30 persons, who receive 3s. If any of the funds remain after this,
	they are given away in small donations to a few indigent persons
	who are not on the roll. The money thus distributed arises from
	various sums mortified, at different periods, by natives of the pa-
	ROSS AND CROMARTY.


