
     Statistical Account

bably owes its name.  It is computed to be five miles long,
and nearly a mile and a half broad+.

   Sea Coast, Harbours, etc.-The island of Stronsay has six
principal nesses; viz. Huipsness, Griceness, Odness, Lam-
ness, Torness, and Linksness.  The resemblance in sound
which two of these, Torness and Odness, have to Thor and
Woden, the Teutonic Deities, leaves room to conjecture their
derivation.
   There are two promontories, Borrowhead on the South
East, and Rothesholm (Ronsum) head on the South West;
this was of old called Rodneip or Rodnumhead.
   The other parts of sea coast or shores about this island, con-
sist partly of three sandy bays; one on the East, the Miln-
bay; one on the South, the bay of Holland; and one on
West, the bay of Erigarth or West Wick.  The sandy beaches
of the two first mentioned, extend each a mile in length;
that of the last not so much, except at low water of spring
tides; and consist partly of skerries, (flat rocks, over which
the sea flows and ebbs;) which, with the shores of the nesses,

<FOOTNOTE>

+This, with the Isle of Fairay, which is about one mile long, and less that
half a mile broad, and with the Holmes, comprehends the parish of Eday.
To the parish of Stronsay, the four holms called Auskerry, Mukle Linga or
Holm of Midgarth, Little Linga and Holm of Huip, do belong; and to the
parish of Eday five; viz, Calf of Eday, Mukle Green Holm, Little Green
Holm, Holm of Fairay and Red holm.  So the number of islands, great
and small, in this district, amounts to no less than thirteen.  This district has
the island of Sanday on the North, the Fair isle on the North East; (at the
manse, situated on the N. E. side of Stronsay, this isle may be distinctly seen,
when the sky is clear and wind easterly, although about thirty six miles dis-
tant;) the German Ocean on the East, the united parishes of Deerness and
St. Andrews on the South; the parish of Shapinskay on the South West;
the united parishes of Rensay and Eglishay on the West; and the united pa-
rishes of Westray and Papa Westray, on the North West.


