
6                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

dition to have been branches of a large tree which was blown down
by a tempest on the night when King James VI. crossed the bor-
der to take possession of his English dominions.  The tree being
allowed to lie on its side, and buried in the earth, the branches
became each a separate tree.  Two of the oldest of the gray war-
den pear-trees have been known to bear in one season, the one
53 imperial bushels, and the other 56.  The pears which are most
esteemed, and to which Jedburgh is chiefly indebted for its cele-
brity for fruit, are the Longueville, the summer Bon Chretien, the
autumn Bergamot, the Ludd, the red and the gray Auchan.  The
old apple-trees are much inferior to those cultivated in modern
times.  The soil is a rich black loam, and this, combined with the
delightful sheltered situation, enables gardeners to succeed in rear-.
ing delicate trees, which scarcely grow in other paxts of the coun-
try. As a proof of this, it may be mentioned, that Coe,s imperial
plum succeeds admirably as a standard, and produces fruit equal
in quality to what grows on walls in gardens two miles distant from
Jedburgh.  In the garden of Mr Deans, the miller grape has se-
veral times ripened in the open air without an species of covering.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices. -The two Jedworths are the most ancient
parochial divisions in Scotland.  Various notices of their history
are to be found in books devoted to ecclesiastical antiquities, and
the annals of border warfare.  The magnificence of its ecclesias-
tical establishments, the fastnesses of its forest, which was fre-
quently the rendezvous of armies,-its castles, and the number of
its fortified houses, rdndered this parish at a former period of much
more consequence than it has been since the Reformation and the
union.  From its proximity to the border, it was the continual
scene of war and of lawless violence, from the time when Donald V.
here defeated the confederate princes of Northumberland and
Cumberland, to the year 1575, when the " Raid of the Reid Swire"
which took place on its southern boundary, terminated the hostile
feuds between the two kingdoms.  Since these troublous times,
few events have occurred worthy of being recorded.  The alarm
produced by the arrival of the Pretender with his Highlanders in
1745, is still remembered by a very few of the oldest inhabitants.
The denomination of dissenters termed Relief originated here un-
der  Mr Boston in the year 1754.
   Historical Documents.-A curios manuscrit account of the va-
rious proceedings relative to theorigin of the Relief, drawn up by the


