
                           KEIG.                          955

Lion into a priory for the canons regular of St Andrews.  The
Culdees were disinherited of their lands, which were bestowed
by the Bishop of St Andrews upon the canons, who was called to
Parliament as Lord Keig and Monymusk.  It was erected into a
distinct regality, being one of the three,-St Andrews, Kirkliston,
and Monymusk, in which the Archbishop sat as supreme judge in
criminal cases, coined money, and laid hold of all forfeited pro-
perties.  The original bailie of this regality was Lord Forbes,
who was so to the priors of Monymusk, the Abbots of Arbroath and
Lyndores, the Bishop of St Andrews, Moray, as appears from a
family manuscript; but the Marquis of Huntly became hereditary
bailie, and paid to this see an annual feu-duty of L.300 Scots.
   List of Ministers of the Parish of Keig.-Rev. John Young,
member of Assembly, 1638 ; Rev. Thomas Forbes; Rev. George
Middleton, died 1739 ; Rev. Alexander Strachan, appointed
June 24, 1740 ; Rev. William Duff, died 1772 ; Rev. Alexander
Smith, appointed 14th December 1774, and died in 1833; Rev.
Alexander Low, appointed 27th June 1834.  The present act of
patronage having been sanctioned by the Legislature before the
appointment of Mr Middleton, to the church and parish of Keig,
a band of fifty soldiers is said to have been sent to his settlement,
for the purpose of preserving the peace, which was stationed near
the present bridge over the Don, during the service, and, in con-
sequence, this part of the old glebe is called the " Drum Leys"
to this day.
   The church, which is an excellent model for a country church,
of the Gothic style of architecture, was built in 1835, and is beau-
tifully situated in a south exposure, a little more than a quarter
of a mile north of the river, and looking down upon the grounds
of Castle Forbes.  The sittings are from 480 to 500, all free.  The
old manse was built in 1774, and the present in 1834.  An ex-
cambion of the glebe at the same time took place, which, altoge-
ther, contained then 12 acres, 2 roods, 11, poles Scots.
   The number of families at present actually in Keig is 130, of
which 124, composed of 630 persons, attend the parish church;
2, of 16 persons, at the church of a neighbouring parish for con-
venience; 3, of 7 persons, at a Dissenting meeting-house, and ???
family at an Episcopalian chapel, all being regular attendants at
their respective places of worship.  The average number of com-
municants at the parish church is about 306.
   Education.-The parochial school is centrically and convenient-


