
            124                            SUTHERLAND.

            feiding of bestiall, and delectable for hunting, They are full of
            reid-deir and roes, woulffs, foxes, wyld catts, brocks skuyrells,
            whittrets, weasels, otters, martrixes, hares, and fumarts. In these
            forrests, and in all this province, ther is great store of partridges,
            pluivers, capercalegs, blackwaks, murefowls, heth-hens, swanes,
            bewters, turtle-doves, herons, dowes, steares or stirlings, lair-igigh
            or knag, (which is a foull lyke unto a paroket or parret, which
            maks place for her nest with her beck in the oak trie), duke, draig,
            widgeon, teale, wild-gouse, ringouse, routs, whaips, shot-whaips.
            woodcock, larkes, sparrows, snyps, blackburds or osills, meiveis,
            thrushes, and all other kinds of wild-foule and birds, which are to
            be had in any pairt of this kingdome." From the above list, only
            the wolf and capercailzies need to be excluded, in order to make
            it nearly applicable to the present time.
               Birds.-These are, three species of the eagle, the royal, black
            mountain, and osprey or fish-eagle,-hawks, (various kinds,)-
            owls, cuckoos, black-cocks, ptarmigans, moorfowls, partridges,
            golden and gray plovers, woodcocks, snipes, starlings, sparrows,
            thrushes, wagtails, swallows, kingfishers, rock, and wood, and
            sea-pigeons, mavis, and landrails. Swans, wild-geese, ducks, (dif-
            ferent kinds,) the great northern divers, scarts, solan-geese, cranes,
            gulls, and many other sea-fowls and birds of passage, frequent
            Handa in the summer months.
               Fishes.-These are, salmon, trout, char, herring, ling, cod, scate,
            turbot, flounder, haddock, halibut, mackerel, tusk, lythe, coalfish,
            dogfish, whiting, eel, silver-eyed fish, sunfish, and gurnards. In a
            country where the coast swarms with fish, some may have escaped
            notice, and others, perhaps, have not been discovered; for, so lately
            as December 1838, the writer transmitted to the Edinburgh College
            Museum, two very rare specimens recently found at Scourie. Pro-
            fessor Jameson gave them a place in the Museum, being presented
            by the lamented Duchess-Countess of Sutherland, and describes
            them thus: "Two specimens of fishes; the smaller of the two is
            very rare, and is new to the Fauna of Scotland; it is the Poor
            Cod of authors; the other, or larger specimen, is the Trimaculated
            Wrasse."

               Cetacea.-The cetaca frequenting the coast are, the whale and
            the porpoise: and the seal may included. A very remarkable
            specimen as to size, measuring in length 8 feet 2 inches, was shot
            by Captain Granville Gower Loch, R.N. in 1837, in the sea be-
            tween Assynt and Edderachillis.
                                               3

