
236                        FIFESHIRE.

by asthmatic people, instead of tobacco, it is said, with considerable
benefit; and infusion of agrimony is a favourite beverage with some
old persons, instead of tea. 
   From the high state of cultivation in which the parish is, it
cannot well be ascertained what plants are attached to certain soils,
excepting the well known distinctions of aquatic, bog, and rock
plants. The rarer plants are usually found in the greenstone soil,
but in general the plants do not affect soils so much as localities;
a plant being often abundant in one spot, while in another, under
exactly similar circumstances, not a particle of it is to be seen.
   There are few plantations of trees, and these but of very small
extent. When young these contain principally larch and fir, which,
as they grow up, are thinned out to make room for the elm, oak,
ash, and beech, planted along with them. The only trees appa-
rently indigenous are a few alder and willow bushes on the banks
of the streamlets.

                     II-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Burgh.--Inverkeithing is a Royal Burgh of a very ancient date. It
has a charter from William the Lion, confirming another still older;
and James VI., by one dated 1598, recognizes the privileges be-
stowed by former monarchs, and declares its rights of custom, &c.
to extend from the water of Leven on the east, to that of Devon
on the west, and as far north as Kinross. Most of these have been sold
or disposed of; but there are still retained the duties at the markets
held-at Kinross and Tulliebole, and the customs at North Ferry
passage. Even Edinburgh at one time paid a trifling acknow-
ledgment of superiority for some parts of the Calton-hill, but it
was bought up or fell into desuetude. According to the first print-
ed return of the treasurer under the new regulations of burghs,
"the funds, property, and effects" of the burgh are valued at
L.7437, 10s. 5 8/x2d. exclusive of the town-house, jail, and "other
property," and the debts at L.2029. The burgh affairs are at
present managed by a provost, two bailies, a dean of guild, a

<FOOTNOTE>This rustic practice, however, is sometimes not unattended with danger. Once,
upon inquiry being made what had become of a patch of hyoscyamus, which had
disappeared just as the plants were about coming into flower, information was re-
ceived that two persons of the common working class had taken the whole up, to
make "excellent medicine." Shortly after this, a farm labourer was met carrying an
immense sheaf of digitalis, who, upon being asked, From a humane motive, what be
intended to do with it, replied, "to make fine herb-tea for the cold." He was of
course informed of the risk of poisoning which he might incur by drinking the said
tea.


