
380                        INVERNESS-SHIRE.

stituted the comparative salubrity of a place, this parish may be
said to possess it. But the want of mortuary registers, &c. ne-
cessarily renders this branch of medical statistics imperfect."
   Hydrography.-Tbere are several excellent and copious springs.
There are some at the very top of the highest and sandiest part
of the bank of the sea, and others on a level with the sea, and
overflowed by it, at every high tide. Below the promontory on
which the church stands, there is one with a copious rill, proved
to be of the most uniformly cold temperature in the neigbbourhood
of Inverness. At Tornagrain there is tobar na gul, or the
boiling fountain, where, on a level flat, there are various inter-
mittent spouts, and with every ejection of the water, the purest
sand rises and spreads round the orifice from which the water is
thrown, till the weight of the sand changes the orifice, and this
sand is distributed by the same process anew. At Culernie is
tobar na clerich.  Between Culblair and Mid Coul, is Bruach-na
fuaran, or Brae of the Well, where the old inhabitants say Loch-
andunty empties its waters. Some of the farmers, however, towards
the sea shore, are put to inconvenience from deficiency of water,
if there be any continued drought in summer.
   From a register of observations, &c. kept by Mr Adam, Ex-
Rector of the Inverness Academy, we give the temperature of
the two first mentioned springs. The spring at the church, Mr
Adam found, during the whole years of 1821-22, to be uniformly
at 47&deg; Fahrenheit; but Tobar na gul varied in 1821, between
45 1\2&deg; and 46 1\2&deg; and in 1822, between 45 1\8&deg; and 45 1\3&deg;
   Lakes.-The only lakes or lochs we have to mention are Loch
Flemington and Lochandunty (Lochan-dun-duibh,) the loch of
the black hillock. They are both situated on the ridge towards
Croy, and in the old parish of Bracholy.
   Geology.-"The ridge which bounds the parish on the south
belongs to tbe old red sandstone formation and its bed consists
either of red or of a bluish-grey micaceous sandstone with little
or no conglomerate. and no subordinate layers, except a few thin
ones of limestone and a bituminous shale, which is not abundant.
No scales or other impressions of extinct fishes or other organic
remains have as yet been found, thougb, on the south side of the
ridge, on the estate of Cantray, the sands there have been found
exhibit traces of sauroid reptiles." *
   It requires little skill in decyphering the monuments of the past

<FOOTNOTE>G. Anderson, Esq. Inverness


