
442                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

numerous munificent donations upon it; all which were confirmed
by his son and successor, William Earl of Ross, in 1258. The
period of the removal of the abbey from this parish must have oc-
curred betwixt the years 1146 and 1251 ; as Malcolm of Nigg, in
whose time the transportation took place, became abbot in the for-
mer year, and Ferquhard, Earl of Ross, whose death occurred
in the latter, was living at the time, and very instrumental in the
removal.
   Eminent Characters.-Amongst the eminent characters of this
parish, the names of the following individuals deserve to be no-
ticed :
   Mr John Sutherland.-Mr Sutherland was son ot Mr Arthur
Sutherland, Episcopal incumbent or curate of Eddertoun, from
1679 to 1708; and at the period of his father's death (8th April
1708) was very young. He early embraced Presbyterianism, and
having pursued the usual course of study, preparatory to becom.

<FOOTNOTE>15. Patrick Hamilton, a natural son of the Earl of Arran, received this benefice
when quite a child,and it is probable never resided at Fearn. He ws the first called
in question for religion at the dawning of the Reformation in Scotland, and havinng
head found quilty of thirteen different articles of bcrosy, was burnt at the gate of St
Salvator's College in St Andrew's, 28th February 1521, at the age of twenty-four.-
(Spottiswood, Keith, &C.)
   16. Donald Dunoon, of the family of Dunoon, of Dunoon, in Argyleshire, suc-
ceeded Abbot Hamilton in J528; he was a man of great learning, and-died 9th Fe-
bruary IW.
   17. Robert Cairncross, Bishop of Ross, 1539-1545, was appointed Abbot of Fearn,
upon the king's recommendation to the Pope, as the building was out of repair, and
the Bishop, a wealthy man, and so in a capacity to restore the edifice. He was Provost
of Corstorphine, Abbot of Holyroodhouse, ana chaplain to King James V.-(Holin-
shed, Keith, &c.) He resigned the abbacy. Ist April 1545, ana died shortly
(Ep. Reg. Scot.)
   18. James Cairncross having thus acquired the benefice by Bishop Cairncross's
resignation, who was probably his brother or some near relation, enjoyed it only a few
months,having also resigned that same year.
   19. Nicholas Ross, Provost of the Collegiate Church of Tain, was appointed in
1546 tothe Abbey of Fearn ; but seems to have held it as a secular charge; for in the
Parliament of 1560, he sat and voted for the abolition of the Roman Catholic religion
in Scotland, and was an avowed Protestant. He died at Fearn in 1569.
   20. Thomas Ross of Culnahal, Provost of the Collegiate Church of Tain, and vicar
of Alness.-He was forced, by troubles and oppression-by the neighbouring barons, to
reside for many years in Forres, during which period he received little or no benefit
from the revenues of his monastery. Abbot Ross married Isobel, daughter of Alex.
ander Kinnaird of Cowbin, and dying in lb95, was buried in St Michael's aisle at
Fearn.
   21. Walter Ross of Morangy, and son of the preceding, was the last commendator
of the Abbey of Fearn. It would appear that he was little more than titular abbot
or comendator, (as these titulars were called), for in 1597. the lands belonging to
the abbey were erected into a temporal lordship called the Barony of Gealnies, and
granted by James VI. to Sir Patrick Murray, who was a great favourite of his; and
in the year 1607, all the other lands not contained in that barony were, by act of Par-
Hament. annezed to the bishopric of Ross. Whether Abbot Ross, who was not con-
sulted in making these arbitrary grants, was living at that period, or when he died, is
not known. Thus this venerable institution, after existing nearly four hundred years,
became extinct. - Forbes on Tithes makes 1617 the date of its annexation to the
Bishopric of Ross.)


