
     Statistical Account

   There is but little wheat raised in the parish, as the soil, in
general, is found to be too light, for producing an advanta-
geous crop of it, not more than 15 or 20 acres yearly, worth
from 7 L. to 8 L. Sterling the acre.  Barley is raised in much
greater abundance, from 100 to 120 acres yearly, worth, at
an average, about 4 L. 10 s. the acre.  Between 400 and 500
acres of oats are sown annually, worth, at an average, about
3 L. 10 s. the acre.  There also are large fields of potatoes, a-
bout 70 or 80 acres yearly, worth from 8 L. to 10 L. the acre,
70 or 80 acres of pease are raised annually, worth from 3 L. to
4 L. the acre.  The farmers in the parish have hitherto sown
no more flax than is necessary for the use of their own fami-
lies.  The real rent is about 1509 L., reckoning 10 L. per cent.
on the grassums given for some farms, and adding that to the
yearly rent of them*.

   Towns, Villages, Inns, and Ale-Houses.-There are neither
towns nor villages in the parish, a few houses near the church
hardly deserving the name of a village.  Nor are there any
inns.  There are 2 or 3 ale-houses, or, as they should more
properly be called whisky-houses, for whisky is the principal
article they deal in, and they have a great demand for it.
The pernicious practice of drinking whisky has made a very

<FOOTNOTE>

ordinary seasons, begins about the 20th of August, and ends about the beginning
of October, but for some years past has been considerably later.

*Wages of Servants and Labourers, etc.-The wages of men labourers are
8 d. a-day with victuals, and 1 s. 2 d. without victuals.  The wages of women
for working at peats, hay-making, and other farm work, is 5 d. with their diet,
and 9 d. and 10 d. without it.  In harvest, both men and women are commonly
8 d. a-day, with victuals, and 1 s. and 1 s. 2 d. when they furnish their own pro-
visons.  The day's wages of a master mason, carpenter, and slater, are 2 s.; of a
tailor, 8 d. with victuals.  The average wages of farming men servants are
8 L. yearly with bed and board; and of women 3 L. 10 s.  The wages of domestic
servants are much the same with those of farm servants.
   

