
                          NORTH BERWICK.                 327

ed on the convent the patronage of the church of North
Berwick, with its tithes and pertinents. Afterwards were ac-
quired the advowsons of the church of Largo, of Kilconacher,
Kilbrachmont, and St Monance in Fife, with lands that belonged
to each of them. The Bishop of Dunblane added the church of
Logie Aithry, near Stirling; and Adam de Kilconacher, Earl
of Carrick, a zealous patron of the convent, in 1266, confirmed
to the nuns the grants of his fathers. In the ancient Taxatio,
the lands which belonged to the nunnery were rated at L. 66, 13s.
4d. In 1296, the Prioress submitted to the power of Edward I.,
and received in return writs to the several sheriffs of Fife, Edin-
burg, Haddington, Berwick, and Roxburgh, to restore the estates
of her convent. Submission thus insured protection; and, for a
while, the female inhabitants of the nunnery were again safe in the
enjoyment of their possessions. But, in the future progress of
anarchy and turbulent violence, their weakness invited deprivation
and plunder under James III.; the servants and the tithes of the
Prioress within the parishes of Kilconacher, Kilbrachmont, and
St Monance were assaulted and seized. The Prioress, in 1482,
applied to Parliament for protection and redress; and the Lords
decreed the restoration of the property, and the repair of the da-
mages that the assailants had inflicted.-In the succeeding reign,
Margaret Home, fourth daughter of Sir Patrick Home of Pol-
warth, (who died in 1504), became a nun, and rose to be Prioress
in the convent. Her niece, Isabel, third daughter of Sir Alexander
Home of Polwarth, (who died in 1532), also from being a nun, suc-
ceeded her aunt as prioress. It is thus seen, that, previously to the
Reformation, the nunnery had become in a measure the inheritance
of the Homes. After the Reformation the revenues of the con-
vent which remained unalienated and untransferred, were erected
into a lordship for Sir Alexander Home of North Berwick, a spe-
cial favourite of James VI.; and the patronages of the various other
churches were distributed to various suitors, at the pleasure of the
King and the Parliament. At the Reformation the convent contain-
ed eleven nuns, whose income was about L. 20 each, yearly. The
income of the nunnery is stated thus: "Money, L. 556, 17s. 8d;
wheat, 9 chalders, 12 bolls; bear, 19 chalders, 4 bolls; oats, 14
chalders, 4 bolls; pease and beans, 3 chalders, 9 bolls; malt, 1
boll, 3 firlots, and 3 pecks; 18 oxen, 13 cows, 1 last and 9 barrels of
salmon." (Books of Assumption.) The monastery has been, at one
time, evidently very magnificent, strongly built, and covering an ex-


