
46                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

is one good and safe harbour at Ham, built at Mr Traill's
expense. There are three landing places for boats at Dunnet,
Brough, and Scarffskerry. A slip has been built at Brough, at
the expense of the Commissioners for Northern Lights, for land-
ing their stores. Here a good harbour could be formed. Nothing
has been done at Dunnet or Scarffskerry to aid nature.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is inconveniently sit-
uated being nearly at the western extremity of the parish, and
distant about seven miles from the most easterly point. But the
few inhabitants in that remote quarter are near the church of
Bower, and very seldom attend at Dunnet. The great bulk of
the population are within four miles of, the church. The church
is an ancient building, was repaired in 1837, and an aisle added
It is now a comfortable and commodious edifice, capable of con-
taining 700 sitters. The manse is in indifferent repair, and the
offices ruinous. The glebe contains eight acres, besides the gar-
den and the site of manse and offices, and is worth L. I2 yearly.
The stipend is 112 bolls of oatmeal, 81 quarters, 4 bolls, 1 peck.
1 gallon, 1 1/4 quart bear, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. of money. The liv-
ing is in the gift of Sir James Colquhoun. The number of communicants
is nearly 200, of whom 58 are male heads of families.
There are a few Dissenters in the parish, Burghers, Anabaptists,
and Methodists,-not exceeding 40 of all these persuasions.
  The average amount of church collections from Whitsunday
1830 to Whitsunday 1836 was L.10, 16s. 11d. annually. From
Whitsunday 1836 to Whitsunday 1837, they were only L. 6, 6s.
2d., in consequence of the church being under repair.
  Education.-There are in the winter season, four schools in
the parish besides the parochial school, supported by private sub-
scription.  The salary of the parish school is the maximum,
amounting to L.34, 4s. 4 1/8d. The school fees are moderate and
ill paid. The salary, fees, &c. way amount to L. 45, per annum.
Reading, writing, and arithmetic are principally taught in all the
schools. The parochial schoolmaster teaches the higher branches
of education. The people are quite alive to the value of educa-
cation; but, for the most part, can only send their, children to school
during the winter months, which prevents there being many good
school bar.  All, however, are taught to read and write, and have
been so for many years. There is a new school erected by Mr
Traill in centrical part of the parish, to which the Education


