
			KEIR.                                469

1s. 3d. Price of articles of raw produce, potatoes per cwt. 1s.;
butter per stone imperial, 9s. 4d.; skim milk cheese, ditto, 3s. 6d.
	Live-Stock, &c.--There is nothing remarkable in the stock reared.
The sheep on the hills are the black-faced, on the low ground mugs.
The cattle are generally the Galloway breed. A few Ayrshire cows
have been introduced. The mode of husbandry is a six years' rota-
tion; Ist year, white crop, oats; 2d, potatoes, or turnip fed by sheep
or raised for home feeding; 3d, barley or rarely wheat; 4th, hay;
5th and 6th, pasture. The practice of leaving some of the fallow
naked is fast falling into disuse since the introduction of bone
manure. It was common very lately to have two white crops, wheat
and barley, after fallow. Landlords are now restricting their tenants
to one. Improvements might be made in a more thorough clean-
ing of the land, a more careful selection of seed, in sheltering some
farms by plantations, and in buying up the remaining multures.
	A great extent of waste land has been reclaimed, so that double
the quantity is now under cultivation since Mr Wallace's Account
in 1778, and the sheep walks are now confined to the wild and
rocky summits of the hills. The great difficulties which lay in the
way of these improvements, were the draining of boggy land, and
the removal of great quantities of large stones. No irrigation of
importance has been attempted. The embankments along the rivers
are kept in the best state, and the bed of the Scar has lately been
altered so as to confine its waters to one channel, instead of allow-
ing them to wind through the adjacent holms of Closeburn, and
injure much valuable land.
	The ordinary duration of leases is fifteen or nineteen years. From
the circumstance of the year's crop belonging to the tenant who
leaves a farm, and the new tenant having frequently to pay a whole
year's rent before he reaps a crop, a large capital is required. But
the leases are favourable to the tenant. Farm-buildings and en-
closures are generally in a good state. On the Duke's farms they
are almost all new, handsome, and commodious.
	Quarries.--In the two lime quarries, the cover is very great, and
the superincumbent strata so little tenacious, that it requires all to
be removed. The rock is consequently worked at very great dx-
pense. The burning of it also is very costly, as all the fuel is
brought from Sanquhar, a distance of fifteen miles. One bushel
of coal is required for two and a-half of lime. The latter is
sold at 6d. per Winchester bushel.
	Fisheries.--In former periods salmon were so abundant in those


