
                             LATHERON.                 103

less.  This might have been foreseen from first, as there were no
members of that or any other, Dissenting denoinination, there, and
the inhabitants generally; neither desined nor couatenanced such,
a measure. With the exception of a few strangers who, may
settle among them, the people are most: devotedly and con-
scientiously  attached to  the Established Church, to which the
whole population of 8000 belong, with the exception of about
twelve famillies in the eastern extremity of the parish.  One, a
sometimes both the beads of these families tusually atted the
cession church at Wick, but the young people belonging to them
generally attend the mission of Bruan on Sabbath.  Considering
the poverty of many of the inhabitants, excepting those from
the very remote districts where  meetings are frequently kept  by
the catechists or others for the convenience of the people, divine
service is remarkably well  attended in the several places of worship.
On this Subject: it is recorded, with  peculiar satisfaction,
that, within the last. few years, a marked improvement a has
taken place in the, attendance of the young, and there is every
reason to hope that it will be progressive.  This is to be attributed
not merely to the public exhortations addressed to. parents
from the pulpit, but also to the more than ordinary attention of
the parochial and other schoolmasters in inculcating this, most important
duty upon their scholars.
  The averaged number of communicants has varied from 130 to.
180 during the last seven years.  The fewness to of their number is
to be ascribed to the feelings of reverential  awe, with which they
view this solemn ordinance, and the diffidence they experience as
to their being possessed of the necessary qualifications. for engaging
in it.
  The yearly collections for the poor  may be averaged at L. 52,
and those for religious purposes at L30.
  Education.- Hitherto there has been only one parochial school
in this extensive parish.  There are, howeveri  14 unendowed and
three Society schools; two supported by the General Assembly                                                   , yj,
and one by the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge;
in all besides 18, besides few female schools where reading as well
as needle-work is taught. The languages and tbe higher branches
of mathematics am taught in the parochial and Assembly's  schools,

<FOOTNOTE>
 *  Since the above was written, tbe United Secession have returned to Lybster in
the hopeof better success, as the curch there is about becoming vacant, by the
translation of its able popular minister to the Gaelic Church in Edinburgh

