
36                      LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

   Hydrography.-There are only two mineral springs deserving
of notice as such. At the westward base of the Kipps,hill there
is one said to be impregnated with vitriol. On the estate of Wall-
house, and about a mile west from the village, there is a chalybeate
spring, which formerly enjoyed some reputation as a tonic, but has
fallen into neglect, so that even its position is scarcely known.
Several other springs exhibit traces of mineral impregnation, but
of no very decided character.
   On the very boundary of the Cathlaw estate, nearly due east
from the Preceptory, there is a very strong spring of deliciously
tasted pure water, called St John's well; to which it is said the
Knights of St John used to go in days of yore for a morning
draught. Whether its virtues were medicinal, or of a more hal-
lowed character, tradition cannot exactly inform us; but still its
waters are thought to possess peculiar healing powers, if not still
rarer qualities, which operate in various cases as a charm. Near
it stood a stone, in some way connected with the well, and on the
very limits of the parish.
   There is a beautiful little lake at Lochcote, about a mile to the
north-east of the village, in the hollow formed by the surround-
ing hills of Bowden, Cachil-righ, and Kipps. It covers about 22
English acres. Formerly it discharged its surplus waters by a
stream from its north-west end, which formed a singular pool, cal-
led the eel-ark. From this pool it ran under ground for more than
200 yards, when it again burst upwards like a strong spring, and
continued its course into the Avon. This romantic little lake was
drained by a late proprietor, who thereby lost a great natural
beauty, and gained a few acres of deep, ill-reclaimed, and not half
arable marsh. The present proprietor (Joseph Hume, Esq.) has,
with great taste, determined to restore the lake, considering a beau-
tiful sheet of water more truly valuable as an ornament to his ele-
gant mansion on its margin, than could be the acquisition of as
much muddy soil and rank vegetation.
   The little river Avon flows along the north boundary of Tor-
phichen, dividing it from the parish of Muiravonside. The Log-
gie is a much smaller stream than the Avon, into which it falls. It
forms the boundary between Torphichen and Bathgate for seve-
ral miles; but through its channel is considerably deep, its course
is not adorned with scenery of particular interest.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The most peculiar geological fea-
tures of the parish are to be found in the east end of it,skirting


