
     Statistical Account

rank; by the more substantial they are drilled, by the poor-
er they are planted in every furrow.  The latter, though
not so productive as the other, yet are esteemed better food.
The ordinary return of an acre of drilled potatoes is about
16 bolls, but that of the other sort is not so abundant.  The
barley of this parish is in high demand among distillers, and
weighs between 17 and 19 stone, Amsterdam weight.  A-
bove 2000 bolls of barley, and an equal quantity of oats,
besides what is necessary for the maintenance of the inhabi-
tants, are annually exported.  No pease are raised but for
home consumption, and little wheat, till last year, that,
alured by the high prices of that grain, some farmers have
begun to direct their attention to its cultivation, and, it is
hoped, will find their account in it.  The best cultivated
fields let from 25 s. to 36 s. per acre; but in the hilly parts
rarely above 15 s.  The moil extensive farmers rent from
L. 60 to L. 80 Sterling; the smallest from L. l0 to L. 26.
Sterling.  None of the proprietors have inclosed any of
their grounds, nor give encouragement to their tenants to
do so, although most of them would give chearfully an ad-
vance of rent to have them inclosed, as their neighbours
feed their cattle promiscuously from the end of harvest to
the first of April, which prevents improving tenants from
raising turnips, wheat, or sown-grass to advantage.
   The horses in this parish, about 370 in number, are of a
small size, from L. 6 to L. 10 a piece in value; those posses-
sed by the more opulent from L. 10 to L. 20 Sterling.  The
black cattle, in number 910, are of a mixed breed; Lan-
cashire, Dutch, Fifeshire, and Highland; though the last
mentioned species surpasses the others in number.  The small-
est will weigh from 50 to 60 lb. per quarter, 17 1/2 oz.  Am-
sterdam weight: The middling size from 70 to 80 lb. the
quarter: The largest size from 100 to 140 lb. the quarter.
The sheep, about 1200, are of the small white-faced kind;


