
			DUNDEE.                                    29

fited. But it is extremely difficult to legislate betwixt master and
servant in all cases; and it will be found, on hnquiry, that the wants
of the parents, more than any desire on the part of their employers,
have crowded our manufacturing establishments with very young
persons; while an avidity for higher wages than the manufacturers
could afford to give for a shorter period, has induced them some-
times to protract their labour beyond what is good for their health.
After every drawback, however, persons visiting the mills and ma-
nufactories will see with pleasure the appearances of health and
cheerfulness every where exhibited. In health, every precaution
is taken to guard against disease; and when any epidemic prevails,
every attention is paid to such as are overtaken by it, and all due
means used for their recovery.
	As to the influence of our manufactures on morals, it is to be
regretted. that wherever multitudes of human beings congregate,
good morals are endangered. In almost all our public works there
are dissolute parents, and consequently neglected children, whose
bad example acts on the mind and the heart as a tainted atmo-
sphere does on the body. But there is nothing in the linen trade
less friendly to good principles and good conduct than in works of
a similar kind; and it is due to the mill-masters to state, that most
if not all of them have established schools for the instruction of
their servants, and that some of them devote not a little time and
attention personally to the education of those who are employed in
their works.
	One other remark connected with this subject suggests itself
here. It is well known that not a year passes by without accidents
occurring to both old and young persons employed about machi-
nery; and these accidents are often so severe, as not only to lay
aside those who receive them from working for a long time, but
even to maim them for ever after, and thereby to disqualify them
from earning their livelihood. Might not a method be devised to
meet such exigencies as these? If a weekly contribution from each
of the operatives, at the rate of one penny for every crown earned,
and an annual assessment on the masters proportioned either to the
steam power, or to the number of hands employed by them, were
thrown into one fund, and well managed, it would not only meet
these cases as they occur, but in a little time would form such a
fund as would render weekly payments unnecessary.
        Navigation.-Dundee seems, from an early period, to have had


