
316			LANARKSHIRE.

a little below Bothwell Bridge. A second burn rises at Shott, a
little to the south-west of the manse, and a third at Newmains,--
both falling into the Clyde.
	The parish is in general well supplied with water. At Blantyre
works, there is a well 42 fathoms deep, supplied with so copious
a spring, that an unbroken and never-failing stream of water gushes
through a pipe at the surface of the earth summer and winter. This
pipe discharges 20 gallons of water per minute; 1200 in an hour;
and the enormous quantity of 28,800 gallons in twenty-four hours.
There is a mineral spring at Park, on the west side of the parish,
which has long been held in high repute for sore eyes, scorbutic
disorders, and a variety of other complaints. The water is sul-
phureous or hepatic, and tastes like rotten eggs. Besides sulphur,
it contains a considerable quantity of the muriate and sulphate of
lime. When taken at the well it is very strong; but when carried
far, if not well-corked, the hepatic gas evaporates so completely,
as to render it scarcely distinguishable from common spring water.
Many years ago, when sea-bathing and steam-boats were less fre-
quent than at present, this well was resorted to by many respect-
able families from Glasgow and its neighbourhood. Several other
hepatic springs appear on the banks of the Calder, particularly one
at Long Calderwood, on the outskirts of this parish, on the lands
which formerly belonged to Dr John Hunter of London. Hard or
mineral water is chiefly found where coal, iron, and lime prevail;
and calcareous and chalybeate springs are also abundant. The
average temperature of the best springs here is about 50&deg;.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The geognosy of the parish of Blan-
tyre is similar to that of other neighbouring parishes. Owing to the
break in the coal formation, which occurs between Hamilton and
Quarter, none of the principal seams of coal are wrought for many
miles to the north of that particular spot. Coal has, however, been
wrought on a small scale at Calderside and Rottenburn; but there
are only some thin seams, found beneath the seventh bed of coal,
or sour-milk coal, as it is termed by the miners, all of a lean qua-
lity, and generally much interlaced with laminae of stone, blaes,
and shiver. As a general rule, it may be remarked, that the coal is
always beneath the freestone, and the limestone beneath the seventh
seam of coal, or about 73 fathoms below the uppper coal. In this part
of the country, however, the limestone generally comes to the sur-
face after the other metals above it run out. Limestone is now wrought
at Auchentiber, towards the upper or southern end of the parish.


