
			DOLPHINTON.			    51

of man can scarcely rear them to the tenth part of the size, or
keep them alive beyond the age of their youth; how wheat should
have been anciently paid as a tithe to the neighbouring priory of
Lesmahago, from lands where, under the present economy, oats can
scarcely be ripened; how the mark of the plough, like that of a
field which has been under active culture, is seen much farther up
the hill than it is now carried; how farms in this vicinity, fitted
out for the ancient wappingshaws three times the number of men
and horses now maintained on them; and how our very moors
at present support less stock than they did at the date of Charters
still extant, are important facts, never well accounted for; the in-
vestigation of which might discover the means of still farther reme-
dying the defects and improving the advantages of our northern
climate. *
	Hydrography.--It is interesting to mark the local agents by
which nature secures for her whole family an impartial distribu-
tion of moisture, and to see how far the winds carry and mountains
attract water to supply the animal and vegetable creation in every.
quarter. Notwithstanding that Dolphinton is distant fifty miles from
the nearest point of the great reservoir of fluidity to Scotland, yet
we have nine-tenths of our rain from the Atlantic Ocean. To
cure this indispensable requisite, our hills run in ranges almost pa-
rallel from the western to the eastern shore. Along the interven-
ing valleys, as if through so many funnels, the watery clouds rush
before the wind, dropping their golden showers. For twenty or thirty
miles from the Ayrshire coast, the hills tower in regular succes-
sion each above another, till they reach the western boundaries of
Lanarkshire. The lofty ridge of the Lowthers overtops Cairntable
by nearly l000 feet; and therefore not only draws up but breaks the
clouds, and thus renders them lighter for the distant voyage east-
ward. On this side of the Crawford mountains, and in the shel-
tered vale of the Clyde, the atmosphere being much denser, buoys
up the clouds, and conveys them as if along an aqueduct by Cul-
ter-fell and Tinto, till Walston-mount and, Dolphinton-hill get
them in charge. Here, as was often observed in the extreme
drought of summer 1826, when for four months every dark spot.

<FOOTNOTE>Polybius describes the climate of Gaul and Germany as a perpetual winter. Di-
odorus Siculus says, that such was the piercing coldness of the air in Gaul, that is
produced neither vines nor olives. Caesar and 'Tacitus both scastify that our climate
was milder than that of Gaul. And  it is well known, that Romans(??)
berty from one of their emperors to plant vineyards and make wine in Britain.


