
                   OATHLAW OR FINAVON.                         297

outworks for their defence, with a well for their use, and capable
of resisting not only a sudden attack, but a lengthened siege. That
it is one of the forts or strongholds of those early tribes, who in-
habited the county about the time of the invasion of the Romans,
seems to be put beyond all doubt.
	Analogous methods of building walls of great strength by the action
of fire, among tribes as rude as they, have been discovered in Tartary
and in India. The present is evidently one of a chain of forts, erect-
ed in the heart of a rich and fertile territory for the defence of its
inhabitants. From the walls of this fort may be seen, at a glance,
the two strong fortresses on the Caterthun, lying to the north-east.
To the west there is the fort on the Seedlay Hills, called Denoon
Castle, about five miles beyond Forfar, along with the Barry Hill,
in the parish of Meigle. These fortresses must be regarded as
the strongholds of the population that dwelt in the rich vales be-
low, and were, perhaps, the means of defending them, not only
from foreign invasion, but also from the attacks and invasions of
each other.
  Roman Camp.-In farther proof that such places as the pre-
sent on the Hill of Finhaven were not mere signal'stations, but
the forts and strongholds of the early tribes, it may be men-
tioned, that in the immediate neighbourhood of such, there is
generally found a Roman camp of proportionate strength, placed
so as to watch, to check, and to overawe them. This holds good
here. On the low grounds, about two miles and a-half to the
north-west, on the sloping b`njs of the Lemno, there are the re-
mains of a Roman camp of very considerable magnitude. This is
called the camp of Battledykes. The mean length of it is about
2970 feet,-its mean breadth about 1850 feet. It encloses a space
of about 80 acres, and is now the site of a well-cultivated farm
called the farm of Battledykes. The praetorium is the only part
of it now visible; and in trenching over some part of it lately, there
were found some small urns, which are now in the possession of
Mr Hillocks, factor on the estate of Finbaven. A coffin of stone
was also found: and in the possession of the present incumbent
there is an iron instrument resembling the flourish of a flint or steel,
which was found there on the same occasion.
	Judging from its size, this camp must have been a place of great
strength.  The celebrated camp at Ardoch is not much above a.
third of its extent; and if the estimate be correct that it was ca-


