
106                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

flat haugh, rises in a gentle slope from the banks of the river, and
contains the mansion-houses of Culter, Murtle, Binghill, Coun-
tesswells, and Bieldside, with their respective grounds, gardens,
and woods. The situations of these are most beautiful, and the
exposure excellent. The farms in this district are in a high state
of cultivation. There is almost no waste land. The soil is in gene-
ral of a sandy early nature. In some places, there are fields of loam
with sandy subsoil.
	As we retire from the river towards the centre and back of the
parish, the land becomes high, hilly, rocky, and exposed, large
tracts remain waste, covered with furze, broom, heath, and moss.
Considerable improvements have of late years been effected, more
especially towards the west, on Upper and Nether Angustown.
The soil in this western division still continues of an early, thin,
sandy nature, with a bottom of gravel and rock; but on the north-
ern back district, it partakes more of moss and clay.
         Climate, &c.-The banks of the Dee are noted for their salu-
brity of air, and many places on them have of late years become
favourable retreats for invalids during the summer season. In this
parish the variation of climate is considerable. On the banks of
the river the southern exposure, the thin, dry, sandy soil, the shel-
ter afforded by the numerous enclosures and small plantations,-
all combine in giving effect to the rays of the sun, in rendering the
temperature high, the air most salubrious, and the climate remar-
kably genial.
	In the garden of Murtle, beautifully situated in a sheltered den,
the peach ripens every year in the open air, and the crops are as
early here as in any part of the county.
	In the higher and back districts of the parish, the reverse is
the case; the situation is more bleak, the land in many places
damp and marshy, the temperature low, and the climate propor-
tionably more unfavourable ; the crops are consequently later, the
snow is often deeper, and frost more intense than on the river side.
	On the 4th of August 1829, the river Dee (which is every sea-
son subject to great and sudden floods) was flooded to an extra-
ordinary degree. The haughs of Mill-timber and Murtle, in this
parish, (though enclosed by embankments of extent and strength
sufficient for the usual rises of the river,) were covered to the depth
of many feet: the soil and growing crops were seriously damaged,
and great quantities of hay in cocks were floated away.*

<FOOTNOTE>See Sir Thomas Dick Lauder's Account of the Moray Floods.


