
288                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

used must have been very great.  Immediately above the door
of the old castle of Towie Barclay is the following inscription:
"Sir Alexander Barclay, foundator, decessit, 1136."  The estate
remained in his family till it was sold by the Honourable Charles
Maitland, brother to the Earl of Lauderdale, who married the
last heiress in 1752.  From this family was descended William
Barclay, an eminent civilian at the court of Lorrain, and the still
more celebrated John Barclay, from wbom,the late gallant Rus-
sian General, Field Marshal Prince Barclay de Tolly, was lineally
descended.
   Modern Buildings.-There are few modern buildings of any
consequence in the parish.  The church was built in 1780-is in
good repair, and contains 650 sittings.  A handsome school-room
was erected by the heritors in 1829.  One of the proprietors
built an elegant mansion a few years ago.  The two principal
beritors are non-resident, and have excellent modern houses on
their other properties in Turiff and Fyvie.  Many of the farmers
have substantial houses of two storeys high, with neat and com-
modious steadidgs.

                        III.-POPULATION.
   The population of the parish in 1755, the earliest period at
which we have any correct information on this subject, was 1264.
In 1801, it was onlv 1120.  In 1811, 1257; and in 1821, 1538.
According t-o-the census of 1831, the population bad increased to
1701.  One principal reason for the increase was the number of
subtenants or crofters, attached to the large farms, into which a
great proportion of the parish has been, for many years, divided.
This system of subletting has prevailed very much of late.  These
subtenants are useful to the farmers as labourers, and when they
have their possession on moderate terms, are generally able to sup-
port themselves and their families respectably.  Unhappily, from
the great increase of population, the competition for these small
possessions has raised the rents so high, in many instances, that
several of the subtenants threaten to be a serious burden on the
parish funds.
   There are no towns nor villages of any extent in the parish.
What is commonly, called the Kirktown consists of ten dwelling-
houses, with a population of 38.  At fully two miles distance
south of the church, is the small straggling village of Gordonstown,
consisting of about thirty-five houses, with a population of 100.
Both of these villages are inhabited partly by families occupying


