
92                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

Durness, we have a profusion of Gentiana amarella and Thalictrum
minus.  Elymus arenarius and Juncus Balticus are met with in both
places, the latter particularly abundant to the north of the house
of Keoldale.
   The mountain tops are generally dry and stony, and nothing has
hitherto been observed upon them but such Alpine plants as are
found on many other mountain ranges in Scotland, except Luzuds
arcuata.  Azalea procumbens and Arbutus alpina abound chiefly on
the low shoulders.  Luzula arcuata has been found only in three
stations in Britain, the summit of the mountains at the source of
the Dee, Ben More in Assynt, and Foinnbheinn in this parish;
and along with it, on the two last mountains, Apargia alpina.
On Foinnbheinn there is great abundance of Arabis petrea. It is
among the mountains in this and the adjoining parishes, forming
the north-west of Scotland, that botanists expect to discover several
of the plants common to the north of Europe and America, but
which have not yet been added to the British Flora.
   With the exception of a few acres of Birch copse on the banks of
Loch Hope, and a few birch, poplar, and holly trees in the clefts Of
rocks and glens, the parish maybe said to be quite destitute of wood.
In low and sheltered situations, however, the mosses retain the roots
of fir, birch, willow, &c. and decayed trunks of from thirty to fifty
feet in length are occasionally dug from the mosses. In sheltered
situations, and where the soil is open and dry, there is little doubt
but forest and fruit trees might grow, from the few specimens tried
at Eriboll.  Culinary vegetables thrive well.  Notwithstanding the
great quantities of rain in harvest, the crops are ripe, and secured
at least three weeks earlier than in the neighbouring county of
Caithness,-which may be occasioned by the difference of soil, as
well as the shelter, and the radiation of heat from the adjacent
rocks and vallies.  With the exception of six acres of winter sows
wheat, tried for the first time at Balnakiel, the whole of the crops
were cut and secured before the 23d September 1833.

                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   It cannot be expected, that the annals of a parish so remote and
so thinly inhibited, should at any time have excited much Pub-
lic interest.  Some accounts of the local conflicts of the clans Mac-
kay, Gordon,and Sutherland, may be seen in Sir Robert Gordon's
History of the Sutherland family, and Mackay's History of the
Mackays.-A correct survey was taken of the coast in 1827 by or-


