
			TORTHORWALD.                       31

care of, thrive well here, and are much more ornamental and bet-
ter fences than the stone dikes such as we have.
	Beside the extensive moss and meadows lying along Lochar,
there are three kinds and qualities of lands in Torthorwald pa-
rish. The first, a long narrow strip, extending from the moss
one-quarter of a mile upwards, is a light kindly soil, upon a sandy
or gravelly bottom, and is well adapted to potatoes, or turnips
and barley. The second division, extending up the ridge about
half a mile farther, is equally fertile, of a stronger quality, and
upon a rotten slaty rock bottom. This is also excellent turnip
and barley soil, and bears good wheat. Both these divisions are
sound dry ground. But the former is apt to suffer much in a se-
vere drought. The third division, extending to the top of the
ridge, is steeper and more uneven on its surface, the soil colder,
and of a less kindly quality; much of it upon a retentive tilly
bottom, and, from its high, bare, and exposed situation, far inferior
in value to either of the other two divisions.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest date of the register of births,
&c. kept in this parish is 1696, and the register in general seems
to be pretty correct.
	Land-owners.--The whole parish of Torthorwald belongs to two
heritors--the Marquis of Queensberry and Sir Robert Grierson,
of Lag, Bart. Neither of them reside in the parish. The Mar-
quis's residence is at Kinmont, in the parish of Cummertrees,
about ten miles south from Torthorwald; and Sir Robert Grier-
son's is at Rockhall, in the parish of Mousewald, immediately ad-
joining to Torthorwald on the south.
	Rental.--The rental of the parish as stated in the Statistical
Report of 1791, was L. 1850. It is now L. 4765. So great an
increase cannot be sufficiently accounted for by the rise in the
price of farm produce, and by the improved system of husbandry.
In addition to these causes, it is feared there must be taken into
account the smaller profits which the tenants now make. At the
former period, most of them were saving money; but at present,
very few of them can do more from the produce of their farms, than
pay their rents and maintain their families.

			III.-POPULATION.
	The population, according to the census taken in 1831, amount-


