
30                         KINCARIDINESHIRE.

and one tenant occasionally opens a pit in his corn land to cut out
peats from some small part of a rernaining bank.
  Soil.-The lower grounds frequently appear to be composed of
alluvial deposits, where several thin strata of sand and gravel, often
considerably mixed with lo`mx clav are found over a stratum of
moss; in . which last there are commonly abundant remains of
wood, which is likewise sometimes found imbedded in the higher
grounds. The soils are generally, on the higher grounds, light
and gravelly, or sandy; on the lower, loamy; but all originally
very moist, abounding in rushes and sprots, till drains are open-
ed ; for the filling of which, there is everywhere plenty of excel-
lent material,-water-worn stones, of which every reclaimed field
annually yields a plentiful crop for many years,-wbich, although
sometimes a little troublesome, is indeed one of the advantages of
Garvock, for without the aid of these stones, its naturally wet and
cold surface would remain a waste and barren spot, whereas, by
the judicious use of these, it can be rendered a kindly and very
productive soil; so that before it be fully drained, the shrewd
saying of an old tenant here will probably be found quite correct,
"there is not a useless bowl in Garvock."
  Zoology.-Under this branch,there is nothing very particular                                  here is nothing very particular
to remark. It may suffice, therefore, to mention a few of our
rarer species of quadrupeds and birds. Tradition says that this pa-
rish formerly abounded in deer. But after it was stripped of its
natural wood, with which it then was covdrdd, deer have been ba-
nished for many generations. Of late, however, since our planta-
tions began to raise their heads and afford some cover, Cervus ca-
preolus, the roe, has visited his former place of abode, and made
his appearance again in Garvock. Canis vulpes, the fox, and Mus-
tela putorius, the polecat or fumart, have nearly disappeared.
Mustela vulgaris, the weasel, is often seen, and Erinaceus Europaus,
the hedgehog, is sometimes to be met with. Lepus timidus, the
hare, by our absurd game laws, has become very destructive to our
young wheat and turnip fields. Lepus cuniculus, the rabbit, a still
more destructive nuisance to our corn fields, where it commits ter-
rible havoc, is fast multiplying on the borders of the parish.
	During the-severe winter of 1823, several specimens of Tetrao
lagopus or ptarmigan, were seen here. This bird is rare even in
the alpine regions of Braemar. Tetrao tetrix, the black grous, is
to be met with in the woods of Johnston. Tetrao Scoticus, or moor-
fowl, was, till, lately, to be seen here. Three or four coveys or fa-


