
100                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

of various prorietors, it was sold by the first E`rl of Haddington
in 1721, to the Earl of Hopetoun, in whose family it now re-
mains.
   Antiquities.-Among the antiquities of this parish, the ancient
Castle of Dundas is entitled to a prominent place. It stands in
conjunction with the modern mansion on the brow of a craggy hill
of that name, which signifies, "the hill of fallow deer," and from
which numerous bones of deer, and others of large dimensions
have been dug up. Its precise age cannot now,ascertained,
though it is supposed to have stood since the beginning of the
eleventh century. Several additions were made to it about 1416,
when it was turned into a fortalice by warrant from Robert, Duke
of Albany, and by a subsequent one, from James I. in 1424.
Its walls, which are very massive, were at that time raised to the
height of 75 feet. Its apartments are all arched, and a circular
stair leads to the top, which is flat, and surrounded by a battlement,
from which the view is magnificent. Immediately under the north
front of the present castle, there still stands a stone fountain of
most curious workmanship, which originally occupied the centre of
a parterre enclosed with walls of hewn stone 12 feet, and of vast
thickness, with flights of stairs in the middle, and a banqueting
house at each corner. This fountain, which was supplied by water
brought in pipes from a distance, is ornamented with numerous
figures cut in the stone, and bears on its sides a long inscription in
rather doggrel Latin, divided into stanzas, setting forth that the
purpose for which it was erected by Sir Walter Dundas, in the
year of man's redemption 1623, and 61st of his age, was to
perpetuate his own memory to,an ornament to his country
and family,-a gratification to his friends, and a terror to spoilers
and depredators, and that the parched garden might,moisten-
ed with the water of the fountain. Tradition relates that the
cause of this most expensive work was his disappointment at the
loss of the barony of Barnbougle, for the purchase of which he
had collected a large sum of money, when it fell into the hands
of the Earl of Haddington. The expense of it was so enormous,
as to involve him in difficulties from which he never recovered.
Whilst it was in the course of erection, it is said that he delighted
so much in the noise of hewing the stones, that in a fit of sickness,
Which confined him to his bed, he ordered the masons to perform
that operation in his antichamber. At the west end of Queens-
ferry is the ancient monastery of the Carmelite friars, built about


