
                         PARISH OF LUSS.

         PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                 THE REV. ROBERT CARR, MINISTER.
                         _______________

            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THIS parish has its name from the Gaelic Lus, signi-
fying a plant or herb. Luss is the name of a small river, and the
valley or glen through which it flows. As the church is situated
at the influx of this river into Lochlomond, the name was extend-
ed to the parish. It was anciently written Lus, and is the same
with the name of Luce in Galloway.
   Extent, &c.-The parish of Luss extends in length, from south
to north about 8 1/2 miles. Its greatest breadth is 5, and its least
2 1/2 miles from east to west. Its extent in square miles may be
about 33. It is bounded on the east, by Lochlomond; on the
south and south-west, by the parishes of Bonhill and Row; on the
west, by Row and Lochlong; and on the north, by Arrochar pa-
rish. If we include the lands of Bannachra, which formerly be-
longed to Row, but are now understood to belong to Luss quoad
sacra, it is also conterminous with Cardross on the south. The
eastern boundary is an irregular line running north and south to-
wards the middle of Lochlomond. The southern boundary leaves
the bank of that lake about three-quarters of a mile south from
the influx of the Froon, and proceeding westward becomes coin-
cident with the course of that stream, which separates it from Row.
Then the Laran forms the limit from Inverlaran, where it enters
the Froon, to the summit of Shannan Hill, where it has its source,
It then runs irregularly along the ridge which overlooks the Froon
on the north, and after leaving within Row, Stron of Glenfroon,
Finnart Hill, and Stronmalenoch, it again takes a westerly direc-
tion, and reaches the shore of Lochlong to the north of Gortan.
From Lochlong to Lochlomond, it is conterminous with Arrochar.
The outline on the south and west is thus extremely irregular.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.-By far the greatest part of the
surface of this parish is mountainous, some of its mountains rising


