
     Of Dalry.

were established lately in the parish.  There are no Episcopals;
no Roman Catholics.  The patron is Mr. Blair of Blair.  The
manse and offices were built in 1766; the church in 1771;
and an excellent school-house fit to accommodate 100 children,
with an house to the schoolmaster, in 1790.  All which build-
ings are in good order and repair.  The stipend, one year
with another, is about 97 L., including 50 L. Scots for com-
munion elements, and exclusive of manse, and a glebe of about
7 Scots acres arable.  The schoolmaster's salary is 81 L. 10 s.
Scots, he has a school-house, dwelling-house, and garden.  The
ground occupied for the same, was a present of 12 falls, made
by David late Earl of Glasgow, to the heritors, about the
year 1725.  The schoolmaster has, at an average, about 60
scholars through the year.  He teaches Latin, French, English,
and Arithmetic; is session-clerk; has the charge of the poor's
money; has perquisites from marriages and baptisms.  The
amount of his living, on the whole, may be about 30 L., a
sum surely too inconsiderable to encourage a man of educa-
tion and ability, to undertake such a laborious and useful
charge.  And it is to be hoped, that heritors, not only in this,
but in other parishes, will soon be inclined to hold out better
encouragement to such an useful set of men.  There is also a
private school in the village, which has, at an average, about
30 attending it; besides some private schools in the country
part of the parish.-The number of poor who are maintain-
ed weekly from the poor's funds, may, at an average, be about
12, besides others who are occasionally supplied.  They are
supported by the collections on Sunday, mortcloth money,
and the interest of a small stock they have on hand.  The
yearly sum expended may be about 54 L.  There has not been,
for many years past, one in the parish that has gone about
begging, yet plenty of such, from other parishes, are conti-
nually infesting us.  Though, what our own poor get from


