
                         TORPHICHEN.                       43
to his successors, Sir George Dundas, Sir Walter Lindsay, and
Sir James Sandilands. When the charter of the new peerage
was granted to the last preceptor, it rendered, that rank and title
hereditary which had previously been purely official, that is, vested
in the office of Prior, Grand Master, or Preceptor of the Order
of Knights of St John of Jerusalem, whose chief residence or
Preceptory was Torphichen. The office and the seat, therefore,
gave the title, which was not vested in or inheritable by any pe-
culiar family; and by the charter of 1563, the title was changed
into that of Lord Torphichen, but still remained attached to the
ancient Preceptory, as a local dignity, though the official dignity
had been abolished. The abolition of the official dignity ren-
dered the title hereditary in the preceptory itself, whosoever should
be its possessor, and in the family of Sandilands so long as they
should retain the possession.
   In 1599, James, second Lord Torphichen (nephew of the first,)
conveyed the whole Temple and some of the Hospital-lands, with
the exception of the baronies mentioned above, to Mr Robert
Williamson, writer, and James Tenant of Linhouse. Williamson
became sole proprietor in 1604, and afterwards sold them to Sir
Thomas Hamilton, subsequently Earl of Melrose and Haddington.
This nobleman acquired a charter from the Crown, erecting the
lands so obtained into a barony, called the barony of Drem. The
act of Parliament ratifying this charter is dated; 1614. This ba-
rony was disentailed by act of Parliament about the middle of last
century, and having passed through the hands of two or three
proprietors, appears to have at length become dormant, if not ex-
tinct.
   In 1633, John, Lord Torphichen, upon the resumption by
Charles I., of the superiorities of church lands, felt apprehensive
that his rights as successor to a religious order might thereby be
prejudiced; and after petitioning Parliament, obtained an award
of his Majesty, following a resolution of the Privy-Council, which
was to have the force of an Act of Parliament; that the resump-
tion, while It included the temple-lands, &c. should be held in no
degree to encroach upon the superiorities of, the barony of Tor-
phichen, in Linlithgowshire, within "that mean portione thereof
quharin does subsist the title and dignity of Lords of Parliament,
and to quhilk the title of Lord of Parliament in annexit, pertaining
to him (Lord Torphichen) presentlie in properties;" but that the
same "sall remain with him and his successors, according to the
tenor of his auld richts and infeftments, to be holden of his majesty


