
			NEWTON-UPON-AYR.		95


	Number of inhabited houses,	            453
		houses uninhabited or building,	      5
		families chiefly, employed in agriculture,         4
					trade, manufactures, &c.  448
	The number of insane and fatuous persons is 3, of blind 3, and
of deaf and dumb 2.
	The number of illegitimate births during the last three years is,
as nearly as can be ascertained, 36, being on an average 12 yearly.
	There are no proprietors of land in the parish of the value of
L. 50 yearly. The average annual rent of the portion of land be-
longing to a freeman will not exceed L. 12 or L. 13; and in only
one or two instances are two such portions held by one individual;
when the right of one freedom nominally belongs to a son or other
relation.
	Character and Habits of the People.--There is not much that is
distinctive in the character or manners of the inhabitants. The
freemen were at one period somewhat rude and unpolished, and by
no means noted for the decorum observed by them at their public
convivial entertainments. They have even been accused of being
"below mediocrity in wealth, industry, intelligence, education,
and respectability,"--a charge for which, at the time when it was
made, its author was certainly much more indebted to fancy than
to fact. But, whatever may have been the case in former days,
the freemen as a body are now, highly respectable; almost all of
them are in comfortable circumstances; and a considerable pro-
portion of their number much above mediocrity in wealth, educa-
tion and intelligence.
	The fishermen are the most peculiar class of the inhabitants.
Several of them are the descendants of a colony from Pitsligo and
some places adjacent, which settled in this place sixty years ago.
They were induced to do so from some of their number, who had
been impressed on board a man-of-war, which was for a considera-
ble time stationed in the Frith of Clyde, having observed that
fishes were to be found on this coast in great abundance. The
form of the fishermen's coats is a little singular: and until lately,
their Sunday's dress consisted of home-made blue-cloth. They
live, as might be supposed, to a considerable extent on fish; and it
is alleged are not so attentive as could be wished to cleanliness in
their habits. But to this remark there are not a few honourable
exceptions. Fish are here obtained so cheap, and excellent in
quality, that they are a very common article of food. Beer was
formerly a favourite beverage, and was taken by the fishermen in


