
                      CARDROSS                         91

Kilmahew, Ardoch, and Kipperininshock, but upon the whole
planting has not as yet been sufficiently attended to.
   Fisheries.--The salmon-fishings of the Leven were formerly of
considerable value, but are now much fallen off. They belong to
the corporation of Dumbarton, and to Sir James Colquhoun of
Luss, but they scarcely fall within this parish. The practice of
fishing by stake-nets on the shores of the river was some years
ago suppressed by a judgment of the Supreme Court; but bag-
nets have very lately been introduced in the open Frith below
Ardmore, and promise to render very valuable salmon-fishings
which have hitherto not been available to the proprietors. Of the
yairs mentioned in the former Statistical Account of this parish,
those of Ardmore and Colgrain are kept up, but they are no longer
of any value beyond the casual supply of a few salmon or trouts.
   Manufactures.--The only manufactures of Cardross are those
or Renton on the Leven, and consist of calico-printing and bleach-
ing. These branches are carried on to a great extent along this
river, whose plire water and powerful stream are peculiarly adapted
for them ; but as most of the works are situated in Bonhill, refer-
ence is made to the notice Of them contained in the account of
that parish.

                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns. --The only market-town in this district is Dum-
barton, adjacent to the eastern extremity of this parish; but there
is a good deal of communication with those of Greenock and Port-
Glasgow, on the other side of the Clyde, and a ready consump-
tion is found for the produce of the western portion of the parish
at the thriving watering village of Heletisburgb. The villages are
Renton, already mentioned as the site of a manufacturing popu-
lation (which was founded in 1782 by Mrs Smollett of Bonhill,
and named after her daughter-in-law Miss Renton of Lammerton,)
and Bridgend, a suburb of Dumbarton.
   The turnpike roads are those leading from Dumbarton to Ren-
ton, two and a-half miles, and to Helensburgh seven and a-half
miles. Along the former of these, coaches run in,summer to Loch-
lomond, but the only public communication towards the west is by
the steam-boats on the Clyde. There are daily posts along both
of these roads, the post-town being Dumbarton. The chief sta-
tute labour roads lead from Cardross to Renton, and from Ardmore
ferry to Balloch ferry, both of which are undergoing considerable
improvements.


