
478                             EDIBURGHSHIRE.

leven Castle, which belonged to a relative of his own, where she
was guarded with the utmost strictness.  During her confinement
there, he was one of those who persuaded the Queen to resign the
government to her infant son: he carried the sceptre at the coro-
nation of the Prince, and took the oaths on his stead. After the
Queen's escape from Lochleven, in 1568, and during the whole pe-
riod of her captivity in England, he showed himself the devoted
friend of English faction, and scrupled at nothing that would
further their views.
     On the death of the Regent Murray, in 1570, Morton became
the most influential leader of the Protestant party.  The Re-
gents Lennox and Marr were controlled or thwarted by his su-
perior sagacity; his crafty, selfish and ambitiou spirit ani-
mated all their proceedings. The peace and prosperity of the
country was sacrficed to grastify his revenge or promote his ag-
grandisement;* and recent investigation has disclosed with how
little reluctance he would have sanctioned the execution of the
unfortunate Mary, had not their dark designs been unexpectedly
furstrated by an overruling Providence.
     Being elevated to the Regency on the sudden and not unsuspici-
ous death of Mar in 1572, he pursued his former policy, and labour-
ed to bring about a union of the monarchy between the two coun-
tries.  Under his administration, however, the country enjoyed com-
parative tranquillity. He repressed disorder and crime, and main-
tained the authority of the law. He delighted in planting and
building, and enlarge4d and adorned his castle at Dalkeith, so that
it seemed too sumptuous and stately for a subject.  Being intent
on a massing wealth, he was frugal and economical. He greatly
improved the revenjues of the Crown, and augmented his private
possessions; but he was not scrupulous as to the means of obtain-
ing money.  He debased the value of the currency; and, under

<FOOTNOTE>* On the 7th of February 1571-2, at 12 hours at noon, there past toards Dal-
keith, pertaining to James Earl of Morton, viiixx (i.e. eigh score) hackbutters, and
ixxx horsemen, quhair they raisit fyre in greit abundance, to the greit grief of the in-
habitants thairof, and returned saifflie to the buirgh of Edinr. again and aueht hours at
evin; albeit the uther persones their enemies lay in wait and missit at the plesour of
God.--Diurnal of Occurrents, p. 257-8.
            Tytlers's History of Scotland. Vol. viii. pp. 385-95.
            Do. page 297.  "At this time (i.e. 21st May 1572, was cunzie divisit and
cunzeit in Dalkeith, of silver, quhilk was half merk pennies, and xi penny pieces, be-
ing but slyeht, and vi pennies fine lyit money, On the ane syid the lyoun, togidder
with this subscription following thairabout-JACOBVE DEI GHATIA REX SCOTTORVM;
and on the other syid ane croce in manner of the auld plaukis at Leith to have passe
throw the realme as sufficient and lawful money, under the paines contenalt in the
Act of Parliament," &c.--See also Introduction to Anderson's Diplomata, ad finem.






