
     Statistical Account

a mile in breadth, to be pretty level, and is either light and
sandy, or a thin soil, and gravelly bottom; and, in some
places, very stony, much inclined to produce broom in the
course of 3 or 4 years, even when laid down rich with grass
seeds.  Next to these farms, the rising grounds towards the
eastern part of the parish are of a moderately deep and rich
soil*.

   Air, Climate, and Diseases.-Notwithstanding 882 acres and
roods of Lochar Moss lie in the western extremity of this
parish, and notwithstanding its contiguity to that large track
of moss, of which it is a part, the air is pure, and tolerably
healthy, owing to the vicinity of the sea, which flows within
4 English miles of the center of the distict, and the dry and
randy bottom of the far greater part of it.  No epidemical
diseases are peculiar to the inhabitants.  Rheumatisms and
nervous or hysterical complaints prevail of late years much
more than formerly.  On the whole, although the inhabi-
tants, in general, do not arrive at extreme old age, yet num-
bers attain to 70, and severals to 80 years.  There are a few

<FOOTNOTE>

*The face of the parish is greatly altered to the worse with-
in there 12 years.  In the grounds belonging to the Duke of
Queensberry, consisting of about 2870 acres of arable, pasture,
moss, and meadow; 92 acres, or somewhat more, were lately
wood lands, consisting chiefly of beautiful thriving oak, ash, and
other forest trees, finely interspersed with corn fields, checquer-
ed, both in the low and rising grounds, with clumps and beauti-
ful strips of natural wood.  But these woods, which were to or-
namental to the country, and useful both to the proprietor and
to the public, have not only been fold and cut down, but left
uninclosed, and exposed to the cattle; so that not one in a hun-
dred of them will ever again arrive at perfection.  The farm-
house which the traveller had formerly only here and there a
peep of, are now left naked, and exposed to view in every direc-
tion; and, what is worse, without any thing to shelter them
from the furious gusts of wind which sometimes blow from the
opening of the Solway Frith, and from the S. W. and W.


