
62                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

should give an average attendance of 640, and in summer the
average is above this. The number of families belonging to the
United Associate Synod is 45; of individuals, 163. Fifteen fa-
milies are not attached to any body of Christians.* The number
of individuals attached to no body is 32. There are 2 Bereans,
4 Old Independents, 2 individuals belonging to the Associate
Synod of Original Seceders, and 1 Episcopalian.  There is no
Papist in the parish.
  In good weather, divine service is well attended in the parish
church; but the church, being situated at the distance of fully a
mile and a-half from the great body of the population, the con-
gregation is sometimes small in very stormy weather. I have heard
that the dissenting chapel is never full, except at the evening ser-
mon, once a fortnignt, when many connected with the Established
Church attend.  The average number of communicants at the
Established Church, is about 570.  The only religious society
connected with the Establishment is an association for furthering
the four great schemes of the General Assembly,--the Highland
Schools, the  East India Mission, the Colonial Churches of North
America, and Church Extension.  The subscription amounts to a
very limited sum. The average amount of church collections yearly
for religious objects is about L. 15.
    Education.-There are altogether seven schools in the parish,
-one parochial, six unendowed. None of them are supported
by societes, nor by individual subscription. Five of them are taught
by females. In two of the schools, English reading, writing, arithme-
tic, book-keeping, and navigation are taught. In the parish school,
besides the above branches of education, English grammar is taught,
and Latin. In the schools taught by females, English reading is prin-
cipally taught; some of the schoolmistresses also teach knitting
and sewing.
   The parish schoolmaster's salary is the maximum. He has the
legal accommodation.  The schools fees vary. In the parish school
and in one another, they graduate from 2s. to 4s. a quarter. In the
female schools, they seldom exceed 2s 6d. Some poor people
pay weekly 1 1/2d. or 2d. according to circumstanmces.
   I should think there cannot be above ten or twelve persons be-

<FOOTNOTE>Some of these are people belonging to the coast-guard service, and nominally
belong to the Church of England, but generally attend the parish church or dissent-
ing meeting-house.



