
170                            BERWICKSHIRE.

   Ravelaw is distinguished by having been the temporary residence
of the Rev. Henry Erskine after his ejection from Cornhill. Dur-
ing his stay here, he frequently preached at Old Newton, where
his ministrations, under the Divine blessing, produced the first se-
rious impressions on the youthful mind of Boston.
   It is another incident worthy of note, that when Boston himself
once officiated in Whitsome church, which was then thatched,
such a multitude flocked from all quarters, that many, in their
eagerness to hear him, mounted the roof of the humble edifice,
tore off portions of the straw, and thus contrived to gratify both
eye and ear. *
   The communion cups (of silver) for the service of Whitsome
bear that they were-"Gifted by Countess of Home, to the kirk
of Whitsome, 1704."
   Hilton bell, which had been rung by the hand, is preserved.
It has on its rim, in legible characters,-"For Hiltoun, 1718."
It may be regarded as an apt memorial of the kirk to which it
ministered, for it has lost the tongue.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners, according to their
valued cess, are, John Wilson, Esq. of Whitsome-Hill; David
Low, Esq. of Laws, Professor of Agriculture in the University of
Edinburgh; Miss; Boswall of Blackaddder, (Dykegatehead Leet-
side, &c.;) the most noble the Marquis of Tweeddale, (Ravelaw;)
---of Wynnefield; Robert Brown, Esq. of Old Newton;
Henry Trotter, Esq. of Morton-Hall, (Hilton;) Porster,
Esq. of Jardinefield; John Allan, Esq. of New Newton; James
Herriot, Esq of Herriot Bank; George Taitt, Esq. of Longridge;
and Henry Seymour Ker, Esq. of Moriston, (Stridlins.)

<FOOTNOTE>When the tide of persecution ran high, Daniel Douglas was, minister of Hilton.
There is a popular tradition to the effect, that one day during public worship an in-
dividual of the dominant party, offended at certain words which fell from the preacher,
laid violent hands upon him, and dragged him from the pulpit. A slight effusion of
blood was the consequence, on which the maltreated pastor predicted, in hearing of
the congregation, that the cowardly assailant's own blood would yet stain the floor of
the sanctuary, and be licked by dogs. It happened soon after, that the person from
whom Mr D. suffered such ill usage, received a mortal wound from an enemy. A
crowd of attendants proceeded homewards with the corse, but on their way they were
overtaken by a storm, which forced them to the nearest shelter-the kirk of Hilton.
They had not long remained beneath the sacred roof, when the dead man's wound
broke out afresh, dripped through the bandages, and was actually lapped by some
bounds that had accompanied the procession. The truth of the tradition we do not
vouch. After the Revolution, previously to which he had taken refuge in Holland,
Mr Douglas returned to Hilton, and there continued to exercise the pastoral func-
tions till his decease. He died on the 24th July 1705, at the age of 86. His re-
mains am deposited in, Hilton churchyard. Numberless singular stories are currents
which, if veritable, stamp trim as eccentric in beneficence.-To him succeeded Mr
William Wilson, the last of the Hilton clergymen.
                                         3

