
                     COLMONELL.                         	  531

	Of late years, the produce of the dairy has been an object of
considerable importance. The Cunningham breed of cattle have
in consequence greatly increased, and much attention has been
paid to their improvement. The average quantity of cheese made
in the parish may be about 3600 stones per annum, which at last
year's price of 8s. per stone, amounts to L. 1400. On the higher
lands, the care of black-faced sheep and Galloways is still the
principal object of the farmer. About 200 stones white, and 1000
laid wool are disposed of annually. Last year, the white sold at 15s.
and the laid at 9s. per stone. The farmers, for the most part, rear
the Galloways, and after feeding them for two or three years, sell
them to cattle-dealers from the south.
	Fisheries.--The coast abounds in fish of various kinds, such as
cod, whitings, haddock, turbot, skate, herrinngs. The fishing of
lobsters has of late become a lucrative employment to many fami-
lies. They carry them or forward them by steam-boats to Dub-
lin, where they find a ready market, and sometimes sell them so
high as two guineas a dozen. The Stinchar also abounds with
salmon at certain seasons of the year. There are eight or nine
salmon-pools, the rental of which may be L. 30 per annum.
	Rate of Wages.--Females get from L. 5 to L. 6, and men from
L. 12 to L. 14 per annum. Day-labourers, without victuals, have
1s. 4d. and 1s. 6d. per day; women, 9d.; masons and carpenters,
2s and 2s. 6d.
	            V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Villages.--The village of Colmonell, merely a row of thatched
houses a few years ago, has been almost rebuilt. The houses now,
with a few exceptions, are slated, clean-looking, and harmonize well
with the surrounding scenery. It has a post-office, and, since the pas-
sing of the Reform Bill, it has, been appointed one of the polling sta-
tions of the county. Four fairs are held annually in it, on the first
Mondays O. S. of February, May, August, and November. It
contains 300 inhabitants. Barhill, on Dhuisk, has lately sprung in-
to existence. It is the only restin place for the traveller between
Newton-Stewart and Girvan. Three cattle-markets are held there
every year, on the fourth Fridays of, April, September, and Oc-
tober.
	Roads.--There are two roads between Girvan and Ballantrae.
One, the great road to Ireland, sweeps along the coast, having on
one side the rocky shore and majestic ocean, and on the other the
verdant hills of Carleton and Bennan. The Irish mail passes this


