
     of Urr.

   It is true, a great part of religious and moral instruction,
is supposed to devolve upon the clergy.  But how can this
happen, when a foundation is not laid for their labours?  Fre-
quently it is observed, that the clergy of the present day are
nowise so popular as their predecessors.  And this hath been
made an argument, for the contempt and depression, under which
they have laboured of late years.  The fact, however, should
be duly weighed.  Of late years, the courts of law, and the
landed interest, have entirely superseded the clergy, in the ma-
nagement of parish schools.  Heritors will not so much as allow
a minister, to vote in the choice of a schoolmaster.  They
will choose him from year to year; they will pull into frag-
ments a salary of ten pounds; and the parish minister is nei-
ther able to dispute such proceedings in a law court, nor is it
believed, that he would be well heard, if disposed to ask re-
dress.  The consequence is, that a parish school is now a mo-
mentary, or at least a temporary employment, for some ne-
cessitous person of ability; or a perpetual employment for
some languid insignificant mortal, hardly deserving the shelter
of a charity work-house.  Let us contrast with this state-
ment, the character of schoolmasters in Scotland, for a hundred
years after the Reformation; let us remember, too, the cha-
racter which the inhabitants of Scotland maintained, and the
figure they made among foreign nations, during that, and
even subsequent periods; let us advert to the laws of the state
and of the church, respecting tile provision made for school-
masters, and the qualifications expected in them; let us re-
collect too the periods when these laws were framed, and the
men who framed them.  Things are now changed.  If a
clergyman catechises his parish on religion, he finds they can-
not read the Bible: If he speaks of morality, they answer
him with a state.  Learning and literature are out of the que-
stion.  At this rate, in order to be popular, the parson finds

     VOL. XI L


