
                     GARGUNNOCK.                              55

clay is cleaned out of the bottom of the drain. Then peat or hard
clay, and sometimes feal or green'turf, fourteen inches long, four
inches broad, from three to five inches deep, and sloped at the
ends, is pressed firm into the drain, with the grassy side down-
wards, leaving a space of five or six inches from the Bottom; and
then it is filled with clay to the top. The wedge drains are 15 or
18 feet apart. This mode of draining is a very great improve-
ment. There is another kind of draining, which is a great im-
provement to the dryfield. It is called wedge or furrow-draining.
The leading drains are, at least, three feet deep. They are laid
with tiles at the bottom, with a foot of broken stones above them,
somewhat larger than road metal. The other drains are two feet
and a half deep, laid also with broken stones, about a foot or four.
teen inches deep. The drains are about 15 or 18 feet apart.  The
wettest land may, in this manner, be made completely dry and va-
luable. Mr Campbell of Boquhan is of opinion, that the greatest
part of the dryfield land in the parish might be.increased almost
half its value, by this mode of draining. And he strongly re.
contends this way of draining in all the carse lauds, instead
of the present system of wedge-draining;- and the reason he as-
signs is that the feal or turf-draining continues good for six or
eight years only, whereas the stone-draining will last for many
years. Trench-plougbing above the stone draining is also a great
improvement.  This is done by a two-horse plough turning off the
soil six inches; then by the trench-plough, drawn by four horses,
immediately following, and opening the subsoil ten inches more,
which makes a furrow sixteen inches deep to the very top of the
stones.
   Farms are let on leases of nineteen years, which is consi-
dered advantageous to the tenants. The farm onsteads are, in
general, substantially built and commodious, and suited to the size
of the farms. The dryfield and carse lauds are conveniently en-
closed with flourishing hedges, which are regularly pruned, and
kept in good repair. There are whinstone, and red and white
freestone quarries in the parish. The former are blasted with
gunpowder, and the latter with plug, and. feather, and wedges.
Potatoes, turnips, and sometimes cabbages are cultivated with
great success, being fine in quality, and abundant in quantity.
There is not much meadow-hay in the parish. The most of it is
rye-grass sown with clover.
   The late General F. Campbell of Boquhan instituted the Far-


