
                      PARISH OF FRASERBURGH.

               PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                 THE REV. JOHN CUMMING, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY
   Situation.-THIS parish is situated upon the east coast of Scot-
land, in that part of Aberdeenshire called Buchan; and the town of
Fraserburgh is eighteen miles to the west of Peterhead, and
twenty-one miles by the old road, but twenty-six miles by the new
one, eastward from Banff, the next town of any consequence
upon the coast.
   Name.-From records of an old date, it appears that the name
of this parish was originally Philorth; this being the name of the
estate of the patron and principal proprietor. 	A town and har-
bour, however having been built early in the sixteenth century,
and the town erected into a burgh of regality in - October 1613,
it was called Fraserburgh, no doubt in honour of Sir Alexander
Fraser of Philorth, who obtained the charter.
   Extent, &c.-The parish is at an average about 3 1/2 miles broad,
and nearly 8 miles long: the land gradually rising from the coast
to its most distant and elevated district.  Owing, however, to one
of those irregularities, which were fallen into in the division of many
parishes, the upper part is intersected for the space of nearly an
English mile by the adjacent parish of Rathen.  According to mea-
surement, it contains a little more than 10,000 acres, and though
the soil, like that of other parishes upon the coast, is in many places
sandy and light, yet in others it is partly clay and loam.  The rest is
more gravelly, and interspersed with a few minutes and moors. It ex-
tends along the coast about 4 miles, nearly two of which to the
south of the town are low and sandy, bounded by hillocks, over-
grown with bent.  The rest is rocky and flat, except Kinnaird's
head, a high land projecting into the sea, which is generally be-
lieved to be the "Promontorium Taixalium" of Ptolemy, being
the turning point into the "Estuarium Varariae" or Murray Frith.
From Kinnaird's head the land trends due west on the one hand


