
     of Cranshaws.

kind of wool; it is all laid with tar, and has for some years
past sold from 9 s. to 10 s. 6 d. per stone*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The value of the living, inclu-
ding the glebe, is scarcely L. 50 a year.  The stipend is only
L. 36:19:5.  The glebe consists of about fifteen English
acros, most of it tolerably good land.  It has of late been much
injured by the inundations of the Whitewater, which has con-
siderably diminished its value.  The church was built in 1739.
The manse some years earlier.  They have both been lately
repaired.  The patron is Charles Watson Esqr. of Saughton+.

     VOL. VI. 3 K

<FOOTNOTE>

*The wages of male servants, who get then board in the house, are from
L 6 to L 7 a year, and female servants from L. 3 to L. 4  Servants who
have families, and keep houses of their own, receive a certain quantity of
meal or grain, have to many theep grazed, are allowed to keep a cow, have
then and brought home, and several other perquisites; the value of which may
amount to about L 13 or L 14.  The wages of a labourer by the day is 1 s. in
summer, and 10 d in winter, except in hay time and harvest, when they re-
serve considerably more.  The wages of women, for weeding turnips, pota-
toes, ete. is 5 d. per day.

+In different parts of the parish are traces of several encampments,
though none of them appear to have been of any considerably extent.  They
are to much officed, as to render at difficult to distinguish of what kind they have
been-Crauthaws cattle, the property of Mr. Watson of Saughton, is an ob-
long square of 40 feet by 24.  The walls are 45 feet high, and it has a batle-
menton the top.  It is every antient building and before the union of the two
kingdoms, had been used as a place of defence, to which the inhabitants of
this part of the country were accussomed to retreat, upon sudden incursions of
the English bonderess.  There are in many of the neighbouring parishes the
remains and runs of similar edifices, but this is the only one in this part of
the country that is still ensure.  It has been lately repaired by its present pro-
prietor, and is occupied by ham as a dwelling house, when he visits this part
of his estate.

<UNREADABLE>

On a hill, on the west side of the parish, are two heaps of stones an im-
measelize, each containing , as is supposed, many thousand carts-load.  A

</UNREADABLE>


