
     Statistical Account

feus granted by the Earls Marischal of Scotland, within whose
estate it was situated. It is a burgh of barony, of which the
jurisdiction, by charter, is vested in magistrates, chosen by
the superior and feuers.  The principal support of the town
has been derived from the sheriff court of the county, which
has its seat here;-retail shops for the accommodation of the
neighbourhood;-commission upon flax given out to spin for
manufactures in Aberdeen and Montrose;-and the provision
for shipping, which occasionally put in here, or are detained
by contrary winds.-The number of procurators, or attor-
nies, before the sheriff court, is 4.

   Manufactures.-In point of natural situation, no place has
greater advantages, for the establishment of manufactures,
than Stonehaven, having a good sea port, an excellent com-
mand of running water, a populous district of country around
it, and abounding with the best spinners+.  In the course of
last year (1792), some branches of manufacture, of thc Osna-
burgh, sheeting, linen cheque, and cotton woolsey kinds, have
been here set on foot, chiefly by merchants in Arbroath.
These manufactures are as yet but in their infancy; but are

<FOOTNOTE>

disadvantage for many years past, by being part of the forfeitures of 1715, sold
to the York Building Company.  The affairs of that Company having fallen
into disorder, about the year 1740, ever since that period there has been no su-
perior to forward the trade, and superintend the police of Stonehaven.  And few
of its inhabitants being possessed of any stock, little was to be expected from
them.  Hence all improvement was prevented, and matters continued in the
same state of backwardness.

+A considerable manufacture of sail-cloth was carried on here some years
ago, by a merchant in Aberdeen, which employed about 50 looms within the
town, and 15 in the neighbourhood.  But though attended with great success,
it was given up, upon the death of that gentleman, and an end put to the trade 
of the place since that period.


