
              		 RENFREW.                            19

ingshaw; Miss Oswald of Scotstown; James Smith, Esq. of Jor-
danhill; and Archibald Campbell, Esq. of Blythswood.  Five
handsome mansions are on as many of the estates.  Eldersly House
is spacious, and surrounded by one of the noblest parks in this part
of the country.  Blythswood and Scotstown Houses have been more
lately built, and are very handsome.  Blythswood House and
grounds especially, are in the best taste, and kept in a state of high
order.  Jordanhill House is on an elevated site, and commands a
very extensive view of the whole country.  The Walkingshaw
House has not been regularly inhabited for some time, and has
gone much into disrepair.  There are few other remarkable build-
ings in the parish.  The Incorporation buildings, containing the
jail, town-hall, and council-chambers, are convenient, but plain;
and the church is old, low, and uncomfortable, as well as small.

			III.-POPULATION.
   The rural inhabitants of this parish have doubtless partaken of
the changes generally affecting the country; but we are not awareof
any thing special in their case.  Their farms are generally larger
than they once were, and they are better cultivated.  Their cattle
are superior to what they were, and both the farmers and the ser-
vants perhaps work more.  But the relation between master and
servant has, in many cases, been allowed greatly to alter, and the
alteration has tended not a little to lessen the respectability, and
deteriorate the moral habits of the latter.  Partaking of the spirit
of the age, many regard their masters as having a claim merely on
their labour, and thus repudiate all moral restraint ; while, on the
other hand, masters too often care for little more.  And hence the
frequency of change and want of cordiality between the parties.  The
circumstances of the inhabitants of the burgh have been altered still
more.  A considerable proportion of the inhabitants seem ancient-
ly to have possessed houses and pieces of land, by which they par-
tially supported themselves and families.  The salmon-fisbing also
was at one time let only to burgesses, and the rent would on this
very account, be moderate.  Many of the young men went also to
sea, and became afterwards concerned  with trade.   From these
different sources of income, they seem to have been on the whole
comfortable, and holding, as a community, a somewhat respectable
situation in society.  But trade and manufactures, which have do
enriched several places in the neighbourbood, appear to have had
the effect of, impoverishing Renfrew.  Business in Glasgow and
Paisley withdrew many of those who had a little property, and


