
                      PARISH OF MOUSWALD.


             PRESBYTERY OF LOCHMABEN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.


       THE REV. ANDREW B. MURRAY, MINISTER. *


                  ------------------------


I.---TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name, Boundaries, &c.--THE name of this parish was formerly
spelt Muswald and Mosswald, and is evidently derived from the
Saxon word walda or wealt, which signifies they woody district, or
forest near the moss; in former times, the whole of the lower
grounds, not only of this parish, but of the extended range from
Tinwald to the Solway Frith, were covered with wood. The pa-
rish is bounded on the west by Torthorwald; on the north by
lochmaben; on the east by Dalton; and on the south by Ruth-
well. It extends from 4 to 5 miles in length, and in breadth from
2 to 3, and contains 4725 Scotch acres, or 8 1/4 square miles. In-
cluding the part of Lochar Moss which lies in the parish, its figure
may be said to resemble that of a heart, contracting on the north
and south quarters as it falls to the moss, and still becoming nar-
rower till it terminates on the river Lochar, which separates it from
the parish of Caerlverock.

Topographical Appearances.--The appearance of this parish is
plain and level, with some rising grounds, which, however, have so
gentle an acclivity that they are cultivated to the very summit.
The elevation of the highest of these hills above the level of the
sea may be computed at about 686 feet.

Soil, &c.--The soil is very diversified, from the extent of moss
ground which is within its bounds. The farms which are contiguous
to the moss have a considerable portion of pasture ground both wet
and marshy; and a part of the arable ground is in the same state.
Where the ground rises above the level of Lochar Moss, the soil
is light and sandy. A considerable part of the parish adjoining to
these farms, though rising considerably above them, and which is
about one mild in breadth and nearly level, is also light and sandy,
or a thin soil with a gravelly bottom interspersed with stones,

         "Drawn up by a Probationer of the Church of Scotland.


                                         4

