
82                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

by Cardinal Beaton, on the 1st of March 1546, was a younger son
of Wishart of Pittarrow. The Wisharts were an ancient and re-
spectable family in the parish of Fordoun in 1399; how much
earlier is not known, and they possessed that property till after the
commencement of the last century. It is unnecessary to give any
detail of George Wishart's life, opinions, steady and exemplary
faith, and heroic Christian patience under the cruel sufferings and
barbarous death so shamefully inflicted on him, as all these are
fully detailed in the histories of that period; but it maybe observ-
ed, that his example was not lost on his own family, for they ap-
pear to have, soon after, thrown off the yoke of the Church of Rome,
and embraced the doctrines of the glorious Reformation.
	"The Honourable James Burnett, Lord Monboddo, one of the
Judges in the Court of Session, was a native of and a proprietor in
the parish of Fordoun, and one of the first who turned his atten-
tion to the modern improvements in agriculture. He went hand
in hand with Mr Barclay of Ury in this important work, and by
his example, his perseverance, his unwearied exhortations and ad-
vices to the farmers around him, and the attention he paid them,
he soon made a great change on his own farm and estate, and on
the farms and estates around him. As an affectionate husband
and father, as a liberal and encouraging landlord, as a warm and
steady friend to the British Constitution, as an able and faithful
judge, and a man of science, as an excellent classical scholar, as a
grammarian, and intimately acquainted with the literature and
philosophy of Greece and Rome, he was not excelled by any in the
last age. His work on the Origin and Progress of Language, (the
first volume of which was published in 1771, the second in 1773,
and the third in 1776,) has placed him high in the rank of the emi-
nent literati of the last century. He was born in 1714, married in
1760, was deprived of his lady by death in 1766, was raised to the
Bench in 1767, and died in 1799. His beautiful and accomplish-
ed, daughter, Miss Eliza Burnett, the constant nurse and compa-
nion of her parent, whose sweetness of manners, benevolence Of
heart, excellent principles, and religious feeling, justly gained her
universal admiration, died of a consumption at the age of twenty-
five. Her affectionate parent, whose life was bound up in her's,
rapidly declined after her death; and he often declared that nothing
but those glorious hopes of immortal life through Christ, which the,
Gospel sets before us, could have supported him under the heavy
stroke.


