
                             CLATT.                       855

enlightened legislature, or were its restrictions modified, liberal-
minded landlords, without incurring the risk of personal responsi-
bility, yet with permanent advantage to the property, could ren-
der meliorations for improvements, a burden upon succeeding
heirs.  It is, however, very gratifying to remark, that, though both
estates in this parish are held under strict entail, the progress of
agriculture has not, as yet, been retarded by its paralyzing influ-
ence. Every reasonable encouragement and accommodation are
given by the respective proprietors, and the farm-buildings are
neat and commodious, constructed of durable materials, agreeably
to plans sanctioned by the proprietors.  The expdnse of erecting
farm-steadings and enclosures, is, in general, defrayed exclusively
by the tenant, and he is entitled to remuneration only at the ex-
piration of his lease.  The duration of leases is for the usual pe-
riod of nineteen years.  Though this period mav be happily chosen
to meet a chance of circumstances, it is by no means sufficient to
afford any adequate remuneration for capital invested in extensive
improvements.
   Draining.-In estimating the relative importance of the im-
provements which have taken place in this parish during the last
twenty years it will readily be admitted that draining has been
one of the most efficient.  On each of several farms, of l00 to
150 acres of total surface, from 4000 to 8000 ells of drains and
ditches have been cut, at the average depth of six feet. Large
tracts of moss and marshy ground, fit only for the wild fowls to
nestle on, have thus been reclaimed at the personal expense of the
tenant; and in many parts of the parish, where neither the foot of
man nor of beast could tread, there,

     "In gay luxuriance Ceres now is seen,
      To crown the valleys with eternal green."

   From these improvements, the value of property will be greatly
enhanced to the present and future proprietor; but from the de-
pressed state of agriculture, there is much reason to fear, that the
chief, if not the only, compensation which the tenant will reap for
the funds which he has irrecoverably sunk, will be the patriotic re-
flection, that he has "made corn grow where corn ne'er grew be-
fore.
   Obstacles.-In effecting beneficial changes in the agriculture of
the parish, the farmer has had to contend with many disadvan-
tages.  The distance to Aberdeen, the principal grain market,
cannot be accomplished in less than three days, and the actual ex-


