
					SCONE.                    1067

	   Having sat at the head of the King's Bench for upwards of
	thirty-two years, his Lordship retired in 1788.  On September
	20th 1738, he had married Elizabeth Finch, sixth danghter of
	Daniel Earl of Winchelsea and Nottingham.  He left no issue.
	   On October 31st 1776, he had been created Earl of Mansfield
	with remainder to Louisa Viscountess Stormont, wife of David
	Viscount Stormont, his nephew, it being then held that a Scots
	peer was disqualified from taking a peerage of Great Britain even
	in remainder.  Her ladyship still survives, having become Countess
	of Mansfield on his death.  A different opinion, however, was after-
	wards established respebting the descent of a British peerage, and
	in August 1792, the Earl was created Earl of Mansfield of Caen-
	wood, in the county of Middlesex, with remainder to his nephew
	David, seventh Viscount Stormont, K. T., who consequently be-
	came Earl of Mansfield at his uncle's death, in the eighty-ninth
  year of his age, on the 20th of March 1793. *  This second Earl
	of Mansfield dying September 1st 1796, was succeeded in his
	Scotch and English honours by his son William, born March 7th
	1777.  At his death in February 1840, the present Earl succeed-
	ed.  He was born in 1806 ; married in 1829 Louisa, daughter of
	Cuthbert Ellison, Esq. who died November 24th 1837, leaving a
	daughter, Lady Louisa Nina, born 1830, and a son, Viscount Stor-
	mont, born 1835.
	  The seventh Lord Stormont and second Earl of Mansfield was
	much engaged in the political transactions of his time, and filled
	the offices of ambassador at the courts of Vienna and Versailles.
	The canopy of state which his Lordship then used has been con-
	verted into a bed, which is still preserved.  He was appointed am-
	bassador in the room of Lord Harcourt, who succeeded Lord
	Townsend as Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland in 1772.  In October
	1779, Lord Stormont was appointed one of the Secretaries of State,
	in room of Lord Suffolk.  Lord Stormont went out with his party,
	when the Marquess of Rockingham was appointed first Lord of
	the Treasury ; but was President of the Council during the Duke
	of Portland's administration, wben the Earl of Mansfield was made
	Speaker of the House of Lords, and the great seal was put in com-
	mission.  This coalition ministry was formed April 2, 1783.  Be-
	fore his appointment as an ambassador at Paris,  Viscount Stormont
	had spent much of his life in a diplomatic capacity.  He married
	first, Henrietta Frederica, daughter of Henry Count Bunau, who

<FOOTNOTE> The first Earl of Mansfield survived his elder brother David, sixth Viscount
	Stormont, for the long period of forty-five years.


