
			FORGANDENNY.                         955

has arisen chiefly from the small farms being thrown into larger
ones.

<TABLE>
	      The population in 1801  was  958
				      1811       902
				      1821       902
				      1831       913
				      1841       796

   Of the 796, the present population, about eighty live in the
village of Fogandenny. The rest are scattered over the rural
parts of the parish, with the exception of about forty, who live in
a small village in the Ochils, called Path Struie, and now more
commonly the Path of Condie.

		      	      IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--About 2000 acres have never been cultivated;
although one-half of these, it is supposed, might be cultivated with
advantage. Mr Oliphant of Condie, who is a very intelligent and
enterprising agriculturist, has of late years broken up a great deal
of these waste lands, carrying his improvements to the very hill-
tops, and has them now laid down in beautiful sheep pasture, and
enclosed with excellent fences. Two of his tenants in the Ochil
part of his estate are following his example, and have their ex-
tensive farms laid down in the same manner. No part of this pa-
rish is now in a state of undivided common. About 438 acres are
planted, and about forty of these are covered with natural wood.
About 100 acres of the lower part of the parish are of rich clay
land, through which the Erne has cut its way, and formed a low
bed of alluvial soil, formed by the same process as the Carse of
Gowrie.
   The rent of the lands in the parish varies from L.3 to 3s.
   The fishings on the Earne are let at about L.10 a year.
   In looking back two hundred years to the quantity of produce, or
to the value of land, as estimated in 1650, compared with the pre-
sent time, we do not find that great rise which is exhibited in  many
of the other parishes of Scotland. This is easily accounted for;
three-fourths of the parish being hilly, and producing little else
but grass, in which state it still remains to a great extent, it is
obvious that it would feed as much stock 200 years ago, as it does
at present. The difference of value, therefore, can arise only
from the difference value of the animal, and not from the num-
ber. Three-fourths of the parish being admirably suited for
turnip husbandry, sheep-walks may be carried to the tops of the

<FOOTNOTE>able persons, taking the age from seven and upwards. The annual number of bap-
tisms was then about about 30, and of deaths about 20.


