
                           ERROL.                               403

    lage, however, thwedoes not seem to be, in general, any necessity
    for a public-house to every hundred of the population.
       Fuel.-Almost the only kimd of fuel Which is in general use in
    the parish is coal.  Thd Scotch is procured from the  collieries on
    the Forth, and the English generally from Newcastle.

                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS
       The first, though not very striking, difference between the pre.
    sent state of the parish and that which existed at the. time of the
    last Statistical Accoiint, is to be found  in the increase of the Po-
    pulation from 2685 to 2942,-the increase being entirely confined
    to the village of Errol.  Since that time too, the rent of land, though
    not nearly so high as it was twenty years ago, has risen from L. 19
    5s. and L.2 to more than L. 3 per acre.  The gross rental, in-
    deed,  is nearly tripled, having increased from L. 8000 to nearly
    L. 24,000,-this last sum including the grounds not in lease, but
    retained in private possession by the proprietors.  Of course, there
    has been a corresponding increase in the rate of wages, those of
    farm-servants, for instance, having risen from L, 7, 7s. and L. 9,
    9s. to L. 12 and L. 15.   Another difference has taken place in
    the general change of the rotation of crops from a period of six to
    a period of seven years.  A great and striking improvement -bar

    taken place in some of the houses in the village of Errol, and es-
    pecially in the style and completeness of most farm-buildings
    throughout the parish.  A more striking difference than any of
    these, and one which is likely to be most important in its conse-
    quences is that by which a large extent of soil; is, in the course
    being recovered from the Tay, where the utmost that was at-
    tempted about forty years ago, was to guard against its encroach-
    raentr.  One of the greatest improvements of all, however, and
    one which has, in a spectral manner,  contributed,to most of the
    others, is the increased facilities communication, not only by the
    great turnpike road which passes through the parish and whicb to
    almost at all times in a state of most admirable repair, but also by
    the multiplication and improved condition of the cross-roads.
      In the ecclesiastical state Of the oaiish, and important change
    took place in the years 1796 and 1797 by the separation  of a
    large body of parishimen from the Established Church, in con-
    sequence of an unpopular from  settlement.  Of that, the body greater
    part was formed into a congregation connected with the Relief
    denomination, although some individuals were added to the small
    congregation of Antiburgherr, which had existed in Errol from an



