
     Statistical Account

ver almost allowed to pasture, excepting a little on the stubbles.
   Even in the dry field there is not much good pasturage, ex-
cepting upon the farms of a few of the more intelligent and
active farmers.-The others apply such parts only of their out-
field grounds to pasturage as have been exhausted by produ-
cing crops of oats, and upon which not a handful of grass
seeds have been thrown and these continuing only three years
in grass, of course the crops must be very poor-It is therefore
a general practice of the farmers of the dry-field, as well as of
those of the carse, to find their young cattle, in summer to the
hill grounds, upon both sides of the Strath, to be grazed.
   The rate of pasturage varies from 3 s to 7 s a head, according
to the goodness of the pasture, and the agea of the cattle*.
   The Carfe farms, 24 in number, contain, 50 acres, and rent
at L. 45 at an average.  The farms in the dry field, 24 in num-
ber, contain each 60 acres at an average, and the rent about 12 s.
per acre.-In the new leases 20 s. per acre is the rent of the 
Carfe farms, and 14 s. of those of the dry-field.  The rent 
has advanced nearly two fifths, in the course of the last 20
years.-There is bounding fence about every farm almost in 
the Carfe in the east part of the parish, but few are subdivided.
The dry-field farms there are nearly all inclosed and subdivided.
   There are few inclosures in the Carfe in the west part of the
parish; but a considerable part of the dry-field there is inclos-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The carfe farmers keep at an average five work horses, two of which they
with to be brood mares, and each produces commonly a foal every second year.
-As the horses are hard wrought, although they should escape disease or ac-
cident, they are fold commonly at the age of fifteen; therefore the farmers does
not complain, although his mares should do little more than keep up his stock
of horses.
   Five cows are kept at an average, and the qucy calves only are reared, but
the farmer reckons upon selling one cow annually, and having another to be-
come dry about mid-summer, and to be fed for a mart for the family.-The pro-
portion of horses kept in the dryfield is less, and that of cows greater, but the
economy is similar.


