
                             NORTH UIST.                       169

   a poetical genius of the highest order; and composed in the Gae.
   lic language, the only one he understood, poems and songs on va-
   rious subjects; some solemnly sublime, some Pleasantly humo-
   rous, some bitterly sarcastic. Such is the rapid change that has
   taken place in the habits of the people, that productions such as
   his, which in former ages would have been repeated with delight,
   and handed down through numberless successive generations, as
   already, since they are not in print, greatly forgotten, and in a few
   years more will be entirely lost.
      Macpherson seized on the last moments it was possible to pre
   serve the sublime and majestic Ossian from passing to forgetfulness.
      Lord Macdonald, the representative of the great Macdonald of
   the Isles, is sole proprietor of this parish. His ancestors posses-
   sed it almost from time immemorial, at least for centuries back .
   indeed, since the time, of the great Somerled, Rex. Insularum, the
   founder of the. clan. And in ag4s gone by, some of the chiefs,
   and always several near branches of the family, lived in it.
     Parochial Registers.-No parochial registers were kept till late-
   ly in this parish; and even now, the entries from the more remote
   districts of it are irregular.
     Antiquities.-In some of the burying-grounds, particularly im
   the island of Husker, (anciently named Iollen na Moinoch, or Is-
   land of the Monks,) are found several crosses rudely cut on stone,
   There are also two stones or, obelisks of large size; the one at
   Balmartin, near the centre of the parish, named Caracrom, re-
   garding the erection of which tradition is totally silent, Tho
   other is opposite the island of Kirkebost. It is called clach
   mhore a chi, and is said by universal tradition to have been erect-
   ed to commemorate a battle of the same name; but when or by
   whom fought, I have not been able to ascertain. At Carinish,
   the south-west point of the parish, there is a ruin of larger dimen-
   sions, called Teampul na Trianaide, or Trinity Temple, which, by
   the tradition of the inhabitants, is said to have been built by the
   daughter of Lorn, when she was separated from the Lord of the
   Isles. I have in my possession a document, which is a copy of
   what is said to have been the original charter of dedication of some
   lands in Uist to the Trinity and blessed Virgin Mary Church at
   Carinish, by Godfrey Macdonald, Lord of Uist, in the year 1389.
   This, should it be genuine. does not contradict the tradition.
      Near the tops of two hills in this parish are immense heaps of
   stones; some of them of large size. They are called barps, a
   INVERNESS.


