
        112                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

        cold in winter, there being no less than five doors to it.  The
        church of Dalarrossie was built in 1790, and is in every respect as
        good as the church of Moy, except in not being ceiled; that is,
        however, easily remedied.  Both churches are situated in a church-
        yard.  That at Dalarrossie is remarkable as not having a stone
        the size of an egg to the depth of seven feet, although surrounded
        by stony soil.  The tradition is, that it was sifted by the Druids.
        The churches contain about 450 sitters each.  These seats are all
        free except that the tenant, on taking possession, pays a few shil-
        lings,-which on vacating is repaid by the incoming tenant.
           The manse is situated at the church of  Moy, nine miles from
        Dalarrossie, and was built in 1765.  A wing was added in 1810;
        but it is far from being comfortable.  There are glebes in both pa-
        rishes, to both of which are attached commonties on the neigh-
        bouring farms, and, including this, they may each be worth about
        L. 6 per annum.  The stipend amounts to 15 chalders victual,
        half barley, half meal, besides L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
        From 1797, when it was first augmented, until 1812, it was only
        L. 105 Sterling.  In 1812, it was raised to 12 chalders victual; and
        in 1832 it was augmented to the present amount of 15 chalders,
        with barley substituted for bear, which constituted half of the old
        stipend.  Besides the parish churches, there is no other place of
        worsbip in the parish; indeed, there are only one or two Dissenters
        (Episcopalians) in the parish, and these are regular in their attend-
        ance on the Established church.  Divine service is very well at-
        tended in both churches; but the population being more dense
        around that of Dalarrossie, the congregation is generally larger.
        The sacrament is dispensed once each year, and is generally at-
        tended by all the neighbouring parishes, so that on Sabbath the
        number is seldom less than 5000.  As in most parts of the High-
        lands, there is a meeting for discussing religious topics on the Fri-
        day before the communion, in which pious men from all parts of
        the country take a part.   The number of communicants is very
        small; at an average it is not above 30; but including communicants
        from neighbouring parishes, about 250 generally communicate here.
        There are various reasons for there being so few in the parish;
        but it is chiefly owing to the peculiar doctrines instilled into the
        minds of the people, chiefly by demagogues, in regard to the sa-
        crament of the supper.
           There are few collections made for religious and charitable pur-
        poses.  The people are poor.  There are few gentlemen of wealth;
                                        3



