
                                    ALVES.                               109

           a woman engages for the whole harvest at from L. 1, .5s. to
           L.1, 15s.  Of late years, some having large farms prefer as farm-
           servants married men.  To each, they give a house on the farm,
           rent free, for himself and family; wages L. 5 in the half-year, with
           3 bolls of 9 stone (viz. 27 stone) of oatmeal, and one pint per day
           of sweet milk.  It is found that, with this provision, they can live
           comfortably with their families ; that there is less service required
           in the master's house, and less waste.  During the greater part of
           the year, they have already breakfasted in their own houses, and
           have got the horses in the yoke by six o'clock in the morning, and
           labour till noon; then they rest for two or three hours, during which
           they dine, and attend to the cattle, after that, they continue at
           work till six or seven in the evening.
              The only country manufacture is that of plaiding which sells at
           1s. 2d. or 1s. 6d. per imperial yard; and of coarse harn, which sells
           at 8d. or 10d.
              Live-Stock.-The cattle are for the most part of a mixed breed,
           betwixt the Aberdeenshire and the Highland.  Some farmers have
           of late introduced the polled breed from Buchan.
              Husbandry.-Most of the tenants are bound by their leases
           to adopt the fifth or sixth shift rotation of crops.  The farms ge-
           nerally are in a high state of cultivation, and some of them have,
           during the current lease, been greatly improved by being subdivid-
           ed and enclosed by dry stone dikes, well built, at the joint expense
           of the proprietor and tenant.  The advantage of such enclosures
           is acknowledged to be very great.  Most of the large farms are
           provided with substantial dwelling houses, of two storeys.  Some
           are slated, others are thatched.   A steading of office houses is at-
           tached to each.  In several instances, the buildings have been
           erected by the tenant after entering on his lease; such tenants are
           entitled to claim from the landlord at the expiry of their leases, the
           value of the buildings erected to the amount of one year's rent of
           the farm.
              Both open and under draining has been executed to a conside-
           rable extent.  The under draining is in most cases done with stones.
           It has been tried lately with fir trees of the smaller size, laid length-
           wise in the bottom of the drain,-the brush not cut off; one tree
           being laid above another, the brush of the one being laid along
           the trunk of the other.  The earth being thrown in and levelled,
           sufficient openings for the water are kept by the branches.  In
           this way, a drain of great length is made in a short time when the
           trees happen to be near at hand.



