112                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

becamed Earls of Dumfries; and against the powerful and an-
cient family of the Maxwells, Lords of Nithsdale.  It was John-
stone of Lochwood, assisted by Kirkpatrick of Closeburn, and
Grierson of Lagg, who suppressed the insurrection of the Duke
of Albany and Earl of Douglas, when raising forces against the
existing royal authority at Lochmaben.  The flying spur, which
is the crest of the Johnstones, and their motto "aye ready," seem
to have been appropriate; for they carried  that family safe through
the civil wars, the Usurpation, and the Revolution; and their va-
lour and patriotism obtained for the family of Johnstone of Loch-
wood, from Charles I. the title of Lord Johnstone; from Charles
II. that of Earl ; and from William III. that of Marquis of An-
nandle.  The principal estate in this parish and district has de-
scended to Mr Hope Johnstone of Annandale, to whom it is be-
lieved the titles also, in so far as claimed, of right belong, and
whose restoration to the dormant honours of the family would afford
universal satisfaction in this part of Scotland ; because it is the
general feeling that he has a right to them ; and that in his fa-
mily, they would not only be supported, but graced.  William
Earl of Annandale was Lord High Commissioner to the General
Assembly in 1705 and 1711, Charles Earl of Hopetoun in 1723,
1725, and 1726, and John Earl of Hopetoun in 1754.
   Robert Johnston, Esq. of St Anne's London, bequeathed to Lord
Johnstone L. 1000, for erecting a grammar-school in Moffat, and
gave other handsome legacies to various towns and cities, for the
public advatage; among which appears a sum L.3000 to the
magistrates of Edinburgh, for the benefit of the industrious poor
there, and for giving them useful employment.
   The very eccentric yet highly talented Dr Moffat, wrote, in the
time of Cromwell, a treatise on Foods, which is still extant; and was
personally known to that great usurper.
   Bishop Whiteford of Brechin was proprietor of Moffat, and of
other lands in this parish, in the time of Charles I.  His daughter,
Miss Whiteford, married James Johnstone of Corehead, the bisho's
chamberlain,--who thereupon became disponee to the bishop's lands
in Moffat and Kirkpatrick-Juxta, of which an old decree for valua-
tion of the teinds be`rs date 1637, four years after the act1633
passed; and the disposition of the lands was in 1639.
   An heiress of Johnstone of Corehead having  married Dr George
Milligan, minister of Moffat, their son Dr George Milligan John-


