
612                       ARGYLESHIRE.

believed that Government intend to discontinue the establishments
wholly.
  The only manufactory in the parish, if it may be properly so
designated, is a gunpowder mill, or works, erected a few years since
in the parish of Kilmun, at Glenlean, by Robert Sheriff Esq.
These works are carried on with spirit, on a limited scale, and the
quality of gunpowder manufactured is said to be equal to any pro-
duced in any other similar works in Scotland or England. The
trade is said to be profitable, and employs about thirty persons or
upwards. Their charcoal is made from alder, and the erection of
these works has enhanced the value in the district of a species of
timber otherwise mostly of no value at all, nor the tree one of the
ornamental kind. The quantity of this timber required, in propor-
tion to the quantity of gunpowder produced, is very large. Other
two works of the same kind have since been erected in the county;
and it is worthy of notice, that alder wood from Norway is now
offered to be supplied by contract to one of these works, at a lower
price than it can be purchased in the immediate vicinity.
  Some years ago, there were erected within the bounds of the
parish not fewer than three distilleries for the production of whisky.
They have been all abandoned as unprofitable speculations; and
were the abandonment of places for the sale of whisky to follow,
the moral benefit would be the more complete,

                       III.-POPULATION.
  Perhaps in no parish in Scotland is the population more vari-
able, comparing one year with another. By this is meant the
more permanent population, exclusively of the numerous families
who are visitors during the summer and autumn months. While
building and other improvements proceed actively, numerous fa-
milies of tradesmen from the towns on the Clyde, and labourers,
reside for a year or two, and again remove. Families also some-
times reside during the winter months in villas or houses, either
their own property, or occupied for the time. The residence of
such is made of course to suit convenience and taste; and trans-
fers in such kinds of house property are of frequent occurrence;
and altogether, there may be said to be an irregular and varying
condition of the population as to actual amount. In the following
enumeration, the families are not included who reside in houses
of their own within the parish during the summer and autumn
months only, although legally they might be considered parish-
ioners.


