
                          PARISH OF TAIN. *

                 PRESBYTERY OF TAIN, SYNOD OF ROSS.

             THE REV. CHARLES CALDER MACKINTOSH, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Boundaries and External Appearance.-THE parish of Tain,
    which is of a very irregular oblong figure, measures between 9 and 1O
    miles in length from north-east to southwest Its greatest breadth
    is about 4 1/4 miles, inclusive of a peninsula, which juts north-west-
    ward at the Meikle Ferry, above a mile into the sea; exclusive of
    that peninsula, the breadth averages about 3 miles. On the east-
    ern side the parish adjoins to those of Tarbat and Fearn; on the
    west, to Edderton; and on the south, to Loggie Easter; while its
    northern boundary is formed by the waters of the Dornoch Frith,
    along which it streches, with several curving aud indentations,
    in a direction nearly east and west. The parish as to its external ap-
    pearance, separates itself into three distinctly marked districts. The
    first is a low sandy plain, of about four or five square miles in extent
    somewhat resembling in shape a crescent or quarter moon; the
    lesser or inner curve of which constituting as it does the present
    coast-line, may be described as an extended variously-broken sand
    bank, rising in several parts above the sea level to a height of about
    15 feet; while the large or outer curve is marked by a sudden ele-
    vation of the land, (distinctly traceable almost from end to end of
    the parish,) in many places about 50 feet above the flat plain be-
    low,-presenting the appearance of a scarp or slope; on the ridge
    of which, about a quarter of a mile distant from the sea, and
    overlooking the wide-stretched flat beneath, is situated the royal
    burgh- from which the parish is designated. Terrace-like, along
    the top of this escarpment, lies the second and most important di-
    vision of the parish; which, extending back towards the south-
    east, and upwards by a gentle slope towards the south and south-
    west, presents a highly cultivated and richly wooded territory to
    the view: the third or upland district consists of several low

    <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr William Taylor.


