
                                 COLINTON.                           123

has been 4one within the last twenty yeart towards; its general im-
provementt by deep draining, and a judicious system of cropping
   Rent.-The arable land, from the differenceof soil and situations,
already alluded to, varies in rent from about I., 1, 4s; to L. 3, 19s.
6d. per imperial acre; but the average way be stated at L. 2, 8s.
The pasture lands on the Pentland hills, of which there are about
1308 acres, let at about 4s. 9d. per acre; while the otber pasture
lands, which, with the exception of Craig Lockhart hills, consist
of enclosures connected with villas, or the houses of. the beritors,
let at from L. 1, 12s. to L. 3, 4s. per acre. There is no 1, sueh
tbing known in the parish as letting pasture land at so much per
ox or sheep.
  Husbandry.- The rotation of cropping on the arable land in gene-
ral is, 1. potatoes, turnips, or beans; 2. wheat or barley; 3. hay; 4.
oats. But of late years, from the low price of grain or bay, and the
comparatively high-price of fat stock a disposition has been shown,
on some farms to introduce for the third crop, two years of pasture,
in place of the hay crop, making the rotation five in place of four.
years. Very few cattle are reared in the parish, and equally few
sheep, except on farms containing portions of the Pentland hills
wbere, the Cheviot breed are kept, and on Craig Lockhart, when
a few Leidesters are kept. On other farms, where occasionally
turnips are consumed on ground, stock is purchased for that pur-
pose.
  Potatoes form the greatest breadth of green crop, for which
Edinburgh affords a near and ready market; while it also yields
the principal supply of manure, at about: 4s. per' ton, exclusive of
toll and carriage. Of this manure, from 24 to 82 tons are Me".
rally laid upon the acre for green crops.
  Both bone and rape dust 'have been tried as manures. But
where good dung can be had it is preferable to either, at the same
time, when that article cannot easily be obtained, they prove, valu-
able substitutes.
  Although a great deal has already been donor by deep draining
to improve the soil, yet, as a great part of the parish is recumbeat
on clay, much may yet be done by furrow draining, and the use of
the subsoil plough, to increase its productive powers.
   Wages.--The wages of a married ploughman per annum are, cash
L. 16, oatmeal 65 stones, potatoes 12 cwt. with four weeks' meat in
harvest, free house and garden, and coals driven. Those able to
stack and sow, get L. 1 or L. 2 per annum more. Farm labour-


