
                               LOCHCARRON.                        111

   distant period consisted of only three families, contains now a po-
   pulation of nearly 500.
       Baptisms and marriages have been regularly registered since
   1819.  The register kept before that time was accidentally burnt.
   No register of deaths.

   <TABLE>
   Number of persons under 15 years of age is            774
                       from 15 to 30,                    629
                            30 to 50,                    474
                            50 to 70,                    209
                       upwards of 70,                     48
         Unmarried men above 50                           18
                   women above 45,                        70

       Number of children in each family, 5 or perhaps 6 on an ave-
   rage.  Insane, 3; fatuous, 4; blind, 4; deaf and dumb, 4.
       Land-owners.- Landed proprietors two.
       Language of the People.- The language generally spoken is
   Gaelic; but English is spoken by a great proportion of the
   younger people. Gaelic cannot be said to have lost ground for
   the last forty years; but it has been much corrupted by our fre-
   quent intercourse with the south, and the silly vanity of persons,
   who wish it to be understood, that they know something of another
   language.
       Habits, &c. of the People.- The ordinary food of the pea-
   santry is potatoes and herring twice a-day, and oatmeal gruel for
   supper. Those in better circumstances have, besides, oat cake,
   butter and cheese, and in winter and spring use for dinner, broth
   and mutton as a substitute for herring.  Of the houses, some are
   of turf, but the greater part of stone frequently built with lime.
   The roof is covered over with turf,- above which, there is a coat
   of heather or ferns.  There is seldom a chimney to the houses.
   The fire is kindled alongside of the wall, or a stone in the cen-
   tre of the room, and the smoke reeks its way out at the roof, or
   door,or windows.  The windows generally consist of wooden shutters,
   made to open at pleasure and admit the fresh air.  The floors are
   of clay and mud.  In many houses, the cattle are under the same
   roof, and even enter at the same door with the family, and are only
   separated from them by a partition of boards, wattles, or stone,
   having a door in the middle.  As will be readily imagined, the
   space between this partition and the outer door is sometimes so
   dirty, that it is difficult for him who enters to pick out a clean foot-
   ing.  The greater part of the people do certainly not enjoy the
   comforts of society, and they are far from being satisfied with their
   situation and circumstances.  Those living on the coast, particu-


