
			CUMMERTREES.                           247

limestone bed is about 30 feet in thickness, and inclines one foot
in seven, and sometimes dips or sinks a foot at once, then sudden-
ly rises again for upwards of a mile to the N. E. of the present
quarry, where it sinks below the sandstone, and does not appear
again until about six miles from the present Kelhead quarry, in the
parishes of Annan and Middlebie, where there are several lime-
works. The lime at Kelhead in Cummertrees is considered far
superior to any in the country, being ninety-six parts pure in a
hundred. No veins of fissures are cut across, nor are there any
separate beds of magnesian limestone found intermixed with the
common limestone. Rolled blocks or boulders of limestone are
frequently found imbedded in the earth that covers the limestone
rock, but are always separated from the solid rock by a thick layer
of clay; and the organic remains formed in the limestone be-
long both to the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and lie near to the
bottom of the quarry imbedded in large boulders of brown-colour-
ed marble, which, when cut and polished, are exceedingly, beauti-
ful, being curiously speckled with the various petrifications. The
vegetable remains bear a strong resemblance to reeds. The ani-
mals are chiefly large and beautiful party-coloured shells, and cor-
nua ammonis of various sizes.  Some of the shells, orthoceratites,
when got out, are nearly two feet in length, and-bear a strong re-
semblance to the vertebrae of sharks. Marl used formerly to be
dug from two or three bogs in the parish; but since the opening
of the lime-works at Kelhead, the digging of marl has been dropt;
indeed it is generally supposed that there is but little marl re-
maining to be dug in the parish. Several trials have been made
to find coal, but they have hitherto proved unsuccessful. It is in-
deed to be suspected, that none of the borings have been carried
deep enough,--at least none of them have been wrought: to nearly
one-third-of the depth of the Cumberland field that is now work-
hng near Whitehaven, and has already advanced two miles in the
direction of Scotland, below thd sands of the Solway, without any
appearance of the field diminishing.
	The soil of the parish is of various kinds; some parts sandy,
others gravelly, others of deep rich loam; but the greater part is a
thin wet clay over hard till, and requires both much labour and
manure before it will grow crops of any kind.
	Zoology.--The River of Annan, which skirts this parish to the
east, abounds in salmon, common trout, and herling. It is much
disputed among fishers, whether or not the herling are a species


