
694			AYRSHIRE.

	The coal field is found distributed into basins generally of no
great extent, sometimes detached, at other times passing into each
other by a ridge or undulation, without throwing off the metals.
The usual dip is one foot in seven. The basins are seldom found
to correspond altogether in their stratification, and are intersected
in all directions by faults And dikes, the one dislocating the strata,
the other merely disjoining them, without altering their level, and
both, from their frequency, adding to the difficulties, of the miner.
Of course, it will appear that the account here given, is to be re-
garded merely as an approximation to, the general state of the mi-
neral deposits under notice.
	The coal has been worked for a long time, but never extensive-
ly. The aggregate thickness of the four workable seams is about
14 feet. The average distance from the surface to the upper
seam, is 15 fathoms; from that to the second, 6; from the second
to the third, 3; and from the third to the lowest, 3. The up-
per seam is peculiar in this respect, that it is found to assume
quite distinct aspects at different parts of the field. At one point,
it is the bituminous or cannel coal, now so much in demand for
the manufacturing of gas; at another, it is the common free
coal; in other situations, again, both descriptions of coal exist in
connection, the one overlying the other; and last of all, the two
coals are found parted by a few inches of black-band ironstone.
However much the seam may vary in its composition at different
places, it undergoes no material change in point of thickness, for
as the one kind of coal increases, the other is found to diminish.
The three lower coals are composed of free coal: one of them
known as the smithy coal, is prized for the purposes of the forge,
and all of them are good household coal.
	The freestone of the district comprehends numerous seams, rang-
ing in thickness from an inch to eighteen feet. Some of the quar-
ries afford compact and durable blocks, well adapted for building.
In the flagstone quarries again, pavement of all dimensions is pro-
cured at little expenditure of labour.
	The limestone exists in great abundance, is worked to a consi-
derable extent, and is much esteemed both for building and agri-
cultural purposes.
	The ironstones has never been turned to account, but is now
under lease with a view to the establishment of iron-works. Some
time ago, a carbonaceous ironstone, similar to Muschet's black-


