
     of Shapinshay.

tained by the burning of wood, and which can be obtained
only at a very high price, and from a foreign country.  In
that case it supplies its place in bleaching, in the manufacture
of soap, of allum, of glass, and perhaps is necessary in some
other of the most important manufactures of Britain.  The
whole tribe of sea-weeds is capable, by burning, to produce
kelp; but what are made use of here for that purpose are the
four following sorts: 1st, The tangle, (Fucus Disgitatus, Lin.),
the top of which is here called red ware, whose roots are
fixed in the rocks, and are very seldom left dry even at the
lowest spring tides.  2dly, The sea-oak, (Fucus Vesiculosus,
Lin.), which we denominate black tang, and which grows
next to the former, nearly at the lowest ebb.  3dly, The knot-
ted sea-weed, (Fucus Nodosus, Lin.), or, as it is sometimes
called, the bell-wracks and here the yellow tang, which in
general occupies the middle space between the low and high
water marks.  4thly, The jagged or ferrated sea-weed, (Fucus
Serratus, Lin.), commonly known by the name of prickly
tang in this country.  These four kinds of sub-marine plants,
with some others of less consequence, are cut from the rocks
in the summer season with hooks, carried up on barrows to
the beach, where they are spread to dry, and are afterwards
burnt into ashes.  The kilns that are made use of for this
purpose, are either erected with stones on the sand, or dug
in the beach, of a circular form, and about 12 inches deep
and 4 feet broad.  In these they make holes for the free cir-
culation of the air while they are burning, and after they
have continued to burn till they imagine they have about one
third of a tun of kelp, they begin to stir it strongly, or to
rake it with a clumsy instrument of iron formed for the pur-
pose.  Much of the excellence of the kelp depends on the
perfection of this operation.  Great care must be taken to
keep it free of sand, of stones, and of every sort of extra-
     VOL. XVII. H h


