
	      WHITEKIRK AND TYNNINGHAME.                     35

   The valued rent of the parish is L. 7671, 1s. 2d. Scots. The
real rent when wheat is at L. 2. 16, per quarter is L. 9727, 8s.
   There are at present nine farmers who occupy from two to five
hundred acres each, and there is one small farm with a mill attach-
ed. This was the residence of the late ingenious Mr Meikle, at
the time he invented the thrashing-machine.
   The sum assessed for the parish roads amounts to L. 85, besides
L.17 for the public road running through the parish. The roads
are kept in excellent repair. The fences (chiefly thorn hedges)
are also generally well kept, and the farm offices are substantial and
commodious. The dwelling-houses which the farmers themselves
possess are adapted to the most prosperous state of their profession.
   Rate of Wages.-In winter the wages for stout labouring men
are Ss. per week; and in summer 9s. The women's wages for
bondage work, as it is called, (working in the fields or in the barn,)
are8d.or9d.perday. The hinds or horse men receive for a year's ser-
vice nine imperial quarters of oats, two quarters two bushels of barley
one quarter of pease, and if they sow and stack the crop, one bushel of
wheat in addition. Besides this they have the keep of a cow, 960 yards
upon one drill of potatoes, L. I for lint money, and their meat in
harvest. These gains, taken. together, amount at present to about
8s. per week.
   In a retrospect of forty years we find that within that period,
the hind has had an augmentation of five Linlithgow bolls of grain
to his yearly income; and that smiths and wrights are paid more
than double by the farmer; saddlers, and tailors and shoemaker
not less in proportion. The value of farm produce on the other
hand has for a considerable time greatly decreased, and is said to
have been of late years disproportioned. to the rent and the Tabour.
   Woods.-Thomas sixth Earl of Haddington began his planta-
tions at Tynninghame in the year 1705, and has left a noble mo-
nument of his perseverance and success. Previous to that period,
the formation of any considerable body of planted trees was unknown
in Scotland, and he may therefore be fairly considered as the father
of plantation in that country. In a letter to his grandson, which
was afterwards printed, he wrote an excellent treatise on the man-
ner of raising forest trees,&c.,containing the result of his own success-
ful experience. He commenced his operations at the instance of his
Lady, sister of the first Earl of Hopetoun, whose taste for planting
was at first much stronger than his own, but he afterwards requires
ed no stimulus. In his account of the planting of Bining Wood,


