
     Statistical Account

Carts for carrying dung, lime, and grain, were universally
adopted in place of creels, currocks and sacks on horses
backs.  The levelling and straighting of ridges, and culti-
vating of green crops, such as turnip, potato, and sown
grass in small quantities, were becoming pretty common a-
mong the most considerable farmers, and were rapidly gain-
ing ground, when the scarcity in 1783 put a stop to all im-
provement by green crops, and made the farmers think of
nothing but raising grain; and the more so, as in these wet
and late seasons, the best cultivated lands often produced
the worst crops, because they continued to grow till the

<FOOTNOTE>

there were about 200 of the inhabitants alive, upwards of 7o years
of age, in the year 1780.  Before that time consumptions were not near
so frequent as they have been since.  This may be justly attributed, in a
great measure, to the effects of the scarcity, and bad victual, in the year
1783; to the long and inclement harvest in 1782 and 1787; in both which
season, the labourers were exposed to much cold and wet, during three
months that each of these harvest continued; but principally to the
change that has of late years taken place, in the manner of living among
the lower ranks.  Formerly every householder could command a draught
of small-beer, and killed a sheep now and then out of his own little
flock; but now the ease is very different; few of the poorer sort of house-
boulders can keep any sheep, for the reasons already assigned, or even
afford a little beer, or a bit of meat, upon the Christmas holidays.  A-
mong the poor, the want of nourishing diet, nay, the frequent want even
of the very necessaries of life, which their industry is often not sufficient
to procure for them, to which may be added, their wretched damp un-
comfortable houses, to which they enter through the dunghill, the putrid
effluvia of which they breath continually; and among the middling
ranks, dejection of mind, consequent upon a change of circumstances
from affluence and independence to strugling with debt and want, ap-
pear to be the principal causes of the prevailing distempers; and mortality
in this parish.  Young people are in general cut off by consumptions,
and those more advanced in life by low nervous fevers and dropsies.
There are no disorders that seem to belong peculiarly to the elimate, un-
lesss that old people are generally distressed with rheumatisms.  Of late,
neither the small-pox nor any inflammatory disorders has been very preva-
lent or mortal.  The complaints are principally nervous.


