
     Statistical Account

gradually diffused itself through all the more civilized and
best cultivated part of the country; perhaps the clergy al-
so contributed to diffuse the English language where they
had property or establishments.  There is reason to think,
that the Scotch dialect of the English languages has been
the language of the natives of this parish for at least 400
years*.  The lands of Strath Isla, (Strath-heyliff, as it is
spelled in the charter), containing the whole parish of
Grange, and a great part of the parish of Keith, were be-
stowed by William the Lyon upon the abbacy of Kinloss,
in the 12th century.  The Popish clergy very much pro-
moted the cultivation and improvement of the country,
where they had establishments, and large tracts of land
granted to them, formerly not very valuable, nor well cul-
tivated, which soon became, under their possession, well cul-
tivated and well peopled.  While the barbarous wars and
depredations carried on between neighbouring chieftains,

<FOOTNOTE>

   *The names of places in this parish, derived from the Gaelic, are said
to be descriptive of the local situation, or peculiar properties of the
places to which they belong; and it is probable, that they have been
first occupied for the purpose of pasturage, rather than for raising corn.
The principal of them, together with what is said to be their meaning,
are as follows: Edingight, 'The Place opposite to the Wind.' Fortrie,
'The cold South-east Hillock' Crannach, 'The Gushet, or Triangle,'
alluding to the shape of the ground.  Balamoon, 'The Moss town.'
Pathnic, 'The Cow-Hillock' Cantley, 'The frosty Height.'  Auchin-
hoove, 'The Field of Groves,' etc.  This last seems to take its name
from one of the fields of battle, with which this parish abounds, and
which are said to have been fought between the Scots and Danes, when
the latter landed at Cullen, in the reign of Donald III. in the end of the
ninth century; who, as appears from the ancient Scotch historians, de-
feated the Danes near Cullen, and afterwards at Forres in Moray;
when, as Guthrie conjectures, the famous obelisk at Forres was erect-
ed.  The Danes, in advancing into the heart of the country, must neces-
sarily pass through the parish of Grange, which is only 4 computed miles


