
                           TONGLAND.                           65

are no extensive plantations. In the middle of the parish, as much
wood is grown as is necessary either for use or ornament, but in the
lower part it is sadly wanting, a want the more to be regretted, as the
surface is of that undulating and rocky nature which would admit
of its being grown with much advantage both to the emolument of
the proprietor, and the appearance of the scenery. Near the sum-
mit of Meiklewood hill is a small loch, 15 or 20 feet in depth,
which affords a supply of water sufficiently abundant to serve a
thrashing-mill in the driest seasons. Being almost at the top of a
ridge, with no hills in the vicinity from whence so much water can
come, the springs that feed it must be brought by a subterranean
passage from a distance of several miles, and unless they come
from the north, which is not probable, they must flow beneath the
channel either of the Tarff or the Dee. If one may judge from
the general health of the inhabitants, none of whom, however, have
ever presented remarkable instances of longevity, the climate is sa-
lubrious, although not in the same degree throughout every part of
the parish. In the valley of the Tarff, typhus fever occurs more
frequently, and to a more fatal extent than in most other districts.
This is supposed to be partly caused by the overflowing of the
stream, which is there deep and sluggish, and, when swollen by the
rains of spring and autumn, inundates the meadows to a consider-
able extent. Unfortunately too, that part of the parish is the most
densely peopled, and principally by the poorer classes. Of the
two rivers which form the western and eastern boundary, the Tarff
is by much the smaller; it has its rise in Loch Whynnion, about
fourteen miles from the sea, and after pursuing a very winding
course, and presenting a great variety of channel, it joins the Dee
at Cumpston Castle. It is a beautiful, limpid steam, abounding
with yellow trout, salmon trout, herling, and occasionally with sal-
mon. In the middle of its course there is a waterfall, or rather a
succession of w`terfalls, called the Linn of Lairdmannoch, between
fifty and sixty feet in height, which can be seen from a single point
of view, and, when the stream is swollen, forms as picturesque an
object as anything of the kind can be imagined. The lower
fall is received by a dark and deep pool, where salmon may be
often seen disporting in the latter end of autumn. The Dee is a
noble river, having, as well as its tributary, the Ken, a course of
forty or fifty miles, ad exhibiting in its descent many features
both of beauty and grandeur. Perhaps the finest part of its course
are the four miles along which it forms the eastern boundary of

         KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                 E


