
                                        GLASS.                      203            203

	rochial, and one supported entirely by school-fees. The parochial
	schoolmaster's salary is L. 30, and his fess may amount to about
	L. 20. The schoolmaster is at present session-clerk, the emolu-
	ments arising from which office are from L.5 to L.6 Sterling per
	annum; and L.2 Sterling in lieu of a garden.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-- The average number of persons
	receiving parochial aid is 16. Besides these, there aer from twelve
	to sixteen who receive aid occasionally, at an average of L.3, 1s.
	8d. per annum. The average sum allowed to each regular pau-
	per per annum is L.1, 8s. 2d. The average annual amount of
	contributions for relief of the poor from church collections, is
	L. 30, 1s. 2 3/4d. There are no legal assessments; but the Right
	Hourable Earl of Fife, Alderman Pirie, London, Thomas
	Grant, Esq. at Auchincloch of Rothiemay, and other benevolent
	individuals, have contributed largely from time to time, to relieve
	the distress, and allevite the sufferings of the regular paupers,
	and other persons in indigent circumtances.

	   March 1842.

                                        PARISH OF GLASS.\f*

			SYNOD OF MORAY, PRESNYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE.

			I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	   Name.--THE name of this parish is derived from a Gaelic
	word signifying dark-green, and is descriptive of the appearance
	of the uncultivated parts of the parish.
	   Extent and Boundaries.--The figure of the parish is an oval,
	with several indentations. Its greatest length, from east to west, is
	about 8 English miles, and its greatest breadth about 5; its su-
	perficial contents about 30 square miles. It is bounded on the
	south, by hills which separate it from Gartly and Rhynie; on the
	west, by hills which separate it from  Cabrach and Mortlach; on
	the north-west and north-east and east, by Cairney; and on the
	south-east, by Huntly.
	   The hills run abruptly from the vale of Strathbogie to the east,

 <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the late incumbent, the Rev. John Cruickshank.



