
	 	       WHITBURN.                            81

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-These are, Sir William Baillie, of Polkemamet,
patron;* Alexander Weir, Esq. of Boghead; George Napier, Esq.
of Little'Blackburn; James Waddle, Esq. of Crofthead, &c.
   Antiquities.-In Cowhill, two gold pieces of Roman coin were
dug up in a bog.
   The late Samuel Muir, Rector of Perth Academy, who was
said to have been muster of the grammar of eighteen different
languages, received the first elements of his education in this parish.
<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
   The number of inhabitants in this parish stood as follows at the
different census:

<TABLE>			Year 1755,           1121
			     1791,           1322
			     1801,           1537
			     1821,           1900
			     1831,           2075
			     1841,           2596

		    IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.-The parish contains 10,019 English acres.
   The improvements of which husbandry is susceptible in this pa-
rish are considerable. The ground being clay, or till bottom, it
much requires draining, which is not yet carried to that extent it
might. In some few places, the soil is of such a stiff nature that
draining proves of little benefit.
   There is a great want of good enclosures and fences in some
parts of this parish. Plantations are getting up.
   Quarries.-Several stone quarries ate open in the parish, one
at Blackburnhaugh, and another at Longridge. Whinstone is to be
found. There are some good sand quarries; one of a white sili-
ceous nature, which makes excellent garden-walks. There is ano-
ther of red sandstone.
                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is most
convenient. When this parish was disjoined from Livingston, it
was opened for public worship on the 21st October 1718; but
there was preaching before from the year 1628. + The church
was erected and partly endowed by public subscriptions.

<FOOTNOTE>The progenitors of Sir William Baillie came originally from Lanarkshire, They
purchased the property of Polkemnmet in the sixteenth century from Mr Andrew
Shaw, a brief account of whom will be found in Spottiewood's History.
   Corgill, it is said, preached there on the Sabbath prior to the excommunication
at Torwood,

   LINLITHGOW.                                 F


