
    182			ROXBURGHSHIRE.

	The whole of the south side constituted the estate of Crailing,
    which was long in the possession of the Lords Cranstoun. The
    house and lands (with the exception of one farm belonging to
    William Turnbull, Esq. of Fenwick, and about thirty acres of Lord
    Minto's,) are now the property of John Paxton, Esq. of Crailing,
    by whose father the present mansion was built. It is a plain mo-
    dern building, and stands beautifully on a rising ground, with the
    Oxnam winding below. The interest and beauty of the pleasure-
    grounds are much increased by the course of this mountain stream.
    A sweet little glen, formed by its meanderings, and its banks
    thickly covered with wood, give a variety to the scene of which one
    has no idea till close upon it.
    	Antiquities. -The parish contains nothing memorable in the
    way of antiquities, excepting the vestiges of two once strongly for-
    tified encampments at the top of Piniel-heugh.

			III.-POPULATION.

	The population of this parish has varied but little for many
    years. In the former Statistical Report, the number of inhabit-
    ants is stated at 672. By last census, it amounted to 733, show-
    ing a trifling decrease from the census of 1821, which is easily ac-
    counted for, from the incidental circumstance of one of the large
    farms being at the time without a resident tenant.

<TABLE>

    The number of families in the parish is                          133
                     chiefly employed in agriculture,                 71
                           in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,     22

	Character, &c. of the People. -The habits of the people are or-
    derly and industrious. The peasantry over the whole district are
    a peculiarly well-conducted class, -sober, intelligent, contented
    with their situation, and in general manage their limited means so
    as to enjoy the necessaries of life essential to their comfort.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture. -Almost the whole land is arable, and a great part
    of it of the best quality. About 300 acres are planted. There are
    several plantations of considerable extent: and in the policies of Mon-
    teviot and Crailing House, there are many fine trees of great age.
    The soil is generally of a light loam, and is apt to suffer from
    drought, but in ordinary seasons yields very abundant crops. The
    mode of cultivation generally pursued is, to have one-fifth part of
    the ground under turnip crop, two-fifths in corn, and the remain-
    ing two in grass. The turnip crop answers all the purpose of fal-


