
			   INVERESK.                              247

inconsiderable elevation (about 540 feet above the level of the sea,)
lying along the southern boundary of the parish, the general ap-
pearance of the ground is flat, sloping towards the sea, but varied
with occasional gentle and irregular undulations.  On one of these,
lying in the form of a crescent, with the concave side towards the
South, and having the river flowing round its western base, stands
the village of Inveresk, which, from its fine southern exposure,
ornamental woods, elegant villas, and the extensive prospect it
commands, has been justly celebrated as one of the most beauti-
ful situations in Scotland.*  The soil in the immediate vicini-
ty of the village is chiefly of a light sandy nature, but highly
productive.   On the higher grounds a rich clay prevails varied
with black loam; and along the sea shore stretch extensive downs,
part of which has, of late years, been converted into a race-course.
Almost the whole land in the parish is rich and fertile, and in a
high state of cultivation, the fields being generally fenced with
stone walls or thriving hedges.  There is, comparatively, only a small
part of it planted, but it is sheltered and adorned on the west by
the extensive woods of Buccleuch Park, and those of New Hailes,
and on the east by the rising plantations of Drummore.  From
the high ground to the south, a wide and varied prospect is ob-
tained.   Beyond the Frith of Forth are seen the hills of Fife and
the Ochils, and on clear days, the distant summit of Benlomond
in the Grampian range is visible.
   Meteoroloyy, &c. -The climate here is mild, the air is dry and
salubrious; rather less than the medium quantity of rain falls
throughout the year; and, with the exception of cold easterly winds
in spring, the temperature is such as well entitles the village to the
name anciently bestowed upon it-- the Montpelier of Scothland.
Snow never lies for any length of time, and frosts are much less
intense than at higher elevations in the neighbourbood.   A singu-
lar instance of the power of attraction is frequently observed in
summer.  The clouds carried by a west, wind along the Pentland
hills are seen, on arriving at their eastern extremity, to diverge
either to the south, passing along the ridge of Carberry, or to the
north, emptying themselves into the waters of the Forth.   The
prevailing winds are from the south-west, east, and north-east.
Easterly winds prevail chiefly in the spring months and are almost
uniformly accompanied with an unusual degree of cold.

<FOOTNOTE>Maitland, in his History of Edinburgh, calls it "the beautiful village of Inveresk,
which from its situation houses, and salubrity of air, is justly reckoned the finest
village, and most healthy place in Scotland."__Fol 1753, p.504.


