
                   TORPHICHEN.                              47

stone, Bart. of Bedlormie. There are in all 37 proprietors, of
whom 25 possess lands of the yearly value of L-50 and upwards,
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in the parochial regis-
ters bears the date of 1650. Since that time they have been pret-
ty regularly kept, though they are somewhat meagre in their de-
tails. They amount, at present, to five volumes of no great size.
There are two volumes of acts of Assembly from 1690 to 1733;
but from that time till recently there acts have not been regular-
ly obtained.
   Antiquities.-The chief object of interest, in an antiquarian point
of view, is the Preceptory, or chief seat of the Knights of St John
of Jerusalem. It would appear, from the date of the original char-
ter, 1153, that the preceptory was founded in that year, as it was
the first property held by the Knights in Scotland, and continued
to be their chief seat. Its site was well chosen for both strength
and beauty; at the base of the picturesque range of the Torphi-
chen bills on the edge of a piece of marshy ground which fur-
nished water to fill a moat twenty feet wide, by which the build-
ing itself, and about a Scotch acre of land, were surrounded, of
which moat the course may still be distinctly traced. The upper
part of the building commanded an extensive prospect towards the
Frith of Forth in the direction of Falkirk and Stirling; as also,
the upper range of the Ochils, and the summits of the Gram-
pians. It appears to have been built, as most religious structures
were, in the form of a cross, of which nothing but the transept, or
cross-beam, necessarily the smaller division of that figure, with a
tower at one angle containing a spiral staircase, are now remain-
ing. The walls of the nave, or main part of the fabric have long
disappeared entirely, but its foundation may still be traced so as to
give some idea of its original dimensions. The transept or, as it
is commonly called, the choir, still remains almost entire. It is
about 72 feet long by 26 broad.; (inside 66 by 20, the walls being
above 3 feet thick;) the nave was about 112 feet, long. The interior
is composed of three lofty arched domes, supported by massive yet
handsome Gothic columns, 20 feet high before the spring of the
arch; of these the central dome and its columnar shafts are dis-
tinguished by their symmetry and simple grandeur and the key of
the vault itself, in the central dome, being formed of an open ho-
rizontal arch, or rather complete circle, at right angles with the
arches of the vault, and sustained mere by their mutual and equal
pressure 30 feet above the level of the floor, the effect is peculiar-


