
514                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

have no fence at the river.  This, it is conceived, might be all
easily mended.  The haugbs of the river hollows, when left uncul.
tivated, become the most valuable pastures which we possess; and
to these they should be exclusively devoted.  They could easily
be shut in, for their whole length, by fences running parallel to
the streams, and so high as tq be beyond the reach of floods; and
each land-owner or farmer could have his share at either end, di-
vided off by a short fence running across the line of the stream,
part of which, near the water, might be a paling for removing from
the winter floods.  The rich grass, the good shelter, and the sure
water for the cattle in these hollows, would make them the most
profitable of all; whereas, under the present management, they
rent lower than any other lands.
   Another improvement would add greatly to the comfort of a
great number of individuals.  The small crofts are managed under
the seven-shift rotation, which has been adopted on the larger
farms; and as it is impracticable to fence in all the small divisions
of these, on account of the magnitude of the expense in relation
to the extent of the land, the cow, which is so necessary to the
comfort and health of the cottager's family, and on account of
which the croft is rented, becomes the cause of much trouble and
wearisomeness to some of them,-for she must be herded on her
small patch of grass by one of the children.  It would be easy to
remedy this by fencing in a proper proportion of the croft, perhaps
about three-sevenths, for permanent pasture, the expense of which
would not be exorbitant, and leaving the other four-sevenths for a
shorter rotation of cropping.  The richest land should be chosen
for the permanent pasture to insure its being always good; and'
perhaps the landed proprietors could not more effectually increase
the comforts of their cottagers' families than by interfering to en-
force this simple arrangement, and giving orders that the grass
should never be broken up.  The cow could be kept botter with
little trouble; and the child would be set at liberty to go to school.
A system of soiling could not be adopted on these small posses-
sions; as they have no resources in early summer before the grass
is sufficiently grown for cutting.
   Fisheries.-In former times, the Don was celebrated for the
abundanee of its salmon; and so excellent was the rod-fishing in
this vale, even within the memory of the present generation, that
one gentleman killed, in the course of one season, no fewer than
forty fish out of a single pool of the river, which was, at the same


