
652                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

The sceptre is of silver, double gilt, surmounted with a crystal
globe, topped with a large pearl. It is 34 inches in length, and
bears the initials J. R. V. The sword of state is five feet long,
and of elegant workmanship. On the blade is indented in gold
letters Julius II. P., it having been a present from that Pope to
James IV.
   Adjoining the old buildings on the east side is a semicircular
platform, called the Half-moon Battery; here is an ancient and very
deep well, dug through the solid rock. The main guardroom is
also placed here, and a modern chapel, built in 1818. Lower
down the hill, on the south-west side, is a range of modern
buildings, erected in 1796, containing the governor's and officers'
quarters, the armoury, and additional barracks. In front of this,
and lower down, is another range of guns, called Argyle's Battery.
Here also is to be seen the celebrated piece of Scottish ordnance
called Mons Meg. which, after having paid a long visit to the
Tower of London, was restored to its former quarters in 1828.
A bronxe statue of the late Duke of York was also placed here a
few years ago.
   The entrance to the Castle is guarded by a large outer gate,
with a bridge and dry ditch, and two inner gates, with portcullises.
Within the first gate is a guardroom and water reservoir; without
is a spacious drill-ground. There are residing within the Castle a
deputy-governor, fort-major, storekeeper, master gunner, and
chaplain, with generally a reginient of infantry. About 2000 men
can be accommodated in the present buildings.
   Although in rude ages this Castle must have been a place of
great strength, it would now be easily demolished by artillery, no
portion of the ramparts or buildings being bomb-proof, except the
powder magazine. The date of its first erection is buried in obscu-
rity. Fordun mentions that in 1093 Queen Margaret, the widow of
Malcolm Canmore, died in the Castle a few days, after her husband
was killed, and that in the same year it was besieged by Donald Bane,
the brother of the slain monarch, assisted by the King of Norway.
Since this period, it has been frequently used as the temporary
residence, or the retreat from dangers of several of our Scottish
monarchs. Sometime, too, it has served as their prison while
under the power of some one or other of the turbulent and lawless
leaders of the aristocratic parties that, so frequently convulsed the
The royal stables and other offices occupied the ground to the
				3

