
504                         FORFARSHIRE.

also unquestionably above the average of those devoted to similar
pursuits elsewhere. Dr Arrott, a highly respectable medical prac-
titioner of forty years' standing, whose residence is contiguous to
one of the principal factories, and who has had ample opportuni-
ties of ascertaining the fact, assures us, that the health of the mill
people here is, on the whole, good; that, notwithstanding the re-
duced wages of late years, and consequent lack of nourishing food,
cases of typhus have been comparatively few, and that epidemics
are not more prevalent or more fatal amongst them than any other
individuals confined to in-door occupations.
   This gratifying state of things we attribute to the operation of
several causes. And first we may notice the favourable position
of the town, and the description of houses appropriated to the re-
sidence of the working classes. Lying partly along the shore of
the German Ocean, and extending thence up the valley of the
Brothock, from which the streets rise and recede on both sides,
there is, as it were, a natural capability for cleanliness; and assist-
ed as this is by an active police, ever busy in the work of improve-
ment, Arbroath, including much of the suburbs, may be safely
pronounced as decidedly the cleanest manufacturing town in Scot-
land. But besides this, it is happily recommended by an entire
absence of those huge buildings, Scotic‚ lands, in which, in some
of the larger towns, the humbler classes are congregated together
in dense masses, producing a physical as well as moral miasma at
once pestilential and fatal. Here whole streets are composed of
small tenements of one storey, where the weaver, hackler, or other
artisan, enjoys his self-contained house, with his little piece of
garden-ground behind. The advantages of such a system of do-
miciliation are observable in habits of cleanliness and self-respect
rarely to be met with in those abodes of wretchedness to which
we have alluded. The health is obviously far less liable to be
Impaired and a higher standard of morality amongst to inmates
may, as a necessary corollary, be inferred. To the dry and salu-
brious situation of the town and suburbs then, and to the favour-
able construction of the dwellings occupied by the working-classes,
in conjunction with the active exertions of the Sabbath-school
teachers, and other means of religious and moral instruction else-
where referred to, do we ascribe the comparative good, health and
decency of conduct which, in the midst of much privation, charac-
terize, generally speaking, the factory workers in this quarter.
   Nor, in referring to this subject, should the laudable efforts of


