
                 PARISH OF INNERKIP. *

        PRESBYTERY OF GREENOCK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

           THE REV. THOMAS BROWN, MINISTER.

      I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name, Extent, &c.--The name of the parish denotes its posi-
tion at the mouth of the River Kip.  It is bounded by the Clyde
on the north and west.  It it is about seven miles in length and
six in breadth. About two centuries ago, it comprehended the
parishes of Greenock.  The surface of the Country, in general, is
no less pleasing to the eye, than the situation is conducive to health.
From the shore to the south-east there is a gradual ascent,
beautifully varied with plains, gentle declivities, and eminences
clothed with furze and broom, intersected by small rivers or burns,
which are sometimes lost in deep glens, shaded with wood, and
sometimes water rich and fertile meadows.  On one side, the pa-
rish is surrounded with lofty mountains, covered with heath ; on
the other, washed by the Frith of Clyde, constantly crowded with
the foreign and coasting trade to and from Greenock : and the
towering, summits of the Isle of Arran, terminate the view to the
south-west.
  Soil and Agriculture.--Tbe soil upon the shore is light, sandy,
and of quick vegetation; farther in the country, it is a little wetter,
and more inclined to a red gravel. The moor-grounds are covered
with heath, and in some places afford moss of a considerable depth.
More than one-half of the parish is moor, and a great part of that
a common undivided; a considerable part natural meadow, and the
remainder arable.  From the appearance of the country, it may
be supposed that more land was in tillage fifty years ago than at
present. (Old Stat. Account.)
  Geology.--The geology of the parish is, in every respect, the
same with that of the neighbouring, parish Of Greenock.  These
stratified rocks belong to the old red sandstone series, which
are met and overtopped at a height of from 50 to 100 feet above

   <FOOTNOTE>From notes furnished by the Rev. Donald McLeod, Minister of Gourock.


