
     of Gigha and Cara.

enable them to set and raise their long lines in the month of
March, which is always stormy, by reason of the east wind,
that sets in periodically at that season.  Another cause is, the
present duty on salt, which is so high, and all the regulations
respecting it so numerous and complex, that, till a change be
made in this branch of the revenue, it is impossible to carry
on the white fishing, in such a manner as to become extensive-
ly useful, to those whose local situation is most favourable for
it*.  The other fish taken on this coast, are soal, lythe, mac-

     VOL. VIII.   F

<FOOTNOTE>

*There was a great fishing on this bank formerly, but it had been neglected
for upwards of 20 years, till Mr. McNeill of Gigha came to the island in 1788,
when 1 boat and 4 men were employed by way of trial.  In 1789, 2 boats and
8 men were employed:  during these two years they had little success.  In
spring 1790, 3 boats were fitted out with 4 men in each, besides four addition-
al men for salting and curing.  By their industry, 4000 fish were sent to mar-
ket.  In spring 1791, 8 boats, with the same proportion of men, were em-
ployed; and about the same number of fish, as the preceding year, were sent to
market.  A man who had the charge of Mr. McNeill's estate, purchased the
fish at 4d. each cod; but, having used debenture salt the first year, was obliged
to export the fish to Ireland, where, after trying different markets, he was at
last under the necessity of selling the whole at half the price he had paid, be-
sides other expences.  The second year, in order to avoid such inconveniencies,
he purchased small salt which paid duty in Scotland, and entitled him to dis-
pose of his fish for home consumpt.  This cargo he sold at Glasgow, at the a-
verage price of 6 d. each fish.
   The method of fishing the cod is as follows:-They are taken with a long
line, 700 fathoms in length, having from 400 to 500 large white tinned hooks.
The bait used is the fish of a large white wilk, called Buckie, or Dag-wilk, which
is found on a different bank from that whereon the cod is caught.  At the
beginning of the fishing, a dog is killed and singed, and the flesh, after rotting
little, is cut in small pieces and put into creels or baskets, made of hazel wands,
For the purpose.  These creels are sunk by means of stones thrown into them.
The flesh of the dog, in its putrid state, is said to attract the wilk, which crawls
up round the sides of the basket, and getting in at the top, cannot get out a-
gain, owing to the shape of it, which is something like that of the wire mouse
trap.  After the first day's fishing, the heads and entrails of the cod, with scate,


