
                          PARISH OF LATHERON.

          PRESBYTERY OF CAITHNESS, SYNOD OF SUTHERLAND AND

                              CAITHNESS.

                  THE REV. GWRGE DAVIDSON, MINISTER.


              I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Extent, &c.-THE parish of Latheron is situated on the south-
east coast of Caithness, and bounded in that direction by the Gor-
man Ocean and Moray Frith; on the west, by Stitherlandshire;
and on the porth and east, by the parishes of Halkirk, Watten,
and Wick. It is 27 miles in length along the sea coast, and from
10 to 15 in breadth, containing about 300 square miles.
Name. By the last Statistical Account, the ancient name of
the parish is said to be 11 Loinn, derived from Luidboin, which
signifies, in the Gaelic, lodged or bedded bear, because tbe'lands
contiguous to the church are of a good quality, and yield excellent
bear." But there is another derivation, which has always appeare
to the present writer equally probable and rather more natural,
viz. from the Gaelic words Lathair Rdin, which signifies the re-
sort Of seals,-a species of animal with which the whole coast is
covered. Numbers of them are still taken, as will afterwards be
noticed, and no doubt, in former times, the oil obtained fromithem
afforded one means of support to the inhabitants. Besides, this
derivation seems to accord best with the Gaelic name I.Atharn,
and to admit of a more easy transition into the mloderpor English
name of Latberon. But especially it will be found, by a reference
to the Norse or Icelandic language, that the derivation here pre
ferred is,lmuch confirmed as to its probable correctness,-the words
in that language having very much the same meaning.
  There is also another derivation suggested by the aspect of the
parish, which seems scarcely less probable. than that novr conjec--
turned, viz. from the Gaelic L thair R¢in, which signify the day of
the slaughter of heroes,or Lathair shonn", the place of heroes.
Indeed, considering the ancient predilection for commemorating


