
     Statistical Account

are the mantle, which nature, with pious care, hath pro-
vided, to cover the nakedness of the earth; and Scotland,
of all other countries, should have been cautious in destroy-
ing so grateful a covering, as it affords but few beauties to
compensate for its loss*.

   Langside.-In this parish, lies the field of Langside, me-
morable for being the scene of the last and decisive effort,
of the unfortunate Mary, to regain her crown and autho-
rity.  The circumstances which led to this battle; the
form and manner of the engagement; and the consequen-
ces resulting from it, are too well known, to require any
illustration from an account of this kind.  The place
where this affair was decided, is an eminence upon the
northern extremity of the parish.  The ground gradually
rises to a considerable height on the S. and E. sides, but
descends pretty rapidly towards the N. and W.  Hence,
it is easy to access in the first of these directions, but on
the other, is steep and difficult.  On the summit, and ra-

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are evidences every where, that this parish, at no very re-
mote period, was in a great measure, or almost wholly, covered with
wood.  This affords the means of accounting, for many of the most com-
mon names of places in the parish.  Thus, Aikenhead, which is the resi-
dence of the patron of the parish.  Williamwood is the house of another
very considerable heritor.  Hagton-hill, Hagginshaw, and Woodside, are
names of farms evidently bearing a relation to circumstances of this kind.
In many places these woods have been so recently cut down, that the
roots still retain vegetation; and when a field is allowed to rest any time,
shoots of birch, hazle, and even oak, spring up.  At present, however,
there are very small remains of these woods, except upon the inaccessible
banks of the Cart, above mentioned, and about 70 acres on the west-side of
Landside hill, which the proprietor cuts periodically, in the manner prac-
tised in the more extensive forests in the Highlands.  In the neighbour-
ing parish of Eastwood, there are more considerable remains of the natu-
ral wood of the country.


