
                           BEDRULE                               293

adapted to the soil of Menslaws, there is the best of all proofs, the
production of excellent crops.
     Manure.--In addition to dung and compost, bone-dust has been
introduced to a considerable extent, and its beneficial effects have
been, as elsewhere, strikingly exhibited.  Lime is used to a great
extent, and as there is none now prepared in the parish, it is
brought from a great distance, either from Northumberland or Lid-
desdale.  Lord Douglas has lately erected some lime-kilns on the
north side of the Carter, for the supply of his own tenants, and it
is to be hoped, that they will be opened to the public also, which,
on account of the proximity to this and some of the neighbouring
parishes, would be conferring a great benefit.
   Sheep.--The number of sheep in the parish is about 110 score;
they are almost all of the Cheviot breed.   Mr Jerdon, the tenant of
Rewcastle, of a stock of 30 score, has generally a considerable num-
ber of his ewes put to Leicester tups, and the produce are half-
bred lambs.  Mr Bell of Menslaws has thirteen Merinos from
the royal flock of Spain.  He has had them only for a short time,
but expects they will succeed in a dry soil.  They are rather smal-
ler than the Cheviot breed, and their wool not nearly so white,
having a brownish tinge, and being in smaller quantity than in the
native sheep.   There are no black-faced sheep reared here,
although the pasture seems well adapted for them.  The sheep
walks in this parish are, in a great measure, composed of heath,
which, although it does not grow to the height and thickness
of stem found in other parts of the country, is of an excellent
quality, and when in blossom has a beautiful, and luxuriant ap-
pearance.  The sheep thrive remarkably upon it, and are sel-
dom tainted with disease. It requires great attention and ma-
nagement by burning it down at certain seasons.  The practice
adopted, and found by experience to succeed best, is to burn it
every four or five years.
     Cattle.--The kind of cattle is what is called the short-horned
breed, of a middling size, colour generally red or white, and a
mixture of these colours.   Mr Brodie generally purchases about
thirty Highland cattle or Kyloes yearly, which being kept about
a year are sold in the month of September.   Most of the farmers
feed a few cattle for the butcher, some of which may rank in
quality with those which are reared by, the best breeders in 'the
country.


