
		         LEGERWOOD.                              351

sandstone rock, wherever the soil is good, it is a mixed soil, part-
ly its own, with detached masses, and partly transported from the
conglomerate of the hills. There is also resting upon it occa,
sionally, chiefly in spots, or at the ends of fields, a soil of pure
peat earth, which, though damp, appears to be quickened to some
fertility.  A considerable portion, however, of unreclaimed heath,
(much of which is considered incapable of being improved,) rests
upon this rock, and consists of a thin layer of sand or gravel mixed
with, or underlying, peat earth.

		      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Eminent men.-The Rev. William Calderwood, who was minis-
ter of this parish at the period of Episcopal domination in the
reigns of the two last of the Stewart family, is entitled to notice,
not as having acted in an eminent sphere, but worthily, during the
unequal struggle which presbytery had then to maintain,-and also
on account of his family, as be is understood to have been the son
or nephew of the church historian. He was admitted to his charge
in 1655, and in 1662, along with the great proportion, of the talent
and worth which still remained in the church, he was turned out for
nonconformity to the Acts of Glasgow. Being much beloved by
the people, he remained among them for a considerable time after
his expulsion, and when at last he had removed from their neigh-
bourhood, he often visited them privately. It appears to have
been on account of the meetings which took place at these visits,
that the parish was fined for holding conventicles in August 1684.*
He returned to his charge in 1689, and died in 1709, at the ad-
vanced age of eighty-one, having earned a high reputation, (which
still survives him in the place,) both for sanctity of life, and mini.-
sterial faithfulness.t
   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, according to their valued
rents, Henry Ker Seymer, Esq. of Morriston; The Most Noble The
Marquis of Tweeddale; Miss Innes of Stow; John Spottiswoode
Esq. of Spottiswoode ; Dr Scott of East Morriston ; Colonel Shil-
linglaw of Birlihillside; Mr Fairholm of Chapel.
   Historical Notices.-The whole land in the parish, or at least
Birkenside, Whitslaid, Legerwood, and the Morristons, belonged
before the twelfth century to the family of Stewart.T About the
<FOOTNOTE>Preface to 2d vol. Wodrow. For the extent of the parish, the fine, which was
L.1666, 13s. 4d., appears to have been severe.
    Three fugitives, also belonging to this parish, are included in the proclamation
of this year (1684): Alexander Brown, in Berkenside, and Thomas Carter and
John Pringle, both in Ligertwood.
    + Chalmers' Caledonia, Art. Legerwood.


