
                       LOCHBROOM.                            73

The inland boundaries are almost equally irregular, so that the
extent in square miles is utterly unknown, and will probably con-
tinue to be so.  It may, however, be very safely affirmed that, in
regard to extent of territory and number of inhabitants, and diffi-
culty of the ground, and natural divisions, the parish of Loclibroom
alone (independently of the village of Ullapool, in which there is
a Government church,) would form four large parishes, which would
furnish ample scope for the exertions of four able and active paro-
ebial ministers.  It may be proper to add, that, if the, parish of
Lochbroom. were divided into four such distinct parishes, having
cburches planted at the most suitable distances, with ministers in
each, there would still be many persons in these. parishes who would.
iles, of very difficult road, be-
require to travel from five to fifteen M
fore they could obtain any of the sealing ordinances of religion..
It may be further observed, that, in this parish, there are seven
cemeteries, or public burying-groUDds ; eight stations in which the
minister thinks it his duty (though not obliged) to preach occa-
sionally-always in the open air-yet always to larger congrega-
tions than on ordinary occasions meet in the parish church ; eight-
een stations, at which from 45 to 220 scholars could assemble for
instruction, if they were blessed with teachers,-besides several
hundreds, who could only meet in tens, and fifteens, and twenties;
and finally, that in this parish alone, there are above 1300 young
people-all poor-who are either receiving, or require to received
instruction in the first principles of an useful education..
   Surface, General Appearance, and Natural Divisi.ons.-To a
spectator placed on an eminence in the inland part of this parishi
the appearance is that of a wide and dreary waste of bleak and
barren heath, as if a segment of the great ocean, agitated and
tossed, and tumbled, not by an ordinary storm, however violent,
but by some frightful convulsion of nature, with here and there 4
rude and lofty peak of rugged rock, towering to the skies,-ba4
been suddenl condensed and formed into a solid shapeless mass
of unproductive desert, without one spot of green on which to rest
the eye.  On descending from the heighten however, and advan-
cing towards the sea, the ground assumes a very different, and more
pleasing aspect.  Here, along the shores of the ocean, on the
sides of the great arms of the sea by which the parish is, intersect-7
ed, and the rich valleys which extend far among, the hills, the Pye
is refreshed by the sight of- fertile fields, and populous. hamlets,
with numerous flocks an& herds, and woods, and water streams.


