
                                 CULTS.                                 575

<TABLE>
      Established Church,	  150 families. 	678 persons,
      United Associate Synod,	   29                   136
      Relief Synod,	           13	                 57
      Original Burgher Synod,       2	                  8
      Independents,	            3	                  8
  Besides these, there are two or three families that are not at-
tached to any religious denomination.
  There is a Dissenting chapel in Pitlessie, in connection with the
United Associate Synod.  Twenty-five years ago, there was in the
same Village an Independent chapel, which has since been con-
verted into a dwelling-house, the congregation attaching them-
selves, for the most part, either to the Established Church, or to
some other Dissenting communion.  The number of communicants
of the Established Church is 948.
  Education.- The parish school is in the village of Pitlessie.  The
teacher has a comfortable house, a spacious school-room, the
legal extent of garden ground, and the maximum salary of L. 34,
4s. 4 1/2d.  The branches of education taught by him are, Latin,
French, English grammar, writing, bookkeeping, arithmetic, al-
gebra, navigation, and land-surveying.  The school-fees for the
different branches are, 2s. per quarter for reading; 3s. for reading,
and writing; 3s. 6d. when arithmetic is added; and 5s. for Latin.
Taking the average of the last seven years, the number of scho-
lars is 60, the amount of school-fees L. 30 per annum, and the
emoluments of the teacher derived from other sources, as the ses
sion clerkship and registration, are L.6.  There is a private school
taught in Pitlessie at present, and attended by 45 scholars.  The
branches taught in it are, reading, writing and arithmetic; and the
school fees are, for reading, 2s.; for writing and arithmetic, 2s,
6d.  There is also, in a remote district of the Parish, a third school
taught by a female, and attended by 20 young children at an ave-
rage, who pay some of them 1d. and others 2d. per week.  A
Sabbath school is taught in the church, attended by from 30 to
40 young people, according to the season of the year.
  Poor.-The average number of paupers receiving regular aid is
12.  The sums allowed to them vary from 4s. to 10s. per month.
exclusive of house-rent, and coals in winter, with which they are
also supplied.  Besides these, there are some other persons to
whom occasional assistance is given.  The whole expenses of the
kirk-session, for the last seven years, average L.50 per annum.  The
annual amount of collections at the church-door (exclusuve of
those for religious purposes) average only L. 12; and the defici-
ency has of late years been supplied partly by the voluntary con-


