
522                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

in the appointment of a successor to Hugh Campbell, A. D. 1659.
That minister having been' deposed for adultery, a commissioner
was appointed by Mary, Countess of Buccleuch, and her factors, to
secure the benefice for Mr John Arthur, her Ladyship's chaplain.
The proceedings which followed resulted in the synod and pres-
bytery giving admission and ordination to Mr William Calder-
wood, contrary to the wish of the Countess.
  The following extracts from the presbyters records will be con-
sidered interesting, as showing the effect produced in the presby-
tery of Dalkeitb by the enforcement of the test in the memopable
year of 1681.
  " November 15th 1681.  This day met at Dalkeith Mr Lun-
die, moderator, Mr Douglas, Mr Collier, Mr Spottiswood, Mr
Hamilton, Mr McMath, Mr French, Mr Miller, Mr Blane, Mr
Bannerman, Mr Moodie; none absent except Mr Purves.
  " There was no exercise, in regard our meeting was not to be till
Thursday the 17th, as was appointed; but the moderator acquaint-
ed us by a line, that he had received a letter from ou'r ordinary, the
Bishop of Edinburgh, (John Paterson,) on a Friday's night late,
which he produced, wherein we were all required to be in Edin-
burgh about 10 of clock in the forenoon, to give obedience to the
law, by taking the test according to the 62d Act of this current
Parliament.  This letter from the Lord Bishop being read, to-
gether with the Act of Council explaining the test, the brethren
resolved to meet at Edinburgh, on Thursday morning, and go all
together to wait on the bishop.
  " Anno 1682.  March 30.  There was no meeting since 15th
November 1681, in regard of the paucity of our number, the most
part of the brethren within the bounds of this presbytery have de-
serted their charges by not giving obedience to the Act of Parlia-
ment, requiring all ministers of the gospel, &c. to take the test.
Such as did obey the law, and remain in their charges, met this
day, viz.  Mr M'Math, minister, Lasswade; Mr Arthur Miller,
do. Musselburgh; Mr Alexander Wood, do.  Cockpen; Mr Ro-
bert Bannerman, do.  Newton; Mr Robert Arbuthnot, now mini-
ster at Crichton; absent, Mr George Purves, minister, Glencross.
and no excuse."
  The troublous reign of Charles II. seems to have pressed light-
ly upon the town of Dalkeith, since, with the exception of the
worthy minister mentioned above, and two or three obscure names
                                 4



