
302                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of these and of those on Margaret's vein, the water was raised from
the mines by hand-pumps and water-wheels. The steam-engines
have now all been removed, and a water pressure engine has been
erected, which is succeeding remarkably well. It carries away
all the water which was formerly removed by the two steam-engines
under ground,--it works with little attention, requiring merely that
the water be kept regularly upon it, and thus greatly lessens the
expense which was formerly incurred. The Company at their com-
mencement in 1755 had a lease only of nineteen years; but an Act of
Parliament was obtained afterwards, authorizing the extension of it
till 1812, which was subsequently extended thirty years farther.
Accordingly, about seven years only of the present lease have now
to run. The present lessees are, the Marquis of Bute, who
has three shares, and Mr M'Leod, who has one share,-in all
four shares. The great advantage of these works to the surround-
ing country must be evident, when it is mentioned, that the com-
pany during the last fifty years have expended at Wanlockhead
exclusive of their expenditure for materials in other places, the sum
of L.500,000. By the terms of their lease, they delivered a sixth
part of the lead raised to the proprietor as rent or lordship. But
by a new agreement, on account of the unfavourable circumstances
which have been mentioned above, they deliver a much less quan-
tity. During the last fifty years, 47,420 tons of lead have been
raised; and to show how various the success of the Company has
been, it may be mentioned, that in the year 1809 there were rais-
ed nearly 1037 tons of lead, which sold at L.32 per ton. In 1811
its price was L.24 per ton. In 1829 and 1830 respectively, there
were raised 596 and 461 tons, when its price was only L.13 per
ton. The number of persons employed in the works at present is
as follows: 4 overseers and clerks, 154 miners, 12 washers, 8 smel-
ters, 10 smiths, carpenters, and engineers, 20 boys who assist in
washing; amounting in all to 208. The work is let by bargains,
generally for three months; that is, the workmen receive a cer-
tain stipulated sum,for the quantity of ore per ton, which they raise,
or for the fathom of dead work which they perform in that time.
They relieve each other by courses every six hours, and in twenty-
four hours the same course does not go to work more than once.
Each miner, on an average, may be supposed to earn at present
about L.20 during the year. Agreeably to the contract of lease,
some spare pickmen are always at work, for making new discove-
ries of lead.



