
                        BORTHWICK.                163

neighbours and extensive proprietors in this part of the country;
and there is a tradition relating to the old Castle of Catcune, that
while, it was inhabited by one of the Borthwick family, the pos-
sessor had fallen in love with and married a lady of the family of
Hay-and that it was in consequence of this connection that the
Hays, who had now become Lords of Yesterday, consented to give
up a portion of their property to the Knight of Catcune, and to
favour his plan of eventually building a more magnificent castle for
the residence of himself and his lady. The more common tradi-
tion, however, is, that the lady belonged to the house of Douglas.
  There seem to have been two persons of the title of Sir William
Borthwick, who were occupiers of the Castle of Cateune-and who
preceded that Sir William who built the Castle of Borthwick, and
became the first Lord of that name.
  This third Sir William was a person of great talents.-was often
employed in important negotiations-and made a figure in most of
the public transactions of his time. He was created Lord Borthwick
about the year 1430, and obtained from King James L, a special li-
cense for erecting upon the spot called the Mote of Locherwart a
castle or fortalice, to surround it with walls and ditches, to defend it
with gates of brass or iron, and to place upon the summit defensive
ornaments, by which is meant battlements and turrets: he was fur.
ther empowered to place in the castle so erected a constable, a por-
ter, and all other persons and things necessary for the defence
thereof. Such was the origin of the Castle of Borthwick.
  In an aisle of the old church may still be seen two monumental
statues, in a recumbent posture, and in good preservation, of this
first Lord Borthwick and his Lady. His Lordship is in full armour-
he has the countenance of a man of middle age, with a sagacious and
manly expression, and such as was not unlikely to have captivated,
in his more youthful years, any daughter that the house of Hay-
or the still more renowned house of Douglas-could have furnished
to him. His lady is a beautiful female figure, of a gentle and
handsome cast of features, and dressed in the full robes of her
time. Their Monument was formerly surrounded by several infan-
tine figures, which have now entirely disappeared but the tradi-
tion is, that the parents had a numerous offspring, who am all bu-
ried in the same spot. The workmanship of the statues is exactly
such as was common at that particular time, when the persons re-
presented are known to have lived;-and it is interesting in the
highest degree, both as giving us a perfect idea of the style of


