
142				ROXBURGHSHIRE.

The number of families in the parish is     -         	-     	-	   127
	       chiefly employed in agriculture -        -       -	    55
				   trade, manufactures, or handicraft,      32
     During the last three years there have been 2 illegitimate births
in the parish
				IV.-INDUSTRY.
     Agriculture and Rural Economy.-In the parish there are 3450
acres of land cultivated or occassionally in tillage; 457 acres which
never have been cultivated, but which remain constantly in pasture;
and there are non in a state of undivided common. About 60 acres
are under wood, planted with firs, and hard-wood of various kinds,
which are properly managed by thinning, pruning, &c.
     Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land in the parish
is L. 1 per English acre. The average rent of grazing per ox or
cow is L. 3; and per ewe or full-grown sheep 10s. pastured for the
year. The real rent of the parish is about L. 4000.
     Husbandry.-The duration of leases is from fifteen to twenty-
one years. The farm-buildings are substantial and commodious,
and the whole parish is subdivided into suitable enclosures by stone
and thorn hedges fences. Great improvements have been, and are
still making, by draining, liming, &c.
     Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish as near as can be ascertained, is as follows:-
		Produce of grain of all kinds.     -     - L.5800  0  0
		Of potatoes, turnips, &c.     -    -     -   1450  0  0
		Of land in pasture,      -    -    -     -   1560  0  0
		Thinning of woods, &C.   -    -    -     -     40  0  0
							   ____________
		    Total yearly value of raw produce,     L.8850  0  0

				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     In the parish there is one village, which consists of three divi-
sions, East Third, West Third, and Overtown. The turnpike
road, from Lauder to the March-Burn, passes through the East
Third, in which the church, manse, and school-house are situated.
Kelso, which is at six miles distance, is the neares market-town,
to which a carrier goes weekly on Friday, the market day.
     Means of Communications.-The parish enjoys ample means of
communication in all directions. The turnpike road runs through
the parish from north to south for more than three miles, and there
is a branch of road leading westward from the village for about two
miles towards Drygrange Bridge, on the Jedburgh road. The
Tweedside coach betwixt Kelso and Edinburgh passes through
the village everly lawful day at nine o'clock in the morning, going
north, and at two o'clock P.M. going south. An Earlstown car-
				4


