
246                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

its length about a quarter of a mile.  At both extremities of the
dike, its junction with the gneiss is laid bare. At the west extre-
mity, the gneiss, as it approaches the dike, passes into mica slate;
whereas, at the east extremity, the gneiss, in immediate contact
with the dike, undergoes no change whatever. On the coast,
contiguous to the farm of Blackhills, the gneiss abruptly rises from
an angle of 45 degrees, to a position perfectly vertical. It is highly
charged with oxide of iron, and very much waved. After continuing
from this point, for some miles up the bed of the water of Cowie,
the gneiss passes into mica slate. The Garron Point is a rock of an
intermediate character, between serpentine and trap; and of a
light green colour. It passes into chlorite slate. A variety of
veins of that species of iron ore called haematites, intersect the
rock. It is of a black colour and very rich. The veins vary from
four to eighteen inches in thickness. Some of the larger veins
send out ramifications into the contiguous rock, part of them shift-
ed (in the language of geologists), that is, broken, or forced out
of their original direction. The rock, at its junctions with the
veins, undergoes no change, either in colour or hardness. A
branched dike of compact felspar intersects this rock. In the two
adjoining bays, there are-extensive nests of pipe-clay in the gneiss
rock, immediately under the sand. On the south side of the har-
bour of Cowie, within high water-mark, there is in the sandstone
a bed of clay slate, tell feet thick. On this coast, are found beati-
tiful pebbles of red jasper, and bornstone porphyry, which take a
high polish. They have been transported by the waves from the
conglomerate rocks, south of the bay of Stonehaven. In the dis-
trict of the parish called the Brae of Fetteresso, there are rocks
of puddingstone, and of sandstone; and on the lands of Rickar-
ton and Muchalls, though the prevailidg stone is gneiss, granite
of excellent qualityis found in many places.
  Zoology.--All the varieties of land and sea birds enumerated in
the reports of the adjoining parishes are to be found here. At
Fetteresso Castle, there is a rookery, perhaps the most extensive in
the county. The hill district is well furnished with grouse.
Black game of late years have much increased, while snipe, plover,
wild duck, teal, and woodcock, on account of the extended drain-
age, of marshy ground, have decreased in number. Partridges
are every where found, and pheasants at Fetteresso and Ury.
There are roe-deer in the wood, and hares in every quarter.

                        II.--CIVIL HSTORY.
The first distinct records of this parish are connected with the




