
     Of Glenmuick, Tulloch, and Glengairn.

this parish, and at the foot of the hill of Culblean, there is a
beautiful lake of about 3 miles in circumference, called Loch
Cannor, containing several small islands, upon the largest of
which, there stood formerly a small fortress, said to have been
built, and occasionally occupied as a hunting seat by Malcolm
Canmore; from whom, it is not improbable, the lake might
have got its name; as Cannor is not far in sound from Can-
more.  In this fortress, many of the Cumings took shelter af-
ter their defeat in the famous battle of Culblean, fought be-
tween them and the troops of King David Bruce in 1335.
There is now no appearance of the fortress, the stones are all
cleared out and thrown into the surrounding lake; and the
island, which measures near an acre, is under culture.  The
people in the neighbourhood, some years since, were in use
to drag up large planks of oak from the bottom of that part
of the lake between the island and main land on the N. side,
evidently part of a draw-bridge which connected the island
with the land; the wood was perfectly fresh and wholesome;
and upon one of the planks there was this date, 1113, which
is now in the possession of a gentleman in this neighbourhood.
There is another island smaller than the former, and at some
distance from it, which tradition says, was the prison of the
castle, and which goes to this day by the name of the Tol-
booth.  The principal island where the fortress or castle stood,
is about 60 or 70 yards distant from the land; and the water
between them, where the draw-bridge was, is 16 feet deep.
The lake abounds with pike and eels. Wild ducks, wild
geese, and sometimes swans, frequent it in winter.  There is
a stone set on its end on the N. bank of the lake fronting the
castle, with a great deal of carving upon it; but the figures
are now unintelligible.  It is told, that it was put up in me-
mory of some of the Cumings who fell in the chase or battle

     VOL. XII. F f


