
156	                RENFREWSHIRE.

level of the plain.  The rock, is rapidly assuming an earthy ap-
pearance.  It contains considerable masses of a black, friable, and
coally looking substance, easily reduced to powder between the
fingers, leaving a carbonaceous stain. *
   Blue clay abounds almost everywhere in the lower department
of the parish.  Indeed, the whole plain to the north of the hill
called Oakshaw seems to consist of an immense basin of this use-
ful deposit, in many places not less than 18 feet in thickness.  It
is for the most part soft and unctuous to the touch, and is exten-
sively used in the manufacture of brick and tile.  The greater part
of this clay is pure, containing very few foreign substances, but
near the bottom of the basin it assumes a muddy character, and
encloses innumerable marine shells in a state of perfect preserva-
tion, and retaining their gelatinous and albuminous parts ; as also
rounded pieces of quartz, limestone, schist, &c.  A mass of shingle
or loose water-worn gravel often occurs below this clay and, for
the most part, rests on a bed of fire clay, sandstone, &c.
   Potter's clay has been found about a mile to the south-west of
Paisley, on the Brediland estate, where a pottery for the manufac-
ture of coarse earthen-ware has been for some time carried on.
   Mossy ground is abundant in the lower division of the parish;
but the peat moss, which in 1719 covered 300 acres, is now nearly
all reclaimed.  This moss lies upon a bed of gravel and rounded
pebbles, incumbent on an extensive basin of blue clay.  In the
Paisley moss, the little that remains of the peat is light, and of a
spongy texture.  The peats are composed of the preserved roots,
stems, and branches of Ericas, Sphagnums, and other heath,
plants, intermixed with twigs of birch, oak, furze, &c.  The roots
and tall straight branchless stems of large oak trees are abundant
in these mossy districts, all deeply imbedded, but retaining almost
their primitive hardness, and coloured to their centre of an inky
blackness, from 1he bog-iron held in solution by the water, and
retained by the spongy nature of the soil.  These stems are uni-
formly of a conical form at their base, and almost universally lie
in a north-easterly direction.  Their tall, tapering, and almost
branchless.  forms, prove that they have formed part of an old and
thickly growing wood, which, as various relics prove, has in part

<FOOTNOTE>In the former Statistical Account, notice is taken of a substance somewhat simi-
lar being found in other places.  "A bituminous substance is found both in the
limestone and whinstone quarries.  It drops in a fluid state from the limestone at
Blackhalll ; in that at Hurlet it is found solid; sometimes so indurated as to be brittle.
sometimes so soft as to be cut with a knife, in both cases highly inflammable."--Vol.
vii. p. 83.


