
60                              KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

<TABLE>

                                                               Brought over,  L.7283   0   0
On the estimate that each ox will require 3 acres for summer pasture,
  and the value of one acre for winter fodder, we have pasture and fod-
  der equal to 2375 cattle, which, estimated as above, at L. 4 each,
  yield                                                                         9700   0   0
Fishing, say                                                                      50   0   0
Plantations, garden produce, and honey, for which the parish is fa-
  mous,                                                                          100   0   0

                                    Total yearly value of raw produce,      L.17,133   0   0

        Manufactures.-Berides the produce of two handloom weavers,
there are no manufactures. As there is a sufficiency of water
power, it is not improbable that mills may hereafter be erected.
        Navigation.-The proximity of a safe and commodious harbour,
has induced one of our enterprising farmers to build two vessels of
considerable size, for the exportation of grain and other produce;
and for importing coals, lime, and such other articles as are want-
ed for home consumption. Our ports are visited also by other
coasting vessels, as occasion requires.
                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Towns.-Gatehouse and Kirkcudbright are nearly at
equal distances from Borgue. The market day of the former is
Saturday, of the latter, Friday,-and about an equal number from
Borgue attend each. Cattle are bought and sold, either at home
or at the Castle Douglas market, held on Monday, to which,
though more distant, many of our farmers repari.
        Roads.-The great turnpike road from London to Portpatrick
passes through Borgue at the distance of three miles from the pa-
rish church. This, as well as the other roads in the parish, is
kept in excellent repair, though unfortunately the funds raised
for keeping up the roads have been burdened with a considerable
debt, which renders the present assessment somewhat oppressive
to the tenantry on whom it has been laid.
clesiastical State.-The parish chuch is cnnveniently situated,
as nearly as possible in the centre of the parish. It is seated to
accommodate about 500 persons, and is remarkably well attended,
whenever the weather permits the more distant part of the popu-
lation to come out.
	The church is a modern Gothic structure, elegant in its de-
sign, and conspicuous on all hands, even at a great distance, in
consequence of its elevated situation.
	The manse, built in 1802, is commodious and in good repaid.
	At the population has increased above 100 since the church
was built in 1814, additional accommodation is now urgently called
for. This, indeed, may be furnished without much trouble or ex-


