
132                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Proprietors.-These are, Earl of Aberdeen, Sir William C. Seton
of Pitmedden, and Colonel Udny of Udny.  The rest of the pa-
rish is divided among eight heritors and three bodies corporate.
   Registers.-A baptism and money register were begun about
the year 1720, but have been very irregularly kept, especially the
former.
   Mansion Houses.-In 1819, a neat mansion-house was built of
granite, on the estate of Pittrichie, then the property of James W.
Mackenzie, Esq.  The property now belongs to Alexander Milne,
Esq.
   On the barony of Udny is a Castle, supposed, from its shape,
to have been built about the end of the thirteenth, or beginning
of the fourteenth century.  Its dimensions are, length outside 46
feet; inside 28 feet; breadth outside 35 feet; inside 17 feet;
height 71 feet.
   The walls are thick enough to admit of bed-closets within them.
The two under-stories are vaulted, the upper one of which contains
a spacious hall, the whole length and breadth of the castle.  It is
neatly floored, or rather pavemented, with oblong hexagonal granites,
very neatly joined.  Its height to the top of the arch is about 20
feet.
   An attempt was made in 0801 to modernize the castle; but the
undertaker of the work having failed in circumstances, it remains
in an unfinished state.  The castle is said to have been the work
of three successive proprietors, who all lived the ordinary period
of life.  One built the two under-stories, or the vaulted work, the
next completed the walls, and the third put on the roof.  It is re-
ported that all the three were nearly ruined by it.  This is not to be
wondered at, when we consider that they bad only the barony of
Udny, not 400 Scots acres in extent; and at that time there could
not be more than 60 acres in cultivation.  The present proprietor
has extensive estates in this parish, likewise in Ellon and Foveran.
   At Tillygreig, the seat of Arthur Harvey, Esq. is a small man-
sion, suited to the estate, which rents, about L.500.  It is about
to be repaired and enlarged.  At Pitmedden are two mansions,
both in ruins.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
      The population in 1801, was 1242
                        1811,	  1210
                        1821,   1328
                  	1831,	  1309.


