

366                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

this, the only trees near the house consisted of an avenue of old
ash, one or two of which are still standing; and the village then
stretched along the opposite bank in a straggling line, with the
church and manse nearly in the midst of it.  The greater part of
these houses was removed to Minto Green, the site of the present
village, the banks of the pond planted, and on one side a row of
larches was placed most probably in 1736, being among the first that
were introduced into Scotland.  There is a tradition, that the seed
was sent in a frank by John Duke of Argyle, sown in flower-pots, and
kept in the hot-house till, by the advice of the Sardinian Ambassa-
dor, who chanced to be on a visit, the plants were removed to their
present situation, where several of them have now attained a height
of 1OO feet. * On the opposite bank, there is a shady  avenue of beech
of the same date, when the dwelling-house was also farther im-
proved, and a library + formed, such as at that time was rarely to
be met with in Scotland.  From this his family seem greatly to
have profited, as they were distinguished by their acquirements.
One of them, Miss Jane Elliot, who died in 1805, is still affection-
ately remembered from her talents and delightful conversation,
but has acquired a more extensive and lasting celebrity as the
authoress of the "Flowers of the Forest," of which no less an au-
thority than the late Sir Walter Scott has said, that "it is ex-
pressed in a strain of elegiac simplicity and tenderness which has
seldom been equalled, and imitates the manner of the ancient
minstrels so happily, that it required the most positive evidence to
convince me that the song was of modern date." This lady ap-
pears to have been no less remarkable for strength of character
than accomplishment, for at the time of the Rebellion in 1745-
46, her father being forced to conceal himself from a party of
Jacobites among the craigs, then only covered with broom and
long grass, she received and entertained the officers, and, by her
presence of mind and composure, averted_the danger.  The Jus-
tice-Clerk died suddenly at Minto in 1766, and was succeeded by
his son, the third Sir Gilbert, who seems to have been also intended
for the profession of his father and grandfather, as he passed his
civil law trials in 1743; but, having early associated with the pub-
lic men of his day in London, he engaged actively in political life,
was returned Member of Parliament, first for the county of Sel-

<FOOTNOTE>For the measurement of these and other remarkable trees, see p.375.
          The library bm subsequently received many valuable additions, and may be com-
puted as now containing 12,000 volumes.


