
86                         ELGINSHIRE.

outside with square cut ashlar work of freestone, and to this day stand
perpendicular as they did hundreds of years ago.  In 1734, this
ancient structure seems to have been shortened by a few feet; and
the west gable, though then renewed with the same materials, does
not exhibit the skill and workmanship of the older walls.  It is
situated on the top of a small rising ground, similar to stations some-
times occupied by the stone circles that have hitherto been deemed
of Druidical, but are now thought to be of Scandinavian origin. And
that this was probably the site of one of these circles, may be infer-
red from several large granitic stones (some of them with figures re-
sembling parallelograms rudely drawn on them,) being built into the
surrounding churchyard wall, and which are not likely to have been
carried thither for any recent purpose. The first preachers of the
gospel may thus have taken advantage of the natural awe with
which the natives regarded the place where their religious rites
were performed, and would thereby gain attention, at least, to the
new doctrines which were also to be delivered there.  It is perhaps
to this heathenish awe, as well as to the circumstance of this place
being one of the mother churches, or one of the earliest consecrated
grounds of the Roman hierarchy in the north of Scotland, that we are
to trace that superstitious feeling with which this particular church
and burial-ground are even still regarded by some.  The stone
baptistry and old bell, noticed in last account, are still preserved
in the church.  A sketch of the latter antique curiosity has been
given by Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, in his very interesting account
of the Moray Floods. The remaining antiquities comprehend
the Bible stone, the cairn of Kilforman, rectangular trenches, or,
as some say, a Roman castra, at the Foths, and a Danish encamp-
ment at the Shogle. The last having hitherto escaped the plough-
share is still "to be traced in a well-aired dr situation watered on
the west side by the burn of Bardon, and fortified on the east and
north by a valley . It commands a prospect of the Moray Frith from
Speymouth to Cromarty bay," and is just at that part of the as-
cending ground whence the first view-ofthe great Danish strong-
hold of Burghead can be had over the sandstone ridge of the
Knock of Alves.  In confirmation of the opinion that there once
existed a stronghold of the Danes in this situation, it may be stat-
ed that the adjoining farm still retains the name of Edinburgh;
and, notwithstanding that a very different derivation for this name
is current in the neighbourhood, the term burgh most likely marks
it as a place known to the Scandinavian tribes.


