
			AVOCH.					397

nister is paid by the seat rents and weekly collections at the chapel
door. The number of families and persons of all ages attending
the Established Church and the Dissenting chapel is always very
considerable. The average number of communicants in tbe Esta-
blished Church is 93. The number of Dissenting or Seceding
families is 46.
  Education.-There are two schools in this parish, the parochial
school and one supported solely by school fees. The branches
of education taught in the parochial school are, English reading,
grammar, Latin, Greek, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, and na-
vigation. In the voluntary school, English reading, writing, and
arithmetic are taught. The parochial schoolmarter's salary is
L.30, and the scbool-fees, which, from the poverty of the people,
are ill paid, may amount to something between L.20 and L.30.
He has the legal accommodation. The general expense of edu-
cation may be estimated at 6d. or 8d. per month.
  Friendly Society.-There is one Friendly Society in this parish,
established in the year 1830, the objects of which are, by means
of assessment and quarterly subscriptions, to form a fund for de-
fraying the funeral expenses of members and of their wives, and to
insure a certain allowance to supply the wants of invalid members
and widows.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number upon the poor's roll
at present is 100. Two distributions are made from the funds in
the course of the year, in January and in July. The average sum
allotted to each these periods is 3s. But intermediate allow-
ances are always made, when required, to meet as far as possible
all pressing exigencies. The annual amount of church collections
for the relief of the poor averages L.20 Sterling. The stock at
present is L.160. In the year 1728, Sir Kenneth Mackenzie of
Scatwell, Bart. mortified 900 merks Scots, (which sum now yields
L.2, 10s. per annum,) the annual interest of 600 of which was to
be distributed among the poor of the parish, and the interest of
the remaining 300 vas to be given to a catechist, in terms of the
deed of mortification.* It may not be out of place--indeed it is
but an act of justice to the charitable--to record here, that several
handsome soms have been contributed to said poor's stock at dif-
ferent periods, from different sources. A legacy of L.30 was be-

<FOOTNOTE>
  As no catechist is required in this parish, this sum is given to the parochial
teacher, to aid in remunerating him for his unwearied exertions in teaching a Sab-
bath evening school-where, to keep up a spirit of emulation, a prize is awarded
every six weeks.


