
     Statistical Account

distance, that is to say, when the lands extended a great 
deal father to the westward*. 

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The inhabitants of this
parish enjoy the great advantage, that no services are ex- 
acted.  They are likewise supplied by the proprietor, with 
low-country meal, and some other useful and necessary ar- 
ticles at prime cost.  The disadvantages they labour under, 
arising from the number of horses they must keep, the la- 
bour and expense of securing fuel, and the want of tim- 
ber, which they must buy from other countries at a dear 
rate, have already been observed: but one great disadvan- 
tage they labour under, and for which a remedy has been 
offered, is, that the means they enjoy of being instructed 
in religious and useful knowledge, are not adequate to 
these great ends.  For it is impossible that one clergyman, 

<FOOTNOTE>

*For it is evident, that the sea makes confiderable encroachments, even 
in the course of one generation, so that in the course of many, it may be 
supposed to have washed away a great extent of country.  The rocks and 
shoals, and banks of sand, extending a great way to the west, corroborate 
this hypothesis.  There are 2 rocks to the westward, the one at the dis-
tance of 16, and the other, of 4 miles from shore, inhabuted only by 
seals, which the possessors of the farms these rocks belong to, attempt to 
kill once a-year, either in the month of October or November; for this 
purpose, they use clubs or long sticks, heavy at one end, and with which 
they strike them on the head, a blow in any other part being ineffectual. 
These rocks have once been very valuable; but for some years back, their 
inhabitants have, for the most part, deserted them, and betaken themselves 
to other habitations, where they probably meet with milder treatment. 
This parish once abounded with deer; but on account of the increase 
of population, the ground that afforded them the best pasture formerly, is 
now partly cultivated, and partly covered with cows and sheep.  There is 
a variety of wild fowl, which may afford recreation to the sportman, such 
as geese, ducks of different kinds, moor-fowl, snipe, plovers, pigeons, 
with numberless tribes of a smaller kind, too tedious to mention. 


