
     of Inveresk.

cularly whether mills and coal rents were legally subject to
them, law-fuits have been carried on, which still remain
undecided at the end of five years.  This proves either that
the laws on the subject are very defective, or that law pro-
cedure is more dilatory than could have been expected, in
matters that relate to the police of the country.-Notwith-
standing the difficulty there is in providing for the ordinary
poor, it must be owned, that persons of conditons in this
parish, (not to mention the family of the patron, which re-
sides half the year in the neighbourhood, and is a never-
failing source of beneficence to all proper objects), are al-
ways ready to relieve the wants of the indigent, who are
not on the ordinary roll.

   Advantages.-The parish of Inveresk has every advan-
tage in point of air and climate, that is to be found in any
situation so far north.  It is pleasant and healthy, and none

   from that established here, viz. an assessment on all the inhabitants, except
the poorest class, by a rental; excepting only in this, that it is not under
the authority of law.  The one is hitherto voluntary, and the other is not.
But experience teaches us, that no contribution remains long just and equal,
that is voluntary.  Perhaps it may be wife, in many cases, to give up the
former, for the sake of the greater energy of the latter.  What the writer
hereof would humbly suggest to the leading people of this country is, a
well-digested poors law; and in the mean time, he would earnestly call the
attention of residing heritors to the care of the poor, who should have two
objects constantly in their eye, 1st, A comfortable provision for such as are past
their labour, and for children; and 2dly, Good economy, and the most equal
and impartial method of raising the funds.  Where the Sundays collections
are sufficient, nothing can be superadded to the care and vigilance, the dif-
interestedness and frugality of the elders of respective parishes, but a
little more inspections and encouragement than is usual on the part of the
heritors.

   N.B.  There has an act of Parliament passed in July 1793, putting all
the charitab'e societies who chuse to accept of it under legal protection
which extends to Scotland.


