
                         BORTHWICK.                        159

often beautified by flowers which every botanist delights to meet
with; and the upland moors, which are so delightful on many ac-
counts, are not the least so from the beauty and elegance, and of-
ten the minute forms, and fine odors of the plants which there
"blush unseen, and waste their sweetness on the desert air."
  On one patch of moorland lying near the eastern boundary of
the parish, there is a species of dwarf whin, not much exceeding
in size the common crowfoot, which it much resembles, and for
which, with its yellow and scarlet streaked flowers, it might readily
be mistaken. The curious in such matters would value it highly.
  Generally, this neighbourhood is an excellent field for the ram-
bles of a young botanist. The plants are both numerous, and of
considerable variety, corresponding with the character of the ground
which the explorer may select. I have not observed any thing,
however, which could be considered as of great rarity.
  Zoology.-The castle is the seat of a colony of jackdaws, whose
flights and chatterings take something from its loneliness during the
day time. Like all other colonies of the same bird, they contrive to
keep up their number, but never are observed to have increased it.
No person remembers them to have been more or less in number
than at Present.
  The white owl regularly issues towards evening, with a triumph-
ant scream, from the upper windows of the castle, and hunts for
mice and other food of a similar kind over the glebe and the ad-
joining fields. It flies when on this search so low, that I was once
almost struck by it, when circling the base of a green knoll, from
the other side of which it was coming, without having observed
me. I had full time to observe the brilliant and ruby-like lustre
of its large eyes, as it keenly surveyed the ground for its prey.
  Starlings frequently. breed in the ruins of the old church, and
in the cavities of the aged sycamores which wave over it. Two
summers ago, three pairs of these birds built their nests in these
places. They used regularly to fly off about mid-day to the up-
land, at some distance, in search of food.
  The heron is often seen fishing in the hollows, through which
the burn flows,-and rises slowly and heavily into- the air when
alarmed. His higher flight is vigorous and swift.
  Flights of wild geese regularly pass over us to the moors, where
they have their favourite, feeding-grounds. These birds are pro-
verbial for leading men on a perplexed and fruitless seed; but
I once witnessed a puzzled and diverting condition of their own


