
468			AYRSHIRE.

   Church.--When this Statistical Report was first called for, the
parish church was old. It is thought that the place round the pul-
pit formed part of the church which was in existence in 1547,
dedicated to St Monoch or St Monk. Happy are we that St Monk's
Kirk has been laid low in the dust; for though externally it was
rather picturesque, internally it was most uncomfortable; and be-
ing seated for 700, when the population was 3500, it was working
the moral ruin of the parish, for hundreds grew up in habits of
carelessness, which many of them, we fear, will carry to the grave.
A most excellent church has now been built by the heritors, on
the old delightful site. It is a very handsome and substantial edi-
fice, with a steeple about 120 feet high, furnished with a good
clock, and a fine-toned bell from London, 34 inches in diameter.
Internally, the church is very convenient and comfortable, with a
considerable degree of simple elegance. It has a stove for heat-
ing it in winter. It is seated for about 1200, and is very favourably
constructed both for the speaker and the hearers. Altogether,
it is one of the best models to be met with for a country church.
It is placed on a very commanding situation, 40 feet above the
level of the village, and 63 feet above the level of the sea.
   The heritors have given up 136 sittings to the management of
the session, to be assigned gratuitously to the poor, or, if not all
required, to be let on easy terms in aid of the poor's funds. And
easy, indeed, are the terms on which the sittings are let throughout
the church, as the highest are only about 2s. 6d., and the greatest
proportion of them only 6d. This is as it ought to be; but it is ow-
ing to 500 additional sittings being added at once by the new church.
   Manse, &c.--The manse was built in 1787. Part of the old
manse, built about 100 years ago, was allowed to stand, and forms
the wing on the east. The manse was repaired in 1811, and a
porch added in 1831, which, along with what has been done at the
expense of the present incumbent, renders it a pretty comfortable
house. The offices are thatched, and mean-looking.
   The glebe, including the garden, and site oftbe house, is 5 acres
18 falls in extent. It is worth about-L. 25 per annum. It would
be worth more, had not part of it been let with consent of the he-
ritors, about a hundred years ago, at a low rate, and on a very long
lease, which, though not good in law, has been allowed to stand.
The garden is of a superior order for a parsonage, well-walled,
partly at the minister's expense; stocked with tolerably produc-


