
     130                        ROSS AND CROMARTY.

the sea is open, and plenty of shell-fish on the shore, they cannot
be in absolute want.
   The dress of the country people in this parish is made of kelt
and plaiden, their own manufacture ; their coats and short clothes
are made of gray and blue stuff; cotton and check shirts are worn
on Sundays ; but through the week, plaiden shirts, Hebridian
flannel.
   Though the people, in general, have not the many comforts which
others in the south enjoy, they have fewer wants, and are easily
satisfied.  Their principal complaint is of high rents and short
leases.  They possess, in general, a pacific disposition; and are
remarkably shrewd, inquisitive, quick, communicative, and fond of
novelty.  They possess an inventive genius; and many of them
have a poetic vein.  Poacbing in game or in salmon is not now
frequent; and smuggling has decreased very much.  There can be
no doubt that this is rapidly on the decline, since for the last three
years the quantity of spirits imported has increased in nearly a
threefold proportion, compared with former years; and should dis-
tilleries commence operation in the island as contemplated, under
the auspices of spirited individuals, illicit distillation would soon
disappear.  Formerly, when each tenant was allowed to convert the
produce of his little lot into usquebaugh or tres-tarig, that is thrice
distilled, it was solely to pay his rent,-illicit distillation had not
the same deteriorating effect here on the morals of the people as
on the mainland.  It is pleasing to add, that there are few instances
of inebriety to be met with, out of the town of Stornoway.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

<TABLE>
Agriculture.
The number of acres in tillage is,                                   2700
The number of acres which have never been cultivated,              15,782
The number of acres that might with capital be cultivated,         10,000
The number of acres in a state of undivided common, none.
One acre would contain all the trees in the parish.

   Rent of Land.-The average rent per acre is 15s. ; some land

near Stornoway brings L. 3 per acre.  Grazing for a cow in the year
is, 15s. ; for a full-grown sheep, 3s.
   Rate of Wages- Male farm-servants are hired at from L. 1, 10s.
to L. 6 ; and females, from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2, with perquisites,
clothes, and shoes; male day-labourers in summer get from 1s.
to 1s. 6d. without victuals; males and females get from 6d. to 10d.
with two meals per day.  Very little work is carried on during win-
ter,-the day being extremely short.
   Prices.-Country cloths, called kelt, sell from 1s. 6d. to 4s.


