
     Statistical Account

change took place.  The sizes of the farms were enlarged; the
tenants were no longer obliged to drive coals; all services and
thirlages were abolished; inclosing went briskly on, and the
fences are now remarkable, both for strength and beauty.  A
wall of 2 1/2 feet high, built with stone and lime, is placed with-
in a foot of the thorns, according to Sir George Sittie's me-
thod, thus mixing the security of the fence with the beauty
and warmth of the hedge.  There are many clumps and strips
of planting interspersed through the farms, so that, in a few
years, what was a most uncomfortable dreary waste, will be-
come one of the best cultivated, and most beautiful spots in
Scotland.  The improvement of agriculture has, indeed, been
most uncommonly rapid in this little corner, perhaps more so
than in almost any other*.  There are six threshing machines

     2
<FOOTNOTE>

driving of the coals for the payment of their pittance of rent; and contented
themselves with scratching a small part of their grounds, the produce of which
was scarcely sufficient to maintain themselves and their cattle.  There were no
inclosures, and the ground was over-run with whins (furze), broom, and all kinds
of weeds, which but too plainly marked the poverty, sloth and ignorance of the
possessors.
   *Just as the spirit of improvement was beginning to shew itself, an intelli-
gent East Lothian farmer took a farm in this parish, (consisting of upwards of
200 Scotch acres, or 254 English statute acres), who was remarkable for his
good plowing, draining, and dressing of his grounds.  His example quickened
the diligence of his neighbours.  A few years after he was settled here, he pro-
posed to his landlord and brother farmers, to have trials of skill among the
ploughmen; which scheme was eagerly adopted, and PLOWING MATCHES were
first established in 1784.  Last spring, (1791), 40 ploughs appeared, in an ob-
long field of 12 Scotch, or 15 English acres, all with two horses, and no drivers.
The improved chain plough, on Small's construction, was the only one used; and
it was computed that 1,600 L. never placed the horses and ploughs on the field.
The situation, being short ridges on a gentle declivity, set off the snew to the
greatest advantage; so that, to any one fond of husbandry, the sight was most
uncommonly delightful and pleasing.  In short, the good effects of this institu-
tion have surpassed the warmest expectations of its promoters.  From this po-


