
                            BIRSE.                          789

mon and white bare, rabbit; and in the woods the roe and rid
deer.  To the feathered tribes, the extent of plantation, and the
varied surface of hill and dale, afford inviting shelter; accordingly
we have a large proportion of them.  Among these, may be num-
bered, the grouse, ptarmigan, blackeock, snipe, partridge, various
species of ducks, the heron, wood-pigeon, magpie, raven, crow,
jackdaw, kestrel, hawk-owl, and others.
   Among, the songsters of the field we leave the goldfinch, chaf-
finch, redbreast, linnet, yellow-hammer, thrush, blackbird, tit-
mouse, and many others.  Besides these, a great number of aqua-
ticand other migratory birds frequent, in summer, the fields and
rivers, such as the oyster-catcher, corncrake, lapwing, swallow,
wagtail, cuckoo, plover, woodcock, and of late years the curlew.
Of the insect tribe many varieties are to be found.  In the gar-
dens, a green insect proves often fatal to the blossom of the apple
trees, and another to the carrots and onions.  For these no, ef-
fectual remedy has yet been found. The fly which has so often
desolated turnip fields in the south, and the insect, if insect it be,
which has of late years been so destructive to potato cultivation,
have neither of them appeared in this quarter to any serious extent.
   The breed of cattle in use cannot be distinctly classed, but may
be called the Aberdeenshire polled and horned.  The animals, in
general, are small in size, and defective in many of the, points of
beauty and value.  The breed of sheep in common use is the
black-faced horned.

                          II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The ancient history of the parish is involved in much obscurity,
like that of many others.  The multitude of tumuli, however,
scattered in all directions, on the mountain sides, would indicate
that it was the scene, in former days, of battle and of blood.
One immense cairn exists in the woods of Finzean, though now
much beneath its original size; and on the adjacent hill are to be
seen a great number of smaller cairns or tumuli; while a little far-
ther eastward a long granite stone, such as was used in ancient
times to mark the grave of some eminent person, was dug up a
good many years ago, and now stands on the top of the hill of
Corsedarder.  These appearances take in connection would lead
us to the belief of some serious battle having taken place, and
that a chief had been killed on the spot alluded to.  But whether
that chief was, as has been said, an ancient king or prince of Scot-
land named Dardanus, cannot vow be ascertained.  It is far from


