
784                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

but a house for teaching; and the amount of fees paid to him is
about L.5.  The five subscription schools are taught for only
three or four months in winter; and, during that time the average
of the whole emoluments to each teacher, without any accommo-
dation but a hovel for teaching, is only between L.5 and L.7.
   The number of the young betwixt six and fifteen years of age
who cannot read and write is 370; of those upwards of fifteen years
of age it is 240.  Some of the people are not so much alive to the
benefits of education as might be expected; but, in general, they
begin to see and appreciate them much better than they did a few
years ago.
   There are many parts of these parishes by far too distant from
the parochial school; but this inconvenience is, in some measure
remedied by the western and north-eastern extremities being near
to the adjoining schools of Strathgirnac, Crathie, and Logie-Cold-
stone.  There are, however, two districts, each of which would re-
quire an additional school,-they being five and six miles distant
from any school either within or without these parishes, and hav-
ing each a population of more than 300.
   Library.-A circulating library has been established in Balla-
ter.
   Friendly Society.-There is a Friendly Society,-St Nathalen's,
a masonic lodge, whose charter from the Grand Lodge of Scot.
land is dated 9th May 1815. *
   Savings Bank.-A parochial Savings Bank was established on
the 26th February 1821, which, besides a treasurer and clerk, is
managed by twelve directors, four of whom go out by rotation at
the end of every year to make room for as many new ones, who
are then elected to continue in office for three years.  The in-
vestments are generally made by servants out of their wages,
mostly by females; and the number of depositors has never yet
exceeded 50.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Taking the average of the last
seven years, the number of persons receiving parochial aid is 84
and the average proportion of the funds to each is only a fraction
above 14s. per annum; but, according to their age and other cir-
cumstance, the sums which they aetually receive vary from 12s.
to L.1 per annum.  The average annual amount of contributions for

<FOOTNOTE>This society has now sold their hall, and divided their funds, but they still con-
tinue to admit new members, and to maintain their connection with the Grand Lodge
of Scotland.
                                   3


