
     Statistical Account

ment from some other station.  Within the confines of this
district on the east, is a place named Pitalpie or Pit of Al-
pin, from its being the scene of that memorable engage-
ment in the 9th century, between the Picts and Scots, in
which the latter were routed, and Alpin their king, with
many nobles, slain*.  Near to the present church, and im-
mediately within Lord Gray's inclosures, are some remains
of the foundation of a castle, long known in the country by
the name of Hurly Haukin.  It is now impossible to judge
with any certainty of its original dimensions, by it has evi-
dently been of considerable size and strength, and surround-
ed on all sides, except the north, by a pretty deep natural
fosse.  In digging about the remains, burnt ashes were found
and an iron spur, of the kind long ago worn.  It was built
by Alexander I.  King of Scotland, and the history of it
tends to throw light on the ancient state of this district+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The King's head, after the battle, being fastened to a pole, was
carried by the enemy to abernethy, at that time the most considerable
Pictish town, to be exposed there to public view; but his body, according
to tradition, was buried at Pitalpic.  On the top of a little hill east of
Pitalpie, is still to be seen a large stone, called The King's Cross, having
a hole in the middle about a foot deep; as the Scots were encamped, it
is said, at no great distance from the Tay, the King may have fixed his
standard in this stone.  Not very remote from this is another little hill.
in which were discovered eight or ten graves, having the buttom, sides,
and top of flag-stones.  The head of each grave was due west.  The
bones mouldered away on being touched.

+Alexander, according to the custom in those days, having a dona-
tion made him at his baptism, by the Earl of Gourie, his godfather, of
the lands of Liff and Invergourie, no sooner succeeded to the throne, than
he began to erect this palace, as Fordoun calls it.  He was not however
long permitted to remain in it without being disturbed.  Some of his fol-
lowers or attendants from Mearns and Murrayshire, having joined in a
conspiracy to seize on his person, the plot was discovered, in the moment


