
   768                          PERTHSHIRE.

   of a rampart or fortification illustrative of its name, being called
   " Tom an t-s...bhail," literally " the hill or mound of protection or
   safety." But this is not the only corroborative circumstance. In
   the winter of 1836, while Mr Menzies, the present innkeeper at
   Coshieville, was removing a large barrow of stones situated be-
   twixt his house and the river Lyon, and in the immediate vicinity
   of the scene of action already mentioned, the workmen discover-
   ed no less than ten or twelve sarcophagi above the ground and
   under the cairn, which was of a conical shape but flat in the top.
   They were composed of rough unhewn slabs of stone, set at right
   angles, and covered by a similar slab above. On the lid being
   removed, there were found in some of them urns of unglazed argil-
   laceous substance containing black ashes, while the others con-
   tained ashes and pieces of bone, without any urns. In the conti-
   guous field, there are three or four other large barrows, but dif-
   ferently shaped from the former, being of an oblong form resem-
   bling the inverted hull of a ship.
      Forts. -The remains of several buildings of very great antiqui-
   ty are still to be seen in this district of country. These being of
   a circular form, are said by some to be of Danish origin, by others
   again they are ascribed to the Picts; and, from being generally
   within sight of each other, they are supposed to have been beacon
   or watch towers. It is evident, however, that some of them at
   least, from the art and labour bestowed upon them, could not
   have been mere watch-towers, but that they were built for strong-
   holds, and were probably constructed by the Caledonians, and
   used as places of defence and safety against the incursions of the
   Romans, when they penetrated into this part of the country under
   Agricola. The most remarkable of these buildings in this parish
   is in the wood above Moness House, find is called the D-n. It
   measures upwards of 50 yards. in diameter within walls, and ap-
   pe`rs to have been defended on all sides save the north-east, where
   the hill is very rugged and steep, with two concentric ramparts.
   On the south-west side, and close to the outer rampart or dike,
   there was a large artificial pond or well, which is now almost filled
   up with debris. The walls of the fort, which measured about six
   yards in thickness, and were built without either lime or mortar of
   any kind, were carried away several years ago, and appropriated to
   the building of a fence around the plantation with which the hill is
   covered, so that nothing beyond the vestiges of the foundation can
   now be traced of this ancient fortress.


