
988	                  PERTHSHIRE

to the lback of the lodge is the place where sorcerers were
burned.
	The only two castles within Dunkeld were ancient Caledon,
and the bishop's. In Dowally was the castle of Rotmel, occa-
sionally occupied by one of the Roberts. It was removed about
forty years ago. A number of coins were discovered under the
foundation-stone, now believed to be in the possession of the Dal.
guise family.
	Caves.--On the side of Craig-y-barns, overlooking the King's
pass, there are two caves,--one called the Hermnit's Cave, the
otber, Duncan Hogg's Hole. Neither of them are of any size.
Duncan, who was a lawless character, was shot, on his return from
the well of St Columba, on the east side of the King's Seat.  The
Duchess's Cave is on the east side of Craig-y-barns. It is partly
artificial. At one time, it was very neatly fitted up, but it is now
much destroyed.
	Parochial Records.--The register of discipline does not extend
fartber back than 1830. The former register has been accided-
tally mislaid. There is no register of deaths. The register of
births, baptisms, and marriages go back to 1672. The inhabit-
ants, however, are not very strict in recording their families' births
and baptisms; but this may, in part, be attributed to the circum-
stance of a division of the town lying in the parish of Caputh.

<TABLE=Population>
			III.--POPULATION.
          In,1755, the population of Dunkeld and Dowally was 1298
             1791,                                           1773
             1821,                                           1917
             1831,                                           2032
             1841,                                           1752

	The census of 1831 shows an increase attributable to the great
improvements that were commenced at Dunkeld in 1829. The
population of Dunkeld in 1831 was 1471. In 1841, it was only
1094, and is still decreasing. Around Dunkeld the country is
very thinly populated.
	Character and condition of the People.--The inhabitants of Dun-
keld and Dowally may be generally characterized as intelligent,
mora, industrious, frank and courteous in their intercourse
with strangers, and among themselves obliging and neighbourly.
To the resident poor they show great kindness. In all their tran-
sactiom they exhibit shrewd good sense. They are very particu-
lar about having their children well educated, for which the town
school afford every facility. The attendance at church is uni-
formly regular.


