
1202                       PERTHSHIRE.

poor, are taken into consideration, it might seem that the assess-
ment has not increased since the time when it was first levied. The
late Patrick, Playfair, Esq. of Dalmarnock, Glasgow, a native of
the parish, left L. 30, minus the legacy duty, for the poor of the
parish. It was committed to the care of the kirk-session. The
interest of this sum is appropriated in adding to the comforts of
the more necessitous poor during the winter months. Occasional
aid is administered from the poor's funds to persons not on the
pauper list; and, while the rich are liberal and attentive to the
wants of their poorer neighbours, it must be added that the poor
are very kind to one another.
   In general there is a disposition among the poor to refrain from
seeking parochial relief; but when once the rubicon is crossed,
and their names added to the regular list of poor (which is never
done but at the half-yearly meetings of thd heritors and kirk-ses-
sion,) I cannot say that they consider their dependent situation
as degrading.
   Markets.-There are three cattle markets held at Persie, viz.
on the first Wednesday of June, on the first Wednesday of Sep-
tember, and on the last Friday of October, 0. S. The Septem-
ber market is the most important.  It is preparatory to Falkirk
tryst, and generally exhibits an extensive show of excellent High-
land cattle.
   Inn.-There is only one inn in the parish, viz. at Persie. It
is conveniently situated; nor am I aware that the morals of the
people are thereby deteriorated.
   Fuel,-In the lower part of the parish, coals from the railway
dep"ts are almost exclusively used as fuel. Those of the best
quality cost L.1 per ton. In the Highland districts of the parish,
peats form the principal part of the fuel, although coals are now
driven from Coupar-Angus in considerable quantities, and are em-
ployed chiefly in the burning of lime.
                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   With the aid of the former Statistical Account, three agricul-
tural eras in the history of this parish are distinctly discernible
The first, about 1756  when the farms lay in runrig,-when
there was no winter turnip, or wheat, or sown grass, or potatoes,
and, indeed, could be none, as immediately after the corns were
removed off the fidlds, they were pastured promiscuously by the
bestial of the village, the farmers in those days living together in
hamlets, apparently from the ancient policy of mutual protection.


