
  114                        BANFFSHIRE.

and property in other parts of the parish by the water, which stood
to the height of four or five feet in some dwelling-bouses.
   There is a beautiful cascade called the Lynn of Ruthrie, on the
Burn of Aberlour, about a mile above where it runs into the Spey.
The stream, after occupying several yards of a smooth channel worn
out by the water in the solid rock, is precipitated from a height of
thirty feet, and, being broke in its fall about the middle of this
height, by a projecting platform of the same rock, falls into a cir-
cular pool or basin below, formerly of immense depth, but now
greatly filled tip by the boulders and debris brought from the hills
in the flood of 1829. The rock, which is of red granite, rises to
a great height above the fall; and with its sylvan cover of birch and
other shrubs presents, along with the fall, a very romantic and
beautiful appearance.
  Soil, &c.-The few fields of holm land, formed by the river, con-
sist of a rich deep loam mixed with sand. A little farther from
the river, a like mould occurs on a bed of rough gravel.  To-
wards the foot of the hills, in the east and middle parts of the pa-
rish, the soil becomes a deep clay on a bed of gravel, covered with
a thin alluvial soil; and towards the foot of Benrinnes, there oc-
curs a good, deal of moss on patches lately improved from heathy
surfaces.  About the centre of the parish, there is a good deal of
rich alluvial soil on granite rock, and there is still more soil, of the
same productive nature, on alternate beds of clay and gravel, to-
wards the eastern and western extremities of the parish, at the
same distance from the river. The soil of that part of Glenrin-
nes. which belongs to Aberlour consists partly of loam and partly
of clay, upon a pretty uniform rock of limestone, and averages from
one to three feet in depth.
   No lime-rock is found in this parish or Inveraven, north of the
mountain chain; but south of the chain, the parishes of Mortlach,
Aberlour in Glenrinnes, and Glenlivat in Inveraven, are pervaded
by that useful rock, which runs in a continued vein through the
whole of these districts.
   Mortlacb supplies great part of Aberlour with lime at 2s. per
boll, which answers the purposes of the farmer better here than
in limestone districts, by rendering the soil very productive. The
farmers in the upper part of the parish, from their near locality to
Glenrinnes, prefer driving limestones from a quarry there, which
they burn for themselves on their own farms.
   The difference of soil in the Glenrinnes district, from that near the


