
     282                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

     to the oldest orthography, Thayne,) has long puzzled local etymo-
     logists. If we suppose it a corruption of a correcter form, Fayne,
     the most probable root would be the same with that of Fendom,
     (in Gaelic na fana, the low grounds,) being a part of the above-
     mentioned sandy plain in which the town it is said, was anciently
     situated, or, if a Scandinavian origin be allowed, the Norse word
     thanid, signifying stretched, extended, (compare the Latin tendere,
     tenuis,and our own thin,) affords a sufficiently plausible deriva-
     tion. The old Scottish title, Thane, seems an improbable etymon.
         Climate.-The climate of the parish shares the general charac-
     ter of mildness with the greater part of Easter Ross; the cold of
     winter as well as the heat of summer being less intense than in
     many of the more southern districts of Scotland. The reason may
     perhaps be found partly in the general lie of the country, elevated
     itself but slightly, yet protected by the immediate neighbourhood
     of hills; and partly in the nature of the soil, which, consisting
     chiefly of a loose alluvial mould, (finely divided, we may add, by
     cultivation,) seems fitted to resist any very sudden changes of tem-
     perature. The air is pure and salubrious, and the inhabitants in
     general healthy. In consequence, however, of our nearness to the
     coast, the easterly winds-especially prevalent in the end of spring
     -acquire a keenness that renders pulmonary and rheumatic com-
     plaints of rather frequent occurrence; other endemic diseases
     there are none, and epidemics rarely spread even in the town to
     any considerable degree. It may be mentioned, that during the
     prevalence of Asiatic cholera in Easter Ross, notwithstanding
     that it raged all around us, (and especially in our own village of
     Inver to an unheard of extent,) it did not enter the town at all.
         Hydrography.-The Dornoch Frith, which forms the northern
     boundary of the parish, is formed by the river Shin and its tribu-
     taries, of which the channel may be distinctly traced all along to
     the Gizzen Briggs. This bar seems to mark the position of the
     coast line, as it existed ere the tide waves bad yet spread them-
     selves over the surrounding plain. The breadth of the frith is
     about five, miles immediately below the town; but to such a
     distance does the sea retire at ebb-tide, that it then probably mea-
     sure scarcely three. The depth of the channel varies from seven
     fathoms, at the entrance, to two at the bridge of Bonar, to which
     point, a distance of fourteen miles, it may at high water be navi-
     gated; the navigation, however, is difficult, in consequence of the
     numerous concealed sand-banks, (of which the older inhabitants



