
			  RATTRAY.                            241

and pure. The crops commonly raised are oats, barley, and wheat;
though the latter more sparingly than in former years, when the
price and increase were more abundant.

		II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-In the Civil History of the parish of Rattray, Mr
Donald Cargill deserves distinguished notice. He was one of the mi-
nisters who lived and suffered under the unhappy reign of Charles II.
He was born about the year 1610; his father was proprietor of an
estate called Hatton, in this parish, and he was the oldest son of
the family. He was educated first at Aberdeen, and then at the
University of St Andrews; and after obtaining a licence to preach,
was called to be minister of the barony church in Glasgow. This
situation, and his own zeal for religion, connected him with the
covenanted clergy of that period, and involved him in all their
troubles. After undergoing many hardships, and experiencing
many escapes, (which it is unnecessary to mention) he was appre-
hended in 1680, carried to Edinburgh along with some others tried,
and condemned by the Justiciary Court for high-treason, and the
following sentence pronounced: "that he should be hanged at the
Cross of Edinburgh, and his head placed on, the Nether Bow."
This sentence was immediately executed; and such was the con-
fidence and composure of the sufferer at the last, that when about
to ascend the ladder, he said, "the Lord knows that I go on this
ladder with less fear and perturbation of mind, than ever I entered
the pulpit to preach!" Such are the hopes that cheer the just!
   Antiquities.-If large gray stones be entitled to the appellation of
antiquities, or are any indication of the religious worship of our an-
cestors, a few of these appear in a field, thence called Standing-
Stanes, which are supposed to be the ruins of a Druidical temple. A
more interesting object appears a little way to the south of that field.
A large earthen mound rises in the low grounds, called the Hill of
Rattray, on the eastern summit of which are the remains of a large
building, named the Castle of Rattray, and which was anciently the
residence of the family of that name. The mound is of an oblong
form, something resembling the shape of an inverted ship; but the
eastern corner of it is circular, as if sucked up by the, action of
a whirlpool, when the waters were retiring from the earth. In the
perilous times, which were so frequent during the reign of our
Scottish Kings, the family of Rattray, removed from this hill to
Craighall, as a place of security against the sudden incursions of
enemies.
  PERTH.


