
                    PRISH OF WILTON.
   PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDAL
            THE REV. DAVID STEVENSON, MINISTER.

          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--The modern orthography of the parish is Wilton,--
obviously an abbreviation of Wilton, in which form it appears
in almost all the old records.  In several ancient document it is
referred to under the designation of Walltown and Willis-town ;
but the precise origin of the name cannot now be ascertained.
   Boundaries, &c.--The parish of Wilton is bounded by Ashkirk
and Roberton on the west ;  by Hawick on the south ;  by Cavers
on the east ;  and by Minto and Lilliesleaf on the month.  Its ex-
tent along the banks of the Tiviot is about 5 miles ;  average breadth
3 1/2 ;  and contents 17 1/2 square miles.  Its figure is nearly that of
a parallelogram,
   The principal river in this district, which may be called the
Upper Ward of Roxburghshire, is the Tiviot.  It takes its rise
at a place called Tiviot-stone, about 16 miles south-west of this
parish and runs in a north-easterly direction, until it joins the
Tweed at kelso,--a distance of 36 miles.  The Borthwick, a con-
siderable tributary stream, falls into the Tiviot near the southern
extremity of the parish, and the Slitridge or Slitrig joins it at
Hawick.
                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   From the proximity of Wilton to Hawick, considerable notice
has been taken of this parish in the History of Hawick, by Mr Ro-
bert Wilson, shoemaker in Hawick, published a few years ago.
This is not only an amusing work, but contains much valuable lo-
cal information, and is very creditable to the talents of its author.
   Eminent Men.--No eminent literary characters appear to have
been connected with this parish by birth.  It may be noticed, how-
ever, that Mr Crawford, minister of Wilton, who flourished about
the year 1713, was a gentleman of considerable literary attain-
ments ;  and in his " Dying thoughts " left a monument of his piety


