

22                           DUMBARTONSHIRE.

  A subterraneous building, supposed by some have been a su-
dorium, or hot-bath, and by others a place for holding grain, was
accidentally discovered in 1775, in the same bill on which the
fort was situated. The cavity had two circular chambers, sur-
rounded with a wall of hewn stone. The whole was covered over
with tiles to support about two feet depth of earch above.  Some
husks of grain were found in the place. Now, there is nothing to
mark the excavation, but a small sinking in the surface above where
the cavity was situated.
   A Roman altar without any incription was found in a field in
the neighbourhood; and now ornaments the gable of the miller's
house at Duntocher mill. Roman querns have often been found
in the adjacent places. One was found in digging the foundation of
a new church in connection with the Establishment, which is now
erecting on the side of this hill, where the Roman invaders of our
country had their fort and reared their altars to their idol gods.
A Roman vase was found in one of the fields of Auchintoshan
estate, the property of John Cross Buchanan, Esq.
    About a furlong to the north of Duntocher, on the property of
James Hamilton, Esq. of Barnes, there are two artificial tumuli,
described by Horsley (Britannica Romana, page 164.)
    There are distinct vestiges of hill-forts on several of the neigh-
bouring heighst, particularly on one called the Round Hill, and
another in the grounds of Auchentorlie.
    Dunglass Castle, on the edge of the Clyde, was the messuage of
the barony of Colquhoun. The writer of the former Statistical
Account of this parish, misled by Pennant, confounds this Dun-
glass with another more important place of the same name, in Ber-
wickshire, where Lord Haddington and many gentlemen of qua-
lity were blown up in 1640. This obvious mistake has been
transferred by Chalmers to the pages of his Caledonia, Vol. iii. p.
865.
    In the church-yard, there is a monumental stone, to which tra-
dition has affixed the name of Saint Patrick. It has no inscription, but it may
be very plausibly assigned to some one of the knightly race of Col-
quhoun.
    In the garden at Mount Blow, the residence of William Dunn,
Esq. there is a monumental cross. It is of the style so prevalent.



