
                            RUTHVEN.                             419

ployed at the mills here, I deem it but fair to state, is well consi-
dered by their employers. All worthless characters, as soon as
discovered, are turned off, while the steady and well-behaved
meet with every encouragement to continue. After the best op-
portunities of becoming acquainted with them, afforded by paro-
chial visitations and the like, I am not prepared generally to ad-
mit that they are inferior to the average of those in the same grade
of society in the parish, whether viewed in reference to health,
morals, or religion.

		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Ecclesiastical State.--Of the ancient ecclesiastical history of this
small parish, nothing certain is known. It would seem to have
been originally an offset from the large parish of Alyth. Tradi-
tion says, that the church was first erected by the Earl of Craw-
ford, proprietor of the barony of Inverquiech, in the parish of
Alyth, as a chapel for the accommodation of his tenants, some of
whom had been killed in a quarrel with the Rollos of Balloch, in
going to their parish church. Afterwards, the proprietor of Ruthven
had influence enough to get his property erected into a separate pa-
rish, of which the chapel of the Earl of Crawford became the parish
church, and 22 acres of land adjoining were set apart as a grebe.
Several circumstances combine to render this account not impro-
bable. Indeed, this is the only reason we can see for the anomalous
position of the church and manse, these being situated near Inver-
quiech, and, according to some accounts, not in the parish of Ruth-
ven and county of Forfar, but in the parish of Alyth and county
of Perth. Nor in an other way, can we account for a right claim-
ed by the ministers of Ruthven to dig turf and to pasture their
cattle on the barony of Inverquiech, in the parish of Alyth.

	If the parish of Ruthven is small, the stipend, till augmented by
Government, was also small,--being only 26 bolls of barley and
26 bolls of meal. About L.114 is now paid by the Exchequer.
Before this augmentation from Government, the grebe of 22 acres
must have been an important item in the minister's income; and it
was a wise motto, which an ingenious predecessor adopted, and
which is still preserved on a pane of glass in the parlour win-
dow of the manse, "Aut cole, aut parce, aut abi." Thd re-
verend gentleman tried all of these,--he farmed well, lived fru-
gally, but nevertheless took his departure, and died  minister of
Guthrie. A schoolmaster from Ruthven seems to have followed
him to Guthrie for, in the churchyard here, a stone, erected to


