
                            PARISH OF ALVAH.

                  PRESBYTERY OF TURRIFF, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                     THE REV.  ANDREW TODD, MINISTER.



                      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
             Name, Extent, Boundaries.-ALVAH and the adjoining parish
           of Forglen were originally united; but before the middle of the
           seventeenth century, they were erected into separate parishes.  In
           the most ancient manuscripts and printed records connected with
           the parish, the name, Alvah, is found to occur with the varied or-
           thographies, Alveth, Alvethe, Alvecht, Alvechte, Alvach, Allwach
           Alwach and Avauch ; but, after the most diligent inquiry, the
           writer has been unable to form any probable conjecture in regard
           to its etymological meaning.  The parish extends in length about 6
           English miles; and at its greatest breadth, to nearly, the same dis-
           tance -, bv' in some places, to little more than two. In Robertson's
           map of the counties, of Aberdeen, Banff, and Kincardine, published
           in 1822,  e superficial extent of the parish is estimated at 11,282
           imperial acres, or 17 2/3 square miles; but, according to the most
           accurate information which the writer could obtain, the superficial
           extent is only 11,133 imperial acres, being 149 acres under the ex-
           tent given in the map.   On the north and north-west, Alvah is
           bounded by the parish of Banff; on the southwest, by Marnoch;
           on the sou     by Forglen ; on the south-east, by Turriff; and on
           the east and north-east by King-Edward and Gamrie.
              Topographical Appearances.- The highest elevations in the pa-
           rish are the ill of Alvah and the hill of Maunderlea.  The for-
           mer, according to Robertson's map, rises, near the northern extre-
           mity to the height of 578 feet above the level of the sea, while the
           latter, situated on the confines of the parish, nearly four miles
           southwest of the former, has on the same authority, 155 feet of
           superior elevation.  Both hills are rather steep towards the north,
           but of more easy ascent on the sides more distant from the sea.


