
                               KELSO.                 345

<TABLE>
      1832-3,      561 *      26    6     1     18     1     7
      1833-4,      729 +      39    1     3     42     2     8
      1834-5,      678        65    _     3     30    51     5
      1835-6,      593        63    1     2     28     _     6
</TABLE>

         "In the last series of five years, there have been above 100
      cases of scarlatina;--in the first series none are recorded.
         "The years 1780-81-82 were very severe upon the lower classes,
      as want added its attendant evils to the inclemencies of the sea-
      sons. Besides the heavy list of fever and ague, 21 cases of scurvy
      occurred; and I have no doubt are correctly stated, as two of the
      medical gentlemen had served abroad, and were familiar with the
      disease.
         "In comparing the first and the last series of years it will be
      noticed, that ague has almost disappeared, while fever, though
      much diminished in its proportion, still holds its place as the most
      common disease of our district. It is at all times difficult to trace
      the immediate cause of fever, which probably originates in some
      specific malaria; but we have evidence that, once generated, it
      may be communicated from one person to another not exposed
      to the same noxious miasma which produced it. Marshes and
      wet ground alone are not necessary to the production of malaria,
      or many of the pestilential plains of Italy would be freed from
      disease.
         "The cases of asthma have diminished, while rheumatism has
      increased. The additional comforts and improved living of the
      lower classes, we should have expected, would have produced a
      beneficial effect upon both. The removal of ague was likely to
      have diminished the cases of dropsy; it is not a very common dis-
      ease among us, but as frequent as formerly. It is a curious fact,
      that stone in the bladder is almost unknown in the district, with
      the exception of one or two families, where it has existed as a he-
      reditary disease."
          Benefit Societies.--Various friendly and benefit societies for-
      merly existed in the parish, but have all either been dissolved, or


<FOOTNOTE>
* "Cholera visited Kelso in 1832. The dispensary was used as a cholera hospital,
and no record kept of the other patients for two months. There were about forty
deaths from cholera; and, as fever prevailed at the same time, the cases of fever were
certainly more numerous than the books show. Several of the cases of ague this
year were occasioned apparently, from opening drains in a piece of marshy ground."
+ "In October 1839, a man and his wife, dealers in fish, were seized with cholera
and died. In the course of the year various cases of modified small-pox were noti-
ced; but in the following season, when 51 dispensary cases are recorded, there was
much less of modification. Various deaths occurred; and the medical gentlemen of
the institution were convinced that the disease was more violent according to the
distance of time which had elapsed from the vaccination of the patient."

ROXBURGH.                                       Z

