

                     KIRKINTILLOCH.                           201

barony. "It was erected,"says the late Rev. William Dunn, "about
1170, by William King of Scots, Baron of Lenzie, and Lord of
Cumbernauld; and still holds of the barony of Cumbernauld for
the payment of 12 merks Scots of yearly feu-duty." At this rate
it was erected into a burgh of barony two years before the city of
Glasgow, which was in 1172; but I find from the town's docu-
ments, that the true date of the erection of the burgh of Kirkin-
tilloch is 1184. There was a renewal and confirmation of the
charter by the Earls of Wigton, first at Cumbernauld, 10th De-
cember 1520, and again at Boghall, 10th February 1527. The
annual feu-duty is as above, 12 merks or 13s. 4d. per annum.
The burgh proprietors have also the teind-tack (dated Novem-
ber 1642,) of the teinds parsonage and vicarage of the burgh
lands or Newlands mailing. The town paid on obtaining this
grant 550 merks, or L. 30 lls. 1 1/2d. Sterling. The burgh
lands are the thirty-three and a-half Newland mailings, includ-
ing the town and lands of Boghead and Gartcloss. The pri-
vileges with which the town is endowed are ample. Its burges-
ses elect their own magistrates, independently of the lord of the
barony. The magistrates are two bailies, and they are annually
chosen. They are empowered by the charters of the burgh, to
hold courts, levy fines, imprison offenders, or even banish them
from their liberties; and, in short, to exercise every right with
which the baron himself wage invested before the erection of the
burgh. These rights, the community have continued, ever since
that period, to enjoy undisturbed. They were in no degree af-
fected by the act, by which the British Parliament in 1748 abo -
lished the heritable jurisdictions'in Scotland. None are entitled
to vote at the election of magistrates, except burgesses being the
proprietors of the Newland mailings. They are at present twenty-
two in number, sixteen of whom are resident. Courts are held,
but at no stated times; a proof that the cases are not numerous.
The burgh, besides the above, is possessed of no exclusive privi-
leges, and has no local acts in its favour. There are no local
taxes, nor any incorporation of trades. The town's debt is about
L. 300 Sterling, the annual revenue about L. 30, the greater part
of which is expended in paying the interest on the debt, and in -
keeping up public buildings. The population of the town at the
present moment may be about 4600 souls. There am 180 houses
at L. 10 per annum of rent.
  The community are possessed of a court-house and jail, with a


