
			KIRKINNER.                              15

women in their bounds; through the malice and cruelty of those that
were in public place, was taken prisoner, and through prudence
escaping, was obliged to abscond herself, in regard there was much
searching for her in order to get her again apprehended, so that
she was obliged to flee from both husband and children: her house
being waste for several years, turned ruinous; her sheep were all
carried away, killed and eaten by the Earl of Hume's regiment.
The search after these was so accurate, that many hundreds of
oaths were taken anent the said Andrew and his spouse, so that they
were obliged to more close hidin, until King James' toler`tion.
	"Mistress May Dunbar, sdcond datghter to Sir David Dun-
bar of Baldoon,'of known piety all her life, was forced to abscond
and leave her father's house, and live for some time here and
there, frequently in herds' houses, where she could not be accom-
modated according to her birth and rank. One day she very pro-
videntially and narrowly escaped the enemy's fury at the Caldons,
about the year 1685."
	Land-owners.--The Earl of Galloway possesses one-half of the
parish, known as the estate of Baldoon. The chief of the other
proprietors are, Colonel Vans Agnew of Barbbarroch; Sir William
Maxwell, Bart. of Monrieth, who possesses the barony of Longcas-
tle; and James Blair, Esq. of Penninghame, who possesses the
estate of Dalreagle.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest birth recorded in the paro-
chial register is August 27th 1694. At times the register seems to
have been very ill kept, as in some years there are very few names
inserted.
	The marriage earliest recorded is November 22, 1694. This
record continues to July 13, 1742; but there seems to have been
none kept from that date till the year 1779.
	Antiquities.--In former times, at a place called Cairnfield,
there was a monument resembling that Galdus' tomb, in
the parish of Wigton. It consisted of a circle of standing-stones,
with one in the centre. These, however, have long since been
removed to make way for the plough. The ruins of the ancient
chapel of Longcastle are still to be seen in the parish of that name,
about half a mile from the castle. The vestiges of two circular
camps may be traced, but there is no tradition connected with
them. Ancient coins have, at different times, been turned up by
the plough in the farm of Barness. On Cairnfield, already allud-
ed to, a large cairns of stones being removed to build fences, there


