
906    			    PERTHSHIRE.

sandstone, of excellent quality for building, and apparently of great
thickness. This bed has been extensively quarried at Parkhead,
within this parish; and at this point the strata appear to be nearly
horizontal. On both sides of the bed of the Ericht, and about
half a mile to the northward of the town, there is a fine dike of
columnar basalt, in horizontal layers, so verv regular as to re-
semble in some degree a work of art, and to obtain for the loca-
lity the popular name of the "Deil's Briggs." The basalt is not
visible at any other point in the parish.
  All the rocks in the parish which are of any height are formed
of the conglomerate above-mentioned; and in some places, (such
as Craighall and other points along the course of the Ericht,) they
rise into lofty mural precipices, exhibiting scenery of the most pic-
turesque and romantic description. The whole strata of conglo-
merate are intersected by occasional fissures at right angles to the
planes of their stratification.
  The alluvium which covers the strata already described is a
species of till of very irregular quality and thickness. At a place
called the "Heughs" or "Cloves of Mause," half a mile north
of the town, it forms a precipice of a very singular and pic-
turesque appearance, rising from the bed of the river to the
height of nearly 200 feet. To the north-west of this, the grey-
wacke already described is covered with moss to a very great
extent, forming the great moss of Cochridge, an extensive tract
of barren moor, covered with heather and pools of water. To
the southward of this, on the slopes of the ridges rising to the
north of the town, the soil is a brown stiff clay, of considerable
fertility; and in the southern division of the parish it is a strong
black loam, yielding a large return to the labours of the farmer.
A large extent of barren unproductive gravel, however, intervenes
forming the "Muir of Blair," a great part of which, as formerly
mentioned, is under plantation, and the remainder covered with
heather.
  Zoology.-There are no rare kinds of the quadruped or fea-
thered tribe in this parish, with the exception of the jer (or ger)
falcon, which breeds amongst the precipices about Craighall, and
which was highly valued in ancient times when the sport of hawk-
ing was the favourite pastime of the nobles and gentry of the land.
Now that this sport has fallen altogether into desuetude, however,
these birds are permitted to breed and bring up their young in


