

64                     ARGYLESHIRE.

  Hydrography.-Lochfeuchan, as already observed, bounds the
parish for about three miles. The average breadth is about a mile,
and the depth fifteen fathoms. During the flowing and ebbing
of spring-tides, it has the appearance of a large and rapid river.
  Lochmelfort is nearly four miles long, two broad, and thirty-five
fathoms deep, though both are arms of the great Atlantic Ocean,
and consequently largely partaking of its quality.  Yet, the im-
mense quantity of fresh water, which constantly flows into them,
materially affects their saltness, colour, and temperature.
  There are numerous perennial springs in the valleys along the
hills, and on the shore ; some of them gush from rocks, others are
filtrated through banks of sand, and a few mineral springs ooze
through moss. The most of them seem to flow from inexhaustible
reservoirs in the bowels of the hills. In this country, where rain
is so frequent, and lakes and rivers so numerous, springs, in ge-
neral, are little noticed or valued ; but, in dry seasons, or during
severe winters, their advantage is particularly felt. On such oc
casions, when other sources fail, or are inaccessible, these continue
their supply, and, in the depth of winter, preserve the verdure of
the encircled herbage as well as their refreshing quality.
  There are about twenty lakes in the parish, the largest of which
is Lochscamadale, about two miles long from east to west, half a
mile broad, and twenty fathoms deep.
  Being surrounded on all sides with hills of considerable height,
except towards the west, it is abundantly supplied with innumerable
streams, springs, and mountain torrents. During floods, the noise
of these pouring over precipitous rocks, and foaming through deep
and narrow ravines, is truly tremendous. The scenery, upon the
whole, is beautiful.
  Lochbrallaig, in the Braes of Lorn, is upwards of a mile long
and half a mile broad.  It extends in a parallel line with Loch-
scamadale ; a range of hills of 8OO feet extend along the north
side, which form a very grand scenery.  At the base of a rock
many hundred feet high, and within a few yards from the lake,
stands a school-house, where the children of the district are taught.
   Line, or String Lake, at the eastern extremity of the pa-
rish, is about a mile in circumference. The trout in this lake are
superior to any in this country, in point of size and quality.
   Lochseil, about a mile east of the Sound of Seil, and only a
few feet above its level, is nearly two miles in circumference, and
its average depth is ten fathoms. From its proximity to the sea,


