
	               KILMARNOCK.                           541

till January 1665; but there are many omissions, till August 4th
1687, from which time it appears to have been regularly kept.
The register of the exercise of discipline is dated as early as 1652;
but, from the troubles of the period, it seems not to have been re-
gularly kept till the Revolution in 1688.
	Antiquities.--The only antiquities which seem worthy of notice
are, Dean Castle, Rowallan and Crawfurdland Castles, and Soules
Cross.
	The Dean Castle stands about half a mile north-east from the
town, and was the residence of the noble but unfortunate family
of Kilmarnock. It is a very ancient edifice; but no information can
be obtained of the time when it was built. In the year 1735, it
was entirely consumed by fire. This accident was occasioned by
the inattention of a maid-servant, who was preparing some lint for
spinning, which unhappily took fire, by which means this noble and
ancient structure was laid in ruins. In this situation it still re-
mains, and the hand of time is slowly destroying what the fury of
the flames has spared.
	Rowallan Castle, from a remote period the residence of the ba-
rons of Rowallan, stands on the banks of the Carmel water, about
three miles north-west of the town. The principal and more or-
narnental part of the building was erected about the year 1562:
the more ancient tower is believed to have been the birth-place of
Elizabeth More, first wife of Robert the High Steward, afterwards
King Robert II., of Scotland. This venerable mansion is beau-
tifully enclosed among trees, in the hollow tract of the stream;
but is, under the unsparing hand of time, falling into decay.
	Crawfurdland Castle, the interesting and ancient seat of the
Crawfurds of Crawfurdland, is situated about three miles to the
northeast of the town. It has been built at different periods.
The centre part of it, which is a fine Gothic structure, was erect-
ed by the present most worthy representative of the family, who is
also the descendant of the Howisons of Braehead. The oldest
part or tower, whose walls are of great thickness, carries us back
to a very remote antiquity.
	Soules Cross, which gives its name to one of the quarters of the
town, was formerly a rude stone pillar, about eight or nine feet
high, on the top of which was fixed a small gilded cross. This
monument, which is situated at the south entrance of the High
Church, was erected in memory of Lord Soules an English noble-


