
	   	       APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDRIE.                   187
<TABLE>

  pital, be rendered more productive, and, in fact, such improvement now
  in partial operation.
Acres incurably barren, or reclaimable only at a cost disproportioned to the
  profit, included in the above,                             from 150 to 200
In undivided common,                                                       0
Under wood,                                                              831

	It may be observed here, that, on the Dryfe division of the parish,
there was formerly a considerable extent of old wood, chiefly oak and
ash, which was cut down about twenty years ago, and the ground
replanted with larch, and other species of the fir tribe. On Bal-
gray, the value of the timber annually cut and sold amounts to
about L. 50. The management of the young woods throughout
the parish is of the most approved kind. The land, previous to
its being planted, is thoroughly drained and well-fenced, and thin-
ning and pruning carefully attended to. As a natural conse-
quence, the plantations are all in a very thriving state.
	Rent of Land, Wages, Prices, &c.--The average rent of the
arable land may be from 16s. to 18s. per imperial acre. There
is in the parish almost every variety of soil, and while some of it,
consisting chiefly of alluvial tracts, is let as high as L. 2, there is
much more at 12s., 10s., and even as low as 7s. and 6s. per acre.
The gross rental of the whole parish is L. 6680. As to the ave-
rage rent of grazing it is difficult to speak with perfect accuracy.
But, perhaps, for the summer, it may be at the rate of L. 3, or
L. 3, 10s. for a cow or full-grown ox; from 5s. 6d to 5s. 9d. for
hill-fed sheep; and from 10s. to 15s. for those grazed on richer
pasture, during the whole year.
	The average rate of wages of good ploughmen, exclusive of
board and lodging, is about L. 12 per annum; of women-servants,
L. 5; of day-labourers, without victuals, 1s. 6d. per day during
summer, and 1s. 4d. in winter. In hay and corn harvest, the wages
rise to 2s., and occasionally a little more. To masons, carpenters,
and other trades requiring apprenticeship, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. is
givdn. The wages of day-labourers generally, in this parish, are
kept low by the competition they encounter from the inhabitants
of the neighbouring villages, and especially from Irish labourers
domiciled there.
	The rate of mason, carpenter, and other mechanical work, is as
follows:

<TABLE>

Building ruble wall, including materials and carriage, per rood of 36
  yards,                                           L.  5   0    0
Having, including cost of stone, per foot              0   0    7
Plastering, per square yard,                           0   0    8




