
806                       LANARKSHIRE.

here flows in that direction, to a point on the farm of Whitehill,
a distance of 3 miles.  It is connected on the south and south-
west with Wandell; bounded bv Culter on the east, and separated
from the lower end of Robertoun, and the upper extremity of
Symington on the west and north, by the " flowing Clyde."  It
contains of imperial acres, 5180, being less than Wandell by about
a fifth part of itself.  According to Forrest's map, the united parish
contains 21.75 square miles, and there are only 13 parishes of great-
er extent in the whole county of Lanark.  It somewhat resembles
an irregular triangle, having its longest and western side washed
by the noble river which gives its name to the district.  It extends
where broadest from the junction of Hartside burn, with the
Clyde, to Hatherstane Law and Wingill Bank,  two mountain-
ous summits close together on  the boundaries of Culter and
Crawford to the south-east, a distance of between 3 and 4 miles;
narrowing gradually both towards north-east and south-west.
   Aspect.-The general character of this parish, like the district
in which it lies, is hilly, or perhaps it may be called mountainous.
There is, however, a tolerable stretch of holm or level ground,
probably not less than 400 acres in extent, chiefly in the north-
eastern corner of Lammingtoune, between the Clyde on the west
and the rising and hilly grounds to the east and south-east.
There is also an extensive field of fertile holm land on the
farms of Hillhouse, Hartside, Woodend, Wandellmill and Lit-
tlegill, all in Wandell.  These holm lands, however, and es-
pecially in Lammingtoune, are not a tame dead level, but are
beautifully diversified with rising knolls of considerable height
and base, all under cultivation, and many of them crowned or
gracefully fringed with aged trees of picturesque outline and of
goodly size.  There low level grounds extend, at their greatest
breadth, to not more than three-quarters of a mile, till they join the
ascending fields that connect them with the hills.  A little, way
above, Braehead, the hill of Devonshaw almost refreshes its base
in the clear waters of the Clyde ; and along the sloping sides of
most hills in the parish, there are-still very visible, proofs, that in
former and distant times they had been pretty generally laid under
contribution for supply of " the staff of life."  The general aspect
of the hills is agreeable; they are smooth and dry, without much
heather, and, afford easy footing and excellent pasture for sheep.
They are often finely diversified in their swelling sides, and undu-
lating summits; presenting one while a sweeping curvature of out-


