
                            YARROW.                      35

ness-shire there fell a great quantity of snow. In like manner,
when the winds is variable, it often blows hard from opposite points,
even in this northern part of our island. Thus, 1st April 1813,
was a stormy day in Inverness-shire, and the wind N.E.; whereas
in Selkirkshire, a very severe blast of snow came from S. W. In
both places the wind went to N. W. by W. at night. We men-
tion these things, to show that there are often secondary causes in
operation, and at the time to us unknown, which tend to render our
calculations incorrect.
   The Climate of the parish is damp and cold. This must be
ascribed to the mists that rise from the marshy grounds, the vici-
nity of the central mountain range, which serves asa a nucleus to
embody the hovering exhalations, the prevalence of the W. and
S. W. winds, and the peculiar exposure of the vallies to those from
the E. and N. E. The vicissitudes of the weather are extremely
frequent. Of late years, however, the climate has been much
anneliorated by draining, `nd might be still farther improved by
plantation. The diseases in some measure connected with it, are
catarrh, rheumatism, consumption, and fevers. These are more
prevalent in the vale of Ettrick than of Yarrow, owing to the
greater extent of marshy and meadow-ground: but the district is
far from being unfavourable to health or longevity. One indivi-
dual within the memory of man reached the very advanced period
of 106 years; and a number have nearly seen the course of a cen-
tury. There is a woman still alive (1833) who remembers the
forty-five, when she assisted in putting some cattle and household
articles beyond the reach of the Highlanders.
   Hydrography. Springs.-The greater part of the springs are
perenial. Their temperature is in general about 45&deg;. calcareous
springs are found in fifteen different places; sometimes near each
othdr, and rising in lines. The accumul`tion of calcareous deposit
from one of them, amounting to about forty cart-loads, was once col-
lected for agricultural purposes, but, owing to the sleepness of the
hill, could not easily be removed. There is a sulphureous spring on
Craig farm, and another on Catslacknow, which probably flow
from a bed of alum-slate. The latter is sometimes resorted to by
the peasantry; but the strenght is considerably diluted from its
situation in the midst of a marsh, the water of which oozes through.
It is called St Philip's Well; and its dedication to a patron saint,
as was usual in Roman Catholic times, would seemto intimate
that it had been famed for its medicinal virtues. There are two


