	
             		TURRIFF.                                  1001

bring with it a train of evils alike prejudicial to the temporal inte-
rests of master and servant, and assuredly, most injurious to the
spiritual interests of the latter, a large and valuable class of the
community.
	Jobs, such as trenching, ditching, harvesting the crop, &c.,
are sometimes undertaken on very low terms, and are not always
very well executed; though when the contractor is not limited to
time, he can regulate his hours at pleasure, and take advantagd
of such favourable circumstances as may occur for fulfilling his bar-
gain.
	The wages of tradesmen are the same here as throughout them
country. Masons generally get 2s. 6d. or 2s. 9d. per day; car-
penters, 2s. or 2s. 3d.; and tailors, shoemakers, &c. in proportion.
to their diligence and skill.
	Enclosing.--Some of the largest and best farms in the parish
are enclosed; and this improvement, so important to the mixed
husbandry, is in the course of being extended. The fences are
dry stone dikes, about four feet high, the materials of which are
mostly dug from the quarries. Wooden paling is sometimes
used, and thorn hedges have, in a few instances, been planted;
but the latter, though forming a beautiful fence, and giving a soft
and clothed aspect to the country, as shown by the Earl of Fife's
hedges between Turriff and Banff, require such care, and labour,
and skill in keeping, which the tenant cannot easily afford, that
they have not thriven where attempted, and are now very seldom
planted.
	Draining.--Drains have been executed to a considerable ex-
tent, both open and covered. For the latter, small stones are
collected off the fields, tumbled out of a cart into the drain, and
over a covering of brusbwood, the earth is restored to the surface.
But as draining is unquestionably the first of a long series of im-
provements, which it would be vain to attempt without it, as it is
considered equivalent, not only to a change of soil, but also of cli-
mate, both in reference to the growth of plants and the health of
the population, it is to be hoped that the practical benefits of
draining will lead to a more efficient system than has hitherto,
been adopted. The discovery of Lord James Hay, and which
has stood the test imposed by the Highland Society, will, we,
doubt not, give a stimulus to draining, and be found to be one of
the most valuable of modern agricultural improvements. The


