
590                           FIFESHIRE.

now very inconsiderable, being confined exclusively to the toot-net
method of capturing the fish. The net employed is from 50 to
80 yards long, and differs little from the common seine or sweep
net. Instead of being constantly kept,.in motion, as the latter is,
it is attached to a boat at, anchor, and only hauled when the toots-
man, who watches in the boat, observes a fish strike the net. It
is totally unsuited to estuary fishing.
   The number of boats connected with the fisheries in this pa-
rish amount to 7, and they keep employed 14 men during the open
season. The fisheries belong to Mr Wedderburn of Birkhill,
Mrs B. Morison of Naughton, and Mr Stuart of Balmerino, and
are rented at about L. 50 per annum.
   The spirling fishery was once productive here also; but for se-
veral years back, it has not been pursued, as the spirlings seem to
have abandoned this part, (probably on account of the increase of the
sand-banks) and are only to be found at some of the rapids farther up.
   The inhabitants of this district deeply lament the suppression
of the stake-net mode of fishing, which was abolished by a deci-
sion of the Court of Session in 1812, upon a complaint of the up-
per heritors, and affirmed by the House of Lords upon appeal in
1816. This decision was founded upon certain old acts of the
Scottish Parliament, which were directed against a particular kind
of river fishing, termed weir, yair, or cruive. There is an infinite
variety of such engines in use; but there is one peculiarity com-
mon to them all, viz. that they prevent the ascent of the fish ex-
cept by a particular channel, in which a trap for detaining them
is inserted. This mode of fishing, practised at a very early pe-
riod, is noticed by the most ancient writers, and is the subject of
legislation in our earliest statutes. It is obvious that fixed en-
gines of this description, when employed without restraint, would
have the effect of shutting up the river, preventing the ascent of
the fish, and destroying the fry. In consequence, the use of such
engines in rivers was forbidden, except where they had existed for
a long course of time. Even in those cases, the engines were pla-
ced under certain restraints, which seem to have been considered
sufficient for protecting the spawners, and young fish. This mode
of fishing, efficient in rivers, cannot it is obvious from its nature,
be applied with similar success in estuaries and the open sea. Ac-
cordingly, there has been little fishing, until of late years, except in
the rivers,-so little, indeed, that the salmon has been vulgarly re-

                                  4


