
     of Jedburgh.

life, who, in consequence of their miserable mode of living, and
still more  of the coldness and dampness of their houses, owing
partly to the scarcity and high price of fewel, have too much
reason to complain of what they call the pains, or the pains
within them.  The air, however, on the whole, being very
falubrious, there are many instances of longevity in the pa-
rish.  An old woman, who died 15 years ago, said that she 
was 105; but her name was not in the parish record.  There
are several now living, both in the town and country part of
the parish, above 80.  Many have survived 90 during the in-
cumbency of the present minister; and there are three per-
sons in the town, now living, who are above 90.  There is
also a shepherd in the 94th year of his age, who attends his
flock as usual.  The ravages which the small-pox formerly
made have been greatly mitigated, innoculation being of late
very general and very successful.  In order to reconcile the
minds of the common people to this useful practice, the he-
ritors of Jedburgh, about ten years ago, allowed a small sum
to detray the expence of innoculating the children of the
poor, at a period when the disease was peculiarly fatal.  This
generous design was attended with the happiest success; a-
mong a thousand patients, innoculated by Dr Lindlay in
the course of above 20 years practice, only two have been lost,
and there is the strongest reason to believe that these two had
been previously infected in the natural way.  The other phy-
sicians and surgeons of the place have also been, it is believ-
ed, equally fortunate in this important branch of their practice.

   Rivers.-The river Jed, which runs through this parish,
has its source in the north side of the Carter-hill, in the pa-
rish of Southdean, about the distance of fourteen miles from
the town of Jedburgh*.  It abounds with trouts, particu-

<FOOTNOTE>

*On the south side of the same hill, the river Tyne, which
runs by Newcastle, takes its rise.


