
422                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

there being no mountains of sufficient magnitude to attract the
clouds and vapours, which are drawn towards the higher ridges of
Bennachee on the south-west, and Foudland on the north-west;
so that while the summits of these are frequently enveloped in,
dense mists, and copious showers of rain and snow are precipitated
along the sides of them, little of the falling moisture, comparative-
ly, reaches this lower level; and sometimes the air continues quite
clear and dry.
   Hydrography.-The springs of water are perennial but not
very abundant; there are no lakes within the parish, nor any
considerable mountain streams, the Ury only bounding it for two
miles on the south side.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The stones which prevail here are
of the species usually called whinstone, of a deep blue colour, hard
texture, and great weight.  They are found of various sizes and
qualities, according to their situations, sometimes detached and
near the surface, and sometimes in large and continuous masses
under ground; which last, being split by means of gunpowder and
wedges, and squared with the hammer, form the chief material of
the country buildings, and are very durable.  There is no granite
here, although it is abundant both in quarries and outlayers on
Bennachee, a mountain three miles southward; neither have slates
been discovered in the bounds, though they are found in a hill
three miles northward; but it is probable that there is slate in the
bill of Rothmaise, which appears to be a Continuation of the Foud-
land and Culsamond hills, in which are many bush-quarries of
valuable slates.  The chief alluvial deposit is that of peat moss,
of which there is an extensive flat, already mentioned, above three
miles in length, varying in breadth and depth, and comprising
above 500 imperial acres.  In one part of this flat, peats were
found about sixty years ago, containing a large portion of adipose
or fatty matter, and having a white and unctuous appearance on
the surface, and which when ignited emitted a flame and light as
bright as those of a tallow candle.  On this account they were
commonly called "creeshy clods," i.e. greasy small peats; and
were burned sparingly, as a cheap sort of light, in the winter even-
ings by all who could procure them.  But the quantity of this pe-
culiar kind of peat appears to have been small, and has been long
exhausted.  The chief remains now found in the moss are pieces
of hazel, birch, oak, &c. which indicate that this tract had once
been covered with natural wood, and trees of goodly size.


