
     Statistical Account

serves attention, is, the erection of Newton into a separate
parish.  The borough lying at the distance of 3 miles from
Monkton, formerly the parish church, where the inhabitants
had little or no accomodation, the community, from the
funds of the town, generously built the present house for pub-
lic worship, in the year 1777, which was at first established
with consent of the presbytery, on the footing of a chapel of
cafe.  Finding this plan attended with some disadvantages,
the community, in the year 1778, applied to the Lords Com-
missioners for plantation of kirks, and valuation of trends, to
have their town disjoined from the united parishes of Monk-
ton and Prestick, and erected into a separate parish.  In con-
sequence of this application, they obtained a decreet for that
purpose, in 1779; having previously purchased the right of pa-
tronage to their church, from the patrons of the united parish-
es of Monkton and Prestick.  By the above decreet, it is esta-
blished, that the community shall choose, every year, 13 of
their number to manage the secular affairs of the church, who
are styled delegates.  When a vacancy takes place, these 13
delegates have the sole power of electing a pastor, and of
granting a presentation, with this proviso, that 9 of the 13
must be unanimous in the choice.

   The stipend, at first, amounted only to L. 65; but it has
since received an addition of L. 10 per annum, in lieu of the
coal below the glebe.  In 1780, the town granted a glebe of
4 1/2 acres; part of which is now occupied by the manse and
garden.  The ground being poor, and of a light sand, it rent-
ed, before the manse was built, only at 5 guineas per annum,
though in the vicinity of a populous place.  All that is allow-
ed for grass, is the liberty of keeping a cow, and her follow-
er, on the common belonging to the town.  The glebe is 
not well inclosed, which lessens its value.  The melioration of
glebes by inclosing, which has been under the consideration of


