
          394                      RENFREWSHIRE.

that body.  Mr Pollok preached, only once for Dr Brown of
Rose  Street Chapel, Edinburgh, and once or twice for Dr Bel-
frage at Slateford.  The fatal disease, consumption, which was
soon to terminate his earthly ministrations, and all other labours,
was now settling down upon him.  He went for a short time to
reside in Aberdeen, but without any sensible improvement of his
health, and therefore soon returned to the hospitable abode of his
friend Dr Belfrage.  During Mr Pollok's residence at Slateford,
he was visited by many distinguished individuals, and received the
advice and friendly intercourse of Dr Abercrombie of Edinburgh,
and was also on intimate terms with the family of Dr Monro of
the University of Edinburgh, who then possessed the pleasant
villa of Craig-Lockhart, in the vhcinity of Slateford.  But in spite
of every effort on the part of his friends and medical advisers, the
symptoms of the disease continued to advance, and at length it
became evident that the only chance of saving a life so valuable
was a residence in Italy.  The city of Pisa, in the Grand Duchy
of Tuscany, was the place selected for his residence.  In the
month of August 1827, he left Scotland for the purpose of pro-
ceeding on his journey, accompanied by his sister, (now Mrs Gil-
mour, residing in the village of Eaglesham,) from whom the author
obtained most of the particulars here recorded.  He proceeded
first to Plymouth, and then took up his residence near to
Southampton.    Here the symptoms increased so rapidly, that it
was found impossible to proceed farther.  The ill-fated hard con-
tinued to linger on till 18th September 1827, when he expired in
the arms of his sister.  Mrs Gilmour speaks highly of the kindness
of the Rev.  Mr Wilson, Rector of a parish in the neighbourhood,
and also of the attention paid to her brother by Mr Lloyd
of Dublin.  These gentlemen frequently cheered and consoled
him, by their presence and conversation, and occasionally brought
grapes and such other delicacies as were thought to be most agreeble.
Mr Wilson conversed much with Mr Pollok on spiritual
matters, and seemed to take a deep interest in him.  Mr Pollok,
during his illness, as may be supposed, exhibited every symptom
of being a devout and sincere Christian.  He was buried in the
parish of Millbrook, Southampton, according to the English ritual.
His mother died two years before, aged sixty-six. Of a
writer so popular,and so justly admired as a poet, it is unnecessary
to say more than that he holds an eminent olace as a man of
genius among  the many eminent characters which his native


