
44                         SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

would probably be found that the price comes little, if at all, short
of that of imported coal.
                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the time of the last Statistical Account, the greatest
changes, as already noticed, have taken place in the state of the
parish. At that period, the injurious system of sub-letting prevail-
ed; and both the knowledge and the practice of farming were ex-
ceedingly defective. The place of Dunrobin excepted, there was
neither draining, trenching, nor fallow, and very little green crop,
besides potatoes and a little pease. There were few fences, and
these few bad. The plough, which was rudely constructed, had
no part of it iron but the coulter, thd sock, and the hook, at the
end of the beam. Four country garrans, or Highland ponies, were
yoked to the plough abreast: and the driver walked in front of them
backward. There were few wheeled vehicles that deserved the name.
Corn, fuel, &c. were carried in a kind of frame called crubags, fast-
ened on horseback, to a wooden saddle, that rested on a straw mat.
The public road was the only one, and that itself indifferent. The
dwellings of the subtenants were wooden frames thatched with turf,
and of these, one end accommodated cattle, horses, and sometimes
pigs. One end also of the turf covering of these huts, saturated as
it was with soot, was annually stript off and converted into manure
With such dwellings the dress of their tenants corresponded. With
the exception of the mutch, or cap, and handkerchief of the wo-
men, and perhaps the men's neckcloths, their clothes consisted of
coarse tartans, kelt, and blanket stuffs. The state of things is now
very different. Farming is brought to the highest degree of ex-
eellence, that industry, skill, and expense can bring it to. Nor is it
too much to say, that the system of farming, at present followed in
this parish, does not fall short of the best modes of farming, in any
part of the kingdom. The farmers have very good houses, with
two public rooms; and they have their wheeled carriages for per-
sonal and family use. Sub-letting is abolished. The small te-
nants, or cottars, live in decent cottages built with stone and
lime, or clay, with glass windows; and their fare is correspond-
ingly better. Tradesmen and ploughmen, on Sundays, wear
good long coats of English manufacture, white shirts' hats, and
silk handkerchiefs; and the females of the same class wear good
cotton gowns, shawls or scarfs, and many of them straw bonnets.
There are, of all descriptions of road, in the parish, about forty
miles,-of which about twelve were made by the Parliamentary



