
978 				PERTHSHIRE.

sent town. The Highlanders afterwards got possession of many
of the houses from which they galled the soldiers by their fire.
To dislodge them, small parties of the soldiers, with burning fag-
gots, were sent to fire the houses. "Where the found keys in
the doors, they lockt them, and burnt all within," which raised
distressing cries of help from those in the fire. * There were six-
teen consumed in one house. The town was burned to ashes, ex-
cepting the cathedral and three houses where some of the soldiers
were advantageously posted. The inhabitants found shelter in
the churcb. After the enemy retired, the seats of the church
were carried out, and the defences repaired, in the event of a se-
cond attack,--which the enemy never made. The Cameronians
lost several officers, among whom was Lt.-Col. Cleland, the father
of William Cleland, Esq. the original of the celebrated "Will
Honeycomb" in the Spectator. After the battle, the dead were
buried on the south of the cathedral.
   In 1691 or thereabouts, the Atholl family repaired the choir for
worship at their own private expense. In 1762, Government con-
tributed L.300 towards a first repair, and in 1815, L.1000 to-
wards a second repair, to which the Duke of Atholl added L.5000,
and restored the choir, with some slight variations, to its original
state. + The cathedral still stands unroofed, and unheeded by
government. But from time to time it has received such repairs
from the Atholl family as will prevent it becoming a total ruin.
The area of the cathedral, once the highly prized cemetery of the
great, is, with a scrag of ground to the south of it, the only burial-
place of tbe inhabitants of Dunkeld. Where the inhabitants in-
terred their dead prior to 1560, is now difficult to tell. Although
the cathedral and place of interment are situated within the walls
of the Dunkeld park, yet access is freely given by the keeper of
the east gate, at reasonable hours, to every person, who have there
a right of sepulture.
   During the reign of Charles II, an offer was made to erebt the
town of Dunkeld into a royal burgh, but that offer was at the
time declined. Queen Anne renewed tbe offer in 1704, which
was accepted. The requisite charter was prepared, and ready
for tbe royal signature, when, as traditionally reported,a dispute

<FOOTNOTE>Life of Col. Blackadder, Chap. 5. Also Aikman's Edition of Buchanan's His-
tory of Scotland, Vol. v. p. 268.
     In lowering the floor of the choir, many foreign, Roman, and Scottish coins
were found by the inhabitants.  One person who had thirty coins,--some Romans,
sold them to a travelling jeweller for L.I.

                         		3


