
     Statistical Account

judge,) was the son of John Paul, a gardener by trade.  He
was born in Kirkbean, about the year 1745.  Of this per-
son's character, this parish cannot boast.  His pillage of the
house of the Earl of Selkirk; his attempts to burn the town
of Whitehaven, out of whose harbour be had served his ap-
prentice-ship and his conduct to his native country, during
the American war, are instances of ingratitude and want of
patriotism, generally known, and over which, for the honour
of humanity, we would wish to draw a veil.

   Antiquities.-The castles of Cavens, and Weaths, a part
only of each now standing, were once the property of the
Regent Morton*, and by him frequently inhabited.  The
whole of that barony, excepting two farms, is now the pro-
perty of Richard Alexander Oswald, Esq; of Auchencruive,
who, while occasionally in this part of the country, resides
at the castle of Cavens.  Upon the N. W. on the farm of
Ardrie, at the foot of that ridge of hills formerly mentioned,
which terminates in Crofell, there is a Druidical circle still
entire+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Upon his forfeiture, these castles, with the barony of Preston, upon
which they stand, were granted to the family of NITHSDALE, one of whom
gave to a second son the chief part of that Barony, and sewed out the rest.

+At a little distance to the east of this, there was lately discovered a
Kist vaen, or stone coffin, in which was found an urn.  The sides and ends
of it were built with small stones, and covered with thin broad ones.  The
stones are still in useful preservation; they make a part of a division dyke,
upon the farm.  To the fouth of this, another was found, but of its construc-
tion the writer has not yet been informed.  In the centre of the parish, nigh
the public road, stood a Druidical temple, which was lately destroyed, for the
purpose of clearing the ground, and building farm houses.  Several urns have
been turned up by the plough.  One was found in the foundation of the pre-
sent manse.


