
452                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

learned Professor would have been somewhat astonished to have
been told the truth, viz. that this destructive, and, according to the
description, most loathsome disease, in as far as Forbes was concern-
ed, existed only in the writer's diseased imagination.  The latter,
who was otherwise a sensible and well-informed person, happened,
at the time be wrote the account, to be labouring under severe
hypochondria, which is abundantly evident from the note append-
ed, in which he hypothetically mentions his own case.

                                IV.-INDUSTRY.

<TABLE>
  No. of acres in cultivation in the whole parish,	               2681
               in pasture on the lands of Forbes and Whitehaugh,      889
               in roads and burns on said properties,	                175
               in hill on do. do                                     3321
               in plantations on do. do.                             1063

   The survey and measurements of Forbes and Whitehaugh,
from which the above table was taken, were made about ten years
ago.  Since that time, considerable additions have been made to
the extent of cultivated ground in the parish.  With the exception
of the arable land there has, to the best of the writer's knowledge,
been no exact survey of the Torperse estate.  The late proprie-
tor stated to the writer the amount of acres in hill pasture, roads,
and burns to be about 2000.  There are a few acres in wood round
the old mansion-house.
   The soil is in general good, and exceedingly grateful for kind
treatment.  Upon the rising grounds, more especially along the
Braes of Forbes, which include the greater part of the Forbes es-
tate, it is thin and stony; but being dry, and on a good bottom,
produces crops excellent in quality, and not deficient in bulk.
The corn and bear grown here, and in most other parts of the pa-
rish, is generally superior in weight to the produce of the same
kinds in most other parts of Aberdeenshire.  It deserves to be
mentioned, perhaps, that, upon the slopes of some of the interject-
ed rising grounds, the depth of soil is very considerable, and that
upon the very tops of some of the hills you meet at times with a
considerable extent of table-land of the same description.  The
elevation, however, and consequently the want of climate, with
the difficulty of access, forbid cultivation.
   Husbandry.-The following is the mode of cropping which is
generally followed, viz. two successive crops of oats, followed by a
cleaning crop of turnips and potatoes.  Then a crop of oats or
bear, when the ground is laid down with grass-seeds; which, the
first year afterwards, is cut and made into hay, and then pastured


