
                              BOWDEN.                            35

Towards the south-west, where the above-mentioned parallel ridges
are not so strongly marked, one or two small burns find their way
into Ale Water, which forms the southern boundary of the parish.
It may be remarked, that these ridges come shooting away from a
high flat moorland in the eastern extremity of Selkirkshire, which
from this part of Roxburghshire bounds the view to the west.
   Climate.-It may be remarked generally, that the prevailing
winds are from the S. W., as may be seen by their effects upon
trees in exposed places; that our most severe snow storms are from
the N. E.; that our steadiest and driest wheather is from the N. W.;
and that, about the end of April and beginning Of May, cold and
occasionally frosty winds prevail from the east, which are injurious
to vegetation, and are ready to bring disease on fruit-trees. Our
climate is high and rather cold. It appears, from the notice of
climate in the former Statistical Account of this parish, that it has
improved considerably since 1794. This may be owing to the
draining of land and mosses, to the general use of lime for land,
to the raising of plantations of firs and other trees, as well as to
other less obvious causes. In connection with this improvement of,
climate we may remark, that consumptions and fevers, which thirty
or forty years ago were very prevalent in this parish, are now com-
paratively little known.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The rock on the south side of the
parish runs from east to west, inclining to the south-west and north-
east. It is commonly found in thin layers or strata, with occa-
sional seams of dent between the strata. The rock dips to the
south, at an angle of from 40 to 60 degrees. It consists generally
of whinstone. On Bowden moor it is clay porphyry, and is largely
made use of for road metal, for which it is very excellent. The
only object of note, however, in the parish of a geological descrip-
tion is the Eildon Hills. They stand upon a level plain of con-
siderable extent, a little to the south of Melrose. They are, at the
base, about seven miles in compass. The rocks of which they con-
sist are felspar, and felspar porphyry. In the south-west point of
these bills a quarry has been cut, in which the rock is found to con-
sist of regular pentagonal prisms, about fifteen inches in diame-
ter. The pillars are extremely elegant and beautiful, and sharper
in their angles than most basaltic columns, and of a pale flesh-
colour. The height of the pillars, as yet laid bare, is about twenty
feet; but, when farther cleared, theywill probably be found to reach
the schistose formation on which the mountains repose.


