
     Of Nairn

church of Elgin, when it was consumed by fire.  Lady Kil- 
ravock, and her husband Hugh Rofe of Geddes, obtained a 
charter (posterior to the loss of the writs above mentioned) 
from King John Baliol in the year 1293, confirming to them 
and to their heirs, the lands of Geddes and Kilravock*.

   Advantage and Disadvantages.-The climate here is re-
markably good.  No diseases peculiar to the place.  Rheu- 
matisms and nervous complaints are perhaps the most preva-
lent.  This town was, of old, greatly renowned for the cheap-
ness of all sorts of vivres.  All the necessaries of life, till 
within about these 20 years, sold very low.  An excellent 
peat-moss, at little more than a mile in distance from the 
town, was a great inducement for bringing numbers of peo-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Concerning the family of Kilravock, it would be needless, on this occasion, 
to say any thing particular.  The figure they have made in the world, in vari- 
ous departments in life, their taste for the fine arts, for literature, for politeness, 
hospitality, &c. is too well known to require the pen of a pancgyrift.  Geddes 
probably derives its name from Geelda, a Pretish Saint, to whose memory, on 
this spot, it seems a place of worship was dedicated. 
   The charter of foundation of the Chapel of Easter Geddes, part of the walls
of which is still extant, and granted by Hugh Rose of Kilravock, bears date 
1473.  This chapel was dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and endowed with 5 L 
Scots of stipend, together with a small croft, as a glebe, and on which to erect's
manse.  The priest or chaplain was to perform daily offices, not only for the 
soul of the founder, but also for the souls of his predecessors, and of his heirs and 
successors for ever.  The bull of privileges for said Chapel is dated at Rome, 
26th April 1475, in the 4th year of Pope Sextus the Fourth. 
   The site of the Constabulary is still visible in the town of Nairn.  The Lairds
of Calder were, for a series of time, high constables, and heritable sheriffs of the 
county.  Notice is taken of the Kebback-stone, in the statistical account of the 
parish of Ardersier.  In the N. E. corner of this parish is a place called the 
King's Steps.  Even tradition deth not say on what account this royal appella-
tion was affixed to this spot of ground.  There is an excellent quarry of freestone 
below flood mark, easily wrought, and of no contemptible quality.  There are 
some chalybeate springs of water, but not of such consequence as to deserve a 
particular description.
 

