
352                               BANFFSHIRE.

About sixty years ago, the hospital system was abolished, and the
funds, which are, under the patronage and management of the
Earl of Seafield, are expended in stated and occasional allowances
of meal, to poor families belonging to the parishes of Cullen, Rath-
von, Deskford, and Fordyce, residenters on the Seafield estate;
by which means the charity is rendered more extensively useful.
From the above source, the parish of Cullen derives about 85
bolls annually; of which, 70 bolls are shared by 40 persons, in
weekly pecks and half pecks; ten and a-quarter bolls are placed
at the disposal of the kirk-session; and five bolls are distributed
by the local factor.\f*

<FOOTNOTE>winter.  The allowance of milk was the produce of one cow, and unskimmed; the
allowance of beer war. the produce of two pecks of malt.  At Christmas, yearly,
they were furnished from the aforesaid farms, alternately, with a good fat horned
mairt, and salt to salt it.  The horns supplied them with spoons, and the hide with
brogues.  From Pattenbringan and Brunton, week about, a female servant was sent
to make the men's beds and clean out their apartments.  From the same farms,
they got what was called leet peaLs for fuel, in equal proportions, which were not
only brought to their door, but built up for them; and if their fuel fell short, Cullen
House was bound to make up the deficiency.  They were annually supplied with
blue top coats, and the old ones were made into vests and breeches.   When they
wanted bed-clothes, they carried the old to Cullen House, and received new.  They
were all obliged, if in health, to attend church every Sabbath, and they sat on forms,
in front of the recumbent stone figure within the elegant sarcophagus in the eastern
aisle bf the church.  The eight figures, in niches, along the toot of the tomb, are
supposed to represent the bede men.  It is said, that, at one period, part of their
duty was to sit at the church doors, with pike staves in their hands, in order to pre-
vent the ingress of dogs.  A herald, frol Edinburgh, visited the Bede House half
yearly, where every bede man and bede woman was interrogated separately, if they
had any complaint to make in regard to their domestic comfort, and if so, Cullen
House was irmmediately applied to for redress.
  The following bequests have been made by persons, natives of, or connected
with, the parish of Cullen.  In 1650, John Lawtie, burgess of Cullen, bequeathed
his, whole propert, consisting of a house, a garden, and a croft of land, for behoof
of the poor a Cullen, which pays, of yearly rent, to the kirk session, L.2, 2s.  In
1657, William Lawtie, of Myre House bequeathed a croft of land, with some houses,
and a sum of money, with whieh were Purchased some additional acres of land,
within the parish, for behoof of poor persons related to him, or hearing his name.
The aforesaid bequests are under the patronage and management of the heirs and
representatives of the founders.  William Leslie, of Birdsbank, an heritor in the
parish, bequeathed the sum of 1000 merks Scotch, and appointed the interest to be
applied as -an encouragement to a schoolmaster in Cullen, under the direction of the
magistrates.  This money, by a negotiation of that body, was settled in the hands
of the Earl of Findlater, upon his agreeing to make some addition to it, and he
thereby became patron of the school.  A Mr Smith bequeathed a house, a garden,
and a croft of land and appointed the rents ofthem as an additional encouragement
to the schoolmaster of Cullen.  Collector John Ogilvie, of the Customs at Inverness,
and his son, Bailie William Ogilvie, Merchant in Banff, bequeathed the sum of L.44,
9s., the interest to be applied by the kirk-session of Cullen, for behoof of the found-
ers' poor relations and the poor of the parish, in equal parts.  The following be-
guests were made to the kirk-session of Cullen, for behoof of the poor, viz. Mr James
Ogilvie, formerly wadsetter of Logie L.16, 13s. 4d.; in 1805, Dr Brands, Jamaica,
L.,20; In 1824, Miss Janet  Grant, daughter of the Rev. Robert Grant, formerly
minister of Culllen, L.20.
                                     6


