
			KINNETTLES.                  229

exceeds the income, the deficiency is made up, sometimes by draw-
ing on a small fund created in better times, and sometimes by oc-
casional extraordinary collections at the church. Besides, the late
Mr James Maxwell, mill-wright, who was born, and lived in the
parish till within a few years of his death, bequeathed, in a most
charitable and exemplary manner, about four years ago, L. 50,
subject to the legacy-duty, to be distributed, within a specific pe-
riod, in coals, among the poor of the parish; and from this bequest,
the poor have derived, and will continue for several years to de-
rive, much comfort and relief during the inclemency of winter. By
a judicious application of these resources, the managers of the poor
have as yet been enabled to go on without allowing any parochial
begging, and without calling in the aid of an assessment.
	In former times, the Scottish spirit, generally, could not brook
the idea of seeking parochial relief; but this spirit of independ-
ence has now been greatly and generally abated.
	Inns and Alehouses.--Prior to Martinmas 1833, there was one inn
and one alehouse in the parish, both situated on the Strathmore
turnpike,ro`d; but the alehouse has since been abolished.
	Fuel.--For ages, peat and wood, whin and broom, constituted
the fuel of the parish; but now, that the neighbouring peat-mosses
are nearly exhausted, and whins and broom nearly exterminated,
the ordinary fuel is wood and coal in summer, and coal, with
a small proportion of wood, in winter. Both English and Scotch
coals are used; but the English chiefly. These coals are pro-
cured at Dundee, twelve miles distant; the English at from 4s.
to 6s. per 6 cwt. or 1 boll of 42 imperial stones; and the Scotch
at from 4s.  8d. to 6s. 8d. per 6 cwt. or 1 boll of 42 imperial
stones. The ordinary price of driving 6 cwt. or 1 boll of coals
from Dundee to the parish is 3s.  Hence the necessity of a ca-
nal, or efficient railway, from some of the sea-port towns into the
interior of the country.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	In 1792, the best arable land in the parish was rented at L. 1, 5s.
per Scottish acre; but now it is rented at L. 2, 11s. 5d.--a fact which
shows that the value of land is still more than double of what it
was at the publication of the last Statistical Account. In 1792,
a male-servant's yearly wages, including L. 8 in money, and L. 6,
11s. 5d. the estimated value of maintenance was L.14, 11s. 5d.; but
now, including L. 10, 15s. in money, and L. 9; 15s. 10d., the esti-



