
		                     ERROL.                            371

             Although the parish is not intersected by any river, there are
         three or four large drains, which, under thd name of pows, serve
         to convey through the district the streams which are formed in
         the neighbouring hills on the north, together with all the surface
         water which is collected by the smaller drains and ditches by which
         the different properties and farms are subdivided.  These pows
         take their origin in the north and north-west parts of the parish,
         and pursue a winding, irregular course, the general direction of
         which is toward the south and south-east, till they empty them-
         selves into the flat shores of the estuary,-their mouths forming
         the small harbours by which the commerce of the district is car-
         ried on.  The course of these streams appears to have been de-
         termined chiefly by natural causes, corresponding generally with
         that which the water, seeking its own outlet, would have followed.
         In their shape and dimensions, however, they are artificial.  They
         are on an average between 10 and 15 feet wide at the top, and
         between 6 and 8 feet at the bottom.  The depth may vary be-
         tween 6 and 10 feet.  Except after heavy rains or sudden thaws,
         they seldom contain more than 2 1/2 or 3 feet deep of water; but,
         even in the height of summer, they are never in all places entirelx

         dry.
             Springs.- The only springs that exist seem to have been form-
         ed by digging wells for this purpose.  Most of them are perennial,
         but not a few are intermittent.  The temperature of one of the
         most steady and copious of them, is 40&deg; in winter, and 48&deg; in sum-
         mer.  The water of the perennial ones is generally hard, and of
         a clear colour.  Some of the wells have been sunk to the depth
         of 30, 40, and even 60 feet, without falling in with any solid
         rock.  The one which has been sunk to the depth of 60 feet af-
         forded no water till that depth was reached; when, apparently on
         the principle of Artesian wells, the fluid began to ascend, and con-
         tinued ascending till it became stationary, as it still is at little
         more than ten feet from the surface.
             Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the parish
         is rich and beautiful, the flatter portions of the soil making up in
         richness and fertility for what they  want of the picturesque. There
         is scarcely a rood of waste land to be seen in any part of the parish,
         although in some places the soil is thin and sandy, or inclined to till.
         With the exception of the limited portion which is under wood, `nd
         of the grounds which are laid out in pasture around the mansion of
         the principal proprietors, the whole is under cultivations.  The east


