
     of Dalry.

L. 5 the half year; a dairy maid from L. 1, 10 s. to L. 2, and 
others in proportion.  The high price of labour here is al-
most as great an obstacle to the improvement of arable 
farms, as even the distance from marl and lime.  It is 
worth observing too, that servants here, and in some of the 
neighbouring parishes, do far less work than in many other
parts of the kingdom.  In Ayrshire and in the Lothians,
for instance, a ploughman in the morning before he goes 
out to work with his horses, and at night after he comes
in, threshes as much corn a-day, as one here does whose
stated employment is to thresh; for except at winnowings, 
you are to expect no more of the thresher than the common
hours of working, with such pauses and intervals as take
up near a half of the time; and of those who labour in the 
fields, you are to expect no work at all before they go out, 
or after they come in, except in the long nights of winter,
when they assist the barn-man in winnowing your corn, if 
you have sanners for the purpose.  The price of every arti-
cle of provition, except meal and potatoes, is much higher
than it was 20 or 30 years ago.  Beef, mutton, and almost
every kind of animal food, cost at least a third part more
than they did before the period mentioned.  The demand 
for sheep and black cattle from England, has partly occa-
tioned this rife.  The reason why potatoes are cheap is, 
that almose every householder endeavours to get as many
planted as he thinks will be needed in his family.  Besides 
what he plants in his garden, though he possess no more 
land, he can generally obtain a considerable quantity, by
gathering fern or any kind of weeds, rotting them before
the threshold of his door, and mixing them with his ashes 
and the cleanings of the street, or road near his house, for
which compost, almost any farmer will allow him a crop of
potatoes, or as much exhausted land as he can thus sufficient-
ly manure.  Some who have little or no manure, give the 


