
			DALRYMPLE.                           281

	Castles.--There were several old castles in the parish, Kerse,
Skeldon, Barbieston, &c. Some stories of the old vaults in Bar-
bieston were found, bearing the dates of 1340 and 1345. This
castle was modernized about fifty years ago, and is now a comfort-
able dwelling-house. A part only of Skeldon Castle is in exist-
ence, and like most ruined buildings, it has an echo. As to Kerse
Castle, there is not one stone now left upon another, to point out
where it was. The greatest part of it was used in the building of
Skeldon House about sixty years ago, and the rest by the neigh-
bouring farmers for various purposes. *
   Mills.--Of mills, there are at Perclewan, a meal-mill; at Bar-
bieston, a barley and flour-mill; at Dalrymple village, a saw-mill;
and throughout the parish eighteen or twenty thrashing-mills, five
or six of which are driven by water, and the rest by horses. At
Nethermill, on the river Doon, there is a woollen manufactory, car-
ried on by Mr William Templeton, a gentleman of great ingenu-
ity and success, with respect to machinery. In the course of last
year, Mr Templeton introduced gas light into his mill, which is of
the greatest consequence and comfort to the workers.

nor commandyment of the country. For we hear na gritt mentioune maid of thaim
in Wallis dayis, nor the Brucis tyme. For at the Barnis of Air, the Laird of Cais-
sillis was Sir Neil Montgomery; quha, as we read in Wallace buik, was hangit in
Air, be the deseitt of the Inglishmanne; bot because that the Cronikil makis men-
tioune heirof, I rest theiron. Bot the airis of this Sir Neill bruikit the landis of
Caissillis quhill the ring of Robert the Secund, the first of the Stewarts, at the whilk
time the lairdis landis fell to ane lass. And the Laird of Dalrumpill, hir nyteboir,
come to hir hous of Caissillis, and perseivit hir, be forse, to have hir in marrage;
the quhilk scho wold noch condiscend to, bot defendit the hous. And at this tyme,
the Laird of Donour that than was, he coming by, and persciffing the samin, set upon
the Laird of Dalrumpill and slew him, and releiffit the lady, and tuik hir with him
to his hous of Donour. Now the Laird of Dalrumpill being slane as ye have hard,
his landis fallis to his broder sonis amongis the quhilk, thair was gritt stryff; but
the youngest at last sald his rycht to the Laird of Donour. And thane the Laird of
Donour sett for the eldest, and slew him, littil abuiff the kirk of Dalrumpill; quhair
now, thair is ane gritt cairn of stanis to this day. And this was Dalrumpillis con-
queist."

<FOOTNOTE>It may not be out of place to refer here to a poem composed by the late Sir Alex-
ander Boswell, from a traditional story communicated to him by George Rankine of
Whitehill, Esq. to who he dedicated it, and the date of the encounter he assigns to
the fifteenth century. A few copies only were printed at the celebrated Auchin-
leck press, and circulated among his most intimate friends. Mr Pitcairn of Edin-
burgh, who published in 1830, the historical account of the Kennedys, already re-
ferred to, reprinted this poem in the appendix of that book. He says that two differ-
ent versions of the story are traditionally current among some very aged people in
Carrick. One of these is that which has been adopted by Sir Alexander Boswell.
The other relates, that three of the Crawfords of Lochnorris were present at the bat-
tle, one of whom returned, heavily bemoaning the fall of his two brothers, when his
widowed mother suddenly cut short his lamentation by exclaiming, "Is the sow flit-
ted? Aye is she, replied the youth, and five score of the Kennedies are drowned in
the Doon." In that part of the Doon which bounds Boreland farm in this parish,
there is a pool, called "Kennedie's Pool," to this day, from the circumstance of their
having been drowned there.


