
228				BANFFSHIRE.

and son of Sir Walter Ogilvie of Auchleven, (who acquired, by
his marriage, the baronies of Deskford and Findlater,) was com-
mon ancestor of the families of Ogilvie of Boyn, of Dunlugas or
of Banff, and of Stratherne. He got the thanedom of Boyn by
marriage, in 1485, with Margaret, daughter of, Sir James Edmon-
stone of that Ilk. Boyn continued in the family from father to
son, till the beginning of last century, when Sir Patrick Ogilvie of
Boyn, one of the Senators of the College of Justice, having got
into great debt, by that means broke up the estate, and it passed
to the ancestor of its present owner, the Earl of Seafield. The
family, in males, is now said to be extinct. A superiority on the
estate is still held by a collateral female branch, in virtue of which
the husband of the party, Admiral Maitland, stands enrolled on
the list of freeholders entitled to vote for a member for the county
of Banff.
  The House or Castle of Boyn, the family mansion on the
Boyn water, near its junction with the sea, is still standing
and, as a ruin, is tolerably entire.\f* This mansion exhibits
the remains of considerable beauty and magnificence. In front
may be traced a double row of gardens and terraces, with
flights of stairs. The highly picturesque, scenery by which it
is surrounded, such as it is remarked that limestone districts
are generally distinguished by, is one of the chief objects of
interest in this part of the country. The ruins of a more ancient
residence and place of strength\f+ are still to be observed, remarkably

<FOOTNOTE>It was dilapidated about or soon after the middle of last century, when the roof
was removed, and the hewn stones used for buildings in the parish.
     When "the gallant Montrose" was carrying devastation among the Covenanters
of the north, we read that " from Findlater, he marches to the Boyne, plunders the
country, and burns the bigging pitifully, and spoilzied the minister's goods, gear, and
books. The laird himself keeps the craig of Boyne, wherein he was safe; but bilk
haill lands, for the most part, were thus burnt up and destroyed."
    The minister thus treated was Mr William Chalmer, who was succeeded by Mr
Patrick Chalmer, he probably by Mr Peter Darling, who died in 1730. The succes-
sion from that date is as follows; Mr Alexander Philp, translated from Deskford,
died 1738; Mr James Anderson, translated to Cullen 1752; Mr James Dunbar,
died 1785; Mr Alexander Milne, died February 1830, having been ordained in No-
vember 1785. Mr Philp was the first in the Presbytery apparently settled under
a presentation. When laid on the Presbytery table by Lord Findlater's secretary,
the obnoxious document seems to have considerably perplexed them. " After rea-
soning," however, they simply appointed a meeting at Boyndie " for sounding, the
inclinations of the people," and "moderating in a call."  Against this course, the
patron's agent protested. "The wadsetters, elders, and heads of the families" were found
unanimously for Mr Philp, and, "accordingly, a call was subscribed with great peace
and harmony." Mr Philp was asked his mind "anent call and presentation."  He
declared his opinion that "a spiritual and ecclesiastical realtion betwixt pastor and peo-
ple could only be fixed by ecclesiastical persons, and founded on spiritual considera-
tions; yet having such a clear and legal document of the inclinations of the people of
Boyndie, and understanding the mind of his brethren, he hopes it will give no of-



