
     of Glossary.

   Crops.-Oats, barley, and potatoes, are the general crops.
Part of the farms occupied by the principal heritors is laid
down with clover and rye-grass.  Oats are sown from the 
middle of March to the end of April; barley from the 
12th to the end of May.  The oats, if a dry summer, are
ripe by the 20th of August, and barley by the 5th; but if a
wet season, barley takes to the 20th August, and oats to the 
1st September before they are ready.  The oats and barley
produced are inconsiderable in proportion to the extent of 
the parish, but there are great crops of potatoes:  The two
former are very inadequate to the consumption of the peo-
ple; but with the aid of the latter, they subsist themselves
for eight months of the year.

   Stock.-There are 490 horses, 3200 black cattle, 12,000
sheep.  I cannot ascertain the yearly sales with any preci-
sion; bur so far as I can learn, the average prices of the 
horses reared in the parish, taking good and bad, for the
six years ending 1792, were from L. 6 to L. 6, 6 s. each;
that of the black cattle from L. 2, 15 s. to L. 3 Sterling;
the lambs brought from 3 s. to 5 a. Sterling; the hogs from
7 s. to 10 s.; the aged wedders from 10 s. to 13 s.;
and the aged sheep, or black ewes, sold at the fall of the
year from 5 s. to 7 s. Sterling. The kind kept is what

<FOOTNOTE>

from which the best lands in the parish are left in their original state,
without any improvement, and valuable woods neglected, and allowed to
decay, particularly on one of them, as the proprietors never resided upon
either; but from their neglected state they have been no object of define
to the graziera or jobber, who might otherwise monopolize a part of them,
and therefore the small tenants have mostly hitherto remained unmolested,
from which they are the most populous in the parish; and I have to remark
with regard to the gentleman who is a prorietor of one of those estates
since the 1783, that he has uniformly shown a predilection for small te-
nants, even to his hurt in a few instances; a worthy trait in his character


