
     Statistical Account

prietors transplant at pleasure.  Thus, every tradesman,
and labourer, and even females, have each their own lots,
which they cultivate at leisure hour, for raising lint, po
tatoes, and other necessaries.  By this  means, those of se-
dentary occupations preserve their health, and the poor,
their lives in time of scarcity:  as in 1783, when many
of the poorest sort lived from the end of July, almost en-
tirly on potatoes of their own rearing, while oat-meal
fold at 1 s. 3 d. the peck.  So far as the population is increased
by the growth of the original inhabitants, it may be at-
tributed to this circumstance.  The tradesman here, very
few individuals expected, are all on a level; no one chooses
to serve another, after he understands business himself.
When the young weaver has finished his apprenticeship,
and acquired as much free stock as will purchase a loom,
furnish a room, and defray the expense of a wedding, he
scorns to be a journeyman;  but sets up for himself, mar-
ries a wife, and becomes the father of a family.

   Manufactures.-These have hitherto  had little effect on
the population, in comparison of what they will probably
soon have.  Besides 3 corn-mills, 3 fulling mills, 1 for
malt, 1 for barley, a lint-mill, and lately a threshing mill,
there was built in 1780 a paper-mill, that manufactures
yearly near 1700 stones of rags, at 18 d. the stone, into
the coarfer kinds of paper.  And at the same date, an oil-
mill, that presses yearly between 300 and 400 bolls of
lintseed of this country's growth, purchased at 8 s. the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The potatoes of crop 1782, sufferd as much as the grain did by the
feason;  and farmers who could afford to live on other victuals, general-
ly reserved theirs for sale in seed tone, in hope of a high price.  Thus
the market was overstocked, and in April and May, potatoes sold at 4 d.
the peck; and the poor, who had exhausted their own scanty store, got
both seed and a  new stock of provisions at a very moderate price.


