
                       DINGWALL.                  225

   the whole surface. That this would actually be the result is
   proved by the fact, that within a yair, which was erected a few
   years ago in the neighbourhood, and which could but partially
   answer the purpose of the piles, a bed of mud of considerable
   depth has already been deposited. And this is further confirmed
   by the rapidity with which rnud accumulates in those parts of the
   canal which are not exposed to the action of the current.
	There are no common lands in the parish.
	There are 1385 acres covered with plantations of fir, larch, and
   hard-wood, chiefly the first, of all ages,-all very thriving, and
   in general well attended to. But besides this, there is a great
   deal of very fine wood, consisting of beech, elm, oak, ash, syca-
   more, &c. dispersed all over the parish in the form of clumps,
   rows, and borders. Tulloch, the residence of the principal pro-
   prietor, is very richly wooded, which is disposed with great taste,
   And the fields all over the parish are edged with rows of trees,
   the disadvantage of which to the farmer is compensated to the
   public in the luxuriant and picturesque appearance which they
   impart to the country.
	The average rent of arable land in the parish is about L.2 per
   acre. The lands around the town, which are of superior quality,
   are very highly rented, some as high as L.4, 1Os. per acre.
	The average rent of grazing here is at the rent of L.1 per ox
   or cow, and 3s. per sheep during the year.
  	The usual rate of wages for farm-servants is from L.7 to L.8
   in money, 7 bolls of meal, a quarter of an acre of potatoes, and a
   free house and garden, worth in all about L.20 per annum. La-
   bourers only occasionall employed are paid at the rate of about
   7s. 6d. a-week ; and country artisans at about 9s. The average
   rate of mason work for some years past is from L.1, 16s., to L.2
   per rood, journeymen being paid at the average rate of 12s. a-week.
   Carpenters are paid from 1Os. to 12s. a-week; slaters about 12s.-
   painters from 12s. to 16s. But work of all kinds is, done now by
   estimate, and the rate of wages varies according to the demand,
   and the qualification of the workman.
   	The number of sheep and cattle bred in this parish is inconsi-
   derable; the grazing, Which is well sheltered by wood, being ge-
   nerally let as wintering for sheep reared in the more mountainous
   and exposed parts of the country, and as summer grazing for the
   black-cattle reared by the farmers and cottars around, which are
   grazed at so much per head. The few sheep produced in the
     ROSS AND CROMARTY.


