
40                              WIGTONSHIRE.

for, in the compass of a field of even small dimensions, we find
three or four different soils. This, no doubt, is a great disadvan-
tage in ripening the crops for the same ridge, perhaps has light dry
soil, loam and moss, in different parts; consequently, the grain is
green or ripe, according as the soil is heavy or light, damp or dry.
	The subsoil is equally various, and perhaps more so. It consists
of clay, till, gravel, and rock. The rocks are of different kinds, but
chiefly a kind of transition slate, full of joints and fissures, which
has rometimes been used for gravelling roads, though it is certainly
the worst road-metal possible; for the feet of horses or cattle
immediately pound it into clay. Its only recommendation is cheap-
ness at first. But at last, it is the dearest and the worst. A road
made of this is never good, but constantly in need of repairs.
	But the subsoil in some places is of greywacke (whinstone.)
This is now used for Macadamizing the roads; but it is difficult
to break, and does not cut in any direction which the workmen
desire ; it is what they call " cross-grain'd," and breaks into ir-
regular pieces.
	It does not appear that granite forms any part of the subsoil in
this parish, nor are there any strata of it, either on the sea shore or
inland parts, as stated in the Old Statistical Account. There are
sometimes detached pieces of granite to be found. They are ge-
nerally bedded in the surface. They are round in shape, as if they
had been rolled among the other elements, like pebbles which are
rounded by the motion of the sea.
	Meteorology.--The climate is exceedingly good, and favourable
to health and longevity. Typhus, scarlet fever, pleurisy, and
consumption, do occasionally make their appearance amongst us,
but never prevail to any alarming extent. The atmosphere is mild
and moist. The soil in Galloway is generally light and thin,
and, of course, easily scorched by dry weather. But the soil
and climate are well adapted to each other, for if the soil require
frequent showers, it generally receives them. The prevailing
winds are the westerly. The greatest storms and heaviest rains
are from the south-west. The wind ranges from south-east to
west, I should suppose, at least two-thirds of the whole year. The
winter is very mild, without much frost or snow. From the mild-
ness of the winter in Galloway it has been called the Devonshire
of Scotland; along the sea coast, especially snow never lies for
any length of time, and a week or two of uninterrupted frost, is a
very rare occurrence. As a proof of this, there are many wintes


