
     of Alloa.

"Ptolemy places Alauna somewhere about Sterling; and it
"was either upon Alon, a little river, that runs here into the
"Forth, or at Alway, a seat of the Erskines++"

   Situation.-Alloa is a port in the county of Clackmannan,
situated on the north side of the river Forth, west long. 3 degree 45"
lat. 55 degree 10'.  It is about 27 1/4 miles higher up the frith than
Leith, and 17 lower down the river than Stirling.  The wind-
ings of the Forth, between Stirling and Alloa, are very re-
markable; the distance, from the quay of Alloa, to the quay
of Stirling, measured in the centre of the river, is 17 miles,
and to the bridge of Stirling it is 19 1/2 miles; whereas the
distance, by land, from Alloa to the bridge of Stirling, does
not exceed 7 miles, though the turnings in the road are nu-
merous.  It is the most considerable port in the river; for
the upper part of the Frith of Forth begins at Kennet Pans
and Higgins Neuk.-There are 3 1/2 feet greater depth of wa-
ter, in the harbour of Alloa, than on the bar of Leith.

   Extent, and Soil.-The parish is, on an average, about
4 miles from E. to W. and about 2 miles from N. to S.
It consists of about 3,900 acres.  It is hounded on the
south by the Forth; and the bend of the river is so great,
that the banks measure about 5 1/2 miles.  The grounds,
on the banks of the Forth, are flat, and of a very

     VOL. VIII.   4 F

<FOOTNOTE>

++It might seem whimsical to derive the name of Alloa from the Greek, and
yet there are several circumstances, which might tend to justify that conjecture.
Alloa was a rural feast of the Akthenians, which was adopted by the Romans, and
answered to our harvest home.  It was also used to signify a grove, or fruitful
plain, well adapted to the celebration of such a feast.  If we suppose, that the
Romans made good their passage across the Forth, about the time of harvest,
we may easily conjecture that they should conceive the idea of celebrating their
harvest feast, at a time which they thought propitious to their wishes, especially
an a situation peculiarly fitted for that purpose; and hence they might very na-
turally affix to that place the name of Alloa.


