
            424                       RENFREWSHIRE.

            ductions, but as one of the finest specimens of the art. The distin-
            guished and venerable philosopher is represented in a sitting pos-
            ture, as in the statues erected to his memory in Westminster Ab-
            bey, and at Glasgow.  With one hand he is grasping a double
            sheet of paper, supposed to be a plan, with the other he is apply-
            ing a pair of compasses to the paper before him.  The statue
            is placed on a high pedestal, with a tablet in front, on which
            there is the following inscription, composed by Mr (now Lord)
            Jeffrey:

                                                The
                                       Inhabitant of Greenock
                                     Have erected this statue of
                                           James Watt,
                                       Not to extend a fame
                                      Already identified with
                                      The miracles of steam,
                                          But to testify
                                      The pride and reverence
                                   With which He is remembered
                                    In the place of his Nativity,
                                       And their deep sense
                                       Of the great benefits
                                     His genius has conferred
                                            On mankind.
                                  Born xix January MDCCXXXVI.,
                                        Died at Heathfield,
                                         In Staffordshire,
                                      August XXV. MDCCCXXL.

            Historical Events.-Neither the town nor the rural part of this pa-
          rish has been the scene of any important events in the history of Scot-
          land.  The ruined towers,there mains of ancient casties and places of
          strength which are known to have existed, or still continue to stand in
          this neigbbourhood, too clearly show, that, like other parts of Scot-
          land, Greenock and the rurrounding country were scourged by those
          petty and often sanguinary struggles which were the disgrace ofthe
          feudal age, as well as by the predatory incursions of the inhabitants
          of the mountains on the opposite shore.  But it does not appear,
          either from history or tradition, that any signal battle was fought
          within the boundaries of this parish.  The compiler d6es not know
          of any pieces of ancient armour being dug up. Ther are no
          obelisks, no tumuli, no ruins of ancient camps or forts, leading us
          to infer that the soil has been the field of any long-continued war-
          fare, or even of any very, bloody conflict.  It is somewhat surpris-
          ing that, expept the remains of the old Castle of Wester Greenock,
          which are in a great measure concealed from the eye by the addi-
          tions which have been made to it in comparatively modern times,


