
                           GOVAN.                          689

rebuilt and endowed in 1494, by William Stewart, prebendary of
Killearn, and rector of Glasford.  The chaplain was the master
of the grammar school of Glasgow, who, besides giving security
for the safe custody of the missals, valued at 12 merks Scots, and
of the silver chalices, weighing fourteen ounces, was required to
supply the inmates of the hospital with a certain quantity of fuel,
and likewise to give twenty-four poor scholars 2 shillings Scots
each to sing seven penitential psalms, with the De profundis, on
the anniversary of the death of the founder, and for the repose of
his soul. *  After the Eiphinstone family obtained the lands of Gor-
bals, the rents and feu-duties which had been appropriated to the
support of the hospital were misapplied. The charge of the poor
"leper folk," therefore, seems to have devolved upon the session
of Glasgow. +  The situation of St Ninian's Hospital was not
from the south end of the Gorbals bridge. ++  No remains of it
whatever now exist; but a plain old building, which stood till late-
ly near the bridge, between the main street of Gorbals and Muir-
head Street, commonly received the name of the Leper Hospi-
tal. S  Close to this spot a considerable quantity of human bones
were not long ago discovered, plainly indicating the locality ofthe,
leper's churchyard.  On the east side, and near the centre of the
main street of Gorbals, an antiquated edifice, which has been call-
ed, from time immemorial, the chapel, is still standing.  It seems
to be certain that this is the site of St Ninian's Chapel, if not the

<FOOTNOTE>Cart. Glasg. Tom. ii. P. 930.
          " The sessioun ordenis David Hall, maister of work, and Johnne Scott, to visie
the lipper folkis house beyonde the brig, to sse how ye samen way be reformit, sic-
lyk yai ordene Steven Glasgow, watter baillie, to gif in ye rental of ye lipper folkis,
yis day viij dayes " (Glasg. Sess. Rec. 20th October 1586.)  " The sessioun or-
denis Johnne Scott, thesaurer to ye khrk, to gif furt, of ye penitentis silueir he hes
in hand, swa mekill silueir as will be straye, stobbis, and rigging, to repair ye
puir lipper folkis hous beyonde the brig of Glasgow, and as will satisfie ye work-
manshipe in handling ye samen, and that incontinent heirefter-provyding yat
ye pnt reparation to be hald of ye said puir folkis house astrict not the kirk to ye wp-
haldin of ye samen, in tymes cuming, neither derogate or abstract ye burden fra
these persones, gif ony be quha hes ben or may befund astricted, to repair ye samen.
As also ordenis ye said watter baillie to gif wp yis day viij days the nomber of ye puir
in ye said hospitalle, and quha are yai yt aucht to haif place yairin."  (ld. 2d No-
vember 1587.)  William Maxwell of Cowglen, in 1625, bequeathed " to the lipper
folk at ye Bridgened of Glasgow xxs."  Com. Rec. M'Ure's Hist. note by edit. p. 66
          " Ad hospitale leprosorum degentium prope pontem Glasguensam."  Cart.
Glasg. ut supra.
          That this old building at one time formed a part of St Ninlan's Hospital scarce-
ly admits of a doubt.  The charter of a conterminous property describes it to be si-
tuated on the east side of the High Street of Gorbals, and bounded by that " meikle
yard belonging to the borough of Glasgow on the east, and the hospital called the
Leper's Hospital, and kirkyard thereof, on the north."  The folowing entry appears
in a rental-book of the city of Glasgow, dated 1780," D. Gemmil for the back land
in the leper-house,-ls. 8d."


