
286                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

northern extremity of the parish, and nearly as much from the
southern. It was first opened for public worship on 20tb Febru-
ary 1820, and consequently it is in excellent repair. It is built
for the accommodation of 800 individuals. The sittings are all
free, the tenants being accommodated by their respective land.
lords, and about 60 sittings set apart for the poor. The manse
was finished in l8l5. The glebe, including the site of the manse
and garden, is upwards of 10 acres in extent. The stipend is 18
chalders of victual, half barley, half meal, payable by the highest
fiars of the county; and L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
    There is a Burgher meeting-house in the parish. The minis-
ter is paid from the seat rents and collections.  Stipend allowed,
about L.100.
   The number of families attending the Established Church may
be estimated at 300; number of individuals, exclusive of children,
1350. Families attending meeting-house about 90; individuals
above twelve years of age, 201. Average number of communi-
cants in the Establishment, 400.
   There are Societies in the parish for religious purposes, and
the amount of their contributions may average L.20 per annum.
   Education.--Tbere are the parish school, and two unendowed
schools. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the maxi-
mum; the fees, 3s. for reading per quarter; 3s. 6d. for reading
and writing; 4s. for arithmetic; 6s. for. Latin; and one guinea for
a course of book-keeping. The schoolmaster has an excellent
house, neatly built, and containing far more than the legal accom-
modation. The general expense of education may be stated to be
from 10s. to 20s. per annum. There are few or none above fifteen
years of age who cannot both read and write. The people in ge-
neral feel the benefits of education. The parish school is conve-
niently situated for all.
   Library.--There is a circulating library.
   Societies.--Two friendly Societies have been established-the
one, denominated the Weaver's Society, having been in existence
upwards of fifty years, and chiefly designed to defray the expenses
incurred, when a death takes place in any family connected with
it; and the other, the Dead-fund Society, established for a simi-
lar purpose.
    Savings' Bank.--A Savings' Bank for the parish and vicinity was
established in 1821. The sums invested yearly have amounted
to L. 100 or L.150; and the sums withdrawn, to about L. 50.


