	
	466                          FIFESHIRE.

	central turret was erected, now alone remaining.  But a small por-
	tion of the exterior wall of this once magnificent fabric is now in
	existence.  The area within continued to be covered with a mass
	of rubbish until within these few years, when the Honourable the
	Barons of his Majesty's Exchequer directed it to be removed, and
	certain repairs to be executed, to promote the preservation of the
	ruins.  The plan of the interior may now in consequence be tra-
	ced with considerable accuracy.  Several flat tombstones with de-
	vices and inscriptions have been exposed, and what apparently
	must have been a well, about forty feet deep, though now without
	water.  Nothing, however, of any material value was disclosed by
	the operation.
	   In the vicinity of the cathedral, were the various buildings con-
	nected with the Priory or Augustine Monastery, which was found-
	ed during the reign of Alexander I., near the commencement of
	the twelfth century, by Robert, Bishop of St Andrews, and which
	ultimately accommodated no less than thirty-four conventual bre-
	thren, besides the necessary domestics.  Martine states, that, at
	the period when his Reliquiae were composed, or about 150 years
	ago, some of these buildings were still entire ; and that of others
	considerable remains still existed.  In the interval, however, which
	has elapsed since that period, a great change has taken place.
	Most of them have now entirely disappeared, the materials of which
	they were composed having been removed, and applied to various
	purposes.  And as nearly the whole of the areas has been convert-
	ed into garden ground, even the site of several of them can now
	scarcely be ascertained.  The original erections connected with
	this establishment appear to have been comparatively of a very
	limited description; and as its wealth and its resources increased,
	the extent of its buildings was enlarged.  At the commencement
	of the fifteenth century, they were so arranged as to form two
	courts, and James Bisset, the prior at that period, is represented
	as having paved both.  In the days of Martine, so far as a judg-
	ment maybe formed from his description, the plan of the buildings
	must have been very irregular.  According to Boethius, this mo-
	nastery was excelled by none in Europe, either in respect to the
	extent of its accommodations, or to the beauty of its architecture.
	A considerable portion of what is denominated the abbey wall,
	which surrounded and enclosed the whole, is still in existence; it
	appears to have been nearly half a mile in extent, about 4 feet in
	thickness, and 20 feet in height.  It had originally sixteen towers

