
                         ORMISTON.                              131

to 64&deg;. In 1827-28, the observations were made at nine o'clock A.M.
and P. m.: that season, the range of the thermometer during the
months of December and January was from 28&deg; to 51&deg;. It was seldom
lower than 32&deg;. Its range in June and July was from 46&deg; to 68&deg;,
which was the highest point that season. The range of the baro-
meter that year was from 28.5 to 30. But it was chiefly from 29.1
to 29-5.
   From a register of the winds kept at the same place it appears
that, from 20th December 1822 to 29th January 1823, the wind
was easterly, with the exception of six days. The most prevail-
ing wind, however, was S. W. and W. In 1821 the wind was
easterly in the months of April and May, but in the other months
the south wind prevailed. In January and February 1828, there
were three weeks of east wind, but in the course of the year the
S. W. was by far the mnst prevailing. From that quarter, too, the
greatest rains usually proceeded.
   Hydrography.-The parish is every where well supplied with
water, abounding in springs of diffierent qualities. Some of them
contain a considerable quantity of iron.  Others, proceeding from
lime rock and gravel, are of a softer quality. Both of these kinds
are found sometimes within a few yards of each other. It is wor-
thy of notice, that in the village of Ormiston, there is a spring,
which has been long used as a draw-well, containing a consider-
able portion of iron. Several old men who were accustomed to
use the water of that spring have been afflicted with gravel com-
plaints, while such complaints are rarely met with in other parts of
the parish. Whether, and how far the water contributed to these
complaints, is a matter that yet remains to be investigated.
   The only river in the parish is the Tyne, which runs through it
in a north easterly direction. It rises in Middleton moor, in the
parish of Borthwick, about eight miles to the south-west. When
it passes Ormiston, it is but a paltry stream, the greater part of it
in summer being drawn off to supply the mill. It is occasionally
swelled by westerly rains, so as to overflow its banks and cover the
adjacent meadows. It is increased, in its progress, by the addition
of several streams which fall into it from the south; and, after a
course of about twenty miles, flows into the sea a little below Tyn-
ninghame, near Dunbar. The bed of the river where it passes Or-
miston is upwards of 250 feet above the level of the sea.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The parish abounds with coal and
limestone. The coal has been wrought from a very early period,


