
   170				BANFFSHIRE.

   kind of improvement of which the greater part of the waste land
   is susceptible ; and, accordingly, we are enable&to state, that, on
   the western district, the property of Lady Abercromby, 306 im-
   perial acres are to be enclosed and planted immediately, with mix-
   ed wood, but cbiefly with larch, for which both the soil and climate
   appear most favourable.  It is believed that plantations of consi-
   derable extent are also contemplated by some of the other pro-
   prietors.\f*  After all, however, a great extent will still remain to be
   improved.  In the district mentioned above, 664 imperial acres
   have been conditioned to be improved, in leases of nineteen years,
   lately granted.  When all the improvements, both those in pro-
   gress, as well as those contemplated by the proprietor, (viz.
   straightening the marches, dividing the land into farms of conve-
   nient size, improving and planting the wastes, and draining and
   enclosing the cultivated land), have been completed, this once (and
   still comparatively) dreary district will assume a highly improved
   appearance.  Similar improvements on the other estates will no
   doubt follow in course, at least in so far as they are practicable and
   necessary.   Whilst speaking of waste lands, it occurs to the wri-
   ter, that this species of property might be very advantageously im-
   proved by letting, at least a considerable part of it, in small tene-
   ments or crofts.   Besides the necessity which exists for supplying
   our surplus population with places of abode and the means of sup-
   port, there are many parts of the parish of Alvah of a soil so poor
   and unequal, that no other method seems so well calculated to
   improve it.  Large farms on such a soil are entirely out of the
   question.  Indeed, it is doubtful, if improving a great extent of
   waste land on one farm, under any circumstances, be a safe specu-
   lation to the improver, or of practical utility in any respect.  That
   it has fallen far short, often, of all reasonable expectation, there
   can be no doubt.  But the improvement of waste lands by small
   tenements is of a more permanent and useful nature; and, though
   at first it may not be done to any great degree of perfection, its
   progress is gradual and sure.  A crofter once set down on the
   poorest land, or land altogether waste, seldom or never fails to
   make an independent livelihood, and to bring up his family, and
   give them such an education as fits them for becoming useful mem-
   bers of society.  Mechanics that are wanted for the district, such
   as tailors, shoemakers, masons, wrights, blacksmiths, &c. are all

<FOOTNOTE>Since this report was transmitted, Mr Morison has planted nearly 400 acres.on
   his estate of Montblairy.


