
               526                        PERTRSHIRE.

                   The regulation and management of the fairs are now entrusted
               to the committee (formerly mentioned) who have the charge of the
               town's affairs; and the public funds of the town are principally
               derived from the grass upon the bleaching green, the public weights,
               and the rates of customs charged upon the different articles, and
               subjects that are exposed for sale during any of the market days.*
                  Inns, Alehouse, &c.-There is one principal inn-the Drum-
               mond Arms, which is much frequented, particularly in the sum-
               mer and autumn, and which is generally approved of by travel-
               lers for the superior accommodation, which it affords. Of the
               48 spirit licenses, which we have already mentioned' as grant-
               ed, in the parish, by the Justices, a large proportion is held by
               the occupiers of alehouses. Their effects on the morals of
               the people here, as well as in every other place, where they are
               equally prevalent, are injurious in a very high degree; and the
               half of them might be swept away with great advantage to the best
               interests of the community.
                  Fuel.-The fuel chiefly used by the richer classes is coal-though
               peeled oak is occasionally burnt by them; and it is calculated that
               the average value of the coals that come weekly, from Bannock-
               burn, Dollar, &c. to the Crieff market, may amount to L.50. The
               price generally ranges between 8 1/2d. and 1s. 2d. per cwt.;-but,
               during the last severe winter, it was higher, and averaged 1s. 4d.
               per cwt. The poor contrive to buy some coals for themselves, in
               addition to what they receive in charity, and this is perhaps the
               cheapest fuel they can  purchase; but they are not able to obtain
               tv constant supply; and we may still say, in the langauge of the for-
               mer Statistical Account, that "there is nothing that the people, in
               general, feel more than the difficulty of procuring fuel."

               <FOOTNOTE> Lord Willoughby has let a park, in the immediate vicinity of the town, sub-
               ject to the marked being held in it. The rent of the park includes the customs
               realised at the markets, so that the committee do not levy them. But his Lordship
               makes a suitable allowance to the town in lieu of the customs.

June 1838


