
			STEVENSTON.                        453

veys the land and barony of Stevenston in favour of Sir William
Cuninghame of Cuninghame-Head.
   In less than thirty years, we find another change, for in 1656
the parish and barony of Stevenston were purchased by Sir Ro-
bert Cuninghame, Physician for Scotland to Charles II. We
have already mentioned that his nephew found it necessary to dis-
pose of much of his estate towards the end of that century, and
the beginning of the next. In 1685, Kerila, the mansion-house,
and the adjoining lands, were sold to John Hamilton, whose family
had been the Hamiltons of Cambskeith, and afterwards of Cambs-
keith and Grange, so early as 1423. Kerila Castle continued to
be the mansion-house of this family till about fifty years ago, when
the present House of Grange was built on a fine situation, at a
little distance from the old castle of Kerila.
   About 1707, other portions of the parish were sold, viz. Ardeer
to Rev. Patrick Warner; and Town-Head of SaItcoats to the Earl
of Eglinton; and Hullerhirst to a family of the name of Kelso;
and all the parish, with the exception of Hayocks and Mayville,
still continues to belong to the families of Hamilton of Grange,
Cuninghame of Auchenharvie, Kelso, now Hamilton of Huller-
hirst and the Retreat, and to the Earl of Eglinton.
   Stevenston.--The town of Stevenston is of considerable anti-
quity, being mentioned in a charter of the Loudon family, as far
back as the year 1240. There was a small village of some anti-
quity, called Piper Heugh, of which there are still some remains
in the wood at Ardeer. The inhabitants of it were chiefly trump-
makers; and there were some, it would appear, in Stevenston of
the same profession, for in the Commissariat of Glasgow, we find
the record of the death, "in 1627, of Agnes Glasgow, spous of
John Logane, trump-maker in Stevenstone." The trump which
they manufactured at Piper-Heugh was the Jews' Harp; and from
the name of their residence, it would appear that this little colony
possessed the united accomplishments of Jubal and Tubal, being
not only "artificers in brass and iron," but "handlers of the
harp," and it is probable of the pipe. The voice of these ancient
minstrels is silent,--the pipers and harpers, like their woodland
village, have passed away; but they seem to have bequeathed the
mantle of song, to their posterity, for the inhabitants of Stevenston
are still distinguished for their musical propensities, as an instru-
mental band, and glee club, and, what is better, the excellent sing-
ing of the congregation in church, amply testify.
                                4


