
 			ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.                1051

The granite is various, and, as its component parts of quartz, mica,
felspar, and hornblende predominate, differs in hardness of grain,
and is diversified in colour from the white to the black tinge and
the red. Some of the red has been beautifully polished. It much
resembles that of Peterhead, but is more variegated in size of grain
and shades of colour. Along, the valley of the Dee, to the east
of Lochnagar, rolled masses of the primitive rock of that moun-
tain are to be found ; and it is also remarkable, that, at a lower
level, fragments of the black ferruginous rock, of which the ledge
at the Linn of Muick is composed, can be traced along the same
valley, but in a line frequently diverging from the present channel
of the Dee, and only found to the east of the confluence of the
Muick with the Dee. To account for this, the appearance at the
Linn indicates that the river, in some of its fitful risings, had swept
before it a huge mass of the opposing rock,-hence the disruption
in its fall, and, tossed by the maddened stream against harder for-
mations, it had been split into fragments, and deposited along the
then channel of the Dee. In the hill of Glentanner, topazes fit
for the lapidary are often found. Crystallized quartz, both pale
and rose, are frequently picked up, and occasionally, in the heart of
granite blocks, beautifully studded nests of them are disclosed.
Gneiss is common in the parish, and, in a few localities, limestone
(not very pure) on both sides of the river ; also ironstone, and, in
stray river boulders, faint appearances of manganese conglomerat-
ing, with quartz occur, but no traces of any organic remains.
	On the left bank of Aultdinny is fuller's earth, which has been
successfully tried as a substitute for soap. In the hills are exten-
sive peat-mosses, in some of which, after the removal of the peat
formation, at the depth of five or six feet, the original surface ap-
pears covered with charred oak, hazel, and birch. The soil along
the banks of the rivers is thin; from the rapidity of the streams,
the only alluvial deposit formed, is of sand and gravel; but ascend-
ing from the rivers the fields improve, and some of them are of
either a black or clayey till.
          Botany.-For the following list of plants and trees indigenous
in the parish, the writer is indebted to Mr A. Thomson, the pa-
rochial schoolmasters,-a gentleman who has devoted much atten-
tion to botany.
	1. A list of a few of the rarer plants and trees to be found in-
digenous in the united parishes:-


