
		            PORTPATRICK.	               149

rection of the proprietor and his f`ctor, according to the most ap-
proved method of the present day.
	Rent.--The average rent arable land in the parish is 10s. per
imperial acre. The average rent og grazing is at the rate of L. 1,
10s. per ox or cow grazed, and at the rate of L. 5 per ewe or full-
grown sheep pastured for the year.
	Wages.--The rate labour, winter and summer, for different
kinds of farm-labourers, varies from 10d. to 1s. 6d. per day, and for
country artisans, it is 2s. 6d. per day.
	The price of the several kinds of raw produce, grain. &c. is
that of the Glasgow and Liverpool markets, deducting the ex-
pense of carriage. The rates of mason, carpenter, and other me-
chanical work are also regulated by the more populous parts of
Scotland.
	Live-Stock.--The sheep, of which comparatively few are kept,
are chiefly of the black-faced breed. The cattle are principally of
the Galloway breed, to the improvement of which greater attention
has been lately devoted by crossing with bulls of the same breed,
selected from improved stocks of the neighbouring districts. The
peculiar excellence of this breed consisting in the smallness of the
bone, and the greater proportion of lean when the animals are
thoroughly fattened, is well known in the London Smithfield mar-
ket, where the Galloway spayed heifer sells at 1 1/2d. per lb. higher
than any other beef.
	Husbandry.--The general character of the husbandry persued,
although not the best, is tolerably good, being alternate pasture and
oats, with the intervation of a hoed green crop, chiefly potatoes in
the drier soils. The general tendency, however, is to over-cropping.
Draining and an undeviating rotation of crops are improvements
of which the present husbandry of the parish is very susceptible.
	The general duration of leases in nineteen years. In this respect
they are favourable at once to the improvement of the soil and to
the occupier, giving him a sufficient time for a return of outlay.
	The farm-houses and buildings are, for the most part, pretty good;
as are also the fences, which are chiefly of stone, or of sod with
furze sown on the top. The latter makes a tolerably good fence
when the furze is properly dressed.
	Within the last twenty years, considerable improvements have
been made by the occupiers generally, in reclaiming mossy and
formerly waste lands, by paring and burning, and by a better
system of cultivation, although this last respect much remains


