

                          COUNTY OF ORKNEY.                       213

       of property, that a great part of it is occupied by udallers, who
       possess about ten acres or less of arable ground.
          Christianity seems to have been introduced here by St Co-
       lumba so early as A. D. 570; but it was again introduced by Olaus
       Friguesson, King of Norway, A. D. 1000.
          Antiquities.-What has just been said on the history of Orkney
       will throw some light on its remaining monuments of antiquity,
       for descriptions of which we must refer to the Accounts of the pa-
       rishes in which they occur; but we may briefly notice, that to the
       Picts, or thnse who inhabited it, previous to the arrival of the
       Scandinavians, are ascribed the Picts' houses, such as that of
       Quanterness, near Kirkwall; the elf-stones, tumuli, or bury-
       ing-places, such as have lately been opened in Sandwick; the
       standing-stones of Stenness, and the broughs, one of which was
       lately opened in Evie; and either to them or their successors
       we owe the dwarfie scone of Hoy, and cromlechs, or altars.  To
       the Scandinavians are ascribed some graves, in which armour
       and various articles are found,-and the pundler and bismar,
       which are rude instruments still used for weighing; and it is well
       known, that they erected the stately Cathedral of St Magnus, the
       Bishop's Palace, and Castle of Kirkwall.  But the Earl's palace
       there and that at Birsay were built after the annexation to the
       Crown of Scotland, and, it is believed, also the Castle of Noth,
       land, in Westray.
          Population.-The population of the county had increased ten
       per cent during the ten years previous to 1831, and. 15 per cent,
       during the ten years preceding that, probably owing, in a great
       measure, to improvements in agriculture, and the extension of the
       fisheries.  All speak English.  The customs and habits of the peo-
       ple are not very different frol those of others similarly situated.
       Their dress, in general, is plain, and their food as poor as need be.
       If low in the scale of earthly comforts, they stand high as an intel-
       lectual, moral, and religious people.  And I believe that crime is
       less common here than in most parts of Great Britain.
          Agriculture.-In this department, considerable progress has been
       made of late, but it is still in a very backward state.  The single
       stilted plough is now, indeed, a curiosity, and the common kind is
       introduced, with iron-teethed harrows, rollers, &c. which are de-
       cided improvements.  A great part of the ground is occupied by
       tenants at will, in farms of not above ten acres of arable land, and
       observe no rotation, but an alternation of oats and bear, part of


