
                       STRATHBLANE.                          75

10 feet; and consisting of many alternations of sandstone, lime-
stone, and argillaceous limestone or marl. These are all in a
state of rapid disintegration, and portions of them are detached
and fall down almost every day.
  "Jasper is found abundantly in the hills, both in horizontal
and vertical veins. Stilbite, chalcedony, and zeolite, are occasion-
ally found; but are not so plentiful as in, the Kilpatrick hills.
Two varieties of gypsum are found; the fibrous and the compact.
The latter variety is of rarer occurrence; and is found among the
strata exposed at the section of the hill at Ballagan. It usually
occurs in amorphous masses of a yellowish colour, but exhibits a
white fracture."
  The strata are nearly horizontal. The vegetable soil in the
lower part of the valley is argillaceous; in the upper part, arena-
ceous; and on the hills and high-grounds, it is composed princi-
pally of,an argillaceous brown matter, mixed with the small debris
of the trap on which it rests.
  Zoology.--The parish abounds with game; such as bares and
rabbits; partridges, black and red grouse; wild ducks, woodcocks,
and pheasants. A few of the common roes are also found. Ot-
ters, weasels, stoats, polecats, wild cats, marten cats, and foxes are
numerous. Buzzards, ring-tailed kites, goshawks, sparrow-hawks,
merlins, ravens, hooded-crows, jays, magpies, and owls of different
kinds, together with the smaller kinds common all over the low-
lands, are frequently met with. Pike and perch abound in the
lochs. Char is found in Dumbroch loch.
  The gooseberry caterpillar is very destructive in those gardens
where the bushes are not dug round and plentifully manured in
autumn.
  Botany.--The banks of the lochs and the glens, from having
escaped the operations of the plough, furnish fields exceedingly
rich in vegetable productions. Among the rarer plants may be
classed:--

Agrimonia Eupatoria                 Epimedium alpinun     Nymphae lutea
Antirrhinum majus                   Erysimum Alliaria     Polygonumistorta
Arum maculatum                      Fontinalis squamosa   Rubus Chamemorus
Campanula latipolis                 Geranium lucidum      Rubus Chamemorus
Chelidonium majus                   Inula Helenium        Sedum dasyphyllum
Chenopodium Bonus Henricus          Lobelia Dortmanna     Silene inflatus
Cicuta virosa                       Nyrnphea alba         Trollius Europeus

  The great varieties in the soil contribute to the vigorous growth
of several kinds of trees. The Scotch fir and larch thrive in very


