
               BOINDIE.                                   223

tion inland for several miles.\f* To the west of the hornblende,
limestone, apparently of primitive formation, prevails to the west-
ern boundary. Several veins of it occur in the greywacke, and
were at one time extensively wrought for burning. Immediately
beyond the western boundary, on the opposite side'of the burn, it
is still largely and successfully wrought for the same purpose. A
small granite vein, the only instance of this rock known in the
parish, appears in the limestone, on both sides of the burn, at this
point. The limestone., here is remarkable for the excessive con-
tortions which its structure presents.
   A large mass of diltivial clay forms the upper part of the Knock-
bead to the east of Whitehills, and has long been wrought for the
manufacture of bricks and tiles. Numerous small boulders are
found in it containing petrifactions. Among these are Belemnites,
Cornu ammonis, &c. also occasional impressions of vegetables.\f+
Fish. The various kinds of fish common on the east coast, in-
cluding the herring and salmon, frequent the Moray Frith opposite
to this parish. The herring has visited our coast in rather decreased
numbers for several year Haddocks are generally found most
abundant after a continuance of easterly winds. During several
past seasons, they have appeared in unprecedented numbers.
There are found on the shores of this parish numerous stones
bored and honeycombed in a singular manner.\f++ In the holes are
found generally small shell-fish, called pholas. These are under-
stood to be furnished with an acid, by means of which they exca.
vate for themselves in the rock the curious habitation which it
has been intended that they should occupy.
   Plantations. The plantations consist of Scots fir, with some
mixture of larch, beech, and other trees fitted to the poorer soils ;
but, the subsoil being very generally close and retentive, they can-
not be said to be remarkably thriving. Where this unfavourable
influence is absent, the kinds specified appear to answer very well.

<FOOTNOTE>These are vulgarly known by the name of 11 Beenie blues" or " Blue heathens."
Many of them have been removed in the progress of agriculture. The method of
breaking them is by kindling a fire on the upper surface of the stone, and then sud-
denly changing its temperature by an affusion of cold water. In this way Hannibal
excavated a path through the Alps; and it is said to be generally employed in Africa
at the present day.
  The geology and botany of this district have been scientifically investigated by
John Shier, Esq. Lecturer on Natural History in Marischal College, Aberdeen.
  These, placed under a bed, are believed by some to be a protection against night-
mare! Supertitions, some of them too ridiculous to be mentioned, still linger
among the more ignorant. It is a humiliating fact, that two women here, a mother
and daughter in succession, the latter of whom died lately, obtained their livelihood
chiefly by pretending to practice the black art. Their practice lay not "in their own
country.
    BANFF.                                                P


