
                       STRANBAER.                        101

quate to the expenditure.  The average number of patients is
from 50 to 60 yearly.
  Friendly Societies.--There are three Friendly Societies, which
have been about twenty years in existence.  They certainly have
been attended with good effects in promoting industry, and a de-
sire of independence among their members.
  Savings' Bank.--There is a Savings' bank in the parish, which
was established in the year 1826.  The average amount deposited
yearly is L. 500, and withdrawn about L. 100.  The investments
are generally made by mechanics and servant girls.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid may be about forty.  There is no stated
sum allowed to each per week or year, except to such as are con-
fined to bed.  The funds from which the poor are supplied, consist
of the collections at the church, averaging about L. 50 per annum,
exclusive of occasional extraordinary collections in aid of the funds;
the interest of L. 450 bequeathed by the late Earl of Stair; and
about L. 30 from legacies.  Hitherto, there has been no legal as-
sessment for the poor, but it is feared it must are long be resorted
to.  The bulk of the poor are natives of Ireland, who have left
their native country in quest of food and employment, and who,
probably, having in their native country been brought up beg-
gars, have no disinclination to beg.  There are many of the poor
natives of the parish who have a disinclination to ask parochial
relief; but it is most gratifying to think that there are also many
humane persons to whom Providence has been more liberal, who
seek out such objects and relieve them.
  Prisons.--There is a prison in the parish, in which about 40
prisoners were confined during last year,--some for debt, othdrs
for theft and assault.  The prison is well secured.  Proper means
are observed for preserving the health of the prisoners, in diet, &c.
It is under the superintendence of a jailor and two assistants.
  Fairs.--There are, in the course of the year, five or six fairs for
black-cattle, and three or four for horses.
  Inns, Ale-houses, &c.--There are two very good inns in the pa-
rish, besides many others where spirits and ale are sold.
  Fuel.--Coals brought by sea, and turf, are the principal fuel.
Coals are very high in price.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

  Since the last Statistical Account was published, there have
been a great many new houses built in the town.  The necessa-



