
                        STOW.                      423

Crosslee, and Whytbanklee, more generally known as Cloven-
fords.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-towns to the village of
Stow are, Galashiels, eight miles south; Selkirk, fourteen; Lau-
der, five and a-half east; and Dalkeith, nineteen north.
   There is no manufactory in the village or parish, except one
clothier's establishment, called the Waulk-Mill, which we find
mentioned as far back as 1773.  It has been always on a small
scale.
   Post-Office.--The only post-office in the parish is that in the
village, to which it was transferred from Stagehall, in 1819, after
the opening of the new road.  There has, however, been a post-
office either in the village or neighbourhood since 1703.  Pre-
viously to August 1807, riders or runners conveyed the mail bags
from Melrose or other places; but, in that year and month, a
mail-coach began to run this road between Edinburgh and Lon-
don by Carlisle.  There was then a daily post from Edinburgh
alone; but there has now been, for many years, a daily delivery
from the north and from the south.
   About thirty years ago, the only thing on the road, by way of a
stage-coach, was a sort of wretched post-chaise, called the Jed-
burgh Fly, twice a-week in, and twice a-week out, which car-
ried four passengers inside, and one beside the driver.
   Bridges and Fences in the Parish.-The only bridge in the pa-
rish, till 1815, was that over Gala, at Stow.  It appears, by the
session records, that it was built in 1654-5.  It seems to have
been a very serious affair, and many are the minutes of the kirk-
session concerning it.*
   To connect our new road (fully opened Whitsunday 1818> with
that to Selkirk, a very handsome bridge was built over the Gala,
immediately opposite the new approach to Bowland, in the sum-
mer of 1815, at the joint expense of the counties of Edinburgh
and Selkirk.  Another bridge, about a mile higher up, was built
in 1829, to connect the old and new roads, and chiefly for the ac-
commodation of the Bowland tenants, at the mutual but unequal
expense of the late General Walker and the road trustees.  In
1831, another respectable and substantial bridge was built over,
the Gala at Pirntaiton, as a communication between the two sides

<FOOTNOTE>About the year 1668, and sometime after, we have church collections made for
building a bridge at Lanark, another over the Spey, and another at Inverness, with
various other bridges and harbours, each one of which seems to have been regarded
as a great national undertaking.


