
                               UNITED PARISHES OF

                                BIRSAY AND HARRAY.

                       PRESBYTERY OF CAIRSTON, SYNOD OF ORKNEY.

                           THE REV. THOMAS BLYTH, MINISTER.


                                PARISH OF BIRSAY.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name, Boundaries,&c-THE modern name of this parish is
       Birsay, a corruption of the ancient one, which, according to Tor-
       faeus the historian, was somewhat different.  Birsay, as united
       with the parish of Harray, was anciently known by the name of
       the Province of Bergisherad, which, according to Icelandic his-
       torians, means a hunting territory,-Birgis or Birsay signifying
       hunting, and Harad, now Harray, a territory.  If these deriva-
       tions be just, it is probable that these parishes of old composed a
       district principally, if not solely, destined to the 'amusements
       of hunting; for before Kirkwall was a place of any great note,
       the Princes, perhaps, and certainly the Nobles and Bishops, had
       their chief residence in Birsay.  The western extremity of the
       united parishes is a flat, fertile, and rather narrow track of land,
       which opens gradually towards the east, till it swells at length
       to an immense amphitheatre, bounded by the hills of Sandwick,
       Orphir, and Rendal.  Several beautiful lakes, of different sizes,
       are dispersed throughout this district, and some pretty large rivu-
       lets intersect it in various directions; the former of these con-
       tain plenty of swans, ducks, and other water-fowl ; and both of
       them abound in those kinds of fish that generally frequent fresh
       water.
         The greatest length of the parish, from south-west to north-
       east, is about 8 miles; its greatest breadth about 5 miles; and it
       is computed to contain about 38 square miles.  The form of the
       parish is irregular.  It is bounded, on the west and north sides by
       the sea, and part of the parish of Evie ; and on the south and
       east, by the parishes of Saudwick and Harray.


