
     Statistical Account

were bred to these woollen employments.  An early education
in this branch gave them a great superiority; and this pre-
eminence opened up a variety of markets, both at home and
abroad.  Great quantities were sent to England; which, after
being dressed up, and finished off with a peculiar neatness,
were returned and sold in our markets, at a very advanced
price.  The late Lord CATHCART, when presiding at the
Board of Police, was attentive to this circumstance, and pro-
posed to bring people from England, who should instruct them
in dressing their camblets.  At that time the demand was
great, and the patriotic proposal was not accepted.  Till within
these few years 100 looms have been employed in this branch.
Whether the demand for camblets has diminished, or that the
young people have figured to themselves an easier, or more
speedy way of getting wealth, by the sea, or the occupations
connected with the distillery, or to whatever cause it is owing,
there is undoubtedly a great decrease in this manufacture.
At present, there are not above 40 camblet looms, and per-
haps as many employed in serges, and inferior sorts of woollen
stuffs.  The manufacture of narrow and broad cloths has been
lately introduced, and promises well.  Scotch, English, and
Spanish wool have all been made use of in this trade; and
some very beautiful cloth has been produced.  The coarsest
kinds are mostly sold in the Fife markets; the finest in the
neighbourhood to persons of the first rank.  About 19 or 20
hands are employed in this cloth manufacture, each of whom
make good wages*.  There are 30 or 40 people employed in

<FOOTNOTE>

*Though it is supposed, that there can be no great difference in the rate of
wages, between this and other places, yet it may answer some purposes to those
who pay attention to this subject, to state them exactly.  A broad cloth wea-
ver can make from 20 d. to 2 s. per day; a man spinning by the jenny, 4 spinel
a day, 1 s. 6 d.; a woman, scribling, per day, 10 d.; a man, scribling upon dish
cards, per day, 2 s.; ditto, hand cards, per day, 1 s. 4 d.; women, spinning fine
yarn by the hand, 8 d.; a man, dressing cloth, per day, 1 s. 6 d.; a man, dying
wool, per day, 2 s.


