
172			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

and consequently, the temperature no increase from well-grown
woods. The southern part of the parish, provincially called "the
How of Applegarth," is on a low level, compared with the northern
and eastern divisions, and interspersed with meadow grounds; yet the
greater part of the adjoining lands being dry, and of a gravelly or
sandy loam, this southern division is regarded as equally healthful
with those of a superior elevation. There are no distempers pe-
culiar to the parish, which may be justly regarded as very healthy.
        Hydrography.-The river Annan separates the parish from
Lochmaben and Johnstone on the west; and the water of Dryfe,
in part of its course, from Dryfesdale, on the east. The Annan
rises about 4 or 5 miles above Moffat, in that mountainous range
which separates Dumfries-shire from Lanarkshire and Peebles-
shire, and from the opposite side of which issue also the more
famed waters of the Tweed and Clyde. The stream of the Annan
runs a southerly course at a medium breadth of 90 or 100 feet,
through 30 miles of fertile country, and falls into the Solway Firth
about a mile below the town of Annan. The Dryfe rises in the
northern extremity of the parish of Hutton, and runs in a south-
erly and south-westerly direction, in a stream nowhere more than

30 feet in breadth, and generally very shallow, till it joins the
Annan 1 1/2 mile below Applegarth church, at the distance of 15
miles from its source.
        Geology and Botany. *-The parish is intersected by two
hilly ranges already noticed, running nearly parallel, north and
south; and between them flows the Dryfe, which, running within
the boundaries of the parish, is of more importance than the An-
nan, when taken in connection with its geology. The Annan, though
larger, and the origin of some fine tracts of alluvhal land in the lower
part of the district, is here but a bordering river, the banks of
which present no very marked features. Looking at the Dryfe,
therfore, as the division between the two great ridges, we find the
declivities of these ridges furrowed into deep channels, by which
several stream descend rapidly to the river; and the correspond
ing slopes on the opposite or outer sides of the ridges are also in-
tersected by other streams, which make their way, those on the
west side, to the Annan, the others to the Corrie Water, the east-

<FOOTNOTE>The whole of the stated under the heads "Geology, Botany, and Zoology."
were kindly communicated to the writer of this account by Sir William Jardine,
Bart. of Applegarth. They are given at so great lenght as being common in a great
measure to the surrounding district.


