
862                         PERTHSHIRE.

pace with the progress of improvement.  The new system of drain-
ing, &c. has been generally adopted with much benefit; and for
this mode of improvement there are now great facilities in a brick
and tile work which has recently commenced at Ferryfield, on the
estate of Carpow.  In consequence of the division of two com-
monties, vhich was effected some years ago, a considerable addi-
tion has been made to the number of acres in plantation, or tinder

    December 1842.

                    PARISH OF DRON.

    PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

    THE REV. PATRICK J. MACFARLANE, A. M., M.D.,
                       MINISTER.

            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Extent, &c.-THE name Dronn, in the Gaelic lan-
guage, is said to signify a ridge or projection, a hunch or bunch,
which is descriptive of the situation of that part of the parish where
the church and manse are placed.  The parish is situated about
a mile south of the river Earn, and five miles south-east of the
town of Perth.  It extends in length from east to west between
three and four miles, including a narrow strip of the lands of Pit-
keathly, in Dumbarny parish, which intersects it; and in breadth,
from north to south, about three miles.  The principal and lower
part stretches, in a sloping position, along the bottom of the Ochil
hills, which form the southern boundary of the rich and beautiful
vale of Strathearn, and presents to the view of the traveller pas-
sing along the great road which leads from Perth to Kingborn and
the Queensferry, a very agreeable prospect of well-cultivated and
inclosed fields.  The face of the hills here is generally smnoth
and regular, uniformly green, and adorned with strips and clumps
Of plantation.  Some are covered with an extensive wood of firs,
birch, ash, &c, Which at once ornaments the prospect and enriches
the country.  A few farms, more extensive than rich, occupy the
higher, part of the parish, being situated on the summit of the
Ochil hills.


