
     Statistical Account

a King's galley, to supply the garrison stationed at Fort
Augustus with stores.  The stores are conveyed by land-
carriage to the lake; for the river is not navigable beyond
the harbour.  The river is 6 miles long, dividing the parish
and town unequally: it runs slowly, with placid majesty,
never overflowing its banks, in a channel whose fall is
scarcely 10 feet.  In the river, at a short distance south
from the town, is a delightful island.  Several years ago,
the trees in this island, discovered, from great age, strong
symptoms of decay.  The magistrates ordered them to be
cut down, and their place to be supplied with a plantation
of different species of forest-trees.  This plantation thrives
amazingly, and is great ornament to the valley.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

act the coldness of the air and obstruct the freezing of the surface, when
the thermometer is so low as 23 degrees under the freezing point, which
it sometimes is in the parish of Inverness, if not lower.  Sir John seemed
to have been apprehensive of this, in adverting to the constant undulation
of the lake  That Lochness, from its situation, is never perfectly calm, we
believe to be nearly true.  But we may be certain that the small lake, on
the very too of Meal fourvouny, from its situation likewise, and having
no stream running to it or from it, is at times perfectly calm, and yet it
is as little liable to have ice as Lochn ess.  The Nels water, indeed, when
taken out of the lake or liver freezes as soon as any other; but this is not
owing to its being kept in a state of rest; for its constant fluctuation in
water vessels from the river to distant parts of the town, does not in hard
frost obstruct its congealing by the way  The water, when taken out
of the lake or river, whether kept at rest or in motion, freezes as soon as
any other  It seems not then likely, that the not freezing of Lochness is
comprehended in the principle of the Count Mars.  Whatever it is
which hinders the freezing of the lake, will readily be allowed to be that
which binders the freezing of the river, and which dissolves frost in bodies
that are put into  even at the distance of 6 miles from the lake, and to
be that, which likewise occasions the smoking of the lake and river in
frosty weather, and so remarkably mitigates the coldness of the a  on
their banks.  If so, the heat owing merely to the depth of the great body
of water underneath, and said to be considerably greater than the freezing
point, will not go far, if indeed any way, in accounting for the not free-
zing of Lochness.

</UNREADABLE>


