
  			  ARDERSIER.                          475

rent varies from L.2, 2s. to 10s., according to quality and vici-
nity to Campbelton. In the immediate neighbourbood of the vil-
lage, lands pay L.3 per acre.
   Farms are held on leases of nineteen years, except the village
lands, which are held at will; the inhabitants occupying them as
a convenience.
   Concerning the state of husbandry and improvement, the Rev.
Mr Campbell of Croy, a native of the parish, to whom we are in-
debted for several facts connected with its early history, writes as
follows:-" Previous to the year 1780, there was scarcely an in-
closure in the parish. The mode of farming was wretched in the
extreme. The land was scourged by a succession of white crops;
then allowed, with its accumulated weeds, to rest for years, when
it again underwent the same trying process. The crops were of
the poorest description, and many of the cattle, from want of pro-
vender, died in the spring. This ignorance and sloth of the far-
mers was of some benefit to the poorer classes. The fields were
productive in nettles, wild spinach, wild mustard, and mugwort, of
which weeds the poor people made a wholesome and savoury mess,
on which they mostly subsisted during the summer; their only
approaching relief being a small patch of bear, generally ripe
about the 1st of August. About this time, Mr Macpherson en-
tered upon the largest farm in the parish. Of this gentleman it
may be truly said, that, so long as warm benevolence of heart, dis-
interested friendship, and the most conscientious discharge of the
all-social duties are held in esteem, his name and memory will
long be dear to the people of the parish. Mr Macpherson, know-
ing the capabilities of the soil, commenced on the most approv-
ed system of husbandry then known in the north, and in a short
time, not only the appearance, but the very constitution of the
farm was changed. The contrast between the crops under the
new and old systems was so apparent, that the small farmers soon
followed the example of their benefactor; so that now, and for se-
veral years, the poorest tenants labour their ground after the, most
approved manner. Before that time, potatoes were planted in lazy
beds, or dibbled in like cabbages. It ought to be recorded that
Mr Mathews, who farmed the Ordnance ground, was the first who
planted potatoes with the plough in this part of the kingdom." *
   Fisheries.-There are two stake-nets for the capture of salmon

<FOOTNOTE>As a proof of the agricultural improvement of the parish. it may be mentioned,
that, since the year 1800, the Earl of Cawdor's rental has increased 150 per cent.


