
        		NEW ABBEY.                                251

of Auchencruive; William Stewart, Esq. of Shambelly; James
Carrick Moore, Fsq, of Carsewell; Constable Maxwell, Esq. of
Terregles; and D. H. Craik, Esq. of Arbigland.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers of baptisms, mar-
riages, and church discipline commence in May 1691, when Mr
Harvey was minister, and have been kept with considerable regu-
larity. The register of burials has been less attended to, but not
altogether neglected by the succeeding incumbents. The early
part of the discipline Register evinces a vigilance of inquiry into
the private conduct of individuals, and a severity of punishment
which are unjnown in the present day.
	Mansion-House,&c.--Mr Stewart of Shambelly has two man-
sion-houses; one, of great antiquity, in the village, where he resides,
and another at a short distance, built by himself. The situation
of the latter is very delightful, being so elevated as to command a
view of Caerlaverock Castle, Solway Frith, Criffell, Waterloo Mo-
nument, the abbey, the proprietor's extensive plantations, and the
public road to Carsethorn, by which public carraiages regularly go
to and from the Nithsdale steamer. The fanciful villa of Kin-
harvey, lately purchased for shooting quarters by Mr Maxwell
of Terregles, and about to be enlarged aud embellished, arrests
the eye of every traveller, as he passes through the strath whene
it is situated.
	The parish church was repaired about thirty-four years ago;
and, since that time, two galleries have been fitted up in it one,
containing ninety seats, was erected by the heritors, and allotted
to themselves and their tenants; the other was erected by subscrip-
tions of the parishioners and some heritors. The whole church is
commodious and comfortably seated.
	A Romish chapel was erected about seventeen yeavs ago.  Its
appearance is neat; and there is attached to it a house for the
priest.  For the last seven years, there has been no officiating
priest.
	About thirty years ago, the Society of Free Masons and a
Fridndly Society erected a hall for their meetings; but it has since
been sold, and now used as a ball-room, and for other public
purpose.
	There are a grain-mill, a mill for carding and spinning wool, and
a saw-mail, which employs about ten persons. The timber pre-
pared at the saw-mill is generally shipped to Liverpool.

				3


