
                  COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.                          361

trap rock that occupies a portion of its surface, as that rock has
obviously burst through the entire strata after even the most recent
of it had been deposited. It is impossible to form any estimate
of the length of time that has elapsed since the country was raised
from the bottom of the ocean. Yet it is extremely probable that
it took place at the same period of the trap irruption. And it is
almost obvious to ocular demonstration, that after the movement
had commenced, at ldast after the highest lands of the district had
begun to emerge from the sea, that the motion bad been steadily
progressive, whatever the rate may have been at which it proceed-
ed, until the land and sea had each attained their present respec-
tive positions. At the same time, there are certain circumstances
that distinctly show, such as the accumulation of particular kinds
of diluvium on the eastern sides of the trap hills, that the lifting
up of the ground had not been instantaneous, like what is ex-
perienced in an earthquake. Although such is the fact, as appli-
cable to the district as a whole, when speaking of its being lifted
from the bottom, of the ocean, yet there is one exception which
although of a limited description, is deserving of notice, as it shows
clearly there has been a second movement, perhaps in the subsid-
ing of the sea, but more probably in the lifting up of the dry land.
That fact is distinctly visible on the sea shore in the parish of
Dirleton, where the outline of the ancient beach is clearly dis-
cernible in some places more than a mile from the sea, and the.
new, or at least more recent land is a parently thirty feet above
the present high watermark. It is curious that the south side of
the same parish, in the vale of Peffer, affords indications, although
not so distinctly marked, of the same interesting circumstance. A
very conshderable portion of the soil in the centre of tha parish
rests on trap rock, which renders it more probable that the whole
parish has been elevated, than merely the narrow strip around its
margin.
   There is a difference of geological structure in the arable por-
tion or low lands of the county, which, although of a minor charac-
ter, may warrant its description under three separate heads or sec-
tions, as that diversity extends to both the natural structure of the,
land, and also to the system of husbandry suitable to each. The
south-eastern portion, extending from Oldhamstocks parish west
to Garvald, and including the parishes of Dunbar, Innerwick, Spot,
Stenton, and Whittinghame, may be considered as forming the


