
584                          FIFESHIRE.

noble estuary, as far up as its junction with the Earn. It is situ-
ated on the south bank of the Frith, about twelve miles from its
mouth, and overlooks, towards the north, the rich and fertile Carse
of Gowrie, where the eye is presented with a wide range of pleas-
ing and impressive scenery, with the lofty peaks of the Grampiaus
towering majestically above the whole; forming such a richly di-
versified and striking panorama, as may vie with those of greater
celebrity.
  This monastery was founded by Alexander II. in the year
1229, at the suggestion of his mother, Emergarde, widow of King
William the Lyon, in consequence of the beauty of the situation,
and the benefit she had derived to her health by her occasional
visits to the district. It belonged to the order of the Cistertians,
whose earliest settlement in this country was at Melros, and was
dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and St Edward the Confessor. The
dress of the Cistertians was a white cassock, whence they were
called " Monachi albi," with a narrow scapulary, over which they
wore a black gown when they went abroad, and a white one when
they went to the church. The rules of the order were those of
St Benedict, which, in regard to food and other necessaries for the
table, enjoined the utmost plainness and abstinence, in the shape
of everything that approached to luxury. Flesh was allowed only
to the sick. They might use the common herbs of the country,
but pepper and the foreign spices were forbidden. It was direct-
ed that their monasteries should be situated in the most retired and
solitary places: and that the monks were to live by the labour of
their hands, in cultivating the earth, and keeping cattle. When
any of them went abroad, they were obliged always to go two to-
gether, to guard and witness each others conduct, and to prompt
each other to good thoughts. They all slept in the same dormi-
tory, which was a long room, not divided into separate cells; and
each monk had a bed to himself, furnished with a mat, blanket,
coverlet,And pillow, which was prescribed to be only a foot and a
half long. The superior ecclesiastics took considerable pains to
cultivate and promote learning, so that from the strictness of the
rules, and the works that resulted from their labours, the Cister-
tian order soon acquired celebrity, and speedily came to have
monasteries in every country in Europe, all of which bad the pri-
vilege of being independent of the bishop within whose diocese they
were situated/f*

<FOOTNOTE>
 *  Annales Cistartiensis. Monastic Annals of Tiviotdale, by the Rev. J. Mor-
ton, B. D.


