
			GUTHRIE.                           471

        Parochial Registers.-These extend back to the beginning of
the seventeenth century; but there are many gaps in the records,
and nothing like a continued narrative of parochial matters from
the above date to the present. The portions that do exist, espe-
cially those towards the beginning, are very explicit and full, and,
in many cases, very quaint and interesting.
        Antiquities.-Guthrie Castle, one of the residences of the chief
of the family of that name, stands within a quarter of a mile of
the parish church, and is of considerable antiquity. Sir David
Guthrie, already mentioned, obtained warrant under the Great
Seal to build this castle in 1468. It is still in great preservation,
and must formerly, when surrounded by water, have been a place of
considerable strength. Its bold massivd tower, surmounted by cas-
tellated ornaments, shooting up into the sky from amid the umbra-
geous woods, conveys a strong impression of beauty and grandeur.
It is worthy of remark, that, in 1299, when Sir William Wallace
had resigned the guardianship of Scotland, and retired to France,
the northern lairds of Scotland sent Squire Guthrie to request his
return, in order to assist in opposing the English; and that, from
that remote period down, to the present time, the domain of Guthrie
has been transmitted in the same name, unfettered by any deed
of entail. It is believed that the family of Guthrie of Guthrie is
the most ancient of the county of Angus. It is matter of un-
doubted fact, that they were men of rank and property long before
the time of James II. of Scotland, and that many of the house
were distinguished by their enterprise and valour. Sir Alexander
Guthrie, with one of his sons and three brothers-in-law, fell at
Flodden Field.
	There is, in the southern division of the parish, a Roman camp-
This camp is about five miles south-east from Forfar. It is one
of the most entire of any of the Roman temporary camps that
have been discovered. It is more narrow and rather longer than
the small camps usually are, being about 2280 feet by 1080.
Close to the south-east angle is an enclosure, situated on the
highest ground, whencd all the rest of the camp is seen. This
might perhaps serve as a praetorium. Its gate is covered with a
straight traverse, like that of the camp. Upon the west entrench-
ment, which is one of the two longest sides of the camp, there is,
a small pond, between the south-west corder and the Quintane
gate. This camp, on the Polybian system, would hold, it is sup-
posed, 10,000 men.



