
     Statistical Account

bert Pitcairn, was the first minister here after the Revolution.
The collections amount to about 5 L. yearly.  There is at
present only one poor family, consisting of a mother and 3
children, who receive a weekly allowance from the fund.

   Rent of the parish, Population and Manners.-The present
rent of the parish is 630 L.  All the leases have 17 years to
run, except one, which will expire in 3 years; and a consi-
derable rise of rent is expected from that farm.  The above
rent is exclusive of the oak, and other plantations, the moss-
marl, the annual value of which cannot easily be ascertained.
The oaks are sold once in 20 years for the bark: the last time
they were cut down, about 18 years ago, they gave nearly
200 L.  From the increased value of oak-bark, a very great
rise is now expected.  At the last cutting, between 3000 and
4000 of the best trees were reserved, which have thriven re-
markably.

   According to Dr. Webster's report, the population in 1755
was 280.  The number of the parishioners in all, is now
220: The medium number of births, for the last 7 years, is
7, and of deaths 4.  The parish has been gradually on the
decrease, owing to the enlarging of the farms.  This has also
contributed, in a great degree, to the removal of the cottagers*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The tenants being restricted from subsetting more of less are effectually
prevented from having cottagers upon the old establishment.  Until very lately,
all of them had their proportion of these useful dependants.  Every cottage,
family in this parish, possessed a house, garden, grass for one cow, and one com-
puted acre of good ground.  The ground was laboured by the farmer, who also
drove out their dung, brought home their corn and fuel, consisting of peat and
turf.  The one half of their acre was in oats, the other in barley.  The rent
was 1 L. a-man reaper in harvest.  The cottages and his family were subject to the
call of the farmer, for what other work be might need, and were paid accord-
ing to the rate of the county.  With these advantages, and their own industy


