
452                   ROSS AND CROMARTY

   The present enterprising farmer of the Sutherland estates in
this parish-Donald Macleod, Esq. Gladefield House, Kincar-
dine-has greatly improved the property since the year 1835, bav-
ing added about 60 acres to the arable land, which was then but
inferior pasturage, covered with broom and whins. He was also
at the expense of building 8135 yards of substantial stone dikes,
3310 yards of covered drains in improved land, and of cutting
12,720 yards of hill or sheep drains. These extensive outlays,
amounting to some thousand pounds, and which no doubt will be
suitably remunerated by a landlord of wealth and distinguished
liberality to his tenants, have, with other improvements, increased
the annual value at least L.70 beyond what it was when the pro-
perty was acquired.

The measurement of the estate of Cadboll;
                         Acres. Roods,-Scots measure.

	Arable land,	        	 137    3
	Pasture and moor,		1077	0
	Wood,		                  78	2

                 		Total,	1293	1

   The present rental is L.219, 2s. 2d. Sterling ; and the wood
above-mentioned was sold in 1838 for L.680, and is now nearly
cut down, but is to be replanted.
   Balblair Distillery.-Tbere is a whisky distillery situated at
Balblair, in this parish, which was established about forty years
ago, and was the first in this part of the country. It distils week-
ly 120, bushels of malt, which should give about two gallons of
whisky each ; the price averages 9s. 6d. per gallon ; and they are
permiited to sell at three strengths,-I I under proof, (U. P.)
II and 25 over-proof, (0. P.) but the last is rarely, if ever, re-
quired or made. ,
   The flavour and quality of these spirits is pronounced unequal-
led by connoisseurs in such matters; perhaps this may arise from
the use of peats as fuel,and other secrets of distillation acquired
from the old smugglers'. The repute of this distillery has no
doubt been considerably enhanced by the estimation inwhich the
late Mr John Ross, who commenced it, was held by all his nume-
rous acquaintances.
   He was a man of most benevolent dispositions, Christian prin-
ciples, and strict attention to business.
                  V.-PAROCEIIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-There is no market-town or village
in the parish; the post-town, which is five miles fr I om. the manse,


