
                        LOCHBROOM.                              87

the fiars prices being always considerably lower titan ttie ordinary
retail prices of the county, particularly to a person who cannot af-
ford to purchase a great quantity at once, the living is apparent-
ly more valuable than it is in fact. -
   There is one Government church in the parish, situate in the
village of Ullapool; but no chapel of ease nor missionary. And
it will astonish the reader to hear, that, in this enormous parish,
there is only one catechist, who receives only the paltry sum of
L. 7 a-year from the Committee for managing his Majesty's mu-
nificent Bounty of L. 2000 a-year.
   There is no Seceding, nor Episcopalian, nor Roman Catholic,
nor dissenting chapel of any denomination, in this parish. All the
parishioners are of the Established Presbyterian church, and firm-
ly attached to its doctrines, discipline, and government. The
church is generally well attended in time of Divine service; and the
number of communicants in the parish is above 400.
   The writerof this has no distinct recollection of the sums which
his parishioners may have, on an average of years, collected for re-
ligious and charitable purposes; but be is quite sure that they have
not been behind their neighbours in deeds of charity and benevoi.
lence.
   There are no societies for religious purposes established in the
parish. In a parish so extensive, so scattered, and so difficult, no
such societies could meet sufficiently often for any useful purpose.
   Education.-The total number of schools in the parish is 8; one
parochial school, and seven supported by various charitable socie-
ties. In the parochial school, there are taught, Gaelic and English
reading, writing, arithmetic, Latin, Greek, and mathematics. The
master's salary is I- 34, 4s. Sterling, with the legal ac4commoda-
tions. I'he school fees may amount to about L. 6. He has also
L. 3, 6s. Sd. as precentor and session-clerk,-all too little for a
nian of liberal education.
   Of the whole population of the parish, only 1496 can read or
write in any language, and many of these very imperfectly indeed;
while 37 10 can ndither read nor write; and it is to be lamented,
as well as confessed, that many of the people are not sufficiently
alive to the benefits of education. They make general professions
of regard to the means of instruction, when destitute of them ; but
when these means are put within their reach, the sacrifice is small
indeed, which many will make to give their children the benefit of
them.


