
30                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

free sittings are formally set aside for the poor; but an applications
to the kirk-session or local factor is all that is needed to secure
seats for any who are not able otherwise to procure them. Ground
to the extent of a Scots acre has been allotted for burial. As no
vessel is permitted to pass through the canal on Sabbath, the
town generally contains a greater proportion of unemployed sailors
on that day than on week days; and, if a portion of the church, as
in some other sea-ports, was appropriated for them, it might be
the means of preserving them from spending the day in idleness
and dissipation, and of inducing them to attend upon religious or-
dinances, as they could thus occupy these seats with the confi-
dence of right, and might feel an interest in seeing them filled.
The average attendance of hearers is betwixt 500 and 600, and
the number who joined in communion in November 1839, when
the sacrament was dispensed for the first time, was 200. There
is a parochial district attached to the church, extending from one
mile to one mile and a half, in each direction, and containing a
population of about 1430. This district has been chiefly de-
tached from, the parish of Falkirk; a small portion having been
taken from the parish of Polmont, which forms the eastern boun-
dary. The incumbent holds a bond from the Earl of Zetland,
guaranteeing an annual stipend of L.80, to meet which the seat-
rents and-collections are applied. L.20 of the collections are, by
the voluntary arrangement of the session and managers, annually
distributed for the relief of the poor of the district. Here dis-
sent has obtained a long and a firm footing. The number of
Dissenters fully exceeds that of Churchmen. There are a few
adherents to the Episcopalian, Reformed Presbyterian, Scotch
Independents, and Baptist persuasions, but the great body of Dis-
senters is divided betwixt the Relief and the United Secession.
Some of the present householders, who are engaged in the public
works, are Roman Catholics.
   The parish is amply provided with the means of education. In
1827, there was erected by the late Lady Dundas, an elegant
building containing a school-room for boys, and another for girls;
an ante-room, which is used as a library, and dwelling-houses to
the teachers. It is of the English cottage order, and is surround-
ed with extensive playground. There are few parish schools su-
perior to this, in point of comfort and neatness of appearance. Sa-
laries of L.10 and L.5 have been secured by tho Noble founder
to the teachers, and an yearly allowance is made for the education


