
			PANBRIDE.                                  71

rent is 2s. 6d.; and the boat's teind (for the privilege of fishing)
payable by each of the three crews there, is 5s. 3d.
   In the proper season, which is between the beginning of Febru-
ary and end of May, lobsters are caught in great quantities.for the
London market, and carried up alive in vessels fitted for the pur-
pose with what are called wells, which freely admit the sea-water
during their passage. Sea-weed is also put into the wells, on which
the lobsters may feed. Such as are caught before the arrival of the
smacks, which come along the coast every two weeks, are put into a
large chest fixed among the rocks, within flood-mark, with their
claws tied with small cord, so as to prevent their destroying one
another; and in this state they remain until they reach the Thames.--
Crabs are also got in abundance, but they are all disposed of in
the neighbourhood. *--Cod, in winter, is often caught in great
quantities, and salted in casks for exportation. Haddocks, like-
wise, are abundant, and form the principal part of our fishery, fur-
nishing an ample supply for the surrounding country, especially for
Dundee and Forfar, where they find a ready market. Indeed, the
fishery on this part of the coast is of great advantage to the whole
neighbourhood, as it produces a very considerable supply of whole-
some food for all classes of the inhabitants.
	Manufactures.--There is only one mill,--a flax-spinning one, in
the parish. It is on a very limited scale; but, limited as it is, it is
quite sufficient to show the demoralizing effects which such esta-
blishments have on those who are engaged in them. Hitherto, in
these establishments a great proportion of the risinLy generation has
been trained up in ignorance, profligacy, and vice, and afterwards
sent abroad into the world to corrupt and contaminate all who come
into contact with them. It is to be hoped that these abuses will
now be corrected by legislative enactments.
	Navigation.--There are four vessels belonging to this parish;
from 45 to 65 tons burden each.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Villages.--There are several villages in the parish ; but only
two of considerable extent,--East and West Haven, about a mile
distant from each other. The first contains 118 inhabitants; the
other, with a small landward village adjoining it, 304.FD
	Means of Communication.--There is no built harbour at either

<FOOTNOTE>It may be worth recording, that a few years ago a lady in this neighborhood
found half a guinea in the body of a crab, after it was boiled and brought to table.


