
                          KIRKMABRECK.                 339

    There are many obstacles to the improvement of land in this
parish, and amongst these may be mentioned the high price of
lime; the want of capital in some cases,-tbe want of encourage-
ment in others; and, in too many, the want of houses and leases.
   Quarries and Mines.-There was a copper mine lately opened
at Craigneuk, and a lead mine at Glen; and at one time there
was a trial made for lead at Blairs; but none of them succeeded.
   "Quarry."-There is a large granite quarry in this pa-
rish, immediately behind the glebe. It was opened about ten years
ago, by the Trustees of the Liverpool Docks, for the purpose of
procuring stones for the docks. The working of this quarry, in
1834, cost nearly L. 15,000, including rent, and tonnage of vessels,
&c. At that time there were upwards of 450 men and boys em-
ployed. There are only about 60 at present.* This quarry is
wrought in three breasts of about 30 feet high each, the one above
and behind the other. The operations are conducted with much
skill and regularity. At one time powder was very much employed
in this work: 50, 60, and as high as 70 pounds were used in one
blast. These explosions were felt and heard at a considerable
distance, as the slight shocks of an earthquake. The use of pow-
der, however, except in opening up corners, has been for some
time entirely given up. Blasting was found to shake and frequent-
ly to destroy some of the finest blocks. Drills, wedges, crowbars,
sledge-hammers, and cranes, are now principally, used in quarry-
ing even the largest masses; and it is truly astonishing to see with
what facility even mountains can be removed by handicrafs
   The modus operandi may be shortly described. In the quarry
the rocks are stratified. The strata are perpendicular, and vary
in thickness from nine inches to five feet. When a mass is to be
separated, wedges are introduced between the strata, and are driven
down with sledge-hammers until a separation is effected. A large
crowbar, well manned, is then applied, to throw down the mass to
the bottom of the quarry. This accomplished, the next thing is
to cut up the stone into blocks as large as the materials will admit
of. And this part of the work is perhaps the most interesting pro-
cess of the whole. The rude and unshapely mass may be 5 feet
thick, and 10 or 12 feet long, and must be cut into the form of a
parallelogram, + to fit with mathematical precision its own appoint-
ed place in the docks. Holes are bored 4 or 5 inches deep, with
a drill or jumper, and 8 or 9 inches apart, in the line the

<FOOTNOTE>In 1840 there were only about 60 men employed; there are now above 160.
           + Or to any shape that may be required.



