
                     SOUTH KNAPDALE.			275

require to purchase.  Here, also, they find a ready market for
any thing they have to dispose of, partly to supply the wants of
the villagers, and partly for exportation to Glasgow.  It is to
Lochgilphead, a large village in the parish of Kilmichael Glassary,
that the inhabitants of the north end of the parish repair for dis-
posing of fowls, eggs, butter, &c., and for purchasing tea, sugar,
dye stuffs, &c.
   Mean of Communication.-In summer, no less than three
steam-vessels arrive and depart daily to and froin Glasgow and
the intermediate ports on the Clyde.  During winter, there is a
daily arrival and departure of at least one steamer.  The com-
munication with Oban, Fort-William, and Inverness, as well as
Tobermory, Strontian, and the Isle of Skye; also from West
Lochtarbert to Jura and Islay, is regular, cheap, and convenient.
   To and from Lochgilphead, the post-town nearest to the north
and west districts of the parish, the post arrives and departs dalily
to and from Inverary.  Shortly after the arrival of the mail from
Inverary at Lochgilphead, it was, till lately, despatched by
land to Tarbert, the post-town most convenient for the in-
habitants of the south end of the parish.  Now, the mail is
forwarded by steam from Ardrissaig to Tarbert, and vice versa.
Thus a link is struck out of the chain of communication by land,
-a circumstance which occasions much inconvenience to many in
the parish, not only to those near the line of road from Ardrissaig
to Tarbert, but also to all residing at the western side of the pa-
rish, nor is there any saving to the revenue.  It is expected, how-
ever, that, upon representation being made to the proper quar-
ter, this anomaly will be remedied, and that the mail be for-
warded as formerly by land, between the offices of Tarber
Lochgilphead, and vice versa.
   Inns.-On the western side of this parish, along Lochcaolisport,
there is but one public-house, which, is all that is necessary.  On
the eastern side, at Ardrissaig, and that part of the mission of
Tarbert connected with this parish, the number is much greater.
   Fuel.-The fuel chiefly used is peat.  On the eastern side of
the parish, coals are very generally used.  They are procured
from Glasgow and Ardrossan, and the general price is about 14s.
per ton.
   Savings Bank.-By the exertions of Mr Campbell of Achin-
darroch, Sir John P. Orde of Kilmory, and other gentlemen
connected with the district, a Savings bank was established at


