
    164                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

    &c. &c. &c. It excludes all books on theological and political con-
    troversy.
	Poor.-Certain it is that pauperism has been on the increase.
    No doubt this may be attributed to the late increase of the popula-
    tion, consisting chiefly as it does of the lower orders; and also to the
    greater liberality of the times, which pays more attention than for-
    merly to the wants of the people, and which, on every occasion of
    the rise of the price of provisions, has led to measures which in
    other days would never have been looked upon as called for. Ac-
    cordingly, whilst for ten years previous to 1782 the parochial ex-
    pense did not exceed L. 20, and for the next ten years the annual
    sum amounted only to L. 25, it has since gradually risen to L. 100
    and upwards annually, and last year it was L. 118, from which falls
    only to be deducted the allowances (L. 8, 14s.) made to the pre-
    centor and session-clerk, together with the dues of the beadle,
    presbytery, and synod clerks. For a good many years no heritor
    had a permanent residence within the parish,-an arrangement
    which may be presumed to have been hurtful to the parish both in
    regard to matters of police and in regard to the poor, who could
    not fail to be benefited by the residence of the wealtby. In the
    circumstances of the parish adverted to, and when none of the rents
    are returned to it in the encouragement of the industry of the in-
    habitants, it could not be expected that the church collections, to-
    gether with the usual funds arising from the use of the mortcloth,
    the fee at the proclamation of banns, and the interest of L. 229 of
    mortified money, should be adequate to supply the wants of the
    poor, more especially during periods of peculiar pressure and exi-
    gency. Accordingly, it was proposed to the heritors, that they
    should enter into a voluntary subscription, in supplement of the
    above ordinary funds, and in proportion to their respective interests
    in the parish. This measure was heartily gone into, and the sum
    of L. 60 has been raised annually for the above purpose, and in
    times of peculiar distress this sum has been proportionally increased.
    In a parish like this, where there is a small proportion of resident he-
    ritors, whose duty and interest it is to give a helping hand to the poor,
    and a tenantry, all paying pretty tight rents, much occupied about
    their own proper business, and often necessarily absent from home,
    there seem to be insuperable difficulties in carrying into effect any
    measures similar to those recommended and practised with success
    by Dr Chalmers in the differently constituted parish of St Jobn's.
	Friendly Society, &c.-There is a friendly society in the parish;
    and there has been kept a savings bank at Newlands for several


