
 			KNOCKANDO.                                7l

his son Lord Elchies, one of the Judges of the Court of Session,
whose son Baron Grant sold the estate to the Earl of Findlater.
The house is at present occupied by Alexander Reid, Esq. while
rents the home farm.  In the wood of Easter Elchies, a little be-
low the mansion house, is the churchyard of Macallan, a seques-
tered rural burial-ground.
  At some distance below the House of Easter Elchies, and near
the eastern extremity of the parish, stands the elegant bridge of
Craig Elachie. This handsome structure was built in 1814 by
the Parliamentary Commissioners, aided by private subscriptions.
It consists of a single arch of cast metal thrown across the Spey at
one of the most beautiful parts of the river. The span of the
arch is 150 feet 3 inches above the ordinary level of the water;
the abutments are supported by four castellated turrets, each rais-
ed to the height of fifty feet. " These towers, during the floods
of 1829, established in a remarkable manner the superior durabi-
lity of a hollow cylindrical construction in masonry, for they were
but little affected by the pressure of water, which swept away many
seemingly stronger buildings," *
   The execution of the bridge did great credit to Mr John Simp-
son of Shrewsbury. The cast iron was delivered at Speymouth
for L. 3000. The cost of erection, &c. including iron, amounted
to L. 8000. The approach to Craig Elachie bridge is very grand.
The traveller appears on crossing to be approaching a large ca-
vern, biit feels surprised to find himself on a turnpike road, cut
for a considerable extent along a huge rock covered with firs of
a large size, and bounded by a secure parapet wall overhanging
the Spey. The height of Craig Elacbie rock, at the highest
point cut down for the roadway, is 70 feet.,
  In Rothiemurchus there is another lofty rock called Craig Ela-
chie, and between these two crags is comprehended the well-known
district of Strathspey. In former times, signals by fire used to be
communicatedfrom the one rock to the other, on the approach of
an enemy, to convene the inhabitants. Hence the Grants use for.
their motto, "Stand fast, Crai Elachie."

<TABLE=POPULATION>
According to Dr Webster in 1755 the population amounted to 1267

                                    1791,	-	1600
     By last Statistical Account in 1792,	-	1500
     By Government Census in        1801, - 1432

<FOOTNOTE>Guide to the Highlands and Islands of Scotland by the Messrs Anderson of In-
     verness


