
608                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

rage, however, the people were but the puppets, the wires were
drawn by jugglers, persons of influence, behind the screen.  The
presbyters exerted itself zealously to supply the vacancies, but ex-
erted itself in vain, for the people were generally hostile; and the
Viscountess of Frendraught had possessed herself of the keys of
both churches.  These she kept for several months, and was in-
duced, at last, to give them up-not so much from the persuasion
of the presbytery, as the dread of a threatened civil action.  When
access to these churches was again obtained, and the people had
somewhat cooled in their resentment, supplies were furnished by
the presbytery, and matters were beginning to wear a more peace-
able appearance.  But, alas ! a new circumstance arose to  rekin-
dle into a flame the dying spark of discord.  It was necessary that
ministers should be settled at both Forgue and Inverkeithnie, and
as the vacancy at both had been now upwards of a twelvemonth,
it was proper to proceed to the settlement of those parishes with-
out loss of time.  The right of presentation had now, in both
cases, devolved on the presbytery; it was claimed by the patron,
Mr Morrison of Bognie, son of the Viscountess of Frendraught.
The presbytery, after sounding the inclinations of the people, and
such of the heritors as were favourable to an immediate settle-
meni, issued a presbyterial and general call in favour of the Rev.
Alexander Forbes, to be minister of Forgue, because he was pre-
ferred by the people of that parish; as they did, a little after-
wards, and for the same reason, issue another, in favour of the
Rev. James Stuart, minister of Ordequbill, to be minister at In-
verkeithmie.  The presbytery commenced with the case of For-
gue, and took the usual steps toward the settlement of Mr For-
bes.  Thev were opposed in these steps by the patron, who by his
mandatory protested and appealed to the synod.  The preby-
tery acted in tenth of both protest and appeal, and appointed an
edict to be served in the church of Forgue, intimating a day for
the settlement.  This was whispered to the people, and gave great
offence to a decided majority.  They took measures to prevent
the serving of the edict, and treated rather roughly the clergy-
man who came forward to serve it.  The presbytery, dreading per-
sonal danger from the infuriated people on the day of settlement,
applied to the proper quarters for the assistance of the sheriff to
render the church of Forgue patent, and a party of soldiers to
protect them on the day settlement, namely, the 25th Septem-


