
36                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

and storms, spare our pastures and our corn; this is to thee, O
eagle, spare our lambs and our kids; this is to you, O fox and fal-
con, spare our poultry," &c. The second was La Samh'in, the day of
the fire of peace, i. e. the 1st of November. This was the most
solemn of all their festivals, when the Druids (Caesar, 1. 6. c. xiii.)
met at the most centrical cairn to hold rejoicing for finishing the
harvest, and to maintain the peace by adjusting every dispute and
deciding every controversy. Then, too, all were obliged to ex-
tinguish their fires on the preceding evening, and come for a sup-
ply of the consecrated fire on the cairn. But of this, no person who
had failed in duty, could obtain any share, till he had made every
reparation required by the Druids. If he was refractory, the sen-
tence of excommunication was pronounced against him, which was
worse than death. None durst afford him shelter, or fire, or food,
or any office of humanity, under pain of the same sentence being
passed upon themselves. Here the Druids showed their wisdom
or cunning, in fixing their assizes to this season, when every man's own
feelings prompted him to stblission; and this secured their power
and the public peace, better than all our modern courts of justice.
	On these two occasions, the Druids offered bloody sacrifices, and
that their victims consisted not only of beasts but of men, is clear
from Caesar, 1. 6, c. xvi., Tacitus, Annal. 1. 14, c. v., and Pliny,
Nat. Hist. 1. 30, c. i. Two fires being kindled from one another,
says Toland, the men and beasts to be sacrificed were made to
pass between these fires, by way of consecration. Hence the Gae-
lic proverb,-the jeopardy of Beil, or between Beil's two fires, i. e.
the most dreadful danger, from which escape would be miraculous.
Hence our bonfires, &c. at May-day and Halloweven. Hence,
too, our rejoicing at harvest home, as in many places of Scotland
called the kirn, a corruption of cairn. Sometimes it is called
Clayock, a corruption of Cailoch, the Gaelic of carlin or old wife.
	Bloody sacrifices had their origin from Divine appointment, im-
mediately after the fall, as a memorial of sin, and a type of that all
sufficient sacrifice of the Cross, which was to do it away. And the
covering which God gave to our first parents, taken from their vic-
tims slain in sacrifice, was a striking emblem of that righteousness
to be wrought out by Christ, which would cover the moral naked-
ness of every true penitent. But although the fear nf punishment
from a sense of sin remained, yet fallen and depraved nature soon
corrupted this solemn and expressive rite by the most shocking
crimes. Indeed, history proves that almost every nation under
Heaven, in, their uncivilized state, at one time offered human sacri-



