
26                       FIFESHIRE.

siderable number of Carices on Edensmuir: the C. pulicaris grows
near Ramornie; the C. stellulata, curia, pendula, flava, prcecox,
piluligera, paludosa, and riparia on Edensmuir; while the C. hirta
grows near the Black Loch. The C. arenaria, so common on
the sea coast, is found on the lands of Ramornie, running among
the sand at a distance of ten miles from the sea. Littorella lacus-
tris grows round the Black Loch. The Poterium sanguisorba
was found near Birns farm. The Betula alba, var. B. grows at
Rankeilour, while the Pinus sylvestris, either planted or native,
covers the lands of Edensmiur. Besides the cultivated willows,
such as the Triandra, fragilis, decipiens, Russelliana, rubra, cine-
rea, viminalis, and alba; the repens, aquatica, and caprea are
found in their native situations. Myrica Gale grows abundantly in
the marsh at Muirside. The Aspidium Oreopteris is found on
Edensmuir, along with the Blechnum boreale and the Lycopodium
clavatum. Botrychium lunaria is found on the pastures of Ballo-
mill.
  It would be improper here to enter the names of the other
cryptogamic plants, but it may be mentioned that it is supposed
there is no parish in Scotland where there is an equal number of
agaries; 125 species were gathered previous to the dry summer in
1826. They have not been so numerous since that year; but many
sorts which had not been seen for years have again made their ap-
pearance, so that it is probable they will now rather exceed than
fall short of that number.

                      II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

  Pictures.-- Under this head it may be mentioned, that there is in
the possession of Charles Kinnear, Esq. of Kinloch, three original
paintings by our countryman Wilkie. They are interesting not only
as some of the earliest productions of his genius, but as indicating by
their history, the good feelings of his heart. They were painted for
the late Mr Kinnear, and presented to him by the artist, in testi-
mony of the kindness and friendship he experienced at Kinloch in
early life, and on this account are much valued by the family. They
are in that peculiar style of his art in which he has acquired the
greatest celebrity. It was by the largest of these pictures, indeed,
that be first came into notice. The subject is " Pitlessie fair," con-
taining upwards of l5O figures, the labour of a year. The size is 3
feet 9 inches by 2 feet. The grouping is admirable. The princi-
pal figures in the piece are characters who were well known in the
neighbourhood during the early life of the artist, which gives a


