
36			CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

the parishes of Tullibody and Alloa. The earliest of these is in Vol.
ii. p. 75, relating to a period so far back as 1452; the remaining
references extend to the beginning of the eigbteentb,century.
There are also short notices of Alloa and other parishes in the
I st vol. of the Macfarlane manuscript, (in the Advocates' Library
Edinburgh,) drawn up by Mr Alexander Rait, in the year 17,22.
In the-chartulary of the abbey of Cambuskenneth, there are two
charters which refer to the kirk of Alloa, the first entitle "Con-
tra Capella de Alway, May 20, 1409," beginning thus., 41 Henry
miseratione Divina Episcopus Sancti Andreae, capellario parochia-
li ecelesie de Clakmanane salutem, &e." and the second,entitied,
"Instrumentum de Capella de Away, 15 May 1401," beginning
"In Dei nomine, Amen," &c. and referring to some arbiters chosen
by the abbot of that day, for the interest of the convent on the
one part, and a noble lord, Thomas Lord Erskine, Knight, on
the other, about the "servicio capelloe de Alway, quod dictus Do-
minus Thomas clamebat fieri diete capelle per dictum dominum
Abbatem ut perpetuum vicarium de Clackmanan," &c.
  In the ill-fated attempt of Charles I. to introduce Episcopacy
into Scotland, in opposition to the Covenanters, the Earl of
Montrose, just before the battle of Kilsyth, (15th August
1645,) after remaining a, night at Kinross, marched towards
Alloa, in the neighbourbood of which he arrived in the even-
ing, and passed the night in the wood of Tullibody. Gene-
ral Baillie, (Ieader of the forces of the Covenanters,) follow-
ed with such speed, that be encamped at Tullibody, the same
evening his antagonist did at Kilsyth,--which be also reached
with his troops, the following day. The Highlanders plundered
the town of Alloa, and the adjoining lordships belonging to
the Earl of Mar; but, notwithstanding this unprovoked outrage,
the Earl and Lord Erskine-gave Montrose, the Eadl of Airly,
and the principal officers of the army, an elegant entertainment in
the Castle of Alloa. Montrose did not delay the march of his
army, wbile partaking of the hospitality of the Earl of Mar. The
Macleans then burnt Castle Campbell, the principal residence of
the Argyle family in the lowlands, in requital of similar acts of
the Marquis in the country of the Macleans. The Marquis of
Argyle, now, also caused the house of Menstrie, the seat of the
Earl of Stirling, the king's secretary, and that of Airtbrey, belong-
ing to Sir John Graham of Braco, to be burnt. This was done
by way of retaliation for the destruction of Castle Campbell by the


