
               		  CARMUNNOCK.                      601

        Antiquities.-In the estate of Castlemilk, there are the remains
of a Roman military road, and also of a Roman camp. In the same
property, and also in the estate of Cathkin, several pieces of an-
cient armour, with camp utensils, have been dug up; and many
tumuli have been met with, in which, when opened, urns formed
of clay and rudel carved were found. The urns, when exposed
to the air, went all to dust, except one, which was vitrified, and is
still to be seen. In one or two instances, they contained a quanti-
ty of human bones mixed with earth. The sepulchral cairns, most
of which are now destroyed, were in a straight line, and stood on
bases of from 6 to 12 falls. Some of them were 6 feet high,
and 6 falls on the top, and one of them, part of which is still
standing, might measure from 14 to 15 feet in height. When
deepening a ditch on the march between Cathkin and Castlemilk,
about seven or eight years ago the bottom of a boat was dis-
covered, 10 feet long and 2 feet broad all of black oak. There
are no marks of iron about it, but strong wooden nails.
	The late proprietress of Castlemilk, Lady Anne Stuart, is sup-
posed to have been in her day the most direct descendant of the
royal line of that name, and in the House of Castlemilk, one of
the most beautiful residences in this part of the country, the un-
fortunate Mary Queen of Scots is said to have lodged the night
before the battle of Langside. An old thorn tree is pointed
out as near the spot where, on the following day, she witnessed the
discomfiture of her army; but perhaps a more likely situation is a
rock on the top of Cathkin-hill, which still goes by the name of
the Queen's Seat.
	I may add to these notices, that, a few years ago. on taking down
the old offices belonging to one of the Castlemilk farm-houses, a
number of silver coins were found, of the reigns of Elizabeth.
James I., and Charles I. and II. They were wrapped up in what
appeared to be an old stocking, and concealed in one of the walls.
There can be little doubt, from the history of Scotland in con-
nexion With the date of the coins, that they had been hid as a
precaution against plunder.
        Recent Events.-In 1819-20, memorable for a foolish rising against
the government of the country, on the part of a number of delud-
ed persons, especially in the West of Scotland, the top of Cathkin
hill in this parish was selected as the place of rendezvous for a
general assault upon Glasgow. The subjoined account of this ab-
surd enterprise is extraced from the Glasgow Herald of the 10th


