
                        CARMICHAEL.                       527

There are only three proprietors of land in the parish, as has
been already mentioned. Mr Carmichael of Eastend is the only
resident proprietor.
	There are two females whose mental faculties are weak, and one
of them dumb; one young man, deaf and dumb, who was taught
at the Deaf and Dumb Institution of Edinburgh, and who is very
active.
	Character of the People, &c.-- The habits of the people, in point
of dress and mode of living, have been greatly improved within
the last five-and-twenty years. They enjoy in a considerable
degree the comforts and advantages of society. In proof of
their intelligence, activity, and sobriety, I may appeal to the
fact, that several of them have secured a competency, and almost
all of them live in easy and comfortable circumstances, to which
their fathers were utter strangers. For their moral and religious
character I appeal to their regular church-going habits, which
have attracted the notice of all strangers, and which have been the
source of much satisfaction to me, and I trust, of some benefit to
themselves. There is a commendable attachment, which man of
them cherish towards the parish where they were born and edu-
cated, and which displays itself in leaving other parishes where
they reside, to join in the celebration of the Lord's Supper, in the
church where they first made a public profession of their Christian
faith and hope. Perhaps the feeling may be resolved into a wish
to accompany their fathers' family, where they bad been first taught
the value of the privilege, and the obligation of the duty of ob-
serving the sacred ordinance.

                	IV.--INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture.--The parish contains 9252 Scots acres, or nearly
11,631 Imperial acres, that is, rather more than eighteen square
miles, as has been already stated. Though I do not vouch for
the perfect accuracy of the following subdivisions of the land, into
arable, pasture, and plantation, yet I believe it is a near approxi-
mation,--

<TABLE=Industry>
		4702 acres arable, including watered meadow grounds,
		3815 pasture, including hill and dale,
     		735  plantation.

There are some hundred acres which have remained, and will re-
main, uncultivated, because there is not the faintest prospect of
any return for the outlay of capital. Some high and sterile grounds
in the parish might be improved by belts and clumps of trees, of a
hardy kind, which would afford shelter to the sheep and young


