
                     PARISH OF WEST KILBRIDE

           PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                 THE REV. THOMAS FINDLAY, MINISTER.*


          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.--KILBRIDE, the ancient as well as present name of this
parish, is obviously derived from St Bryde, a virgin of great cele-
brity in the Scotch Kalendar, to whom the church was dedicated;
and on whose anniversary or festival, on the 1st day of February,
a fair, called Brydsday, has immemorially been held at the village
of kirk-town.t
     Topographical Appearance and Boundaries.--The parish of
Kilbride, terminating the far projecting coast of Cuningham to the
westward, is finely situated on the shores of the Frith of Clyde,
where that noble estuary suddenly expands itself immediately be-
low the two Cumbrays.  Towards the sea, the general appearance
is green and fertile, yet much diversified and broken by steep banks
and eminences of considerable height; whilst inland, the view is
closed by a range of dusky moorland hills.  In lenght, it is
bout 6 miles; its medium breadth may be about 2 1/2, where
broadest, perhaps 3 1/2 miles, extending in all to about 8650 acres
Scotch measure,+ exclusive of the Island ofLittle Cumbray.  This
parish is bounded on the north by the parish of Largs; on the east
and south-east, by those of Dalry and Ardrossan respectively, south
and west, it is washed by the sea; the general figure being trian-

<FOOTNOTE>* This account has been drawn by John Fullarton, Esq., an heritor in the pa-
rish.
          t That this fair was originally kept on the first day of the month is confirmed by
Pont's Topography of Cunningham. MS. temp. James VI.  In latter times the day
has been changed to the second Tuesday.  Fairs on festival days invariably originat-
ed with the clergy, who derived certain emoluments from them; and they were
usually celebrated within the church and its precinets.  In this placed, the travelling
merchants or packmen, even within the present century, continued to exhibit their
wares within the church-yard.  The general position of parish churches, near the
northern boundary of their inclosures, may have had some reference to the purpose
of these fairs.
          + Scotch measures is invariably alluded to in this Account.


