
     106                            PERTHSHIRE.

                       Inter Ja omnes heving
                   The notes of the haff box musick being 32 notes
                   The Son of Adam answered them.  All glorie to the
                   Sone of man, the Father and the Spirit with     and ppetualy
                     Efter the English musical notes of Perth
                       Vel salutatis Anglica
                     Ave Maria Benedictata inter mulieres
                       Et benedicta sit fructus ventris tui."

       To the oldest of these bells, the skelloche little bell, cast in
    1400, there is reference made in the session records of 1578, Oc-
    tober 6. "The session ordains James Sym, uptaker of the ca-
    sualities that intervenes in the kirk, to buy a tow to the litte skellit
    bell-thbe which bell shall only be rung to the affairs of the kirk,
    also to the examinations, or to the assemblies" (i. e. the sessions.)
    Unfortunately this bell was a great many years ago injured.  It
    was removed, therefore, from its place.  It wis given in loan for
    a temporary purpose in 1810, to the builders of the depot, for re-
    taining prisoners of war.  It is now to be seen attached to a paltry
    temporary building, opposite to the sheriff-clerk's office, for the
    purpose of being rung at the stock-market meetings.  The session
    in 1578, did not contemplate that the little skellit bell would, at any
    future time, but particularly in its 436th year, be put to such an in-      glorious use.
       To another, (the Curfew, age unknown,) there is also reference
    in the sdssion register, " February 6, 1586-7, the session ordains
    Nicol Balmain to ring the Curfew and workman bell in the morn-
    ing and evening, the space of ane quarter of an hour, at the times
    appointed, viz, four hours in the morning, and eight at even;" and,
    in the town record, 1657, is "an act requiring obedience to the
    ringing of the bell for putting out fires."  The tradition, that the
    Curfew bell hung in the Curfew Street is thus rendered highly
    improbable.  Besides, as that street was without the burgh, it is
    not to be supposed that it would have been fixed upon as the pro-
    per place for sounding forth to the inhabitants such a peremptory
    and important proclamation.  Whim or some passing event may
    easily be supposed to have occasioned the name given to the street.
      In the burgh records of 1618, there is reference to the bell No. II.
    There was an act passed that year by the council, prohibiting the
    inhabitants from being out of their houses after ten o'clock at night.
    The prohibition was not duly attended to-the inhabitants alleg-
    ing that they did not know the hour.  It was therefore ordained,
    that this, the great bell, should be tolled nightly at ten o'clock,
    that none pretend ignorance.  It was so tolled ever after till


