
560           GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

daily labour. Had you asked them formerly how they lived, they
would have told you 'by the providence of God.' The answer
was good and proper. Their industry was then so miscellaneous,
the employment they found so precarious and uncertain, that they
could not give it a name; now they know the fund they have to
depend upon, and they know what tbey can afford to pay for their
peck of meal." What will the labourers, workmen, and artisans,
of various sorts now gaining three or four shillings a-day, say to
this? Even our weavers with their 8s. or 10s. a-week, and our
labourers with 10s. or 12s., are much better off than those who re-
johced in four shillings, and looked back to shudder at former
times. The people were never so miserable as when the oatmeal
was 8s. or 10s. per boll. Trade at all times has been subject to
great fluctuations. Then, as now, it was a sort of cant phrase that
the "manufacturers, not the country labourers, are the first made
to feel the distress of high prices." That they are first heard to
complain, is certain, but that they are those who first suffer is ques-
tionable. They are assembled in bodies, they reside in consider-
able towns, where every individual, whether he be in want or not,
joins them in the cry for cheap provisions. The sorrows and com-
plaints of the poor balf-starving day-labourer cannot be heard,
buried as he is in his miserable cottage, and surrounded by those
wbo have an immediate interest in stopping his mouth. In a "Six
weeks'. Tour through part of England," published in 1768, the truth
of this position is fully substantiated, where it is asserted, that "all
riot and revolt on account of high prices has constantly broken
out among the higher classes of the industrious, whose wages far
exceed what is found necessary for the lower labouring and manu-
facturing classes. They do not cry for want, but because they
wish to live at a cheaper rate than the farmers can afford to sup-
ply them." Considering the great privileges with which the people
of this country have been blessed, the success with which their ex-
ertions have been crowned, and the superior luxuries and com-
forts which they in general enjoy; it is astonishing that we do not
oftener hear the voice of thanksgiving, and less of popular mur-
muring and complaint. We are certainly at the present moment
the most ungrateful people on record,--the greatest murmurers
under Heaven. The Israelites murmured in the barren waste and
howling wilderness; but we murmur in the land of Goshen. This
vile temper will sooner or later work its own punishment or its own
cure. The manufacturing classes, like the rest of their fellow men,


