
              ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON                     247

entered into the Castell of Kildrummie." On the occasion of the
marriage of James III. in 1467, James Douglas and William
Arthurson were appointed by the estates to uplift the tax in Dum-
bartonshire. At this time the Scots groat of the crown, which
passed for 1s. Id., was to pass for 1s. 2d., and new grote at 7d.
Item, the "auld Inglis grote to pass for 4d., and new grote of Ed-
ward for 3d."
  In 1488 (temp. Joannes IV.) many of the western counties
were in a very unsettled state, and the strong arm of the law was
required to put down "thifts, reff, and uther ennormities." For
this purpose the Lord of Montgomery is appointed for "Dumber-
tane, the Leuenax, Bute, and Arran." Lennox and Dumbarton
are here mentioned as constituting separate districts. In the same
year some attention seems to have been devoted to the trade of
Dumbarton, "it is statut and ordanit that in all time to come all
manner of schippis may come to such free burrowis as Dumber-
tane." In 1489, and for some years after, the Castle of Dumbar-
ton was held by Robert, Lord Lile, and Malho Stewart, "agane
our sovreigne lord," also the castles of Cruikston and Duchel,
Lennox and Lile were confederated to revenge the fall of their
late sovereign. They were finally routed at Gartalunan, near Tilly
Moss on the Forth, after which Dumbarton Castle was besieged
for six weeks and surrendered to the king. In 1503, it is statute
that the "landis of Buchquhanane, Fyntres, Campsy, Strablane,
Buthrane, Drymane and Inchcalesch," should be held as attached
to the sherriffdom of Dumbarton, and that their inhabitants should
appear at the "fef courts of justice" there. During the reigns of
James IV and V. Dumbarton was the chief naval station in the
west. September 2, 1545, at the instance of Henry Lauder, Queen
Mary's Lord Advocate, " Matthew Earl of Lennox, was sumond
for certane poyts of tressoun and lese majestie at the croce of
Dumbertane." This was for seizing 30,000 crowns with arms and
ammunition sent from France for the use of the queen. Shortly
after this period, renewed privileges seem to have been granted to
the principal sea-ports in the west. In 1555 it is forbid to carry out
of the kingdom "victuallis, talloun, or flesche,"except that is "?
be leiful to the inhabitantis of the burrowis of Air, Irevin. Glasgow
Dumbertane, and others at the west seyis (seas) to have bakin bread,
browin aill, and aquavite (some spirituous liquor) to the (isles,)
to betour (or barter) with other, merchandise, and this act to be
extended to maisters and skipparis of sie reschillis, &c." Great


