
68                                BANFFSHIRE.

18 feet. It is surrounded at the base by a ditch, one part of which
forms the bed of a small stream which runs past it, and is called
the Ha'burn, as the hillock is called the Ha' hillock, and is said also
to have been a hall of law or justice. In a fine day, it would still be
a most convenient and delightful place for such a purpose-incom-
parably preferable to a close and crowded court-house. There is
a gateway over the ditch, by which suitors could approach. 'There
is sufficient room in the area on the top, for the court, and a mo-
derate share of witnesses on both sides, while the assembled multi-
tudes below would be completely under the eye of the authorities
above.
   There is likewise close to the church, the ruin of an old tower
or castle, called the Tower of Deskford, which had been the fa-
mily residence of the chief proprietor in the parish. The south
wall of this old building and the north wall of the church are in
immediate contact, and there is reason to think, that there had
been a door of communication between the two, and that the church
had been the family chapel, at the same time that it afforded ac-
commodation for the people of the surrounding district, when as-
sembled together for religious worship. This tower was, till lately,
a very prominent and interesting feature in the scenery ; but, owing
to the masonry having got into so loose and incohesive a state, as
to occasion danger of its being blown down, and overwhelming the
church, which it greatly overtopped, it was some years ago pulled
down.\f* Of the Castle of Skeith, mentioned in the former Sta-
tistical Account as a striking ruin, there is now no vestige.-The
church is a very ancient building, and was evidently erected before
the Reformation. It contains accommodations not now necessary in
parochial churches-as recesses in the walls behind the doors for
the vessels with boly water. It is said to have been dedicated to
St John. Beside it, is St John's well, the spring or stream supply-
ing which issues almost as it were from beneath the church. Close
to St John's well is the once stately tree, dedicated to the same
saint, which has been already mentioned, and of which so small a
fragment is all that now remains.
   Modern Buildings-There is no modern or other building of
any note in the parish. There are two meal mills, one of them

<FOOTNOTE>The apprehension of this injury to the church was excited by two immense mas-
ses of the same building in another part having fallen down, one above the other.
Had these two masses fallen together in one continues sweep, they would have ine-
vitably crushed-a small house quite near with its poor inhabitants. This hint was
not to be neglected, and, upon examination of the part adjoining the church, it was
found little more secure.



