
216                             ROXBURGHSHIRE.

<TABLE=ROXBURGHSHIRE>

14800 Pasture, at 5s. say,                               3700 0 0
   12 acres garden, say                                   100 0 0
Woods should give,                                        240 0 0
                                                       ----------
                                                     L. 12800 0 0

   The valued rent of the parish is L. 4152; the actual rent in 1821
was L. 7095.

             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Hawick and Jedburgh, at the distance of eight miles, are the
nearest market-towns.  The latter has been usually reckoned the
post-town; but a post-office in connection with Hawick has just
been established at Bonchester Bridge.  This will afford great
accommodation to the inhabitants, and gain a day or two upon
the transmission of replies to letters from London and Edinburgh.
The turnpike road from Hawick to Newcastle crosses the parish,
from east to west, for about three miles and a-half, and that from
Jedburgh to Castleton, north and south, for about ten miles.  There
are, besides, several statute-labour roads kept in tolerable repair.
Altogether, their length may be upwards of twenty miles.  Across
the Rule are three stone-bridges, besides wooden ones, and others
across burns or small torrents, in various directions.

   Ecclesiastical State.--The church is very centrically placed,
though at a considerable distance from the extremities of the parish.
It was built towards the beginning of last century, and since 1777 has
undergone no repairs of any consequence.  Its present condition
is far from comfortable.  The earthen floor is two steps below the
level of the churchyard.   The roof is nevertheless so low, that in
the galleries there is not room at the sides to stand upright.  The
seating is in bad repair.  The whole is dark, damp, and dirty.  The
interior, if properly laid out, might contain 400 sitters.
   The manse was built seventy years ago, and has just undergone
some inadequate repairs.  The extent of the glebe around the
manse may be 15 acres; and half of Abbotrule glebe 24 acres:
value of the whole about L. 40.  The stipend modified in victual
is 15 chalders, one-half meal, and one-half barley.
   There are 28 families in the parish attending the chapels of
dissenters or Seceders.
   Education.-- The parochial school is situated by the churchyard
wall, and is well attended, though its distance from the extremities
of the parish is too great for young children.  The number of scho-
lars may average 60 throughout the year.  They are taught read-
ing, writing, and arithmetic.  The master's salary is L. 31, 1Os. per
annum, including an equivalent for a garden: his fees may amount
                               4


