
512    			    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

But when agriculturists are raised from the status of serfs, or la-
bourers, or middlemen, and enabled and accustomed to partici-
pate in the substantial comforts, not to say the luxuries of civilized
life,--independently of the feelings of respectful attachment which
they cherish towards those through whom these are enjoyed,--there
is an interest created in the permanency of all those social arrange-
ments, and of the very constitution of society by which, under Pro-
vidence, they are guaranteed. If Sterne's theory be a sound
one, that, in order to write like a gentleman, it is necessary for the
writer to put on clean linen and dress genteelly,--to give the agri-
culturists all the accommodations, not of country squires, but of
substantial, well-educated yeomen, leads not indirectly to create
and to foster in them the same principles and feelings which cha-
racterize the landlords themselves.
	The progress of improvement within a limited period has, per-
haps, in no case been more strikingly exhibited than in the parish
of Ponpont. Districts of land, perhaps it would not be wide of
the truth to say whole farms, may now be pointed out, that are
three times more productive at present than they were thirty years
ago. Turnip husbandry is gradually extending and where the
crop has been eaten off with sheep, the effects are abundantly visible
in the following crop. Districts formerly unenclosed are now ju-
diciously fenced, and a spirit of improvement everywhere manifest-
ed by an enterprising tenantry.
	Perhaps in no respect would the parish as a whole be more be-
nefited than by an extension of the roads in it. It may excite
surprise to state, that, until this season, there cannot be said to
have been a made or passable road for more than seven miles up
the parish. It is hoped that, ere long, one may explore on horse-
back, the beauties of the most remote pastoral districts, with safe-
ty and comfort. The turnpike roads, however, are excellent; they
extend to about eleven miles. The bridges, too, are in good order,
except where the ledges have suffered through that wantonness said
to be peculiar to Scotland.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Penpont is situated about fifteen miles from Dumfries, the county
town. The post-office nearest it is in the village of Thornhill,
distant about two miles. It enjoys, however, the benefit of a daily
runner in his progress to and from Minnyhive.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated at the lower extre-
mity of the parish, about 150 yard-from the village. It was built
                           3


