
                             SALTON.                        119

pose, tiles are chiefly employed, being supplied by a manufactory
recently erected in the parish. In some places, however, owing to
the vicinity of excellent quarries, stones continue still to be used
for purposes of drainage.
   The general duration of leases is for nineteen years. Farm
buildings are in general in an excellent condition. They are built
of freestone, and chiefly tiled, as, indeed, are almost all the build-
ings of this character in East Lothian, as well as the dwellings of
the peasantry. The enclosures and fences are good and sufficient,
and neatly kept, one-half of the expense being defrayed by the
landlord, and the other half by the tenant.
   Quarries.-There are in the parish two limestone quarries, each
yielding an excellent material, with lime-kilns at both, built on the
most approved principle. There is also a freestone quarry for the
use of the estate of Salton, which yields a good stone for building,
though somewhat of a reddish tinge. All the quarries are wrought
in the usual way. The average number of men employed in the
lime-quarries, and kilns is about twenty-five.
   Manufactures.-In former times, many public works were in ope-
ration in the parish, which now no longer exist. In the beginning of
the last century, the first mill for the manufacture of decorticated,
or as it is familiarly termed, pot-barley, that was ever known in Scot-
land was erected in this parish. About the same time also, the first
manufactory for the weaving of Hollands in Britain was established
here: and both these arts were longer exclusively practised, to the great
emolument of the inhabitants, who supplied the whole of Scotland
with these important articles. The introduction of these manufactures
was owing to the ingenuity and zeal of the lady of Henry Fletcher
of Salton, who, for the purpose of acquiring the secret of these
arts, travelled in Holland with two expert mechanics in the dis-
guise of servants, by whom models of the machinery were taken,
and afterwards applied to practical use. In the year 1750, also, the
first bleachfield, belonging to the British Linen Company, was form-
ed here under the patronage of Lord Milton. "During his Lordship's
life it was conducted with much spirit: no expense was spared in
procuring from Ireland the most expert workmen, and it became
at last so very flourishing as to afford employment to upwards of 100
persons." * Subsequently to this, a paper-mill, and a starch-work
were erected in the parish, each of which, at the period of the pub-

<FOOTNOTE> Former Statistical Account.
   Former Statistical Account.



