
                           CRANSHAWS.                             103

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is rather
inconvenient for the one-half of the parishioners, being about five
miles from several of their houses, and yet it would,impossible
to find a site for it equidistant from the two inhabited portions of
this parish, without removing it out of the parish entirely, it being
intersected, as already stated, by a part of Longformacus parish.
It was built in 1739, and is probably in a worse state of repair than
any Established church in the south of Scotland. The present
manse was built in 1811, and wants the necessary accommodation,
having only one room on the ground-floor. Both it and the church
are about to undergo repairs at present, and do certainly require
them, being in a much worse state than most hunting stables in the
county. The church accommodates 120 persons. The extent of
the glebe is fifteen acres, and when in good order might,let at
L. 1, 10s. per acre. The stipend is upon the Government bounty
list, and is all paid in money, amounting to L. 150, with L. 8, 6s. 8d.
for communion elements.
   Every family in this parish attends the Established church. The
number of hearers may,about 1OO or upwards. They are regular
in their attendance, and very attentive during divine service. The
number of communicants (inclusive of those from other parishes)
varies from 80 to 100.
   There is a Bible Society in this parish, but contributions have
not been pressed for a few years in consequence of the circum-
stances of the district. When first instituted, the annual receipts
were about L. 15 per annum, but the decrease was rapid, as was
to, expected among such a poor population. Occasional col-
lections are made at the church for the Scottish Missionary So-
ciety, the General Assembly schools, and the Edinburgh Infirmary,
the whole amount obtained for these institutions being under L. 5
per annum.
   Education.-We have no school but the parochial, in vhich all
the usual branches of education are taught. The salary is the
maximum, and the school fees amount to L. 10 per annum. The
expense of education is from 10s. to 16s. per annum, according to
the respective attainments of the scholars. The schoolmaster's
house is a good one of two stories, and the garden of the legal ex-
tent. There is not an individual in the parish who has reached
the age of 15 but can both read and write.
   Library.-We have a parochial library under the patronage of




