
396                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

The customs and habits of the people are more like those
of a Lowland than of a Highland population. We may be per-
mitted to notice two customs, said to have been common when
the former Account was written. At marriages, which were
wont to take place in the church, the children of the parish
school were in the habit of barricading the door, and of refusing
admittance to the party till the bridegroom should either make
a present of fourpence to buy a new foot-ball, or earn exemption
from the exaction by kicking the old ball over the church. If the
bridegroom could not achieve the exploit of kicking the ball, or
would not pay the pence, "the cleverest fellow might take off the
bride's shoes," and thus degraded he might enter the church. At
funerals, also, it was a custom peculiar to this parish to run as fast
possible, so that often persons fell when carrying the body to the
grave. Hence, in the neigbbouring parishes, if rain came on, or if
it was wished to quicken the progress of a funeral, it used to be
said let us take "the Petie step" to it. This custom was revived
a few years ago by some lads, at the funeral of a woman, known as
Camronach-na-peasairach's wife, and who was long dreaded and
consulted as a witch. Tile Pettio step at funerals is now as decorous
as that of their neighbours; and the school impost at marriages
has gone into desuetude. The fishers are the ODIY class who now
come, with a piper at their head, to be married in the church; and
till they muster in less force, it is the only place. which can afford
sufficient room.-Tbe Highland costume is never worn as com-
mon dress.
   Upon the whole, I would say, that the population are in as com-
fortable and apparently contented circumstances as those of any
Highland district. As to the tenantry, if the transmission of farms
from sire to son for many generations, and the possession of means
rather beyond what is requisite for their a gricultural enterprise, be
any evidence of their epjoying, in 'a reasonable degree, the com-
forts and advantages of society, several of the aboriginal tenantry
may be said to be contented with their situation. And if the prin-
ciple, which has been acted upon by  P.B. Ainslie, Esq., the Earl
of Moray's Cominissioner, and which,both from its equity, and no-
velty at least in the north Highlands, deserves to be noticed, be,
taken, as,a criterion, (and by which, instead of setting the farms up
to roup; or accepting  the highest offer in writing, as most of
landlords do, the farm is valued by a competent judge'brought
from the south at his Lordship's expense, and is let, after a con-


