
			ST VIGEANS.                              491

about 200 feet above the level of the sea, continues gradually ris-
ing in a southerly direction, for four miles, to Dichmountlaw Cairn,
where it is about 250 above the sea level, and from that eminence
slopes equably south-west to Arbroatb, about a mile and a-half
distant. The eastern and western declivities of this ridge form
the eastern triangle of the parish. Again, at the very western
angle of the parish, Cairn Conan rises 550 feet above the sea
level, at a distance of five and a-half miles from it; and from that
eminence, from which there is a beautiful prospect in every direc-
tion, there is an equable south-eastern declivity to the Brothock
and to the sea. Between the declivities of these two eminence
of Dickmountlaw and Cairn Conan, lies the valley of the Brothock,
running from Arbroath towards Brechin, and forming one of the
transverse valleys to those of Strathmore and the Lunan. The
declivity towards the sea, in the eastern part of the parish, termi-
nates in a mural precipice at the shore. This precipice, with the
exception of two small bays, where the shore retires a little, con-
tinues from the Red-head to within a mile of Arbroatb, at Whit-
ing Ness, where Mr Lyell, in his Elements of Geology, com-
mences his engraved section of the strata in this part of Forf`r-
shire. Although, in general, on this part of the coast, the sea
washes the foot of the abrupt precipice, a person of activity,
during low water at spring-tides, may pass along between the sea
and the rock for a distance of upwards of four miles, from a penin-
sular rock, called Lud Castle, to St Murdoch's Chapel, in the
parish of Inverkeilor. In the face of the precipices, between
Whiting Ness and Auchmithie, there are a number of caves and
arches, perforated by the action of the waves in the softer parts,
and in the veins and crevices of the red sandstone. In calm wea-
ther, some of these may be passed through in boats, and others
on foot. They are visited by strangers, on account of tbeir pic-
turesque aspects; but their former inhabitants, the seals, have
now abandoned them. There is one particularly accessible, where
the masonic arcana were formerly gone through; sombre enough,
no doubt, while closed from the day, and lighted only by the
flambeau below the lurid sides and roof of the sandstone. This
cave extends 200 feet, with a strong calcareous, spring at the far-
ther end. It is evident, when this was excavated, as well as many
of the others that the relative levels of land and sea were different;
for the highest tide now flows only ou the rook at its mouth, but


