
                          CRICHTON.                61

name of communion elements. The number of families connect-
ed with the Established Church is 189. The number of Dissent-
ers in the parish is very considerable, resulting chiefly from the re-
mote position of the church, and from the circumstance of a Dis-
senting meeting-house being placed in the immediate neighbourhood
of Pathhead, better situated for many, who, from age and other
causes, cannot conveniently attend the parish church. The num-
ber of Dissenting families is 79.
   Education.-Besides the parochial, there are four other schools
in the parish. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the
maximum, viz. L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2 d., and the average amount of his
school-fees may be about L. 30. No salaries are attached to any
of the other teachers. Their schools are, in general, pretty well
attended, and the branches taught in them, as in the parish school,
are those commonly in use in the country. The fees being mo-
derate, the advantages of education are very generally embraced
by the people, with the exception of the children of colliers,
a good many of whom are resident in Pathhead. These neglected
little ones are found useful in assisting their parents in the coal-
pits, and the comparatively high wages which the creatures gain,
serve too much as a hindrance to their early education, and often,
indeed, are the means of nearly excluding them altogether from
that blessing. It requires to be here stated, that, within these two
years, an Infant School has been opened in Pathhead, under the
patronage and support of Mrs Burn Callender of Prestonhall.
This institution is answering many of the expectations of its bene-
volent projector, and promises, with the blessing of God, to be
productive of much and lasting good.
   Library.-There is a circulating library in Pathhead. It con-
tains a good many of the standard works of the present time,
and is in a thriving way.
   Friendly Societies.-A society was formed in 1818, consisting of
ploughmen and others in the parish, called the "Whipman So-
ciety," the object of which was to raise a fund for the supply of
distressed members, and to allow a certain sum at the death of
a member or a member's wife, to defray the funeral charges. The
Society has at present on its roll 68 members, and its funds
amount to L. 180. A "Juvenile Friendly Society," having very
interesting objects in view, was instituted in 1833. It is in a
flourishing condition: its funds amount to L. 150, and the present
number of its members is 232.


