
580                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

parishioners who can afford it, are ever ready to alleviate the
distresses, and to supply the wants of their poorer brethren.
   The income for the last seven years (exclusive of L.15 of le-
gacies) has been L.652, 8s. 8 3/4d., giving an average annually of
L.93, 4s. 1 1/4d. for the use of the poor.  The expenditure during
the same period has been L.605, 9s. 7 1/2d., giving an average
annually of L.86, 9s. 11 1/4 3/7d.  There is also an annual collec-
tion for the Aberdeen Infirmary, which gives free admission to all
parishioners recommended by the session.  The seven last collec-
tions amounted in whole to L.66, 11s. 6d. giving an average an-
nually of L.9, 1Os. 2 1/2 2/7d.  During the same period, there have
been three collections for the pauper lunatic fund, under the ma-
nagement of the Presbytery of Garioch, amounting in whole to
L.18, 10s. and two collections for the Propagation of the Gospel
in India,-the first amounting to L. 7, 7s. and the second to L.5,
5s., so that the church collections of this parish for the poor, and
for religious and charitable purposes, during the last seven years,
exclusive of proclamation dues, mortcloth, donations, and mor-
tification, have amounted to the sum of L.503, 17s. 11d., ave-
raging annually L.71, 19s. 8 3/7d.
   It is with reluctance that the poor, in general, seek for paro-
chial aid; and there are individuals in the parish who would sub-
mit to any inconvenience rather than apply for it; but this spirit
of independence is not so prevalent as it was some years ago. *
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.-there is one inn, and two houses li-
censed to sell ale and spirits in the parish, which, although they
are kept in an orderly manner, yet, to a certain extent, are preju-
dicial to the morals of the people.
   Fuel.-The expense of fuel, and the difficulty with which it is
obtained, is one of the greatest drawbacks under which this parish
lies.  The tenants upon the estates of Logie Elphinstone and Fet-
ternear, at the northern and southern extremities of the parish,
are well supplied with peats from the mosses of Warthill and Fet-
ternear; but, as the great majority of the parishioners have no
claim upon these mosses for fuel, they are obliged to have re-

<FOOTNOTE>An orphan family receives at the rate of L.13 per annum from the poor's funds;
and although the parishioners give as liberally at the church as usual, yet the poor
have increased so much (about double) within these five years, that the expenditure
has considerably exceeded the income, and in consequence, it has been found neces-
sary to draw from the capital.  There has also been collected for the two by-past years
L.8 annually for four of the General Assemblys schemes, viz. Church Extension;
Colonial Churches; Education in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, and thd
Propagation of the Gospel in India, i. e. L.2 annually for each scheme.


