
                          CARNWATH                            89

being so extensive; but this continues only for a few hours, and
were the south pier raised a few feet, which the proprietors talk
of doing, the river will be impassable for even a shorter period.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is most inconveniently
situated for the great body of the parishioners, being placed at the
south and west end of the parish.  There are, indeed, only two fa-
milies immediately to the west, and not above ten or twelve on the
south of the church.  Many families are thus placed six and seven
miles from the enjoyment of public ordinances, and in a high coun-
try such as this is, it is not to be expected that in winter the in-
habitants of the upper districts are to attend regularly.  Of them
in general, however, I am happy to speak in terms of high commen-
dation, and many a day their pews may be seen filled, while many
who are within hearing of the Sabbath bell obey not the summons
which it sends forth.  The church was built in 1798, and is neither
elegant nor commodious. *  Being set down close beside the aisle
of the old one, which, though built in 1424, still remains a hand-
some Gothic structure; the contrast only serves to indicate the
different spirit in which these things were gone about in the fif-
teenth and in the eighteenth century.
   It is seated for 1100 people, and is, of course, too small for our
population, and were it not for the accommodation afforded by dis-
senters, many of the parishioners would have no opportunity of re-
ceiving religious instruction.  At our communion, indeed, a large
body of the communicants are obliged to be without doors alto-
gether. The seats erected for the communion table were, till
within these few years, appropriated to the use of the poor, but one
of them is now occupied by an heritor and his family, of course,
with the consent of the other heritors.
   The manse was built in 1817, and is, upon the whole, substan-
tial and convenient.  The glebe consists of ten acres, lyin imme-
diately round the manse, and since the improvements made upon it,
by ditching, draining, and levelling, is not unproductive.  It is
worth L.2 per acre, though the land in the crofts around the vil-
lage brings a much higher price, people paying for convenience,
rather than going to market for every thing they need.  The
amount of stipend is 16 chalders, 8 of meal, and 8 of barley, and
L.10 for communion elements.

<FOOTNOTE>The church was last year very much improved, both internally and externally.
The ceiling, which was very much broken was completely renewed; the whole in-
terior white-washed, and a stone erected.  I have little doubt,  but in a few years,
this last improvement will repay itself, for in addition to the comfort which it yields
to the congregation, it has extracted all the damp from the wood and walls, which
must have otherwise accelerated their ruin.


