
                           STOW.                             421

half-bred sheep may be reared.  On the highest and coarsest pas-
ture, the Highland or black-faced are found most eligible.
The half-bred require pasture, where there is little travelling in
quest of food.  The Cheviot take a wider and a higher range,
but are not inclined to go to the wilder and higher places, to which
the black-faced are prompted by nature to give the preference.
   This fact solves a difficulty as to the comparative numbers of
Cheviot and black-faced that a farm will maintain.  I have heard
the proportion stated of five Cheviot to six black-faced, and that too
by farmers of intelligence and experience.  The deduction is fal-
lacious.  Where the ground is all pastured, the same weight of
sheep will consume the same quantity of food; but the black-
faced spontaneously feed where the Cheviot will go only when
driven, and then, restraint on the one hand, and reluctance on the
other, obviously prevent them from thriving.  It is a fact, that a
farmer whose stock is half-bred has lately added to them ten score
of black-faced, without diminishing the number of the others which
happens to be the same.  Even on the supposition that these
Highland lovers of freedom occasionally respected but little the
distinction between the meum and tuum, still the fact is so re-
markable as to fix the attention of the store-farmer.
   Great attention has been lately paid to the breeding of sheep,
and the adaptation of the kinds to pasture and climate.  It would
be outof place here to speak largely on the subject.  The black-
faced were at one time almost given up for the Cheviot, even on
the wildest pasture.  Experience has corrected this error, and the
breed is now as extensively resumed as the nature of the pasture
and climate of the several farms require.  Overstocking was for-
merly practised to a ruinous extent, but is now carefully avoided.
About fifty years ago, 100 scores of sheep were kept, where the
stock is now reduced to 80 scores.  On a farm where, twenty
years ago, 70 scores were kept, there are now only 50, though
fifty acres, now the best pasture, were then under the plough.
Under the former management, the sheep were miiserably small,
and the deaths in spring quite appalling.  With the decrease in
numbers, there is at present more mutton and more wool than for-
merly; while both are much better and greater in value than the
higher numbers formerly were.
   Breeds of Cattle.--The most prevalent is the Teeswater.  A
very intelligent and experienced farmer is of opinion that the cat-
tle best adapted to Galawater, particularly in regard to the dairy,


