
                          BEDRULE.                           295

L. 5 Sterling.  About twenty acres are planted with potatoes,
which produce yearly about 800 bolls, most of which are consum-
ed at home.  A portion of both meadow and cultivated hay is rais-
ed; but the writer has not been able to ascertain the quantity, or
any thing like an approximation to it.  All that is raised is con-
sumed on the different farms.
  The quantity of wool grown in the parish is about 400 stones
annually.

                     V.--PAROCHIAL Economy.
  Villages and Country Seats.--There is no village of any consi-
derable size in the parish.  Bedrule itself, once a populous place,
has now dwindled away to little more than a farm onstead.  The
houses in the village were all lately built, and being covered with slate,
have, from their situation, a very neat and cheerful appearance.
The farm-house of Mr Brodie is partly new, and is very commo-
dious, and from its site, which has been chosen with great taste,
it has a verv imposing appearance, and commands a wide prospect
of scenery in a high degree beautiful and magnificent.
  Church.--The present church was erected about tbirty-four years
ago.  It is built on the site of the old one, and though not so long, is
considerably broader, and is capable of holding about 140 indivi-
duals.  It is situated on the top of the bank, having a pretty steep
ascent from the level of the stream, and has a commanding view
of the surrounding country.  What is rather uncommon, the bel-
fry is on the eastern gable of the building, and has an awkward
appearance.  Sir W. F. Eliott, Bart. chief heritor, got a plan drawn
out of a proposed improvement, with an elegant spire on the west
end for a belfry and clock, and Gothic windows instead of the pre-
sent ones,  This plan, if carried into effect, would render the church
one of the most beautiful and picturesque of country churches.
The expense would not be great, as the finest freestone in the
country could be got from Sir William's quarry in the neigh-
bourhood.  It would also add to the accommodation, by converting
both the present passages into seat room, and affording the conve-
nience of a vestry, which in all country churches at any conside-
rable distance from the manse, is of great, importance both to the
comfort and health of minister and elders.
  Manse.--The manse was built, according to a date affixed to the
lintel of the kitchen window, in 1794, and is a very substantial and
commodious house, without any of the gaudy ornaments of some
lately erected manses.  The great objection to it is the too great


