
                            GALASHIELS.                           19

factures. In that district, on account of its proximity to the river,
and to the machinery houses situated on its banks, the number of
inhabitants has risen, within the last ten years, from 651 to 1079;
and in both districts it is worthy of remark, that the houses are
generally new, being all built or rebuilt, with the exception of not
more than two or three, within the remembrance of many of the
older inhabitants.
   The language of the labouring classes is the native Scottish,
with a good deal of the accent peculiar to the border districts. But
it is gradually improving, from the intercourse of the manufacturers
with other places. *

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>

                                  IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.
                                                                         Acres.
Land in the parish cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,   .   .      3000
Uncultivated,     .     .     .     .     .     .    .    .             6000
Capable of being cultivated with a profitable application of capital,      0
In undivided common,      .     .    .     .     .     .     .             0
Under-wood, natural and planted,     .    .    .     .     .     .       500

   There are no considerable plantations without a proper mixture
of hard-wood, consisting of oak, ash, elm, beech, sycamore, &c.
and the management is regularly attended to, and every where well
understood, except that branches are allowed to get too thick be-
fore they are amputated. No destruction is suffered from the crowd-
ing of trees, and nothing of that barbarous practice, common in some
districts, is to be seen, viz. the lopping off all the branches sasve
one, with the vain intention of giving magnificence to the bole.
   The rent of arable land runs from L. 3 to 10s., and the average
is about L. 1 per acre. The rent of grazing on the average, and
for the whole year, is, for an ox or cow, L. 5, for sheep full grown,
6s. 6d. a-head.
   Rate of Labour.-The rate of labour, summer and winter, is,

<FOOTNOTE>Among the usual games of the country, that of curling has lately afforded con-
siderable amusement as a summer exercise, being practised with wooden blocks,
shaped like a curling stone, on a rink of the ordinary length made of deal, smoothed,
and rendered slippery with soap. To diminish the friction, the block is made to
slide, not on its entire base, but on three nobs, equidistant, projecting a few lines,
and well rounded. Judging by the hard hits, the glee of the players, with their
vociferations of censure or applause, as remarkable in this as in winter curling, it
would seem that the artificial method is nowise inferior, except in the fitness of
scenery, and the effect of wonted associations. The inventor, for such I believe he
may be termed, is a Mr Kemp, an ingenious mechanic of this place, and the con-
triver of the wooden bridge formerly noticed.


