
34                         SHETLAND.

that Fetlar has had a Society school established in it, for a consi-
derable number of years; and it is only eight years since the pa-
rish school has been fixed in North   ' Yell.' The people in neither
parish are so much alive to the benefits of education as could be
wished.
There are, on the west side of Fetlar, two schools for children
who are not able to attend at the Society's school,-one taught
by a woman permanently through the year; the other by a lad
during the winter quarter.  Each of them has from 20 to 30
scholars.  There is, besides, an old man who has 5 or 6 children
attending him; his number seldom amounting to 10.
North Yell, though it has the advantage of the parish School,
and a good teacher, is not so well provided with the means
of education.  The parish school is situated near the north end
of the parish, and is convenient only for the inhabitants of the
north, leaving those of the south quite destitute.         Some years
ago, a subscription was entered into for building a school and
schoolhouse for the accommodation of that destitute quarter;
but, though the minister subscribed L. 5, 5s. from his own family,
the whole subscriptions did not amount to L. M The expense
would have been more than four times the sum raised ; so the
scheme was dropped; and as the people are neither richer nor
more willing now, it need not be resumed.  On a visit to that
quarter lately, I found that upwards of 130 scholars betwixt five
and eighteen might attend a school, were there one in the neigh-
bourhood.  Nothing has been done to supply this deficiency, and
nothing can be done by the parish on account of its poverty.  Un-
less subscriptions can be obtained in the south for a school and
school-house, the parish must still suffer.
Library.-There is a parochial library in Fetlar, containing 200
volumes,mostlyreligious.  Tbereareabouttbirtysubscribersatls.
a-year.  In North Yell, there is also a small one; but it is falling off.
Poor. ' Our poor are quartered on the several districts of the pa-
risb, being maintained by the inhabitants of those districts, and re-
ceiving a small sum annually for clothing from the poor's fund.
There are only 13 in Fetlar receiving out of the poor's funds, and
7 or 8 in North Yell.
Public -Houms.-There are two houses in Fetlar licensed to
sell spirits, and as many in North Yell.
MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
Since the last Statistical Account was written there has been


