
     of Dundee.

people of Aberdeen, where the dearth was greater, are said to
have acted much more wisely, by raising the market price of
grain, and to have advertised large premiums to every importer
of it; and we are told, the consequence was, that their market
was filled as well as in the ordinary times of plenty; and the
prices; of necessity, soon fell to their proper level.  A small
quantity of the provision made by government, for the poor
of the northern parts of this island, was also at this time allot-
ted to Dundee; and the Kirk-Session received some unsolicit-
ed donations, amounting to 60 L. for the poor under their in-
spection.  In these, the share which Lord Douglas, according
to his usual humanity, contributed, was no less than 50 L.
   In the two former centuries, the prices of various neces-
saries of life, as meal, malt, ale, leather, shoes, etc. were regu-
lated by the magistratesand council; and in making, altering,
and executing their regulations, they created much vexation
to the dealers, and much useless trouble to themselves.  The
price of no necessary of life is now regulated in this manner,
except of bread made from wheat flour; and neither does the
attention of the magistrate to this article, seem to be of much
greater use, than it was to the others, where it has long been
laid aside; nor, though it should be supposed of use, does the
method of regulation adopted here seem to be advantageous.
On the contrary, it is perhaps the very reverse of what it
ought to be; for the price of bread, concerning which all are
judges, remains fixed, and the weight, which few have oppor-
tunity to examine, or even sometimes to know, is variable.
It is probable, that were this business freed from the influence
of corporation laws, it might be as safely as any other com-
mitted to the management of those engaged in it; and, that
by their separate interests and competition, it would be equal-
ly guarded from combination and abuse.  Indeed, no corpora-
tion laws whatever seem to be entitled to much respect; all


