

             PARISH OF OLD KILPATRICK.

  PRESBYTERY OF DUMBARTON, SYNOD OF GLAGOW AND AYR.

        THE REV. MATTHEW BARCLAY, MINISTER.

                ___________________
       
          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name.-THE name of the parish is compounded of Cil, the
Gaelic word for a church, and the name of the patron saint of
Ireland.  Tradition says that he was born in this parish.  This is
doubted; but still it must be confessed, that, if this be not the birth-
place of Saint Patrick, it is difficult to acount for the name of the
parish, which have been handed down for generations in the
neighbourhood.
     Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is about 8 miles long,
and its greatest breadth is from 4 to 5 miles.  Its figure is trian-
gular, with the base resting on the Clyde.  It contains about 18
square miles.  It is bounded on the south, by the river Clyde; on
the west, by the parish of Dumbarton; on the north, by Dumbar-
ton, Killearn, and New Kilpatrick; on the east, by New Kilpa-
trick and Renfrew.  On the opposite side of the Clyde are Ren-
frew, Inchinnan, and Erskine.
     Topographical Appearaces.-The parish is situated on the
banks of the Clyde; and although this river is celebrated for the
beauty and the diversity of its scenery, it may be affirmed that
there is no part of the scenery of the Clyde which excels that of
Old Kilpatrick.  In sailing down the river as we pass Renfrew
Ferry, near which the parish begins, at the village of Yoker, the
country is flat and well cultivated, having all the appearance of
land that will repay the skill and the toil of the husbandman.  At this
part, the whole breadth of the parish is seen rising with a gentle
slope to the upper boundary.  As we proceed down the river, the
part in view is still fertile and well cultivated, but begins to be
narrowed by the enclosing hills, so that by the time the navigator
sweeps past the parish church and the village of Old Kilpatrick, the
base of the hills comes nearly to the water's edge.  At the part



