
618                            FIFESHIRE.

    Botany.-The study of the plants peculiar to any of these soils
is rendered difficult by the universality of cultivation. The banks
and waste parts of the Dreel valley seem  favourable to the follow-
ing;-Veronica chamadrys, Tanacetum vulgare (extremely abun-
dant,) Geranizon, several species, Lotus corniculatus,; Alchemilla
vulgaris, Galium verum, Primula vulgaris, Achiliwa millefollium
Myosotis Paris, (abundant,) &c. At the Billowness are found,
Campanula Rotundifolia, Helianthemum vulgare, Thymus serpyllum,
Silence inflata, Tormentilla erecta, Anagallis arvenis, &c.  Rare
plants are also discovered by the shore, but this is perhaps more
owing to marine influence than peculiarity of soil.
   Zoology.-The animals which delight in peculiar soils are not
numerous or-weft-marked, except in the case of the silt before.
mentioned. There, perhaps, more thanin any place, Scotland,
do water-rats of great size abound. They, seem innumeimble
ln going along the banks of the stream, where the silt occurs, one's
is arrested at almost every step by a large rat plunging
into the water from among the rank grass, and swimming along
with wonderful rapidity, until it disappears in one of the ,holes, with
which the banks are thickly perforated A strong coincidence to
this occurse in the case of Mugdrum Island in the 1 Tay, which is
wholly composed of silt. It was so infested with rats, that aJi
plans failed of keeping them down, till Dutch cats were imported,
which was found efficient.
   "Migratory Birds.- The woodcock, fieldfare, and curlew, visit
the coast regularly in the winter, and the Bohemian jay is some-
times seen in the neighbourhood; as are also wild geese, when
the higher grounds are covered wiith snow. The swallow, cuckoo
water-wagtail, and plover, make their appearance in sumnmer. The
early arrival of the woodcock and  Bohemian jay, indicates, the se-
verity of the winter on the coutinent while the  cuckoos-visit is
a sure mark that fine weather may be soon expected."

                    II.- CIVIL HISTORY

    I. and-owners.- The chief land-owners are, Lord William
Douglas of Dunino ; Robert Bruce, Esq. of Grangemuir ; Sir
Windbam C. Austruther of Anstruther and Carmichael, Bart;
Matthew F. Conolly, Esq. ; the Sea-Box Society; and the Burgh.
All are resident except Robert Bruce. Esq. and Sir W. C. An-
struther.  Lord William Douglas has a handsome modern house
at Grangemuir, built oiginally by the late Mr. Bruce, and greatly

<FOOTNOTE>Last Statistical Account.



