
			 GLASGOW. 			181

among their fellow operatives, particulary those branches more
immediately connected with their daily occupations. Lectures
were given on natural philosophy and chemistry, when a fee of
three shillings was paid by each student, which was afterwards in-
creased to ten shillings. From the formation of the society to the
present time, the number of students has averaged yearly about
500. Free admission is annually given to the lectures on chemis-
try and mechanics, and also to the libr`ry,--to poor apprentices,
one being admitted for every twenty tickets sold. In this manner
220 have been admitted since the commencement of the institu-
tion. In 1831, the society removed to large premises built for
them in Hanover Street. A colossal statue of James Watt is
placed on the pediment of the building, by a subscription of one
shilling from each student in successive years. In the building
there are commodious apartments for the numerous models and ap-
paratus; and for the library, which now consists of 3128 volumes on
science and general literature. In the session of 1835, there are
three professors, who give lectures on natural philosophy, chemistry
popular anatomy, physiology, and phrenology. Fee for the course,
eight shillings.
	At the close of the session of 1834-35, Mr Leadbetter, the
zealous and philosophic president of the society, stated that the
students were from about forty different trades,--a proof of the
utility of the institution. * The entry book of the library shows
an increased avidity for reading. During the six months of the
session 7778 isues were made to 399 readers, being an-average
of about 20 books to each reader. The British Association, from
its perambulatory character, has given a new impulse to the study
of science. "I except to see ere long," said the indefatigable
and talented President, "this body of men the concentration of
all the scientific knowldge of Great Britain, encamped and set-
ting up their crucibles in the city which first opened the portals
of science to the mechanic and artisan, and which first invited
the fair sex to a participation of the common benefits of a phi-
losophical education." Exclusive of the above institution, there

<TABLE>
	* Honorary Patrons.--George Birkbeck, M. D. F. R. S. London.
			Vice Patron.--Charles Tennant.
			  President.--John Landbetter.
			      Honorary Councillors:

James Ewing, L.L.D.                      James Hutchinson,
Henry Houldsworth,			 James Lauredan,
James Watson,				 Robert Napier,
Archibald M'Lellan,			 James Cleland, L.L.D.
Maurice Pollock,			 William Dunn,
William Gilmour,			 Colin Dunlop, M.P.
   LANARK,				 N


