
                             DOLLAR.                        77


Castle Campbell, there is a large moss called Maddie moss. Its
area exceeds 120 Scots acres. It is very retentive of water, and
occasionally bursts its barrier, and flows down in a muddy torrent
to the Devon, by the stream on the West of the castle. The
western boundary on the side of Tillicoultry is clearly marked (at
least on the north side of the Devon) by a burn which descends
from the Ochills, and crosses the turnpike road about a twelfth of
a mile or less from the first mile-stone on the road from Dollar to
Alloa. The boundary on the south is not well defined; but the
road from Blair-ingone to Alloa is pretty nearly the boundary, and
separates the parish from Clackmannan. At Melloch, however,
there are a few houses in Dollar parish on the south of this road,
belonging to Mr Erskine, the boundary being in his, wood of Aber-
dona, which cuts off from Clackmannan, a small portion of his
property, which lies chiefly in the latter parish.
  Hills.--The only hills connected with the parish of Dollar are
the Ochills, an extensive range which runs nearly in the direction
of west to east from the parish of Logie ; forming a barrier on the
north to the parishes of Alva, Tillicoultry, Dollar, and Muckbart,
and continuing in the same line fo the Centre of Fife. The hill
on the western extremity is called Damiett, from which there is a.
most magnificent view of all the Country around, more especially
of Stirling, Alloa, Linlithgow, Falkirk, the kerse of Stirling, and as
far as the centre of Lanarkshire,--together with the splendid range
of mountains extending from near Perth on the east, to the banks
of Loch Katrine and Lo6h Lomond, on the west. The highest hill
in the Ochills is Benclough, north of Alva, nearly 2400 feet in
heigth. The hills to the east, in Tillicoultry and Dollar, and more
especially in Muckhart and to the east of Muckbart, are of inferior
heights. The chief hills which form the barrier of Dollar to the
north are King's seat, Dollar hill, and the Wisp, which do not
exceed 1800 or 1900 feet in heights.
  The Ochills, as seen a few miles on the south of Dollar, ap-
pear a continuous range, nearly of the same height, and not unlike
in form to the Jura mountains which separate Geneva from France.
Upon examining.the upper ridge narrowly, certain notches or de-
pressions are seen, which indicate the place where Streams are
formed on the upper part ofthe hills which-descend to the plains
below, increasing in size, and Passina throuoh romantic glens of
great variety and beauty. The most remarkable are the burns of
Dollar,-Alva, and Tillicoultry, the two last of which furnish a sup-


