
     Statistical Account

or brilliant in the summer season.  Meetings for dancing are
very common in winter.  It is then, too, that they generally
marry.  Their weddings are often crowded; but the enter-
tainment is always gratuitous.  There are annual emigra-
tions from the parish, both of males and females in the me-
nial line, who leave the place of their nativity, in quest of
superior wages in the south of Scotland.  Many of the young
men become soldiers, preferring the land to the sea service.
Their character in that capacity has always been to their
credit.  There are few superstitious usages among theme*:
ghosts and fairies are believed to manifest themselves occa-
sionally.  There are three popish chapels mouldering into
desolation in the parish, one at Freswick, another at Brabster,
and a third at St. John's Head.  Some superstitious rites, now
in total disuse, were wont to be performed, by the igno-
rant vulgar, on particular days, at these sanctified ruins.  At
present, not a vestige of popery seems to intermingle in the
creed of the people.  There are no wells of preternatural ef-
ficacy in the parish.  There is no day in the year accounted
inauspicious, or, (Sundays excepted) held in higher estimation
than another.

   Character.-In point of stature, there are few of the inha-
bitants either much above or below the middle size.  Being

<FOOTNOTE>

*No gentleman, however, of the name of SINCLAIR, either in Canisbay or
throughout Caithness, will put on green apparel, or think of crossing the Ord upon a
Monday.  They were dressed in green, and they crossed the Ord upon a Mon-
day, in their way to the battle of Flowden, where they sought and fell in the
service of their country, almost without leaving a representative of the name be-
hind them.  The day and the dress are accordingly regarded as inauspicious.
If the Ord must be got beyond on Mondays the journey is performed by sea.
A superstition thus derived from the heroism of their ancestors, and so well cal-
culated to excite a similar spirit in their offspring, philosophy itself will allow
to be preserved from oblivion.


