
78                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

   Means of Communication. - There are three, roads through the
parish by which people can travel to Thurso; these are not finish-
ed to the different extremities of the parish. They have been
made within the last three years on Macadam's principles, and
are in very good repair. An annual market is held in the
village of Halkirk on the Tuesday before the 26th December. Its
name is St Magnus; it is not much attended. Another annual
market is held within two miles of the church. The site of this mar-
ket is the hill of Ruggy, which is partly in this parish, and partly in
the parishes of Thurso and Bower. The market is principally a
cattle one; the situation is centrical; and people from all parts of
the county can conveniently attend. Five roads may be said to
lead to the place where it is held: one from Thurso, one through
Bower and Watten, one from Wiek, one from Latheron, and one
through this parish.
   There are two bridges on the river of Halkirk; one at the vil-
lage not more than a quarter of a mile from the church. It was
built in 1731, consists of three arches, and is very convenient and
useful. It has of late undergone considerable repairs, and, if no
unforeseen accident happen, it may stand for centuries to come.
The other bridge is at Dale, five miles farther up the river than
the Halkirk bridge. It contains two arches, each thirty feet span.
It is quite new, having been finished in 1834. There is also a
timber bridge in the Mission at Dirlot. It is intended for the con-
venience of people coming to hear preaching at the Mission-house,
and is equally convenient for general and ordinary communication.
   There is a mile of turnpike road passing through a corner of
the parish, and the mail-coach passes through this part of the pa-
rish, twice every day, but, the inhabitants do not enjoy the benefit
of it, for all letters for the parish are carried to Thurso, and some-
times lie there a day or two before they are brought to the Bridge-
end of Halkirk, to which there is a penny-bag thrice a week. This
is kept at an expense of L.9,-a much greater expenditure
than could be incurred were there a bag with all letters for the pa-
rish left at one or other of the houses in that part of the parish
through which the mail passes. Besides this mile of turnpike,
there are three branches of county road,-the whole making an
aggregate of about fifteen miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated on the east side of
the river,-near the extremity of the parish on that side,-on the
other, however, the parish extends three miles towards Thurso.


