
     Statistical Account

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The roads are at present
very bad and narrow.  They have never been sufficient-
ly made; but now worse than ever, as the new turnpike-
road, in a very different direction, engages the whole at-
tention of the gentlemen.  Till lately, the statute-labour
was all exacted in kind, but now is generally commuted;
no turnpikes as yet, though we expect enough of them
soon.  Of late, there has been in this, as in some other
counties, a sort of outery against turnpikes, though I be-
lieve the most sensible and considerate are ready enough to
agree, they may turn out much to the advantage of the
country in general, and to the interest of the farmers in
particular.-The vulgar in most part of this country, and
particularly here, have an utter dislike to all regular phy-
sicians and surgeons, though in general, their faith in drugs,
quack medicines, and old wives nostrums, is most implicit.
In my attendance upon the sick, my first question has ge-
nerally been, when I found the disorder dangerous, whe-
ther a physician had been called; and though I have al-
ways advised it, I do not remember that in any instance I
have succeeded.-Common people in the Carse are in ge-
neral rather tall, strong and clumsy in person; dull, obsti-
nate, rude and unmannerly; fond of dress to an extreme;
live well.  The better sort of farmers, luxurious and expen-
sive in their mode of living, without the least claim to neat-
ness or elegance.-The numbers of wild geese, that come
down in flocks from the high grounds, about the end of
harvest, are very remarkable.  More than 1000 have been
seen in one field.  A few straggling geese have been killed
in the hills.-There is a hill of gravel, a little to the S. E.
of the village of Rait, upon the top of which, there are evi-
dent marks of some old sort or entreachment.  It is much
impaired, and on one side wholly ruined, by the encroach-
ments of a small stream that runs at the bottom of it.  The
common people have no tradition with regard to it.

