
                            HALKIRK.                         77

dered in extent as about 90 or 92 square miles,-73,600 imperial
acres: about 6000 of these are cultivated, as many under natural
or meadow grass, and the rest is moor,moss, lakes, rivers, &c. The
rate of annual rent is as high as L.1, 10s. and as low as 2s. 6d.
per acre. From what has already been done, it is quite evident
that a great proportion of what is now waste ground might be im,
proved to advantage, and, were the people encouraged to labour in
this work, many would undertake the cultivation of such ground in
preference to going to America at the imminent risk of their lives,
and in violation of those feelings which make man cleave to the
rugged rocks of his native mountain, the remembrance of which is
associated in foreign climes with his recollection of the home and
the country of his fathers. It is much to be regretted that those
who do their utmost to subdue the stubborn soil of the moor
and the mountain meet with so little encouragement. Instead of
being made to pay a rent of 5s. or 2s.. 6d. for every acre brought
into cultivatiou, it would be better policy to give four times the
sum for every acre so cultivated, for at least five or six years after
a poor person commences such laborious and expensive work, and
then a moderate rent might be charged for an equal number of
years. A plan of this inature would encourage individuals to improve
waste grounds, which, as they are, yield no food for man, no re-
venue for the proprietors,-whereas, by following a different system
from that adopted, they might be made to support the labourer
and to pay the landlord a certain per centage for moneys expended
in inducing people to embark in the work. A good deal is cer-
tainly done, but infinitely more would be cheerfully performed
under a system which would hold out inducements for adding to
what one may already possess, instead of deterring him from doing
anything that way, by the certainty of 5s. being added to his rent
for every acre brought into cultivation.
   Quarries.-There are quarries of limestone in different parts of
the parish. The lime made from these isused in masonry; but it
answers better in agricultural processes than for any other, use it can
be applied to. There are also quarries of flags. These are much
used in flooring in country houses; they are also used in paving;
for which they are remarkably well adapted. Great numbers of
them are annually exported to Leith, Aberdeen, &c.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
                   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Thurso, which is
about seven miles from the parish church.


