
                            ABERDEEN.                      17

instances of longevity, protracted sometimes to nearly a century,
are, by no means of more unfrequent occurrence, in Aberdeen,
than in most of the other towns in Scotland.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   It would be useless to attempt to trace the origin of the town
of Aberdeen, as, in the totaL absence of records, nothing but cont-
jecture could be offered.  It seems likely, that, whether the pre-
sent town can be identified with the ancient Devana or not, there
would be at a very early period a village or fishing-station near
the mouth of the Dee, and this may be supposed to have stood
where the most ancient traces of inhabitation in Aberdeen have
been found, viz. along the south and west sides of St Catherine's
Hill, where the Ship-row and Putachyside now are.  Hector Boece
says that it was erected into a city by Gregory about the year
893, * but of this no record has been preserved.  The earliest
document extant relating to the town is a charter by William,
granted at Perth, the date of which is with probability supposed,
to be 1179, and from this time the rise of Aberdeen as a place of,
note may be dated.
   It had its share in the troubles and misfortunes of the succeed-
ing reigns, and in 1272, according to Boece, it was reduced to
ashes by the fires caused by a tempest which devastated a great
part of Scotland, and which is mentioned also by Fordun, though
he does not speak of the destruction of Aberdeen by it. +  In
1298, the town was garrisoned by the English;  but about ten
years after, the citizens took possession of the castle, and mas-
sacred the garrison; having: taken part with Bruce, who, in testi-
mony of their patriotic exertions, granted them permission to bear
as the arms of the town, "gules, three towers triple towered, within
a double treasured counterflowered argent, supported by two leo-
pards proper, the motto in a scroll above 'BON ACCORD,'" (that
having been the watchword on the night when they rose against
the English); and soon after he confirmed and extended the pri-
vileges formerly possessed by the citizens.  In 1336, when Ed-
ward III. had ravaged a great part of the north country, he de-
solated Mar on his way south, and burned Aberdeen, killing a
a great number of the citizens, ++ in revenge, apparently, for the

<FOOTNOTE>"Aberdeen ex pago urbem fecit," Hist. Scot. 1. x. fol. 220, edit 1526.
          Hist. Scot. 1. xiii. fol. 302.-Scotichron. 1.x c. 30.
          It would be out of place here to enter into any lengthened defence of the histo-
rian Boece; but it seems necessary to notice that sometimes mistakes are imputed
   ABERDEEN.                                   B.


