
                      ABERLEMNO.                          631

cross in bold relievo, and entirely covered witb flowered orna-
ments. On the reverse, towards the upper part of  the stone, is
another ornament, having no obvious meaning, but apparently in-
tended for ornament only. Beneath it, there are some figures of
men on horseback, armed cap-a-pee, with helmets. Two of these
seem to be flying, but a third appears as if he were stopt in his
flight by three men on foot, the first of which  bears in his hand a
weapon of a round form, the amend has the same sort of weapon
in his left hand, and in his right a spear which he is pointing at
the man on horseback. The third figure is nearly obliterated.
Below these, there are two other equestrian figures, one of which
holds a baton in his right hand, while the other appears to be
in the attitude of encountering him.
   It seems not improbable that these "cross stones of Aberlem-
no" commemorate the defeat of one section of a powerful `rmy,
which Sueno, a Danish prince, sent into Scotland about the be-
ginning of the eleventh century, to revenge the destruction of a
previous army, and the death of his two generals, Eneck and Olave.
Having landed at the Red-head, and being, near Panbride, de-
feated by the Scottish army under Malcolm II., part of the fugi-
tives were overtaken, and with Camus. the leader, of the expe-
dition, destroyed near the village of Carnoustie, where Camiston
cross still bears the name, and commemorates the defeat of the
unfortunate chief. Another division betook themselves to their
ships, and escaped; but a third division, in endeavouring to reach
the mountains, with the design of passing into Moray, made good
their retreat for a while, but were at length overtaken and cut off,
says Buchanan, near the town of Brechin. From this town the
cross stones of Aberlemno are distant only six miles; and they
most probably indicate the scene of the event referred to by the
historian.
   A stone of somewhat similar appearance to those already de-
scribed, and from the style of its sculpture, evidently belonging to
the same rude era of Scottish art, at present in the vestibule of
the House of Auldbar, having been brought thither from the
ruins of a contiguous ancient chapel. It belongs, however, to an
entirely different class of subjects, and is thus described by Pinker-
ton: "It is well known that there exist in various parts of Scot-
land, but chiefly on the east side, from the river Tay, singular
erect stones, generally with crosses on one side, and upon the
other sculptures, not ill executed for a barbarous age. Three are


