
			  EWES.                         439

exemplary, and regular in their attendance on public workship.
An air of satisfaction and contentment pervades their dwellings,
and the heart of every philanthropist must rejoice to know that
the enjoy a competent share of the blessing of life. No poach-
ing of game prevails in this parish.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--
	The number of acres arable,                	      1100
		not in tillage, but affording sound pasture, 23169
		under wood and plantations,                    200

	Rent of Land.--As the low and high lands are let together, the
rent per arce cannot be accurately known. The grazing of an ox
or cow may be estimated at from L. 3, 10s., and a full-grown
sheep at 5s.
	Live Stock.--In all this district, the Galloway breed of cattle is
preferred. They are hardly, thrive well on the pastures, find a
ready market, and bring good prices. The number of sheep pas-
tured may be about 18,000. They are all of the Cheviot breed,
and every attention is paid to thier improvement. All modern
building dikes on the high grounds have been carried on to a great
extent.
	The state of farm-buildings in point of accommodation and
convenience cannot be surpassed. The Noble Duke and the
other proprietors withhold nothing from their tenentry that can
promote thier comfort and happinness. The whole grain raised
in the parish is consumed in the maintanance of the families of
the growers.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Thereis no market-town in this parish, and the nearest is Lang-
holm, which is distant fives miles. Langholm is also the post-town.
There is no village.
	Means of Communication.--The means of communication in all
direction are good. The great road from Edinburg by Hawick,
Langholm, and Carlisle to London, runs along the banks of the
Ewes, for the space of eight miles within the parish. The Car-
lisle mail, besides several other coaches to London, run on this road.
This line of road was planned by Mr Pulteney of esterhall, who
obtained an act of Parliament for carring it into execution in 1763.
There are two other public roads, the one leading to the east,
which affords a ready communication to Liddesdale, and the other
to Dumfries and Moffat. Both of these roads were made, by an


