
294                            RENFREWSHIRE.

matchlock gun from Java, &c.  The apparatus consists of an ex-
cellent air-pump, and a variety of other philosophical instruments.
   It is deeply to be regretted, that an institution so valuable in a
moral, as well as in a philosophical point of view, should not
have met with more countenance from the inhabitants of Paisley.
We are disposed to think that, in the view of the erection of an
academy, provision should be made in its structure for a large lec-
ture room, which may be used also for inspections and public ex-
aminations of the schools; a museum, and libraries, both philo-
sophical and literary.  We know few things that would tend more
to raise the tone of thinking, and the scale of educational attain-
ment.
   Hope Temple Museum.-The articles belonging to the Philo-
sophical institution have been lately lent to Mr Small, Mr Young,
Mr Duncan, and other patriotic gentlemen of the place, who have
established a museum, with public gardens, &c. at " Hope Temple,"
a space of several acres in the immediate vicinity of the town, which
had been tastefully laid out many years ago by the then proprietor,
John Love, Esq. a native of the place, and whose name will long
be fresh and fragrant, in the esteem of all who can appreciate the
claims of genuine and enlarged benevolence of heart.
   School of Arts.-In such a manufacturing community as this,
much advantage would arise from the institution of a school of arts
or of design.  It would foster native talent, and encourage a taste
for the drawing of elegant patterns.  Lectures on the department
of design, and on the general principles of taste might be given ;
and thus the belles lettres and philosophy might be made to pay
homage to the genius of manufacturing industry.  A repository
for inventions, patterns, models, &c. might also be formed on the
plan of the admirable agricultural institution of this kind at Stir-
ling, so creditable to the Messrs Drummond.  We rejoice that the
plan of a school of arts has been seriously proposed here, and that
several gentlemen of enterprise and capital in the town have re-
solved to give it their most deliberate attention.
   Provident Banks.-The Paisley Provident Bank was instituted
in June 1815.  At a public meeting called by the magistrates, a
body of trustees and committee of directors were appointed, and
a cashier chosen; and the bank was opened in November of that
year, under certain regulations, which were afterwards amended in
1820, and confirmed by the Justices at a General Quarter Session
                                   4


