
48                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

     Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

Grain of all kinds, 6517 bolls 2 bushels at L. 1, 1s. 33/4d. per boll,     L. 6949  10  0
Turnip and potatoes,       340 acres,  -  -  -  -                             1272   0  0
Clover and meadow hay,     370 do.     -  -  -  -                              925   0  0
Pastures,     -           3592 do.     -  -  -  -                             2115  10  0
Gardens and orchards,       29 do.     -  -  -  -                              100   0  0
Flax,     -       -          1 do.     -  -  -  -                               10   0  0
Plantation thinnings,       -   -      -  -  -  -                              120   0  0
                                                                               -----------
                                                                          L. 11492   0  0
                          V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

     Villages, &c.--There are two villages in the parish.  These are
Bowden and Midlem or Midholm; but we have no market-town
or post-office.  Melrose, a market and post-town is distant about
three miles from the village of Bowden; and Selkirk, also a market
and post-town, about three and a-half miles from the village of
Midlem.
     Leans of Communication.--Through these towns, daily coaches
run betwixt Edinburgh and Carlisle by the west or Selkirk road, and
betwixt Edinburgh and Newcastle by the east or Melrose road,
which passes within a mile and a-half of the village of Bowden.
There are weekly markets for grain at Melrose on Saturdays, and
at Selkirk on Wednesdays.  At the latter place, the demand is
generally greatest, owing to the district around being of a pastoral
description.  There are also weekly markets for grain, on a more
extensive scale, at Jedburgh, Hawick, and Kelso, which places are
respectively about twelve, thirteen, and fourteen miles distant from
the parish; but all these markets have this disadvantage, that a
regular demand cannot be depended upon, the money is not pay-
able on delivery, and the prices are generally as much below those
of Dalkeith on the west and Berwick on the east, `s is equal to
the expense of carriage to those distant markets.
     A carrier who resides in the village of Midlem goes and returns
from Edinburgh weekly.  He, as well as another carrier from Lil-
liesleaf, passes through the village of Bowden.  Besides these, there
is also another, residing in the village of Bowden, who goes week-
ly to Kelso, Selkirk, and Melrose.  The rate of carriage is 2s.
per cwt. from Edinburgh.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated on the east-
ern extremity of the parish, but, being in the immediate neighbour-
hood of the village of Bowden, and not more than three miles from
Midlem, it cannot be said to be inconvenient to the greater part
of the population.  Its distance from the western extremity of the



