
     of Callander.

   The verbs of the GAELIC language have only three tenses,
which is the simplest, and most natural division of time.  The

<FOOTNOTE>

oaks, and oak woods are generally interspersed with hazle; which shows that
both of these timbers delight in the same soil and exposure.
   Ard-mac-muin, the height for the brood of substance, or cattle.  The most
of the people's riches consisted in cattle, when this place got its name.
   Stron-garv-altry, the nose at the rough or rapid brook.  A bold promontary
projects into Loch-Catherine, at this place, and a torrent rushes along its base
into the lake.
   Edir-a-leachdach, between the two brooks of flags.  This farm is bounded
on both sides by rivulets, which run mostly upon smooth rock, or large flags.
   Le-tir, the half of the land.  This is a very common name in the High-
lands, and is applicable to places on a gentle declivity, bounded above by
a ridge, which runs across the head of the farm.  From this ridge there is
a gradual slope to the boundary below, which is generally stagnant or
running water.  There is no doubt of tir and terra being originally the fame
word; but which of these is the original, may not perhaps be so universally al-
lowed.  To prevent the ridicule of the half-thinking part of mankind, who
judge from prejudices, and without due enquiry, is at all times a desirable ob-
ject; but when truth speaks, her voice must finally prevail.  This subject will
occur afterwards; at present let it suffice to observe, that the ancient Scythians,
who spoke the Celtic language, of which the Gaelic is a dialect, were a great
and warlike people, long before Rome was built, or its founder born; and that
this dialect of the Celtic has, in its constitution, a much nearer affinity to lan-
guages, which are acknowledged to be more ancient than Greek or Latin, than
it has either to those, or to any other language of a modern date.  Its construc-
tion, its genius, and its power, bear the evident marks of a very remote ori-
gin.

   Brea-n-choil, above the wood.  This wood, which is also called Trosachs,
i.e. roughness, is of a particular kind, and exhibits a most romantic scens,
which is described above.
     Ara-ken-knockan, the height at the end of the hills.
     Glen-fin-glass, the fair green glen; a forest belonging to the Earl of Moray,
     2 3 2 3 1

remarkable for one of the largest tracts of green pasture to be met with in the
Grampians.  It is called Fin-glass, because long grass, which is green in summer,
acquires a bleached and white appearance by the winter storms.
   Ach-na-hard, the field of the height, Ach is always applied to a horizontal


