
482                          EDINBURGHSHIRE.

dainful words." This letter being shown to the King, Mr Simp-
son was banished to Aberdeen on the 10th July for six months.
Having expressed penitence for the offence he had committed,
and signed a supplication, he was released on the 10th December,
and permitted to return to his parish and flock.
     Charles I, spent one night at Dalkeith in his progress to
Edinburgh in June 1633, and was magnificent entertained by
the Earl of Morton.  On this occasion, an impressive petition
was presented to his Majesty by the Presbyterian clergy, setting
forth their grievances; but though his Majesty read the petition
at length, nothing more was heard of it.  He spent a night here
also on his return to London.  In consequences of the tu-
mult that had taken place in Edinburgh on the 18th October
1637, the sittings of the Prviy Council were removed to Linlith-
gow; and on the 7th December following, a proclamation was
made that the place od sitting of the Council and Exchequer was
removed from Linlithgow to Dalkeith, "where they were  to sit
tuysse a weeke, in his Maiestie's palace ther, from 10 in the fore-
noene till 2 a clocke in tghe afternoone, on Tuesdayes, wich the
saides Lordes appoyntes for publicke business of stait; and Thurs-
dayes for priuat business of parties and complaintes.  These
meetings were to continue till the 1st February following, when
they were was to remove to Stirling.  Here the subject of the book of
canons, the srvice book, and other Episcopal innovations, were
keenly discussed, but no decision wad given by the Commisssioner
til further conference with his Majesty.
     But at every successive stage of their negociations, the differ-
     ences between the King and the Presbyterians were greatly in-
creased;--matters were rapidly tending to hostilities;--and the
Presbyterians making every effort to procure arms and ammunition,
among other places, made an attack upon the Palace of Dalkeith.

<FOOTNOTE>* Presbytery Records.  A somewhat different account is given in Spottiswood's
History, p. 532-536.  London 1655.
            Balfour's Annals, vol. ii. page 195.  Upon Thursday the 13th June (1633),
after breakfast, he (vix. Charles I.) came from Dunglass to Seaton, an house of the 
Earl of Winton's, where he was nobly entertained by the Earl, and staid there till
Friday the 14th of June after dinner. From thence he went to Dalkeith, a house
belonging them to the Earl of Morton, Lord High Treasurer of Scotland, where he
was also sumptuously entertained by his Lordship that night, and the next day at 
dinner.  June the 15th, on Saturday, in the afternoon, his Majesty came from Dal-
keith towards Edinburgh (five miles distant,) and entered at the West Prot, where 
he was honourably received, &c.  Thursday the 11th July, the King staid at his Pa-
lace of Holyroodhouse.  Upon Friday the 12th, he went to Dalkeith, where he stayed
that night.  Upon Saturday, after dinner, he went to Seaton House, &c.-- Rush-
worth's Historical Coll., Vol,. ii. folio 1680.                                           Balfour's Annals, vol. ii. page 240.

