
			DUMFRIES.                                21

pay toll on the English road, and not one of which had been exposed
in the market. Added to the business done in heavy cattle, a very
important and bustling trade is carried on by the farmers, graziers,
and jobbers,--disposing, on the one hand, of young cattle, which
have been grazed or fed on fodder a certain period; and, on the
other, purchasing cattle a stage younger, which are grazed in their
turn; the difference between the original cost and that which is
received at the sale constituting the profit, or sum intended for the
expenses of keep.
	Of the horse-market, it is impossible to speak with any thing
like accuracy. There, again, an immense part of the business is
transacted privately; and at the fairs of Candlemas and Roodsmass,
the number of all kinds exposed may perhaps vary from 400 to 600.
A portion of the best draught horses are retained for service in
the district in which they have been reared; and the surplus car-
ried by the dealers to Edinburgh, Glasgow,--the west country ge-
nerally, and to the north of England.
	At the fair in February, an incredible quantity of hare-skins is
purchased. The average number cannot be under 30,000; and
one year, no less a sum than L. 6000 is said to have been paid for
that one article.
	Burgh.--Dumfries is a royal burgh, and is entitled to one of
five votes for a member of Parliament. The tradesmen are divided
into seven incorporations, from each of which a deacon is annually
elected; and of the seven deacons thus elected, one is chosen conve-
ner, to assemble and preside over the whole craft, which is composed
of, 1st, the hammermen, consisting of blacksmiths, whitesmiths, tin-
smiths, coppersmiths, and saddlers, making in all 100 freemen;
2d, the squaremen, 100 in number, and including joiners, cabinet-
makers, masons, glaziers, coopers, and slaters; 3d, weavers, amount-
ing to 30; 4th, tailors, also amounting to 30; 5th, shoemakers,
numbering 100; 6th, skinners; and 7th, butchers; both of which
last incorporations are of small numerical strength. The town-
council consists of a provost, three bailies, a dean of guild, a trea-
surer, twelve merchant councillors, and the convener of the seven in-
corporated trades, together with the six remaining deacons, making
in all twenty-five members. There are six wards of police,
and two commissioners for each ward are elected annually in
June, by renters of L.10 each. The provost, the three bailies,
and the convener of the incorporations are commissioners ex officio.
As the capital of the county, Dumfries is the seat of the sheriff
and commissary courts. The quarter-sessions, the commissioners


