
   140				ELGINSHIRE.

   isted between the two races, carried on with various success,
   until finally the Shaws triumphed by stratagem. Tradition
   speaks of the bloody catastrophe.  The leading men of the Cum-
   mings were upon an excursion to the low country, and the Shaws,
   apprized of this circumstance, resolved to waylay them upon their
   return and effect their ruin. The latter placed a sentinel upon
   the summit of the Calart hill, at the eastern boundary of the pa-
   rish, with instructions to give a preconcerted  signal as to the route
   of the Cuinmihgs, north or south of that hill. Their plan-thus
   matured was followed up, and the hour at length arrived when
   the hostile parties met. A desperate encounter took place, and
   the Shaws prevailed. Not one of the foe escaped, and thus the
   sword effected what the law dared not accomplish. At the base
   of the Calart, there is a hollow still known by the name of Lag-
   na-Cuimminich, indicative of the spot where the tragedy was
   acted. A day of retributive justice at length overtook the race of
   Shaw for this deed of blood. The last of that name who held
   the property, actuated by a spirit of malignant envy, murdered his
   step-father, the Dallas, an act which so irritated the mother of
   the youth, that, collecting the deeds and instruments by which
   her son could hope to hold the property, she escaped to Castle
   Grant, and surrendered to John Grant of Freuchy the whole
   rights and interests of the young Shaw. The Laird of Grant
   having thus acquired these lands, gifted them to his second son,
   Patrick, who, towards the close of the sixteenth century, took pos-
   session, and since that period till the present day, his descendants
   have been in the quiet and secure enjoyment of this inheritance.
   Connected with the history of the parish is the slaughter of one
   of the Earls of Athole, who, fleeing before his enemies, was sur-
   prized. and murdered, when taking shelter behind a large stone
   near the summit of Inch Riach, called to this day, in allusion to
   this event, Clach-Mhic-Allan, the Earl of Athole's Stone.
     Eminent Characters. -- We are not aware of any names of
   celebrity, either in the arts or sciences, connected with the pa-
   rish. Tradition hands down the names of several individuals
   eminent in their day for deeds of active strife.  Macalpine and
   Tighearna Bine, lairds of Rothiemurchus, are names endear-
   ed to the inhabitants, more by the record of their services in the
   cause of benevolence, than by any remarkable traits of character
   or talents peculiar to themselves. John Roy. Stewart, one of
   Prince Charlie's Colonels, and a native of Kincardine, in this vici-


