
278                        STIRLINGSHIRE.


nauld lime-works, and the indifferent roads, is a great obstruction
to the rapid improvement of this parish.

		    V.--PAROCHIAL Economy.

   Greater facilities will now be furnished for promoting the gene-
ral industry and prosperity of the parish, by means of the railway
passing obliquely through the parish. This railway branch di-
verges from the Ballochnie near Stanrigg, about three and a half
miles to the north of Airdrie, and extends to the Union Canal at
Causeway end, and nearly three miles to the west of Linlithgow,
a distance upwards of twelve miles. The railway enters the pa-
rish at the junction of the counties of Lanark and Stirling, a lit-
tle to the west of the farm of Lodge, and, intersecting it about
the centre, proceeds eastward till near Bankhead, by crossing the
Avon water, the boundary of the parish, by an elegant new bridge,
into that of the parish of Muiravonside in that direction. The
length of railway in the parish of Slamanan is about three and two-
third miles, which, at an average costing L.10,000 per mile, gives
about L.37,000 as the expenditure in the parish. Since the com-
mencement of the railway, there have been different bores made
on the lands of Balquhatston, for ascertaining the nature of the
metals, and after a depth of 25 to 30 fathoms and upwards, there
have been found several seams of coal from 1 to 3 feet thick.  A
pit has lately been opened, and a steam engine erected by Messrs
J. Russell of Leith, tacksmen of the coal; and at the depth of 12
fathoms have found a seam of good coal, 3 feet thick, with a free-
stone roof. About twenty-five workmen are employed, and nearly
fifty tons daily of coal are conveyed to market by the railway, the
selling price being 4d. per cwt. on the hill. Other trials in dif-
ferent districts of the parish have recently been made, and smithy-
coal and abundance of fine freestone have been found. Over the
whole of the parish as well as the Annexation, there is abundance
of coal and ironstone, which is accounted valuable, yielding 33
per cent.; and the Strathavon yields ironstone of 36 per cent, and
coal 17 per cent., according to the analysis of Dr Hugh Colquhoun.
The only going coal at present is on the lands of Balqubatston
and the Lodge, and rents at L.25 annually.
   In this parish there are no villages, only three places where
there are few houses, close by the church, Balcastle, and the other
to the east of the parish, where two roads intersect each other, and
gives to the village the name Cross Roads.  The nearest market-
towns are Falkirk and Airdrie.


