
266                     ARGYLESHIRE.

   The course of the canal from where it unites with the sea in
the Lochgilp branch of Lochfine, passes for about two and a-half
miles about due north, for the most part along the shore of South
Knapdale on Lochgilp, and from thence it continues to skirt the
parish in a north-west direction for two and a half miles farther,
passing through the vale of Dail, which forms the summit level of
the canal; and where it forms the march between South Knapdale
and Glassary parish, the remaining four miles of the canal passes
along, and for the most part forms the north boundary of North
Knapdale along the shore of Inner Loch Crinan, till it enters the
sea at Crinan.  The whole extent is nine miles.  The lochs are
fifteen in number, eight of eiaht feet rise, ascending from Loch-
gilp to the summit of the canal, and seven on the west side of the
summit of nine feet rise, falling down to Loch Crinan.  The two
lochs at the Crinan entrance are 108 feet long by 27 feet wide,
all the others are 96 feet long by 24 feet wide, the increased di-
mensions of the former being with the view of admitting vessels to
a projected graving dock never carried into effect.  Depth of wa-
ter in the canal is only required and maintained at 10 feet, but
12 feet might be carried.
   The canal is principally supplied with water by two small reser-
voirs, of about six acres each, in the parish of North Knapdale,
and by six principal reservoirs, all marching between the parishes
of North and South Knapdale-varying in depth from eight to
twenty-five feet, and in extent from fifteen to forty-five acres each;
and the whole so arranged by natural and artificial means, that the
water is directed to waste from the one to the other, until all are
full, and ultimately to send the overplus water to Loch-Sween in
the Sound of Jura, which formerly found its way to Lochfine and
Loch Crinan.  The rise and fall of tide at Ardrissaig is eight to
nine feet during neaps, and from ten to twelve feet during springs.
At Crinan, the rise and-fall during neap-tides is only four to six
feet, and during springs, six to eight feet.  The level of high water
at Crinan is three to four feet higher than the level of high water
at Ardrissaig.  High water at Ardrissaig at full and change of the
moon takes place at twelve noon, and at Crinan four hours later.
   The more immediate object of the Crinan Canal was to enable
the coasting and fishing trade of the West Highlands and the
Clyde to avoid the dangerous and circuitous route by the Mull of
Kintyre, in their mutual intercourse ; a matter of no small import-
ance, not only as regards the preservation of life and property, but


