
314                               AYRSHIRE.

there is little record of session proceedings. The register of births
and marriages begins at the same date, and, except during "the
time of the curate," as the last period of the Episcopacy is usually
designated, all the records of which are a few scarce readable en-
tries of baptisms, it has been, with little interruption, well kept to
the present day.
	This parish bore its full share of the hardships of the times of
persecution. The traditionary records of these times are by no
means scanty; but a narrative still more full and better authenti-
cated will be found in Wodrow. He gives the history of this
parish as a specimen of what was generally practised, and says,
"Had materials come to my hand as distinctly from the rest of
the country as from this parish, what a black view we might have
had." He details minutely the great number of troops frequently
quartered upon the people. In 1678 they had 900 Highlanders
quartered upon them; a number which, judging from the earliest
census we possess, was more than the whole population of the pa-
rish. As a specimen of the fines levied for worshipping in inter-
dicted places, he gives a list of ten individuals who bad to pay, in
the portions severally specified, 600 merks and 260 lib. for hear-
ing a sermon in the chapel in Straiton parish. And this besides
the imprisonment of some of them, and the dispersing of the
family, and the plundering of the house of one who did not appear.
Wodrow quotes frequently and at great length from the diary of
Quintin Dick, an inhabitant of this parish, who bore a prominent
part both in the sufferings and in the doings of these days. In
such exciting times he was a remarkable instance of sound judg-
ment, steadfast principle, and moderation. After much suffering,
and a long imprisonment in Dunottar Castle, he providentially
escaped banishment to the Plantations, to which he had been sen-

judgment. We apprehend that the church, upon its re-establishment after the Re-
volution, found society in a sadly disorganized state,--for the session records, for
some time subsequent to that date, show the exercise of a very strict discipline over
all kinds of offenders. Drunkenness, profane swearing, and "Sabbatt breaking," were
resolutely rebuked and repressed. All unnecessary work which might be conveniently
done on the Saturday, such as "cutting of kail and carrying in of water," were pro-
hibited. Two elder in their turn searched the town, and looked after strollers in
the fields during divine service. A week day services maintained, and it was en-
acted on the 26th October 1708, "That there should be no market keeped, by sell-
ing, of meal and other commodities in time of Divine service upon the week day." No
drinking was permitted in public-houses on any night after the ringing of the bell.
One extract more, strikingly indicative of the interest in all beneficial undertakings,
the Kirk of Scotland has ever taken On the l6th May 1658, a collection was made
for "the harbour of Kirkadie, the bridge of Carsphairne, and the kirk of Kirkbride."
The sum collected was "7 lib. 2s. 4d.;" of which "4 Lib."  was given to Kirkadie,
"3 lib." to Caraphairne, and the remainder to Kirkbride.



