
               ROTHES.                            237

about to be established; for which a school-room and school-house
are in progress of erection. In the parish school nearby 100 children
of both sexes give almost regular attendance throughout the year,
and receive instruction in all the branches of a useful education.
Besides the maximum salary, the parish schoolmaster enjoys the
advantage of the Dick Bequest, which has tended in an eminent
degree to enlarge the comforts and raise the status of the school-
masters to whom it is extended. And, moreover, the school has
been recently benefited by the legacy of the late Dr J. Simpson,
before-mentioned. This, together with the Dick Bequest, may
amount to about L.57 or L.58; and the probable amount of fees
actually paid to the schoolmaster in the year is about L.32.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor on the parish
roll amounts at. present to about 60, who ate supported partly by
the Sabbath collections raised in the ordinary way, and amounting
to about L.60 annually; and partly by the annual proceeds of
certain endowments made at different times to the poor by bene-
volent individuals. By this means, an average annual contribution
is raised, for the relief or the poor, of about L.90, which, after
deducting certain necessary charges and expenses, yields about
an averaae of L.1, 6s. to each pauper in the year. There is no
legal assessment.
   Savings' Bank.--There is a National Security Savings' Bank
in the parish, wbich was instituted about two years ago, and is
principally managed by the minister and schoolmasters. The
amount of money invested in the bank, during the first year, was
L. 1011, 3s. 4d., and during the same period there was withdrawn
L.43, 8s, 2d. The amount invested during the second year is
L.624, 15s.; and withdrawn, L.277, 2s. 2d.
  There are three markets held in the village every year; ihe
first on the third Thursday of April; the second on the third Wed-
nesday of July; and the third on the third Wednesday of October,
for the sald of black-cattle and general business. They are in ge.
neral well attended.

    March 1842.


