
82                      BANFFSHIRE.

gives great encouragement to improving and industrious tenants.
A Labourer earns in winter, with victuals, ls.; in summer, ls. 6d.
without victuals. Mason-work per rood, L. 1, 4s. to L. 1, 10s.
Carpenter per day, 2s. in summer, and Is. 6d. in winter. The
common breeds of cattle are black. The Highland Society and
the Banffshire Farmer Club have awarded premiums; and cattle-
shows have been held for several years past in the village.
   The husbandry pursued generally consists in breeding cattle and
raising oats. Several hundred acres have been reclaimed by drain-
ing, within these few years. The farm-buildings are generally good;
but there are few enclosures. The principal improvements which
have recently been made are, drainage on a large scale by the pro-
prietor and by the tenantry,-tbe proprietor generally paying half
the expense. The obstacles to improvement are the want of ca-
pital, and the estate held under entail. The value of potatoes per
acre may be stated at L. 7; turnips, L. 5. The price of hay per
acre varies, but may be reckoned at L. 3.

<TABLE>
    Produce
	  Produce of grain of all kinds,    -	L. 4910	 0   0
    Potatoes and turnips,                   870  0   0
    Hay and pasture grass,                  975  0   0
	  Periodical felling of wood,	             15	 0   0
                                           ____________
                                        L. 6770  0   0

                          V.-PAROCHIAl ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-Near the village of Corncairn, which
is a burgh of barony, thbre are six markets held in the year, usual-
ly called Cornhill markets. The parish is intersected by turnpike
roads, in several directions, to the extent of eight miles,-on which
there are four bridges in good condition.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is at the extremity of
the parish, was built in 1805, is in good repair, and may contain
between 400 and 500 sitters. No seat rents. The extent of
glebe is between 7 and 8 acres, valuing at L. I per acre. The
amount of stipend variable, but averaging L. 160. No chapels of
ease, or Government churches, or dissenting chapels in the parish.
The number attending the Established Church is 660. There is
one family of Episcopalians, containing 5 individuals; one family
of Roman Catholics, consisting of 6; one family of Seceders of
6; and two of Independents, amounting to 6; in all, 23. Divine
worship is well attended.  The average number of communicants,
300. Tbe collections on Sabbath for behoof of the poor average.
10s. 6d.
                              4


