
                       DALKEITH.                         463

   Henry de Graham, the eldest son of Peter, succeeded to his
various possessions. He confirmed to, this of Newbattle, in
or before the year 1203, the great formerly made to them by his
father. His charter runs thus: "Terram de Baluebuth sicut ri-
vulus cadit in Esk, quam terram pater meus Petrus de Grahame
prascriptis monacbis dedit," &c. He is also a witness in some of
the charters of William the Lion.*
   He was succeeded by his son the second Henry, who confirmed
to the church of Newbattle the grant already mentioned. His
charter runs nearly in the same words as the preceding one, viz.
"Terram de Balnebuth sicut rivultis cadit in Esk, quam terram
avus meus, et Peter meus, scil. Petrus et Henricus de Grahame,
prascriptis monachis dederunt," &c.+
   Henry de Graham, the third of that name, was the son and
successor of the second Henry. He flourished in the reign of
Alexander II. (1214-1249), but principally in the reign of Alex-
ander III. (1249-1286). On the decease of Sir Roger Avenel
in 1243, he married his daughter and heiress, and thus acquired
the extensive possessions of the Avenels of Eskdale, together with
the manor of Abercorn. His name is mentioned as one of the
Magnates Scotiae who, in February 1283-4, met in Parliament at
Scone to deliberate upon the succession to the throne, in conse-
quence of the premature death of Prince Alexander, the only sur-
viving son of King Alexander III.;-and who then became bound
to acknowledge Margaret Princess of Norway as their sovereign,
in the event of the demise of Alexander III. without farther issue.+
   Sir Nicholas de Graham, eldest son of the third Henry, suc-
ceeded his father. He made a donation of some lands in the
villa of Halsington, in Berwickshire, to the monks of Melrose,
"pro salute Domini mei, domini Alexandri Regis Scotiae illus-
tris, et pro salute mea, et pro salute Marie sponse mee," &c. In

<FOOTNOTE>In a charter of King William the Lion, dated Castrum Puellarum, the third
witness is "Henrico de Graham, vice-comite nostro."
  In a bull of Pope Innocent III, dated Fereuton, 12th July 1203, among similar
donations we find the following notice: "Ex dono Petri Graham, et Henrici filii
ejus, terram quae vocatur Bulnebuth."  Most of these charters being without date in
the original, we are enabled by this bull to make an approximation to the proper period.
      Charta Henrici de Graham, filii Henrici, in Chartulary of Newbattle.
      Rymer's Faedera, ii. 266. See also Robertson's Index, app. p. 3, line 12, aeq.
      Confirmacio Nicholai de Gram de Halsington, miles, primogenitus Domini
Henrici de Graham, salutem in Deo sempiternam, &c. Chart.of M app. P. 681.
      "Ego et haredes mei dabimus ipsi calum pniatori in racionabilem extentam in
Dominicis nostris de  Dalketh, vel alibi in Dominicis nostris quibucounque in regno
Scotia, in loco competente ad valorem dicta terra," &c.-Diplomatum Collectio, Vol.
i. p. 429, folio. (M'Farlane MSS.)
   There is an engraving of two seals of this Baron in Plate iii. (NO. 6 and No.8,)
Vol. ii. near the end of the Chart. of Melrose, Bann. Club, Edin, 1837.


