
          210                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

          intellectual powers within very narrow limits.  Still they are strewd
          and inquisitive, but too indolent abd indifferent to provide for them-
          selves or families any of those comforts or necessaries of life which,
          by a little more exertion and prudence, they might easily acquire.
          They are extremely addicted to the use of both spirits and tobac-
          co-smoking.  There are more spirits-consumed in Barray than in
          any other place of its extent in the Western Islands.  In point of
          religion, the natives, who are mostly Roman Catholics, are not
          worse than their neighbours of the same persuasion.  They are
          regular in their attendance on their own worship, without, perhaps,
          bringing forth those fruits which such attendance should naturally
          produce.  As soon as the congregation is dismissed, the inn is their
          common resort, where they drink to such excess as often ends in
          a quarrel.  The Protestants, who are comparatively few in num-
          ber, and mostly strangers from other parts of the Highlands, are,
          with few exceptions, sober and industrious, and in their religious
          attainments, are noways behind their neighbours in the adjacent
          Islands.

                                  <TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY.>
              Agriculture.-By a survey made of this parish in 1820-21, it was
          found to contain 22,072,1943 imperial acres, distinguished into
          arable, machir or sandy ground, hill-pasture, moss or meadow, as
          follows:
                             Arable,                        3921-9377
                             Machir orsandy,                 1540.453
                             Hill pasture.                 16139.5089
                             Moss or meadow,                 470.9938
                                                         ---------------
                                              Total,        22072.943

           As all the lands in Barray are let either in farms or in crofts,          consisting of arable and pasture ground intermixed, it is not pos-
       consisting of arable and pasture ground intermixed, it is not pos-
       sible to ascertain the exact rent of an arable acre.
           Rent of Land.-The average price of a cow's grass depends
       much on the quality of the pasture, which varies much in diffe-
       rent parts of the parish.  It may, however, be stated at L.1, 1Os.
       or L.2 per annum; that of a sheep, from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per an-
       num.
           Rate of Wages.-Farm-servants recieve from L.4 to L. 7 per
       annum, exclusive of maintenance; and women from L.2 to L.3
       per annum, besides maintenance.  Daily labourers receive 1s. 6d.
       in summer, and 1s. in winter, per day, without maintenance.  Ma-
       sons receive 2s. 64, perd day; house carpenters 2s.; and all country


