
12                      HADDINGTONSHIRE

   Fiars.-From time immemorial, it has been the practice of this
county to fix, by public authority, the fiar or average prices of wheat,
barley, oats, and pease,-these four species of grain being the staple
produce. For this purpose, the Sheriff, about the term of Candlemas,
calls before him a considerable number of respectable tenants (from
different parts of the county,) and also extensive dealers in grain,
who have bought And sold, delivered and received it within the
county, from the separation, of the preceding crop to the day on
which the proof is taken. And having ascertained, upon oath, the
price of considerable quantities of each of these four species of
grain, he strikes one general average of the whole prices for each
species,-next finds the quantity number of bolls that have fetch-
ed a price higher than the general average, and strikes a second
average of this quantit. He then finds the quantity that has been
sold at a price below his first general average, and strikes a third
average also of this quantity. To each of these averages he adds
two and a-half per cent., and these three averages, with that addi-
tion, form the first, the second, and third fiar prices for the year.
   The late Sir George B. Hepburn, Bart. took pains to ascertain
the reason of two and a-half per cent. being added to the fiar ave-
rages, and found that the record of fiars goes as far back as 1627,
-that it was some time the practice to strike the fiars twice in the
year, at the terms of Candlemas and Lammas,-that on examin-
ing the fiars for twenty-six years, during which they were struck
at Candlemas and Lammas, and taking the average of both, which
seems to be the fair medium price, it turned out, in point of fact,
that the Candlemas, with the addition of two and a-half per cent.,
was somewhat below the above medium of the double fiars. Candle-
mas, on several obvious considerations, is too early a period to take
the average price for the whole year,-Whitsunday seems preferable.
It may also be stated, that the, present mode of striking the fiars has
received the sanction of the Supreme Court. On 8th March 1771,
the Lords gave judgment, finding, "that the rules by which the
Sheriff proceeded seemed well qualified for fixing the price of vic-
tual with the greatest accuracy."

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Town of Haddington.-The town of Haddington is pleasantly
situated at the foot of the Garleton range of hills on the north, and
bounded by the Tyne on the east, which divides it from the popu-
lous suburb of Nungate, to which, however, it is joined by a
bridge of four arches. The town consists principally of two paral-




