

       924                      FIFESHIRE.

         Falkland afterwards became the property of the Crown; but,
       in the time of Malcolm IV., it fell into the possession of Duncan,
       the sixth Earl of Fife.  Duncan married Ada, Malcolm's niece,
       and Falkland formed a part of her marriage dowry.  It remained
       in the possession of this powerful family until the year 1371, when
       it passed into the hands of Robert Stewart, Earl of Monteith, af-
       terwards Duke of Albany and Regent of Scotland.  The Castle
       or Tower of Falkland is mentioned in an indenture between Iso-
       bel, Countess of Fife, and this celebrated statesman, whom she
       acknowledges as her heir.  The said Earl, it is said, "shall have
       in his keeping the Castle of Falkland, with the forest of it, and a
       constable shall be placed there by him as he pleaseth, and the
       said Countess may stay within the tower when she pleaseth, and
       the whole village of Falkland, over against the said tower, shall
       be set in tack."
         "Falkland," says Dr Jamieson, "had formerly a designation
       which, as far as I have observed, occurs in no other instance.
       Speaking of the forfeiture of the Earl of Fife, Sibbald says, 'It
       was before that called the Castle or Mar of Falkland, and was
       one of the seats of the Macduffs.'  I have met with no word that
       seems to have any probable affinity, unless we should view it as
       softened in pronunciation from Welsh, magwyr, 'what is raised
       up, a structure, a wall, a building, a house.'"\f
         Falkland first became the residence of the Court during the
       regency of Albany.  Robert IIL., a feeble monarch, entrusted
       him with the entire administration of the kingdom, and hence
       manerium nostrum de Fawhland, as he termed it, became virtually
       the seat of Government.\f But when the estates of Murdoch,
       the second Duke, were forfeited in 1424, Falkland reverted to
       the Crown.
         While the old Castle or Mar of Falkland belonged to Albany,
       it became the scene of one of the most painful tragedies\f in the
       history of Scotland.  David, Duke of Rothesay, eldest son of
       Robert III., and heir apparent to the Throne, was thrown into
       one of its dungeons by his uncle, the Duke of Albany, where he
       was starved to death in 1402.  The circumstances connected
       with this event, so characteristic of the cruel and barbarous man-

<FOOTNOTE>Brown's Views of the Royal Palacex of Scotland, page 30.
<FOOTNOTE>Ten different charters yet remain, which are dated Manerium nostri de Fau       land. or simply Falkland, by Albany while Gubernator or Regent.
<FOOTNOTE>In the Fair Maid of Perth, Sir Walter Scott has lethe embellishments of poetry and romance.

