
1114                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

the following extract will show at once the excellence of his mo-
tives, and the lamentable want of pastors in this district at that
time: "Being cast in these parts, where, within the precincts of
two presbyteries, at least twenty and one churches lay unplanted,
whereby our state were little from heathenism, I began in a
simple and private manner (necessity enforcing it on my con-
science) to catechise my own family. Thereafter, the church-
men of that province dealing earnestlie with me, to accept of
some publick charge in the ministrie of the church, which, upon
divers respectfull considerations, I could not as then yeild to, they
next, with all instance, requested that, at least for the gude of
others, I wold be content to transfer my domestic paines to ane
void church, now joining to my house;* whairto having for a
space condescendit, they afterward, by thair commissioners from
thair synod, directed to me for that effect, yet more earnestly en-
treated that I wold still hold on that course which (as they judged)
had been in some degree fruitfull. Now, Sir, as this made my
voice to be heard in any public place, so all my uther carriage
therein hath been such, both in respect of the place, ane obscure
corner of any in all your Majesty's kingdoms, and in respect of
my quiet manner, so far from all pretences, as 1 never opened my
mouth in any uther part (albeit oftener than once, either seriously
entreated, or curiously tempted) and except ane ordinary lecture
on the Lord's day, never meddled with any part of that calling in
private or publick assembly."+ He was afterwards, however,
persuaded to enter into the office of the ministry, and, in 1612,
was settled at Keith, whence, in 1618, he was translated to the
see of Aberdeen. He discharged the duties of his office with
great diligence and faithfulness, being, according to Burnett, in
his Life of Bishop Bedell, "in all things an apostolical man."
He reformed many abuses in the University and King's College,
of which he was ex officio Chancellor, and, by means of subscrip-
tions from the synod of Aberdeen, he founded there a chair of
divinity, which was first filled by his son, Dr John. He died on
the 28th March 1635, at the age of seventy-one, and was buried
in Bishop Dunbar's aisle, in the cathedral, where a flat stone
with a Latin inscription may still be seen over his grave. He
was the author of a "Commentary on the Revelations," London,

<FOOTNOTE>The old church of Leochel was within a mile of the Castle of Corse, while no
other was within four miles.
    + Spalding Club Miscellany, Vol. ii. pp. 153, 154.


