
                     DUNFERMLINE.                             903

dren were sent to the deaf and dumb institution in Glasgow, who
made very rapid progress in their farther education, and in reli-
gious knowledge and character.
    Literature.-The Dunfermline Library was instituted on the
26th of February 1789, and contains nearly 3000 volumes, the
property of the shareholders, and embracing standard works in
all the departments of general knowledge.
   There is also a Tradesmen's and Mechanics' Library, being a
union of two libraries, one of the Tradesmen's, instituted in 1808,
and the other belonging to the Mechanics' Institution, which was
joined to it in 1832.  The united library contains about 2000
volumes, well selected in all the departments of science and art,
moral and political philosophy, history, theology, &c.
   There is also a Circulating Library kept at Bridge Street, by
Mr Miller, bookseller.
   The Abbey, St Andrew's, and some other congregations in
town, have good libraries of religious books connected with them.
  A scientific Association was formed in 1834, which has always
been popular, and the admission ticket being low, the attendance
has been numerous.  Useful, and it times interesting and attrac-
tive, courses of lectures have been delivered each winter, in one
of the Dissenting churches, since its commencement.
   Dunfermline has one public reading-room in the Town Hall,
three printing-offices, and four booksellers.  There are two
monthly advertising papers, containing also some general informa-
tion, published alternately, once a-fortnight, the one named the
"Dunfermline Advertiser," and the other the "Dunfermline
Journal," each having a circulation of about 3000.
    Charitable and other Institutions.-A Poor's House has been
erected by the Poor's Board in the upper part of the Town Green,
east from the burgb.  It is supported by the ordinary legal as-
sessment, and the revenue arising from Reid's Mortification, a
property bequeathed by John Reid, shopkeeper in Dunfermline,
in a deed dated 17th April 1776, for the relief of poor house-
holders and other persons, who had once been in good worldly
circumstances, but which was, by an express provision in said
deed, to be applied to a poor's-house or orphan-house, when built
in the parish.  The rental of this property exceeds L.1OO an-
nually.  The poor's-house accommodates about 130 inmates of
various classes.
   Grame's Mortification.-In the year 1710, six hundred merks,

