
920             SUPPLEMENT TO THE

of L.20,000, voted of late years for education to Scotland, it
appears that almost the whole sum has been appropriated by
parties connected with the Established Church.  This could
only have been done by their reviously raising a proportional sum
themselves.  Several years ago, thirty-six grants had in this way
been made to the friends of the church, generally to kirk-sessions,
(now they must be much more numerous,) and twenty additional
applications were lying over, waiting for a new' Parliamentary grant.
By a strange perversity, some have misinterpreted the result of the
Government Education Returns of 1833-34.  Because the schools in
Scotland not parochial are much more numerous than those which
are parochial, it seems to be inferred that the parochial system is a
weak and inefficient one.  The number ofparochial schools is 1047,
taught by 1170 instructors.  The greatest number of children
taught in them from Michaelmas 1833 to Lady-day 1834 is
nearly 80,000.  The number of schools not parochial is 3995,
taught by 4469 instructors; the greatest number of children
taught at the same period, 207,310.  It is certainly not the fault
of the parochial school system that it has not been more extended.
Even from the returns given above, it would seem that its schools
teach a far higher proportional number of children than those not
parochial.  Upon an average there are nearly eighty children in
each school of the one, while there are only fifty in each school of
the other class; intimating that the parochial school is the school
to which the children of the poor and working-classes have readiest
access.  But what are the schools which belong to the class not
parochial? Are the all private schools, or Dissenting schools;
and do Dissenters thus prove that they are much better friends of
education than the Established Church?  Far from it.  A large
body of them may be said to be endowed, which some consider
the great evil of the parochial system.  Under the head of not
parochial are included all the burgh and charity schools in towns;
schools not maintained by fees; and all the schools in the country,
and particularly in the Highlands and Islands, which are support-
ed by societies and subscriptions.  We have no means of exactly
knowing what proportion these bear to the schools strictly private,
which depend altogether upon fees; but there is no question that
they bear a very high proportion From the returns of schools exa-
mined by the Presbytery of Glasgow, in 1837, it would seem, that, in
the city, where there are no parochial schools, the number of burgh,


