
94			KINCARDINESHIRE.

off on turnips, a greater remuneration will be expected. It is, how-
ever, difficult to state with precision the expense of grazing or main-
tenance of any kind of bestial, as farmers are in the practice either
of rearing or purchasing the stock for their farms; and much must
depend upon the way in which bestial are bought or reared, and
the state of the markets when they are sold.
	Wages.--The rate of labour may be as under: half-yearly ser-
vants: unmarried ploughmen from L. 6 to L. 8, 10s., with two
pecks of oatmeal weekly, and an allowance of milk and potatoes,
with lodging and fuel, generally in a bothie. Unmarried half-year
labourers are from L. 5 to L. 6; boys from L. 1, 10s. to L. 3, with
the usual allowance of meal and milk in the bothie. Married men-
servants are engaged by the year.  They generally get a house and
garden, maintenance for a cow, and L. 8 to L. 10 of wages, with
six and a-half bolls of oatmeal; they also get an allowance of po-
tatoes or ground for raising them, with a few barrels of coals and
brushwood for fuel. Women servants for farm-work, if engaged
for six months, get in summer from L. 3 to L. 4, 10s., and in win-
ter about L. 2, with victuals in the kitchen; and if engaged by the
day for farm-work, 8d. in winter, and 10d. in summer, but without
victuals or lodging.
	Harvest work is very often let by the acre, at from 7s. to 10s.
for cutting, binding, and stooking when cut by the hand; and from
5s. to 7s. when cut by the scythe; and when cut by the threave,
about 3d. In none of these cases do the labourers get victuals.
When shearers are engaged for the harvest, the wages for men is
about L. 2, 5s.; and for women, L. 1, 15s., with victuals and beer.
In addition to cutting the grain crop, they are usually bound to
assist in taking up the potatoe crop.
	Farm-labourers per day, in winter, 1s. 2d.; in summer, 1s. 8d.;
and dykers, ditchers, hedgers, quarriers, &c. from 1S. 6d. to 2s. 6d.
according to the season of the year and the activity of the labourer.
	There are few or no home manufacturers in this parish. Little
linen is made, and that not for the market; neither are any coarse
woollen cloths manufactured. Strong cotton cloth or Irish linen
is used for shirts by the ploughman, and his jacket and trowsers
consist of velvet or west of England cloth, his great-coat only be-
ing of Scotch manufacture.
	The prices of raw produce may be as under: flax, of which little
is raised for sale, costs per stone of 14lb. 7s.; wool, from 7s. to


