
850                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

Lords of Council and Session in Scotland; and the powers there-
by conferred have been exercised by successive proprietors for the
improvement of the burgh.  Of the nature and extent of some of
the baron's powers in the maintenance of his jurisdiction, there
still exist distinct vestiges.	On the summit of a rising ground
contiguous to the village, there is pointed out the site on which
the gallows stood, at the period when justice was summarily exe-
cuted; and the eminence still bears the name of the Gallows
Knoll.
   Proprietors.-The whole parish of Clatt belongs to two land-
owners; James Adarm Gordon, Esq. of Knockespoch, who has a
family seat in the parish, but whose principal residence is in Eng-
land, where his extensive estates are situated; and Sir Andrew
Leith Hay of Rannes, whose mansion-house is in the neighbouring
parish of Kennetmont.  There is no plan of the whole parish
extant, but correct surveys, by professional men, have been made
at different times, for the private use of the landed proprietors.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are by no means
in a perfect state. The register of baptisms only commences in
1725, and,with slight intermissions, is brought down to the pre-
sent time.  Previously to 1820, when the present incumbent was
appointed,there is no register of marriages, with the exception of
the short interval between 1784 and 1798, and no record what-
soever of deaths is in existence.
   Feudal Rencontre.-The only historical incident in this parish,
deserving of notice, was a rencontre, in 1572, between the two
rival clans of Forbes and Gordon.  To revenge an insult offered
by the Master of Forbes, in repudiating his wife, daughter of the
Earl of Huntly, the Gordons, under the command of two of the
Earl's brothers, attacked their hereditary enemies, the Forbesses,
within their rude entrenchment, on the White Hill of Tillyangus,
in the south-west extremity of this parish, and, after a sanguinary
contest, still visibly marked by a number of graves or cairns, the
Gordons carried the encampment of their opponents, slew Arthur
Forbes, son of Lord Forbes, commonly called Black Arthur, from
his dark complexion, and continued the pursuit to the gates of
Castle Forbes, (now Druminnor), the family seat of the numerous
clan Forbes.  This skirmish is the subject of traditionary notice
by the aged chroniclers of the parish, and is recorded in a manu-
script memoir of the house of Forbes, now in the possession of
the Honourable Lord Forbes.
                              4


