
                             FORDYCE.                            191

   adjoining to the premises which were formerly occupied in con-
   nection with a tbread rnantifactory and bleachfield. There, is al-
   so a small distillery; and a bone, thrashing, and saw mill, driven
   by the same water wheel, has lately been erected in the centre of
   the town. The importing of flax for spinnidg, which used to be,
   to a large extent, has now entirely ceased ; and a most important
   means of support to humble and industrious females has thus been
   withdrawn.
      Navigation.-There are eight vessels belonging to the port of
   Portsoy, the whole registered tonnage of which is 556 of new mea-
   sure. Scotch and English coals are the chief imports. The
   amount of the former for the year, from May 6, 1839, to May
   6, 1840, was 3250 tons, including 200 discharged at Redhyth;
   and of the latter, 3500 tons. From eight to ten foreign vessels,
   chiefly from different parts of the Baltic, annually, visit this port,
   bringino, with them bones, and taking cargoes of herrings in return.
   Besides the export of herrings, grain is also frequently shipped to,
   a large amount.
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

      Market- Towns, &c.-Portsoy is the chief market-town, at which
   a weekly market is held on Saturday, for the sale of the various
   articles of country produce. It was erected into a burgh of baro-
   ny by a charter granted by Queen Mary in 1550. Its population
   at present is much the same as in 1831, viz. 1525. The popula-
   tion of the villaoe of Fordyce, which was also made a burgh of
   barony in 1499, and bad its charter renewed in 1592 to Menzies
   of Durn, is 212; of the fishing village of Sandend, 203; and of
   New Mills, in the interior of the parish, 30. Besides the accorn-
   modation of a regular post-office in Portsoy, and of a daily coach
   running between Aberdeen and Elgi n, the parish is now supplied
   with excellent roads, being intersected by these in every quartdr.
   There are fourteen miles of re tilar turnpike leading to Banff, Cul-
   len, Keith, and Huntly, The bridges on the roads are substantial
   but the fences are but few. The pier around the new barbour
   Of Portsov, which was built by the proprietor, the Earl of Sea.
   field, at a large expense, in the years 1825-28, and which form-
   ed one of the safest and most commodious on the coast, was, first
   severely shaken on the north side, by tbe'tremendous sea storm
   of 7th, January 1839; and by another, on the 30th of the same
   month, was totally demolished. Not-having been yet rebuilt the
      BANFF,                          N


