
386                  STIRLINGSHIRE.

ron near Dunipace House by a ford, and foot-travellers by steps.
In that year, a handsome bridge of three arches was erected a little
below the ford. In 1828, the bridge over the Carron, between
the parishes of Dunipace and Denny, on the Glasgow and Stirling
road, being considered unfit, from its height and narrowness, for
the wbeel-carriages of the present day, and also in an unsafe state
from its age, was removed, and a neat substantial bridge of three
arches erected in its place.
   Farmers' Society.-About two years ago, a Farmers' Society was
formed for the purpose of encouraging agricultural improvements, and
particularly for improving the breed of cattle. The Society has a
ploughing-match and a cattle-show every year. Almost all the
proprietors and farmers in the parish are members. Much good,
in these particulars, has already been done, and much more is ex-
pected from the exertions of this respectable Society.
   Poor.-The number of poor on the roll averages about 10, who
receive from Is. to 3s. per week respectively. The heritors assess
themselves annually, generally at the rate of 20s. per hundred
pounds Scots of valued rent. The amount from collections at
church door, and interest of a sum belonging to the parish, varies
from L. 50 to L. 60 per annum. Besides this, the late William
Simpson, Esq. of Plean, left L. 500 to the kirk-session for behoof
of the poor not on the roll. The interest of this sum is expended
annually in purchasing coals, paying house, rents, and otherwise,
as the kirk-session may direct.
   Schools.-There are two scbools-tbe parochial school, situat-
ed near the centre of the parish, and a private school in the small
village of Torwood. The greater part of the scholars attending
this school, come from the contiguous parishes of St Ninians and
Larbert. There was a parochial school-house built in this parish
in 1696, but whether it was the first in the parish or not, cannot
be determined,-the parish, or rather existing session records, ex-
tending no fartber back'than 1707. The number of scholars at-
tending the parochial school has averaged, for the last twenty years,
about 60. Fees for reading, 2s. 6d., with writing, 3s. ; arithme-
tic,  3s. 6d,; Latin, French, and Greek, 5s. per quarter. The
Schoolmaster is kirk-treasurer, for which he receives L. 2, 2s. per
annum. The salary is the maximum. The school-room and
schoolhouse are built on a liberal scale. The garden is of the re-
quired extent. The office of session-clerk, worth L. 5 per annum,
has not been held by the present schoolmaster, nor by his imme-


