
732                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

in this parish, was found a large stone-axe, which is now in the
possession of Sir A. Leith of Freefield.  These axes were of
different sizes, and made of different kinds of stone.  A small one
of flint was found in the parish of Insch about 1827, and is now
in the Freefield cabinet.  The finest were of flint.  They were
used by our Celtic ancestors, in ages long prior to the Roman in-
vasion, as battle-axes, spears, or tools for domestic purposes.
The largest were generally made of coarse, but very hard, grey-
stone, for home use.  The smallest were manufactured from the
finest flint, and used as warlike instruments, and in different ways.
   Druidical Temples.-Two of these were on the farm of Colpie,
although now almost obliterated.  Several urns were dug up in
making a road near one of them.
   A Druidical place of worship anciently stood on the spot which
is now the church-yard or burying-ground, and about the middle
of it.  It consisted of a circle of twelve upright large granite
stones from Benochee, which were overturned when the first
Christian temple was erected.  One of these stones was taken
out of the ground in 1821, and now remains above ground, near
the spot from which it was dug up.  The other eleven are still
undr ground.  This is a proof that the first Christian missionaries,
in this country, erected their places of worship as near a possible
to the holy hills of the heathens, that the people might be more
easily persuaded to assemble there.  In digging out the foundation
stones of an ancient but small buildings, to which the last kirk of
Culsamond had been attached, there were found below them, side
by side, and at right angles with the wall, the skeletons of two
ness in perfect preservation.  This happened in the year 1821,
when the new kirk-yard dikes were building.
   Burial Cairns.-Of these there were, at one time, a considerable
number.  There are several on Cairnhill, on the north-east side
of Pulquhite; two on Moss-side, on opening one of which the
stone axe, already mentioned, was found; one on Mellingside;
one near Gateside; and two on Colpies.  The one on Moss-side
and another at Gateside have not been opened.  But the most re-
markable one was discovered on the farm of Mill of Williamston
in this month of May 1812, in an enclosure called the Liav-park
(Buxen Law -hitlock Park).  In preparing a field for turnip, the
plough, at a spot from which a large cairns of stones and moss had
been removed about thirty years before, struck against something
which impeded its progress.  On examination, this proved to be a


