
478                         PERTHSHIRE

here little more than two miles from Kenmore.  In all directions,
therefore, there are convenient outlets, and admirable roads; the
only interruption being that now mentioned at the Lyon, where it
is much to be wished that a bridge were erected; and as the roads
in every direction are good, so is there every facility for travelling.
At Kenmore is to be had everything to induce the traveller to re-
main as long as he pleases, as there are likewise various modes of
conveyance whenever his humour inclines him to depart.*
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church of Kenmore is situated at one
extremity of the parish, its eastern boundary being less than two
miles distant, the intervening space being occupied with the plea-
sure gro'uiids of Taymoutb, while the western boundary in Glen-
lochay is about thirty miles distant. Such being the locality of
the church, it is manifest that it must be inconvenient for by much

the greater part of the,population.  The territorial division of the
parish is in fact exceedingly unsuitable and defective.  One por.-
tion, for instance, according to the census of 1836, with a popula-
tion of 149,.is in a detached situation in Glenquaich, the nearest
point of which is five miles distant from the parish church, with a
high and, broad hill intervening.  Another portion, with a popu-
lation of 103, Cloicheran, is in a detached situation on the south
side of Lochtay, the nearest point of which is rather more than
ten miles distant.  A third portion, with a population of 114 is
in a detached'situation in Glenlochay, the nearest point of which
is about seventeen miles distant.  And a fourth portion, Kiltirie,
Moreinsh, &c. with a population of 517, is in a detached situation
on the north side of the loch, the nearest point of which is eleven
miles from the parish church, and placed between similar detach-
ed portions of the parishes of Killin and Weem. This is, indeed,
a most anomalous arrangementt. But singular as is thus the divi-

<FOOTNOTE>"The junction of Lochtay with Lochlomond, by partly of canal and part-
ly of railroad, has been recomended by an experienced engineer. See, in particu-                  See, in p
lar, " Report by Mr Baird, 24th August 1824. regarding the improvement of the
navigation of the river Laven and Lochlomond."
         +What could have been the reason of a division so preporterous ? The most like-
ly ovlgin Of the matter in that adverted to in Vol. ix. p. 488, or in Vol. xii. p. 130
of the former Statistical Account. This explanation is borne out by a statement which
I find in the Black Book of Taymouth; "Sir Duncan Campbell, seventh laird of
Glenurguhay, give for the twelf mark land of Cranniche, the twenties pund land of
Moreinsh of the ten mark land of Achmoir, and the twa merk land of Kandknock, to
the Leird of Ween, 23,000 marks, anno 1602." Now, it happens that Crannaich,
Achmoirs, and Kesknock, are in the parish of Weem, though all at a great distance
From the church of that parish, and together isolated from the portion contiguous
to it. In other words , the Laird of Weem, whose residence, Castle Menziew, is be-
side the church, chose to have the different parts of his property, whenever they might
lie, or however remote, include in the parish of his own domicile.
                                      3


