
236                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

some places of considerable depth, upon a bed of sand.  In the
higher parts of the parish, the clayey substratum predominates.
Hadden-rig above Kerchesters is the least productive part of the
parish which is under cultivation.     As you recede from this cen-
tre on all sides, but especially towards the river, the soil becomes
warmer and more productive.  This last remark regarding the soil
is equally applicable to the climate.
 Climate.-- Comparatively bleak on Hadden-rig, the air is bracing
on Lempitlaw, mild and salubrious along the river.   The inhabi-
tants, accordingly, are healthy and robust.  The most prevalent dis-
tempers are fever, pulmonary complaints, and rheumatism.  By this
last, men and women, comparatively young, are frequently attacked,
and rendered unfit for work during the rest of their lives.  The cause
of these distempers at once presents itself in the openness and damp-
ness of the houses, which in most instances have originally been built
with mud for mortar.   Were proprietors of land to give more at-
tention to the household comfort of those who live on their estates,
they would in the end effect a considerable saving ; as many, by
longer health, would be enabled to provide longer for themselves
and their families.

                  II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
The earliest mention made of this parish in any authentic do-
cument is found in the foundation charter of Selkirk dated 1114.
It is also mentioned in the charter given to Kelso Abbey in 1128,
as one of the parishes which was held in rectoria by that institu-
tion. Redden and Hadden are also referred to as contributing to
the same institution.  These places were probably of greater im-
portance formerly, than they are now.  Redden is mentioned as
a town in connexion with Kelso, Sprouston, &c. in a writ of Pro-
tection granted by Henry VII. to the monastery of Kelso.   The
former importance of Hadden would appear from the permission
granted to Bernard de Hawden by the Abbot of Kelso, to build
a private chapel, where "he and his guests might hear divine ser-
vice all the days of the year except on Christmas day, Easter day,
and the feast of St Michael," when they were obliged to attend the
parish  church.
 Hadden-stank and Redden-burn are frequently spoken of, in
border history, as the spots on which the English and Scotch
Commissioners met for the fixing of boundaries, and for the set-
tling of other territorial disputes.
 About the year 1540, Hadden-rig was the scene of a conflict be-
tween the Scots and 3000 English horse, in which the latter were


