
                      CARESTON.                    531

district of burghs. In politics he was a Whig of the old
school, liberal in his views and conduct, and most steady
to his party. He was indeed a generous and humane man, and
took much pleasure in doing good to his fellow-creatures, by pa-
tronizing the deserving, befriending the friendless, and relieving
the needy.
	Three of the grandsons of the Rev. Mr John Gillies, the first
Presbyterian minister here after the Revolution, and sons of Mr
Robert Gillies, merchant in Brechin, all attained to eminence in
different departments and professions. The oldest son, Dr John
Gillies, wrote the History of Greece and other historical works
of merit, for which he had the honour to be appointed Royal
Historiographer. His younger brother, Colin Gillies, Esq. be-
sides being a good agriculturist, became eminent as a general
merchant and manufacturer. In advanced life, he became Pro-
vost of Brechin, and filled the chief magistrate's chair with be-
coming dignity.
	The present Lord Gillies, the youngest, attained to much emi-
nence as a lawyer, and is now a Judge of high note in the Court
of Session.
	Mr David Henry, of Ardrossan, in Ayrshire, is distinguished
as a civil-engineer. He is a native of this parish; and attended
Mr Brown, the late parochial schoolmaster here. In his profesion
as an engineer, Mr Henry was much employed both in England
and the south of Scotland; and when the locks of the Aberdeen-
shire canal, on repeated trials, were found insufficient, he was
brough from a distance to superintend their reconstruction.
	Lastly, it may be observed, that the late very eminent botanist,
Mr David Don of Forfar, though not a native, spent his younger
years in this parish.
  Land-owner.-The only land-owner in this parish is the Right
Honourable James Earl of Fife, who succeeded his maternal uncle,
the late Alexander Skene, Esq. in the properties of Skene and
Careston.  His Lordship's brother, General Alexander Duff, is
apparent heir to these estates, as well as to the honours and estates
of the Earldom of Fife.
  Parochial Registers.-The register of births in this parish com-
mences in the year 1714; and those of marriages and deaths in
1773. There is likewise a sessional register, commencing in
1733, in which all the transactions of the kirk-session are minutely


