
                         PEEBLES-SHIRE.               10

Peblis to the Play, &c. - Peebles, though in former times celebrated
for games and amusements, at which sovereigns presided, can now
boast of no such diversions.  "Peblis to the Play" gives us a good
specimen of former sports and pastimes.  "It was composed," as a
profound scholar, and good judge of early Scottish literature writes
to me, "by James I., one of the most distinguished characters of the
age in which he lived.  It is written in the same stanza as Christ-kirk
on the Grene.  Like that poem, it is descriptive of rustic merriment
and of rustic quarrels, and it is conspicuous for the same rich vein
of native humour.  It was first published by Pinkerton, and occurs
in his select Scottish Ballads, Vol ii. Lond. 1783."  By a strange
and unaccoutable mistake which a perusal of one stanza of the
poem would have corrected, Peblis to the Play has often been ascrib-
ed to Allan Ramsay, who, like Hercules of old, seems to have fa-
thered all unappropriated prodigies.  Connected with the locali-
ty of Peebles is another poem of merit though little known.  "From
an edition which appeared at Edinburgh in 1603, Mr Pinkerton
has also published," says the learned author of the Life Bu-
chanan, "The Thrie Tailes of the Thrie Priests of Peblis.  These
tales, with apparent propriety, have been referred to the reign of
James III.  Many of the allusions are completely applicable to the
conduct of that deluded prince.  King James, it will be necessary
to recollect, was slain in the year 1488; and the style of the poem
does not seem of a modern cast.  "The three priest of Peebles
having met on St Bride's day for the purpose of regaling them-
selves, agree that each in his turn shall endeavour to entertain the
rest by relating some story.  They acquit themselves with sufficient
propriety.  The tales are of a moral tendency, byt at the same
time are free from the dulness which so frequently infests the pre-
ceptive compositions of our earlier poets."  The earliest edition
that has been traced of this curious poem was "imprinted at Edin-
burgh be Robert Charteris," 1603, 4to.  It is a book of great
rarity, and probably not more than one copy exists.

III - POPULATION.

Before the Reformation the population was probably far greater
than at present.  The numerous religious houses, the charitable
endowments, the hospitia, the mills and breweries, all betoken a
great propulation, and a well-maintained set of inhabitants.  There
is much truth in many of our old Scotch songs, which ascribe

* Irving's Lives of the Early Scottish Poets, Vol. i. p. 372.

