
38                      ARGYLESHIRE.

in lieu of his claim.*  The manse of the minister of the Gaelic
congregation is old, small, and not in good repair, situated in the
burgh ; the manse of the lowland charge was built in 1842, to the
west of the burgh, and is both a commodious and handsome.
building.
   The amount of the stipends is as follows:
   1. Gaelic or parochial charge,- 110 bolls 3 firlots 2 pecks of
oatmeal, of 140 lbs. per boll ; money stipend, L. 11, Os. 6d.; al-
lowance for glebe, L.40 ; for grassmail and hay, L.5 ; for com-
munion elements, L.3, 6s. 8d.; from Exchequer, L.54, 5s. 4d.
   2. English or burgh charge,-30+ bolls oatmeal, of 140 lbs.
per boll; money stipend, L.1, 10s. 6 1/2 2/3d.; from Exchequer,
L.127, 8s. 10d.; ditto in lieu of glebe, L.30; communion ele-
ments, L.3, 6s. 8d.
  The only chapel in the parish is in connection with the United
Associate Synod, and the minister officiating is supported wholly
or principally by a congregation of that body in Glasgow.
  The number of individuals in the parish belonging to any class

  * Dr Fraser obtained a small farm from the late Duke and his father at a no-
minal rent, instead of servitude, and the agents of the late Duke, when the writer
became minister of the lowland congregation in 1828, informed him of the fact,
but he declined to apply for it, as he considered it a grant rather than a right.
  + By the original establishment of this charge, it was distinct from the old parish,
and the minister did not preach Gaelic.  The stipend, also, was allocated by the Mar-
quis of Argyle and others, Commissioners for the Plantation of Churches in Argyle-
shire in 1651, from the revenues of the bishoprics Lismore and the Isles, to the
amount of three chalders of victual, two parts meal and one part bear, to be paid out
of the first and readiest of the teinds of the Isle of Bute, and 900 merks to be paid
out of the first and readiest of the surplus teinds of Kilbride, in Lorn, Kilcolm-kill,
Killintag, in Morven, the isles of Mull, Coll, and Tiree, &c.  These teinds had
been previously granted to the Marquis of Argyle, and thus transferred by him.  In
1705, the synod of Argyle obtained a grant of the vacant revenues of the bishoprics
of Argyle and the Isles for pious uses; and though from 1651 downwards, the mi-
nister of the second charge held the above modified stipend as a right, the synod seems
to have considered these teinds granted to them, and to have continued it as a favour
down to 1724, when the Crown granted the teinds of the Isle of Bute to the Earl of
Bute, but without content from Parliament.  The synod acquiesced, and so did the
minister thus deprived, till 1770, when a process was brought by the latter for the
recovery of these three chalders thus granted and withheld.  In that process, the
pursuer maintained that his stipend was modified by the Commissioners of Parlia-
ment for Plantation of Churches in 1651, not distinguishing, however, between the
high commission for that purpose, and the special commissioners, appointed by an
unprinted statute for Argyleshire.  The High Commission did not sit in 1651, con-
sequently sentence was given against the pursuer, on the ground that " the decrest
of locality, if not a forgery, was a gross imposition."  The 900 merks are not now
paid to the minister of the second charge; but, in 1792, it was found that several
farms in Glenshira, reputed to belong to Lochgoilhead, pertained to Inverary.
The Duke of Argyle brought a process of modification, craving these teinds for the
two ministers, though, till then, the first minister alone was considered to have a
right to the parish teinds.  Contrary to the usual practice of the Court of Teinds in
such cases, an interlocutor was pronounced to that effect in 1792, and adhered to by
the court in 1794, by which each minister received thirty bolls of victual, and L.15,
16s. 8d. Scots.  For a history of this case, see Connel on the Law of Parished.


