
     Statistical Account

he would grant protections.  The fishermen here furnished
their quota grant the expence of about Eighty Pounds Sterling,
thereby incurring a debt which they have not yet' been-
able to liquidate.

   Ecclesiastical State, Stipend, School, Poor, etc.-It would
appear that Crail was once the feat of a priory*.  A ruin

<FOOTNOTE>

*This priory is not to be found in the lilt of religious houses in Scot-
land at the time of the Reformation.  It was probably suppressed long be-
fore that period While this eonjecture is stated with becoming dissi-
dence it is also proper to take notice of a tradition which some have
heard, that the above mentioned ruin is the remains of a chapel dedicated
to St Ruder.  The kirk of Crad, with the teinds thereof, both patronage
and vicarage, anciently belonged to the priory of Haddington.  In the
year 1517, upon the petition and endowment of Sir William Moreson of
Cambo, vicar of Lathrisk, janet, Prioress of Haddington crewed it into a
collegiate church, with a provost, sacrist and several prebendaries.  The
provost had a right to the vicarage tithes, upon entertaining a vicar
pensioner, for serving the cure of the parish within the said collegiate
church; and six of the prebendaries had annuities, payable out of certain
lands and tenements of houses, lying in the town and neighbourhood,
mortified for that purpose by Sir William Myreton.  The church, quire
and vestry, are still standing, and used as the place ef public worship by
the congregation.  "An inventarie of the ornaments and of the sylver
work in the college-kyrk of Carraile," is in the possession of the present
minister.  It seems to have been handsomely provided.  Besides the high
altar, there were eight others, dedicated to the Virgin, St Catharine, St Mi-
chael, St James, St John the Baptist, St Stephen, St John the Evangelist, and
St Nicholas.  It was in this church that the mob, inflamed by the preach-
ing of the famous John Knox, began the work of abolishing the monu-
ments of idolatry in Fife, as then brethren had done at Perth a few days
before.  Having finished their operations here, they followed their aposto-
lical leader to St Andrew's, where they assisted in leveling its beautiful
and superb Cathedral to the ground.  About the time of the Reformation,
Lord Landesay seems to have obtained from the prioress and convent of
Haddington, a tack of the tiends, both patronage and vicarage, of the
parochin a d parish kirk of Crail, for the yearly rent of two hundred and
fifty-live marks.  By King James VI. the parish was disjoined from the
priory, and erected into a separate and independant rectory.  The pa-
tronage was vested in Sir William Murray of Bellvaird who presented


