
		     OLD KILPATRICK.			   17

Chapel Hill,--the one a quarter of a mile before entering Old
Kilpatrick village, and the other a quarter of a mile after leaving
it. But to leave the public road, and ascend the hills, adds greatly
to the magnificence of the sight. Within five minutes' walk from
the village, and with no great exertion in the ascent, the whole
length and breadth of Renfrewshire is spread before you. As-
cending higher still, the prospect extends, and opens up to view a
large part of Lanarkshire, with Tintock as a termination. Again,
if we proceed across the braes, about four or five miles from the
Clyde, we come to a round hill named Duncomb, from which,
owing to a low part on the ridge of the Kilpatrick hills, a mag-
nificent scene is seen to the south, and east and west; while, to
the north, Benlomond and his brother mountains are full in view,
and Lochlomond with its islands is spread before us. This is a
view which is not much known, but may be ranked among the
fine views of Scotland. From one part of the Kilpatrick braes,
Ailsa Craig may be seen. It may also be remarked, that the
abrupt and rocky hill Dumbuck, makes a beautiful termination to
the range at the western extremity.
  Hydrography.--The parish abounds with excellent springs of
water. There are two lochs in the high part, behind the ridge
of the Kilpatrick braes, which supply the principal stream in the
parish, which passes Faifley and Duntocher, and falls into the
Clyde at Dalmuir. This stream, from the many falls in its
course, and excellent situations for dams, might move machinery
to any extent; but, owing to differences of opinion among the
proprietors, it has never been made available to the extent of its
power. Most of the work of this kind on its banks is done by
the power of the steam-engine. There is no other stream in the
parish which is of much consequence in this way.
  Geology.--The geology of this parish is the same in its general
features as that of New Kilpatrick. The whole is of the coal forma-
tion, and the hills, which rise through or are superimposed, and
which so beautify the district, are of the trap formation. The rocks
are principally greenstone, amygdaloid, trap-tuffa, wacke, and basalt.
Although there are no basaltic pillars to equal those of Staffa, Or
the Giants' Causeway, yet there are some so regular and perpen-
dicular, as to give a pleasing variety to the scene. In the Auch-
entorlie and Glenarbuck grounds, there are rocks of this descrip-
tion, which from precipices so abrupt and high, as to require the
   DUMBARTON.                              B


