
           MARCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.                1175

cal and Chirurgical Society," which gradually acquired a library,
a museum, and an elegant building in King Street for holding
their meetings and collections.
   Various attempts to open regular classes by the professors of
medicine and other physicians were made, but discontinued from
want of sufficient support; and, in the discussions of 1786, the
formation of a medical, school was held out to the public as one of
the chief advantages to be derived from an union of the Colleges.
For some years previously, courses of botany and chemistry had
been carried on in Marischal College.  In the former Statistical
Account, published in 1798, the number of medical students is
stated about 30; and in 1802, there was erected in the court of
the college a small anatomical theatre, in which some courses of
anatomy were given.  In 1818, the two colleges joined in giving
their sanction to several medical lecturers, each college nominat-
ing alternately to the offices as vacancies occurred.  Under this
arrangement, classes of anatomy and physiology, surgery, insti-
tutes of medicine, materia medica, midwifery, and other branches
were carried on, and accommodation provided for them in Maris-
chal College buildings.  The institution of these regular courses
was followed b a great increase in the number of students.  In
1839, the agreement, under which these lecturers were appointed,
was broken up, and each college was left to establish its own me-
dical school.  In the same year, professorships of Anatomy and
Surgery were founded in Marischal College by the Crown, and
the Faculty of Medicine in the Senatus Academicus now consists
of four professors, those of Medicine, Chemistry, Surgery, and
Anatomy, who are associated, in a permanent medical committee,
with lecturers on Materia Medica, Institutes of Medicine, Mid-
wifery, and medical jurisprudence,--practice of physic being
taught by the professor of Medicine, and Botany by the professor
of Natural History.  The medical session extends from the first
Mondav of November to the third Friday of April, with a va-
cation at Christmas; and the course of Botany is taught in sum-
mer.
   The regulations for granting M. D. in this University under-
went a considerable change about twenty years ago, when the
plan of granting that degree by certificates of merit was aban-
doned, and personal examination of candidates substituted, which,
in 1830, was confined to those who had obtained the degree of
A. M.; the Senatus Academicus being, of opinion "that no uni-
versity ought to confer the degree of M. D. on any one who has


