
                   AUCHTERGAVEN.                               439

and most of the potatoes are shipped at Perth for the London
market.  What has been said about the failure of this valuable
crop, in the Statistical Account of Redgorton, is equally applica-
ble to this parish. It is, however, worthy of notice, that there
was no failure-scarcely a blank to be seen-in the year 1837,
which perhaps was owing to the uncommon degree of cold, which
prevailed in the spring of that year, having retarded the springing
of the seed till it was planted.  Trenching, draining, fencing, and
the removal of boulder stones, with the application of lime and
manure, are the chief modes of improvemdnt.  And thesd have
been going on progressively for the last forty years, and have com-
pletely changed the face of the country.  All the proprietors have
more or less encouraged their tenants to proceed with these opera-
tions, and both have reaped the benefits resulting from them.
   Leases are generally granted for nineteen years; and this is con-
sidered a term of sufficient length for remunerating an enterprising
farmer. Most of the farmers are comfortably lodged in well-built,
and well-finished houses of two storeys, with suitable courts of of-
fices.  The land is subdivided into fields with thorn hedges, and
strong wooden pailings put down for temporary purposes; these
are formed with upright posts and cross rails. Flakes are used in
pasturing with sheep, and in eating off turnips. The wood for
these enclosures in the Duke of Atholl's estates is prepared in the
plantations, where it is cut by the woodmen, and driven by the
tenants to its destination on the farms, and there put up by the
woodmen.  A saw-mill is now being drected at Loak for that
purpose.
   Quarries.-Stones for all kinds of mason-work are obtained at
Westerton of Kinglands, Speedyhill, Auchtergaven, Carrol, New-
bigging, and Stanley. The quarries at the three last mentioned
places are wrought at present; and there is no doubt but good
building materials vould easily be found throughout the parish,
wherever they might be wanted, as well as an inexhaustible store
of roofing slates in the Grampian mountains within its bounds.
The only slate quarry, however, which is wrought at present is
that of Glenshee, near the western extremity of the parish.
   Fisheries.- The only fishery in the parish is one at Stanley for
salmon.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish may be guessed at from the following statement:


