
48                      BANFFSHIRE.

in their places. Yet few towns of its size present more attractions
than Banff. It possesses both coast and inland scenery of a su-
perior description; is particularly healthy; has excellent schools,
variety of places of worship, abundant markets, regular and fre-
quent posts, baths, literary institutions, society equal to what is ge-
nerally to be found in a remote country town. No very good reason
can be assigned for its want of prosperity, unless, perhaps, the de-
ficiency of space about the town for manufacturing or commercial
purposes, or for the erection of suburban villas. The town is hem-
med in on two sides by great proprietors. On the one hand, Lord
Fife is pushing us into the sea, on the other, Lord Seafield jams
us close to the river; yet, to say the truth, there seems little use
made of even what space exists. A linen manufactory was lately
projected, but failed. Indeed, most enterprises of any extent that
have ever been attempted in the town have turned out unfortunate.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1790, and is ca-
pable of containing 1500 persons. It is substantial and in com-
plete repair. The average number of communicants is 700. The
age of the manse is not very well known; indeed it has been built
at different times. Soon after the settlement of the present in-
cumbent, in 1821, it was in contemplation to erect a new manse;
but the incumbent agreed to accept, instead, an annual allowance
with the old manse. The glebe contains 7 acres or more, and
at one time rented so much as L. 45, but now falls very consider-
ably short of that value.\f* The stipend, about four years ago, was
augmented to 18 chalders, half meal, half barley.
   A chapel in connexion with the Established Church has just
been completed at the upper end of the parish, about half a mile
from its extremity. The expense of its erection and that of a
manse (together about L. 400) has been-raised by church collec-
tions and subscriptions of heritors and others. It accommodates,
without galleries, 300 persons. All the sittings bave been rented,
and demands made for many more. The minister's living is de-
rived from the seat rents, L. 20 being added from the Royal
Bounty.
   The number\f+ of families composing the Roman Catholic con-

<FOOTNOTE>An arrangement has just been made, under which an act of Parliament is about
to be applied for, to authorize the feuing of the glebe; and the lower part of it is al-
ready fixed upon as the site of the educational institution about to be erected by Mr
Wilson's trustees.
   The numerical statements regarding the different congregations are only to be
considered as furnishing a general idea, the accounts being, in some cases, mostly
matter of guess, and appearing to be not always made up on similar principles.


