
     Burntisland.

   Trade.-Before the union, the trade of this place feems to
have been very cosiderable.  A number of ships belonged to
it.  Large quantities of malt were made, and exported to
England, and the north, which yielded great profits.  Many
of shipmasters, and inhabitants appear to have been weal-
thy.  But since that period, little business of any kind has been
done, till within these few years, when trade has again begun
to revive a little.  Some branches of manufacturers have been
established.  There is, at present, a sugar house, belonging to
a Glasgow company, in a very thriving lately become the
property of some gentlemen of much industry and spirit, it is
to be extended, and will most likely do well.-An attempt
was also recently made, to establish a silk manufactory.  This,
however, did not answer the wishes of the projectors ; which,
perhaps, was more owing to the want of capital, and some o-
ther causes, than to the badness of the tradem or any thing unsa-
vourable in the situation of the place.  Ship-building is carri-
ed on by a few hands, and might be increased to any extent.-
It is much to be regretted, that manufacturers are not establish-
ed here.  Indeed, it is rather surprising they have not, as the
town doubtless equally, if not more, favourable, for these,
than many others on the coast of Fife, where they are carried
on to a great extent.  No place can be better situated for ex-
port and import ; houses are low rented ; fuel is reasonable ;
coals may be had both by sea and land ; 18 stone, heavy weight,
from 1 s. to 1 s 3 d.  Many hands could easily be had, from among
the young and the poor, particularly for the cotton branch,
who are, in a great mcasure, lost, for want of employment.-
And though the water in the tow is mostly hard, yet there
are some wells of it fost ; and, in the neighbourhood, there
is a considerable run of soft water, with many copious springs,
along the foot of the hills, by which bleaching might carri-

     VOL.  II.  3 H


