
                          MOFFAT.                       109

pasture at Moffat accommodates about thirty of the resident
families, enabling them to sell milk to visitants.  The skeep
stocks are large and excellent; and are all, or nearly all, Cheviots,
only a few of the black-faced breed being now left in the most ex-
posed pastures, and a few crosses of Cheviots and leicester in the
lower farms.  A few qoats, for milk to strangers, have long been
kept near the well.  Pigs are not reared in this parish to any great
extent.
   The fishings of all the rivers of Dumfries-shire have become of
little value, since stake-nets were permitted in the Solway, on
the plan most destructive of the fish as they enter these rivers;
and it is not easy to understand why the old acts which were
framed before the union of the kingdoms are still allowed to
remain in force; nor why, under these acts, new and more destruc-
tive modes of taking the fish have been permitted.  Strangers
who think proper to ask permission, are seldom refused the liberty
of trouting in any of the rivers near Moffat; and every one should
set his face against using nets to destroy the trouts, and still more
against the mean and pernicious practice of killing the salmon in
forbidden time, and in the season of spawning; a practice that led
to the extinction of one poor family in Moffat long ago, that fa-
mily having died out of putrid fever, occasioned by their living,
wholly on such unwholesome food.
   Botany.--The French or herb willow, though a rare plant in
many places, has become naturalized here.  The scented woodruff
appears in the rocky linns; a few plants of juniper exist; the wild
strawberry and raspberry appear in a few places; cranberry in
mossy bogs, and blaeberry and crowberry in the mountains.  The
knub-berry, otherwise called the Queens-berry,(Rubus chame-
morus,) would be far more plentiful if the sheep dicl not eat down
the blossoms and leaves, and the fire occasionally burn the stem.
The hag-berry has established itself,--and the white thorn,--their
seeds being carried and propagated by the birds, as many other
seeds are.
   Amonf those plants which grow naturally and sometimes luxu-
riantly, though not cultivated, nor of much or any use, may be men-
tioned the whin in stiff tilly bottomed soils; the broom in light sand
or gravel, both of which, though useful in former times, arE now
considered as weeds; also the sweet gale or gall (Myrica) in wet
turf bogs; rushes and carices in the same soils; and the marsh ma-


