
     Statistical Account

acre, and it has been on the increase for some years
past*.  The valued rent of the parish amounts to L. 4408
Scotch, and the real rent to upwards of L. 5000 Sterling.
This property is all in the hands of 13 heritors, only 3 of
whom live constantly in the parish, though some of the
other proprietors occasionally reside in it.  As there are
no overgrown estates here, the proprietors are pretty much
on a sooting, and hence the public business is conducted
with a regularity and attention, greater than in most other
parishes.  The property here, like that near most great
towns, has been very fluctuating, and the only estate, if it
merits the appellation, that can be traced in the possession
of one family for 300 years, is a small farm of about L. 40
Sterling yearly rent, the proprietors of which, cultivating
their little Sanine field, and pursuing the simple life of
their forefathers, have kept their inheritance entire, while
the possessions of their more powerful and wealthy neigh-
bours, swallowed up by the devouring gulph of luxury
and extravagance, have passed into other hands+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The lands in this parish as might be expected from its nearness to
the capital, have greatly risen in value.  The estate of Baberton, which
sold about 20 years ago, for L. 4000, now pays L. 400 of yearly rent.
The farm of New-mills, consisting only of 94 acres, which had formerly
been let for 10 s. 6 d. the acre, was sold within these two years, for
L. 4200, and now pays 30 s. the acre.  The estate of Maleny, from bare-
ly L. 500 a year, now lets for upwards of L. 900, and the farm of Ravel-
rig, which, in the time of the former proprietor, paid only L. 70 a-year,
now yields L. 212.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

+This parish, it maybe observed, still furnishes one instance of rus-
rig, a division of property, necessary in this country in former times, to
unite-the jarring interests of individuals in the common cause, when the
busness of the age was solely war and depredation.  But, what was then
confidened as the very safeguard of property, the possessors in modern
times, justly account the greatest bar to all improvement, and are anxious
to do away as rapidly as possible.

</UNREADABLE>


