
			GLASGOW.                             109

bishop Beaton retired to France, taking with him all the relies,
documents, and plate which pertained to the see and the arch-
bishoprick. Since the renovation of the see, there have been twen-
ty-six Roman Catholic bishops; the first, John Achaiue, elected
in 1129, and the last, George Carmichael, in 1483, and four
Roman Catholic archbishops, the first, Robert Blackadder, in
1488, and the last, James Beaton, in 1551. From the Reforma-
tion till the Revolution, the church in Glasgow was governed by
fourteen Protestant archbishops, the first, James Boyd, elected in
1572, and the last, John Paterson, in 1687.
	State of Society, &c.--Prior to the Reformation, the inhabitants
of this city and neighbourbood were governed by churchmen, who
kept them in a state of ignorance and superstition truly deplorable.
At that period, the principles of the gloriour Reformation began
to be acknowledged, when it pleased God to raise up powerful
agents in Edinburgh and Glasgow in the persons of Knox and
Melville. In 1560, when the Reformation took place, and for a
considerable time after, the great body of the people retained their
fierce and sanguinary disposition. This is strikingly marked by
their being constantly armed: even the ministers in the pulpit were
accoutred. The number of murders, cases of incest, and other
criminal acts, turned over to the censure of the church, but too
plainly point out the depraved character of the people.
	In 1546, Glasgow, although only the eleventh town in Scot-
land, in point of trade and importance, had some shipping; the
privy-council of Scotland having issued an order, that vessels be-
longing to Glasgow should not annoy those belonging to Henry
VIII. of England, the Queen's uncle.
	In 1556, during the minority of Mary Queen of Scot, James
Hamilton, Earl of Arran, an ancestor of the noble house of Ha-
milton, the second person in the kingdom, and nearest heir to the
throne after Mary, was appointed Regent. This appointment hav-
ing been opposed by the Earl of Lennox, and the Queen Dowagers
an engagement took place at the Butts, where the weaponschaws
used to be held, (now the site of the Infantry Barracks.) The ci-
tizens taking part with Lennox, the Regent was defeated, which
ro exasperated him that, rallying his troops, he entered the town,
and gave it up to pillage; which was so effectually done, that the
very doors and windows of the houses were destroyed.
	In 1566, Henry Darnley, husband of Mary Queen of Scots,
came to this city on a visit to his father, who resided in a house
on the east side of Limmerfield, a little south from the new Baro-


