
					 ROSENEATH.            125

auspices the association has been formed, greatly distanced all
other competitors, and were, indeed, supposed to have been the very
finest specimens ever reared of that peculiar bred.
   Husbandry.--The general character of the husbandry is im-
proving chiefly by inclosing and draining on the modern system,
which might, however, be carried to a still greater extent. Nearly
the whole of the cultivated ground is inclosed by hedge and stone-
dikes, and on some farms there have been reclaimed lands to com-
plete the uniform aspect of the fields, which indicate a very de-
termined spirit of agricultural improvement.
   To this, throughout the parish generally, there is no peculiar ob-
stacle, but the want of better farm buildings, which, with very few
exceptions, are inconvenient,--not in good repair and of limited
extent; and sometimes a lack of sufficient capital. For the pro-
duce there is a steady and constant market, with easy access and
water carriage for any amount of stimulating and enriching ma-
nure; while the sympathy and encouragement of a kind and in-
telligent proprietary have the natural effect of giving no small energy
to the farmer's proceedings. The ordinary duration of a lease is
nineteen years, on terms that seem favourable to the occupier, and
such as are fitted to secure the full benefit of his compact with the
landlord. The enclosures are very complete, and are in good repair,
perhaps more thoroughly suited to the purposes of the farmer, than
those of any other parish in the district.
   Quarries and Mines.--Of the latter little need be said. The
parish contains both limestone and slate, but neither has hitherto
been productive. The lime can at all times be procured from the
north of Ireland in abundance, and at less expense than the far-
mers could prepare it on their own fields.
   A few years ago, two slate quarries were opened bv the Duke of
Argyle and Mr Cumming Of Baremman on their respective pro-
perties. Both were wrought for some time but unproductively, and
were abandoned by their respective proprietors. The slate, how-
ever, is of excellent quality, and Mr Cumming lately re-opened
his quarry with greater prospects of success.
   Fisheries.--Both salmon and herring fishing in their season
are carried on to a considerable extent on both shores of the pa-
rish.
   Produce.--The average yearly value of all kinds of produce, cal-
culated pretty exactly may be thus rated:


