
	38                      PERTHSHIRE.

	tain number of persons was appointed, with authority to remove
	nuisances, and cause the houses which required it to be thorough-
	ly cleansed and purified.  A temporary hospital was fitted up to
	receive patients; and competent medical officers were appointed to
	attend and take charge of them.  A soup-kitchen was established,
	from which the poor of the place were supplied daily with broth and
	broad.  The consequence of these precautionary measures was
	most beneficial.  To them may be justly ascribed, under Heaven,
	the comparatively small number of cases that occurred.  The
	deaths were 147.  It is proper to mention, that, through the libe-
	rality of certain noblemen and gentlemen in the county, and of the
	inhabitants of the parish, no legal assessment was resorted to.  The
	sum collected and expended was L. 2091, 4s. 5d.
	   Trial and Execution for Witchcraft.- In the year 1623, three
	women were tried and executed for, witchcraft.  Their names were,
	Margaret Hormscleuch, Isabell Haldane, and Janet Trall.  In-
	formation being lodged against them in the session, they were
	summoned before that court, their depositions were respectively
	taken, and witnesses were called, and examined to establish their
	guilt.  The examination of the witnesses appears to have occu-
	pied the court for seven days in the months of May and June, and
	to have been conducted with great minuteness.  Instead of enter-
	ing into particulars, it may be sufficient to state the following
	things, deponed by witnesses, and confessed by the accused.
	   "With regard to Margaret Hormscleuch,-that she came to
	Alexander Mason's house, and having seen his wife, who was very
	unwell, she commanded that south running water should be brought
	from the Tay, the bearer to be dumb both in going and coming,
	and to hold the mouth of the pig to the north.  That she wash-
	ed her with this water, and afterwards made a bath of great meal.
	That the diseased immediately recovered, arose, and supped with
	her.  That she cured Marjory Lamb in the Muirton, (who was
	sick by the dint of an ill wind,) by washing her with south running
	water, and rubbing her arms with fresh butter; and that she learn-
	ed these cures from Oliver Rattray's wife in Pittmudyne.-That

	she had restored milk to the cow of Robert Christie from Ruthven,
	(which had grown yeld) by causing a peck of draff to be carried
	home to the cow, in the name of the Father, the Son, and the
	Holy Ghost.-That she had restored milk to the cow of Andrew
	Louraine in Mireside, by mumbling some words over a firlot of
	draff, which bought by her directions; that she sent him home


