
150                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

   The figure of this parish is nearly that of a parallelogram, of
5 2/3 miles by rather less than 3 1/2, with a projecting branch running
a mile more to the west, a similar one, extending about two-thirds
of a mile to the east, and a larger protuberance on the north. It
is bounded on the north, by Torphichen, and a small portion of
Linlithgow; on the east, by Ecclesmachan and Livingston; on
the south, by Livitigston and Whitburn; and on the west, by
Shotts and Torphichen.
   Hills and general aspect of the Parish.-The centre of Linlith-
gowshire is composed of a somewhat elevated plateau, surrounded
on all sides by hills of considerable height. The south-west cor-
ner of this bounding range, which has no general name, forms the
north-eastern portion of the parish of Bathgate, covering nearly
one-seventh of its whole extent. Close upon the boundary be-
tween Bathgate and Torphichen, the range attains its highest ele-
vation in the hill of Cairnapple, or Cairnpapple, which is said, in
various maps, to be 1498 feet above the level of the sea. This,
it is apprehended, is considerably beyond the truth. There are
two eminences within the boundary of Bathgate, one named the
Knock, and the other Reiving Craig, which are not more than from
20 to 30 feet lower than Cairnapple. The western, and to some
extent, the southern slope of the hilly mass is rather steep, but
contains in it the best land in the parish. The tract at its foot
is the lowest ground in the parish, is naturally marshy, and
appears once to have been, to a considerable extent, covered with
water. The surface water is now removed, and the wetness of
the soil somewhat corrected by draining. Beyond this, the rest
of the parish, both south and west, is very level, though having on
the whole a gentle and continuous rise towards the boundary line
in these directions. On the southern half of the west boundary,
however, the ground again sinks into a deep moss, which extends
between this parish and that of Shotts.
   Our climate is rather moist, and vegetation is about a fort-
night later here than it is nine or ten miles to the east.
   Lakes, &c.-The only lake is a small one of about eleven acres
in extent in the park of Balbardie. It is partly artificial, and has
an average depth of five feet, though in one place upwards of
twelve. It forms a very pretty object in that beautiful and well-
wooded park. There is no stream of importance connected in
any way with this parish, except the Amond, which forms the
boundary for little more than a mile between Bathgate and Whit-


