
                          TIBBERMORE.                     1031

in their youth no uncommnn thing for those engaged in trenching
the ground in the neighbourhood to find gun bullets, broken
spears, and many other memorials of this disastrous battle.
   Land-owners.-Until lately, this parish was divided into two
large baronies, Huntingtower and Cultmalundie, and, with
exception of about 500 acres, was entirely possessed by thp Duke
of Athole and the Earl of Kinnoul. The barony of Cultmalun-
die is still the property of the Earl of Kinnoul, who, besides this,
has recently purchased several other properties in the parish, so
that he now possesses nearly twelve-twentieths of the whole pa-
rish. He has no seat in the parish; but Dupplin Castle, his fa-
mily residence, is in the immediate neighbourhood.  The barony
of Huntingtower was broken down into a number of small pro-
perties, and sold by the late Duke of Athole, upwards of thirty
years ago.  These properties were chiefly purchased by men who
made their own fortunes, and were the founders of their own
families.   Those heritors who possess land in the parish of the
yearly value of L.50 and upwards, besides the Earl of Kinnoul,
are General Cunningham of Newton and Huntingtower ; the
Glover Incorporation, proprietors of Tullilum ; Thomas Riteliie,
Esq. of the Hill of Ruthven and South Black Ruthven.; William
Dron, Esq. of North Black Ruthven and Marlefield; the Rev.
Dr Thomson of Ruthven Farm; William S. Turnbull, Esq. of
Ruttiven mills; Thomas Duncan, Esq. of Ruthven Field ; Mrs
Black of Law Grove; John Martin, Esq. of Newhouse; Thoma's
Millar, Esq. of Letham; James Macmillan, Esq. of Alexanderia;
D. S. M'Lagan, Esq. of Ruthven House.  Huntingtower bleach-
field is the joint property of Robert Smythe, Esq. of Methven,
and Sir John Richardson of Pitfour.
   Parochial Registers.-Our parochial registers do not extend
farther back than 1724, nor do they appear to have been kept
with great regularity for a considerable time after that period.
For the last thirty years, however, there has been a regular
Ontry made of most of the births, deaths, baptisms, and marriages
in the parish.
   Antiquities.-Huntingtower Castle is a very ancient build-
ing but it does not appear to bavq ever been a place of great
strength.  It is chiefly interesting as the seat of the Gowie
family, who long performed a conspicuous part in the busi-
ness of the nation.  Besides the Raid of Rvthven, and other
public transactions connected with this castle, tradition has


