
466                           ROSS AND CROMARTY.

country.  He continued them for a good many years, always al-
lowing them to suckle their calves, and that as long as they chose;
by which means, and every other attention to breeding, he raised
such a stock as have returned him L.20 for tbree-year-olds. From
their very high feeding, however, they lost some of those qualities
which are esteemed in Highland cattle ; yet they still maintained
their full beauty of symmetry. Mr Dudgeon may be said to be
the only farmer in the parish who has always on hand a large stock
of cattle, and these always well selected and high fed. He also
feeds off a great number of wedders on turnips for the southern
markets.
   Of late years, the store-farmers have been in the habit of send-
ing down their hogs to the low-country where they take turnips
at from L. 4 to L. 5 per imperial acre, according to the quality.
Sometimes, they are let at so much per head per week, generally
seven farthings; but the former arrangement is preferred by most
farmers. In regard to the turnips, the ordinary practice is, that
one-third is drawn for the cattle in the farm-yard, and The remain-
der eat off by the sheep.
  That the breeding of stock is comparatively but little followed
up in this quarter, is owing to its being found less profitable, in
consequence of the distance from market, &c, not that the climate
or soil is ungenial, nor the farmer deficient in the art, which has
been sufficiently proved on the farms of Arboll and Mickle Tarrel.
Of the former we have already spoken on this head, and of the
latter we  shall only mention that, at a sale there in the year
1824, there were sold a horse for L. 84, a son of his rising four
years old for L. 52, 10s., and a saddle mare for L. 52, 10s.; a
Highland fat cow for L. 25; a Highland bull for L. 50, and an-
other for L. 40 ; and for an ox, six years old, that bad been fed
three years,  L.75 were offered. And on one occasion, the farmer
refused L. 100 for his riding pony.
   With regard to farm-servants, the system introduced at the
commencement of modern husbandry, and practised ever since, on
almost all large farms, is what in East Lothian is called the hind
system, and which, it may be observed, is, in most improved dis-
tricts in Scotland, considered the best, both as regards the inte-
rests of the, farmer and the morality and comfort of the servants.
   Manufactures.-There are two brancbes, of hemp manufacture
carried on in the parish, viz. weaving and spinning. Weaving by
6 men and 3 boys, and spinning by 300 women. This factory is


