
716                          FIFESHIRE.

which in 1791 amounted to L. II00 a year, including the proceeds
of the feus, way now be estimated at nearly L.3000. And it
is not to be doubted that the population generally have kept
pace with their neighbours, in the ordinary comforts of life, and in
their endeavours to increase them.

     January 1843.


              PARISH OF ABERDOUR.

	PRESBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FIFE.

	THE REV. HUGH RALPH, LL.D., MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name, Extent, &c..-THE name Aberdour, in Gaelic, signifies
"the mouth of the water," referring in this instance to a rivulet, which
empties itself into the Forth, a little below the village. It is
bounded by the parish of Dalgety on the west; by those of Beath
and Auchtertoul, on the north ; by Kinghorn and Burntisland, on
the east; and by the Forth, on the south ; being, at an average,
about three miles from east to west, and as much from north to
south. A small part of the parish is detached from the rest, by
the intervening parishes of Burntisland and Kingborn, and lies at
the distance of four or five miles. The number of acres may be
about 5000. The parish is divided by a ridge of hills, running
nearly from east to west. The north part is a cold and bleak track,
considerably above the level of the sea, and, excepting what has
been done by one of the heritors on the north-west corner of
the parish, altogether unsbeltered, either by hedges or plantations.
The soil is cold and sour. On the south of this ridge, both the
soil and the climate are much more kindly.
   Coast.-The parish stretches along the shore above two miles.
From the east boundary the coast is rugged and steep, and gene-
rally covered with wood to the water's edge. The trees have
been planted with a proper regard to effect, and the jutting
rocks which appear in different places, render the whole ex-
tremely picturesque and beautiful. This wood is intersected with

<FOOTNOTE> From notes furnished by a parishioner of Aberdour.


