
                           NORTHMAVING.                                75

        prietors have no inclination or desire to try the experiment,) whe-
	ther large plantations of different kinds of trees, properly walled
	or fenced, to prevent cattle and sheep from injuring and destroy-
	iog them, would succeed or not. Some situations io this parish
	appear favourable for the attempt. In certaio places truoks and
	cranches of trees are found imbedded io the moss.

                                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY
	   Land-owners.-The chief laod-owner is Arthur Gifford, Esq.
	of Busta, to whom the greatest part of the pasish belongs. The
         othes proprietors are, Earl Zetland; Henry Cheyne, Esq of Tang-
	wick; Arthur Cheyoe, Esq. of Ollacerry; aod Mrs Ogilvy of Gas-
	sabusgh.
	   Pasochial Registers.-The parochial registess, for a few years,
	have been kept well and accurately; but the old records are far
	from being perfect or voluminous, and are not of a very early date.
	At the commencement of the mioistry of Dr Jack, in the year
	1765, new session books were obtained, and ever since they hawe
	been more or less regularly kept, according to the qualifications
	aod ability of the session-clerk.
	   Antiquities.-A huge granite stone appears to have been raised
	Upon the top of an hill in this neighbourhood, having a ciscle of
	smaller stones around the bottom. What deed it commemorates,
	or whether it was raised for a religious purpose, none now cao tell.
	There are the ruins of several religious houses in this parish.
	The church at Ollaberry has been in ruins, for many years; also
	the church at North Roe. The remaios of a vesy large Piet's
         house on the west side of the parish ase still visible. It appears
	to have beeo a vesy strong buildiog, and house of refuge or de-
	fence, being susrounded by water. On the top of Rona's hill, an
	ancieot watch-house, as it is called, is still visible, built of a few
	large flat stones; it might have held six or seven persons.
	   Ancient arms have been found several times. A few of the
	people are in possession of the ancient battle-axe, which is care-
	fully concealed in some part of the house, and superstitiously pre-
	served, and it is commonly called a thunderbolt. The writer of
	this paper has one in his possession, which was obtained from a
	parirhioner, as a great favour. It is quite entire, and composed of
	a very hard grey stone,-such a species of stone as is not tar be
	found in this part of the country. An ancient sword was also
	founds several years ago, by accident, and is at present in posses-
	sion, it is believed, of the Antiquarian Society in Edinburgh.


