
                              KENMORE.                             481

ther be stated, that it is no unusual thing for the separatists to at-
tend our churches and chapels.  In the odious spirit of bi-
gotry is scarcely known here, whether among the members of the
Establishment, or among those out of its pale.  The average num-
ber of commumcants is 870, and the number of male heads of
families in full communion with the church, and entitled to exer-
cise the veto in the settlement of a minister, as adjusted in No-
vember last, is 261.
   Succession of ministers in Kenmore since 1640: William Men-
zies, Patrick Campbell, Alexander Comrie, John Hamilton, John
Douglas, James Campbell, Thomas Fleming, Patrick M'Vean,
Colin M'Vean, David Duff.
   Education.-The parish is not deficient in the means of educa-
tion, in so far at least as that may depend on the number of schools.
These amount to 9; of which one is the parochial school; three
are endowed by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge;
one is endowed by the Marchioness of Breadalbane, and the re-
maining four are entirely unendowed, the teachers having no other
emolument but that arising from the fees of the scholars, and the
hospitality of the parents.  The branches commonly taught are,
English reading, spelling, writing, and arithmetic.  In some Gaeli
reading also is taught, especially in the Society schools.  At the
parish school, besides the subjects common to the other seminaries,
Latin, mathematics, English grammar, book-keeping and geo-
graphy, are comprehended in the course of instruction.  The
Scriptures are read daily in all the schools; nor does a day pass
without some portion of religious information being conveyed to
the pupils.
   The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary, L. 34, 4s.
41/2d: each of the Society teachers, at the stateions of Mnreinsh,
Ardt`llanaig, and Shian, has a salary of L. 15, paid by the Society,
besides a free house, and other accommodations. granted by Lord
Breadalbane.  The Marchioness's teacher at Kiltine has a salary
of L. 10, and suitable conveniences.   The remuneration of the
four who teach upon their own adventure cannot be accurately
stated.   The general expense of education for the year may aver-
age from 10s. to 15s. reckoning attendance to be but for three
quarters; and it is seldom that there is even so much, parents be-
ing usually satisfied, if they can send their children to scholl for
the winter half year.
   From the facilities afforded for education, as well as from the
   PERTH.


