
33                       CANISBAY.

district most in want of the means of education is the inland part
of the parish, where the population is too small to be able to sup-
port a teacher, and too remote to benefit by the schools already
in existence.
r -Literature.-Two years ago, Messrs Morison and Andrew
Snody, natives of this parish9 who left it many years ago, land have
prospered in the legal profession, made a present of about 100 vo-
lunies on religious subjects, as the beginning of a religious library;
Mr George Dunnet, merchant in, Thurso, also a native of this pa-
rish,, has since given five guineas for the same benevolent purpose;
The books already,,obtained are all generally taken out, and, from
the care with which they have. been selected, must prove of great
advantage.
Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of              persons
receiving parochial aid is about 90.  The annual allowance to
each varies from 6s. to I Os. ; certainly a very trifling sum, but the
poor receive it very gratefully, as a small addition to their other
means of subsistence.  The collections in the church average about
L. 14 annually. There are several small mortifi    cations, the inte-
rest of which is divided among the poor along with the annual col-
leeti,ons. . There is one legacy by a Mr Oswald of L. 100; one
of L. 80 by a Mr Innes of South Carolina, son of Mr Innes who,
was once minister of this parish, and an annuity of 100 merks Scots,
left by William Sinclair, Esq. of Freswick.  To this, -there is to
be added interesa upon an accumulation of L. 205 of William Sin-
clair of Freswick's annuity which had not been paid for manyyears.
The whole gross income from interest of mortification and arrears,
together with the collections in church, amounts annually to about
L. 38 Sterling.  There is 'no other fund for the support of the
poor, and assessment for the purpose has never yet been M'ade.
Fairs.-Two small markets for the sale of horses, cattle, and
swine,are held in the Darish-one in February at Freswi6k, aiid
the other in December at Canisbay.
I Inns and Ale-houses.-Tbere are no less than six inns, which
have a pernicious influence on the- morals and industry of the '
people. Half the number would be more' than sufficient for all  use-
ful. purposes. Indeed, 11una inn may be said to be tbe only one
indispensably necessary.,
PueL-The only fuel is peat and turf from the mosses, which
appear,tobeInexhAustible.  The only, expense-ini,-urred-is the
hour necessary f6r cuttingi dryin  and  caring .

CAITHNESS.                        C


