
                              ST MADOES                         623

     Botany.___There is very little that is worthy of remark in the
botanical productions of this parish. The plants that abound are
those well known as invariably existing in deep loamy soils, or in
alluvial clay. Though a considerable number of the rarest num-
bered in the Scotica Flora, are to be found in the neighbouring
braes and glens, there are not any here that can well be called un-
common. Approaching to such may be mentioned the Typha an-
gustifolia, and the Listera ovata, the former of which has its habi-
tat in a mill-dam at Cairnie, and the latter in a belt of wood,
moist soil, to the south of Pitfour Castle.
     Plantations.___The extent of land under wood is about 33 imperial
acres;___the whole has been planted. About one-third of the plan-
tations is from seventy to eighty, nearly another third, forty to for-
ty five, and the remainder from twelve to seventeen years old, with
the exception of a few standard and hedge-row trees, which have
reached to ages of from one hundred and twenty to one hundred
and thirty years. Some of these, particularly the planes and elms,
are of large dimensions, and of excellent quality of timber. Pl`nes
of size suitable for beetling beams and other mechanical purposes
were sold in the end of 1837 at 3s. per cubic foot.
      Almost every species of forest tree cultivated in this country
has been planted in the parish; but the sort most general are, the
oak, elm, ash, plane, beech, lime, Spanish chestnut, horse-chest-
nut, (the three latter being principally for ornament,) larch, Scots
fir, spruce, and silver fir. On the higher grounds all these kinds
of trees grow luxuriantly, but elm and ash manifest symptoms, of
decay at an earlier period than any of the others; indeed, they
are the only trees of deciduous character which show any tenden-
cy to disease in that part of the parish. This tendency, however,
is not general, but in particular trees, and it is more frequently
found on the slope than the summit. Most probably it arises
from the roots penetrating into strata of the subsoil, through which,
the water from the higher ground descends. On the lower grounds,
where thd soil is strong clay, several sorts of trees do not thrive,
parthcularly ash, elm, plane, and lime. Oak and Scot fir, how-
ever, attain great age, with rapidity of growth and vigorous health.
About twelve acres of poor clay soil were planted seventy years ago
with Scots fir, which is still in good health. Larch and spurce
planted at the same time, have fnr the last twenty years been in a
state of internal decay. A very convincing proof of a fact, which,
till within the last six or seven years, had escaped the notice of


