
                  PARISH OF FEARN.

	PRESBYTERY OF BRECHIN, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

          THE REV. DAVID HARRIS, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

        Name.-THE word Fearn or Fern is said to signify in Gaelic
the alder tree.
        Extent, &c.-The parish is situated on the western extremity
of the presbytery of Brechin, at almost a central distance of eight
miles frol Brechin, Forfar, and Kirriemuir. Its form is nearly
elliptic, and the extent may be estimated at 7 miles by the longer
axis, and 3 by the shorter. On the south-west, it is bounded
throughout, by the parish of Tannadice; on the north, by the
united parish of Lethnot and Navar; and on the east, by Men-
muir and Careston.
        Topographical Appearances, &c.-As viewed from the south, the
parish exhibits a south-westerly exposure of one spacious slope,
rising from the valley of Strathmore to the first summit of the
Grampians, with little variation of surface; but as we enter upon
an actual survey, we discover this apparent uniformity to arise from
two parallel ridges, the one rising above the other, and embosom-
ing two tracts of valley ground, the first, generally adapted to the
purposes of agriculture and the second, or most northerly, to pas-
turage. The Cruik, which collects its waters immediately under
the summit of the Grampians issues into the lower grounds by a
break in the uppermost of the two subordinate ridges, and flows
throughout its tame and monotonous course, without almost a shrub
to diversify its banks. Besides this, the Noran is the only stream
connected with the parish. After desecending into the low grounds,
it almost regularly marks the south-west boundary of the parish.
The waters of this stream are proverbi`lly transparent, and its
banks picturesque. The quantity of water in either stream is not
more than might be requisite for turning machinenery of a very mo-
derate weight.
        Climate.-Without the advantages of a long series of observa-

	FORFAR.				X


