
174				LANARKSHIRE.

elected for a second year. It is the duty of the Rector to preserve
the rights and privileges of the University, to convoke those meet-
ings in which be presides, and with his assessors, whom he himself
appoints, to exercise that academical jurisdiction amongst the stu-
dents themselves, or between the students and citizens, which is
bestowed upon most of the universities of Europe. The Dean
of Faculties is elected by the senate. This office is held for two
years, and by virtue of it, he is entitled to give directions with re-
gard to the course of study, and to judge together with the Rector,
Principal, and Professors, of the qualifications of those who desire
to be created Masters of Arts, Doctors of Divinity, &c. The foun-
dation of the office of Principal, almost coeval with that of the Uni-
versity, was confirmed by James VI. in 1577. It is in the appoint-
ment of the King. The Principal has the ordinary superintendence
of the deportment of all members of the University, and is Prima-
rius Professor of Divinity. The Professors of the University of
Glasgow may be distributed according to the departments of know-
ledge to which they are respectively assigned, into four distinct fa-
culties; those of arts, theology, law, and medicine.
	The Faculty of Arts comprehends the Professors of Latin or Hu-
manity, Greek, Logic, Ethics, Natural Philosophy, Mathematics,
Practical Astronomy, and Natural History. To this faculty maybe
added the Professors of Mathematics, Astronomy, and Natural His-
tory. The faculty of Theology includes, besides the Principal, who,
in right of his office, is first Professor of Divinity, three other Pro-
fessorships, those of Divinity, Church History, and Oriental Lan-
guages. The faculty of Law consists of a single Professorship, that of
Civil Law. The faculty of Medicine comprehends the Professorships
of Anatomy, Medicine, Materia Medica, Surgery Midwifery, Che-
mistry, and Botany. The Professors of Greek, Logic, Ethics, and
Natural Philosophy, whose chairs were the earliest endowed in the
University, are denominated Regents, and enjoy in right of their re-
gency certain trifling privileges beyond their brother professors.
The Regius Professors are those whose chairs have been recently
founded, endowed, and nominated by the Crown, and they are mem-
bers of Senate, only, not of the Faculty of the college, viz. natural his-
tory, surgery, Midwifery, chemistry, botany, and materia modica. *

<FOOTNOTE>Office-Bearers and Professors in 1835,

<TABLE>
Inducted                                  Inducted        I. Faculty of Arts.
1781.  Chancellor, Duke of Montrose.	     1831.      Humanity, W. M. Ramsay, M. A.
1834.  Lord Rector, Lord Stanley.	     1821.      Greek, Sir D. K. Sandford, D.C.L.
1834.  Dean of Faculties, Sir A. Campbell.   1827.      Logic, Robert Buchanan, M. A.
1823.  Principal, D. Macfarian, D. D.	     1797.      Moral Philosophy, J. Mylne, M. A.


