
172                             SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

rivers has also fallen of; to account for which, many opinions have
been entertained, which at best are more conjectures. The fresh-
water fishes generally used at table are, salmon, grilse, trout, and
char. Those got on the coast are chiefly herring, cod, ling, had-
dock, whiting, skate, and flounder. In September, quantities of
coal-fish are caught close to the rocks. Turbot and tusk are oc-
casionally found. The upper part of the Kyle abounds with shell-
fish, which are easily gathered, as the sea ebbs a considerable dis-
tance. Mussels and spout-fish of excellent quality are to be had;
but cockles are the most abundant of all. These are of various
sizes and colours. All of them, however, are rich and delicious
when in season, which is from April to September. They are
highly relished by strangers, who are loud in their praises; and
they are an invaluable blessing to those within reach of them,
who, during the summer months, use them daily as an article of
food.
  Botany.-The flora of this parish is not known to contain any
plants peculiar to itself, or such as are very rare in other places.
Perhaps the following are among those most deserving of notice.
Some of them, though rare in this parish, are common in other
parts of this country.

Betula nana             Fragaria vesca           Nymphaea alba
Carex hirta             Habenaria viridis        Oxytropis uralenais
      incurva           Hyacinthus non-scriptus  Primula Scotica
      limosa            Juniperus communis       Saxifraga oppositifolia
Cherleria sedoides      Lamium album             Silene inflata
Cynoglossum officinale  Listera ovata            Veronica serpyllifolia
Digitalia purpurea      Lycopodium clavatum      Vicia Cracca.
Dryas octopetala                   alpinum
Festuca bromoides       Melampyrum pratense

  None of the native plants are now employed for culinary pur-
poses, though formerly mugwort and nettle were made use of in
this way. Ragwort is sometimes used as an emollient; and the
leaves of ribwort plantain are successfully applied to fresh wounds.
Heather is employed to dye green; ragwort to dye yellow; the
lichen obtained on stones, to dye red-brown; and alder bark, to
dye black, which, by the addition of copperas, is effectually fixed,
and made to assume a still deeper hue. The native arborescent
species now to be met with, are not numerous, and for the most part
rather stinted in their growth. Betula alba (birch) predominates.
Salix alba, S. cinerea, (white and grey willow,) Corylus Avellana
(hazel,) and Pyrus aucuparia (the mountain-ash,) come next, in
nearly equal quantities. Alnus glutinosa (alder,) and Prunus spi-
nosa (sloe,) fringe the water courses. Ilex aquifolium (holly) is


