
498                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

mantic scenery, and remind us that we are treading the domains
of baronial grandeur, which equal, if not surpass, the splendour of
its brightest days.
     The palace is a plain but tasteful building, overlooking the North
Esk, and situate near the north-east end of the town.  It stands
upon the site of the old castle, and was erected about the begin-
ning of the last century, by Anne Duchess of Buccleuch and Mon-
mouth.  The building was not entirely new, as the back wall of
the castle still remains; but a new front and wings were then add-
ed in imitation of the Palace of Loc in the Netherlands, though
on a smaller scale.*\f  The beautiful lawn in front of the palace is
partly artificial, the ancient castle being insulated, with a ravine
behind and the river in front, crossed by a drawbridge.  That
this was the natural course of the stream is still apparent, from an
examination of the bank of the river at this place.  The Castle is
said to have stood upon an elevated rock.  This statements, how-
ever, has been rendered doubtful, from the excavations that were
made in examining the foundations of the palace in 1830.  The
walls were traced to the depth of upwards of 30 feet, but no ap-
pearance of rock was seen.  There is rock visible, however, at the
present level of the water; and near the margin of the river there
is a protion of the wall supporting the bank, which appears to be
a remnant of the old outworks of the castle.
     The Interior of the palace is richly provided with all the accom-
modations and embellishments befitting the resident of so noble
a family.  Where there is so much to attract and admire, it is
impossible within our narrow limits to condescend on particualrs.
But we naturally look with no common interest on the apartments
occupied by Monk, the restorer of monarchy;--and the fur-
niture presented by Charles II. to his son, the Duke of Monmouth,
on his marriage with Anne. the heiress of Buccleuch, which is de-
posited hers, and is still in execellent preservation, will now be re-
garded as having a claim even upon the attention of antiquaries.
     The collection of paintings is ample and select; embracing
subjects of every description,--family portraits and family groups,
cities, landscapes, and sea views,--historical, scriptural, and fancy
pieces,--many of which by the most eminent masters.  The fol-
lowing deserve particular notice:--

     <FOOTNOTE> Gough's Cambden, Vol. iv.page 46.  + Old Statistical Account.
Mr Dibdin, in his Northern Tour (1838, 8vo, Vol. ii.pp. 646-651,) gives an
account of his visit to Dalkeith Palace, with notice of the paintings and library.  Sec
also Pennant's Tour in Scotland in 1769, who gives a list of sixteen paintings of por-
traits in Dalkeith House.


