
                           PENCAITLAND.                     345

the hills to the sea. That stream, which divides the parish almost
into two equal portions, is here but very inconsiderable. The
ground rises from it on either side by a gentle acclivity, until it
reaches nearly the same level.
   Boundaries, Extent, &c.-The parish of Pencaitland is situated
near the western extremity of the county of Haddington. It is
bounded on the south and west, by Ormistoun; on the east, by
Salton; and on, the north, by Gladsmuir. It is rather more than
4 miles from west to east, and 3 from north to south.
   The general aspect of this parish is destitute of any marked
features; but it is throughout well enclosed, well cultivated, and
agreeably diversified with fields, and meadows, and woods, which
give to it a very pleasing appearance.
   Climate.-The climate of this parish is believed to be more
equable and salubrious than of some of the neighbouring parishes,
which may be accounted for partly by the lay of the ground, and
by its sheltered situation. The ground rises considerably, at some
distance to the westward; and it is often observed, that when there
is a good deal of rain in-that quarter, it is quite fair in this place.
The watery clouds that are seen advancing from the west often
stop and divide when they come to the Roman camp, near Cran-
ston, one portion being attracted by the Lammermoor-hills, and
going off in that direction,-while the other is drawn away to the
Forth, so that the small valley through which the Tyne flows fre-
quently escapes altogether. The fact of the healthiness of this
place is very much confirmed by the frequent cases of old, age,
which occur from time to time. Within the last twenty years,
four or five individuals have died, each of whom exceeded the age
Of ninety, and not a few others who approached fourscore. This
account,  however, will not apply to the population employed in the
collieries. Among them there are but few who exceed threescore
and ten; and the greater numbers are cut off much earlier. This
arises no doubt from the nature of the occupation in which they
are engaged. Affections of the lungs are very common among
them. There is one variety of these which claims some particular
notice. It is known among themselves by the name of the black
spittle. This disease is of a very peculiar character, and often
proves the cause of premature death to not a few of the miners em-
ployed in the coal-works in this district. Owing, to the thinness of
the coal seams, and the confined space in which the miners work,


