
                         MANTON.                           123

produce of grain on an average at L. 3000 a-year, and of other
things at L. 2000 more. Estimating the produce of the other
farms at this rate, it cannot be set down at less than L. 7000,-
making the total value of produce in the parish, L. 12,000, without
including gardens, woods, or fishings.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The parish of Maxton is situated at
an equal distance from the three market-towns, Kelso, Jedburgh,
and Melrose,-the middle of it being about seven miles from each.
The turnpike betwixt Kelso and Melrose runs through the heart
of the parish along its whole length; and the Edinburgh and Lon-
don road by Jedburgh bounds the west end of it. Besides these,
there are some cross roads, chiefly for the convenience of the seve-
ral farm-steadings, and kept in tolerably good repair by the sta-
tute-labour. One daily London and Edinburgh coach, by Jed-
burgh, passes this parish; and another, three times a-week, be-
tween Edinburgh and Jedburgh. There is also a coach from Kelso
to Glasgow by Melrose, Inverleithen, and Peebles, every day in
summer, and three times a-week in winter.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is an old building, or rather
a small fragment of an old building, which was dedicated to St
Cuthbert.  The date of its erection, or even of its dilapidation,
is unknown. The family of the Maxwells of Pollok were origi-
nally from the parish of Maxton. Their ancestors were once
possessed of considerable property in this district, and appear
to have been sheriffs of the county in the eleventh, twelfth, and
thirteenth centuries. Mention is made of a donationary foun-
dation by one of them, Herbert Maccuswell, in 1158,-which
is by some supposed to be the church of Maxton; and, no doubt,
the building, from its appearance, may well be of that age: but
the name of the founder would rather lead one to think that his
gift was the church of Maxwell, which has long since gone to de-
cay,-the parish thereof having been united to that of Kelso or
Roxburgh.
   The church of Maxton is beautifully situated on a high bank
of the Tweed, on the north-west verge of the parish, rather where
the population once was than where it is now. Few of the inha-
bitants, however, are more than three miles distant.
   This edifice was long suffered to continue in a very wretched
state. Before 1792, it was thatched with broom, and its interior
was not unsuitable to its outward appearance. In 1812 it was mo-



