
     Statistical Account

fishermen and sailors would naturally be induced to build and
take up their residence here for the sake of serving the pas-
sage between Fife and Leith, the port of Edinburgh*.  With
respect to the origin of the name of this town, we have not
been able to discover any thing certain, and will therefore
venture to offer a conjecture.  Upon a rising ground, imme-
diately behind the town, overlooking it, and commanding a 
view of the whole Frith of Forth, from Kinghorn down-
wards, and of all the opposite coast, there formerly stood a
castle, the ruins of which were very lately to be seen, which
was one of the ordinary seats of our ancient Kings.  This
place of residence was probably chosen by the Scottish Mo-
narch, not only for the sake of the prospect which it com-
mands, and the salubrity of the air, but for the conveniency
and pleasure of hunting.  For, tradition says, and the names
of places in the neighbourhood confirm it (such as Woodfield-
park, and Kingswood-end +) that the ground behind the
town, and to the westward, was once covered with wood.
From the winding, therefore, of the King's horn, when fal-
lying out with his attendants to take the diversion of the

<FOOTNOTE>

*In confirmation of this, we may observe, that the part of the town which
stands up the sea-shore, and nearest to the harbour, is evidently the oldest.
So early, as about the middle of the 11th century, in the reign of Duncan I.
we are informed that Canutus King of Norway, sent a large fleet with 9000
men, commanded by his brother, who landing at Kinghorn, over-ran and ra-
vaged the adjacent country; but that M'Beath, Thane of Fife (with whose
character and history every admirer of the inumitable Shakespeare must be in
some measure acquainted) attacked and defeated them with great slaughter,
torcing the survivors to retue to their ships.  It was not, however, till near a
century after this, that the town of Kinghorn was invested with the privileges
of a royal burgh, by King David I.
+Woodfield-park, Kingswood-end.  The former of these is a farm about
a mile to the W. of the town, the latter is a high and rugged rock, at 
about the same distance from the town, and on the same side of it, where King
Alexander III. was killed by a fall from his horse when hunting in this forest.


