
	646                              PERTHSHIRE.

	ed M'Kay's men: " The clans earnestly entreated Dundee not
	to engage in person, on the ground that their method of fighting
	was quite different from that of regular troops, and if he shntld be
	killed, King James's interest would be lost in Scotland.  But no
	argument could dissuade him from engaging at the head of his
	troops.  General M'Kay's army out-winged Dundee's near a
	quarter of a mile, which obliged the clans to leave large intervals
	between each clan, and by declining towards the wings, they want-
	ed troops to charge the centre, where a detachment of Lesly's and
         Hasting's English regiments were.  The Highlanders threw away
	their plaids, haversacks, and all other utensils, and marched reso-
	lutely and deliberately in their shirts and doublets, with tbeir fusils,
	words, targets, and pistols ready, down the bill on the enemy,
	and receivdd M'Kay's third fire before they pierced his line, in
	which many of the Highland army fell, particularly Lord Viscount
         Dundee, * their general, the terror of the Whigs, the supporter of

         <FOOTNOTE>The controversy as to the genuineness of the letter alleged to have been written
	by Dundee to King James, conveying the intelligence of the victory, can bd of no
	great moment.  The consequences that followed the engagement are of far greater
	importance.  As, however, it is a matter of considerable interest in the estimation of
	some people, the following is subjoined as the result of inquiries made on the subject
	1st, We find that all Dunddd's other letters are carefully dated, the time when and
	the place where they were written being given-wbereas that in dispute wants both ;
	neither does it bear when or where the action took place.  2dly, If he had survived the
	engagement, the author of the " Memoir," whose partiality appears to lean towards
	Dundee, would not fail to mention a fact that would tend " to heighten the romance
	of his character, and to increase the stage effect of his fall;" with Nelson at Trafal-
	gar, he would make his hero be heard to exclaim, " I thank God I have done my du-
	ty."  On the contrary, he states, that he " fell in the field of battle."  3dly, King
	James himself, in a letter to Stewart of Balechin, dated 30th November 1689, states,
	that " he fell at the entrance into action."-See General Stewart's Sketches, &c. of
	the Highlanders.  4thly, King James says in another communication, that when cros-
	sing over the plain to give some orders on the left, where the enemy made the most
	opposition, he was most unfortunately killed by a random shot."-Sde Clark's James
	II. Vol. ii.-See also Crawford's Peerage, published 1716, and Balcares' Me-
	moirs.  On the other side, it is maintained, 1st, that though Dundee " fell at the
	entrance into action, it does not necessarily imply that his death was immediate. 2dly,
	the author of the last St`tistical Account who was a son of one of the ministers of
	Blair-Atholl, and of course acquainted with the traditional history of this subject,
	states that Lord Dundee fell at a spot called Mount Clavers ; but it is believed that he
	was afterwards carried to Blair, where he died of his wounds.  This circumstance
	gives the appearance of plausibility at least to the story of the letter found among the
	Nairn papers, and printed by M'Pherson among his Orignial Papers.  The follow-
	ing is a copy.
	  " It hath pleased God to give your forces a great victory over the rebels, in which
	three-fourths are fallen under the weight of our swords.  I might say much of the
	action, if I had not the honour to command it; but of 5000 men, which was the bert
	computation I could make of the rebels, it is certain there have not escaped 1200, we
	have not lost full out 900.  This absolute victory made us masters of the field and
	enemy's baggage, which I gave to the soldiers, who to do them all right, both offi-
	cers and common men, Highlands, Lowlands, and Irish, behaved themselves with
	equal gallantry to what I ever saw in the hottest battles fought abroad by disciplined
	armies, and this M'Kay's old soldiers felt on this occasion.  I cannot now, Sir, be
	more particular, but take leave to assure your Majesty, the kingdom is generally dis-



