
                                ANNAN.                     533

and barley. There is, besides, L.10 allowed for communion ele-
ments, the whole derived from the teinds of the parish. The ave-
rage number of communicants belonging to the Established Church
is 530. It is understood that there is not an individual, a native
of the parish, and of sound mind, above fifteen years of age, who
cannot read. Education is, indeed, so much prized by all, that there
are few of the children of the place who have not been taught
(besides reading) writing and the elementary rules of arithmetic.
It may be remarked, however, that of late a number of Irish
families have become settlers here. The parents (generally Roman
Catholics) are found to be grossly ignorant, and pay no attention
to the education of their children. At present, there are about
150 persons, old and young, of this description in the parish, the
greater proportion of whom are unable to read.
	Education.--There is one parish schoolmaster in the burgh,
whose yearly salary is L.31, 16s. 6d., with an additional allowance
for a house and garden. The average number of scholars attending
the parish school is from 80 to 9o. There is another branch
school belonging to the parish at Breconbeds, near Kirtlebridge.
The schoolmaster's salary is L.10 yearly, and the average num-
ber of scholars from 60 to 70.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The fund from which the poor of
the burgh and parish of Annan are supplied, is raised by an assess-
ment on the real rental of property in the burgh and parish, the
proprietors contributing one-half, and the tenants the other, the
rates and allowances being settled twice a year, at Lammas and
Candlemas. The collectors and treasurers of the poor cess mo-
ney, are appointed by the heritors, magistrates, and kirk-session of
Annan. The number of paupers at present on the roll is 121,
who are paid weekly every Saturday forenoon, receiving from is.
to 2s. 6d., or higher, according to circumstances. There is a small
bequest yearly from the estate of Gullielands of L.5. The poor
are paid more liberally here than in any other of the neighbour.
ing parishes; but, the more they get, the more they would have.
The amount of the money paid for the last half-year was L.295,
8c. 6d.
	Burgh, Civil Constitution, and Education continued.--The sub-
sisting charter of this burgh was granted by King James VI. on
10th July 1612. It recites, that this town had been erected into
a burgh by King James V. in 1538.  The population of Annan
has been more than doubled during the present century. From a


