
     762                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

     forms a station for artillery, and is capable of containing 360 men,
     with stables for 150 horses.
         The town of Leith was anciently divided into territories, of
     which there is, 1st, The burgh of barony of South Leith, of which
     the council of Edinburgh are the superiors.
         2d, North Leith, forming part of the regality of the Canon-
     gate, of which the council of Edinburgh are also superiors.
        3d, The regality of the Citadel of Leith, locally situated within
     North Leith, conveyed in 1663 by the Earl of Lauderdale to the
     council of Edinburgh.
       4th, The territory of St Anthony, adjoining South Leith, the
     bailie and clerk of which are appointed by the kirk-session of South
     Leith, by virtue of a charter of James VI.
       5th, The magistrates and council of Edinburgh have an admi-
     ralty jurisdiction over South and North Leith, the Citadel, New-
     haven, and the whole of the Parliamentary burgh; as also over
     Edinburgh and its suburbs. The title of admiral of Leith is
     now ceded by courtesy to the Provost of the burgh.
          In 1827 a municipal act was obtained, by which the jurisdiction
     of the burgh was modified and improved. By the seventh section
     of this act, the admiral and resident magistrates of South Leith,
     the masters of the four corporations, and all persons who at any
     time had held the office of resident magistrates of South Leith,
     were, at a meeting held immediately after Michaelmas 1827, to
     make choice of a leet or list of nine persons qualified to hold the
     offices of resident magistrates of South Leith, to be presented to
     the town-council of Edinburgh. Out of that leet the council
     were to elect three persons to be the resident magistrates of Leith
     for the next year ensuing, who were to have all the powers juris-
     dictions, and privileges previously possessed by the resident ma-
     gistrates appointed by the council of Edinburgh. A separate
     sheriff was also appointed by this act.
        In 1832 the Parliamentary Reform Bill bestowed on Leith the
     privilege of sending a member to Parliament, along with New-
     haven, Portobello, and Musselburgh; and the Burgh Reform act
     of the succeeding year conferred upon Leith a separate and inde-
     pendent magistracy, consisting of a provost, four bailies, a trea-
     surer, and councillors.
        The burgh of Leith is two miles distant from Edinburgh, with
     which it communicates by a spacious roadway called Leith Walk.
     The oldest part of the town forms a long irregular street, leading


