
38			   LANARKSHIRE.

		     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	There are no market-towns in the parish, the nearest being La-
nark, at the distance of six miles from Abbey Green. Upwards of
one-third of the population however, are congregated in the vil-
lages of Abbey Green, Kirkmuirhill, Kirkfield Bank, Boghead, and
Nethanfoot, all of which villages have a regular communication
with Glasgow by means of coaches and carriers; and there is a daily
post to the former.
	Means of Communication.--Besides the Glasgow and Carlisle
road, which runs upwards of eight miles in the parish, and the Glas-
gow and Lanark road, running about five, there are not less than
eighty miles of parish roads kept up by converted statute labour
money: and of these fifty miles at least are in very tolerable order.
Bridges have been built, partly from the county funds, upon all the
streams crossed by these lines of road.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Lesmahago has been a collegiate charge
ever since the Reformation. The church is in the village of Abbey
Green, in the centre of the parish. It is capable of containing
1500 sitters,--the whole being divided among thd heritors for
their respective tenantry, according to their respective valuations,
with the exception of a pew to each clergyman. The first minis-
ter has a glebe of eight acres (Scotch,) which might be let at
L.5 per acre: with a stipend of sixteen chalders, one half oat-
meal and the other barley, converted, at the highest fiars price of
the county, and yielding on an average of the last seven years,
L.277, 12s. The second minister has a manse and garden, but
no glebe:--he has the same stipend as the first, and rents a small
farm from the patron, on which the heritors have built his house
and the requisite accommodations.
	There are two dissenting chapels belonging to different deno-
minations of Burghers; both of these have been lately erected.
The officiating clergymen are paid from the seat rents, and from
voluntary contributions, affording about L.100 a-year to each.
Although these houses have still the enticement of novelty, by far
the greater number in the parish adhere to the Established church,
in which divine service is well attended. The average number
of communicants at the Established church is about 1700. The
number of dissenters is about 200.
	Education.--The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum sa-
lary, with good house and garden; he has also perquisites as ses-
sion-clerk, amounting to L.22 a-year. His school-fees may amount
                                 4

