
556 			 FIFESHIRE.

  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The poor of this parish are few in
number, and are supported at a very trifling expense. There still
exists amongst them that noble spirit, which spurns at public as-
sistance ,when, by their own exertions and economy, they can pro-
vide for themselves. We have, at present, cases amongst us where
individuals have reached the utmost verge of human life; with
means bordering upon poverty, and by many, would be considered
actually so, resolutely refusing the scanty supply which is given to
those who are upon the kirk-session roll. The number who were
assisted by the kirk-session last year were 14, of whom five only
were regularly on the roll; the rest got occasional assistance. The
whole sum given to the above poor, from January 1837 to January
1838, was L.23, 11s. 5d. In addition to this, 15s. 6d. was given
to a medical gentleman for advice; and perhaps L.3 are still due
to the schoolmaster, for poor scholars. In addition to this sum,
David Gillespie, Esq. of Kirktoin, gave me liberty last year, to give
coals to every person in the parish, who I thought stood in need of
them; and I was particularly requested by him, not to diminish
the ordinary supply afforded to the poor, in consequence of his do-
nation. Several families, who were in distress from accidental cir-
cumstances, were thus supplied with coals, who never received a
farthing from the kirk-session. Call the average, L.30; and this
sum cannot be said to be extravagant, upon a rental of L.8000 to
L.9000 per annum, although the heritors paid every farthing of it.
But this they do not 1st, The kirk-session has an heritable bond
belonging to it of L.200; the interest of which, although now re-
duced, goes for the support of the poor, and the other expenses of
the kirk-session, which amount annually to L.8, 7s.; 2d, collec-
tions at the church doors, which amount to about L.14; 3d,
dues upon mortcloths, which may average from L.2 to L.2, 5s.:
and dues upon marriages, which come to very little money; 4th,
interest of a legacy of L.45 left by the late David Gillespie, Esq.
of Kirkton, for the benefit of the poor; and 5th, interest of the re-
mains of a legacy of L.34, 2s. 10d. left by the late John A. Thom-
son. Esq. of Charleton, to be expended upon clothing to needy
and respectable individuals. Although the kirk-session had no
other expenses, the funds are not sufficient of themselves to supply
the poor, few as they are, and to pay the salaries above stated. In
addition to these, there are school-fees for the children of people
in distress, and there are accidental expenses, which, taken to-
gether, may amount annually from L.3, 10s. to L.4,, 10s. To


