
                         MID-CALDER.                        375

country markets; and milch-cows, properly fed and littered, pro-
duce the greatest quantity of good manure so necessary for the
improvement of the land. In the reclaiming of waste land, little
comparatively has been accomplished by either landlord or te-
nants, when compared with what has been done in some other
places. In thorough draining and deep ploughing, very little has
hitherto been effected; but, as the attention of both proprietors
and tenants has lately begun to be directed to the great advantages
arising, from such obvious improvements, there can be no doubt there
will soon be in both of these an extensive and rapid advancement.
Most of the farm buildings are very substantial; and, in those
lately erected, elegance as well as convenience has been an ob-
ject of attention.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
 In the town of Mid- Calder we have no weekly market, the shops
being adequate for the supply of all necessary provisions. The
market-town, to which all classes resort, and particularly the farm-
ers on a Wednesday, is Edinburgh, which is distant twelve miles.
Few from this quarter attend the market at Bathgate, although it
is only seven miles distant; nor do any attend the Linlithgow
market, which is only two miles farther.
 Village, &c. -Bellsquarry, which may be conridered as the only
other village in the parish, is distant about two miles westward of
Mid-Calder. Its inhabitants are chiefly labourers and mechanics.
 Ecclesiastical State. -The church of Mid-Calder is situated
near the north-east boundary of the parish, close to the village,
and within a quarter of a mile of the parish of East Calder, which
was formerly included in that of Mid-Calder. This may account
for the present position of the church, which cannot be less than
from seven to eight miles distant from the most remote house in
the upper or pastoral district of the parish ; but, considering the
state of the population, this, after all, is the best situation, as it
is nearest and most convenient for the great bulk of the inhabi-
tan is. The church is in good repair; but the exact period of its
erection cannot be ascertained. It contains 438 sitters, at eighteen
inches each, but may easily accommodate 100, or perhaps 150
more, including young and old, without being much over-crowded.
Fully one-half of the whole tenantry who have taken leases, and now
occupy farms in this parish, are Seceders; and several families who
belong to the Establishment, being nearer to the parish churches of
Livingstone and West Calder than their own, have always been ac-


