
70                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   The only Noble family in the parish is the Marquis of Lothian's;
Mr Ker of Blackshiels also resides in it. The number of pro-
prietors has already been mentioned.

The number of bachelors and widowers upwards of 50 years of age is,   26
              unmarried women upwards of 45,                          60
              families,                                              374
Average number of children in each about,                              3
Number of families employed in agriculture,                           74
                            in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,    41

   There are no uninhabited houses, nor are there any building.
   Number of insane, 2; of fatuous, 2; of blind, 2.
   Number of illegitimate births during the last three years, 9.
   Habits, &c. of the People.-The language spoken is English.
Habits of the people in general cleanly. Ordinary food of the
peasantry, tea or porridge to breakfast; broth and a little meat
and potatoes or cheese to dinner; and potatoes or porridge to sup-
per. The people on the whole enjoy, to a considerable degree,
the advantages of society, and they seem perfectly contented with
their situation in life. Their character is of an intellectual cast,
and they are in general moral and religious. Poaching in game
does prevail to a certain extent among the lower orders, and only
among them.
                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres, standard imperial measure,
  in the parish under cultivation is 4700.
   With the exception of the ground under wood, there are not
above 7 or 8 acres that never have been cultivated; and these be-
ing chiefly braes, could not with any advantage be brought under
cultivation.
   There is no undivided common in the parish. The number of
acres under wood of every description is about 300. The diffe-
rent kinds of trees have already been enumerated. The manage-
ment is good in regard to thinning, pruning, and periodical felling;
and, from the attention paid to the wood in these respects, a con-
siderable revenue may be expected in a few years.
   Rent.-As the soil in this parish is very different in point of
quality, so the rents vary in proportion, being from L. 1. to L. 6
per acre Scotch. The average per imperial acre may be about
L. 1, 12s.
   The average rent of grazing, at the rate of L. 5 during the
summer season, for a full-grown ox or cow; and at the rate of
15s. per annum for a full-grown sheep,-is about L. 4 per acre.



