
282                   STIRLINGSHIRE.

generally the bed on which the coals rest, and is suitable for mak-
ing fire-brick for furnaces. Sand and clay are variously mixed in
these beds. Argillaceous ironstone is found in the argillaceous
schistus in thin beds or bands of a few inches thick; also in detach-
ed balls. This ironstone yields about 30 per cent. of iron. The
greater-proportion of the parish is composed of alluvial deposits
from the Forth; the lower part of which is dark-coloured soft
clay or sludge, in which are found varieties of sea-shells, corre-
sponding with those which are found at Leith. All the soils lie
on rocks of the coal formation. The only mines are those of coal;
but at present, there is no colliery establishment in the parish.
There was an extensive one near the village of Dunmore, from
which coals were exported, both coastwise and over seas; but, being
nearly exhausted, it was given up in the year 1811. It is said,
and there is every reason to believe it to have been the case, that
at a very remote period, coals were wrought at no great distance
from Airth Castle; and it is supposed, that there is still a consi-
derable quantity of coal to be found, both in the south and north-
east parts of the parish.
  Zoology.--Badgers, not many years ago, were common in Dun-
more Wood; but they have now entirely disappeared. This fact
is ascribed to an assault which certain mischievous individuals
made upon them one night with dogs, whereby either the whole
of them were destroyed, or such dreadful havoc made amongst
them, that those which escaped the general carnage consulted
their safety by flight. Certain it is, that the badger, once so com-
mon, is now never to be seen.
  Woods.--Various plantations, consisting of all kinds of hard-
wood, larch, Scotch fir, birch, &c. have been made, chiefly on the
grounds of Airth and Dunmore Park, all of which are in a thriv-
ing condition. On the former of these grounds, the castle is sur-
rounded by trees of every description, very majestic, and of very
ancient date; but the willow trees, which are scattered in all di-
rections, deserve to be peculiarly noticed, as surpassing, both in
stature and beauty, most of the same species to be found either in
Scotland or England. Many more trees of the same sort have
been planted by the present active proprietor, chiefly in hedge-
rows; by the rapid growth of which, in the course of a few years, the
estate has been greatly beautified, and its value will be greatly
encreased. The trees of Dunmore Park are very numerous
and valuable. The oak and beech trees especially are most
                            3


