
     Statistical Account

prietors or superiors of all that Earldom, besides many con-
siderable estates in other parts of the kingdom.  But as it

<FOOTNOTE>

the name of Cumine, the Earl of ATHOL, Lord BADENOCH, the Earl of
MARR, and others of their adherents, they entered the royal apartments
at Kinross, early in the morning of the 28th of October 1255, and made the
king a prisoner before he was awake, and carried him to Stirling.  They
then dismissed his Majesty's servants, and filled all places of trust with their
own adherents. So great was their power, that the king, after he had recov-
ered his liberty, thought it prudent to give them a full pardon.
   ALEXANDER, the 3 d Earl of Buchan, of the name of Cumine, was
Justiciary and Lord high Constable of Scotland, and was appointed one of the
six governors of the kingdom, after the death of King ALEXANDER III.  He
founded an hospital at Turriff, anno 1272, for twelve poor husbandmen, and
another at Newburgh, both in Aberdeenshire.  JOHN, the 4th Earl of Bucban,
nonstable of Scotland, was one of the arbiters chosen on the part of JOHN
BALIOL, in the competition for the Crown between him and ROBERT BRUCE.
At this time, JOHN CUMINE, LORD BADENOCH, commonly called the Black
Cumine, claimed the Crown of Scotland, as being descended of HEXASILDA,
daughter and heiress of GOTHERIC, son and heir of DONALD king of Scotland.
It is well known how this affair was determined by EDWARD I. of England.
To the Black Cumine succeeded his son JOHN CUMINE, Lord of Badenoch,
commonly called the Red Cumine.  Scotland had now for a considerable time
groaned under the yoke of English servitude:  Baliol had meanly given up
his pretended right to the Crown to Edward; and Bruce had secretly inti-
mated to his friends his intention of asserting his title to the royal dignity.
CUMINE, ever mindful of his own interest, made a solemn engagement with
ROBERT, to aid him with all his power in mounting the throne, provided he
should be restored to the large possessions which his family had formerly enjoy-
ed; but, after deliberating upon the affair, he began to doubt the event:  If
the attempt failed he was undone; and he did not know how to retract:  His
own black heart suggested the detestable remedy: His hopes of great rewards
from England induced him to divulge the whole scheme of the Scottish
patriots to EDWARD; and BRUCE, finding that he was betrayed, with difficulty
escaped to Scotland, where, discovering clear proof of the villany of CUMINE,
he pursued him to the church of Dumfries, whither, from conscious guilt, he
had fled for refuge, and punished him as his crime deserved, on the tenth
of February 1306.  Having no issue, he was the last Lord Badenoch, of
the name of CUMINE.  The slaughter of the Red Cumine by BRUCE inspir-


