
     of Kilsyth.

have elected a young man of a liberal education, abilities,
and character, it is to be hoped, he will meet with every en-
couragement and be eminently useful.  At present he has
two boarders, and will have accommodation for a few more.
His salary is now increased to 100 lib.  Scots; he receives
quarterly for teaching English 2 s. 2 d. for writing and arith-
metic 3s. for Latin, Greek, and French, 4 s. 6 d. Besides he
is appointed session clerk: for which he receives annually in
name of fee L. 2: 10.  ster. for each proclamation 2 s. for e-
very baptism 6 d. and for a certificate 6 d. besides other trifles.
   The town is populous, the school large, and manufactures
in a flourishing condition, and therefore it is probable that he
shall meet with suitable encouragement.  At the same time, it
is much to be regretted, that men of a liberal education, who
devote their time and talents to the instruction of the rising
generation, should be so much neglected and meet with such
inadequate salaries.
   A common tradesman, if sober and attentive, is much more
independent, and may in general earn a better livelihood than
the most part of parish schoolmasters.  While this continues
to be the case, few men of abilities or character will aspire to
the office, or rather doom themselves to the drudgery to
which it requires them to submit, with the assurance of pover-
ty attached.  If they are driven to the office by necessity,
they must soon dwindle into insignificance, and by becoming
despicable in the eyes of the ignorant and worthless because
poor, must lose their influence and their usefulness of conse-
quence.  But it is to be hoped, that the wisdom of the legisla-
ture will see the impending evil, and speedily interpose theirs
authority to ward it off.  If the salary of each parochial teacher
were doubled, it would be only a trifle to the landed interest,
and a mutual benefit to the teacher and the taught.  Or, if
this should not be though adviseable, might not every established


