
               INVERARY.                                35

while those whose rent amounted to L. 5, but fell below L. 10, were
23.Of the former class there were also 5 more resident beyond
the parliamentary boundary.
     The property of the burgh consists, 1st, of a right of pasturage
on the contiguous moor of Aucbinbreck, conferred by disposition,
granted by the Duke of Argyle in 1750. 2d, L. 20 per annum,
conferred bv the same disposition, by the Duke, for the necessary
uses and support of the community. 3d, The right of harbour,
with anchorage dues, shore dues, and a right to petty customs
within the burcrb. 4th, The right of ferrying passengers and cat-
tle across Loctifyne.
The income of the btirgh may be thus stated : rent of the com-
mon moor, I- 36; annuity by the Duke of Argyle, L. 20 ; rent of
petty customs, L. 80; rent of ferry, L. 40 ; average amount of
fees for admission of burgesses, L. 5 ; grant by the commissioners
of supply for the support of the grammar school, L. 5 ; total,
L 186. The last sum is given during pleasure only, as is sup-
posed, and the burgh has no formal right to it.\f*  The annual
expenditure averages L. 160.
By the charter, power is given to hold a weekly market on Fri-
day, with three annual fairs, the first on the 17th day of May, the
second on the 15th July, and the third on the 16th of September.
It seems as if the framers of the charter intended that these should
be fairs for the county, as each of them was to be held for eight
days, and it is declared that there shall be no other markets or
fairs in Argyleshire, except in Kintyre, where another royal burgh
was ordered in the reign of James VI.
  The markets held in the burgh are in May, July, and Novem-
ber, the first and last for cattle, and the second for wool.
  The burgh has undergone many changes since 1830, and the
magistrates bave from that period made great exertions for the be-
nefit of the public. Among other things of less importance done
during the last twelve years, are a common sewer the extension
of the pier; water plentifully provided in 1836 ; and gas light in.-
troduced in 1841.
  The burgh of Inverary, with those of Irvine, Campbelton,
Rothesay, and Oban return a member to Parliament.
  Means of Communication.-Inverary reaps its full share of the
Progress made in the means of communication, and instead of one
way of travelling to Glasgow in two days, there are now four

<FOOTNOTE>See Report on the Municipal Corporations in Soutland in 1835.


