
     Statistical Account

The principal heritors are, in the order of the extent of
their property, Mr Mouat of Garth, Mr Sanderson of Buness,
Mr Scot of Greenwall, and Sir Thomas Dundas of Kerfe.
Within these two years, a considerable part of the lands
in the island have been sold by the former proprietors, and
bought chiefly by gentlemen, who were before resident he-
ritors, at from 40 to 70 years purchase of the neat rents.
This circumstance is a clear proof of the great difference be-
tween the nominal and the real income, which the lands in
the island afford.  The whole rents of the parish, including
scatt, teinds, land tax, and rents paid for fishings, may be e-
qual in value to L. 790 Sterling.  The value rents, how-

<FOOTNOTE>

ing around 30 or 40 farms together.  Every farmer is obliged to repair,
whenever it may become necessary, a certain part of these dikes, propor-
tional to the extent of the land which be possesses.  The whole lands with-
in the dikes cultivated or reserved for pasture, are 2267 merks.  The
land-tax payable from this island amounts to about 5 d. for every merk of
land within the town-dikes.  The hills and commons are again divided
into scattolds, from each of which a certain tax, called scatt, was anciently
paid to the Crown of Denmark, when Shetland made a part of the Danish
dominions; became payable to the Scottish monarch, when these islands
were finally ceded to Scotland; fell at length, by donation from the
Crown to a subject superior, and is at present payable to Sir Thomas
Dundas of Kerse, Bart.  Each merk of cultivated land within the town-
dikes is burdened with the payment of from 1 s. to 15 d. of corn teind,
in butter or oil.  The proprietors of the lands receive for the arable part
of every merk, 16 d. of yearly rent; and for the pasturage part, under the
denomination of grassum, 8 merks of butter, each consisting of 20 ounces
Troy.  The scatt may amount to 6 d. for each merk of land, and is paid
chiefly in butter and oil.  The farmers pay likewise casual teinds from
their cows, sheep, and baas or fishing boats; for each cow, 3 merks of
butter in the year; for their sheep, in lambs and wool, to the value of
1 d. for each, and for every bassboat, 12 ling.  Some of the common peo-
ple possess lands upon what is called udall tenure.  But the increase of
luxury is daily tempting them to expenses, which, in the end, force them to
dispose of their landed property.  It is probable, therefore, that this mode
of tenure may, in a short time, entirely cease here.


