
     Of Primrose.

The bulk of the rest of the people are farmers servants
and labourers.  There are no practitioners either of law
or physic in the parish.  There are only 2 heritors, 1 of
whom resides.

   Rent, etc.-The valued rent of the parish is 2830 l.
Scots.  As more than one-third of the whole land in it is
in the natural possession of the proprietors, the real rent
cannot be ascertained with precision.  For the same rea-
son, the number of black cattle, horses, and sheep main-
tained in it cannot be estimated with any degree of accu-
racy; because they are always considerably more numer-
rous in summer than in winter.  The rent of the largest
farm is 235 L., and of the smallest 50 l. Sterling*.

   Church, Stipend, School, Poor, etc.-The church was
built in 1711.  Its form is regular and convenient, and
its walls well built and substantial.  But as the roof is
much decayed, as the windows are shattered, the walls
rough from the hand of the mason, the seats crazy and 
irregular, its internal appearance is the very reverse of that
simple elegance which besits a place of public worship.

     VOL. XIV. 3 K

<FOOTNOTE>

*The rate wages as follows:  Of a ploughman, from 6 l. to 7 l. ;
of a maid servant, from 2 l. 10 s. to 3 l. 10 s, a year, besides victuals:  of a
labourer, from 10 d. to 14 d.; and of a woman for hoeing turnips or potatoes,
or for hay-making, from 6 d. to 7 d. a day, without victuals:  of a mason or
wright, from 20 d to 22 d. a day, without victuals:  The wages for cutting
hay, but especially corn, in harvest, vary according to circumstances.  For
some time past, work people of all kinds have been more easily procured than
formerly, and their wages begin rather to fall.  The price of every article is
nearly the smae here, as in the Edinburgh market, by which it is regulated;
with this disadvantage, however, that the inhabitants of this parish must pay
the carriage of every thing they sell to Edinburgh, and of every thing they
buy, from that city, which is at distance of about 9 miles.


