
576 			FIFESHIRE.

tributions of the heritors, and partly by a gift of L. 100 made to
the kirk-session by the Honourable Lord Lindsay, as legatee of
the late lady Mary Lindsay Crawfurd, of which there are still
L. 40 remaining. Little delicacy is shewn in applying for paro-
chial aid,-the independent spirit of the Scottish peasantry hav-
ing, in a great	measure, died away in this quarter. In the course
of one or two years, a legal assessment for the support of the poor
will be inevitable.
  Alehouses.-There are 8 licensed ale and spirit-dealers, se
ven in Pitlessie, and one in Crossgates.
  Fuel.-The fuel principally used is coal, brought for the most
part from Balbirnie, in the parish of Markinch, about six miles on
the road to Kirkcaldy. Its cost at the pit is Is. 3d. per load of
18 stone.
  Fairs.-There were formerly two annual fairs in Pitlessie, for
the sale of agricultural stock, chiefly cattle, the one held on the
second Tuesday of May, old style, and the other on the, third
Wednesday of October, old style. The latter has for some years
been discontinued; the former is still kept, and is very generally
resorted to. It is one of the best attended fairs in the county of Fife,

		MISCELLANEOUS - OBSERVATIONS.

  In comparing the state of the parish now, with what it appears
to have been in 1791, when the last Statistical Account was writ-
ten, little occurs as, worthy of remark. Great improvements have,
as might have been expected, taken place in agriculture. Instead
of 900 Scots, equal to 1134 imperial acres, the whole extent of
arable land in 1791, there are now 1900 imperial acres under re-
gular cultivation. The extent of woodland has greatly diminish-
ed, there being now only 115 imperial acres of wood, instead of
400 Scots, equal to 504 imperial acres. The population was then
534l; it is now 914. The wages of a day-labouror were then 10d,
per day; they are now from 1s. 4d. to Is. 8d. Houses for labour-
ers were then let, at from 4s. to L. 1 a year; they are let now at
from, L.1 to L. 3. Ther were then only two thrashing-machiner,
there are now nine. The old Statistical Account makes no men-
tion of manufacturers, from which it may be concluded that they
did not then form, by any means, so important a source as they
now do, of employment and subsistence to the parishioners. Since
1791, the following buildings have been eracted: a spinning-mill,
a saw-mill, a yarn-mill, a stone bridge across the Eden at Clush-
ford the present Church, the manse, and Crawfurd priory.
  June 1838.



