
		   COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.		     367

their flocks.  The clay is highly indurated, most probably by the
pressure of the incumbent mass of sandstone; so much is that the
case, that it may with propriety be denominated slate rather than
clay especially when first dog out of the rocki although exposure
to the atmosphere soon makes It exhibit its argillaceous origin.
The materials forming clay and sandstone are so different in their
characters, that it is interesting to see the one imbedded in the
other, without the slightest intermixture of theit respective com-
ponent parts; at the same time it is evident that the currents of the
ancient ocean in which these materials had been deposited were
subject to the same sudden change as marks the deposits of more
modern erase Flints, in chalk, are supposed to have originated from
some organized body having been deposited among the chalk, and
which had attracted the silica in quantities sufficient to form the
fluids. Could something of the same nature among the clay, at the
remote period of its formation, have served as the nucleus for at-
tracting the oxide of iron so as to form the red chalk in one bed,
and the ironstone ore in the other?                                              5
   4th, Clay of good quality, and fit for manufacturing brick and
tiles, is met with in numerous situations.  In the clays found in
the higher part of the county, the colour is not uniform, and the
beds of it are comparatively limited.  The mineral in such loca-
lities was most probably deposited after the partial dislocation and
upraising of the strata of the Secondary formation.  But in the
lower district, circumstances connected with the clay formation
appear to have been materially different.  There, it is all invariably
of a blue colour, and extends partially along, or at least not far
from the sea, from the vicinity of Dunbar to the western boun-
dary of the county.  It is probable that the clay originally ex-
tended, tit a remote period, in an unbroken line between the
Points here mentioned.   The vale of the western branch of the
Peffer-burn, however, is the field where the mineral is found in the
greatest abundance, and which extends into the sea beneath the
flat and wide sands of Aberlady.  It varies in depth from on to
25 feet thick, probably deeper, although bitherto unscertained.
Shells apparently of marine origin are found in the clay, but ge-
nerally so much decomposed as to be incapable of handling.
There are likewise very thin beds or lamina of fine sand found
Intespersed occasionally among the elay, but so very thin as to be
merely perceptible, although they serve to render the olay easier
worked by the labourers when employed in raising it.  And these


