
50                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

scale; at which time, there was none made elsewhere in Scotland.
Above 200 men were then employed,-adding much to the re-
venue, and prosperity of the town of Alloa. Since the beginning
of 1839, the making of crown glass has been discontinued, and
the works, of late, have been on rather a reduced scale, but are
about to be extended.
   The Foundery and Steam Engine Manufactory was erected in
1832, and gives employment to about 100 men.
   Brick and Tile Works.--Bricks and tiles have been articles of
manufacture at Alloa, for a long period of years ; but it was not till
the year 1815, that the works were, carried on to any great ex-
tent. The present proprietor enlarged the works considera-
bly; improving the mode of manufacture, and making fire bricks
for the first time in the district, and which are reckoned not infe-
rior to those produced at Stourbridge. It was here, we believe,
that steam power was first introduced (in Scotland), in preparing
the clay used in the manufacture of common bricks and tiles, as
well as the London system of brick-making. Not fewer than forty
hands are employed at these works, where there is a convenient
wharf, from which the different articles are transported to all parts
of the world.
   Pottery.--In addition to the former pottery, a new one bas,lately
been built, at which the manufacturing of white and coloured ware
in all its branches is carried on.
   Gas-Work.--In the year 1828, a gas-work was erected at the
river side by subscription, amounting to L. 3000, in shares of
L. 10. By this means the town is lighted. Gas-pipes are also
laid to places in the neigbourhood, particularly to Cambus distil-
lery, a distance of two miles, where there are 100 burners. The
price of shares has risen to about L. 14 each, so that a fair re-
muneration is likely to be secured to the subscribers. Gas is sold
at the rate of 12s. per 1000 cubic feet, subject to a discount ac-
cording to the quantity consumed. The gas made here i s allow-
ed to be of first-rate quality.
   Ship-Building.--The trade of ship-building has been long and
successfully prosecuted here. Vessels of from 300 to 400 tons
are frequently built, and last year a fine vessel, of 450 tons bur-
den, was launched, intended for the East India trade. There is
a dry dock, at which vessels are repaired.   Boats are also built.
The various departments employ continually about fifty men.
  Rope- and Sail-Makinq-This branch of trade is also of long
                    4


