
     142                         CAITHNESS SHIRE.

     The only other antiquity worth noticing, is that of the Sinclairs'
     Aisle, in the church-yard, opposite the door of the Parish Church.
     It is in the form of a small but elegant chapel.  The walls are
     entire, but roofless.  It was built by that Earl George who mur-
     dered his own son in the vaults of the Castle of Girnigoe. *
       An old image of St Fergus, the totelary saint of de parish in
     Popish times, habited in a monkish dress, and standing On Some
     sort of animal, which formerly lay in the church, has now been
     placed in the jail.  Its features are altogether effaced.
       Modern Buildings.-The chief of these is the parish Church.
     This is a large substantial fabric of the very plainest Gothic, built
     of blue flagstone, with freestone at the corners, doors, and win-
     dows, and on the spire.  It is imposing from its size.  The Town
     and County Hall is likewise of flagstone, ornamented in front
     with freestone, and a belfry like a cupola.  The hall itself is a
     large and well-proportioned room.  Its walls are adorned with,
     well executed portraits of the late Earl of Caithness; the late Sir
     John Sinclair of Ulbster; James Traill, Esq. of Rattar; and
     Kenneth.  Macleay, Esq.  The Commercial Bank is of freestone,
     with pillars of the Ionic order.  The Congregational Chapel in
     Wick, the United Secession, the Reformed Presbyterian, and
     the Popish chapels in Pulteneytown, are very plain buildings.
     The Academy, built by the British Fishery Company, is a good
     and commodious building.  A new church, in connection with the
     Church of Scotland, is about to be commenced in Pulteneytown.
       A Temperance Hall, capable of holding 1000 persons, is in
     the course of being erected in Wick, by the Total Abstinence
     Society of Wick and Pulteneytown.
       Hempriggs House, formerly Telstone, the seat of Lord Duffus,
     though of considerable antiquity, is a large and commodious man-
     sion.  The House of Stirkoke, the seat of William Horne, Esq.
     of Scouthel ; the House of Thrumster, the seat of Robert Innes,
     Esq.; and Rosebank, the property of Kenneth Macleay, Esq. of
     Newmore,-are excellent residences.  There are also substantial
     houses at Ulbster, Tannach, Bilbster, Sibster, Harlan, Reiss,
     and Noss, and not a few in the burgh of Wick.
       The material of which these and all other stone erections in

      * On a stone in the aisle is the following inscription: "Here within tyes in-
     tombed ane Noble and worthie man, John, Master Fiar of Caithness, Of Clyth and
     Greenland, Knight, father of ane Noble and potent Lord, now George Earl of Caith-
     ness, Lord Sinclair of Berridale, who departed this life the, 15th day of March 1576,
     being of age 45 years."                       4


