
362                      UBNFREWSHIRE.

noticed., as gladly, a characteristic feature to the iiiland landscape,
particularly to the eye of the traveller from the northward.
On.another,point of the horizon, Glentyan House, the residence
of.captain. James Stirling, R. N., presents itself, overlooking the
village from the northwest, from amid a smiling scene, which the
good taste and generous activity of the proprietor has almost
created within a few years.
Turning our eye eastward to the less picturesque, I bough now
not unprofitable flat once covered with a forest, and IDC reduced
to moss earth, overlying a val uable subsoil, we see the success of the
experiment made some fifty years ago b plantirig'moss with wood,
y
after the turf bad been carried off for fuel, a success still evinced
pn the lands of Clippens, as well as on the contiguous estate of
ilackstoun.
Upon the estate of Craigends, too, there is a large extent of
planting, some of which is'of very considerable age, in all little short
of forty acres. The lands of Torrs, likewise, have 11 the heights,"
from which their designation is taken, though with a northern
exposure, covered with a large extent of thriving plantation, where
only the bare heath and rugged rock frowned oii the valley of the
Gryfe and Duchal waters.
In tracing previously the limits of this parish, marked as they
are at almost every point by the natural boundaries of a river or
streanilet, St Bride's Burn-, its limit oti this side., was noticed as
joining the Cart, as it has 'ust left the locb, and not far from the
mansion-house of Castlesemple. A considerable part, consequent-
of the noble park and pleasure grounds falls on this side of our
boundary line. The wood, all planted, on that part of the estate
which is in this parish, may at the lowest estimate extend to sixty'
acres.
Of the forest trees planted in different quarters of this parish,,
the principal are the
     Larch, Pinus larix
     iPlane'.'Acer pseudo-platanus'
     Ash, Fraxinus excelsior
     Iaburnum, Cytisus laburnuin
     ikeeh, Fagus sylvatica
Scotch fir, Pinus sylvdstris
Oak quercus robur
El" Ulmus campestris
Horse-cbestnut. Esculus hippocastanum
Birch, Betula Saba.
No trees are at present pointed out as remarkable for their extra-
ordinary age or size.
               IL-CIVIL     HISTORY.
               in former times, part of the parish of
      beloidcred to the Abbe of Paislev, The house of'
RAbarcha
     toun sorne:two miles distant from the Abbey, and on the left


