
                     KILMARTIN.                        555

larch, silver fir, elm, poplar, beech, plane, lime, and holly.	The
whole is in a very thriving state.
	              II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  The early history of this parish, like that of many of our High-
land districts, is derived in a great measure from fragments of
legendary tales, and a few scattered documents, more or less re-
lating to the parish, which tend to illustrate the ancient character
and condition of the people.  The old  proprietors of the parish
were the Campbells of Duntroon, the Campbells of Rassly, the
Campbells of Kilmartin, the Malcolms of Poltalloch, the Mac-
lachans of Craiginterave, the Campbells of Eleanree, the Camp-
bells of Ormaig, the Campbells of Auchanellan, the Campbells
of Barbreck, and the Campbells of Inverliver.  With three excep-
tions, (Malcolm of Poltalloch Maclachlan of Craiginterave, and
Campbell of Auchanellan,) all these properties have passed from
their original owners,-and very few of their descendants are now
to be found in the land of their fathers.
   Bishop Carswell, one of the superintendent bishops appointed
after the Reformation from Popery, and whose name is associated
with the well-known controversy regarding the authenticity of the
poems of Ossian, resided at Carnassary Castle, (now in ruins,) which
stands on an eminence at the head of the valley of Kilmartin, an-
ciently called Strathmore. *  It is said that he was a native of
Argyleshire, aud educated at the College of St Andrews about
the year 1548; that he first obtained a presentation to the Bi-
shoprick of the Western Isles, and the Abbacy of Icolmkill, and
that he was afterwards translated to the Bishoprick of Argyle, com-
prehending Kintyre, Argyle proper, and Lorn, when he esta-
blished his residence at Carnassary Castle.  He is reputed to have
been a man of great piety and learning; which, together with his
wealth and official power, has made his name familiar throughout
the Western Highlands.
   When the Highland Society of London were engaged in the
controversy regarding the authenticity of the poems of Ossian,
they sent their librarian, Mr Donald McIntosh, to the Western
Highlands in quest of evidence to disprove the assertions of Dr
Johnson, Mr Hume, Mr Laing, Mr Pinkerton, &c. Mr McIn-
tosh found in the Island of Arran a religious Gaelic book, pub-
lisbed by Bishop Carswell in 1560, dedicated to the Earl of Ar-
gyle.  In his dedicatory letter in Gaelic, he introduces the names.

<FOOTNOTE>See Kennedy's Tracts, on the Reformation, &c.


