
                       DURISDEER.                            325

quarrel nor trouble the said William Douglas, son to the said um-
quhill Earl, in his possession of the lands and barony of Drumlan-
rig. There is also a charter or letter of confirmation, dated Croy-
don, the last day of November 1412, written by King James the
First, under his seal or signet, confirming to Sir William Douglas
of Drumlanrig, Knight, all the lands he was possessed and charter-
ed of. The privy-council of Scotland confirmed this charter in
favour of William Earl of Queensberry and his heirs, by their
act, dated at Edinburgh the 2d day of February 1639. The
first of this family who arrived at the degree of nobhlity or peer-
age was William, the eldest son of Sir James Douglas of Drum-
lanrig, Knight. Upon the 20th of July 1603, he married Lady
Isobel, daughter of Mark Lord Newbattle, by whom he had three
sons and a daughter.
	This William, upon a commission from the Chancery in the year
1615, was served heir to three of his predecessors, who were knights,
Sir James Douglas his father, Sir William his grandfather, and
Sir James his great-grandfather. By a patent, dated lst April
1628, he was created Viscount of Drumlanrig, and Lord Douglas
of Hawick and Tibbers. And by another patent, 13th June 1633,
he was created Earl of Queensberry, Viscount of Drumlanrig,
Lord Douglas of Hawick and Tibbers. And by a charter under
the Great Seal of Scotland, dated 7th July 1636, in the twelth year
of King Charles the First, in favour of William Earl of Queens-
berry in liferent, and James Lord Drumlanrig, his son and his heirs
in fee, of the earldom and estates of Queensberry, the same are
of new erected into one whole and free earldom, lordship, barony,
regality, &c. to be called then and in all time thereafter the Earl-
dom of Queensberry and Lordship of Drumlanrig.
	James, the Second Earl of Queensberry, upon the 3d June
1630, married Lady Mary Hamilton, who, shortly after, died with-
out issue. He was married again on the 26th March 1635, to
Lady Margaret Stuart, daughter of John the great Earl of Tra-
quair, by whom he had two sons and five daughters. William,
the third Earl of Queensberry, upon the 8th of October 1657,
married Lady Isobel Douglas, daughter of William Marquis of
Douglas, by whom he had three sons and a daughter.
	By a patent, dated the 11th of February 1682, he was created
Marquis of Queensberry, Earl of Drumlanrig and Sanquhar, Vis-
count of Nith, Torthorwald, and Ross, Lord Douglas of Kinmount,
Middlebie, and Dornock; and by another patent, 3d November


