
136                       BERWICKSHIRE.

crown, this estate was purchased by an ancestor of the prese(UNREADABLE)
proprietor. Since that time it has undergone successive improv(UNREADABLE)
ments and embellishments, by large plantations and otherwise
more congenial with peaceful times, and all of them done wi(UNREADABLE)
much judgment and taste. The castle or mansion-house, stand-
ing on a beautiful acclivity, near the great London road, with i(UNREADABLE)
fine grounds full in view, is the first object of attraction and admi-
ration in Scotland, to all strangers passing to the north. But ala(UNREADABLE)
for the vicissitude of human affairs! Although neither turmoil n(UNREADABLE)
feuds disturb the peaceful habitations of this once agitated district
a devouring conflagration has within these few weeks, and in the
short period of as many hours, reduced that delightful mansio(UNREADABLE)
to a heap of ruins. Providentially, the whole family, assemble
from different quarters, as if to witness the sad catastrophe, and t(UNREADABLE)
render mutual aid, although scarcely in time warned of their da(UNREADABLE)
ger, and some of them in the greatest jeopardy, escaped  unhur(UNREADABLE)
They must remove for a season. May they soon return to retrieve
the damage, and to enliven the scene, which is now desolate in the
extreme.
   Prenderguest and Whiterity.-The next place in this parish respect
ing which there are any historical fragments is Prenderguest. In
the reign of David I., the half of this estate belonged to Swain, pries(UNREADABLE)
of the ancient parish of Fishwick, on the banks of the Tweed; and
there is a document extant whereby this individual renounced hi(UNREADABLE)
claim to it in favour of the monks of Coldingliam. Many of the Cold
ingham charters are witnessed by members of an Anglo-Norman fa(UNREADABLE)
mily, who once possessed Prenderguest, and seem to have imparte(UNREADABLE)
their name to the land. From the records of Lindisfern monastery, we
learn that, in 1326, William de Prenderguest, possessing somewhat
of the qualifications of a border reiver, rendered himself notorious
by plundering the brew house and bakehouse of that religious esta-
blishment,-this being the only instance on record of its having suf-
fered skaith at the hands of a freebooter. About the middle of the
fifteenth century it passed to the Homes. The mansion-house of
Prenderguest is an excellent modem building. It has been occu-
pied by the present tenant for about thirty years. The farm-house
was taken down many years ago, and has never been rebuilt.-The
same is the case with the mansion and farm-house of Whiterig, an
adjoining property of rather smaller extent than the former. The
latter is now in the possession of a gentleman who lately repre-
sented the city of Edinburgh in Parliament.
   Peelwalls and Bastleridge.-During the fifteenth and sixteenth


