
                           GIGHA AND CARA.                         397

high hills in it to attract the clouds, while those of Islay and Jura,
on the one hand, and of Kintyre on the other, attract the clouds
to themselves, and conduct them past this low-lying parish, which
suffers less from a wet than from a very dry season.  The in-
habitants are very healthy, and seldom need medicine or medical
aid.  There is no medical man in the parish.  The ailments of
the people generally arise from exposure to wet or cold on sea or
land.  Pectoral and rheumatic complaints are not unfrequent
with elderly people.   Fevers are rare.
   Hydrography.-The strait between Gigha and Kintyre is three
and a-half miles in breadth.  Between the two shores, a pretty
strong current runs, especially at, and a day or two after, the new
and full moon.   The average rise of the tide is about four feet.
It seldom rises above six feet.  The stream is an eddy that
strikes off from the great and more rapid stream which runs between
the Mull of Kintyre and the Sound of Jura.  The sea
about Gigha is very clear and pure, free from mud or fresh water.
The island is abundantly supplied with perennial springs of fresh
water, issuing from hornblende rocks, chlorite, and mica slate.
   Geology and Mineralogy.- The rocks in the parish are all pri-
mitive, except a few basaltic dikes which are found to traverse the
other strata in general at right angles.  The direction of the
strata is north-east and south-west, and the dip to the west at an
angle varying from twenty to forty degrees.  The varieties of slate
seen in Gigha are, mica slate, felspar slate, chlorite slate, and
hornblende slate or rock.  The strata of these, though regular in
direction, observe no uniform relation to one another, each being
found several times repeated, after its place has been taken up by
another rock.
   From the regular direction and dip of the strata, and the great
extent of outcrop exposed to view, the geologist has here an op-
portunity, rarely afforded him elsewhere, of tracing the sequence
and alteration of these strata.   But although each of these is several
times repeated, it may be observed that the mica-slate and
felspar slate are almost wholly on the east side of the island, while
the veins of quartz and hornblende are distributed nearly equally
through the whole parish.
   These rocks exhibit different characters, which impart peculiar
features to different parts of the island.  The mica-slate and felspar-
slate, being friable and easily affected by the ordinary decom-
posing agents, have been washed down so as to form various fruitful


