                              CARNWATH               81

fourteen fathoms below the main coal are strata of blaes, va-
rying in thickness from fourteen to twenty feet, while on the top 
of these lies the great freestone rock, from which have been taken 
all the stones for furnace hearths, and for building both works and 
village.  A few feet under this rock are several strata of ironstone 
about three or four inches thick, which, when stript of the blaes, 
are to be seen lying in the form of parallelograms and squares, and 
which, though in close contact with each other, do not adhere ; 
and, though of different sizes, present the appearance of a regular 
laid pavement.  In the lowest part of the blaes are several strata of 
ironstone, all wrought together in one mine.  The uppermost of 
these, seldom exceeding three inches thick, is called the "spotted 
stone," from its being mixed with small shells of a yellowish colour.
Next is the ball stone, which do not always lie in close, or even
continued succession, are sometimes large and sometimes small,
and have sometimes gone out altogether, but are generally, in this
case, succeeded by a close stratum of spotted stone.  Two feet
below this, there is a thin stratum, called from its colour the black
band ; and two feet, or little more, below it, lie the great bands.
This is the strongest of them all, being six or seven inches thick,
lying also in the form of pavement.  In some of the hitches or
leaps of this stratum pieces of lead have been found. Ten or
twelve fathoms below this, is a stratum of excellent light or candle
coal, which, in the old company's time, was wrought to some ex-
tent.  It varies in thickness, being on the north-east border of the
field, near the boundary of the county, not above sixteen inches,
while on the south-east, at Tashy-burn, it is two feet thick.
   The Climpy field of coal lies on the west side of the Wilson-
town,--the crop of the one nearly approaching the other.  It is
undoubtedly of great extent.  Its general bearing is the same as
Wilsontown,--stretching to the south-west into the lands of Bir-
nie-hall and Abbey, in the parish of Carstairs ; and to the north
into the lands of Muldren, in the parish of West Calder.  There
can be little doubt but the Wilsontown, Cleugh, and Climpy fields
of minerals are only successive continuations of the same strata ;
and it may be worthy of remark here, that the same strata make
their appearance a great way to the east.  On the farm of Mosshat-
burn-foot, they are to be seen cropping out, apparently stretching
away towards the lands of Wester and Easter Mosshat.  At Moss-
hat-burn-foot, indeed, the Wilsontown company wrought a consi-
derable quantity of the same kind of stone, with the spotted stone
at Wilsontown ; it is not unlikely that the limestone formerly
   LANARK                         F
