
     Statistical Account

repair by the county.  In the western part of the parish,
on the road to Dundee, over Eden, which divides St An-
drew's from Leuchars, is a fifth, called Gair, or Guardbridge,
built at the private expense of a Bishop Wardlaw (he
died in 1444), who established a family of the name of
Wan as hereditary keepers of the bridge, for which they
have a perpetual fee of about 10 acres of land adjoining to
it.  This bridge has fix arches, is no wider than necessary
for one carriage, and is covered with causeway-stones and
some flags.  A cross the bridge was wont to be stretched an
iron chain, which was opened only for chaises; carts, etc.
were obliged to pass under the bridge; and as the sea
flows far above  this part of Eden, these carriages were
obliged to wait the reflux of the tide, which caused so great
interruption to the businels of the country, that many years
ago the chain was removed.  This bridge is maintained by
the county.  By the recent act the turnpike road from St
Andrew's to Cupar, as well as to Dundee, is by this bridge;
the bar is on the Leuchars fide, at the west end of the
bridge, where these two roads separate; there is no bar on
this line of road farther east than this bridge.-In the neigh-
bourhood of St Andrew's, land is rented as high as L.3
the acre, or four bolls of bear, which sometimes exceeds
L. 3.  No farms in the country have as yet exeeded L. 2,
10 s. the acre.  L. i, or L. x, 5 s. may perhaps be the pre-
sent average of farm-land.  Rents, however, are advancing
very fast; even to fix times the fun at which the lands
were let 38 years ago.  Among about 60 farms, we have
them of all sizes, from 20 acres to 300.  The number of
tenants is on the decrease; the number of enclosures on the
increase, though in general the parish is uneclosed.-The
people of this parish are by no means noted for frequenting
taverns or alehouses:  Drunkenness is no part of their cha-
racteristic:  The numer of drinking clubs decreases every


