
     Statistical Account

   The fishings upon the Kinfauns estate alone, extending
between 2 and 3 miles along the N. side of the river
only, and which are almost entirely in this parish, did
not, in 1740, bring 100 L. yearly of free rent.  In 1763
they rose to 1000 L.; in 1782 to 1400 L.; and they are
now (November 1793) let in a new lease for 2560 L.
Besides these, there are other fishings within the parish,
to the amount of 450 L., making altogether upwards of
3000 L. annually.  There are from 70 to 80 men, and
about 40 boats, employed on these fishings.  The sal-
mon are carried to market fresh, pickled, and salted.
Very few, of late years, have been salted; a good many
are kitted or pickled; but by far greatest quantity
is run up fresh, in ice, to london, where they are now
often eaten almost as fresh as on the banks of the Tay.
The plan of preserving the fish in ice was first suggested
by George Dempster, Esq. of Dunnichen, the late pub-
lic-spirited member for the neighbouring district of
boroughs, and has been attended with the greatest suc-
cess*.

<FOOTNOTE>

were let along with the contiguous farms, and were of very little value
either to the proprietors or tacksmen.  They did not then begin to fish
till the feed-time was finished; and, by consequence, the most valuable
part of the season was entirely lost; whilst scarcely any other market
was known besides home consumption, which did not then bring 1 d. the
pound.  Since that period, the bed of the river has been cleared of all
obstructions to the nets, and the fishings have been disjoined from the
farms; circumstances which rendered them an interesting concern, and
worthy of attention.  A demand from the Catholic States, along with
the Mediterranean, for salted fish, was one mean of raising their price.
This was followed by a brisk trade from the London market, which has
greatly increased the value of the fish to the tacksmen, and of the rents
to the proprietors.
*The price of salmon, in spring, is sometimes 1 s. sometimes 9 d.
the lb.; in June 6 d.; and in July and August 5 d.  About 25 or 30
years ago, it fold for 1 d.,  and often for 1 d. the lb.  The close-season
in the Tay is from August 26. to the 11th of December.


