
              		   MORVERN.                        183

given: She is supposed to have perished on board of the Florida,
one of the ill-fated Armada blown up in the bay of Tobermory in
the reign of Queen Elizabeth.  But the historical and authentic ac-
count of this event proved unsatisfactory to an imaginative people,
and it has accordingly been blended with tales of fiction and ro-
mance.  According to these, the lady in question, a princess, as
sbe is designated, had seen in her midnight dreams a person of
great elegance, for whom she had formed a strong and-devoted at-
tachment.  Having long sought for the reality of this visionary
personage, but in vain, she at length resolved to fit out an expedi-
tion, and to extend her search beyond the boundaries of Spain.
In the course of her interesting excursion, she arrived at Tober-
mory, on board of the unlucky Florida.  Here she saw for the
first time Lachlan M'Lean of Duart, recognized him as the ob-
ject of her search, and avowed for him her cherished attachments.
This avowal, however complimentary to M'Lean, was not, as way
be supposed, equally agreeable to his lady, who, in order to se-
cure the affections and fidelity of her husband, caused the Florida
to be blown up.  The princess was among the sufferers, and her
remains were conveyed to Kiel-Colum-Kill, and deposited in the
stone-coffin in question, which is still pointed out, in connection
with other legends of too detailed a character to be here inserted.
   Along the sea coasts of the parish, there are the remains of se-
veral small forts or strongholds, no doubt of importance in the
days of Danish invasion.  On a small island in Loch Tearnate, the
ruins of a stronghold also appear.  There are several Druidical
circles.  There are also tumuli; from these urns have occasionally
been dug, which, from a mistaken idea of their containing trea-
sure, have been generally destroyed before coming into the pos--
session of those capable of appreciating their value. Carn-na-
Caillicb, the huge turmulus already referred to, still remains entire.
It is composed of loose stones, piled upon each other to a very
considerable height, and measures 81 yards in circumference.
   At Loch Teagus, on an insulated and wooded eminence there
are the remains of a vitrified fort involved in all the perplexing,
mysteries which render these objects so interesting.
   The most conspicuous objects of antiquity are the old castles;
but it is somewhat strange, that the early history of these once
important buildings should be involved in very great obscurity.
It is perhaps difficult to fix upon the precise era in which these
buildings were erected.  The probability is, that they were origi-


