
MONIMAIL.                                39

Fife." This gravel is composed of fragments of many different
rocks; and the soil above it is light and thin.
Botany.-The greater part of the land having been under culti-
vation from time immemorial, anti the rest affording good pasture
for cattle and sheep, there is no secluded corner to afford a ha-;
bitat for any of the rarer indigenous plants. The yellow aco-
nite grows in great abundance in the shrubberies at Melville, and
the Geranium lucidum on the old walls round Moniniail. The va-
rious kinds of grasses and vetches are especially abundant. In the
soils formed from the decomposition of the whinstone, we find Poa
arvensis, P. trivialis, Festuca duriuscula, Cynosurus cristatus, Phleum,
pratense, and Holcus avenaceus most commonly occurring; on the
soils lying above sand or gravel, the Festuca ovina, and Agrostis
communes are most frequently found ; while the Holcus lanatus
and Dadylis glomerata are everywhere abundant. All the diffe-
rent kinds of trees commonly planted seem to thrive; some of tile
oaks in particular have been noted for an unusually rapid growth.
Zoology.-Owing to the sheltered situation of the parish, and
the number of plantations, there is a superabundance of the fea-
thered tribes. Occasionally, some of the rarer species have been
met with. Among others may be mentioned, the 139hemian and
silken chatterers, the grossbeak, the siskin, the kingfisher, and
the passenger pigeon,-the last being the only specimen hitherto
discovered in Britain. A few foxes and roe-deer are found in the
plantations, but none of the rarer quadrupeds have been observed.
The jealousy of the gamekeeper has destroyed almost all the birds
and beasts of prey (not excepting the cat) ; wood-pigeons, rabbits,
rats, and other vermin, are in consequence nuineous and'very de-
structive. The rivulets supply a few trouts and eels. The only
shellfish is the fresh water muscle.
II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Eminent Men.- Of eminent men connected with the parish we may
mention, Sir David Lindsay of the Mount, whose family for many
years retained that property. Several individuals belonging to the
noble family of Melville have also received an Honourable place in
the history of their country. Melville of Raith, (ancestor of the'
present Earls of Leven and Melville,) was one of the first who
embraced the Reformed religion. His sons, James and Andrew
Melville, were distinguished for their diplomatic, talent in the times
of James and Mary. George, the first -Earl of Melville, had the
honour, as His Majesty's Commissioner to the General Assembly,


