
          156                        PERTHSHIRE.

          has so long and successfully laboured.  And besides his profes-
          sional duties, which have been uniformly discharged with great
          fidelity and talent, he has rendered invaluable services to the com-
          munity in the management of several benevolent institutions.
          The advantages of the savingr-bank in this place are chiefly ow-
          ing to his business talent, and gratuitous labours.  The existence,
          and happy effects of the friendly society, as it is now constituted,
          have the same origin; and much of the comfort of the poor is
          to be traced to the jindness and accuracy with which he conducts
          their pecuniary affairs under the direction of the heritors and kirk-
          session.  The salary paid to the schoolmaster is the maximum,
          and the amount of school-fees actually received may vary from
          L. 25 to L. 30 per annum.  The rate of fees is 2s., 2s. 6d. and
          3s. per quarter, for the ordinary branches of education, and 5s.
          for Latin, book-keeping, practical mathematics, &c. &c.  The
          number of scholars attending the parochial school varies from 120
          to 150.
             There is an unendowed school in the village of Almondbank,
          numerously attended, there being from 70 to 90 scholars who re-
          ceive instruction in this place.  The right of nominating the teacher
          to this school belongs to Robert Smythe, Esq. of Methven, who
          along with some other benevolent individuals, contributes an-
          nually a few pounds for the education of poor children in that dis-
          trict.
             There is also in the village of Methven a school supported en-
          tirely by the Secession congregation of this place, and, so far as we
          know, this school is well attended and well taught, so that the
          means of education are abundantly supplied in this parish.
             Literature.-A library was established here in the year 1790,
          and now consists of more than 1100 volumes.  It contains many
          standard works in divinity, science, and general literature.  It is
          supported by the annual contribution of its members, the number
          of whom at present is 130.  The members meet quarterly for con-
          ducting the general business of the society.  It is governed by a pre-
          sident and committee of management, who are annually elected.
          The institution is in a prosperous condition, and eminently fitted
          to promote the dissemination of general knowledge.
             Friendly Society.-A Friendly Society was instituted here in the
          year 1790, but, from the imperfect knowledge, or rather the perfect
          ignorance which then, and for many years afterwards, prevailed re-
          garding the equitable principles upon which institutions of this
                                          4


