
                                     BOHARM.                             355

        of Rathven and Deskford: and the extensive forests belonging to
        the Earl of Seafield afford, at all times, abundance of fire-wood.

        <FOOTNOTE> The writer begs to acknowledge his obligations to the fol-
        lowing gentlemen, for the valuable aid afforded him by them in the
        compilation of the foregoing statistics, viz.  John Wilson, Esq.
        Tochieneal ; James Christie, Esq.  Solicitor, Banff; and Mr James
        Young, Session-clerk of Cullen.

          May 1842.


                       PARISH OF BOHARM.

                PRESBYTERY OF ABERLOUR, SYNOD OF MORAY.

               THE REV. L. W. FORBES, A. M., MINISTER.


                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
          IN very early times, there seems to have been a parish of Arn-
        dilly, then called Artendol, the church of which stood on the emi-
        nence which is now the site of the mansion-house of Arndilly on
        the banks of the Spey, in the south-west corner of the present pa-
        rish. Vestiges of such ecclesiastical occupation of this lovely spot
        remained till within the memory of man, the ruins of the church
        being cleared away to make room for part of the offices of the
        mansion-house, and an equivalent being then given for the glebe,
        which now forms part of the lawn.
          In the chartulary of Moray, as quoted by Shaw in his History
        of the Province, there is a deed recorded, which must be of date
        about A. D. 1215, by which William, the son of William, the son
        of Freskyn de Moravia, of a family very distinguished at that time,
        and possessed of large domains in this district, granted to the ca-
        thedral church of Moray " the church of Artendol, with all its
        pertinents, excepting the corn tithes of the two Davochs, which
        lay next to his Castle of Bucharin, viz.  Bucharin and Achelna-.
        thorck, which tithes, by the consent of Brice, Bishop of Morax,
        were assigned to the granter's chapel of his Castle of Bucharin for
        the support of a chaplain."   If by " Achelnatbork" we are to un-


