
     of Little Dunkeld.

   The natural woods, which make no trisling part of the wealth
of the parish, consist mostly of oak; and grow in smaller and
larger clumps along the banks of the Tay, all except one wood
in the east end of Strathbran.  The grounds that produce
them, are for the most part of very poor quality, so steep as to
be inaccessible to the plough, and incapable of cultivation.
These woods are treated in the way of coppice, being com-
monly sold to wood cutters, and felled when from 20 to 25
years old.` Where the oak grows thick and unmixed with
other wood, it sells at the rate of from L. 25: to L. 40, and
has sold lately so high as L. 54 per acre.  Where it grows
thin, or interspersed with birch, the acre is not of near so
much value.  But a crop, 24 yards old, of all the oak coppice
in the parish would fetch at least L. 10,000 sterling.  It occu-
pies about 800 acres of ground.  The proprietors are improv-
ing their oak woods by inclosing them with stone walls, and
filling up the vacant spaces with planted oak.  The extirpation
of the birch and other baser wood, would also be a great im-
provement.  The birch woods of which there are near 200
acres, and treated also as coppice, are not worth, at 22 years
old, above L. 2: per acre.
   The plantations will soon become a more important object
than the natural woods.  Within 25 years past the Duke of
Atholl has planted 1000 acres in this parish, upon the
heights round little Dunkeld and Invar, not only with Scotch
fir, but with a great proportion (probably more than one half)

<FOOTNOTE>

the presence of iron.  In Strathbran, near the king's high-way, there is to be
met with a pretty remarkable kind of clay.  When wet, it feels perfectly
smooth and unctuous; when dry, it acquires a remarkable degree of indura-
tion; and when pounded, the powder affects the touch like the finest wheat
flour.  This argillaccous substance may be fit for some of the finest works
of the potter.  But very unfortunately for this parish, there has not been yet
discovered a single particle of lime stone or fossil marle within its whole
compass.


