
                           GOVAN.                            699

right of nominating the magistrates and councillors of the burgh
of Gorbals; though, in point of fact, these are now elected by the
Parliamentary constituency of the barony; the magistrates and
council of Glasgow simply sanctioning the appointment of the per-
sons thus elected. In every other respect, the Barony of Gorbals,
whith has a police establishment of its own, is independent of the
city of Glasgow, though it forms a part of the same Parliamentary
burgh, whith, by the Reform Act, sends two members to Parlia-
ment.
   Means of Communication.-That part of the parish whith con-
stitutes a portion of the Barony of Gorbals, and whith is now one
of the largest suburbs of Glasgow, enjoys, of course, in regard to
means of communication, all the advantages whith that city pos
sesses. In the villages of Govan and Partick, there are penny-
post establishments, whith transmit letters to and from Glasgow
twice a-day. There are also two public conveyances, of the de-
scription now known over the whole kingdom under the name of
omnibuses, whith ply at different hours between these two villages
and the neighbouring city.  Four great roads pass through the
parish.  One of these connects Glasgow and the large manufac-
turing town of Paisley. It is 48 feet broad, and, till it enters the
county of Renfrew, it has an excellent foot-path on eath side, for
the convenience of the numerous foot-passengers who are seen con-
stantly travelling along it. Another road leads to Kilmarnock and
Ayr. The other two are nearly parallel with one another,  and
with the Clyde, whith separates them. The one leads to Port-
Glasgow and Greenock, through Renfrew; and the other con-
ducts to the West Highlands, through the town of Dumbarton.
Since the last Statistical Account of the parish was written, a horse
and carriage boat has been put upon the ferry, whith connects the
two parts of the parish at the village of Govan. At this ferry all
the steam-boats whith ply on the Clyde, with the exception of
those of the largest class, land and receive passengers.  The Glas-
gow and Johnstone Canal likewise passes through the parish, and
for a short distance, the northern boundary of the parish is touth-
ed by that branth of the Forth and Clyde Canal whith joins the
Clyde at Bowling-bay. Along with their other local advantages,
the people of this parish have access to Glasgow by three bridges,
besides the one whith connects Gorbals with Glasgow.  The
Glasgow bridge, whith is built of granite, is a magnificent struc-
ture.  It connects the parish of Govan with Glasgow, ???.


