
                          STIRLING.                             435

1195 sittings, that, in the West to about 1144; in all 2339; the
free sittings in both to only 80, most of them in the West Church
and inconveniently situated.  The minister of the first charge alone
has right to a glebe and manse. Since the old manse, already
mentioned, was taken down, there has been none. In lieu of it,
L. 40 per annum is allowed him for house rent.  His grebe ex-
tends' to nearly five acres.  His stipend is as follows:--From
teinds of lands principally in the parish of Stirling, and partly
in that of St Ninians, the teinds of which belonged to the Ab-
bey of Cambuskenneth, wheat, 4 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks; barley,
96 bolls, 3 pecks, 2 lippies; oatmeal, 68 bolls; oats, 40 bolls,
2 firlots, 1 peck, 21/2 lippies; beans, 4 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 peck;
money, including vicarage, L. 40, Os. 6d.; allowance for commu-
nion elements, payable by the heritors of the parish, L. 9, 18s.
10d.; allowance of the price of two beeves, averaging about L. 17;
and a right to a boat's fishing in the river, at present rented, by
the town for L. 70.
   The minister of the second charge has a stipend of L. 250, and
the minister of the third charge a stipend of L. 200.
   The sacrament of the Lord's Supper being dispensed twice an-
nually in each of the two churches, in addition to the allowance
for communion elements given to the minister of the first charge,
three other allowances of L. 8, 6s. 8d. each, are given for the same
purpose, which fall to the other two ministers; and as, at present,
the minister of the second charge presides in the celebration of
the ordinance, and provides the communion elements once, and
the minister of the third charge twice; these allowances are dis-
tributed accordingly.
   The following is a notice of the ministers of Stirling from the
earliest period after the Reformation up to which the can be as-
certained, with such particulars of their history as may with pro-
priety be introduced in a Statistical Account, in so far as I have
been able to trace them.
   The first individual who appears to have occupied any ministe-
rial office in the parish of Stirling, was Thomas Duncanson,
Reader, who was, for uncleanness, suspended by the General As-
sembly, December 31, 1563.  I have found no subsequent notice
of him.
   John Duncanson, chaplain to the King, is mentioned in the re-
cords of the General Assembly, August 6, 1571, as one of the
ministers commissioned to treat with the Regent about ecclesiasti-


