
                           LOGIERAIT.                       701

     Savings' Bank.-At Aberfeldy there is a Savings' bank.  It
was instituted in 1833.  There is but a small portion of this pa-
rish which has the privilege of depositing, by which nearly L.200
have been deposited and about L.70 withdrawn.
     Inns and Ale-houses.- There are two inns and seven ale-houses;
of the latter description certainly by far too many.  The Feill-
ma-choit, (Sacred festival of St Machutus?) was once a very'con-
siderable market; and there is a small cattle-market at Pitoacree
in spring.
     Fuel.-Fuel is scarce and expensive. It consists of oak-cut-
tings, at about 5s. ; peat, at 3s. ; coal from Perth, at about L.1,
5s. a cart, including carriage.
     There are eight meal-mills, two flax, two saw-mills, and one
for the manufacture of potato-starch.

                       GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.
     The march of learning, and, in some respects, of real im-
provement, since the last Statistical Account was published, is
very noticeable Then, linen yarn was the staple article of ex-
port and manufacture, bringing into the parish yearly nearly
L-3000 Sterling. Now, there is no reason to suppose that a
single stone of lint is in any shape exported from the parish,
Then, the philabeg and tartan hose were commonly worn.
Now, this dress is almost never' seen. Many of the young
women," says the former statist, " had printed cotton gowns
and duffle cloaks." Now, silks and cloth pelisses are, I sus-
pect, as common as those luxuries of dress then were. Seve-
ral of the farmers and handicraftsmen had then clocks in their
houses and many of the young men wore watches. Now, the
rarity would be to find a house without a clock and a young
man without a watch.  Then, there wer 3000 arable acres in
the parish; now, the number is 5000.  Then, the rents amounted
to less than L.3000; now, these amount to about upward of
1-8000, exclusive of Land in the hands of proprietors. Then,
the fields, whether in crop or in pasture, were generally open;
now, there is hardly an arable  field that is  not inclosed. Then,
the people were praised for their aversion to litigations: now, no
dispute can be adjusted out of the legal courts. But why pursue
the parallel? Since the result of such Comparisons is ever the
same, indicating a regular progression  in physical and economical
amelicration,  with ,the drawback of a too certain retrogression
from blessings of contentment and simplicity.
November 1842.


