
984                        PERTHSHIRE.

conferred on the rector of the Royal School of Dunkeld. The bishop
died l6th January 1436, and was honourably buried under a stone
monument within the walls of the chapel. See Monuments.

	27. George Brown, Rector of Tynngnham was consecrated at Rome in 1484, by
Pope Sixtus IV. He was rigid in enforcing church discipline. He divided his dio-
cese into four deaneries,--one for Atholl and Breadalbane, another for Angus, the
third for Fife, and the fourth for their church lands south of the Forth. He appoint-
ed Gaelic preachers for the Highlanders who were unacquainted with the English
language. He erected the parishes of Capath and Dowally, which formerly were
part of Little Dunkeld, and erected churches in the two former. Mill says, that this
bishop latterly suffered great bodily distress. Previous to his death, he entered a
solemn protest, to the effect, that, being then of sound mind and firm in the faith, if
he should "afterwards, through bodily weakness, be tempted by the Devil, or by the
arguments of designing men," and turn from the faith, be should not be judged of,
by what be then did.--Brown died 1514.
	Andrew Stewart, brother to the Earl of Atholl, a prebend of Craig, and not in full
orders, got himself, through his brother's influence, postulated bishop, but Pope
Leo X, opposed his admission.--Mill. He was afterwards made Bishop of Caith-
ness.--Keith.
	28. Gavin Douglas, uncle to the then Earl of Angus, was, through the Queen's
solicitation, his uncle's wife, preferred by the Pope. Andrew Stewart, however, pre-
vented Gavin being consecrated till 1516. This bishop holds an eminent place in
the literary history of his age. He was a profound classical scholar, a well informed
antiquarian, and an elegant poet. He wrote, Auteae Narrationes, Comediae aliquot
Sacrae; et De Rebus Scoticis; but none of these works have descended to our times,
His Palace of Honour, and his translation of the AEneid of Virgil, however, still re-
main, and present very honourable monuments of both the correctness of his taste,
and the vigour of his imagination.  Living in dark and turbulent times, he enjoyed not
the felicity of indulging his genius in security and repose. He was involved in the
agitations and hazzards of those commotions with which the disputes of the Queen
Mother and the Duke of Albany, and of Arran and Angus, embroiled the kingdom.
To avoid these, he retired to England, when he became the intimate acquaintance of
Polydore Virgil. Douglas died in London, 1522, and was buried in the Hospital
Church of Savoy.
	29. Robert Cockburn. In 1524, this bishop, with the Earl of Cassilis and Dean
Mill, went as Ambassadors from James V. to Henry VIII, of England, to negociate
a truce between the two kirgdoms. They were successful in the embassy. Foe. t.
xiv. p. 27,
	30. George Crichton. "A man," says Spottiswood, Hist. of Cb, of Scot. p. 101,
"nobly, disposed, and a great house-keeper; but in matters of his calling not very
skilled." He died in 1543.--Keith.
	31. John Hamilton, Abbot of Paisley, and brother to the Earl of Arian, was elect-
ed, but by intrigue not confirmed till 1546. He was translated to St Andrews in
1549.
	32. Robert Crichton, nephew to the former Bishop George Crichton, was pro-
moted to this see, in which he remained till the Reformation. He was one of the
commissioners for divorcing Earl Bothwell from Lady Jane Gray, to enabled Both-
well to marry Mary Queen of Scots. On the necessity of this marriage, see Tytler's
Dissert, published 1792, in the Transactions of Antiquarian Society of Scotland, Vol. i.

	The Bishops of Dunkeld from the period nf the Reformation to the Revolution
                               in 1688.
	1. James Paton was appointed to the see by James VI., in 1571, the see having
been declared void through a process of for faulture against Robert Crichton, who
was then alive. In 1572, an Assembly of the church was held at Leith, where it was
agreed to retain the order of bishops in the new ecclesiastical constitution. This
agreement was ratified as an interim regulation at a future Assembly, which met soon
after at Perth.--Spottiswood's Hist. oF the Ch. Of Scot., p. 260, 261. In 1575, he
was present in the General Assembly, Ibid. p. 276; and was deposed or surrendered
the bishoprick to avoid a charge of simony. He previously dilapidated the benefice--
Catal, of Bish. p. 179.
	2. Peter Rollock. In 1396, he was created an extraordinary Lord of Semios, and
being afterwards removed, in order to reduce the number of extraordinary Lords so


