
     of Kirkoswald.

The stipend of this parish is in money 33 L. 5 s. 2 d. Sterling;
for communion elements 3 L. 6 s 8 d Sterling; in meal 43
bolls 1 firlot; and in bear 20 bolls and 3 firlots: There is also
a glebe consisting of 1 acre 3 roods of natural meadow, and
4 acres of arable ground, exclusive of the site of the manse,
the offices, and the garden.  The decreet of locality and mo-
dification for the above stipends, was given in the year 1650.
About two years ago, a decreet of augmentation was obtain-
ed for 25 l. Sterling additional stipend.  It is uncertain
when the old church of Kirkoswald was built.  It seems to
have undergone many alterations.  It stands in a very low
situation, surrounded by a very large burying place, which
is walled in.  In 1777 a new church was built upon a rising
ground, a very little to the south of the former, fit to held 800
hearers, from a plan, and under the direction, of David Earl
of Cassillis, who is resident proprietor of above two-thirds
of the parish; and it is considered as one of the neatest
churches in this country.  This church is 68 feet by 3 L
within the walls, having a gallery in each end, and an aisle,
with a fire rooms finished at the expence of the Earl of Cas-
sillis, and which he is obliged to keep up.  The present
manse was built in the year 1770, upon a plan by Thomas
Earl of Cassillis, and is a very neat and convenient house.
There were never any seceders in this parish till the year
1790, when one family came from Beith, of the burgher per-
suasion.

<FOOTNOTE>

Mr CUPPLES, his immediate predecessor, was ordained in 1720,
of whom this particular circumstance is recorded, that he was
the first minister in Scotland, who, according to the act of As-
sembly, gave in his letter of acceptance to the presbytery, with
the Crown presentation.  His predecessor, Mr ADAM, who was
the first minister after the re-establishment of presbytery, was
ordained in 1694.  The last Episcopal minister, Mr Claud Ha-
milton was appointed here in 1670, and retired to Maybole in
1691.


