
                KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN.                     41

destitute of springs, in consequence of which, during the summer
drought, the inhabitants are very ill supplied with water. Such
as can afford it, are under the necessity of digging wells and erect-
ing forcing-pumps at a considerable expense. A well of this de-
scription was dug by the present incumbent, about four years ago,
behind the manse, to the depth of thirty feet; and it is remarkable
that the water issuing through a red species of rock has the
smell and much of the taste of the celebrated Strathpeffer mi-
neral. Strong springs, and of excellent quality, abound in the
south side of the parish. The only stream of fresh water is
what is called the Burn of Resolis,-which, issuing from a small
lake, at Kinbeachie, at the western extremity of the parish, runs
throughout its whole length, drives two or three mills in its
course, and, after receiving four small tributary streams, falls into
the Frith at the village of Gordon's mills. There are no mineral
springs of any note in the parish.
   Geology, Mineralogy.-The prevailing rock in this parish is
sandstone or freestone. Geologists refer it, in greater part, to the
old red sandstone formation. The soil, with but few exceptions,
is poor and unproductive. A black light loam covers a hard till
on a substratum of clay. The till itself is a composition of clay
and gravel, and the inveterate foe of vegetable life. In trench-
ing, it is necessary either not to reach the till at all, or to go
at least a foot and a-half beyond it, in order to break it up altoge-
ther, and place the substratum of clay on the surface. In many
places, the till is so far below the surface, or so very thick, that this
is impracticable; and in any case the expense is so great, that it has
never been attempted. The effect is, that in spring, which is usu-
ally rainy, the soil is so wet as entirely to prevent early sowing,-
whilst the summer drought hardens it almost to the consistency of
rock; and the growth and grain are miserable. On the west and
north-west side of the parish, and close by the shore, the soil forms
an exception to this almost general character of it. It is there
kindlier, and of a sharper and better quality. The banefod
till is absent; the bottom is chiefly freestone. The soil, how-
ever, is so light after all, that sowing must commence before the
moisture of the spring rains be exhausted by the too near approach
of summer drought and warmth. Lime answers well, provided the
surface be properly drained,-which, owing to the inequalities of
the ground in the greater part of the parish, is attended with con
siderable difficulty and expense. Simple mineral are either


