
	                    MAYBOLE.                           371

the generality of our farmers will have as much weight of beef, at
a much less amount of expense, at the end of the year, from the
feeding of the Ayrshire cattle, which seem in every respect best
fitted to the nature and powers of the soil.
	The sheep fed in the parish, which are comparatively few in
number, are chiefly of the black-faced and Cheviot breeds, although,
on some of the best farms, the Leicester breed have also been in-
troduced.
	Manufactures.--There are no manufacturing establishments of any
consequence in the parish; but, as has invariably happened on the
west coast, the influences of Glasgow and the proximity of Ireland,
have drawn to the town and every little hamlet a great population
of hand-loom weavers. These are all employed by the manufac-
turers of Glasgow through the medium of a class of middle-men,
called agents, and who, from the improvidence of the weavers, who
are mostly Irish, and their practice of keeping shops and paying
them in kind, are generally very prosperous. This system is in
many respects calculated to depress the condition of the operative.
He applies for goods to the agent, and gets into debt. He must
then purchase at the agent's own price, and is generally in pover-
ty. Yet, on the other hand, the extreme improvidence of the Irish
renders them little capable of being entrusted with money; their
wages might all be expended on whisky; and when the agents do
not in any part pay them in it, a practice that cannot be too se-
verely reprobated, the plan of giving articles of food and clothing
instead of cash, is perhaps conducive to the welfare of their fami-
lies. The transaction is, indeed, an infringement of the law of
the land, and on this account some of the agents pay their weavers
in money, but the truck system is easily followed by a shopkeeper
without any direct violation of the statute for its prevention. It is
very common for women to weave. Boys are put at an early age to
the loom, and the hours of working are, more especially in thmes
of depression, very long. I have known the weaver to labour, with
little intermission, fourteen and sixteen hours a-day, and after all
earn but the miserable pittance of 6s. or 7s. per week, a sum bare-
ly adequate to support his family in the meanest way; but at pre-
sent a most favourable change has occurred, and every one, even
with moderate exertion, may command all the comforts of life. It
is, however, melancholy to observe how very often men frustrate
by their vices the kindness of Providence. With prosperity, habits
of idleness and drinking, which had been checked, have returned,


