
                            BLAIRGOWRIE.                931

after;) and on the Wednesday before Falkirk Tryst. A market
for cattle and grain is also held every fortnight, on Wednesdays,
during the winter and spring, which is much frequented by the
farmers and graziers of the district.
   The number of licensed inns and alehouses in the parish is 36,
the whole of which are in the town, with the exception of two.
   Fuel.--The fuel generally used in the town and the lower part
of the parish is coal and wood; and, in the upper district, peats.
The coal is procured from Dundee and Perth, and costs, includ-
ing carriage, from 1s. 2d. to 1s. 4d. per cwt., or, if sold by the
ton, from L. 1, 3s. to L. 1, 6s. The wood used for firewood
is furnished by the thinnings of the fir and larch plantations
in the parish, the branches lopped off the hardwood trees, and
the oak copse when periodically cut for the bark. The peat
is obtained principally from the great moss of Cochrage already
mentioned, but it is not much used in the lower division of the
parish, except for kindling the fires. It cost about 3s. the cart-
load.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   The changes that have taken place within the parish since the
publication of the former Statistical Account are numerous and very
remarkable. The population has been nearly doubled; trade and
manufactures have grown up and flourished in an unprecedented
manner; agriculture has been extended, and brought to great
perfection; and a vast and beneficial alteration has taken place on
the social condition of all classes of the community.  The charac-
ter, manners, and habits of the people, have likewise undergone
an important and striking change, in some respects, for the better,
but in many, it is feared, for the worse. It appears that, while
the population of the rural districts has decre`sed, that of the vil-
lage has augmented in more than a corresponding ratio. About
forty years ago, Blairgowrie was a quiet and insignificant village
of mean and thatched houses, collected in the vicinity of the pa-
rish church and the seat of the proprietor of the barony. It is
now a large manufacturing and market-town, containing good
streets, filled with all the bustle of an active and industrious po-
pulation.
   In the rural districts the change is not less remarkable. There
is now, properly speaking, no peasantry, the whole class coming
under that denomination having been swept away by the breaking
up of the cottar system throughout the parish, and the prevalence


