
             786                          PERTHSHIRE.

             which name it is said to have retained till the time of the Danish
             invasions, when, in a battle fought between the Danes and the
             Caledonians, at the head of the country, a chief, named. Ard-
             fhuil, high, noble blood, was killed, whose grave is shown at this
             day. From him the country got the name of Srath Ard-fhuil,
             Strathardle.
                Hills, Lochs, &c.-A hill at the head of Glenshee, called
             Beinn-Ghulbhuinn, is distinguished by having been the scene, of
             a hunting which proved fatal to Diarmid, one of the Fingalian
             heroes. Here are shown the den of the wild boar that was hunted,
             a spring called Tobar nam Fiann, the fountain of the Fingalians;
             a small lake, called Loch an Tuirc, the boar's loch; also Diar-
             mid's grave, where he was buried by his comrades. The highest
             hill in the country is Mount Blair, which divides this parish from
             Glenisla. The only lochs of note are, Loch Sheshernich, and
             Loch nan ean, situated pretty high among the hills. These abound
             in excellent trout. There are one or two medicinal springs, which
             are believed to be of an antiscorbutic quality.
                Climate, Soil, Crop.-The country being more elevated than
             Athole on the one hand, and Marr on the other, and being in ge-
             neral open and unsheltered, the climate is colder than in either of
             these districts, and more exposed to the severity of a cold or stormy
             season.
                The soil on the banks of the Ardle is thin and dry, having a
             sandy. bottom, and yields in general light crops. In the higher
             grounds it is wet and spongy, unfriendly to vegetation, except in
             dry warm seasons, when it yields a pretty good crop. The same
             description applies to the soil of Glenshee, and of the Black-water
             district.
                                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
                Antiquities and Curiosities.-In the middle of a pretty exten-
             sive and elevated heathy moor, stands a large heap of stones or
             cairn, 90 yards in circumference, and about 25 feet in height,
             which are described particularly in the old Account. There can
             be litte doubt that all time are relics of Druidism.
                About a mile north-east from the above-mentioned great cairn,
             on a flat-topped eminence, surrounded at some distance with rocky
             hills of considerable height, and steep ascent, stands one of those
             rocking-stones which the Druids, are said to have employed as a
             kind of ordeal for detecting guilt in doubtful cases. This stone
             is places on the plain surface of a rock level with the grounds. Its


