
760                           FIFESHIRE.

   Revenue.-The funds of this burgh have long been managed
with great economy.  The honour of correcting abuses in this de-
partment of the town-council's administration was not reserved for
the operation of the Municipal Reform Act.  The debt of the
town is Dow nearly liquidated,-a state of affairs found in few Scot-
tish burghs, and this is at once a practical testimony of the judi-
cious management of the public functionaries, and of the town's pro-
sperity.  At the Revolution, the town had a debt of 60,000 merks,
or L.3333 Sterling.  It seems never to have been liquidated.  In
1791, it was L.2430; in 1832, L.7649.  At the balance in Oc-
tober last, it was only L.775, 6s. 2d.  The income of the town, in
1788, was L.284, 1Is. 1Id.  The revenue last year was L.2312,
1s. 6d.  The town has no landed property.  The commonties,
consisting of 487 acres, at one time belonged to the town; but
these lands were all feued out in 1723 and 1750.  Their full
value at the time seems to have been obtained for them; and the
grassum paid for them, as well as the price of redeeming the feu-
duty, appears to have been laid out in repairing the harbour, for
the " pier met with a disaster be and through the late violent
storme, that it is dung through and through."  This was one of
the council's reasons for disposing of their lands, and the invest-
ment of the price in the harbour is perhaps better for the town
than if the lands had still been retained.  The revenue of the
burgle arises from shore-dues, feti-duties, petty customs, the mar-
ket-place, warehouses, &c.
   Means of Communication.-The town has a post-office, and the
letters are, delivered twice a-day.  Daily coaches either start from
the town, or pass through it, to Aberdeen, Dundee, Perth, St
Andrews, and Glasgow.  A steam-boat constantly plies the ferry
between Newbaven and Kirkcaldy.  During the summer, it makes
eight passages, affording four opportunities of crossing from each
side; during the winter months, there are only six passages.  A
railway is, at present, projected from Lochgelly colliery to the
town and harbour of Kirkcaldy, a distance of eight miles; and no-
tices have been served of application being to be made to the first
session of Parliament for a bill giving power to the shareholders
to carry this railway through.
   The collector of exise for Fife and Kinross has his office in,
Kirkcaldy.  The revenue realized from the excise-duties within
the bounds of this collection amounted last year to L.167,420.
in 1819, it was L.95,700.  This increase is chiefly owing to the

<FOOTNOTE> From a Return to the House of Commons in 1789.


