
   176                        BANFFSHIRE.

     Education, &c.-There are five schools in the parish. The pa-
   rocbial is the Only school which has any endowment, with the ex-
   ception of one taught by a female, who receives L. 2 a year from
   Lady Abercromby of Forglen. English reading, grammar, writ-
   ing, mathematics, geography, Latin, and occasionally Greek and
   French, are taught in the parochial school. In other two schools
   conducted by male teachers, the branches taught are reading,
   writing, arithmetic, and grammar. In the two schools conducted
   by females, sewing and knitting are taught along with the elements
   of English reading. Tbe number at present attending the paro-
   cbial school is 63. The annual amount of fees varies from L. 8
   to L.20 according to the circumstances of the parents. The pre-
   sent scale of fees is much too high for the labouring-classes.  A
   farm-servant, whose yearly income does not exceed L. 10, cannot
   afford to pay annually L. 3 for the education of five or six chil-
   dren. A gradation of fees might be introduced all over the coun-
   try, with considerable adyantage. The numbers attending each
   of the other two male teachers, vary from 30 to 40; the scale of
   fees is much the same as that of the parochial teacher; and the
   amount received by each is about L.12 or L.13 per annum. The
   number attending each of the female teachers seldom exceeds 12
   or 15, and the fees, varying from 1s. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per quarter,
   may amount annually to about L.5 to each. The salary of the
   parochial teacher is L. 30, with a contingent interest in the Dick
   Bequest. He has also the legal accommodations. Besides the
   above-mentioned schools, a Sabbath school has been taught in the
   parochial school-room, for more than three years, at the season in
   which regular attendance can be obtained. The number of Sab-
   bath scholars has varied from 30 to 65. There seems to be
   scarcely an individual in the parish upwards of fifteen years of age
   who cannot read, and none between six and fifteen, who cannot both
   read and write. The people begin to set a high value on educa-
   tion, and its corresponding effect on moral conduct is percep-
   tible.
     Savings Banks have been established for several years in some
   of the neighbouring parishes, in some of which considerable in-
   vestments have been made by the labouring-classes from Alvah,
   although the writer has been unable to ascertain the amount.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.--In 1764, the average number of
   enrolled poor was 12, and the average yearly allowance to each


