
                        DUNFERMLINE.                            823

imbedded in it, still remains, very properly preserved by the pre-
sent proprietor, James Hunt, Esq., and which must be now nearly
800 years old. Around the base of this little hill, there winds a
rivulet, named the Back-burn or Tour (Tower) burn; and from
the sides and summit of the hill, as well as through the adjacent
deep and narrow glen, there rises some very stately and aged trees.
The hill or mount is named from the building erected on it, The
Tower-hill, and about a hundred yards southeast of it in the glen,
are the ruins of the ancient Palace of Dunfermline, of which no-
tice will-afterwards be taken. The whole scenery is exceedingly
picturesque and romantic, the admiration of all strangers.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The territorial extent of the parish is
very great, and its figure irregular. Its utmost length from north
to south is about nine miles, and its utmost breadth from east to
west, about six miles. It contains about 19,296 acres imperial,
or 15,300 Scots, exclusive of the space occupied by the town,
villages and great roads. Calculating the average length at eight,
and the average breadth at four and a-half miles, the number of
square miles in the parish will be 36, and of square imperial acres,
23,040.
   Dunfermline is bounded by the parishes of Cleish and Saline
on the north, of Carnock and Torryburn on the west, and of
Beath, Aberdour, Dalgety, and Inverkeithing, on the east. It
has Inverkeithing, also, on the southeast; and the Frith of Forth
on the south-west.
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface presents a great va-
riety of appearances.
   The southern division is fertile and well clothed, and in many
places very beautiful, from the undulating nature of the ground,
and the intermixture of clumps and belts of good plantations;
while the northern is, with some exceptions, naked and bleak, in
aspect. The land has a general ascent from south to north,
which is easy, and not much interrupted by declivities between
the Frith of Forth at the village of Limekilns and the town; but
is more rapid and irregular afterwards. The undulations of the
rising around, on the approach to the town, from the North
Queensferry, are very considerable, causing alternately great
heights and hollows in the road leading to it.
   The northern section of the parish is considerably diversified
by high and low-lying grounds, the swelling ridges becoming
more numerous and elevated, as they spread towards the Cleish

