

                          INVERNESS-SHIRE.

word evidently not Of Celtic origin. It may rob bly hav been
derived from barrow, a beap or mound. Be this as it may, the uses
for which these immense piles were, with Herculean labour, put
together, are now unfortunately unknown ; and, in the absence of
all authentic record and tradition, conjecture, at best uncertain,
is all that can be substituted. Some, from their formation,
suppose them to have been Druidical circles or Temples' Some,
that they were towers forming places of defence and protection
at a very early. period, against the incursions of enemies while
they likewise served the purpose. of beacons to give warning
to the inhabitants of the approach of danger. This conjec-
ture is in soine degree supported by the circumstance, that above
Roudh in Harris, and also in Barra, there are similar constructions.,
but of less magnitude, and all so uninterruptedly in a line, that a
beacon-fire lighted in any of them would be seen by all. It is,
however, more probable that they were the tumuli of eminent war-
riors.
  Modenn Buildings.-Other remarkable buildings in this parish
are the Danish forts or castles. They are generally built of a
circular form, in the middle of fresh water lakes of no great depth,
and accessible from the shore. by causeways, some now, and for-
merly most probably all, above the level of the water. Many of
them have outer protecting walls.
  These duns, as they are called, are about twenty in number.
They were occupiedas places of residence by the more powerful
families, after the Danes ceased to infest tiiese parts. One of
them was built in Locbscolpeg, a distance of four miles from the
parish church. Donald Herroch, (so called from his having been
born in Harris,) a descendant of one of the Lords of the Isles, and
bimself a very powerful individual, occupied this dun as his place
of residence.


<FOOTNOTE>The tradition of his tragical end -is confirmed by a great variety of circumsta
ces, Some of his relatives, jealous of his influence and power, and desirous to seize
upon both, along with his property, fell upon the following expedient to compass his
destruction: They employed an accomplice of the folloning expedient to compass his
to put their intention into execution. On an occasion when umny of his relations
and pretended friends went to visit hirn,-after enjoying for some days his hospitali-
ty, they proposed various athletic exercises for pastime. Amongst these, it was sug-w
gested to try who should leap highest, they knowing that Donald Herroch's strength
and agility would carry the palm of victory,  Paul had previously prepared a strong
leatbirn thong, with a running loop or noose,.rigtht over the place where the leap
was to be taken. and at such a height that it might easily be reached.  He was himself
in the next apartment-wbich was divided by a wooden partition from that in which
the company were collected,-holding the end of the thong. Another accomplice-was
employed to give the signal when Donald Herroch leaped; and Paul, at the moment
Donald's head was within the loop, drew the thong with savage determination, and


