
576                        LANARKSHIRE.

sections of the strata, presenting many interesting geological phe-
nomena.
        Zoology.-Roe-deer are still found, though few in number, in
the Gills opening to the Clyde, and especially in the woods of
Milton-Lockhart. Pheasants have increased much of late. The
badger is now extinct, and the otter nearly so. The cross-bill,
after an absence of eleven years, has again paid us a visit, in con-
siderable numbers. (August 1838.)
        Botany.-The Flora of the district is rich, as might be expected,
from the variety of soil and exposure, including sheltered glens,
marshes, open meadows, and moorland. We possess, however,
no rare plants, unless Carduus nutans, musk-thistle ; Epipactis
latifolia, broad-leaved helleborine, found at Mauldslie, and Do-
romcum pardalianches, great leopard's-bane, found in abundance
at Hallcraig, be considered such.

                                II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	The only account of the parish, that we are aware of, is to be
found in Hamilton of Wishaw's manuscript description of the
sheriffdom of Lanark, contained in the Advocates' Library, Edin-
burgh. Scattered notices of Carluke likewise occur in the eccle-
siastical histories, and in some pamphlets and sermons published
in the seventeenth century. From these, as well as from the pa-
rish records, it is sufficiently obvious, that our good people were
imbued with fully their own share of the covenanting spirit, which
distinguished the west of Scotland.
	During the earlier period of the reign of the first Charles, a
manifesto was published at Carluke kirk door, denouncing the
reigning monarch and his posterity, which caused much commo-
tion, and was followed by a strict inquiry. The minister of the
parish, Mr John Weir, appears to have abandoned his charge for
fourteen or fifteen weeks, in order to perform military duty against
Montrose in 1645. The sederunt of session bearing the date of
the 26th November in that year, professes to be "the first ses-
sion after ye minister his returne and ye defait of ye enimies at
Philiphaugh." After his said return, the minister, with his el-
ders, seems to have taken strict account with those accused of
"traffiquing with ye enemies," condemning several to "publict re-
pentance" for so doing. *

<FOOTNOTE>This traffiquing, in most instances, amounted to no more, than merely procuring
a protection from the royal general. Amongst those rebuked is "Helen Allan, who


