
38                        INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the west leads the eye past the white walls of the large and ex-
cellent inn of Drumnadrochit, (which corrupt word signifies "the
height above the bridge,") beyond which a reach of two or three
miles of haugh land (affording room for some of the best farms in
the district, and the site of its most populous hamlets, ) conducts
to a rocky pass or gorge: on turning this we attain the upper
or inland valley of Urquhart, which is almost circular, its centre
being occupied by Loch Meikly, an elegant sheet of water, (about
one mile long, and half a mile broad,) from the edges of which
arise the green and highly improved lawns and cultivated grounds
of Lakefield and Lochletter. Over a heathy ridge beyond these
we reach, two or three miles farther on, the flat of Corrymony,
which is adorned by some very large ash and beech trees, and
where cultivation has been successfully introduced to a consider-
able extent, at a distance of twenty-five miles from the sea, and at
least 800 or 900 feet above it.
   Meteorology and Hydrography.-The parish, from its inland si-
tuation, partakes of a mixed climate, intermediate between the ex-
cessive moisture of the west coast and the cold dry atmosphere of
some of the eastern counties,-the piercing blasts in spring which
proceed from the German Ocean being less severely felt here than
in the low country. The district is hence, on the whole, very heal-,
thy, and some of the inhabitants attain extreme old age.
   The line of junction between the primary and sandstone rocks.
described below is distinguished all round the Parish by unusual-
ly great excavations and undulations of the ground, which being
partially filled with rainwater, have given rise to an almost continu-
ed chain of tarns or small lakes or marshes in the higher districts;
and these being bordered with rushes and belts of the white and
yellow water-lily, form the nestling places of large flocks of wild.
fowl. Of Loch Ness, the south-eastern boundary,of the parish,
no description need be given here, as an account of it more natu-
rally belongs to another parish. At the base of the upper accli-
vity of Mealfaurvonie, which is perpendicular on the north and
south sides, nearly so on the west, and connected by a long taper-
ing ridge with the rest of the mountain on the east, a small circu-
lar lake exists which was once thought to be unfathomable, and
supposed by the credulous neighbours to be united under ground
with Loch Noss, but which has now been found to be compara-
lively shallow. From its western extremity it discharges a small
streamlet called Aultsigh or "the Resting burn" which, tumbling
                           3


