
                                           BOHARM.                            379

            ral expenses for those on the regular roll are allowed at the rate of
            L.1 each. Females of the poorer class advanced in years, or other-
            wise disabled from earning their subsistence, form now unquestion-
            ably the most destitute portion of the rural population, as the rate
            of pay for spinning flax by the hand-wheel, on which such persons
            used formerly to depend, has been reduced by the competition of
            machinery so low, that its remuneration for the most sedulous in-
            dustry is insufficient for the barest subsistence, and thus there is
            little temptation for engaging in the work. For the benefit of
            such females, the reporter some years ago suggested, and still car-
            ries on, a plan which may be here detailed, because not only has
            it been found most beneficial for its object, but its simplicity of
            operation is such that no dread of trouble attending it need pre-
            vent its adoption in other quarters. At the commencement of each
            winter, a small charitable work fund is formed, chiefly by the libe-
            ral donations of Mrs Steuart, Auchlunkart, and a list of some
            fifteen or twenty of the class in question, the most deserving ob-
            jects of a little kindly assistance, is made out. It is intimated to
            these, that if they procure flax for themselves, which they always
            do from some of the country merchants, or in the neighbouring
            towns, and gain the manufacturer's wages for spinning it, they will
            for so many months of the winter be paid an additional sum of 4d.
            for each 8d. so gained, on their application to some one of two or
            three agents of the charity appointed throughout the parish, to
            whom they just produce a certificate from the merchant who has
            received the spun lint back from them, of the amount be has paid
            them in the preceding week or month. This additional payment or
            premium brings up the pay for a week's work to a week's sub-
            sistence, and so supplies the necessary stimulus, so that with very
            little trouble to any body a charity of L.6 is made to enlarge itself
            to L.18, and to carry the happiness and blessings of industry along
            with it.
              Poor's Funds.-The annual average amount of collections paid
            over to the poor's box, is L.22, 1Os.; interest of L.200 lent by the
            kirk treasurer on heritable security, L.8; one-half rent of Bede
            rigs of Dundurcos, 10s. ; average amount of income from other
            sources, penalties, donations, &c. L.12; total, L.43. Besides oc-
            casional donations, the heritors, whenever there is an extraordi-
            nary demand, are never backward to supply contributions in propor-
            tion to their respective valued rents, to prevent encroachment on
            the stock of the kirk-session. There is a general reluctance still


