
                     KINCARDINE.                           415

putting some thin nourishing drink into her mouth, but without
effect, as it always returned by the corners. Sometimes they
thrust a little dough of oatmeal through this gap of the teeth;
which she would retain a few seconds, and then return with some-
thing like a straining to vomit, without a single particle being
swallowed. Nor was the family sensible of anything like swal-
lowing for four years, except the small draught of Braemar water,
and the English pint of common water. In this state she was vi-
sited, in the month of October 1767, by Dr Mackenzie, a physi-
cian at New Tarbat; who communicated, through his brother, the
Right Honourable James Stewart Mickennzie, Lord Privy-Seal of
Scotland, an account of her remarkable case to the Royal So-
ciety, in the Journal of whose Transactions it may be found.
He found her not at all emaciated; her knees were bent, and
the hamstrings so tight that her heels almost touched her but-
tocks. She slept much, and was very quiet, and when awake,
kept constantly whimpering, like a new born weakly infant. She
never could remain a moment on her back, but always fell to one
side or the other; and her chin was put close to her breast, nor
could it by force be moved backwards. In October 1772, five
years after his first visit, the doctor was induced to pay her a se-
cond, by bearing that she was recovering, and had begun to eat
and drink. The account given him was most extraordinary;-
her parents one day returning from their country labour, having
left their daughter Janet fixed to the bed as usual, were greatly
surprised to see her sitting on her hams, on the side of the house
opposite to her bed-place, spinning with her motber's distaff. All
the food she took at that time, was only a little oat or barley cake,
crumbled in the palm of her hand, as if to feed a chicken; she
put little crumbs of this into the gap of her teeth, rolled them
about for some time in her mouth, and then sucked out of the palm
of her hand a small quantity of water, whey, or milk. This was
only once or tvice a-day, and even that by compulsion. She
never attempted to speak; her jaws were fast locked, and her eyes
shut. On opening her eyelids, the balls were found to be turned
up under the edge of the os frontis;  her countenance was ghastly,
and her whole person emaciated. She seemed sensible and trac-
table in everything except taking food. This she did with the ut-
most reluctance, and even cried before she yielded.  The great
change to the worse in her looks, Dr Mackenzie attributed to her
spinning flax on the distaff, which exbausted too much of the sa-


