
178                        BERWICKSHIRE.

Still of late years, there has been a gradual and sensible return to
the Establishment. The average number of church communi-
cants may be reckoned of 200, more or less.
   A branch of the Berwickshire Bible Society was instituted in
1816, under the auspices of the late Thomas Boswall, Esq. of
Blackadder. Its annual contributions average L. 5. A Temper-
ance Society also originated in 1831; it counts thirty members. The
collections in church for religious and charitable purposes have not
exceeded L. 20 during the last seven years; and they were made in
aid ot the Assembly's Highland Schools, the Assembly's India Mis-
sion, ihe Scottish Missionary Society, and the Royal Infirmary of
   Education.-There are two schools in Whitsome, one parochial,
and one unendowed. In both, English, writing, arithmetic, and
practical mathematics are taught; and in the former, the Latin,
Greek, and French languages, with the principles of general know-
ledge, form additional branches. The Scriptures and Shorter Cate-
chism hold a prominent place in the course of Instruction, which
in its character is, the Intellectual system, modified to suit circum-
stances. The salary annexed to the Established school is the
maximum, viz. 2 chalders of oatmeal, valued at L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d. and
the fees amount to L. 26, 10s. The children of poor families are
taught grating. The teacher has all the legal accommodations, the
ground connected with which was presented to the heritors by the
Earl of Weinyss.*  The master of the other school is dependent
solely on the fees, which amount to L. 29, 15s. The expense of
education is, for reading, 3s.; for writing, 4s.; for arithmetic, 5s.;
and for Latin, &c. 8s. 6d. per quarter. Not more than three quar-
ters and a-half in the year can be reckoned on. As the people
are keenly alive to the benefits of education, there is no instance
of any, whether young or old, who are destitute of elementary in-
struction. The more rapid and extensive diffusion of useful know-
ledge, however, might be facilitated, were it not that the humbler
families find it extremely difficult to procure the necessary books;
and the most estimable boon which an enlightened beneficence
could confer, would arise from an addition to the parochial endow-
ments with a special reference to the wants noticed, and with a
security, that those wants should be supplied. Certain it is, that
the most intelligent, well-informed, and religious individuals, are

<FOOTNOTE>blished church has gained an accession of 16. In 1833 the Dissenters amounted to
One-third plus 2 of the parishioners: in 1834, their entire number is one-third minus
31 1/3 of the whole.


