
     Of Girvan.

   Ecclesiastical State, Stipend, Schools, Poor.-The in-
habitants of this parish belong almost wholly to the Esta-
blished Church.  There are not more than 20 Seceders, and
only 2 Roman Catholics.  The King is patron.  By the last
decreet, given in the year 1666, the minister's stipend is fix-
ed at 57 bolls 12 3/4 pecks of meal, paid at the rate of eight
stone and an half the boll; 31 bolls 8 pecks of bear; 1 boll
4 pecks of oats; with 369 L. 4 s 8 d. Scots, of money.  He
has also a manse and glebe, which may be valued at 12 L. or
15 L.-There is one established schoolmaster, who resides in
the town of Girvan.  He has, at an average, about 50 scho-
lars.  Of these, 30 are taught English, at the rate of 2 s. a-
quarter; 16 are taught writing and arithmetic, at the rate of
2 s 6 d. ; and 4 are taught Latin at 3 s.  These wages, and
100 L. Scots of salary, with his emoluments as session-clerk
and precentor, render his place worth about 30 L. a-year.  A
number of private schools are also occasionally kept both in
the town and the distant parts of the parish.-The poor's
funds of this parish are wholly under the management of the
kirk-session.  They arise from the interest of 165 L. of stock,
from voluntary contributions, and from penalties received
from those who subject themselves to the discipline of the
church.  From the accounts for 5 years preceding January
1791, it appears, that the sum of 41 L.  sterling has, at an
average, been annually received; that during the fame pe-
riod, the sum of 38 L. has, at an average, been annually dis-
tributed; and that in these years, the average number of

<FOOTNOTE>

In the town of Girvan, there is a whin-stone of a dark sea-green colour,
oval-shaped, its circumference measuring 2 feet 4 inches, by 2 feet 9 inches.
Concerning this stone, tradition says, that in former times, when a person got
his foot on it, he could not be attached for debt.  From time immemorial, it
has lain behind some houses, which, with their yards, formerly belonged to the
church.


