
                        AUCHTERARDER.                            295

persons, or mode of distribution, it extended itself to all who were
recommended to his compassion, or whom he knew personally to
be in indigent circumstances; with his own hand, be is known to
have distributed in various sums L. 850. Nor was Mr Sheddan's
charity confined to the physical wants of the poor,-he aimed at a
nobler object,-the instruction of the mind, and the salvation of
the soul.  That the education of the poor might not be neglect-
ed, in the year 1811, he erected a school-house, and endowed it
with adjacent land to the value of L. 1000; and that the heathen
as well as his own countrymen might be sharers in his beneficence,
he gave L. 200 to the Foreign and British Bible Society.  Mr
Sheddan died in 1831.
  Education.-There are seven schools in the parish, two of which
are taught by females.  There is a parish school, the teacher of
which has the maximum salary, and the legal accommod`tion.
His class fees amount to about L. 40 per annum; his other
emoluments, though multifarious, are but trifling in amount.
There is the school built by John Sheddan, and endowed with the
interest of L. 1000, on condition of teaching twelve poor children
gratis.  The school in Smithyhaugh vas built by public subscrip-
tion, is under the management of a committee of individuals resi-
dent in the place, and held rent free by the teacher.  The other
schools are all on the private adventure of their respective teachers.
The branches taught are, reading, writing, arithmetic, book-keep-
ing, mathematics, geography, Latin, French, Greek. In those
taught by females, there is also needle-work and music.  The
school fees vary in the different schools; in the parish school, per
quarter, reading, 2s. 6d.; writing, 3s.; arithmetic, geography, and
grammar, 3s. 6d.; mathematics, book-keeping, Latin, and French,
5s.  There are at their education during some part of the year,
587, of whom 307 are boys, and 280 girls; of these, 40 are under
five years of age; 383 are learning writing, arithmetic, or the higher
branches of education.  We do not think there are any above six
years of age who cannot read, and very few grown up who cannot
write.  We would say that the people are generally alive to the
benefits of education.
  We have a mechanics' institute, in which lectures are deliver-
ed to mechanics, during the winter months, on literary, and scien-
tific, and moral subjects; attendance 80; admittance for the season
1s. 6d.
  Friendly Societies.-Friendly societies in this parish are fast


