
                                   ERROL.                             379

	dual subsidence and draining of the water, may partly account for
	the curvilinear form of the ridges, which has been so universally
	and inviolably maintained in the agriculture of the Carse lands,
	and which no one has hitherto attempted to alter, by casting the
	finest and richest of the long cultivated soil which was accumu-
	lated on the crown of the ridges, into an opposite position, without
	ultimately incurring the serious evil of a greatly diminished rate of
	production.
	   The various soils appear to have been transported.  On the
	elevated parts of the parish, the prevailing soil is a black earth, in
	some places of great depth, but in others very shallow.  The sub-
	soil in these elevated situations is generally till or clay, but some-
	times it is gravelly or sandy; the soil, in the one case, being natu-
	rally wet, and in the other dry.  In the low l`nds, the soil is clayey,
	containing, in some situations, a considerable intermixture of sand,
	and being in all greatly modified and improved by long-continued
	cultivation, and the constant addition of decayed vegetable and ani-
	mal productions.
	   The only plants which need be noticed as particularly attached
	to the soil, are the Arundo phragmites, now Phragmites communis,
	or common reed; Scirpus lacustris, or tall bullrush; and the Scir-
	pus triqueter, or triangular club-rush. The first of these is to be
	found in all the moist localities of the Low Carse, and it was many
	years ago regularly planted on the low shores of the Tay, to check
	the encroachments which the tides were then constantly making on
	the banks.
	   Zoology.- This parish contains no particular quadrupeds, but is
	rich in birds.  The following are the rarest species: starling, rose-
	coloured ouzel, snow bunting, lesser redpole, goldfinch, hoopoe,
	kingfisher, turtle dove, quail, and wild swan.  The more ample
	list furnished by H. M. Drummond, Esq. we regret our limited
	space prevents us inserting.  We may here notice, that after
	the long intense heat of the summer 1826, the wheat crops
	were, for four successive years, but especially for the years
	1828, 1829, and, 1830, very grievously injured by the depreda-
	tions of the wheat-fly, myriads nf which deposited their eggs in
	the soft pulpy ears of the grain just before it came into flower,
	and which were no sooner hatched into maggots than they began
	to devour it. During those three years, it has been computed
	that, an average, not less than third or fourth of the wheat
	crop was rendered useless, and that, in the whole district of the


