
     of North Yell and Fetlar.

the oldest records in Norway show, it was called Faedar Oi,
the meaning of which in the Danish language signifies, the
"Green Island;" and from another word or name of a 
place on the eastmost angle of the island, called Funzie,
which signifies the place first found out; so that, Faedar oi
Funzie, signifies the place first discovered in the country*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It has been a matter of dispute who were the first inhabitants of this
country.  It is the general opinion that it was first inhabited by the Nor-
wegians; the writer is of a different sentiment, and believes that the
Picks were the first inhabitants.  His reasons for dissenting from the gene-
ral opinion are as follow:-1ft, We have no account in ancient history,
that the Danes were in possession of this country prior to the year 850.
In said year, Kenneth II. gave the Picks such a total defeat, that they
never by themselves adventured to engage with the Scots in battle there-
after; but were compelled to fly to the northward, as is recorded by Bede
and Bocetius, and ancient historians.  2d, The frith that separates Caith-
nefs from Orkney, is called the Pickland Frith, from a number of the Picks
being drowned in their passaged over to Orkney, in order that they might
escape from the fury of the Caledonians, who had expelled them out of
the fertile plains of Caitheness and Sutherland, at the same time that Ken-
neth had totally overthrown them to the southward.  As the number of the
Picks that landed upon Orkney could not be accommodated in that coun-
try, (for it is plain from Tacitus that it had been inhabited by the Saxons,
from whom the Picts originally derived their origin at least 1000 years
before), they set sail de novo for the next spot of land which was in
their view, which could be no other but the island of Fula; but upon
their near approach to Fula, they were in the greatest pain in nature
what course to take.  Some of them observed the appearance of a great
thickness or mist, lying directly to the N. E. of Fula, and accordingly
steered their course to the spot where the thickest of the fog appeared,
and then, to their very great joy, they espied the top of Fitfield Head,
upon which the one that first espied it, cried with great raptures, Zetland,
i.e. there is yet land, so we shall all of us be safe.  Hence the name of
Shetland took its origin, it being very ordinary with the Saxons to use Z
instead of Y in their language.  And here it may be necessary finally to 
settle a question that has long been matter of dispute among the learned
anent the situation of Thule.  It is plain from Tacitus, that the Roman
fleet conquered Orkney, and made their King Belus, pay them tribute, in
the same manner as the rest of their province did:  This happened in the


