
364                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

Urechdun, This tradition is noticed by the writer of the former
Statistical Account, who adds, that the lady was of the,family of
Cromarty, whose landed property in this country was anciently of
vast extent, and that to the lady referred to, the lands of Ur-
quhart bad been allotted as her dowry. He likewise observes, that
although these lands have long since passed into a different line of
proprietors, yet still many of the inhabitants.of this, and some of
the. heritors of the adjacent parishes, are of the name of Ur-
quhart. These circumstances, taken together, serve, it is conceiv-
ed, to render this account of the origin of the name extremely
probable.
    Perhaps it may not be out of place to observe here, that the same
tradition also bears that the parish of Urquhart, in Inverness-shire,
derives its name, in like manner, from the person who first endow-
ed- it, called Crostan-Urquhart. The designation is, in Gaelic,
"Urachdun mu (ma') Chrostan," Anglie Urquhart, the be-
nefit of, or endowed by, Crostan; the adjunct, ma' Chrostan, being
intended to distinguish it from other parishes of the name of Ur-
quliart, of which there are, at least, two more in the north of Scot-
land.
    Loqgie, the name of the other parish, is a Gaelic word (Lag-
gie, from lag), signifying a hollow, and is descriptive of the situa-
tion of the old church of that parish, the ruins of which are still
to be seen in a pleasant valley on the south bank of the river
Conan; the grounds contiguous to it receding and rising by a
gentle acclivity, while the land s on the opposite side of the water
present a bolder ascent, extending to the foot of the precipitous
Brahan rock. It is called loggie Wester, to distinguish it from
anather parish of the name of Loggie, within the bounds of the
symod.
    Extent and Boundaries.-The length of the parish is about 10
miles, its breadth, 31. The form is a pretty exact rectangle; and
it lies in a Direction nearly south-west and north-east. On the
east, it is boundeci by the parish of Resolis; on the south and
south-west by the parishes of Knockbain and Killearnan; on the
west, by the parish of Urray; on the north, the boundary is form-
ed by the Cromarty Frith and River Conan, which separate it
from the parishes of Kiltearn, Dingwall, Fodderty, and part of
Urray.
    Topographical Appearances.-From the shore and the bank of
the  Conan, the ground rises with a gradual and pretty uniform


