
            148                       PERTHSHIRE.

            minous, considering the extensive period which it embraces, but,
            with the exception above noticed, it seems upon the whole to have
            been regularly kept.
               From this register we learn a fact which has perhaps but few
            parallels in the history of the church, namely, that the present in-
            eumbent is only the fourtlipresbyterian minister in this parish since
            the period of the Reformation.  The first was Mr William Mon-
            crieff, who was ordained here, on the 14th June 1694, and after
            a linistry of fifty-six years, was succeeded on the 12th December
            1750, by Dr James Oswald, who resigned the living in the year
            1783, and died in August 1793.  Upon Dr Oswald's resignation, the
            Rev.  John Dowe, who bad then been eleven years minister of Can-
            nobie, in Dumfries-sbire, was translated to this charge in February
            1784.  He died in November 1823, and was succeeded in August
            following by the Rev.  Thomas Clark, the present inbumbent.
               Antiquities.-We take this article, without alteration, from the
            former Statistical Account written by the late Rev.  John Dowe,
            who was eminently distinguished for extensive and authentic anti-
            quarian research, and whose authority we regard as unquestion-
            able.
             " The first mention found of Methven in history is about the
            year 970, when COLENUS, reputed the 79th King of Scotland, is
            said to have been killed in its neigbbourbood; by Robard, Tbane
            of Methven, whose daughter he had deflowered.  Before 1323
            the lands of Methven belonged to the Mowbrays, whose ancestor,
            Roger Mowbray, a Norman, came to England with William the
            Conqueror.  The first religious establishment here was a pro-
            vostry or collegiate church founded anno 1433, by Walter Stew-
            art Earl of Athol, who amply endowed it with lands and tithes,
            for the salvation of his soul, according to the superstition of those
            times; and who was a principal actor in the horrid murder of King
            James I, his own nephew.  An aisle, which was connected with the
            last church, appears, from a stone built in the wall, to have been
            erected by some of the rnyal family.  On this stone is sculptured
            the Royal Lyon of Scotland, with the crown above, and there are
            some defaced illegible Saxon characters below.  This aisle may
            have been built by Margaret the Queen Dowager, when  she re-
            sided at the.  Castle of Methven.  It is now the burying-place of
            the family of Methven"
            In reference to the Mowbrays above-mentioned, occasion is


