
554                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Means of Communication.-The means of communication are
good.  Strathdon has a daily post.  The turnpike road runs
through it for eighteen miles, and terminates in Corgarff.  There
are also excellent cross roads, most of them made by the heritors
within the last few years, on their different estates.  There are
three stone bridges over the Don.  The old bridge of Pooldhulie
was one of the two on the whole course of the river that withstood
the flood of 1829 uninjured.  Luib-bridge was built by Sir Charles
Forbes in 1832.  There is an iron bridge, with a span of forty feet,
for the turnpike road, over the Nochty, and seven other stone
bridges over different streams in the parish.  public coach runs
to and from Aberdeen on alternate days during the summer.  In
the winter months it does not come farther up than Mossat, twelve
miles distant.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is, upon the whole, perhaps as
conveniently situated as well could be for the lower district of the
parish.  In a widely scattered population, such as this, there must
necessarily be many families at too remote a distance for regular
attendance on public worship at the parish church.  The distance
of the church from the eastern extremity of the parish is seven
miles, and upwards of fifteen from the western ; but the greatest
distance of any dwellidg-bouse from the church is about twelve
miles.  The church was rebuilt in 1757, and thirty years ago was
ceiled and reseated.  The main fault of it is its inadequacy for
the accommodation of the congregation.  It is seated for 504, but
the average number of communicants of the united congregations,
for five years previous to 1838, (and they all communicate at the
parish church), is 860.  The tenants of each beritor possess a
right of sitting in the division of the church assigned them.  All
the sittings are free.
   A missionary minister, on the Royal Bounty, has been stationed
at Corgarff for upwards of 100 years.  A new church, manse, and
offices, which have already been alluded to, were built in 1835,
and cost nearly L.1000.  The missionary receives L. 60 per an-
num, a croft, and right of pasturage, for so many sheep in the
hill.  Every attempt that has been made to obtain the usual grant
for dispensing the sacrament of the Lord's supper at Corgarff,
where the accommodations are now of the most superior descrip-
tion, has hitherto unhappily not been attended with success. *

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, the Royal Bounty Committee have allowed L.3 for
this desirable purpose, and the Lord's Supper was this year (1840) dispensed for
the first time.


