
     of Tillicoultry.

doubtedly much encrease, by their being well supplied with
plenty of excellent water.

   Diseases.-There are no diseases any way peculiar to Til-
licoultry, ^ or that can be said to be prevalent.  Epidemic
diseases, such as fevers, fluxes, the small-pox, the measles,
and the chincough attack us at times, but not more frequent-
ly than they do others.  Rheumatisms are not uncommon,
as the people are much exposed to rain and cold, in follow-
ing their employments in the fields.  ^^Within these 25
years, a great many young persons have died of consump-
tions, but the author is not able, either to ascertain the num-
ber, or point out the causes.  Slow fevers some times are
prevalent.  And people have been known to recover, after
remaining in them 30, or even 40 days.  The ague used to
be frequent, but it is now almost unknown.  This happy
change is perhaps owing to the lands being better drained
than formerly, or to the houses being kept more cleanly,
     VOL. XV. C c

^The last time the plague was in Scotland, it did not reach Tillicoul-
try, though a good many persons died of it at Alva.  One man however ha-
ving died suddenly in the Wester town, the people were afraid to touch the
corpse, or even to enter the house.  It was pulled down, and the small emi-
nence, which this occasioned, was called Botchy Cairn.

^^It is worth mentioning that one WILLIAM HUNTER, a collier, was cured
in the year 1758, of an inveterate rheumatism or gout, by drinking freely of
new ale, full of barm or yest.  The poor man bad been confined to his bed
for a year and a half, having almost entirely lost the use of his limbs.  On
the evening of Handsel Monday, as it is called, (i. e. the first Monday of the
New Year, O. S.) some of his neighbours came to make merry with him.
Though he could not rise, yet he always took his share of the ale, as it passed
round the company, and, in the end, became much intoxicated.  The conse-
quence was, that he had the use of his limbs the next morning, and was able
to walk about.  He lived more than 20 yeats after this; anal never had the
smallest return of his old complaint.


