
620                        FIFESHIRE.

mound called the Chester-Hill, in the middle of which is a fine
well. Two or three years ago, in digging on the side of this
wound a foundation for a house, two skeletons were found in the,
most perfect preservation, at a small distance from each other.
They were inclosed in a kind of coffin, consisting of a large stone
at each end and side." In the church there is the half of a stone
coffin,-the other half is on the Island of May. It is reported to be
the coffin of St Adrian, who bad a monastery on the isle just
mentioned, and is said to have been killed during an incursion of
the Danes. There is no certainty, however, that the tradition is
correct.

                  III.-POPULATION.
     The number of the inhabitants of the parish does not seem to
be so great as it was in ancient times. Like most of the other
towns on the east coast of Fife, the burgh, since the Union, has
fallen greatly into decay, And the population appears also to have
decreased, in consequence of the losses sustained in the civil wars
during the reign of Charles I. The people, in general, were zea-
lous Covenanters; and many of them fell in the battle of Kilsyth.
Besides the disaster in the temporary failures of their fishing, An-
struther shared the fate of its neighbours about the year 1670, by
an inundation of the sea, which destroyed or choked up the har-
hour, washed away the bulwarks, and rendered many of the houses
unsafe to dwell in. An inundation of a similar kind happened
about the end of the seventeenth century when nearly third of
the town seems to have been swept away.  A long street, called
tbe Fore Street, was totally destroyed. Scarce a vestige of it re-
mains. The rock on which the town-house once stood is covered
by the sea every spring tide, when it also washes the street where
the principal houses of the burgh were situated. By these means
the, town has being greatly reduced, atid the baptisms, which about
200 yeara ago, as appears from the session records, were from
twenty to thirty a year, are at present very few in number.  Now,
however the scale seems to have turned; and not from any
outward circumstances, but from the natural tendency of the
population to increase, also but gradual advance in numbers is
taking place.

<TABLE>

    The population in time of first Statistical Account,    -     370
              1811,     -        -        -        -        -     405
              1831,     -        -        -        -        -     430

<FOOTNOTE>Last Statistical Account.
                              4



