
682                    LANARKSHIRE.

of Touars, and with whom Boyd resided for some time, when he
first went to France, declares that he had acquired as great faci,
lity in the use of the Greek And Latin languages, as he had of
his vernacular tongue, and, moreover, along with a pure pronun-
ciation, that he had as perfect a command of French.
   Some notice must likewise be taken of Mr Hugh Binning, who
has been justly characterized * as " an extraordinary instance of
precocious learning and genius."  At the early age of nineteen,
he succeeded as Regent of Philosophy the celebrated James Dal-
rymple, + who was afterwards President of the Court of Session, and
Viscount Stair.  As minister of Govan, he was the successor
of Mr William Wilkie.  His ordination took place on the 8th of
January 1649, when Mr David Dickson, one of the theological
professors in the College of Glasgow, and author of "Therapeu-
tica Sacra," presided. ++  When Cromwell came to Glasgow in

tombe Christiana," which is dedicated " Reverendo Praesuli agnato et amico suo
charissimo D. Andreae Bodio Argatheliae Antistiti dignissimo."  Both of these have
been printed among the "Deliciae Poetarum Scotorum," Tom. i. p. 208. Boyd
also composed a laudatory poem on King James, which may be seen in Adamson's
"Muse's Welcome," and which, as is observed by Mr Chambers, the author of the
"Lives of Illustrious and Distinguished Scotsmen," appears to have been overlooked
by Wodrow.
<FOOTNOTE>Chambers's Lives, Vol. i. p. 208.
          It was the practice at that time, when a regent's office was vacant, to cause a
programme to be placed over the college gate, announcing that the situation was to
be filled up on a certain day, and that it should be given to the individual, who, af-
ter competition, should be pronounced to be dignior et doctior.  Mr James Dal-
rymple who was then a captain in the army, and not more than twenty- two years of
age, was thus induced to present himself as a candidate for the office, and was elected,
after sustaining in buff and scarlet, the military uniform of those days, a public dis-
putation with the other competitors.  (Binning's Life prefixed to his works, p. 5.
Glasgow, 1768, Report of University Commissioners, 1830, p. 221.)  The day of
election was " IV. Id Martii, 1641," (Annales Coll. Glasg.)  In the same year,
the salaries of the regents were raised to 500 merks, " by reason of the dear rate of
all things."  The appointment of Hugh Binning as successor to Dalrymple is dated
"iiij Cal Nov. 1646."  Id.
          Glasgow Presbytery Records.  In the printed life of Binning, it is stated (p.
7,) that before his time, "whoever was principal of the College of Glasgow was also
minister of Govan."  This is a mistake.   Wodrow is likewise wrong when he says,
that, "Mr William Wilky seems to have been the first separate minister Govan."
(Life of Mr David Weemes, Wodrow MSS. Vol. xv. p. 37.) The first minister
of Gowan, who did not at the same time hold the office of Principal of the University,
Was Mr James Sharpe.  In a "Contract about the stipend of Mr Sharpe, minister
of Govan, 1637," it is set forth, that " be an act of ye governors and masters of the
said Universitie and Colledge, maid the twentie	day of December, the year of God
jai vi and twentie-ane, It was appointit, that ye kirk of ye parochin of Govane, qrof
for a lang space the principal of the said Colledge was minister, sould thereafter be
rerved be ane other to be minister, resident at the said kirk;" and further, that, "ac-
cording to the qlk act, the said Mr James Scharpe was admitted minister of Govane."
It is then agreed that in addition to the manse and glebe, the stipend of Mr Sharpe
should be increased to "fyve hundredth merks usuall money of the realme, twentie-four
bollis beir and eight bollis meil, or the price of ye said victuall, according to ye yeirlie feirs
modified be ye Comrs. of Glasgow, togedder with ye whole mailis and duties to be payed
to ye tacksman of ye vicarage of ye small teinds."  (College Papers, MSS.)  When the
office of minister of Govan was disjoined from that of the Principal, the former was


