
330                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

rish for the benefit of the poor, which at present amount to L.400,
laid out at 5 per cent.; and from the church collections, which for
the last seven years average L. 4, 1Is. together with mortecloth
dues and other ;mall sums,-in all amounting to about L.28. The
sum at the disposal of the session for distribution, after deducting
clerk's salary, &c. usually exceeds L.17. The miserable pittance
thus allowed to each in the year, scarcely exceeding the weekly
allowance of an able-bodied pauper in England, is totally inade-
qtiate to the relief of their distress. The greatest misery and want
prevail in consequedee, to an extent that would seem incredible to
those who have not actually witnessed them. It is no uncommon
thing f6r an unmarried female or lonely widow, who has survived
all her friends, to live in a wretched hovel, without fire, bed-clothes,
or food, in the depth of winter. Such a state of things in a country
abounding with all the necessaries and many Of the luxuries of
life, indicates a defect somewhere. One undoubted cause of the
evil may be found in the low wages of labourers, which are barely
sufficient to support a life of drudgery and toil, without enabling
them, though they were so inclined, to make provision for an old
age of misery and want. There is no assessment of the parish by
the session for the relief of the poor; but some provision is abso-
lutely necessary.
   Those who can contribute any thing for their own support, ma-
nifest the greatest reluctance to receive aid from the parish, and
regard it, as highly degrading; but it is to be feared that this
praiseworthy feeling is fast losing ground.  It could scarcely be
expected, indeed, that a spirit of independence could long resist
the effects of absolute want and misery.
                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   It now remains only to mention briefly a few of the more strik-
ing differences betwixt the present state of the parish and that
which existed at the time of the former Statistical Account. Since
1791, when the former Account was written, the face of the parish
has physically undergone a very striking change.  At that period,
the low grounds were divided into-small farms occupied by tenants,
none of whom paid rent to the amount of L.100.  There were
only two, indeed, who reached L.80.  These small farms have now
been thrown together and improved, so as to afford rents of L.300,
L. 500, and even L. 700; and the land, instead of presenting a
few detached spots, occasionally under crop, is now divided into
large and highly cultivated fields.  But it will be unnecessary to


