

830                          PERTHSHIRE.

as well as of the several properties in the possession of the diffe-
rent proprietors.*
   Eminent Characters.-Not a few individuals of eminence have
been born in the parish, or connected with it by residence, among
whom the following may be instanced:
   In the noble family of Kinnaird, which takes its rise so far back
as 1176, Randolp Rufus having obtained a grant of the lands of
Kinnaird fiom Kinf William the Lion; and George Kinnaird
having, been knighted by, Charles II. in 1661, and afterwards
created Lord Kinnaird of Inchture in 1682,-while many of its
scions might be particularised, it would be impossible to pass over
the late Lord Kinnaird, eighth Lord, whose talents were of the
very first order.
  Among the ministers who laboured in the parish in former
times, may be noticed the Rev. George Blaikie, the first Protes-
tant minister subsequent to the Revolution, translated from the pa-
rish of Redgorton by the presbyteries of Dundee and Forfar to
the united parishes of Inchture and Rossie, on a popular call.
As also Randal of Stirling, and his son, the late Dr Davidson
Of Edinburgh.  The former appears from the records, to have
preached in Inchture for a considerable time previous to his,
settlement,-his predecessor, Mr Thomas Rankine translated

<FOOTNOTE>"Gregory (XI.) episcopus, &c., to our beloved sons the prior and chapter of St
Andrews in Scotland, &c.-Seeing your petition, lately presented unto us, contained
that our venerable brother William (de Landel) Bishop of St Andrews, fearing that,
from the violence of the sea beating against the rock on which the church of St Andrews
is situated (a areat part of which rock the continual action of the waves had demo-
lished, so that the foundation and superstructure nf the said church were threatened
with total ruin), and, seeing that the rents and revenues appropriated to the uphold-
ing of the fabric were insufficient, on account of the wars and pestilences in those
parts to protect the rock and sustain the church; and the said bishop being desirous,
as a provision against such danger, to grant the parish church of Inchture, with its
chapel of Kinnaird situated in the diocese of St Andrews, being one of the meansul
churches belonging to him and his predecessors, and which he then peaceably pos-
ssesed with all its rights and pertinents, he accordingly, with the advice and consent
of certain jurists, gave and bestowed the same in perpetuity on the said church of St
Andrews.  But as your petition to us contains that you doubt whether a grant of this
kind may hold good in time coming, and that you may hereafter possibly be molested
in regard to it; therefore, we moved by your prayers, and anxious as far as possible
to provide against this danger, will, and by our apostolical authority permit, that you
retain the aforssaid parish of Inchture, with its chapel and other pertinents, for a
period of twenty years, reckoning from the date of these presents; and that you ap-
ply the same to the upholding of the said church of St Andrews, provided always
that you take care that the said parish church of Hnchture be not thereby defranded
of its dues, and that the cure of its souls be not neglected; but that it be served by
a good and sufficient vicar, who shall recieve an adequate portion of its revenues for                                                                                                                      Read,it
his maintenance.  Therefore let no one infringe this our degree, &c.-Given at
Avignon, 1d. April, the second year of our pontificate."-(A.D. 1372)-Read at
meeting of St Andrews Literary and Phileophical Society, 6th December 1841.


