
                         PAISLEY.                        147

and for three years previous to the commencement of the im-
provements, a steam-boat plied regularly between Paisley and
Greenock, Gourock, Dunoon, and other watering-places on the
western coast.
   When the improvements above-mentioned are completed, it is
expected, that a plan suggested by Dr Boog in the former Statisti-
cal Account, by which the inhabitants of Paisley may reap the full
benefit of the completion of the great canal between Forth and
Clyde, will also be carried into effect.  It is, the formation of a
branch from the great canal to the Clyde, to terminate as nearly
opposite to the mouth of the Cart as the ground will permit; the ad-
vantages of which must be great. *  For this an Act of Parliament
has been lately obtained. The proposed branch will be about three-
fourths of a mile, and it will save the distance of seven or eight
miles to vessels trading between Paisley and the great canal.
   The Levern is a rivulet of considerable breadth and flow, and
is noted for the many cotton-mills, bleacbing-works, and print-
fields, &c. on its banks. In many parts of its course from the
southward, it exhibits scenes of sequestered and even romantic
beauty.  This river is famed, as having given a name to the inha-
bitants of this district of country; for the Levernani, mentioned
in history, seem to have been no other than the men of Levern-
side.  It forms part of the eastern parochial boundary, and falls
into the Cart, at the point of its entrance into this parish.
   The Blach Cart, which rises in Castle Semple loch, may be
noticed as forming the north-western boundary of this parish, and
separating it from the neighbouring parish of Kilbarchan.
   Various streamlets proceed from the braes on the south, and
lose themselves in the larger currents.  Such are the Espedair
and the Alt-Patrick burns.
   Between two and three miles to the eastward of the town of
Paisley, a saline spring rises, called Candren Well; on the pro-
perties and virtues of which, the late Dr Lyall, a native of Paisley,
but long settled in Russia wrote a pamphlet, strongly recommend-
ing the water as an aperient and corrective.  Many of the springs
that rise within the precincts of the town are slightly mineralized,
especially the Seedhill Well, which, in former times, was occa-
sionally used as a tonic.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The geology of this parish is very
simple in its general outline, but very interesting i many of its de-

<FOOTNOTE>See former Stat. Acc. Vol. vii. p. 78.


