
THURSO.                                                        3

that the rivers are not open sooner, as the number of spawning
fish is thus reduced.  The spawning fish return to the sea about
the month of April.  The principal crustacea. found in the bay of
Thurso are lobsters.
II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Sir John Sinclair mentions that there is an account of this pa-,
rish in Macfarlane's Geographical Collection, preserved in the
Advocates'.  Library ; but it is presumed that the account drawn
up by Sir John himself, and contained in his Statistical Account
of Scotland, is the fullest that has -ever been written.
With regard to the ancient history of Thurso, Sir John ob-
serves that the town appears to have been a place of very consi-
derable trade and consequence, many centuries ago; and, in proof
of this, states, that, according to Skene's account of the assize of
David, King of Scotland, the weight of Caithness was ordered to
be observed in buying and Selling over all Scotland; which could
not, he thinks, have been the case, had not Caithness been dis-'
tinguished for the extent of its commercial transactions, of which
Thurso was probably the centre.  It was not, however, till the
year 1633, that Thurso was erected into a free burgh of barony:
The only other events connected with its history, which Sir John
considers worthy of being recorded, are the two following: In the
reign of Charles the First, it was visited by the Earl of Montrose;
and in the spring of 1746, a band of rebels, under Lord MILeod
marched into the county, but returned without doing more than
.obliging the landholders to pay them part of the land-tax, and
were, on their re-turn, attacked and worsted near Dunrobin, Castle.
There is a small'map of the parish prefixed to Sir John Sinclair's
Account.
Eminent Characters.-Of the eminent characters connected
with the parish by birth or residence, the name of Sir John Sm-
clair of Ulbster, author of the former Statistical Acciouht, whose,
patriotic and indefatigable -labours for the welfare and improve-.
ment of his country, and of his native county in particular, are so,
well knOWD, claims special notice, Nor would it be.rigbt to omit
the names of his three daugliters;-Miss Hannah Sinclair,'the
writer of a short but very admirable letter on the Principles of the
Christian Faith; Lady Colquhoun, who has written two or'three,
pious,works of a plain and practical, but veryattractive chiractor-
and Miss Catherine Sinclair, who has already given to the world


