
			NEW MONKLAND.                       243

	Owing to the elevated situation of the country, the weather is,
on the whole, rather cold and wet. For a great part of the year the
winds are from the west and south-west; but in the months of April,
May, and part of June, generally from the east. The severest wea-
ther, with heavy falls of snow, is in general from the north-east.
The common nervous fever, or typhus fever, seems to be the most
prevalent disease. It is very frequently in some part of the parish.
Consumptions, inflammations, and rheumatisms, are also frequent.
	Hydrography.--The large reservoir for supplying the Monkland
Canal, and the Forth and Clyde Canal, which covers about 300
acres of land, is partly in this parish, and partly in the parish of
Shotts. There is a mineral well near Airdrie, which in former
times was much frequented, but is now neglected. The water is
strongly impregnated with iron and sulphur.
	Geology.--This parish, so interesting to the student of geo-
logy, affords ample opportunities for studying the relations of
the two grand series of rocks, the Neptunian and Plutonian.
It is well supplied with whinstone or trap and sandstone. These
are found in various places, and are convenient for building
and making roads, &c. The parish also abounds with coal
and ironstone of the best quality. In many places, different
seams of coal are wrought, such as the ell coal, the pyatshaw, the
humph, the main coal, and the splint. These seams are general-
ly above the black, band of ironstone, and below that there is the
Kiltongue coal, and other seams not yet sufficiently explored. In
some places the seams are thin, not exeeding two or three feet in
thickness; in other places of the parish, as Moffat, Whiteridge, and
Ballochnie, the seams of coal are nine feet thick, of excellent qua-
lity, and very valuable. Smithy coal and blind coal are also wrought
in some parts of the parish. Many of these coals are carrried to
Glasgow by the Monkland Canal, and from thence many are car-
ried to the Highlands, and to Ireland. Many of them are also
carried b the Ballochnie and Kirkintilloch railways to Kirkintil-
loch, and from thence by the Forth and Clyde Canal to Edin-
burgh.
	The ironstone is found partly in balls, and partly in seams; the
seams most common are the muscle band and the black band. The
black band is by far the most valuable, and is generally found about
fourteen fathoms below the splint coal. All the iron-works of
Carron, Clyde, Calder, Gartsherrie, and chapel HalL are partly
supplied with ironstone from this parish.


