
564                         FORFARSHIRE.

north declivity of the hill of Newtyle, which has a very pleasing
appearance.
  Soil.-The soil on the hilly part of the parish is generally of a
light sbarp productive quality, consisting of black earth or clay,
with mixture of sand and gravel on rock, mortar, or clay. On
the north, the soil is of a similar, but, in some places, richer
quality, with subsoil of sand, gravel, clay, and marl.
  Husbandry.-The usual term of a lease is for nineteen xears.
Farming is conducted on the most approved systems. The ave-
rage produce of grain may be between five and six quarters per
acre. Oats and barley are the chief grain crops grown in the pa-
rish. Much attention is paid to the rearing and feeding of cattle
by the farmers, several of whom also buy in sbeep-stock for eat-
ing off winter turnip, and dispose of the sheep, when fatted, in the
ensuing spring. A permanent stock of Southdown sheep is kept
up by the tenant * of the farm of Auchtertyre. The farm-houses
and steadings are generally commodious and suitable. At Auch-
tertyre and Couston, farm-offices have lately been built of the
most substantial kind. There are 13 thrashing-mills in the parish;
7 of these are wrought by horses, 5 by water, and 1 at Auchter-
tyre by steam-engine power. There are five farms above L.200
and under L.700 each of rent; eleven above L.50 and under
L.200; and forty-nine small farms and pendicles varying in rent
from L.3 up towards L.50 a-year. There are two bothies in the
parish.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land, in as far as
can be ascertained, may be stated to be between L.1, 1os. and
L.1, 15s. per acre. Some of the land is rented at L.3 per acre.
We have no data to determine as to the rent of land in pasture.
It may be understood, however, as included in the above average
nf rent per acre. Farmers above a L.50 rent, on the estate of
the principal heritor, under current leases, pay a grain rent accord-
ing to the fiars prices. The rental, of course, of the great bulk
of the parish varies according to the fiars prices.
  Quarries.-There are several quarries in the parish, containing
vast. abundance of excellent freestone, well adapted for building.
The heavy gray slate found in the hills is now but little used as

<FOOTNOTE>Hugh Watson, Esq. Keillor, well-known an an agriculturist, who first intro-
duced the use of bone-manure into this district of country, and is distinguished for
his skill and success in sheep and cattle-stock improvements.

				    3


