
880                      PERTHSHIRE.

The ancient burying-place, however, is at the church of Kinnoull,
where a monument was erected in 1635 to the memory of Sir
George Hay, Lord Chancellor of Scotland, and the first Earl of
Kinnoull, who died in 1634.
   The church stands in need of considerable repair, but might be
easily rendered very comfortable. It is a pretty object, adorned
with abundance of the creeping ivy, and surrounded by sycamores
of exceeding beauty, rendering the burying-ground attached to it
sheltered-and retired, an emblem of the peace and reponse which
reigns in the graves beneath, " where the weary are at rest."
   The foundations of the old church of Dupplin remain within
the small enclosed btirying-ground, situated at a beautiful bend
of the river, while a little above it, on an eminence, stands the
Castle of Dupplin. Until the death of the late incumbent in
1831, the manse and glebe were contigtous to this old church-
yard; but in 1832, upon the induction of the present incumbent,
an excambion of the glebe lands was made, and they are now si-
tuated close to the parish church.
   In 1833, a new manse and offices were built by the Earl of
Kinnoull, from a plan furnished by Mr Burn of Edinburgh, which
is regarded, almost without exception, as the best and most com-
modious manse within the bounds of the presbytery. The new
glebe, including the site of manse and offices With the garden, is
about 14 acres in extent, and may be valued at L.1 10s. per
acre. The stipend is L.92, 17s. in money, 4 bolls, I firlot, 3
lippies of barley, and 9 bolls, 1 firlot, 31 lippies of meal, which,
at the average fiar prices for the last seven years, would be L.12,
3s., making the stipend amount to the value of L.105. An an-
nual grant is made by the Exchequer of L.53, 14s. 8d., which
includes in it an allowance of L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
The Earl of Kinnoull is sole heritor of the parish, and is vice-
patron of the living with the Crown.
  In the " Rotuli Scotioe," preserved in the Tower of London,
and ordered to be printed by George III., mention is made of
one " Adam Parson (curate) of Dippling and vicar or Perth."
This is the earliest ecclesiastic whose name has been met with as
connected with this parish. This document is dated Berwick,
2d September 1296. The name of Sir John Myrton, canon of
the cathedral of Dunkeld, and prebendary of Forgandenny, and
rector of the parish hutch of Dupplin, occurs as witness to a
                             3

