
508                        AYRSHIRE.

of the lairds of Kirkmichael, of 1200 merks Scots; the other by
the Rev. James Gilchrist, in 1710, of 1000 merks Scots. These
two principals have been mortgaged on the estate of Kirkmichael,
and the interest arising therefrom, L. 5, 6s. 8d., is payable to the
kirk-session on demand. Whatever deficiency exists, after these
funds are exhausted, the heritors agree to supply by makhng a
voluntary contribution, according to their respective valuations.
The whole expense of managing the poor may be set down at
L. 97 per annum. This sum, of course, varies with the state of
trade, the price of living, the number of orphans, the health of the
people, &c.
	With the native population, there is yet much (although wearing
out) of that fine old Scottish feeling that scorns a state of depen-
dence, and regards a subsistence from the poor's box as a reproach
to themselves and their kindred. But there are not a few, espe-
cially of the manufacturing class, who have no such high-minded
sentiments, who are neither very anxious to secure a competence
for themselves, nor very moderate in their demands on others.
	Alehouses 10,--a number unwarrantably large, required neither
for the accommodation nor the good morals of the community.
	Mills.--There is a large saw-mill on the Girvan Water, erect-
ed by the enterprise of Mr John M'Lymont in Balsaggart, and its
operations are conducted under the judicious management of Mr
James Dunlop. It has brought wood on the adjoining proper-
ties to a ready market. Attached to this is a bone-mill, which,
from the extended use of this manure, has been no less service-
able to the public at large, than it has been convenient to this
neighbourhood. There is one lint-mill in the parish. The an-
nual quantity of flax dressdd is 200 stones. There are likewise
four corn-mills in the parish.
	Fuel.--Peat is used as fuel only in one farm in the parish. The
distance of the nearest coal-pit is five miles, where a ton of coals
or 20 cwt. costs 4s.; and the price of a cart of coals of five creels,
or 12 cwt. laid down at Kirkmichael, tolls and cartage, is 4s. 7 1/2d.

	October 1838.


