
     Statistical Account

quality, and fit for every purpose, particularly whitening and
bleaching cloth.  There are, accordingly, several bleachfields
richly covered in the bleaching season with white linen cloth,
to a great value, thread, stockings, cotton, etc.  Upon this
water (which rises in the parish of Achindore, 8 miles S. of
Huntly, and is increased by the water of Kirkney and Ness-
Bogie, with some small burns), there are several mills for
grinding corn, barley, malt, and other grain, well occupied
from the adjacent fruitful fields.  One of there, called the
Mill of Huntly, is in this parish, and is supplied with water
from the Bogie.-The river Doveron takes its source in the
Cabracb, 12 miles above Huntly; a little below it meets
with a river called the Black-water, and is increased by some
small burns, till it becomes very full and rapid at the Kirk of
Glass.  Over the river Doveron there is a bridge of 1 arch,
very ancient, but very strong, built upon a rock; and each
stone of the arch, as far as the river in a flood may be suppos-
ed to reach, is strongly bound together with iron.  Standing
upon the bridge, one has a most agreeable view, whether he
looks downward to the spot where the rivers join, called the
Invers, or up the river, gliding through spacious and fruitful
fields on each side.  It leads also to Huntly Lodge through a
broad avenue, gently ascending to the House, shaded with
trees of various kinds*.  The Doveron would be often im-

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

* It may not be improper to observe, that, though, for time immemorial, the
Water has kept its present course, there is ground to think it has not always done
so; but that its ancient course had been by a long range of bank, now called
the Medo Braes, and terminating at a place called the Kiln Barns, probably
from its having been the place where the out-houses, stables, barns, etc. of that
noble family stood, when they resided at the castle, and which have since been
detached to a proper distance from it.  The old foundations are still to be seen.
This long curved bank is now inclosed by a ditch and strong hedge, correspond-

</UNREADABLE>


