
312                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

are subject to a disease that causes the hair to fall from their tail.
In that state, they are sometimes found dead. The weasel is com.
mon in hedge-banks and stone walls--a great destroyer of mice
and other vermin. A white variety exists in the neighbourbood
of Auchenbowie. The foumart occasionally makes its appear-
ance in the poultry-yard, and often commits great ravages among
domestic fowls. The otter is found on the banks of rivers and
lakes. Among the many safe retreats of that animal, few will
match with the following: The water which comes from the old
coal-workings of Bannockburn and Auebenbowie joins the river
Bannock, a little below the village of Bannockburn. Up this
river the otter has found its way, and when it has reached the ex-
cavations it is safe. Its footsteps are seen on the sand banks that
are thrown up by the water. Attempts have been made to de-
stroy them, but they always'escape. When danger approaches,
they retire into one of the many intricate windings of the place,
and are secure from farther molestations.
   The squirrel is common in the woods; but it is not always
content with hazel-nuts, beech-mast, and fir-cones ; -it fre-
quently attempts to climb over garden walls, and is sometimes
successful. It carries away the fruit for its young. A young man
at West Plean, one summer day, after he had eaten his dinner,
lay down under a tree. He had not remained long in that state
when he felt something stirring about him.  When he got up
a squirrel ran from him towards a tree. When it got be-
hind a branch it peeped over it in a playful mood, seeming to en-
joy the joke. It was probably the few crumbs of bread that re-
mained in his pocket, that induced this lively animal to approach
so near him.
   The water vole, or water rat, is found about the banks of
rivers and ditches, and lives chiefly on the roots of water plants. Dr
Fleming, in his Natural History of British Animals, says," It is
probable that this species becomes torpid in the cold months." It
has been found, however, to be very active in winter. A gentle-
man belonging to the parish had his crop of celery destroyed one
winter by these animals. In the months of December and Janu-
ary, the crops began to look sickly. When it was examined to
ascertain the cause, a tunnel was found to run along the centre of
the ridge. The moles were blamed for the mischief. A mole
trap was set in the passage; but, instead of moles being caught,
three of the water voles were captured.


