
164                 STIRLINGSHIRE.


at Eaglesham. He was frequently assisted, in his latter days, by
Mr William Bow, a probationer in the neiglibourhood. In Sep-
tember 1789, Robert Rennie, D. D., a native of the parish, was
ordained and, admitted minister. He died on the 10th of July
1820. The present incumbent (ordained by the Presbytery of
Brechin as minister of Dun, on the 4th December 1800,) was ad-
mitted here on the 19th, April 1821.
  The Crown has been patron since the forfeiture in 1716; and
the settlements have always been harmonious.
  Eldership.--The parish has long been divided into sixteen
parts, over each of which an elder, who is at the same time dea-
con. Most of the elders are attentive to the spiritual as
well as the temporal affairs of their district or quarter, and are of-
ten found praying with the afflicted.
  Schools.--There are three parochial schools, one in the town;
another at Chapel-green, in the West Barony; the third at Ban-
ton, in the east. The teacher in the town, considered as proper,!.
ly the parochial schoolmaster, has a salary of L. 30, and acts as
session-clerk. The East Barony teacher has L. 12, 6s. 3d.; the
west L. 9. This last, commonly called Chapel-green school, has
the benefit of a mortification by Mr John Patrick, (a Native), mer-
chant in London, whose legacy of L. 60, placed under the ma-
nagement of the session and Presbytery, in the year 1723, having
been invested in land, now yields L. 22 per adnum to the teacher,
who is bound to teach poor scholars in the barony. * Few, how-
ever, come under that description. There is also a good house
and school-room, built by the liberality of the late Sir Charles Ed-
monstone, Bart. of Dontreath, and some others. Sabbath-schools
have been established for a quarter of a century, and have been
highly useful. One great deduction from their efficiency, doubt-
less, is their not being on the local system; the consequence of
which is, that many of those children who stand rxiost in need of
being instructed, are not found in attendance. Of late, several
pious individuals are using tbeir endeavours to collect neglected
children round their own doors, and give them instructions along
with their own children, in numbers from eight to twelve each.

<FOOTNOTE>In 1745, this sum of L. 60, with part of the money belonging to the session,
which had been lent to the Laird of Gartshore at five per cent. was laid out on the
small mealen of Culmuir, being part of the said Gartshore lands; and in the year
1823, a century after the mortification, Culmuir was sold to the present proprietor
of said lands, the part belonging to the school having increased in value to L.550,
which at present yields L.22 per annum. As to the portion appertaining to the ses-
sion, it was soon spent for the good of the poor parishioners.


