
     of Inveresk.

mortcloths at funerals, which were part of the sunds at the 
disposal of the heritors.  The schoolmaster has a salary of
L. 28 per annum, and a good house and garden.  The
town-council and principal inhabitants have lately en- 
abled their last incumbent, who in his younger years had 
a flourishing school, to retire on a pension; and Mr John
Taylor, from Kelso, has been appointed in his room, with
to much approbation of the public, that his house is alrea- 
dy filled with boarders.  This town is considered as in so
healthy a situation, and is so convenient for education, (ha-
ving the advantage of easily procuring the best masters 
from Edinburgh, for the French and Italian languages, 
mufic, drawing, and other accomplishments), that of late 
years boarding schools for young ladies have met with 
great encouragement.  At present there are two of much
eminence, of which Miss Grant and Miss Primrose are go-
vernesses; besides a third at a lower board, by Miss Neil-
son, who merits and meets with encouragement.  There are
several very good writing masters in the place; and Mr Tho-
mas Salmon, teacher of dancing, has been established here 
for more than 30 years, and continues to teach with increa-
sing reputation.  While the masters and mistresses of those
schools preserve their reputation for ability, diligence, and 
tender care of the children, and continue to admit boarders
and scholars at a reasonable rate, the additional advantages of 
situation cannot fail to procure them full employment.  By
means of the bounty of the Duchess of Buccleugh, and 
the contributions of some pious and charitable ladies of the 
parish, there have been Sunday's schools for there three 
years, both in Musselburgh and Fisherrow; which, though 
unnecessary in general in Scotland, where the parish 
schools are sufficient, yet are of much utility here, where, 
on account of the poverty and constant occupation of the 
parents, the instruction of many children was neglected.


