
                        PARISH OF KILTEARN.

               PRESBYTERY OF DINGWALL, SYNOD OF ROSS.

                  THE REV. THOMAS MUNRO, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-KILTEARN derives its name from two Gaelic words,
Kiell Tighearn, the burying-place of the laird, though the particu-
lar circumstance which gave rise to the name is unknown; for the
principal family in the district, the Munroes of Fowlis, had their
burying-place at Chanonry, until the year 1588.
  Extent, Boundaries.-The parish is situated about the middle
of the county, on the north shore of the Cromarty Frith. Its
breadth along thd shore, from Novar Burn to the rivulet of Altna-
lait, near Tulloch, is about 6 miles, but, as it extends for about 20
miles into the hills, its breadth becomes considerably varied. It is
bounded by Alness on the east; by Contin and Locbbroom on the
north; by Dingwall and Fodderty on the west; and the Cromarty
Frith, as already mentioned, forms the southern boundary.
  Topographical Appearances.-The whole of the parish, with the
exception of a part, varying in breadth from one to two miles along
the shore, consists of one mass of hills covered with heath, or in
some places planted with firs. Among these are some of consider-
rable elevation, particularly Wyvis, which rises to the height of
3720 feet above the level of the sea. This hill is never without
some snow even in the hottest summer, and the forest of Wyvis is
held of the King on the singular condition of paying a snowball
any day of the year, if required. In the valleys between these hills
there is a great deal of heath and coarse grass, which at one time
maintained numbers of cattle from the small farms on the low
grounds. In one or two of these hollows, too, the mountain streams
have formed small lakes, which diversify the scenery, and afford ex-
cellent sport to the angler.
  Hydrography.-The rincipal of these lakes is Loch Glass, at
tbe distance of six miles from the sea, about five miles in length,
and one in breadth. Its depth has not been ascertained; but
  ROSS AND CROMARTY.                    X


