
748                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

from north to south, measuring about 5 1/2 miles, the lesser, from east
to west, about 2 1/2.  The superficial extent of the whole parish is
about 11 2/3 square miles.  It is bounded out the east by the parish of
Culsamond; on the south, by Oyne, Premnay, and Leslie; on the
west, by Kennethmont and Gartly; and on the north, by Drum-
blade and Forgue.
   The hill of Foudland is situated in this parish, and forms the
principal of a range of Slate-hills, extending into Gartly on the
west, and into Culsamond on the east.  It stands at an elevation
of about 1100 feet above the level of the sea, has rather a lump-
ish appearance, but commands a very fine prospect.  That rich
and fertile tract, the How or Vale of the Garioch, is nowhere
seen to greater advantage than from this hill, by which, indeed, a
considerable part of it is sheltered on the north and north-west.
   The isolated hill of Dunnideer, about a mile from the village
of Insch, and due west of it, is a singularly striking and beautiful
object, and one which has long attracted the observation both of
antiquarians and naturalists.  Its form is that of a cone a little
flattened at the apex; and, owing to this peculiarity, and its sum-
mit being crowned with some curious ruins, it catches the eye of
a stranger at a great distance.
   It is about 3000 yards in circumference at the base, from which
it rises abruptly to the height of 550 or 660 feet.  Immediately
facing it, on the west, and rising with equal abruptness, is the hill
of Christ-kirk, in the parish of Kennethmont, the two hills being
separated only by a narrow valley, through which runs the She-
vock, a small stream, which, at this point, and for a considerable
part of its course, forms the boundary of the parish, and whose
windings, as seen from Dunnideer, have a very picturesque effect.
   Dunnideer is nearly on a line with the west end of Foudland,
and about due south from it, the distance between them being
about three miles.  There are no other hills of great magnitude
in the parish.  Some small hills there are, here and there rising
abruptly from the plain, such an Knockenbaird, Greenlaw, &c.;
but, as seen from the top of the hill of Foudland, they have the
appearance of mere knolls or hillocks scattered over the level or
slightly undulating surface.
   Meteorology.-The average height of the mercury in the baro-
meter throughout the year is 29.3 inches.  There is a perceptible
variety of climate in the parish, the crops being in general three
weeks or a month later on the north side of Foudland than on the


