
     Of Ruthven.

this parish, though some rising grounds improperly retain that
name.  Upon one of these, called Candle-hill, the place is to
be seen where the barons of Ruthven erected a gibbet in feu-
dal times.  Two of those eminences are distinguished by the
name of Laws, upon one of which there was a large cairn
some years ago.  The only river in the parish is the Isla,
which, after bounding it for upwards of a mile on the N.
side, turns suddenly in the direction from N. W. to S. E., di-
viding the parish into two unequal parts, leaving the largest
on the E. side.  The upper part of its course is rocky and 
winding, with bold and steep banks, covered in many places
with natural woods, and affording some very romantic scenery.
After passing the Lin, which is a fall over several ridges of
broken rock, the river resolves itself into a pool, called the
Corral, probably a corruption of Quarry-hole, there appear-
ing to have been a quarry on the E. side, at some remote pe-
riod.  This pool is deep and broad, but becomes more shal-
low toward the S., and ends in the broad ford, famous in the
annals of black fishing.  Upon leaving the ford, the river di-
vides itself into two branches, forming a small island, called
Stanner island, containing about 6 acres: afterward, diversi-
fied with rapid streams and gentle meanderings, it continues
to extend through level and fertile fields.  In winter, the low
grounds are greatly injured by the river shifting its course,
carrying away the rich soil, and depositing barren sand and
gravel in its place.  It would be greatly to the advantage
both of proprietors and tenants, that a straight channel was
cut for this river, through its haughs or low grounds, for
about 8 miles, from the S. side of this parish, where the river
begins to take a direction to the westward, to the bridge of
Cupar Angus.  The river is well stocked with trout and sal-
mon.  In the months of October and November, the latter
come here to spawn, at which time great havock is made a-


