
                                        REDGORTON.                        163

         little field.  The meaning, therefore, is the same, either in the an-
         cient or modern orthography, and signifies the Red-field, i. e. the
         field of blood.  The current opinion, therefore, which derives the
         name of the parish from the battle of Luncarty, seems to be well
         founded, although the popular derivathon (quasi Red-gore-town)
         appears too bald for admission.
            Origin, Boundaries, Topographical, Appearances, &c.- The pa-
         rish consists of three united parishes, Redgorton, Luncarty, and
         St Serffs.  Redgortoft belonged to the abbacy of Scone; St
         Serffs, a corruption from St Servanus, belonged to the diocese
         of Dunkeld; and Luncarty, as appears from Keith, was a parson-a
         age, i. e. a church not appropriated to any religious house. The
         period of the union of these three parishes is not precisely known;
         but it is most probable that it took place at the time of the Re-
         formation, as the presbytery records, which extend back to 1619,
         speak of them as having been already united.
            The parish consists of two parts, a lower and-an upper part,
         very unequal in point of magnitude, and very dissimilar in every
         respect.  The lower, or principal part, though of an irregular fi-
         gure, approaching nearly to two triangles, may be stated as six
         miles long by two miles broad, though its greatest breadth great-
         ly exceeds, and its smallest falls as much short of it. This part,
         therefore, contains about 10. 125 square miles.    It lies at the con-
         fluence of the Tay and the Almond, and is bounded on the east by
         the former of these rivers, which separates it from the parishes of
         Scone and St Martins; and on the south-west by the latter river,
         which separates it from the parishes of Tibbermuir and Methven.
         It requires, three lesser streals, the Coldrochie, the Shochie, and
         Ordie, to divide it from the parish of Mone die, on the west and
         north-west.  And it is separated on the north from the parishes of
         Auchtergaven and Kinclaven, partly by imaginary lines, and partly
         by smaller streams, whose magnitude has not been considered of
         such importance as to acquire for them a distinctive appellation.
           The surface of this part is varied and undulating, presenting
         something diversified in its aspect at every step.  The tide, in its
         highest floods, flows up to Scone, or within half a mile of the
         mouth of the Almond; so that the lowest fields of this part are
         little above the level of the sea, whilst the highest may  be 100
         feet above iL The soil is very diversified, changing, sometimes
         very suddenly, from the deepest loam to the coldest till,on the one
         band, and to, the most arid gravel, or even pure sand, on the other.
           The whole lands, in this part of the parish are cultivated and


