
124                       ARGYLESHIRE.

intervals; and though the mountains present the bleak and speck-
led aspect of patches of rock and heather contending for the mas-
tery, their huge bulk saves them from the charge of tameness,
and some excellent sheep grazing from that of utter barrenness.
The scenery of the west end is well-wooded and interesting, and
from thence the lake lies open to eastward for about fiftee miles,
a wild, dreary, yet magnificent prospect.
   Loch Beoraig, situated east of the arable part of Meoble, in the
glen of that name, is from two to three miles long.  Loch Eilt,
about the same length, is the largest of a chain of small lakes in
the great glen, which extends from Lochainart towards Glenfinnan.
There is also a lake of considerable size in the valley of Glenhui-
rich in Sunart.  Of lakes of all sizes there are said, in the old
Statistical Account, to be 300 in the parish, the correctness of
which statement there is no reason to doubt.
   Rivers.-Of these the most important, in every respect, are
those flowing from Loch Shiel and Loch Morir.  That from the
east end of the former flows into the parish of Kilmalie; that from
the west end, about two miles long, having the broadest channel,
and probably the greatest volume of water, flows into the Western
Ocean, into which Lochmorir also pours its waters in a fine stream,
apparently of much the same volume and length.  The river
Mioble, flowing into Morir, and of Pollock, flowing into Loch
Shiel, are also considerable streams.
   Mountains.-The only hills of which, so far as the writer could
ascertain, the altitude has been taken, are those in Sunart, men-
tioned in the last Statistical Account, viz. Ben Rusepol, 2661
feet; Scur Dhoniel, 2730 feet; Scour Choinicb, 2364; Creach
bhunn, 2439; Glaschoiren hll, 1920.  The mountain ranges,
of which it may be remarked, that they generally, if not at-
ways, run in an eastern direction from the sea coast, require a
more particular examination and a more scientific description than
it was in the writer's power to bestow.
   Valleys.-Near the eastern extremity of Sunart, the beautiful
and fertile valley of Strontian opens to the south, upon the arm
of the sea which bears the name of that district, and retires inland
for about five or six miles; first, in a westerly and then in a northerly
direction, wbere, on one side, it is covered with some fine natural
oaks.  At its opening, the prominent objects are the flourishing plan-
tations, the tasteful grounds and picturesque residence of the pro-
prietor, and so far forward, as to be situated on the shores of Loch


