
594                    EDINBURGSHIRE.

   Large blocks of greenstone, as the ruins of once existing rocks,
lie in confusion along the shore, and such are likewise found im.
bedded in the alluvial deposit of boulder clay, gravel, sand, and
shells which skirts the beach. Fine blue clay, fit for the purposes
of a brick-work, is found near Grauton Pier, beneath a, four feet
stratum of ferruginous sand and gravel. A bed of shells, or shells
mixed with sand and gravel, has also been exposed in the superfi-
cial covering of Granton quarry. Many of these shells are fresh
and identical with those now on the shore, such as the Turbo,
littoreus and Neritoides, Buccinum Lapillus,'and Patella vulqata;
while the position of this bed is several feet higher above the pre-
sent highest tide than that of the whale skeleton found some time
ago imbedded in the clay at Airtbrey, on the opposite shores
of the Forth.
   Hydrography.-The springs, found by digging in the alluvial
deposit, are, from their mineral character, not always suited for
every domestic purpose. From the sandstone strata of Craigleith
quarry on the boundary, small sulphureous springs issue, which
smell of sulphuretted hydrogen, and, by exposure to the, air as they
flow; leave a whitish deposit of sulphur on the rock. The March-
field Spa, once of some medicinal celebrity, being now inclosed
within the grounds of Barnton, has disappeared.
   The Almond, conveying the drainage of a district, stretching
thirty miles to the west, has a varied bed and marked action even
in the few miles of its course connected with this parish. At first
it flows through the flat alluvial; then over trap, forming a fall and
rapid; and afterwards through shale, alluvial, and sandstone, with
greenstone boulders strewed along its channel and margin and
with insular formations, the result of such agency.
   The mouth of this river, at the junction of the greenstone and
sandstone, with a full spring tide of 15 or 16 feet in the middle
of the channel, affords a haven or natural creek-harbour, conve-
nient enough for smaller vessels; and if, as formerly existing Ro-
man remains seemed to indicate, a mole once stood on the
east bank, a much superior harbour must have been obtained.
The harbour, however, at present is, by the changing action of
the tide, entirely reduced to that of nature unaided by art-

<FOOTNOTE>which such rock bears to those of the extinct volcanoes of the south of France-"les
dobrites volacaniques des environs de Saint Flours dans le Cantal"-he mentions as
particularly striking every geologist.-See Essai Geologique sur I'Ecosse. Pur A.
Boue. The same trap formation also appears on the opposite shore of Fife, in Inch-
colm, and the 'rocky islets stretching towards Cramond Island.


