
398                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

were called upon to express their opinion or experience upon some
religious question before the Congregation,-gave them an opportu-
nity of becoming prominent among their neighbours for any supe-
rior knowledge, zeal, or eloquence. If the piety of the decidedly
religious among our forefathers Was thus more eminently exhibit-
ed than that of the present time, the number of such individuals,
it must be recollected, was but few ; the passions of the mass were
far less restrained than in the present day, when decorum seems
as if almost graduating into religion; and it may safely be question-
ed whether, on the whold, the former or the present; state of things
is to be regarded as the more flourishing, in a religious respect.
   In addition to non-resident proprietors, the parish labours un,
der an almost greater evil-not-resident tenants. No proprietor
who has the moral well-being of a community at heart should ever
tolerate such a system. Its evils are obviously manifold. We
question also whether the modern system of the entire absorption
of small farms by large ones, will not ultimately tend to generate
a worse moral-conditioned rural population, than if there were left
a proportion of small farms,-establishment in which might be with-
in the reach of industrious men, who had earned a character and
small capital in serving the occupiers of the larger farms. It would
be an advantage to the district, if,at some central points, such as
where a smithy is found, a few small houses on the cottage system
were erected, for a carpenter, gardener, merchant of small articles
commonly in demand, tailor, and labourers. The members of all
their families would be of service to the fartner at certain seasons of
the year.

                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
Agriculture.-Pettie may be described as an entirely agricultural
parish, since the whole population, with the exception of the fish-
ers, are employed directly in agriculture, or the subservient arts.
   The Earl of Moray's properties, "the lordship of Petyn," and
the barony of Connage, comprire, apart from small crofts, 24 farms,
at the average of about L. 160 of rent. The estate of Cullo-
den in the parish contains, apart from crofts, 6 farms at the
average rent of L. 104. Gollanfield, now chiefly farmed by its
proprietor, contains 7 farms, at. the average rent of perhaps L.60.
Flemington contains, besides the Mains, one farm of about L.50.
The Mains may be of the same value. The rental of the parish
is, including feus and crofts, fully L. 5000.
   The extent of the different estates is shown by the following
tables:--


