
824                      AYRSHIRE.

he settled an annual salary, to be paid by every master mason in
Scotland to a grand master, chosen by the brethren, and approved
by the Crown. It was required that this grand master should be
nobly born, or a clergyman of high rank and character. He had
his deputies in the different counties and towns of Scotland. Every
new brother paid him a fee at entrance. He was empowered to
regulate and determine such matters in dispute, between the
founders and builders of churches and monasteries, as it would
have been improper to bring before a court of law. King James
II conferred the office of grand master on William Sinclair, Earl
of Orkney, and Baron of Roslin. By another deed of the same
King, this office was made hereditary in this very ancient and il-
lustrious family. Earl William and his successors, Barons of
Roslin, held their head courts, or, in the style of masonry, as-
sembled their grand lodges at Kilwinning.* The mother Judge
continued in possession of the highest authority, and granted char-
ters of erection to other lodges, till the year 1736, when the Lord
of Roslin, hereditary grand master, assembled thirty-two lodges
in Edinburgh, and resigned all right or title which he possessed,
or his successors might claim, to preside over the masonic order
throughout Scotland. His resignation being, accepted, the Grand
Lodge of Scotland was constituted, consisting of representatives
from other lodges throughout tbe kingdom, in whom was vested
the right of legislating and of granting new charters, or confirming
old ones, for ttie whole order, for which purpose a general meet-
ting is held, and office-bearers are elected annually. This usur-
pation was resisted for a time by the Kilwinninig brethren, who
continued to hold independent meetings, and to grant charters
as formerly, till the year 1807, when the dispute was amicably
seettled, and the mother lodge relinquished her ancient privileges,
joining the general association, along with the lodges which held
of her.+
	Archery.+--It is well known that, in former times, the bow and
arrow were used in war throughout the Whole of Europe. By one
or more of the old acts of the Scotch Parliament, the young men
in every parish were strictly commanded to practice archery for an
hour or two every Sunday, after Divine service. After the inven-
tion of fire-arms, archery was laid aside, as no longer useful and
necessary in war. Though for this reason it was disused in most

<FOOTNOTE>Former Statistical Account.          Robertson's Cunninghame, Appendix.
          From the former Statistical Account.



