
     Statistical Account

   Seats, Gardens and Plantations.-Of the first, there are
three that merit description.  Forneth, the seat of Thomas
Elder, Esq; to whose beneficence and public spirit his
friends and his country are much indebted, stands on the
N. W. bank of the loch of Clunie, on a fine elevation,
commanding a small, but beautiful prospect of the island,
the loch, and the adjacent grounds.  The Lunan, washing,
in gentle meanders, the foot of the bank, steals softly into
the loch, a little below the house.  The bank itself, co-
vered with verdure, and interspersed with trees, has an
easy and elegant slope from the house to the surface of the
water, which, expanding itself into a large translucent
plain, gives the inverted landscape a mild and picturesque
appearance.  A beautiful new garden, promising abun-
dance of good fruit, lies warm and low at the foot of the
bank, about 200 yards S. W. from the house.  This gar-
den is destined to receive within its bosom a small streamlet
from the Lunan; which, after winding slowly along, and
forming ponds in its course, is to have its outlet near the
S. E. angle of the garden, where it will again unite with
its parent stream.  The house is new, elegant and commo-
dious, sheltered with trees, and well dressed fields, that
swell above one another to a considerable height.  These
fields have been all taken in from a rude state of nature, by
the present proprietor, and his father, who was the first
man that began to clear rough grounds in the higher parts
of this parish.  Here, about 50 years ago, tittle else was
to be seen but broom, furze, briers, thorns and stones.-
Clunie castle, on the island of the loch of Clunie, was men-
tioned above, as being an occasional summer residence of
the Earl of Airly.  It was built about the beginning of
the 16th century, by George Brown, Bishop of Dunkeld,
and was one of his favourite seats or palaces.  It seldom
fails to attract the attention of the stranger, who generally

     3


