
               KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                     313

from St Colum, the founder of the monastery here, whose Gallic
or Celtic name Colum, and Latin name Columba here, are both of the
same signification, Sanctus Adamnanus Abas de Hy, in vita Sancti
Columba."  Martin gives the etymon of the word Hii, from a tra-
ditionary account among the natives, that one of Columba's fol-
lowers in their voyage thither, having espied the isle at a distance,
cried joyfully to him in the Irish language, " Chi mi i"-l see her;
and that the saint answered, it should from henceforth be called Y.
Pinkerton calls it Hyona in all parts of his History of Scotland where
he has occasion to speak of it.  Some etymologists say that, as hn
Irish, I-thon signifies the island Of waves, which is very characte--
ristic of it in times nf storm, and as the "th" of that word, in pro-
nouncing it, is not sounded, the monks readily Latinized it Iona and
Hyona.  By some of the old Irish and Danish writers, it is called
the Insula Sancta or Holy Island.  In the records of Scotland
down to the middle of the sixteenth century, and in inscriptions still
to be seen upon the island, and contemporary with that period, it
is simply called Y or 1.  It appears to admit of no doubt that its
ancient Latin name was Iona, for it is so termed by Adomnan, the
most early writer we have concerning it.
  To the Highlanders of the present day, Iona is known as " In-
nis-nan-Druidhneach," or the Island of the Druids-as " Ii-cholum-
chille," or the Island of Colum, of the Cell, or Cemetery, from
whence the English word Icolymkill is derived; and, par excellence,
by I, or the island pronounced by the sound of e e in English, and
which is the most general name it goes by, in the parish and sur-
rounding neighbourhood. *

  <FOOTNOTE>In Macfarlane's MS., Advocates' Library, there is a description of this island
by Dean Monro, who travelled through the Western Isles in 1549.
  " Colmkill.-Narrest this be twa myles of sea, layes the Isle the Erische call it
I, colmkill, that is, Sanct Colm's Isle, ane faire mayne Isle of twa myle lange, and
maire and ane myle braid, fertill and fruitfull of corn and store, and guid for fishing.
Within this ile there is a monastery of Mounkes and ane uther of nuns, with a pa-
roche kirke, and sundrie other chapells dotat of auld, be the kings of Scotland, and
be Clandonald of the lyles.  This abbay forsaid wes the cathedrall kirk of the Bischops
of the lyles sen the tyme they were expulsed out of the lyle of Man by the English.
men ; for within the lyle of Man wes the cathedrall kirke, and living of auld, as I
have already said in the description of that ile.  Within this ile of Colmkill, there
is ane sanctuary also, or kirkaird, callit in Erische Religoram, quhilk is a verey fair
kirkzaird, and weill biggit about with staine and lyme.  Into this sanctuary ther is
three tombes of staine formit like litle chapels with ane braid gray marble or quhin
staine in the gavile of ilk ane of the tombes.  ln the staine of the tomb there is writ-
ten in Latin letters Tumulus Regum Scotice, that is, the tomb ore grave of than Scotts
kinges.  Within this tombe, according to our Scotts and Erische Cronickles, ther
layes forty-eight crowned Scotts kings, throughe the quhilk this ile hes beine richlie
dotat be the Scots kinges, as we have said. The tombe on the south syde forsaid has


