
248                         PERTHSHIRE.

	need only show a willing mind, and the invaluable advantage will
	be attained.
	   Fairs.-There are two fairs in Rattray,-the one on the last Fri-
	day of April, the other the last Friday of August.  They are intend-
	ed chiefly for the sale of cattle.  In all villages, ale-houses exist in
	abundance, and perhaps there are six or eight of them in the pa-
	rish of Rattray.  Inns are necessary for the accommodation of the
	public; but, by the idle and profligate, they are perverted to pur-
	poses of disorder and abuse.
	   Fuel.-Coals, the best of all fuel, are rather expensive in this
	part of the country.  They are brought either from Perth, or by
	the railway from Dundee to Newtyle, and between purchase and
	freight are necessarily dear.  By the wise appointment of the
	Creator, however, every place possesses it own advantages.  In the
	high grounds, within three or four miles, there are mosses where
	peats are dug, and dried, and brought home in summer, as a pre-
	paration against the approach of winter.  There are also occasion-
	al sales of wood in the neighbouring plantations, where fuel is got
	at a reasonable rate.  With a portion of each of these, coals, peat,
	and wood, every person endeavours to be provided.  Those, on
	the roll of poor are furnished with a certain allowance of coals at
	Christmas; and all others lay up for themselves, as their wisdom
	or their wealth direct and enable them.

				MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONs.

	The only other object pertaining to this parish, which I shall
	mention as a matter of curiosity, is an iron bridge, which Colonel
	Chalmers of Glenericht, has thrown across the river, a little below
	his house.  The bridge is supported by a stone pillar at each end,
	from which a direct span, not an arch, stretches across the whole
	breadth of the river.  The bridge is of such wideness as to admit
	a passage for a carriage, with a foot tract on the side for travellers,
	the bottom or floor of both of which is covered with gravel to pre-
	vent alarm to man or beast.  By this bridge, the Colonel has easy
	and elegant access to his property on both sides of the river, and
	also to the great road which runs from Braemar to Perth.  The
	bridge was constructed by a Mr Justice in Dundee, and is well
	worthy of the notice of strangers,

	    May 1837.


