
                        EDINBURGH.                         667

It is of an oblong form, with a square tower on the west end,
where is the principal entrance, and a spacious window on the east
with stained glass. Attached to the east are a series of vaults
for sepulture. The interior to the chapel is seated for 900 per-
sons, and there are no galleries. It was built at an expense of
L. 15,000.
   St George's Chapel.-This small chapel was built in 1794, on
the south-west side of York Place. The congregation numbers
about 150.
   St James's Chapel.-This chapel was built and endowed by the
late Colonel Scott, Mount Lodge, Portobello. Attached to the
church is a public day school for the general education of children.
The average congregation is 600.
   Trinity Chapel, Dean.-This chapel was erected in the year
1839.
   Besides these, congregations of the Episcopal persuasion meet
in St Peter's Carrubber's Close, and St Thomas' Chapel Ruthland
Street.
   Secession Churches.-There are nine churches connected with the
United Associate Synod:-Nicolson Street Chapel; Broughton
Place Chapel; Cowgate Chapel, (formerly Episcopal); Bristo
Street Chapel; Lothian Road Chapel; Portsburgh Chapel;
Potterrow Chapel; Rose Street Chapel; Strockbridge Chapel;
   Relief.-This denominated has five places of worship situated
in Arthur Street, Bread Street, Coolege Street, St James' place,
Roxburgh Terrace.
   Associate Synod of Original Seceders have two churches, one in
Davie Street, the other in Infimary Street.
   Methodist Chapel.-This is a large chapel in the corner of
Nicolson Square, with minister's house and school-room attached.
It was built in 1814. There is also a Wesleyan Methodist chapel
in Richmond Street, and a chapel in James' Court.
   Independents.-There are three palces of worship belonging to
these, situated in Albany Street, North College Street, and Rox-
burgh Place.
   Baptists.-There are six places of worship belonging to this
denomination.
   Society of Friends.-The meeting house is in the Pleasance.
There are 80 members, and from 20 to 30 who are not joined to the society.


