
                          SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                   101

It takes different names according to the different places border-
ing on it; such as Sandsound-Voe, Tresta-Voe, Bixter-Voe, &c.
    Entering in from the west, through St Magnus's Bay, and on
the north part of Aithsting, is the voe or bay of West Burrafirth,
opening to the north, an unsafe harbour, and seldom taken by.
any vessel.  Proceeding east, round the Nien or Ness of Brin-
dister, a fine voe opens called the Voe of Brindister, from a vil-
lage of that name near its mouth.  As it extends inland several
miles in a south-westerly direction, it takes, the name of Unifirth-
Voe, from a village of that name situated on its west bank.  It is
here studded with several small green holms or islands, and its
shores yield the richest, and, for the same extent, the greatest
quantity of sea weed for kelp, which is perhaps in the country.
   In proceeding a little farther east, and rounding a pretty high
headland called the Ness of Nunsburgh, the Voe of Clousta
opens, running inland about one mile and a half in a southerly and
south-easterly direction.  This, as well as the Voe of Brindister,
affords excellent anchorage, and in both, vessels can ride in the
greatest safety.  The west end of the Island of Vementry, with
some small grazing holms, lie outside, and in a great measure
cover the entrance into this voe.  A vessel leaving Clousta Voe
and sailing east, must steer outside of the Island of Vementry and
through the Minn or Swarback's Minn. There is a passage in-
side of the island, that is, between the island and the mainland;
but it is too narrow and shallow unless for boats.
   A little farther east, is the Island of Papa Little; passing be-
tween it and a part of the mainland called Aithsness, Aith's-Voe
opens to the southward, and East Burrafirth-Voe due east.  Aith's-
Voe is a very extensive inland harbour, while East Burrafirth-Voe
is very small.  Both, however, are perfectly safe.
   These are the principal voes or harbours in Sandsting and
Aithsting. They are excellent in themselves, but their situation
renders them comparatively of little benefit either to the public or
to individuals.  Several of them, however, abound with the largest
and finest oysters which are to be found in the kingdom.  There
are also many mussel scaaps or beds in them, which are used as
bait for the small fishing; and in the deeper parts of the voes, is
to be found a large mussel called a yoag, which is used as bait by
vessels in the cod-fishing.
   Islands.-The principal islands are, Vementry and Papa Little.
There are several other small islands or holms, which are capable


