
                          PERTH.                             31

spoken of as being all of them men. It was not till after the res-
toration of the profligate Charles II. that women ventured to ap-
pear on the stage. Female characters were before his reign
performed by boys and young men, disguised in female attire.
The answer of the minister and elders shews that the theatrical
performances were under the control of the local ecclesiastical juris-
diction, and furnishes an evidence that, unless restrained, the per-
formers indulged in what was irreligious and immoral.
  In 1336, the Earl of Cornwall was murdered by his brother
Edward III., before the great altar of St John, in the parish
church. While the King was standing there, the Earl, who had
newly arrived from England, came to him. An altercation between
the brothers took place  in consequence of some  highly aggravated
cruelties, which the Earl was reported to have perpetrated in the
western countries, on his way to Perth, and for which the King
reproached him. In the heat of the altercation, the King stabbed
him with a kind of small-sword, and he immediately expired.*
  In 1437, James I. was murdered in the Blackfriars monastery, by
Walter, Earl of Athole, Robert Stewart, his Lordship's grandson,
and Robert Graham, their kinsman. The murderers were seiz-
ed, tried, and put to death. The two most deeply implicated in
the atrocious crime were the Earl and Robert Graham. They
were therefore subjected to torture-perhaps the most appalling
that is recorded in our country's history. + The King was buried

<FOOTNOTE>Fordun's words are "Cumque idem rex ante magnum altare Sancti Johannis
super premissis ipsum ut abit arguerat: et ipse regi indignanti animo responderet
subito fratris spatu sive culletto extracto percussus, rebus exutus est humanis."
  + Cant gives the following account of the torture inflicted. "Walter's punishment,
as he was reckoned the chief conspitator, was inflicted on three successive days. On
the first day, he was placed in a cart, in which a stock-like engine was erected, and
by ropes let through pullies, he was hoisted up on high, the ropes being suddenly let
go, he fell down, but stopped near the ground, with intolerable pain by the luxation
of his joints. Then he was set on a pillory that every one might see him, and a red
hot iron crown set on his head, with this inscription.
                      THE KING OF TRAITORS.
On the second day, he was bound upon a hurdle, and drawn at a horse's fall through
the principal streets of Edinburgh. On the last day, he was laid upon a plank, in a
conspicuous place, his bowels were cut out while he was yet alive, and thrown into
the fire before his face; afterwards his heart was pulled out, and cast out into the same
fire. His head was cut off, exposed to the view of all, and set on a pole in the high-
est place of the city. His body was divided into four quarters, which were sent to be
hung up in the most noted places of the principal cities of the kingdom.
  After him, his grandson was brought forth to suffer, but, because of his youth, they
  would not put him to so much pain; besides, he was not the author but only an ac-
  complice, being under the direction of his grandfather, therefore he was only hanged
  and quartered. But Robert Graham, who perpetrated the villainy with his own
  hand, was carried in a cast through the city, and his right hand nailed to a gallows
  set up in the cart: the executioners came and run hot iron spikes into his thighs, arm
  and other parts farthest removed from the vitals, and then he was quartered. After
  this manner was the death of James revenged, barbarous indeed, and which exceeds
  the bounds of humanity."-See Drummond's and Buchanann's Histories of Scotland.


