
180			GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

        Character of the People.-Pennecuik has also said when speak-
    ing of the inhabitants, "pity it is to see a clear complexion and
    lovely countenance appear with so much disadvantage through
    the foul disguise of smoke and dirt." So far from this being the
    case now, they are distinguished by neatness and cleanliness
    both in their houses and persons. They may also be considered
    a well-fed and well-clad people. They have not, indeed, the high
    wages which in a prosperous state of commerce are earned in ma-
    nufacturers, but we nowhere see the squalid wretchedness and ab-
    ject poverty which are found in manufacturing districts. With
    the exception of a few individuals in the burgh, and in perhaps one
    of the villages, no man would appear in public on the Sabbath in
    his every-day clothes. Throughout the whole county there is a
    very becoming regard to decency in dress oil solemn occasions
    some may call it extravagance, but no one who has carefully stu-
    died the character of the working-classes, and can feel an interest
    in their respectability and outward deportment, will ever censure
    this part of their expenditures. It will generally be found that the
    best clad, particularly among the young men, are the most sober
    and industrious, and least given to extravagance in any shape. I
    make these observations with the greater confidence, as my own
    parish contains considerably more than the fourth part of the po-
    pulation of the whole county; and when I see men who are earn-
    ing their subsistence by the labour of six days of the week appear-
    ing on the seventh clad in good broad cloth, so far from blaming
    them I consider them entitled to commendation.
    	But there are higher qualities to which most of my brethren
    have borne testimony. The people may be considered a religious
    people, who are regular in attending Divine ordinances, and, with
    some exceptions, act up to their profession. Liberalism and in-
    fidelity have as yet made very little progress among us, and if se-
    ditious emissaries from other places do not come to poison the
    minds, and sap the better principles of the people, every one who
    wishes their happiness both in this world and the world to come,
    will rejoice to see them continue in the same course of life which
    they now lead.

	Since the last Statistical Account was drawn up, the inhabitants,
    like their fellow countrymen, have shared in the prosperity and in
    the reverses of the country; have rejoiced in the former, and been
    submissive and resigned in the latter. To suggest any improve-
    ments by which they would be greatly benefited, I should consider


