
478                       LANARKSHIRE.

from near the confluence of the Douglas with the Clyde to the
summit of Cairntable, upwards of 12 miles in length, and it varies
from 4 to 7 miles in breadth. Its superficial area contains about
28,004 Scotch acres; of which 3816 are arable; 22,376 pasture;
1492 wood; and 320 flow-moss:--in imperial measure the super-
ficial contents are 35,318 2/10 acres; viz. of arable land, 4812 7/10;
pasture, 28,220 2/10; wood, 1881 8/10; flow-moss, 4O3 5/10.
	Topographical Appearances.--Although Douglasdale cannot vie
with the clothed luxuriance of some of our lowland districts, or with
the bold and rugged grandeur of our highland scenery, it presents,
along the whole course of the river, an aspect of sweet and unpre-
tending beauty, which contrasts most favourably with the bleak-
ness of the country, through which it is approached on ever side.
The river flows through a strath, which widens gradually in its
course towards the Clyde. From this strath the ground slopes on
each side to a considerable elevation, adorned, especially on the
north side, with extensive and beautiful plantations. Around Dou-
glas Castle, there is some fine old wood, chiefly ash and plane trees;
and plantations of more recent growth, and of great breadth, extend
for several miles above and below. At Douglas Mill, where the
strath opens into wide and fertile holms, nearly surrounded with fine-
ly wooded banks, the scenery is particularly admired. Beyond the
strath, on either side, the ground stretches into extensive moors;
or swells into hills covered with grass to their summits. On the
west it terminates in Cairntable, which, with its dependent range to
the south, encloses it as with a chain of mountain ramparts. A great
extent of ground has been recently planted by Lord Douglas; and
as his Lordship is carrying on these plantations on a large scale,
the aspect of the parish will be progressively improving for many
years.
	Climate.--The lowest part of the parish, near the Clyde, is
650 feet above the level of the sea, from which it is nearly 40
miles distant in every direction. The climate, of course, is cold;
and there is scarcely a month in the year when it is altogether se-
cure from frost. In 1821, there occurred on the 2d of July, a
frost so severe, as seriously to injure the potato crop. Douglas
has a large share, too, of the rains from the Atlantic, although
considerably less rain falls here than on the coasts of Renfrew and
Ayr. It is exposed to high winds, particularly from the south-west
and west; which, being confined, as in a funnel, by the high
grounds on-each side, sweep down the strath with tremendous vio-


