
     Of West Kilbride.

   Ecclesiastical State, Poor, etc.-About 2 years ago, the
minister obtained an augmentation to his stipend of 3 chal-
ders of victual, and 20 L.  Scots for communion elements; so
that the whole living, exclusive of the glebe, which is a very
small one, amounts now to 5 chalders of meal, 2 of bear,

<FOOTNOTE>

small farms being conjoined, continued to be occupied by one tenant, while the
former occupiers ejected from their little possession, were obliged to remove to
other places in quest of bread, and thus carried away from that where they
were born, and many of them reared to manhood, the fruits of their labour
and their numbers.  We may conceive reasons existing at that time, which
might induce proprietors to adopt this practice.  The principles of husbandry
were not then so well understood; proper attention could not therefore be paid
to the land, to work and manage it so as to render it duly productive.  The
farmers, in those times, had neither the industry nor the enterprising spirit
which characterises their successors.  There was not the same demand for the
produce of a farm, which, at that earlier period, did not bring one-third of the
price it does now; consequently, one powerful encouragement to agricultural
exertions was wanting.  The master had his rent paid with less trouble.
   But all these reasons taken together, will not compensate the local evils pro-
duced by this mode of management:  For, in the first place, it introduced a
spirit of engrossing and monopolizing farms, which, as it diminishes the popula-
tion, has ever been deemed pernicious to the interests of a country.  Secondly,
It enriched a few individuals, at the expense of numbers, who were cast out of
bread.  Thirdly, It gave an immediate check to the progress of agriculture.
The old husbandry, even with all its defects, was better than none.  The ob-
ject of the monopolizer, being to rear cattle only, he paid little regard to
ploughing; of course, the quantity of grain was diminished.  The land was ne-
glected and suffered to run into a state of absolute winderness; so that whole
tracks of it are now covered with furze; and, from certain stations, the coun-
try presents nothing to the eye, but the bleak appearance of a forest.  The con-
sequence, upon the whole, has been, that when, in other places, farming, in
its present improved forms, has made considerable advances, in this parish it
had made none.  In the last place, as has been obseved before, it gave the finish-
ing hand to the destruction of the fishery.  Gentlemen, it would appear, are
now sensible of these evils, at least, in as far as the interests of agriculture have
been affected by them; and it seems to be their wish to have their estates re-
peopled, and they have put their tenants upon such a footing, by the late leases,
as to make it their interest to clear and cultivate the land; from which the
most beneficial effects may be expected.


