
396                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The streets were in want of repairs.  The streets are now kept
in good repair.  Side paths with crib paving have been made-
obstructions have been removed-and the town protected by bul-
warks from the sea.
   The streets were not lighted in winter.  They are now lighted
with gas.

   Drawn up September 1837; Revised September 1840

                         PARISH OF PITSLIGO.

                PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                   THE REV. EDWARD HUME, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The name of this parish was derived from the estate
of Lord Pitsligo, of whose lands it was originally composed, and
signifies in Gaelic "Hollow Shell."
   Extent, &c.-This parish contains about 9 square miles, is of the
figure of a trapezoid, and one of the most compact in Buchan.  The
extent of coast is about 4 miles.  The shore on the eastern half,
extending from the burgh of Rosehearty to the confines of the pa-
rish of Fraserburgh, is partly sand and partly rock, loose and flat;
the western half, extending from Rosebearty to the confines of the
parish of Aberdour, consists of high and bold rocks, full of fissures
of great extent and depth.
   The parish is bounded on the north by the MorAy Frith for a
distance of four miles.  It abounds in springs of the best qua-
lity, and also in mineral springs highly impregnated with iron.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-The only individuals of any note connected
with this parish, were the celebrated Andrew Cant, and the last
Lord Pitaligo.  The former was tutor, it would appear, in the fa-
mily of the first Lord Pitaligo about 1630-33, and was the first
minister of this parish After its formation in 1634.  He was after-
wards translated in 1639, to the parish of Newbattle, and thence
to the West Church in Aberdeen, in 1641,-Which cure he serv-
ed till his death in 1663.  His tombstone is to be seen in the west
side of that churchyard.  Mr Cant must have been a man of some


