
                   ST ANDREWS.                            183  

Norwegian origin. Their distinctive characters are thick necks
and heads, with short ears. They seldom exceed fourteen hands
and a half in height, and are very strong and hardy. The breed
of black-castle, which appears to be the oldest known, if not the
indigeous, species of this country, is still common, though much
mixed.  They are small, thin, and often ill-shaped; but this pro-
bably proceeds from bad treatment. On the scanty pastures, which
the soil affords them, however, they are more profitable for the
dairy than more improved breeds; and their flesh is highly es-
teemed for its delicacy. The native sheep are distinguished from
the southern breeds by inferiority of size and shape , and the exces-
sive shortness of thier tails; and from the famous Zetland breed,
by the general coarseness of their wool. They are sometimes of
a gray, and at  other times, of a dark tawny or black colour, as
well as white. The head is often ornamented with horns,--that
of the male almost always with large twisted ones, sometimes six
or seven pounds in weight. And these frequently prove fatal to
them in swimming. In order to obtain marine plants for food, it is
customary for these animals in winter to repair, at low water, to the
sea-side, where they sometimes forget the necessity of retiring from
rocks which are insulated at half-tide, before the water entirely sur-
rounds them; and when they are at last swept from their foot-
ing the strongest often perish first in the attempt to reach land;
their heads being borne down into the water by the weight of their
horns, and their destruction occasioned by what is intended to beau-
tify their appearance when confined to thier native element. A kind
of hog, of a diminutive size, and having small tapering extremities,
was formerly common in this place, but is now nearly extinct. Its
most peculiar features are a ridge of strong upright bristles extend-
ing from between the ears to the tail, the ears quite erect,and the
back arched like that of some species of the hyena tribe.

    Husbandry.-The state of husbandry is in general wretched
Established customs are inveterate in spite of their absurdity, and
there seems to be no possibility of getting out of the old beaten track.
There are indeed one or two creditable exceptions, but the following
may be received as the character of the husbandry commonly pur-
sued. There is no regular rotation of crop, no rest for the soil, no
means used effectually to clean the ground from an abundant crop
of weeds, and no manure afforded except once in every two years.
Bear, and a kind of smail-bearded grey oats are sown alternately
on the same ground, from generation to generation,--the former
