
                      HUTTON AND CORRIE.                    545

Relief, 22; Secession, 12; Reformed Presbytery, 1. The average
number of communicants at the Established Church is 140.  The
yearly average amount of collection in the church for religious and
charitable objects, may be stated at L. 15 or L. 16.
	Education.--There is a school in each of the divisions of the
parish.  That in the Hutton division is parochial. The salary,
as lately fixed, is L. 27. The school fees may amount to L. 15.
Mr James Graham, a native of this parish, bequeathed, in 1802,
the sum of L. 260, two-thirds of the interest of which to be paid
to the schoolmaster of Hutton, for teaching poor children reading,
writing, and arithmetic, gratis. The school of Corrie is now be-
come endowed. Mr Edward Moffat of Exeter originally left L. 280,
the interest of which to be paid to the schoolmaster of Corrie, on
condition of his teaching the whole children of this division of the
parish reading and writing gratis. In 1820, Mr James Wilson,
a native of Moffat, and grand-nephew of the original founder, added
L. 20 per annum to the salary, on condition of the schoolmaster
teaching the whole children, reading, writing, and arithmetic, gra-
tis; and also that the school be considered as endowed; he and
his heirs and successors appointing the schoolmasters; it being at
same time understood, and expressly stated, that the trial of the
qualifications of the schoolmasters, and the power of taking cog-
nizance of their conduct, should be regulated by the act 1803.
The heritors of Corrie have for a considerable time paid the school-
master a small salary of L. 8, 6s. 8d. At the same time, they
have reserved to themselves the power of withholding it, should
they be so disposed. The schoolmasters' houses and school-rooms
have been lately rebuilt, and are in a good state. Besides a gar-
den, the schoolmaster of Corrie has four Scots acres of good pasture.
The branches taught in the schools are reading, writing, arithmetic,
grammar, geography, mensuration, navigation, Latin, Greek, and
French. The expense of education for nine months, during which
proportion of the year the schools are taught, (the vacations being
seldom short of three months,) is as follows: reading, 6s.; do with
writing, 7s. 6d.; arithmetic, 9s.; any higher branches, 15s.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--Owing to unfortunate dispensations
of Providence, the expense of the support of the poor has, within
these few years, been greatly increased. The average yearly ex-
pense for the last seven years was L. 35, 17s. Assuming the
number of families relieved to be 20, this gives nearly L. 1, 16s.
for each. At the same time, a number of these cannot be con-


