
			COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                             149

	being stranded and killed, the landlords on whose property they
	were driven, and the Crown or its donatory, exacted and received
	shares. To this claim the latter had apparently no right, ex-
	cept what might have been derived from ancient usages under the
	Norwegian rule, and if this were a valid authority in the whale
	question, it would be so in many others, and confer privileges on
	the Shetlands, of which Scottish law is unconscious.  The land-
	lords, on the other hand, have an obvious right to a share, both
	in equity and usage, just as a proprietor on the Scottish coast
	may demand a high rent for a barren rock, which happens to be fa-
	vourably situated as a site for a lighthouse, or a station for a fishery.
	   Almost all the British sea-birds are to be met with in Shetland
	at one season or another; but I am not aware that any are pecu-
	liar to it.  They are, in some localities, very numerous, and are
	eagerly sought after by the natives, who are among the most dex-_
	terous and intrepid fowlers anywhere to be found.  These climbers
	seldom act in concert with each other, as is done in St Kilda,
	Faroe, and many other places, but fearlessly and singly scramble
	amongst precipices where a finger or a toe can hardly find a hold.
        This practice should be here sternly discouraged.  The benefit
	from it is trifling.  It leads to idle and irregular habits, and is of-
	ten fatal to life.  The destruction, too, of these lovely tenants
	of the precipices, robs the wild grandeur of the scene of one of
	its most interesting attractions.  In defending their nests from
	rapacious birds, they become also the protectors of the flocks that
	pasture in their vicinity ; and it is singular that proprietors are
	not more alive to the utility of their preservation.  The land-birds
	are comparatively few in number and species, principally from
	the absence of woodlands.  No attraction for sportsmen, in the
	shape of grouse or partridge, is to-be met with on our damp and
	lonely moors.
	   Most of the fishes found on the British coasts are to be met
	with here.  Those in the small lakes and rivulets are the eel,
	common trout, and sea-trout.  I doubt if it can be affirmed
	that salmon have been caught in Shetland ; but when eminent
	and experienced icththyologists find it to be a matter of such
	difficulty to furnish an accurate specific distinction for this fish,
	it would be presumptuous to assert that it does not occur
	here.  The rivulets are short and shallow, and almost all of them
	tinctured deeply with moss.  These circumstances may be the


