
     of Galashiels.

ready money, at least 5 s per yard wholesale from a dealer,
or about 6 s, when sold in retail.  The coarseft cloths are made
of wool, which yields only, when scoured, 8 flips per stone.
They are wove with no more than 600 threads of warp in the 
loom, are about six-eights of a yard in breadth, when finished,
and are sold, in wholesale to dealers, at 1 s 4 d per yard.-
From these facts, it seems fair to conclude, that the average 
produce of wool must be 20 flips of yarn per stone, and that
the average price of cloth should be 3 s 2 d per yard wholesale.
Yet, in fact, notwithstanding the high average price of wool,
and its consequent fineness, the average quantity of yarn pro-
duced does not exceed 16 flips per stone, and the average
price of cloth wholesale, is scarcely 2 s 6 d per yard;-a strik-
ing proof of its excellence.  For all manufacturers know, that
wool, spun beyond its fineness, makes unthrifty cloth; where-
as a thread, coarser than the wool will admit, is both more 
easily drawn; and more equal; and consequently makes the 
finest and most durable cloth.  In spinning wool, 241 women
are constantly employed, besides occasional spinsters. Such
of them, as have no avocations, will make 12 cuts in a day,
for which they are paid 6 d.  But as family concerns, field and
harvest work, and such other bye-jobs, take up a great part of
their time, let 100 days in a year be allowed for these avoca-
tions, and still, in the remaining days of the year, they would
spin, at the above rate, more yarn, than can be produced from
the 143 packs of wool, purchased for the current season.  Yet
not only are they always furnished with as much wool as they
can spin, but three machines also, with 30 and 36 spindles
each, which, at an average, spin at least 24 slips in a day a-
mong them, are employed always two, and often three days
every week.  In like manner, there are 43 looms in the vil-
lage and suburbs, 9 of which are only occasionally used by the
aged and infirm, and by young boys.  Supposing these 9, to


