
146                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

inhabitants was about 600. From that time the population has
been constantly decreasing. This circumstance may be easily ac-
counted for. About the middle of the last century, it had a
bleachfield, a starch-work, a brewery, and distillery; now, there is
no public work of any kind, and little employment for either trades-
men or labourers. It is very healthy, and indeed may be said to
enjoy every natural advantage for domestic comfort. Though
not a market-town, it is not inconveniently situated with regard to
markets, having Haddington on the east, at the distance of about
8 miles, Dalkeith on the west, at the distance of 6 miles, Edin-
burgh, at the distance of 12 miles. Last winter a corn-market
was established at Tranent, which may be of great advantage to
the parish of Ormiston. By a late measurement, the distance from
the cross to the post-road at Tranent was found to be exactly 2
miles 2 furlongs and 152 feet.
   Although the village is well supplied with water, all the principal
inhabitants having wells belonging to them, there is no good pub-
lic well for the accommodation of the poorer clases. There was
formerly an open public well in the wynd, which contained at all
times an abundant supply of water; but, to prevent the danger of
children falling into it, it was covered up about ten years ago, and
the water was conveyed by a pipe to the foot of the wynd. This
alteration, in respect of the supply of water, has been prejudicial to
the inhabitants. The cross stands in the centre, rising 15 1/2 feet
above the level of the street.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office in the village,
which is kept up entirely by the inhabitants, every family subscrib-
ing a small sum annually, or paying something for every letter and
newspaper. It communicates with the post-office at Tranent once
a-day, and there receives the letters and newspapers front the Lon-
don mail.
   The turnpike road runs through the parish from north to south
for about five miles, and is twice intersected by the parish of Pen-
caitland. About fifteen years ago, John Earl of Hopetoun, hav-
ing procured a subscription, and added, himself, what was neces-
sary to complete the work, got three small bridges erected upon
the public road, in the immediate vicinity of the village, one over
a little stream to the north, called the Puddle-burn, where, in floods
and meltings, of the ice, the road was very much obstructed. The
others were built immediately below the mill, about 20 yards dis-
tant from each other, where the road was constantly covered by


