
                            PITSLIGO                        401

to their character in the country.  Labourers get 1s. per day in
summer with victuals, and 1s. 6d. without victuals.  In winter, la-
bourers' wages may be stated at from 8d. to 10d., with two meals
per day; but they are generally very ill employed during the win-
ter months.  Square wrights, who work by the day, charge 1s. 6d.
with victuals ; masons, 2s. 6d. to 3s. per day without victuals;
slaters the same.
  Live-Stock.-What is called the pure Aberdeenshire breed of
cattle has been propagated in this parish from time immemorial.
About five years ago, a few farmers joined and introduced a short-
horned bull.  The crosses with the Buchan cows have given every
satisfaction.  The cross breeds, which have been fed at the same
stall from the birth with Buchan stock, have generally realized
more money at the end of the third year.  The pure Hereford
cattle were introduced to this parish two years ago.  The yearling
crosses promise well, but nothing decided can as yet be said about
them.  The farmer's object now is to procure a breed of cattle,
uniting early maturity with propensity to fatten.
   The general system of farming here is alternate cropping, either
upon a five or seven-shift.  The fifth shift is adhered to in small
possessions, while the seven shift is more comnion on the large
farms.  The fifth shift is, 1. turnips or potatoes; 2. barley or oats
with grass seeds; 3. hay; 4. grass; 5. oats.  The seventh shift
is, 1. turnips or potatoes; 2. barley or oats with grass seeds; 3.
hay; 4. pasture ; 5. pasture ; 6. oats ; 7. oats.
   Soils.-The parish has a diversity of soils, viz. clay or loam, light
black soil and moss : these are so interspersed, that almost every
farm has a share of each, the light soils being at least in the propor-
tion of four to one.
   Manure.-The farmers on the seacoast have the advantage of the
drift sea-ware, which enables them not only to top-dress their leas,
but to have a crop of barley instead of oats, on what is here pro-
vincially called yavil, or the second crop after grass.  Farmers two
or three miles from the sea shore have a substitute for sea-ware
in the article of herring refuse, which is to be found at Fraser-
burgh and Rosehearty.  It is mixed up with earth, and has a won-
derful effect.  As much may be had for L.1 as will completely
top-dress an acre.  Farmers still farther removed from the coast
make use of bone-dust for the additional manure they require.
   Leases.-The common duration of leases is nineteen years.  Far-
mers complain that proiprietors do not inform them, two years before
   ABERDEEN.                       C C


