
     Statistical Account

are kept clean, and otherwise properly attended to, thrive ex-
tremely well, and become, in a few years, a very strong
fence.  On some farms, trees are planted in the hedges.  It
is much to be regretted, that this mode of inclosing was not
more generally practised.  These hedge rows, besides the
warmth and shelter which they afford, embellish and enrich,
to a very great degree, the whole face of the country.  What-
ver reluctance and aversion, from ignorance or prejudice,
the farmers might, at first, discover to inclosing, they now
feel and acknowledge its advantages, and consequently are
universally fond of it.  Disregarding the former absurd divi-
sion into outfield and infield, or croft, farms are now divided
into 3 or 4 inclosures, as nearly equal as possibly can be done.
Such farms as are divided into 3 inclosures, or, as they are
commonly called, breaks, the tenant, by his lease, is bound,
under a certain stipulated penalty, to plow one only of these
at a time; to crop 3 years, and pasture 5.  The 4th year it
is cut for hay.  The principal crop is oats.  He sows between
6 and 7 bushels an acre:  Reaps, at a medium, from 5 to 6
bolls.  On a clay soil, or a rich loam, beans are sown, at the
rate of between 5 and 6 bushels an acre.  The average pro-
duce is 7 bolls, 5 bushels to the boll.  Four bushels bear pro-
duce 5 bolls, 8 bushels to the boll.  There is however very
little bear now sown, and no wheat nor barley, and but few
beans.  The almost universal crop in the parish is oats.  Some
time in the month of August it is limed on the sward; and,
about a fortnight or three weeks before plowing, whatever
dung the farmers have, is laid out, and spread over the lime.
The price of lime at the draw-kill, is from 4 1/2 d. to 5 d. a bu-
shel.  The ground is sown down the 3d year with rye-grass
and clover, at the rate of 3 bushels rye-grass an acre, and
from 6 lb. to 10 lb. red and white clover.  The produce is
from 150 to 200 stones, 24 English lbs. to the stone.  Farms,


