
62                  	KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

mote quarters of the parish, at which from 20 to 30 children re-
ceive sound instruction in the elements of saving knowledge.
        Library-A library has lately been formed in connection with
the Sabbath schools. The funds, which have not yet risen to
any considerable amount were derived from private donations,-
a few of the heritors having kindly contributed. The volumes
are partly religious, partly suited for general instraction and en-
tertainment.
	A private subscription library, for religious reading, was also
set on foot some years ago. There are sixteen shares, who
subscribes 2s. 6d. per annum, with 2s. 6d. additional at entry. A
new volume is purchased monthly, which is put in circulation,
and makes its round, remaining for a month in the hands of each
subscriber.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on
our roll may be stated at 26; the average allowance at L.3 per
annum. The entire funds at the disposal of the session amount
to above L.70; but these funds are burdened with the salary of
the precentor and the beadle, and other contingencies. L. 40
or thereby are derived from the ordinary collections, the re-
mainder from the interest of Mr Rainy's, and another small mor-
tification.
	Through our poor ar by no means discontented, nor disposed
to burden the parish with their aliment, so long as they are able
by any honest means to earn a meagre subsistence, yet we can-
not say, that, from the funds above-mentioned, adequate provision
is made for their wants. Cases of much hardship and privation
often come to under our notice; and though we can always appeal
with confidence to many of our kind and charitably disposed pa-
rishioners, we could wish at the same time to have an ampler
treasury at our disposal.
        Inns.-There are five licensed tons or ale-houses, three at
least of which are uncalled for by the necessities of the place.
        Fuel.-Peats were formerly abundant. The fuel now univer-
sally used is coal, which is imported, of excellent quality, from
the coal-pits of Cumberland, at the price varying from L.1 to
L.1, 6s. per 24 bushels.

	  Drawn up in 1841,
	Revised December 1843.


