
                                 ROSSKEEN.                               275

          tioned, three villages in this parish, the largest of which Inver-
          gordon, contains 1000 inhabitants. It is equidistant,from the burgh
          towns of Tain and Dingwall, and is altogether most centrically situ-
          ated. Few places, indeed, seem to possess such natural advan-
          tages for becoming a place of trade and commerce. It enjoys
          the most ample means of communication, by means of coaches
          and steamers. The north and south mails pass daily through Inver-
          gordon. The Duchess of Sutherland,a new and lagnificent steamer,
          plies once a fortnight to London, and a large sum has been already
          subscribed, for building another for the same station. The Bril-
          liant steam-ship plies regularly, during the summer, once a week,
          between Invergordon and Inverness, Aberdeen and Leith ; and the
          Velocity once a fortnight. A number of years ago, a boat-slip
          was erected at Invergordon, and a few years ago, a fine pier for
          large vessels was also erected. A wooden jetty was last year added
          to the pier, with a view to command ten feet water, at ebb-tide;
          but, from the absurd manner in which it has been constructed, it
          has, since its erection, been found to be of not the smallest use. A
          considerable quantity of grain is shipped annually at this port, for
          Leith and London ; but we have been informed that, were it not
          that the shore dues are twice as high as at any other port, the amount
          shipped would perhaps be treble what it now is. It would cer-
          tainly be for the benefit, both of the place and of the proprietor,
          were the shore dues reduced to a reasonable rate. We may men-
          tion, that, from the 8th March to 12th August 1836, 150 bul-
          locks, and 746 sheep and lambs were shipped at Invergordon, by
          the London steamer for that port. There is also a harbour at
          Dalmor, at which a very considerable quantity of timber, chiefly
          fir, is annually shipped for the north of England. There are se-
          veral roads of many miles extent, in this parish, all of them in
          excellent condition.
             Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the centre of the
          parish, and its situation is most convenient so far as population is con-
          cerned. The district of Ardross is, indeed, distant from the church;
          but the modern system of large farms has reduced the population
          greatly in that extensive Highland district, so that, where the prayers
          and praies of a pious peasantry were once heard echoing through the
          glens of their native hills, now, nothing is heard,but the bleating of
          sheep or the bark of the shepherd's dog. But, of a population of rather
          more than 3000, about 2800 are within a three or three and a-half
          miles of the partish chureh,- which to the hardy Highlander is only


