
470 	                       LANARKSHIRE.

	There is only one moss of any considerable extent in the parish,
called the Hazeldean moss; and which of late years has been all
drained and brought into a state of high cultivation, by the spirit-
ed and enterprising proprietor, Mr William Smellie of Burn. This
moss, though formerly not worth 1s. per acre, is now yielding im-
mense crops of potatoes, oats, barley, wheat, rye, clover, and rye-
grass.
	Climate.--The parish of Stonehouse being in the very centre of
the narrowest part of the island, equidistant alike from the sea on
the east and west, partakes of all the variety of weather incident
to places so situated. Most of the heavy rains and winds are
from the west and south-west; the most prevalent, however, is the
west, which sweeping over the vast Atlantic Ocean, often brings
along with it vast collections of clouds and vapours, which pour
themselves down in heavy drenching rains from the western shore
till they reach considerably beyond the centre of the island before
they are exhausted.
	Geology.--The parish abounds with freestone, and in some
places, with a kind of rotten trap or whinstone, excellently fitted for
the making of roads. There is also abundance of lime of the best
quality. Ironstone is found in thin beds above the lime, but mostly
in round detached masses, of a very superior quality. Coal is al-
so abundant, though not wrought at present, but for the purpose
of lime-burning. In the fissures occasionally found in the lime
beds, there are beautiful specimens, of mica, delightfully bedropped
on the surface with shining globular particles of a bright yellow
substance, like the diamonds found in some slates. There are
also found, in these fissures, pieces of a jet black substance, not
unlike, and possessing in some degree, the softness and elasti-
city of the Indian rubber; which easily ignites, and burns with a
bright flame, and entirely consumes, leaving little or no residuum.
	Hydrography.--There are no lakes in the parish. There former-
ly existed, at a place called Gozlington, a pretty large marsh, the
resort of wild geese, ducks, and other water-fowls; but now the
water being all drained off, it is converted into excellent meadow
ground. The only river that runs through the parish is the Avon,
which has its source on the confines of Ayrshire,--whence it takes
an easterly direction, flowing through the parishes of Strathaven,
Glasford, and Stonehouse, where, after being joined by the Kype,
Cander water, and other small streams, it turns to the north, pas-
sing through the parishes of Dalserf and Hamilton, and falls into


