
	               TONGLAND.                               77

is entitled to claim the merit of having established it. On hear-
iug of his investigations, the present tacksman of the Tongland fish-
ery, Mr Gilloneil a person of some intelligence and much curiosity.
commenced a series of experiments with salmon roe upon. the, same
principles. These experiments are not yet completed, but I wit,
nessed, them from the time that the embryo was taken from the
salmon bed, fourteen months ago, up to the present moment, and,
so far as they have gone, they exactly coincide with the process
detailed by Mr Shaw. Another year is required to finish the ex-
periment, but the result seems certain. What Mr Shaw has suc-
ceeded go well in showing is, that the par remains for upwards of
two years in the fresh water before seeking the sea or acquiring
the scaly appearance of the fry, and that, in the course of the se-
cond year, it makes very little additional growth. A clear expla-
nation is thus supplied of a circumstance which naturally caused
a good deal of scepticism about the new theory--par and fry, which
differ very little in size but much in appearance, being found to-
gether in rivers at the same time. The effect which this discovery,
if turned to practical purposes, is likely to have on the multiplica-
tion of salmon, is too obvious to be pointed out. In confirmation
of its soundness, I may mention a remark often made by old fish-
ermen, that the effects of an unfavourable breeding time, either
from severity of frost or a scanty supply of rain, appeared in dimi-
nishing the number of salmon, not in the two seasons immediately
following, but in the third., On the supposition that Mr Shaw's ex-
periments are conclusive, that is exactly what was to be expected
and the unintentional correspondence between his theory and the
opinion of men who had no guide but long experience, may be re-
garded as a somewhat interesting evidence of its truth. Immediately
on entering the river, the salmon begin to lose their beautiful and
clear appearance, becoming gradually darker till they deposit their
spawn, when they are often quite black; but after that event, the
bright colour reappears, and on finally quitting the fresh water,
they differ little in outward aspect from those ascending frow the
sea, except in the lankness of their shape and the discoloration
of their gills. After getting to the sea, the salmon increases very
rapidly. The fry which descends in May a few ounces in weight
returns in July or August a grilse of six or eight pounds, a rapid
growth certainly, but not much more so than that of some land
animals.
	The right of fishing belongs exclusively to Mr Murray of
Broughton, and must have been acquired by prescription, as a very



