
          184                          PERTHSHIRE.

          the parish, may introducer dissoluteness of manners, and a disre.
          gard of religion, which is as yet foreign to the character of our
          people; and of which we have only had a slight specimen in the
          few strangers that have been attracted to the flax spinning-mill
          that is already in operation.
            Poaching salmon formerly prevailed in some degree, but is now
          entirely suppressed.  Poaching in game also was formerly more
          prevalent than it is now.  There are still some characters, how-
          ever, that are suspected to be addicted to it; but these are al-
          ways looked down upon by the rest of the people.  Smuggling
          and pawnbroking were never known among them.

                                   IV.-INDUSTRY.
          <TABLE>
             Agricuklttre
          There are in the parish                                  7680 acres.
          Of these there aye under wood,                            860
                        uncultivated, including roads, fences, &c.  440
                        in grass about                              600
                        under culture,                             5780
            Rent of Land.-The average rent of land in the parish may be
          stated to be from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2 per acre. The grazing of a
          full-grown ox may cost from L. 2, 1 Os. to L. 3; of a two-year old do.
          L. 2 to L. 2, 5s. ; of a yearling do.  L. 1, 10s. to L. 1, 15s. ; of a
          Highland  sheep Ss. to 9s. ; of a Leicester do. 12s. to 16s.
            Live-Stock.-The breed of black-cattle in this parish was not,
          till within these twenty years, distinguished by any peculiar charac-
          ter, but consisted of a mixture of all different forms and sizes.
          About that time, however, an importation was made of the Tees-
          water, or short-horned blood; and the prevailing stock on the
          best farms is now a cross, in various proportions, of that breed
          with the Ayrshire, or some other breed.
            Most of the farmers are also getting into the way of keeping a
          few Leicester shdep; and Lord Lynedoch has in the parish a
          small flock of Southdowns.  With these exceptions, there is no re-
          gular breeding-.stock of sheep kept in the parish, but 'Most of the
          farmers are in the way of having a flying stock, which is bought in
          autumn, and sold at different periods.  If the stock purchased be
          three year old wedders, they are flaked through the winter on tur-
          nips, and sold early in spring.  If they be two-year old wedders,
          they are kept on turnips through the winter, and grazed the fol-
          lowing summer; or if, as is ,the more common case, they be
          Highland owes, they are crossed with Leicester rams, and after
          feeding their lambs, are generally got fat by autumn, when they


