
			     AYTON.			       135

sen, in part at least, on account of their contiguity to the Roman
road, for long subsequently to the retiring of the Romans it would
be the best, if not the only great, thoroughfare of the country.
Cairnchester, another camp hard by, of which there are now no
vestiges but the name, and Chesterdale and Chesterbank, all in-
dicate that this hill had been often selected for encampments on
account of the fitness of its locality for that purpose. *  These,
however, in process of time, gave place to castles, of which there
ire many remains in all the border counties, and which proved
stronger and more permanent places of defense than camps.
   Castle of Ayton.-Among these the Castle of Ayton seems to
have held a distinguished place, as we learn from a siege to which
it was subjected by Surry the renowned gdneral of Henry VII. in
1497, when, as Ford in his dramatic chronicle sayeth or singeth,
	     "This strongest of their forts
	     Old Ayton Castle (was) yielded and demolished."
It seems to have been founded long after the conquest, by a Nor-
man of the name of De Vescie, who having formed a settlement
on the banks of the Eye, erected a castle and collected his vassals
around him. The village of Ayton sprang u under the castle
walls for mutual protection. The family name of De Vescie was af-
terwards changed into that of De Eitun: and the Aytons of Inch-
dartley in Fife are supposed to be the lineal descendants of this
ancient family.
   Estate of Ayton.-About the commencement of the fifteenth cen-
tury, the estate of Ayton fell into the possession of the Homes, who
about that period had acquired great sway in Berwickshire. In 1715
it passed from the Homes, when the sentence of forfeiture was in-
curred by James Home, the last proprietor of that name, who had
abetted the Earl of Mar in his vain attempt to reinstate the Stew-
arts upon the throne. After remaining a few years vested in the

<FOOTNOTE>It may be proper to mention here an occurrence which happened in regard to
the signal station erected during the late war, close by the ancient camp of Habches-
ter; which eventually proved an experiment on the spirit of the country. The man
at the station mhstaking some whins blazing in the west for an inland alarm of the
French landing, quickly lighted his beacon fire. This being observed from the
manse windows by the former incumbent, was instantly communicated to the vila-
gers, many of whom being volunteers were at their posts in a moment, and ready to
march to repel the foe. The alarm spread in all directions. Both horse and foot
volunteers, from all parts of Berwickshire, were immediately on their route to the
place of rendezvous at Dunbar. The news soon reached Edinburgh, and both town
and country were all in commotion. Some serious and distressing alarms were un-
avoidably the consequence, and might have been aggravated tenfold, had not the of-
ficer commanding the first of the shore stations at St Abb's Head, prudently ab-
stained from repeating the signal, although he saw it distinctly. But being a thorough
bred navy officer, he understood his duty better than to depart a hair's breadth
from the line of his instructions, which were to communicate by signal only what
he observed at sea.


