
242                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

   Literature.--There is a good parochial library, consisting of re-
ligious books, and works on general knowledge, historical and
scientific, numbering upwards of 400 volumes.*/f
   Charitable and other Institutions.--A society was formed in 1837,
for the purpose of supplying meal at a cheap rate to the poor and
labouring class. To this society, Sir James Carnecrie, Bart and the
late General Burnett lent L.25 each, free of interest, and Mr Lums-
den L.5, and about L.40 was raised in the parish by subscriptions and
donations. The fund is laid out in the purchase of meal, or corn
to be converted into meal when the price is low, which stock is
sold out at prime cost, (including the trifling, expense of manage-
ment) when the price rises. The regular poor, and those of the
labouring-class who subscribe a small sum, are allowed to be pur-
chasers. The quantity sold to the latter is regulated by the
amount of their subscriptions. Any subscriber may withdraw
when he pleases, on giving three months' notice. A committee is
annually appointed first week of December, at a public meeting
of the subscribers and donators, consisting of three of the labour-
ing-class subscribers, and three of the farmers who have given do-
nations; which committee is empowered to lay out the funds to the
best advantage, and manage the affairs of the association for the
ensuing year. As soon as the price of meal rises, the stock is
opened, and sales are made weekly or fortnightly, for ready money
only. The advantage derived from this association, (besides hav-
ing always at hand a stock of good meal), principally consists in
the price at which the managers of the fund are enabled to sell it,
being generally very considerably under that of the market. The
first year of its institution (1837), the stock was sold at 15s. per
boll, wbet)i meal could not be had in the market under L.1, 2s.
At present, (August 1840), the price is 18s. per boll, while that
of the market is so high as L.1, 5s to L.1,6s. There is thus a
saving frequently of from 7s. to 8s. per boll, which, to the labour-
ing man with a large family, is considerable, and the subscribers
have long since saved the amount of their original subscriptions,
which still remain to be called for at pleasure.
	It will be perceived, from the nature of this institution, that
much depends on its judicious management. Hitherto the asso-
ciation has been very fortunate in the purchase and preservation
of their stock.

<FOOTNOTE>A Juvenile Library of 100 volumes was obtained in 1841 for the use of the week'
day and Sabbath school.
				4



