
10                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

tion of Original, Seceders.  There is also an Independent chapel.
A small Baptist congregation assembles in a room in a private
house. The ministers of these places of worship are paid by their
hearers.
  There is no Episcopalian or Roman Catholic chapel in the
parish.
  The number of families attending the Established Church may
be about 800, and the number of individuals about 2400.
  The number of families attending the other places of worship
may be about 200, and the number of individuals about 600.
Some of these are from other parishes.
  The average attendance in ordinary weather at the parish
church is from 1400 to 1500; and at the Dissenting places of
worship 500.
  The number of communicants connected with the Established
Church is about 300.
  There is a Bible Society in Thurso, supported by Christians of
all denominations, which collects about L. 30 annually. There is
a Parochial Association for support of the Assembly's schemes,
whose funds, except for Church Extension, are derived wholly
from collections at the church door.  The sum collected may also
average about L. 30 per annum.  This is independent of an an-
nual sum of L. 38, subscribed for church extension for five years,
and which has already been paid for one year.
  There is a Society in the parish for the relief of the destitute
sick, supported by Christians of all denominations, whose receipts
may average L.15 annually.
  The average amount of collections at the parish church for re-
ligious and charitable objects, including the L. 30 already specified,
and including also the ordinary collections for the poor, is about
L.120. Of this sum the ordinary collections for the poor make
up L. 80.
   Education-The number of schools in the parish is about 16,
viz. 1 parochial, 12 unendowed, 2 supported by societies, and I
by subscription. Besides these, an Assembly school is about being
opened.
   In many of these schools only English reading is taught. In
others, are taught reading, writing, and arithmetic, and in female
schools sewing; and in a few, the usual higher branches.
   The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the maximum. The


