
106                         AYRSHIRE.

were at one time many large trees, probably of several hundred
years of age.
	Boundaries and Extent.-- Ochiltree is bounded on the south by
the parishes of New Cumnock and Dalmellington; on the east,
by Old Cumnock and Auchinleck; on the north, by the parish of
Stair; and on the west, by Stair and Coylton. Taking the extreme
points, it extends about 8 miles in length, by 5 in breadth, and
contains, by the admeasurement of the several estates in it, 15,387
imperial acres, or 24 27/646 square miles.
	Topographical Appearances.--The greater part of the land lies
on an elevation of from 400 to 1000 feet above the level of the
sea, with a northern exposure, forming ridges of different lengths
and heights, running in general from east to west, and connected
with flat pieces of land composed of meadow and moss.
	The temperature is very variable, with considerable falls of rain.
	The soil is chiefly of a clayey nature, and the air often damp
and chilly. It frequently happens that the crops are late in ripen-
ing, and not well filled.
	Hydrography.--There are many springs of excellent water in
the parish. There are two lochs,--one of them about 27 acres
in extent, and from 2 feet to 20 feet in depth, and the other of
smaller dimensions. They are only useful as reservoirs for cattle
in very dry seasons.
	These lochs, which lie quite open, with gently rising grounds
around them, could be easily drained; but it may be questionable
whether the land to be thus gained would repay the expense of
the necessary outlay. The Lugar runs between the parishes of
Ochiltree and Auchinleck; and Coila divides the parish of Ochil-
tree from that of Coylton. The Burnoch Water, and several other
small streams or burns, fall at different points into the Lugar or
Coila, which run into the river Ayr.
	Geology.--Although it be known that there are several seams
of coal within the parish, none is raised, from the impression that
they could not be worked to advantage. No limestone has been
discovered. There is plenty of freestone in various places, par-
ticularly on the banks of the Lugar, and at Garrochhill. Iron-
stone, in thin beds, has been discovered in the hills of Polquhairn
and Greenhill but not in such quantities as to encourage any work
to be carried thereon.
	From the declivity of the different ridges already referred to,
which mark the appearance of the parish, there has been much


