
262                         FIFESHIRE.

acres require to be drained. While these remain without drains,
probably the use of the trench-plough would be beneficial. The
soil is clay and till, and, if not broken and opened by some imple-
ment, is quite impervious to water. Of course the surface water
subsides no deeper than the common plough furrow; there it rests
at the roots of the grain plants, by which their growth is imped-
ed, and their fruitfulness diminished. But if the impervious soil
below the ordinary furrow were opened and broken by the trench-
plough, a considerable portion of the water would subside to the
bottom of its furrows, and the roots would in some measure be re-
lieved from the pernicious effects they had been previously suffer-
ing. The use of the same implement would be no less beneficial
to the dry lands; it would give fresh vigour and fertility by turn-
ing up soil which had been years at rest. In some places too,
where there is want of sufficiedt depth of soil, a considerable ad-
dition would be acquired from the subsoil, consisting of what is
commonly called rotten rock; which, when turned up and expos-
ed to the air, the varieties of weather,-wet and dry, soon pul-
verise and convert into fertile soil. The period within which
and the places where the plough is to be applied, the rotation of
crops must in a great measure regulate; and by considering and
having respect to the rotation, the judicious farmer will be quali-
fied to lay down a proper rule for himself, with regard both to
the periods and places.
   The moderate distance of Auchtertool from the grain corn mar-
ket in Kirkaldy, with a turnpike road between them, is very advan-
tageous to the agriculture of this parish, and that advantage might
be increased by altering the line of road. The road is kept in
good repair, but the line of road is objectionable. There are se -
veral hard pulls in it, which would be avoided by another line
without a pull in it. The preferable line is so obvious, that the
manner in which carriage was performed, and the imperfect man-
ner in which roads formerly were made and kept, can alone account
for its not being preferred at first. Carriage was then performed
on horseback, and, as ridges were generally driest, they were pre-
ferred as the lines of roads.
   There is also a turnpike road from Auchtertool to Kinghorn
and Pettycur, but the numerous severe pulls in it, render it nearly
useless for carriage. On that road, a horse would be oppressed
with half the load that he could draw,to Kirkaldy, notwithstanding
the objections to the line of that road which has been stated. Ac-


