
                              KELSO.                              301

now used as a race-course, formed the favourite resort of a colony of
sea-mews and wild-ducks, which regularly returned in the brood-
ing season to its reeds and flags, and supplied by their eggs an
article of considerable profit to the children of the poor.  The
last of these morasses has now disappeared under the ameliorating
processes of draining and tillage; and intermittent fever, which
was for centuries the scourge of the district, has departed with it.
  Unfortunately no meteorological registers exist, of suffucient du-
ration and accuracy to furnish data for determining the mean
range either of temperature or of humidity; but the general mild-
ness of the climate is sufficiently vouched by various well ascer-
tained facts.  Not only have grapes, as the black Hamburgh and
white sweet-water kind, ripened in the open air, during an occa-
sional hot summer, and polyanthuses, primroses, laurustines, &c.
been frequently in full blow during the winter months; but va-
rious rare plants have stood the winter, and bloomed abundantly
in the open air for many years; among which may be specified
the Agapanthus umbellatus (blue African lily,) Euromocarpus sca-
bra, Passiflora coerulea, Glycinea Sinensis, Fuchsia coccinea, conica,
gracilis, Thomsonia and virgata, as also most of the new varieties
of Chinese roses.
  Rivers.--The only rivers are the two already referred to, the
Tweed and the Teviot,--their tributaries in the parish being but
inconsiderable burns, which serve only to diversify the scenery at
the point of influx into the principal streams.  The Tweed is here
about 440 feet in width; and the Teviot 200 feet; though the
latter, in consequence of being diverted to form a mill-lead, is some-
what shorn of its fair proportions at the very point, that of its
confluence with the Tweed,--where the lover of scenery can worst.
spare its full freight of waters.  Neither of these rivers, if we ex-
cept occasional pools or wheels, as they are locally designated, is,
in ordinary circumstances, of any considerable depth or velocity.
But from the length of their course, and the number of mountain-
streams which fall into them, they are subject to frequent and
sudden floods.  Sometimes both are flooded simultaneously, and
unite in one turbid and headlong stream, "rolling red from bank
to brae." Atother times, the Teviot, which is of the two the more
liable to floods, is seen after its confluence with the Tweed, carry-
ing down its body of dense and discoloured waters on one side of
their common channel; whilst the waters of the Tweed, as if un-
willing to combine with it, flow along on the opposite side, pollu-


