
			FORDOUN.                             85

workmanship, but containing the skeletons of bodies laid out at
full length, and the bones untouched."
	On the opposite side of the valley, on the west flank of Strath-
finella Hill, near the Mill of Kineardine, and overlooking the
Ferdun, stands (as tradition reports) Finella Castle or Green
Castle, which gave name to the hill, on the slope of which it is
situated. It is placed on the top of the east bank of the Ferdun.
Above the average height of this brae or bank, and on a distinct
platform of mould earth, a circular basin is raised to the height of
30 or 40 feet, being in all 80 or 100 feet above the river. The
interior of the castle forms an enclosure of perhaps nearly one-
fourth of an acre in extent; and is surrounded by a green mound,
of from 20 to 25 feet in height : the opening is towards the north-
east. *
          +" Near Fordoun House is part of a camp or Roman station ; it
is about 90 yards long by 50 wide. Of this camp nothing now
remains except the proetorium ; but in the younger days of the
present clergyman, lie found old people who could trace to him
a considerable part of the outlines of the camp, which were most
extensive, and had been defended by triangular forts, at the diffe-
rent corners, by outposts, and by a deep morass at the lower ex-,
tremity. It was capable of containing a large army. These out-
works have now been levelled, and the morass has been turned
into, a dry and very productive field. In trenching that morass,
the heads of several Roman spears were found, one of which is
now in the possession of John Carnegie, Esq. Redball. A gold
ring, similar to what we are told the Roman knights wore, was
also found; and a number of bones have been dug up in various
places near and at a greater distance from the camp. Part of
these were enclosed in rough unhewn stone chests, and fell to dust
when the were exposed to the air,--part of them buried under
eairns, and severals were laid in the open fields, and were acci-
dentally turned up by the plough. In those urns which were found
entire, there were generally a considerable quantity of calcined or
half-burnt bones. The urns themselves were of clay, of very rough

<FOOTNOTE>From the circular shape of this artificial mound and its material, it has been
doubted whether it ever was a residence, as here stated,'but rather ones of those Pict-
ish or British forts, commonly called ringt, and found in similar situation in other
parts of Scotland. 'To accommodate this theory to our historical accounts, a pro-
bable site may be found fur Fitiella's Castle in the remains of a vitrified structure
near Balbegno, in the adjoining parish.
          Notice by Dr Leslie.



