
     of Kilmore and Kilbride.

   Roads, Bridges, etc.-There is one great line of road finish-
ed, from Conil Ferry to the extremity of the parish, on the
S., about 6 miles in length; another from Oban to Kilmore
Kirk, across the middle of the parish eastward, about 4 miles
in length; and a third from Oban to Conil, running also east-
ward.  It is now the common road for carriages, etc. from
Oban to Inveraray.-Bridges are thrown over wherever they
are necessary.  These roads have all been made during the in-
cumbency of the present minister, within these last 33 years.
There are 4 principal inns, viz. at Oban, Conil, Claghchom-
bie*, and Kilmore, nigh the kirk, besides several smaller
ones.  There is rather too much whisky drunk in all of them.

   Black Cattle and Horses.-The breed of black cattle in this
parish is of the best West Highland kind.  They are a good
deal larger than those in the North Highlands, and are much
approved of at market.-Such as are bred by gentlemen of
property, bring from 4 L. 10 s. to 5 L. 10 s. a head; and some
have been sold at 6 L. and upwards.  The cattle bred by the

<FOOTNOTE>

years after, returned with a banditti of miscreants, with whom he conspired to
set fire to the village near Oban, in which his grandfather dwelt.  On the ap-
pearance of the vessel, which brought them before Oban, the inhabitants received
intelligence of their intentions, and likewise of the crew being infected with
the pestilence; on which the inhabitants collected a superior force, watched their
landing, apprehended them, and shut them up within the cave, where, by the
humanity of the young man's grandfather, they were (though closely guarded);
fed for some time, till they all died of the disease which they brought to land
with them.-A man, who died lately, once visited this cave in his younger years,
in the hopes of finding a treasure in it; but found only a gold headed cane, and
a large silver broach.  These, however, he afterwards returned, being bounted,
as he believed, by spectres, till he had done so.  The story has superstitious
aspect, but is easily accounted for, by the force of imagination.

*Claghchombie inn is situated where the roads from Oban to Inverary, and
from Conil to Nether Lorn-cross, meet.  It is not far from Kilmore, and was
on the common carriage road to Oban, till of late, that the lower one was finished


