
696                          PERTSHIRE.

fron one acre to fifteen, to the inhabitants of the neighbouring villa-
ges or hamlets.  The disadvantages of this system are to the land-
lord ober-cropping, expense in buildings and repairs, sometimes to
the amount of five or six years' rent at the commencement of a
lease, and the neglect of any improved systems of tillage; and to
the tenant, a frequent struggle with difficulties in keeping up the
skeleton of a little farming establishment, in paying for smith and
wright work, and in combining with labour of his own land
extra jobs as a labourer.  This and similar depressing concomi-
tants would seem to point out the advantage of a gradual change
of system to all parties.  I am, however, no friend to the expul-
sion of any part of the community not chargeable with crime, and
would humbly suggest that caution, tenderness, and time be used
and allowed in the treatment of the hamlet population, and in the
alteration of their circumstances.  The remedy, I should hope,
may in part be left with themselves, as I observe in this class a
growing anxiety to educate their children, and to send them from
home for improvement and employment--a practice which in many
individual cases has resulted in raising their children far above the
depressing circumstances in which they began life.
     Farm-houses and offices are of a very inferior description, as
might be expected, unless of every recent erection.  But of late
great attention has been paid to the improvement of this depart-
ment; and in two or three instances, resident owners of estates
have set an example of the most perfect kind of accomodation
suitable to a large farm, by the erection of home steadings, or of-
fice on the most improved principles, with saw-mills and other fa-
cilities for fences and enclosures.  The duration of leases is nine,
thirteen, and fifteen years.
    The five-shift rotation of crops is generally adopted by the te-
nants of farms, and the four-shift by the cottars.  A very few of
the farmers practice the six-shift rotation.
    Produce.--the crops raised are, wheat, producing 9 bolls per
Scots acre; oats, from 5 to 8 do.; barley, from 5 to 9 do; po-
tatoes, from 40 to 50 do.;rye, 9 do.  Rye is sown in small patches
by the tenantry for their own use; as is also lint, which, forty years
age, occupied perhaps every fourth arable acre in the parish.  Tur-
nips are extending in breadth every year.  The only other crop
is clover, the average yields of which may be stated at 200 stones
of 22 pounds per acre.  This crop will, in all probability, soon
passes to form part of this rotation, as its produce is rapidly de-












































































