
         114                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

         their services, yet they are satisfied.  There is a great emulation be-
         tween the different teachers, and the great question is, who will
         have the best school on the day when they are all brought together
         for examination.  This is a day looked forward to as one of the
         most important in the whole year, by both young and old, and it
         has always proved a source of great satisfaction to those who at-
         tend at the examination.  The state of education is improving
         yearly; and there is one fault peculiar to the Highlands, which has
         been got quit of, and that is, the long drawl with which the words
         are pronounced in reading.  This is now removed, and the style
         of reading is generally excellent.  There is a school for girls sup-
         ported by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, in
         which the pupils are taught sewing and all sorts of needle-work, and
         are kept in mind of their reading and writing.  The school is gene-
         rally attended by from 15 to 20 scholars.  The salary is L. 5 a-year to
         the mistress, besides some trifling fees.  From the number of schools,
         there is not one person in the parish between the ages of six and fif-
         teen, who cannot read or write; and above that age, the number can-
         not be above 125; the number at the last enumeration being 145.
         These are, however, all old people, and are dying fast away, so
         that soon there will not be an uneducated person in the parish.
         Education is prized very highly.  Every one who can, goes to school,
         and this desire has been so well met by the Inverness Society, that
         there is not a single additional sqhool wanted,-except that it would
         be highly advantageous were one of the schools permanent, i. e. kept
         up for the whole year, since the aid schools only continue six
         months, and sometimes not quite so much.  The General Assem-
         bly's Committee has been petitioned to this effect.; and it is hoped
         that the petition may be attended with success, as the object is
         highly praiseworthy,'and the people and heritors are willing to af-
         ford every accommodation.  This prevalence of education has bad
         a great effect on the intelligence of the people.  Every two or three
         villages join in getting a newspaper, and this has as yet had no bad
         effect; and it is to be hoped will have none.  As to their morals,
         they have always been remarkable for sobriety., steadiness, and ho-
         nesty; and education has perhaps in general tended to confirm these
         good qualities.  Education takes a long time to produce a com-
         plete change upon the manners and views of a country; it lies for
         a long time on the surface, and it has not yet taken deep enough
         root here, to produce any visible effect upon the morals of the
         inhabitants.  It, however, promises fair; and we hope in a few

                                      3


