
			GRAITNEY.                        273

strongly urged. The far-farmed marriages of Gretna Green are
celebrated, it is said, to the number of three or four hundred an-
nually. The parties are chiefly from the sister kingdom and from
the lowest ranks of her population. The existence of the law by
which the practice has been, generated is certainly a reproach,to
our country, whether marriage be viewed as a civil or as a sacred
contract. It dispenses with that solemnity which is required for the
ordinance in Scripture; and it presents opportunities for bigamy and
abduction. Parties have been known to betake themselves hither,
from thd north of Scotland itself, to celebrate a marriage which,
a few lines written by a magistrate, a lawyer, a shoemaker, or a
sexton, and signed by two witnesses at home, might have effected
equally well, according to the present law of Scotland. Scarcely
one instance in two years occurs of a couple bellonging to the pa-
rish being thus unlawfully united; and, when cases of the kind did
occur a few years ago, the parties generally went to a neighboring
justice of the peace. Great numbers resort to these altars of Baal,
whose priests are numerous in this district and others, more parti-
cularly about Annan and Coldstream. Their number, indeed, has
sadly injured the trade, for the fees are now only half-a-crown
a-pair. One of these functionaries, who breaks stones daily on
the verge of England, has the best chance of succeeding, for he
accosts every party as they pass, and tries to strike the best bargain,
Tippling-houses have each their rival priest, some of whom satisfy
the parties by merely giving lines signed by witnesses, and others
by jabbering over a portion of the service of the church of England.
	Wherever such irrelgularities are practised, they are calculated
to bring all law and all religion into contempt and ridicule. The
evil can only be remained by an amendment of the law; making
proclamation of banns necessary to a valid marriage throughout
the united kingdom; and surely, were the General Assembly of
our church to send up a petition to Parliament on this subject.
such pernicious practices would be prohibited by legislative enact-
ment.

	Revised March 1834.

	DUMFRIES.                    S


