
     Statistical Account

tificial, and very probably contain the remains of the chiefs
who sell in battle at the time the Danes and Norwegians* af-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Two hills are remarkable for a tradition in the country
concerning them.  The first is situated on the northern extre-
mity of the parish, called Knockgeorgan.  It is accessible only
on one side; and, from its central situation, there is a
extensive prospect of the inland country, the Frith of Clyde,
and Western Isles.  The vestiges of an ancient camp are very
easily traced on this hill, particularly the ramparts and gate-
ways, and in the middle an artificial mound, from whence in
times of distress, or when a Danish fleet was seen advancing to-
wards the shore, signals of alarm were made.  The other is on
the eastern extremity of the same ridge of hills, called Round-
hill, the top of which is entirely a piece of art, 28 yards in
length, and 18 yards broad, and seems to have been construct-
ted for a similar purpose with the former.  From there two hills,
by smoke in the day, and by flame in the night, signals were
communicated from hill to hill till the whole inland country
was alarmed.  That hill tops, in convenient situations, were
used for this purpose, is evident often from their names.  For
example, Lowdown, situated on the extremity of Ayrshire to the
east, signifies the hill of flame.  Betwixt Round-hill and Lowdown
the country is almost a plain upwards of 20 miles.  Not far
from Round-hill is a small farm, called Tower-lodge, where it
is said the centinel who had this charge constantly resided.  It
was originally a gift of the Crown, and to this day pays no cess,
teind, or any other public burden.
   The Castle of Ardrossan is of unknown antiquity, and seems,
from what is still standing, to have been originally a huge
building.  Its walls were entire when Cromwell visited this part
of the country, and fixed his head quarters at the county town.
That usurper had rendered himself very unpopular by occupy-
ing the church of Ayr as an armoury; and, to conciliate the
minds of the people to his measures, he beautified the town, by
building the sort and parapet, which are yet standing.  For
this purpose, he threw down the walls of the Castle of Ardros-
san, and carried the stones in boats over sea, so little were quar-
ries known in these days, in which the county of Ayr al-
most every where abounds!  The Earl of Eglintoune at that
time resided in the small island of Cumbray, and must have seen
with much pain a place of such strength and beauty belonging
to him laid in ruins.  After the restoration, the sort of Ayr,


