
     Statistical Account

can be conveniently carried away when sold from this yard
either to Leith or London.  The wood here manufactured,
is a yellow deal, the most durable perhaps in Scotland.

   Antiquities.-There are 6 druidical temples, within
a mile of the present church, one of them in the pre-
sent church yard.  I have observed, that such of these
temples as are entire in this parish, consist of two con-
centric circles, the external circle is from 74 to 64 yards
in circumference, and uniformly consists of 9 large stones.
Four of these stones, placed to the W. S. W. and N.
W. are always considerably larger than the other 5, be-
ing from 5 to 6 feet 4 inches high, and broad in propor-
tion, while the other 5 do not exceed 4 feet in height; and
the said 4 stones are always 3 or 4 feet farther distant
from each other than the other 5.  The inner circle is ge-
nerally about 10 or 11 feet distant from the outer one, and
consists of a number of smaller stones, placed near each other
from, 8 inches to 2 feet-high; the area of the inner circle
is sometimes filled up with a heap of small stones.  Two
different places in the parish are named after these circles,
viz.  Bal na Carrachan, the town of the circles, and Blar
na Carrachan, the moor of the circles.  A small farmer
village, near the church, is called Ard druighnich, or the
high place of the Druids*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A Vitrified Fort-About 2 miles N. W. of the church, by the side
of the Beauly, is a vitrified fort, called Dun-Thionn, or Fingal's Fort.
It is situated on the top of a conical hill, only accessible on the east side.
The wall of this fort is a complete cirlce, about 60 yards in circumfe-
rence.  The wall is only visible above the surface of the ground; but the
substance of which it is formed, both above the surface and for 2 or 3 feet
below the same, is completely vitrified.  Mr. Williams, the engineer, is
the only one who seems to have given a rational account of the manner
of constructing these forts.  That they are artificial works, intended for
defence, and not volcanic productions, is evident at first view; and that


