
     of Hawick.

<UNREADABLE>

The number of ploughs in the country part of the parish, is
about 30 at present, though they have not all full employment.
The Scotch plough is mostly in use; but some farmers use it
with the English mould board.  The number of cars is about
60, of which 50 may belong to farmers and carters,
mostly in the town.

</UNREADABLE>

   Winnowing Machine.-The winnowing machine, or corn
fanner, from the best information, made its first appearance in
Hawick.  Accounts, well authenticated, state, that Andrew
Rodger, a farmer on the estate of Cavers, having a mechanical
turn, retired from his farm and gave his genius its bent; and,
probably, from a description of a machine of that kind, used
in Holland, in the year 1737, constructed the first machine fan
employed in this kingdom.  In the year 1740, he sent many of
them into the northern parts of Northumberland.  The prin-
cipal farmers there, in the course of that year, purchased and
used them; and Mr. John Greigstone alone, then farmer at
Wark, got 6 for his own use.  The descendants of Andrew
Rodger, residing in Hawick, at present supply the whole coun-
try around, and continue to send many of them into Northum-
berland.  They sell them from 2 to 3 guineas, and make and
dispose of about 60 every year*.

<FOOTNOTE>

<TABLE>

To women for reaping,                 per day,   L. 0   1   0
         for hay making,              ditto,        0   0   7
To masons and carpenters in winter,   ditto,        0   1   3
                         in summer,   ditto,        0   1   6

</TABLE>

*Mr. Marshall, in his Rural Economy of Yorkshire, vol. I. page 283, says,
about the year 1755, "my father made a machine fan, from a model shewn
"him, with some improvements.  This was the first, that was made in the dis-
"trict, and perhaps the first that was made in England." From the above
account, it appears, that, long before the period mentioned by Mr. Marshall,
they were in use in the northern parts of Northumberland.  The facts can
be attested by ANTHONY GREIGSTONE, Esq. of Lowlin, in the county of
Durham.

     1


