
              GLENMUICK, TULLICH, AND GLENGAIRN.

the south-west, and the rest of it on the north-east side of Glen-
gairn; the latter (with the exception of a small part of it which
is on the south side of Dee), being all on the north side of Dee,
as well as Tullich.
   In many places, these united parishes are 18 miles long, by
15 miles broad; but, as their figure is very irregular, their average
length and breadth is computed to be only 14 1/2 by 12 1/2 miles,
making their extent to be about 180 square miles, that is 82 for
Glenmuick, 66 for Tullich, and 32 for Glengairn.  They are
bounded by the following parishes, viz. Strathdon, on the north;
Coldstone, on the north-east; Aboyne, on the east; Glentanner,
on the south-east; Lochlee, on the south; Clova, on the south-
west; and Braemar and Crathie, on the west.  They are moun-
tainous and hilly, and mostly fit for pasture only.
   Mountains.-The principal mountains are Lochnagar, Cairn-
taggart, Mountkeen, and Morven.  But these mountains are all
on the confines, and none of them wholly within these united pa-
rishes.  By a medium of barometrical observations, made by dif-
ferent persons at different times, the elevation of Lochnagar, partly
in Glenmuick, and partly in Braemar, and distant from this church
about ten miles west, is 3814 feet; the elevation of Cairntaggart,
partly in Glenmuick, and partly in Braemar, and distant from this
church about fifteen miles south-west, is said to be 3000 feet; the
elevation of Montkeen, partly in Glenmuick, and partly in Loch-
lee, and distant from this church about seven miles south, is 3126
feet; and the elevation of Morven, partly in Tullich, and partly
in Coldstone, and distant from this church about six miles north,
is 2934 feet.
   The highest hills are in ranges, varying from 1000 to 2500 feet
of elevation.  One range, in the east end of the parish of Tullich,
named Culblean, runs from Morven six miles south by east, and
terminates the river Dee.  Another range (whose highest sum-
mits have their distinctive Gaelic names, as have also all those in
the other ranges to be now mentioned), runs westward from the
middle of Culblean, along the north side of Dee, to the valley of
Gairn; after disappearing there, it rises again on the west side of
Gairn, and goes along the north side of Dee as far as the church
Of Crathie, thus passing through the south side of Tullich and
Glengairn.  A third range, in Glenmuick, and on the south side
Of Dee, runs parallel to the former about six miles westward; then
it bonds southward, and runs in that direction about two miles


