
                         INCHINNAN.                           115

up by the tide, * (whose influencE extends considerably beyond the
south-western boundary of the parish,) finds its way into them in a
less diluted form than during the rest of the year.
   The character of the Clyde, in this neighbourhood, has been
much altered of late years, in consequence of the operations of the
river trustees, in deepening its bed for the improvement of the port
of Glasgow.  When the steam-boats commenced plying, and the
dredging ++ machines were first introduced, the salmon appeared for
a time, in their fright, to have made their escape to less disturbed
waters.  Of late years, however, they have been caught in consi-
derable quantities.  The river Gryfe, a little way above the point
where it begins to bound Inchinnan, is a clear and pebbly stream,
with picturesque banks; but in its farther progress its appearance
is chinged.  Within the grounds of Walkinshaw it acquires an in-
crease of volume by the influx of the Black Cart; ++ and, as its
subsequent course is through a rich and flat country, it become's
interesting chiefly from its windings.  At last, sweeping past the
church of Inchinnan, it is joined at Inchinnan bridge by the White
Cart, and then the river, formed by the united streams, assuming
simply the name of Cart, pursues its course in a broad channel,
until it is lost in the Clyde at Blythswood House. S  The pike,
eel, perch, and braize, abound in the Gryfe and Cart, and attract

<FOOTNOTE>The following anecdote is still current.  In the early part of last century, the
clergyman of Lamington, in the upper ward of Lanarkshire, had come to assist his
friend the incumbent of Inchinnan on a sacramental occasion, travelling on horseback,
and attended, according to the invariable practice, by his man, who, although from his
vocation a severe critic of sermons, was profoundly ignorant of the doctrine of the tides.
During the course of the visit, the servant was astounded and alarmed to discover that
the waters were moving in a direction the reverse of what he had previously witnessed;
whereupon concluding that some awful calamity impended, he hastened to his mas-
ter's chamber, broke his slumbers, divulged the appalling phenomenon, suggested the
prudence of immediate departure, and concluded by expressing a faint hope that they
might yet reach Lamington in safety.
    Each of these machines is worked by eight men.  The quantity of stuff raised
by them varies, of course, with the nature of the bottom.  The superintendent of the
river says he has seen 1200 tons raised in ten hours.
    This river, which takes its rise from Castle Semple Loch, in the parish of Loch-
winnocb, is called Kertlochwince, in the chartulary of Paisley.
    In the Cart, before its confluence with the Clyde, is a small island called Colin's
Isle, which, according to popular tradition, originated in the stranding of a vessel.
During a long pending litigation, which was, the, consequence, the vessel was not re-
moved, and the mud and sand had so accumulated around it, that by the time the de-
cision came to be pronounced, it had become a picturesque little island, covered with
thriving firs.  This story was doubtless invented as a hit &gaina the lawyers, who
abound in the neighbouring town of Paisley, but has called forth some pretty verses
from Mr Park, the poet of Renfrew.  The surrounding scenes above referred to are
unversally admired for their amenity and tranquil beauty, and were in former times
embalmed in song by John Wilson, the author of Clyde, a poem, edited by the late
Dr Leyden in 1803.

                    "Where the proud bridge on stately arches rides,
                     And from his height surverys the dumbering tides,


