
178		    STIRLINGSHIRE

  Climate, &c.-The climate in this district is mild, but variable.
Snow seldom lies for any length of time among these hills. It is
remarkable, however, that at the bottom of a ridge of rock, near
to the summit of Bencloch, where it is sheltered from every wind,
snow is frequently seen in the month of June. From the singu-
lar appearance of the narrow and extended sheet of snow, it has
received the fanciful name of Lady Alva's Web.
  Geology, Mineralogy, &c.-These hills are all of the second-
ary trip formation.  The onyx and other pebbles have long
been known and worked into ornaments, and the Ochil Eye
pebble is peculiar to this range of hills. They are found in
stony crevices, and the best specimens of the Perth lapidaries
come from this quarter. Heavy spar is also found in one of
the glens; and that part of the Ochils contained in the neigh-
bouring parishes of Logie on the west, and Tillicoultry and Dollar
on the east, as well as Alva, are known to have rich veins of cop-
per, lead, and iron; although further investigation is required to
ascertain their value. But that for which the hills of Alva are
particularly distinguished, is the valuable veins of silver glance they
are known to possess. About the years 1710 to 1715, Sir John
Erskine, by means of miners from Leadhills, discovered a very
valuable vein of silver, in the glen that separates the Middlehill
from the Woodhill. Its first appearance was in small strings of
silver ore, which being followed, led to a large mass, part having the
character of malleable silver, and found upon trial to produce as
much as twelve ounces of silver from fourteen ounces of ore. A
sum not greater than from L.40 to L.50 had been expended, when
this discovery was made. During the space of thirteen or fourteen
weeks, it has been credibly affirmed, that the value produced was
L.4000 per week; and it has been alleged that Sir Jolin drew
from L.40,000 to L.50,1000, exclusive of ore which was supposed
to have been purloined to considerable amount by the workmen.
Very soon, however, the silver ore began to appear in smaller
quantities, and symptoms of lead and baser metals being present,
farther researches were laid aside for the time. The specimens of
silver glance then found are rich and beautiful, and the pure virgin
silver is observed to adhere in slender strings to the spar, with a va-
riety of fanciful and irregular forms. In the year 1767, Lord Alva,
nephew to Sir John Erskine, caused a pair of communion cups to
be made for the use of the church of Alva, from some of the re-
mains of that ore in his possession. On these the following in-

                                 6


