
                         RATHVEN.                            267

  Besides the school endowed by this Society, there is another in
Buckie, kept by a woman who teaches reading, along with sewing
and knitting, to little girls. She receives a salary of L.4; num-
ber of scholars, 30. There is another sebool, for the same pur-
pose, taught by a female at Findochtie. She receives L.1, 1s.
annually from Earl Seafield, and has a free house. Their charges
are a mere trifle per month. In the populous village of Portnoc-
kie, the Noble proprietor, the Earl of Seafield, has built an ex-
cellent school-house, and gives L.10 annually to the teacher, who
is allowed to charge the same fees as at the parish school. It is
numerously attended, and well taught by the present master.
There are also five Sabbath schools in & parish, attended by
about 300 scholars.
  In an extensive parish of this kind, it cannot be very easily as-
certained what number of the young, betwixt six and fifteen years
of age, cannot read or writie. There are few, if any, who are not
able to read; but a considerable number cannot write.
  The people, in general, are alive to the benefits of education;
but many of the poorer classes, particularly the more indigent of
the fishermen, are compelled to take their children from school
as soon as they are able to do any thing for their own support.
  There are no parts of the parish so distant from some one of
the schools, as to prevent attendance.
  There can scarcely be a doubt, that, in general, a visible change
in the conduct and morals of the people has taken place, since
the facilities of education were increased, though there is still
great room for farther improvement.
  Library.-A public library was instituted some years ago in
the village, or kirk-town of Rathven. It contains a considerable
number of valuable works, and is supported by a quarterly con-
tribution.
Charitable Institutions.-Bede-Hou8e-The origin of this in-
stitution is mentioned by Spottiswood in his Account of Religious
Houses in Scotland, and is as follows: "Rothsan, John Bisset
gives to God, and the Church of St Peter's of Rothsan, for sus-
taining seven leprous persons, the patronage of the Kirk of Kyl-
talargy, to pray for the souls of William and Alexander, Kings
of Scotland, and souls of his ancestors and successors, about 1226."\f*

<FOOTNOTE>"Donatio Johannis Byseth de jure patronatus eeclesie de Kyltargy.
  "Omnibus has literas visuris vel auditurio Johannes Byseth, eternam in Domino


