
                       ARTICLE GLASGOW.                       913

on the subject must see that no adequate remedy can be applied to
the vast moral evils of society without such assistance from the State,
--a party most deeply interested in the question,--as shall bring the
means of instruction, surely, immediately, and permanently within
the reach of the ignorant and the perishing.  It is plain, apart alto-
gether from the sacred religious duty of the State, that private libe-
rality can never master the difficulties of the case.  What can be
expected more generous than the doings of Glasgow?  Nearly
L.45,000 will have been raised and expended for Church Exten-
sion from the outset of the society up to next year, by which time
seventeen churches, with church accommodation for 17,000 per-
sons, will have been completed. *  But what is all this to the magni-
tude of the work which has yet to be overtaken, and where is the
wealth in other parts of Scotland to do as much, however great-
ly needed?  Dr Cleland has very properly, in the article Glas-
gow, (page 185,) referred to the sums annually raised in Glas-
gow for religious objects, and the sum of L.30,000 looks well;
but the statement is open to misapprehension.  Two-thirds of
it (the L.21,400 of the Church Building Society) is not an an-
nual sum.  It is spread over five years.  Deductions to the
extent also of L.1200 must be made from this list for objects
not so much religious as humane, and leaving out the church
building annual sum, what have we for 28 religious societies in the
great city of Glasgow but the sum of L.7440?--a sum, be it re-
membered, raised by a very small number of individuals; for they
who give to one religious obiect generally give to another.  It is
true that much more than this sum would intimate, is contributed
for religious purposes.  Four of the schemes of the General
Assembly, for which there are annual collections, and which may
amount together to L.1400 or L.1600 a year, are not included,
nor is the cost of the parochial missions, local Sabbath-schools, &c.
in the Establishment, nor the contributions of Dissenters to their
own special religious objects, embraced.  Still it is an important
fact, that the Christians of Glasgow, by associated effort through
not less than 28 different channels, raise for the cause of Christ

<FOOTNOTE>
    *In addition to the yearly instalment ofthe Society, the congregations of St John's,
St George's, St Enoch's, St Paul's, St James's, the Tron, and St David's raised lately
by subscription to the Society's funds about L.6000.  It is, worthy of record, that all
the churches, with the exception of one having L.400 on it, are free of debt, and
are the free gift of good men to the poor.  No pecuniary retuim is expected or
desired.


