
                              SMALL ISLES.                           153
     
     island. The old and the young, the feeble and the strong, were all
     united in this general emigration,-the former to find tombs in a
     foreign land,-the latter to encounter toils, privations, and dan-
     gers, to become familiar with customs, and to acquire habits,-to
     which they had formerly been entire strangers.  A similar emigra-
     tion took place in 1828, from the Island of Muck, so that the pa-
     rish has now been much depopulated. The population of Rum
     was thus reduced from 400 to 100 or 130.
    
                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture, with the rearing of black-cattle and sheep, is the
     prevailing occupation in these islands.  The sea-weed, both that
     which is cut, and that which is cast ashore by the winter storms,
     is the chief manure.  With the aid of this, the people generally
     raise as many potatoes, (on which they for the most part subsist,)
     as are requisite for their maintenance during the whole of the
     year,-each family requiring from 240 to 320 bushels.  From 300
     to 400 heads of black-cattle are annually sold in the parish to deal-
     ers at home, who again bring them to the south country markets for
     sale. The number of sheep pastured in the Island of Rum alone is
     about 8000, which are all of the black-faced kind, and which are
     likewise all salved or smeared.  Among the inhabitants are some
     artisans, such as weavers, boat-builders, smiths, tailors, and one
     shoemaker: but although these devote some of their time to the
     various employments of their calling, yet they chiefly depend upon
     their agricultural occupations for their subsistence.
  
                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        There are no villages; and no inns, excepting one in the Island
     of Eigg.  In each of the islands, there was formerly an inn. There
     is no packet, nor any regular means of communication with the
     post-office or main-land from any one of the islands. For this and
     other reasons, every person is under the necessity of keeping a boat
     always in readiness for his own comfort and convenience. The
     distance between the Island of Eigg and the nearest post-office at
     Arisaig is thirteen or fourteen miles.  The other islands are at
     much more considerable distances.	A road has been carried .
     across the Island of Eigg, by the statute labour of the inhabitants.
        Ecclesiastical State.-There is no church on any of the is-
     lands.  In Eigg we assemble in the school-house for public wor-
     ship ; but in the other islands we sometimes meet in the fields, when
     we cannot conveniently get a house to receive us. The manse was
     erected in the Island of Eigg in 1790. It has been often repair-
       INVERNESS.                       L

