
726                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

Phillips and William Anderson.  The manse was built in 1763,
and was augmented in 1809.  The Glebe measures 4 3/4 acres, in-
cluding site of manse, offices, and garden, and may be worth about
L.8 or L.9 Sterling.  The stipend is L.150.
   For the accomodation of the people in the village of New
Pitsligo and the adjacent lands, whom the distance of six miles
from the parish church precluded from regular and convenient at-
tendance, and from the benefit of a constant pastoral superinten-
dence, a Chapel of Ease was erected by the proprietor in the above
village; and a district of the parish, amounting to about four miles
long, by two and a half or three miles broad, was attached to it.
And, in accordance with the recent Act of the General Assem-
bly, the district assigned to this Chapel of Ease has been erected
into a parish quoad spiritualia.  This Chapel of Ease contains
about 400.  The stipend of the minister amounts to L.80 Ster-
ling, and is paid by the proprietor, who has also given a manse,
and a glebe of about 18 acres.  One Episcopal chapel, (a new
and elegant building in the Gothic style), capable of containing
about 260, has been recently erected by the proprietor, and its
clergyman's stipend, L.80 Sterling, is paid by the same, who has
also furnished a portion of land for a glebe.
   We have no Dissenting places of worship in the parish, save
that of the Baptist; who, however, only occasionally meet in the
Society's Hall, in New Pitsligo.
   Divine worship is generally attended
   Education.-Scattered as our schools are over the parish, they
are easily accessible to all.  Two are parochial.  One of these,
situate beside the parish church, has the maximum salary, and in
addition, the master receives L.2 Sterling (the interest of Ander-
son's bequest) for educating some poor children.  The other is
in New Pitsligo, and has the minimum salary, inclusive of the sup-
posed annual value or rent of a dwelling-house and garden given
by the proprietor of the village.  A school is established at New
Pitsligo by the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian
Knowledge; has a salary of L.5 Sterling from the society, and
L.10 Sterling paid by the sisters of Sir John S. Forbes, with a
dwelling-house, commodious school-room, and garden given by
the proprietor.  About 120 scholars attend Sabbath schools.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average annual amount of con-
tributions during the last three years for the relief of the poor may
be stated as under: church collections, including L.4 Sterling re-


