
186                            ORKNEY.

labour requisite to give the experiments its full force, is a question
not so easily answered.
lVshery.-The only employment of this kind that is here pro-
s6cuted on a large scale as a source of economical wealth, is the
berring-fishery. The curing of herrings commenced with us
only in MM, and as this is but on the advance as a station,
and the fishing has not been attended generally with its usual suc-
cess, since it began here, nothing can yet be said as to its annual
profits. The people of the place, however, were in the habit
of prosecuting this employment, and delivering their fish at other
stations, for several years before curing commenced in their own
parish.
Raw Produce raired in the Parish- When most of the farmers
know neither the quantity of grain that they sow, nor ihat they reap,
but calculate both by guess, or do not calculate at all, and when
few of the particulars under the present head of inquiry will ap-
ply to this place, as must be evident from some of our previous re-
marks,-little information can be expected on this part of our sub-
ject. But the chief sources of wealth, independently of the grain
which is raised on the lands-, are selling of cattle, fishing, and the
savings of persons employed as seamen out of the country, who
come home to -spend the winter months, and the decline of life
among their friends. Formerly the making of kelp, and with the
women the plaiting, of straw, formed the two principal means of
earning money. The former of these, indeed, at one time, consti-
tuted the chief source of revenue to the *hole county. And
though it now yields little or no direct profit to the proprietor, it
is still an object not unworthy of his attention. For, in many cases,
the making of a certain quantity of kelp is part of the tenure by
which landsare held; and so long as this commodity fetches as
much in the market as is allowed in value for making it, it is the
means of bring hard cash into the hands of the landlord, and in ef-
fect enables the tenant to pay more for his farm, than be could in
other circumstances afford.
Manufaciture.-Tbe only manuiacture is that of kelp. It is not
now conducted so eagerlyand so extensively as formerly. It might,
atoneperiod,haveoccupiedsixtyorseventypersons for a month: but
now, not nearly so many. The number of hours per day that they
work is uncertain, for those who cut the weed from which it is made
are almost unremittingly occupied while the tide allows them to reach
it, whether that time be day or night They often rise at one or


