
		ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                  343

tentionally and indirectly, helps to aggravate the evil complained
of,-tbe kindness of the proprietor of the soil. He sees his people
increase too rapidly; but they consider a separation from their
native place the greatest of all earthly evils. While they can
manage to procure a meal or two of potatoes in the day, they are
contented, and implore permission to remain as they are. He
can sympathize in their feelings of attachment to the place where
they were born, and where their fathers are interred. He feels
for them as his people, and, rather than inflict on them the misery
of removal, he allows them to shift as they best may.
  But the selfishness both of tenants and proprietors does much
more to augment the evil under consideration than the cause now
referred to. Thus a tenant takes a farm without sufficient capital
to stock it, or to pay the rent. He has, however, a remedy at hand
in letting portions of the farm as crofts to some of the poor people
in the vicinity, who are always eager to get any piece of ground.
These, for a time, pav part of his rent, perform much of his agri-
cultural work, and yield him considerable profit. But frequently
in the course of no long period, they also get into difficulties, when
they betake themselves to their master's expedient of subletting.
The half of tbe croft is given to the oldest son, who immediately
marries; a farther portion is perhaps given to some other relative,
The crofts, or lots as they are here called, dwindle down into the
most insignificant patches, incapable of yielding food even for a
quarter of a year to the many families which occupy them. The
wages earned by labour must then go to purchase food. The cow
is sold to pay the rent, and the unfortunate crofter sinks into a
state of the most abject poverty.
  Again, when land is purchased with the sole view of pecuniary
gain, it is undoubtedly the purchaser's interest to subdivide it as
minutely as possible, for it is well-known that when there is a re-
dundant population, the smaller that the lots of land are the greater
will be the number of competitors for them, and of course the more
will the rent exceed the actual value. Such proprietors take care
to give no leases to their lotters. They keep them as tenants at
will, and thus it is easy to eject them if they become unable to pay,
the rent, and just as easy to get others to occupy their place to
subject themselves to the same fleecing process. Sometimes the
reduced lotter, though deprived of his cow, is'not driven away from
the estate, but is sent to the sea shore, wbere he may get fish for
his own support, and for payment to the landlord for his hut, and


