
                          MORHAM.                             267
<TABLE>
1831. Families 50; of these employed in agriculture 40; in trade, &c.  10
                     Males upwards of 20 years of age,                 60
                           under 20,                                   59
                     Females, 143; Total, 262.
   The average of births, marriages, and deaths is, as in the former
Account, viz. births from 5 to 6; marriages from 1 to 2; deaths
from 3 to 4.
   Only one small proprietor is resident in the parish. The peo-
ple are in general sober, industrious, frugal, and contented. No-
thing has occurred among them for many years requiring the in-
tervention of the civil magistrate. And only two cases, and these
by no means of an aggravated character, have called for the exer-
cise of sessional discipline since the present incumbency.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The parish is wholly agricultural. Of those not
actually employed in the labours of the field, there are 2 black-
smiths and 1 wright, a millwright. The parish is also honoured
by the residence of a tailor.
   Husbandry-Soil.-The lands are all well enclosed, mostly with
stone dikes, in many cases with hedges, which, however, receive
but very little attention from the farmer; a neglect too common in
East Lothian. The soil in general inclines to clay, and in the
eastern and middle portions of the parish, particularly around the
church, is of very excellent quality. Towards the west end, it
becomes much inferior, although even there, by a liberal and ju-
dicious treatment, it is made to yield wheat of a superior descrip-
tion. All the land capable of tillage is under cultivation, except-
ing about 40 acres of thriving plantation, chiefly on Rentonhall,
and West Morham. The system of husbandry practised is of the
most improved kind, the rotation of crop being adapted to the bet-
ter or worse quality of the land. A considerable breadth of turnip
is annually grown to be eaten on the ground. And the improvement
of laying the land down in grass for two or more years is ge-
nerally adopted. Draining, both tile and wedge, has, of late more
especially, been carried to a great extent here, as well as general-
ly throughout the county, and much is about to be done in that
way on one of the principal farms recently leased anew. The ave-
rage produce per acre may be stated to be, of wheat 8 1/2 bolls; of
oats 8; of barley 8. Very little bay is grown. No sheep are
bred in the parish. About 40 score are annually pastured.
   Rent, Leases.-The gross rent of the parish is stated in the former


