
286                      FIFESHIRE.

husbandry. It is understood to hwe been useful at the time that
it was published, and not without merit; although, from the im-
provements that have since taken place in agriculture, it is not now
in much request. It continues to be remembered chiefly from a
bon mot connected with it. On its appearance, one of Sir John's
friends jocularly remarked, that no one could be better qualified to
write on the subject, as there was not a better drilled husband in
the whole of Fife. Lady Anstrutber, who was a very superior
woman, seems to have had a considerable influence with her lord.
Another Sir John Anstruther, father of the present proprietor, was,
for many years, one of the Judges in the Supreme Court at Calcutta.
The probability, therefore, is that be was a man of some emi-
nence, though it is not known that he has left any thing behind
him as a proof of his talents.
  Land-owners.--There are only three proprietors. Of these Sir
Windham C. Anstruther is the principal. About 7-9ths of the pa-
rish belong to him. The other heritors are, John Anstruther
Thomson of Charleton, and William Fortune of Muircambus.
The latter has rather the larger valuation, and the former, although
assessed for all other parochial burdens, pays no stipend to the mi-
nister. All of them have much above L. 50 of yearly revenue.
  Parochial Reqisters.--What can be said perhaps of very few other
parishes in Scotland, registers have been regularly kept in Elie
since 1639, the date of its erection into a parish. There is, how-
ever, one small chasm in them, the volume which began with 1682,
and ended at 1700, having been lost. They still continue to be
kept with great regularity. On his succeeding to the cure, the pre-
sent incumbent found occasionally an indisposition to register the
births of children, arising probably from the fees paid on the occa-
sion. But he laid it down as a rule not to baptise, till a certificate
of registration from the session-clerk was produced; and now this
is so well understood that almost no one thinks of speaking to him
on the subject, till this preliminary point has been settled. Ifany
are too poor to bear the expense, the session-clerk either gives his
labour gratis, or is remunerated by the session. At the same time,
as during the last five years, perhaps for many before that, only one
child of a dissenter has been born and baptized in the parish, and
its name is also inserted in the book, the lists are as nearly com-
plete as can be supposed. The minutes of session also exist for
the same period, and with the same exceptions. During the early
period, they bear evidence of an inquisition into the manners of the


