
116                  DUMBARTONSHIRE.

Covenanters, was the chief of her ancestors, who bad found their
way across the Frith of Clyde during the troubles of the western
Lowlands, to enjoy the protection of the family of Argyle.
  Notwithstanding the accounts that are generally given that Bal-
four of Burley, one of the assassins of Sharpe, passed over to Hol-
land, and died in the service of the Prince of Orange, there are
strong presumptions that be found an asylum in the same penin-
sula, and that, having assumed the name of Salter, his descendants
continued here for several generations. They were always consi-
dered of more gentle kin than the tenantry around them; their
family traditions, it is said, uniformly so identified their ancestor.
The last of this race died about thirty years ago.
  The effect of this immigration and settlement from the Lowlands
was traceable in the earlier disuse of the Gaelic language in this
than in the contiguous parish; of which this may be stated as con-
clusive evidence, that there were Gaelic services at communions in
the neighbouring church of Row, although not half a mile across
the Gareloch, for fifty years after they had been laid aside in Rose-
neath.
  Antiquities, &c.--There are no ruins or monuments to throw
any light on the more remote history of the spot, with the excep-
tion of the debris of an old Danish or Norwegian fort at Knockderry,
on the Loch Long shore. This must have been coeval at least
with the battle of Largs, and is admirably situated for observation,
commanding an extensive range of the frith and its shores in all di-
rections. It is certain that the Danes sailed along the northern
shore of the parish to Arrochar, and that, having conveyed their
boats across the isthmus of Tarbet, they devastated the islands of
Loch Lomond, and the contiguous district. Thus, in the absence
of more authentic information, we may gather from witnessing the
ruins of the antique stronghold, fitted to protect them, either as
they advanced or retired, that these now peaceful shores were once
the scene of violence and bloodshed. It may be noticed in pas-
sing, that though the term Loch Long, sufficiently characterizes the
form of the waters that bound the parish in the west, yet it does
not primarily refer to their appearance at all, but to the ancient ex-
pedition alluded to, and strictly means the lake of ships; and no
doubt the classical reader may see in this, not a very distant or in-
distinct connexion with the longe naves of the Romans.
  There is a precipitous rock of conglomerate on the north of
the castle called Wallace's leap which is traditionally monumental


