
                                   CANONBIE.                   487

the purest and whitest and the largest quantity of powder from the
bushel of shells. The lime quarries at Harelawhill and Holhouse are,
easily wrought, and seem inexhaustible; and the country for thirty
miles round is abundantly supplied at 10d. per imperial bushel,
four of which will fill a single horse cart. The race of the fine
mills lately erected at Hollows is cut through strata of blue lime-
stone; below which is a stratum of sandstone, schistus, and clay three
feet thick, succeeded by a seam of coal four inches thick, which is
presented at the mill sluice. On the west side of the Esk, near
Hollows House Tower, a considerable body of shell limestone is
found dipping south-east, and stretching towards Annandale, re-
sembling the Kelhead and Arbigland rock. About forty yards
above Blakebeck bridge are some thin strata of limestone dipping
west one in four; beyond this, a body of grey sandstone appears.
About a mile from the foot of the burn, are strata of limestone; and
a little higher up are strata of blaes, succeeded by a seam of coal
about four inches thick. The bed of the Esk below Langholm
low bridge is founded on the primitive rock; from thence to a little
below Canonbie it is occupied with the coal metals. From this
point to the mouth of the river, the secondary strata of a reddish
colour prevail. Freestone of various kinds is everywhere found in
this parish,--which is well adapted for building, as being durable
and easily wrought. It may be here mentioned, as a somewhat,
singular circumstance, that within the space of 200 yards in one
particular place, coal and peat, limestone and freestone, may be
digged.
	Zoology.--All the common birds are found in the extensive woods
of this parish.
	Salmon, grilse, and sea-trout, previous to the building of a call
by the late Dr Graham of Netherby, for the purpose of supplying
his mills with water, were most abundant in the Esk and Liddle,
and taken in vast numbers. On account of their run being inter-
cepted, they are not now so plentiful, as it requirer, a considerable
flood to enable them to get over this barricade. The whiten or
herling (Salmo albus) and the common trout are also abundant in
these streams. Indeed the Esk trout and whitens are held in high
estimation, on account of their delicate flavour. Tarras is also
famous for its good bull-trout, according to the old rhyme,

		"And Tarras for a gude bull-trout,
		 if it be taen in time."

	Botany.--In this parish, there are no very rare plants to be met


