
           30                          PERTHSHIRE.

           strayed their castles.  In the records of the town, there is pre-
           served an account of a penalty which it paid to Sir Thomas Bruce
           of Clackmannan for burning the house of Gasconball, about five
           miles east from Perth-also a remission under the Great Seal grant-
           ed to the magistrates, council, and community of Perth, for burn-
           ing the house of Craigie in the neigbourhood, dated 5th February
           1526
              In the beginning of the fourteenth century, there existed a dead-
           ly feud between two powerful and fierce clans-the M'Intoshes
           and the M'Kays.  King Robert III. sent the Earls of Dunbar
           and Crawford, with a strong force to reduce them to order.  These
           noblemen, with a view to terminate the feud, proposed to their
           chiefs to select, out of their. respective clans, each a band of thirty
           men, who should, by combat, decide the matter on the North Inch
           of Perth, in the presence of the King. The proposal having been
           agreed to by the chiefs, a place for the combat was prepared. It
           was surrounded by a trench, and by galleries erected for spectators.
           When the combatants were about to engage, one of the M'Intosh-
           es was seized with a panic and absconded. But a man of the name
           of Wynde, a saddler of the town, agreed to supply his place, pro-
           vided, be should receive a half French gold dollar. The terms were
           immediately complied with. The combat began, and was carried
           on with great fury on both sides, till twenty-nine of the M'Kays
           fell. The surviving one, unskaithed, seeing that he could not sin-
           gle-handed resist the impetuosity of Wynde, and ten M'Intoshes,
           who were left alive, burst from the arena, leaped into the river,
           swam across and escaped.
              In 1589, a company of players appeared in Perth. In confor-
           mity with an act of the General Assembly passed in 1574, they
           applied to the Consistory of the church for a license, and produ-
           ced a copy of the play which they intended to perform. The an-
           swer given them was as follows:-"Perth, June 3, 1589. The
           minister and elders give licence to play the play, with conditions
           that no swearing, banning, nor any-scurrility shall be spoken, which
           would be a scandal to our religion which we profess, and for an
           evil example to others. Also that nothing shall be added to what
           is in the register of the play itself. If any one who plays shall do
           to the contrary, he shall be warded, and make his public repen-
           tance." This last sentence must be understood to intimate, that 
           the person so acting should be subjected to imprisonment, and the
           rebuked publicly in the church. In the record, the actors are
                                              4


