
122                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

as well as the general prosperity of the district, amply prove the
benefits resulting from personal residence of proprietors. *
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers commence with
August 1645, and are regularly kept up to January 1676, with
the exception of eight months previous to December 1646.  Af-
ter 1676 there is a hiatus of fifty years.  From January 1726,
they are regularly kept up to the present time.  From the most
ancient of these records, a considerable amount of information
might be obtained in reference to the then existing state of society.
Indeed, the facts which they contain render it highly probable,
that a collation of such session records (commencing With A. D.
1638,) as are still preserved throughout the kingdom, would ma-
terially tend to illustrate a most important portion of our ecclesi-
astical history, which at present chiefly depends for its authority
on the conflicting narratives of persons whom we know to have
been avowed partisans of opposite and inveterate factions.
   Antiquities.-On a gentle acclivity at the south side of Tyre-
bagger, and commanding a beautiful view of the sea-coast and ad-
jacent lowlands, is found a Druidical temple, formed by ten rough
granite stones, arranged in the figure of a circle.  They are about
eight feet distant from each other, the highest of them measuring
ten, the lowest five feet above the surface of the ground.  One
of these stones, fronting due south, is of much greater breadth
and depth than the others, and now appears crushing through the
low and decayed pediment on which it had been originally raised.
Probably it was the site of an altar, or station of the presiding
priest.
   In the churchyard, and forming a part of its wall, stands a
large oblong stone curiously carved.  Some have believed it to
be a Runic monument, but the cross (which can still be distinctly
traced,) pervading that mass of varied sculpture with which it is
inscribed, seems to render this suggestion inadmissible.  In all
probability it must have constituted an ornament of some former
church, subsisting during the times of Catholicism.
   The Gouch or Gouk Stone is a large shapeless block of gra-
nite, on the north-east of Caskieben, erected (as is said in the
last Statistical Accou,) to commemorate the death of a general
of that name who was slain near it.  The tradition in respect to
this stone is now forgotten, and it was even with some little diffi-
culty that its site could be ascertained.  The Quaich Stone,
built into a low wall near the same place, has no particular marks

<FOOTNOTE>See note to Miscellndous Observations.


