
     of Borrowstownness.

gal conversion of L. 100 Scots the chalder, amounts to
L. 83: 6: 8 d; besides coals, a glebe, consisting of 4 arable
acres, and 2 of very good pasture; also house-rent, in lieu
of a manse, which has not yet been provided by the family
of Hamilton.  The Duke is also at the expence of Commu-
nion elements.  His Grace is undoubted patron of the parish.
   There are 5 schools in the town and parish, well attended.
The Parochial schoolmaster, commonly employs an assistant,
and has generally from 80 to 90 scholars.  He has a salary of
200 merks Scots, (L. 11: 2: 2 2/3,) besides the perquisites of
his office as Session-clerk; and the sums paid for education at
his school, which are as follows,

<TABLE>

English and Writing by the quarter,                   L.  0  2  6
Latin or French, by ditto.                                0  5  0
Arithmetic and other branches of Mathematics,             0  3  6
Navigation or Book-keeping, per course,                   1  1  0

</TABLE>

   The poor in the parish, are pretty numerous.  The funds
for their support, are the following,

<TABLE>

Weekly collections at the Church door, amounting an-
nually to about,     -                    -             L.  82   0   0
Rent of landed property,                                    16  12   6
Interest of a bond and a late Legacy,                       38  11   2
Mort-cloth dues*, annually about+                            2   5   0
                                                    -------------------------  
                                                         L. 139   8  8

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*At the burials of the poor people, a custom, almost obsolete in other parts
of Scotland, is continued here.  The beadle perambulates the streets with a
bell, and intimates the death of the individual in the following language:
"All brethren and sifters, I let ye to wit, there is a brother (or sifter) depart-
"ed, at the pleasure of the Almighty, (here he lists his hat,) called-.All
"those that come to the burial, come at - o'clock.  The corpse is at-."
He also walks before the corpse to the church-yard, ringing his bell.
+The annual amount of mort-cloth dues at the disposal of the Session
is trifling, as the people in the country part of the parish, and the different


