
			BLANTYRE.                      315

	Hydrography.--The principal streams in the district are the
Clyde and the Calder. The Clyde enters this parish a little be-
low Bothwell Bridge, and forms the boundary between it and Both-
well for upwards of three miles. At the above point, it seems at
some former period to have forced its way through the opposing
sandstone rocks, which here nearly approximate each other. At
the ferry-boat at Blantyre works, the Clyde is 79 yards broad,
and immediately opposite the works, 104 yards. Its average
velocity is from one to three miles per hour. On 25th July,
the thermometer being 76&deg; in the shade, its temperature was
68&deg; of Fahrenheit. The Clyde is here a majestic river, of
considerable depth, and of a darkish colour, gliding smoothly
and silently along between the lofty wooded banks and beau-
tiful and richly adorned undulating fields of Bothwell and Blan-
tyre. Immediately below Bothwell Bridge, the banks present a
thin sprinkling of wood, with occasional orchards. About a mile
and a-half farther down, in a snug retreat, almost concealed by the
rising grounds on either side, the lofty walls of Blantyre works ap-
pear; where a busy population, and the rushing noise of machinery,
contrast strangely with the silence and repose of the surrounding
scenery, and seem as if intended to bring into competition the works
of nature and of art. The lofty woods of Bothwell on the east,
and of Blantyre on the west, with the magnificent red walls and
circular towers of the old castle of Bothwell, and the shattered
remains of Blantyre priory on the opposite side, on the summit of
a lofty rock, add greatly to the beauty of the scenery a little far-
tber on. The banks begin to decline before they reach Daldowie,
and the river leaves the parish amidst fertile fields and wide ex-
panding haughs. The whole, on a summer day, when the sun is
shining, is inexpressibly beautiful. The Calder rises in Elrig Muir
in Kilbride, and is at first called Park-burn, afterwards Calder water,
and at length Rotten Calder. It enters this parish at the point
where it is joined by Rottenburn, and, except about a mile at the
place where the Basket ironstone mines, &c. come in, forms the
western boundary till it falls into the Clyde in the north, at Turn-
wheel, near Daldowie. There are several falls or cascades in its
course, and its banks are all along richly and romantically wooded.
It may be from sixty to eighty feet wide, and runs on a shallow
gravelly bed, and not unfrequently on the bare rock.--There are
other three streams in the parish, besides their feeders. The Red
burn rises in the farm of Park, in the west, and falls into the Clyde


