
     of Cranston.

Lothian.  Two-horse ploughs are universally employed,
and the plough held in highest estimation is that made by
J. Small at Rosebank, which is deservedly considered as
the greatest improvement agriculture has received for ma-
ny years.  Mr Small published some time ago an account
of his plough in a particular treatise, and since that publi-
cation, he has made a farther improvement, by substituting,
in place of the wooden head, one of cart metal.  Last year,
(1791,) the first experiment was made with a plough so
mounted in this parish, and before proper judges.  Though
the field pitched on was very rough, and fix horses were
yoked and driven on at a great rate, yet the cast metal
head was not in the least damaged.  Since that time prac-
tice proves, that no force ever necessary to be applied to
the plough can injure it.  The value of this improved
plough appears from its being universally adopted, and
the great commissions the inventor receives.  The advan-
tage of alternate green and white crops is sufficiently un-
derstood; but though the turnip husbandry was first prac-
tised here, and the nature of the soil in many, parts is very
favourable to that system, yet turnips are scarcely cultiva-
ted at present.  The turnip husbandry requires so accurate
a skill in the buying and selling of cattle, that every person
is not qualified for conducting it.  It is a curious fact, that,
when turnips were first cultivated in the parish, during
those early experiments, no manure, it was imagined, would
answer for raising them, but the best which Edinburgh pro-
duced.  The principal productions are wheat, barley, oats,
pease, beans, hay; and the best rotation that is observed is
fallow, wheat, pease, barley, grass and oats.  Some of the
farmers drive manure, from the distance of 4 or 5 miles,
and up hill, to improve their stiff lands, every cubic yard
of which, when laid on the land, costs them about 5 s.
The farms are laid out from 100 to 500 acres.  The rent


