                                  ROBERTON.                                   93

<TABLE>

The number of families of independent fortune residing in the parish       -   4
              proprietors of land of the yearly value of L.50 and upwards,     9
              unmarried men, bachelors, and widowers, upwards of 50 years of
                 age,         -              -          -           -          9
              unmarried women upwards of 45 years of age,          -          21
              families       -         -         -          -                131
The average number of members in each family,         -           -            5 1/2
The number of inhabited houses,          -           -         -             121
              tninhabited houses,        -             -            -          2

  Curling has become a very prevalent amusement here ; as also
coursing the hare, both with the greyhound and harriers.
  Character, &c. of the People.--The character of the inhabitants
is generally moral and religious, and their habits cleanly.  The ge-
neral appearance of the cottages does not correspond to that of the
farm-houses; but a better style in erecting these is yearly gaining
ground, and there is a considerable ambition amongst the peasantry
to have neat houses. Their ordinary food is barley, and a small
portion of wheaten bread, oat-meal porridge, broth and butcher-
meat occasionally, fish, butter, cheese, potatoes, broth and butcher-
meat occasionally, fish, butter, cheese, potatoes, milk, and tea.
  Poaching was lately carried on to a great excess in this parish
and neighbourhood, not, indeed, by the people resident in the pa-
rish, but very generally by the operatives of the manufacturing
towns, especially when trade was slack.  Formerly, the poachers
used singly to seek the game, and generlally fled when they saw
any person approaching them, or at least walked off the ground
when desired.  But of late years they banded together, and dar-
ingly set the keepers at defiance.  The farmer and his shepherd
were often insulted, and sometimes the gun was cocked in their
faces; but it fared much worse with the gamekeepers, as they
seldom returned home without personal injury.  Bands of these
modern freebooters, for they were generally the very scum of so-
ciety, would sometimes take up their residence in some outhouse or
fold in the moors, and continue there for weeks at a time,--living
on such provisions as could be bad.  Instances are known of their
taking and roasting sheep.  About two years ago, when matters
were at the worst, the landed proprietors, along with some farmers,
their servants, and a few energetic constables, attacked them.
Upon one occassion, in particular, about twenty of these poachers
were congregrated round a corn field, then recently cut, where they
killed the game in great abundance.  In this situation, the con-
stables and farm-servants set upon them, and took them all prison-
ers.  A few of the more notorious of these poachers, against whom
warrants had been obtained, were pinioned and carried off to jail.
Since that time there has not been much poaching.




