
612                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

to find every thing frozen over in these low grounds, while in higb
and exposed situations on the hill no ice is to be seen.  In spring,
again, the reverse of this is the case.
   Geology.-The prevailing rocks are red granite and mica-slate,
and, where the latter rock is laid bare by the courses of the various
burns, it is seen to be everywhere penetrated by granitic veins.
On the hill above Whitehouse, some huge masses jut out, of a
nature approaching to quartz rock.  Near Tillyfour, a magnesian
limestone occurs; and, in one or two situations, a primary trap
appears.  The eastern side of the parish is traversed by a re-
markable dike of claystone porphyry, of great hardness, and of a
reddish colour; it runs pretty continuously, for several miles, in
a direction nearly north and south; and, it is said, that dikes of
the same material, and in a direction corresponding with this one,
way be traced, crossing the country from the mountain of Ben-
nochie, to that of Clochnaben.  Boulders of two or three feet in
diameter, and sometimes of much greater size, of red and blue
granite, of gneiss and mica-slate, of claystone and felspar porphyry
(the latter extremely beautiful), are scattered over the surface,
and mingled with the soil and subsoil in many places very abun-
dantly, furnishing a ready and excellent building stone.  It is per-
haps worthy of remark, that those consisting of blue granite often
contain veins of the red variety, and nodules of mica slate; while,
in the boulders of red granite, no foreign material is almost ever
to be observed, and some of the outlying blocks of this material
from the hill have been polished into slabs and pillars of the great-
est beauty.  In some situations, the red granite exists in beds,
in such a disintegrated state, as to be dug out with the help of
the pick-axe, as a material for road-making.
   High up the bill, by the side of a little waterfall, there is a
very strong chalybeate spring.  The supply of water is abundant.
To the taste, it certainly appears as strong as the well-known
Pananich water; and those who have used both, say that its ef-
fects are by no means inferior.
   Throughout the parish, generally, there is an abundant supply
of pure and excellent spring-water.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY
   Land-Owners.-The landed property is in the hands of four in=
dividuals; viz. General Byres of Tonley; Mr M'Combie of Til=
lyfour; Mr Farquharson of Whitehouse; and Mr Elmslie of Tul-
lochvenue.  The valued rent is L.1670, 14s., Scots.  The real
                              3


