
                              STOW.                  415

trick Forest, 17th November 1740. His parentage was very re-
spectable.  About 1743, his father removed to Elibank on Tweed-
side, which occasioned his being sent, at a suitable age, to the pa-
rish school of Innerleithen, where he received the rudiments of a
classical education.  In 1756, he went to Edinburgh, and, after
ten months' application to writing and arithmetic, was bound ap-
prentice to a bookseller and printer.  In 1767, he went to Lon-
don, and, after many disappointments, became corrector of the
press to Mr Strahan, afterwards the King's printer.  While thus
occupied, he published selections of poems, &c., and other works
of light reading.  In 1779, he published his "History of America."
In the same year, he gave to the world the two first volumes of his
"Historv of Modern Europe," and the other three in 1784.  In
1792, he received the honorary degree of LL.D. from the Uni-
versity of St Andrews; and, in 1793, his two volumes of "Ancient
Europe" were published.  Soon afterwards, he died at Knottyholm,
near Langholm, where he had resided since his marriage in 1787,
at the age of fifty-three.  He left behind him several tragedies
and other poetical, works, as well as some unfinished productions,
of which the most important was a history of the reign of George,
III. to the conclusion of the American war, a work in which he
was engaged at the time of his death.
   Brigadier-General Alexander Walker of Bowland was the eldest
son of the Rev. William Walker, minister of the parish of Colles-
sie in Fife.  He received the rudiments of a classical education in
St Andrews.  In the East India Company's service he spent thir-
ty years of active duty.  In 1811, he returned from India, and soon
after married Miss Barbara Montgomery, daughter of the late
Lord Chief Baron of that name.  He then settled on his property
of Bowland, purchased for him some years previously to his leav-
ing India.  With little interruption, he continued to reside here
till towards the autumn of 1822, when, having been appointed go-
vernor of St Helena, he left this country for London, preparatory
to his embarkation for St Helena.  From that island he returned
in the summer of 1828, a good deal shattered in health.  On the
5th March 1831, he died in the 67th year of his age, after two
days illness.
   His appointment at Baroda enabled him to put the financial af-
fairs of that district on a footing that was highly advantageous to
the natives, at the same time that it saved many thousand pounds
sterling annually to the Company.  It is to be hoped this ser-


