

378                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

discovered.  A near relation of Mr Blythe, the present tenant of
Tofts, kindly assisted in defying the expenses of his school wages,
little thinking, no doubt, at that time of the eminent station at
which the object of his benevolence was destined afterwards to arrive.

<TABLE=POPULATION>

                              III.-POLULATION

                       In 1811, the population was 287
                          1821                     315
                          1831                     294
                          1836                     381

Number of families in the parish,                                           56
                    chiefly employed in agriculture,                        39
                                     in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  5

                              IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Since,the last Statistical Account was given in
the produce has greatly increased, and many enclosures have been
made by building dry-stone dikes, planting hedges, & c.  On the farm
of Kirktoun alone, fences have been made to the extent of upwards
of 1700 roods during the last eight years; and by the application of
lime, the soil has been meliorated, and the rent greatly, advanced.
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no town or village, no public-house or toll-bar within
the parish. Hawick, which is situated at the distance of a few
miles the most remote district of the parish, is the post and
market-town.  The roads from Hawick to Newcastle and Liddes-
dale, pass through the parish.
  Ecclesiastes State-The parish church is situated inconvenient-
ly being too near to the eastern extremity, while the majority of
the population reside in the western district.  The church is in a
very bad state of repair, and a period of its erection is unknown.
The manse is also much decayed.
  From the relatives situation of the parishes of Kirktoun and
Cavers, several families belonging to the latter attend divine ser-
vice at Kirktourn.
   Education.-There is a school and schoolmaster's house in the
neighborhood of the church.  The school is well attended.  A con-
siderable number of the scholars are however, from Cavers parish.
   Poor.-There are 5 paupers on the roll, one whom was ad-
mitted in November last.  The collection at the church are so
small, that the poor are entirely supported by an assessment on the
creditors and tenants.  For several half years bypast; the assess-
ment amounted to about L. 10, 10.; the present hallf-year, it is a
little higher.

   May 1838.


