
                              PAISLEY.                  255

   Parish Rental.-The valued rent of the parish is L. 11,944,
13s. 4d. Scots, the real rent L. 22,415, 17s. 8d. Sterling, divided
among ninety-five landed proprietors, of whom seventeen possess
each L. 100 Scots or upwards of annual valuation.  We here sub-
join a list of the landowners possessed each of the yearly income,
from his land, of L. 50 or upwards.
   The Most Noble the Marquis of Abercorn; The Right Ho-
nourable George Earl of Glasgow; The Right Honourable Lord
Blantyre; The Rigbt Honourable Lord Douglas; Sir Michael
Shaw Stewart of Greenock and Blackhall, Bart.; Sir John Max-
well of Polloc, Bart.; Alexander Speirs, Esq. of Elderslie; Lu-
dovic Houston, Esq. of Johnston ; Robert Fulton, Esq. of Hart-
field; The British Linen Banking Company; The Town of Pais-
ley; Misses Dunlop of Househill, and Mrs Campbell; James Kib-
ble, Esq. of Whiteford; Andrew Buchanan, Esq. of Hillington;
William Maxwell, Esq. of Brediland; William Barr, Esq. of
Ferguslie; John Wilson, Esq. of Thornley; James Gerrard, Esq.
of Whitehaugh; Charles James, Fox Orr, Esq. of Thornley Park;
Robert Smith, Esq. of Barshaw ; H. B. Stains, Esq. of Braehead
Andrew Brown, Esq. of Auchentorlie: William Sim, Esq. of
Gallowhill; Adam Hamilton, Esq. of Lounsdale; The Trustees
of the late John Shedden, Esq. of Woodside; The Heirs of
the late William King, Esq. of Lonend; Robert Dalgleish, Esq.
merchant, Glasgow; J. P. Storrie, Esq. of Riccarsbarr; Miss
Christie, Paisley; Trustees of the late Boyd Alexander, Esq.;
Heirs of the late Robert Barclay, Esq. of Glen; Robert Orr, Esq.
of Lylesland; The Heirs of the late William Peock, Esq. of
Meikleriggs; James Sharp, Esq. merchant, Glasgow: Thomas Ro-
bertson, Esq. of Thornleymoor; John Wilson, Esq. of Ferguslie;
The Heirs of the late Hugh Ferguson, Esq. writer, Glasgow; The
Heirs of the late John Bell, Esq. Woodside; Faculty of Procura-
tors, Paisley; Miss Braid, Carriagehill.
   Agriculture.-In the last Statistical Account, we find the fol-
lowing remarks. " The husbandry of this parish, as of all the west
of Scotland, was, about the middle of this century (the 18th,) in a
most unprosperous state.  The indigent circumstances of the farmers,
their indolent habits, the want of roads, of wheel-carriages, and
proper implements of husbandry, all conspired to obstruct the
improvement of the soil.  Till about 1770, lime, coal, grain, &c.
were generally conveyed on horseback.  The old servitudes of
carriages, kain, labour, thirlage, &c. still existed, with many prac-


