
170                            AYRSHIRE.

house of Dalmulin, (Dalmelling, in the parish of St Quivox,) a
house of canons and nuns of the order of Sempringham or Gil-
bertines, with all its possessions, (of which Monkton mill was one,)
was made over to the monastery of Paisley.
	There is no record or tradition extent of any house or convent in
Monkton, for the accommodation of these monks. Prestwick church
is mentioned in the Paisley chartulary in 1212, as a chapel, and its
minister as a chaplain (capellanus). Monkton church was a rec-
tory, and continued to be so down to the Reformation. From the
general appearance of the present church of Monkton, and in par-
ticular from the existence of a Saxon arch over what was once the
principal door, it is supposed to be the original structure: in that
case it cannot be less than 700 or 800 years old. The bell bears
the popish inscription of Sancte Cuthberti ora pro nobis, addressed
to the tutelary saint of the church. It is not known when the pa-
rishes were united. It appears from the records of the burgh of
Prestwick, that up to the year 1570 the union had not taken place,
as the ministers of both parishes are mentioned: whereas about
1630 mention is made only of one, as being minister of both pa-
rishes. The union probably was the result of necessity, viz. the
want of adequate endowments.
	The parish is sometimes mentioned as the united parish of
Monkton, Prestwick and Crosby. This is a mistake. Crosby
never was a separate parish. In the chartulary above referred to,
we have mention made of Dundonald, with its two chapels of Ric-
carton and Crosby. The records of the Presbytery of Ayr, bear
that, in 1651, the estate of Crosby at the request of its proprietor,
was disjoined from the parish of Dundonald, and, for the sake of
being nearer to religious ordinances, was joined to Monkton. In
1688, however, it was again wholly reunited to Dundonald. It
would appear that, subsequent to this latter date, the laird of Crosby
erected the place of worship, the ruins of which still remain, for
the accommodation of the neighbouring population, and it con-
tinued for some time as a preaching station, and for a while had a
minister of its own.
	The etymology of Prestwick, (Priest-town,) points to some ec-
clesiastical origin, but as to what that is, neither record nor tradition
furnishes the smallest light.
	Extent,&c.--The parish extead to 3 1/2 miles in length, by 3 1/2
in breadth contains between 9 and 10 square miles. It is
bounded by the Parishes of Dundonald, Symington, and Craigie,
     		               4

