
240                        FORFARSHIRE.

to near the fishing village of Airthmithie, is from 5 to 6 miles.
That part of it along the bay of Lunan (which affords a safe an-
chorage for ships, except when the wind blows from any point of
the east,) is flat firm sand, over which the tide flows till it reaches
a sandy bank overgrown with bent. From this point there is a beau-
tiful extent of table land westward betwixt the Lunan and the Keilor,
where the soil is of a free fertile quality; but on the other side of
both the Lunan and the Keilor it is of a deep rich loam. The
climate is good, and the soil, being of a fertile quality, has encour-
aged the landlords and tenants to drain the land completely, so
that the air is pure and salubrious; and we have no very prevalent
distemper.
   Hydrography.--The river Lunan has its source from a well
near Forfar, called Lunan Well; it passes through a chain of lochs,
viz. Restenet, Rescobie, and Balgaves, and is in its course fed by
several burns. It then runs eastward through this parish with a
clear current, and, after a variety of beautiful windings, falls into the
sea at Redcastle in Lunan bay. On the north side of the Lunan
there is no quarry of freestone; only a hard bluish whinstone, very
useful for road-making: but between the Lunan and Keilor, quar-
ries of fine freestone fit for hewn work abound.
   Geology.--The prevailing rock in the parish is red sandstone,
intermingled with trap and porphyry rocks. Of these there is a
fine display at the Red Head. Agates are found in the trap rocks;
and the rocks of this district are used in building, and for road-
making. Dr Fleming and Professor Jameson have described the
geology of the Red Head.
                      II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.--The land-owners are the Earl of Northesk,
Lord Panmure, Messrs F. L. Carnegie, Rait, Johnstone, and Skair.
   Parochial Registers.-- The parochial registers of this parish com-
mence in the year 1739; since which period they have been regular-
ly kept.
   Antiquities.--At the mouth of the Lunan, upon an eminence that
rises almost perpendicular on the side of the sea, and is steep
all round, stands an old venerable ruin, named Redcastle, which
tradition represents to have been a royal hunting seat; and
the names of some adjacent farms are supposed to give it coun-
tenance. But if ever this was the case, it must have been at
some very early period; for Chalmers in his Caledonia, quotes a
chartulary of Abroath, which ascribes the building of Redcastle


