
        	      LIBBERTON AND QUOTHQUAN.                  47

will soon rot. The church affords accommodation to 450 persons,
and is amply sufficient for the whole population.
	The manse was built in 1824, and is a good house; but the
offices are iddifferent.
	The glebe extends to about 8 Scotch acres, and is worth L. 16
yearly.
	The stipend is 15 chalders, or 240 bolls Linlithgow measure,
of grain, half meal and half barley, besides L. 8, 6s. 8d. for com-
munion elements.
	There are no chapels of ease, nor dissenting chapels in the parish.
The number of dissenters above twelve years of age is about 170,
--much the same number as was found by the present writer when
he entered to the parish in 1813. The dissenters generally be-
long either to Seceding or Relief congregations in Biggar, which
is nearer to some parts of the parish than the parish church.
There are only two Episcopalian families in the parish, who have
no chapel within 20 miles. The average number of communicants
at the parish church is from 200 to 220.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish, viz. the paro-
chial school at the church town of Libberton, and the school of
Quothquan; the latter is supported by a mortification of L. 2
10s. L. 6 for house rent yearly, and the school fees; there are
also attached to it a good school and schoolhouse, built last sum-
mer.
	There is also a Sunday school taught at Quothquan, which is
attended by 25 scholars, and is superintended partly by the teacher
at Quothquan, and partly by the private tutor at Shieldhill.
	The salary of the parochial teacher is L. 30, and the amount
of school fees does not exceed L. 20 a-year. In Quothquan
school the school fees must be considerably less. The parochial
teacher has the legal accommodations. There are no persons born
and brought up in the parish, who cannot read and write.
	There is a parochial library in the parish; also a Friendly So-
ciety, which was instituted in 1811 for the relief of its distressed
members.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--At present there are 13 poor per-
sons receiving each about an average of L. 4 yearly. The amount
of annual contributions for the poor is about L. 58, of which L. 45
arises from voluntary assessment, one-half of which is paid by the
proprietors, and the other half by the tenants. The church col-
lections amount to L. 11; and there is also the interest of L. 40,


