
                                GOVAN.                         677

commissioners " to pas to ye lache kirk, onder the hie kirk, and
yair visie the paivmentis contenit yrin how far ye samein as yet re-
maines unstollen," and on the following day it is thought expe-
dient " that rather the samein be transportit and tane away to mak
paivment in the lache kirk, callet the Blakfreir kirk, yn yat ye
samein sall be stollen and tane away." *  This certainly was rather
an adventurous proceeding, on the supposition that, a few years"
before, when it was proposed to make a quarry of the cathedral,
" the crafts of the city in a tumult took arms, swearing, with many
oaths that he who cast the first stone should be buried under it." +
   When Melville was translated to St Andrews in 1580, he was
succeeded by Mr Thomas Smeton, who was before his removal
to Glasgow minister of Paisley, and who, like his predecessor, was
considered one of the most learned men of his age.  His appoint-
ment passed the Privy-Seal on the 3d of January 1581. ++  Sme-
ton was perfectly versed in the writings of the fathers.  In early
life, after spending some time in Paris, he went to Rome, where
he was received into the Society of Jesuits.  He afterwards re-

<FOOTNOTE>Records of Glasgow Kirk-Session.
          Spotswood, History, p.304.  The truth is it was mainly owing to the consistory
or kirk-session	of Glasgow, that the cathedral was preserved in those days from fall-
ing into ruins.  Along with the provost and magistrates, the principal and regents of
the University, and the ministers of certain parishes in the country, the most intel-
ligent and influential of the inhabitants of the city, were members of that body.  The
oldest record of their transactions which has been preserved begins with the year
1583.  From this record. it appears that on the 20th of October 1586, the session,
considering it " yair dewtie to be cairfull for to see ye rewins of ye kirk repairit, and
finding ye matter of greit importance," applied to the magistrates and council to "fhnd
out sum gud overture howe ye said kirk may be repairit."   This application was re-
newed on the 3d of November.  On the 7th of December 1587, the session thougbt
it right that the deacons of the different crafts should meet with the provost, baillies,
and council, " to gif yair avise and jugement" respecting the reparation of the high
kirk.  On the 25th of January following, comissioners were sent to the General
Assembly by the session, to petition for "ane commission wi licens fra yet kingis
majestie for reparation of ye kirk of Glasgw, the best way the toun and paro-
chin of ye samein may."  Another royal commission was applied for through the
magistrates and council, on the 1st of August 1588.  Accordingly, Mr Andrew Hay,
parson of Renfrew, as we find from a minute of the 30th January thereafter, received
the King's letters, " to nominate stenteris for stenting to repair the bie kirk."  The
Duke of Lennox on the 21st of November 1589, the magistrates and session una-
nimously resolved, that the whole of the penalties that might be received by the ses-
sion, in all time coming, should be " allenerlie imployed upon ye repairing of ye kirk
and kirk work, be ye mutuall avyse of ye mgratis and sessioun."  And on the 23d of
April 1590, the session ordained that all tha canons of Glasgow should "be urgit for
ye reparation of the kirk of Glasgw, and specialie ye ch`pter-house yairof."  These
and similar extracts, which might be produced, may serve to show that the Reformers
of Scotland were not the Vandals they have been represented to be, and that in Glas-
gow the leading men among them were justly proud of their magnificent cathedral.
          Register of Privy Seal, Vol. xivii. fol. 6l.  M'Crie's Life of Melville, Vol. i.
p. 207.

   LANARK                                                x x


