
		        PARISH OF COLLESSIE.

		PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

		THE REV. JOHN MACFARLANE, MINISTER.


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Boundaries-Extent.--THIS parish is bounded on the north by
Abdie; on the south, by Kettle; on the east, by Monimail; and
on the west, by Auchtermuchty. The village is easily accessible
from any quarter, being near the place where the two roads cross
each other by which the parish is intersected,--the one leading
from Newburgh to Kirkaldy; the other from Cupar to Kinross.
The points of the parish most distant from each other, and which
are between north-west and south-east, include a space of eight
miles. The average breadth of the parish is about four miles.
   Name.-Collessie has always been the name of this parish. Al-
though, from a few relics of antiquity that have been found in the
neighbourhood, but principally, I believe, from the resemblance
between the word and the Roman Colosseum, a classic origin has
been claimed for it, it may with more truth be referred to a Gae-
lic source. The name is a compound Gaelic word, signifying, the
bottom of a glen. This derivation is corroborated by the fact, that
it is exactly descriptive of the situation of the village which has given
name to the whole parish.
   Soil, &c.--There is great variety in the quality of the soil. The
northern and north-west parts of the parish are by far the most fertile.
In these districts, there is a good deep sharp soil, principally upon
a whinstone bottom. From the position of the ground, too, situat-
ed upon the sloping sides of the hills, that form the northern
boundary of the parish, it has a good southern exposure; and, be-
ing in a high state of cultivation, it produces early and excellent
crops. The eight farms of Hall-hill, Collessie-mill, Corn-hill,
Meadow-wells, Cold-wells, Weddersbie, Wester Rossie, and Lum-
quhat, including in all about 1560 Scotch acres, present from the
road to Auchtermuchty an appearance of considerable natural
beauty and great agricultural skill and industry. Although this


