
856                               PERTHSHIRE.

the minister of Abernethy, was appointed prior and cornmendator
of that priory and monastery, with a right to the whole rents be-
longing thereto, which must have been considerable.
   Archibald Moncrieffe married Margaret Auchinleck, the sister
of Sir George Auchinleck of Balmanno, who was admitted a Lord
of Session 14th February 1626.  The fruits of this marriage were
three sons and three daughters. His second son, George, was
minister of Arngask, and afterwards represented the family.  His
eldest son, Archibald, was his heir, and also successor as minister
of Abernethy.  He succeeded his father about the year 1630, and
married Barbara, eldest daughter of David Monerieffe of Balcas-
kie, one of six brothers who all belonged to the household of James
VI. Archibald, the second of the name who was minister of
Abernethy, lived till after 1662, as appears by a document of that
date, in his own writing, in the possession of the late Sir Henry
Moncrieffe of Wellwood.
  Land-owners.-The greater part of the parish belongs to the
following heritors, who are non-resident : The Right Honour-
able Earl of Mansfield, who is patron of the parish, and takes one
of his titles from Balvaird ; the Right Honourable Earl of
Wemyss and March; Sir Thomas Moncrieffe of Moncrieffe, a
branch of one of the most ancient families in Scotland, the genea-
logical accounts of which go back to the beginning of the twelfth
century, and represent Ramerus de Monerieffe as the founder, who
lived between A. D. 1107 and 1124, and is said to have been keep-
er of the wardrobe in the family of King Alexander I. The prin-
cipal resident heritors are, Peter Hay Paterson, Esq. of Carpow;
Joseph Murray, Esq. of Ayton, formerly Craigpottie; James Rit-
chie, Esq. of Carey, &c.  The feuars generally hold of Lord
Douglas, and are numerous, the number of heritors at present on
the roll being 78. Though the greater proportion of these occupy
only from one to three acres, yet, from the conjoined value of their
l`nds and houses in the village, the number of individuals in the
parish who enjoy the political franchise under the Reform Bill is
very large.
                       III.-POPULATION.
           The return to Dr Webster, in 1755, was 1490
                                        1792,     1415
                                        1881,     1776
                                        1841,     1915
  It  appears from the census of 1841, compared with that of
1831, that there has been an increase in the population to the ex-


