
                     NORTH KNAPDALE.                      635

pointed him their chief engineer to Bengal, where he acquired
fresh reputation by the very masterly designs he gave in for the
works of Fort-William, and for reducing the expence of erecting
that immense fortress to a sum half a million of money less than
to what bad been originally intended. He was subsequently
employed in the American war; and his judicious and gallant con-
duct in that expeditions was duly appreciated by his sovereign, who
appointed him Governor of Jamaica.  And while he held the go-
vernorship of that island, he stood conspicuous for his enlarged
and statesmanlike views, the strength and decision of his mind,
and courage for the most critical and arduous circumtances.  On
his return to England, the India Company appointed him their
Governor for Madras, and the King bonoured him with a red
riband. He died in 1791, regretted and admired for his eminent
civil and military services to his country. He was possessed of
distinguished endowments of mind, inflexible integrity, with every
social and amiable virtue.
   Antiquities.--At Keills, near the south-western extremity of
the parish, stands the ruin of the chapel of St Carmaig. The
walls are 40 feet in length by 20 feet in breadth, and 12 feet in
height. Close to the chapel stands a cross of remote antiquity:
it is 9 feet high, I foot broad, and 6 inches thick. On Drimna-
creige, near the church of Inverlussay, are seen the ruins of an-
other religious house; and at Kilmahunaig, about a furlong north-
west from the banks of the Crinan canal, there was a richly-en-
dowed chapel, of which no vestiges now remain. Near to the
site of this chapel, which is indicated by the burying-ground with
which it was surrounded, there is a conical eminence 120 yards in
circumference at the base, and about 30 feet in height. This
mound is called Dun Domhnul (Dundonald,) on which, according
to tradition, the Lord of the Isles used to hold courts of justice,
and inflict severe and summary punishment on those whom he ad-
judged guilty. A culprit, who was arraigned and condemned to
death at this dread tribunal, contrived to effect his escape while
the officers of court were making preparations to put the sentence
into execution. The Lord of the Isles, who was greatly exaspe-
rated at the escape of the criminal, ordered one of his vassals, who
was in attendance, and who was remarkable for strength, prowess,
and swiftness of foot, to pursue the culprit, and bring him back,
either dead or alive. He was hotly pursued, and soon overtaken,
and, after a short though desperate struggle, was carried back to


