                              LOCUBROOM.                               83

       discrimination of friends or enemies, during eight days that they
       remained upon the coast.
          Land-owners.-The landed proprietors of the parish are, the
       Hon. Mrs Hay M'Kenzie of Cromertie; Mr Davidson of Tulloch;
       Mr M'Kenzie of Dundonnell; Sir George M'Kenzie of Coul; and
       Captain Fraser of Balnain.  None of these reside within the parish.
       Neither are there other families of any note residingin it.
       They all possess land to the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards.
          Parochial Registers.-There are no parochial registers within
       the parish, further back than the year 1808,-tbe date of the present
       incumbent's induction.
          Antiquities.-There are many of the drystone circular buildings
       called Duns, in this parish; but there is no tradition of their
       origin or use.
          Modern Buildings.-There is notbing, under this head, worth noticing,
       except the parish church, which was built in 1816-17. It is
       an excellent house, seated for 1200, but capable of containing
       nearly 2000 sitters. The manse was built in 1812; and is in great
       need of repair. There is a very comfortable mansion-house on the
       property of Dundonnell, greatly enlarged and improved by the
       late proprietor, Kenneth M'Kenzie.

       <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

          Accoroding to Dr Webster's return in 1755, the population was 2211
          By returns to Sir John Sinclair about 1794,          		3500
          At the last censusin 1831,		                        4615
       									____
              Making an increase since the former Account of  		1115

          In fact, however, the number of inhabitants actually belonging
       to the parish, at the time of the last census, must have been considerably
       greater than that given in. For, by a very correct enumeration,
       taken by the present incumbent in 1824, in which the
       name and surname of every individual in the parish are inserted,
       the number of inhabitants then in the parish was 4747,-being 132
       more than in the last census, although the population has undoubtedly
       been gradually and rapidly increasing for a hundred years back.
          The discrepancy, however, is easily accounted for, in full consistency
       with the accuracy of the last Report. For, the act of
       Parliament of 1830 requiring, that the population of the whole
       kingdom should be taken at one and the same time, it became necessary
       to return the number of person then actually within the
       parishes, rather than the number of persons which fairly belonged
       to them. And by this means, some hundreds of the parishioners


