
     122                         SUTHERLAND.

     ness and romantic scenery, the hills rising on every side to a great
     height, and interspersed with formidable cliffs. The great arm
     of the sea forming this inlet on the west, juts in from the ocean a
     distance of ten miles, and is commonly but erroneously called in
     the charts "Loch Assynt."  To instance the importance of Loch
     Glendhu for herrings, so recently as the autumn of 1829, it was
     estimated that the value of herrings caught in it was L.30,000; and
     it has been known that 100 herring busses have resorted to it at a
     time. The other harbours and sea lochs, already noticed, are pro-
     ductive of herrings and other varieties of fish, including shell-fish.
        To advert to the fresh water lakes, Loch-Moir and Loch-Stac
     are the two most conspicuous; not only from their inland position,
     and as giving rise to the river Laxford, but as they form the con-
     fines of the great Reay Forest on the south-west. The former is
     five miles long by one broad; the latter three long and two broad.
     Their water, rising from the bowels of the mountains, which are
     principally gneiss, quartz, and felspar, is particularly limpid and
     free of impurities.
        Good wholesome water is to be had in all parts, principally from
     perennial springs.
        Geology and Mineralogy.-The characters and varieties that
     arise under those heads are neither numerous nor very important,
     as far as they have been yet discovered; and did we enter on par-
     ticulars, too much space would necessarily be occupied. As a
     whole, Edderachillis is of the primitive and transition classes, and
     the ranges of mountains already mentioned, with little exception,
     consist of gneiss, various hornblende rocks, granite in veins, and
     quartz rock. Limestone is met with on the sides of Lochs Glen-
     dhu, Glencul, and Loch-Moir. Hornblende slates are to be found
     round Scourie and at Kylestrome. Handa island is composed
     chiefly of red sandstone, the quality of which cannot be excelled
     for every description of architectural work.
        Soil.-The soil along the coast and in the valleys, principal-
     ly recumbent on gneiss, is of various descriptions. The great-
     er part of the arable is a mixture of gravel and moss, fertiliz-
     ed by the application of sea-weed for manure, which imparts
     to the land a considerable portion of organic matter, and its
     alkaline properties neutralize the acid which the moss con-
     tains. The district of Ashare is better soil than the rest, being
     dark loam intermixed with sand, and the features of that section
     of the parish convey a belief that it has been earlier inhabited and
                                     4


