
               AULDEARN.                                7

through which flows a stream called the Muckle Burn. Beyond
this valley it rises to an elevation greatly exceeding the former;
but, at its greatest height, corn may be cultivated and brought to
maturity.
  Topographical Appearances. - For about half a mile from the
shore of the Frith to the westward, and about one mile to the eastward,
the soil consists of nothing but sand covered with beat
(Ammophila arundinacea). Here there are two objects worthy
of notice. The one is an island or peninsula of sand, separated
from the land at high water, and called by the people in its
vicinity "the bar." It is remarkable for shifting its place to the
westward. Opposite to it are two sand-hills, about 100 feet in
perpendicular height, and gradually moving to the eastward by the
action of the wind, yet retaining their form. The bar is moved in
the contrary direction by the action of the tide. It is difficult to
form any theory regarding either the formation or locomotion of
these objects; but the facts, as stated, are certain. The rest of
the parish, though generally level, is varied by gentle eminences.
A great part of it is beautified by plantations, and the aspect
which it presents when seen from some of the higher grounds, especially
in the season of spring, when the spectator has immediately
under his eye the tender green of the fields and woods, the
herds feeding in the pastures, the Frith, which here is seven miles
broad, the bold rocky coast of Ross, its mountains, and those of
Sutherland, thenoften covered with snow, is altogether such as
cannot be surpassed by any parish in the north of Scotland.
  Climate. - Along the whole coast of Moray, from the mouth of
the Spey to that of the Ness, the climate is remarkably dry. It
has been ascertained that the district enjoys forty days in the year
of dry weather more than any other part of Scotland, and they is
no parish where this is more remarkable than in Auldearn. Every
year the farmer suffers more or less from want of rain.  Little
Snow falls in winter. The temperature is in general mild and
conducive to health.
  Hydrograplay. - The Moray Frith, where it bounds this parish,
is so shallow, that no vessel can approach the shore, and even a
small boat could not conveniently land. There was, at one time,
a fishing village opposite the sand-hills already mentioned, from
which they retain the name of Mavistown; but it has been long
abandoned. A brook, callied the Burn of Auldearn, passes through
the lower part of it, and enters the river  Nairn about half a mile


