
912                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

Aberdeen and Peterhead, or manufactured in those places, the
quantity sold annually at the intermediate sea-port of Newburgh,
and applied chiefly to the districts stretching along the Ythan,
cannot, according to data furnished by Newburgh merchants, be
estimated at less than sixty thousand bushels.  The annual expen-
diture, therefore, on this article of manure, of the limited district,
which draws its supplies from the village of Newburgh, falls little
short of the large sum of L.9000.  Bone manure is found to an-
swer remarkably well on all light soils, provided that they have
been for a considerable period under cultivation.  Its effects are
not so favourable when applied, particularly if it be applied by it-
self, without any admixture of dung from the farm-yard, either
to soils which, though light, have been recently reclaimed, or to
the heavier clays.  The usual allowance, where no other species
of manure is applied along with it, is 25 bushels per Scotch acre,
or 20 bushels when it has been previously mixed with an equal
quantity of peat-ashes.  The more common way, however, of ap-
plying it in this part of the country is to add 12 or 14 bushels of
bone-dust per Scotch acre, to half Lbe usual allowance of dung
from the farm-yard.  The crops of turnips raised on land manur-
ed with bone-dust are to the full as heavy, if the land be well pul-
verized and of an open and unretentive character, as can be raised
upon the same quality of land by a liberal allowance of common
farm-yard dug.  When bone-dust is the only manure applied for
the production of the turnip crop, some of our farmers are in the
practice of giving an additional half allowance of farm-yard dung,
in sowing down with grass seeds in the spring following.  They are
of opinion that the extra expense thus incurred is more than re-
paid by the superior productiveness of the succeeding crops of the
rotation.
   Some time ago, the five year's shift, namely, Ist, turnips; 2d,
grain; 3d and 4th, pasture; 5th, grain, was the rotation usually
followed.  But this shift is now very generally abandoned, it hav-
ing been found by experience that the land requires a longer con-
tinuance of rest than the shift in question allows, for the recovery
of such powers of production as are essential to the profitable cul-
tivation of grain.  Most practical farmers in this district have
come to be decidedly of opinion, that land which has been pastur-
ed upon for three years, will yield, when broken up, a greater re-
turn of oats per Scotch acre, by from eight to twelve bushels, than
what will be produced, on land of the same quality, and apparently
                                   4


