
12                               KINCARDINESHIRE.

   Wages.--The general rate of ploughman's wages (exclusive of
two pecks of meal per week, and a pint of milk daily,) is per year
about L. 12; females, L. 4, L. 5, and L. 6. The wages of out-
door females per day, 7d. The rate of an artisan;s labour per
day is summer 2s., and in winter 1s 6d. The rate for mason-
work may vary, per week, from 12s to 20s. The rate of car-
penter work is also various; in general it is about 2s. per day.
   Prices of Provisions.--The price of butter per imperial pound
varies from 5d. to 10d.; the price of eggs per dozen, from 4d. to 7d.;
the price of meal per stone; 1s. 6d. to 2s. 2d; the price of milk
per Scoth pint, 2d. to 3d.; cheese per stone, 6s. to 8s.; butcher-
meat 4d. to 5 1/2 per pound.
   Live-Stock.--The cattle in the parish are fenerally of the An-
gus breed. Those that are reared in it are very fine beasts, but
they are but few in number, as the farms are principally grain
farms, and are not generally employed in pasturage.
   Husbandry.--The husbandry is excellent, and the fields, which
are tastefully laid off from one another, produce the most abun-
dant crops of all kinds of grain, such as wheat beans and peas,
oats, barley, potatoes, turnips, &c. and no better mode of farm-
ing than that which is presently followed could be devised.  Waste
land to a considerable extent has been reclaimed, during the last
twelve years, by draining, &c.
   Leases.--The duration of leases in the parish is nineteen years,
with the exception of the burgh lands, which have been for some
time past let at no longer a lease than that of ten years.  A lease
for nineteen years is considered sufficiently favourable, when a farm
is entirely improved; but a longer lease would be considered more
advantageous to the tenant where much land has to be reclaimed.
In the parish, the farmers seem to be well satisfied with the com-
mon nineteen years lease.
   The farm-buildings are in a state of good order, and are cover-
ed for the most part with slates or tiles. The proprietors give
every encouragement to their tenants, and have never been known
to refuse a reasonable request. The tenants are most respectable
and industrious. They have great advantages which those in in-
land parished cannot possibly enjoy; such as the genial nature of
the climate, the superior quality of the soil, the large supply of
sea weed for manure, the grain market established in the burgh,
and the shipping port of Gourdon in the parish, where they get
				4


