
                          ORMISTON.                      137

Cardinal, who carried him to St Andrews in the end of January
1546, where he was executed on the 1st March, in the view of
the Cardinal and his friends, who beheld his death from a window
of the castle.
   Family of Cochhurn.-The family of Cockburn, for a long tract
of years, occasionally held the office of Lord Justice-Clerk. The
first of the family who held it, was Sir John in 1547. He was after-
wards appointed a Lord of Session in 1554. The same office was
held by Adam in the middle of the seventeenth century. In his time
1657, the lands of Paiston were sold to Robert, afterwards Sir
Robert Hepburn of Keith. Adam was member for the county of
Haddington, in the Scottish Parliament which sat at Edinburgh,
28th July 1681, and also in that of 1688. He was likewise ap-
pointed one of the Scottish commissioners to meet with the Eng-
lish regarding the treaty of Union. He was a man of good under-
standing, and of great application to business, but of a hot and
overbearing temper.
   His son John, the celebrated agriculturist, was born about the
year 1685. During the life of his father, lie sat as a member of
the Scottish Parliament, and took an active part in the proceed-
ings connected with the Union of Scotland and England. He
afterwards represented the county of Haddington in the British
Parliament, and was continued in successive parliaments from 1707
to 1741. But he was chiefly distinguished by his patriotic and be-
nevolent exertions to promote the improvement of his native
country.
   Scotland, though now equally, if not better, cultivated than Eng-
land, was at that time far behind the sister kingdom. Mr Cock-
burn, from his residence in England, was well acquainted with the
agricultural improvements that were going on there. He was anx-
ious to introduce them into Scotland, and spared no labour nor
expense to accomplish an object so desirable. The method he
employed was a remarkable one. Leases were seldom of longer du-
ration than five years, and proprietors had great difficulty in get-
ting proper tenants to cultivate their lands. Mr Cockburn, with a
view to encourage his tenants to greater improvements, granted a
lease of thirty-eight years duration, with a renewal of it for nine-
teen years more at the expiry of that term, and so on from nine-
teen to nineteen years in all time coming, upon their paying a certain
sum as a rent or grassum at the end of every nineteen years. All
the farms in the barony, of Ormiston were let in the same manner


