
228                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

sculptured stones about the size and shape of common grave-stones,
but without any inscriptions, each containing the figure of an or-
namented cross, rising in the centre on a pedestal, and on the right
side a sword of ancient forl; while on the left side, there appears
on the one the coulter and sock of a plough, and on the other a
bugle-horn attached to a baldrick or belt, by a ring. The figures
are very rudely carved.
	These remains are said to have been originally placed in a
church-yard of a small chapel or preceptory, belonging to the
Knights of St John, which we are informed by ancient records was
erected at a place still balled from that circumstance the Kirkstile,
about a mile distant from the parish church, though no traces of
it are now to be found. These memorials of the dead were found
by the present incumbent lying in the parish burying-ground,
whence he removed them, and they now form part of the wall of
a summer-house attached to the fruit-wall, which separates the
garden from the church-yard.
	In the wall of the above-mentioned summer-house are also in-
serted some very remarkable specimens of a phenomenon which
has excited considerable interest and speculation among geologists,
--that of distinct tracks of animals of various sizes in sandstone.
These specimens are three in number; and one of them, where
the foot-marks are particularly distinct, has been pronounced by
Dr Buckland to be the track of a large tortoise. They were
taken from the quarry of Corncockle Muir, in the parish of Loch-
maben, where many other appearances of a similar kind have been
discovered in the act of quarrying; some of them so deep below
the surface nf the quarry as forty-five feet. Most of these have un-
fortunately been destroyed by the workmen, who were altngether
ignorant of their geological importance. *
	Before leaving the head of antiquities, it may be proper to men-
tion the ancient residences of the predecessors of the Earl of
Mansfield; and this we shall do in the words of the late John Mur-
ray, Esq. of Murraythwaite, himself a cadet of that old family, who
drew up the report of this parish for Sir John Sinclair: " The
only ancient building in the parish is the castle of Comlongon,
the seat of the Viscount of Stormont, + which, although erected
some centuries ago, is still entire. It was a considerable place of

<FOOTNOTE>See account of these impressions, by the writer of the present article, in the
Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh for 1828.
	 Now Earl of Mansfield.


