
               DESKFORD.                                65

humidity must be undergoing a favourable change, from the draining
and cultivation which are carried on.
  Geology and Mineralogy. - The general soil of the parish, in
the lower parts of it, is black loam upon a hard clay bottom. In
the higher grounds, the soil is mossy, upon a hard impervious bottom
of clay and gravel mixed. This readers draining, in almost
all parts of the parish, of the greatest necessity and importance,
and it has of late been much resorted to, and with much advantage.
  There is in the parish an excellent quarry of primitive limestone,
The lime is of very superior fineness and strength. Large quantities
of it are prepared by the tenantry, partly for sale, and partly
for their own use in agriculture and in building.
  There is, likewise, an extensive moss in the parish, from which
the inhabitants are supplied with peat and turf, and from which they
supply Cullen and some of the adjoining villages upon the coast.
  The parish, in so far as can be ascertained from the channels
and banks of the burns and ravines, and otber openings which have
made, seems to rest chiefly upon strata of mica-slate, nearly vertical.
Fragments of quartz are frequently found imbedded in the
slate, but never to any considerable size. There is much reason
to think that all this part of the country has, at some remote period,
been under water, as almost all the higher grounds, upon paring
off a surface coat of vegetable mould, which is of no great
depth, except where the moss has much accumulated, are found to
consist of gravel, or clay and gravel mixed.
  Botany. - There is not, as far as the writer knows, any rare species
of plants found in the parish. The natural wood, which grows
along the sides of the burn and smaller streams, is chiefly alder,
hazel, gean, and birch. The planted wood is common fir, a small
proportion of larch, and a still smaller of ash, beecb, and oak the
whole of which thrive sufficiently well in most of the places where
they have been tried. There are, in an orchard adjoining to the
church, some very fine large ashes measuring from eight to twelve
feet in circumference. One of them is of the latter dimensions in
girth, at the height of ten feet from the ground. But of the two trees
called St John's,. and young St John's, commemorated in the former
Statistical Account, the grandeur is now entirely gone. The latter
was, by an act of presumption and had taste, and without authority
frow the Noble proprietor or his factor, cut down upwards of
twenty years ago; and of the former, nothing now remaims but a

          BANFF.                             E


