
                              PARISH OF ABERFOYLE.

           PRESBYTERY OF DUNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                  THE REV.  ROBERT C. GRAHAM, MINISTER.


                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
            Name.-It appears from the public records of Scotland, that
         in 1485, the name of this parish was Abirfull ; and in 1505, Abir-
         fule.  It is mentioned in the books of the Lord High Treasurer,
         that on the 22d August of that year, (1505,) " Maister William
         Ogilvy gaif, by the King's command, to the priests of Aberfule,
         xiiij. s."  The modern name of the parish is Aberfoyle-some-
         times written Aberfoil.  It is suggested by the confluence of a
         stream of water with the Forth, about a quarter of a mile to the
         east of the church; which stream is called in Gaelic the Poll.
            Extent, Boundaries.--The utmost length of this parish is 13
         miles; its utmost breadth, 6.  It is bounded on the north, by
         Callander parish; on the west, by part of Buchanan parish; on the
         south, by the parishes of Drymen and Gartmore; and on the east,
         by Port of Menteith.
            Topographical Appearances,&c.-Aberfoyle is situated in the
         Stewartry of Menteith, and on the southern verge of Perthshire.
         The general aspect of the country is marked by features very
         different from those which characterize the district to the east and
         south.  Here, the extensive plain and grassy eminence cease, and
         the rugged precipice and lofty mountain commence.  There are,
         however, only, two mountains in this parish worthy of particular no-
         tice, viz. Benvenue and Ben-chochan.  The former rises to the
         height of 2800, and the latter to 2000 feet above the level of the
         sea.  Both of these mountains command extensive views to the
         north, west, and east.  The celebrated scenery of the Trossachs
         lies immediately beneath them; and from their summits can be
         distinctly traced " the windings of the Chase," so beautifully de-
         scribed by the late Sir Walter Scott in his Lady of the lake.  The
         valleys in the vicinity of these mountains are of small extent, none


