
	14                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

     	superior talents and singular energy of character, who had realiz-
     	ed an immense fortune in England as an army agent. He owed
	his first advancement in life to the patronage of the celebrated
	Lord Mansfield ; and the redoubtable Junius, who spared no one
	out of respect to his lordship, alludes to him in one of his letters
	in no very friendly spirit, as " George Ross, the Scotch agent."
	And justly migL the satirist have accused him of a true Scotch-
	man-like attachment to his country. No one ever did so much for
	this northern part of it, or pointed out with more statesman-like sa-
	gacity its hitherto neglected resources. He furnished the town,
	at a great expense, with an excellent pier; established in it a
	manufactory of hempen cloth, which has ever since employed about
	200 persons within its walls, and fully twice that number without;
	built a brewery, which at the time of its erection, was the most ex -
	tensive in the north of Scotland; and first set on foot a trade in
	pork for the English market, which, for the last twenty years, has
	been carried on by the traders of the place to an extent of from
	about L, 15,000 to L. 20,000 annually. None of his various pro-
	jects seem to have been entered into with an eye to personal ad-
	vantage; and though all of them were ultimately found to be be-
	nefits conferred on the country, not one of them proved remune-
	rative to himself. The Gaelic chapel, already referred to, and the
	towm-house, a neat substantial edifice, with a large hall in the up-
	per storey, and a prison in the lower, and surmounted by a dome
	furnished with a clock, were two of his gifts to the place. There
	is but one branch of trade connected with Cromarty, whose his-
	tory is not comprised in that of this patriotic and generous pro-
	prietor. The herring fishery, which the reign of Queen Anne
	furnished its only staple, was so successfully prosecuted about
	twelve years ago, that more than -20,000 barrels were exported in
	one season ; but of late years the fish seem almost to have desert-
	ed the frith, and many of the fishermen, in consequence of a se-
	ries of expensive and ill remunerated exertions, have sunk into ab-
	ject poverty.
		            V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   Towns, Villages.-Rather more than half a century ago, there
	was a small village in the parish, named Meikle-Farness ; but it
	has since disappeared under the influence of those changes, which
	within the last fifty years, have new modelled the domestic econo-
	my of the country. The steam looms of Glasgow and Paisley
	have stripped this village weaver of his employment; the manufac-


