
182      			WIGTONSHIRE.

natural wood. Any trees that may be considered indigenous are
oak; but I am disposed to believe that they have all, at some pe-
riod, been planted.
	The management of woods is now good,--much more attention
being paid to them than vas paid formerly. The use of saw-mills
enables the proprietors to turn the produce easily, and at very mo-
derate expense, into money. Thinning, felling, and pruning are
practised judiciously. With respect to forest trees, there seems
to be less and less pruning.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land in this parish, it is not
easy to state. About Newtonstewart, the average rent is from L. 3
to L. 2 per Scotch acre, as the land is near the village; and the land
decreases in value, in proportion as it is farther from the village;
though the intioduction of bone manure has certainly caused the
rent of land to be less affected by that circumstance than it was.
The loamy arable land near the Moss of Cree is rented at from
L. 1, 1Os. to L. 2 per Scotch acre. In the upper, or north end, and
west side of the parish, the arable land is worth considerably less in
general. The rent of the arable land attached to sheep-walks is not
known; it is valued merely as an accommodation to the families in
the farms; the value of which is calculated from the sheep and
cattle grazed on them. In these farms, the dependence is on hay for
winter fodder for the cattle,--not on straw, to a great extent. As the
farms are valued from the stocks which they are capable of maintain-
ing, less attention is paid to their exact contents in acres; and the
precise number of acres in some of the high-lying rough sheep-
walks, comprehending, in some cases, large portions of moss, I be-
lieve may not have been ascertained.
	The average rent of grazing an ox or cow for a year is from
L. 4 to L. 5; a ewe or full-grown sheep from 3s. 6d. to 7s., accord-
ing, to the size of the animal, and the quality of the pasture. The
rent mentioned does not include dry fodder for the ox or cow
during winter, which may cost nearly as much. The price of hay
varies greaty according to the season; probably, on an average,
excluding a year of particular scarcity, the price of ryd-grass hay
may be stated at 6d. for twenty-six pounds, and of bog hay, 4d.
for the same quantity. There is not much straw sold, as the
tenants generally are not allowed to remove it from the land
which they occupy.
	Wages.--The average rate of labour is about 1s. 4d. or 1s. 6d. per
day in summer, an 1s. 2d. in winter, varying, however, according to


