
372                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

ornament of his country, the Honourable Duncan Forbes of Cul-
loden, President of the Court of Session, are universally known.
At the breaking out of that Rebellion, he applied himself with
zeal to nip it in the bud. He successively invited the chieftains
to Culloden House, and whilst he delighted them by his con-
versation and winning manners, be so wrought on them by his
persuasive eloquence, that he was the happy instrument of keep-
ing thousands from joining the Pretender's standard. His eicr-
tions at that critical conjuncture, whilst they brought his own li-
berty, and even his life into imminent hazards involved his'family
in a debt, double to that with which he had found it loaded, from
his predecessor's zeal in the same cause, and amounting together
to upwards of L. 30,000 Sterling. About two-thirds of that sum,.
and less than sixteen years' purchase of its proven increasing va-
lue, was the allowance made by Go vertiment to the present pro-
prietor, on their resumption of this immunity in the year 1786.
The singularity of this privilege, and its great influence in a sta-
tistical view, on the condition and number of the inhabitants of
this parish, have led to this short account of its . origin, and of the
services by which it was earned."
   Eminent Characters. The most distinguished character ever
connected with this parish, so far as is known, was President For-
bes ; but, in consequence of what is stated above regarding him
it is unnecessary to take any further notice of him at present.
   We must not under this head pass over General John Mac-
kenzie, residing at Balevil, in this parish. He is of the family of
Gairloch, and was born at Conan House. While ver young he
entered the army, and soon distinguished himself as an intrepid
soldier. He had the reputation of being a kind and generous
officer, and at the same time an exaca and efficient disciplinarian.
After serving his country in various parts of the globe such as
Holland, India, the Peninsula, &c he. now enjoys his " otium
sum dignitate," on a farm which he has brought to a high state
of improvement.
   On this head it will not be improper to enumerate the excellent
pastors with which this parish has been favoured, in uninterrupte
succession, since the period of the I Revolution. The last Episcopa-
lian minister, who held the charge, was a Mr Andrew Ross, said to
have, been a very pious man, and popular as a preacher. His
successor was a Mr Alexander Fraser, who, it appear, was emi-
nent for both piety and talent, and was ttinslated to Inverness-


