
			       DALZIEL.                    457

Clyde, planted a great part of the waste lands, enlarged and im-
proved the orchards, trenched upwards of 230 acres to different
depths, according o the nature of the soil and subsoil,	which had
a good effect both upon the crops, and in improving and	deepening
the thin soils.

<TABLE>
	Produce.--
	Yearly value of grain of all kinds,	    		           L. 3700
	Potatoes,						               748
	Turnips,						               444
	Hay,							               800
	Natural bay,							        50
	Dairy produce,						              1600
	Large fruit in orchards,				               435
	Gooseberries and currants.,				        	45
	Produce of gardens in the parish, including Dalziel House garden,      200
	Miscellaneous produce,						       100
	Quarries,								60
									   L. 8182
	There are 200 milch cows kept, and 52 horses for labouring the
land.
	The parish roads extend to 6 1/2 miles, and are kept in good
order, at the yearly expense of L.45, which is paid by the land-
lords, tenants, keepers of horses, and such householders as are con-
sidered able to contribute. There are three bridges; one of them
has been recently rebuilt, and cost L.250, and the other two are
in good repair. There is a mill for grinding wheat, oats, &c.
	Orchards.--Orchards are of considerable antiquity on the Clyde.
Merlin, the poet, who wrote about the middle of the fifth century,
celebrates Clydesdale for its fruit. The soil and climate being
inland, and consequently free from the blasting influence of mil-
dews and fogs, may account for its being so favourable for the
cultivation of orchards. At first, they were planted in the shape
of gardens, attached to houses for the accommodation of the
resident families. For two centuries or more, they have been cul-
tivated as a source of profit; they chiefly provail and are most ex-
tensive and productive, on the north bank of the Clyde, having a
southern exposure, though on the south bank there are also a con-
siderable number, and some of them very fruitful. Those of Cam-
busnethan, the property of Robert Lockhart, Esq. of Castlehill,
and of John G. C. Hamilton, Esq. of Dalziel, are the most exten-
sive, and among the most productive. The fruit in  the former has
some years brought L.800, and in the latter L.600.
	The orchards are in general planted on sloping banks, otherwise
only fit for the growth of forest trees. In consequence, however,
of their having been found profitable, especially during the late


