
			MONTROSE.                            283

wooden bridge, the channel of the stream was greatly contracted.
The effect of this unnatural confinement of so violent and rapid a
stream was to deepen the channel not less than five or six feet in
many parts; so that the original bottom having been carried away
the foundations on which the pier rested were in danger of being
undermined. To prevent this result, wooden piers were driven in,
which served as a sort of wall to repel the current. This was found
to be ineffectual, and it was accordingly determined a few years ago
to remove the wooden structure altogether, and to supply its place
by a suspension bridge. Such a bridge has been erected after a
design by Captain Samuel Brown of the Royal Navy. The foun-
dation stone was laid on the 18th September 1828; and the whole
was completed by the 12th December 1829.
	The distance between the towers at the two extremities of the
bridge, measured from the centre of each, is 432 feet. The height
of each tower is 71 feet; namely, 23 1/2 from the foundation to the
roadway, 44 feet from the roadway to the top of the cornice, and
3 1/2 forming the entablature. The breadth of each tower at the
termination of the cut-water is 40 1/2 feet, and 39 1/2 at the roadway.
The archway by which each is perforated is 16 feet in width, by
18 feet in height. The four counter abutments for securing the
chains are respectively 115 feet distant from the towers (reckon-
ing from the centre of the tower to the face of the farthest wall of
the chambers,) and consist each of an arched chamber, a strong
counter fort or abutment, a tunnel, and lying spandrel arch. The
width of the bridge is 26 feet within the suspending rods. The
bars of which the main chains consist measure 8 feet 10 inches
from centre to centre of the bolt holes, 5 inches broad between the
shoulders, and I inch thick throughout. All the main links or
bars are of the same thickness, except those in thd towers, which
are 1 1/8th of an inch thicker, and of length to suit the curve of the
cast-iron saddles. Each main suspending chain--of which there
are two on each side of the bridge, one over the other, Placed one
foot apart--consists of four lines of chain bars. The joints of the
upper main chains are over the middle long bar in the lower chains;
and the suspending rods which support the beams on which the
roadway is laid are 5 feet distant from each other. The chains
are of wrought cable iron; the beams are of cast iron, formed with
open spaces 26 feet 8 inches long, 10 inches deep at the neck of
the tenons, and I inch thick in every part between the flanges.
The whole cost has been a little above L.20,000.  There is a pon-
tage levied at the bridge, which amounts to about L.1300 a-year.


