
                            GARVOCK.                            31

milies of these used to be hatched annually on the eastern part of
the Hill of Garvock. But about two years ago, some blood-thirsty
sportsmen persecuted them, with such persevering cruelty, that
they ceased not till the last individual was brought down. Vanellus
cristatus, the lapwing or twet, and Vanellus griseus, the grey plover,
are still numerous, but much reduced in number, particularly the
lapwing, by our increase-of cultivation. Scolopax Gallinaqo, the
common snipe, of two varieties, is more numerous here than in any
surrounding parishes. Emberiza nivalis, the snow-bunting or snow-
flake, and Sturnus vulgaris, the starling, are occasional visitors.
	When Garvock was a forest, as tradition relates, no doubt her
woods abounded with singing birds; but when denuded of her na-
tural wood, during her bare and barren and uncultivated state, all
the feathered songsters, except the linnet and the lark, were long
banished from her soil. But now, since a few plantations have be-
gun to afford shelter and cover, many of the snnfsters of the grove
have returned; such as Turdus musicus, the thrush; Turdus me-
rula, the blackbird; Motacilla rubecula, the redbreast. And the
little wood, which a former and the present incumbent have plant-
ed about the manse, has procured for its inhabitants, the pleasure of
hearing the song of the mavis and the blackbird in their season, and
the more slender, but sweet and melodious pipe of little robin, in
the fall of the year; so that they can now join with Milton and
say with delight,
		"Sweet is the breath of morn, her rising sweet,
		 With charm of earliest birds."
Fringilla coelebs, the chaffinch, is numerous; Motocilia troglodytes,
the wren, is frequently to be met with. Columba palumbus, the
ring-dove or wood-pigeon, is frequently heard cooing close by the
manse. One solitary pair of Corvus pica, the magpie, have resided
close by the manse for the last twelve years, during all which time
the only overt acts of felony proved against them are, that during
their nursing season, when the hen-house door was left open, they
sometimes stept in and helped themselves to an egg. And once
they killed a little chicken, of that species which go almost quite
naked for several weeks, looking very like raw flesh, and very
tempting to a carnivorous propensity. One year, when some rude
boys had repeatedly annoyed them in the wond, they came and
built in a thorn tree, the remains of an old hedge, little more than
twenty yards from the manse door; and brought up their family as
usual. Every year about the beginning of winter, they send off


