
                               CURRIE.                           553

temptation, to Carlisle, stretches along the back of Currie village.
The canal, as well as the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway, ex-
tend about two miles along the northern district.
   From this abundant means of communication, every facility is
afforded for correspondence by letter and otherwise; and it is re-
markable, that, in a place where no trade on a very extensive scale
is carried on, the inhabitants enjoy the privilege of an arrival
and departure of the post twice a-day. It is brought from Edin-
burgh viƒ Colinton by a pedestrian carrier, and conducted with
great regularity.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Notwithstanding careful and minute in-
vestigations, we have not been able to ascertain whether Currie
was an outpost of the great religious house at Corstorphine, or
whether, as is more probable, in common with Fala, it formed
part of the property th`t belonged to the more splendid esta-
blishment founded by Mary of Guelders (now the Trinity College
Church of Edinburgh.)* It is certain, however, that in the times
of Popish ascendancy in Scotland it was a religious station, and
that ordinances according to the Roman Catholic ritual were re-
gularly dispensed here. In the report given in to the Presbytery
of Edinburgh, 2d May 1627, by the commissioners chosen out
of the parish of Currie, according to the ordinance of the Lords
of the Commission, it is declairit "that the said kirk of Currie
was of old ane speciall rectorie and personage apperteining to
the Archedeane of Louthane as ane part of his patrimonie, and
speciall manssioun and duelling place. And that the same kirk
wes laitlie takin from the said benefice, and erectit in favoures of
the proweist, baillies, counsell, and communitie of Edinburgh, and
disponed to thame be King James of worthie memorie." At the
time of the Reformation the inhabitants embraced the Protestant
faith; and Currie seems to have been one of the first rural places
in Scotland that enjoyed the services of a Presbyterian minister,
being probably raised into importance as the favourite summer re-
sidence of the Court. The Register of Ministers (published by the
Maitland Club, 1830,) contains the following entry: "Mr Adam

<FOOTNOTE>Part of the lands in Currie undoubtedly belongdd to this latter foundation, for
in an old paper in my possession it is said, "thair is no chaiplanries, prebendaries,
nor frierlandis within the said parochin, except some landis appertaining to the
proweist and prebandrie and chaiplanes of the Trinitie Colledge of Edinburgh of
auld, and now perteining and acclamed to apperteine to the towne of Edinburgh be
vertue of ane erectioun maid in thair favouris of the said Trinitie Colledge, viz. the
landis of Eister and Wester Limphoyes, and pairt of the landis of Balerno, and she
pairt of the landis of Curriehill possest be the proprietaris thair of, be vertue of their
fewis."


