
250                          FIFESHIRE.

intermittent; but generally they are perennial. The former being
produced by the excess of surface water, are commonly impure, and
the water of course fit for few purposes; but the latter are sufficiently
numerous and copious for the accommodation and comfort of the in-
habitants. Some of these seem to flow from freestone, others from
whinstone. There are no mineral springs in the parish. There is
not a river; but there are several perennial streams of water, which
ran through the parish, one of which runs into Camilla-loch, situ-
ated near the east end of the parish. The loch derives its name
Camilla from the old house of Camilla, anciently called Hallyards,
belonging to the family of the Skenes; but acquired the name of
Camilla from the residence of one of the Countesses of Moray,
whose name was Campbell. It contains perch, pike, and eels. Its
surface extends to 18 acres; its greatestdepth is 22 feet. The site
of the loch is capable of much ornamental and not unprofitable im-
provement. Its north side is bounded by a steep eminence cover-
ed with furze, interspersed with spots of a rocky substance appear-
ing through them, which nature seems to have intended for wood
plantation, as it is fit for nothing else. There are grounds scatter-
ed around it of the same description. These, covered with planta-
tions, with the ruin of the ancient house of Hallyards, together
with remaining traces of old baronial style, adjacent to the loch,
would present to the eye a romantic and interesting aspect.
  There are two cascades, one of which is on the boundary of the
south side of the parish. There is another contiguous to Camil-
la loch, at the head of a deep narrow ravine, the sides of which
are extremely steep, rising in nearly a perpendicular direction.
They consist of rugged rocks interspersed with spots of soil, where
some very rare plants are to be found, and, accordingly, it is occasion-
ally the resort of botanists. The streams of water which form these
cascades are commonly small; but after a heavy fall of rain, or ef-
fectual thaw of snow, they swell to a considerable extent.
  Geology and Mineralogy.--There are freestone, trap, or whin-
stone, and limestone in the parish.. The first is not in much repute,
and is seldom wrought. The second is used chiefly for road metal,
rarely for building. The last, which is on the property of Lord Moray,
and of Captain Erskine Wemyss, is wrought by their tenants, and
exclusively for their farm purposes,, none has ever been wrought for
sale. In the kinds of rocks mentioned no species of ore is found.
There are various kinds of soil in the parish; the loamy; the
clayey, partaking considerably of the nature of till; and the mossy.


