
     Statistical Account

their apology for dissipation, through every period of life.
The young men receive, per annum, from L. 6 to L. 8 of wa-
ges,and the young women, from L. 3:10 to L. 4:10, with
their maintenance.  Labourers, is in summer, is 2d. in har-
vest, and 10 d in winter, per day. Women from 6 d.  to 8 d. in
summer, and is in harvest.  This, however, is inadequate to
their expences, when they are in health, and makes them
a constant burden upon the public, whenever any misfortune
happens to them.  Such a mode of living is but a miserable
preparation for the eares of matrimony, and the burden of a
family.  In that state, the rustic beau sinks into a peevish and
compaining churl.  The gaily attired shepherdess becomes a
prey to stupid insensibility and sloth, equally indifferent about
her person and her household affairs; and the virtue of
both, if it hath withstood the attacks of youthful dissipation, is
again subjected to the dangers, which arise from the restless
calls of pinching poverty, and the cries of starving infants.-
The extinction of small farms, which has barred their ambi-
tion, and damped any spirit of economy, is here attended
with fatal effects; whilst their unfortunate dependance upon
the poors funds, makes them less disposed to industrious exer-
tion.  This, too, dissolves the ties of natural affection, while
it multiplies the number, and increases the necessities of the
poor.  If the children suffer from the want of economy and
virtue in their parents, the parents are abundantly repaid by
the neglect of their children, when bending under the double
load of infirmity and indigence.  They will tell you, without
a blush, that the parish is better able to support their aged pa-
rents, than they are; while you will see them, at the same
time, in the prime of life, unclogged with families, in-
dulging themselves in every species of debauchery common to
that rank of life.  But the mischief ends not with them; ma-
ny who fill higher stations, and whose circumstances are not


