
                                 PAISLEY.                               241

efter ane profane and godles manor behavit yameselfis in disagyissing, yameselfis,
quhilk is nathing less than abominaen ye eyes of ye lord, as also being informit
be thair Brother, Gavan Hamilton, Vicar of Kilbarchan, the James Andro," &c.
&c., " usit superstitions playis a little before yuill in the day callet yuilevinning, come
throw ye clachane of Kilbarchan, making open proclamacn and giving oppen libertie
to all men to tak pastyme for ye space of sucht dayes, as also usit superstitious
playis upon the 26 of December, at ye Corsfuird, and gave yameselfis to strolling
and drinking.  The brithren ordaint all the forsaid persons to be sumond to ye next
presbitrie day be thair brither, Mr Patrick- Hamiltoun and Gavand Hamiltoun, Vicar
at Kilbarchan."
   " 24 May 1638.  The qlk day the brethren thought good that a solemne fast
should be kept on Sonday come eight dayes, and intimatioun thereof to be made on
Sonday next throughout the whole churches of the presbyterie, for the removeing of
the sinnes of the land, especiallie the contempt of the gospell, wch justlie hath pro-
voked God to permit Innovations to creepe in into the church, and that it would
please God to save this Kirk of Scotland from all Innovations of religioune, and that
peace with the professioune of the pnt religioune may with libertie be interteined."
   " 30 Aug. The qlk day the brethren that were pnt did all solemnlie sware that
they were  neither dealt with nor suffer themselves to be dealt with to be perverted
against the Covenant nec prece, pretio, nec minis."
   " 11 Aprilis 1639.  The qlk day the brethren thought it most expedient and ne-
cessarr, that Mr Matthew Brisbane should goe with the Colonell Montgomerie and
the companie with him, to Dunce-hill, for their co'fort, be preaching and other exer-
cises of devotion."
   " 9 Decemb. 1641. The qlk day the brithren were acquainted that the Nynt day
of Januar nextocil is appointed to be kept for solemne thanksgiving to God for es-
tablyshing peace within the Kingdome of Scotland."
   " 19 May 1642. The qlk the Moderator, brethren, and remanent members of the
presbyterie ordained Mr John Hay and Mr Henrie Calvert to goe to the Erle of
Abercorne, and speake. to his LoP anent the subscriptioune of the Covenant, and
anent his coming to the Church, and anent the bringing back of his eldest sonne ae-
cording to the Act of the provincial assembly."
   " 23 September 1643.  Anent a Ire of the Estates requireing that the brethren
would be pleased everie one to put out a man with other presbyteries with the expe-
ditioune to England.  The brethren have declared their willingnes so to doe, but have
referred the matter till the provinciall assembles to be kept at Lainrek upon Tuisday
next insueing, and after advisemt to give ansr."
   " 13 June 1644.  The brethren ordeine Mr Ninian Campbell to goe to the armie
nowe in England, and supplie there as Minister till he were liberat. and that in my
Lord Loudounes regiment, and order Mr Jon Hay to writt to his LoP to that effect."
   " 21 May 1646. The qlk day the ministers at Paislaye, Kilmacolme, and Killel-
lane, required powers fra the presbiterie for judicialle tryalle and examina'n of suche
personnes as are suspected to have had complyance with James Grhame or Alex.
M'donald, or receivit protection fra theme, qlk wes granted."
   " 7th Januar 1647. The qlk day compeirit Andro Semple, toune-clerk of Renfrewe,
and grantit he wes at the meetinge of the gentilmen of the shyre at Renfrew on
there wes ane act made for outputeing a trowpe of horse for James Grhame.  The
presbiterie hes wrnet him spud acta to this day twentie dayes, to give up ane roll of
the gentilmen yt were yre."
   " 27 Decr. 1648. Reported by the Brethren that the Covenant wes renewed
with solemne fasting and humilla'n on Sabboth last,"
   " April 12, 1649. Compeared Johne Wallace of Ferguslie, Allane Wallace, his sou,
Rot. ffork, elder, and Rot. Alexr, late baillies of Pastey, who for their accessioun to
the late sinfull ingadgment, are referred to the gnall assemblies."
   " 27 Sept. 1649. Reported by John Sprewle, proveist of Renfrew, that he had
apprehendit some women in Renfrew for eminent presumptions of Witchcraft.  The
prebrie appoynts Mrs Johne Hamiltoun, Allexr. Dunlope, the Lairds of Bischop-
toune and Craigends, elders, to confer with the said woemen, and deale to bring them
to ane confession."
   " October 1649.  The prebrie concluder that all the brethrene sall this nicht and
the marrowe, deall with the persons apprehendet far witchcraft in Pasley and Ren-
frew to bring them to confessioun."
   " Feby. 5, 1650.  The rest of the day and the morrowe to be spent in dealing with
the witches now upon pannell, yt they may be broucht to repentance."


