
     of Swinton and Simprin.

Nothing that can be called emigration has happened here
for many years; some boys, girls, men and women are at the
hiring markets in the neighbourhood, engaged to serve out of
or in the parish.  In this way many in form of hynds, cotters,
ot-men, etc. flit in hopes of better usage, often from whim
or caprice; and every Whitsunday exhibits them removing or
returning with their whole furniture and apparatus in a cart
or two.  But such changes imply no settled discontent, arising
often merely from levity and a love of change, either in them
or their masters.  No doubt several have accepted tempting
offers of employment in other parishes or in other counties,
but they are generally such as the farmers would have been
fondest of employing at home.
   There are no uninhabited houses.  The number of houses
is 180, and the average number of persons to a house is almost
exactly 5.

   Natural Productions, Advantages and Disadvantages.-This
parish produces in great abundance all the vegetables and
and plants known in the south of Scotland, along with such
trees as are encouraged and taken care of; and does a great
deal more than supply itself with all sorts of grain; exporting
a considerable quantity of corn by means of the merchants at
Berwick and Eymouth.-The seasons of sowing and reaping
vary greatly, yet the eligible time of sowing wheat is from
the 20th of September to the 20th of October, spring wheat
is sown any time in March.-The best season for field peace or
beans is from the last week of February to the last week of

<FOOTNOTE>

tention, along with a discretionary power in the minister for sudden emergen-
cies; so that the charity of the parishioners is in little hazard of being either
abused or withheld.  In 1782, a trifling attention, first to the pensioned poor,
and secondly to such as were in temporary straits, removed all complaints with-
in this parish.  Some persons suspected to be in want modestly declined the
prossered aid, and others resented the offer as an insult.


