
                         MARKINH.                                683

The present stipend, augmented in 1822, is I8 chalders, half
barley, half meal, paid at the rates of the county fiars, the fluctua-
tion of which is very considerable, ranging betwixt the highest and
the lowest in the proportion of one to five-eighths, within the period
of the writer's incumbency. The glebe contains nearly 9 acres,
which may be valued at L.32 per annum. The manse is of very
ancient construction, by much the oldest in the presbytery. It
has undergone repairs and alterations so numerous, as greatly to
affect its apparent identity. The site has been long regarded by
incumbents as very insalubrious, and more has been expended to
obviate dilapidation, than would have built a wholesome and com-
modious dwelling. The church is in excellent repair.
  According to a census taken in 1836, the whole population of
Markinch amounted to 5328, or 1189 families. Of these, 159
families are Dissenters from the Established Church; 51 families
are of a mixed composition; 30 of them having one Dissenting
member; and 14 having two in each; the rest three or more; 25
of the first class (159) reside in the far off village of lnverleven.
Making these deductions, there remain within the bounds of the
civil parish about 1079 families, exclusive of those of a mixed pro-
fession, in connection with the Established Church, or owning no
other connection. Since last census, tbe population has increased,
but without materially affecting the above proportions. No marvel
that the class of npn-attenders at any place of worship should have
increased, when church accommodation, till recently, was so dis-
proportionate, and more especially, that, to supply the public works,
strangers, not always of settled principles, or church going babits,
are often attracted to the parish.
  Education.-This has always been a prominent object in our
parochial system. No other country has ever exhibited so close
an alliance betwixt religion and education, or shewn a parish
church and parish school in such harmonious and undivided neigh-
bourhood. Of this conjunction, the beneficial effects have been
incalculably great, both as to intellectual improvement and intel-
ligent piety. The earliest records of the kirk-session evince the
attention paid to means of education; for, besides the parochial
school, we find order taken to have the remoter localities supplied.
Thus, in 1702, the following entry was made: " The minister hav-
ing acquainted the session, that be bad found, on his going throw

lated to the parish of Dunbog, and was succeeded by the Rev. Mr M'Ewan, the pre-
sent incumbent. The first minister of Thomton, the Rev. Mr Adamson, is still there.
In both churches the seats are well let and occupied.


