
214                        FIFESHIRE.

found a few bright exceptions to the prevailing character of the
body; but it is a melancholy truth that this interesting race of our
People has been allowed to sink into a state of great ignorance and
debasement. One chief cause of this calamity, we do not hesitate
to say, is the practice universal in Fife, of making the young un-
married men live together in bothies. No sooner are boys capable
of attending cattle in the fields, than they are sent from their fa-
ther's house,--consigned to these wretched bothies,--and left in
the midst of dangers to their own will. The results are grievous,
though not more so than might be anticipated. In these hovels
the wicked very speedily corrupt the good. The old ensnare
the young; and the hardened profligate leaves no effort untried
to, seduce the scrupulous and timid to imitate his reckless exam-
ple. Until this horrid system be abolished, it will be in vain
to expect any happy alteration in the character and condition of
our ploughmen. Another grand cause of this flagrant evil is to be
found in the fluctuating and wandering lives of the ploughmen
themselves. The married men frequently, the unmarried always,
flit at the end of one year's service. They thus acquire vagrant
habits and uncontrollable minds. They are never long enough in
one place to form useful connections,--to feel themselves influen-
ced and benefited by the exertions of the minister,--or to receive
any sufficient advantage to their children from the care and super-
intendence of a parochial teacher. They thus virtually cut them-
selves off from all the blessings of Christianity and civilization, and
in a land of light are literally roaming about in darkness. That an
evil so virulent and so widely diffused as this can be soon or easily re-
medied, is not to be believed. But were the masters and cler-
gy to unite in a zealous endeavour to reclaim to better habits the
labouring class of our people, they would, we have no doubt, do
much good even to the present generation; and, at all events, they
would commence a work of improvement, vhich another and a
more fortunate age would carry on and complete.

                    IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.--There are in the parish about 1820 acres impe-
rial of arable land; about 270 of hill pasture or waste ground;
and about 30 under wood. The average rent of the arable land
is about L. 2 per acre; but this varies in the majority of case
with the price of grain, as a considerable proportion of the rental
is determined by tbe fiars of the county. The wages of unmar-
ried ploughmen are L. 11 per annum and their board. Married men

                             4


