
46                       ELGINSHIRE.

Innes House, the remains of a Druidical temple are still to be seen,
consisting of nine tall stones fixed in the earth, and placed in a
circle, the entrance to which, fronting,the east, has a stone on each
side taller than the rest.
   In a hillock, called the cross-hillock of Kempston, there was
lately found a human skeleton in a reclining posture, with its head
to the north-east. It crumbled quickly to dust when exposed to
the air.
   A hillock, or barrow, on the farm of Meft, on being opened, was
found to contain two very rude urns full of ashes and burnt bones.
   In the moor (now covered with wood) about a mile and a half
east from the church, there is a rising ground almost entirely sur-
rounded by a trench, and which, if tradition may be credited, was
a Danish camp. Near it there is a hollow called the "Innocents
Howe," where, it is said, that the women and children of the natives
had taken shelter, and that the Danes, having discovered their re-
treat, put them all to death.
   No vestige of the richly endowed priory of Urquhart now re-
mains; its site only is indicated by the name Abbey well, still given
to the fountain which supplied the monks with water. Its ample
possessions shared the fate of the property of the church through-
out the kingdom in the reign of James VI. The lordship of
Urquhart, the lands of Fochabers, and some other lands in this
country, together with a part of the salmon fishing of the Spey,
which all belonged to this priory, were seized by the crown, and
granted partly to court favourites, and partly as rewards to cham-
pions of the Reformation.
   Modern Buildings.-Innes House and the grounds around it are
particularly attractive of notice. The house, a large, tall, irregular
building, was for a long period the residence of the lairds of Innes,
and is now that of James Duff, Esq. by whom it has been render-
ed one of the most elegant and commodious mansions in this coun-
ty, and by whom also the grounds around it have been laid out
in excellent taste. The only other mansion-house in the parish
is that of Leuchars, a more modern structure, and much smaller
than Innes House, but in thorough repair, and a most comfortable
residence for the glentleman who now occupies it as a tenant.
   Exclusive of the barony of Garmouth, which, as has been stated,
is not in this parish quoad sacra, and with the exception of two or
three very small farms on the eastern side which belong to the
Duke of Gordon, the whole landed property of it was acquired,


