
380                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

summer line costs L.3, and a winter one L.4, and many of these
are annually lost.
   All the haddocks caught during the past winter have been sold
to curers in Peterhead, and the haddock-fishing in winter has now
become a new branch of industry; formerly the cod-fishing was
the principal winter fishing, in the course of which the fishermen
generally caught a suflicient supply for their own use and the
home market; since this opening has occurred, however, they have
thought it worth their while to prosecute the haddock-fishery, and
during last season they have been benefited to the extent of about
L.2 each man.  The winter is the season when the haddocks are
in the best condition; and it is supposed, that if the finest of these
were packed with ice, in the same manner as salmon, they could
be conveyed to the most distant market in fine condition.
   Boddam has greatly increased within a few years.  It has derived
much benefit from its proximity to the Buchanness Lighthouse,
affording as it does a land-mark to the fishermen.  If a harbour
were erected it might soon be expected to become a large trading-
place.  With the exception of Newburgh there is no other place
between Aberdeen and Peterhead where a harbour could be erect-
ed.  It is thought that an outlay of from L.1500 to L.1800 would
make a most commodious little harbour.  There would always be
a greater depth of water there than in the present harbours of
Peterhead, and an entry could be made from the south or north. *
   Many of the fishermen appear, both from name and remaining
habits, to be of Dutch extraction; they are doubtless the descen-
dants of those fishermen who were brougbt over by King William,
and planted along the east coasts of Scotland and England. They
retain a good deal of primitive simplicity.  There are now few of
the young men who cannot read, write, and cast up accounts in a
very creditable way.  Like all others of the same occupation,
both sexes generally live to an advanced age; they marry young,
and have in general large families.
   Buchanness Lighthouse-In the year 1819, a petition was pre-
sented to the Commissioners of the Northern Lighthouses by the
merchants, ship-owners, ship-masters, and others interested in ship-
ping, representing the dangers of the coast from Girdleness to
Buchanness, and from thence to Kinnaird's head, and pointing
out the advantages that were likely to result from the erection of
a lighthouse upon the Buchanness, not only to the shipping in-

<FOOTNOTE>An extensive harbour has been contracted for, and is in the course of being
erected.


