
     Statistical Account

possessed of an ample fortune and generous mind, he employ-
ed both in improving his country*.

   Tulloch Parish.-Tulloch is a corruption of Tulach, a Gaelic
word, signifying "rising grounds or hillocks;" and is very de-
scriptive of the small village of Tulloch, which gives name
to the church and parish.  The church is said to have been
founded by St. Nethalen, and an annual meeting of the in-
habitants is regularly kept on the 8th of January, in honour
of his memory.  It is termed the Mother Church, and stands
(as the whole parish does) on the N. side of Dee, about 2
miles N. E. of the church of Glenmuick.  This parish is the
most populous and extensive of the 3, and by a list of the re-
ligious houses in Scotland, seems to have belonged in whole,
or in part, to the Knights Templar.  It is 18 miles in length
from E. to W., and intersected at the Crags of Ballatar, by
the parish of Glengairn, which divides the lower parts of
Tulloch from the upper.  It does not appear that there has
been any settled minister, particularly in this parish, since the
last Popish Priest, of the name of Sandison, who is said to
have conformed at the Reformation, and afterward married:
some of his posterity are still in the neighbourhood.  The
glebe and toft of the manse are still pointed out; but the mi-
nister now has no benefit from either.  In the lower end of

<FOOTNOTE>

*Miscellaneous Observations.-There are two ruins in this parish, the one
stands about a mile N. W. of the church called the Castle of the Cnoe, a Gaelic
word, signifying a hill upon the top of which the ruin stands.  It belongs to Mr.
Gordon of Abergeldie, and is of a very old date.  The other stands in the E.
extremity of the parish called Dee Castle, formerly Candacorl, the Head of the
Wood, said to be built by the family of Gordon, and now the property of the
Earl of Aboyne.  There is a birch tree growing in a room of the ruin where
the first Marquis of Huntly is Said to have been born.  It is said, that there is
a rock of coarse marble in the bill above Pananich Lodge, and another above
Birkhall.
 

