
     Of Kilfinichen and Kilviceuen.

when he gave them this short rule:  "To be cheerful,
"temperate, and early risers*."  They had a large
folio MS. in Gaelic, treating of physic, which was left
with a woman, the heiress of the Beatons, and seen by
some now living; but what became of it, the incumbent,
after all his inquiries, could not find.  It is perhaps lost,
as the heirs of this woman are quite illiterate+.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The parish being
mostly surrounded by the sea, and indented by its arms,
is a very great advantage.  By this, the inhabitants
have an opportunity of catching great numbers of va-
rious kinds of fish for family use, and generally more
herring than is sufficient for the consumption of the pa-
rish.  The sea breezes also are so warm, particularly in
Ross and I, that frost and snow seldom last for any time

<FOOTNOTE>

*Bhi gu sugah, geanmni, mochrach.
+It has been warmly disputed, whether there was a library at I; and
much has been written on both sides of the question.  The doubt has
arisen entirely from prejudice.  There can be no doubt, but the many
learned men that flourished at I, had the classics among them, and all the
books on divinity and science these ages could afford.  It can be as little
doubted, that like other societies of learned men, they committed their
own thoughts to writing, as well as the transactions of their countrymen.
It is asked, What became of this library?  In the 9th century, Kellach,
abbot of I, was obliged to fly to Ireland for shelter against the Danes.
If the barbarians had the library in their power, no doubt they would
destroy it.  But after this period, Scotch historians mention the library of
I, and their borrowing books from it.  At the Reformation, the MSS.
of I were in part carried to the Scotch colleges of Doway, or to Rome,
at least the chartularies, and such as were esteemed most valuable by
the monks.  It is said, that some of the MSS. were carried to Inveraray,
and that a Duke of Montague found some of them in the hops there,
used as snuff paper.  If any of them were in the library of the family
of Argyll, the persecution that family underwent, in the time of Charles
the II accounts for none being there now.


