
58                        KINROSS-SHIRE.

exposure of the Ochils.  These consist principally of larch, Scots
fir, spruce, oak, and ash.

                       IL--CIVII. HISTORY.
  The only account of the parish is that contained in Sir John
Sinclair's Statistical Account.  There is no map of the parish by
itself, but there are two very excellent ones of the county.  One
of these is by John Bell, in 1796; the other, by Sharp, Green-
wood, and Fowler, in 1828.  The latter, in particular, is remark-
able for its minute accuracy.
  Burleigh Castle has been the subject of several paintings, espe-
cially by Mr Robert Stein.
  Eminent Characters.-Dr Coventry, the late Professor of Agri-
culture in the University of Edinburgh, possessed the property of
Shanwell in this parish; and Dr Young of Rosetta, in whose arms
Sir Ralph Abercromby breathed his last in Egypt, was a Native
of it.  Balfour, Lord Burleigh, was also from this parish;-see
Douglas's Peerage.
  Land-owners.-There are about 27 heritors possessed of the
valuation of L. 100 Scots or upwards, besides 35 others having a
smaller valuation,-tbe smallestbeing L. 2, 10s. There are nine pro-
prietors at present whose valued rent each is L. 200 or upwards,
viz. Dr Walker Arnott of Arlary, L. 619 Scots; John Horn, Esq.
of Thomanean, L. 552; Rev. G. Coventry of Shanwell, L. 403;
Robert Neilson, Esq. of Hilton, L. 272; Misses Macturk of
Craigow, L. 241; Heirs of the late Rev. Dr Belfrage of Colliston,
L. 233; Rev. Mr Brown of Finderly, L. 233; Charles Stein, Esq.
of Hattonburn, L. 212; and Mr Purves of Warroch, L. 200.  The
total valued rental is L. 6786, 16s. 8d. Scots.  By far the greater
proportion of the proprietors farm their own lands, at least in part.
  Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry in the pa-
rish register is 30th September 1688.  It is not voluminous, owing
to a great disinclination on the part of the people to come forward
and register either births or deaths.  This, however, is a little
more attended to now than formerly.
  Antiquities.-On the farm of Orwell there are two flat standing
stones, firmly imbedded in the ground.  They are situated east
and west of each other, at fifteen yards distance; the one is 6 1/2,
the other 8 feet high, and each 3 1/2 feet broad.  Considerable
mechanical power must have been required to bring them to their
present positions, no similar rock being nearer than the West Lo-
mond, which is distant two miles, and the ground intervening is
                                   4


