                                      KINNAIRD.                  231

         Established Church, and attend divine service with- much regu-
         larity and decency.
            Education.-There is no seminary of learning besides the pa-
         rish school, which, however, is abundantly sufficient.  The peo-
         ple are all anxious that their children should receive a good edu-
         cation, and never grudge laying out money for this purpose; con-
         sequently the attendance is very numerous.   The heritors have
         built a large and comfortable school-room, and are soon to erect
         a new house for the teacher,-the present one being very old.  He
         has the highest salary allowed by law.  His fees may amount to
         L. 24 per annum.
            Libraries.-There is no public library; but one or two have been
         established in the immediate neighbourhood, which answer every
         purpose; a taste for reading seems to spread fast, from which, if
         always properly directed, much good may be anticipated.
            Poor.-The average number of persons whn receive parochial aid
         is about 3.  They get from 4s. to 8s. per month according to circum-
         stances.  There is still an aversion to take assistance in this way, so
         long as it can possibly be avoided, and, under the influence of this
         very laudable spirit, many submit to considerable hardships before
         m Iaking an application.   It has never yet been necessary for us to
         make an assessment for supporting the poor.  This is avoided prin-
         cipally by maintaining a fund, the amount of which at present is
         upwards of L. 300.  The interest of this, together with collections
         at the church doors, amounting to about L. 12, 10s. per annurn,
         usually does more than answer all demands.
            Alehouses.-We have only one alehouse, and there is no occa-
         sion for another.  The fewer of these the better.
                          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
            There does not seem to be a very remarkable difference in this
         parish, since last Statistical Account was published.  No doubt, the
         mode of agriculture has been improved; some new methods have been
         successfully tried to make the ground yield her fruits more abun-
         dantly, and of superior quality.  Several new houses have likewise
         risen on thd ruin of old ones, every way superior to their prede-
         cessors.  Sundry spots of waste land have also been planted, and
         much more it is to be hoped will soon be done in this way.  One
         great improvement has recently been made.  The higher and lower
         parts of the parish have been connected by means of a new road,
         over which carriages of all kinds may travel in any weather;
         whereas, formerly, there was nothing but a precipitous rut, danger-


