		               BARR.                               409

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	From the modern erection of the parish, its civil history is ne-
cessarily merged in that of others. A few ancient papers, all re-
ferring to its erection, are in the possession of the minister. One
of them has the signature of Oliver Cromwell.
	The birth-place of the great Viscount Stair is pointed to in this
parish. His mother is said to have been overtaken, when travel-
ling homeward from the north; and the house, believed to be that
in which she rested, is still in existence, forming part of the build-
ings of the farm-steading of Dinmurchy, the property of Sir James
Fergusson, Bart. of Kilkerran.
	Antiquities.--There are many monuments and traditions, re-
cording the unjust and merciless sufferings to which the inhabi-
tants of this parish were subjected during the period of persecution,
from the Restoration to the happy Revolution. This parish ap-
pears to have been particularly obnoxious. One memorial of Ro-
man Catholic days exists in the ruin of a chapel called Kirk Do-
minae, and in a well close by it, in the rising ground behind, and
approached by a regularly built archway. On the site of this cha-
pel, an annual fair is most inconveniently held on a Saturday.
	By far the chief land-owner is the Marquis of Ailsa.
	              III.--POPULATION.
	From some loose documents, consisting of lists of the inhabi-
tants taken by a former minister of the parish, it appears that
the population, sixty or seventy years ago, was nearly 800. Ac-
cording to Dr Webster's report, it was 858. It was only 750
when Mr Young wrote the last Statistical Account. Now, it
amounts to 941 by the last census. The cause of this recent in-
crease is the general change of habits throughout the kingdom,
producing the erection of villages in various places where there
were either none before, or where they were exceedingly small.
	The village of Barr contains 230 persons, chiefly weavers and
trades-people. Formerly it contained much fewer. The country
population, on the other hand, has diminished from a different cause,
--from the increased size of the farms, but more especially from the
improved method of managing stock, by which the same labour is
done with fewer hands. There is probably alro a greater gather-
ing, both of labourers and of paupers, into villages than formerly;
and this arises, I have no doubt, from the circumstance, that ser-
vants are no longer a permanent part of a master's family, and
maintained by him under his eye, and in a cottage at his door.


