
590                         LANARKSHIRE.

parish at a remote date; and it is equally evident, from the state
of the mosses, that peat (which except in the moorland districts is
now little used) has been the principal fuel. In the session records
of 1650, we find that, " Claud Hamilton of Garein desired liberty
to sett the water off the Coalheugh upon the Sabbath morning,
qch was granted, because it was ane work of necessity." During the
operations at the Castlehill Iron-works, an old working of the most
primitive order was come upon. This was a pit, of no great depth, to
the first coal, in the form of a winding stair, by which this coal, it
is supposed, was conveyed to the surface in baskets, the remains
of which were found in the pit. Besides the coal raised from four
of the Castlehill seams for the iron works, there are at present five
coal works in operation for general consumption, namely, one at
Law of the main seam, two at Carluke, and one at Orchard of the
sixth seam, and one at Catcraig of the cannel-coal. The common
mode of working the coal is what is called " stoop and room," about
a fourth of the coal remaining as pillars for support of the roof.
The only exception to that method in the workings above-mention-
ed is in the cannel-coal, which is done on a modificationof the " long
wall" principle, called " room and rance," the whole coal being
taken out. The coal is brought to the surface by horse or steam-
power, which last also generally works the water pumps. Coal at
present is from 3s. 4d. to 3s. 8d. a-ton at the pits. Cannel-coal
10s. per ton.
	There are a great number of stone quarries throughout the pa-
rish, generally opened for the use of the proprietors; the tenants
and feuars having the privilege of them. Only one sale quarry
is worked, or rather two, on the lands of Nellfield. They are all
wrought by tirring or baring the surface of the rock. Good
building freestone is furnished at 3d. per foot at the quarries.
	For the raising of lime a number of works are in operation.
The main lime for the most part is wrought. When the rock is
near the surface, it is wrought " open cast," by which method the
whole lime is taken out. When mined, about a fourth of the rock
must be left. It is raised either on an inclined plane by horse
power, or lifted in butches by steam power. The price is 4s. per
ton;-when burned, 8s,
	Ironstone is got in the tirring of the limestone, but no working
is carried on exlusively for the iron at present, except by the Shotts
Iron Company, and the Coltness Iron Company, both lately com-


