
				FORDOUN.                        109

the market, also for the sale of horses and cattle, has been lately
established, or rather revived, in the west end of the parish, viz.
Lammas-muir.  This is likewise held in July, and the day appears
judiciously chosen, as being one of a series of fairs, held on suc-
cessive days, commencing in Aberdeenshire, and terminating at
Kinross.  Two fairs are held in Auchinblae, viz.  Pasch market
in April, and May-day on 22d May, and term markets for en-
gaging servants on 26th May and 22d November.  These are nu-
merously attended.  Weekly markets or crofts, as they are called,
for the sale of cattle and grain, also in Auchinblae, are held every
Friday during winter.  They begin in November, and end in April.
There are two small fairs or cattle-markets about the middle of
June and July on Camack muir, on the lower part of the parish;
--they are but indifferently attended.
	Inns or Alehouses.--There is one inn at the Kirkton of Fordoun;
and five in the village of Auchinblae.  This number is certainly
too great.  Auchinblae also boasts of one spirit-dealer.  In the
country parish, there are three public-houses.
	Fuel.--Coals, mostly from Newcastle, constitute the principal
part of the fuel in the lower part of the parish, in addition to
which, a small supply of peat from the Grampians is obtained.
Brushwood, but in no great quantities, is also occasionally to be
procured.  In the upper part of the parish, the fuel is chiefly peat
and turf from the summit of the Grampians, where the peat-mosses
are extensive, and of very considerable depth.  Coals cost 1s. 2d. a
barrel of about 1 1/2 cwt.  It is difficult to say what the cost of peat
and turf may be, perhaps about 4s. per load.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The most striking alterations betwixt the present state of the
parish, and that whibh existed at the time the last Statiscal Ac-
count was made up, are: the erection of several splendid man-
sions, and of a parish church; the extension and improvement of
Auchinblae; the extension and general improvement of public
roads; the very marked alteration in the houses and steadings of
the tenants and crofters, and the general improved condition of
the dwellings of all classes.  The planting and improvement of
waste land is not the least alteration that has taken place, neither
is the improved state of husbandry undeserving of notice, as the
following tables of ground under cultivation, and number of live
stock, extracted from the Agricultural Survey of the county, a work.


