
     Statistical Account

ceptable to may readers.  This building was discovered
in a field that had long been under culture, and often had
resisted the plough, in passing along the spot under which
it rested.  In digging this spot, to remove the stone which
occationed such interruption, they were found in general
to be of a surprising breadth; but at the same time, either
violently rent asunder, or disturbed in their position by 
the frequent intercourse and collision of the plough.  And
it appeared on their removal, that these stone had been in-
dustriously brought hither, and served to cover certain ar-
tificial recesses or buildings, which now discovered them-
selves.  Among these different buildings, which are to be
considered as compartments of one and the same fabric, lay
one of them at a small distance from the others, but con-
nected with each by a passage or communication about two
or two and a half feet wide; and it was distiguished also
by its superior size and dimensions.  This principal com-
partment was about 6 feet in breadth, 12 in length, and 5
in height; the walls and floor were of stone.  It extended
in the direction nearly from east to west, and besides the
passages already mentioned, leading from it to the other
comparments of the building, was furnished with one to-
wards the south, peculiar to itself, and supposed to have
been the main entrance.  The whole of this structure was
extremely rude.  Many of the stones that composed it, in-
stead of being laid flat, or in such a way as accords with
skill in the art of building, were placed endwise om the
walls.  There were no arches, though the several compart-
ments requried them; the uper course on the walls on
each side was of large stones, with their ends projected in-
wardly, and the opening or vacuity between covered all
the way, with others of a corresponding breadth.  At the
same time, considering that no mark of any tool or instru-
ment was to be seen, and that no mortar of any kind had


