                'ARGYLBSHIRE.
As the united parish is thus now divided into three. distinct pa
rishes, viz. Kiininian, Ulva, and Tobermory, baying separate and
defined charges, with a church, manse, and clergyman for eacb,
the purpose of this narrative will be best attained by taking UP
these parishes in detail.
                 KILNINIAN.
Extent.-It extends, quoad sacra, to from 60 to 70 square miles,
as from the line which separates it from the parish of Tobennory on
the north to the shore of Torloisk, the southern boundary, the dis.
tance is not less than ten miles; and from the south-west extremity to
Esse-forse, the distance will be from six to seven miles ; or, taking
the line on the north side, from the shore of Bdhialbanoch to the east
march of the farm of Letirmore, which separates it from the parisb
of Salen in that direction, the distance will be about seven miles.
Oii the north, the parish is botinded by that of Tobermory; on
the north-east, by the parish of Salen ; on the east, by the pa-
risbes of Salen and Ulva; and on the south and west, by the At-
lantic. The Tresbinish isles are attached to this parish, but not
included in the foregoing measurement.
Aritiquities.-On the height above Kilmore, there are five
large stones disposed in a kind of circular form, and supposed to
have been a place of worship in the times of Druidism. Cairn-
burgh or Cairnbtilg, one of Tresbinisb isles, was anciently consi-
dered a place of great strength, and supposed to have been fortified
in Norwegian times. It is a high rock, of some considerable ex-
tent on the top, and inaccessible on all sides excepting by one
narrow pass. In 1715, it was garrisoned by the Macleans, and
was taken and retaken more than once during the rebellion of
that year. It was attacked and taken by Cromwell's troops in the
days of the Commonwealth; and here, it is fancied, were the res-
cued books of Iona burned. Little Cairnburo,,h is a smaller rock
near it, and separated by a narrow sound, to which the same de-
scription applies. These i-ocks are said to have been the boun,
darv of the two governments into which the I4ebrides were divided
when subjett to the Crown of Denmark, called the Nodorees and
Sodorees, or northern and southern isles; and tradition bears, that
the two governments, not untrequently contended for the possession
of this2 stronghold.
Mansion Houses.-Calgarry Castle, the seat of Hugh Mac-
Caskills Esq., is a neat modern building, and appears to considera-


