
                                  CULLEN.                    319

   the Danes, previous to their total expulsion from the kingdom,
   about the year 1014.
     There is a very distinct tradition in the parish, the truth of,
   which there seems no cause to dispute, but, on the contrary, strong
   reason to credit, that Queen Elizabeth, consort of Robert L, died
   at an occasional residence near to where Cullen House now stands,
   and that "her bowels are erded, i. e. buried, in our Lady Kirk of,
   Cullen."  The circumstance of King Robert having endowed
   a chaplain to pray for the soul of his consort, Queen Elizabeth, in
   the church of Cullen, affords strong presumptive evidence in favour
   of the truth of the tradition.  The question naturally suggests itself,
   What could have brought Queen Elizabeth to Cullen ? To this the
   most probable answer is, that, as she had a daughter married to the
   then Earl of Sutherland, she had come on a visit to her daughter;
   and as the family of Sutherland had at that period considerable pro-
   perty in the Boyn and Enzie, that the Queen, at the time of her
   death, might have been the guest of some of their friends or rela-
   tives in that quarter,
    The town of Cullen had its share of the troubles to which
   Scotland was subjected in the days of the Covenanters, having
   been repeatedly plundered by the Marquis of Montrose, and after-
   wards burnt.  On the 4th March 1645, Montrose, with the body
   of his army, had stationed himself at the Bog of Gight, " and
   sent beforehand over Spey the Farquharsons of Brae of Mar, to
   plunder the town of Cullen, pertaining to the Earl of Findlater,
   which they did pitifully." A short time thereafter, " Montrose
   marches frae the Bog to the place of Cullen of Boyn, the Earl of
   Findlater having fled south himself before to Edinburgh, leaving in
   thir dangerous days (pitiful to behold) his lady behind him.  This
   stately house, well decored with stately insight and plenishing, and
   furnished with silver plate and all other necessaries, was pitifully
   plundered, and nothing tursable left; and then was beginning to
   raise fire, but the lady pitifully besought Montrose (now in her hus-
   band's absence) to forbear firing of her ground, but for the space of
   fifteen days, within the whilk time, if her husband came not to give
   satisfaction, that then his Lordship should do as pleased him best;
   and for this peace of fifteen days time, she promised twenty thousand
   merks, whereof she paid in hand five thousand merks.  Montrose
   granted her desire upon the conditions foresaid, and raised no fire
   on the Earl of Findlater's grounds (albeit a great Covenanter) at this"
      BANFF.						X


