
               WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                    827

evergreens, and flowering shrubs in considerable variety.  This
shrubbery not only runs the whole length of these two sides of the
garden outside, but is carried in a curve round the front of the
manse, and sweeps along to the west boundary of the glebe at the
entrance from the parish road; and then takes a bend to the north-
east as far as Lammingtoune burn, by which my little territory
is here bounded,-the whole length measuring about 209 yards.
I own I mention this favourite little border of thriving shrubs and
trees with no little pride and satisfaction, when I think, especially,
of the sad, and desolate, and naked aspect, that everything wore
about the place only fourteen years since; and that now, I can
look out in a lovely summer morning upon the aromatic poplar,
the sweet-scented birch, the bird-cherry, the mountain ash, the
flaunting snow-white gean, the fragrant lilac, the graceful labur-
num, with its thousand grape-like bunches of gaudy blossom, the
cedar and the juniper of pyramidal form, the laurel and the bay-
tree with their lively, verdant, and glittering leaves, all comming-
ling in sweet confusion to perfume the breath of heaven.  While
the tout-ensemble is enlivened by the sbarp whistle of the yellow-
beaked blackbird, or ibe mellower music of the Scottish nightin-
gale!  A prodigious improvement, in the way of gardens and
sbrubberies, has indeed taken place about all the manses in the
presbytery of Biggar, within these twelve or fourteen years.  Be-
fore that time, the most of them in these respects were slovenly in
the extreme, but now they may well cope with those of any pres-
bytery in the kingdom. Evergreens received a severe check in this
district, during the winter of 1836-7, but this they did also even
in the neighbourhood of London, as I bad an opportunity of ob-
serving in the following July.  The more delicate do not thrive
here, such as the sweet-bay, the laurustinus, and the arbutus.
Hollies, of different kinds, stand our winters well, also the savine,
the arbor vitae, and the yew, especially the Irish.  Rhododendrons
have never died with me, though they do not grow so luxuriantly
as in lower situations, where the soil is of a mossy and damper
nature.
   Of land in the united. parishes there are:-

<TABLE>
                          In Wandell,
Under regular cultivation, about               -     -     364 acres, imperial
That might be, or has been cultivated, about   -     -     636
                                                          ----
          Total of arable in the barony,       -     -    1000
Pasture, partly improvable by draining or top dressing,   5099
                                                          ----
          Total of arable and pasture land in the barony, 6099


