
	148	            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

	heavy, but on the whole answers well.  No coal has ever been met
	with, nor is it likely, from the geology of the islands, that it will be
	found ; but the great abundance and excellence of peat renders
	this deficiency the less to be regretted.  In the progress of me-
	chanical and chemical improvements, we hope to see peat made
	available for most of the purposes to which coal is applied, and it
	has these additional advantages, that it is on the surface, and re-
        productive. The moors that produce it, are, however, very much
	neglected, to the injury of the present stock of fuel, and the pre-
	vention of future accumulation.
	   Zoology.--In zoology, there is nothing very remarkable.  Of the
	wild quadrupeds, the great and small seal, otter, weasel, rabbit,
	common and great Norway rat, house and field mice, exhaust the
	list.  Different species of whales are occasionally seen.  They are
	such as occur on the Scottish coast, but are not numerous, with
	the exception of the ka'an whale (Delphinus melas), hundreds of
	which are by boats annually driven on shore.  They are to
	be seen in flocks of thousands every summer; and if a little
	more attention were directed to their history and modes of
	capture, which it might be easy to point out, they might furnish
	a valuable annual addition to the regular marine resources of
	the country, instead of being a merely casual one.  The flesh
	is as nutritious and wholesome as beef, and very similar to it
	in flavour.  The oil (of which each animal, on an average,
	yields about a barrel) is excellent.  The skin can be made into
	good leather.  The offals are powerful manure; and the expense
	and risk of hunting them are trifling.  Formerly, they:were used as
	food here, as they still are by our worthy, intelligent, and substan-
	tial neighbours of Faroe, from which country Shetland might
	receive many useful lessons.  The flesh of a congenerous animal is re-
	gularly sold and prized in the markets of the Bermudas, and that of
	the porpoise (a miniature whale) was a favourite dish in English
	palaces in the fifteenth century; but modern fastidiousness has,
	it seems, found something revolting in eating whale's flesh, so that
	in seasons of scarcity, sea weed is resorted to, while it is allowed
	to rot on the beach.  In the case of any of these ka'an whales

<FOOTNOTE>The first sketch of the Geology of the Shetland Islands was that published by
Professor Jameson in his Mineralogy of the Scottish Isles: his distinguished pupil,
Dr Hibbert, many years afterwards, gave a more ample description, also from actual
observation, of the numerous striking and interesting relations of this remote portion
or the British empire, in hip Mineralogy of the Shetland Isles.


