
	   240                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

           have continued ; for Some entries about the year 1618 mention,
           that "Andro Andersone, minister" of Clyne, had besides his sti-
           pend, the kirkland of Loth, and at the same time, Walter Ander-
           sone was "reidar at Clyne and Loth," and bad his stipend with
           the kirkland of Clyne.  In a deed granted by the Andrew Ander-
           son here referred to, he is designated " Ministro veriti Dei apud
           Loithe," and as the paper is only signed by his mark, there is ad-
           ded after it " cannot wreitt myself." Hector Pope, who died
           about the year 1719, was the last minister of Loth who retained
           the Episcopal form of appearing in the pulpit in a surplice.  The
           succeeding ministers of Loth were, Robert Robertson, William.
           Rose, George Macculloch, George Gordon, and the present
           minister, and Rev.  Donald Ross.
                 Before the year 1726, the Presbytery of Dornoch, which in-
           cludes this parish, formed part of the synod of Ross; but on the
           15th May 1726, the General Assembly disjoined this Presbytery
           from the synod of Ross, and erected the presbyteries of Dornoch,
           Caithness, and Tongue, into one synod, as they at present stand ;
           and the meetings of the synod to be held at Dornoch and Thurso,
           per vices.
                 Education.-Tbe parish school is at Port Gower, and is at-
           tended by all the children in the neighbourbood of that village,
           and in the western division of the parish.  Another school, sup-
           ported in Helmsdale by the inhabitants, is well attended by.tbe
           children in and around that village. There is also a female teach-
           er in Helmsdale.
                 Poor.-The ordinary church collections and annual donations
           by the proprietor are the available funds for the benefit of the
           ordinary poor.  In judging of the condition of, and necessary
           support by money payments to, the poor, in a country parish
           like Loth, a very misleading mistake is frequently committed,
           by assuming that their wants and destitution are the same
           as those of the poor in large towns.  In such towns, owners of he-
           ritable property never permit part of their subjects to be gratui-
           tously occupied by any indigent person, and the very refuse and
           offals of all personal effects and articles are sacred, by day and
           night, against all intrusion.  On the contrary, in Loth and similar
           parishes, the actual poor have ever the gratuitous accommodations
           from the proprietor, of dwelling-places in healthy localities, and
           small plats of ground for vegetables, and the rearing of common
           poultry, of free access to water, open fields, peat mosses, decay-
           ed heather, furze, and brushwood, the products of the shore, and
                                         4


