
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

   Servants, Tradesmen, Wages, etc.-There are a set of coun-
try regulations framed in the baron-bailie court, (the only
court of justice in the parish) by which the wages of a single
male servant, (here called scalag) employed in the business of
the farm, were, some time ago, fixed at 2 L. a year, with four
pair of shoes; and of women servants employed in the same
work, at 6 merks Scotch, with two pair shoes, and other
small perquisites or gratuities, as they may merit at the hands
of the employer.  Grieves, herdsmen, grass-keepers, dairy-
women, and chambermaids, may have double or triple these
wages, according to the extent of their respective charges.
However, these regulations have gradually fallen into disuse,
and the wages of servants of every denomination have been
on the rise for some years past.  Some of the gentlemen's
grieves have from 5 L. to 6 L. and upwards, with perquisites;
and the single scalags will not engage themselves in service
farther than for three quarters of the year, desirous to be
free in the summer quarter to undertake kelp manufacture,
or any job which chance may put in their way, so that
their annual earnings, besides feeding themselves, may be
rated at something more than 3 L. at an average.  In summer
the gentlemen employ some hands as day-labourers, when
any piece of work is to be carried on separate from the ordi-
nary work of the farm, such as building houses or making
dykes.  In such case, a common barrowman, or common
dyker, has, without victuals, from 8 d. to 9 d. per day, and a
more able hand 10 d.  There is only one bred mason; the
country, (and he not a native) who has 1 s. 6 d. in the long
day, and 1 s. when he works in winter.  All other trades-
men, such as brogue-makers, taylors, carpenters, are fed by
the employer in his house; notwithstanding which, their
charges are as high as they ought reasonably to be, even
though they fed themselves.  Weavers are paid in meal for

</UNREADABLE>


