
522                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

fire, or the sickness of the father on whose labour they depended,
or the death of their cow, which they have not funds to replace
or any other event has occurred which makes it necessary to aid
them, and it is obvious, at the same time, that the most effective
method of doing so is, to give them a considerable aid at once, to
restore them to that condition in which they shall be again able
to make provision for themselves, in that case, the principal in-
habitants and their sons, having obtained the sanction of the kirk-
session, form themselves into committees, and personally make col-.
lections for the family in their respective districts of money or
meal as the ease may require.  These collections, managed with
great prudence, have never failed to answer the intended purpose,
and have restored to independence some families which might
otherwise have continued long burdensome to the public funds.
   But we should ill represent the manner in which the wants of
the poor are supplied, were we to exhibit only the amount of the
public funds and collections.  That which passes through the
hands of the kirk-session is only a part of the alms of the in-
habitants of the parish.  They are perpetually ministering to
the necessities of their poor neighbours in many other ways.  The
farmers, with their servants and horses, repair their dwellings, and
cart home their fuel.  They frequently send them supplies of all
the sorts of provisions which their produce affords.  When a poor
person or family has no cow, milk is supplied from the cows
of some family in the neighourhood; and it has occurred only
rarely, in some peculiar cases, that the kirk-session have needed
to hire nurses for the sick pauper ; for all around them watch
them with an affectionate care that could admit of no purchase
and be compensated by no earthly reward ; and the poorest of all
are as liberal of these last valuable services as any other persons.
   There is a general disposition among the poor to refrain from
seeking parochial relief; and it has been discovered active under
such privation, as to excite a great curiosity to ascertain all the
motives by which they are actuated.  A feeling of degradation is
not the only motive; for there is no reproach attached to una-
voidable poverty among the inhabitants; besides, experience has
proved in many other parts of the kingdom, that where this mo-
tive is unaided by say other, it soon ceases to be effective; and,
moreover, three very persons who are so reluctant to receive aid
from the public funds, take, without any reluctance, the aid offered
them by an indvidual, and make no attempt to conceal their doing


