
710			AYRSHIRE.

loom weavers; 15 licensed publicans, all of whom do a great deal
too much business; 12 masons; 3 nailers; 350 power-loom
weavers; 10 quarries; 20 rope-spinners; 4 schoolmasters: 20
shoemakers; 1 surgeon; 12 tailors; 2 tinsmiths; 13 wrights.
	Character, Habits, &c.--In the former Statistical Account, the
inhabitants were characterized as being "sober, quiet, active and
industrious," and we doubt not that to this character they still have
generally a good claim. Since the period referred to, there has
been a marked improvement in their mode of living--in their ha-
bits of domestic and personal cleanliness--in their style of dress
--and above all, perhaps, in their taste and intelligence. In all
of these respects, they have kept pace with the general advance-
ment of the country, without losing, we believe, any of the
moral and kindly feelings for which they were formerly distin-
guished. Instead of the noisy, and not unfrequently demoralizing
gymnastic exercises in which they used to excel, music has of
late years been successfully cultivated by the operatives, as their
instrumental band sufficiently testifies, and a judiciously se-
lected subscription library migth adduced as another proof
of the intellectual character of the present generation. It cannot
be doubted that, upon the whole, the people of this parish enjoy as
many of the comforts and advantages of society as any similarly
constituted community in the kingdom. Many of them are lot
wholly dependent on their employments; while the resources of the
poor but industrious artisan are not so soon exhausted in small
as in large manufacturing towns. The inhabitants, too, seem ge-
nerally speaking, contented enough with their circumstances,
though a few of them have of late, in becoming politicians, become
dissatisfied not only with their own social position, but, strange to
say, with nearly all the institutions of their country. These con-
stitute, however, but an insignificant fraction of the population, the
great body of which is warmly attached to the existing order in
church and state. To these general observations, we have only
to add, that not a few individuals are to be met with here, alike
distinguished for sound religious principle and good moral practice.
	The illegal destruction of game and fishings has, of late years,
much decreased in this parish, though there is still, it is said, a
good deal of the former destroyed by persons maintaining a much
more respectable status in society, than that held by the daring
poacher of other years.


