
346                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

young animals go at large. The byre is cleaned only twice in the
year,-at the beginning of winter, and at the end of spring, when
the potatoes are planted; and, previous to these respective periods,
there are many feet of dung and straw in the dwelling. Over
this height, however, it is necessary to climb in order to enter the
kitchen, which is at the opposite end of the house, and separated
from the byre only by a very thin partition of boards or wattles,
that does not reach above half-way to the roof. There is seldom
any other apartment than this, except it be a small space railed off
where the potatoes. and fish are stowed. The furniture is very
scanty and rude. A couple of bedsteads, filled with straw or hea-
ther or ferns, a few chairs, and a table, generally complete the list.
Such of the family as cannot find room in the beds sleep on the
floor, and a stone is always deemed a good substitute for a chair.
Indeed, there are some houses where no chair is used,-stones,
pieces of dried turf, and one or two small stools or settles consti-
tuting the only seats. The mode in which these comfortless dwel-
lings are built, is worthy of notice, as being very peculiar. The
walls are uncommonly broad, in some instances six or even seven
feet. Properly speaking, there are two walls, built at the distance
of eighteen inches or two feet from each other. This vacant space
is filled up with earth, and the whole covered over at the top with
green sod. The rafters are rested on the inner edge of the inner
wall, instead of being placed on the outer edge, as in other places,
consequently there is a considerable breadth of the wall left com-
pletely exposed, and the rain of course enters here, and continually
deluges the house. But the people, while they are anxious to ex-
clude the wind, seem to have no dread of damp. I have seen two
sheep grazing abreast on the top of one of these walls, and they
might easily give room to a third. Two men might walk round
on some of them, without any danger of falling off.
   The fire is always placed on the middle of the floor, and the
only outlet provided for the smoke, is a small circular aperture in the
roof. There is seldom more than one window in a house. This
is placed at the inner edge of the wall, where it gives least light;
but very often, the hole where the window should be, is left open,
except during a very strong wind, when it is stuffed up with some
straw or rags of old clothes. Thus, owing to the exclusion of the
light, and to the smoky atmosphere within the house, it is always
enveloped in a twilight obscurity, which does not tend to the pro-
motion of cleanliness or comfort.


