
338                         RENFREWSHIRE.

  In the returns from one of these works, it is stated, that "the
management of them has been found a much more difficult task
for two or three years past than it wont to be; and that a spirit
of insubordination and dissatisfaction seems to be spreading rapid-
ly amongst the working classes." The multitude of combinations
formed, and the baneful effects of them, upon themselves, their fa-
milies, and society, strongly corroborate this statement.
  The number of working days in the cotton-mills are six,-and the
number of hours in the week, sixty-nine. Those of the printers,
in summer, are from six in the morning till six in the evening,
while those nf the bleachers are from eleven to twelve hours per
day, or seventy-two hours per week. In all the works, the chil-
dren work the same hours as the men. That the wages afford a
fair remuneation and support to those engaged in these works must
appear evident from the high wages that are paid them, and the
vast sums they spend in drinking. However much it may be dis-
guised or denied, these works have a powerful tendency to affect
both health and morals. Among them, you rarely find an indivi-
dual of the strenght, size, and fresh complexion, which distinguish-
ed the ancient inhabitants. They are comparatively small, sickly-
complexioned, and are old men, apparently, at forty-five years.
Few see threescore and ten.
  Of their morals, in general, we cannot say much that is fa-
vourable. Nevertheless, we gladly bear witness that there are, in
these works, many exceptions, of persons who are as intellectual,
moral, and religious, as any of the same class in the community.
Shortening the hours of the children's labour, and giving them,
before they go into these works, a thorough Christian education
and Christian example, with a strict, but kind surveillance of
the masters and overseers, appear to us to be the only means of
correcting and improving the system.
  The above details of the state of our manufacturers and agricul-
ture, with their produce and wealth, will give some general idea
of its resources. But a better idea of these will be attained by
collecting them together.

Taking the land as sunk stock at twenty years' purchase, 24,320
  imperial acres,                                                   =L.486,400  0  0
House and leaseholders' and farmers' property, at twelve years' pur-
  chase, make, sunk, capital of L.164,220 in public works included,    248,750  1  6
Wages paid by the public works per annum,                               96,263  1  6
Sunk capital in farming-stock of horses and cows, queys and colts, mares
  and their foals, sheep and lambs,                                     19,189  0  0
Produce of pasture for cattle of all kinds and sheep,                     1421 15  0
                                        4




