
                              KIRKCALDY.                   747

   Mr Robert Douglas, another of the five commissioners ap-
pointed by the General Assembly to repair to the Westminster
Assembly, was for some years one of the ministers of this parish.
It does not appear that be ever attended at Westminster. He
became one of the ministers of Edinburgh, was moderator of the
eneral Assembly, and preached at the coronation of Charles II.,
which took place at Scone in 1651.
   Three individuals were born in this town in the earlier part of
last century, who attended the burgh school at the same time,
and contracted a friendship there that continued through life ; and
each of them attained a certain degree of eminence in the station
he occupied, and the duties he undertook. We refer to James
Oswald, Esq., Dr John Drysdale, and Dr Adam Smith.
   Mr Oswald of Dunnikier represented the county of Fife in one
Parliament, and the Kirkcaldy  district of burghs in three, between
1741 and 1768. During his parliamentary career, by attention
to his duties, and his talent for business, he recommended himself
to the ministry of the day, and gained their confidence. He thus
secured for himself some of the honours of the State, and for his
friends, as well as himself, the advantages of office. He was a
privy-counsellor, and at different times he held the offices of a
Commissioner of Trade, a Lord of the Treasury, and Vice-Trea-
surer of Ireland.
   Dr Drysdale, one of the ministers of Edinburgh, was clerk to
the General Assembly, and was twice chosen moderator. He
obtained his presentation to a church in the city through the in-
fluence of his friend and school companion, Mr Oswald. It may
here be noticed, that, previous to the appointment of Dr Drysdale,
the magistrates and town-council had entrusted the election of the
city ministers to the general kirk-session. But in his case the
council commenced to take the choice into their own hands, "for
good reasons," according to the statement of the Doctor's bio-
grapber and son-in-law.
   The last, but by far the greatest and most celebrated of the
three, was Dr Adam Smith, the author of the Inquiry into the
Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations,-a work which laid
down principles and unfolded views of political science, that startled
men by their novelty when they were first propounded, but whose
soundness in general, whose enlightened and philosophical cha-
racter, have long been admitted and applauded by political econo-
mists. He was also the author of a work entitled the Theory of


