
            COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                        299

   Zoology.-In this department there is very considerable variety
and interest, from the extent of wood and sea coast, and from the
varied character of the scenery. A tradition exists, that "the
wood of Penmanshiel was at one time frequented by wolves;" a
very pretty story being told of two fair ladies (sisters) who, in a
path of that wood, since named from them "Sisterpath," were
destroyed by these ferocious animals: the only consolation left to
an unfortunate lover of one of the ladies being to collect next day
their mangled remains, and to deposit them in an urn near the
fatal spot,-which urn was found some years ago, and is now in
the possession of Sir John Hall, Bart. Foxes are numerous: all
the varieties recognized by sportsmen being occasionally seen.
The badger is very frequently met with, both in the rocky deans
and on the sea coast. The polecat, weasel, and ermine are also
abundant, and the martin (Martes fagorum) is said, a good number
of years ago, to have inhabited the woods near the Pease Bridge.
The red squirrel (Sciurus vulgaris) is also said at one time to
have been a denizen of Dunglass woods. The otter (Lutra vulga-
ris) is occasionally seen near the mouths of the rivulets, and oc-
casionally, also, the common seal (Phoca vitulina.)
   Ornithology.-In Penmanshiel wood, jays build in considerable
numbers. On the margins of the little streams we frequently
see the beautiful kingfisher. The golden crested wren (Regulus
cristatus) is also of frequent occurrence; and many a bird of fair
and foreign plumage is occasionally seen to halt for a day or two
among the woody retreats of the parish. Of these occasional vi-
sitants, we may notice, in particular, the Bohemian chatterer
(Bombycilla garrula, Temm.), the hoopoe (Upupa, epops,) and the
golden oriole (Oriolus galbula.) The sea eagle also has been oc-
casionally shot. Hawks of many kinds build on the rocky sides
of the deans, and on the lofty sea cliffs; the hunting hawk being
frequently met with on the Redheugh coast. The raven (Corvus

<FOOTNOTE>tion; lower probably in point of position than even the lowest measures of the coal
field round Newcastle.
   In conclusion, I may only observe farther, that the two distinguished naturalists
above named were equally struck with the great similarity of these rocks in many
places to the new red sandstone of England, and that it was not till after a very care-
ful examination that they felt themselves warranted to pronounce them as belonging
to the coal formation.
   In reference to this late investigation of Messrs Sedgwick and Murchison, it may
be remarked, that Professor Jameson, in a memoir on East Lothian, (which tract,
geologically considered, is a continuation of Berwickshire,) read before the Wernerian
Society in the year 1815, remarks, "That the red sandstone, where its junctions can
he seen, is observed to rest on transition rocks, and to be covered more or less com-
pletely with the common rocks of the coal formation," which is the position given to
these formations by the English geologists just mentioned.


