
                       ABERLEMNO.                       627

  Extent.-This parish occupies a large portion; not less, per-
haps, than eighteen square miles of a hilly district lying towards
the south of Strathmore. Some of the higher portions being ra-
ther bleak, are covered with broom and heath; but the lower parts
are generally fertile. One of these, extending several miles along
the south bank of the Esk, is subject to occasional inundations
from the overflowing of the river. The hills are not of great
height. Turin hill, the highest of them, is 800 feet above the le-
vel of the sea and 600 above the adjacent lakes, so that the ele-
vation of the lower parts of the parish is not more than 200 feet
above the level of the sea. The temperature is consequently mo-
derate, and the climate healthy. There are no diseases peculiar
to the district.
  Hydrography.-The only lake in the parish is that of Balgavies,
close to the Auldbar-road station of the Arbroath and Forfar Rail-
way, which is situated on the southern border of the parish. The
lake furnishes to the angler a tolerable supply of pike and perch.
Marl was at one time dredged from the bottom, and used for ma-
nure; but this is now discontinued.
  Rocks.-The south-west part of the parish abounds with excellent
freestone, of a greyish colour.  Several quarries are at present
in operation, yielding not only stones fitted for the ordinary pur-
poses of building, but paving stones also, of superior size and qua-
lity, and a durable though somewhat heavy gray slate for roofing.
   Woods.-In the middle and on the north side of the parish, there
is a great deficiency of wood. In the south-east, however, on the
estate of Auldbar, and in the west, on the slope of Turin hill, there
are considerable plantations of fir; but the most thriving wood,
apparently, is the hard-wood of various kinds planted around and
near to the houses of Auldbar, Turin, and Balgavies.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The landed proprietors of this parish and their
estates are, the Right Honourable Earl Minto, Melgund; Pa-
trick Chalmer, Esq., Auldbar and Pitkennedy; Lieutenant-Co-
lonel Dalgairns, Balgavies; Patrick Rickard, Esq., Balglassie;
Tillywhandland and Kirkton; R. A. Watson Carnegy, Turin,
James Webster, Esq., Flemmington; William Morgan, Esq.,
Balbinnie; William Smith, Esq., M. D., Damside.
   Rent.-The valued rent is L. 4233, 6s. 8d. Scots.
   Mr. Chalmers and Mr Morgan are, at present, the only resident he-


