
108                            SUTHERLAND.

   Friths.-1. The Kyle, already mentioned, is an arm of the sea,
dividing Assynt from Edderachillis. 2. On tbe south side of
Rhustore, there is an arm of the sea running into the bay of Loch-
inver, which affords safe anchorage for vessels.
   Watetfalls.-There is a fall at Inverkirkig, and another near
the boundaries of the glebe. The former possesses considerable
attraction for the admirers of nature. With regard to the latter,
except when there is a great body of water, after heavy rain, it
appears insignificant.
   Geology and Mineralogy.- From Ledbeg to Auchumore,a dis-
tance of eight miles, there is abundance of limestones ; it then disap-
pears, and little more is seen of it, till the traveler reaches Duir-
ness. On the Stronchrubie farm is a stupendous ridge of Iime-
stone rock, interspersed with strata of sandstone. The scenery,
here is truly majestic. In the vicinity of populous cities, this rock
could not fail to prove the source of much wealth. It extends
about a mile and a half, overhanging the public road. It is almost
perpendicular, except about the centre. In many parts it is mantled
with ivy. Birds of prey have their nests here. Its height is pro-
bably 200 feet. Beyond Achumore there is no limestone found.
The pasture on limestone bottom is uncommonly rich.
   Botany.-The alpine vegetation of the parish of Assynt is very
similar to that which is met with in equal elevations in the greater
part of the north of Scotland. As types may be mentioned,
             Saussurea alpina            Cherleria sedoides
             Hieracium alpinum           Vaccinium uliginosum
             Asplenium viride
as plants which are not very rare in alpine districts but less,
generally diffused than such as these last named, may be men-
tioned, Carez pulla, Carex pauciflora, and Arbutus alpina.
   The limestone districts in the parish are characterized by
Epipactis latifolia, Dryas octopetala-the latter in great profusion,
and perhaps, in Sutherlandshire, only growing on limestone or mi-
caceous rocks.
   Among the rare plants found in alpine or subalpine districts of
the parish, may be mentioned Pyrus Aria, Apagia alpina, Lu-
zula arcuata,-this last found in Scotland only in three stations, of
which Benmore, Assynt, is one.
   Silene maritima also grows on Benmore.
   The  following may be named as yielded by the bogs in the
parish:-


