
                       BATHGATE.                             151

burn. Springs abound in this parish. The water from them is
in many places tinged with iron. One, on the estate of Couston,
seems, to resemble very much in quality the celebrated. Dollar
water.
   Geology and Mineralogy,-The dip of the strata is universally
to the west and north-west. The inclination is exceedingly vari-
ous, ranging from 5&deg; to as much as 45&deg;. The latter is found,
however, only where some violent disruption of the strata has taken
place. Almost the whole of this parish forms part of the great
central coal field of Scotland. In regard to every part of it except
the east and south-east, it has been ascertained from working sand
from recent borings, that coal is to be found, and generally in
workable seams. Whinstone dikes are of frequent occurrence,
deranging the seams and oft spoiling the coal. There are also
frequent dislocations of the strata, elevating or depressing the beds,
sometimes as much as several fathoms, without any intervening
dike at all. Above the coal, and so far as has been, ascertained,
beneath it too, beds of freestone occur. The crowning points of
the hilly part of the parish are all formed of secondary trap rocks,
such as basalt and whin or greenstone. These give place on the
western ridge and slope to coal, as already mentioned, and to thick
beds of sandstone, and mountain limestone. These beds are oc-
casionally intersected by a bed of trap, taking sometimes the form
of basalt, and amygdaloid, and are all rich in organic remains. In
the coarse sandstone, and among the intervening beds of shale le-
pidodendra have been found, and grasses in the finer grained sand-
stone. The limestone is supposed by some geologists to be of two
distinct formations, the one a marine, the other a lacustrine depo-
sit. The workings in these supposed different deposits are not
half a mile asunder; and if the strata are continuous, which has
been ascertained only partially, they must lie within a hundred
yards of each other. In the one, various species of corallines, am-
monites, and, other marine shells of every kind, the pecten, nautilus,
mytilus, anomia, orthoceras, &c. abound. They often form, in
fact, to a great extent, the mass of the stone. The principal stra-
tum of this formation is about forty feet thick, including seams of
flint of varying thickness. Many fissures occur in it, and the lower
portion of it may be called cavernous, as it occasionally presents
openings into which a man may enter to unknown depths. Vari-
ous spars occur in the fissures, and stalactites in these openings.
This "limestone is associated with hornstone; this mineral form-


