
			GLASGOW.                             177

years after the above period, or such after period as the salary
shall be fixed, these heritors and minister are to modify a new sa-
lary, according to the average price of oatmeal, to be ascertained
by the Exchequer, of the value of from one and a-half to two chal-
ders, and so on from twenty-five years to twenty-five years; and
when there is not a proper school-house, a house for the school-
master, and a garden for him, containing at least one-fourth of a
Scotch acre, the heritors of the parish must provide these. *
	Grammar-School.--This seminary is of remote antiquity, but,
like some similar institutions of long standing, little is known of its
early history. There was a grammar-school at Glasgow in the
early part of the fourteenth century. It depended immediately on
the cathedral church, and the chancellor of the diocese had not
only the appointment of the masters, but also the superintendence
of whatever related to education in the city. The grammar-school
continued to be a distinct establishment after the erection of the
University, and considerable care appears to have been taken to
supply it with good teachers. In 1494, Mr Martin Wan, Chan-
cellor of the Metropolitan Church of Glasgow, brought a complaint
before Archbishop Blackadder against one Dwne, a priest of the
diocese, for teaching scholars in grammar, and children in inferior
branches, by himself apart, openly and publicly in the said city,
without the allowance, and in opposition to the will of the Chan-
cellor. The bishop having heard parties, and examined witnesses
decided, with the advice of, his chapter, and of the rector and clerks
of the University, in favour of the Chancellor. As far back as the
sixteenth century, the situation of the master of the grammar-school
was highly respectable; he was to be found among the non-regen-
tes, nominated to elect the Rector, and to examine the graduates.
On the 28th of October 1595, the Presbytery directed the Regents
in the college "to try the Irish scholars in the grammar-school,
tuching the heads of religion." At that period the school met
at five o'clock in the morning. Mr John Blackburn, who was mas-
ter of the grammar-school, and Lord Rector of the University in
1592, 1593, resigned his mastership in 1615, on being appointed
minister of the Barony Church.

<FOOTNOTE>The celebrated Dr South has, with much ability, enforced the great utility to be
derived from attention to schoolmasters. "There is no profession," be observes,
"which has, or can have, a greater influence on the public. An able and well prin-
cipled schoolmaster is one of the most meritorious subjects in any prince's dominions ;
and schoolmasters are the great depositaries and trustees of the peace of the nation
having its growing hopes and fears in their hands. Nay, schoolmasters have a more
powerful influence upon the spirits of men than preachers themselves; for they
have to deal with younger and lenders minds, and consequently have the advantage of
making the first and deepest impression upon them."


