
284                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

are the continuation of seams lower than those worked at Carla-
verock, or the same seams cast down and altered, has not been
exactly ascertained. At Longniddry Dean, two coal seams crop
out, dipping north-west, which looks as if they were connected with
the principal basin, and the limestone generally found below the coal
formation does not appear till beyond the boundary of this parish.
   The first of the trap dikes intersecting the strata occurs to the
north of Portseton; the second at Cockenzie, about 20 yards
broad, where it forms a barrier against the sea, and runs from
north-west to south-east; the third trap dike, not quite so broad,
lies about half a mile further south, running nearly east and west
from the Garleton Hills to Seton Castle and Prestongrange Har-
bour, which it may probably connect with the masses of trap at
Arthur's Seat, Hawkhill, and Inchkeith. About half a mile to
the south of the second trap dike, there is a broad clay dike, about
140 feet in width, which throws the strata about 16 fathoms up
to the south. The ground here rises more rapidly, and most of the
upper seams crop out. From this line they deseend to form the
basin at Carlaverock. There are, besides, many dikes and faults,
especially about Kingslaw, which it would be tedious and out of
place to narrate.
   Such being, a general description of the geological-structure of
the parish, we may now give a more minute account of the coal mea-
sures or strata themselves at Carlaverock, the centre of the basin.
   The upper or main coal seam, between 6 and 9 feet thick,
is of good quality, though rather soft, and is about 37 fathoms
or 222 feet from the surface, at the lowest point in the ba-
sin. The second seam, which is improperly termed the splint
coal seam, is about 5 feet thick, and varies from 8 to 14 fa-
thoms below the main coal seam. The third seam, or 3 feet-
coals, is from 5 to 8 fathoms below the second seam, but has
only been worked near the crop, where it approaches the sur-
face. The fourth seam, or 4 feet coal, is still lower, being between
3 and 4 fathoms below the third seam, and is reputed to be of ex-
cellent quality; but as it has not been wrought, except near the crop,
where the quality is inferior, its merits cannot be said to be ascer-
tained. About 16 fathoms below the 4 feet coal, there is also
a 5 feet coal, but it has not been worked in the parish, except at
the crop to a small extent. Below these, in the Carlaverock basin,
it is probable that other seams may exist at a greater depth, but
they have never hitherto been explored. A thin seam of parrot


