
134			WIGTONSHIRE.

	Hydrography.-,The sea, receiving bu a scantly tribute of fresh
water from the narrow peninsula, is very salt all long the shore.
The depth close to the rocks is from five to six fathoms. Oppo-
site Old Dunskey Castle, a bank of clay and gravel runs out for
about three miles into the channel. On this bank, near the extre-
mity, the depth of water is from 25 to 30 fathoms, whilst a mile
north and south of this it is 50 fathoms. The deepest part of
the channel opposite to Portpatrick is between 6 and 7 miles from
the Scotch coast. From the greatest depth, (about 90 fathoms,)
the water shoals gradually towards the coast of Ireland. Accord-
ing to the tide-table in the New Edinburgh Almanack, the tides
at Portpatrick are 3 hours and 20 minutes later than at Leith.
They are reckoned about an hourn earlier than at Stranraer. But
near the shore they are from an hour to an hour a half earlier
than a mile off, and they are generally reckonned an hour later
than at the opposite port of Donaghadee. Spring-tides rise from
14 to 17 feet, and neap-tides from 8 to 11 feet. The currents
near the shore often run more than 3 miles an hour. South-east
of the Copland Island, near the Irish coast, there are strong and
ever-varying currents, on which the most experienced fishermen
cannot calculate with certainty and which they cannot explain.
It is to this place that the Statistical Account of 1791, thus
refers; "Within three or four miles of the Irish shore, when the
flood returns, there is a regular current, which sets off strongly
for the Mull of Galloway. It runs at the rate of seven knots an
hour, and is so forcible, that when the wind opposes it, it exhibits
for a great way the appearance of breakers. It is called the Race
of Strangers, and is a very curious spectable."
	On the south side of the town, there is a spring of strong chaly-
beate water, which flows at all seasons in a small but regular stream
from the rock. It is much esteemed by the people for its medi-
cinal virtue. There is no natural lake in the parish: but one of
four acres in extent has been recently formed north of the Fell,
which rises behind the mansion-house of Dunskey. This artifi-
cial lake has been stocked with trout, chiefly from a small stream
in the parish called Craigoch-burn. It is of an irregular form.
The banks are quite bare, but are being tastefully planted by the
proprietor, by whom a carriage drive has also been lately formed
along the margin and leading from the house with a wide sweep
round the hill. This carriage drive, as it passes round the west
side of the hill, crosses the walks leading from the mansion house



