
46                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

besides 3 famous individuals who receive aid from a voluntary as-
sessment of L.24 made by the heritors. To meet the demands
thus occasioned, there are collections in church averaging L.35;
regular donations from non-resident heritors L.6, 1s.; interest of
L.60 in bank, about L.1, 10s.; Do. of L.40 in private hands
L.1, 8s.; total, L.43, 19s. There are, besides these, occasional
donations from heritors and others connected with the parish, and
donations made to the kirk-session on the occasion of proclama-
tions. It is much to be feared, that, unless the burden be dimi-
nished by some means, the funds in the hands of the kirk-sersion
will be exhausted, and then recourse must be had to a legal as-
sessment. A voluntary assessment of L.20 was made by the he-
ritors in the spring of 1839, to make up a deficiency which had
accumulated in the course of the four preceding years, and thus
to prevent the funds in the hands of the kirk-session being,touched
in the meantime.*
	Inns.--There are only two inns in the parish; one in the village,
on the great road between Carlisle and Portpatrick, and the other
at the ferry opposite to Kirkcudbright. Both are necessary; but
the number should not be increased.+
	Fuel.--The fuel used is almost solely coal from Cumberland,
which is brought to the Tongland harbour, within two miles of the
centre of the parish. For some time back, individuals have sent
or gone to Dalmellington for Scotch coal.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The system of agriculture has been much improved since the
time when the last Statistical Account was written, and improve-
ments are still in progress. The rental was consequently been
greatly increased. In 1794, the rental was L.2960. It now
amounts to about L.6250, being more than double the former
amount.
	At that time there were only a few old trees about Compston,
and the plantations along the Dee had been newly made. These
plantations have now grown to be both profitable and ornamental,
and a good deal has been planted in other parts of the parish. It
would be of advantage, and would add greatly to the beauty of the
scenery, were the plantations to be extended still farther. In many

<FOOTNOTE>For some years back, the heritors have found it necessary to raise a voluntary
assessment annually to meet the deficiencies occasioned by increased demands.
	+ Since the above was written another public-house has been established in the
village, and though the person who keeps it is of a respectable character, still the
evils anticipated have arisen from its establishment.


