
214                       RENFREWSHIRE.

an inscription to the memory of John de Lithgow, mentioned
among the Abbots of the monastery.  The south aile presents
the same number of windows with the north.  It shows also two gate-
ways, now built up, one near each end of the building, the eastern
one being semicircularly arched, and exhibiting the only feature
which appears to be of Norman character, in the exterior of the
edifice.  The clerestory windows are twelve in number, on each
side of the main body of the nave.  They are formed by a mullion
into two trefoil-headed lights, and quatre-foiled in the enclosing
arch.  As these windows are placed close to each other, open-
ing within pointed arches, and finely proportioned, they im-
part to the church a peculiarly light and graceful appearance.
That appearance on ihe south, however, is at present destroyed,
as the whole range is built up with rough masonry.  The eastern
gable of the nave is merely a screen of modern masonry, filling
up the western arch beneath the great tower.  On the outside of
this gable may be traced a mural tablet, apparently erected to
the memory of the unfortunate John Hamilton, the last of the
abbots.  The remains of an inscription, and the arms of the
Hamiltons, with the motto " misericordia et pax," are still visi-
ble.  But neither the modern part of this gable, the window in-
serted in it, the bell turret that rises above it, nor the roof of the
building, also of modern date, are at all in keeping with the
other parts of the edifice.  The large bell, which was once the
tenant of the lofty tower that rose fro the centre of this church,
is, said to have been carried by Oliver Cromwell to Durham,
where it is still to be seen, and where it is likely to remain, till a
suitable habitation be provided for it, in the place of its former
abode.
   The interior of the nave is truly magnificent.  Ten massy clus-
tered columns, 17 feet in height, with simple but elegantly mould-
ed capitals, divide the ailes from the body of the fabric.  Of
these columns, the circumference of each of the two nearest the
west ir more than double that of any of the others, plainly indi-
eating that they were intended by the architect, in connection with
the front wall, to support two western, towers.  From the imposts
of the columns spring pointed arches, with delicate and graceful
mouldings.  On the centre pillar to the south is sculptured in re-
lief an antique cost of arms with grotesque supporters.  From a
floor formed above the first tier of arches spring those of the tri-
forium.  They are large and semicircular, springing from clustered
                                3


