
     Statistical Account

previous to the day of his execution.  He was concealed for
some years, and after his father's death, joined in the Re-
bellion in 1715; in consequence of which, the title was
attained.-The question, therefore, is, whether this Robert 
was to be considered as dead in law, upon his being con-
demned (which was before his father died), so that no
after deed of his could affect the title as to the next heir?
If this be the cafe, as the title is said to be to heirs what-
soever, Mr. Bruce of Kennet must have a just claim to the 
title of Burleigh, by virtue of his grandmother's right,as
the other sister was never married.

<FOOTNOTE>

and Uplythan.  He had two sones, 1. Robert, his successor; . William,
prior of Guisburgh.  He carried, in his coat of arms A, a lyon rampant P:
He bad a younger brother, named William le Breos, Lord of Bremner,
in sussex.
   II. Robert Bruce, elder sone to Adelme, assisted Edgar (sone to K.
Malcolm Cranmore) in recovery of the Crown of Scotland, usurped by
Duncan, his bastard brother, and Donald Bane his uncle; he married
Agness Annad, heir of the Lordship of Annandale, who bare him two
sones: 1 ft. Adam, Lord of Skelton; 2 d. Robert, Lord of Annandale.
He sounded the priory of Guisburgh, anno 1120, and endowed it richly
with lands and tyches.  He assisted St. David, then Earle Huntingtone,
in founding the abbey of Selkirk, which afterwards, when he came to
the Crown, transported to Kelso.  This Lord Robert, as witness in the
charter of mortification, has contributed his lands of Bouilden for increas-
ing the patrimony thereof.  He died anno 1141, and was buried in the
monastery of Guisburgh: so that they are mistaken who account this
Robert to be the man who assisted William the Conqueror anno 1068,
being some 75 years before his death.  His brother William, prior of
Guisburgh, died A. D; 1155.
   III. Robert, second of that name, was second Lord of Annandale, in
right of his mother, and Lord of Cleaveland, Hert, Hertness, and Hert-
pool, by his father's gift.  He conformed to the customs of those times,
appointing his father's bearing, assumed the coat of Annadale O, a chief
and saltier G, and having no sons by his first wife Alisa, or Avisa, he gave
sendry mortifications to the canons of Guisburgh; he gave also many


