
             16                          ELGINSHIRE.

             gree. The advantages,of the Association became every year more
             and more apparent, and it soon enrolled as members, not only the
             whole body.of respectable farmers in the district, but also all the
             noblemen and gentlemen connected with the county. Annual
             cattle shows were then established,-premiums of large amount
             were given for horses from the southern districts, to serve for the
             season in the county,-for the different kinds of stock brought into
             competition,-for various branches of tillage and crops,-for seed
             grain, grasses, &c. These premiums are not confined to the mem-
             bers of the club, but, with a liberality which has characterized all
             their proceedings, are open to every class of farmers in the county;
             and certainly it is not one of the least gratifying effects of the so-
             cie!y's exertions, that a considerable proportion of prizes for the
             be'st stock is annually carried off by the small farmers who are not
             Members. The club has not been inattentive to"another very im-
             portant object, namely, to the supply of the means of information
             to the members on those subjects with which it nearly concerns
             them to be acquainted. At an early period of the association, a
             sum of money was annually set apart from the funds, for the esta-
             blishment of an agricultural library, which now contains a valuable
             collection of the best books on every branch of rural economy, and
             is yearly increased by every useful publication on agriculture, as
             soon as it comes from the press. Since its commencement, the
             individual members of the club have contributed L. 2250 to its
             funds; and if the implements in use, the state of tillage, and the
             breed of stock to be seen even on small farms, be compared with
             what they were thirty years ago, the mighty alteration must be as-
             cribed, in no small degree, to the judicious expenditure of this
             large sum, and to the beneficial influence exerted by the society,
             in promoting the agricultural improvements of the district.  The
             Club still exists in undiminished vigour and usefulness.
              Society for promoting Industry among the most necessitous Poor.-                                               .q the most necessitous Poor.-
             The object of this Society is sufficiently indicated by its name,
             There is in the town a number of indigent but industrious females,
             whom the introductionof steam manufacture has deprived of the
             means by which they formerly earned a subsistence. A small fund
             is provided by subscriptions and donations among the members
             and friends of the society, to purchase the materials of spinning,
             knitting, and, sewing, which are given out to these females to be
             vmughit up according to instructions, and for which they receive
             the ordinary rate of wages. The manufactured articles are then
                                             4


