
              150                           ORKNEY.

                 Topographical Appearances and Soil.-This parish presents
              great inequalities of soil, as well as of surface.  The coast, which,
              in general, is bold and rocky, extends about eight miles, and, in
              some places, rises witb a gradual ascent from the sea, about a mile
              eastward.  The soil is very various.  The lands forming what
              is called the barony of Birsay are considered by far the richest
              and most fertile in the parish, or perhaps in Orkney ; the soil,
              in general, is a mixture of clay and sand, and yields most luxuriant
              crops of oats and barley, " without intermission."
                 As to the quality of the ground in other parts of the parish, it
              is, in general, a kind of deep black loam, which also yields an abun-
              dant return of oats and barley; it is well adapted to turnips and
              potatoes.
                 Hydrography.-There are six lakes in the parish.  The most
              of them are about a mile in breadth, and upwards of four miles in
              circumference.  The streams or rivulets that run through the pa-
              rish are inconsiderable, though they impel the machinery of four
              meal-mills.  There is no harbour for vessels on the coast.  The
              only barbours we have, are for small boats. The two principal ones
              are called Skibbagoe and Castragoe.
                 Mineralogy.-The minerals of the parish consist of limestone,
              and a sort of claystone, which is in great request in the parish, and is
              generally used for pavement and for covering farm and other houses.
              There is, also, great abundance of other kinds of building stones;
              freestone excepted.  Marble and alabaster are said to have been
              discovered in the parish.
                                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
                 From the want of well authenticated information, little can be
              said of the ancient state of Birsay.  Indeed, there are no'traces
              of its history prior to the period when it was in the possession of the
              Earls of Orkney ; and even subsequent to that time, little that can
              be depended upon, is known.  There can be no doubt, however, of
              the fact, that the first seat of the Earls and Bishops of Orkney was
              in Birsay.  The ancient inhabitants of the parish were Norwegians :
              and the names of many of the places are evidently of Norwegian
              extraction.
                 Land-owners.-The number of land-owners in the parish, resi-
              dent and non-resident, is 39; of whom 10 are nonresident.  The
              principal land-owner is the Earl of Zetland, who is also patron of
              the parish.
                Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers go so far back as


