
     of Kiltarlity.

   A Watch Tower.-About 2 miles due east from the
church, is situated Castle Spynnie, in Gaelic, Castail Spu-
nnido, or Fortress of the Spoil or Prey.  The wall of 
this building is a complete circle, whose circumference is
about 54 yards.  It is 9 or 10 feet thick, built of dry
stone without cement.  It stands on the summit of a hill,
which is about 700 or 800 feet, above the plain below,
commanding a most extensive prospect to the N. N. W.
and N. E.  From this castle, Dun-Thionn to the W.; and
Knockfarril, in Stratpiffer, to the N. are clearly seen*.

   Beaufort,-The present seat of the family of Lovat was
originally a fortress, as the name denotes.  Scarcely a ves-
tige of this ancient building now remains.  The present
house is built on a part of the ground, originally occupied
by the said fort.  From its situation, it must have been of
old a place of considerable strength.  It lies about a mile
to the north of the church, on a beautiful eminence, near
the river Beauly; it is defended on the N. W. N. and

<FOOTNOTE>

the vitrification is not accidental, as Mr Tytler supposes , is abundantly
clear from this very reason, that no such accidents, as he supposes,
were adequate uniformly to produce such effects.  There is an old record
in Dunrobbin in Sutherland, which perhaps throws some light on this
subject.  It is mentioned in the said record, that a stranger, who came
to Sutherland from the South, had discovered an excellent cement for
strong buildings. That this cement consisted to iron-stone, or one part-
ly mixed with other stones, (probably the pudding-stone mentioned by
Mr Williams), and cemented together, or vitrified by force of fire,
probably applied in the manner described by the foresaid Mr Wil-
liams.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Within a gunshot to the north of the church, is a stone coffin, in
Gaelic, called Uamh Gillichuinne; or grave of Gillichuinne; only the
sides of the coffin now remain.  Two urns, filled with ashes, were found
in this coffin in 1763.  Who this Gillichuine was, even tradion does
not pay.


