
                   LISMORE AND APPIN.                  233

   Zoology.-There are no animals found in this parish that are
not common to all the neighbouring parishes.  The migratory birds
are the woodcock, which visits our woods in winter, particularly
during snow and in frosty weather.  The cuckoo, the swallow,
water-wagtail, corncrake, and lapwing all appear at their stated
periods. " In severe winters, a few swans visit the lochs in this
parish, but they do not remain long in this country ; and a few
wild geese also hatch about the islands of Lismore.  Eagles
abound in Kingairloch, and in the highest parts of Appin, toge-
ther with ptarmigan, blackcock, and grouse, with abundance of
common and mountain hares."  The former are said to have appear-
ed in this country not until after roads were made, which opened a
communication with the low country, and afforded them an easy
access to the fastnesses of our Highland glens.  Among the woods
of the lower part of Appin, there are roe in great abundance.  In
Lismore, there are neither moles nor foxes; but there are otters
and wild cats.  Appin and Kingerloch abound with moles, foxes,
martins, wild cats, and fumarts ; the two last are very destructive
to poultry.  There existed formerly in this parish animals which
are not now to be seen, such as red-deer, wolves, wild boars, and
bisons.  Two skulls of the latter species were found, some time
ago, in a peat-moss in Lismore.  The following are the dimen-
sions of the larger skull, as given in the old Statistical Account:
Extent from the extremities of the bend of the born, 2 feet 11
inches; circumference of the roots of the horns, 1 foot 5 inches ;
length of horns following the curvature without, 2 feet 8 inches;
distance between the eyes, 1 foot 1/8 of an inch; length of skull
from the snout (not entire) to upper part of head, 2 feet 2 inches;
circumference of the eye socket, 10 1/4 inches.
   The Argyleshire cattle are considered to be among the best
specimens of the Highland breed, and in no part of the country
are there better specimens to be found than in some parts of this
parish ; nor do I think that there is in the county any district bet-
ter adapted to the rearing of fine cattle than this district, owing
to the nature of its soil, and the richness of its pasture; and a par-
tial proof of this is found in the circumstance, that drovers visit it
before other places, to purchase stock for the south country mar-
kets, and give high prices at the same time.  We have also ex-
tensive sheep farms, and the stock is of superior quality.  The
number of sheep in the parish when the old Statistical Account


