
988                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

We may wander 'with the blue-eyed Cutha in the vales of Dun-
lathmon:' 'high walls rise on the bank of Durranna, and see their
mossy towers in the stream.'  A rock ascends behind them with
'its bending firs.'"
   There is every reason to believe that the Knights Templar
who, though they had but one settlement in Scotland, St Germain
in Lothian, yet enjoyed the funds of several churches and houses
in other parts of the country, were established here.  On the
south side of the town, there is a spot of ground called the Temple
Brae, and a house called Temple Feu, the old proprietors of
which held their charters from the Lords Torphichen, to whom
a considerable part of their lands had been given by the Crown,
after the order of the Knights Templar was dissolved in the be-
ginning of the fourteenth century.
   Some houses called Abbey Land, (Maison Dieu), or house of
refuge, point out the situation of an hospital or alms-house, which
was founded in 1272 by Alexander Cumyn, Earl of Buchan, with
consent of Hugo de Benham, Bishop of Aberdeen, for maintaining
a warden, six chaplains, and thirteen poor husbandmen of Buchan.
   It was dedicated to St Congan, (Sancto Congano), supposed to
be the tutelary saint of the place, from whom one of the annual
fairs held here is called Cowan Fair.  It was afterwards endowed
by King, Robert Bruce, by a charter granted by him at Kinkell
in 1329, and the twenty-third year of his reign, with the lands of
Pets, "in puram et perpetuam eleemosynam pro anima Nigelli
de Bruys fratris nostri."  In 1412, Bishop Greenlaw erected the
wardancy here into a prebend.  Mr William Hay, Canon of Aber-
deen, and Prebendary of Turriff, the first master who enjoyed
these titles, built the mansion in the chanonry for the residence
of himself and successors, and of which the trades of Old Aber-
deen are now the proprietors.
   In the year 1446, William Hay of Errol obtained the patron-
age of the church of Turriff in lieu of that of Errol, of which his
grandfather Sir William Hay of Errol had been deprived.  There
is a confirmation of this grant by James II, dated 16th May 1450.
In 1497, the lands of the hospital were alienated by Alexander
Wans, parson of the parish, to Gilbert Hay of Delgaty, with con-
sent of the Earl of Errol the patron.  In 1511, James IV. outof
love and favour to Mr Thomas Dickson, then prebend of Turriff,
granted him a charter erecting Turriff into a burgh of barony,
consituting the prebend superior of the burgh, and titular of the


