
     Statistical Account

and communicating with the country on the S., by an an-
cient and well built bridge of 5 arches over the Tweed.  The
landward part of the parish is from E. to W. 5/12 miles, and 
from N. to S. 10 miles, and contains 18, 210 acres.  The ri-
ver Tweed, running through it from W. to E., divides it in-
to nearly equal parts.  Peebles, called also Eddlestone water, 
subdivides the N. part of it.  The royal burgh of Peebles 
stands in the centre, and in a situation remarkably pleasant.
It is built in a beautiful and healthy opening in a hilly coun-
try.  It has the Castle of Horsburgh, situated on a gentle e-
minence on the E.; the Castle of Needpath, embosomed in
an amphitheatre of wood, on the W.; the rich strath of Ed-
dlestone water, adorned with gentlemens's seats, on the N.; and 
a variety of thriving plantations on the S.  Like as in the
Tempe of Thessaly, the river, in clear streams, and beautiful
windings, flows through the middle of the vale, which, on 
both sides of the river, is adorned with rich meadows, and 
fields of corn,  Verdant hills, covered with flocks and herds,
rise gently all around; and higher mountains, emitting springs
more falubrious than Offa or Olympus, rear their lofty sum-
mits behind, and terminate the prospect.  The situation of 
Peebles is as healthy as it is pleasant.  The soil is dry, and 
the air well ventilated and pure.  The Tweed runs through
a track of 80 miles, taking the straight, and 100 miles, fol-
lowing the serpentine line of its course, and falls 1500 feet:
But though it has finished one-third only of its course, it has 
fallen two-thirds of its descent at Peebles, which is only 500
feet above the level of the sea.  Situated in a centrical part of 
the country, Peebles has the rains from all quarters, in a very 
moderated degree:  So that the average quantity yearly is only
25 inches.  And guarded on the N. E. by the highest part
of that long range of mountains which runs from Lammer-
muir to the head of Eddlestone water, Peebles commonly is 
not visited by the eastern fog one day in the year.


