
                           ALLOA.                                 57

publicly put to death at Stirling, for the simple offence of attend-
ing that marriage and eating flesh in Lent. Locklaw himself, along
with Robert Logrie, canon regular of Cambuskenneth, who also
had renounced the Romish religion, retired into England, and, in
common with the persecuted of the time, sought an asylum under
the protecting auspices of the mild and pious Edward VI. This
was the last priest who officiated in the church of Tullibody.
   In the dismantled condition in which it was left by the French, the
church of Tullibody remained till about the middle of last century,
when it was roofed in, and in other respects improved by George
Abercromby, Esq. of Tullibody.  It has since been employed as
a cemetery to the family. About six years ago, it was fitted up
by subscription as a preaching-station for the benefit of the vil-
lage and neighbourhood, and especially of those who, from age and
other causes, are prevented from attending their places of worship
in Alloa.
   Ecclesiastical State.--Alloa was formerly a chapel dependent
on the parish church of Tullibody; but afterwards became a se-
parate parish; and, says Bishop Keith, " swallowed up the mo-
ther church."
   The Act of Assembly uniting Tullibody with Alloa is to be
found in the Book of the Universal Kirk, Assembly 1600.
From that Act, it appears that Alloa was a chapel, and Tul-
libody a kirk,--that the people of Tulibody had, by order of
the Presbytery of Stirling, rebuilt the kirk, and chosen a minis-
ter, who, for want of adequate support, was forced to leave
them ; that Tullibody was a distinct parish, containing 400
or 500 communicants; that the Abbot of Cambuskenneth drew
all the teinds of Tullibody; and that the Earl of Mar furnished
a sufficient stipend to the minister officiating at Alloa.
   The church of Alloa being at the west end of the town is con-
veniently placed for the great bulk of the population. The old
church, which, for more than seventy years past, had been ac-
counted much too small for the congregation, in August 1815,
was declared ruinous, and the new one was thereafter built.
   Benefactions.-- In the Advocates' Library, there is a MS.
volume containing a list of all the pious donations and mortifications
of Scotland from the reign of James, L., A. D. 1424, to 1702 ; in
which is to be found a charter of confirmation of a mortification
made by Alexander Lord Erskine to a chaplain at St Mungo's
altar in the kirk of Alloway, of a number of small rents out of


