
816                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Alehouses.-There is only one alehouse in the parish.
   Fuel.-As to fuel, the mosses in this parish are almost exhaust-
ed; but a considerable quantity of peat and turf are brought from
other parishes.  Coals imported at Newburgh are the principal
fuel.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATTONS.
   Being one of the few whom it has pleased God to spare to as-
sist in drawing up a second Statistical Account of Scotland, I
may be allowed, more than others, to express my satisfaction at
the vast improvements in agriculture which have taken place in
Buchan since I transmitted to Sir John Sinclair an account
of the parish of Old Deer in the year 1794.  When I look
around me, I seem to live not only among a new race of men,
but in a new world.  Cultivation, like the gradual spreading of a
garment, has changed the external face of the earth, and every
locality wears a new appearance.  The irregular patches, and va-
rious denominations of arable land which were then interspersed
amidst the uncultivated waste, are now absorbed in regular enclo-
sures or extensive fields, the dark expanse of moss * is greatly di-
minislied, and the sombre herds of our native brown and black cat-
tle are enlivened by a mixture of the white and speckled Tees-
water.  The low-thatched farm-houses and long continuous rows
of barns and byres are now converted into slated dwellings of
two stories, and adjoining courts of offices; and, where necessary,
the steep and rugged tracks that led to them into smooth roads of
easy ascent.  One great and indispensable means of these changes
has been the formation of turnpike roads, and of commutation
roads upon improved principles. +  Besides their other advantages,
these have formed most convenient and gently sloping base lines
in the process of fielding, which process comprehends, in one word,
the sum of the agricultural improvements which have taken place
in Buchan during the period I have before mentioned.  In this
parish that process is nearly completed; and in most others it is
very far advanced.
   Although there is no doubt that the moral improvement of
his hearers ought to be, and I trust is that, in which a minister
of the Gospel most rejoices, yet surely the inferior gratifica-
tion of seeing the soil of one's native country so greatly melio-

<FOOTNOTE>In 1810, Dr Keith, in his Account of the Soil of Aberdeenshire, says, that " one-
tenth of the surface of Buchan consisted of peat moss."
    These were unknown in Buchan when the last Statistical Account was compiled.


