
32			HADDINGTONSHIRE.

found. The heritors have been generally resident, and exceed-
ingly ready to promote in every way the comfort of the inhabit-
ants.
   Parochial Registers.-The schoolmaster's house at Whitekirk
was burnt in the year 1760, and the session registers previous to
that date destroyed. The records of the old parish of Tynning-
hame extend as far back as 1615, and besides their more appro-
priate contents, contain frequent allusions to passing events. There
are several entries, for instance, relative to the defeat of the Mar-
quis of Montrose in l645. After mentioning that a paper had been
read from the pulpit, from the committee at Dunbar, "anent any
that had any midling with James Graham or his complices," and
after alluding to a public thanksgiving" to be keep it and maid
for the great victorie at Philiphauche" the observance of that so-
lemnity is thus recorded:-"19 October 1645. This day the
publick thanksgiving well keep it, praised be God for the notable
and great victory never to be forgot at Philiphauche, quberio James
Graham and his forcies were utterlie defaitt and overthrawin, we
thank the Lord God of our Salvation through Jesus Chryst there-
for forevir."
   The records have not been uniformly kept with very great ac-
curacy.
			III.-POPULATION.
   The increase of population for the last forty years has been
inconsiderable. There are no feus in the parish, and a new house
is rarely built but in room of an old one, the existing population
being found sufficient for the purposes of agriculture. The hinds,
who constitute the bulk of the inhabitants, are removable every
year, and it depends on their having larger or smaller families, at
the time the census is taken, whether the population has the ap-
pearance of considerable increase or diminution.
<TABLE>
        In the year 1792 it amounted to           994
                    1807        "     "           953
                    1822        "     "          1023
                    1834        "     "          1062
	In the last of these years there were above 12 years of age,	785
                              under 12,                                 277
   The oldest person in the parish was born in the year 1745.
   Character of the People.-The population is entirely agricultu-
ral. The parish has long had the advantage of a skilful and re-
spectacle tenantry, and the habits of the people generally are in-
fluenced in no small degree by their ordinary pursuits. The skill-
ful and successful cultivation of the soil requires, and has establish-
ed the incessant industry of the inhabitants; and being removed


