
746			AYRSHIRE.

and knolls, give to the parish its undulatory appearance. Clune-
dam, Cairngillan ridge, Alton-burn, "the Hill," and Torcorse
Hill, are portions of this remarkable mass of trap. Its direction
is north by west. It may average in breadth half-a-mile. It is a
porphyritic and amygdaloidal trap; the amygdaloidal structure pre-
vailing in some places, and the porphyritic in others. The amyg-
daloidal portions are chiefly calcareous spar, while the crystals
which give it the porphyritic character are apparently of hornblend
or augite, much decomposed and highly coloured by oxide of iron.
The dike along its whole extent abounds in steatite. It decays
rapidly from the action of air and moisture on the iron and calca-
reous matter, and, consequently, is a bad road metal, but it gives
rise to a fertile soil.
	Organic Remains.--Owing to the deep covering of alluvial mat-
ter, opportunities of examining the contents of the different strata
rarely present themselves. There is an upthrow of the strata in
the adjacent parish of Craigie, in the neighbourhood of a green-
stone ridge. The following organic remains are met with in the
Craigie shale and limestone. The list is given because little at-
tention has hitherto been paid to the organic remains with which
this district abounds. It will be seen to contain one or two rather
rare species.
	Nautilus quadratus	Terebratula ambigua		Productus lobatus
         Orthocera laevis  --        lateralis                          --      punctatus
         --       undata            Spirifer Urii pinnatus              Mytilus crassus
         Turritella constricta      --       trigonalis                 Turbinolia Fungites
	Bellerophon Urii	Productus Scoticus

	Zoology.--The fox, (Vulpis vulgaris) has excellent cover on
the banks of the Ayr. The otter (Lutra vulgaris) inhabits the
Fail. A white mole is occasionally met with in this district, more
frequently near Kilmarnock. As it occurs, year after year, in the
same localities, it is probably a permanent variety. The king's
fisher (Alcedo ispida) inhabits the Fail. Torbolton Loch is a fa-
vourite resort and breeding-place of the snipe (Scolopax Galinago).
A small snake is to be found in the woods on the banks of the Ayr,
but the writer has not seen a specimen. That beautiful harmless
reptile (Lacerta agilis) the lizard, seems to benefit by the climate
of Ayrshire, and is apt to abound in farm-yards, if ducks are not
kept.
	The brown rat (Mus decumanus) is becoming very numerous,
and occasions great destruction of grain during winter. As the
progress of tile-draining is increasing indefinitely summer accom-


