
     of Alva.

this century, the late Sir John Erskine, grandfather of the pre-
sent Sir James Sinclair Erskine, then proprietor, granted feus
of a small parcel of ground to several inhabitants, on which
they built a cottage and formed a garden; and a plan appears
to have been designed by that gentleman, of building a village
in the form of a square, two sides of which have been actual-
ly built.  The other houses appear to have been set down,
without any regular order, and where a convenient spot for
garden could be obtained.  About the year 1767, the present
Lord Alva, resolving to enlarge the village, granted feus to
such as were willing to build; in consequence of which, one
complete row, cosisting of about 20 houses, was erected in
one season, each house having a small garden of a few falls,
equal in breadth to the extent of the front of the house.  A
few years after, another row of houses parallel to the former,
and with gardens laid out in the same manner, was completed.
The rate at which the ground was at that time feued, was at
first 13 s. and 4 d. per fall, or 36 square yards, it advanced by
degrees to 15 s. and 16 s: per fall, as the premium or purchase
money, together with four-pence the fall of annual feu duty.
Taking the medium rate of 15 s. it will be found to amount
to L. 120 sterling per acre as the price of the ground, and
L. 2: 13: 4 as the annual rent to the superior.  What pro-
prietor would hesitate to grant feus upon such terms as these
especially, when it is considered, that the annual duty may
be converted into some staple commodity.
   The arable soil of this parish may be properly divided into
four different kinds.  The first, which extends southward
from the bottom of the hills, consists of a rich hazel mold in-
termixed with gravel and small stones; this is succeeded by 2
different kind of soil, being a stratum of moss over a bed of
clay, and extending from 50 to 100 yards in breadth.  In
some places, this moss is found to be 7 feet in depth.  Next

     VOL. XVIII. R


