
           134                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE

           and principal kinsmen, to the number of twelve altogether, came
           at the time appointed, and, as Keith had not yet arrived, they pro-
           ceeded into the chapel to their devotions.  Whilst they were at
           prayer, Ackergill came up with twenty-four men, on each horse
           two, and rushing on the Cruner and his followers, overpowered
           and slew them all, but not before the greater part of the Keiths
           Had fallen.  This horrid act of treachery did not pass unreveng-
           ed. William, the grandson of the Cruner, afterwards intercepted
           and cut off George Keith of  Ackergill and his son, with twelve of
           their retainers, at Drummoy in Sutherland.  The lands of Ac-
           kergill passed into the possession of the Earl of Caithdess.
             The earls of Caithness, who had acquired the greater part of
           the parish of Wick, fixed their baronial residence at the Castle of
           Girnigoe, near the Tower of Ackergill.  In 1576, this strongbold
           became the scene of one of the most fearful atrocities on re-
           cord.  John, the Master of Caithness, surnamed from his great
           strength, Garrow, had incurred the displeasure of his father,
           George, the fifth Earl of Caithness of the name of Sinclair, be-
           cause he would not execute the revengeful hatred of the earl
           against Dornock, and extirpate its inhabitants.   Having inveigled
           the Master into the snares which had been laid for him, his father
           had him seized at Girnigoe, and cast into a dark and noisome dun-
           geon below ground, in which he dragged out for years a wretched,
           existence.  At last his keepers, David and Ingram Sinclair, rela-
           tives of his own, determined to destroy him; and after having
           kept him for some time without food, gave him a large mess of
           salt beef, and then withholding all drink from him, left him to die
           of raging thirst.
             This inhuman earl died at Edinburgh in 1583, and his body
           was buried in St Giles's, where his monument is still to be seen.
           His heart was cased in lead, and placed in the Sinclair's aisle,
           where his murdered son was buried at the church of Wick.
           There is evidence that, if not a Papist, he leaned much to Popery.
             He was succeeded by his grandson, George, son of John Gar-
           row, who began his career by avenging his father's death.  David
           Sinclair resided at Keiss, and Ingram at Wester.  The daughter
           of the latter was to be married, and a large party were invited to
           the wedding.  Earl George met David on his way to Wester,
           and ran him through the body with his sword.  The earl then rode
           over to Wester, And accosted Ingram as he was playing at foot-

           <FOOTNOTE>Garbh, Gaelic, rough, strong.


