
                          GOVAN.                             713

lies to the east of the town of Gorbals.  This was objected to on
the part of the feuars of Gorbals.  On the 27th of March 1771,
however, little more than one month after the parish of Gorbals
had been separated from Govan by the Teind Court, the remain-
ing part of the barony of Gorbals, with the lands of Little Govan
and Polmadie, in the parish of Govan, was annexed quoad sacra to
the new parish of Gorbals, by the presbytery of Glasgow.
   In the course of the last five years, three additional churches in
connexion with the Church of Scotland have been built in the pa-
rish of Govan.  These have all had assigned to them parochial
districts, quoad sacra, each containing a population not exceeding
3000.  Partick Church, the first that was built, was opened for pub-
lic worship on the 23d of March 1834.  It has accommodation for
580 persons, and cost, exclusive of the ground, about L. 1000.
The funds for erecting it were furnished by private subscription.
The Rev. Robert Paisley, the present minister, was ordained on the
18th of August 1836.  Hutchesontown Church had divine service
performed in it for the first time on the 24th of March 1839.  This
church owes its existence to the munificence of the Glasgow
Church Building Society, and to the Christian benevolence of a
number of individuals connected with the district, who subscribed
to the object L. 881.  It is capable of holding 1024 persons, and
has had expended upon it nearly L. 2600.  On the presentation of
the Church Building Society the Rev. Alexander S. Paterson
was appointed minister of Hutchesontown Church, and inducted on
the 25th of April 1839, having been previously minister of a
chapel in Whitehaven.  Kingston Church was likewise completed
this year.  It was built by the friends of the Rev. James Gibson,
with the design of presenting him to it, as an appropriate testimony
of their respect for his talents and character, and with a view at the
same time of providing an overgrown parish with an additional
place of worship.  The cost of it was about L. 3000, and there is
accommodation in it for 1000 persons.  Mr Gibson was inducted
on the 13th of June.  The Church Building Society are about to
erect another church in this parish, for which they have bought a
site in Warwick Street, Lauriston.  Since the year 1833, Strath-
bungo, has been occupied as a missionary station, by a licentiate of
the Church of Scotland.  It is likewise proposed to build a church
in the neighbourhood.  Nearly the whole of the necessary funds
have already been obtained, and ground for a site bass been given
by the patrons of Hutcheson's Hospital.
   There are, in different districts of the parish, three places of wor-


