
854			    AYRSHIRE.

bad  habits, bad health, and bad trade. As pauperism is a disease
inherent in the body politic, it never can be altogether cured.
It has baffled human skill since the Fall, and will do so till the
end of the world. As Sir Thomas Brown says, "Statists' that la-
bour to bontrive a commonwealth without our poverty, take away
the object of charity, and forget the prophecy of Christ." But as
far as poverty can be cured in our country parishes by human
means, the best means for Scotland, we humbly conceive to be, a
more extended and well-worked Scotch poor law, and a more
extended and well-worked Scotch church.
	The poor in the villages are very kind to each other. As far
as they can assist, they do so. But in most of our weaving villages,
each man has his hands full at home. Besides, poverty while it
increases the demand for charity, "brings on a sore and petted
mood," and creates a selfish spirit which shuts the band that, in
better times, would be liberal. We have not found the poor
greedy. They are much more grateful for small favours than
greedy for great ones. They often suffer fearfully before they
complain. Families will live for days, and even weeks, on a few
potatoes and salt, and pawn their clothes before they seek public
aid, though they know, that, whenever there is a case of desti-
tution, relief will bd granted. Necessity often teaches them
a secret which it would be better they had never discovered,
viz. upon how little food life may be supported. This secret has
led lany, steeped in poverty to the whisky-shop. Hundreds
of gallons of whisky are drunk by men who are starving. Drunk-
enness is undoubtedly, in many cases, the effect as much as the
cause of poverty. The weaver, after sitting sixteen hours a-
day in a damp loom-shop, without healthy bodily exercise, his
nerves unstrung, his digestive organs deranged, will often rob him-
self of his food and raiment to banish, by intoxication, that bodily
wretchedness and mental irritability which he knows, from sad ex-
perience, will soon return with increased misery. The habit of
drinking is thus often formed, and when once formed, never almost
is it banished. Much whisky is consumed in our villages by a class
of weavers termed trampers, generally young men, who wearied
of the restrictions of home, wander from village to village, working
for such as keep looms on purpose to supply those wandering me-
chanics. They live misembly, spending the greater portion of
their wages in whisky, which they consume, not only in public and
houses, but also in the fields. After thus "wasting their


