
                            CLACKMANNAN.                         131


either to the pure black-faced, or to a cross between them and the
Leicester. In regard to cattle, great attention, and much rivalry
have been shown as to the improvement of the breeds. Some lead-
ing public-spirited gentlemen connected with the county have been
long in the habit of rearing and exhibiting the short-horned, or
Teeswater breed; and the success which has crowned their exer-
tions, both at local exhibitions, and at the Highland Society's
shows, evinces the high degree of superiority to which they have
attained. Among the Clackmannanshire cows, in general, the
characteristics which distinguish the Ayrshire and short-horned
breeds seem to predominate, and as milkers, they are accnrdingly
very superior. The cows, which the writer has had, from time
to time, may be regarded as average specimens of the prevailing
kinds; and he understands that they have, in common, given dur-
ing the summer months, at the rate of from ten to twelve Scotch
pints of milk each per diem.
   The Clackmannanshire Agricultural Society is a very flourish-
ing institution, and, in regard to all departments of agriculture,
has been productive of the most beneficial effects. By the meet-
ings of the society, all the landed proprietors who are resident,
and the various farmers, &c. throughout the county, are periodi-
cally brought together. On such occasions, the reciprocal com-
munication of rural intelligence, the cultivation of friendly inter-
course, and the reception and announcement of the most cheering
encouragement, and the most animating rewards, have promoted
in the most direct and influential manner every kind of agricultu-
ral improvement. Although the soil along the surface in the pa-
risb of Clackmannan exhibits considerable diversity of character,.
yet the subsoil is found to possess almost invariably the same cha-
racter-that of hard cold till. Hence the applicableness of tho-
rough or furrow-draining to all the different districts of which the
parish is composed. Within the last few years, there has been ac-
cordingly an immense deal done in this particular department. The
agriculturist, Thomas Ritchie, Esq. for example, who has gained
the two last seasons the Clackmannanshire Society's highest prize,
on account of draining, had, in the course of the two years, complet-
ed drains with drain-tile, on a farm in this parish seventy-three
miles in length. Leases are commonly granted for the period of
nineteen yeam. In some instances, money rents are paid; but in
a great majority of cases, specific quantities of grain are stipulated
for, convertible into money at the highest fiar prices of the county.


