
546                       FORFARSHIRE.

been dug up. About fifty years ago, two workmen came upon
the foundation of a building, at the bottom of the cone, and found
a considerable treasure of gold coin. The concealed their prize,
went to London, and sold it as bullion. They circumstance after-
wards came to light by the jealousy of one of the finders, who ac-
cused his comrade of cheating him, as he had received only L.50
that the molety was far more valuable. Of course it is not known
that any of the coins were preserved. A mile to the west of Laws
is the Gallowhill of Ethiebeaton, where it is said that feudal jus-
tice was executed in former times. Tumuli, rude stone-coffins,
and human bones, have been found around it. A little north
for Linlathen is a large heap of stones called "Cairn Greg."
A local chieftain, famous in ancient Scottish story, is said to have
fallen in battle here. His name was Greg of Gregory; and the
place of his residence, near Colliston, in the parish of St Vi-
geans, is still known by the name of "Castle Gory." Numerous
other cairns within the circuit of a mile around the prinbipal one,
mark the burial-place of the other slain. On the top of a small
knoll near Kingenuie, is an interesting relic of antiquity called
"St Bride's ring." It consists of a circle of stones (large blocks
forming the outer rim, and smaller boulders the inner), about 60
feet in diameter. On the eastern side is an entrance several feet
in width, having somewhat the appearance of regular masonry;
but the blocks are wholly unchiselled. It seems to have been a
place of worship; but who St Bride was is not known; only it is
thought that the neighbouring parish of Panbride received is name
from the saint. A few yards north of the glebe, lies a huge
block of stone, (supposed four tons weight), having a square
excavation in the middle, in which formerly stood a kind
of obelisk. This shaft was broken at a remote period. Af-
terwards, it was brought down to the church, to replace the
lintel of the "queer" door, and, by this means, was mutilated
still more to bring it into shape. It is now built into the front
wall of the new church. No trace of its origin or objects can be
discoved. The side now exposed to view is covered with human
figures, rudely carved in low relief, of which the most entire is
David playing on the harp. Attached to the old "queer" above,
mentioned, was an elegant mausoleum of Durham of Pitkerro,
"argentarius" to J`mds VI. All the stones of it, on which there
was any inscription, are built into the present church. Besides


