
			DALRYMPLE.                   	     275

A pike was lately caught in Martinham loch, which weighed 29 1\2
imperial pounds. An ordinary sized pike had first seized the bait
and hook, and the large one was taken, by swallowing all three to-
gether. The outlet from Martinham Loch is a small burn which
flows into the river Doon.
	River.--The only river in the parish is the Doon, which runs along
its south and west sides, and forms the boundary between the districts
of Kyle and Carrick. This river flows from Loch Doon, and, after
a course of thirty miles, or thereabouts, of various windings, and
passing nine gentlemen's seats, viz. Berbeth, Hollybush, Skeldon,
Cassillis, Monkwood, Auchendrane, Doonholm, Doonside, Mount
Charles; and three kirks, Dalmellington, Dalrymple, and Alloway,
also the monument erected in 1822, to the memory of Burns, the
cottage where he was born, &c., it falls into the Frith of Clyde,
near Ayr. Like other rivers issuing from lochs, the Doon is more
steady in its course, and does not rise so high, or fall so much
away, as the generality of them. It is, however, occasionally sub-
ject to floods. About fifty years ago, one of these occurred, which
did considerable damage; and in January 1814, the melting of the
snow on the adjacent hills swelled the river to such an extent, that
it burst up immense fragments of ice, and forced them forward
with irresistible impetuosity, in consequence of which the trees
on the banks were bent like willows,--Skeldon wooden bridge was
carried away,--the village gardens were under ice and water, and the
village houses were inundated from three to four feet above the floors. *
	The banks of the Doon are in general bold, and well-wooded,
and there are many fine haughs on its sides.
	Fishing.--The stake-nets at the mouth of the river have injured
the fishing above very considerably; but notwithstanding these,
salmon contrive to get up, and many are taken every year, from
ten to twenty pounds in weight. Besides salmon, there are also
in the river sea and yellow trout, par, eel, and pike.
         Geology and Mineralogy.--The geological structure of this pa-
rish is very distinctly exhibited along the banks of the river Doon,
which, as has been already mentioned, bounds it on the south and
west. The banks are, in several places, of considerable height,
and, by the influence of the weather, the strata, especially at Bore-

<FOOTNOTE>A very interesting account of this was communicated to the editor of the Ayr
Advertiser, and published at the time, by Mr Campbell of Camnock, who was then
parochial schoolmaster of Dalrymple. Mr Campbell was an eye-witness of the scene,
and kindly received the villagers, who were driven from their houses, into his school,
and supplied them with every comfort.


