
			PARISH OF RUTHERGLEN.

	  PRESBYTERY OF GLASGOW, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		   THE REV. PETER BROWN, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	THE royal burgh and parish of Rutherglen is situated in the
lower ward of the county of Lanark. It stands on the south bank
of the river Clyde, latitude 55&deg; 51' 32' north, and longitude 4&deg; 17'
84' west.
	Name and Boundaries, &c.--The name of Rutherglen, or by con-
traction Ruglen, is said to be derived from King Reuther or Reu-
therus, the fifth in the genealogy of the Kings of Scotland from
Fergus I. This King, according to the Scottish historians, was the
son of Dornadilla, whose memory is still preserved in the name of
Dun-Dornadilla, a venerable ruin in Strathmore.
	From Reuther or Reuda, as Bede calls him, the Scots were for
a long, time called Dalreudini. He began to reign about the year
213 B. c. Having experienced the various changes of a war, by which
his army was greatly exhausted, he retired to the mountainous county
of Argyle, where he remained in peace for several years. Finding at
length that his forces, now greatly increased, were inflamed with the
love of war, he left his retirement, and by many successful attacks
upon the Britons, regained the ancient boundaries of his kingdom. It
appear from Wright's Inquiry into the Rise and Progress of Parlia-
ments, that Rutherglen was erected into a royal burgh in 1126 by
King David, and from the numerous subsequent royal charters narrat-
ed in Ure's History, it is evident that Rutherglen was originally a
place of great note; indeed, it seems probable, that, for a considerable
time after its erection into a royal burgh, it was superior to Glasgow
as a place of trade, the latter being chiefly occupied by churchment.+
Its consequence, however, as a place of trade, has long been on the

<FOOTNOTE>This article has been drawn up by James Cleland, LL. D. President of the Glas-
gow and Clydesdale Statistcal Society, Fellow of the Statistical Society of London,
Member of the Society of Civil Engineers, London, Corresponding Member of the
Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, &c. &c.
        It would appear that the bishops burgh of Glasgow had been comprehended with-
in the original boundaries of the royal burgh of Rutherglen, and that in the year

        LANARK.                              B b


