
                            	CROMARTY.		      3

into a spacious basin, affording certain re'fuge against every tem-
pest." As described by the histori I an, the entrance is narrow;
the headlands lofty and precipitous, and so exposed to the sea,
that it is not uncommon during gales from the northeast to see
waves breaking upon them to the height of fully 166 feet; but So
          C,
completely sheltered is the basin within, that from most points ot
view it presents the appearance of a lale. In breadth it varies
from 2 to rather More than 5 miles ; its length is about 18; the
depth averages from 9 to 12 fathoms, but in the entrance in some
plabes it exceeds 30,-a depth which nearly doubles that of the
frith into which it opens. It has frequently been described by sea-
faring men, who 'are' univer sally acquainted with it, and who rarely
speak of it without an enthusiasm, the result of many a grateful as-
sociation, as sufficiently capacious to shelter the whole British
navy. Most of the springs of the parish are of a petrifying quali.-
ty. The water of nearly all the draw-wells deposit inside our tea-
kettles, in the course of a few years, a crust of lime fully a quarter
of an inch thick; and some of our rock springs are so largely charged
with this earth, as frequently to block up their older channels, and
burst out in new ones, which are to be choked up in turn. There
is one little spring which moistens a stripe of precipice not more than
a yard in breadth, which yet, by thi's process of shifting, has covered
an extent of at least twenty yards with coral-like petritactions of
moss and lichens, intermingled with grass and nettle stalks, and
with a hard breccia wbich more enduring than the rock on the edge
of which it has formed, projects over like a cornice, for nearly four
feet. There are no rivers in the parish, and the streams are mere
runnels; but there is one of these (the burn of Ethie) which from
its cascades, and the beauty of its scenery, is highly deserving of
notice. It forms the extrem e boundary of the parish to wards the
south, and runs for the last two miles of its course through a nar-
row precipitous gulf of great depth, Which seems to have been
scooped, by some frightful convulsion, out of an immense bed of
sandstone, which in ihis part of parish attains to an elevation
of above 250 feet above the level of the sea. The traveller ad-
vances a few yards along the course of the stream, and finds that
he is shut in from almost the entire face of nature, and from the
whole works of man.  A line of mural precipices rises on either
hand,-here advancing in gigantic colums like those of an Egyptian
temple,-there receding into deep solitary recesses, tapestried with
ivy, and darkened by birch and hazel. The cliffs vary their outlines


