 			   DALKEITH.	                      455

the whole valleys near the foot of Cheviot were forests abounding
with wild deers."
  A pair of bisons from America, (Bos bison, Lin.),  have lately
been introduced into the park. They much resemble the aurochs
(Bos urus) of the continent of Europe, which, from the remains
found in the country, is supposed to have been once native in
Britain.*  They are already perfectly tame, and dread the ap-
proach of man as little as the domestic oxen (Bos taurus), with
which they quietly herd.
   Geology.-The whole parish consists entirely of the carbonife-
rous or coal formation, and forms nearly the central part of the
extensive coal-field from which the town of Edinburgh is in a
great measure supplied with both fuel and gas-coal. From the
successive strata on the south of the Esks, dipping to north-west,
and the strata on the north, so far as observed, occurring in the
same order, only at one part, from dikes and dislocations, rising
at much higher angles, but dipping to the south-east,-while the
stratification towards the streams approaches in some places
nearly to the horizontal position; it is inferred that the strata lie
in conformable curves relatively to each other, and thus form a
large and extensive basin, which is gradually diminished by every
succeeding stratum. This series of stratification-consists of alter-
nations of sandstone, shale, and coal, with beds of limestone, and
nodules and bands of clay-ironstone. According to surveys of
the south-eastern side of the Esk basin, in the possession of the
Duke of Buccleuch and Marquis of Lothian, the inter stratified
limestone taken together amounts to about ten feet in thickness,
independently of the mountain or encrinal limestone, on which
the whole of this series of coal-seams rests, and which are in num-
ber no less than thirty-eight. These seams vary in thickness
from two inches to eight feet,+ and give an aggregate amount of

<FOOTNOTE>Sibbald, indeed, mentions the pure white Scottish bison in connection with the
native white breed of oxen, but only on reported evidence, and concludes With 11 An
jubati bisontes nunc extent noscio."-Scot. Illust. But Simson, who wrote about
half a century earlier, mentions in his Hieroglyphica Animalium, "That King James
had these bisons tame at Stirling, and that Cumbernald was the last place where they
were found. "In Cumernald tantum, inveniebantur, sylvis absumptis; Rex habet
Sterlini satis domitos."
     The thickness of the great coal-seam at Cowden, as given by Milne, is 8 feet
8 inches. This is, however, merely the length of the plummet from the roof, and
not the true thickness, which is the perpendicular to the planes of stratification, and
which, in this instance, would not exceed eight feet; but in the case of a wedge-
shaped stratum, the thickness at any part is a straight line, making on the same side 
equal angles with these planes. It might be partly from not attend well as "the breaking 
down of the coal already pierced," that Sinclair remarks,-


