
                           TRANENT.                              287

incumbent on us to notice, is in the carriage of the coal. In older
times, the coals were almost invariably carried on horseback, as
the state of the roads afforded little facility to wheeled carriages.
In 1719, after the attainder of the Earl of Winton, the York-Build-
ings Company of London purchased many of the forfeited estates,
and they seem to have begun without delay to introduce some of
the southern improvements. A tram-road or wooden waggon way
was formed from their coal-works near Tranent to the harbour of
Port Seton, in the year 1722, by which the coals were conveyed
to the salt-pans and shipping: this seems to have been the first ap-
proximation to the principle of railways, which in our own day are
effecting such changes on the country, as well as on the convey-
ance of passengers and goods. This old wooden waggon way (each
waggon being drawn by one horse, and conveying two tons of coal,)
was continued till 1815, when an iron railway was substituted in
its place by the Messrs Cadells.
   The mode of raising coals where the seam lay within a few fa-
thoms of the surface, was formerly by means of women called "bear-
ers," who carried about 1 1/2 cwt. on their backs, and ascended the
pit by a bad wooden stair. In the deeperpits, the coals were carried
to the bottom of the shaft by women, and then raised in wooden tubs
by means of a "gin" moved by horses. This mode of raising the
coal still continues, except where a gig or small steam engine is
substituted, which performs the work with more regularity and
speed; below ground also, where the inclination of the coal seam ad-
mits of it, the coals are now frequently drawn by horses on iron
railways, or pushed forwards by men or boys, who are called
"putters."
   In the coal-workings of this parish, there is fortunately no fire
damp, which causes such dreadful accidents. Foul air often oc-
curs in certain states of the atmosphere, or where the ventilation
is incomplete; but this never requires the precaution of Sir Humphry
Davy's lamp, and the extinction of the light, with oppression on the
lungs, are sufficient warnings for the miner to retire.
   In surveying the coal-field in the parish of Tranent, it is diffi-
cult to imagine that it has been so long wrought,-so large a quan-
tity taken from it, and still so much of the principal seams remain-
ing. In the Cess-roll of the county of Haddington for the year
1653, the Earl of Winton's yearly land rent in the parish of Tra-
ment is estimated at L. 11,591, 13s. 4d., while his casual rent,
which must have been derived in a great measure form coal, is rat-


