
86                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

<TABLE>
               	Midwifery,	            Mr Robertson.
                      Instructions to Women,    Mr Jamieson. *
                Medical Jurisprudence,  Dr Ogston. +
                      Chemistry,                    Mr Shier. ++
                  Botany,            	Dr Knight,
                    Do,  		      Mr Dickie.

   Infirmary.-Among the institutions for the relief of the sick poor,
the first and most important is the Infirmary, which was establish-
ed by a subscription begun in the year 1739, in consequence of a
proposal to that eitect made by the magistrates, wbo granted a
sum of about L.36 annually towards its support, and also gave a
plot of ground for its site. The plan adopted was one which ad-
mitted of being executed in parts, and the central portion, capable
of acoommodating 4O'patients, was erected in 1740-41, atan expense
of L. 584. The funds subscribed being exhausted in the building,
"the directors were obliged, from the very first, to borrow money
for furnishing the house, and fittidg up the apartments properly
for the reception of patients."  In the year l746, the patients were
displaced, and the Infirmary was filled during the greater part of
the year with sick and wounded soldiers belonging to the army un-
der the command of the Duke of Cumberland. This interruption
to the charity having ceased, and the number of applicants for re-
ception continually increasing, funds were gradually provided by
the donations of various individuals, collections in the neighbour-
ing parishes, and bequests, and in the year 1753, it was deter-
mined to build the east wing of the house, which was done at an
expense of L.495, and by this means room was obtained for 16
additional patients, and various other accommodations; and in
1760, the west wing, capable of receiving 32 patients, was added,
at an expense of L.477.  No further addition of much conse-
quence was made until the year 1820, when two new wards, ca-
pable of accommodating 22 cases, were added, the cost of which
was L. 583, for the reception of fever patients, which, of course,
permitted the wards previously used as fever wards, to be added
to the apartments destined for the reception of ordinary cases.
But, in 1833, the manager finding a necessity for increased ac-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Jamieson has recently received the appointment of Lecturer on Midwifery
to Marischal College.
    The appointment of Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence to Marischal College
has been lately conferred on Dr Ogston.
    Mr Shier's chemical lectures have been discontinued, in consequence of his being
appointed by the Senatus of Marischal College, assistant to Dr Davidson, the Pro-
fessor of Natural History.
    Mr Dickie has been appointed Lecturer on Botany to King's College.
    Account of the Rise and Progress of the Infirmary at Aberdeen, published 1768,


