
                           LANGHOLM.                           427

mortification of L. 600 left by the late Captain Maxwell, for teach-
ing twenty poor scholars. There are seven other schools,--four of
which are taught by females, where children of both sexes are in-
structed in the elements of reading. In the parochial school, con-
ducted by Mr Hannah, a most efficient teacher, six of his scholars
are learning Latin at 6s. per quarter; one Greek at 7s. 6d. do.;
three, French at 10s. 6d.; English reading at 2s. 6d. do., with
writing, 3s. 6d., and with arithmetic, 4s. 6d.; pure and mixed ma-
thematics, 7s. 6d.; book-keeping (complete system) one guinea.
The average number of scholars attending the parochial school for
the last two years is 75; the average numbers that attend the whole
of the others, 200. It is supposed that there are some few who can
neither read nor write above six years of age, but the number can-
not be correctly ascertained. The people in general are strongly
alive to the benefits of education; and if there should chance to be
a melancholy example of one or two individuals who cannot read
or write, they must have come into the parish in that state of ig-
norance from another country. There is no part of the parish so
distant from some of the schools as to prevent attendance. There
are no additional schools required. Thd facilities of education
have made a wonderful and visible change upon the conduct and
morals of the people.
	Literature.--There are two proprietary or subscription libraries,
--one instituted in 1800, commonly called the Langholm Library,
and the other, first established in 1815, known by the name of the
Tradesmen's Library, or New Langholm Library. The first of
these libraries has 36 members, who contribute 10s. annually.
The late Mr Telford, civil-engineer, a native of the district, left
the handsone donation of L. 1000 Sterling to the Langholm Li-
brary. Most of the standard works in English literature, and the
popular periodicals of the present day, are found in this library.
	Friendly Society.--A friendly society was instituted in Langholm
in the year 1782. The entry money is 10s., with a quarterly pay-
ment of 1s. Sick members, upon the certificate of a surgeon that
they are unable to work and confined to bed, receive 4s. 6d. per
week; if able to work about, though not able to work, 3s. 6d. per
week. If their illness continue one year `nd a-half, they are then
put upon the superannuated list at 2s. per week for life. When a
member dies, L. 2 are allowed to defray funeral expenses; and 1s.
from each member is given to the widow or children of the deceas-
ed. This Society has been of great advantage to the labouring
classes.


