
812                         LANARKSHIRE.

fisher were shot in the parish last summer; and all the follow-
ing birds have been seen in the parish, and most of them usu-
ally frequent the shrubbery and young trees about the manse.
These are the lapwing, the mavis, (for I prefer the Scottish name
for the Scottish philomel,) the missel-thrush, linnets of all sorts,
the fieldfare, chaffinch, bullfinch, goldfinch, common wren, the
redbreast, titmouse, lark, house and hedgesparrow, the blackbird,
the land-rail or corn-craik, which last, though rarely seen, is yet a
constant yearly visitant.  A few starlings have also been occasion-
ally seen, and some were captured for pets.  Nor must I omit to
mention in the last place, that " sweet messenger of spring," the
cuckoo, which usually pays us his annual and truly welcome visit
about the last week of April, or the first in May.
   Trout of various kinds is found in the several burns already enu-
merated; and the Clyde especially, for several miles, both above and
below Lammingtoune, is deservedly reckoned one of the very best
rivers in the kingdom for angling,-the banks being open and free
of wood,-the trout not only abundant, but a great proportion of
them of that fine flesh-coloured kind known by the name of
Lockinvar trout in the south, and of Lochleven in the east, of Scot-
land.  Many of them are of a large size, weighing a pound or
more; and I have seen one that measured two feet in length,-
but it was of the white or common species.

                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   I have never met with any history of this parish, either printed
or in manuscript, nor am laware that any such, ancient or mo-
dern, is in existence.  Probably some interesting particulars re-
lating to it might be found inthe archives of the family at Bo-
nington, as well as in those of the Applegirth and Douglas fami-
lies.  I have never heard of any particular map or plan of the
parish, though I have little doubt that the heritors may be in
possession of plans of their respective estates.
   Eminent Characters.-Of all the celebrated names, connected
with this parish, by far the first is that of Sir William Wallace.
Robertson in his Ayrshire families, tells us that he married,
about 1296, the heiress of Lammingtoune, Marion Braidfoot,
and her became possessed of that ancient barony ; and that
the fruit of this union was an only daughter, who married William
Baliol or Baillie of Hoprig and Penston, and thus gave rise to the
Baillies of Lammingtoune.  (See Nesbit's Heraldry.) it is said by
others again, that the Scottish hero left no legitimate children.


