
 452 				RENFREWSHIRE
                             
the expense of which would be more than repaid to the inhabitants
by the protection afforded to persons and property.*
   Greenock has only one post-office, without any receiving-
houses. Mails for the following places are made up and dispatched
daily: for Glasgow, 3; for London, 2; for the north of Scot-
land, 2; for Edinburgh and the east and south of Scotland, 2;
for different places in Argyleshire and Buteshire, 1; for Ayrshire,
2. There are three deliveries daily, namely, 8 A.M. at 3, 15
P.M.; and 8, 10 P.M.
   The length of the turnpike-roads within the parish, all of them
included, is about eight miles; the whole, excepting a small part
of one of the roads to Gourock, in excellent repair. The only
public carriages on these roads are omnibuses to Port-Glasgow
and Gonrock, which in summer ply hourly from 10 o'clock A.M.
till late in the evening. Steam-boat travelling has long ago put
a stop to the running of stage-coaches on the Paisley and Largs
roads from Greenock.
  Glasgow, Paisley, and Greenock Railway.-The success of rail-
way enterprise in England encouraged the expectation that simi-
lar undertakings might be followed with similar results in Scot-
land. Among the railways proposed to be executed in this part
of the island was one from Glasgow to Greenock, via Paisley and
Port-Glasgow. When this proposal was first discussed, it was
plausibly objected, that it was vain to expebt that such a mode of
communcation could compete with a navigable river like the
Clyde, which the improvements of the river trustees had already
rendered capable of receiving ships of the largest class, as far as
the port of Glasgow. Such an undertaking, it was imagined,
could not possibly succeed, and must of necessity be accompanied
with great pecuniary loss to the shareholders. The capitalists of
Greenock and Liverpool were not deterred by these objections.
In a very short time after the project began to be entertained, the
requisite number of shares were subscribed, and an act of Parlia-
ment was applied for and obtained. That act was passed in the
summer of 1837. the work has now made rapid progress, and
will be completed in the course of next year. The high price of
the shares, when compared with stocks of a similar kind, sufficient-
ly indicates the confidence which the shareholders and the public
entertain of the confidence and early success of the undertaking.
  The fine sanctioned by the act was selected by Joseph Locke,

<FOOTNOTE>Since this was written, an act has passed the Legislature, providing, among
other things, for the introduction of a more extended police.


