
488                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

keith, he was visited by his brotheer, Mr Nicholas Monk,
who, under the pretext of making the general acquainted with
the intended marriage of his daughter, had come to Scotland
without suspicion to inform him of the projected restoration of
the absent prince. He stayed at Dalkeith about two months,
during which time their measures were no doubt properly matured.
The arrangements were conducted with the utmost secrecy; the
general withrew his army from Scotland to London on the 18th
October 1659; and Charles landed at Dover on the 25th May 1660,
and was received by his subjects with every demonstration of
joy. But that Monk, though a person of the most resdrved and
close disposition, did not altogether escape the vigiland suspicion
of Cromwell when alive, is evident from the very characterestic
postcript of one of his letters. The protector says, "There be
that tell me that there is a certain cunning fellow in Scotland,
called George Monck, who is said to lie in wait there to intro-
duce Charles Stuart, I pray, use your diligence to apprehend
him, and send him up to me".*
  Monk's correspondence, as preserved by Thurlow, is remark-
able for itsa brevity and business character; but it contains no in-
formation peculiar to the locality in which he resided. The first
document, bearing date at Dalkeith, is a proclamation of the 4th
May 1654, offering pardon to all who shall submit wihtin twenty
days, and his last letter from Dalkeith is dated 12th May 1659.
  After the departure of General Monk, Dalkeith ceases to be
a place of public notoriety, and its history is chiefly confined to the
family of the noble proprietors.
  On the death of Francis, the second Earl, in 1651, the manor
of Dalkeith devolved  on his eldest daughter Mary, then in her
fifth year. This lady was married at the early age of eleven, to
Walter Scott of the house of Harden, who was only his four-
teenth year. She died in 1661, two years after, having no issue,
and was buried with great pomp in the church of Dalkeith. This
marriage, brought about principally by her mother, "Lady Weims,
a witty, active woman,"+ from the apprehension that she might be-
come the prey of fortune-hunters, excited a great deal of interest
at the time, and was debated in the Synod of Fife, chiefly at the
instance of Scot of Scotstarvet, her tutor sine quo non, but nothing
was done to alter or reverse it.

<FOOTNOTE>Skinner's Life, &c/. p. 72
          Baillie's Letters, vol. iii. p. 438. Edin. It was sain in reference to this lady,
that "Monk governed Scotland through the Duchess of Buccleuch."


