
230                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

riffdom of Kincardine." In 1624, William Earl Marischal, the
superior, entered into a contract with the feuars of the town, by
which it was agreed that two resident burgesses of the burgh,
yearly presented by the inhabitants and chosen by the Earl, should
be bailies, and should have power " to choose their own members,
and to hold courts, and to decern anent their own civil and com-
mon affairs." The late Viscount Keith purchased the superiority
of the town in 1797, and after his death, the old constitution,
which, since the Rebellion in 1715,had been in a great measure
in abeyance, was restored by his trustees in whom the superiority
is vested. Since 1823, when that restoration took place, the feu-
ars have annually presented a leet of four resident feuars, out of
which the trustees choose two to be bailies, and these two choose
a council consisting of three councillors, a dean of guild, and a trea-
surer, and appoint a town-clerk, a procurator-fiscal, and two town-
officers. The superior of the town, the magistrates, and three
feuars chosen annually, are, with the Member of Parliament, the
sheriff, and the convener of the county, commissioners under the
Harbour Act of 1825. Previously, the harbour revenue formed
part of the " common-good." The present amount of it has been
already stated. The revenue, separate from the harbour dues, is
about L.30. The town is charged by the Convention of Royal
Burghs with the sum of L.4, 10s. 4d. annually, for the privilege
of trade, and this is  assessed among the traders.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	At the date of the former Statistical Account in 1793, the
quantity of land under the plough was about 3600 Scotch, or
4539 imperial acres. Of that quantity about 60 acres have since
been planted; not less than 40 acres have been occupied by
roads; and as there are about 4860 acres now under the plough,
it appears that about 421 acres have been brought into cultivation
since 1793.
	At that period it is stated, " The most general crops of grain
were bear and oats, with very little barly, and no wheat;" and
turnips, it was said, " are commonly sown brodcast with most
advantage," At the  present time, barley is raised more, com-
monly than bear; wheat and also beans are cultivated on several
farms, and a single field of broadcast turnips is never to be seen
in the perish.
	In the former Accont, the whole rent of the parish is said to


