
			PARISH OF KIRKMICHAEL.

	      PRESBYTERY OF LOCHMABEN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

                   THE REV. JAMES SMAIL, MINISTER.

                    THE REV. H. DOBIE, ASSISTANT. *


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

	Name and Boundaries--THE parish, known by the above title,
consists of the original cure of Kirkmichael, and the greater part
of the old parish of Garrel, + which were united about 1674. The
derivation of the name Kirkmichael is evidently from St Michael,
to whom the church was dedicated. Garrel is a vulgar abbrevia-
tion of Garvald or Garwald, signifying in the Scoto-Irish, the
rough rivulet; an appellation which is very frequent in the North
British topography, and which here applies to the rivulet that runs
in a very stony channel past the old church.
	The united parish is elliptical in form, and extends 9 miles
in length, and 4 1/2 in extreme breadth. It is bounded on the north.
by Kirkpatrick-Juxta; on the north-east and east by Johnstone; on
the south by Lochmaben and Tinwald; and on the west by Kirk-
mahoe and Closeburn.
        Topographical Appearances.--There are two ranges of moun-
tains in this parish, stretching nearly north and south, the one si-
tuate between the small river Ae and Glenkiln-burn, and the other
between Glenkiln-burn and thelower ground. The hill of Hole-
house, on the northern part of the first range, is about 1500 feet
above the level of the sea; Woodhill, on the south, about 1250;
Knock-craig, at the head of the second range, about 1400; and

<FOOTNOTE>This account has been drawn up by Mr Dobie, Assistant Minister.
        The lands of Raehills, the elegant seat of J. J. Hope Johnstone, Esq. M. Mp.,
the two Minnygaps, Mollins, Crunzie-town, and Hartfield, now annexed to the pa-
rish of Johnstone, formerly belonged to Garrel--See Act. Parl vii. 644, A. D. 1669,
entitled, "Ratification in favour of Sir John Dalziel of Glenae, and Robert, his son,
of all and haill the lands of Raehills, and others therein mentioned, lying within the
parochin of Garrel."


