                           PARISH OF KELLS.

                 PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCUDBRIGHT, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

                       THE REV.  JAMES MAITLAND, MINISTER.

     I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Name, Boundaries, &c.--THE name of this parish, according to
the former Statistical Account, is Gaelic, and descriptive of its ele-
vated situation; but Chalmers, in his Caledonia, derives it from the
British "Cell," a qrove or wood,-- which seems the more probable
derivation, as formerly a great portion of the parish was covered
with wood, many remains of which are still visible in the bogs and
mosses.
     Kells hs one of the most extensive parishes in the stewartry of
Kirkcudbright. The extreme length is fully 16 miles, and breadth
about 8 miles. It is of a triangular shape, calculated by Ainslie, in
his survey of the Stewartry, to contain 37,978 Scotch acres, and
about 74 square miles. It is bounded on the north, by Carsfairn;
on the west, by Monigaff; on the south, by Girthon and Balma-
ghie, from which three last-mentioned parishes it is separated by
the river Dee; and on the east, by the river Ken, which divides
it from Dalry, Balmaclellan, and Parton.  Previous to 1640, the
parish was still more extensive; but what now constitutes the
western division of Carsfairn was then disjoined from it, and with
the northern part of Dalry formed into a separate parish. The
royal burgh of New Galloway, situated in Kells, is 24 miles dis-
tant from Dumfries, 18 from Newtonstewart, 20 from Kirkcud-
bright, 14 from Castle Douglas, and l2 from Carsfairn village,
through which a coach passes from Ayr to Dumfries and Castle
Douglas, opening up an easy and speedy communication between
New Galloway and Glasgow and Edinburgh.
     Topographical Appearances, &c.--The scenery along the banks
of the river and loch of Ken is eminently beautiful. Kenmure
Castle, with its avenue of ancient limes and verdant meadows; the
little rural burgh of New Galloway, interspersed with trees; the
winding river and the splendid loch of Ken, having for its back
ground the rocky Lowran, and the lofty and wooded Bennan, form


