
110                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

acclivity, called the Tar Hill, or perhaps the Tor Hill. The
climate in the upper district is cold; but in general it is salubrious,
and, so far as has been observed, is not marked by any epidemical
peculiarities. Several small streams, tributaries of the Almond,
flow eastward through the parish.
   Geology.-The district is on the edge of the great Lothian
coal-field, and it appears that coal was formerly worked in various
places on the north. Sandstone occurs on most of the farms.
The most prominent rocks are of trap, which seem to have dis-
turbed greatly the strata in this neighbourhood. In the vicinity
of these are found immense beds of indurated clay, interspersed
occasionally with seams of clay-ironstone. The upper soil, which
is chiefly formed from decomposed trap and indurated clay, is
heavy, and highly retentive of moisture. From the trap rocks of
the Tar Hill issues a spring, weakly impregnated with sulphuretted
hydrogen. It is called the Bullion Well, and, though formerly
visited by invalids, is now neglected.
   From the uniform nature of the soil, and the extent of tillage,
the vegetation of this parish, though repeatedly examined, has
been found to exhibit nothing peculiar. On the western heights,
some of the subalpine mosses, such as Trichostomum canescens,
and T. heterostichum, occur.

                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Men.-Mr Alexander Hamilton, the first minister of
this parish after the Revolution, was a man of distinguished talent
and courage. It is said, that when a student, he took down the
head of the celebrated James Guthrie from the Netherbow Port
of Edinburgh, where it had stood a public spectacle for many
years; and numerous stories are still current among the old people
here about his skill as a swordsman, before he became a minister.
He was translated first to Airth, and subsequently to Stirling, and
was deeply involved in the "Marrow Controversy."
   The estate of Bangour gave designation to William Hamilton,
Esq. a celebrated Scottish poet, in the early part of the last cen-
tury. He was descended from one of the ancient families of the
name of Hamilton, once numerous in the county of Linlithgow;
but whether he was born in this parish, or indeed resided in it,
the writer has not ascertained. In his youth he distinguished
himself by numerous songs, and among these, "the Braes of
Yarrow," published in the "Tea Table Miscellany." He is said
                             4



