
                         ABERCORN.                        29

kept pace with the general improvement in method and farming
implements common to the country. Furrow-draining, both with
stones and tiles, is of late becoming frequent, and from the gene-
rally retentive nature of the subsoil, the results are most beneficial.
Stones fit for drains abound in all directions, and drain tiles are
easily procured from the manufactory as Blackness, distant but a
short way from the boundary of the parish. The general dura-
tion of leases in nineteen years. The grass parks are let from
year to year. The farm-buildings are by no means showy, al-
though commodious and in good condition.
   Quarries and Mines.-Several quarries of excellent freestone,
in various parts of the parish, have been occasionally wrought
from a very remote date. The stone is durable, and well adapted
for building. The quarries in the northern and central districts
yield a stone varying in hue from a cream colour to a palish-gray;
in the south and south-west, a hard durable freestone is procured
of an intensely dark-gray, approaching to black. Both admit of
being wrought for ornamental purposes. Hopetoun House fur-
nishes a very favourable specimen of the lighter variety, whilst the
dark has been employed in the erection of the house and offices
at Duddingston. A quarry of trap, on the north face of Priest-
inch hill, opened by the Road Trustees, affords the best material
for rouds in this vicinity. Limestone has been extensively exca-
vated in the central and south-eastern parts of the parish. The
workings are of great age; and it is traditionally reported, that
the lime used in the once famous fortifications of Dunkirk was
obtained from Abercorn. The stone is still quarried in consider-
able quantities on the farm of Newton, giving work to about ten
men. It is of a dark gray coldur, but becomes pure white when
calcined, being very free from foreign ingredients, with the
exception of carbon. It becomes so extremely friable in the pro-
cess of burning as to unfit it for the draw-kiln. The method re-
sorted to is that styled the sow-kiln. Its purity renders the lime
fitter for agricultural purposes than for building. The bed of
limestone measures 10 feet in thickness, and the depth of the
alluvial covering varies from 15 to 35 feet, whose removal adds
very considerably to the expense of working. The lime sells at
2s. 6d. per boll of six imperial bushels. The coal mine, now
Priestinch, is of small extent, and without peculiarity. The num-
ber of people employed is about seventeen. The water is drawn
off by a small steam-engine.


