
     Statistical Account

covered with a very strong heath.  In most parts the soil be-
low is a strongdeep clay.  This, with the heath roots, ren-
ders it incapable of being subdued without a very great ex-
pence of lime and labour.  To provide against this, the prac-
tice of paring and burning has, with great advantage, been
introduced.  The paring, generally, costs about 1 L. per acre.
So soon as the weather permits; the surface is burnt, and the
ashes spread over the field.  The good farmer, during the
summer months, adds 40 bolls of lime to the acre.  If, after
harvest, the ground is dry, it is plowed.  In the spring it is
sown with oats.  Three crops are taken, and it is sown down a
with rye grass in the fourth.  Some fields, cultivated in this
way, have yielded upwards of five bolls per acre, the second
year, with a prodigious quantity of straw, and at last good
pasture, where before an acre would not have fattened a
sheep.  In liming the grounds, where the soil is stiff and
coarse, they give 100 bolls per acre, where it is less so 80;
and in light thin soils 60 answer perfectly well.  When they
go over their ground a second time, they generally use a
compost of earth and lime, allowing one third less of lime
than formerly.  This has succeeded exceedingly well.  By
attending to this practice, and by taking great care of their
hedges, this parish now exhibits a state of improved agricul-
ture, superior to most of the districts of Carrick.
   The tenant, however, labours under considerable difficulty
in procuring lime.  Almost all of it must be brought from
the parish of Dailly, across the most hilly part of this parish
to the south.  The medium distance from the lime quarry
to the shore part of the parish, is about five English miles.
But the length of the road is not the chief difficulty.  Many
parts of the road are so steep and rugged, that the farmer, at
the above distance, with with horses at 18 L. price, cannot bring
more than seven bushels in a one horse cart, and can load


