
710                    FIFESHIRE.

employed in weaving,-155 males, and 50 females. They are
all, with the exception of one or two, who do country work, de-
pendent upon the neighbouring town of Dunfermline, and get their
webs from thence ready for the loom. The kinds of cloth worked
are table-linens and table-covers. These last consist of cotton and
worsted. The number of looms in the parish is 208. Of these,
159 are mounted with Jacquard machines, and may average in
value, along with the machine, L.15. The remaining looms,
which are without machines, may average L.4 each. The value
of the whole looms in the parish may be estimated at L.2500,
reckoning them at what they cost when new. A gross of pirns,
value 2s., is generally allowed to each loom. Connected with this
branch of manufacture, also, there are in use 83 pairs of wheels
and swifts. Each pair, consisting of a wheel and a swift, costs
from 11s. to 14s. These are used in winding pirns,-a depart-
ment of the trade which is generally allotted to females or to young
persons. Each loom may consume a boll of potatoes during the
year in the shape of dressing, or a quantity of flour equal in value.
Nifflers and rollers, which are used in beaming webs, are also pro-
vided by the weavers, and cost L.3 the set. And as a number of
persons are required to beam a web, the weavers form themselves
into societies, commonly called quarters, and have a set of nifflers
to each.
    Weavers receive so much a spindle for their work; and as that
varies with the kind of cloth, and as the quantity wrought by dif-
ferent workmen in a given time differs considerably, it is not easy
to ascertain with accuracy the iraverage earnings, either by the
day or by the week. It may be stated, however, that at present
those employed in weaving can scarcely be said to have a fair re-
muneration and support from their labours.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Town.-There is no market-town in the parish. The
nearest is Dunfermline, three miles distant from the centre of
Carnock, where there are weekly markets and frequent fairs.
The villages in the parish are, Carnock, Gowkhall, and Cairney-
hill. A fair for cattle, &c. is held annually at Carnock, on the
26th May and when that happens to be Sunday, the fair is held
on the Saturday previous.

<FOOTNOTE> This account of the manufactures it, properly descriptive of their state a year or
two ago; for at present, many of the weavers are out of employment. But it is to
be hoped that the depression of trade will only be temporary.


