
                      MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                          741

    an artificial island, formed of stones, supported by oak trees, which
    tradition represents to have been a sort of prison attached to the
    castle.
       Modern Buildings.--Ochtertyre, the residence of Sir William
    Keith Murray, Bart., is a modern structure, most delightfully si-
    tuated on a richly wooded terrace sloping southward to the banks
    of the lake, and, from position and prospect, is one of the finest
    sites in the country.  The views from various neighbouring points
    are exceedingly interesting and rich.  The mausoleum of the fa-
    mily of Ochtertyre is an elegant Gothic building, with stained-
    glass windows, erected on the site of the old church of Monivaird.
       Lawers, the seat of Mrs Robertson Williamson, is also a very
    beautiful and romantic residence, surrounded with very fine wood,
    and having in the distance a great resemblance to an Italian cas-
    tellated villa.  A magnificent avenue of old trees stretches to the
    distance of a mile directly in front of the house and lawn.
       Strowan, the residence of T. Graham Stirling, Esq. and Cla-
    thick, the mansion of W. L. Colquhoun, Esq. are modern and com-
    modious buildings, erected on very pleasing sites.
       One of the most interesting structures in this scene, especially
    arresting the attention, from its own elegance and the romantic
    beauty of its site, as well as from the varied ancient and modern as-
    sociations connected with the spot, is the monument recently erect-
    ed on Tom-a-chastel to the memory of General Sir David Baird,
    late of Ferntower, Bart., the Hero of Seringapatam.  This monu-
    ment is an obelisk built of beautiful Aberdeen granite, some of the
    stones weighing five tons.  It is 82 feet 4 inches in height, and is
    an exact fac-simile of, and of the same dimensions with, Cleopatra's
    needle,--most fitting model for the monument of the gallant Sol-
    dier, who was the first with an European army to ascend the Red
    Sea, cross the Desart, descend the Nile, and display the united
    standards of Britain and Brama on the shores of Alexandria.

    <TABLE=POPULATION>

                             III-POPULATION.

        The population of these united parishes in 1755 amounted to 1460
                                                   1793,            1025
                                                   1833              610

       From this statement it appears that the population has decreas-
    ed upwards of one-half during the last eighty years.  Between
    1755 and 1793, a space of thirty-eight years, the decrease was
    435 ; between 1793 and 1833, a space of forty years, the de-

    <FOOTNOTE>The tables of population, &c. were drawn up in 1833 Population in 1841, 433.


