
108                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

Andrew Gammel, contains considerably more than a-sixth part of
the parish. The greatest share of the barony of Murtle, former-
ly belonging to the town of Aberdeen, comprised the remaining
sixth part. This property has been divided into several lots or
feus. That part still called Murtle has passed through several
hands, and is now possessed by Mr Thurburn. The lot of Bingbill
belongs to Captain Kyle,-that of Bieldside to Mr Corbet, and
that of Oldfold to Mr Anderson; part of the farm of Miltown of
Drum lies in this parish, and belongs to Mr Irvine of Drum.
         Mansion Houses.-The mansion-houses of Culter and Countess-
wells are large and commodious structures. The former is a very
old antiquated building; it has no date upon it, but is believed to
be about 200 years old. The latter is of more modern architec-
ture. Neither of them is inhabited by the proprietor. They are
both occasionally let to families from Aberdeen. The house of
Countesswells is presently occupied by Mr Hadden.
	The mansion-house of Murtle, the residence of Mr Thurburn,
is of modern architecture, and of considerable elegance, in, the Gre-
cian style; it stands on a commanding position, having a delightful
view of the river Dee, the surrounding scenery along its banks,
the more distant Grampians, including Lochnagar, &c.
	On the properties of Binghill and Bieldside, the present pro-
prietors have built neat substantial country seats, at which they re-
side.
         Antiquities.-The remains of the military work mentioned in
the former Statistical Account of this parish are now almost en-
tirely obliterated; a small part of the dike and ditch still remains
and forms part of the fence of an adjoining field. This work is
usually called in popular tradition the Norman dikes. In the for-
mer account of the parish, its erection is attributed to the Danes
or to William the Norman; but late investigations of the work have
exploded this idea. * (See Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. i. Chap.
iv. page, 120.)

<FOOTNOTE>Colonel Shand, who was intimately acquainted with the fortifications of the Ro-
mans north of the firths, examined this camp in 1801, and came to the conclusion,
that the profiles, and other, dimensions of the ditch and ramparts are the same as
those of the camps of Ury battle dikes, and the other camps in Strathmore.
	This work has since been examined by Mr Irvine of Drum, Captain Henderson
of the 29th Regiment, and Professor Stewart, who agree in thinking it to be a Ro-
man camp. It is of an oblong rectangular form, 938 yards long, and 548 yards broad,
comprehending an area of 49 Scotch acres. It stood on the north side of the river Dee,
on the south-west corner of the parish, on a high ground of moderate elevation, oppo-
site to several fords of the river, which, no doubt, it was intended to cover. It is
supposed to have been erected by Loilius Urbicus, in one of his marches north-
wards.


