
             168             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

             is far greater, than many not attending to the subject could ima-
             gine.
               Hogs are universal; but with very little trouble, the people might
             keep many more than they do.  These also are of a very peculiar
             breed, small boned, erect ears, woolly next the skin, active, hardy,
             and easily fed; and the pork is of very delicate flavour.  A strong
             prepossession is by some entertained against their going loose on the
             common, from an idea that their rooting on it is injurious. This,
             however, is not always well founded, as might easily be shown.
             Absolute restriction, however, from turning over the arable ground,
             should be rigidly enforced.  Far from checking their increase, it
             should by encouraged, as adding greatly to the comforts and re-
             sources of the tenants.
               Geese are kept by several individuals, but large flocks might
             be reared by almost every one.  Why they are not, it is difficult
             to say.  Perhaps their requiring a little more trouble than is ha-
             bitual, may be the very sufficient reason.
               Land is possessed not by the acre, but the mark, as it seems
             to have been in the parent country, Norway, and others of her co-
             lonies.   This word signifies, in the Norse dialect, a coin, a
             weight, a field, and, in the present case, it may be translated
             as meaning a share, or proportional quantity of ]and.  Shetland
             contains about 14,000 marks; and a proprietor is said to be a
             laird of so many marks, not acres.  All the land, with the excep-
             tion of the small grazing islands, was anciently divided, as it still
             remains, into districts of unequal extent, termed scattalds, and
             the boundary lines of each defined and recorded.  Each of these
             contained a certain number of marks, some greater, and others
             less.  The marks or shares in any one scattald are of equal value,
             though they may be very different, as compared with those of an-
             other; for one district containing 200 marks may be less exten-
             sive and valuable than another containing 100. In the event of
             dividing a scattald possessed by several proprietors, each receives
             bis proportion according to the number of marks or shares in it
             which his rental bears.  These scattalds are again subdivided
             into, 1st, enclosed and appropriated, and, 2d, unenclosed and unap-
             propriated ground.  The former contains the arable, grass, and
             meadow lands, which bear a very small proportion to the unenclos-
             ed or commons.  This mode of division into districts or scattalds.
             was, it appears to me, coeval with the settlement of the first Nor-
             wegian colonists.  Each adventurer with his followers fixed him-
             self in a certain situation, and boundary lines between localities,


