
                        MOONZIE.                          797

admitted March 16, 1777; the present incumbent, admitted Sep-
tember 3, 1807.
    The manse was built about thirty-six years ago, and, though in
tolerable repair, is small and inconvenient, and far inferior in
point of accommodation to the manses in the neighbourhood,
The glebe consists of fifteen acres, and may be worth L.30 per
annum. The stipend is L.177, 18s. 8 3/4d. in money, and 7 bolls,
3 firlots, 1 peck, 3 3/6 lippies meal, and 3 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, 3 5/6,
lippies barley.
     Forty-one families attend the Established Church; two families
are Dissenters. 140 persons at an average attend public worship
in the parish church each Lord's day. There are eight Dissenters
who go to different churches in Cupar. The average number of
communicants for the last seven years, is 110. The average amount
of church collections yearly for religious and charitable objects is
L.3, 10s.
     Education.-There is only one school, the parochial. It is
situated in the centre of the parish, and is attended by about 60
scholars. The present teacher has officiated in that capacity for
upwards of forty years with great credit to himself, and much to
the advantage of the youth in the neighbourhood. His legal sa-
lary is only L.30 per annum; but the heritors lately, sensible of
his merit, raised it to the maximum during his life. No perqui-
sites of any kind are allowed. The fees in all do not exceed
L.14 per annum. The school-room is of sufficient size, but the
ceiling is low, which makes it uncomfortable for the young people
during the heat of summer. The teacher's house is small, and
would require both repair and enlargement.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 4. Some receive 2s., others 1s. 6d. or
1s. per week, according to their circumstances. The annual
amount of collections at the church doors for relief of the poor is
L.2, 14s. 7 1/2d.; rent of land, L.35; seat rent in Cupar church,
16s.; total, L.38, 10s. 7 1/2d. It will be seen from this state-
ment, that the principal fund for the support of the poor is
derived from land. Six acres of land were purchased by  the
session of Moonzie in the parish of Cupar, about the middle
of last century, at a low price. They were enabled to do this,
in consequence of a legacy left them by the last Episcopal
curate of the parish, and from the savings of their collections.
From the rent stated, there falls to be deducted various bur-

