                  
                           ELIE.                              289

per annum, when they are unmarried and boarded in their maater'shouse. If they are married, the money may be mueb'the same;
and a house, with an allowance of meal, potatoes, &c. is given in
place of board. The yearly wages of a woman-servant may vary
from L. 5 to L. 6. This year, they are on the increase-the flou-
rishing state of trade having withdrawn many hands from field la-
bours, and thus limited the supply.
  Fisheries.-Eastward at St Monance, Pittenweem, and Cellar-
dyke, sea-fisbing is carried on to a great extent-tbe Edinburgh
and Cupar markets, with many others, deriving their principal sup-
ply of haddock, cod, turbot, &e. from that -quarter. In Elie, there
are few fishermen,-scarcely more than are necessary to provide for
the consumption of the village. But we have generally a suffi-
cient supply of fish, excellent in quality, and in the best state, which
form,- for the poor especially, a cheap and healthy article of food.
           V.-PAROCHIAL Ecoivomy.
Market-Town.-Elie is a burgh of baroiiy. No market, how'-,
ever, is held in it, although, if the projected improvements on the
harbour should take place, the probability is, that one both for
grain and cattle would be immediately established: nor would any
place be more central for a large district of country. The nearest
marlet-town is Colinsburgh, at the distance of two miles and a-half;
Cupar, the county town, is fifteen miles from us; St Andrews, the
seat of a university, thirteen ; and Anstruther five.
Means of Communication.-There is a post-office in the vil-
lage. It is a sub-office to that at Colinsburgh. The post ar-
rives at eight every morning, and departs betwixt six and seven
in the evening. Much might be done for equalizing the rates
Of postage-great anomalies existing in that respect. A turn-
pike road runs through the whole extent of, the parish. Toll-
bars in abundance. If I go to Pittenween ' a distance of four milest
I have two to pay. If I travel in the opposite direction to Kirk-
aldy, I have three; whereas the neighbouring p`rish to the east,
though at a greater distance, has only two. There is a coach that
passes and repasses daily in connection with the steam-boat betwixt
L.rgo and Newhaven. But the great channel of communication
is the sea. We have two regular packets that sai ' I weekly to Leith
---exporting the produce of the land, and importing those articles
'If nierebandize which are required for the consumption of the
"leighbourhood. Steam, however, is the chief agent, and nothing
has done more for opening tip the coast of Fife than the application
Of it to sailing vessels. Besides the boat already I mention4 which
FIFE.                                     T

