
     of Fortingal.

   Before the year 1745, Ranoch was in an uncivilized bar-
barous state, under no check, or restraint of laws.  As an e-
vidence of this, one of the principal proprietors, never could
be compelled to pay his debts.  Two messengers were sent
from Perth, to give him a charge of horning.  He ordered 2
dozen of his retainers to bind them across two hand-barrows,
and carry them, in this state, to the bridge of Cainachan, at
9 miles distance.  His property in particular was a nest of 
thieves.  They laid the whole country, from Stirling to Cou-
par of Angus, under contribution, obliging the inhabitants to
pay them, Black Meal, as it is called, to save their property
from being plundered.  This was the center of this kind of
traffic.  In the months of September and October. They ga-
thered to the number of about 300. built temporary huts,
drank whisky all the time, settled accounts for stolen cattle,
and received balances.  Every man then bore arms.  It would
have required a regiment to the brought a thief from that
country.  But Government having sent a party of soldiers to
reside among them, and a thief having been hung at their
doors, they soon felt the necessity of reformation, and they

     VOL. II. 3 M

<FOOTNOTE>

betwixt King Robert and Edward's adherents.  The place where
the latter came down to the country, is called Glen Sassan, "The
Englishman's Glen;" the ground where they first fought, is called
Innerchadden. "the point where the battle began;" the spot
where Robert got the victory, is called, Dailchoshie, "the field of
victory."  Two miles to the eastward, is a large wood, where King
Robert is said to have concealed himself, for some time, after a de-
feat near the borders of Argleshire.  The ground all around is rough,
stony and full of precipices.  There was but one ford upon the Tumble,
for several miles.  This was hard by.  The hut, where he lodged, is
still called, in the Gaelic language, the King's House, the ford,
the King's Ford; and the eminence above, the King's Watch
Tower.


