
                 	   FALKLAND.			  939

town.  As there has been no excambion yet made it is very in-
conveniently situated ; but an excambion will, in all likelihood,
take place in a few months, so that the glebe will lie immediately-
behind the manse.  The present glebe consists of four acres of
good land, for which the incumbent receives L. 14 of yearly rent.
Formerly the minister of Falkland enjoyed a right of pasturage
upon the Lormond bills for threescore of sheep, but when the
commonty was divided, this right was lost, we know not upon what
ground.
   Cemetery.-The ancient burial ground was at Kilgour.  The
church, which seems to have been a small building, 40 feet by 16,
stood in the centre, having a quire at its east end.  Not a single
vestige of it is now visible, the foundations having been dug up
about twenty years ago, and removed to fill up drains on the
neighbouring farm.  The farmer transported one of the ancient
stone coffins into his stable-yard to form a water trough for his
cattle, where it still remains, and then crowned this sacrilegious act
by ploughing the churchyard!  The present burial ground was
probably first used for the purpose of interment about the year
1670, as the earliest date upon the tombstones is 1674.  But
the old cemetery of Kilgour was also used, up to the beginning of
the present century, if not later.
   There are three dissenting places of worship in the parish ; two
in Falkland and one in Freuchie.  The number of Dissenters,
however, is not large, the two congregations in Falkland being
very small.  The great body of the people adhere to the Esta-
blished Church.  The stipend consists of 8 chalders of barley, 8
of oats, and 1 of bear, valued by the Fife fiars.  The sum of
L.8, 6s. 8d. is allowed for communion elements.  
   Education.-The number of schools in the parish is five; of
scholars attending them 350.  The parochial teacher's salary is
the maximum, and his fees may be about L. 50 per annum.  He
has an allowance of L. 10 a year for house and garden.  There
is an excellent subscription school in Freuchie, which confers an
immense benefit upon the village.  The means of education are
put within the reach of every inhabitant of the parish, but still it
is doubtful if the people are in general better educated than they
were forty years ago.  The children of both sexes are taken away
from school at such an early age, to engage in hand-loom weav-
ing, that sufficient time is not allowed to complete their educa-
tion.  They forget much of what they have learned in early youths,

