
96                           PERTHSHIRE.

parish. Its population, as I have already stated, was, at the last
census 1831, 20, 016.
   It was in early times a place of great trade. In Camden's
Britannia, the following distich is quoted from an English writer,
Alexander Necham, who was Abbot of Exeter in 1215, and died
in 1227.
   "Transis, ample Tai, per rura per oppida, per Perth
   Regnum sustentant illius urbis opes."
   "Great Tay, thou passest on through fields, through towns, through Perth.
   The wealth nf that city supports the kingdom."
   An extensive commerce was carried on during many ages between
Perth and the Netherlands. The merchants of Perth visited in
their own ships the Hans towns. The German merchants, very
early, frequented the port of Perth, and not a few industrious Ger-
mans, who wrought in the woollen and linen manufactories, and in
staining cloth, seem to have fixed their abode at Perth, and to have
been received as burgesses. But William the Lion, following the
example of his grandfather, King David, put the foreign merchants
under a great restriction when they came to Perth with their goods.
In a charter which he gave to the town 1210, and as a further dis-
couragement to these merchants, he granted to his burgesses in
Perth, in that same charter, "that they might have their own mer-
chant guild-fullers and weavers excepted."
   It does not appear that Perth has, since then, been distinguish-
ed as a place of trade. About fifty years ago, several enterprising
individuals directed their attention to the manufacturing of cotton
goods,-there being a demand for them in the market to a very en-
couraging extent. This gave employment to weavers. The num-
ber of these rapidly increased, as high wages were held out to the
people who would engage in the trade, and as proficiency in it was
very soon and very easily `cquired. Besides capitalists in Perth,
there were others in Glasgow who had agents here, employing
weavers. But, owing to adverse circumstances and events, some ca-
pitalists failed, and others were necessitated to restrict their opera-
tions. The number of operatives thereupon diminished. Wages fell
very low, and no small distress ensued. There can be no doubt of
the fact, that the temporary prosperity of this branch of trade was
chiefly owing to the too adventurous spirit of speculating indivi-
duals. Though it cannot be said to have yet revived, there are
gentlemen among us, who, by sound and spirited application of skill
and capital, are employing a considerable body of operatives.
   At the period now referred to, and for long before, the glove

                                 3


