

			ARDERSIER.                          463

fully winding coast on the west; on the south, by the parish of
Pettie, a narrow cuneiform pendicle of which interposes between
part of its western face, and the bay of Campbelton ; and on the
east by the parish of Nairn. Its figure may be compared to that
of an irregular delta.
   The northern coast, which stretches upwards of three miles along
the Moray Frith, is flat and sandy; varied in some localities with
dunes of blown sand, grown over with Amynophila arundinacea,
(bent,) in others with heathy ridges, clumps of furze, and patches
of gravel. The face of this flat is further diversified by inconsiderable
extents of morass alongtbe ridges; and in some of the
lowest spots, which are scarcely above the level of the sea, by expanses
of water hardly deserving the name of lochs, though one of
them is called Lietchfield loch, the other Lochineghtac. The
landscape loses somewhat of its wildness towards the eastern boundary
of the parish, where, in the carse, some small farms are cultivated;
not, however, with uniform success, as the drifting sands
make occasional inroads. On this coast, upwards of a mile east
from Fort-George, a sand bank, called Whiteness-head, juts in an
oblique direction far into the frith, and, being only seen at low water,
renders the navigation dangerous.
   The western coast extends with a curved outline nearly two
miles along the margin of a picturesque bay, its level and smoothly
pebbled beach forming a commodious bathing-place.
   From the top of the hill already noticed, a plain of cultivated
land extends backwards towards the confines of Nairn, terminating
in pasture or heath, and towards the south in a moss whence
peats are obtained.
   Meteorology.-No regular register of the temperature, nor of
the pressure of the atmosphere, is kept in the parish. Nor has any
been kept in the neighbourhood for a sufficient number of years
to furnish the annual average. At the manse of Pettie, (a distance
of four miles,) which is not so exposed as the higher parts
of this parish, and not so sheltered as the lower grounds around
Campbelton, and which, in consequence, enjoys the average climate
of the district, a register of temperature has been kept for the
last few years from the commencement of seed-time till the end
of harvest; and occasionally, if any great deviation, from the average
temperature of the season took place, during the winter months.
From that register, I find that during the severe snow-storm in Janu


