
                     XINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                       185

       of management such as has always prevailed in the rural parishes
       of Scotland. The paupers have, either by long residence or re-
       lationsbip, a claim upon the sympathy and benevolence of their
       friends or neighbours, who are always willing to assist in support-
       ing them. On this principle, the kindly and unostentatious flow
       of private charity circulates from hand to hand and from heart to
       heart, and the aid from the poor's fund of the parish is adminis-
       tered as the circumstances of each individual may require. The
       minister and kirk-session select the most deserving objects of pub-
       lic charity, and adapt the monthly allowance to such as equitably
       as they can. There is no regular parochial assessment; but
       when extraordinary cases occur, the heritors frankly come for-
       ward with a voluntary contribution according to their valued rent to
       meet such cases. They have of late contributed in this way to a
       considerable amount for the support of two lunatics, a foundling
       child, and other extraordinary cases of pauperism. A legal assess-
       ment should, if possible, be avoided, especially in landward parishes,
       as tending to the increase of pauperism, and to the destruction of
       a feeling of independence among the poor; but still the legal as-
       sessment is the most equitable system of parochial support, espe-
       cially in towns and boroughs, and where there are many Dissenters
       from the Establishment. The average number of paupers on the
       permanent roll during three consecutive years previous to 1838
       was about 16, each of whom received on an average yearly L. 2,
       11s. 3d. * The average annual contributions for their relief dur-
       ing these years was, from collections at the church door, L. 24,
       18s.; and from mortcloth, proclamation, and other dues, L. 16,
       2s. The latter sum includes L. 5, 17s., being the interest of mo-
       ney mortified for the benefit of the poor. Although the poor
       in some instances show a delicacy in seeking parochial relief, yet
       in general they do not think it degrading to receive it, and are
       content with what they receive.
            Fairs.---There are no fairs held in this parish, except one for
       cattle at Thornhill on a small scale, being in the month of Ja-
       nuary annually-
            Inns, &c.---In all this landward part of the parish, containing a
       population of about 1400, there is only one house licensed to sell
       ale or spirits, and only two in the village of Thornhill and its vi-

       <FOOTNOTE>This sum is less than the usual amount given so the poor, because the list of
       paupers for these years includes a greater number than usual from Thornhill dis-
       trict, from which the fund receives no aid.


