
318                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ings were finished, they were never occupied as a prison, and have
not been applied to any other use. Lately, the barracks have been
put into good repair, and have occasionally been occupied as a de-
pot for the reserve companies of regiments of the line stationed in
Scotland.

<TABLE=III-POPULATION.>
   The returns to Government exhibit the following acount of the
population:
                   Census in 1801,   -   390
                             1811,   -   455
                             1821,   -   661
                             1831,   -   652
                             1841,   -   708
   Poaching is not unfrequent in the parish, particularly during
the winter season.
                        IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--This parish contains 1920 square imperial acres,
of which probably 240, being hill land, have never been in cultiva-
tion. A great deal of wood has been planted within the last forty
years, and which, having been regularly thinned, has now grown
to a considerable size.
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land in the parish
may be estimated at L. 1, 10s. or L. 2. The average rent of graz-
ing an ox or cow may be estimated at L. 3, 10s; a ewe or full-
grown sheep at 5s. The valued rent of the parish is L. 1579, 8s.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.--In this parish there are about 50 scores
of sheep, chiefly of the black-faced kind, though there are also, on
Turnhouse hill, a number of the Cheviot breed. A cross breed
betwixt the Leicester and black-faced stock, produces much larger
lambs, which are, disposed of at better prices than they would
otherwise bring; but the black-faced ewes are generally preferred
for keeping up the stock, as they are considered best adapted for
climate in winter. Ewe-milking is now entirely out of use
here. Smearing is generally practised. The quantity of wool
sold annually may be estimated at 145 stones,--which varies con-
siderably in price, in different years.
   Husbandry.--All kinds of grain are raised in the parish. Wheat
is now very generally sown; and from the improvement that has
lately been made in the mode of farming, it is often of very fine
quality. Potatoes also are very generally cultivated, and turnips
of different kinds, for cattle in winter.
   Leases.--The duration of leases is generally for nineteen years.
Some farms, have been let for a shorter period; and rents are in
general well paid. The farm-houses have been much improved


