
278			AYRSHIRE.

who took from their lands the surname of Dalrymple. In the reign of
David II. 1330-32, the barony was divided into two parts, and pos-
sessed by two families of the name of Dalrymple, who were pro-
bably derived from a common progenitor. In 1371, John Ken-
nedy of Dunure obtained a charter from Robert II. of half the ba-
rony of "Dalrimpill," in Ayrshire, upon the resignation of Mal-
colm, the son of Gilchrist, the son of Adam de "Dalrimpill;" and
in 1377, the same John Kennedy obtained another charter from
Robert II. of the other half of the barony of "Dalrympill," upon
the resignation of Hugh, the son of Roland de "Dalrympill," and
the whole continued to belong to his descendants till the reign of
Charles II. 1660-84.
	Land-owners.--The land-owners of the parish are the Marquis
of Ailsa, who has in point of valuation more than the half; R. A.
Oswald of Auchencruive, Esq. who has nearly a fourth; the Ho-
nourable Mrs Leslie Cumming; and Andrew Hunter of Bonnie-
ton, Esq. Skeldon and Hollybush are the only gentlemen's seats
in the parish. The former is the property of Mrs Leslie Cum-
ming, and is occupied by Sir James Montgomery Cuninghame
of Corsehill, Bart.; the other is the property of Mr Hunter, and
is occupied by Captain Brian Hodgson, R. N.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers of births and
marriages, and the minutes of the kirk-session, commence in 1699,
immediately after the ordination of Mr Lawrie. The register of
deaths commences in 1739, and ends at 1793. A new volume,
however, was begun in 1816. Including an heritors' book, there
are eight volumes altogether, and the whole have been kept pretty
regularly.
	Antiquities--Roman Road.--Tbe line of a Roman road, sup-
posed to have formed a communication between the Friths of Sol-
way and Clyde, passes through this parish. Entering it at the
eastern extremity, it passes through the farms of Polnessan, Smith-
ston, Newfield, Boreland, Hollybush-Mains, and Causeway, which
is supposed to have taken its name from this road. From Cause-
way it goes on to the farm of Perclewan, and passing through this
and the farm of Lindston, it enters the parish of Ayr. Mr Chal-
mers, in his Caledonia, mentions, that "some old people call this
the Picts Road, and others, the Roman Way;"--"but the con-
struction of the pavement in the Roman manner evinces clearly,
he says, that it was a Roman Road."--"The Romans having
such a road, he continues, must necessarily have had encamp-


