
     of Carluke.

afford at present, being, from 6 L. to 10 L. per annum for a
man; and, from 3 L to 4 L. for a woman.  A young and vi-
gorous day-labourer, can, with difficulty, be procured; and
(victuals excluded), he receives, from 14 d. to 15 d. a day,
during the summer; so that the farmers now begin to perceive,
that it is their interest to encourage cottager, and to submit
to the risk of being thereby Burdened with a heavier poor's
rate.  Indeed, as we are in this parish attentive to the poor,
and well supplied with fuel, we have generally many labour-
ers resorting here in the decline of life; but from them no
labour of importance can be expected, for any considerable
time; and, unless we are watchful, in terms of law, they may
soon become a burden upon the parish.-From the quick de-
clivity of this parish, the ground is apt to be warned down
much faster by the rains, than in other places; so that the ma-
nure laid upon it, is sooner exhausted; and the ditches, by
collecting a larger body of water, stand in need of constant
repair, and in some steep situations, can scarcely be at all
kept up.-In the clayey part of the district, the materials
with which the roads are made, partaking of the nature of
the soil, and being of a sort quality, the roads themselves
stand in need of constant attention and expence.-Being ex-
posed to the high winds in harvest, the crop, when ripened,
is in danger, and therefore, in prudence, it must be cut down,
sooner than we would otherwise choose to do.  In the lower
part of the parish, however, they are exposed, during the
hay and corn harvest, to great inconveniences in wet seasons,
from the want of a free circulation of air.
   But though the parish labours under these disadvantages, yet
there are also circumstances in its favour, which tend to coun-
terbalance them.  Being at a moderate distance from Glasgow,
and within a few miles of 2 iron works, and 3 cotton mills,
commodities of all kinds are sold to good advantage.-Though

     S 2


