1150                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

qualified.  The rejection of unqualified presentees is by no means
unfrequent.  When once admitted, they are examined, with the
other bursars, at the beginning of each Session.
   All the bursaries in the gift of the Senatus are conferred after
pubfic competition, held a week before the commencement of the
session.  Of these there are now about twenty-four annually va-
caut.  The Sub-principal collects the exercises, removes the names,
substituting numbers, and then submits them to the judgment of
the other masters.  The best exercises obtain the bursaries which
are vacant; the order of merit in the exercises regulating that of
the amount of the bursaries.
   The entire number of bursaries attached to King's College
now amounts to upwards of 140.  Their amount is very various.
A few are under L.4; a few more L.5 ; the majority range from
L.IO or L.12 to L.20 or L.25 ; and, within the last three years,
the late Dr Simpson bequeathed to the university funds sufficient
to provide six Bursaries of L.30 each, four of which are already
in operation.  There is one bursary of L.40 and one of L.50.
Each bursary is enjoyed for four years, and if a vacancy occur
during this period by death or resignation, the vacancy is not filled
up till the four years have expired, and the vacant revenue is in
the interim added to the proper fund of the bursary in question.
   The following is a list of the foundations and bursaries attached
to King's College, with the names of founders and patrons.
   1. Founded Bursaries.-These belong to the original founda-
tion by Bishop Elpbinston.  Their number was originally thirteen,
but, from some cause or other now unknown, was long ago re-
duced to twelve.  Three are presented annually, and decided by
competition.  Patrons, the Senatus.  The value originally was
L.40 Scots each, or L.3, 6s. 8d. Sterling; but for the last seventy
years, the Senatus has raised it to L.5, at which sum these bur-
saries now remain.
   2. Watt's Bursary.-Mr James Watt, Minister of Snaith, mor-
tified, in 1625, a rigg or croft of land for the support of a bursar
in theology of the name of Watt, Barclay, or Chalmers, failing
whom, of one born in the city or chanonry of Old Aberdeen.  Its
value was for a long, period L.5; but the property having much
improved in value, the Senatus, in 1819, established on this fund
two bursaries of L.20 each.  Patrons, the Senatus.
   3. Ley's Bursaries.-In 1648, Sir Thomas Burnett of Leys
                               4


