
     Statistical Account

fir kind, particularly the larix, which, if not planted in wa-
ter, will thrive in almost any elevation or exposure.  In
many parts, especially about the middle of the parish, the
soil is light, sandy and stony; here, where it is not cultivated,
it is covered either with short heath, furze, broom or brush-
wood; but, where it is properly improved, being natural-
ly dry and warm, it yields early and good crops.  In the
vallies and lower declivities of the district, the soil is, for
the most part, an excellent well pulverized mixture; pro-
ducing, either with lime or marl, or even with a compe-
tency of common manure, as good barley, oats, pease, tur-
nip and potatoes, as any part of this neighbourhood.  The
oat-seed time begins about the end of March, and the bear-
seed is finished about the 10th of June; harvest commences
about the 10th of September, and terminates about
the 20th of October, in ordinary seasons.  In the hil-
ly parts, both seed-time and harvest are a fortnight later.
The air is good, and the inhabitants are generally healthy,
and live to a considerable age; several persons exceed 80,
some exceed 90, and a few have reached near 100 years.
In winter, the hoarfrost often fits heavy on the lower
grounds, where the degree of cold is then greater than on
the tops of the mountains.  The E. and N. E. winds of
that season frequently bring snow or rain, or mist from the
German ocean; and it is here observed, that these winds
occasion some dullness or depression of the animal spirits;
whereas, on the contrary, it is remarked, that the W. and
N. W. winds, which blow hither through a pure, uncloud-
ed atmosphere, and over a boundless extent of high, heathy
mountains, seldom fail to bring along with them good
health and good spirits.  The truth of this last observation
is ofttimes experienced by the stranger from the low
country, who goes to the highlands for air and exercise,
particularly in the summer months, w en the heath is in
bloom.  He respires with unusual ease, his spirits rise, and


