
                        LARGS.                           791

Gogo, and the Noddle.  The old red sandstone, in no instance,
rises in this parish to nearly the elevation of the sources of these
streams.  The bed of secondary trap, here alluded to, may be
traced from the German Ocean, throughout Scotland, to the island,
of Little Cumbrae, Arran, &c.  In Little Cumbrae it is distinctly
stratified, as may be seen from our side of the Frith, with an in-
clination of about 10&deg; to the west or south-west.  The same stra-
tification of trap, on the large scale, may be seen on the Clyde
near Kilpatrick.  Near Quarter, in this parish, is a small minia-
ture coal-field, but not conformable, inserted in the old red sand-
stone.  This field is exposed on the beach.  It consists of lime-
stone and shale.  The old red sandstone is here and there cut by
dikes of greenstone, which pass into the superincumbent trap;
Their direction is most frequently from north to south, or from
north-west to south-east.  But to this there are exceptions, as at
Fairly Brae, &c.  Few, if any, organic remains have as yet been
discovered in the old red sandstone, and none in the trap.  The
other formations in the parish are either diluvium or alluvium.
The higher parts of the Noddle may be given as a locality for the
first.  The site of Largs itself for the second.  The first is no-
where distinguished for fertility, but the second forms very fertile
land; while the soil, mostly formed from the disintegration of old
red sandstone, is generally very barren.
   Coals have been looked for in the parish; hitherto without suc-
cess.  The basis of our rocks are under the coal formation, pro-
perly so called, and the superimposed trap only forms the rough
basin in or on which the coal formation rests.
   One of the most interesting geological phenomenon to be ob-
served in this parish, is the subsidence of the water of the Frith,
or the elevation of the land.  The one or other has been the case.
The clifts near Quarter leave no doubt on this subject, as an in-
spection of them will testify.  A line of old beach rock, forty feet
above the present high-water mark, shows that we must come to
the one or other conclusion.  The hill on Gogo, too, which marks
one of the points of a meridian line, leads nearly to the same con-
clusion, having most probably been deposited in still water by the
stream when it was at least a quarter of a mile shorter, or, in other
words, when the Clyde washed the base of the trap rocks near this
place.  Others may settle this point; but the matter referred to
is well deserving examinations. *

<FOOTNOTE>
    * The department of this report on Geology has been furnished by William Mont-


