
			BUITTLE.                                203

considerable cavity above the first row of branches, the depth of
which has not been ascertained, owing to its being filled with
stones. This is the only mark which it exhibits of decay.
	At Little Knox, in the immediate vicinity of the church, there
is a variegated plane tree, which girths 11 feet at three feet and
a-half from the ground, and contains upwards of 200 feet of solid
wood. Whether the variegation in the foliage of this tree has
been accidentally produced, or has been effected by budding or
engrafting, is not known; perhaps the former supposition is the
correct one. This description of plane does not propagate its
own variety. It sheds seed around it; which prodtces abundance
of plants. Some of these were found, having the first tree leaves
variegated like the parent tree. They were selected and trans-
planted, with the view of raising variegated planes; but, beyond
the two first tree leaves, the variegation did not extend.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	"The castle of Buittle, (says Mr Maxwell in the former Sta-
tistical Account of Scotland,) is assuredly the most considerable re-
mains of antiquity in the parish. Some have affirmed that it was for-
merly called the Castle of Knare, Nare, or Bar-nare, and was the
chief residence of the Reguli of Galloway. An adjoining hill,
named Craig-nair, gives some weight to this supposition. Certain it
is, however, that the ruins of Buittle Castle denote it to have been
a place of strength and even magnificence. The vaults and
ditches are all that remain of this proud structure. Besides the
Castle of Buittle, the only other remembrance of ages equally
rude and remote, is one of those ruins commonly called vitrified
forts, standing on the north-west border of Buittle parish, within
a farm called Castlegower, which lies along the march of Kelton."
	Wells.--There are two wells in this parish, mentioned in Sym-
son's description of Galloway, as having been, at a former pe-
riod, much resorted to by valetudinarians on the first Sunday of
May. One of thdse wells, called the Rumbling Well, ir situat-
ed within the farm of Buittle Mains, on the march of Little
Knox and Guffocgland, and its water was considered to be a pa-
nacea for the cure of all diseases which afflict the human body,
The other well is supposed to be situated on the march between
Buittle Mains and Buittle Place, and was held in estimation for
the cure of a disease called the Connach, which affects cattle.
These wells issue out of rocks, and discharge copious streams of
pure water. Like many of the wells in this parish, they partake


