
     962                        FIFESHIRE.

     from all benefit of the kirk in time coming, viz. baptism, the
     Lord's supper, and marriage."
       Before and up to the beginning of last century, Crail was a
     great station for the herring fishery.  To this many resorted from
    different parts of the country, particularly from Angus and Aber-
    deen shires, who were supplied with nets and other conveniences
    by the inhabitants for a stipulated premium.  Over the multitude
    of boats that then assembled in the Frith, a person (generally a
    lawyer from Edinburgh) was appointed by the Lord High Admi-
    ral to preside, under the title of Admiral-depute for the east of
    Fife.  This officer had power of trying all offences committed by
    persons engaged in the fishing, and of fining or otherwise punish-
    ing those found guilty, He had also a vessel called the admiral's
    boat, which was employed in regulating the fishery, and fired a
    gun for announcing the hours of beginning or ending the fishing,
    particularly on the Mondays and Saturday nights; for which each
    boat had to pay a certain sum as admiral's dues.
      Since then, however, the fishing has gradually declined, and was
    nearly lost sight of upon the Fife coast; and the office, as well as
    officer, is entirely unknown.  But within the last few years, the
    fish have returned to their wonted haunts, and many who from
    their early years had been in the habit of joining the herring fish-
    ery at Wick or other places in the north, have staid at home and
    reaped the reward of their labour.  Yet Crail has not resumed
    its place as a fishing station-for last year there were only twelve
    boats belonging to the harbour engaged in the trade.  In former
    times Crail, Kilrenny, the two Anstruthers, and Pittenweem had
    the privilege of returning a member to Parliament; but, since the
    Reform Act was passed, St Andrews (the returning burgh) and
    Cupar have been associated with them; and these, being larger
    towns, swallow up in a great measure all the consequence of the
    minor burghs at a disputed election.  The government of the
    town is vested in three bailies and a treasurer, with seventeen other
    members of town-council. There are seven incorporated trades.
    In the centre of the town, there is a very neat town-hall and a lock-
    up house, with two cells under charge of the police.  The harbour
    is small, not very safe, and difficult of access to the small vessels
    that frequent it ; but Room or the old harbour, which is only about
    a quarter of a mile to the eastward of the present, might be easily
    converted into a haven capable of containing a large fleet, and
    would, it is said, have nearly thirty feet of water at spring tides.

