
                          CRAMOND.                           589

the domestic comfort and advantage that, will immediately be pro-
duced by the mothers remaining at home in charge of their house-
holds, the females will no longer be subjected to the physical and
moral evils attendant on their former condition, as beasts of bur-
den among the most contaminating influences, but having to be-
take themselves to service among the other classes of society, will
be the means of bringing back improved notions and habits.

February 1845.

	          PARISH OF CRAMOND.

	  PRESBYTERY OF EDINBURGH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND.
			   TWEEDDALE.

	    THE REV. W.L. COLVIN, A.M. MINISTER.

	    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.*
   Name.-The name Cramond, or Crawmond and Karramund,
as it has, at different times, been written, and in the Celtic form Car-
aman, is considered to be derived from Car,+ or Carraig, a rock
or fort, and dman a river,-thus signifying the River-Fort. This
etymology is sufficiently descriptive of the present position of the
village at the mouth of the Almond, once the site of an important
Roman station. The truth of this statement, indeed, has been
fully established by the digging up of numerous imperial coins,
medals, inscriptions, altars, sepulchral remains, pavement, and
other relics of Roman residence.++ This station, with its adjoin-
ing harbour, seems to have had a direct communication on the
west, with the forts along the rampart of Antoninus, which, with
its fosse and parallel military way, terminated a little higher on
the Forth at or near Carriden; and also with the southern parts,

<FOOTNOTE>For this part of the Statistical Account we are indebted to Dr Thomas Aitken,
Edinburgh.
          The Caer of Wales is only a different dialect, and in there applied to both Bri-
tish and Roman fortifications, but chiefly to the site of the Castra or stations of the
Romans.
          Alateroa in supposed, from a disinterred inscription, to have been the Roman
name of Cramond. Others, with even less probability, have conceived it to be the
Alauna of Ptolemy. This ancient Geographer, indeed, both Alauna and
Alata Castra in the same latitude; but the difference which he makes between their
longitute might have as readily led to the supposition that Alauna Alauna stood on the Clyde
as on t he Forth. See Ptolem. Geog., Lib. ii., cap. iii.

   EDINBURGH.                                                    Pp


