
                            LUNAN.                          321

what abruptly, forming afterwards a more gentle acclivity, till it
reaches the extreme northern boundary of the parish, when the height
above the level of the sea is 400 feet. On viewing the parish from the
south, in passing Lunan Bay the beholder is forcibly struck with
its fine southern aspect, while he feels disappointment in the almost
total want of trees, or even hedge-rows, to relieve the uninterrupted
succession, of cultivated fields.
	Along its, eastern boundary, lie about a mile and a-half of sea-
coast, forming part of Lunan Bay. The shore is sandy, with an
occasional brake of small stones, among which are to be found, par-
ticularly after a storm, or equinoctial tide, several beautiful varieties
of sea shells, and some good specimens of onyx, pebble, and jas-
per. The bay is one of the finest and most romantic in Scotland,
forming a segment of about five miles; at each extremity of which,
there is about a mile of bold, rugged, and perpendicular rocks, ris-
ing occasionally in pyramid-shaped columns of 100 or 150 feet.
The intermediate three miles is a low sandy beach, bounded with
hillocks overgrown with bent.
	The bay is deep and safe; the rocks on either side extending
only a little way from the coast, and the surrounding lands being
high, form a very sheltered, safe, and commodious retreat for the
"sea-beaten bark," during all storms but those from the east.
	To the north and east of the parish, and forming its boundary in
these directions, lies a beautifully romantic den, called Buckie Den.
It extends about half a mile in length, and, sloping towards the sea,
it deepens rapidly as it advances. A small rapid rivulet runs along its
bottom, which forms a number of small cataracts, varying in height
from 20 to 30 feet. The sides of the den ard, in some places, almost
perpendicular, and covered with a variety of wild plants, particular-
ly the cowslip and polyanthus in their season.
  Climate.-The climate of Lunan, if it were not for the cold
evening breeze, which sets in from the sea, would, from its situation,
be milder, perhaps, than that of most parts of the surrounding coun-
try. As a proof of this, we have only to go a little farther up the
river, where the effects of the sea-breeze are not felt, and we find
the climate so much improved, that harvest generally commences
there about eight or ten days earlier than in almost any other part-
of the county.
	During the spring months, the parish is very much exposed to-
easterly winds, which are almost invariablx laden with moisture.
In the months of May and June, thick fogs are prevalent, extend-


