
			        ALVA.                              181

is affirmed by the villagers, build a nest in the front of this preci-
pice. These hatch their young annually, and when the progeny
are of proper age, the parents compel them to seek a new habita-
tion; death alone obliging the original pair to resign their ances
tral habitation, which falls to the next survivors. In a former
age, when "lords and ladies gay" were fond of the sport of fal-
conry, a bird of this kind was deemed very valuable, and to the
present day, it is in high repute with some of our nobility, who send
from a great distance to procure specimens of the breed. From
this place the beautiful and unfortunate Queen Mary got falcons,
soon after her arrival from France. The Duke of Athol, king"s
falconer in Scotland, sent for these birds, and not long ago a pair
of them were sent by James Johnstone, Esq. to the Duke of St
Albans, who, as king's falconer in England, still keeps up the
sport of hunting with them. Eagles are occasionally seen among
the Ochils in this neighbourhood.
  Botany, &c.-Alva is distinguished from the surrounding country
by the luxuriance of its forests and plantations. The front of the
Woodhill, on which stands the house of Alva, is clothed with the
richest varieties of trees. The late Sir John Erskine, some time
before 1720, planted most of those which surround the enclosures
immediately below the house. The east and west sides of the
hill, immediately below the house, were planted by Lord Alva, to
which very large additions have been annually made by the sub-
sequent proprietors. The hill, which is fully 1600 feet above the
level of the sea, is now planted within 200 yards of the summit. The
pleasure-grounds and plantations are beautiful and extensive, and the
appearance of the wooded hill reminds the traveller of the mo-
nastery near Florence, a description of which is given by the poet
Milton. These fine plantations are upon the hedgerows of the
several enclosures, and on the brow of the Woodhill where the
house stands. They are diversified by the oak, the elm, the ash,
the beech, the larch, and many varieties of the pine. The ash
trees are remarkable for size and strength, and fair proportion.
Many of the oaks are venerable for their hoar antiquity, and be-
fore their stately forms and extended boughs, the other giants of
the forest how their diminished heads. The approaches from
the two lodges, wind up beautifully towards the house, and from
the house to the village church, which is nearly a mile, the rows
Of trees on each side form an umbrageous and delightful avenue,
  There is here an admirable and hitherto unexplored field for


