
136                         FORFARSHIRIE.

attended to; so also is draining of land. No irrigation, and but
little embankment, is required. The length of leases is generally
nineteen years,--leases of this duration being considered as more
favourable than those for a shorter period. The state of farm-build-
ings and enclosures is good, the buildings being usually of stone and
lime, and slated. Improvements have been general throughout the
parish during the last twenty or thirty years. Defective leases and
insufficient accommodation are unknown. From the fifth to the
sixth part of the farms is sown with turnips, or planted with pota-
toes, unless when they are adapted for wheat, in which case a pro-
portion is fallowed. Very few beet or cabbages are cultivated. No
meadow hay is raised in the parish. Of flax there are only a few
acres for domestic purposes. Land in pasture is let at a certain
rate per head of cattle, or by the acre,--from 20s. to 25s. per im-
perial acre, and sometimes as high as 45s. and even 60s., according
to the soil and situatinn.
	Agricultural Society.--The Eastern Forfarshire Farming Asso-
ciation was instituted here in 1814, under the patronage of the
Honourable William Maule, now Lord Panmure, who is its per-
petual president. The Association holds two shows annually on the
Trinity Muir, in the immediate neighbourhood of the town, the
one in spring, the other in autumn, at which premiums are award-
ed for cattle of different ages and breeds; for fat cattle of the best
symmetry and weight; for brood mares and breeding cows; for
stallions and young horses of various ages, and occasionally for im-
proved agricultural implements. The average number of members
who pay one guinea or upwards yearly to the funds is about 160.
The institution has all along continued to prosper under the aus-
pices of its munificent patron and president, and has been very be-
neficial to the interests of agriculture in the eastern part of For-
farshire.
	Manufactures.--The branches of manufacture are heckling,
spinning, weaving, and bleaching. There may be employed in
heckling about 30 men and women; in spinning 200; in weaving
from 1000 to 1500; in bleaching from 40 to 50. The hours of la-
bour are twelve each day for those employed in the spinning and
bleaching works. The wages paid them may be considered as a
pretty fair remuneration. Those employed in the above branbhds
are in general healthy. Some of the young people attending the
mill receive week-day and Sabbath evening instruction at school:
but education is on the whole not much attended to; and instances


