
			GARVOCK.                                35

ing Melville to the fatal spot, knocked him down, stripped him,
and threw him into the boiling kettle. And after he was boiled
or sodden for some time, they took each a spoonful of the soup. To
screen himself from royal justice, Barclay built that fortress in the
parish of St Cyrus, called the Kaim of Mathers, on a perpendi-
cular and peninsular rock, sixty feet above the sea, where, in those
days, he lived quite secure. The laird of Arbuthnott claimed and
obtained the benefit of the law of clan Macduff, which, in case of
homicide, allowed a pardon to any one within the ninth degree of
kindred to Macduff, Thane of Fife, who should flee to his cross,
which then stood near Lindores, on the march between Fife and
Strathern, and pay a fine. The pardon is still extant in Arbuth-
nott House. On the fate of the other conspirators, the voice of
tradition has died away. The field, where this horrid deed hap-
pened, still retains the name of Brownie's Leys; because from the
murderous deed then perpetrated, it was long supposed to be
haunted by the sprites called Brownies.
	On the summit of the Hill of Garvock, there are two large
cairns, the relics of Druidism, about a mile asunder. The larger
is fifty yards in diameter, and must have been a magnificent struc-
ture in its day. It had been carefully surrounded by a ring of
large blocks of freestone, which are now covered by the stones of
the cairn falling down and over them. On these, the Druids or
heathen priests lighted great fires at certain seasons, in honour of
their god Beil, the sun, the same as the Scripture Baal ; and
whom they worshipped likewise, in groves, as well as on these high
places, just as did the idolatrous Moabites, Philistines, Canaan-
ites, and Chaldeans; and into this sin the children of Israel often
fell, Judges c.ii. v. II and 13, and c. iii. v.7, and c. x. v. 6. These
fires were lighted and assemblies held at the cairns, both for reli-
gious and judicial purposes; for the Druids (Caesar, 1. 6. c. xiii.)
were the supreme judges in all matters, civil as well as religious,
allowing supremacy to the king or chief only in trifles aiid outward
show, as permitting him to have seven colours in his mantle, while
they used only six, but allowed only four to the nobility. These
fires were lighted particularly on their two great festivals. The
first was La Beiltin, the day of Beil's fire, i. e. the Ist of May,
the beginning of their year, when great rejohchngs we're held for
the return of the new year, and to implore a blessing on the pro-
duce of the year. Among other ceremonies, putting part of a mix-
ture of meal, milk, and eggs, &c. on a piece of bread, they threw
it over the left shoulder, saying each time, "This is to you, O mists



