
488		          FORFARSHIRE.

the ordinary branches of education are well taught; and attended,
respectively, by an average of 60, 50, and 40 scholars during the
winter. The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and
the usual legal accommodations. The school-fees and other emo-
luments way amount to about L.30, making his income nearly
L.65 a year, an average. One of the other teachers has a
small endowment.
	The people are not only alive to the benefits of education for
their children, but have established three public libraries in the
parish for their own improvement. Their general character may
be described as sober, industrious, intelligent, and regular in at-
tending the ordinances of religion. A lawsuit among them is a
thing scarcely ever heard of.
        Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
may be reckoned at between 12 and 15, according to the state of
trade and employment. They are supported at a yearly expense
of somewhat more than L.80, arising from the ordinary sources of
collections, seat-rents, &c. There are besides, at present, two
lunatic paupers in the Dundee Asylum, who are maintained by the
heritors assessing themeselves for that purpose. The poor, in ge-
ndral, are well attended to, and no begging is allowed in the parish.
It is of a piece with Lord Panmure's ordinary generous attention
to the interests of his tenantry, that no person holding land of
him is allowed to become a burden on the poor's funds. His Lord-
ship's tenants have testified their grateful approbation of his kind-
ness and generosity as a landlord, by erecting the "live and let
live" testimonial on the hill of Cambustane, ornamenting the dis-
trict, and publishing to at least six counties, their own comfort as
associated with their master's honour.
        Alehouses.-Three small public-houses are kept open for the
accommodation of travellers passing through the parish; but few
of tbe parishioners are found to frequent them.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATION
	There is reason to believe that in the last mentioned and in otber
respects considerable improvements have taken place since the writ-
ing of the last Statistical Account of this parish. The land is cer-
tainly in a higher state of cultivation; new and improved modes of
husbandry have been introduced; farm-house and steadings are
larger and more commodious; and the value of farm stocking has
considerably increased, particularly by greater attention to the
bred of horses and castle, since the establishment of agricultural


