
                       CORSTORPHINE.                       219

to about 250 yards in length, and upwards of 50 yards in breadth.
Single coffins are likewise found in other parts of the villa of Han-
ley, and a few are said to have been found on the adjoining villa
of Gogarburn.  No relics of any kind were found either within or
near any of the coffins.  Remains of an exactly similar description
were discovered in 1822, in the neighbouring parish of Cramond,
which are described in Vol. iii. p. 40 of the Transactions of, the
Society of Scottish Antiquaries.
  At first sight the name of stone coffins would favour the suppo-
sition that these remains are of great antiquity, but as neither the
aborigines, nor any of the other races who have inhabited or visit-
ed this part of the country in early times, used this manner of
burying their dead, their origin must be looked for within the range
of Scottish history.  It has accordingly been supposed that this
is merely the old parish burying-ground; but the site of the village
and kirk of Gogar, as existing at the Reformation, is at the distance
of upwards of a quarter of a mile from this locality, the Gogar-
burn running between, and there is no reason to believe that the
position of the kirk had been altered after the thirteenth century;
it seems, therefore, not likely that this was a burying-ground attach-
ed to it.  On the other hand, however, there are no events noticed
in history, or handed down by tradition, sufficient to account for so
many burials.  The only battle we can trace to have taken place
in this neighbourhood is the Gogar fight, on 27th August 1650,
which has been already briefly described, but it only lasted from
3 to 6 o'clock P.M. of that day, and the deaths on both sides pro-
bably did not amount to 100 men.   From the descriptions of,this
fight, contained in Hodgson's Memoirs, and in the Letters of
Cromwell and his officers, printed in the same volume, this field
appears at that period to have been full of bogs, and in a very wild
and uncultivated state; indeed, it was for this very reason that Ge-
neral Leslie is said to have chosen it for his encampments.  After
this engagement it is not unlikely that the dead would be interred
where they fell, and ito more natural mode of interment could have
been adopted than to collect the flag stones from the bed of the
river Almond, a distance of 1 1/2 mile, and form them into coffins.
This is rendered more probable when it is considered that no wood
existed here at that period, and that when, it was required, even in
small quantities, it was always procured from Leith, as appears
from several entries in the parish register about 1652. This hy-
pothesis, perhaps, would not account for a cemetery so extensive,


