

                       DUNFERMLINE.                                879

ter, arising out of the union-laws, the collier population has of late
been very fluctuating and unsettled. But in regard to the old re-
sident part of the workmen, especially in the vicinity of the town
of Dunfermline, who did not take any prominent part in these dis-
putes, I would say, that, generally speaking, their intellectual, re-
ligious, and moral character, is decidedly superior to that of the
same class of persons in many other places.
   The old practice of confining their marriages to their own class
is beginning to break down, from which an improvement may be
expected in many respects. But the chief feature of improvement
of late years has been in education. This was generally at one
time very much neglected, and hence the adult population was of-
ten ignorant and uncultivated. The cause of this deficiency was
certainly in no small degree, the facility of finding easy employ-
ment with a little pecuniary gain for young boys and girls under
ground, in keeping doors for ventilation, &c. a benefit which care-
less or dissipated parents took advantage of, to the prejudice of
the education of their offspring. But, recently, at all the collieries,
the payments for education are made universal and compulsory, an
arrangement which has caused a much more regular attendance.
   I am not aware of any distinguishing peculiarities in the charac-
ter of the agricultural population of this parisb. The Bothy sys-
tem exists here as in other places, with its share of attendant evils.
From many of the farm-servants shifting their situations frequent-
ly, they are not so well known to their ministers, as other classes
of the working population. Still, numbers of them are regular in
their attendance on divine ordinances, and conduct themselves
with Christian propriety.
   Poaching is considerably on the decrease, chiefly, it is supposed,
on account of the vigilance of the rural police. In 1841, the
number of persons prosecuted for offences against the game laws,
in the western district of Fife, in the Justice of Peace Court, war
17; in 1842, 9; and in 1843, 6. There were, however, other
cases, in which the evidence was deficient, and which were not
brought to trial.
   Pawnbroking has been on the increase of late. There are at
present (December 1843) eleven shops, besides many private
places, where the trade is understood to be carried on. None of
the dealers in it are licensed, as they profess to purchase the arti-
cles deposited with tbem. They are styled "General Merchants
or Brokers."


