
28		              BUTESHIRE.

presents the same array of silks, laces, and bonnets as meets the
eye in a low country congregation. With prudent thrift, however,
the more considerate of them sometimes carry their fine shoes and
stockings, in their laps till they approach the church. A very ex-
cellent feature in their character is the strength of their domestic
affections. The wages of the children are, after a suitable deduc-
tion for their wardrobes, almost always at the disposal of their pa-
rents, to assist in paying, their rents, and supporting them under
the privations and infirmities of declining years.
	Religion.--In point of religious information, the people in gene-
ral are on a level with those in the same sphere of life in the low
country. There being but one parish church; for a population
spread along a coast seventeen miles in length, the attendance
upon public ordinances is not so regular as could be wished. But
the great bulk of the young and rising generation are in this re-
spect, upon the whole, very exemplary. Many of the more aged
are kept from church by distance and the infirmities of declining
years. But there is a considerable proportion of them, though
their number is gradually diminishing, who are absent from choice;
having several marked peculiarities of sentiment and character,
which render the style of preaching, generally acceptable among
well-educated Christians, unpalatable to their taste.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The parish being mostly oc-
cupied by lofty hills and mountains, the arable part of it bears
but a small proportion to the extent of its surface; and is confined
to the glens and valleys, and the more level parts of the declivities
which skirt the bottoms of the hills. Cultivation is carried in very
few places more than 200 feet above the level of the sea. The
number of Scotch acres at present under cultivation is 4270 1\2; and
the number considered capable of cultivation about 800. The
parish is divided into 208 farms of very unequal size; and  of these
161 are under L. 20 of rent; 30 above L. 20, and under L. 40;
11 above L. 40, and under L. 100 and 6 above L. 100;
	Rent of Land.--Arable land rents, according to its quality, from
5s. to L. 2 per acre, averaging abour L. 1, 5s. The average rate
of grazing a cow in summer, and foddering her in winter, is L. 4,
10s. The rent of a cottar's house is L. 2 per annum.
	Rate of Wages.--Farm-servants are usually hired by the half-
year. Exclusive of board, men-servants received from L. 6 to L. 8,
10s.; and women from L. 2, 10s. to L. 4. Male labourers en-


