
	330                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	accustomed to war, and delighted in it. The smoke and flames
	of their church, which were visible from many parts of the parish,
	caused them to redouble their speed; and before the Macdonalds
	had regained their vessels, they were beset by the infuriated
	Macleods, who took full revenge for the slaughter of their friends.
	The booty was recovered, and the greater number of the Mac-
	donalds left dead on the shore. The burial given by the Mac-
	leods to those of their enemies who fell on this occasion, was dif-
	ferent from that which the Highlanders generally gave to brave
	opponents. The bodies, it is said, were ranged in a line by the
	side of a stone wall which stood near the scene of combat, and
	the wall thrown down upon them. Hence the battle is still known
	as Blar Milleadh G raidh, (i. e.) the battle of the destruction of
	the dike. Whether this be or be not a correct account of the
	origin of the name, it is very certain that a deadly conflict did
	take place on the spot pointed out as the battle-field of Milleadh
	G raidh ; for large quantities of human bones are still to be seen
	there, on turning over some loose stones by which the ground is
	covered. The smothering of the Macdonalds by the Macleods
	in the Cave of Eigg, while a barbarous , was not an in appropriate
	retaliation for the work at Waternish.
	   There are indistinct accounts preserved  of another battle fought
	by these hostile clans, known as Bl r Bhatternish, the battle of
	Vaternish. There the Macleods lost many men, and were on
	the point of being completely discomfited, when the celebrated
	Fairy Flig or enchanted banner of their chief was unfurled,
	which immediately (this being one of its three miraculous pro-
	perties) multiplied the number of the Macleods threefold, or
	rather made their enemies believe that they were so multiplied.
	The Macdonalds, seeing themselves beset by so large and unlooked
	for a host, were seized with a sudden panic, sought safety in flight,
	and were completely routed. So says tradition ; and there are
	some who still give implicit credence tn its reports, however absurd
	they be.
	   Family of Macleod.-The Macleods obtained peaceable pos-
	session of this parish in the tenth century, through the marriage
	of the first Tortmoid, or Norman of the name, with the only daugh-
	ter of MacRailt, the original possessor of the soil; and, despite
	the repeated attempts which have been made by, their enemies to
	deprive them of it, and of the changes which time usually produces
	in families, they still retain possession of all of it, except what has
					4


