
                         MELROSE.                               61

perhaps for their worship.  The magnificent pile of building which
came in time to cover the south front of the monastic quadrangle,
may justly be regarded as a sussequent addition,,,as the fruit of the
zeal, industry, and genius of the indefatigable Cistertians, exerted
during a period of five centuries.
   Antiquities.-As might have been expected in the vicinity of
such an establishment, there are memorials of the Catholic times
in every quarter.  There is a cross in the centre of the village of
Melrose, near the south entrance of the monastery, which has a
quarter of an acre of land to maintain ir called the "Corse Rig."
The Popish emblem on the top, however,was supplanted by the
Hogh Cross marks the site of another, which stood near the darn-
wick road, half a mile west, where the pinnacles of St Mary's cen-
tral tower first become visible.  There are in the lintels, or ap-
pearing in the plaster of the walls of some of the houses, stones
sculptured with the interlacing, (I.H.S. Jesus Monmunum Salvator,)
and other Popish devices.  There are such names of places as
Prior's Wood, Cloister Close, Abbots and Monks' Ford; and our
principal springs still retain the names of Romish saints, such as
St mary's, St William's, St Helen's, and Dunstan's.  The in-
habitants are such zealous Protestants, that many of them com-
plained that they "could neither get a rest nor day's ease
with the passing of the Catholic bill,' so that it maytruly be said,
every thing around of the Catholic, ' save the spirit of man."
   The tumulus upon the side of the Eildons mentioned by Milne,
and called by the people the Bourjo, is worthy of attention.  It
is evidently artificial, of great magnitude, and by tradition the site
of a pagan altar.  The road leading to it is called the Haxalgate,
and the ravine through which it passs from the haxalgate-heugh.
Compare withthis the following passage from the thirteenth chap-
ter of the third volume ofthe Pirate: "If the belief of those is
true," says the author while speaking of a Druidical circle, "who
assign these singular monuments exclusively to the Druids, Minna
might have sedled the Haxa is high priestess of the pagan
official should be found in the way leading to a reputed pagan altar.
The place is still regarded by the people with interest; and they
have been in the habit of pointing out to each succeeding minister
as the identical spot where their forefathers" were wont to bow the


