
56                           PERTHSHIRE.

Perth, being of great celebrity, he would be naturally sent to it for
instruction. But it does not appear to have risen to any celebrity,
till the time when Mr Rhind was chosen rector, which was in or
about the year 1580.  No inference can be drawn from Clunie
being in Perthshire, as Perth lies distant from it, seventeen miles
at least.
   The Rev. George Halyburton, Bishop of Dunkeld. The first
place of his ministrx was Menmour, in the presbytery of Brechin.
He was admitted minister of Perth on August 4, 1644. In a meet-
ing of presbytery, 16th October of the same year, he was severely
censured for holding intercourse with the Marquis of Montrose,
during his stay in Perth, eating and drinking with him, and act-
inf as chaplain at his table; the Marquis being at the time under
a sentence of excommunication.  Mr Halyburton acknowledged
what was laid to his charge, and declared that he had been
taken by surprise, and was urged thereto; that he was heartily sor-
ry for what he had done; that he had given offence; and that
he was willing to give, under his own hand, a declaration anent
the occasion of his going to the Marquis, and what was the con-
versation between them.
   By an act of the Commissioners of the General Assembly, No-
vember 8, 1644, he was summoned to appear before them on the
27th, to be censured for his holding conversation with the Mar-
quis; he appeared accordingly, and a sentence of deposition was
passed upon him. In the following month, the presbytery of Perth
joined with him in a supplication to the Commissioners to meet in
January 1645. In the month of February, the Assembly passed an
act in his favour, requiring the presbytery and synod of Perth to try
his repentance, and to report to the Commission for his reponi-
tion to his ministry, as the Commissioners shall find reasonable. In
a meeting of the presbytery, 2d April 1645, he produced that act,
And being removed, the meeting, after reasoning, concluded that he
should humble himself upon his knees, and give such signs of re-
pentance as might convince the brethren nf his unfeigned sorrow for
the offence given in despising the censure of the kirk, and abusing
the censure of excommunication. Mr Halyburton being called in,
did humbly on his knees acknowledge the offence, and the scandal
given to his brethren and the Christian people, and made promise
that, by God's grace (should he be reponed) he would walk more
circumspectly in time coming. Whereupon the brethren declar-


