
178			       FORFARSHIRE.

	Currachs.--I have just mentioned that a currach, or boat, was
found in the cave of Auchlishie; but as the proprietor, who would
have preserved it, did not reside on his estate at the time, it was
cut up for firewood by his farm-servants. In the summer of 1820,
a canoe was found in the peat of the loch of Kinnordy,--one extre-
mity being scarcely below the surface. * This relict is not without
its value to the geologist, as well as to the antiquarian, since it
shows that some part even of the peat, which overlies all the marl,
is of a date anterior to the historical records of the country.+
	It is the general opinion, that Christianity was early introduced
into this parish: but no tradition respecting the precise time has
come down to us. The parish abounds with the ruins of religious
ho uses.
	Modern Buildings.--In 1815, the Trades-hall was built, the pro-
perty of the different friendly societies of the town; the lower part
is let for shops, and the upper, a hall of considerable size, is re-
served for the meetings of the societies and for other purposes.++
	Kinnordy is the residence of Charles Lyell, Esq. The garden
is enriched by many rare plants; and there is a museum, consisting
of minerals, bones of animals, and antiquities; there is also a col-
lection of insects.
	Balnaboth, in the upper part of the parish, is the residence of
the Honourable Colonel Ogilvy of Clova, the brother of the Earl
of Airly. Logie is the residence of John Kinloch, Esq. of Kilry.
The mansion-house of Balinshoe, the residence of the late Mr
Fletcher, now in a ruinous state, appears to have been originally
built without reference to any settled plan.
	Ballandarg is the seat of Francis Graham, Esq. of Morphie, a
member of the ancient family of Graham; which, as Sir Walter
Scott says, can boast of as great historical renown as any in Scot-
land. To this family belonged Sir John the Graham, the friend
of Wallace, who fell in the field of Falkirk; the Marquis of Mon-

<FOOTNOTE>For an accurate description and figure nf the c`noe, the reader is referred to Mr
Lyell's paper on a recent formation of fresh water limestone.
       The original M S. contains an account of some querns, celts, or battle-axes, and
arrow-heads found in the parish: also of the remains of the religious houses of Kil-
hill, Chapelton, &c.
	There is also in the original M S. under this head, a notice of some remains of a
Roman road, with an interesting discussion on the question, whether the great battle
betwixt Agricola and the aboriginal inhabitants was fought in this parish.
	In the original M S. will be found also a lengthened description of the castle of In-
verquharity, with an elegant drawing.
        It has lately been converted into a chapel for the Relief congregation.


