
176                        ARGYLESHIRE.

in a country unhappily left, in such matters, in a great measure
to nature's unaided resources.
   Highlanders are not much skilled in domestic economy, and
few of the indigenous plants are used by them here for culinary pur-
poses.  We must, however, except the "tussilago" and "agrimony,"
which are often substituted for tea, and followed, perhaps, by as
innocuous effects as the mixture of the renowned Howka.
   Owing to the high price of wool and other causes, home-made
cloths are not now so much worn as they formerly were.  The
comfortless fustians and other interior cloths of the south are sub-
stituted in place of them ; but in former times, and to some ex-
tent still, the dyes used in preparing the graceful tartan and the
homely plaiding were extracted from plants and roots of native
growth.  For instance, the top of the heather was used for dyeing
green ; the bark of the alder and root of the bramble and water-
lily, for black; crotal, or a spongy substance growing on rocks
and trees, for brown, &c.
   According to tradition, the parish was at one time covered with
wood, insomuch that, from the line of road leading along the
coast, only two views of the sea could be obtained.  This state-
ment may be somewhat exaggerated, but not extravagantly.  So
late as the year 1746, in the memory of persons but recently re-
moved, who, according to their own graphic description, saw the
country " as one red ember;" great quantities of timber were,
in enforcing the sad policy pursued at the time, consumed by fire.
In all the mosses, the remains of trees are dug, up.  On the
mountain sides, huge trunks of oak yet remain, some of which,
after exposure to the rains and storms of centuries, still measure
upwards of ten feet in circumference.  There are also extensive
coppices.  During the period occupied in cutting the Morvern
coppice woods, previous to the sale of the Argyle estates, it was
computed that from L.8000 to L.10,000 were expended on the
various operations connected with the cutting, &c. of them.  There
are yet extensive ranges of valuable oak and ash in strict pre-
servation; but, for the benefit of the much-indulged sheep, the
wood-axe is aimed at almost every other description of timber.
Along the shores of Loch Sunart, the heights are thickly wooded,
chiefly with birch; the sombre hue of which during the gloom
of winter beautifully contrasts with the deep green of the un-
changing holly.
   The planting of wood was successfully tried at a very early pe-
                               4


