
     Statistical Account

a stripe of the country that few children are within 2 miles of
it.  The schoolmaster's salary is L. 5:11:1 1/3 sterling.-The
society for propagating Christian knowledge have, very judi-
ciously, planted two of their schools in this parish, at which
are taught for a great part of the year 160 children of both
sexes.  The good effect of these charity schools are manifest
and important.  By means of them the youth in the Highlands
are early instructed in the principles of religion and mora-
lity, as well as taught reading, writing, arithmetic, and a to-
lerable knowledge of the English tongue.  Thus successive ge-
nerations arise of enlightened and useful citizens.  Some have
entertained the mistaken maxim, " That it is impolitic to
" give the common people so much instruction."-A maxim
bad enough for Russia, or for the church of Rome during the
periods of its foulest corruption*.

   Rent.-The greatest part of, by far, the most extensive pro-
perty in this parish was let about half a century ago, but some
of it later, at a very low rental, for one or two lives, upon
the payment of a grassum by the tenant.  Not a small part of
the best lands in the parish are thus rented at 1 s. 8 d. and
some of them lower, per acre, in money, together with a
trifle paid in mutton, butter, poultry, and some services.  When
any of these lives fall, eight, or nine times the present rent is

<FOOTNOTE>

*The wages of full grown men servants are, at an average, L. 7;-of maid
servants L. 3 a year; a day labourer in summer at ordinary work, 6 d. and
his victuals; in winter 4 d. or 5 d.-at hay and corn harvest, quarrying stones, and
some other kind of work, 1 s. and his victuals;-a mason from 1 s. 6 d. to 2 s.
without board, and wrights 1 s.-a taylor 6 d. with board.-The average price
of beef and mutton at Dunkeld is 3 d. halfpenny per lb.  Dutch; good veal and pork
rather higher.  Chickens arc sold in the country at from 3 s. to 4 s. per dozen,
a hen at 8 d.  The expence of food and clothing for a day-labourer with a
wife and two or three children cannot be less than L. 15 a year.  The indus-
try of the wife is necessary for defraying a considerable part of this expence.


