
     The Statistical Account.

needed; and from the age of ten they are generally em-
ployed in herding cattle thro' summer, attending the school
only in winter.  The kirk session pay for the children of
the poor, from the Poors' funds, in teaching them to read.
The schoolmaster, when there is a demand for it, teaches a
night school by candle light, during the quarter when the
day is at shortest; where those who had received less educa-
tion in their youth attend for writing and arithmetic, paying
for it out of their first earnings of wages.

<TABLE>

Taking the whole at an average, we may reckon 20 scho-
lars at 2 s. per quarter, for four quarters of the year, hence

wages for teaching,                                    L. 8    0   0
   The other perquisites of office are for proclama-
tion of banns of marriage, 1 s 8 d.-for registration               
of a birth, 8 d.-for an extract from the register of               
births, 6 d.-for attestation of moral character from                
the kirk session, upon removal to another parish,                  
for an individual 4 d. for a family 8 d.  The whole                
above perquisites may average yearly,                     3    0   0       
Salary before-mentioned from heritors,                    8    6   8        
Ditto, from the kirk session,                             0   13   4         
                                                          ----------          
                                              Total,  L. 20    0   0      

</TABLE>

   This with the dwelling house and the kale yard constitute
the whole emoluments-by far too small a recompence for
such a laborious profession.
   No man decently qualified for the office could possibly be
found willing to accept of it as his ultimatum:  and in fact,
Scots schools are generally filled by young men prosecuting
their studies for the clerical profession, who are willing to
accept of the office in the meantime till something better
casts up.
   It sometimes happens that a wealthy farmer in the neigh-

     VOL. XXI. 3 F


