
42                         LANARKSHIRE.

in ordinary seasons; and the inhabitants of this parish are subject
to as few diseases, and are as healthy, on the whole, as those of
any other parish in Scotland. This must be owing, in a great
measure, to the pure keen air they breathe, as well as to the ge-
neral temperance of their habits.
	Hydrography.--The only rivers in this parish are the Clyde and
the Medwin. The Clyde, when swollen by rain, overflows all the
low grounds on its banks, doing much damage to the growing crops
within its reach. The farmers, however, often carry off the crops
as they are cut, beyond the reach of the inundation. The breadth
of the Clyde in this parish is from 100 to 120 feet, and its depth
from 15 to 1 foot. There are several fords when the stream is
low; but in winter they are often impassable.
	The South Medwin, which bounds Libberton parish for three
miles, rises near Garvaldfoot, in the parish of West Linton, and,
after a course of nine miles, is joined by the North Medwin, in this
parish, about a mile and a-half before they both fall into the Clyde.
A small branch of the South Medwin runs off towards the east,
near Garvaldfoot, and, dividing at Dolphington, the counties of La-
nark and Peebles, falls into the Tweed. The South Medwin,
within its usual channels, is in general about 22 feet broad, and 2
or 3 feet deep, at an average. When united, the Medwins are
not much broader, but of greater mean depth.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	It appears from Wodrow's History that, in the year 1663, the
parish of Libberton was fined L. 252, Ss. Scots, and Quothquhan
L. 182, 16s. ts, for nonconformity to Prelacy.
	Chief Land-owners.--The chief land-owner is Sir Norman Mac-
donald Lockhart, Bart. of Lee and Carnwath.
	Family of Chancellor of Shieldhill.--The second land-owner is
Alexander Chancellor, Esq. of Shieldhill, whose ancestors have
been in possession of this estate for the last four centuries, as appears
from a charter still extant,* granted by Thomas Lord Sommerville
to William Chancellor of Shieldhill and Quothquhan, A. D. 1432.
In July 1474, William Chancellor rode with the rest of the then
Lord Sommerville's vassals to meet King James on his way from
Edinburgh to Couthally Castle, to partake of the festivity. of the
"speates and raxes."+

<FOOTNOTE>This charter is referred to in the Memoirs of the Sommervilles, Vol. i. p. 175.

          Ibid. pp. 240-248.















