
                                   GLENSHEIL.                            185

       branches, the largest of which runs in a southeast direction, and the
       other to the north-east.  The former of these is properly called
       Lochduich, although it gives its name to the whole inlet.  The length
       of this inner loch from the point where the other branch, which is
       called Lochlong, the Ship loch, joins it, is six miles,-its breadth at
       the entrance being half a mile; but towards its eastern extremity it
       widens to nearly two miles.  Its course is nearly straight, with a
       slight curvature having its convexity to the south-west.   At its
       eastern angle, it throws off a branch to the north-east, about a mile
       long and half a-mile wide, called the Little Loch.  The depth of
       the water in this inlet, is various; in the western division, it runs
       from 15 to 30 fathoms;. at the entrance of Lochduich (proper) it
       does not exceed 10 fathoms; but towards its head, it increases con-
       siderably, being in some parts from 80 to 100 fathorns.  In the
       shallower parts, the bottom consists of rock, and sometimes sand and
       gravel; at the great depths, it is always mud.
         The water of this inlet, in consequence of the narrowness of the
       passages by which it communicates with the ocean, neither of which
       exceeds a quarter of a mile in width, is much less salt than sea
       water usually is.  Partly from this cause, it is sometimes observed,
       during severe frost, to become partially covered with a crust of ice
       about one-eighth of an inch thick.  It has never been known,
       however, to be completely frozen over; nor does the partial con-
       gelation now mentioned take place unless the weather is calm, and
       the frost has been preceded by rain, which floats on the surface of
       the sea, when there is no wind to occasion the mixture of the dif-
       ferent strata.
         During the autumn, the water is strongly luminous, when disturb-
       ed, in consequence of the multitudes of medusae, hero‰s, and
       other phosphorescent animals, which then appear in it.  In ordi-
       nary weather, there is nothing peculiar in the colour; but after
       heavy falls of rain, it is rendered so muddy that no object can be
       seen through it, at the depth of a few feet.  The current runs with
       considerable rapidity, through the narrows at the entrance of the
       Loch, and both sides of Glass-Ellen; and the rate at spring tides may
       here amount to four miles an hour.  In the strait which divides the
       parish from Skye, the current is extremely rapid, running at times
       at the rate of seven miles per hour.  If is high water in the inlet
       about six o'clock, on the day before new and full moon.  The or-
       dinary height to which the tide 'rises, with springs, is 16 feet.
       Both the height and time of high water, however, are much influ-


