
			    GLASGOW.                            123

ceiving returns from the whole, as also an account of the children-
of parents, who, while disapproving of infant baptism, did not be-
long to any religious society. It appeared that in the city and su-
burbs, there were 6397 children baptized or born to Baptists, &c.
and of that number there were only 3225 inserted in the parochial
registers, leaving unregistered 3172.
	Although in Scotland there is no marriage act as in England,
restricting the solemnization of marriages to clergymen of the Es-
tablished Church, the ordinance can only be regularly celebrated
by persons duly called to the pastoral office, and not until a certi-
ficate of the proclamation of banns has been produced. Persons
irregularly married are deprived of the privileges of the church,
till they appear before the kirk-session, acknowledge their fault,
and be reponed. From this circumstance, in connection with the
solicitude of the female and her friends, to have the marriage re-
gistered, the marriage resister of Glasgow and its suburbs may be
held as correct for all statistical purposes.
	The deaths are ascertained by the number of burials. The
burying-grounds in the city and suburbs are placed under the
management of fourteen wardens. These officers, who attend
every funeral, enter in a memorandum book at the grave, the name,
age, and designation of the person buried, along with the amount
of fee received, and the name of tbe undertaker. Having taken
these, and other particulars, the wardens afterwards enter the
whole in a book classified conformably to a printed schedule, drawn
up by Dr Cleland. At the end of the year they furnish him with
an abstract from their book, and it is from a combination of these
abstracts that he ascertains the number of deaths at the various
ages. The abstract includes still-born children, and the deaths of
Jews, and members of the Society of Friends, who have separate
burying places.
	Dr Cleland having been appointed to take the sole charge of
conducting the enumeration and classification of the inhabitants of
the city of Glasgow and suburbs, for the Government census of
1831, he employed twelve parochial beadless nineteen mercantile
clerks, and one superintendent of police, to take the lists. Before
the books were prepared, an advertisement was inserted in the
Glasgow newspapers, requesting  the inhabitants to favour him with
their suggestions as to classification, and before the list-takers
commenced their operations, bills were posted upon the public


