
194                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

prietor of Applegarth, obtained a Parliamentary grant of the right
to hold four annual fairs and a weekly market at the village of
Applegarth. These fairs have long since ceased to be held; but
what is said to be the site of the market cross is still visible, and
has witnessed within these thirty years the legal process of poinding
cattle. There is but one inn, or public-house, in the parish; and
it is frequented chiefly by travellers on the Glasgow road. The
reprehensible practice of allowing toll-keepers to take out the
spirit licence prevailed here for a year or two; but now malt-li-
quor only is allowed to be there sold. But even this privilege, af-
fording as it does an opportunity of dealing clandestinely in ardent
spirits, ought not, and it is hoped will not, be continued.
        Fuel.-The ordinary fuel is peat. Every tenant having a right
to fuel by his lease, the expense consists solely in working and
leading it,-perhaps at the rate of 8d. or 10d. pdr cart-load,
Coals, of which not a great deal is used, are brought from Annan,
a distance of eleven miles from the south boundary of the parish.
To that town they are sea-borne from the collierier of Cumber-
land.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The difference between the present state of the parish and that
which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account, is, as may
naturally be expected, very great, though, from the want of mil-
nuteness in that account, it is not easy to point out in many par-
ticulars the precise degree of improvement. The mode of living
is more comfortable; while the good old habits of domestic eco-
nomy have not been impaired. The management of the land is
more judicious, and of course it is greatly more productive. In
one particular, the improvement is striking; at that period there
was little or no wheat raised in the parish, and but a small quan-
tity of artificial hay. Now the yearly value of the former article
grown in Applegarth will amount to between L.5000 and L.6000,
and of the latter to L.1000 at least.  The rental at the same pe-
riod was between L.2000 and L.3000; it is now nearly L.7000,
and was a few years ago L.8000.

	March 1834.


