
                                   LOTH.                         199

        ed Earl of Breadalbane. This expedition, which terminated in
        the battle of Altimarlach, to the westward of Wick, is remarkable
        as indicating the peculiar condition of Scotland at that compara-
	tively recent period, which admitted a subject to arm his vassals,
	and wage war, in support of his private legal claims. It was dur-
	ing the march northwards of the men of Glenorchy,- on this occa-
	sion, that the well-known, quickstep airs, "The Campbells are
	coming," and "The Braes of Glenorchy," obtained their names.
	   The Rebellions in 1715 and 1745, occasioned the arming of the
	male population of this parish, in support of the reigning dynasty.
	During the retreat of the insurgents before the battle of Culloden,
	in 1746, Lord Loudon was stationed in Dornoch, with some com-
	panies of the King's troops; but, hearing of the advance into Ross-
	shire of a large force under the Duke of Perth, with the intention
	of attacking him, Lord Loudon, and his men abruptly retired to
	the westward, leaving the whole county of Sutherland unprotect-
	ed. The Earl of Cromarty, with a considerable force, instantly
	marched through Sutherland into Caithness, with the intention of
	collecting together such men in that latter county, as might be in-
	clined to join the rebel army; and the Earl's men, among other
	outrages committed by them against individuals and private pro-
	perty, burnt, in this parish, the mansion-houses of Kintradwell and
	Crakaig, and disinterred the corpse of a person recently interred
	in the burying-ground at Navidale, who bad been the relative of
	a zealous royalist at that place, and left the partly decayed body
	in his bed,-he having previously fled from his home on the ap-
	proacb of the enemy. These proceedings exasperated the parish
	people; and two of Lord Cromarty's officers, who had wandered
	into the glen of Loth, on their return from Caithness, were killed
	there by three countrymen who met them. Before the return
	from Caithness of this invading force, the militia of the county had
	time to assemble, and having attacked them to the west of Golspie,
        the Earl of Cromarty's forces were defeated in a running fight
	between Rhives and the Little Ferry, and the Earl, and almost
	all his officers and men who were not slain, were taken prisoners.
	Thia occurred two days before the battle of Culloden was fought;
	and while the Earl was hurrying south to joint the rebel army.
	   Land-owners..-His Grace the Duke and Earl of Sutherlaud is
	heritor of the whole parish, which, at all times, formed part of
	the ancient Earldom of Sutherland
           Parochial Registers.- There is no register of births  and mar-


