
340                        INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the grant was undisturbed: but when the value of land had risen
to six or seven times what it was when the school was founded,
Macleod very reasonably proposed to resume one-half of the farm,
offering at the same time to Macrimmon,'a free lease of the other
half in perpetuum; but Macrimmon, indignant that his emoluments
should be curtailed, resigned the whole farm, and broke up his
establishment, which has never been restored.
     The Macrirnmons were well educated, intermarried with highly
respectable families, and were universally regarded as vastly supe-
rior to the common class of the country people. A son of the
last family piper holds the rank of captain in the British army,
and is said to inherit the musical talents of his race.  There are
a few of them still residing in this parish, but tbev are born of
what was reckoned a very low marriage for Macrimmon, and they
do not possess either the talents or respectability of their progenitors.
A Macrimmon still acts as piper to Macleod, but he is not descend-
ed of the Boreraig Macrimmons, who appear to have renounced
their profession with their endowment.
     We know not whether there were establishments similar to that
of Boreraig in other parts of the Highlands; but it certainly is to
be regretted that it was dissolved, and also that we have not rni-
nuter information as to the mode of training pursued by those who
were universally acknowledged to be the first masters of bagpipe
music.
     Eminent Persons.-Among the distinguished persons who were
born in the parish, may be noticed Mary Macleod, or "Mairi
Nighinn Alastair Ruaidh," i. e. Mary, the dauohter of red-haired
Alexander, who lived at Dunvegan about 200 years ago, and was
a near relative of the Chief of Macleod. Her fame is confined
by the narrow bounds of the Gaelic language; but wherever it is
known she is known, and admired as a poetess of the first order that
has appear.ed in the Highlands for many ages back. Her concep-
tions are remarkably vivid, and display much pnetic fire; her lan-
guage is certainly very rich and varied; and some of her composi-
tions present 'instances, both of meltinc, pathos and of rousing en-
ergy, which might well bear comparison with many of the, eulo-
gized productions of modern days.
     She had a sister named Jean, who also composed songs and
lyrics; but the higher fame of Mary has caused Jean to be com-
paratively forgotten.
   Many individuals born in this parish have distinguished them-


