
		ALVAH.                             169

   rage, 5 quarters 6 bushels per Scotch acre, while some of the
   best fields, in the same district, have been known to yield occa-
   sionally 12 quarters per Scotch acre.
        Planting.-The extent planted is 750 acres. In regard to
   management, although our system appears geqerally proper, yet,
   if more attention were paid to pruning and thinning, especially
   at an early age, it is believed that the trees would be more
   healthy, and of much larger growth. Several young and tbriv-
   ing plantations of larch might be pointed out, in which it is
   necessary to cut down at least one-fourth of the trees immediate-
   ly, in order to preserve them in a healthy state. Young trees are
   also too frequently suffered to be overpowered by the growth of
   whins ; and in some stations of considerable extent, where. the
   whins have been eradicated, with a view to remedy the evil, the
   the second plantation of trees has been completely destroyed by
   the rabbits, with which our woods are infested.\f*
	Waste Land Improved.-2278 imperial acres have been im-
   proved within the last forty years. By far the greater part of this
   extent has been reclaimed from thin land previously overgrown
   with furze and heath. This sort of improvement on large farms
   would seem, in some cases, to have been over-extended, as a con-
   siderable part has either again been allowed to run into its natu-
   ral state, or has now been planted. The most valuable improve.
   ments, however, have been effected by means of draining and ditch-
   ing marshy ground, and so far have these been carried, that com-
   paratively little now remains to be done in this way. The usual
   mode of reclaiming waste land of a certain description, is to trench,
   or trench plough the ground in autumn, allow it to lie in that
   state during winter, and generally all the following year, and in
   the second spring to crop it with oats (in which case, turnips fol-
   low the next year) or prepare it for green crop. The mossy lands
   (once of very considerable extent) are improved by drying and
   burning. The water is drawn off by open ditches and drains. The
   upper part of the moss, when dry, is burnt, and spread for ma-
   nure, and lime is applied for raising artificial grass. When the
   season is dry and early, this mode of culture produces fine crops
   of oats.
	Waste Lands still unimproved.-In the parish there are 3428
   imperial acres still unimproved. Planting is, no doubt, the only

<FOOTNOTE>The Earl of Fife has of late years planted thorn hedges, to the extent of nearly
   eight miles within the parish.


