
40                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Topographical Appearances.--The only hills in the parish are
the northern part of a range which extends to the S. E. through
the parishes of Torthorwald and Mousewald, and sinks gradually as
it approaches the Solway; their acclivity is in most cases gentle,
and with scarcely an exception they admit of cultivation to the tops.
The elevation of the highest hill above the level of the sea, accord-
ing to barometrical measurement, is 682 feet.
	Hydrography.--There is one lake in the parish, called the Mur-
der loch. It is of small extent, and has been considerably dimi-
nished lately by means of draining. It is now only about eighteen
feet at its greatest depth.
	The only streams connected with the parish worth noticing are
the Ae and the Lochar ; the former of which forms the north-
ern boundary of the parish. It has its source from the Queens-
berry hill, whence it proceeds in a southern direction, sepa-
rating the parish of Kirkmichael from those of Closeburn and
Kirkmahoe; then turning to the east, it separates Kirkmichael
from Tinwald, joins the Kinnel near its southern extremity,
and with it falls into the Annan above Lochmaben. It is a
rapid stream, very liable to floods, which come down from the
high grounds with great velocity, and often do considerable
damage. Its bed being of a gravelly nature, this stream is conti-
nually undermining its banks and changing its course.
	The Lochar commences near a small village upon the Edinburgh
road, called Jericho, where two rivulets of nearly the same size (the
one forming for a considerable space the western boundary of
the parish) join together, and afterwards assume that name. It
separates the parishes of Tinwald and Dumfries so far as they lie
contiguous.
	Geology.--The rocks of which the hills in this parish are com-
posed consist entirely of greywacke and greywacke-slate, all of which
dip towards the south at almost every degree of inclination, some
being nearly vertical, others nearly horizontal. There are a few
trifling veins (scarcely worthy of the name perhaps) of crystallized
felspar, to be met with amongst them. Peat-moss is pretty ex-
tensive ; but there is none of any depth, except a small portion upon
the eastern boundary of the parish, and that lying contiguous to
the Lochar, most of which has been improved.
	Soil.--There is a considerable variety of soil in the parish.
On the south-western boundary of the parish, there is the moss at
the side of the Lochar, already mentioned, and extending to about


