
		KILMONIVAIG.                         505

ants, as some parts of the parish of Kilmonivaig. In Glenspean
alone, there are upwards of 40,000 acres of excellent soil, which,
by the application of skill and capital, could be brought into cul-
tivation. Thus, in the course of thirty years, the value of land
might be increased tenfold. The character might be improved,
and so might the habits, comforts, and morals of the inhabitants.
Under a proper system of management, the people would have
strong inducements to active exertion; and the present practice of
spending a great part of their time in idleness, or in balls, raffles,
shinty-matches, and whisky shops, would disappear. An improv-
ed system of husbandry, introduced into Lochaber, would be of
signal benefit to a great portion of the Highlands. It would render
meal and potatoes plentiful, and keep in the country the money
sent out of it every year to procure these necessaries of life. Great
quantities of butcher-meat could be reared, and easily sent to the
Glasgow and Liverpool markets by means of the steam-boats.
Ireland is not the only country that suffers from the system of
middlemen and absenteeism.
  Rivers.-Glenspean, which constitutes the principal part of
this parish, is in shape somewhat like an hour-glass. At the
north-east corner it receives the Spean from Lochlaggan. About
a quarter of a mile after it leaves the lake, it receives the Gulbin
from the south. Three streams rise at the side of Benalder, in
the parish of Laggan, within a few yards of each other. The one
travels east and north for ten or twelve miles, and then turns west,
and empties itself in Lochlaggan. In this locality, it is called the
Pattak. The other runs out of the same black hillock, and, after
travelling south for many miles, and receiving many tributary
streamlets, it turns north; and at a place called Moy, under the
name of Gulbin, it meets the Pattak, coming out of Lochlaggan,
transformed into the Spean. From the south-west angle of Glen-
spean comes the river Treig. This river rises at the south side
of Bennevis. It flows eastward to Locbtreig, then travels,north,
and meets the Spean, near to where the glen becomes narrow.
It flows then north-west, till it joins the Lochy, at Mucomer, and
after rising at the one side of Bennevis, and travelling upwards of
fifty miles, it falls into the sea at Fort- William. Three mountain
streams afford excellent trout-fishing. The only river of note in
this parish besides the Spean is the Garry.
  Parallel roads of Glenroy.--The following account of these ce-
lebrated indented lines is taken from the Edinburgh Philosophi-
  INVERNESS.                                 K K


