
				BENDOCHY.			   1185

	gonum viviparum, and several of the upland carices appearing in
	the pastures.  The Hippuris vulgaris is found in a small pool on
	the left hand of the road leading to Kirkmichael.  The marsh has
	been drained, and the plant is rapidly disappearing.  The Habe-
	naria viridis grows sparingly on the pastures east of the Strone,
	and H. albida plentifully there and elsewhere.  In the same loca-
	lity the H. bifolia is abundant, and the variety H. chlorantha (see
	Transactions of Botanical Society, Edinburgh.) Entering on the
	left bank of the river at Bridge of Cally, the Primula elatior and
	veris will be found in great plenty: and on the bank of the Black-
	water, that very rare and elegant plant the Convallaria verticillata,*
	which I discovered seven years ago.  It is to be found, I believe,
	in only three other stations in Britain.  Some straggling plants of
	it may also be seen above the bridge of Strone, where the collector
	may likewise gather the Vicia sylvatica, the Circaea lutetiana, and
	alpina, the Melampyrurn pretense and sylvoticum, the Melica nu-
	tans and uniflora, and the Listera ovata.  On knolls, at the
	base of Persie Hill, the Listera cordata may be seen along with
	the Pyrola media; and near the top of the hill I once gathered
	some plants, of what I convinced myself at the time was the Py-
	rola rotundifolia.  On dry rocks at Drimmie, Myosotis collina ;
	and on the banks of the Ericht there are the Epilobium angusti-
	folium and Festuca elatior.  I have gathered in the parish also
	the Festuca bromoides, Bromus secalinus, and the Lolium temulentum,
	and the Prunella vulgaris, Veronica serpyllifolia, and Pedicularis
	palustris, with white flowers.  It is important to add, that some
	plants having a very general distribution are not to be found in the
	parish or district, such as the Lamium album and Bromus sterilis,
	while others, of which some localities seem all but destitute,
	abound, such as the Sedum Telephium.  On the banks of our
	rivers (as is always the case) plants occasionally may be picked up
	not indigenous to the soil,--such as on the Ericht, the Oxyria re-
	niformis, evidently a migrant from a more elevated region, and

	<FOOTNOTE> It is with some hesitation that we have mentioned the habitat of this interest-
	ing plant; and we hope that the young gentlemen who issue every autumn from our
	seats of learning will use their botanical trowels tenderly, when thdy visit the banks
	of the Blackwater.  At the original station in the Den of Rechip this plant is all
	but extirpated.  The reason of its disappearance is no mystery.  The country is an-
	nually overrun with hordes of herborizers from the south and west, who, instead of
	contenting themselves with a specimen, root up, without remorse, the rarest treasures,
	leaving, locust like, nothing for those who succeed them.  We implore our learned
	friend, the Professor of Botany at Glasgow, to restrain the herbivorous appetites of the
	rising generation.  If matters proceed at the rate they have been doing for some time
	past, nothing but docks and nettles will be left in the land.
	   PERTH.                                                   4 F



