
10                           BUTESHIRE.

itself. Their general figure is regular six-sided prisms, acu-
minated by six faces. Their colour varies, some being black,
others brown, and a few a beautiful yellow. The yellow are the
most valued, but the brown is the most abundant. The variety of
emerald, named Beryl, occurs in regular six-sided prisms, asso-
ciated with fine crystals of mica, felspar, and rock-crystal, in cavi-
ties in the granite. Professor Jameson, to whom we owe the dis-
covery of this gem in Arran, has, we understand, in his cabinet,
crystals nearly an inch in length, of a mountain green colour, still
attached to the graphic granite, so frequent in our glens. Beau-
tiful crystals of the sub-gem-named Pistacite occur in veins in the
slate quarry of Glen Halimidel. There is an extensive vein of
sulphate of barytes at Sannox, which is seen traversing the channels
both of North and South Sannox rivers; and therefore, in all pro-
bability, runs along the whole intervening space. This mineral
bears, at present, a high price, in the market. Accordingly, the
proprietor, stimulated by the remarks of two well known practical
chemists from Glasgow, who visited the Island of Arran in 1836,
has recently opened a regular barytes quarry at Sannox, and erect-
ed in its neighbourhood a large mill, in which the mineral is pul-
verized, purified, and thoroughly prepared for the market. The
quarry is situated within a mile of the sea shore.
	The Holy Isle, which forms part of this parish, is composed prin-
cipally of clinkstone, which rises to the top of the island in ranges
of rude columns, placed over each other, and rests below upon a
basis of red sandstone, with a stratum of white sandstone inter-
posed between it and the columns. On the south and east side of
the island, there are several veins of greenstone and basaltic por-
phyry. Of the latter, some are seen to intersect not only the
sandstone strata, but also those of columnar clinkstone which rest
on them.
        Soil.-The cultivated soil in this parish is in general light;
and best adapted to turnip husbandry. In the valleys, which are
of considerable extent,it varies greatly in kind and quality. In
many places close to the shore, it is little else than granitic sand
washed down from the mountains to the sea, and driven back by
the sea upon the land. In other places, it is a fine alluvial loam,
or land originally moss and marsh, but, by draming abd cultivation,
converted into a good black mould. The loam is in most place
more or less mixed with gravel, and interspersed with patches of
moss. On the rising grounds between the level parts of the val-


