
50                             AYRSHIRE.

  Rent, &c.--The rent of land varies from L. 4, odds, to a rate as
low as 15s. per acre; the average may be about L. 1, 10s. or L. 1, 15s.
The farm-steadings are in general good and convenient, and on the
Rozelle estate they have been mostly all renewed within the last
few years, the dwelling-house, consisting of one storey, with three
apartments, besides a kitchen and garret, covered with a slated
roof. The usual rate of grazing is L. 3 for a cow or ox, and 10s.
for a sheep, yearly. This, however, depends very much on the
nature of the pasture. In some of the richer lands, a ewe or full-
grown sheep may cost from 15s. to L. 1.
  Wages.--The wages of labourers amount to 8s. a week in win-
ter, and from 9s. to 10s. in summer. In harvest, an exception to
this must be made, when they are sometimes so high as 2s. 6d. a
day. Hired farm-servants, fit for the ordinary work of a farm,
receive about L. 12 a-year, females L. 6, with bed and board. A
cartwright and blacksmith can earn from 12s. to 15s. weekly.
  Live-Stock.--The sheep used as farm-stock are of the white-
faced breed, chiefly of the Leicester and Cheviot kinds, introdu-
ced within the last twenty years. Such of the farmers as can raise
extensive green crops prefer the black-faced breed, which they
turn upon their turnip-fields in winter. They thus both improve
the land, and are generally found to yield a good return when
brought to the market. The cattle used are of the genuine Ayr-
shire breed, now generally known over the whole of Scotland, and
which here has been brought to great perfection. The short-
horn kind has lately been introduced on some farms, but they are
not likely to increase, as the pasture is supposed not to be well
adapted to them. The following is a list of some of the lately in-
vented agricultural implements that are made use of by some who
farm on a superior scale, but they are not generally employed:
1. The subsoil plough, invented by Mr Smith of Deanston, for
loosening the substratum of earth, on stiff lands. 2. A machine
for sowing wheat and bone manure in drills. 3. A soil furrow
presser, which is well adapted for consolidating light soil, and is
better than a roller for this pupose, as it prevents the seed from
getting to the bottom of the furrow, and produces a more regular
braird. 4. A machine for sowing wheat and rye-grass seeds,
broadcast, is also much  approved of by those who have tried it.
The best farms in the parish are Holmstone and Greenfield, both
of which are worked in a superior style. The latter is perhaps


