
     of Tongland.

is another man standing close by with a club, ready to take
hold of the fish and kill them, and take them out to a safe
place.  In certain places of the river, great numbers of
fish are taken in the night time by this mode of fishing.
For this purpose there are two shoulder net men, and one
man to kill, generally employed through the fishing sea-
son.  The principal markets for the salmon are Manche-
ster, Liverpool, and Whitehaven.  Early in the season
some few are sent to London by land-carriage.  The
price in the spring is 6 d. the lb.  English weight; but when
the season is farther advanced, it is sold for 4 d. and 3 d.
the lb.  The salmon taken at Tongland are much admired
for their richness, and delicate taste; but those caught far-
ther down the river, in the fishing yairs at Kirkcudbright,
are still more admired by connoisseurs for the richness and
delicacy of their curd.  The fishing at Tongland, which
does not reach to 1/2 mile upon the side of the river is
let in tack, with a small piece of ground annexed to it,
at the yearly rent of L. 305 Sterling, besides paying the
public burdens.  The land is valued at L. 42 Sterling a-
year, and the fishing is L. 263 Sterling.  About 68 years
ago it was let, with the same piece of ground, at L. 8 Ster-
ling, and the tenant could not pay that rent, but gave it up*.

   Character and Manners of the Inhabitants.-They are, in
general, a decent and respectable people in their different
ranks of life; sensible and rational in their religious prin-
ciples.  No sectaries.  They are all warm friends to the
principles of the Revolution Government, and the succes-
sion of the Family of Hanover.  There is not an old

<FOOTNOTE>

*Mineral Springs.-There is a chalybeate spring in the lands of Up-
per Barncrosh.  The country people use it as a cure in agues, and for
complaints in the stomach and indigestion  There is another of the
same nature near the House of Upper Barcastle.  The waters of both are
not strongly impregnated with the iron mineral.


