
     Statistical Account

town and country parish.  About 30 years ago, there was
only one chaise, a four-wheeled one; but at this time,
there are 2 coaches, 12 four-wheeled chaises, and 1 two-
wheeled; 6 of the four-wheeled chaises are let for hire by
innkeepers.  The principal inns in town were indifferent
till of late; they are now commodious and comfortable,
and, in attendance, entertainment and beds, emulate the
best inns in the southern parts of the kingdom.  There
are in the town subscription assemblies, and occasional
balls and concerts of music.  Companies of comedians
find their way to Inverness, and it is believed they have
no cause to discontinue their visits, nor is it improbable,
that in a few years a theatre will be erected.  In the town
and country parish, we have several convivial clubs.
Their meetings are frequent and stated; but they are
strangers to the coarse excess of former times, and its un-
happy consequences.

   Antiquities.-There was founded at Inverness, in the
year 1233, by King Alexander II. a convent, not of Fran-
ciscans or Gray Friars, as erroneously handed down by oral
tradition, (Spottiswood) but of Dominicans or Black Friars,
called also, Fratres praedicatores, because of their frequent
preaching.  They were a mendicant order, instituted by St
Dominic the projector of the Inquisition*.  There were

<FOOTNOTE>

*King David II. confirmed to them, decem libras Sterlingorum in
dotationem eclesize suae annuatim, percipiendas defirmis dicti burgi, which
were given them by his father, 21 mo. Octobris anno regni sui 8 vo.  His
confirmation is dated at Edinburgh 20 mo. diei Aprilis anno regni sui
30 mo.  This begging fraternity regardless of their vow of poverty acquir-
ed much property in land in this parish and probably elswhere.  Their
building stood till the interregnum.  Cromwell directed a citadel to be
built at the mouth of the river.  The religious houses at only a little dis-
tance, was considered as a very convenient quarry.  The monastery, the


