
               KILMUIR EASTER.                          305

try, in which he was familiarly known, as a solid, judicious, and
deeply experienced disciple of the Lord Jesus. Never was there
a more striking exemplification of th6 efficacy of Divine teaching,
in, enlightening the mind with that wisdom which cometh from
above, and which often reveals to babes what is hid from the wise
and the prudent. The inhabitants of this parish will long remem-
ber the solemn warnings, the affectionate addresses, and the pa-
thetic appeals of this man of God-and though dead, he yet
speaketh.
Heritors.-There are six land-owners. Mr Hay Mackenzie of
Crom`rty possesses the highest valuation, and is patron of the pa-
rish.
Parochial Registers.- The register of births commences in 1738,
and there are no sessional records of an older date than 1771.
Antiquities.-In addition to the antiquities so well described in
the former Statistical Account of this parish, may be mentioned
a round tower connected with the present church, and used as a
belfry, which bears date in large figures, 1616, and which, after
having braved the storms of two centuries, is still in a high state
of preservation.
There are still some remains of the ruins of the Castle of New
Tarbat, once the seat of the Earls of Cromarty, which is said
to have been the most elegant and highly finished house in the
three counties.  It stood near the site of the present mansion, and
was allowed to fall into a state of dilapidation during the period of
forfeiture. It is said to have been a most superb and spacious
building, and beautifully adorned with turrets.
On the estate of Kindace, there is a small wooded hillock, on
the summit of which there was a Druidical circle until within
the last few years, when the farmer of the place removed the
stones to build a dike. There is a fine spring of clear water at the
foot of the hillock; and on the same property, there is a large cairn
of stones, the tradition in regard to which is, that in a great battle
fought there, a king was killed, and his head struck off, and bu-
ried under this cairn. The hill is now called Kenrive, a corrup-
tion from the Gaelic of Ceann Righ, or King's head;  and the
foundation of a large castle or building can yet be traced close to
the cairn.
Modern Buildings.-Balnagown Castle is a beautiful building,
and splendidly situated. It is partly ancient, and partly modern.
It boasts a very high antiquity, and was one of the seats of the


