
290                         FORFARSHIRE.

Frazer's do. the interest of L.500; Mr Mill's do. the interest
of L. 1000; Provost Christie's dn. the interest of L. 100; Mr
Cooper's do. the interest of L. 50. John Erskine, Esq. of the
parish of St James, in the county of Cornwall, Jamaica, left by
his will, dated October 1786, the sum of L. 2000, the annualrent
of which was to be applied, by trustees named by him, for the be-
nefit of ten poor families, with three children each; and also the
sum of L.3000, the annualrent of which, after paying L. 50 to
an additional teacher in the grammar-school of Montrose, was to
be divided among eight poor boys, who had lost one or both their
parents, to attend said school. In 1801, the trustees laid out the
above sum in the purchase of land,-a transaction which has proved
highly advantageous to the charity. Last year, after paying the
L. 50 to the teacher, each of the eight boys upon the charity re-
ceived L. 17, 4s., and each of the ten families L. 12, 12s. The
male heirs of the testator are patrons.
        Inris.-There is one good Inn in the town. The number of
persons licensed to sell spirits is about 130; and here as elsewhere
we have often cause to complain of the demoralizing effects which
the facility of procuring ardent spirits has upon the people; much
of the poverty and wretchedness which exist, and a great propor-
tion of the cases requiring parochial relief, may be traced to that
source.
        Fuel.-The fuel used ir coal. In the dwelling-houses, almost
universally English coal, in the public works a great deal of Scotch
coal is consumed.

			GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.

	Since last report of the parish, the population has been doubled;
while the church accommodation, even then too scanty, has been
increased only about one-half; the tonnage of the shipping has
been more than trebled; the exports and imports have increased in
a still greater ratio; the manufactures have been almost entirely
created; the income of the Session is about twice and a-half, and
its expenditure four times and a-half the amount of what they were
then. In the country part of the parish, the agriculture has been
marked by those progressive improvements by which the country in
general is distinguished.

	February 1835.


