CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

often springs up spontaneously on ground which has never been
cultivated, when a little lime may have fallen upon it, or it may
have been casually turned up by the wheel of a cart or the plough.
This is also the case with a species of hearts-ease. The tubers
of Orobus tuberosus, knappards or caperoilie, which have a sweetish
taste,.somewhat like that of liquorice, are sometimes chewed to
allay hunger. Corncockle, Agrostemma Githago, which has but
very lately made its appearance in this quarter; betony, B. offi-
cinalis, found, though but dwarfish, on the road sides; ground-
ivy, Glechoma hederacea; and foxglove, Digitalis purpurea,
found near Thrumster, are of comparatively rare occurrence.
The last plant is provincially called dead men's bells, and has many
superstitions connected with it. But the rarest plant in the parish
of Wick was the white water-lily, Nymphæa alba, which was found
only in one spot in all the county of Caithness. This was the
Loch of Brickigoe, on the estate of Thrumster. But some time
ago this loch was drained for marl, and the pride of the Catha-
nensian Flora destroyed. Roots, however, were taken from the
Loch of Brickigoe, and planted in a pond near the House
of Stirkoke, and at different places in the county of Caith-
ness.
Lichens in great variety, and often of great beauty, clothe the
rocks and stones in all parts of the parish. The rein-deer lichen,
L. rangiferinus, grows to the height of about three or four inches
among the heather.
Woods. - There are at present no natural woods in the parish.
Trees have been planted to a considerable extent around the
houses of Hempriggs, Stirkoke, and Thrumster; but neither the
climate nor the soil is congenial to their growth, and they do not
thrive. Elder is excepted; almost everywhere it flourishes amaz-
ingly. Quickset hedges have, in many places, been trained into
good fences.
But though the parish of Wick is at present destitute of natural
wood, such does not appear to have been always the case. It is
said, that, in the beginning of the seventeenth century, the hills
of Yarrows were covered with copse-wood, which was destroyed
by fire, for the purpose of expelling the wolves, with which the
place was infested. But the most remarkable evidence of ancient
woods is found in the Bay of Keiss. Between the links and the
sand, and running down under the sea, there are found the re-
                             3

