
     Statistical Account

merly called the stewartry of Annandale.  It extends from
N. to S. nearly 4 miles, and from E. to W. rather more.
Being bounded with high hills to the E. and the W. it ap-
pears like a valley to the traveller at a distance; and the rising
grounds in the middle of the parish, called Nut-holm Hill*, are
distinctly seen from the heights above Moffat, on the very
boundary of Annandale.  From different surveys, the parish
is said to contain about 4000 Scotch acres; 1/5 part of which
is of a loamy and fertile soil.  On the sloping sides of the
rising grounds it is more sharp and stoney.  The higher ground
is in general the best, and is all arable, except a very few
small spots, which contain iron and copper-stone in abun-
dance.  Some free-stone is found in the parish of a white co-
lour, fit for building; and in some parts of the lowlands
there are lime-stone and several valuable marl pits.

   Rivers, Fish, Mineral Water, Woods, etc.-The river Milk runs,
along the N. E. side of the parish, and divides it from Tunder-
garth; afterwards it intersects the parish for almost two miles,
and, on the eastern extremity, empties itself into the river An-
nan.  The Annan runs nearly 4 miles along the S. and W. and
separates St. Mungo from the parishes of Dalton and Cummer-
trees.  Both these rivers abound with fresh water and sea-
trout, salmon, and hirlings.  These waters were much re-
sorted to by sportsmen from distant parts of the country, but
since the general use of lime as a manure, the number of fish
has greatly decreased.  In the Annan, a little below the
manse, there is a pool called the Rock-Hole, vulgarly Rotchel,
of an astonishing depth, formed in the middle of a rock,
where incredible quantities of salmon are caught, by a new

<FOOTNOTE>

*On Nut-holm Hill, the vestiges of a Roman, and of several British camps,
could lately be distincly traced; but by the lapse of time, and the progress of
cultivation, they are now almost entirely defaced.


