
228                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

he delayed for a week intimating that be would complete the re-
mainder, unless appearance was made on the following Sabbath.
This threat had the desired effect, and on 1st February 1602, the
Provost " compeirit and satisfied the congregation in all points."
Shortly afterwards, Isobel Carbeth, his wife, " compeirit before
the Presbytery, and they having shairply rebukit her, she upon
her knees confessit her sin, in not repairing to the kirk for a year
and a-half, and promisit to amend, qlk humiliation and promise
the minister was directed to intimate on the following Sabbath in
the Kirk of Corstorphine."*
   Mr Alexander M'Gill resided in the house adjoining the col-
legiate church, built by one of his predecessors. He is a witness
to a sasine of lands in the parish of Cramond, on 17th July 1606.
   Mr Wood quotes two manuscript rentals,+ but without giving
their dates, or mentioning where they are to be found, in both of
which valuations of the provostry are contained.
   In the first, which be calls a carefully compiled Manuscript Ac-
count of Benefices, Praepositura de Corstorphin is rated at L. 46,
10s. 3d. ; and the prebends are stated as eight in number, viz.
Bonytoune, Plat, Norton, Ratho Byres, Overgogar, Halderstoun,
Dalmaboy, and Haltoun.  The second, which he calls " A Ma-
nuscript Roll and Rental of Small Benefices," rates the provostry
at 500 merks, and separately values the eight prebends of Half
Halton, Half Dalmahoy, Half Gogar, Half Addiston, Half Nor-
ton, Half Byres, Half Bonytoune, and Half Platt, at 450 merks,
leaving 50 merks for the provost's salary.
   In the Books of Collections of the Thirds, the revenues of the
collegiate church after the Reformation are said to have consisted
of the teinds of Ratho and parsonage of Clerkington, and are es-
titmated in money at L. 122 13s. 4d. -Scots.
   At the Reformation, when church property was in general an-
nexed to the Crown, an exception was made in, favour of provost-
ries and other endowments, which bad been originally founded by
private individuals for their own ease and spiritual advantage, and
the existing patrons were then allowed either to dispose of their
revenues to bursars in the universities, or to apply tbem to any
other purposes consonant with the principles and spirit of the Re-
formation;++ accordingly, we find Sir George Forrester, in 1621,

<FOOTNOTE>Presbytery Register, Vol. iii.   Wood's MS. History of Corstorphine.
          The patronage and part of the teinds of Ratho were sold by James Lord For-
          resterin 1670 to Charles, Maitland of Hatton. See p. 24.


