
356                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

possessed of about L.30,000, which he had made in Russia, but his
heirs or creditors in this country did not realize nearly so great a sum,
by reason of the fall in the exchange value of the ruble, and other cir-
cumstances. These iron-smelting-works and iron cannon-founderies
of the Russian government are now, 1838, managed by Mr Wil-
son, who went out with Mr Gascoigne, and who has the rank of
General in the Russian service.
  Charles Baird, Knight of the Russian order of St Vladimir,
who also went from Carron to Russia along with Mr Gascoigne,
established and continues to carry on a large work for the manu-
facture of muskets, steam-engines, and other iron goods at Cron-
stadt, near Petersburg.
  Joseph Stainton, a native of Cumberland, who had been for se-
veral years employed in the counting house of the Carron Com-
pany, was appointed manager of the Carron Iron-works when
Charles Gascoigne had left them. By a steady application to bu-
siness and a scrupulous exactness in the execution of orders, as well
as by attention to the quality of articles made at the works, he
brought the affairs of the company into the thriving condition in
which they now are.
  Land-owners.--The heritors of the parish are,-1. Mrs Cum-
ing Bruce; 2. Colonel Dundas; 3. Sir Michael Bruce, Bart.; 4.
Mr S. Stirling; 5. Carron Company; 6. Sir Gilbert Stirling,
Bart; 7. Mrs Robertson; 8. Mr Forbes; 9. Mr W. A. Cadell.
The two families of Bruce are descended from the family of
Bruce of Airth, from which they were portioned off in the sixteenth
century.
  Colonel Dundas represents the family of Dundas of Fingask,
which long held large property in Perthshire.
  The holdings of the different estates or tenements of land which
the parish contains are as follows:--
  Kinnaird.--The owner is the superior.
  Quarol-Erskine of Cardross is the superior of a part; the own-
er of Quarol is the superior of another part.
  Woodside.--The owner is the superior.
  Stenhouse.--The owner of the estate of Callendar is the supe-
rior. From this, it appears that Stenhouse formerly was a part of the
estate of Callendar.

<FOOTNOTE>The representative of the family of Bruce of Airth and Elphinston of Airth is
Mr Dundas of Blair, near Culross.


