
     Statistical Account

Springs, seemingly of different kinds, but their medicinal qua-
lities have never as yet been ascertained.  A steel spring was
discovered lately near the manse.  It is generally pure, but
at times turbid, emitting periodically considerable quantities
of reddish ochrey substance.  There is a peat-moss in the pa-
rish, but it is difficult of access, except in a very dry summer.
The principal dependence of the parishioners for fuel, is upon
coal from Dundee, the nearest sea port.  The parish contains
shell marl, of very fine quality.  It is found, for the most part,
under peat-moss; sometimes, however, under sand, and, what
is remarkable, at one place, under a bed of pure clay, upwards
of 3 feet thick.  There is, indeed, a field of clay in the neigh-
bourhood, but, as there is no running water near it, except
small springs, it is not easy to conceive the length of time re-
quisite for these, or the ordinary washing of rain-water, to
have carried away and deposited such a tenacious substance as
clay, so such a thickness above the marl, which, from its na-
ture, must have been formed by degrees in the bottom of a
lake.  It is upwards of 50 years since this useful manure was
discovered; but, such was the ignorance and obstinacy of the
country people, that it was a long time before they would a-
vail themselves of it.  It is even told, that some of the neigh-
bouring proprietors were under the necessity of binding their
tenants under a penalty to make use of a certain quantity of
it yearly.  Afterward, however, when they began to per-
ceive its effects upon the soil, from want of restriction, they o-
vercropped some of their fields to such a degree, that they
sell the effects of it to this day, and, in some places, are re-
duced to a caput mortuum.  A darg of marl i. e. as much as
could be cast up with one spade in one day, amounting often
to 200 bolls, did not cost then above 18 d. or 2 s.; it is now
sold at 10 d. a-boll, at the neighbouring moss of Baikie, in
the parish of Airly, their being none disposed of at present in


