
				TEALING.                            381

	As to the st`td of farm-buildings and enclosures in the parish, a
favourable report may be given. The general duration of leases
is nineteen years, and a yearly money rent is, by the existing leases,
payable.
	There are some quarries in the parish, from which a good deal
of pavement is extracted, and conveyed to Dundee.

<TABLE=Produce>	Produce.--
Two fifths of 3670 Scotch acres in corn crop, yielding at the average rate of
	4 1/2 imperial quarters per acre, and estimating the quarter at L. 1, 5s. L.8257
One fifth of do. in green crop, potatoes, and turnip, at L.6 per acre,              4404
One fifth of do. in hay crop, at L.3 per acre,                                      2202
One fifth of do. in pasture, rating it at L.3 per cow or full grown ox, grazed,
	or that may be grazed, for the season,                                      2202
Probable value of the annual thinning, and periodical felling of plantations,        200
Produce of quarries,                                                                 300

	There are employed in the parish, in carrying on agricultural
operations, about 140 work-horses. And there are maintained
about 280 milk cows, whose produce is very advantageously dis-
posed of to the large and rapidly increasing population of Dun-
dee. But the annual value thereof is of course intended to be in-
cluded in the v`lte which has been assigned to the produce on
which the cows subsist.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The nearest market-town is Dundee, and the distance to it, as
has been incidentally stated, is five or six miles.
	Means of Communication.--The turnpike road from Dundee to
Aberdeen by Forfar intersects the eastern extremity of the parish,
and the rail-road from Dundee to Newtyle passes through a por-
tion of the parish near its south-west boundary. The parish roads
have been of late much improved, but they are still very suscep-
tible of improvement.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church and the manse are
nearly in the centre of the parish, and whether distance or popu-
lation be considered, a more eligible situation for them could not
have been chosen. The church was built about the year 1806--
is in excellent condition, and contains sittings for 700 individuals.
The manse was built about the year 1803, and has undergone
such alterations, and received such repairs, as make it very comfort-
able. The extent of the glebe is 5 acres, and its annual value
may be estimated at L. 14. As to the stipend, it is 10 chalders,
and L. 30. There is not any place for public worship in the pa-
rish except the Established Church, and all the inhabitants of the                            a


