
74                          FIFESHIRE.

   Husbandry- There are only four farms in the parish of any
extent, the remaining lands being so subdivided and parcelled out
among feuars and burghal heritors, as not to consist of more than
a single plough's labour. The whole may be considered in a very
high state of cultivation, and farmed according to the most im-
proved system of husbandry. There is no sheep pasturage, nor
any grass parks but such as are in proprietors' own hands. The
duration of leases on the estate of Pitcairly is for the period of
nineteen years, and on that of Mugdrum from seven to ten years.
Considerable improvements have lately been made in draining, by
adopting, as has been done with the greatest success in the clay
lands, the wedge form of draining. The higher grounds have been
much benefited by the cultivation of turnips, manured with bone
dust, and eating off the crop with sheep, after which, crops of bar-
ley, of the most luxuriant description and of the finest quality, have
been reaped. The Chevalier variety is beginning to be introduced
here, and, from the trial made, it is found to be much heavier in
quality, and more abundant in quantity, with a considerable in-
crease also of straw.
   Fisheries- The fishing of salmon is carried on to a considerable
extent here, and the fish are reckoned of superior quality. When
the tide has ebbed, the river leaves a great portion of its bed dry,
where the fine silicious sand, borne along by its current, has ac-
cumulated into large banks, which are designated by different
names, and belong to different proprietors. Upon these the fisher-
men, during the period of low water, ply with unwearied dilligence
their exciting occupation,-affording to about 60 of the weavers
of Newburgh a healthful as well as lucrative recreation from their
sedentary in-door labours, during the summer months. The
number of boats employed in 1835 was 32, managed by 64
men. One fishing station, with two boats, has realized 250
salmon, 610 grilses, with a proportional number of trouts.  The
average price of salmon is about 5d. to 8d., trout and grilses, from
3d. to 4d. per lb. Wages, about 10s. 6d. per week, with a bounty
of 6d. upon each salmon; 2d., grilse; and 1d., trout. After sup-
plying the town and neighbourhood abundantly with this " richest
delicacy of the great deep," considerable quantities are exported to
London in the Dundee steam-packets, where, after a voyage of thirty-
six to forty hours, they are brought to the market, little injured in
quality or freshness. The spirling, or Salmo eperlanus of natu-
ralists, also abounds here, which is now the only station in the


