

			KIRKCUDBRIGHT.			13

Kirkcudbright to make arrangements for laying siege to the strong
castle of Threave, the last place that held out for the Douglasses.
The citizens afforded him assistance, having supplied, it is believ-
ed, the iron from which Mons Meg was manufactured. Before
the fall of the Douglasses, the capital of Galloway remained a
burgh of regality under their oppressive sway, but it was now cre-
ated a royal burgh by a charter dated at Perth the 26th of October
1455, the chief magistrate being styled alderman. The Laclel-
lans of Bombie often held this office. After the battle of Touton,
in 1461, Kirkcudbright afforded shelter to the unfortunated Henry
VI. nf England and his high-minded queen. The King resided
here until his indomitable consort visited Edinburgh to concert
measures with the Scottish Government for regaining to her hus-
band the English crown. On the 16th of April 1462, Margaret,
with a convoy of four Scottish ships, sailed from Kirkcudbright to
Bretagne, in France, and in 1463, the feeble Henry returned to
England in disguise. It appears he had only four attendants with
him in Scotland.
	In the spring of 1501, the town of Kirkcudbright had again the
honour of a royal visit. James IV., in one of his numerous pil-
grimages to the shrine of St Ninian at Whithorn, diverged thither,
and, with his usual liberality to the clergy, bestowed L.1 upon
the priests, and L. 5, 5s. upon the friars, to buy a Eucharist.
	Thomas, Earl of Derby, a young, fiery, and warlike chief, hav-
ing succeeded to the sovereignty of Mar, to extend his fame and
gratify the hostile feelings of his subjects to the Scots, made a de-
scent upon the shores of Galloway in 1507, at the head of a formi-
dable body of furious Manxmen, and nearly destroyed the town of
Kirkcubright. For some years afterwards many of the houses
remained in ruins.
	James IV. again visited the burgh in 1508, and was hospi-
tably entertained by the inhabitants. On this occasion, he grant-
ed them the castle of Kirkcudbright and its lands, wich had
reverted to the crown on the forfeiture of the Douglasses, on
whom it had been bestowed in 1369 by David II. This
grant was confirmed by a charter in the following year, dated the
26th of February; and it is said to have been made on account of
certain aids afforded to his grandfather, James II., when engaged
in the reduction of Threave Castle, and for services to James him-
self.
	On the 9th of september 1513, Sir William Maclellan of Bom-
bie, the principal proprietor of the parish, was slain with a num-



