
290                     FIFESPIRE.

in summer sails twice a day from the Chain Pier at Trinity to
Largo, the Aberdeen and Dundee steam-vessels daily visit us twice,
and occasionally three times, both going and returning. And were
the harbour repaired, it is supposed that a direct steam communi.
cation would be established betwixt this place and London.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church is most conveniently situated,
being built in the middle of the village where the great body of
the people-nearly 1000-reside. Of the remaining fifty or sixty,
none are above two miles distant, and the roads are good in all
directions. The writer does not know when it was originally built,*
probably when the parish was first erected-but it underwent a
complete repair in 1831, and is now surpassed by none in the neigh-
bourhood. Although simple, it has an air of elegance which strikes
the stranger; and it could scarcely have been made more com-
fortable either for the speaker or the hearer. Being seated for near-
ly 600, it can easily accommodate more than the half of the gross
population. The consequence is, that, there being room enough,
the people, with very few exceptions, are attached to the Establish-
ment. Perhaps it would have been as well, in repairing the church,
to have added to its size; for although there is sufficient accom-
modation at present, no allowance is made for anv increase of
numbers. As the seats are divided amodcr the heritors, they have
allotted part of them to their tenants and families, and the rest
are let to the inhabitants of the village. The rent may be con-
sidered as merely nominal- Is. yearly for each sitting-and the sutn
thus raised is spent in purchasing coals for the poor at the begiii-
ning of winter. Even here, however, we are met with disadvantages,
for the price being so low, families are anxious to have a whole
pew to themselves, and would often pay willingly for more room
than they can occupy. The only mmedy hitherto found for this
evil is,- to insist that those who rent a pew should show how it is
to be filled. In the galleries, a good many of the seats are free.
The manse was built in 1824. What is of it is in very good
repair Unfortunately, however, it was built for a bachelor, who
could not get it made small enough; and the consequence is, that
it is not " competent" for the accommodation of the present incum-
bent and his family. He has, therefore, been obliged to apply for an

<FOOTNOTE>

  On the spire there is the following inscription ; D. 0. M. S. Hoc campanile
suis sumptibus extruendum curavit D. Johannes Anstruther de eodem Eques
Baronettus anno acriae Christian 1726.  Perhaps the chureli may have been built
at the same time. The appearance of both is much the same,and on looking at tbem,
no one could suppose them to be nearly two hundred years old. But there is no refrence
to either in the session records:-and in so far as we can learn, the beritors have
never had any books.


