
194                                FORFARSHIRE.

kept. The age and diseases (if known) of all persons dying are
carefully recorded.
	Antiquities.--Several tumuli occur upon the low barren ground
of the parish. One of these was opened some time ago by a black-
smith, who found in it the head of a battle-axe, which he did not
scruple to make into hob-nails.
	The only building of antiquity is the old castle of Invermark,
situate opposite to the manse. It was built in 1526. It was long
the residence of the Lindsays, the proprietors of the parish. The
roof was taken off forty years ago: but the walls, which are up-
wards  of three feet thick, and remarkably strong, may stand for
other three centuries.
			III.--POPULATION.
	The population has varied little for the last hundred years. At
present it is rather less than at the census of 1821, in consequence
of the stop that has been put to smuggling within the last four
years. In 1821, the population was 572; in 1831, it was 553.
There are no villages in the parish.
1. Number of families in the parish,                                          120
	  of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                         60
	     chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,            8
2. Number of unmarried men, bachelors or widowers, upwards of 5O years nf age, 13
	of unmarried women, including widows, upwards of 45,                   13
		& the average number of births yearly for the last seven years,15
			of deaths,                                              9
			of marriages,                                           5
4. The number of persons at present under 15 years of age,                    150
				    upwards of 70,                             25
	Character and Habits of the People.--In general, the people
are remarkably cleanly in their houses and persons; as also in their
food, which is plain and substantial. They enjoy all the neces-
saries, and many of the comforts, of life. Kindness to strangers
is one of their distinguishing characteristics; and, being content-
ed with the lot which Providence has assigned them, they can feel
for the distresses of others; their hospitable doors are ever open,
and the beggar is not sent empty-handed away. They are pos-
sessed of much natural shrewdness, which many of them have im-
proved by extensive reading; and they attend punctually to the
ordinances of religion.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--The arable land is so much
scattered throughout the parish, that the number of imperial acres
cannot be very accurately ascertained, except by actual measure-
ment. Probably 1400 acres may be very ndar the gross amount;




