

054                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

	The highest land in Arbuthnott is Bruxiebill, which has an
elevation of about 650 feet above the level of the sea. The Sur-
face of the parish is, however, very irregular, and much varied by
bill and dale. It rises on all sides from the valley of the Bervie,
which, in its winding course, extensive haughs, and steep wooded
banks, presents, at many points of view, scenes of great beauty.
	Meteorology.--The mean of a series of observations made from
time to time, for upwards of a year, on the temperature of four
springs, which vary little in the quantity of water which they dis-
charge, is 46&deg; Fahr., which may be considered a very close ap-
proximation to the mean annual temperature of the atmosphere.
These springs, which are situated in the lowest part of the parish,
near the bank of the Bervie, differ extremely little from one an-
other in temperature. On September 21, 1836, their tempera-
ture was 50/d1 Fahr. and March 15, 1837, 42/d1 Fahr. These were
the highest and lowest temperatures observed. During the months
of April, May, and June 1834, the average height of the baro-
meter was as follows:

<TABLE>

                             10 A. M.        6 P. M.
              April,            30            29.88
              May,              30.46         30.07
              Jtne,             29.94         29.84

	The prevailing winds are the N. E. and S. E. but the severest
is the S. W.
	Hydrography.--The average temperature of springs, as already
mentioned, is 46/d1 Fahr. They generally arise from gravel banks.
A few chalybeate springs occur. The principal stream is the water
of Bervie. In summer, when it is very small, its velocity is only
about a mile; but, in time of flood, it increases to four miles an
hour. From the extent to which draining has been carried, it rises
and falls very rapidly after rain, and embankments have in conse-
quence become necessary for a great part of its course.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks are chiefly coarse sand-
stone, trap, and what is here called scurdy. *  Detached masses of
gneiss and granite are occasionally met with.  At a point on the
north bank of the Bervie, a little below Arbuthnott House, beau-
tifully variegated pebbles have been found imbedded in trap.
The Viscountess Arbuthnott has a very fine collection of these,
which have been cut and formed into a necklace. Calcareous
spar is not uncommon, and heavy spar is found. On the south side

<FOOTNOTE>There is one small quarry of porphyry.
		                 3


