
                           MONIMAIL.                              41

siastic to take the exercise necessary for his health, in walking to
the well.*
   Buildings.-The parish is rich in gentlemen's seats; Melville,
Rankeilour, Cunoquhie, and Balgarvie, are elegant modern man-
sions. Fernie Castle, as before observed, is more ancient, and re-
tains marks of having been a place of strength. A beautiful pil-
lar, upwards of 100 feet in height, has been erected on the top of the
Mount-hill, in memory of the late Lord Hopetoun. The materials
generally used in building are freestone for the hewn work, and whin-
stone for the ruble. They form together a very solid and durable
wall. A few of the cottages are covered with thatch; but most of them
are roofed with tiles, and the better class of buildings with slates.

                      III.-POPULATION.
   Judging from the entries in the session registers, the population
of the parish does not appear to have made any great increase for
the last two hundred years. Dr Webster states it at 884, but this
seems to be too low. The increase has arisen from the number of
additional hands employed in weaving. The amount of the agri-
cultural population is less than in former times. The numbers at
each census are as follows:

<TABLE>
             In 1791,      .      1101
                1811,      .      1160
                1821,      .      1227
                1831,      .      1230, of whom 599 were males; and 631 females.
Number of persons residing in villages,     -      -      -        -                      560
                              the country,          -         -         -                 670
          children under 12 years of age,         -        -           -                  426
          individuals of 70 and upwards,      -      -        -       -                    50
The yearly average of births is             -         -              -                     28 1\2
                   of illegitimate births is      -        -        -                       1
                   of marriages,           -      -        -          -                     8 1\4
                   of deaths,           -       -        -        -                        19
Of these last there are at an average, of children either still-born or under a week old,   2
Of persons of 70 and upwards,                -          -            -          -           8
</TABLE>

   In the roll of heritors, there are one Earl and one Knight G. C. B.
There are ten proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and
upwards, four are non-resident, and six have their mansion-houses
in the parish.
   The number of families is 277, (including in this number single
and unmarried persons, having houses of their own.)

<FOOTNOTE>
A stone coffin containing two skeletons was lately found at Uthrogal, in trench-
ing a piece of ground, which is said by tradition to have been a Roman Catholic
burying-place. Uthrogal was formerly a leper hospital and with the lands of Hos-
pital mill in the adjoining parish of Cults, was given by Mary of Gueldres, the wi-
dow of James II. to the Trinity Hospital at Edinburgh. On the suppression of
religious houses it became the property of the town of Edinburgh, and now belongs
to the Earl of Leven.


