
                                ST ANDREWS                      171

     each day of a whole year.  And though slight frosts are common
     in winter and spring, yet the mercury in the thermometer seldom
     remains so low as the freezing point, for one continued week.  The
     character of the climate is rather damp than cold.  And though
     instances have occurred, when many successive weeks during sum-
     mer have passed without a single shower, yet such are rare; and
     drought less frequently than wet proves injurious to agricultural
     pursuits.  Eight or nine months of the twelve may often, not in-
     aptly, be denominated rainy.  The following are the average
     heights of the barometric column, calculated from the same num-
     ber of observations made during the same period as mentioned in
     regard to the thermometer.  Annual height, 29.675 inches.

     Monthly height, January,  29.607 in.   Monthly height, July,      29.773 in.
           Do.       February, 29.502            Do.        August,    29.757
           Do.       March,    29.576            Do.        September, 29.710
           Do.       April,    29.572            Do.        October,   29-617
           Do.       May,      29.803            Do.        November,  29.621
           Do.       June,     29.850            Do.        December,  29.539

        In December 1833, the mercurial column was only 27.7 inches
     in height; and on the 26th May 1834, it was 30.67 inches, so
     that the range of the barometer is at least 2.97 inches.  But
     atmospberical changes are often very rapid; a clear and serene sky
     being not unfrequently, in the space of a few hours, entirely hid un-
     der dark and stormy clouds.
        Rain appears at all seasons of the year, in forms varying from
     gentle mist to weighty drops; but generally falls more gradually
     here than in more southern districts of Britain.  Torrents of rain
     are uncommon-the heaviest showers being usually of short dura-
     tion ; and these come from the west when the wind is strong.
     The south-west, however in consequence of the greater frequen-
     cy of rain from that direction than from any other, may be deno-
     minated the rainy quarter.  But though the climate be damp, yet,
     owing to the gentle precipitation of moisture in general, probably
     no greater quantity of rain falls annually here than in many
     places which have the character of a much drier climate.  Dr
     Barry says, "that, from some attempts to obtain a measurement,
     we have reason to conclude, that the annual quantity of rain that
     falls in those islands amounts to twenty-six inches at an average."
     And this may be assumed as the quantity for this parish.
        High winds are frequent.  The most furious blasts are from
     the west and north-west.  But the longest continuance of wind in
     one direction is generally when it blows from the, east.  The fol-
     lowing are the proportions of time during which winds from the
     four cardinal points, or those approaching nearest to them, prevail


