
948                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

could not be moved by the greatest force. * They appear to have
been employed by the Druids, who were the judges in criminal as
in other cases, + to test the innocence or guilt of those who were
accused of theft, robbery, or any other crime, and were so manag-
ed that they appear to move obsequious by the gentlest touch of
him whoselife was innocent, but to the criminal's or the giant's
arm they were immovable. ++  This appears, however, to have been
a Druidical temple, from the slab resting on the top of the cairn
in the centre of the circle, and seems to have been dedicated to
Carneus, one of the Druidical names for Apollo.
   The Druids began their religious worship by going three times
round the cairn or temple, according to the course of the sun; a
ceremony which was known by the name of the Deas-iul, or
brought their left band to their mouth in adoration, and turned
round their whole body S in the direction of the right hand thrice,
because this number was sacred among the ancients, embracing the
beginning, middle, and end, and comprehended the most profound
mysteries of the Divine philosophy. They had several great so-
lemnities, and one half-yearly, at the court of the Corfi or Arch-
druid, at which all the sacred orders, or a deputation of them,
made their appearance; and this meeting, as well as the great an-
nual festival, held in honour of Beal, at the sixth of the new
moon, on the 1st of May, the beginning of their year, (for they
began both their month and year, not from the change, but the
sixth day of the moon,) was celebrated by great sacrifices, and re-
ligious observances. **  Upon this occasion, one of their number,
who wore a crown of laurel upon his head, clothed in white, pro-
ceeded to cut the misletoe of the oak, when the celebration of the
auspicious day with sadrifices and feasting commenced. ++  The del-
phicas, tripod, or slab was loaded with rich offerings of every kind,
presented by, those who came to worship, or to know the will of
the immortal gods concerning them; heaps of spoils taken in
war were dedicated to the guardians of the field of battle, the

<FOOTNOTE>Mirum in Eo quod manu. ut ferunt, mobilis (ea ratio libramenti) nullLis convel-
latur piocellis.  Plin. Hist. Nat. lib. 34, c. 7.
   Diodorus Siculus, lib. v, S 31, p. 354. Strabo, lib. vi. c. 13.
   Strabo, Ibid. Plin. Nat. Hist. 1. 36, p. 15.
   Athenaeus, lib. 4, p. 152, 154, who quotes Posidonius.
   Ovid, 7, 189.  Plutarch.
   Plin. Hist. Nat. 1. 16, c. 44.
   Caesar, de Bel. Gal. lib. vi. p. 13, 14.  Statius, Theb. 1. vii.
   Plin. 1. xvi. c. 44.


