
                           KELSO.                        341

tion. The English master has no house, and, exception a salary
of L. 5, 11s. 1d. paid in equal parts by the heritors burgh, and
the interest of a mortification of L. 240, as a remuneration for
teaching poor scholars recommended by the kirk-session, is de-
pendent exclusively upon school fees. The only other teachers
who have salaries are the mistress of the Roxburghe School, who
has an income secured to her (including school fees) of L. 24;
and the master of the Friendly School, who is in like manner gua-
ranteed, whatever sum is necessary to supplement the penny-a-
week fees of the children up to L. 40. The unendowed teachers
are understood to have their school-wages but indifferently paid;
nor probably does the most popular of them, after deducting
school-rent, realize an annual income exceeding L. 50.
        School Fees.--The school fees charged at the grammar school
are, for the classics, 10s. per quarter, and for mathematics, 10s.
ed.; at the parochial English school for reading, 3s. 6d.; writing,
4s. 6d.; arithmetic, 6s. 6d.; at the private schools for reading, 3s.;
writing, 4s.; arithmetic, 5s.; practical mathematics, 7s. 6d.; at the
Roxburghe and Friendly Schools, reading, writing, and arithmetic,
1d. per week.
        Decreasing desire for Education.--There are probably few per-
sons in the parish between six and fifteen years of age who can-
not partially read and write. Yet the state of school attendance,
during the last few years, is far from indicating a very lively de-
sire on the part of the commonalty for the benefits of education.
Not only has there been a gradual falling off in the number of
classical pupils,--unhappily common to this district with whole
country, but the average attendance on the English schools ex-
hibits a progressive decrease. In 1833, the total number of pu-
pils in attendance on all the schools of the parish, boarding-schools
included, was 725. In 1834, the number had increased to 765;
but in 1835 it was only 690; while in 1836 another diminution
had taken place, the number being 664. Part of this deficiency
is no doubt explained, though but a small part, by a growing prac-
tice among the wealthier classes, of having their children taught
at home by masters who come in for a few hours daily; and some-
thing may be also due to the increasing poverty of many of the
people, as well as to the notion not yet obselete, that a mere abi-
lity to read and write constitutes education, and that, consequent-
ly, the merest scantling of school instruction will suffice. But
these causes do not accounts for the whole evil. A growing im-


