
                                  SKIRLING.                  101

tended to in the month of April 1719, and in the last entry made
the date is omitted.  After this there is a complete chasm till 1750,
from which period the records are regularly and carefully kept.
The population being small, the parochial registers are not volu-
minous.
     Antiquities.--Various ancient coins of the reigns of Adrian and
Antoninus were found about twenty years ago near a place called
Greatlaws, in the north-cast quarter of the parish: they are now
in the possession of Laurence Brown, Esq. of edmonstone, La-
narkshire.  Such,  we are assured from the recollection of living
witnesses who had seem them, were the dates of these coins: but
nothing farther can be ascertained, as the original cllector is dead,
and they, through carelessness, are now intermingled with other si-
milar relies of the past.  Near the same spot, when opening up a
new communication with the Edinburgh and Dumfries mail-road,
about fifteen years ago, the labourers employed came upon some
graves of very ancient contruction.  They had at each side, and
at each end, a whinstone flag, and were covered with slabs of the
same material. Human bones were found in them, but nothing
to elucidaste the time or occasion of their formation.
     In another district there are evident traces of a religious esta-
blishment belonigng to Popish times.  The very name by which
the farm in which it is situated is at present known bears testi-
mony to this,--Kirklawhill being clearly corrupted from Kirk-land-
hill.  Part of the ruins still remains.  Its extent appears to have
been considerable; but with what abbey it might be connected,
and whether its chapel might be the one then called Dunmanyn,
(Dunmanyn signifies in Celtic the hill of the maiden, or of the
good maiden,) to which Margaret Monfode made a bequest for
the support of a chaplain, when it flourished, and when it de-
cayed, it is impossible ot say, for its history is lost in obscurity.
     Of the house or castle of Skirling, to which reference is made
in the former Statistical Report, nothing now remains to arrest the
stranger's eye.  ALl that might give a melacholu interest to the
spot in utterly swept away.  Its very foundation-stones, embracing 
more than a rood of land, are removed, and the plough may be
seen passing over, and cattle grazxing, wehre lady fair once sat, and
stalwart knight once trode.  While, however, it has thus vanished
away, something is still known as to the causes and progress of its
decline.  It possessor in the sisteenth century, Sir James Cock-
burn of Skirling, was married to a sister of Lord Herries, and was


