
202			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Inn, &c.-There is no house licensed to retail ale, or any kind
of ardent spirits in this parish. There was one licensed for this
purpose some years ago. But so many complaints were made
against it, that measures were taken by those concerned to prevent
a renewal of the license.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the last Statistical Account was written a great improve-
ment, though not to the extent that might be wished, has taken place
in the parish. The mode of husbandry has been altered and im-
proved much since that time, and many of the farms have been bet-
ter inclosed and subdivided with hedges and other fences; and
where capital has been liberally applied, some of the farms, con-
sidering the nature of the soil, are in a high state of cultivation.
	It is to be regretted that this parish is so bare of wood, as it
would be much benefited by additional shelter. A good deal has
been done in several places of late; but of these we can only par-
ticularize a few. There are, for example, some fine old trees on
the estate of Whitstonehill, principally ash, which seems to be
particularly well suited to the banks of the Milk. Some young
plantations have lately been put down on the same estate, which
are thriving well, but their extent is rather limited. Considerable
plantations have also bden made of late on the estate of Pierceby
Hall, the property of G. Rogerson, Esq. There is also a consi-
derable quantity of fine old timber and young wood on the estate
of Gibsontown. The late proprietor, John Johnstone, Esq. ex-
pended a considerable sum of money, and with great taste and
judgment, in improving and beautifying his property. It is now
one of the most pleasant and desirable places of residence in the
neighbourhood. The improvements, however, on the estate of
Grange, the property of William Johnstone, Esq. are chiefly re-
markable. About eighteen years ago, that gentleman planted ex-
tensively; and the plantations, Which consist of timber of all sorts,
are thriving uncommonly well. If the same spirit and taste h`d
been displayed by all the other proprietors as by those above men-
tioned, Tundergartb, from the nature of its surface and localities,
would have been one of the most beautiful parishes in the whole
district.

	February 1834.


