
70                       LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

regulating the fences. Tile-draining has been introduced with
great advantage. Sown grass is often grazed instead of being cut,
as being more conducive to keep the land in heart. Growing of
turnips has been adopted to a considerable extent, with the most
decided benefits to the cultivator. The duration of leases is ge-
nerally for nineteen years. The usual rotation pursued is that of
six years. Some of the farm-buildings are of a superior class.
In two instances, the thrashing mills are driven by steam-engines,
and the fields, with few exceptions, are well inclosed.
   Quarries and Mines.-There are several quarries of free and
whinstone in the parish, but they are only wrought occasionally for
domestic use. The substrata abound in coal, and coal has been
wrought in the parish from time immemorial. In former times
the supply was furnished from the estates of Carriden, Bonhard,
and Grange. Within the present century, no less than ten diffe-
rent pits have been at work, though at different times, and all of
them within little more than a mile distant from each other. At
present there are only two in operation, belonging to the Duke of
Hamilton.
   The seam of coal wrought in the mingle or engine-pit, which
was the only one at work in 1832, for which year the following ac-
count is given, is called the Eastern Main coal, and is in general
about 4 feet thick. There are now (1843) four in operation. The
workings are situated on the western boundary of the parish,
close to that of Borrowstounness, the coal going under the
name of the Bridgeness coal in the towns to which it is taken,
from the name of the pier where it is shipped. The pit is
77 1/2 fathoms deep, and the coals are drawn from the dip by an
engine to the pit bottom, whence another engine raises them
to the surface, the water being pumped up by a third engine of
greater power, erected at, the mouth of the pit to within 21 fathoms
of the surface, where it escapes by a day-level to the Forth. The
quantity of coals produced in 1832 was 9780 tons great coal,
18,062 tons chows, and 4363 tons small coal. There are about
ninety-five men, many of them residing in the parish of Borrows-
townness, employed in. hewing the coal, which is brought from the
workings in corves or baskets set upon burleys, which run upon a
plate, railway, driven by their children or putters to the place,
from which the engine below takes it to the pit bottom. The col-
liers are paid 2s, 10d. per ton for working the great coal, 1s, 10d.
per ton for chows, and 8d. per ton for small coal. A collier with
his putter may put out 1 1/2 ton great coal, and 2 tons chows in a


