
BURNTISLAND.                                           409

36 feet square. In July 1831, a great part of this quarry was
flooded, and eight rooms are still under water. A large proportion
of the limestone is now got from a mine to the eastward, which corn-
municates with the surface by a tunnel, 500 yards in length, 3 in
width, and 21 in height. In cutting this tunnel, great obstructions
were met with, the ground being much troubled with dikes and off-
cuts. Masses of greenstone, limestone, freestone, clay, and blaes,
(black and gray) were found intermingled in a state of great con-
fusion. The whole bed of limestone is very much intersected with
dikes.
Zoology.-In addition to hares, rabbits, and other common ani-
mals, deer, badgers, and otters, are occasionally seen. About
eighty species of birds, including land and sea-birds, are natives
or visitors of the parish, but none is peculiar to it, nor are there
any very rare. The golden-crested wren, the bullfinch, the gold-
fineb, the jay, the fieldfare, the pheasant, with most of the com-
mon small birds, are found in the district. It has been remarke d,
that, since the great snowstorm of 1822, goldfinches have been
much less numerous than they previously were. In June 1834, a
brown-coloured crow was seen in the parish, and attempts were
made, but without success, to obtain possession of it.
The more common species of fish are found off the coast. For
several seasons, the herring, which formerly was very abundant, has
almost totally deserted the Frith. Oysters and lobsters are found,
'with abundance of cockles, spout-fisb, and sand-eels, which f6rm
part of the food of the poorer classes during summer. Great num-
bers especially of the young, may then be seen digging at low
water for these kinds of fish, in the extensive sand-beds to the east
of Burntisland.
Botany.-The following is a list of the plants most worthy of
notice; some of them are understood to be very rare:-

Primula elatior,	Starly-burn.
Ryoscyamus niger,	W asts ground east of Starly-burn.
S61anurn dulcamara,	Roadside leading to Aberdour-plentiful.
Cochlearia danica,	West pier, Burntisland.
Orobanche major,	Bank to the north of the town.
Ballota nigra,	Lanes near the church. Abundant.
Marrubium vulgare,	Waste places.
Thlaspi arvense,	Field South side of road. Starly-burn.
Lepidium campestre,	D
Sedurn telephium,	Rocky banks by the sea.
........ reflexurn,	Grange quarry.
.6aleopsis ladanum,	Cornfield, south-east of Bin. Plentifid.
Anchus.a sempervirens,	Near west toll-bar, by !side of a fvot-path.
Borago, officinalis,	Lane to the east of the churob,
Coronopus Ruellii,	Wayside near manse. Very abundant.


