
   	                    ARBUTHNOTT.                      163

	Rental.--The real rental of the parish is about L.6200 a-
year.
	Plantations.--Most of the plantations in the parish belong to
Viscount Arbuthnott; but as they have been formed chiefly by the
present proprietor, they are immature. The finest old wood is
that around the House of Arbuthnott; and it is seldom profaned
by the axe. There is some fine old wood at Allardyce, though
of small extent; and some thriving plantations around Kair.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town, Post-Office, &c.--The nearest post-office is in the
burgh of Bervie, which is the nearest market-town; and is about
2 1/2 miles distant from the church of Arbuthnott. The great road
leading through Stonehaven and Laurencekirk passes through
the northern part of the parish for two miles and a half. An
excellent road has been lately made through the lower part of the
parish, extending from the bridge of Bervie, which forms its
eastern extremity, to the bridge of Whiteriggs, which is the western;
a distance of five miles.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated a little way from
the north bank of the Bervie. It is about three miles distant from
the farthest extremity of the parish. The date of its erection is
not known. In 1505 Sir Robert Arbuthnott repaired and im-
proved the west gable, erecting on it a round tower, to which he
presented two bells. The joining of the earlier and later work-
manship is still apparent in the building: so that the church is
not less than 333 years old, and is probably upwards of 400. It
is at present in a pretty good state of repair, and affords accom-
modation for 440 persons, allowing 16 inches for each sitting.
exclusive of seats for the kirk-session. The seats are all free.
	The manse was built at different periods, and is now greatly in
need of repair. The glebe is small, and of little value. The
stipend, consists nf the following items: 12 bolls of wheat; 108
bolls, 1 firlot, 2 pecks, 2 1/2. lipples of meal: 48 boll, 3 firlots of
bear; and L.85, 12s. 10d. of money. The teinds are exhausted.
There is no chapel of ease, Government church, missionary, dis-
senting chapel, or meeting-house in the parish. The avdr`ge
number of communicants at the Established Church is 450. Divine
service is well and decently attended. The schoolmaster cate-
chises the young in his school twice a-week : and the minister
attends to the religious instruction of the older members of his
congregation. There are four families of Episcopalians, and four


