
			   MURROES.		           595

mand for every species of farm produce, and a plentiful supply of
every thing requisite for agricultural and domestic purposes.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The church is a plain and old-fashioned
building. It stands on a pleasant spot, encompassed with lofty
trees, in the south-east part of the parish, and at the distance of
three miles from its western extremity. It is supposed to have
been built prior to the Reformation, but the date of its erection is
unknown. The aisle seems to have been added to the original
building in the year 1642. The church is in tolerable repair,
well-seated, and affords accommodation for about 400 people.
	The seats occupied by the tenantry and their families are gene-
rally annexed to the lands which they possess. A few pews be-
long to the kirk-session; and one of the galleries, with the consent
of the heritors, is let for the benefit of the poor; and the proprie-
tor of Powrie allows the rent of some unappropriated pews in the
aisle, which is his exclusive property, to be applied to the same be-
nevolent purpose. The average number of communicants is 280,
and divine service is generally well attended. There are few sec-
taries in the parish.
	The manse, which was built in 1811, and repaired in 1832, is
now sufficiently comfortable and commodious.
	The glebe rather exceeds five acres of good land, which may
be estimated at L.15 a year. There is an allowance of L.1, 13s.
4d. in lieu of pasture, which the present incumbent has not hither-
to claimed. The stipend is, of money, L.106, 14s 8d.; of wheat,
3 bolls 1 firlot; of barley, 28 bolls 3 firlots; of meal, 45 bolls 3
pecks. The average amount of stipend for the last seven years,
converted to money, is L.180 a year. The Crown is patron.
        Education.-The parochial school is generally well attended.
All the ordinary branches of education, also the Greek and Latin
languages, are taught very successfully. The salary of the school-
master is L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d.; the fees and his emoluments as session-
clerk may probaly amount to L.26 annually. He is provided with
more than the legal accommodations. There are no persons in
the parish above six years of age unable to read. The people, ge-
nerally speaking, aer alive to the benefits of education, and show
a laudable anxiety to have their children instructed in every es-
sential branch.
        Poor.-The number of persons at present receiving parochial
aid is 6. The average allowance to each is 4s. monthly; besides,


