
<APPENDIX>

plenty, particularly in the spots of corn a little way up the
hills, from whence, as they always fly downwards, they are
easily marked in.  There are numbers of snipes in the rushy
places below, and the hares are very numerous, but afford
little sport, from the proximity of the woods, glens, and hills,
to one or other of which they take, immediately on being
started.  The indigenous plants are chiefly oak, ash, elm,
aspen, Scotch pine, and spruce fir, which are beginning to
sow themselves; birch, which is the prevailing wood, rowan,
geen, fallow, alder, birdcherry, hazle, black and white thorn,
of the last of which, in particular, there are some very beauti-
ful and venerable bushes, elder, brier, juniper, br mble, rasp
honeysuckle, ivy, common and evergreen bilberry, cranberry,
crowberry, the carduus helenioides, and on the top of the
Carlop's Hill, which is the only one of the Pentland range
on which it is to be met with, the cloudberry.  The animals
are, foxes, hares, a few rabbits, ermines, weasels, moles, rats,
common and shrew mice, adders, scaly lizards, the common
lizards, toads, frogs, etc. and bats are seen fluttering giddily
about in the evenings.  At times are seen gulls from the
Frith, also, overhead, wild swans and geese, and a variety of
the white dunghill fowl, with large crest and comb, has ap-
peared with 11 toes.  On the lake is the wallard, teal, co-
lymbus auritus, one of the dobchicks.  On the streams, the
heron, water rail, water ouzel, sandpiper, and wagtails.  On
the marshes, the snipe, the woodcock in winter, the reed spar-
row, the marsh titmouse.  On the rocks, the ring ouzel,
which has a few shrill plaintive notes, and very much the ap-
pearance and manner of a blackbird, and the stonechatter.
On the moors are grouse; one of these being almost shot to
pieces, its stomach was entirely filled with white moths, very
common among long heath, curlews, lapwings, and grey
plovers.  On the fields, the hen harrier, partridges, land rails,


