
				BEITH.			   599

name of Mr John Maxwell, schoolmaster at the kirk of Beith, as
a witness. The session record, of date 9th November 1693, bears,
that after sermon the minister, heritors, and elders met, and agreed
with Mr Chapman to be their schoolmaster. This was three years
before the statute 1696 of William III. ordaining a school to be
settled in every parish. Since that date there has been a regular
succession of parish schoolmasters. The salary was l00 merks
Scots until the passing of the statute in 1803, when it was fixed
at the minimum or 300 merks, with a house and an allowance for
a garden. At the expiry of the first twenty-five years the salary
was made L. 26 Sterling, bein at the rate of one penny Sterling
on each pound Scots of valued rent. The schoolmaster receives
the statutory value for a garden, but it is in contemplation by the
heritors to build a new school-house, and inclose garden ground
in terms of law.
	The present parish schoolmaster, Mr James Reid, who was
elected in May 1832, holds the office of session-clerk; but the
offices of precentor and kirk-treasurer, though sometimes united,
are held by different individuals. Besides the parish school, there
are five other schools in the town, and three in the landward part
of the parish. The total number of scholars is 500, being nearly the
tenth part of the population. There are also several Sabbath even-
ing schools, which are well attended. They are all taught gra-
tuitously; and the long-continued labours of Mr Williatn Clark,
merchant, in this department, have been most creditable to him-
self and beneficial to his pupils. The Sabbath evening school
which meets in the parish church is superintended by the minister
and Mr Reid, the parochial schoolmaster. It is taught by about
sixteen teachers, and attended by about 200 children. In con-
nexion with this school Mr Reid, with the assistance of two or
three benevolent individuals, teaches gratuitously a school two
evenings in the week, which is of great benefit to numerous
portion of the poorer children, whose necessary employment pre-
vents them from attending the day school.
	Dissenters.--There is a congregation of the Associate Synod,
which was formed in 1761. Their first ordained minister was
Mr John Laidlaw, who remained only about two years, and with-
drew from thier communion. He was succeeded by the Reverend
Andrew Mitchill, a man of sincere piety, who was respected by
people of all denominations. He died in 1812. His eldest son,
The Reverend John Mitchell, D. D, Glasgow, is one of the Peo-


