
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

parish of Kettle, and through which lay the old road from
Cupar to Kinghorn, belonged to a family  of Setons, who are
celebrated in tradition for the most cruel robberies and mur-
ders.  The grounds about Clatto Den are still desert.  In the 
face of the brae, which forms one side of the den, is a cave,
that is laid to communicate with the old castle or tower of
Clatto, a furlong distant, the remains of which are still vi-
sible.  The same cave is said to have had another opening to
the road, at which the affailant rushed out on the heedless
passengers, and dragged them into the cavern, whence there
was no return.  All appearance of a cave is now obliterated,
by the breaking down of the banks.  A similar cavern was
found, not many years ago, at Craighall in Ceres parish.  Of
these Seatons many stories, replete with the superstitions of
preceding ages, are still current among the country people.
One may suffice.  One of the Scottish Kings, said to be
James IV. passing that way alone, as was common in those
days, was attacked by a son of Seaton's.  The King having a
hanger concealed under his garment, drew it, and with a
blow cut off the right hand that seized his horse's bridle.
This hand he took up, and rode off.  Next day, attended
by a proper retinue, he visited the Castle of Clatto, wishing
to see Seaton and his sons, who were noted as hardy enter-
prising men, sitted to shine in a more public station.  The
old man conducted his family into the King's presence.  One
son alone was absent:  It was said, that he had been hurt by
an accident, and was confined in bed.  The King insisted on
seeing him, and desired to feel his pulse.   The young man
held out his left hand.  The King would feel the other also.
After many ineffectual excuses, he was obliged to confess that
he had lost his right hand.  The King told him that he had
a hand in his pocket, which was at his service if it would sit
him.  Upon this they were all seized and executed.

</UNREADABLE>


