
                            KELSO.                             313

a change, of which their own separate ecclesiastical existence was
one of the fruits; though, doubtless, their influence would have
proved far more efficacious for good, had- they preserved unity
among themselves, instead of splitting through internal dissensions
from one into three congregations, in the course of forty years.  It
does dot appear, that the higher classes partook much of the moral
and religious improvement just described.  On the contrary, it would
seem that Jacobite principles disappeared among them, only to
make way, in too many instances, for the opposite extreme of
French infidelity.  But the extent, to which the general popula-
tion were brought under the influence of Christian habits, was in-
dubitably great.  There are persons still living, who remember the
state of things sixty-years ago, when family worship was so com-
mon, that you could not pass along the principal street of the town
on a Sunday morning, without hearing from many "a lowly roof,"
          "_________________________at intervals
          The voice of psalms-the simple song of praise."
Since that period, domestic piety, it is to be feared, has rather re-
trograded among the workin classes; though there is every rea-
son to believe that the moral condition of all but the very low-
est class of the people has, upon the whole, been gradually improv-
ing.  An additional church has just been erected in connexion
with the Establishment, in order to render the means of instruction
commensurate with the spiritual exigencies of the parish.  The
attendance on public ordinances is becoming, every successive year,
more numerous; the charities of those who possess the means of
giving are keeping pace with the growing number and claims of
the necessitous.  And, altogether, despite the serious drawbacks
to religious improvement occasioned here as elsewhere by the dis-
turbing influences of political excitement and sectarian contro-
versy, the prospects of the best of all causes cannot justly be re-
garded as discouraging.
  History of the Town.--Originally, the town of Kelso seems
to have been only an inconsiderable village, a kind of suburb to
the then important burgh of Roxburgh, which lay on the oppo-
site side of the Tweed.  From the foundation of the Abbey, how-
ever, it began gradually to acquire a more important character.
By the time of King Robert I. it had so increased as to consist of
two parts, Wester and Easter Kelso; the former being probably
the original village, and the latter that which gradually grew up
around the abbey.  And on the final destruction of Roxburgh by
  ROXBURGH.                              x


