
     Of Kirkmichael.

entitled to that character as a Russian bear.  Now, at 2 an-
nual fairs held at the village of Tammtoul, one may see the
law-fed vampers walking in consequential state, attended by
their clients, while words sweet as honey from their lips
distil.  But this honey, in the issue, never fails to change into
gall, to some one or other of the contending parties*.  Medi-
cal gentlemen are seldom called to this country.  Mountain
air, and constant exercise, render their aid, for the most part,
unnecessary; besides that, the people can ill afford to pay doc-
tors and retainers of the law at the same time.

   Animals.-The domesticated animals here, have no pecu-
liarity to distinguish them from such as may be met with al-
most in every other part of the Highlands.  These have been
described already.  The wild ones are deer, foxes, badgers,
polecats, otters, and hares.  In former times the ravenous
wolf+, and the bounding chamois, were numerous in the
Grampian mountains+.  As a proof of this, it may not be

<FOOTNOTE>

*The gentlemen of the law may be offended at the suggestion, but it is
much to be desired, that proprietors would interpose their authority, by ap-
pointing sensible and impartial men to decide upon the differences arising a-
mong their people.  Such, or the like expendent, might preserve industrious fa-
milies from ruin, and the unwary parents, from the dangerous imposition of
pettyfoggers.
+The last said to be killed in this country, was about 150 years ago; yet it
is probable that wolves were in Scotland for some time after that period, as the
last killed in Ireland was in 1709.
+It has been already mentioned, that the Grampian mountains bound this
parish toward the W.  From this country they stretch in a continued range, al-
most without interruption to the Corran of Ard-gothar, where Invernessshire
is divided from Argyllshire, by an arm of the Diu-caledonian sea.  Diu-caledo-
nian is derived from Tail, a body of water, and Cael-doine, the Celtic men.
This word the Romans inflected into Caledonia.  Mr. Whitaker of Manchester,
says, that diu signifies water.  In the Caledonian dialect of the Celtic, at pre-
sent, such a word signifying water, is not known; yet, such a word may be sup-
 

