
                         RESCOBIE.                     597

muir on the north-west corner; Oathlaw or Finhaven and Aber-
lemno on the north; Aberlemno, and Guthrie, and kirkden on
the east; and Kirkden, and Dunnichen and Forfar on the soutb.
The figure of the parish is very irregular.
	There are four hills connected with, though not wholly situated
in the parish,-the hill of Dunnichen or Burnside, the top of
which forms a part of its southern boundary; the Green hill of
Burnside, to the north of the mansion-house; the hill of Carse,
in the north-west quarter of the parish; and the Double hill,
whose base is about half a mile to the north of the lake, called,
on the east part, the hill of Turin, and on the west, the hill of
Pitscandly. From the top of this hill, especially the east top,
where it is called the hill of Turin, there is one of the finest and
most extensive views, both of sea and land, any where to be had.
	The hills of Dunnichen and of Turin are said to rise about 600
feet above the lakes; and the lakes are said to be 186 feet 9 inches
above high water at Arbroath.
        Hydrography.-The lake or loch of Rescobie, which intersects
that part of the parish which lies between Dunnichen and Turin
hills, is more than a mile long, and mo re than the third of a mile
in breadth, where widest. The depth is very variable, being from
2 to 20 feet. It is ordinary temperature.
	The Lunan water, which has its source in the north-west part
of Restenet Moss, runs through the lake of Rescobie from west to
about ten miles farther, falls into the sea at Lunan Bay; and
there is a streamlet or burn, called the Lemna, that takes its rise
in the neighbouring parish of Aberlemno giving,probably, that
parish a part of its name, and running west through the lands of
Carse, forms for some space the boundary betwixt this parish and
Forfar on the south; skrits the west side of this parish, forming
there also the boundary between the parishes of Forfar and Res-
cobie; turns to the east, at the north-west boundary of the parish,
where it bounds this parish from Kirriemuir; and running for four
or five miles in an easterly direction, through the southern part of
the parish of Oathlaw or Finhaven, discharges itself near Finhaven
Castle, into the Esk, nearly opposite to, or almost directly north
of, its own source in Aberlemno.
        Geology and Minerology.-Charles Lyell, Esq., Jnior, of Kin-
nordy, has, in his Elements of Geology, given a section of twenty
miles of Forfarshire, from north-west to south-east, from the foot



