
                                SPOTT.                  231

greater part of the grain raised in the parish is sold at Hadding-
ton. Dunbar is the market from which the common necessaries
of life are procured by the inhabitants of the north part of the pa-
rish. Those, in the west part of it may sometimes resort to the
village, of East Linton, in the parish of Prestonkirk, or to the vil-
lage of Stenton; while these in the extreme south, most frequent-
ly resort to Douse. The only village within the parish, is the vil-
lage of Spott.
   Means of Communication.-Dunbar is the post-town. The vil-
lage, being situated about two miles from Dunbar, and several
parts of the parish being still nearer it, the inhabitants enjoy abun-
dant and easy means of communication with other parts of the
country, by the stage coaches which pass and repass through that
town, every lawful day. And travelling will be still more facilitat-
ed in this county, if the railway, which is now in contemplation
between Dunbar and Edinburgh, be proceeded with.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated close by the
village, and in so far as the population may be supposed to be
denser there than in any other part of the parish, (though it does
not contain above a fourth of the inhabitants of the whole pa-
rish,) it may be said to be in as convenient a situation as could
well have been chosen. It is at a great distance from the Lam-
mermuir part of the parish, the farm of Bothwell being, fully eight
miles from it. But, with this exception, there is no place much
farther off than four miles. The inhabitants of Bothwell are not
numerous, and generally attend Divine ordinances in the church
at Cranshaws, which is much nearer to them. The church at Spott
is very old. The precise date of the building of it is not known.
It was repaired in 1790, and though in a quite sufficient state, can-
not be said to be very comfortable. It is seated for 350. The
whole of the sittings are free. The manse was built in 1806; and,
though comparatively new, has already undergone repeated repairs.
The extent of the glebe is 6 Scotch acres, worth about L. 3 per acre.
The stipend is 16 chalders, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
ments. *  The number of male heads of families on the roll of com-
municants is 71. The number of dissenting families is 16. Pub-
lic worship is regularly and respectably attended.
   Education.-Besides the parochial, there has been for a long
time a subscription school, which however, is at present without a

<FOOTNOTE>The stipend in 1755 was L. 68, 17s. 2d.; in 1759, it was augmented to L. 1000
Scots; in 1798 it was L. 165, Os. 8d.-Chalmers' Caledonia and former Statistical
Account.


