
     Statistical Account

suffragan at Bervie, to accomodate the people in that 
quarter of his parish; and the Lords for the Plantation 
of Kirks, in the year 1618, disjoined Bervie from Kinness,
and increased the slipends of both incumbents.  The power
of presentation is vested in the Crown.  The extent of 
this parish is inconsiderable, being only about 2 miles long
and 1 1/1 mile broad; from E to W.  It rises in a gradual af-
cent, and terminates at the top of a high hill.  On the east 
corner of the parish, the burgh of Bervie is situated; and 
on the southmost part, the village of Gourdon stands.  The
burgh of Bervie consists of three street, which form near-
ly three sides of a square, and contains about 110 dwel-
ling-houses.  The original plan of the town seems to have
been laid out in a very judicious manner, but it has not
been adhered to; for the houses are set down irregularly,
according to the fancy of the builders. Bervie is the on-
ly royal burgh in the county of the Mearns, and its 
charter was granted by David II, in the years 1342.
When returning from England, he was forced, by stress
of weather, to land at the water-mouth of Bervie; and it 
is said, that having met with great hospitality and kind-
ness from the inhabitants, he bestowed on the town a
royalty, as a mark of his particular favour:  The place on 
which he landed, to this day bears his name, and is called 
Craig David.  James VI.  in the year 1595, renewed the 
charter, and confirmed all the privileges and immunities 
granted by King David*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*By this charter.  the public property is directly marked out; in-
deed it comprehensive nearly.  the whole extent of the parish; but the pro
perty, which now belongs to the town is confined to a piece of barren 
moor, a few acres of haugh ground, and a range of braes about a mile in
extent which afford a little grafs for the cows belonging to the inhabitants
of the town in the former season.  By this charter, full power is given    


