
652                      FIFESHIRE.

of 91. The inhabitants are chiefly weavers and other handicraft
tradesmen. In the village of Luthrie are a brewery, a bakehouse,
a small public-bouse, a meal-mill, and a barley-mill.
     Means of Communication.--There is a regular communication
with Cupar, which is the nearest post-town, on Thursdays and Sa-
turdays, and with Dundee, on Fridays, by carriers of small parcels.
A turnpike road, between the ferries of Pettycur and Newport,
passes through the parish on the south, and along by its southern
boundary about a mile and a half, and the turnpike from Cupar
to Perth intersects it on the south-west. A statute labour road
leads on from the ferry turnpike through the parish eastward to
Balmerino, and another leads off from it at Luthrie westwards,
and on through the barony of Balenbreich to Newburgh. The
length of the former in the parish is 2 miles 450 yards, and of
the latter 1 mile 160 yards.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, which is a new and
handsome edifice, was first opened for public worship on the
16th December 1832. It is situated on a small eminence above
the village of Luthrie, near to the greater part of the popu-
lation, and not above two miles from the most distant. It was
built to contain 252 sittings. These were divided among the
heritors according to their valued rents, and the division was
sanctioned by tbe sheriff. The heritors, after having accommodated
themselves with seats gave those which remained free to their ten-
ants, servants, and others. It would have been desirable, how-
ever, had a considerable portion of the sittings been set apart for
the public; for although there would be a sufficiency of accom-
modation were every seat well filled, yet some individuals are un-
able to procure sittings, and there is a natural dislike to intrude
into the seats which have previously been obtained by others.
     Legacy.--The late Mr George Davidson, schoolmaster of the
parish, who died in 1745, bequeathed the sum of 450 merks
Scots to the Session for the purpose of purchasing communion
cups; and two handsome plain silver cups, which were bought with
that sum, are now used at the communion service.
     A stable has been erected near the church for the horses of
those who choose to ride, or to come to church in their convey-
ances and a gig-house has been built for the accommodation of
the minister.
     The manse and offices were built in 1816, and are suitable and
commodious. They are pleasantly situated, but at an extremity


