
                            CALLANDER.                             359
                                   
       change in the conduct, morals, &c. of the people has taken place,
       since the facilities of education were increased.
          Libraries.-There are three libraries in the parish supported
       by subscription, consisting of Histories, Travels, Religious publi-
       cations, &c., and the books are lent out upon paying a small sum
       quarterly or yearly.
         Poor and Parochial Eunds.-The regular poor upon the roll
       amount to about 45.  The funds from which they are alimented,
       are the collections in the church, with the interest of L. 200,
       amounting in all to between L. 70 and L. 80.  These funds are ma-
       naged by the kirk-session.  On emergencies, the heritors make
       a voluntary contribution to assist the kirk-session funds.  Much
       is done privately in this way by the family of Perth, who not
       only give money, but a regular supply of meal, clothing and
       coals, to a number of poor.  Besides this, there are several opulent
       resident individuals who are very liberal in their donations, and
       when applied to in any cases of peculiar distress, cheerfully con-
       tribute to alleviate the sufferings of the indigent.
         Fairs.-There are several fairs held in the parish, one in the
       month of May for black-cattle, sheep and horses.  This fair is call -
       ed Cockhill, from its being held upon a hill of that name. The
       stance for the market is given free by Mr Hunter, the proprietor
       of the lands. Another very considerable market is held in March,
       called Feill ma Chessaig.  There are also two or three smaller fairs
       for the sale of lambs, hiring of reapers, and the transaction of country
       business.
        Inns.-Callander forms a regular stage on the road from Stirling
       to the West Highlands.  Owing to this, as well as to the Trosachs
       being in the parish, it is much frequented by travellers, for whose
       accommodation a large inn was built some years ago, to which
       an addition has been made this year, There are other inns in the
       village, and one on the banks of Loch Achray, near Loch Catharine.
        Fuel.-Owing to the improvement in the roads, coal is much
       more generally used as fuel, than it was twenty years ago; and al-
       though it is carried from Bannockburn, a distance of eighteen miles,
       it is found to be cheaper than the making and carrying of turf or
       peat.  The latter however, is still much used, and found about a
       mile from Callander.

                       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
        There is a marked improvement in the state of this parish since
       the former Statistical Account was written, particularly in husbandry.


