
68			KINCARDINESHIRE.

Drumtochty, about 5 1/2 miles,--thus making its superficial contents
about 44 square miles.
   Boundaries.--The parish of Fordoun is of a quadrangular form,
and is bounded on the south-west, by Fettercairn; on the south
and south-east, by the parishes of Marykirk, Laurencekirk, and
Arbuthnott; on the north-east, by Glenbervie; and on the
north-west, by Strachan, which it joins on the summit of the
Grampians. The parish extends along the south side of the
Grampians, and on the north side of the valley of Strathmore, or
rather of that division of it familiarly known by the name of the
"How o' the Mearns," which comprehends the parishes of Fet-
tercairn, Marykirk, Laurencekirk, and Fordoun.
   The mean length of the "How o' the Mearns," from the
North Esk at Dalladies to the Bervie at Mondynes, may be near-
ly 12 miles; the breadth, from the top of the Hill of Garvock to
the summit of the Grampians, 7 1/2 miles,--the extent of the "How"
being thus about 90 square miles. The distanbe from the centre
of the parish, or rather from the church of Fordoun, to Stone-
haven, the county town, is about eleven miles; to Bervie, ten; and
to Montrose, fifteen. The disposable produce is carried to one
or other of these places, to all of which there is easy access by
excellent roads.
   Topographical Appearances.--The general slope of the parish is
towards the south-east, and the aspect is agreeably diversified by a
succession of hill and dale. It is divided into two districts, viz. the
How district, comprehending the level part lying in the bottom of
the valley of Strathmore, and the Brae district, lying on the south-
side of the Grampians. This last district is subdivided by the
streams which take their rise in the Grampians, and by the small
glens or valleys formed by these streams, into three or four smaller
districts, such as the Brae of Glenfarquhar, Kinkell, and Mon-
dynes, the Brae of Craigniston, and the well-known Brae of For-
doun. Several of these glens or valleys, having their sides more or
less covered by plantations, give a rich and pleasing appearance
to the parish. On the sides of the hills, cultivation has been car-
ried to a considerable elevation, sometimes farther that is profit-
able either to landlord or tenant.
   From Laurencekirk or the Hill of Garvock, on the south of the
valley, the parish of Fordoun, on the opposite side, presents a rich
and highly cultivated appearance, rendered more pleasing by the
colour of the soil, which is either a brown gravelly loam, or red
				4


