
        	    ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.                1065

having been drawn by the amlin-mor (great yoke,) to which the
cattle were attached abreast. In connection with these rigs, the
more limited operations of the spade or cas-chrom appear in small
cleared patches, from which the grubbed up stones have been
collected into heaps. From the mountain's brow, cultivation would
appear to have gradually descended to the richer and stiffer soils
of the glen, as it became cleared of wood and water, and there
the straight rig of the amlin-mor appears to have been succeeded
by the curvilinear of the ten-oxen-plough.
         Live-Stoch.-Much attention is bestowed on the rearing of
black-cattle. These are generally of the Aberdeenshire horn-
ed, or of the Buchan polled breeds; but they have of late, on
several farms, been crossed with the short-horned, much to
the improvement of the weight, and a year's earlier maturity of
the animals for the market. A few are fed either for the Aber-
deen fleshers, or for exportation by the steamers for the London
market; but a greater number are disposed of in a lean state to
the south of Scotland and English dealers. From any of these
quarters, however, there has been little demand, and at greatly
reduced prices, since the ports were opened for the admission of
foreign cattle.  On the hills and moorlands, from 5000 to 6000
sheep, mostly of the Linton breed, are pastured; and a few pigs
are also to be seen about most of the farm-steadings. The ave-
rage amount yearly sold of these different kinds of stock has been
calculated at rather more than half the rent paid to the land-
owners. The horses are not heavy, but hardy; and, from the
lightness of the soil, a pair of them is sufficient for drawing a
plough, and one of them for carrying in a cart four quarters of
bear to the Aberdeen market.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         Market-Towns.-The united parish is distant from Aberdeen,
the principal market-town, from twenty-four to thirty-seven miles.
Stonehaven is two miles nearer, but with it, though there be turn-
pike roads leading to both towns, the intercourse is very limited.
In the village of Charlestown, within the parish, and a quarter of
a mile east of the church, there is a very commodious inn, noted
for the excellent manner in which it is kept: Also a post-office;
bake and brew-house; shop for general goods; meal, flour, barley,
and malt-mills; shoemakers, carpenters, tailors, and a saddler.
Through the village, a mail-coach to and from Aberdeen passes
daily, and several carriers weekly.


