
                                    ERROL.                             383

          death of the Rev.  Samuel Nairne, in the month of December
          1720, the heritors and kirk-session, although the act of Queen
          Anne, restoring patronage, had been in operation since 1712,
          proceeded, agreeably to the usage under the previous act of Wil-
          liam and Mary, 1690, to make choice of and calla minister to the
          vacant cbarge,-the patron not interfdring in the matter.  Several
          individuals were proposed, and some of them called, but various
          difficulties arose in the church courts, to their settlement.  At last,
          in April 1722, an unanimous call was addressed to Mr Macintosh,
          then minister at Dunning.  The presbxtery of Auchterarder re-
          fused to loose him from his existing charge.  A new series of at-
          tempts were then made by the heritors, elders, and people of Er-
          rol, to obtain a minister, but still without success, latterly because
          no individual could be found who commanded a decided majority
          in his favour.  In these circumstances, a second unanimous call
          was addressed to Mr Macintosh in November 1724; and the con-
          sent of his presbytery having then been obtained, he was, to the
          great delight of the parish, admitted to his new charge by the
          presbytery of Perth, jure devoluto, February 17, 1725.
              This eminent man was one of the three ministers who were
          sent by the Commission of the General Assembly, 1734, " to ad-
          dress the King and Parliament, for obtaining relief from the gre-
          vience of patronage." In 1736, he was chosen moderator of the
          General Assembly; and, in 1743, he was urged by many minh-
          sters again to become a candidate for that distinguished office;
          but declined it.  The same year, while attending to his duties in
          that venerable court, he was seized with an epidemic, then raging
          in Edinburgh, from the effects of which he never recnvered.  He
          died on the 13th of May 1744.
             The only other person to be mentioned in this place is John
          Barclay, A. M., a native of the parish of Muthill, but who, in 1760,
          became assistant to the Rev.  James Jobson, minister of Errol,
          and in this capacity resided in it for some time.  This individual
          afterwards became famous as the founder of the sect of the Bereans.
             Land-owners.-The chief of the present land-owners of the pa-
          rish are:-John Lee Allen, Esq. of Errol; Lieutenant-Colonel
          Allen, of Inchmartin; the Right Honourable Lord Kinnaird;
          Miss Spence Yeaman, of Murie; David Balfour Hay, Esq. of
          Leys; Vice-Admiral Drummond, of Megginch; Laurence Crai-
          gie, Esq. of Glendoick; Charles Hunter, Esq. of Glencarse and
          Seaside; James Matthew, Esq. of Waterybutts; Society of Ship-


