
                             KIPPEN.			      267

elm thrive well on the lower grounds, and are extensively planted.
On the banks of the glens, there are considerable portions of
thriving coppice-wood.
   There is close by the House of Broich, one of the finest yew
trees in Scotland. It is about 50 feet in height, and the circum-
ference of the trunk is above 10 feet. it is of a conical form, and
the lower branches extend down to the ground, and overspread a
space, the circumference of which is not less than 200 feet. It
is supposed to be about 300 years old.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  Historical Notices.--In the year 1676, the Sacrament of the
Lord's Supper was dispensed, in the night, to a very numerous as-
sembly at Arnbeg, about a mile west from the village of Kippen.
During the persecution that prevailed in the reign of Charles II.
and James II., the inhabitants of this parish were subjected to se-
vere hardships. Mr Ure of Shirgarton, a gentleman highly dis-
tinguished by his piety and zeal, suffered much for conscience
sake, and made many narrow escapes from the hands of his perse-
cutors. He signalized himself by his bravery at the battle of
Bothwell Bridge.  A memoir of him, chiefly drawn up by himself,
has been published by the late celebrated Dr M'Crie.
  The late Mr James Miller, preacher of the Gospel, Edinburgh,
who was a native of this parish, is deserving of notice, as a good
man and a generous benefactor to the young men prosecuting their
studies, with a view to the holy ministry. He mortified a sum of
money, the interest of which is to be paid as a bursary to two stu-
dents during their attendance, respectively, at the classes of Greek,
logic, moral and natural philosophy, in the Universities of Edin-
burgh and Glasgow. The amount of the bursary is, to the former,
L.24, and to the latter, nearly the same sum. The kirk-session
of Kippen are the patrons, and the election is directed to be made
on his father's grave-stone in the churchyard of Kippen.
   Land-owners.--James Stirling, Esq. of Garden; William C.
C. Graham, Esq. of Gartmore; Henry F. Campbell, Esq. of
Boquhan; David Erskine, Esq. of Cardross; Buchanan Leckie,
Esq. of Broich, and William Galbraith, Esq. of Blackhouse and
Little Kerse, are the principal proprietors in this parish. There are
a number of other respectable land-owners, some of whom reside
upon their properties.
   Parochial Registers.--There are no records extant revious to
1700.  From that date to 1745, the parochial registers have been
kept with considerable accuracy. From 1745 to 1757, the regis-


