
506	        		FORFARSHIRE.

tion being sufficient to check the crying evil of the children
ofthe poor being cast on the world without religious or even se-
cular instruction. In the larger towns there is, there cannot be
any other means of grappling with the demon of ignorance; and
while the Legislature, by wholesome laws, is bound, as far as prac-
ticable, to alleviate the physical sufferings of the people, it is not
less called upon to attend to their moral and religious training.
The Government or Parliament which neglects both incurs a
fearful, responsibility.
   With respect to the wages of those employed in the factories
here, though considerably lower than they have been, we should
say, that, looking to age and the preponderance of females, they
are perhaps the best paid class employed in the linen trade, with
the exception of hacklers. Spinners, who are all girls of fifteen to
about twenty-five years of age, earn from 5s. 4d. to 6s. 6d. per week;
reelers, from 5s. to 6s.; and those in the preparing departments,
from 3s. to 6s., according to the nature of the work assigned to
each. The department requiring early and indispensable previous
training is the spinning. It consists in expertness and facility in
uniting broken threads, and which can only be efficiently acquired
by the young. In the present improved state of machinery, the
labour is by no means irksome; and hence it is that it is no un-
common thing, in passing through the spinning-flat of a well-con-
ducted mill, to find many of the girls employed in reading.
Spreaders, feeders, and reelers have a more laborious work to
perform; but the persons employed in these capacities are, for the
most part, full-growu women; and, generally speaking, they are
allowed a longer time for meals and relaxation than the rest of the
hands. The whole of the workers, men, women, and children
are at liberty to leave their employment on giving four weeks;
notice,-in some cases even one week being held sufficient. Hack-
lers are paid at the rate of 2s. for every hundred weight of rough
flax which they dress; and it is no unusual thing for a steady
hand, with the assistance of an apprentice, whom he allows 3s. 6d.
to 5s. 6d., to earn L. 1, 4s. per week. The average wages, how-
ever, of this class, including those who have no apprentices, does
not perhaps exceed from 10s. to 12s. per week.*
   In seasons of ordinary manufacturing prosperity, and where pro-

<FOOTNOTE>In the interview between the writing of this article, in January l842, and the
correcting of the proof-sheet in October following, a farther reduction in wages has
taken place of five to ten per cent.


