
574                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

draining, which has been, entered on with spirit, and will no
doubt be carried into effect wherever its introduction may be
deemed necessary or beneficial. The expense is exclusively de-
frayed by the tenant, as it is believed to be an improvement that
will soon repay the outlay. As an instance, a field so drained,
being in potatoes the year after, produced a crop of 75 bolls per
acre.
   Quarries and Mines.-Of the former there is none, and of the
latter coal mines only, which have been wrought in this parish
for at least 200 years, and form its chief riches. The edge-seams
lying, as formerly mentioned, in the north-west quarter, were first
wrought, as from their position and the nature of the ground a
considerable winning could be obtained by a day-level, which was
afterwards extended to a more considerable depth by a sea-level.
The crop of the flat seams was then wrought by the same means,
and afterwards steam-engines were erected at different parts of
the field in succession, always farther to the dip, till the whole has
been wrought out but what lies in the south-east quarter of the
parish, where a great quantity of valuable coal still remains to be
wrought, but which cannot be effected to a much greater extent by
the present engines. The value of such a field may be estimated by
calculating from the following data:-An acre of jewel coal, the
average thickness of which may, be taken at 4 feet, produces
15,000 tubs of 4. cwt., or 3000 tons, which, at 5d. per cwt., or
8s. 4d. per ton, gives L. 1250 as the gross produce. Then there
are the rough and splint seams, thicker than the jewel, but of
inferior value.  Taking the average thickness of both together to
be only 4 1/2 feet, and the price 4d. per cwt., or 6s. 8d. per ton, we
have L. 1125 per acre for each; and in addition there is the beefy
seam, of inferior value still, which if taken at only 4 feet in thick-
ness, and at 3d. per cwt., or 5s. per ton, gives L. 750-in all L. 4250
as the value per acre when brought to the pit mouth. When the
four-foot and diamond seams are found, the value of course is
considerably more; but this does not apply to what remains to be
wrought.
   The coal is now all wrought on the long-wall system, by which
means the whole is excavated without any stoops being left to
support the roof, which gradually sinks as the workings advance,
and by which the surface to a certain extent is affected, especially
as this takes place unequally and produces what are called sits.
                             4


