
	142                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

        a north, north-west, and north-east wind rises most tremendously.
	The bays of Bragar and Barvas, having each a headland of short
	projection attached, are low and partly sandy; but the bay of Sba-
	dir, though low, is very difficult of access.
	     Meteorology.-There being no hilly ranges higher than gentle
	eminences, the country is the more exposed to the destructive vio-
	lence of sea winds, which frequently carry, in their sweeping blasts,
	disappointment to the husbandman. The sea coast, the only arable
	portion of the parish, lies completely open to the north, west, and
	south winds; and when they come, in harvest, impregnated with
	the noxious vapours of the Atlantic, and often accompanied by
	heavy falls of rain, the crops, particularly the potato, suffer much
	injury. The air is temperately cold, moist, and salubrious,
	to natives; but the atmosphere is always densely charged with
	humid exhalations from the surrounding ocean, and from the
	mossy bogs, locbs, lakes, and water in every shape, with which the
	marshes are plentifully interspersed. From this cause, frost is sel-
	dom intense, and snow generally of short continuance. Dense
	fogs rarely occur. The luminous meteors, rainbow, halo, and
	Aurora Borealis or polar lights, are very frequent and brilliant. The
	glare of the latter sometimes may afford light for reading, and
	their warlike motions are often interesting. As they advance, at
	their first appearance, slowly and majestically, the fertile imagina-
	tion may fancy the cool and stately motion of two mighty hosts
	approaching to the onset, then the hurry and confusion of the
	thickening fight, then the rout, the fugitive and pursuer emerging
	in one another,-until a third party shoots forth as from ambuscade,
	ending the battle, and resigning the 6rmament to the stars and
	ancient night.
             The prevailing winds are the south and south-west, and are al-
	ways followed by rain, if of more than two days duration.
             The common complaints are, colds, asthmas, and rheutnatisms,
	incident to this, in common with all rainy climates; but a more
	uncommon ailment, for which no remedy has yet been discovered,
	is the five or seven nights sickness,-a disease very fatal to infants,
	and so called from its attacking them on the fifth or seventh night.
            Hydrography.--Perennial springs of excellent water are very
	numerous here, issuing for the most part from sand or gravel, se.-
	veral of them of a cbayvbeate nature. The moors abound in small
	shallow fresh water lakes and lochs, without surrounding scenery
	or beauty. The rivers take their origin from lochs and springs,
	generally at the distance of six or seven miles from the Atlantic,


