
     Statistical Account

   Roads.-Two highways pass through this parish; the one
directly for Perth, the other being the post road from Edin-
burgh along the coast, by Dundee, Arbroath, and Montrose;
which two roads, uniting at Stonehaven, are continued in one
to Aberdeen.  It must be acknowledged, that no highways
in Scotland are in worse condition; the statute labour having
been very imperfectly applied, although there is reason to
believe, it would have been tolerably sufficient for their sup-
port, if commuted for money; the country being populous,
and there being no great towns to occasion heavy carriages.
The same remark may be applied to the greatest part of
this country But, by the ruinous state into which the high-
ways have fallen, the county have become sensible of the ne-
cessity of turnpikes, for which an application is resolved to
be made to parliament next session, as well as for a commuta-
tion of the statute labour.

   Castle.-The CASTLE of DUNNOTTAR, now in ruins, is the
only antiquity, in this parish, deserving particular attention.
It is situated on a perpendicular rock, level on the top, of
several acres extent, projecting into the sea, and almost sepa-
rated from the land by a very deep chasm.  By this situation,
it forms one of the most majestic ruins in Scotland.  From
some old papers still extant+, it appears, that upon this rock
was formerly situated the parish church; and that the fortress

<FOOTNOTE>

to make them all Latin schools, their end is much lost.  Perhaps the erection
of only a few of these, with an annual visitation of the whole, by the Commis-
sioners of Supply and Presbytery of the bounds, would be attended with the best
effects.  These visitors might also have the power of fixing and augmenting the
salary each year, to be assessed upon the respective parishes, according to the
merit of the teacher.

<UNREADABLE>

+These papers are in the custody of Mr. KEITH of RAVELSTON, who can
particular account of this place.

</UNREADABLE>


