
                            KINGUSSIE.                                             69

     Eminent Men.-The parish has produced, at several times,

   men who have distinguished themselves in the literary, but espe-

has  been related with great inaccuracy. The statement we are about to submit is
in substance the account given by an elder of the parish, who was an eyewitness
of most of what he relates, and whose story is corroborated by other old people in
the district.  Early on the morning of Monday the lst or 2d of January 1800, a mi-
litary gentleman, who resided in the parish, Captain M` P- accompanied by four
attendants, went out a deer-stalking among the wild and rugged mountains that skirt
the parish to the south.  The immediate intention of this eWedition, it is said, was to
kill some game for a Christmas feast: and they took provisions with them sufficient to.
serve until the following Friday, on which day they had determined to return.  They'
were to lodge in a house in the valley of Gaick, at that time unoccupied, but generally in
the possession of herdsmen, who used to tend their flocks upon the surrounding pas-
tures.  This house was a very good and substantial building of stone, and probably
mortar, with strong couples of wood, driven into the ground after the manner of some
of the houses of this country, which are constructed in this way for the purpose of
greater stability.  It stood on rather a rising ground, at the foot of one of those lofty
mountains with which the valley is almost surrounded, fronting nearly the north-west,
and, from the peculiarity of its situation, combined with its StfeDgtil, might have been
thought secure from the utmost fury of a storm.  The first two days after Captain
M'P- and his party left home, were very calm and frosty.  Towards Wednesday
evening, however, there came on a dreadful storm of wind and drifting snow from
the southeast, which increased throughout the night to a hurricane.  This continued
unabated till the morning    and forenoon of Friday, when it gradually settled down
again into fine weather.  As the house in which Captain M`P_ and his party
were to lodge was known to be good, no fears were entertained of the slightest danger,
till the circumstance of their non-app"rance on Friday evening excited a suspicion
that all could not be right.  A messenger was accordingly despatched on Saturday
morning to discover the cause of their delay, who, on coming near the place where the
house had stood, was surprised to find that it had quite disappeared, while its site was
covered with an immense depth of snow.  This induced a strong dread that Captain
M'P_ and his companions had all perished; and the fact of his having found a
hat and powder-flask partially buried among the snow, which be immediately recog-
nized as the property of some of the party, confirmed his fears.. On communicating
these particulars upon his return in the evening, a party of about twelve men collect
ed, and set off for the spot early on Sabbath morning.  As they approached the place,
the stones which had formed part of the walls, along  with the wood and divots of the
roof, were seen among the snow between the house and the bottom of the valley, at
various distances, some of them from two to three hundred yards from the house.
The lintel of the door, which was a stone of large size, lay at least 150 yards distant.
Nothing being seen but one extended bank of snow, with stones, wood, and turf, here
and there risinjr throuah it, the men had the utmost difficulty in discovering the site
of the buildings, and     was only after a diligent and fatiguing search of at least six
hours, that they succeeded in discovering the only renia     ning vestige of it, under at
least six'feet depth of snow.  What they discovered of the house, was a part of the
back wall about a foot high, which had been preserved by its being sunk below the sur-
rounding earth; the rest of the house was completely swept away- Four of the bodies
were found soon after, within the area of the building, cold and lifeless, and, from the
position and other circumstances in which some of them were, it appeared that the un-
fortunate men had been retiring to   bed, or at least reclining, when the sad event befel
them.  Captain M`P_ was sitting with his coat off, upon the remains of a bed,
leaning forward with his elbows upon his knees, and the one hand grasping the wrist
of the other, which supported his head.  Other two of the party lay in each other's
embrace, half out of bed, from which it would seem they had made a fruitless efflort
to escape, when they felt themselves in danger.  A fourth of the bodies was lying
upon the back, on the fragment that remained of a kind of long seat opposite to Cap-
tain M'P-, with one thigh broken, and covered with stones and turf.  Two
guns were also found in the middle of the floor, olie of them bent, and, if our infor-
mant recollects rightly, the other in pieces.  The body of the remaining sufferer was
not found till two or three months thereafter, when the snow had somewhat abated,
lying at the distance of 200 yards, partly undressed.  These melancholy particulars,
taken in connection with the supposed security of the situation, and the suddenness


