
226			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

abound. The present proprietor, by draining a considerable por-
tion of moss which lay directly in view of the mansion-house, and
levelling it with the spade, and top-dressing it with compost, has
greatly improved the spot by giving a green sward to what was
formerly a disfiguring swamp. The mansion-house of Dalscairth
is an elegant, spacious residence, standing on an dxtensive field,
skirted with plantations of trees, with a waterfall in view of it, de-
scending from a considerable height through a range of hanging
wood, which renders it truly picturesque and romantic. The pre-
sent proprietor has added greatly to the beauty of the place by con-
verting, at a considerable expense, an extensive marsh in front of
the house into a lake, the margin of which is laid out and varied
in a very tasteful manndr. The mansion-house of Goldielea is
a delightful residence, embosomed in wood, has a lawn in front
studded with clumps of venerable oaks, and is refreshed and en-
livened with a perennial stream of water running over a transpa-
rent, and pebbly bed. The mansion-house of Terraughty stands
on a very delightful eminence, has a great extent of land-prospect,
and a field in front that might, at a trifling expense, be converted
into a lawn of singular beauty. The late proprietor made a gar-
den, hot-houses, green-house, and vinery, at a considerable expense,
all of which are tastefully arranged, and highly productive. The
mansion-house of Carruchan is surrounded with fields of rich soil
highly cultivated; and is particularly interesting from the seclu-
sion of its situation. The mansion-house of Cargenholm stands
close to the river Cargen; has a warm southern exposure, with a
full view of Criffell; and is a sheltered comfortable residence.
On this  property, there is a brick-kiln, the bricks of which are
in great request, owing to their superior quality. The mansion-
house of Mavis Grove is situated on a delightful rising ground
near the river Nith, has a variety of large trees of different sorts
ranged tastefully around it in a kind of amphitheatre, and is much
admired for the amenity of it situation and the softness of its
scenery. The villas of Summerville, Arundel, Bromland, Tro-
queerholm, Ryedale, Rosefield, Nithside, may be mentioned as
all of them commodious, and some of them spacious and elegant.
	Eminent Men.--Thir parish cannot boast of having been the
birth-place or residence of any person entitled to notice, except,
perhaps, the Rev. Mr Blackadder, who, about the period of the
Reformation, was officiating minister; the particulars of whose life
and banishment to the Black Rocks, where he died, are rescued

