
     Of Clackmannan.

   Character of the People.-The great diversity of ranks
and employments in this parish, renders the charater of
the people equally diversified.  In general, however, they
are a sober, industrious, and religious people; though in-
stance of great prosligacy now and then occur.  Many of
the lower ranks are much addicted to the drinking of
whisky; which is often the cause of much misery to their
families.  The great body of the farmers are a  most intel-
ligent and respectable class of men; many of them pos-

     4 M 2

<FOOTNOTE>

heirs (after the death of their five brethren) of William Marshall, the
great Earl of Pembroke.  She had two son*;
   XVI. William, who dying without issue, left his succession to his bro-
ther.
   XVII. Robert, who married Helen, daughter to Allan de Vitro
Pont, etc.  This Robert did quit his own arms, and assumed those of
Annandale, they being the only male-heirs of the family descended from
Adelme.  King Robert, his brother Edward, and his sons, all earls of
Annandale, being extinct without issue, so that this Robert remained
chief, assuming the primitive terms which his successors carry unto this
day from him, many bearing the name of Bruce, are descended: whose
son,
   XVIII. Robert I. Laird of Clackmannan, married-Stuart, daugh-
ter to the Laird of Rosenyth, who bare to him three sons; 1. Robert;
2. Edward; 3. Thomas; and a daughter, who married the Laird of
Balnagoun: but his son,
   XIX. Robert, second Laird of Clackmannan, married-Scrym-
geure of Didop, by whom he had 1 ft. David, 2 d. Bruce of Munies.
   XX. David, third Laird of Clackmannan, married the daughter to
the Lord of Lorn.
   XXI. David, fourth Laird of Clackmannan, married 1 ft.-
Stirling, daughter to their Laird of Keir: 2. he married herris, daugh-
ter to the Laird Taregles, on both of whom he had issue, as in the tree to
be seen.
   XXII. Sir David, fifth Laird of Clackmannan, married Jennet
Blacketer, daughter to the Laird of Tullialan, etc.
   XXIII. John, sixth Laird of Clackmannan, married-Murray,
daughter to the Laird of Polmacs.


