
          KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                                 321

 Columba and his companions made first the Island of Oronsay,
and thereafter arrived at Iona upon the eve of Pentecost. The
distinguished sanctity of his manners, in so remote an age, would
necessarily be corroborated by the imputation of miraculous power.
Kings listened with reverence to his admonitions; armies, when
ready to engage, stopped at his command; and he maintained not
only much influence in the councils of the kingdom where he
lived, but among the Irish and Saxons. As his worth and fame
increased,, his institution accordingly became richly endowed
and the poor huts and church of slight materials gave place to
edifices  of more durable composition. It soon became the first,
as it was for several ages, the only University in Great Britain ,
and so much famed was it for the philosophy and theology of the
times, and for the severe manners and discipline of its founder,
which were long kept up, that it became a general place of
education, not only for the Scots, but for the British and Irish
churches.
 Soon after his settlement in Iona, be made a journey into the
Pictish territories, being some parts of Inverness-shire, and preach-
ed to them the gospel, to which they had hitherto been entire
strangers.Adomnan calls them gentiles barbaric, barbarian hea-
thens, butthat upon seeing Columba's works, they glorified the
God of the Christians. He likewise observes that Columba preach-

<FOOTNOTE>They laboured during two years erecting huts and a church of very slight ma-
terials. For several yeats after his settlement here he would suffer no females to re-
side on the island, and so great was his caution that be even prohibited cattle, and
would not allow a cow to be kept, for, according to his syllogistic adage, " where
there is a cow there must be a woman ; and where there is a woman there must be
mischief." Martin says, " that all the tradesmen who wrought in it were obliged to
keep their wives and daughters in the opposite little isle, called on that account Wo-
men's Isle."
          He is the first on record who had the faculty of second-sight, for he is said to
have told the victory of Aidan over the Picto and Saxons ou the very instant it hap-
pened.
          When Columba first attempted to build on Iona, the walls, it is said, by the ope-
ration of some evil spirit, fell down as fast as they were erected. Columba received
up,natural information that they would never stand unless a human victim was
buried alive. According to one account, the lot fell on Oran. the Companion of the
saint, as the victim that was demanded for the success of the undertaking. Others
pretend that Oran voluntarily devoted himself, and was interred accordingly. At
the end of three days Columba had the curiosity to take a farewell look at his old
friend, and caused the earth to be removed. Oran raised his swimming eyes, and
said, " There is no wonder in death, and bell is not as it is reported" The saint
was so shocked at this impiety that he instantly ordered the earth to be flung in again
uttering the words, Uir ! uir ! air beal Orain ma'n labbair e tuile comh'radb," that
is, Earth! earth! on the mouth of Oran that he may blab no more. This passed
into a Proverb. and is in use in the Highlands at the present day.
 It is not improbable but this story ww invented by some of Columba's Druidical
enemies, in order to expose him and the Christian doctrine to ridicule especially as
the savage rite imputed to him was only practised by the heathens.
ARGYLE.


