
			LANGHOLM.			      419

land scene on the banks of the Esk, along the Edinburgh ancl Car-
lisle road and consists of one principal street, which contains some
excellent houses, roofed with blue slate got in the neighbourhood.
At the market-place stand the Town-Hall and Jail, ornament-
ed with a spire and clock. These buildings were erected on an
elegant plan in 1811. The village of New Larigholm, half a-mile
from the town, is delightfully situated on the opposite side of the
river, at the confluence of the Esk and Wauchope, and connected
with the former by a stone bridge of three arches. This village
consists of about 140 houses built upon a regular plan, of a trian-
gular form, on feus held from the Duke of Buccleuch, and was
begun in the year 1778. If the house consists of one story, the
feuar gets two acres of land ; if of two stories, four acres, at a rent
varying according to the quality of the soil and situation, from 3s.
to 14s. per acre on leases of fourteen years. They have also a
cow pastured on a common at 18s. per annum, solely appropriated
for this purpose. The Duke of Buccleuch is superior, and no-
minates the Baron Bailie.
	Eminent Men.--Among the eminent men born in this parish,
we may mention the following: Mr Maxwell, the ingenious author
of an Essay upon Tune; John Pasley, Esq. an enterprising and suc-
cessful London merchant; Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, his brother,
who distinguished himself under Earl Howe, in the defeat of the
French fleet, on the 1st of June 1794; William Julius Meikle, the
translator of Camoens' Lusiad; Colonels Matthew Murray and
John Little, who distinguished themselves under the Marquis
Cornwallis, in the wars against Tippoo Saib; Captain George
Maxwell, R. N. who Signalized himself in an engagement with the
Dutch, off the Dogger-Bank in 1781; Ralph Irvine, M. D. who
died in India, 1795, a young man of great promise in his profes-
sion; Colonel C. Pasley of the Royal Engineers, well known for
his attainments in literature and science, who has now withdrawn
from the active duties of life, and is enjoying his well-earned fame
among the scenes of his infancy; and David Irvine, LL. D. au-
thor of the Life of George Buchanan, &c. and librarian to the Fa-
culty of Advocates.
	Chief Land-owners.--The principal proprietors are, His Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch; George Maxwell, Esq. of Broomholm;
and Mr.'Mattbew Little of Arkinholm. Sir Patrick Maxwell,
Bart. of Sprinakell, is the sole proprietor of Half Morton, with
exception of two farms.


