
                          SADDELL AND SKIPNESS.                       445

       and danger, together with his high sense of honour, soon raised
       him to the distinction of a formidable leader. He particularly
       distinguished himself in arresting the progress of the forces of
       Montrose and was actively engaged at Philiphaugh, where they
       were cut to pieces. Under the command of General Lesslie, he
       pursued a body of the Macdonalds, in their retreat to Ireland, as
       far as the Castle of Dunaverty, where he fell on the first day of
       the siege. This so enraged the besiegers, that they soon after-
       wards compelled the Macdonalds to surrender unconditionally
       when they were to a man put to the sword. The mother of the
       captain of Skipness, who was daughter to the chief of the Mac-
       farlanes, hourly expecting her son's arrival, and observing a per-
       son approach at a quick pace, supposed be might be him, and went
       out to meet him.  He proved, however, to be the messenger en-
       trusted with the tidings of her son's death. Upon hearing the mourn-
       ful intelligence announced, she fell into a swoon, from which she
       never recovered.  His body was conveyed to Lochend, (now Camp-
       belton,) and interred in the old Gaelic church. The stone that
       covers his grave is still to be seen. The inscription which of late
       years is quite obliterated, stood thus:

                         " A Cnptain much renowned,
                         Whose cause of fight was still Christ's right,
                         For which his soul is crowned.
                         So breifly then to knov the man,
                         This stone tells all the storie;
                         On earth his race be ran with grace,
                         In Heaven he reigns in glory."

          7. Mr Donald Macnicol, an eminent scholar and antiquarian,
       was minister in this parish in 1753, whence he was translated to
       the Island of Lismore.  He brought himself into notice by the
       publication of an able and interesting review of Dr Johnson's
       " Tour to the Hebrides," which still retains its popular character.
       When the great moralist saw the work, he is said to have growled
       hideously.  But upon perusing it, lie observed to a friend 11 Really
       these Highland savages write the English language wonderfully
       well!"
          Antiquities-Monastery at Saddell.-This celebrated monastic
       institution, which was originally organized by Somerled, was car-
       ried on and completed by Reginald, his son and successor.  The
       site of the monastery itself is one of surpassing interest. It is a
       sweet and shaded spot, close by a well-wooded stream, near the
       base of one of the mountains that bound a broad and beautiful
       valley.  The ruins are embosorned amid the fbliage of the elm,
       the ash, and other stately trees which now wave their branches


