
                           TOUGH.                             617

in the parish or district.  A number of the females employ them-
selves in knitting stockings for a mercantile house in Aberdeen.
The worsted is furnished to them at their own houses, and they
are paid for their work at the rate of 3 1/2d. or 4d. a pair.  About
3000 pairs of excellent worsted stockings are in this manner made
in the parish yearly.

                   V. PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-The nearest market-towns are Inverury and
Kintore, each distant about thirteen miles.
   Means of Communication.-There is a good turnpike road the
whole way to the latter of these places, and our farmers occasion-
ally resort to it with their produce, (which is thence transported
by the canal boats to Aberdeen,) bringing home lime in return.
But by far the principal communication is with the county town
itself, where it is found that both sales and purchases can be ef-
fected on more favourable terms.  The distance is twenty-two
miles, but the turnpike road is excellent, and the acclivities few.
   The length of turnpike road within the parish is about two miles
and a half; the road from Aberdeen to Strathdon passing through
it near its northern extremity, and that from Aberdeen to Tar-
land touching it on the south.  There is a stage-coach and a
mail-gig, which calls daily at the post-office at Whitehouse, in its-
way from Aberdeen to Strathdon. The bridges over the small
streams which cross the turnpike and other roads are in good re-
pair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is per-
haps as convinient for the great body of the people as could well
be found in a parish of such irregular figure.  A small proportion
of the inhabitants, however, at the south-west corner of the parish,
are four miles from it; but in almost every other direction, its dis-
tance from the boundary does not exceed two miles.  The church
was erected in 1838.  It is seated for 550 persons, and is hand-
some and commodious in no ordinary degree.  The manse was
built in 1835, and bears testimony also to the good taste and li-
berality of the heritors.  The globe consists of about 7 imperial
acres of good land, and may be valued at L.9 Sterling per annum.
The stipend is L.96, 12s. 1 1/15d. in money, (with L.8, 6s. 8d. for
communion elements,) 25 bolls, 1 firlot oatmeal, and 2 bolls, 1 1/2
firlot bear, and an Exchequer allowance of L.33 17s. 1 1/2d. under
the small stipend act.
  There are about 60 Dissenters in the parish of the United


