
     of Langholm.

been discovered upon the estate of John Maxwell, Esq; of
Broomholm, (the ingenious author of the "Essay upon
"Tune*.") near the bed of the Esk; but though the 
symptoms in both places are said to be very promising,
nothing yet has been done to prosecute the discoveries.
On the same estate, there are also strong appearances of
copper; small seams of coal have likewise been found 
there.  In the western district of the parish, called Wauch-
opedale, there are 3 medicinal springs, 1 sulphureous, and
2 chalybeate; the first is reported to with success, by pa-
tients afflicted with ferofulous and cutaneous disorders.
The Grains Well is a very strong chalybeat, and could
patients be accommodated near it, it would be much fre-
quented, as many have felt its salutary effects in diseases

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Rev. Mr Martin, author of this valuable account of the parish
of Langholm, having made mention of Mr Maxwell's Essay upon Tune,
it may not be unacceptable, especially to the musical reader, to state in
few words, that is the subject of that performance.  The plan is beau-
iful and new:  the object is to attain Perfect Tune, in contradistinction
to what is called Temperament.  From the key of C natural, in the Dia-
tonic scale of 7 degrees, he has thence proceeded in a chain of reforma-
tion through every other key of the system, by means of tuning the AD-
JUNCT keys, exactly the same as the PRINCIPAL; and all this is effec-
tuated in the simplest manner, by the insertion of grave seconds and
flat seveths, equally agreeable to the ear, as acute seconds and sharp
sevenths.  The author has farther extended his information to the Semi-
tonic scale of 12 degrees, through all its 24 keys, both in the violin and
organ; and still by the same means of double seconds and sevenths.  With
respect to the violin, he quotes passages from the works of the greatest
masters, Tartini, Corelli and Giardini, which shows that they were not
suffeciently acquainted with the true tuning of the siddle, and have writ-
ten passages for that instrument, which cannot be executed.
   Mr Maxwell's is comprehensive, ingenious, and profound; but
farther particulars, it would be unsuitable, to a publication of this kind,
to state.  At the same time, there comes within the scope of it, a brief
notice of discoveries, and of eminent men, in every parish.


