
	64                          PERTSHIRE.

	1630, intimates very distinctly that barges sailed past the Palace
	of Scone, and it is highly probable, from the appearance of the
	ground there, that the course of the river was much nearer the Pa-
	lace then than it is now.-His verses are

		     " As we then talked, our barge did sweetly pass
		       By Scone's fair Palace, sometime Abbey was."

	   In the city records, 27th November 1609, there is an entry con-
	taining a prohibition of boats " weighing (casting) anchor at the
	North Inch head," i. e. the head of the original North Inch, which
	till 1785, reached only to the trees opposite to Boat-land.
	   Before the Reformation, Perth abounded in monasteries and
	other religious houses.  The monasteries were, 1st, the Dominican
	or Blackfriars Monastery.  It was situated at the north side of the
	town, and was founded by Alexander II. in 1231, who, in 1244,
	granted to it the whole ground where his garden was, and also a
	conduit of water from his mill-lead, measuring four inches hn wide-
	ness.  The buildings were large and commodious, and were some-
	times spoken of as a palace.  In this monastery, the Scottish
	kings, when at Perth, usually took up their residence, after the de-
	molition of the old castle.  In the church of the monastery, the
	Parliament sometimes met, and the national ecclesiastical coun-
	cils held in it their annual meetings.  The designation of the friars
	was, " the predicatory or the preaching friars of the burgh of
	Perth."
	   2d, The Carmelite or Whitefriars Monastery, designated " the
	prior and convent of the Carmelite friars of Tulilum, near Perth."
	It was founded in the reign of Alexander III. and was situated a
	little way west from the town.  After the Reformation, when the
	King's hospital was founded, the lands and rents of the monastery
	were annexed to it.
	   3d, The Charter-House or Carthusian Monastery ; this was
         the only monastery which the Carthusians had in Scotland. It was
	situated at the west end of the town, near to where the hospital now
	stands.  It was built or founded by King James I. and his Queen
	in the year 1429.  The original letter, sent by the prior of the
	great Chartreux in France `ddressed to that monarch, and giving
	consent to the erection of a house of the Carthusian order near
	Perth, for thirteen monks, with their competent number of servants,
	is extant among the papers of the hospital.  It is beautifully writ-
	ten, and dated August 19th 1426.  Its designation was, " The

				    3


