
284   			FORPARSHIRE.

	The centre of the arch of the stone bridge which crosses the
southern channel was at the same time, taken down, and a revolv-
ing drawbridge, erected in its stead, by which vessels are allowed
to pass up and down the basin. The communication across the
Esk at Montrose may, therefore, now be considered to be as per-
fect as it can be rendered or desired.
	Banks.--There are branches of the following banks in Montrose,
--viz. the British Linen Company, the National Banj nf Scotland,
and the Dundee Union Bank. The two former occupy large and
commodious houses belonging to the banks.
	Post-Office.--The gross revenue of the post-office at Montrose
last year amounted to about L.2000.
	Means of Communication.--The north mail goes by Montrose;
besides which, there is a daily coach to Edinburgh; and one which
runs daily between Perth and Aberdeen passes through the town.
During six or seven months of the year, the Aberdeen steam-boats
take in and land goods and passengers.
	There are three toll-roads in the parish;--the Aberdeen road,
one to Marykirk bridge, and the Brechin road; of each of the
two former, about three miles are in the parish, and nearly a mile
of the later.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church of Montrose is collegiate; each
minister has a district both of the town and country part of the pa-
rish. These districts do not seem to have been assigned by any
authority, but rather to have been adopted as matter of private ar-
rangement, as they have occasionally been altered to meet the
changes in the population. In terms of the act of last General
Assembly, a district in the town, with a population of about 3000,
has been assigned to the chapel oi ease. The sacrament is dis-
pensed twice a-year in the church and chapel. The number of
communicants in the former varies from 1700 to 2200; the average
may be about 2000; in the latter, 400. But, as a considerable
proportion of those in regular communion with the church commu-
nicate only once a-year, the above numbers are greatly below the
actual number of communicants in the parish.
	There was neither manse nor grebe in the parish previous to the
decision. of the House of Lords in the case of Ayr in 1827. In
consequence of that decision, the presbytery of Brechin, upon a pe-
tition from the minister in the first charge, designed a grebe of the
legal extent, viz. four acres, together with halt an acre for the site
Of manse, garden, &c. The glebe might rent for about L.20. The
manse was build in 1890. The stipend of the first charge, paid


