
                             LINTON.                     149

   Besides the mineral spring already mentioned, there are several
others in the parish,-one of which, on the farm of Bankhead,
appears, from tradition, to have been frequently used for scor-
butic complaints. It is still occasionally employed in these dis-
orders.
   Soil, &c.-The soil of the greater portion of the western district
consists of loam, gravel, sand, and clay, mixed in various propor-
tions; 300 acres adjoining Kale water are of a stiff retentive clay,
resting on a wet channel bottom; but the soil of part of this tract is
a deep loam, reposing on sand and gravel. The whole of this fine
strath would be much improved by deepening the course of a mill-
dam which flows through it, and by draining. In the eastern and cen-
tral district, where the land is higher, the soil is light. There are fre-
quent instances of the soil having been carried by the rain from the
higher, and deposited in the lower lands. This, though sometimes
beneficial, also proves occasionally injurious to the latter, as in
draining, the good soil has been discovered buried beneath a
lighter soil, which bad been thus borne down from the hills. Most
of the rocks are whinstone, which, when broken, has been fre-
quently found to contain rock crystals. In one quarry, there is a
large seam of the latter interwoven with the whinstone; the course
of which seam can be readily traced by the eye. On the farm of
Frogden, there is a quarry of freestone, which, notwithstanding the
good quality of the stone, has been little wrought. Large pieces
of jasper of all kinds are frequently dug up by the plough, and lie
scattered over the surface of the ground. The fir, the oak, the
ash, and the elm, here find a congenial soil. The principal plan-
tation is that of Clifton Park, which covers an extent of thirty
acres. Several years ago, a small seam of coal was discovered on
the farm of Greenlees, but the working of it was not proceeded in
to any extent, and was speedily abandoned as unprofitable.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   The earliest notice of this parish appears in connection with the
donation * of the church of Linton to the monks of Kelso, by Sir
Richard Cumin, for the salvation of the soul of Prince Henry,
eldest son of David I. This Sir Richard Cumin was the ancestor
of the Cumins of Badenoch, and of the famous John Cumin who
aspired to the Scottish crown. At the period of the gift, he ap-
pears to have held one of the highest offices of the state; but whe-
ther or not he possessed property in the parish is uncertain.

<FOOTNOTE>See Chartulary of Kelso.


