
128                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

which gives universal satisfaction.  The church is now seated for
about 664.  A heating apparatus has been fitted up in it by Mr
Robert Richie, Edinburgh, which is found effectually to answer
the end proposed.  The tower also, which was too low for the
church, has been raised according to a plan kindly furnished gratis,
by Mr Bryce, and adds greatly to the appearance of the whole.
The heritors alone paid for the repairs on the church; but the
raising of the tower and the heating apparatus were obtained by
means of a subscription.  A new bell has since been added, com-
pleting the arrangements.  The sittings of the church are divided
among the heritors as usual.  But the sittings employed at the
time of the communion for that service are left in the hands of the
kirk-session for the benefit of the people; of these there are about
80.  Four silver cups belong to the kirk-session for the use of
the parish, at the dispensation of the Lord's Supper; two were
purchased in 1680, and two were given by the widow of Dr Wal-
ker in 1808.  The damask towels are also in the possession of
the session given in 1706, by David Pitcairn of Dreghorn, on his
getting a seat in church, and a burial-ground assigned to him.  At the
opening of the church in 1837, there were presented two beauti-
ful damask towels to be used at baptisms, by one lady, and a
beautiful damask table-cloth with two towels corresponding, to be
used in dispensing the communion, by another lady; as is fully
narrated in the session records.  The positin of the church is
sufficiently central for the population of the parish, nobody be-
ing at a greater distance than two and a half miles.  There are
two benefactions to the parish, proper to be here noticed.  The
late Samuel Anderson of Moredun, Esq. after residing some time
at Hailes, placed in the hands of the kirk-session L. 100, with
directions to expend the interest thereof at every returning new
year, on meal, to be divided among the industrious poor.  And
the late Rev. John Fleming of Craigs, minister of Colinton, left
a sum for the education of poor children, which, after deducting
charges, amounted to L. 216.  The money is in the custody of
the kirk-session, the patronage in the hands of those five tenants
who pay the highest rents.
   The present manse was built for Dr Walker, in 1784; was re-
paired, altered, and had new offices erected, while Mr Fleming
held the cure; and, being too small for the accommodation of a
family, had a very useful addition made to it  during the last va-
cancy.  It now forma a very comfortable dwelling.  It is beauti-



