
     Statistical Account

the moderate from L. 3000*.  A more industrious, in-
trepid, adventurous race of mariners than those in this pa-
rish, is nowhere to be found in his Majesty's dominions.
They are exposed to continual danger in open boats from
an inconstant climate and a stormy sea.  In clear nights, by
the aid of a compass, the observation of certain stars, and
a few land-marks, they reckon their lives in perfect safety.
But when the clouds begin to gather, the winds to rise, the
waves to heave, and all nature wo wear a lowering counte-
nance, they are perplexed whither to direct their course;
to attempt the shore is certain death; and to live at sea
scarcely possible.  In such dreadful alternatives, the love of
life most frequently suggests the propriety of steering a
middle course; yet this dangerous navigation often termi-
nates in death.  Such dire disasters have given rise to rei-
terated proposals for building a smack of about 30 tons,
and with proper accommodations, to be employed in the
white fishery.  It is the opinion of the most skilful and ex-
perienced fishers, that in such a vessel the fishery might be
carried on with greater safety, and more benefit to the un-
dertakers, and with advantage to the country.  But the
want of a safe harbour has always occasioned schemes of
this nature to prove abortive.  A regard therefore for the
perservation of men's lives and the good of society should
induce all ranks to join in forwarding such plans of public
utility.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Lord Findlater could not bestow a part of his princely fortune to
better purpose, than in constructing a harbour that would promote his
own interest, prove a benefit to thousands, and transmit his name with
honour to posterity.  But as his Lordship's views are at present directed
to other useful objects, there is no immediate prospect of his executing
such an undertaking.  Still, however, a harbour is much wanted at Fin-
dochtie, and would be attended with many advantages to the country;
and consequently is one of those public works which merits the attention
of Government.
  

