
94                      BANFFSHIRE.

that when they have become incapable of hard labour, they are
altogether thrown upon the kindness of friends and the funds of
the parish.
    From various circumstances, there is no one who is able and
willing to work, who does not find employment.  The average sum
received by each pauper, yearly, is L. 2, 18s.  The amount of
contributions for the relief of the poor in 1831 was, from collections
at the church, L. 64, 6s. 8d.; from legacies, L. 12, 7s. 10d.; from
interest of L. 75 mortified money, L. 3, 15s.; total, L. 80, 9s. 6d.
     Library.-There is a parish library, well selected, composed of
works on religious and general subjects; and it is gratifying to be
able to state, that, of late, increased anxiety has been shewn to take
advantage of it.
  Savings Bank.-A savings bank was established in 1816.  Tak-
ing a year at random, there was deposited the sum of L. 195,
19s. 4d.; there was withdrawn, the same year, the sum of L. 158,
8s. 6d.  Investments were for the most part made by servants.
Transactions were, for several years, suspended on account of the
failure of the chief depository. This was the case when the wri-
ter of this account entered on the charge of the parish in the year
1831.  Although desirous of commencing a new bank, he found
the confidence in these institutions so shaken by what bad befAllen
the former, that be saw it was in vain to attempt it, at least for
some time.  However, having taken frequent opportunities of ex-
plaining their importance, and shown that the late mishap was al-
together apart from the principles of the bank, and entirely acci-
dental, he ventured to offer to receive deposits in the summer of
1834; and with such success was the proposal attended, that in
the course of four months there was deposited above L. 100.  The
sum in the savings bank at present (1836) is within a few pounds
of L. 300.  There is this difference between the present and for-
mer savings bank, that no contributions are now received beyond
L. 40, nor from anx persons not resident in the parish,-neither of
which restrictinns existed under the former regulations.
   Inns.-There is no inn or alehouse in the parish; for resisting
the introduction of which, the district is much indebted to the late
Sir George Abercromby, and his son, the present Sir Robert.
   Fuel.-Peat and wood are the chief materials used for fuel.  The
peat is obtained from the Camousie property; the wood from Car-
nousie and Forglen.  Coals are brought from Banff at the rate of
about 10d. the cwt. exclusive of carriage.
   July 1836.


