
74                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

The parish is divided into four districts viz.  The Aird, or height
of Coigach, Lochbroom Proper, the Little Strath, And the Laigh.
The appearance from the sea, in a clear summer evening, is mag-
nificent beyond description.
  Rivers, Lakes, and Fish.-In Coigach, are the beautiful vales of
trathceannard and Rhidorcb, watered, the former, by the water
of Ceannard, and the latter, by the finely wooded lake of Acball,
and the river of Ceannehruinn or Ullapool.  Lochbroom is divid-
ed into what are called the Big and Little Straths; through the
former of which, flows the rapid river Broom, from the mountain
lake already mentioned, which gives its name to the parish, till it
falls into the Big Loch, below the parish church.  Through the
latter, runs the Little Broom, fed by a number of mountain streams,
into the Little Loch, about a mile below the House of Dun-
donnell.
The Laigh is watered by the Meikle river, which pours the
waters of Loch-na'-sealg, (a beautiful sheet of fresh water, six
Scotch miles in length,) and of many other lakes and rivulets into
the sea at Greenyard,-and by the little river of Greenyard, which
forms the boundary of the parish on the south.  All these streams
are well stocked with salmon, grilse, trout, and other kinds of fish.
Coast, Mountains, and Islands.-It has been already mentioned
that the parish of Lochbroom possesses a very great extent of shore.
But this is chiefly formed by the bays and deep inlets of the sea,
by which the land is intersected.  Along the coast of the Atlantic,
the shore is bold, rocky, and precipitous, consisting of the pro-
montories of More (or Great,) Riff, D-nan, Duard, Ardchaduill,
Handerick (or Cailleach,) and St...daig.  But the heads of the
lochs or bays are chiefly low and sandy.  The principal mountains
are Stac, C-mhill-Mh•r, and Big Rock, in Coigach, on the
north; Beinn-Deirg on the east; Fannich on the south-east; and
the hills of Strath-na'sealg on the south-west.  But their eleva-
tion above the sea is uncertain.  There are several islands be-
longing to the parish, off the coast.  Some of them are inhabited,
as Ristal, Tanara, Isle Martin, Isle Greenyard, and sometimes
the Priest Island.  The others, called the Summer Isles, are ex-
cellent for wintering young Highland cattle.  The hills of this
parish were well stored with game of all kinds, till the introduc-
tion of extensive sheep-farming, which has greatly diminished the
quantity of game, as well as of salmon and other fish in the lakes
and rivers.  The same circumstance has had an equally deleteri-
                               4


