
     of Kirkconnel.

and 3 or 4 miles from the high road.-From the name of
this parish, the sirname kirkconnel unquestionably originates;
which suggests another very probable conclusion, that the
chief of that family was, in old times, proprietor of the whole
or greatest part of this parish.  This supposition is not a

advantages, both mental and corporeal, among mankind.  From
this natural and necessary difference arises, and must arise, a
correspondent diversity of property, rank, and power, in society.
The same thing will result even from the general inequality of
situation, soil, and climate.  Nor can any one need to be told,
how much both the natural and political state of one country,
and of one part of the same country, will vary from that of an-
other, nay even from itself, at different periods of time, and in
the common course of human affairs.-Hence, too, as to sub-
jects of detail and description, as as articles of produce,
there will always be found an equally remarkable diversity; to
which, in both cases, the poet's observation may well enough be
supposed very aptly to allude, in this line:

     Net vero terrae serre omnes omnia possunt.-VIRG.

     
     Not ev'ry soil can ev'ry produce yield,
     Nor is each spot we tread, a classic field.

Far less is it to be thought, that the remote, wild, mountainous
parts of a northern country; such as Scotland, can furnish much
to employ the pencil of the artist, or enrich the page of history.
Such is the unfavourable situation of the present writer.  The
field, within his province, lies much retired from public life;
was formerly almost inaccessible, and very little meliorated by
culture and improvement; and contains few scenes or objects,
few monuments of facts or events, any way striking or interest-
ing, either for landscape painting, or entertaining narrative
Thus circumstanced, he cannot but feel and regret the disadvan-
tage of such a situation.  Yet, 10th to decline the talk which
falls to his share, he readily recurs to the old approved maxim,
in the words of the poet:

     Ut desint vires, tamen est laudanda voluntas.-OVID.

     
     With each defect the will acceptance claims;
     Which candour gives, when peevish humour blames.


