
80                     ARGYLESHIRE.

The former ministers used to occupy a large farm at a low rent,
the farm-house serving for a manse, and, by this means, the old
glebe, which was of some value, has been lost to the church.
The present grebe contains very little arable land, except a piece
of reclaimed moss. Its value may be about L. 15 a-year. The
stipend is the minimum., The sum of L.14, Os. 8d. is annually
received out of the Exchequer.
   Education.--There are generally eight schools in operation in
this parish during the winter months. These were attended in
1840 by 625 scholars. There are also five Sabbath schools,
which are all well attended. There are two parochial schoolmas-
ters. The schoolmaster of Kilbrandon, who resides in Seil, has
the maximium salary of L.34 a year, with a dwelling-house and
garden. The other, who resides in Luing, receives L.25 a year,
with a school-house and garden, but without a dwelling-house;
but he rents a croft on which a comfortable house was lately built,
partly at his own expense. There are two remote localities where
the respective proprietors give L.5 a year to enable the people to
employ a teacher. In the populous island of Easdale, there is a
school supported by the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge. The salary is L. 15, with L.3 for an assistant during win-
ter. There are three other schools on the teachers' own adven-
ture. The branches taught in these schools are English and
Gaelic reading, writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping. The pa-
rochial schoolmasters teach Latin, navigation, and mathematics
when required. The school fees are, for reading, 2s. per quarter;
with writing, 3s.; arithmetic, 4s.; Latin, 5s. The people, in
general make great efforts to give some education to their
children; but many of them, from their poverty, are obliged to
withdraw their children from school before they have made any
great progress, and send them to earn something for themselves.
Owing to the same cause, the school fees are not well paid; so
that those teachers who are without an dndowment cannot be ex,
pected to be very efficient. Lord Breadalbane gives an annual
sum for prizes, which are awarded at public competition of all
the schools in the parish, and which tends very much to stimulate
and encourage both teachers and scholars; but, without some
adequate endowment, there can be no great impmvement in many
of the schools in this district.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor upon the roll


