
452                       FORFARSHIRE.

The sittings in the church are all free, that is, the her tors receive
no money for them; they are divided amongst the farmers and the
other householders in the parish. The manse was built in 1796;
it was partially repaired a few years ago. It is sufficiently large
and comfortable. The extent of the glebe is about ten acres, and
its annual value about L.15. The amount of the stipend is 15
chalders, the one-half oatmeal, the other barley, and L.8, 6s. 8d.
for communion elements.
	The church of Clova is about ten miles distant from the church
of Cortachy. It is not known when it was built. There was a
gallery erected in the west end of it in 1731; but, from the ap-
pearance of the building, and from statements contained in the pa-
rochial registers, it is probable that the Church bad been long built
before the gallery was erected. The seats in the church of Clova
were lately renewed, and the church is in good repair. It is con-
veniently situated for the population of Clova, and of the northern
district of Cortachy. It affords accommodation for about 250
persons. The sittings are all free, with the exception of those in
the gallery, which are let for the benefit of the poor.
	There was a suitable and comfortable house erected in Clova
about twetity-four years ago by the Noble family of Airlie, for the
accommodation of a missionary minister on the Royal Bounty.
That house is still kept in good repair by the present honourable
proprietor of Clova. In addition to the mission house, the minis-
ter receives as much arable land, free of rent, as enables him to
keep a cow and pony, summer and winter. The farmers within the
bounds of the mission plough his land and drive his fuel. The
minister offhchates alternately in the church of Clova, and in the
chapel of Glenprosen, connected with the parish of Kirriemuir,
besides performing among the people within the bounds of the
mission all the other duties connected with the office of the holy
ministry. He receives annually L. 30 from the Committee
on the Royal Bounty, L.30 from the people connected with the
mission, and 20 guineas from the Earl of Airlie. All the families
in the united parish belong to the Established Church, with the
exception of the Noble family of Airlie, the members of which are
Episcopalians. There are three individuals belonging to other
families who are also Episcopalians. Divine service at the churches
of Cortachy and Clova is generally very well attended. The ave-
rage number of communicants is about 530; of these about 180
communicate at Clova, and 350 at Cortachy. The average amount
                              3


