

850                         PERTHSHIRE.

may have been occupied by the Romans, there seems little reason
to doubt that it bad previously been a British fortress, and that it
bad even subsequently been used by that people for the same
purpose." *
    Among the Ochils, in the south-west corner of the parish, and
in Fifeshire, stands Balvaird Castle, a relic of feudal tinies,-tbe
property of the Earl of Mansfield and of his ancestors since the
days of Robert II.  Andrew Murray of Balvaird was settled mi-
nister of Abdie in 1618, knighted in 1633, and created Lord Bal-
vaird in 1641, some conceive in consequence of the manner in
which he acted in the important Assembly of the Church of Scot-
land of 1638.  He died in 1644.  His son, David, the second
Lord BalVaird, succeeded a kinsman in the older titles of Scone
and Stormont in 1658.
    The seventh Viscount of Stormont succeeded his uncle in the
Earldom of Mansfield in 1793, and was grandfather of the pre-
sent Earl.
    At an early period the titularity and patronage of the parish
were granted bv the Crown to Sir Andrew Murray of Balvaird,
who was one of the Lords of Erection.
    " The Castle of Balvaird is at present in a ruinous state, but
it has obviously been, in former times, a place of considerable
strength and importance.  No date can now be traced on any part
of the building; but there are the remains of several coats of arms,
almost wholly obliterated, on different parts of it.  Above the
door which opens into the principal building from the court-yard
is a shield, on which two coats of arms are emblazoned.  They
are very indistinct; but they appear to be those of Margaret Bar-
clay and her husband, Sir Andrew Murray.  And if this be the
case, the building must be as old as the reign of James IV. In
the open green in front of the castle, lies the recumbent figure of
female carved in freestone, which has obviously formed part of
monument.  The stone was brought from the old church of
Arngask at the time it was taken down, and is said to have been
the monument of Lady Margaret Barclay, who married Sir An-
drew Murray, youngest son of Sir William Murray of Tullibar-
dine, and who, as the only surviving child of James Barclay of
Kippo to whom the barony of Balvaird and Arngask previously
belonged, brought with her in marriage these baronies. Since
that period, a considerable portion of the lands included in these

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Fife illustrated, by Joseph Swan, &c. p. 206.


