
416                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

farm-house, have long since yielded to the axe, and one farm em-
braces what was of old three, four, or eight small farms.
   The former Account states, "A few of the occupiers of the
larger farms have adopted the modes of cultivation introdu-
ced into the more improved parts of the country. But the whole
of the ordinary tenantry still retain the same practices that were
followed by their predecessors. Barley is sown with manure, and
oats without it, so long as the land will produce more than the seed
sown in it; after which it is allowed to rest three years as lea, and
then it is broke up to undergo the same treatment. From improper
management the land does not produce so much grain as it other-
wise might." It may now be said that in no district is a superior style
of farming to be witnessed. The six-shift rotation has been fol-
lowed, but the tenants are already returning to the five. The
smallest farmer endeavours to emulate the most spirited of his
neighbours. As soon as anv improvement in agriculture has fairly
been ascertained in other places, it is found to be adopted by the
enterprising tenants of the large farms; so that the system of hus-
bandry is of the most approved description. From the lightness
of the soil, it not unfrequently happens that much loss is sustain-
ed at the sowing of the turnip crop by strong westerly winds.
We have, oftener than once, seen acres of flourishing young tur-
nip braird, shrivelled and wafted away, both root and leaf, in the
course of one hour, by one of these gales occurring after a few
scorching days. This very year, a stone dike, about four feet
high, saved a field on the Brae side, for an extent of one hundred
yards from it. From the clouds of dust rising from the recently
sown turnip fields, a stranger could scarcely imagine how vegeta-
tion makes any progress in so and a soil, until be observes the
great counteraction to the want of humidity in the ground, which
is derived from the exceedingly heavy dews, which are the effect
of the porousness of the soil. Before the moss was sufficiently,
drained, the potatoes used to suffer in the beginning of autumn,
on some farms, from a mildew, which advanced along an invaria-
ble course, and blighted the potatoes, but without affecting any
other crop. This now bappens more rarely than in former years.
The interruption of trees would furnish, if not an entire, yet a con-
siderable preservative from the damage occasioned by this mildew,
as well as by the wind. If beltings of trees between the several
farms, or even single rows between the fields, were planted, the
influence of these in dry summers would more than countervail the


