
			  HUTTON.			    159

cerned, maybe thus enumerated,-better parish and turnpike roads,
-superior accommodation in farm-buildings,-more attention given
to the culture and cleaning of the land,-agriculture more syste-
matically pursued,-a more extensive and more skilful style of
draining,-a more useful kind of farm-horses,-greater facilities
afforded for thrashing and marketing grain,-a wider breadth of
turnips sown, and heavier crops raised, and, as a consequence of
this, a greater quantity of stock fed, and fitted a shorter time
for the butcher.
   It is much to be regretted, however, that this interest is at pre-
sent, and has been for some years, in such a depressed state, from
the low price of agricultural produce, especially grain. No man
who has at heart the welfare of his country, and who is acquainted
with the character of our farmers for skill, industry, and enterprise,
but must lament that a state of things should have occurred to de-
teriorate the condition of such a respectable and useful class of the
community, They have undoubtedly fallen upon evil days, and
their prospects are far from encouraging. They are not much in
the habit of complaining, and for this they deserve credit; yet to
any person who compares the low price of grain for some years with
the rents they are under engagement to pay, and the other expen-
ses necessarily attendant upon agriculture, it must be evident that
their condition is the very reverse of prosperous.
   Quarries.-There are several freestone quarries of beautiful co-
lour and fine quality in this parish; but none of them are at present
worked for sale.
   Fishings.-Upon that part of the Tweed which forms the boun -
dary of the parish, there are four or five fishing stations, where up-
wards of twenty men are employed. They are a robust, healthy,
and industrious class. When employed in their vocation, they are
much in the open air; and the nature of their employment- requir-
ing considerable activity, without being oppressively fatiguing, has
a tendency to brace and invigorate the bodily frame. Trout, sal-
mon, and grilses are caught sometimes in great abundance. The
method of fishing is with boats and nets. Men are stationed at par-
ticular places of the river, where the water is shallow, to watch the
fish coming up; and so habituated are they to this, that they can dis-
cover, by a ripple on the surface of the water, even a solitary fish
making his progress upwards.  When a fish is thus discovered, an
alarm is instantly given to the men at the shield or house where the
fishermen lodge, and immediately a boat is rowed off by one man
with great celerity, having a net attached to it, and ready prepared


