
      90                   SHETLAND.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   The site of the parish kirk of Mid Yell is as well selected for
 the convenience of the parishioners as can be in a parish, the inha-
 bitants of which are so widely scattered,-four-fifths thereof being
 within a distance of four miles, the remainder being from four to
 six miles distant.
  The South Yell kirk, now in progress is rather better situated,
 since, with the exception of fifteen families, at about four miles dis-
 tance, none of the other families in that parish are distant more than
 three miles. In a parish, however, the surface of which is, in win-
 ter, one continued mossy swamp land over which there is neither
 road nor bridge, it is only in fine weather, that any thing like good
 attendance can be either given by, or expected from, those at more
 than two miles distance from church.
   There is a small meeting-house built by the Wesleyan Me-
 thodists in South Yell, and capable of containing 200 hearers.
 Connected with this chapel, there are about fifty members; be-
 sides which, there are eight in the Independent communion in
 Mid Yell. Deductin these, the remaining 1795 may be consi-
 dered as attending the Established Church, and of whom the
 average number of communicants are 500.
   For several years past, there has been a missionary on the
 Royal, Bounty in South Yell; and it is expected, if a grant be
 given for the extension of the Church, in those parishes where the
 teinds are exhausted, a salary will be allowed for an additional
 minister in South Yell.
  The manse was rebuilt, and new offices built, under the inspec-
 tion of the late minister, at an expense to the heritors of L. 380,
 in the year 1807. The sum for which decreet was granted against
 them, was L. 430; but of this sum, L.50 are still due the repre-
 sentatives of the late Mr Finlayson, by those now representing the
 then proprietors of Sound. In 1833, the manse was repaired,
 and new byre built, and the other offices repaired, which, together,
 have been estimated, by competent judged, to amount in value to
 one-third of the accommodations originally afforded by heritors,
 under the superintendence of the late minister. Thew repairs
 are represented by heritors to have cost upwards of L. 300, under
 the special superintendence of one of their own number.
  The stipend of Mid and South Yell is about L. 143, paid by the
 hiritors, the remainder being received from the Exchequer.
  The glebe, on which the present, incumbent has sunk, in im-
                                4


