
			DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                    995

	Topographical Appearances.-Dowally lies on the side of
the vale of Atholl, and consists of a range of hills running north-
ward, with a sm`ll shelf of ground towards the river Tay.
	The public road enters the parish at the King's pass, and de-
scends gradually for three miles along the side of a priociptious
hill, until it reaches the low grounds at the village of Dowally,
The declivity of the hill is frequently seamed by deep ra-
vines, and so rapid is the ascent of the declivity, that in some
places the wall of the bridge is not three feet above the sur-
face of the road, while the other is above forty. The great com-
plaint of travellers is, that several of the bridges are too narrow,
and that the parapet walls of others are not sufficiently high to
prevent danger. These complaints, it is believed, will. speedily be
removed.
	The baugh or low grounds of Dowally spread out in a semicir-
cular form, and have originally been part of the bed of the river
Tay. They are embanked. The soil is light. The soil of the
fields upon the brow of the bill is deeper and stronger, with a
slight mixture of clay.
	The hills to the back were at one time a common pasturage,
where cattle and horses ran wild. They presented a barren bleak
appearance, and an indifferent soil. These hills have now, how.
ever, been converted into a larch forest. It begins at Craig-y-
barns, which is elevated nearly 1000 feet above the level, of the
sea, and runs northward in a direct line a distance of fourteen miles,
varying from three to six miles in breadth. The carriage drives
thrugh the fores exceed eighty miles. This forest is only apart
of the Atholl woods. Their value, considered as individual wealth,
or as national resources, raised from inferior soil, is incredible. We
are however, prevented from going into the history of these plan-
tation, as it has been made very generally known by the Highland
Society of Scotland, who circulated a very interesting account of
them in 1832.
	Hydrograpity.-Within the forest of Dowally, there are several
lochs. On the summit of the hill of Duchray, nearly 1900 feet
above the level of the sea, there is a loch of halt a mile in circum-
ference. Loch Ordie, or Lochard in English, the highly si-
tuated loch, is elevated about 700 feet, and is several miles in cir-
Cumference. There are also the two loch of Rottnell. These
loch flow into the burn of Dowally, wich discharge itself into                                     0


