
			    KINROSS 				23

tions extend to individuals within every parish of this county and
even beyond it.
   The average amount of the ordinary collections in the parish
church is about L.36 a-year.
   During 1838, collections were made for the four schemes of the
General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, in addition to one
for the Auchterarder case, when more than L.18 was collected
or subscribed. There are also different other collections for local
purposes, on which occasions there is, on the part of the congre-
gation in general, no want of liberality. The amount of the sums
thus received, and which are independent of the weekly collections
for the poor, was L. 61, 16s. 8d. for 1838.
   Societies for Religious Purposes.--In 1812, a Religious Society
was instituted under the designation of the Fife and Kinross-shire
Bible Society. Soon after its institution, the union of counties was
found to be attended with inconveniences. Accordingly, a Kinross-
shire Bible Society was formed, which had its yearly and penny
a-week subscribers, its quarterly committee and its annual general
meetings,'the last alternately at Kinross and Milnathort. The Apo-
cryphal controversy led to the sending, of that part of its funds which
remained, after certain distributions agreed upon by its members, to
the Edinburgh Bible Society. Peace and charity, and active co-ope-
ration were the distinguishing features of this association. But of late,
different communions of Christians, with those who take the deep-
est interest in their public proceedings, have such different, and
alas I often such conflicting views and measures which they consi-
der of paramount importance, that it is not to be wondered there
should be a striking diminution of the members and funds of the
Society.
   There are in Kinross parish three Religious Tract Societies con-
nected with the three congregations, and in which pious and be-
nevolent ladies take a most efficient part, employing their stated
visitings for the distribution of these tracts, as occasions for ac-
quainting themselves with the bodily as well as the spiritual wants
and distresses of the individuals whom they call on.
   Ladies' Society.--There is a Society of considerable standing
here, and which is not undeserving of being classed in the number
of Religious Societies. This is the Ladies' or Female Society.
The members of it meet together monthly, when they distribute
a certain quantity of oatmeal to each of those destitute women,
whom they shall determine upon as the most suitable objects of re-


