
970                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

in those parts of the parish which are less favoured in point of
soil, they are still reared exclusively ; but there is scarcely a good
farm of any size where the short-horn is not preferred as crossed
with the Aberdeenshire.
   The number of sheep reared throughout the parish is very
small ; but within the policies of Haddo House, there are gene-
rally kept about 1000, principally of the Cheviot and black-faced
breeds.
   Produce.-At a rough calculation, the number of quarters of grain
may be estimated at 10,000 and upwards, and the number of acres
annually in turnips and potatoes, the latter of which are raised only
in small quantities, at 1000.  The number of horses used for hus-
bandry, kept as pleasure ponies, and bred for sale and use, is about
250 ; and the number of cattle above 1600.  The average value
of a quarter of oats is L.1 ; of an acre of turnips, L.3, 15s.; of
an acre of potatoes, L.4, l0s.; or an acre of new grass, L.1, 15s.;
and of an acre of second and third year's grass, 18s. 6d.
   Cheese is made for the most part from skim-milk, and is sold
at 3s. 6d. per imperial stone.  Butter of good quality is made on
the large farms, and on crofts where there is little else of produce
to spare for the market, and is bought by the country merchants
on an average at 8d. per pound, and sent to Aberdeen.
   The mode of cutting down the crop with the scythe has sup-
planted the sickle universally.  All farms of two horses' labour
and upwards, with scarcely a single exception, have threshing-mills
driven by water or horses.  According to the last Account, there
were six meal-mills in the parish, and now there is only one.  This
is to be accounted for partly by the improvement of machinery, and
the consequent expedition with which the work is accomplished, but
more particularly by the fact, that grain and not meal is now export-
ed to Newburgh, Inverury, and Aberdeen.  Thirlage is abolished,
and sixpence is paid for drying and grinding a boll.  Formerly,
the thirteenth, or even the eleventh peck in some instances, was
payable to the miller.  There is a saw-mill in the parish driven
by water.  The crops usually cultivated are sown grasses, oats,
bear or big in very limited quantity, turnips, potatoes, and, to a
small extent, there may be added tares, principally for the pur-
pose of supplying the cows with food when the grass season is over,
and before they are put on turnips.  The species of oats most
commonly sown are Scotch barley, sandy oats, and early Angus.
   There is an Association for the encouragement of agricultural
                                 3


