
                          PAISLEY.                            303

pined for want of encouragement and a fair field at home. The
business of master manufacturers is now conducted on better prin-
ciples.  Their goods are not now entrusted exclusively to agents
in London or at a distance, who might possibly feel little interest
in an immediate and large return.  Their eyes have been opened
to the terrors of these dismal abodes,-bonding warehouses I Part-
ners in the respective concerns have periodically gone forth to the
great marts of commerce, to be their own salesmen, or agents in
their own pay have been duly commissioned.  Branches of Paisley
houses have been established in London and other great fields nf
commerce, and the connexions thus formed have been of high
benefit, both to the parties concerned in them, and to the trade at
large.  Improvements on machinery have been received with
readiness by the manufacturers of Paisley, and applied to use on
a scale which, when compared with former days, may be termed
extensive.  On the whole, we apprehend that the prospects of
this place, in regard to the improvement and extent of its manu-
factures, were never more bright than at the present moment.
  In anticipating the future progressive advancement of Paisley,
in wealth and consequence, we count a good deal on the improved
modes of communication which are at present in progress.  That
swiftness, ease, and cheapness of conveyance will, as a matter of
course, lead to a vast increase of travelling, both on business and
on pleasure, is strikingly illustrated by the fact, that the Paisley
Canal, which used to have its 20 or 30,000 passengers annually, can
now boast of somewhat approaching to half a million, while multi-
tudes continue to travel by coaches or by waggons; and we have
no doubt tbat the improved navigation of the Cart, combined with
the formation of not les-s than three rail-roads, to the Clyde at Ren-
frew, to Greenock, and to Ayrshire, with corresponding relations
to Glasgow, will add unspeakably to the extent of interbourse be-
twixt Paisley and a vast multitude of places of great and growing
importance. Thus, the conveyance of raw material, of coals, corn,
and goods of all kinds in a safe, quick, and moderately expensive
mode, will afford many facilities to the extension of our trade.  A
community which has hitherto been exclusively devoted to manu-
factures, and which has looked to Glasgow as its only medium of
commercial communication, may gradually acquire a commercial
character of its own, and thus begin to look up, like Aberdeen and
Dundee, in the manly confidence of a rapidly growing indepen-
dence.


