
                          BANFFSHIRE.                132

The father of Sir James M'Gregor, Bart. who has so long and
so ably presided over the medical department of the British Army,
held the farm of Lynebeg in Glenlivet, and it is said that Sir James
himself was born there.
   Land-owners.-Within the last two centuries, the greater part
if not the whole property of this parish seems to have gone into
new hands.  About 200 years ago, the Grants were proprietors of
Blairfindy; the Stewarts, of Drumin and Kilmaichlie; and a family
of the name of Nairn, of Moranges,-while a different branch of the
Grants, commonly called the Craig-Achrochcan Grants, held Bal-
lindalloch.  Now the whole parish belongs to two large and one smalI
heritor.  All the Gordon estate in this parish, which comprehends
the whole country of Glenlivet, with the exception of that part
called Morange, having with Glenfiddich, &c. in Mortlach and
Kinrara, in Badenoeb, been excambed for the estate of Durris in
Kincardineshire, the Duchess-Dowager of Richmond, on the death
of her brother, George last Duke of Gordon succeeded to these
estates, as heiress of entail to the Earl of Peterborough, and so
became principal heritor of this parish.  George M'Pherson Grant,
Esq. who sat in Parliament for the county of Sutherland, for about
seventeen years previous to 1826, is proprietor of Ballindalloch,
Kilmaichlie, and Morange; and James William Grant, of Wester
Elchies, Esq. who holds a high appointment in the East Indies, is
proprietor of Colquoich, a single farm in the lower extremity of
the parish.

<TABLE>

   The real and valued rents of these heritors stand thus
                                            Real            Valued.
Duchess of Richmond,   -         -         L.2815         L. 2190 Scotch.
Mr M'Pherson Grant, exclusive of what he occupies
     himself,     -         -        -       2170            1675
Mr Grant of Elchies, about      -      -       70             100
                                            ______          _____
                                    Total, L. 5055 Ster.  L. 3965 Scotch.

  Parochial.Registers.-There are three volumes of parish regis-
ters, the oldest commencing 1630; but all have been imperfect-
ly kept.  Few of the Roman Catholics seem to have inserted their
children's births at any time; and now, scarcely any; and until of
late the Protestants were too negligent in recording theirs.  Since
1640, no notice appears to be taken of burials.
    Antiquities.--Rude stone coffins have occasionally been disco-
vered in the parish, under cairns removed to make way for the
plough; and in trenching a wood on the farm of Kilmaichlie, the
labourers found some old arms and coins, the former so corroded


