
150                        RENFREWSHIRE.

been found.  Two petrified trees found here are placed as curio-
sities near the mansion of the proprietor at Househill, the one, 10
feet high, and 5 feet round at the bottom; the other, 5 feet high,
and 5 1/2 feet round at the bottom, both having the large root fis-
sures, and protuberances equally decided, and discernible with any
other of the full-grown timber that now adorns the surrounding
lawn.  A fossil fern procured at Levernshields is 3 feet in cir-
cumference at bottom, 11 feet 4 inches high,-3 feet more in
length having been left behind when removing the petrifaction
from the quarry.  This specimen was found in the lower or bottom
seam of the rock, with several others which were destroyed by the
quarriers.  All were found lying on a gentle declivity with their
tops westwards.  The natural pile and porous quality of the rock
varies considerably on the different sides of each of these seams of
coal, that next the bottom being the finest, that at the surface of
the ground much coarser."
   In some parts of the above-mentioned quarry, a considerable
quantity of iron pyrites occurs, which, upon exposure to the air,
becomes gradually decomposed, and greatly disfigures and de-
stroys the stone.  When sandstone is met with in the immediate
vicinity of trap rocks, it becomes so much hardened in texture as
to be able to withstand the effects of weather and flood for an in-
definite length of time; as is well exemplified in the ridge of rock
which stretches across the White Cart at Seedhill, immediately
above the town of Paisley.
   Limestone belonging to the coal formation is very generally
diffused throughout the lower division of the parish.  It occurs in
layers or beds, generally lying under the sandstone, or alternating
with coal, ironstone, fire-clay, aluminous and bituminous shale,
&c.  In some localities it is found near the surface, and is then
quarried.  In other places, it is wrought by mining, especially
where it occurs in the vicinity of coal.  The principal quarries of
this valuable rock are at Hurlet and Blackhall.  This limestone
has generally a grey colour; is translucent on the edges;
breaks with a flat conchoidal fracture; and contains, innumerable
remains of different species of shells, entrochi, encrini, &c. besides
numerous crystals of calcareous spar, and small masses of slaggy
Mineral Pitch.
   Coal occurs abundantly in the lower division of the parish,
which, as formely stated, is enfirely composed of rocks belonging
to the coal formation.  this valuable mineral may exits in the pa-
			      3


