
     Of Kilninian.

there, for supplying the buss and boat fishers, in the fish-
ing season.  In the year 1792, there were 47 vessels and
boats cleared for this customhouse, for the herring-fish-
ery; and as they were successful last year, there is cause
to hope, that the number will be greater this season.
There are, of others crafts, 1 smith, 1 wright, 2 tailors, 2
shoemakers, and 3 or 4 small inn-keepers; also a corn-mill
with a sufficiency of water to work machinery, to a consi-
derable extent, in all seasons.  Tobermory possesses the ad-
vantage of a safe, capacious harbour, situated in the tract
of the shipping, which pass from the western parts of Bri-
tain to the northern countries of Europe, and has an
easy communication by water, with the fishing lochs, in
one direction, and with the Frith of Clyde, Liverpool,
and other considerable towns, in the other.  This, it
must be allowed, is a favourable situation, not only for
the prosecution of the fisheries, but also for other branches
of trade.  Hitherto, however, no person of sufficient en-
terprise has attempted to introduce into this settlement
any kind of manufacture*.

     T 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*One great obstruction to attempts on this nature, was the tax upon
coals carried coastways; of the abolition of which, we have now happily a
near prospect.  Whatever good effect may be produced by the abolition of
so heavy and partial a tax, till the country feel the benefit of this intend-
ed relief, it could not be expected, that any considerable manufacture
would prove successful, either at Tobermory, or any where else, through
these western isles of Scotland, because their only fuel was turf or peats,
cut and prepared, even in the best seasons, at a great expense of time and
labour, and liable to be totally lost or useless, when the summers prove
very rainy, which is frequently the case, and sorely felt.  Besides this, the
extreme barrenness of the ground at Tobermory, and in the countries
around it, must for ever retard the progress of trade and manufactures in
this village, unless the society, who have founded it on the most patriotic
principles, continue to cherish it with peculiar care and liberality.  With


