
526                 		  ARGYLESHIRE.

as large apparently as Ardtornish or Dunstaffnage. These frag-
ments inclose a court-yard, of which the keep formed probably
one side; the entrance being by a steep ascent from the neck of the
isthmus, formerly cut across by a moat, and defended, doubtless,
by outworks and a drawbridge.  Beneath the castle stands the
present mansion of the family, having on one hand Loch Etive,
with its islands and mountains, on the other two romantic emi-
nences tufted with copsewood.  There are other accompani-
ments suited to the scene ; in particular, a huge upright pillar
or detached fragment of the sort of rock called. plumpudding-
stone, upon the shore, about a quarter of a mile from the castle.
It is called Clachna-can, or the Dog's Pillar, because Fingal is
said to have used it as a stake to which he bound his celebrated
dog Bran. Others say, that, when the Lord of the Isles came up-
on a visit to the Lord of Lorn, the dogs brought for his sport were
kept beside this pillar.  Upon the whole, a more delightful spot
can scarce be conceived; and it receives a moral interest from the
considerations attached to the residence of a family once power-
ful enough to confront and defeat Robert Bruce, and now sunk
into the shade of private life. It is at present possessed by Pa-
trick M'Dougall, Esq. the lineal and undisputed representative
of the ancient Lords of Lorn. The heir of Dunolly fell lately in
Spain, fighting under the Duke of Wellington,--a death well be-
coming his ancestry." *
    Robert Bruce's brooch, better known in song as " the Brooch
of Lorn," carefully preserved by the M'Dougalls, did not, how-
ever, escape all the vicissitudes of the family.  At the period of
the civil wars, in the beginning of the seventeenth century, Gylen
Castle, a stronghold of the M'Dougalls, romantically situated upon
a rocky promontory in the Island of Kerrera, was beleaguered and
taken by a detachment from the main army despatched into Ar-
gyleshire, in 1647, under General Leslie.  Robert Bruce's brooch
happened at this period to be deposited in Gylen Castle, and be-
came the spoil of Campbell of Inverawe, then serving in the de-
tachment sent to Lorn under Colonel Montgomery, the captor of
Gylen Castle. By the descendants of Inverawe, the brooch was
carefully preserved down to 1826, when it was purchased from
the representatives of that family by the late General Duncan
Campbell of Lochuell, who, with a generosity which much dis-
tinguished'him, restored the long lost brooch to the present pro.

<FOOTNOTE>Note to the Lord of the Isles.


