
                             SELKIRK.                             3

it mentioned in history; for King David the First founded, close to
the present town, a monastery, which was shortly after removed to
Kelso,--a spot more congenial to the habits and dispositions of the
inmates of such an establishment.  In 1309, Edward the Second of
Englad mentions its castle as one of the strongholds of Scotland
in the possession of his adherents.  But the event dwelt on with
the greatest complacency by the people of Selkirk is the battle
of Flodden-Field.  To this fatal encounter, James the Fourth
was accompanied by a hundred of the choicest citizens of Selkirk;
and such was their courage and resolution, that out of that num-
ber not more than four or five returned; and these bore with them
a flag said to have been taken from the English, which is still in
existence, and in possession of the Incorporation of Weavers, by
one of whose body it had been carried away.  In revenge for their
gallant conduct, the English burnt the town to the ground; * but to
compensate for that loss, a grant of 1000 acres of adjoining lands
was made by the Crown to the burghers and their posterity for ever.
After this we meet with nothing of much historical importance until
the period of the great civil wars, during which the Marquis of
Montrose was defeated by the Covenanters under General Leslie,
at Philiphaugh, a farm about a mile to the north of the town.
  Antiquities.--Two miles to the west of the farm above-named,
and overhanging the Yarrow, immediately before its junction with
the Ettrick, are still to be seen the remains of an entrenchment
thrown up by Montrose; and in the town stands the house where
he spent the night previous to the engagement.  Close to Newark,
on the Yarrow, is a field called the Slain Man's Lee, where the
Covenanters, a day or two after, are said to have put to death many
of their prisoners.  Some bones are yet occasionally dug up on
the spot.  Since that period, Selkirk has been undistinguished by
any accurrences claiming to be remembered in a compilation like the
present.  The ruins of only two castles, those of Newark and Oak-
wood, now exist.  The former of these, which belongs to the Duke of
Buccleuch, was once the residence of Anne, Duchess of Buccleuch
and Monmouth, after the death of her husband, who was behead-
ed for inssurection in the reign of James the Second; and it is sup-
posed to be the scene where the Lay of the Last Minstrel was
sung.  Oakwood is in possession fo the Scotts of Harden, and was

<FOOTNOTE>Surry did not advance, but dismissed his army after the battle.  The burning of
Selkirk must have been on some subsequent occasion.--T.


