
        	                 MAUCHLINE.			161

erected into a temporal lordship, the lands and barony of Kiles-
mure and Barmure, and the patronage of the church of Mauchline,
were given to the Lord of Loudon. This parish formerly includ-
ed the parishes of Sorn and Muirkirk, and a great part of the pa-
rish of Tarbolton. There is no tradition of any battle in the pa-
rish, except one, at Mauchline Muir, between the King's party and
the Covenanters, about the year 1647, when the former was defeat-
ed, and their military chest was found, it is said, many years after,
hidden in the ground.
	Upon the farm of Mosgiel, in this parish, Burns resided nearly
nine years. Here he composed some of hir most celebrated poems.
While living here, by the advice of his generous patron, G. Ha-
milton, Esq. he published the first edition of his poems, which
have immortalised him as Scotia's bard.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, Claud Alexander,
Esq. of Ballochmyle; His Grace the Duke of Portland; Lord
Glenlee; Sir James Boswell of Auchinleck, Bart.; William
Campbell, Esq. of Netherplace; George Douglas, Esq. of Roding-
head; Mrs Wallace of Cairnhill; Colonel Stewart of Catrine;
and Captain Campbell of Roughdyke.
	Parochial Registers.--The ancient parochial records are now
lost. Sometime before the Reformation, the Popish clergy per-
ceived their interest declining, and their downfal approaching in
the kingdom. To prepare for the worst, they sold their lands in,
small parcels for ready money, and then departed, carrying with
them all their money and effects, and the books and registers be-
longing to this, and, it is believed, to other parishes in the neigh-
bourhood. The date of the earliest entry in the parochial regis-
ter is 17th January 1670. The whole records of the parish are
contained in ten volumes. Till about eighty years ago, they were
most irregularly kept, being written mostly on detached leaves, so
that they are almost useless.
	Antiquities.--At the town-head of Mauchline, on the Green,
there was a tombstone, from which it appeared that five men were
put to death under the unhappy reign of James VII. of Scotland.
Under their names were the following lines:
	        "Bloody Dumbarton, Douglas and Dundee
		  Moved by the Devil and the Laird of Lee,
              Dragged these five men to death with gun and sword,
		  Not suffering them to pray nor read God's word;
		  Owning the work of God was all their crime.
		  The eighty-five was a saint-killing crime."

In 1830, this tombstone was lifted, and a monument erected by

	AYR. 			     L


