
1020                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

	Hydrography.--The Gady is the only stream worth notice in
the parish. It takes its rise in Clatt, and running through Lesly
and Premnay, falls into the Ury in the parish of Oyne. *
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The soil on the opposite sides of
the Gady differs considerably, that on the north side being a light
loam generally on a gravelly bnttom or subsoil,--that on the south
being a strong, "rich mould on clay bottom." On the south side
of the parish, there is serpentine. No quarry has been opened,
but the country people make snuff-boxes and trinkets of it. It has
a greenish tinge, with gray streaks interspersed. The serpentine
of this district, of which there is a great abundance, is most pro-
bably a part of that tract which, it is conjectured, runs from Port-
soy across the country to Strathdon. This serpentine does not
take a fine polish, owing to its being interspersed with small pieces
of spar resembling schiller spar in appearance, but much harder.
The other minerals to be found in the parish are, steatite, manga-
nese, asbestus, shorl, mica, albite, beryl, and the more common
minerals, felspar and quartz. A farmer, in cutting a ditch through
part of the serpentine rock which was contiguous to his fields,

<FOOTNOTE>This stream has been celebrated in song by the poet Arthur Johnston, in Latin.
There is also a beautiful ballad once often sung by the natives, beginning " Oh an
I wbere Gady rins," &c. It may not be thought improper to mention a strik-
ing anecdote connected with this song, as illustrative ot the power of association.
After the siege of Pondicherry, when a Scotch regiment was marching into the town,
the whole soldiers stood still on a sudden, being arrested by hearing this song sung
by a Scotch lady from an open window, The song, being now very scarce, is sub-
joined.
                             O an'I were where Gadie rins,
                             'Mang fragrant heath and yellow whins,
                             Or brawlin down the boskie lins,
                                  At the back o' Ben-no-chie!
                             Ance mair to bear the wild bird's sang,
                             To wander birks and braes among,
                             Wi' friends an' fav'rites left so lang,
                                  At the back o' Ben-no-chie.
                             How mony a day in blythe spring time,
                             How mony a day in summer's prime,
                             I've saunterin' wil'd awa the time
                                  On the heights of Ben-no-chie.
                             Ah! fortune's flowers wi'thorns grow rife,
                             And walth is won wi' toil and strife,
                             Ae day gie me o' youthful life
                                  At the back o' Ben-no-chie.
                             Ah! Mary, there on ilka night,
                             When baith our hearts were young and light,
                             We've wandered by the clear moonlight,
                                  Wi'speech baith fond and free.
                             Oh! ance, ance mair, whar Gadie rins,
                             Whar Gadie rins, whar Gadie rins
                             Oh! might I die whar Gadie rins,
                                  At the back o' Ben-no-chie.


