
320                             AYRSHIRE.

elements; fifty merks Scots besides are paid to the College of Gl`s-
gow. All attend the parish church, whether churchmen or Dis-
senters, except seven Reformed Presbyterians, about as many more
who care for neither sanctuary nor Sabbath, and a family or two
of Irish Papists.
	There are but eleven individuals Dissenters in the parish, be-
sides the Papists. The attendance at church is very regular.
	The number of communicants at the Established Church is
465. The contributions for religious and charitable purposes
are made by collections in the church, and average about L. 8
yearly.
	Education.--There are four schools in the parish,--one paro-
chial, one partially endowed, and two others, one of them a female
school, unendowed.
	The branches taught in three of the schools are English
and English grammar, writing, arithmetic, mathematics, book-
keeping, Latin and Greek. The parochial teacher has the legal
accommodation and the maximum salary. The endowment of the
second school consists of school and dwelling-house with garden,
coals, and L. 10 of salary, given by the Honourable Colonel Mac-
adam Cathcart, during his pleasure. Peculiar circumstances pre-
vent at present any estimate of the amount of fees. The girls in
the female school are taught English, writing, and needle-work.
	The children are sent to school early, and are usually kept at it
as long as the circumstances of their parents will admit. Except
in one direction, there are but two or three famhlies beyond two
miles and a half from the village, and there none are beyond the
same distance from a school in the village of Patna, in Straiton
parish.
	Library.--There is a subscription library in the parish. It was
established in 1823, and now contains upwards of 800 volumes.
It is indebted to Colonel Cathcart and others for some handsome
donations of books, but is chiefly supported by its own funds. There
are at present about 60 subscribers; the annual subscription is 4s.
	There is a reading-room, for the establishing and support of
which, property and money to a considerable amount, besides a li-
brary of 600 volumes, were left by a shopkeeper in the village,
who died a few years ago. Any surplus yearly income to be ap-
plied for the education of poor children.
   	Savings Bank.--A savings bank was established in the parish
in May 1834. The amount of deposits remaining at the end of


