
                            CURRIE.                         547

   There are the remains of a Roman station on Warklaw Hill and
another on Ravelrig Hill. A few years ago there was on the farm
of Cocklaw, a round tower, nearly 18 feet in diameter, built round
with stone, and filled with fine sand; for what purpose is unknown;
but it is supposed to have had some connection with the station on
Ravelrig Hill, as some underground passages have been found in
parks adjoining that eminence.
   Enterkin's Yett or Gate.-Tradition reports that a bloody battle
was fought here between the native Caledonians and the invading
Danes; and that the Danish commander, having been killed and
buried on the field, gave rise to the name, which has been in po-
pular use for centuries.
   Jugs.-Till within these few years a pair of jugs were fastened
at the north gate of the churchyard; as well as at Hermiston, at
Malleny, and also on a large tree at Buteland.
   On the lands of Harelaw, near the present farm-house, there
was an immense cairn of stones, consisting of probably between
2000 or 3000 cart-loads, which, on being gradually removed by
the late Mr Cuningham of Harelaw, was found to contain a stone
about 2 feet square, inclosing many human bones. There was also
ploughed up in the same field, a stone-coffin of the ordinary size,
but no bones could be discovered. The only thing remarkable in
it was a piece of broken earthenware. About a quarter of a mile
to the south of the large cairn were five very tall and large stones
set perpendicularly in the earth, which, along with the cairn, tradi-
tion says, were erected to commemorate a skirmish fought on that
spot. The legend seems to derive some confirmation from the many
stone coffins discovered at the bottom of the field, and over which
the late General Scott erected a tombstone with a suitable inscrip-
tion to mark the spot.
   A little to the south-east of Kenleith are the remainr of what
is supposed to have been a camp; and it is further said that its
purpose was to guard against a stolen march upon Edinburgh,
through a hidden and narrow pass on the north-east end of the
Pentland Hills.
   Along this narrow pass and by the ravine at Cleuchmaidstone,
Sir John Dalziel of Binns, after having crossed the old bridge at
Currie, marched the royalist army to attack the covenanters at Rul-
lion Green.
   Eminent Men.-Sir John Skene of Curriehill was Lord Regis-


