
			KILBRIDE.                             21

built by one of the Stewart kings as a hunting-seat. Fordun men-
tions it as a royal castle in 1380. In the expedition which the
Earl of Ross fitted out in 1455, under his kinsman Donald Bal-
loch of Islay, to support the Earl of Douglas against his sovereign,
Arran suffered severely under this fierce marauder. He carried
off from this island and the Cumrays a great deal of plunder; and,
after storming the castle of Brodick, levelled it to the ground. In
the next reign, when the house of Boyd were the principal fa-
vourites at court, Arran became for a short time the property of
Sir Thomas Boyd, to whom the King save his eldest sister the
Princess Margaret in marriage, with the island of Arran, then
erected into an earldom as her marriage portion. On the disgrace
of the Boyds, Sir Thomas Boyd was divorced from his royal
spouse, and the King selected as her second husband the Lord
Hamilton, the heir of a family of Norman extraction, for many
generations before distinguished in the annals of Scotland; and
which, during the former reign, rose rapidly into influence and im-
portance, by their seasonable espousal of the royal cause against the
house of Douglas. The titles and estates of Arran, thus transferred
to the family of Hamilton, have continued ever since in their pos-
session, with the exception of a short period in the reign of James
VI., when, through the oppressive proceedings of the Regent Mor-
ton, they became forfeited to the crown, and were afterwards for
a few years usurped by the court minion, Captain James Stewart.
	In 1544, when Henry VIII. of England sought to punish the
Scots for their refusal to enter into his scheme of uniting the sis-
ter kingdoms by the marriage of his son Edward to the Princess
Mary of Scotland, one of his warlike measures was sending an ex-
pedition against the west coast of Scotland, under the Earl of
Lennox. On his arrival there, Lennox's first proceeding was an
attack upon the Island of Arran from which he carried away
much plunder, after demolishing the Castle of Brodick. Twenty
years lately, the Earl of Sussex, then Lord Lieutenant of Ireland,
provoked by the frequent incursions of the Scottish islanders into
the north of Ireland, and support which they gave to their
countrymen settled there, in their opposition to the authority of
the English viceroys, landed with a considerable force in Kintyre,
then in possession of the Macdonalds, the principal objects of his
resentment. When he had sufficiently gratified his cupidity and
revenge by his ravage in that district, be steered his course to
Brodick Bay in Arran, where landing, be desoluted with fire and


