
                                    BARRAY.                         199

        the Atlantic Ocean. The parish consists of the main island of
        Barray, properly so called, besides several other islands of con-
        siderable size, amounting in all to upwards of twenty.  About ten
        of these are inhabited, and the others used as grazings.  The
        main island of Barray is about 12 miles in length, but varying in
        breadth from 6 to 3 miles, being much indented by bays and arms
        of the sea, principally on the east side.  The other islands vary in
        extent from 4 acres to 1800 acres.  Those to the south-west
        stretch out in one line from the mainland to Berneray or Barray-
        head, about 15 miles.  The currents and tides run with great ra-
        pidity between these islands, increased by the immense swell from
        the Atlantic Ocean, so as to render the intercourse betwixt them
        and the other islands not only hazardous, but at times impossible.
           Topographical Appearances.-Although Barray cannot boast of
        high mountains, yet there are some of considerable height, yield-
        ing fine pasture to their very tops, with very little heather inter-
        mixed.  And though, at first sight, the aspect of the island appears
        rocky in the eyes of a stranger, yet, upon a more minute examina-
        tion, it will be found interspersed with pleasant and fruitful hol-
        lows and valleys, together with some low rich meadow land.  In-
        deed, the whole island, as well as its numerous appendage islets,
        yield to no other place of their extent in the Highlands of Scot-
        land, for pasture of every description, The west coast of the island,
        with the exception of two or three sandy bays, is defended against
        the powerful attacks of the Atlantic billows, by a barrier. of im-
        mense rocks, many of which are, by the constant action of the
        waves upon them, excavated into a variety of deep caves and dread-
        ful fissures, some of which are so very steep as to render it impossible
        for any person, not possessed of strong nerves, to look down from-
        the top of the rock to the frightful gulf below. , The islands of
        Berneray and Mingalay are particularly distinguished for the height
        of their rocks. , That immediately below the light-house, erected
        a few years since, at Berneray or Barray-head, is about 700 feet
        above the level of the sea, and there is another rock in the adja-
        cent island of Mingalay reckoned to be 1400 feet of perpendi-
        cular height.  The extent of the parish from Scirrival, the most
        northerly point of the main island, to Berneray, the most southerly
        island belonging thereto., may be estimated about 28 miles, includ-
        ing the different channels intervening.  On the east shore, the
        land is rocky, with heath and moss, with the exception of one great
        bay, which is sandy, as also some of the land to the north.  The


