
			KILBIRNIE.			699

though much weather-wasted. It is built of chiselled sand-
stone, and is of a quadrangular form, nine feet long, six feet
in width, and sit feet four inches in height, and is covered hori-
zontally with the same material. Through an aperture in the
east end, by the aid of a faint light admitted through a slit in the
south wall, are seen the recumbent statues of the gallant captain
in military garb, and of his spouse in the costume of the times.
On the exterior of the north wall, in relieved characters now
scarcely legible, is the following inscription, every version of
which hitherto printed has been more or less at variance with
the original:--

			GOD. SCHAW.
			THE. RICHT.
	HEIR. LYIS. THOMAS.     AND. JONET. KER. HIS.
	CRAVFVRD. OF. JOB.      SPOUS. ELDEST. DOC.
	DANHIL. SEXT. SON.      HTER. TO. ROBERT. KER.
	TO. LAVRENCE. CRAV.     OF. KERRISLAND.
	FVRD. OF. KILBIRNY.                1.5.9.4.

	In the centre of the inscription is a shield bearing quarterly
Crawfurd and Ker and for crest a figure, by its irregular outline,
meant probably to represent a rock, in allusion to Dunbarton
Castle. Captain Craufurd died 3d January l6O3, and was buried
close to the inscribed wall of the monument.
	Division of Land, &c.--The parish was anciently possessed by
three different families. It is still nominally composed of three
estates, or baronies, namely, Kilbirnie, Glengarnock, and Lady-
land; though the two last have been considerably broken up,--there
being at present twenty proprietors holding portions of them rang-
ing from 15 to 116 acres.
	1. The barony of Kilbirnie has always been by much the most
extensive of these estates. It occupies the south and most fertile
quarter of the parish, and consists of about 5500 acres, of which
nearly 3000 are arable, meadow and woodland. This barony of
old belonged to a branch of the Barclays of Ardrossan, a family
of some distinction in the early history of the country. In 1470,
the line of the Barclays terminated in an heiress, who married
Malcolm Craufurd of Greenock, the founder of the family: of
Craufurd of Kilbirnie. Their descendants flourished in high re-
pute for valour, loyalty, and honourable connections, in unbroken
succession, upwards of 200 years when the male descent failed in
the family of Sir John Craufurd, who died in 1661. By his se-
cond wife, daughter of Lord Carnegie, he had two daughters, the


