
224			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

lowed to lie on the spot, where it fell, and probably served for more
than a century as seats to part of thd congregation, who weekly
assembled to worship God under more simple forms, and with a
purer faith, than those which had rendered it an object of adora-
tion. In 1772, when inspected by Mr Pennant, it was still lying
within the church; but soon after this, it was improved to the church-
yard,--the increasing population, and the improved taste of the
times, having rendered necessary better accommodation to the wor-
shippers. In its new situation, it became more exposed to injury,
and when the present incumbent acquired the living, he found it
undergoing such rapid demolition, that he resolved to preserve it
by transferring it to a place of greater security. This resolution
was carried into effect in the summer of 1802, when it was erected
in a garden which he had begun to form in the immediate neigh-
bourhood of the church-yard.
	Previous to this, however, a discovery had been somewhat singu-
larly made of a part of the column which was amissing, both when
visited by Gordon and by Pennant. A poor man and his wife hav-
ing died within a day or two of each other, it was resolved that they
should both be buried in the same grave, which, on that account,
required to be made unusually deep. The grave-digger, in the
course of his labour, came to a fragment of sandstone of consider-
able bulk, which was found, on one of its sides, to contain the up-
per part of the ilage of the Supreme Being, with the Agnus
Dei in his bosom; and on the reverse, a representation of the up-
per part of two human figures in the act of embracing. On com-
paring this fragmdnt with the monument, it was discovered to coin-
cide with that portion of it which Pennant mistook for the top of a
cross, the limbs and flowing robes of the image of the Deity being
that which he describes as " the lower part of a human figure in
long vestments, with his feet on a pair of small globes." It had
probably been surreptitiously buried along with the body of some
Popish votary, from an idolatrous belief in its supernatural virtues.
	The only large fragment of the column which seems to be irre-
trievably lost, is what contained the transverse arms of the cross,
which may probably have been much shattered by the fall, when
the whole was thrown down, or entirely destroyed by the zeal of
the agents of the General Assembly. It was, however, quite evi-
dent at what part these arms must have originally projected; and
the writer of this article flattered himself that he could restore them
in nearly their former shape, which, in the year 1823, by the aid


