
			HAMILTON.                                     289

stipend of both is the same, namely, 16 chalders, half meal, half
barley, payable in money, at the highest fiar prices of the county,
L. 5 Sterling for communion elements, and L. 2, 15s. 6d. to each
of the ministers, according to use and wont. The number of com-
municants male heads of families is about 260. The charge is about
to be uncollegiated quoad sacra. A new church, capable of contain-
ing 1100, and proposed to be in connection with the establishment,
is now buildidg. * Of the various sectaries prevailing here, the
Relief is the most prosperous. There are two meeting houses of
this persuasion, one built in 1761, in Muir Street; and another erect-
ed in Brandon Street in 1832. The old congregation give their par-
tor L. 200 per annum, including a manse; the second congregation
give L. 100 per annum, without a manse. An Antiburgher meeting
house was erected at Blacks-well in 1761, and a New Light Burgher
house, near the church, towards the end of last century. These are
not in so thriving a state as their neighbours. A tabernacle, in con-
nection with the Congregational Union of Scotland, has lately been
re-opened in Black's-well, and an interim preacher appointed. The
Old Scots Independents have a meeting house in an upper cham-
ber in the Back-of-the-barns. The Macmillans or Cameroni-
ans have also preaching in a hall once a month, and are attempt-
ing to establish a station here. The Roman Catholics have public
worship once a month in the Mason's Lodge. It is well attended
ed by the Irish. The priest comes up from Glasgow. There are
few of any other sect. There are several Bible and Missionary
Societies, and also a very useful Orphan Society, for which fre-
quent contributions are made. The collections at the church door
on public occasions are usually from L. 12 to L. 18.

<TABLE>
									Sittings.
	Parish Church,							   800
         St John's Church,                                                         1100
	Relief Church, Muir Street,	 				  1105
	Relief Church, Brandon Street,					   940
         Antiburgher Church, Black's-well,                                          582
         New Light Burgher Church,                                                  700
         Congregational Chapel Black's-well,                                        240
	Old Scots Independents,						    70

									  5537
	The Cameronians have lately obtained a disjunction from the
congregation at Wishaw-town, and meet regularly here once a
month; as do also the Roman Catholics once in six weeks. The

<FOOTNOTE>A proportion of not less than one-sixth of the whole is reserves, for the poor.
Fifty of the sittings are let at 2s. each, and the rest rise by a graduted scale of 3d. on
each row till they reach 6s., which is the highest price of any the church.


