

                              CRIECH.                                21

    very inconvenient place at Portenleik, where they have hitherto
    been held.
      Bonar Bridge is already a place of considerable export and im-
    port, having the advantage of depth of water sufficient for ship-
    ping.
      There is no village at Newton, but it is used as a shipping place
    for the wool, corn, wood, &c. of this parish.
      Means of Communication. Bonar Bridge.-The first and most
    useful among the means of communication in the parish is the
    bridge of Bonar, consisting of one large metal arch and two smal-
    ler stone arches: it opens the communication between Sutherland
    and Ross-shires, as well as to the most distant parts of the coun-
    try, south and north.  It was erected by Government and the
    county; as were also the roads leading from it.
      The first road, from Bonar to Assynt and the west coast, has
    three bridges; one of two arches over the river Shin; one of a
    single arch over the river Caslie; and one of a single arch over the
    river Oykell. This public road runs through the parish from Bo-
    nar to within a few miles of the manse of Assynt, a distance of
    about thirty miles.  The second public road from Bonar is by
    Lairg to Tongue, at the north coast.  The third public road from
    Bonar (recently opened) is made through the middle of thd pa-
    rish in mosses and hills, towards the Fleet Mound and the east
    coast of Sutherland.  It extends within the parish a distance of
    seven miles, and has a bridge of one arch over a small river.  The
    fourth public road from Bonar is towards Dornoch and the east
    coast.  This road within the parish extends a distance of eight
    miles, and there are two small bridges upon it at Spinningdale and
    Ospisdale.  These four roads were made by Government and the
    county. There are, besides, several private roads with bridges
    through the different inhabited straths and glens ; which render,
    the communication through the parish both easy and comfortable
    in all seasons of the year.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated near the
    shore, about nine miles from the east end of the parish, and up-
    wards of thirty miles from the west end.  It is convenient for the
    greater part of the population from the river Shin in the west, to
    Ospisdale in the east.  The church was built in 1790, has been
    repaired at different periods, and is now in a good state, It accom-
    modates 500 persons.  There are no free seats, except the commu-
    nion forms occupied by the poor.


