
			  SKENE.                      1099

sent to the London market, for several years past, from the port
of Aberdeen, particularly by Mr Milne at Fornet of Skene, who
occupies an extensive farm.
         Rent.-The rental of the whole parish about L.6410. The
average rent per acre is L.1. Valued rent, L.2500, 6s. 18d. Scots.
	The length of leases is generally nineteen years.
        A general improvement in agriculture has taken place since last
account; and of late, furrow-draining has been introduced, which
must ameliorate the soil in several parts of the parish, where the
ordinary mode of draining had little effect in preventing the injury
done to the land by surface water. Most of the fields are in-
closed with dry-stone fences, as there is a superabundance of ma-
terial for this purpose throughout the parish. A good specimen
of these enclosures presents itself to the eye of the traveller on the
Skene turnpike road, upon the lands of Easterskene, where the
proprietor has furnished employment to the labourer for several
years past, in trenching the land, and in building dikes.
	A considerable extent of waste land has been brought into cul-
tivation (above 1000 acres) since last Account, particularly on the
lands of Ord, Fiddie, Carnies, Easterskene, Leddach, Blackhills,
Kinmundy, Concraig, Newton, and Auchenclech. The late pro-
prietor of Kirkville added (by draining) two new farms, with farm-
steadings, where farm had never been before, on the haughs (ra-
ther bogs) of the Leuchar Burn, on his lands of Hillcairnie.
This he effected by straighting, cutting, and deepening the burn
at considerable expense, part of which, of course, was borne by
the heritors on the opposite side of the Leuchar.
         Manufactures.-At Garlogie, there is a spinning manufactory*
for wool, belonging to Messrs Hadden and Sons in Aberdeen,
where about 120 people, old and young, are generally employed.
Steam power is occasionally added when the supply of water from
the Loch of Skene falls short. Gas has been introduced of late
for lighting the works in the winter season. The Company are
very attentive to the comfort of the families employed at the work
they have built neat cottages for their accommodation, and give
them garden ground attached, all divided and inclosed. A com-
modious school-house has been added, which is attended by about
50 scholars during the day, consisting of the younger children, and
by nearly as many of the older children in the evening, after the
work of the day is over in the mill. The school-room is also occu-

<FOOTNOTE>Part of the worsted spun at Garlogie is manufactured at Aberdoen by the same.
Company into carpets of excellent quality.


