
                            PENPONT.                         507

choicest varieties of the vegetable kingdom, particularly of the
class Orchideae, or tropical parasitic plants which are found upon,
the bark of trees, rocks, &c. in these warm regions; such as, the
Stanhopea insignis, Oncidium divaricatum, Cypripedium insigne,
Catleya crispa, Rinanthera coccinea, or Chinese air plant, Epiden-
dron cochleatum, Oncidium papilio, or butterfly plant, &c. There
are here likewise the Musa coccinea, Musa sapientum, Dendrobium
Pierardi, Astrapaea Wallichii, or lightning plant, so called from the
splendour of its flower. On the back wall of the stove the Passi-
flora edulis fruits freely, as also in the pine-stove. There is, here,
also, the Passiflora quadranqularis, and the Quisqualis Indica, which
flowered beautifully in 1835. The Nepenthes distillatoria or pitch-
er plant may likewise be mentioned, as also Dionaea muscipula, or
Venus's fly-trap, Hybiscuss plendens, and the Cattleianum, which
bears that luscious fruit of which Guava jelly is made. It fruits
here readily. But it is impossible to specify all the attractions that
are here presented to the botanist or the lover of the beauties of
nature. It is only justice to the Noble proprietor to add, that every
facility is afforded to strangers to gratify their curiosity here, or in
the lovely flower gardens in the immediate vicinity of the castle,
	Parochial Reqisters.--Little authentic information can now be
gathered regarding the ancient statistics of the parish. Unhappily a
fire, which happened in the manse during the ministry of Mr Mur-
ray, consumed the parochial records; and those which exist com-
mence only at 1728, and have been very irregularly kept. The first
entry in the record of births and baptisms is of date 15th Novem-
ber 1728. With a view to the preservation and classification of
the ancient parochial records of Scotland, the Presbytery of the
bounds lately instituted an inquiry regarding the state of such do-
cuments in every parish under their ecclesiastical superintendence;
and the following is extracted from the report of the committee
relative to those of Penpont. "The register of births and baptisms
is irregularly kept down to 1833. Since that period it has been
kept regularly, as far as the children of parents who belong to the
Establishment are concerned. Those, parents who belong to other
religious denominations seldom apply for registration. There is
no record of marriages or of deaths." The extract abundantly shows
the defective and utterly inadequate manner in which these records
have been and still are kept. Similar defects and irregularities
are very general; and it would be not unworthy of the Legislature
to attempt a remedy.


