
                               ALFORD.                        501

   Average  number of children in each family, at present is four;
but this includes the families of recently married couples, and there-
fore does not indicate the number of children to each marriage.

<TABLE>
              Number of inhabited houses,              176
                        uninhabited houses,              1
                        houses building,                 1
                        insane persons,                  3
                        deaf and dumb persons,           1

   The ordinary food of the great body of the working people chief-
ly consists of oat-meal, made into boiled pottage, or brose, or
cakes, rendered nutritive and wholesome by an abundant sup-
ply of milk, and varied occasionally by potatoes drdssed in va-
rious ways, and by soups made of greens, turnips, and pot-barley.
The ordinary beverage of the working people is an excellent small
beer, from malt made of bear of native growth, and hops ; and this,
with a larger allowance of malt in it, forms in their diet an excel-
lent substitute for milk, when occasionally the latter becomes de-
ficient in any family during winter.  Until about six years ago, the
malt was all home made; and the farmers and their servants, dur-
ing some part of autumn or winter, found seasons of leisure from
their busier occupations to make it, which they could all do very
skilfully, so that the making of it virtually cost them nothing.  Since
that time, however, so many annoying regulations have been intro-
duced in levying the excise duties, that the practice of private malt-
in has, of necessity, been almost entirely abandoned.  A system
of public malting, since partially introduced, has not much mitigat-
ed the privations inflicted by these regulations.  It involves an
expense, which was before entirely avoided and may, in the end,
subject the whole supply of malt to a monopoly in the hands of
the public maltster.
   The enforcement of these regulations is complained of by the
inhabitants, as the greatest inconvenience to which any fiscal law
has ever subjected them ; and as thex have never complained of
the amount of the duty, the revision of the regulations, with the
view of restoring private malting to its recent freedom, might be
a boon granted them  without hurt to, the revenue.
   General Character of the People.-As to their general character,
it cannot be spoken of otherwise than in terms of commendation.
They are persons whose understandings are practically sounds and
enlarge and cultivated by that perpetual exercise of them, to which
the infinitely diversified nature and circumstances of their rural pur-
suits, often requiring the nicest delicacy of judgment in conduct-


