
                            FOVERAN.                        699

Abbey, Justiciary of Scotland under Alexander the Third, and
one of the six regents on his death.  Here is still an hospital,
faounded for three poor men, by the first Alexander Forbes of Fo-
veran, vho have each of them a peck of meal and a groat weekly."
There is still a small fund in the hands of the Foveran family, the
interest of which a poor man gets under the name of bede money.
   There is now no vestige remaining of the Castle of Foveran.
nor of Turing's Tower, which was still more ancient; but we need
not say that the sweet spring, that bountiful gift of God alluded to
by Sir Samuel, continues to flow with all its wonted abundance.
There is a marble bust in the dress of the time of Charles Llying
on the ground, near the site of the old castle.
   Land-owners.-The heritors of the parish are, Colonel Udny
of Udny; Mr Robertson of Foveran; Mr Hunter of Tillery;
General Gordon of Cairness; and the family of Wardbouse.
Colonel Udny resides in London, and only occasionally visits his
fine property here.  The Foveran family have not resided much
at Foveran House for some years past, but it is hoped that Mr
Robertson will soon settle among us.
   Antiquities.-There is a very ancient burial-ground in the neigh-
bourhood of the village.  It is the burial-ground of the family of
Udny, and it should not be allowed to lie in so totally open a
state.  There are some remains of an ancient chapel within the
ground, which goes among the people under the name of Rood
Church.  In a service before the Sheriff of Aberdeen, an 1oth
January 1558, of Elizabeth Meldrom, relict of Alexander Gray,
burgess of Aberdeen, among others, of certain crofts and roods
of land, lying in the barony of Newburgh; the boundaries often
refer to the Cross of Newburgh, the lands of the altar of St
Crispin, and Crispnianus, the lands of the Holy Rood, the lands
of the Chapel of the Holy Rood.
   The castle of Knockhall, new in ruins, is situated about half
a-mile north of Newburgh, and was at one period, the residence
of the family of Udny.  It was built in the year, 1565 was burnt
by accident in 1734, and was never repaired.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The land, generally speaking, is fertile, and pro-
duce abundant crops of all kinds.  There are many large and
fine farms in the parish, and the tenants are most industrious and
intelligent.  An excellent understanding subsists between them
and their landlords, and they live in great harmony among them-
selves.  They are very hospitable.  Their houses, or most of them


