
794                          AYRSHIRE.

The title and dignities of the De Morvilles passed in 1196, by a
female heir, to Roland, Lord of Galloway.  On the death of Al-
lan, Lord of Galloway, in 1234, the Lordship of Largs was inhe-
rited by his daughter Dervorgill, who married John de Baliol, the
father of John, the competitor for the Crown.  She survived her hus-
band, and during her widowhood granted to Robert, Bishop of
Glasgow, the lands and pasture of Cunninghame, and the lands
and pasture of Rysdale, with the pertinents, and twenty-four acres
of land, which were commonly called Balolfslands, in her lordship
of Largs, and a bovat of land, with the pertinents, in her tene-
ment of Largs.  This grant was confirmed by Alexander Ill. *
   The most remarkable circumstance in the history of this place
is its having been the scene of the battle between the Norwegians
and the Scots, which took place on 3d October 1263.  It is fo-
reign to the object of this work to enter into the details of this
conflict, nor is it now necessary, after the plain and authentic nar-
rative given by Tytler in the first volume of his interesting and
most valuable history.  It is there cleared from all the exaggera-
tions of the early historians and chroniclers.  Instead of the 24,000
Danes and 5000 Scotch which, according to Boece, were slain at
this battle, it appears that the whole force of the Norwegians that
landed did not consist of more than 900, and that the Scotch
army consisted of 1500.  These were chiefly troops collected by
the neighbouring barons, whose possessions were in more imme-
diate danger of devastation from the enemy.  The Scotch army is
said to have been composed of the chief men of the west, yet it is
singular that not one of the leaders should have had his name re-
corded and sent down to posterity, but Peter de Currie, who bold-
ly riding up, challenged the Norwegians to single combat, and was
immediately killed by Nicolson, a Norwegian chief.  The discom-
fiture of the Norwegians was aided by the inclemency of the wea-
ther, which King Haco attributed to witchcraft, and for the ap-
peasing of which he had mass celebrated at Cumbray.  The Nor-
wegians seem to have fought with great bravery, and on the second
day had put the Scotch to flight.  They were afraid, however, of
the arrival of fresh troops and renewed vigour, and betook them-
selves to their ships and boats, leaving the shore strewed with their
dead, and with the wreck of their proud armament.  King Haco
died at Kirkwall, on his return to Norway. All subsequent con-

            <FOOTNOTE> * Chart. Glasgow, p. 457.


