
                                KINGHORN.                     805

of Scotland.*  This ancient residence passed from the Kings of
Scotland, in the reign of Robert II., into the hands of Sir John
Lyon, as dowery to his wife, Janet Stuart, daughter of Queen
Ada Mure and of that monarch, who disponed the property to
that knight "cum domino de Kinghorn in liberum maritagium."
The successors of that knight enjoyed frist from James VI. the
title of Earl of Kinghorn, 10th July 1606; but, it is said, that,
from an awkward abbreviation of Kinghorn, which the people
were too ready to discover and apply,--better sounding title of
Strathmore, where much of his property lay, was bestowed on the
family by Cahrles II>
    The historical events connected with this parish are brief,
but important. In the reign of Duncan I., whose fate is well
known to evey reader of the immortal Shakespeare, Canutus,
King of Norway, sent a large fleet commanded by his bro-
ther, with 9000 men, who landed at Kinghorn, and plundered
the adjacent country, till they were attacked and defeated with
great slaughter by Macbeth, Thane of Fife.  But the event
of greatest importance to Scotland, connected with this parish,
was the death of ALexander III. The greatness of that monarch's
character--the importance of his life to Scotlnadc at that period--
thesuddenness of his death--and the long and cruel wars in which
Scotland was engaged with England, as well as the internal dis-
tractions of the kingdom, which his death occasioned, must ever
render the spot where he met his death an object of deepest in-
terest, and excite in the mind a host of bitter reflections.  About
a mile to the west of Kinghorn, the road from Inverkeithing at
that time wound along a high cliff which rises abruptly, and al-
most perpendicularly from the level sand below to the height of
about 150 feet.  About fourty feet up the side if this preciptous
bank, there abuts a rock in the form of a wedge, now almost
wholly covered with ivy, which marks the spot where the King
was found.  It received him in his sheer descent over the cliff
above, where he was thrown fom his hourse, and prevented him
from falling to the level shore below.  This is the King's wud
end, not wood end, as it has been sometimes errroneously called.
Tradition is not the only testimony for the indentity of this melan-
choly spot.  A cross was soon after the event erected upon it to
point out the place where the King was found. "Out upon

<FOOTNOTE>* Carta Willelmi Regis de hospitali, &c.
            See Chamber's Gazetteer, Burgh of Kinghorn.


