
                           KETTLE.                          105                      105

whose properties it interfered on both sides, they lost the advan-
tage of the natural declivity about three-quarters of a mile. In
1829, the grounds about Kettle were four times deeply flooded.
The late Mr Johnstone also built an elegant house upon the estate;
and following up or completing the plans of his predecessor, (Mr
Cunninghame,) subdivided most of his farms with ditch and hedge,
adorned them with belts and clumps of planting, and set the ex-
ample to this part of Fife, of building commodious farm-houses
and steadings to his tenants; all which gave a vivacity and beauty
to this part of the country.
   Mineralogy.-- The rocks in the parish belong, chiefly, to the coal
formation. On various parts of Burnturk, there are quarries of
sandstone (freestone.) On one of these, on the north-east foot
of Bauden Hill, when the stratum of covering earth is removed,
we observe on the surface of the rock, numerous appearances of ve-
getable remains apparently branches of trees of various diameters,
curiously ramified and interwoven, as of trees fallen, crushed, and
petrified. A large piece of petrified wood and a petrified horn
were also found. We have no marble or slate in the parish, but
some sandstone (freestone) of indifferent quality. We have also some
quarries of the finest trap whinstone, which are capable of being fine-
ly dressed and squared, and serve for the building of houses and dikes
to any extent. Of these, one quarry, instead of lying in horizon-
tal beds, rises perpendicularly in the form of a vein or dike, and
presents in the face of the quarry the appearance of numberless
five-sided columns, which, on being blown down with gunpowder,
produce naturally excellent gate pillars, from five to seven feet long,
without requiring a single stroke of the hammer to dress them.
Another of these quarries, apparently of trap tuffa, is famed for pro-
ducing excellent soles for ovens, by reason of its peculiar quality,
and resisting the action of fire. Limestone of the best quality
is also abundant in the parish. The quarry at Forthar, belong-
ing to General Balfour of Balbirnie, was analyzed sometime ago,
and found to contain 98 parts in 100 of pure lime. It is wrought by
the proprietor; and in tirring, quarrying, mining, breaking, and
filling the draw and sowkilns, &c. gives employment through the
whole year to a great number of men. The coals with which the
lime is burnt are brought from the proprietor's own coal pits at
Balbirnie, and the lime is sold at 3s. the Linlithgow boll. Besides
what is consumed in the neighbourhood, great quantities are driven
to Newburgh port for Dundee, the Carse of Gowrie, and other parts
of Perthshire,--Which also furnishes employment for a number of


