
402                   ARGYLESHIRE.

lands.  Sea-weed for manuring potato ground is easily obtained,
and fish may be had almost all the year round.  Upon the whole,
the inhabitants of Gigha are more favourably situated than the ge-
nerality of Highlanders.  As they go much from home as sailors,
or farm servants in the low country, they see more of the world
and its ways, and are in general more intelligent, than a great pro-
portion of the inhabitants of the Highlands, and even than the
same class of persons in the low country.  The number of indivi-
duals who cannot read is but small now.  The rising generation
all learn to read, but there are still between twenty and thirty of
the oldest of the people who unhappily cannot read or write.
  The young men and women leave home for service at an early
period, and are absent, in many instances, for years, and generally
for one-half of the year,-a circumstance which is highly unfavour-
able to their acquiring regular habits of attending Divine ordinances,
Yet the are improving in this respect, and are becoming better
acquainted with the Scriptures.
  They are honest, kind, obliging, and very grateful for any ser-
vices rendered them.
  There is but little poaching in those islands.
  Illicit distillation of whisky is still carried on occasionally on,
one of the properties, but the principal heritor has, much to his
credit, effectually suppressed it on his property.  Any tenant or
cottar found guilty of smuggling on his lands forfeits his lease, or
will be removed from his possession, of whatever kind it may hap-
pen to be.  In this way heritors and their factors might put an
end to the pernicious practice nf smuggling all over the country.
Some individuals, who had no license to retail spirits, have here-
tofore been in the practice of retailing whisky, but steps are being
taken at present by the same excellent heritor above alluded to,
to prevent this being done in future, at least on his property, that
there may be only one public-house in the island, and that one
under proper regulations.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-The parish consists of about 4000 imperial acres,
more than one-half of which is arable, and of what is in pasture,
probably one-half might be cultivated with a moderate outlay, so
as to give a good return, whether it were afterwards to be kept in
occasional tillage or in permanent pasture.  Almost the whole of
the Island of Cara might be cultivated with advantage, though
only with the view of improving the pasture.  There are about


