
                    PARISH OF CLACKMANNAN.

       PRESBYTERY OF STIRLING, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

              THE REV. PETER BALFOUR, MINISTER.
                       ______________

         I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--IT has been plausibly stated by the author * of the
former Statistical Account of this parish, "that Clackmannan
signifies the kirk town, or village of Annan, from a well known
Gaelic word, Annand, the original name of the family of Annand-
dale; that in the beginning of the twelfth century, one of the
first of the Bruces who settled in Scotland, married Agnes Annand,
heir to the lordship of Annandale; and that, soon after that period,
the Bruces were in possession of Clackmannan."
   Boundaries, &c.--This parish is bounded on the south by the
river Forth, and on the north by the river Devon. Were a per-
son to leave the margin in of the Forth at the south-east extremity
of the parish, and to move along its boundary, until he reached
the Forth at its south-west extremity, be would pass in succession
the following parishes:--Tulliallan, Saline, Fossaway, Dollar,
Tillicoultry, Alva, and Alloa. Although the form of the parish
of Clackmannan be very irregular it seems to present upon the
whole a slight resemblance to that of a truncated cone. Along
the edge of the Forth, it does not extend above two miles and a
half; but on advancing inland, or towards the north, it so expands
that a straight line drawn from the north-west to the north-east
extremity of the parish, would be at least six miles in length.
   Topographical Appearances, &c.--In proceeding from the Forth
to the Devon, the country presents to the eye of the tourist a varied
and undulating surface, and to the observation of the agriculturist,
a very considerable diversity of soil. In going northward from
the Forth, the country is almost level for the space of about one
mile and a-half This part of the parish forms a portion of the
"carse of Clackmannan." On leaving the carse, and entering on
the "dryfield" district, there occurs the commencement of a range

<FOOTNOTE>The late Rev. Dr Robert Moodie.


