
                                    EAGLESHAM.                         387

      stances they are also filled with a white steatite, and in the paris        h
      of Eaglesham, in particular, a great quantity of heavy spar is inter..
      spersed in it.  This mineral occurs about Balagich-hill, two miles
      west of the village.  It shines in the dark after having been whitened
      in the fire.   Besides barytes, the presence of talcose, earth, or a
      kind of Capstone, is also another peculiar feature in the structure
      of the Osmond stone.  This talce is soft and soapy, and may be
      exit into any shape.  With borax and soda it melts into a green-
      ish slag.   Besides these there is also found zeolite, and also sili.
      ceous and calcareous earths in the form of spars.  These are
      all imbedded in the Osmond stone, with the exception of the
      barytes, which in many instances has large masses of the Osmond
      contained or isolated in it.   The Osmond being of a volcanic nat
      ture stands a great beat without being either fused or broken.  Oil
      this account it was in former times in great request for the soles
      of bakers' ovens, and for making up fire-lilaces in kitchens, and
      where a constant heat is required.  All the stones, however, not
      being of equal density, have not the same capacity for receiving
      and retaining heat.  On this account. the stone ouLrbt to be very care-
      fully selected, for if precautionary measures are not thus adoph
      ed, soine of the bread will be burned before the rest is half-pre,
      pared.
        A little below Craigenfeicb, at Allerton farm, limestone is seen in
      the bed of the Cart, and seems to dip in below the Osmond stone
      at an angle of 400 west, nr in by the village of Eaglesham.  A
      litt'le belowa band of ironstone crosses the water, which dips about
      80 north.  At Allerton the lime in many places is lying almost on
      its edge, indicating an extensive trouble.  After disappearing for
      some time it appears again a quarter of a mile above Nethercraig
      bridge.  A little below the bridge, it dips at an angle of 1O south.
      There is also in the same locality a bed of pipe-clay (Arqilla
      leucargilla) with a similar dip.  The whin comes in again at Hole,
      and at the bridge on the road between Eaglesharn and East Kil-
      bride.  With these exceptions, which are entirely on the eastern
      limits of the parish, the whole range of it may be said to be com-
      posed of alternations of elaystone, greenstone. and wacke.  In the
      same associated group, but not in this parish, iron and manganese
      are found in very small proportional and also copper ore in a green-
      stone dike at Kaime.  Beautiful specimens of red foliated stilbite,
      needlestone, chabasite, analcime, and other minerals,of the same


