
168                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

with the assistance of timber, &c. from the proprietor, and are ge-
nerally slated or flagged. * Labourers of industrious habits having
possessed themselves of these tenements, with an adjacent piece of
ground for keeping a cow, and growing potatoes for their families,
at a moderate rent, are enabled to live in a degree of comfort and
independence very superior, indeed, to what is enjoyed by the same
rank who reside in villages, or who rent houses from year to year un-
der the tenantry. And it is to be regretted that this system, so condu-
cive to the happiness and morals of our peasantry, has not, at least on
estates similarly situated, been more extensively adopted. Nor
has the want of employment, the frequent concomitant of increase
of population, been hitherto materially felt among us. Great cau-
tion, we allow, is at all times requisite so to limit the number of
these possessions, as not to increase that population beyond the na-
tural demand for labour, otherwise the evil which has been inflict-
ed on our sister island, might soon pervade every parish of our land.
Resident and enlightened  proprietors, however, who have attended
to this branch of political economy, will soon discover to what ex-
tent this practice may be carried in their respective districts, with
advantage both to themselves and to the community. While the
population has increased so extensively, it is an extraordinary fact
in our parish statistics, that its pauperism has been diminished.
For, forty years ago, with a population of 565, the regular paupers
upon the roll were 18, + whereas, in the year 1831, when the popu-
lation has risen to 1234, the number upon our list at the half yearly
distribution in November last, amounted only to 16.
	The nature of the soil and climate, and our distance from mar-
kets and manure, have rendered it necessary for the proprietor to
lay out the farms into moderate sizes. There is none, however,
so small as not to afford ample employment for a couple of horses.
	Experiments are in progress by the proprietor, for ascertaining
whether spade culture cannot be profitably introduced on particu-

<FOOTNOTE>Building leases are granted for 21 years at a nominal rent, the proprietor re-
serving power to resume upon a year's notice, on payment of a part of the sum ex-
pended in building, in proportion to the period of lease at the time of resumption
unexpired. Thus, supposing a house to cost originally L. 63, it could be resumed at
the end of the first year on payment of L.60, at the end of the second on payment of
L. 57, and so on. And at the expiration of the lease the house becomes the property
of the landlord. This arrangement has been adopted, first, to save original outlay on
the part of the proprietor, and secondly, to operate as a check (which the system of
feuing would not do,) to the introduction of disreputable persons into the parish; and
has been found satisfactory to both parties.
         Vide last Statistical Account, p. 222.


