
174                   DUMBARTONSHIRE.


district is hemmed in by the porphyritic rocks of the Ochil range
on the north, continued in the Campsie hills to Dumbarton, which
divide the red sandstone from the coal formation of the Forth and
Clyde. Part of the parish of Kirkintilloch, with part of the adjoin-
ing parishes of Cumbernauld, Kilsyth, and Campsie, seem at some
remote and unknown period to have formed the bottom and sides of
agreat inland sea or lake, which stretched in an easterlyand westerly
direction along the valley of the Fort and Clyde Canal. This great
basin of water appears to have been studded with islands or inches,
as they are sometimes called, the memorials of which are still pre-
served in the names of the places. Among the still existing chrono-
meters of this sort, which have escaped the wasting influence of the
hand of time, and still live as it were to speak and testify for them-
selves, we may mention Inchbreek and Inchbelly in this parish,
and Inchterf, Inchwood, and Netherinch in the parishes of Campsie
and Kilsyth. The whole of the tract in which these lost or ci-
devant islands, if I may so speak, occur, partakes considerably of
the character of a lowland valley; but were it necessary absolutely
to define its geognostic features, we would rather rank it among
the broad flat-bottomed valleys which abound in many places in
Scotland. They are less rugged and picturesque in their outlines
than mountain vallies, and less extensive titaii lowland ones. Still
this resembles the lowland valley, in so far that it appears to have
been originally scooped out by the same natural agencies; and from
a careful inspection of the whole, it seems as if a large body of
water had passed over it rounding the inequalities, and acting on
the masses of strata in proportion to their power of resistance. At
the same time, the valley of the Forth and Clyde Canal, especially
in so far as it is connected with this parish, has much of the charac-
ter of a drained lake, or indicates a locality where the rivers or
floods, not having had any great velocity, have had time to deposit
a considerable quantity of sediment over a flat surface, in the mid-
dle of which many islands no doubt appeared. In the country to
the north of this valley, and also considerably to the west, in the
parishes of Old and New, Kilpatrick, there is a continuity or iden-
tity of strata, accompanied with various-alpine ranges, consisting
of whin, chiefly diorite, resting on the lower members of the coal
formation. The Campsie range, which borders on the parish of Kir-
kintilloch, immediately to the north, is of this description; which,
although the giant range of these districts is, however, itself mimick-


