
                             PARISH OF INNERWICK.

            PRESBYTERY OF DUNBAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                    THE REV. ADAM FORMAN, A. M. MINISTER. *

                      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name Innerwick (otherwise Ennerwick,) seems to
be compounded of two Saxon words, denoting an inner hamlet-
a description which exactly corresponds to the actual locality of
the village of Innerwick. That village is situated somewhat inland,
and at the distance of about a mile and a half from Thorntonloch,
a hamlet in the same parish. These two villages, as lying, the one
farther from the sea, and the other nearer to it, may be accurately
characterized by the comparatives, inner and outer. Innerwick
too, may be called inner, or farther from the sea, in reference either
to a hamlet, now very inconsiderable, at the Skateraw shore, in
the same parish, or to the neighbouring village of East Barns, in
the parish of Dunbar. There is no need, therefore, of resorting to
that mode of explaining the name, according to which it denotes
a place at the mouth of a river or stream, a description which is
strictly applicable neither to the castle, nor to the village of In-
nerwick, in as much as both are at some distance from the point
where any stream that passes them joins the sea. To this deriva-
tion it might also be objected, that it seems somewhat unnatural
for a village or castle to be named from its specific relation to a
stream so small; and also, that the theory implies that the name
Innerwick-as being formed of the Celtic word Inver in combi-
nation with the German word Wic-is heterogeneous in its com-
position.
   Extent, Boundaries.-This parish is about ten miles in length,
and from two to three in breadth. It is bounded on the north-

<FOOTNOTE>This Report with the exception of the articles Geology and Botany, which are
written by the Rev. Andrew Baird of Cockburnspath, and the table of raw produce
compiled by the Minister of the parish, has been drawn up by the Rev. Alexander
S. Patterson.


