
			    FETTERCAIRN.                      115

   Parochial Reqisters.--The parochial registers extend backwards
to 1669, with partial interruptions, which were occasioned, in
part, by the burning of certain portions of them, in consequence of
the adherents of the Stuarts having set fire to the school-house,
where they were deposited, in 1745, the inhabitants being attach-
ed to the interests of the Hanoverian family.
   Antiquities.--The death of Kenneth III., King of Scotland, in
994, is believed by some to have taken place in this parish. His-
torians differ as to the circumstances. John of Fordoun and his
followers tell us that he was shot by an arrow, from a curious piece
of mechanism, in consequence of a plan which a lady, of the name
of Finella, bad devised, to be revenged for her son, Crathilinthus,
whom he put to death for certain heinous crimes which he had
committed. Winton, Buchanan, M'Pherson, and others, make
him fall by the hands of a body of conspirators, who suddenly rose
upon him in Fettercairn, as he was directing his course to the
shrine of St Palladius, with a view there to unburden his mind of
sins which troubled it much. The late Professor Stuart of Ma-
rischal College, Aberdeen, published a paper in Vol.ii. Part ii.
of the Transactions of the Antiquarian Society of Scotland, in
which he laid it down as a probable conjecture, that the King was
assassinated in a hunting-match in the neighbourhood. This the-
ory he founded on certain figures, representing a hunting-scene,
cut on a grave-stone, which was discovered in the churchyard of
Fordoun some years ago, and supposed to commemorate this event.
All seem to admit, however, that Finella had a hand in the tra-
gedy.
   Buchanan terms Finella's place of residence "the Castle of
Fettercairn," which seems to be unfavourable to the belief, enter-
tained by some, that it was situated in the parish of Fordoun;
though the names of certain places in that parish give an air of
probability to that belief. Others think that it must have been
about a mile and a-half south-west from the village of Fettercairn,
where the relains of a large fortified place, called Greencairn, are
still visible. This is a mass of ruins on the top of a round emi-
nence of about forty or fifty feet above the level of the adjoining
grounds. What its origin was, or when it ceased to> be inhabited,
is unknown. But that it must have been a place of great strength,
and must have been many ages uninhabitable, is evident, from the
portions of vitrified materials, of which it Was composed, still re-
maining, and from the entire state of desolation to which it is now


