

in procuring this necessary article of life.  However, the ad-
vantages resulting from the excellent roads, that are nearly
finished, will soon be felt by the country at large.  Some at-
tempts have been made in this country to discover coal, but
they have all been abandoned without hope of succeeding.
Indeed, from the constant appearances in the most favourable
situations, there is reason to conclude, that, if coals are to be
found, they must lie at a very great depth.  Without adding
to what has been said of the practicability of a canal, in the
Statistical Account of Meigle* , it may just be observed, that,
by leading a canal round the Linn of Campsey, and narrow-
ing the Tay in some places, that river might be made navi-
gable a great way up, by means of horses, and boats construc-
ted on purpose, at a small expence.

   Antiquities, etc.-There are still visible at Coupar the ves-
tiges of a Roman camp+, said to have been formed by the ar-

<FOOTNOTE>

*See VOL. I. No. LIII.

+On the center of this camp, MALCOLM IV. founded an
ABBEY for Cistertian Monks, A. D. 1104, and endowed it with
large revenues This house was founded by advice of the Ab-
bot of Melross, who was of the same order; and it is said the
Monks were long remarkable for their piety and exemplary
lives.  From the pavement, and bases of pillars, and subterrane-
ous passages that have been discovered, this Abbey appears to
have been a house of considerable magnitude.  Next to the
Scottish Kings, the HAYS of ERROL were the principal bene-
factors to the Abbey of Coupar.  The latter granted it the lands
of Lidderpole, several acres of arable land on the banks of the
Tay, and liberty of fishing on that river.  The Monks were al-
lowed free passage with their cattle over all the lands belonging
to the house of Errol.  GILBERT HAY, Constable of Scotland,
granted them the patronage of the Church of Errol, and Chapel
of Inchmartin, with all their pertinents and rights.  In return
for these immunities, the house of Errol claimed the privilege
of burial in the Abbey.  The last Abbot of Coupar was Do-


