
46                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

upon which the soil is so thin as not to admit of being pared and
burnt; and in this case, when lime and manure must both be driven
from a distance, the profits arising from cultivation might not be
great. But in general the uncultivated land in the parish is either
moss, or moor, of sufficient depth, and will eventually pay well for
improvement, which is gradually, though slowly, advancinf. Pro-
bably 1500 acres might, with a profitable application of capital,
be added to the cultivated land of the parish.
	Rent of Land.--Arable land rents from 6s. to L. 2, 8s. per
acre, averaging about 16s. The average rate of grazing ir, per
cow, L. 3; per ox, L. 2; and per ewe, or full-grown sheeps for the
year, 10s.
	Rate Of Wages.--Farm-servants are commonly hired by the half
year; exclusive of board, men-servants receive from L. 5, 10s. to
L. 6; women, L. 2, 5s. to L. 2, 12s. Labourers engaged by the
day are paid, in summer, with victuals, men,--from 1s. to 1s. 2d.;
women, 6d: without victuals during summer, men receive from 1s. 6d.
to 1s. 8d.; women, 9d., except during harvest, when men and women
receive the same rates, which are frequently 2s., and sometimes
2s. 6d., according to the demand. In winter, without victuals, men
are paid 1s. 3d.. per day; women, 8d. Mason and carpenter-work
is commonly done by the piece; but when employed by the day,
which occasionally happens, masons, with victuals, charge 3s.; vith-
out victuals, 3s. 6d.: carpenters, with victuals, 2s.; without victuals,
2s. 6d. Tailors are paid, with victuals, at the rate of 1s. 3d. per
day.
	Breeds of Live Stock.--The common breed of cattle is the Gal-
loway; and very considerable attention has been for some time, and
is still, paid to its improvement. Of late years, the Ayrshire breed
has been introduced, and seems to be gaining ground. Of this
latter description only the queys are reared; and these when near-
ly three years old, and in calf, are in great demand in the Eng-
lish market.
	Husbandry.--Farming is not in greater perfection in any part
of Scotland than in this parish. Upon the best dry arable
land, what is called the five-shift rotation, is followed, i. e. 1st year,
oats; 2d, potatoes or turnips fed off by sheep; 3d, wheat or
barley, sown down with clover and rye-grass; 4th, hay; and 5th,
pasture.
	Upon cold land, not fit for wheat and barley, a seven years rota-
tion is generally followed, viz. two crops of oats, one rape fed off by


