
     of Ferry-Port-on-Craig.

white oats are paid yearly to the minister of Dull, in Athol,
and 1 s. 8 d. Sterling of vicarage to the minister of Leuchars.  The
glebe consists of 4 acres of arable land, let at present for 2
bolls 2 firlots of barley each acre; the foggage, being all in-
closed, is let for 4 L. 7 s. Sterling, for which the minister pays
10 s.  Sterling yearly to the tenant of the Mains of Scotscraig;
the ground taken off that farm for foggage, being estimated
in value to that amount above the legal allowance.  The glebe
adds to the value of the living 10 bolls of barley, and 3 L. 17 s.
Sterling of money; making the living, with the glebe, amount
to 99 bolls 2 firlots of victual, and 21 L. 8 s. 8 d. Sterling of
money.-The church was built in the year 1607, the year
after the erection of the parish, the date being cut in the kirk:
The family aisle, by Sir John Buchanan, then of Scotscraig,
in the year 1644.  Under it there is a large vault, where the
several proprietors of the estate have been buried, ever since the
manse was built, about the year 1727.-The salary of the pa-
rish school is 100 merks Scotch money, paid by the proprie-
tor of Scotscraig.  The schoolmaster is also session-clerk.

   Poor.-The poor's fund arises from the interest of a small
sum of money appropriated to them, the profits of the mort-
cloth, and the very liberal weekly collection made by the pa-
rishioners.  The session has no act fixing any certain weekly
pension on any or the poor; but varies the sum given to them,
enlarging or diminishing their allowance, according to the differ-
ence of their situation; but they always give them such ample
occasional supplies, as enable the poor, with their own industry,
to subsist comfortably in their own houses; none having been
allowed to beg from door to door for many years past, either
within or without the parish.  The parish funds have sup-
ported the poor, without any assessment, there 50 years.  The
number of the poor varies as circumstances occur.  The pre-

     VOL. VIII.   3 N


