
     Of Speymouth.

within these 40 years.  A ploughman, or qualified man
servant, will now have from 3 L. 10 s. to 4 L. in the half
year; a second rate servant, or a lad from 17 to 20 years
of age, who can drive horses, from 2 L. to 3 L.; a woman
servant about a farm house, 20 s. for the half year; a
man for the harvest 1 L. 5 s.; a woman for the same 16 s.,
a day labourer 9 d. a day, or 6 d. with his victuals, for 9
months in the year, and 5 d. with 2 meals during the
winter months.  In harvest he will have 1 s. a day, or 10 d.
and 2 meals; a woman has 3 d. a day and victuals, and 7 d.
and 2 meals in harvest*.

   Garmouth.-The only village that deserves notice is
Garmouth, or, as it is commonly pronounced, Garmach.
It is situated at the mouth of Spey; contains about 620
inhabitants; is a burgh of barony, and has an annual
fair.  The lands belonging to this place, extending to
about 240 acres, with a right on an extensive common,
are held by a considerable number of feuars of the Duke
of Gordon.  The feus are of different extent.  Most of
the feuars reside in Garmouth; possess their own feus,
and live comfortably; and several, from success in va-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The wages of men servants for the half year, have risen above one
third within these 7 years; and seem rather too high for this part of
the country.  It is also a pretty general complaint, that they do less
work than when they had much less wages.  To remedy this inconve-
nience, the best method seems to be, to employ married servants more
than has been done in this part of the country for some time past, and
to accommodate them, and day-labourers and tradesmen, with houses
and other conveniences on the farms.  This will encourage them to settle
in the country.  The greater farmers are beginning to see the conve-
nience of having some married servants.  As they cannot so easily re-
move their families, they are less given to change, and, by consequence,
more studious to please.  Their children, too, by increasing the number,
will lessen the wages of servants.

     7


