
                    AUCHINLECK.                               331

seats, however, are free, but several of the seats in the galleries
have been let to the villagers at a very cheap rate, and the sum
derived from this source goes into the poor's fund, and does not
amount to above L. 4, 10s. annually. This is chiefly done with
the view of giving individuals a right to certain sittings. Under-
neath the church, is the burying-place of the Auchinleck family.
It is hewn out of the rock. A new church, which contains up-
wards of 800 sittings, is so far advanced as to be roofed in; it is
quite adjacent to the old one. Sir James Boswell is patron.
	The manse was built in the year 1756, and an addition made
to it in 1796. A considerable repair was also made upon it, about
seventeen years ago. Being a single house, it has not so much ac-
commodation as its appearance seems to indicate. It is, however,
substantially built, and on the whole very comfortable. The situa-
tion of it is beautiful, being close upon the demesne around Dum-
fries House, and commanding from the back a view of the house
itself, and of a great part of the grounds and the circumjacent
country. The extent of the glebe is about six acres; it is all
arable, but probably would not let at a rate higher than L. 1,15s.
per acre. The stipend is 109 bolls meal, 25 bolls, 3 firlots, 3 1/5 lip-
pies bear, L. 44, 13s. 10 3/12d. money.
	There is a chapel connected with the Associate Synod of Ori-
ginal Seceders, or Antiburghers, as they are usually called, in the
village. It has been vacant for upwards of three years. The con-
gregation, in addition to a house, offer L. 70 a-year to a minister.
The number of individuals in the parish connected with the
United Secession, and whose, meeting-house is in Cumnock, is
about 235; the number of Antiburghers is about 86. Besides
these, there are three or four individuals who profess to be Inde-
pendents, and one or two who are generally believed to be Roman
Catholics, though they in reality make no public profession of re-
ligion whatever. The rest of the parish, with the exception of two
or three families, who go nowhere, nominally belong to the church.
	Divine service is generally well attended in the Established
Church, particularly during the summer. From the extent of
the parish, it is not so crowded in winter. It would, however,
be much better attended, both in summer and winter, were there
more accommodation,--many complaining that they have no seats.
The new church will remedy this defect. The number of mem-
bers connected with the Antiburgher chapel, and who are gather-


