
                            DUNDEE.                             13

least, applied to the above purpose, is evident from several inden-
tures, seisins, and charters, which are still preserved. One of these
is dated 31st December 1564, entitled on the back, S`sina Thomae,
Rolland Horti in Vinella Fratrum Conventualium. The seal of
the convent is appended, upon which is this inscription: "Sigil-
lum commune Conventi de Dund." This, together with another
seisin dated August 1574, is in the possession of Mr Charles Roger,
merchant in Dundee. A chapel in the neighbourhood of the bury-
ing-ground is still standing, and was formerly used as a place of
worship for the methodists. The ruins or foundation of the other
parts of the convent are often laid bare in the digging of graves;
and lately, the sextons discovered a leaden pipe about eight feet
deep, and three inches in diameter, which went in the direction of
the convent, and appeared to have come down from St Francis'
Well, which also belonged to the convent, and which had seemed
to supply them with water. *
   Eminent Men.--Among eminent characters connected with the
parish by birth, residence, or burial, are Alexander Scrymseor, one
of Wallace's heroic companions, whom he put in possession of the
hereditary dignity of constable: also Sir John Scrymsoure, after-
wards Viscount of Dudhope, who, in his adherence to Charles I.
perished in the battle of Marston Muir, and whose son was creat-
ed Earl of Dundee. The chiefs of this family were hereditary stan-
dard-bearers of Scotland; and they continued to be represented
by the Scrymseotrds of Birkhll and of Wedderburn.
   There are also to be noticed under this head Robert Pitilloch, now
called Patullo, who distinguished himself in the wars of Charles VII.
of France, particularly on the expulsion of the English from Gasco-
ny: James Halyburton, uncle to Halyburton of Pitcur, one of the most
able promoters of the Reformation, who was provost of Dundee for
thirty-three years, and, whose funeral, from gratitude and respect to
his memory, was defrayed at the public expense: and the famous
Sir William Wallace, who is reported to have received his education

<FOOTNOTE>In the street called the Sea-Gate, the most ancient part of the town, and in which
stood the former Tolbooth, (the stones showing the foundation of which are still to
be seen,) a spot is pointed out where, in the times of ignorance and bigotry, one
Grizzel Jeffrey was burnt for witchcraft. The tradition is familiar to every native of
Dundee; and not many years ago, when a gentleman of the law profession, from
Edinburgh, was searching the records of the council and guildry, he discovered the
whole of the documents relative to the horrible transaction,--a deed which seems to
brand with infamy the times in which such tortures were sanctioned and inflicted by
the law of the land.


