
6                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

the hills in the vicinity of Inverness,-as, without a knowledge of
the general structure of the country, it would be exceedingly diffi-
cult for an observer to understand the true position of the rocky
constituents of this district.
   The oldest sandstone deposit above-mentioned stretches along
the ridge of the leys, on the south side of this parish, towards
Loch Ness, where it terminates near the Fall of Foyers on ledges
of a gray sienitic granite. Between the softer sandstone and the
granite, a high rugged chain of conglomerate hills is interposed,
which the reader will find particularly described in the account of
the parish of Dores.
   On the opposite side of the Great Glen the sandstones do not
penetrate so far inland. They may be traced, however, from the
village of Clachnaherry, at the entrance of the Caledonian Canal,
to the burn of Dochnalurg, or Dochgarroch, (about eight miles
south-west from the town of Inverness,) where they are met by
primary gneiss and granite. The sandstone in this line is soft, of
a dark red colour, and it dips towards the south-east, or the centre
of the adjoining valley. It is caped by great masses of coarse
conglomerate, cut into beautiful rounded or rather tabular sum-
mits, with bold rocky sides; and a minute inspection of these de-
monstrates that they have been greatly shattered and uplifted from
their original positions by the neighbouring granite rocks, which
in fact, in one place (close by Clachnaherry pier) appear in a
cliff immediately beneath them. There the sandstone is super-
imposed in thin strata, occasionally vertical in their position, but
generally greatly contorted and waved like curved gneiss, and
hardened where in immediate contact with the granite. * In the
ridge of the Leys the sandstone strata have not been similarly
affected. The layers, however, are considerably inclined to the
horizon, and dip towards the north-east, a direction opposite to
that of the beds on the other side of the valley. Indeed, it is ge-
nerally the case that the rocks on the several sides of the Moray,
Beauly, and Cromarty Friths dip in different directions, as if
bearing towards a central plain, from which they have been upheav-
ed. The sandstone of the Leys has many of its beds of a light blue
colour, with an intermixture of micaceous scales and limestone. It
is quarried and used as a building stone in Inverness. Prismatic
calcareous spar, steatite, and heavy spar, abound in this stone. In

<FOOTNOTE>The sandstone at this point contains very beautiful specimens of a mineral rare
in Scotland-foliated Celestine.


