
240                         ELGINSHIRE.

There were at one time three individuals under one roof, whose
united ages amounted to the extraordinary number of 298 years.
And at present, out of the comparatively small population of the
parish, we have now, or had since the commencement of the year,
twelve persons, none of whom are undereighty-two years of age, and
several of whom have attained to eighty-eight; while in many of
those who range between seventy and eighty, there are none of the
symptoms to be met with of extreme old age.
   Hydrography.-There are several lochs in the parish.  The
most important, and certainly the most interesting, is the Loch of
the Romach, which forms a part of the southern boundary of the
parish. Its extreme length is about a mile, whilst its breadth may
be about one-eighth of a mile; but what it wants in space is com-
pensated by the romantic nature of its situation. It is formed by
very precipitous banks on both sides, in a district naturally wild
and desolate, and lies entirely concealed till it bursts upon the
view, and the visitor finds himself at once translated to a region
where be may recreate himself according to his mood, either in
wandering along the well-formed walks, or in pursuing his pastime
of fishing for the trout, in which the loch abounds. A streamlet
issues from it, which takes the name of the Back Burn, and which,
afterwards increased, winds down the valley of Pluscarden, famed
for its fertility and stately priory. The loch of the Blairs, or loch
of the moss, also on the estate of Altyre, has been considerably
enlarged by the proprietor, and, having been stocked with trout, is
now rendered useful as well as ornamental to his grounds.    The
loch of Tulloch, on the estate of Blervie, has, on the other hand,
of late years, been much reduced in size, it having been found
necessary to drain it for the purpose of reclaiming a flat of
moss which surrounds it. The Findhorn, we have already said,
bounds the parish, and is the only river in it. That portion of it
to which we have to refer, is that where its devastating power has
been least felt, wbilst its beauties are here principally concentrat-
ed.  Being confined by lofty and precipitous rocks, it rushes
through the narrow passes, boiling and tumultuous, or reposes in
the dark and deep pools it has formed; while plants, and shrubs,
and lofty trees crown the steep heights, and finely contrast their

year; and the minister had the satisfaction, in consequence of this person being se-
lected, to attest for many succeeding years his firm tenure of life;  while he himself
was unconscious that any interest was attached to its duration beyond his own humble
sphere.  At length his good old friend could keep his hold no longer, and with him
ended this episode in our parish history.



