
324                            AYRSHIRE.

Muirkirk. A small bed of iron ore is found on the farm of Bog-
head, and at Gasswater there is an excellent description of fire
clay. A course of mineral water runs through the same farm of
Boghead, and that of Waltrees, which petrifies moss, and there is
another of a similar kind at Cubbs Craigs, which is said to have
produced masses upwards of a ton weight.
	Soil.--The soil is various. In the lower part of the parish, it is
generally of a stiff clay with a cold impenetrable bottom. In wet
weather, therefore, while it retains too much moisture, in drier
seasons its natural tendency is to become very hard. The great point
in this soil is to get quit of the surface water. In other parts, the
soil is lighter and warmer, and not unfrequently it has been re-
claimed from the surrounding moss.
	Woods.--Though the general character of the parish may be
bleakness, it is by no means universally so. There are consider-
able plantations in several parts of it, and more particularly in the
neighbourhood of the House at Auchinleck, where there is not
only a great extent of younger wood, but many trees of great age
and size. There is also a quantity of wood in the parks around
Dumfries House, which, though itself in Cumnock parish, has a
part of its demesne in Auchinleck.

		             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men, &c.--This parish has acquired celebrity from being
the residence of James Boswell, Esq. author of the "Life of John-
son." Johnson accompanied his friend to Auchinleck on his re-
turn from the "Journey in the Hebrides;" and it appears from
one of his published letters that he had intended to write a history
of the Auchinleck family. Several of the members of this family
have been distinguished men. The following is the account of
their connection with Ayrshire, as it is given in the Life of John-
son:--" In the year 1504, the barony or manor of Auchinleck,
in Ayrshire, which belonged to a family of the same name with
the lands, having falled to the Crown by forfeiture, James the
Fourth, King of Scotland, granted it to Thomas Boswell, a branch
of an ancient family in the county of Fife, styling him in the char-
ter, 'dilecto familiari nostro,' and assigning as the cause of the
great, 'pro bono et fideli servitio nobis prestito.' Thomas Bos-
well was slain in battle, fighting along with his sovereign at the
fatal field of Flodden." The Laird of Auchinleck (who was pro-
bably, one of the Auchinlecks of that Ilk) accompanied Sir Wil-
liam Wallace to Glasgow, along with Wallace of Richardtown
			    4


