
                      ABERDEEN.                                 65

water of the Dee within narrower bounds,) the work was commen-
ced in 1175, and finished in 1781.  The length of this pier was
1200 feet, and it terminated in a round head, whose diameter was
60 feet.  Owing to a departure from Mr Smeaton's plan, (the pier
having been founded too far to the north,) it was found that a
heavy swell entered the harbour,-to obviate which it was found
necessary to project a bulwark from the pier, about one-third across
the channel.  By these means a considerable improvement was ef-
fected, but as the trade of the city increased, inconvenience was
still felt from deficiency of water on the bar, and, in 1810, Mr. Tel-
ford, having been consulted on the means of remedying this, recom-
mended that the pier should be extended, and that wet docks
should be formed in the harbour.  These works were undertaken
forthwith, and the pier was completed in 1816 to the extent of
900 feet beyond the head of Mr Smeaton's pier, where it was
finished with a round head.  This, however, was destroyed by the
sea in the following winter, but being rebuilt with a slope towards
the sea, it has since stood without very material damage.  A break-
water, extending to the length of 800 feet, was also built on the
south side, by which the mouth of the channel was narrowed, and
the entrance protected from the south-east storms.  Wharfs were
built along the harbour on the south-west side of Futtie-the pier
formerly built opposite Torrie was enlarged, and more lately the
quay has0 been extended westward from the old quay-head, and by
raising embankments on the Inches, a considerable range of quay-
room has been obtained there, which is connected with the town
by a swivel bridge opposite the foot of Marischal Street.  By means
of all these improvements quay-room has been provided to the ex-
tent of about 4000 feet, and a tide harbour has been formed in
which the depth of water at spring tides is about 11 feet at the west
end, gradually increasing to about 15 feet, where it joins the course
of the river, and the depth of water on the bar has been increased
to about 19 feet,
   The wet docks planned by Mr Telford not having been execut-
ed, a plan for completing the harbour, not very materially different
from his, was lately recommended by Mr Walker, and a Bill found-
ed on this plan was last session introduced into Parliament, but it
was thrown out in committee, inconsequence of the opposition
made to it by many of the merchants and shipowners, to whom it
appeared that it would have the effect of greatly curtailing the ex-
tent of the tide harbour, without giving any adequate compensation
   ABERDEEN.                             E


