
                     LATHERON                           105

menced by the late proprietor, Lieutenant-General Sinclair, in
1802 ; but it is only within the last twenty yeats that the spirit of
improvement has been particularly called forth.  It is now a ris-
ing place, and evidently promises to be of considerable conse-
quence at no very distant period; should the herring-fishing con-
tinue to flourish, of which there is every prospect.
   Means of Communication.-There are two post-offices in the
parish, viz.  Dunbeath and Lybster, the former of old establish-
ment, and the latter more recent.
    The great north road runs from one extremity of the parish to the
other, a distance of twenty-eight miles along the coast, and is of im-
mense importance in facilitating the means of communication.  The
mail-coach from Inverness to Thurso has continued to run since
the completion of this road, about twenty-two years ago.   The
weekly communication by steam from Leith and Aberdeen to
Wick and Orkney, has considerably lessened the number of pas-
sengers by the coach.
    The bridges along the Parliamentary and county roads are kept
in excellent repair.
     Harbours.-Considering the vast importance of this coast in a
commercial point of view, the great number of vessels that fre-
quent it in connection with the fisheries, and the many risks to
which life and property are exposed in consequence of its bold,
rocky, and exposed character, it is much to be regretted that so
little has hitherto been done in order to obtain safe and commo-
dious harbours.  With the exception of a neat little pier at Clyth,
which is occasionally of service in loading vessels in very mode-
rate weather, the only attempt that has yet been made in this way
is at Lybster, where the proprietor, T. Frederick Sinclair, Esq. has,
in a very spirited manner, and at considerable expense, been en-
gaged for several years back in providing a harbour for the en-
couragenent, of the increasing trade and population of that place.
   This has been effected by running a stone pier of about 300 feet
in length along the west bank of a rivulets which runs into the sea
at this place, and which formerly was usually choked up by the
shifting beach, now confined behind the pier.  By this means
shelter and accommodation have been effected for upwards of one
hundred boats of from ten to fifteen tons burden, besides admit-
ting decked vessels of one tons burden.  Within the last
three years, from sixty of the latter have loaded and dis-
charged cargoes during the summer and harvest seasons; and it


