
                             ABERDOUR.                         269

that the interests of landlord and tenant are the same, and that the
only way of promoting the former is to cherish and give encourage-
ment to the latter.  The neigbbouring estate of Auchmedden, the
property of one of the most honourable and kind-hearted landlords
in existence, affords a striking contrast to this.
   The obstacles to improvement arise chiefly from the low price of
agricultural produce, the want of capital, the high rents, the
trifling allowance given for building, inclosing, and draining, and
with regard to the estate of Auchmedden, in particular, the non-
dence of the proprietor, and the consequent gross neglect and
mismanagement of the estate.
   Quarries.-Besides several quarries of granite and sandstone,
there are two millstone quarries in the parish; one upon the estate of
Aberdour, called the Quarry of Coburty, which is not now wrought,
and one in the rocks of Pennan, the stones taken from which are
said to be the best in Britain.  Formerly twelve able-bodied men
were employed in cutting the millstones from the rock, the base
of which is washed at high-water by the sea, but of late it has
greatly decayed, in consequence of the high price put upon the
stones.  At one period the Pennan stones were sent to the south
and west of Scotland, the demand being universal, but now there are
only four or five men employed, who can scarcely earn a livelihood,
as a single cargo, shipped to Aberdeen, mav be said to be the whole
annual produce of the quarry, although the rock is inexhaustible.
L.6 Sterling is now charged for a stone 14 inches thick, nearly
double the former price.  The rent of the quarry is L. 50.
   Fishery.-There is a white-fishing at the sea-town of Pennan,
on the estate of Auchmedden, consisting of six boats, with a com-
plement of four men each, employed in taking the several species
of fish already enumerated.  Five long-boats have for some years
gone to the herring-fishery at Macduff, Banff, and other stations
upon the Moray Frith, there being no harbour at Pennan, and no
proper accommodation for curing herring.  The six white-fishing
boats pay a rent of L. 20 Sterling to the proprietor, besides some
dried fish annually.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of the raw produce of the
parish, so far as the same can be ascertained, is as, follows:-

<TABLE>
          130 acres potatoes,      .        .         L. 780  0  0
          629	    turnips,	   .        .       1258  0  0
          200	    bear and barley. with fodder,      900  0  0
         2317	    oats, with fodder,	        .     7963  2  6
          300       hay,     .    .          .           600  0  0
         2217	    pasture,	       .    .       1881  8  0
                                                      ------------L. l3,382  10  6


