
         TINGWALL, WHITENESSP AND WEESDALE.              61

   In 1269, King Henry of England entered into a commercial
treaty with King Magnus Lagabetter of Norway. Englishmen
were sent to inquire into the state of the islands, their extent,
produce, &c. It is supposed they also divided the land into merks.
   In 1271, Shetland was separated from Orkney, and united to
Faroe. They had had the same Foud and Lagamand who resid-
ed at Scalloway. They had between them nine bishops.
   By a treaty of 1470, Shetland was pledged to the Crown of
Scotland; and from that period, the original inhabitants were most
grievously oppressed by tyrants, from time to time, sent over by
the Scottish Crown. At the time of the transfer, all the property
in Shetland was held by Udal tenure, (descending from father to
son without any written documents,) paid no fees, and owned no
superior. About 1664, Douglas of Spynie, factor for Lord Gran-
dison compelled many of the simple udallers to take out feu-char-
ters, for their lands. Very few of the descendants of the Norwe-
gians now possess lands in Shetland. There are still a few in Dun -
rossness and Cunningsburgh. For a century before the islands
were transferred to the Scottish Crown, the St Clairs of Caithness
possessed a very large share of the Shetland property, which their
descendants enjoyed until a late period.
  In 1530, the islanders were so oppressed by James, Earl of
Moray, that, simple and yielding as they were, they rose in arms
against his factor, and the Crown was compelled to revoke the
charter granted to him of the lands belonging to it in Shetland.
  In 1561, Queen Mary, importuned by Lord Robert Stewart,
her natural brother, made a grant to him of all the Crown lands
in Orkney and Shetland. After her unfortunate connexion with
Bothwell, she revoked the grant given to Lord Robert Stewart,
and conferred it on her husband. On Bothwell's forfeiture, the
lands again reverted to the Crown, and Lord Robert Stewart
gained possession of them; but, owing to his cruelty to the inha-
bitants, he was deprived of them, and confined for six months in
the palace of Linlithgow. But, in 1581, his interest at Court
procured for him a new grant of the Earldom ; he h was also ap -
pointed Justiciar, with power to convoke and dissolve the Law-
taings. He forfeited the grant-in 1585.
   In 1587, Sir John Maitland obtained a grant of the islands, re-
venues, &c.; but, having resigned, Lord Robert Stewart prevail-

<FOOTNOTE>For much of the above information I am indebted to the Rev. Mr Schroter of
Faroe.


