 
                          CRAIL.			955

where every body has been laid, by stating in yards and feet the
distance and direction of the grave from certain fixed points about
the church and churchyard.  For some time, these records were
considered as almost a sufficient register of deaths.  But, as in
1826, the inhabitants erected a vault in the churchyard, in which
corpses were to be deposited in winter for three months and in
summer about six weeks, and then buried ; the interval between
death and burial was, in many cases, found too long for identifying
a deceased individual; and therefore the plan of keeping a se-
parate register of deaths was renewed.
   Antiquities.-Some of these will be afterwards mentioned, such
as the castle, the priory, and ttie college ; to which it may be add-
ed that a nunnery is said to have existed near the Nethergate Port,
of which only an entrance now remains; but, at this entrance, human
bones were found, when the street was levelled a few years ago.  In
the church, there is an oblong Runic stone, a good deal mutilated,
having cut upon it a Maltese cross, with figures like serpents over
it.  Below the transept," as Leighton describes it, "on each
side of the lower limb of the cross a variety of figures are sculp-
tured, now much defaced and indistinct.  On the right side is a
portion of a horse, a wild boar, the legs of a man, another horse,
and a ram; on the left, a figure seated in a chair something
like a man, with the head of a bird, as seen on Egyptian antiqui-
ties; and, lower down, part of a horse and part of a dog."
Other relics of similar antiquity are believed to have been in the
church, before last repair; but the workmen, not knowing the
value put upon them by antiquaries, hewed them down into pav-
ing stones.  The stone mentioned in the former Statistical Ac-
count as having a cross rudely sculptured on it, is. no doubt of
the same description.  It is the one at which Sir William Hope
is reported to have killed his challenger.  Many urns containing
calcined bones have been dug up in different parts of the parish.
In 1843 at a place called Swinkie Hill, probably Sueno's Knoll,
no fewer than seven urns were discovered; and, in April 1845,
another was found at Toldrie.  They seem to be all of the same
kind of material, though differing a little in size.  The general
shape is tapering towards both ends, with various beltings, and
some with zig-zag ornaments.  All were found with their mouths
downwards, imbedded in an artificial mound which seemed to have
been erected over them.  Some of these urns may now be seen
in the Museum at St Andrews.  When levelling the ground ad-

