
                     ROSENEATH.                               115

gift to Colin, the first Earl of Argyle. It does not appear that
the whole of the Roseneath district, or of the lands de Nevyd was
bestowed upon Argyle, for down to the beginning of the seven-
teenth century, the property of that family, even in the 'isle' was
limited to its southern extremity. The new acquisition, however,
was of importance in the history of  that illustrious family, being
its first territorial connection with the western Lowlands, which
thus extended its influence beyond its original limits, and great-
ly facilitated, in later ages, its predominance for more than a
century, amid the agitations and antipathies of a transition coun-
try, so to speak, consummating the demolition of one, and con-
struction of another system of religious opinions. The first pro-
prietor of Roseneath was a man eminent for his wisdom in con-
duct. His integrity of principle, and his talent for public affairs,
were evinced by the offices he filled, having been Lord High
Chancellor of Scotland, and plenipotentiary at the celebrated Nor-
thampton conference; by his fidelity to the last to his sovereign,
amid the rebellious nobles; and by the confidence reposed in him,
notwithstanding, by James IV. on his accession to the throne. The
occasional presence or residence of the successive Earls of Argyle
must have materially affected the civil and religious condition
of this district, but especially when they abjured the Romanist Su-
perstitions. The fourth earl was the first nobleman of his country
who embraced the Scripture faith of the Reformation; and as he
cherished in his household the teachers of the truth, his dependents
and tenantry would unquestionably share the blessedness which he
enjoyed himself, and which, in his celebrated letter to the furious
and bigoted Primate, he evinces so strong a desire to secure for
them.
  Subsequently, during the tyranny of the latter Stewarts, the
Lowland Presbyterians often found shelter on this side the Gare.
loch, as the names and traditional histories of several families,
residing here for many generations, indicate. It is curious, indeed,
to observe how tradition sometimes extends the line of its vague
remembrance. An old woman of the name of Chalmers preferred
a claim some years ago for sessional relief, grounding it on the al-
leged fact, that her "mother's forbears had for fifteen, and her fa-
ther's forbears for twenty-five generations been residenters in the
parish." The truth of her story was not difficult to expiscate, al-
though tradition had so rapidly elongated her genealogical tree, for
there is little doubt but that Chalmers of Gadgirth, a leader of the


