
                       LAGGAN.                                417

damage which some farmers lay to the account of trees,--wbile they
would exceedingly beautify the aspect of the parish.
  As respects horticulture, this parish can advance no claims equal to
some otbers, with a less favourable climate. Some of the cottages
have a pleasing patch of garden attached to them, and in these we
generally find one or more hives of bees, which seem to thrive in
this district. Each of the large farms has its garden, and the best
farmer is not always the worst gardener. But, except at Fleming-
ton, Freetown, and Culblair, no garden engages the entire labour
of a gardener. The fine garden of Culloden House is in Inver-
ness parish. Were the parish so vooded as to afford protection
from the north and east winds, the soil and climate would encou-
rage more attention to horticulture, even with the disadvantage of
having no resident proprietors to set an example.
  In conclusion, we cannot but anticipate, that with landlords and
tenantry, such as, in the main, the parish can boast of, its agri-
cultural management will continue to bear comparison with that
of any other parish in similar circumstances; that, with the remo-
val of those economic disadvantages, to which truth required that
we should allude, the farmer, fisher, and pauper will have little to
envy, when he contrasts his own condition with that of his com-
peers anywhere else.

  Written autumn   1839.
  Revised February 1841.

                     PARISH OF LAGGAN.

          PRESBYTERY OF ABERTARFF, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

             THE REV. DONALD CAMERON, MINISTER

             I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Boundaries, and Extent.--The name is supposed to be
derived from the Gaelic word lag, signifying a small round hollow
plain or dimple. Laggain or Laqgun is the plural of the word
Lag; Laggan is also the diminutive of the same term.
  The extent of this parish from north to south, and from east
to west, is about 22 English miles in each directio. It is
bounded on the north, by Boleskine; on the east, by Kingussie;


