
6                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

fountain, and the work was prosecuted no farther; for, as steam
engines were not yet invented, no pit could have been wrought
with so large a stream issuing into it. The spring, a fine chaly-
beate, still continues to flow between its double row of cresses to
the sea, at the rate, as was ascertained bv experiment about twenty
years ago, of nearly a hogshead per minute. A little dome of hewn
stone has been raised over it, and, with the wooded ravine in the
back ground, and surrounded by trees and bushes, it would form, in
the hands of Turner, no bad subject for a vignette. It is still
known to the towns-people as " The well of the Coalheugh," a
name commemorative of its origin.
   The eastern part of the parish presents a highly interesting
field to the geologist. A few hundred yards beyond where it
bounds on the Moray Frith, there is a ridge of bituminous
shale interspersed with beds and nodules of limestone, which
abound in the various fossils peculiar to the lias formation.
The ridge itself is covered by the waters of the Frith, but after
every fresh storm from the north-east, we find fragments which the
waves have detached from it strewed upon the beach. They
contain ammonites, belemnites scallops, both plain and striated,
pieces of wood and charcoal, and the fleshy leaf of a plant re-
sembling the aloe. The boulders and water-worn pebbles which
line the shores of the parish, and abound in its alluvial clays and
gravels, are composed mostly of schistose gneiss, and a variety of
granite, of which no rocks are to be found nearer than the western
coast of Ross-shire. The rounded and half-polished masses of
the latter stone are often of immense size, containing many
hundred cubic feet ; and they seem to have been carried across
the island in the direction of the larger valleys, by some irresistible
flood setting in from the west. In most places, the subsoil of the
parish is a stiff alluvial clay, which, on the edge of the old coast-
line, overlies the sandstone to the depth of nearly an hundred feet,
but it thins off in the ascent to not more than ten. It yields easily
to the action of water, and hence we find that every little stream
in the parish has scooped out a channel for itself to the sandstone
below, and runs at the bottom of a deep narrow dell, lined in
most cases by steep precipitous banks.
   Mosses,Fuel.-A short half mile to the east of the town, in an
inflection of the bank there is a vast accumulation of drift peat
covered over by a layer of soil. Somewhat more than thirty years
agp, it was laid open by a waterspout to the depth of twelve feet,


