
                                ST MADOES.                               633

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Perth, six  miles
     distant, where the produce of the parish is principally disposed of,
     and from which the inhabitants receive their supplies.
       Villages.-There are two small villages, named Hawkstone and
     Cot-town, with a population of 50 and 67 respectively.
       Means of Communication.-The post-town is Perth, with which,
     by coaches and carriers there are daily opportunities of intercoursd.
     The great north road from Perth to Aberdeen by Dundee runs
     along the northern boundary of the parish, and the road from
     Perth to Errol passes through its northern parts.  Various reads
     intersect it, affording easy access from all the farm-steadings to the
     turnpike-road from Perth to Dundee.
       New Pier-A pier and shorehouse were erected about seven
     years ago by the proprietor on his reclaimed land, nearly opposite
     to the junction of the rivers Tay and Earn.  There has thus
     been provided an excellent and most convenient shipping-place,
     very advantageous to thd inhabitants of the parish.  Large quan-
     tities of potatoes are here shipped annually for the London mar-
     ket, while coals, lime, manure, &c. are received.  The shore dues
     are at the rate of 1 1/2d. per ton.
       Ecclesiastical State.-Sir John Stuart Richardson is the patron.
     The parish church, although situated near the northern boundary
     of the parish, cannot be said to be inconveniently distant from any
     of the inhabitants, as there are not an of them farther frnm it
     than two miles.  The old church was taken down, and the present
     one built in 1798.  It is in good repair, and in every way comfor-
     table, having lately had attached to it a stove for warming it with
     heated air.
       The number of sittings in the church is 410, a number, fitted to
     accommodate nearly twice the examinable inhabitants of the pa-
     rish.  A considerable portion of them, however, are occupied by
     persons from the neighbouring parishes of Kinnoul, Kinfauns, and
     Errol, who are from two and a-half to six miles distant from their
     own parish churches, while they are quite close to St Madoes'
     church; so that there is not a sitting that is not appropriated, and
     occupied.  There are no seat-rents exacted, the proprietor per-
     mitting even those persons who we are in the habht of coming from
     the fore-mentioned-parishes to have free sittings.
       The only benefaction on record is one of 200 merks left by Mr
     Campbell, minister of the parish in 1676, which, with good manage-
     ment, and savings from the weekly contributions added to it, from


