
28                       KINROSS-SHIRE.

ditto, 3 female servants. An inferior, but respectable inn, called
the Salutation, near the middle of the town, has 3 horses and 2
gigs. There are 12 other public-houses, without any carriage or
horse, and of which 2 only have stables. Besides the beer and spi-
rits sold in these places of public entertainment, a great deal is sold
and drunk in back rooms of spirit shops and elsewhere.
   Fuel.--This article, of prime necessity, is here cheap and good.
Coal is brought from Kelty, at the distance of five miles from Kin-
ross, and from Lumpbinnan, Lochgelly, where it is thought supe-
rior, at the distance of eight miles. The coal called great is, at
Kelty, at the rate of 3 1/2d. the cwt., ls. 2d. 4 cwt., 4s. 8d. 16 cwt.
or 4 loads, which is the usual draught of a single cart, although at
some coal hills (Lumphinnan) not less than 18 cwt. are given for 4
loads. The toll exigible for a single cart is 9d. ; the carriage from
Kelty paid to a carter is 2s. 6d.; ditto from Lochgelly, 3s. Small
coal or chews, as they are called, are ls. 2d. per cart-load cheaper
than great coal. Peat is got in the parishes of Portmoak and
Cleish, but is not used except for some special purposes.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   The division which, at one time, so much prevailed of land into
what was termed infield and outfield, the former only being in a
state of regular cultivation, and called mucked or donged land, the
latter being in a state of nature or just breaking up, under no rota-
tion, has disappeared; and where there is no insuperable obstacle,
every spot is brought under the plough, or will be so immediately. 
   The value of manure is now completely appreciated. With the
exception of ashes, it finds a ready market at 5s. a ton.
   At the period of the former Statistical Account, there was no
banking establishment in Kinross; now,it has all this accommodation
from a branch of the British Linen, where business is conducted
with an attention, correctness, courtesy, and liberality, worthy of
that highly respectable house.
   Gas Establishment.--On the 23d of March 1835, a company
was formed here, called the Gas Liglit Company of Kinross and
Milnatbort. The number of its shares is 500, and they are held by
134 individuals. Each share is L. 5, and the capital of the Com-
pany amounts to L. 2500. The gas works have been set down

   <FOOTNOTE>" Little or no wheat," says the writer of the former Statistical Account, in its
very last sentence, " was raised till of late, but it is now sown in different parts of the
parish." It may now (April 1899) he as correctly said, that wheat is not sown here
to the same extent as it was twenty years ago. The farmer finds it more advantageous
to sow barley; the thinness the soil in general and our severe springs render wheat
both a very precarious, and an exhausting crop.


