
8                           LANARKSHIRE.

Clyde, from the Hyndford Bridge on the latter, but more especially
at their confluence.  Where the waters flowed over a less
rugged surface, a sort of hard till has been deposited, which is
scarcely pervious to water, and consequently renders the soil more
unproductive.  Upon examining twenty stones taken promiscuously
from a gravel pit, there were found ten of the common red sandstone,
five of a hard kind of sandstone, and the other five of various kinds,
some of which are not found in masses in any part of the neighbourhodd.
Detached pieces of granite are also found here, which,
notwithstanding their hardness, have all the asperities rounded off,
proving that they must have rolled from a vast distance; and indeed
no rocks of the kind are known to exist within many miles of
the parish.  These rocks are very much prized for curling-stones.
Marl has also been found at Bonington and Sunnyside, but has not
been dug to any extent.
   Soil.-From what has been said, it is obvious that the soil must
vary with the subsoil.  Accordingly, along the west end of the paris
for nearly a mile in breadth, it is generally composed of a stiff
clay.  Along the banks of the rivers it is light and gravelly.  In
the east it is wet and clayey.  Nemphlar and Cartlane moors consist
of a hard till, and this soil prevails more or less in all high
and exposed situations. It is the most stubborn of all kinds of
soil, and has longest resisted the efforts of the farmer.  But
in every part of the parish, sometimes even in the same field,
all the different varieties of soil are found.  In Lanark moor, in
the low grounds adjoining the house of lee, and elsewhere, some
inconsiderable beds of moss are met with.
   Zoology.-The only cattle bred here are horses and cows, all of
the best kinds, for draught and dairy, which are sold young.  There
are no sheep kept but by gentlemen for their private use.
   The only fish in the Mouss are minnow and trout.  In the
Clyde, besides these, there are pike, eels, and very rarely perch.
The Stonebyres Fall arrests the further ascent of salmon.  Formerly
two or three individuals in the town of Lanark used to
pick up a livelihood by catching and selling fish, but their business
has been much injured, and the sport ruined for amateur anglers,
by the numbers, who, owing to the dulness of trade, now engage in
it, and by the new and deadly tackle which they employ.
   The common insects are wasps, gad-flies, gnats, and the gooseberry,
apple, and cabbage caterpillar.  The cabbage caterpillar is
destroyed by sprinkling with powdered lime; the gooseberry ca-


