
270	                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

<TABLE>
       The produce of the quarry may be stated at       .  L. 130  0  0
       Of the sea-fishing,	.	.	.	.             360  0  0
       The gross rental of the parish is-Aberdour,	.      2700  0  0
                                        Auchmedden,	.      1745  0  0
                                                            -----------
                                                   Total,  L.4935  0  0

  The sizes of the farms are, 2 of 200 acres; 4 of 150 do.; 8 of
100 do.; 12 of 60 do.; the remainder varying from 5 to 40 acres.
   Husbandry.-The rotation generally followed in the parish is
the seven-shift course:-1. fallow and turnip; 2. barley or oats; 3.
grass, partly cut for hay, and partly for green food; 4. pasture;
5. do.; 6. oats; 7. oats.  In two or three instances the following ro-
tation is adopted: 1. fallow and green crop; 2. oats and barley;
3. grass ; 4. pasture ; 5. oats; 6. oats.  Both of these rotations
are, in the opinion of some practical farmers, liable to objections,
particularly the latter.  In the village lands of New Aberdour,
the four-shift course is sometimes followed, but the glebe is the
only land in the parish farmed upon the favorite five-shift course.
   Manufactures.-There is scarcely any manufacture in the parish
that deserves the name.  The making of kelp from sea-weed,
which was formerly carried on along the whole breadth of the
shore, from east to west, is now almost entirely abandoned,-the
price of kelp, in consequence of taking off the duty from Spanish
barilia, having fallen so much, that it would not yield a fair remu-
neration for cutting, drying, and burning the ware, to say nothing
of rent for the shores.  This manufacture, previous to the repeat
of the foresaid duty, afforded employment, during the spring and
summer months, to about twenty individuals, who are now reduced
to the necessity of betaking themselves to other occupations, for
which they are ill qualified, and find great difficulty in gaining a
livelihood.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town, &c.-There is, properly speaking, no market-
town in the parish; the nearest is Fraserburgh, distant 8 miles,
New Aberdour, the feuing of which commenced about forty years
ago, and the sea-town of Pennan, are the only villages in the parish.
   Means of Communication.-The only means of communication
enjoyed by the inhabitants is a post-runner, who goes for letters
and newspapers three times a-week to Fraserburgh, to which there
is a daily mail-coach from Aberdeen.  He receives a penny for
each letter carried to and from the office and also an allowance
for parcels.  The turnpike road from Fraserburgh to Banff touches
the parish of Aberdour at two points, namely, Bridgend, at the


