
46                  	ROSS AND CROMARTY.

close by the shore of the Cromarty Frith, and was originally surrounded
by a wall which might be about twelve or thirteen feet
high, but the fragments of which now only remain to the north,
east, and west of it. Only a single wing of the building is now
standing, and evidently the oldest part of it,-as, like many other
castles in the north of a similar description, it received additions
at different periods of time from the different owners who held it
in possession. Its height from the top of the chimney to the base
may be about fifty feet. Its internal structure is of a very ancient
fashion; the rooms or apartments being all arched, and access
had to them by a turnpike stair, which a few years ago, was
taken down. The roof is of stone, and still quite entire. On the
eastern gable, and just at the spring of the roof, with an entrance
into it from the attic, is a bartizan which runs across, ornamented
at the base with a neat stone cornice, and finished at each end
with a small turret or bastion. The history of the lords of this ancient
fortalice is little more than traditionary. The building is said
to have been originally erected by the Urquharts, Barons of Cromarty;
and one of that family, by his misconduct, falling under the
censure of the church in Popish times, is said to have been deprived
of the castle and lands in its more immediate vicinity,-which became,
in consequence, the property of the church. That this castle,
however, was the principal residence of the Bishops of Ross is quite
certain. An ancient document is now in the museum of the Antiquarian
Society at Inverness, presented by Colin M'Kenzie, Esq. of
Newhall: it is a warrant signed by the Bishop of Ross, and dated at
Craighouse, his residence,-in virtue of which, certain persons were
to be pursued and incarcerated for violently resisting the possession
of the place of Tolly, near Dingwall, to those to whom the Bishop
had granted a lease of it. It is probable, too, that it was after the
overthrow of Episcopacy in Scotland that the castle and lands of
Craighouse came into the possession of a family of the name of
Williamson, the descendants of which are still in Germany under
the title of the Counts Williamson. Tradition farther informs us,
that after the Williamsons had sold-it, or were dispossessed of it,
the owners were the Roses of Kilravock, a very ancient family, and
whose property, though now very limited, once extended over a
very considerable part of the Black Isle. From what family, the
lands and castle were purchased by the Gordons of Newhall, is not
certain.
   Session  Records, &.-The lay members of the session are


