
                     BENHOLME.                            53

vailing wind during the year. The writer has often been struck
with a circumstance, which appeared to him peculiar to the winds
in this district. The morning is frequently calm and serdnd. As
the forenoon advances, the sky is overcast; and before eleven, a
strong breeze springs up from the west or south-west, and blows
without intermission till sunset, when it generally subsides, occa-
sionally in the course of a few seconds, at other time more gra-
dually.
  Climate.-The climate, is upon the whole, harsh and ungenial,
particulary during the prevalence of east winds in spring. While
these prevail in the beginning of summer, we have frequent dense
fogs from the ocean, especially towards the end of May, and dur-
ing the whole month of June. These fogs are reckoned very un-
wholesome both to animal and vegetable life. Sometimes they
are accompanied with a sharp sea breeze, and the effects of the
pestiferous gale are soon visible. Flowers and fruit-blossoms are
shrivelled and destroyed, and the foliage of trees in exposed situ-
ations scorched and withered as if blighted by lightning.  At no
season of summer is there that genial warmth, those balmy and re-
freshing breezes that prevail in the inland parts of Scotland, or
on the wester coast, with the exception of a few days at most, or
more frequently only of a few hours, of particular days;-a damp,
chilly air coming on almost universally in the evening. I do not
remember any exception to this observation during my residence
on this coast, but in the summer of 0826. In that extraordinary
season alone, have I remarked the warm dry air to continue dur-
ing the evening, for a succession of days.
  Hydropgraphy.-There are three  small streams in the parish.
one of the parish, and runs in an easterly direction. Another rises
in the north-east side of the parish, and runs towards the south-
west. These two meet a few hunderd yards below the church,
at the corner of the manse garden, and the united stream, after a
course of little more than a quarter of a mile, falls into the Ger-
man Ocean. The third stream is to the south of these; if flows
eastward close by the House of Brotherton. During heavy rains,
these rivulets swell to impetuous torrents, and on some occassions
with amazing rapidity, which the drainage of the lands has of late
years greatly increased. They then overflow their banks to the
injury of the adjoining fields, and to the danger of some families,
whose dwellings are within the range of the water in high floods.


