
			RUTHWELL.                             221

created Earl of Annandale. This latter branch, however, became
extinct, along with the title, in the second generation, when Vis-
count Stormont, the direct ancestor of the present proprietor, suc-
ceeded to the estate in this parish as heir of line. Lord-Justice
Mansfield was a younger son of this family; but by his talents and
virtues justly earned for himself an earldom along with a large for-
tune, both of which descended to his nephew, the present earl's
father.
	Antiquities--Runic Monument.--The most remarkable antiquity
in the parish is a Runic monument, which stands in the garden
belonging to the manse of Ruthwell. This curious relic of former
times is accurately represented in the accompanying engraving, which
is taken from a drawing made by the writer of this article. It con-
sists of a column inscribed partly with Runic, and partly with Roman
characters, which is believed to be almost the only unequivocal
vestige of Anglo-Saxon sculpture in Britain. * It has been no-
ticed by various authors, such as Hickes, Gordon, Pennant, and
Chalmers; btt all of them have given inaccurate and deficient de-
scriptions of it, and the plates which have been engraved to repre-
sent it, are very defective.
	Chalmers, without assigning any reason for the conjecture, sup-
poses the pillar to have been probably erected by some of the fol-
lowers of Halfden, the Dane, a chief who made predatory incur-
sions into Scotland in the years 875 and 876. It appears, however,
from the form of the characters that the Runes on this monument
are not Danish, but Anglo-Saxon,--a discovery which seems first
to have been made by Wilhelm Carl Grimm, a learned German
grammarian, and which necessarily overturns every theory of its
Danish origin, and establishes that its date must be sought for
during the period of the Heptarchy, or at least before the language
or the learning of the Anglo-Saxons had, by foreign conquest and
admixture, undergone any violent change.
	Of the early history of the column, however, little or nothing is
known, but what may he gathered from internal evidence. On in-
spection, the first thing that strikes an inquirer is the remarkable
fact already mentioned, of the union on the same stone of two dif-
ferent alphabets, the Runic and the Roman; and this naturally
suggests the question, whether or not any essential change may have

<FOOTNOTE>Gordon in his Itinerarium, calls it a Danish monument, and says, he has heard
of another such pillar in Scotland, but he does not say where it is situated; and Chal-
mers speaks of this as the only genuine one.
                                         4


