
116                   PEEBLES-SHIRE.

the Edwards, clearly enough impressed around its border. This
fact, as well as the form of the circunivallations, which differs from
that of all the camps which are certainly known to have been form-
ed by the Romans, and which were invariably quadrilateral, forbids
the supposition that the one which we are describing is of Roman
origin,-an idea very likely to have been originally suggested by
the name "Chesters," which might seem to be a corruption of the
Latin "Castra."
   While vipon this subject we may add, that several silver coins of
Queen Elizabeth have been found by workmen engaged in making
roads Dear the camp on Chesters hill.
   Besides the fortifications already-mentioned, three other circular
entrenchments, of much smaller dimensions, are severally visible
upon Houndhill, Woodhouse, and Ring-knoll of Hall- Manner; but
these appear to have been erected for the protection of live-stock
during the incursions of the English, which, owing to the proxi-
mity of this district to the borders of England, were very frequent.
   There still remain the ruins of some of the, fortified residences
of the chieftains; which formed a confederate chain of beacon-
towers, extending front one extremity of the parish to the other,
and from whose fire-proof summits the signals of smoke by day,
and fire during the night, proclaimed, in the course of a few mi-
nutes, to the whole inhabitants of the vale, the approach of the
English moss-troopers. Of these towers, there were originally
six, succeeding each other in the following order,-the first men-
tioned being situated at the head of the parish: Mannerhead,
Dollarburn, Langhaugh, Horse-hope-shank, Castle-hill, and Ca-
verhill. This last communicated with Niedpath castle on the
Tweed downwards, and with the beacon-tower at Lyne upwards,
which was the first in that direction both for Tweed and Lyne
"water." In addition to these, there were houses of defense,
(Peel-houses,) at St Gordian's or Gorgham's kirk, Old Posso,
Glenrath, town of Manner, Woodhouse, and Barns,-the last of
which is still preserved entire. That at Posso seems to have been
more extensive and modern than the others; and the one at Town
of Manner was generally called the Temple House, from the Cir-
cumstance of it, and part of the adjoining lands, having at one
time belonged to the knights of that order.
   The route which was pursued by the border freebooters, against
whose incursions this defensive system was chiefly adopted, is still
distinguished by the name of the "Thief's Road." It passes along


