
                  TINGWALL, WHITENESS, AND WEESDALE.              67

this destructive practice, the best pasture in the country is not
only injured, but in many places completely destroyed. This
system has been put a stop to by some of the heritors; but unless
they will all unite, the evil will not cease. It is distressing thus
to see the best pasture completely destroyed ; and no sooner does
the grass begin to spring than the ground is immediately robbed
of its now surface; and this continues until the whole soil is either
carried away by the tenants, or washed away by the winter rains.
   Roads.-Roads are now so good in some places, that carts can
drive on them. But they are yet in their infancy; and the want
of them is a great bar to all improvements. There are excellent
roads about Laxfirth and to the northward, but the middle of the
parish has been sadly neglected. The soil being, open, and carts
and horses constantly traversing them, the roads that are, are so
broken up during winter, that people cannot go to church with
any comfort. These observations refer to Tingwall only; for in
Whiteness and Weesdale, there can scarcely be said to be any
made roads.
   Fisheries.-The Shetlanders subsist chiefly by fishing, without
which few could pay their rents. The inhabitants in the southern
parts of this parish begin their spring, fishing in February, ventur-
ing out to sea whenever the weather permits, often risking their
lives. A few salt their own fish, and dispose of them, when ready
for the market, on their own account. The price of cod in ge-
neral is 4s. per cwt. for wet fish ; price of ling, 6s. : two cwt.
and rather less than a-half of wet make one of dry fish. The
summer fishing begins about the end of April, and ends about the
12th of August. It is carried on in sloops of from twenty to forty
tons. More than one-half of the fish caught goes to the men ;
most of whom about Scalloway have shares in the vessels. Some
of them are sole owners.
   The people in these parishes are under no obligation to fish to
their landlords, or to dispose of any of their product to them.
They are at liberty to employ themselves in any way they please.
   There was formerly a bounty on Shetland fish, and also on the
vessels engaged in the fishing, of L. 1 per registered ton.
   For some years past, the herring-fishing has been extensively
carried on. The people deliver their herrings at about 7s. per
cran. I have known one of our boats take 297 crans in a season.
In 1835, above 15,000 barrels were shipped from Scalloway alone.
For the three last years, this fishing has not been successful; and


