
                            BOWDEN.                         39

line from south-east to north-west.  In some places all ??? ???
it are destroyed by the plough, but in others places it c`n be easily
traced in the form of a large stitch, about twenty feet wide, and in
a few spots, of two ditches of that width, and about fifty feet dis-
tant from each other.  The camps or stations are all on eminences
in view of each other; and warlike instruments of various descrip-
tions have been dug up by people ploughing and ditching around
them, as well as in the adjacent mosses.
  There is an old cross in the centre of the village of Bowden, but
the date of its erection is unknown.  There were also within the
last twenty years, several peels or square towers in the village, con-
taining in the under part an apartment for cattle, and, in the upper
part, one or two small apartments for the accommodation of the
family, and to which they got access by an outer stone stair.  The
remains of one or two of these peels are still to be seen.
  Land-owners.-- The principal land-owners in the parish are, His
Grace the Duke of Roxburghe; John Seton Karr, Esq. of Kippi-
law ; the Misses Henderson of Eildon Hall; Captain Riddel
-Carre of Cavers; Mark Sprott, Esq. of Riddel; Colonel Sibbald
of Whiterig; William Currie, Esq. of Linthill; Nicol Mill, Esq.
of Faldon Side; Dr Scott of Eastfield; Peter Pennycook, Esq.
of Newhall; Andrew Buckum, Esq. of Temple Hall; Andrew
Arnot, Esq. of Milridge Hall; and the Royal Infirmary of Edin-
burgh.  Besides these, there are about fifty small proprietors.
  Parochial Begisters.--A parochial register of births and mar-
riages, begun in the year 1697, is kept by the schoolmaster as
session-clerk; but, we regret to say, is not so complete as could be
wished, owing to the carelessness of parents in getting the births
of their children entered.
  Buildings.--Except the handsome and commodious mansion-
houses of Cavers Carre, Linthill, and Kippilaw, there are no
modern buildings in the parish worthy of special notice, unless, in-.
deed, we speak of several farm -houses, which have been lately built
in a superior style, and a remarkably neat and comfortable school-
room, erected la,,t season in the village of Bowden upon an ap-
proved plan, which reflects the highest credit on the liberality of
the heritors.
                      III.--POPULATION.
  The population of this parish in 1755 was 672; in 1794 it was
860; and at present it is 1010.  The increase of population may
be ascribed, partly to the improvements in agriculture, and partly



