
174                   PERTHSHIRE.

-Buchanan says at the confluence of the Tay and the Earn, *-
where he fixed his camp, which was soon filled by a multitude
of his countrymen; the nobles having joined him with all their re-
tainers.  Whilst he was here organizing his forces, word was sud-
denly brought him that the enemy had crossed the Tay, and were
laying siege to the town of Perth, then called Bertha. When the
King heard that a place of such importance, and so near, was in
danger, be immediately marched thither, and, passing by the ene-
my, took up his position at Luncarty, to the north of them.
   The Scots were next day eager for the encounter, and drew out
their forces in order of battle, on a level piece of ground; but the
Danes, who were stationed on an opposite eminence, would not be
drawn from thdir advantageous position, and the Scots could not
attack them in it without great danger. The King therefore threw
forward his archers and javeline throwers, (sagitarii et jaculatores)
who so annoyed the enemy from a distance, that they were forced
to advance to the contest on more equal terls. A terrible battle
ensued on the level ground, which was fought for some time with
doubtful success. At length, the centre of the Scottish army was
exposed by the flight of both wings, which the Danes were pursu-
ing with great vigour.  It would have been a most disastrous day
to the Scots, says Buchanan, had not assistance been providential-
ly brought to them in their extremity by one man. + The battle
was observed by a man of the name of Hay, who, with his two
sons, all of them of great strength both of body and mind, + were
employed in a field, on the opposite side of the river. His love
of his country, for which he was remarkable, was touched by the
danger of his countrymen; when, seizing on the yoke of his
plough, and his sons on whatever they could find, and crossing the
Tay at the shallow part of the river, they reached the field of bat-
tle at the critical moment of the flight, which, first by entreaties,
and then by threats, they endeavoured to stop, declaring that they
would put, to death those who persisted. $ Then throwing thdm-
selves with fury upon the foremost of the pursuing Danes, they
gave the Scots a moment to rally on an eminence, which still re-
tains the name of Turn-again hillock. The battle was now re-

<FOOTNOTE>Brevi ingens multitudo in castra Regis, quae erant ad confluentem Tai et ler-
nae fluminum accessit. Id. loc. cit.
    Fuisset profecto illa dies longe Scotis funestissima, nisi velut divinitus per unum
hominem in prope despera fuisset oblatum auxilium. Buch. Lib. 6, 5, 32.
    Qui cum corporis, animique viribus magnis essent, nec minore in patriaim cari-
tate. Id. loc. cit.
    Se quoque vociferantes adversus fugientes, Danos fuere. Id. loc. cit.
                                  3


