
                            LANARK.                                27

They are of different value, and, after the payment of the school
fees, may leave about L. 2 or L. 3 over, for the support of each of
the boys who enjoy them. This school possesses a library, which
we have already noticed as having been left to it by Dr William
Smellie; but, as the books are principally medical, it is of little use.
	Some years ago a benevolent lady of the name of Wilson en-
dowed a free school in the town of Lanark for the instruction of
fifty poor children. The sum mortgaged was L. 1200.
	The subscription school has long been well managed, and is a
blessing to the place.
	The teachers of the Nemphlar and Cartlane schools have each
an allowancd of L. 5 yearly from the heritors. At New Lanark.
there is a day-school, frequented by about 500 children, who re-
ceive instruction in the ordinary branches, more suitable to their
rank of life than the ornamental accomplishments to which, under
a former management, an exclusive attention had been paid.
	In general, the people are alive to the benefits of education.
There is no part of the parish so distant as to be out of the reach
of a school, and no additional schools are required,
	Libraries.--There is a subscription library on a small scale,
which is tolerably flourishing. There are also two circulating.
libraries in the town. Several efforts have been made to set a week-
ly periodical agoing, but hitherto without success. A reading-room
was attempted some years ago, but failed.
	Benevolent Societies.--There is at Lanark a brotherly society,
to which about 100 persons subscribe. Its object is the relief of
members when in distress, and at the present moment five are re-
ceiving assistance from it. It would probably have declined like
other institutions of the kind in this place, but the funds were laid
out in the purchase of three roods of land in the vicinity of the town,
which is advantageously feued, and to this it owes its continuance.
There were once many more such societies; but two or three years
ago a groundless alarm, that Government meant to seize upon their
funds, produced their immediate dissolution.
	At New Lanark, a sick society for the same. benevolent object
is in existence. The maximum contribution is 3d. weekly;
rate of aliment when sick, 7s. 6d.; when recovering, 5s.; superan-
nuated, 3s. Besides these there are 3 funeral societies in the
parish, 1 in lanark, and 2 in New Lanark. On the death of a
member or his wife, the family receives L. 4, and L. 2 on the death


