
          392                         PERTHSHIRE.

          refuse of their stems, when they were cut for economical purposes,
          was graduallv adding to the elevation of the surface.
             These reeds, it may be mentioned, were originally planted by
          dibbling  at the expense of L. 12 per Scotch acre.  The average
          produce per acre has been about 500 bundles, each of 36 or 37
          inches circumference.  The expense of cutting, binding, and car-
          rying them out, has been from 3s. 6d. to 4s. per 100 bundles, thd

          rope-yarn being furnished by the proprietor.  The average price
          at which those of the best quality have been sold for thatch is
          L. 1, 5s. per hundred bundles; and the price of those of inferior
          quality, now chiefly used in covering drains, is about 15s. per 100.
          The average number of both qualities yearly raised in the parish,
          before the recent embankment was made, was not less than 40,000
          bundles.
             The first two reacltes of the embankment, both of tbem to the
          west of Port-Allen, when taken together, extend to fully a mile in
          length.  The average breadth of the space enclosed is about 200
          yards.  They were begun and nearly finished in 1836 ; but in the
          course, of the winter, and before the work was quite completed a
          high tide broke in at two or three places, and did considerable da-
          mage, which was not thoroughly repaired till the spring of the
          present year.  The width of the embankment at thd bottom, is 40
          feet, and the height 11 feet.   It is 2 feet broad at the top, the
          general level of which is about a feet above the highest tides.
          The slope of the embankment is thus at the rate of nearly 4 feet
          in width for each foot in height.  The ottside of it, however, to
          the height of about 4 feet, is only a little inclined from the per-
          perpendicular, that part of it consisting of a strong dry-stone wall.
          Above this height, the slope of the outside is the same as that of
          inside, and is protected, moreover, by a rude causeway of stones
          on the surface.    In both divisions of the embankment, which was
          constructed in 1836, the whole earthy material was taken from the
          contiguous soil itself, of the area which it was the object of the
          undertaking to recover.  This was a great sacrifice.  For about
          30 yards immediately within the embankment, the soil has been
          excavated to a depth of 2 or 3 feet, so that what remains beneath,,
          most for the present, he in a great measure unproductive. The
          whole area enclosed, however, is about 70 imperial acres, and it
          is already bearing a crop of oats, which, in spite of the reeds that
          have still sprung up in the midst of it, has been sold at the ave
          range of between L.8 and L. 9 per Scotch acre.
            In the course of the present year (1837), another embankment


