
906                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

the property, on the left bank of the Ebrie, about three miles
above the junction of this tributary stream with the Ythan.  It is
a Gothicbuilding, probably of considerable antiquity, and rather
imposingn its appearance, though its accommodations, according
to modern ideas of comfort, render it but ill fitted for a family re-
sidence.  The late proprietor, however, occasionally spent a few
months at Arnage during the summer season, and did much to
improve the appearance of the family seat, by surrounding it with
belts of planting, judiciously accommodated to the nature of the
ground.  The house is agreeably situated in the valley of the
Ebrie, and commands if not an extensive, yet a pleasing and va-
riegated prospect.
   Turner Hall, the seat of the Turner family, is situated about
two miles north from the village of Ellon, on the acclivity of an
elevation whose summit is probably the highest ground in the
whole parish.  It commands a most extensive prospect, compre-
bending a long range of the German Ocean, the higher grounds
in the vicinity of Aberdeen, many of the Donside, Deeside, and
several also of the Spoyside mountains, together with an immense
stretch of intervening country.  The house is of an inferior de-
scription, patched-like in its appearance, and extremely limited in
point of accommodation.  The locality is not particularly favour-
able, but much has been done of late years to improve the grounds;
and the circumstance that there are a few tolerably good trees in
the lawn forbids peremptorily a change of site.
   The mansion-house of Dudwick is now occupied by a tenant.
It is a low common-place building, old enough to account for its
being incommodious, but of no such pretensions to age as to give
it the slightest interest in the eyes of the antiquarian.  It stands
to the north-east of Ellon, at a distance of about four miles from
the village, in a cold marshy upland district, surrounded by a few
miserable shrubs, which bespeak at once the poverty of the soil,
and the severity of the climate.
   The site of Haddo House, the country residence of the Earl of
Aberdeen, lies in the neigbbouring parish of Methlick.  His
Lordship has no seat on any of his estates in this parish.

                      III.-POPULATION
   From the returns made to Government in 1801, 1811, and
1821, the population of the parish of Ellon during the first twenty
years of the current century would appear to have been nearly sta-
tionary.  Nor, if an estimate may be formed from the data fur-


