
                           EDINBURGH.                            723

of land, and of considerable portions of the lands belonging to the
hospital having been feued out for buildings, the revenues have
very greatly increased. At present they exceed L. 15,000 a-year.
The governors are the members of the town-council and the
city clergymen-in all 51. The active duties are performed by
a treasurer, house-governor, matron and teachers. Pupils are
eligible into the institution from the age of seven to ten, and re-
main till they have completed their fourteenth year, or even longer,
if designed for the university.
   The course of education consists of English. Latin, Greek,
French, writing, arithmetic, mathematics, book-keeping, and geo-
grapby. Those boys who make choice of any of the learned
professions, are sent to college for four years, with an allowance
of L. 30 a-year from the hospital. Ten bursaries of L. 20 a-year
are also given to students attending the university, who have not
been educated in the hospital. Boys sent out as apprentices to
any trade are allowed L. 10 per year for five years, and L. 5 at the
expiry of their apprenticeship. The annual allowance of clothes
for the boys in the hospital is two suits, four day and two night
shirts, four pairs of shoes, four pairs of stockings, one leather cap,
and two pocket handkerchiefs. Each boy, when leaving the
hospital, is presented with two suits of clothes and a Bible. The
full number of boys in the hospital is 180.
   George Watson's Hospital.-The founder of this hospital was
originally a clerk to Sir William Dick, provost of Edinburgh in
1676. He was afterwards accountant in the Bank of Scotland,
and held other offices connected with the affairs of the city. He
died unmarried in 1723, and left L. 12,000 for the maintenance
and education of the children or grandchildren of decayed mer-
chants of Edinburgh. This money was allowed to accumulate
to L. 20,000; when in 1738 the present building, situated to the
west of the Meadow Walk, was erected at an expense of L. 5000.
The building is plain, but commodious, and enjoys a free, airy si-
tuation. Eighty boys are received into this institution; where they
are maintained, clothed, and taught English, Latin, Greek, and
the other necessary branches of education. Each boy on leaving
the hospital receives L. 50 as an apprentice fee, paid by instal-
ments of L. 10 a-year; and on his attaining the age of 25 years,
if unmarried and producing certificates of his good behaviour,
he receives L. 50 more. Such as make choice of a university edu-
cation get L. 20 a-year for five years. They are received into the


