
1032                      PERTHSHIRE.

preserved the memory of a private exploit which has contri-
buted in no small degree to its renown.  The story, as told in
Pennant's Tour, is this, 11 A daughter of the first Earl of Gow.
tie was courted by a young gentleman of inferior rank, whose
pretensions were Dot countenanced by the family.  When a visitor
at the castle, lie was always lodged in a separate tower frorn the
young lady.  One night, however, before the doors were shut,
the conveved herself in'to her lover's apartment, and some prying
duenna acquainted the Countess with it, who, cutting off, as she
thought, all possibility of retreat, hastened to surprise them.  The
young lady's ears were quick ; she heard the footsteps of the old
Countes ; ran to the top of the leads, and took the desperate
leap of 9 feet 4 inches over a chasm of 60 feet, and luckily lighting
on the battlements of the other tower, crept into her own bed,
where her astonished mother found her, and of course apologized
for her unjust suspicion.   The fair daughter did not choose to
repeat the leap, but the next night eloped and was married."
The place between the two towers is still familiarly known as the
Maiden's Leap.  This castle, with the adjoining barony, became
the property of the Athole family by a marriage with the Tulli-
rdine family, who had received it from James VI. after its for-
feiture by the Gowrie Conspiracy.  It is now a mere appendage
to a small portion of the ancient barony, and is let to a baker, who
has converted the lower flat into dwelling-houses, and the upper
flats into granaries for wheat, &c.
Tibberrnore was the residence of several bishops of Dun-
keld, particularly of Bishop Geoffrey and Bishop Sinclair, who
both died here, the one in the year 1249, the other in 1337.
During their times, the principal place of worship belonging
to this parish was the Church of St Servanus, commonly called
St Serf's Chapel, situated on the north side of the river Almond,
and now within the parish of Redgorton.  The desertion of this
church is ascribed, by tradition, to the melancholy accident of a
ld of the Lord of Ruthven, who had been baptized there, hav,
ing on the way home, been drowned in the Almond.

                          III.-POPULATION.
In 1841, there were in the parish 359 families, consisting of
814 males aad 847 females, in all 1661, being an increase on the
population of 1831 of 437.  This increase is to be accounted for
by the retival of Ruthven printfield, which had been, for a num-


