
266                       LANARKSHIRE.

Gallowgate, and another party entered by the High Street. But
Lord Ross had so completely barricaded the streets, and made such
a resistance, that the Covenanters were soon compelled to retire,
with the loss of Walter Paterson of Carbarns, and five of their
party killed, and several wounded. After their repulse at Glasgow,
they rallied on Tollcross muir, and returned to Hamilton. The
more moderate party (June 20) drew up a paper, which afterwards
obtained the name of the "Hamilton Declaration." The purport
of it was to forbear all angry disputes and mutual recriminations
for the present, to disclaim any intention to overturn the Govern-
ment, civil or ecclesiastical, and to refer all matters of importance
to a free Parliament, and a lawfully chosen General Assembly. This
proposal was, of course, rejected by the violent party. Their guard
was attacked in the night-time at Hamilton Ford, and one of their
number (James Cleland) killed. On Saturday 21st June, the Royal
army, under the Duke of Monmouth, about 5000 strong, reached
Bothwell Muir, within two miles of the Covenanters' camp. On the
morning of Sabbath, 22d June 1679, the Covenanters, amounting
to about 4000 men, were posted between the Clyde and the town of
Hamilton, on the brow of the brae near Bothwell Bridge. Rathiliet,
Hall, and Turnbull, with three troops under their command, and
one piece of brass ordnance, guarded that important pass. The re-
sult of this most unfortunate rencounter is well known. The Co-
venanters were put to flight. They fled with great loss chiefly in
the direction of Glasford and Strathaven. Gordon of Earlsfon had
reached the parish of Hamilton with a party of Galloway men, when
they met their discomfited brethren at Allowshill, near Quarter,
where Gordon was met and killed. A great number of the Cove-
nanters found shelter in Hamilton woods; and the amiable Duchess
Anne Hamilton, requesting that the soldiers might not be permit-
ted to enter her plantations, Monmouth instantly gave orders to
that effect. About 1200 men were taken prisoners on the spot.
	Historical Notices.--The Hamiltons were great opposers of the
Union. In 1707, when that event took place, 500 troops assem-
bled at Hamilton to resist it by force of arms. It was expected that
7000 or 8000 would have met; but the Duke of Hamilton disap-
proved of the measure.
	In the year 1744, a fire took place in Barrie's Close, which raged
with unabating fury for eight days. The town's-people were at
length so empletely exhausted, that they were compelled to call
				4


