
                     LUMPHANAN.                             1085

should not be extended beyond the ground before the Castle of
Dunsinane, and fancying, probably, that Lunfanaine was some
insignificant village in the immediate vicinity, specified the place
where the contest between Macbeth and Malcolm had been re-
presented by Hollinsbead as commencing, and took no notice of
the place where the contest had been represented by the chroni-
cler as terminating?
   James VI., animated by a desire of extirpating sorcery from his
dominions, issued, in 1596-1597, commissions for the purpose of
" haulding justice courtis on witches" in Aberdeen. * The trials
that took place in there courts have been lately published by the
Spalding Club. They are marked by features of folly and atro-
city that cannot now fail to awaken feelings of wonder and indig-
nation. Of the preposterous charges brought against the parties,
a large proportion of whom were from the parish of Lumphanan,
a few specimens may be given.
   Of the Dittay against one Issobell Richie, the following charge
forms a part:-
   "Thow art indyttit for the being at the twa devylischie dances,
betwixt Lumfannand and Cragleauche, with vmquhill Margerat
Bane, vpon Alhallowewin last, quhair thow conferrit with the
Dewill; and at that time thow ressauit thy honours fra the Dewyll,
thy maister, and were appoynted be him in all tymes thairefter his
special domestic, seruand, and furriour, qwhilk thow can nocht
denye."
	In the Dittay against Margrat Og, this accusation is preferred:
	" Thow art indyttit as a notorious witche, for the bevitching of
vmquhill Agnes Ross, Lady Auchinhuiff, in manor folowing, to
vit: The said vmquhill Agnes having bocht a schowder of mut-
toun fra Johne Duged, at the mylne of Auchinhuiff, in the moneth
of Merche, fourscoir fyftene yeris; and the said vmquhill Agnes
having brocht the said schulder to the houss of Beatrix Robbie,
thy dochter, compartner with thee in all thy devilische practizes,
quhair the said vmquhill Agnes tareit all that nicht, thow and thy
dochter tuk out thrie grippis out of the middist of the said schul-
der, and causit rost the same vpon the morne; quhilk being rost-
ed, and the said vmquhill Agnes eating thereof, scho instantly
contractes a deidlie disease, quhairin scho continowit the space of
thrie quarteris of a yere, the ane halff of the day burning as giff it

<FOOTNOTE>Preface by the editor of the Miscellany of the Spalding Club, Vol. i. p. 49,
John Stuart, Esq.



