
     Statistical Account

   Soil, Inclosures, etc.-The soil of this district, in general,
is a light gravel, capable of high cultivation, and making an
immediate and plentiful return.  On the estate of Leney,
there is some rich loam, or hough land, probably formed by
the sediment of a rivulet which runs through it, the soil
being of the same deep red colour with the earth and rocks
in the glen above.  Agriculture is making rapid progress.
The arable ground is mostly inclosed, either with stone walls,
or with hedge and ditch, having, in many places about Callan-
der, hedge rows, which gives the country a comfortable and
neat appearance*.

   Romantic Prospects.-The Trosacks are often visited by per-
sons of taste, who are desirous of seeing nature in her rudest
and most unpolished state.  They are situated about 10 miles

<FOOTNOTE>

*The paring and burning of moss, and also the drill husbandry, in rearing
leguminous crops, was introduced into this country, about 30 years ago, by Mr.
Buchanan of Camsmore; who, by means of reading, extensive observation and
experience, has not only improved his own estate, but has, by his example,
diffused a spirit of cultivation through the country, which it never had before.
The late Mr. Buchanan of Leney introduced the trenching of ground in the
open fields.  He cleared the most rugged and untoward soil, made good arable
land, where even the grass was very coarse and scanty.  The first two crops
paid the expence; and the ground, completely subdued, was fitted for future
profit.  The farmers have not generally adopted this plan, either owing to their
want of capital, the shortness of their leases, or to their having already as much
cleared land as they can keep in good order.  Some of them, indeed, take in new
land with the plough, where they must meet with the same obstructions of
stones, and rocks, and bushes every year.
   The regulations of the late commissioners of annexed estates, contributed
much to improve this country, and to introduce a better style of houses among
their farmers and villagers, which has been followed by the country in general.

     6


