
736                                 FIFESHIRE.

thirds are shipped, and one-third, sold in the adjacent country,
The only other public work in the parish is that of a wood-mer-
chant, whose establishment is extensive and flourishing.
   Rent.-The rent of land in the parish varies from L. I to L. 4
per acre. The average rent may be stated at L.2, 10s. per acre.
The numberof farms is 11. Several of them may be consider-
ed large; and in all of them, we believe, the most approved modes
of husbandry are followed.
   Like many other small towns on the coast of Fife, Torryburn
was more of a seafaring place formerly than now. There are still,
however, seven vessels belonging to this parish, registering about
330 tons. There is a small pier both at Crombie Point and at
Torrie, but the latter stands much in need of repair.

                                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The nearest market-town is Dunfermline, distant about three
miles from the eastern boundary of the parish, and four and one-
third from the parish church.
   The villages are, Torryburn, Torrie or Newmill, Crombie Point,
and Crombie, with a population respectively of 655, 394, 81,
and 47.
   By means of a private post from Dunfermline, letters and news-
papers are regularly received. There are upwards of four miles
of excellent turnpike road in the. parish ; but some of the other
roads are in bad condition, and during the winter months, in many
places almost impassable. This is a great inconvenience to se-
veral families, as it respects their attendance at church ; and the
evil has recently been aggravated, since the shutting up, by the
proprietor of Torrie, of a footpath, which, from time immemorial,
had been understood to be a kirk road. A similar road in another
part of the parish way shut up several years ago by the then pro-
prietor of Crombie. Along the turnpike road a stage-coach from
Kirkaldy, by Dunfermline to Falkirk, communicating with Glas-
gow by the Forth and Clyde Canal, passes every lawful day; and,
by means of a boat at Crombie Point, travellers have access to the
steam-vessels that ply on the Forth between Edinburgh and
Stirling.
   Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church, rebuilt in 1800, is in
good condition, with the exception of one of the gables, which is
rent from top to bottom. It is situated at the east end of the vil-
lage of Tobrryburn, and is not inconveniently placed for the great-
er portion of the inhabitants; 1135 of the population being dis-
tant from it not more than one mile, and 1289 not more than two


