
372                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

tremity; from this point, it runs east as far as Langholm. The
alluvial formations are very extensive, and consist chiefly of great
masses of gravel and sand, which spread over the low lands of the
parish, and are formed into ranges and groups of little hills. There
is evidently no immediate agent in the neighbourhood which could
have collected such immense quantities of matter, apparently the
diluvium of the deluge. The sand and gravel cover the solid
rocks, principally those of sandstone, and appear upon examida-
tion to be composed of the fragments of the various formations
found in the vale of the Annan. In the high lands of the parish,
the soil is chiefly composed of the waste and debris of the transi-
tion rocks, which is fertile; but many of these rocks are covered
with common indurated clay and heath, and are barren. The tran-
sported soil on the banks of the river, being of a loamy nature, is
rich and fertile; but that of an older date, composed of light gravel
and sand, which in dry seasons is very unfavourable to vegetation,
when moistened With frequent showers, is very fertile in the pro-
duction of barley.
	It has been supposed that the river Annan, at some remote pe-
riod, instead of its present course, where it discharges itself into
the Solway at a short distance from the town of Annan, followed
a different course through this parish, running in a southern di-
rection from the mansion-house of Dormont, through a long track
of level meadow and peat-moss, and fell into the frith at a short dis-
tance from Cummertrees church, three miles west from Annan.
It is along this line where the greatest quantity of the alluvial for-
mations are deposited, which are strikingly illustrated in bills and
ridges of gravel and sand. These evidently appear to have been
carried out of the valley of the Annan by a mighty flood of waters,
and deposited at the termination of the transition rocks, which en-
close it to a great height. After the deluge, the valley of the An-
nan must have been a lake; but its waters bursting a passage
through a transition rock at Dormont, (the present course of the
Annan,) the valley has been drained of its waters, with the excep-
tion of a number of lakes in the adjoining parish of Lochmaben.
During a flood, the river at Dormont, and for several miles along
its course in a northern direction, lays the whole country under
water; but were the landed proprietors interested to unite in deep-
ening a very small portion of the bed of the river at Dormont, where
it bursts through the transition rock, the beautiful holm lands along
its course, with their luxuriant crops would be preserved in safdty.
					4

