
			CLACKMANNAN.                        125

wards of 500 individuals are employed in working, transporting,
and shipping the above quantity of coals.
  The nine-feet seam of coal contains three bands of ironstone
immediately above; which has been worked by the Devon and
Carron Iron Companies.
  The two-feet or M'Neish coal is worked extensively by the
Devon Iron Company at present, chiefly for the seam of black
band ironstone lying on its roof, which has only been lately dis-
covered here, and is of very limited extent, existing only in the
neighbourbood and under the town of Clackmannan. Besides
these, there are several seams of argillaceous ironstone which are
worked by the Devon Iron Company.

               II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, the Earl of Mans-
field, to whom the estate of Sauchie, which forms the north-west
division of the parish, belongs; thd Earl of Zetland, who is pro-
prietor of the estate, &c. of Clackmannan; the Earl of Mar,
whose property in the parish is extensive and valuable; the Right
Honourable Lord Abercromby, proprietor of the estate of Bruce-
field, and eldest son of the late Sir Ralph Abercrotnby, which
distinguished officer and most exemplary excellent man was con-
nected with the parish; Robert Bruce Esq. of Kennet, the worthy
and influential representative of a long line of useful, honourable
men; and James Erskine, Esq. of Aberdona, grandson of the
late Lord Alva.
  Parochial Registers.--The records of the kirk-session com-
mence in the year 1593, and, being pretty entire from that pe-
riod, are of course somewhat voluminous.
  "Clackmannan was for many generations the seat of the chief
of the Bruces in Scotland. It is not certain, however, at what
precise period John de Bruce, third son of Robert, one of the
Earls of Annandale, became proprietor of it. King David II. gave
it to his kinsman, Robert Bruce, the first laird of Clackmannan.
(Dilecto consanguineo, saith the charter, dated at Perth the 9th
of December, A. regni 39,) which must have been a very short
time only before his death. It is probable, indeed, that King
David resided at Clackmannan, at least during the first part of his
reign, since we find that, in the year 1330, his chamberlain, Regi-
nald More, settled his public accounts there." *
  Antiquities.--"The old tower, which still remains, is said to have

<FOOTNOTE>Statistical Account by the late Rev. Dr Moodie.


