
96	        	        WIGTONSHIRE.

nister of Stranraer for ten years previously to 1648, in which
year he was translated by the General Assembly to the parish of
Ancrum, in Roxburghshire. On the accession of Charles II.,
sentence of banishment was passed upon him: he was ordered to
leave Scotland in two months, and until his departure to remain
north of the Tay. He removed to Rotterdam, where he after-
wards continued to reside till his death, which took place in 1672.
He was one of the leading clergymen of his day; and is also well
known for the valuable papers, particularly a MS. account of his
own life, and "Remarkable Observations upon the Lives of the
most eminent Ministers and Professors," both of which throw
great light on the history of the times.--(Murray's Lit. Hist. of
Galloway, 2d edit. pp. 96--106.) Mr Livingstone was succeed-
ed at Stranraer by Mr John Park, previously minister of Moch-
rum. Mr Park was ejected from his charge at the Restoration;
and though having accepted the Indulgence, he was anxious to re-
turn to Stranraer, the people also " as one man," says Wodrow,
"adhering to him; yet a Mr Naismith, a minion of the bishop
of the diocese, was put in his place. Mr Park," says Wodrow,
"was a man of great solidity, very sufficient learning, and is the
author of the treatise on Patronages, so well known in this church.
The book was published, and, as I am well informed, consider-
ably enlarged by his son, Mr Robert Park, Clerk to the General
Assembly, after the Revolution, and town-clerk of Glasgow, who
was basely murdered in the Clerk's Chamber at Glasgow, a little
after the Revolution."--Church History, ii. p. 147.

			III.--POPULATION.
	In the Old Statistical Account of this parish, it is stated,
that, by the return from this parish made to Dr Webster about
forty years prior to 1790, the amount was 649 souls, and at
the beginning of 1791 it was 1602; according to the census
of 1831 it was 3329. The increase of the population for the
last forty years may be accounted for by the improvement of
the agriculture of the neighbouring parishes. Stranraer being the
principal sea-port, and having vessels which trade between it, Glas-
gow, Liverpool, and other large towns, they import the necessaries
and comforts of life. The population of the neighbouring parishes
having increased in consequence of the increased culture of the
land, more shops have been opened to supply them with these ne-
cessaries. Besides, of late years, a great many of the natives of the
sister island, having left their country in quest of food and employ-


