
578			FIFESHIRE.

county, for a period of at least a thousand years; and no wonder that, in
the course of that time, their language should have given names to
every locality within their dominions, many traces of which are still
to be found in this immediate neighbourhood.
  Boundaries and Extent.-The parish stretches along the south
bank of the estuary of Tay, from near the mansion-house of
Birkhill, on the west, to the Wormit Bay on the east. From
these two points, it ranges in a semicircular form towards the
small stream of Motray, which constitutes its boundary on the
south. Its length along the Tay from east to west, is about 3 1/2
miles, and its breadth from north to south about 2 1/4 miles. It
is bounded on the north by the Frith of Tay; on the west, by
the parish of Flisk; on the south by Kilmany; on the east by
Forgan or St Fillans. Within this area there are contained about 8
square miles.
  Topographical Appearances.-Two hilly ridges traverse the
parish from east to west, and run nearly parallel to each other.
The Scurr Hill and Coultry Hill form the loftiest points of their
respective ridges ; the former, which rises in the northern divi-
sion of the parish, attains an elevation of about 400 feet above the
level of the Tay; and the latter, which occupies the southern
division, is about 500. The manse and church are beautifully si-
tuated within the intervening valley, which at this point is very
narrow, but gradually stretches out to considerable dimensions in
its progress eastward. About the centre of the southern ridge,
there is a considerable extent of high table-land in which the vil-
lage of Galdry is placed; the ground slopes gently down on the
south towards the valley of Kilmany, and is terminated on the east
by the ravine of Wormit-Den, which here separates the parish
from Forgan : the bamiets of Coultry and Corbie Hill lie towards
the western extremity. The northern ridge declines more rapidly
towards the Tay, the shores of which, along the whole boundary,
are extremely bold and rocky, rising in some places into precipi-
tous mural cliffs. The villages of Kirkton and Balmorino are
both situated on the western slope of the Scurr Hill; and a little
to the south lie the ruins of the Abbey, where the ground gradu
ally declines towards the banks of the Tay. The house of Naugh-
ton is built on the southern acclivity of a small isolated ridge,
which rises abruptly a little to the east of the church, in the centre
of the valley, on the summit of which the ruins of an old castle
are still to be seen. A beautiful picturesque dell lies immediate-


