
                       WESTRUTHER.                          71

Besides these persons, who were either natives of Westruther,
or were established residents in it, the following persons spent the
earlier part of their life, and received their education there: John
Home, author of the Tragedy of Douglas; Lord Kaimes, occa-
sionally; the late James Ballantyne, Esq. printer, and the late
George Bell, Esq. surgeon, both of Edinburgh; the present Dr
Douglas of Kelso and others.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in the parochial regis-
ters is dated November 27, 1655, just seven years after the erec-
tion of Westruther into a separate parish. This record commenced
during the incumbency of Mr John Veitch. The registers are not
voluminous, extending only to three small volumes; and they seem
to have been as regularly kept as appears to have been thought
necessary in former times. Their greatest defect is the want of
designations. There are many chasms, perhaps during vacancies,
or when there was no schoolmaster.
   Antiquities.-There were anciently three religious houses in the
parish,-one respectively at Wedderlie, Spottiswoode, and Bassen-
dean. The chapel at Wedderlie is of great antiquity, as several
charters relating to it still exist, which were framed in the thirteenth
century. It has long been in ruins, and nothing remains to mark
the place where it stood, except a vault belonging to it, into which,
as tradition reports, the monks at the Reformation conveyed their
most valuable effects, till a convenient opportunity occurred for
their removal. That at Spottiswoode was built by the lord of
the manor during the reign of David II., for the benefit of his fa-
mily and hamlet. It received the name of Whitechapel, and long
stood in ruins, till these were entirely swept away when the ground
was cleared for building the present offices at Spottiswoode. The
only relic of it that has been preserved is a baptismal font. The
chapel at Bassendean, the ruins of which still exist to the height
of ten or twelve feet from the ground, was employed for religious.
purposes, and served by a vicar, long before the Reformation. The
church lands, and mansion belonging to the vicarage, were con-
veyed by the last incumbent to Sir James Home of Coldenknows,
who obtained from James VI. a charter for the same in 1573.
The person who thus built his house on church lands, and in the
immediate neighbourhood of the chapel, was the ancestor of the
Homes of Bassendean. The interior of the chapel is still used as
a burying-place by that family.


