
	488                         RENFREWSHIRE.

        who,desert their children but of separating parent from child,
	and of casting into the comparatively cold lap of a public provision
	those who ought to be cherished with the warm affection of pa-
	rents, or the enlightened Christian compassion of private persons.
           Increase your provision, says the benevolent Dr Alison; lay an
	assessment of L. 800,000 on the whole of Scotland; give libdral-
	ly; elevate the poor in the scale of society and parents will cease
	to be dissolute; they will not leave their children in despair of
        obtaining subsistence; the poor will become moral, contented,
	and happy, when you have made adequate provision for them in
	food and raiment.
	   This is not the place for replying at length to these proposals
        and arguments. We shall only say, therefore, that a more ex-
	tensive acquaintance with human nature, and the actual working
	of institutions for the relief of mendicity, will probably induce the
        benevolent author of the "Observations" to change his opinion.
	Increase the allowances to the poor five, six, seven fold; and
	many who are now ashamed to beg, either from private persons, or
	from the administrators of our public charities, will think it no dis-
	grace to stand on a poor roll, and twice L. 800,000 will not suf-
	fice for the supply of the wants of the Scottisb poor.  Increase as
	you please the allowances to the poor, and you will not change
	the dissolute habits of unnatural parents, whilst the effect of an in-
	crease will undoubtedly be to destroy in adult children, the feeling
	of obligation to support their infirm and aged parents, and in every
	Christian man and woman the sense of obligation under which they
	lie to communicate to the relief of the poor and needy around them.
	   In Greenock, as elsewhere, a legal assessment has had a power-
	ful effect in diminishing the amount of church-door collections.
	In proof of this, it may be mentioned, that in 1832, the collections
        at the Middle Parish Church the largest in this town amounted
	to L. 151, and in 1837, without anv diminution in the number of
	the congregation, they amounted to no more than L. 111, 16s. 8d.
	   The history of the progress of pauperism in Greenock proves,
	in so far, at least, as the history of one town or district is suffi-
	cient for that purpose, that the neglect of church-extension al-
	most necessarily leads to a departure from the ancient Scottish
	mode of providing for the wants of the poor.  Greenock, with a
	population of 15,000, and only three places of worship at which
	collections were made, was able to relieve its own poor without an

        <FOOTNOTE>Observation on the Management of the Poor in Scotland.


