
                    COUNTY OF RENFREW.                          547

spent about Greenock in a vain attempt to procure coal. There
is certainly no coal nearer Greenock than Garpel in Lochwinnoch,
which forms the north-west wing of the Ayshire coal-field, and
is entirely separated from the Renfrewshire field by the trap, and
the nearest point of the carboniferous group in the county is the
Bridge of Weir. All the country to the west of Bishopton,
Bridge of Weir, the villages of Kilbarchan and How-wood, is
trap, with the exception of Garpel, as above stated. There is
certainly a mistake in treating the trap as a sedimentary or strati-
fied rock, and in representing it lying ar if stratified above and
below the coal measures. It appears pretty obvious that the trap
is newer than all the coal measures; that is to say, the great body
of the common whin of the coal-fields in Ayr, Lanark, and Ren-
frew shires. If any person doubts this, he may have his scruples
removed and his doubts dissipated at Dechmont-hill, near Cam-
buslang, where he will see that enormous mass of igneous rock
tearing up the carboniferous strata of the newest sort on the north
and south, the rocks on both of these sides of the hill dipping
away from it, contrary to their natural dip at a high angle. The
trap rocks at Ballageich and Dunwan in Eiglesham reach an
elevation of 1000 feet; the porphyry at Misty Law 1200; but the
greatest elevation of the coal measures at High Craig, near John-
stone, is scarcely 240  feet. The dip of the conglomerate is gene-
rally  to the  north, but often north-east, and occasionally south
and south-east.
   Ores, &c.--The green carbonate of copper or mountain-green
of Schmeiser and Kirwan, bas been found in the red sandstone
near to Gourock, in small granular particles dispersed through the
stone. It was wrought for some time, but without the least pro-
spect of success, and after some money was expended, was aban-
doned. A carbonate of copper has also been noticed at Kaime in
greenstone. Ironstone is chiefly found about  Kilbareban, Houston,
and Johnstone, and along the White Cart and Levern, and at
Blackhall, near Paisley. It is, however, an  entirely different for-
mation from that which is found among the upper coals in the
Lanarkshire fields. The Dalkeith coal-field, for, example, is
nearly destitute of iron, and so is that of Newcastle. The iron
found here is that alternating With lime ; and from the above
authority, such is the position in which its principal beds are
found.
   The geological position of Renfrewshire is so fat, favourable; but


