
                           PARISH OF KIRKHILL.

                 PRESBYTERY OF INVERNESS, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                   THE REV. ALEXANDER FRASER, MINISTER  *


                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY .
          Name, Situation, &c.-KIRKHILL Consists of two united parishes,
          called Wardlaw and Farnua. Wardlaw is the name of the
          hill on which the church was built, and is a corruption of the Gaelic
          Bar-tla, that is, "kindly summit." Farnma or Fearnaie, as it
          is called in Gaelic, is probably derived from the word fearn, signifying
          "allar," because the parish did and still does abound with
          allar trees. The name of the united parishes in Gaelic is Cnoemhoir,
          or "Mary's hill." In the neighbourhood, it is called, by
	  way of eminence, the Hill: hence the English translation of it,
	  Kirkhill.
	     This parish is about 8 miles long, and from 1 to 3 miles broad.
	  It is bounded on the east and south, by the parish of Inverness; on
	  the west, by the parish of Kiltarlity; on the north, by the parishes
	  of Kilmorack, Urray, and Kilternan, being separated from the
	  three last mentioned by the river Beauly and the Moray Frith. For
	  four miles it is a narrow strip, on the declivity of a hill, inclining
	  to the Moray frith, with a north-west aspect.
	     The soil is various. The climate, when compared with many
	  places in the same country, is mild and temperate. (Old Statis-
	  tical Account.)
	     There is a chalybeate spring in this parish at Auchnagairn;
	  which was once much frequented.
	     Hills, Rivers, &c.-The hills that run along, the south-east of
	  the parish, are pretty high, and covered with heath. The pasture
	  they afford is miserably scanty, the surface being constantly car-
	  ried off for fuel. There are some natural woods of birch and al-
	  der, and a great extent of plantations. The river Beauly runs along
	  the north-west boundary of the parish, for about two or three miles.
	  It is navigable at high-water by ships of about 50 tons burden, so

          <FOOTNOTE>From notes furnished by Mr Thomas Fraser.


