
376                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

introduce the modern improvements in husbandry. Consequently
a great change in the appearance of the parish has already been
effected, and a greater is in rapid progress. Several comfortable
dwelling-houses and convenient farm-steadings have started up;
farms have been enclosed and subdivided; many a valuable acre
has been brought under the plough; a regular rotation of crops
is now pursued; and the most approved farming implements in-
troduced; also lime and bone-dust are employed to a considerable
extent to stimulate and fertilize the soil. The spirit of improve-
ment has extended to the cottars, who, perceiving the advantages
of the new system, readily adopted it, and not without success.
It is scarcely necessary to observe, that the result is a great in-
crease of produce, amounting to double what it was twenty years
ago.  As further evidence of the rapid march of improvement
among us, it may be stated that, at the date of the former Statis-
tical Account, there was not a single thrashing-mill within the
bounds of the parish; now, however, there are seven, and the
erection of several more is contemplated.
   The principal crops of grain raised are oats and barley. Wheat
was a few years ago very generally cultivated; but though it suc-
ceeded in point of return and quality remarkably well yet it was
found that the growing of this grain considerably injured the land,
so that it is now not so extensively sown. The soil is well adapt-
ed to pease, beans, potatoes, and turnips. The cultivation of this
last-mentioned root is much attended to; and it may be remarked,
that of all the improvements introduced into this quarter, the plan
of eating off the turnip by sheep on the field, seems the most be-
neficial to the farmer, this process being almost in every case fol-
lowed by splendid white crops.
   Since the possessions of the cottars are too small either to keep
them in constants employment, or to maintain their families, num-
bers of them generally go to some of the southern counties, (after
laying down their little crops,) in quest of employment as labour-
res, and remain at such work as they may find till the beginning
of winter, when they return with the proceeds of their labour,
which go to pay the rent, and to the support of the family. This
pradtice is pursued also by some of our tradesmen, such as masons
and carpenters, who visit the large towns of the south with the
double view of adding to their earings, and of improving them-
selves in their respective crafts. In consequence of the recent
improvements in husbandry, an increased demand for labourers is


