
                              PERTH.                               35                                     33

  cause all wild and syspect bestis, as doggis, swyne and cattis, ex-
  cept tham that are kepit in bandis, to be slane quhar evir they
  may be apprehendit within zour saidis boundis the time of the said
  pestilence, gif ony happinis the quhilkis sal be free to be slane be
  all personis, officiaris, or uthers that findes thaim louse for the
  tyme, without any amendis to be made to the party thairfor.---
  Attour at ze in our name command and charge be oppen procla-
  matioune, all our liegis within the boundis of zour office to clenyis
  all thare rewis, wyndis, clossis and guttaris, baith in backside and
  forside, ilkane of thame for thare awine pairt, within four dais next
  efter zour charge, vnder the pane of ane vnlaw of fywe merkis, to
  be taken up and applyt to zou and officiaris of oure said burgh
  for the clenzing of the samyn, and that na, personis lay myddonyis
  at porttis, entressis, or inches of our said burgh, under the said
  pane, and als, that all our liegis cum and wsse merchandice, and
  bring to oure merkat all necessarys for merkat and court, and that
  every man answere for his servandis tuiching the observatioun of
  all thir stattutis, vnder the samyn panis; and at ze suffer na beg-
  garis to remane within our said burgh, bot that has ane takin, gevin
  be zou to thame, and thay to be impotent, agit, or blynd folkis that
  ar noth abile to wyn thare leving utherwais within the realme, as
  ye will answer to us thareapoun.  The quhilk to do we commit to
  you, coniunctlie and severallie, oure full power be thir oure letteres,
  given under our signet at Edinburgh xvij. day of Januar, and of
  regime the xxv. zeir (1512) De speciale mandato."
     In the years 1585-87, the plague was again in Perth.  The
  only account which I have found of it being here at that time is in
  the subjoined extracts from the session records.*

  <FOOTNOTE>" April 12,1585.  Whilk day, Mr John Howisson, minister of God's word at Perth
  or the time, did, at the command of the Session thereof, excommunicate, with great grief,
  sorrow, and dolour of my heart, Margt Watson, sometime an member of the said kirk
  of Perth, for double adultery,and five bairns born therein, whilk bairns received never
  the sacrament of baptism, and one of them she suffered to perish and starve for hun-
  gar in the lodges infected with the pest, &C.  (Signed) JOHN Howisson."
     "May 24, 1585.  It was statute and ordained, that hereafter induring the time
  of the plague, no banquet shall be at marriages, and no persons shall resort to bridals
  under the pain of 10 pounds, for to be paid by ilka one that contravenes the same.
  And 10 pounds to be paid by them that calls more than four on the side to the ban-
  quet or bridal induring the pest.  July 17, 1585.  Whilk day, the, hail Assembly
  and Session of the kirk agrees in one voice, that so many fornicators who have not
  satisfied the kirk for their offence hitherto, and are rather willing to pay an permule-
  tuary sum of money, according to the act of Parliament, than otherwise to satisfy the
  civil magistrate and the kirk, for relief of the poor, being presently in great necesslty,
  shall instantly deliver the same, according to the act of Parliament, to support the poor
  withall that are putt in the lodges (pest houses,) who otherwise may die for want, or be
  compelled for hunger to stray and go abroad in the country, and infect the same-
  and ordains, that this our ordinance shall have place induring the time of the plague.


