
                           WESTRUTHER.                             65

the farmers can calculate on the regular return of favourable weather
with nearly as much certainty here as in any other part of Berwick-
shire.The boggy character of the soil makes dry weather the most fa-
vourable for the production of grain, which, indeed, was never known
to fail from drought but, in 1826. The crop is often excellent and
luxuriant here, when a long tract of dry and scorching weather has
been attended with injurious effects in more favoured regions. A
wet season is what most of all awakens the fears of the farmers of
Westruther; and where it does not prove ruinous to their hopes,
leads invariably to a late harvest.
   Of the winds to which the parish is exposed, the west wind is
the most prevalent, and productive of greatest injury to trees and
to grain, while the north-east is generally the coldest, and the
never-failing harbinger of a storm. Formerly, in the most marshy
places, rheumatism and a good deal of croup prevailed. But these
have so entirely disappeared with the improving condition of the
parish, that there cannot now be said to be any distempers indige-
nous to the district; and such is the known salubrity of the climate,
that for a long time a boarding-school of considerable celebrity was
kept in the parish, which was attended by young men belonging to
families of the first respectability in the country.
   Hydrography.-The springs are numerous, and, except during
very violent heats, are perennial; so that a scarcity of good potable
water is never known in the parish. All of these springs on the north
side of the parish issue from greywacke, and all on the south from
sandstone (freestone.) That from the former was lately analysed by
an eminent chemist, who pronounced it to be almost pure, with the
smallest portion of carbonate of lime. In Harelaw moor there is a
spring of a chalybeate nature, which is perpetually boiling, and has
never been known to freeze during the greatest intensity of winter.
It is bottomed with flags, to which it has given a very yellow tinge,
and is about nine feet long, and six broad, and from two to three
feet in depth. It is reputed to be very efficacious for the removal
of scurvy, and was much resorted to in former times, by patients
who came from a distance to lodge on the spot for the benefit of
drinking it. It is still as copious as formerly, but its virtues have
fallen very much into oblivion, and it has been so long neglected,
that it is nearly covered up by a crop of luxuriant rushes.
   There are several rivulets, which roll a considerable volume of
water, and all of which flow in a southerly direction; some westward,
as tributaries to the Leader; others choosing an easterly course, con-
   BERWICK.                           E


