
514                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

in the habit of taking an ecclesiastical census annually when en-
gaged in parochial visitation, with the view of ascertaining accu-
rately the different denominations of professing Christians to which
the inhabitants belong. In 1834, the number of families where
the heads belonged to the Relief was 79, and contained 347 souls;
the number of those belonging to the Reformed Presbytery, 48,
containing 235 souls; of the Secession, 21, containing 109; and
all the rest, including those who can scarcely be considered as at-
tached to any religious denomination whatever, 110, attached, no-
minally at least, to the establishment, and containing 570 souls.
From a statement inserted in the parochial register about thirty-
four years ago by Mr Hewetson, then schoolmaster of the parish,
it appears that, so early as 1766, there were 16 families that had
separated from the Established Church, and in 1796 upwards of
60. About the end of the century, it is said that this number
considerably increased. The same authority, of date 1802, states,
that "the people in general have been of a religious cast of mind,
being addicted to Puritan principles. But of late, from the great
influence of itinerant preachers, they are more and more divided in
their religious principles; and being split into four considerable
factions, there is a foundation laid for religious squabbles and po-
lemical controversy, Which do not tend to the progress of true and
genuine religion."
	The parochial stipend amounts to 16 chalders, half meal half
barley, which in 1834 yielded L. 209; in 1835, L. 210. The
manse underwent a thorough repair, and had a large addition made
to it in 1833, at an expense, including a new steading of offices, of
nearly L. 1100; and whatever may be thought of its appearance,
there are few more convenient or more comfortable manses in Scot-
land. It is situated about 100 yards from the church, the garden
intervening. Both church and manse are about a similar distance
from the Scarr, and stand on a level ground near a sloping bank,
about forty-five feet above its level. From the situation of the manse,
it was found impossible to supply water from within the glebe, and
there seemed to be no other mode of obviating this great incon-
venience, but by leading it in pipes from  the high land, behind. To
this plan, however, the proprietor of the land was averse; and in
consequence, water bad to be brought from another spring, at a dis-
tance of about 1000 yards from the manse. The expense of of this
work, amounting to about L. 130, the Duke of Bucclench defrayed
individually; and it is not saying too much to add, that, in the pe-


