
352 			KINCARDINESHIRE.

cipal cause. An intelligent veterinary surgeon of the place as-
cribes it chiefly to too close confinement of the cattle in winter,

to the use of frosty water, and to some irregularities and misma-
nagement in the supply of food. The treatment chiefly recom-
mended is purgation.
	The production and management of dairy produce is becoming
a matter of some attention and importance; but the inferior qua-
lity of the cows, the poorness of many of the pastures, and the
want of a ready market, tend greatly to keep down its quantity
and value. Bees do not thrive in the neighbourhood of the river,
but in other parts they are successfully kept in considerable num-
bers.
	Farm-houses and offices are here generally coramodious and
substantial, and daily becoming more so. They have 43 thrash-
ing-machines belonging to them. There are 4 grain-mills in the
parish, 4 saw-mills, 1 for turning the bobbins used in cotton ma-
nufactories, and 1 for carding wool and for the manufacture of a
few coarse stuffs.
        Mode of Agriculture, &c.-The seven years' shift was, some
years ago, the rotation of cropping generally in use. Now, how-
ever, a great proportion of the farmers practise the five years'
shift, and some are introducing the sixth. The scythe is al-
most universally used in reaping, and 4 3/4 returns for seed may
be regarded as the general average. This average is greater
than it was twenty years ago, before the adoption of recent im-
provements, but it is still kdpt low by the yearly increasing culti-
vation of new soils. The return varies from three to twelve fold
throughout the parish. Towards the banks of the river, where
gravel forms a large proportion of the soil, crops, though early,
are generally light, and suffer greatly from drought. But towards
the hills, where there is a stronger loam, they are often good, and
sometimes tolerably heavy. Hay is frequently a deficient crop,
but turnips and potatoes thrive well. When rain does not fall
plentifully in June and July, the pastures present a miserable ap-
pearance, and generally the crop fails. A moist summer is, here
especially the farmers' delight. The proverbial saying on this
part of Dee side is, that "the land requires a shower everyday,
and the two on Sunday." The expense of trenching and clearing an
acre of new land averages L.17, 10s. Some proprietors under-
take the whole of such improvements for their tennants, charging
them with a acre of about L.1 per Scoth acre. Others trench
			  3


