
          		     NEW MACHAR.                     1033

and is nearly equidistant from the extremities of the parish. It
was built in 1791, and can accommodate between 600 and 700
hearers. All the sittings are the property of the heritors, and
are allocated according to their valued rent.
       	The manse was built in 1781, and underwent a very thorough
repair after the settlement of the present incumbent in 1840.
    	The glebe, according to a recent survey, contains 21 acres, 3
roods, 18 polls imperial, and may be valued at L. 17 per annum.
The stipend, including communion elements, amounts to L. 66,
2s. 2d. in money, 98 bolls, 4 stones, 4 lbs. white meal,--19 bolls
7 stones, 1 lb. farm meal,--15 quarters, 4 bushels, 1 peck bear,
1 bushel,--3 pecks, 1 gallon, oats,--27 quarters, 5 bushels, 1
peck, 1 gallon, 1 quart barley.
       	There is no other place of worship, whether chapel of ease, or
Dissenting, within the parish, besides the parish church.
     	The number of families in the parish belonging to the Esta-
blished Church is 251. The number of Dissenting families is 4,
and these occasionally attend the parish church. Divine service is
remarkably well attended. The average number of communi-
cants is about 600.
       	There is a Parochial Society for Religious and Missionary Pur-
poses in the parish, which is in a very flourishing state. The
amount of last year's contributions exceeded L.20. The sum col-
lected is divided among the Home and Foreign Missions of the
Assembly, the London Tract, Bible, and other missionary societies.
      	The amount of collections made in the church during the by-
past year, for religious and charitable purposes, amounted to be-
tween L.90 and L.100.
       	Education.--There are at present three schools in the parish;
one parochial schonl, and two on teachers' own adventure. The
parish school is situated beside the church, and under the same
roof with the master's own accommodation. The branches taught
are, reading, writing, arithmetic, geography, and English grammar.
The schoolmaster's salary is L.30 per annum, including the value
of a garden. The probable amount of fees may be somewhere
between L.10 and L.12. The unendowed schools are taught by
individuals in humble circumstances and of limited education, but
who are assiduous in their endeavours to promote the spirit-
ual as well as intellectual improvement of the children placed un-
der their care. In an extended parish like this, with a scattered
population, two side-schools are indispensable, one towards either


