
122                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

tended with wonderful success, and seems to be the best foundation
for every other improvement. A good deal of lime is annually
driven, and bone-dust is coming every year into greater repute as
a manure.
   The farmers are active, intelligent, enterprising, and industrious;
and their exertions for the improvement of their farms have, in ge-
neral, been liberally encouraged by their landlords. Their houses
and steadings are substantial and convenient. The farmers have all
thrashing mills, except one. Three of these are driven by a water
power, and one is now erecting on Rutherford to go by steam.
The leases are all for 19 years,-which is thought a short enough
period when any improvement is intended to be made. The only
subject of complaint among the tenants is the ruinously low price
of corn, which makes it difficult for them to pay the rents which
they promised only a few years ago, without encroaching on their
capital.
   Rate of Wages.-The rate of labour, when it is not done by the
piece, is 9s. or 10s. per week for men, without victuals. In harvest,
a shearer has from 12s. to 14s. and victuals. A hind or ploughman is
paid mostly in kind; he has a house and a small garden, for which
his wife, daughter, or servant shear in harvest; 10 bolls (60 bushels)
of oats; 3 1/2 bolls of barley, (or 21 bolls of barley, and 1 boll of
pease); from L. 3 to L. 4 of sheep money; a cow's grass, (or, when
he is not rich enough to buy a cow, L. 7 in lieu of it); 5 or 6
single cart loads of coals, at the coal-hill price, (4s. or 4s. 6d.);
1000 yards of potatoes planted on the farm; and 7 hens kept. A
bondager, or female cottar, shears for her house and garden; has
1000 yards of potatoes planted; 3 single cart-load of coals at the
coal-bill price, and 7 hens kept. It is understood that she is to
work to the farmer when required, at the ordinary rate of wages,
viz. 10d. a-day in summer, and 8d. in winter. A carpenter's wage
is 14s. a-week over the year. A mason has 15s. in summer, and
11s. in winter. A smith has L. 2, 15s. or L. 3, and a single cart-
load of coals, at the coal-hill price, for shoeing a pair of horses,
and keeping a cart, plough, harrows, and harness in repair for a
year. A tailor has 1s. 6d. a-day and his victuals.
   Produce.-It is difficult to estimate precisely the amount of raw
produce raised in any particular district, and more difficult still to
ascertain its value. One very intelligent gentleman, to whom I
applied for information on this point, and who himself farms be-
tween fourteen and fifteen hundred acres in the parish, valued his


