
            DYKE AND MOY.                               223.

	den, which is open to every ]over of Flora, is an object of great
	attraction. It is stocked with an extensive and varied selection of
	the most beautiful plants and flowers. The other modern man-
	sion-houses are those of Moy and Kincorth. The material used
	in building is sandstone.
        		      III.-POPULATION.
	     According to the census of 1831, the population of the parish was 1457
					1841,	-	-	-	       1365
	The number of families in 1841,		-	-	-	        295
	Average number of births for the preceding seven years, as per register,227
		      marriages,-	-	-	-	-	-	 97
		      deaths,	-	-	-	-	-	-       224

           The decrease is partly owing to emigration, and partly to the
	enlargement of farms.
	   Norman Macleod, Esq. of Dalvey, is the only proprietor who
	constantly resides in the parish. The Earl of Moray has resided
	for the last two years. Robert Grant, Esq. of Kincorth, resides
	for several months in the parish every season.
	   There are three families of independent fortune in the parish,
	besides the landed proprietors. Five of the proprietors hold lands
	of the yearly value of upwards of L.50.
	   There is one person fatuous and dumb, and one blind.
	   The people seem contented and happy, and enjoy, in a rea-
	sonable degree, the comforts and advantages of society. They
	are generally decent, industrious, and sober; church-going in their
	habits, and attached to the church of their fathers. A great im-
	provement has taken place in the morals and intelligence of the
	people, within the last twenty years.
        		       IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The number of acres under
	tillage is 3218 imperial. There is scarcely an acre capable of cul-
	tivation, which has not already been brought under the plough,
	Of pasture there are 1286 acres, and 2802 acres under wood.
	The rest of the parish, to the extent of 9974 acres, is an irreclaim-
	able waste. There is no undivided common.
	   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is L. 1, 15s. per
	Scotch acre.
	   The gross rental of the parish is about L.5632.
	   Price of Labour.-Farm-servants receive from L. 10 to L. 14
	per annum with board; women-servants, from 3 to L. 4. Day-
	labourers gain Is. 8d. in summer, and Is. 3d. in winter, without
	victuals. During harvest, the price of labour is considerably high.
	er. A mason receives 2s. 6d, and a carpenter 2s. a day.


