
			NEW KILPATRICK.                      55

cows, the Ayshire.  Much attention has been paid for some years
past to the improvement of the latter, to which the Stath-Endrick
and Dumbartonshire Agricultural Clubs have greatly contributed
by the liberal premiums offered for good bulls.  Few of the sheep
of black-cattle are bred in the parish, being bought in the
great fairs in the neighbourhood.
   Husbandry.--The general character of the system of husbandry
pursued is, green-cropping with a six year's shift.  The usual ro-
tation is, 1. oats; 2. potatoes, with a small portion of turnip; 3.
wheat, with rye-grass and clover; 4. hay; 5. and 6. pasture. There
are some farms, however, on which no regular rotation is observed,
and two white crops in succession are still occasionally taken: but
this occurs chiefly on lands which are held on uncertain leases;
and the consequence is, that these lands are sadly scourged. Po-
tato-husbandry is carried to great perfection, and the management
of this crop is looked upon in a great measure as the test of a farm-
er's activity and enterprise. The soil is not in general favourable
for turnips, and still less so for turning in sheep to eat them off
the ground; and seldom more than to the extent of an acre or
two are grown on each farm, to supply the dairy-cows. Summer
fallowing suits the soil better, and is partially practised; but the
neighbouringhood of Glasgow occasions a great demand for potatoes,
and affords an abundant supply of dung, which is bought out by
the return carts at a diminished expense. It is usual to apply to
the potato crop from 30 to 40 tons of dung per Scots acre; and
it is found, that the more liberal the allowance, the greater is the
profit. Thirty bolls of potatoes per Scots acre, equal to 9 tons
in weight, are reckoned an average crop; but 50 bolls are fre-
quently gathered; and in favourable soils and seasons, 60, or even
70 are sometimes boasted of. The failure of the seed, which has
been so generally matter of complaint for the last * two seasons, has
been partially experienced here. Some fields were planted anew,
and others sown with turnips; but the loss has proved much smal-
ler than was feared at first; many fields which in spring seemed
to have failed, having afterwards recovered and borne abundant
crops. The opinion begins to prevail, that the failure, where it
has occurred, and the tardiness of growth in other cases, were
owing chiefly to the over-dry state of the ground at the time of
planting; a circumstance of which we have not often reason to
complain in this district. The potato crop is uniformly followed

            <FOOTNOTE>Written in 1885.


