
                             ST MADOES.                        625

the former course of the Tay, owes its origin to the existence of
such a lake as that just referred to.
    Parochial Registers.-The existing parochial records, which con-
tain the transactions of the kirk-session and registers of baptisms
and marriages, consist of six volumes. The oldest of these is a
curious one. It is entitled "The Book of the Assembly of
St Madoss," and is partly in the handwriting of the famous Alex-
ander Lindsay, who was afterwards Bishop of Duakeld. It com-
mences with a minute of the 7th September 1591, in which
there is contained an account of the nomination of elders and
deacons, by commissioners from the presbytery of Perth, among
whom were some of the most celebrated men of that period, viz.
Patrick Galloway, William Rhind, Henry Guthrie, and Archibald
Moncrieff. In this volume there is abundant evidence of a strict
and faithful administration of the discipline of the church during
the period to which it refers. There is also a variety of circum-
stances, incidentally stated, of an interesting character. The ac-
tounts, for instance, of collections made for harbours and bridges
in different parts of the country, attest the interest then taken by
the church in the civil prosperity of the people; and the nale of
witnesses at baptisms, with their designations, throw light upon the
division of property at that period. This volume closes with a mi-
nute of the 30th of April 1615. The next existing volume com-
mences with a minute of October 2, 1659, from which date to the
present time, the sessinn records are complete.
    State of property, ancient and modern.-SirJohn Stuart Richard-
son, Bart of Pitfour, is the sole proprietor of the parish. It may be
worthy of notice, that property here and in the neighbourhood is in a
strikingly different position as to ownership, from what it was in for-
mer times. From the old session record just refered to, it appears
that, 250 years back, there were in this parish four distinct laird-
ships, Pitfour, Pitcog, Cairnie, and Dumgreen; and from the same
souce it may be gathered, that the neighbouring distinct had been
divided into small lairdships, four or five then existing for one that
now exists. The principal land-owner inthis parish, in l592,was
a man of high lineage, being one of the Cochranes of Duandonald.
The lands of Pitfour, soon after that year, were sold by him to the
Hays of Megginch; but he continued to reside here till his death,
and his descendants, reduce to the humble condition of cottars,
were to be found in the neighbouring parish of Errel, about a ge-
neration back, when the last of them died.
     Antiquities.-Druidical circles had abounded in this part of the
     PERTH.


