
782                          AYRSHIRE.

through the parish, and afford abundance of pure water. Except
the very tops of Mochrum and Craigdow, and several tracts of moss,
the whole parish is arable.
	There is little or no natural wood in the parish. But the want
of this is happily supplied by the plantations made by the Earl of
Cassillis and Sir Charles Fergusson of Kilkerran.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.--Upon a small promontory on the barony of Turn-
berry, now the property of the Earl of Cassillis, are the ruins of
the famous castle, of Turnberry, the seat of the Earls of Carrick.
When or by whom it was built is altogether uncertain. Authen-
tic history, however, informs us, that in 1724, Martha, Countess
of Carrick, lived in this her castle, and was that year married to
Robert Bruce, Earl of Annandale. From this marriage sprung
the kings Of Scotland, of the race of Stewart. In 1306, Turn-
berry was held by an English garrison, under Earl Percy; and
some years after this, we find that King Robert Bruce stormed the
castle, still in possession of the English, routed and expelled the
garrison, but at the expense of the destruction of the building. Af-
ter this, we do not hear of its being inhabited.
	The next remarkable old building in the parish, is the Ab-
bey of Crossraguel, founded by Duncan, King of Scotland, in
1260, situated two miles east from the village. It is more entire
than any abbey in the west of Scotland. The side walls of
the church and choir still remain to the height of fourteen feet.
It has been exceedingly well lighted within. Towards the east,
remains the niche where the principal altar stood. On the right
of this is the vestry, and the Abbot's ecclesiastical court, all en-
tire, and arched very much in the style of the cathedral at Glas-
gow. There are besides, several vaults and cells, all built of fine
hewn-stone. At the east end of the abbey, stand the ruins of
the Abbot's first house. On the west end of the abbey, stands
the last house which the Abbot inhabited. The whole building
stands in the middle of eight acres of ground, commonly called the
Abbot's yard, or precinct of Crossraguel. This ruin is preserved
with great care and attention.
	The next old building in the parish, is the house or castle of
Thomaston, about half a-mile to the southeast of Culzean. Tra-
dition tells us, that this was built by a nephew of Robert Bruce, in
the year 1335. It has been exceedingly strong, and of very consi-
				4


