
                            ECHT.                           735

minister of Clat, whose grandfather had been minister of Culsa-
mond, left the interest of L.800 for the purposes of assisting the
aged poor.  The late Mr Gordon of Premnay and Sheelagreen
bequeathed to the poor the interest of L.600.

---------------------------------------------------------------

                      PARISH OF ECHT.

     PRESBYTERY OF KINCARDINE O'NEIL, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

             THE REV. WILLIAM INGRAM, MINISTER.

                   -----------------------

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE etymology of Echt is not known with certainty.
An old tradition refers it to the Gaelic word " Each," which sig-
nifies a horse.  It bears that a division of an ancient Caledonian
army having encamped in this parish, the officers and men, in the 
time of a severe drought, were reduced to great straits for want of
water, when a horse which had been brought to the camp was
seen to gallop to a spot where he had been accustomed to drink;
and that, by pawing and scratching with his feet, some signs of
water were discovered; in which spot, a well having been dug, af-
forded relief from thirst to the army.  In memory of that event, this
particular district, and afterwards the parish, is said to have been
designated by the above term.
   Extent, &c.-The parish of Echt lies west from Aberdeen, the
eastern extremity nearly ten, and the western fourteen miles from
that city.  It is almost of a square form, each side about 4 1\2 miles.
It is bounded on the east and north-east, by the parish of Skene;
on the south-east, by Peterculter and Drumoak; on the south, by
Banchory-Ternan; on the west and north-west, by Midmar; and
on the north, by Cluny.
   Topographical Appearances.-The hill of Fare lies about one
mile south-west from the church.  The base of this mountain is near-
ly eighteen miles in circumference, and its height about 1794 feet
above the level of the sea.  Its surface is now divided among the
proprietors whose estate sorround it, and contains 7700 acres, 2
roods, 29 falls imperial measure; of which 1826 acres, 1 rood, 4
falls belong to this parish.  Mr. Forbes of Echt has a thriv-
ing plantation of young firs on its north-east corner, and him       

