
          176                          ORKNEY.

          more probable, according to the opinion of the more intelligent,
          that these names come from some language now in disuse.  And
          " in Gaelic, which may have been the language of the country
          under the Pictish kingdom, Deerness or Durness signifies a penin-
          sulated promontory."*  According to Dr Barry several remains
          of deer have been found.  He says, " an entire skeleton was dug
          up, some years ago, in the heart of an old ruin, in the middle of a
          loch in a parish contiguous to one that is said to have derived its
          name from its being the abode of these animals.  The parish to
          which we allude, is Deerness,-a peninsula on the eastern extremi-
          ty of the mainland, which is believed to have been named the
          cape of Deers, because it abounded in these quadrupeds, that
          found shelter in the forest with which it was then covered, and
          which was afterwards destroyed by a storm and inundation.  In
          some of the ground in that parish, which is of a marshy nature
          deers' horns have several times been found." The "parish conti-
          guous" can be no otber than St Andrews.  But, besides there
          being no loch "with an old ruin in the middle" of it,-the old ruin
          evidently referred to, standing on the margin of the lake,-we ne-
          ver heard of the "entire skeleton" of a deer being discovered any-
          where in the parish, nor of "deers' horns being several times found."
          And it does not appear, that the Doctor's account of the former
          state of Deerness is sufficiently authenticated.
             The species of fish most abundant in Deersound and Inganess
          bay, is the colefish.  Small rock-cod of a red colour, the Gadus
          viustela, and some varieties of the tribe Pleuronectes, may also be
          got in considerable numbers.  Trout is occasionally met with.
          And several other kinds of fish, which are unimportant in an eco-
          nomical point of view, occur in these bays.  Eels are to be found
          in abundance in the lake, but are seldom sought after.  Quanti-
          ties of large cod, haddock, skate, dog-fish, herrings, also mackerel,
          and some others, are, however, brought from the adjoining seas.
             With regard to shell-fish, there are numbers of crabs and lob-
          sters; also cockles and razor-fish,-which are taken chiefly in the
          spring season, and used as articles of food.  Oysters of a superior
          size are not unknown in some parts of Deersound.  Limpets occur
          on all the rocks along the sea shore that are, at the return of every
          tide, covered by the salt water,-but are used only as bait for other

<FOOTNOTE> Old Statistical Account of Scotland.

                               4


