
     Statistical Account

were so charmed, that they no longer thought of a chapel
of ease, but of a Relief meeting-house.  Besides this, there
is an Antiburgher meeting-house, which was built about
the year 1766*.  About the one half of the inhabitants of
the town, and almost two-thirds of the country part of the
parish, still adhere to the Established Church.  The rest
are either dissenters of different denominations, or make no
religious profession of any kind.  The Relief congregation
is numerous, but it is partly made up from the neighbour-
ing parishes of Glasford, Stonehouse, and Kilbride.  The
Antiburgher congregation is made up in the same way; but
though of longer standing than the other, is much smaller.
There are still a few of the old Cameronians in the parish.
Instead of worshipping in the field as formerly, they now
have a meeting-house in the neighbouring parish of Loudon,
to which they occasionally resort.  The observations of a
worthy clergyman of this church are fully verified here.
"Divisions which were formed in anger redound to the in-
crease of knowlege and forbearance; time moderates the
fierceness of wrath; the multitude of sects abates their
animosity; principle is respected, mistakes are pardoned,
and they are drawn together again by the bonds of hu-
manity."-The Duke of Hamilton is patron.-The stipend

<FOOTNOTE>

*To counteract seceding principles, and to accomodate the remote
parts of the parish with a house for public worship.  Mr William Gilmour,
preacher of the gospel, who had long been catechist in the parish, began
about the year 1777, to build a chapel in a convenient place, between
four and five miles distant from the parish-church.  He died about the
beginning of the year 1780, shortly after the intended chapel, manse, and
schoolmaster's house were roofed in, leaving his whole estate, which was
considerable, for endowing the chapel, and other pious uses with in the
parish.  But his will, or rather wills, (for there were six of them, and all
holograph,) were found to be so perplexed, that the heir at law thought
fit to seize upon the estate, and the validity of the wills has never yet been
brought to a trial.  Thus, the good man's purposes have been defeated
by not employing a man of business to write his will.


