
12                              BUTESHIRE.

rod and the net; the latter, however, is used at the mouths of the
rivers only. The sea along the coast abounds in valuable fish.
The kinds most commonly found are whitings and haddocks; but
cod, ling, mackerel, conger-eels, skate, flounders, soles, and tur-
bots, with a variety of smaller fishes, are also ofen caught. Lob-
sters and crabs, and great varieties of other shell-fish, are to be
found along every part of the coast, but are most abundant at the
south end of the parish, and in the neighbourhood of Pladda.
Oysters are got only at Lochranza. Herrings pay short occasional
visists to all parts of the coast, but their favourite haunts are on the
west and north sides of the island, in the sound of Kilbrandon, be-
tween Arran and Carradale. They generally make their first ap-
pearance in July, and remain till the end of November. Those
cured in the months of August and September are considered the
best.
  3. Reptiles.-The reptiles most commonly found in the parish
are the nimble lizard, the blind dorne, the adder, the warty-eft,
the water-eft, the brown-eft or ask, the common frog, the edible
frog, and toad. The writer has not seen any of the venomous
toads described by Pennant as natives of Arran; but the people of
Lochranza declare that they are often seen in that quarter, and
describe them as rough on the back, corpulent in shape, and from
six to eight inches in length.
  4. Birds.-These are very numerous, and in great variety. Of
land birds, the most conspicuous and important are the red and
black grouse, both of which are very abundant, and the latter so
fond of descending to the low grounds, as seriously to annoy the
farmer in spring and harvest. The ptarmigan is occasionally found
near the summits of the granite mountains. Pheasants, which
were introduced some years ago, are now numerous about Brodick,
and are gradually spreading over the whole of the parish. Eagles,
falcons, hawks of various species, hooded and carrion crows, ravens,
owls, and magpies, were at one time very numerous, and are still
to be met with, but the premiums given by the Duke of Hamil-
ton for destroying them have nearly effected their extirpation.
Other birds, however, especially the smaller ones, have increased
in proportion, to the serious loss of the lovers of cherries, straw-
berries, and other garden fruits. Among these may be mentioned
as very common, the ring-dove, the rock-dove, the cuckoo, the
swallow, the martin, the sand-martin. the swift, the missel-thrush,
the common thrust, the red-wing thrush, the fieldfare, the whin-



