
     of Shotts.

pear*.  It got a few repairs some years ago; much remains
still to be done in this way.  The manse was built in the
year 1700.  Before Mr Bruce's admission, it had undergone
repeated repairs.  At that period 100 guineas were lald out up-
on it, which have rendered it, though in a very exposed situa-
tion, abundantly snug and convenient.  The glebe consists of
44 acres.  It might rent as a small farm at 13 L. or 14 L. Ster-
ling.  In it there is a seam of coal, of the splint or parrot kind,
fully 3 feet thick.  There are here two strata of iron stone,
the one resting immediately upon the coal, the other a foot
nearer the surface, each from 4 to 6 inches thick: there is, at
a small distance from this, another seam of coal upon the
glebe, of the smiddy or dross kind; this being only two feet
thick, would, in a country like Shotts, (though it be of an ex-
cellent quality) nearly exhaust its value in working.  The
living of Shotts, manse, glebe, and fire included, is worth
140 L. Sterling.  The Seceders are much more numerous than
the members of the Established Church++.
   School.  The school-master of Shotts, as in many other places
of Scotland, acts as session-clerk.  The emoluments, annex-
ed to his office, may be about 3 L. 10 s.  The quarterly allow-
ance for each scholar taught English is 20 d. writing 2 s. Latin

<FOOTNOTE>

*Anciently the parish of BOTHWELL extended from the Clyde, (washing
along its S. W. borders) all the way to the confines of West Lothian.  To
accommodate the inhabitants in the Eastern parts of this great parish, the first
Lord HAMILTON, in the year 1450, built a chapel where the kirk of Shotts
now stands, called St Catharine's Chapel, being dedicated to ST CATHARINE
of SIENNA.  It was not, however, till after the Reformation, that the coun-
try round this chapel was totally detached from Bothwell, and erected into a
separate parish.

++After a struggle which lasted upwards of six years, the settlement of Mr
LAURENCE WELLS, late incumbent in Shotts, was at length effected in the
year 1768.  Soon after this, a meeting-house was built, to which the great
majority of the people called a Burgher clergyman.


