
92      			WIGTONSHIRE.

	The principal obstacle to improvement arises from the want of
capital among the tenantry.
	Raw Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce rais-
ed in the parish may probably be as under:

<TABLE>
                  Produce of grain of all kinds,                       L. 15,200
                          of green crop, potatoes, turnip, &c.             6,500
                          of hay,                                          1,500
                          of crops cultivated for the arts, as flax,          40
                          of land in pasture,                              7,000
                                                                          ------
                                                           Total,      L. 30,240
  Manufactures.--Manufactures have never been introduced into
the parish to any extent.
  Navigation.--Lochryan affords great facilities for shipping.
There is excellent shelter and excellent anchorage opposite the
village of Cairnryan. Here, with proper ground tackle, a vessel
may ride out the heaviest gale. Lochryan has long been a place
of refuge for the shipping of the Clyde, and vessels navigating the
Irish Channel. It has often been suggested as the best station
for the mail-packets between Scotland and Ireland. A Govern-
ment survey was lately made with reference to this object, and it
is understood to have been the opinion of the distinguished naval
officer employed in that service, that Lochryan is the fittest sta-
tion.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.--The nearest market-town is Stranraer. It is
three miles distant from the parish church.
   Villages.--The principal village is Cairnryan. Its population
is about 300. It is seven miles distant from the parish church.
Another village contains about 200. A suburb of Stranraer has
been lately built within the parish of Inch, containing nearly 100.
   Means of Communication.--The great road from London to
Portpatrick passes through the parish; also the road from Glas-
gow to Portpatrick. Three mail-coaches travel daily through
the parish. The Stranraer and Glasgow steamer, and the Stran-
raer and Belfast steamer call regularly at Cairnryan, and receive
and land passengers and goods. The parish thus enjoys facility of
communication with all parts of the world.
  Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is the only place of
worship within the parish. It is eight or ten miles distant from
some of the extremities of the parish. Many of the parishioners
are situated at an inconvenient distance. It is proposed, however
to remedy this evil by the erection ofa church at Cairnryan. The
parish church was built in 1770. It is not in good repair, and is



