
                       PETTIE.                               415

bestowal of crofts on decayed farmers, and allowances to indivi-
duals considered to have some claim on their bounty; so that there
always were, and there now are, some select objects who are pen-
sioners of this description. But although no class of men are
more compassionate than the present occupiers of the large farms,
it will be obvious at a glance, how the introduction of large farms,
bad brought the general poor, who had no claims to be received
as pensioners, and who were reduced to subsist by alms, into a
worse condition than they were in before. For, in a forenoon, and
in the circuit-of what now comprises only one or two large farms,
they could obtain as many small cupfuls of meal, as they can now
obtain after traversing a quarter of the parish. If the agricultural
changes have spread an ampler board before a proprietor, it is,
surely, not unreasonable to expect that some crumbs may be cast
to the unpensioned and unbefriended of this class of paupers.
   This district, from its being traversed by the public road to
Aberdeen, is peculiarly infested by impostors, pretending to be
shipwrecked sailors, clerks, and schoolmasters whose health has
failed, and vagrants with forged or out-dated passes, or begging
certificates furnished with too much facility. We expect a remedy
to this evil from the adoption of the Constabulary Act by the
county, and the rural police now in course of formation.
   Fuel.--Coal (English chiefly) is the fuel of the farmers. On
Gollanfield and Culloden properties, peats are a good deal used.
The poorest classes avail themselves of any brushwood which they
can find.
   Ale-houses.--There are two licensed dram-houses on the old
Nairn road, and two in the village of Stuartown. There Were
twelve such houses when the former Account was written.
   Savings Banks.--It is not improbable that, before the present
Account passes through the press, a savings bank may be esta-
blished in the parish. *

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the former Statistical Account was published, extraordi-
nary changes have taken place in this parish. Large tracks,
which "nature then held in her own hands," and which were cloth-
ed only with broom or whins, are now enclosed and subdivided as
fertile fields. The clumps of trees which marked the frequent

<FOOTNOTE>One has been established at Inverness, and is available to the surrounding dis-
tricts.


