
                              RENFREW.                              7

but appearing at first bluish black, from the tinge of the water with
which it is filled. On running a walking stick frequently into the
sand, it became quite dyed, so as to retain the colour, though fre-
quently washed. On opening a pit, there was also a strong smell of
bilge water, or such as is felt on digging within the flow of the tide
down the frith. These pits were dug probably from four to six feet
under the surface of the soil. And we may add, that the above
observations may be verified by examining almost every deep ditch
in that neighbourhood. In one place, we found a quantity of small
shells,--cockles, muscles, welks, &c. not more than about twenty
inches under the surface, imbedded in sand, but resting on a mass
of clay. This was about a mile south of the burgh; and about
half a mile farther south, there is a long ridge or bank consisting
chiefly of sand or gravel, and bearing the name of the " Cockle
Hill." Near the place where the small shells were found, larger
shells, resembling cockles, are also occasionally found at a depth of
ten or twelve feet in unstratified clay; and they have also been found
in other parts of the parish. The western extremity of the ridge al-
ready described also rises into a small conical hill, and consists,
for a considerable depth, of gravel, bearing strong marks of its hav-
ing been thrown up by cross currents. There are other two simi-
lar knolls or hills in the parish, and of like consistency.  One of
these, Blawerthill, has been dug to a great depth; and it appears
that, under the gravel, there is a bed of clay exactly correspond-
ing in quality and situation with that around the hill,--thus show-
ing the gravel to be distinct from the surrounding strata, and rest-
ing upon it. We have also before us, stones which were raised by the
dredging-machine out of the bottom of the present channel of the
Clyde, near Scotstown. These are composed of a soft slaty sub-
stance, and are evidently water-worn, being formed into a variety of
circular and other rounded figures, such as might be expected on
some beach of fine sand, under the action of the tide. Yet they
are found deeply imbedded in white mud, and lower than the
wonted channel of the river. * The conclusion to which these
facts naturally lead, is, that the whole of the level tract already de-
scribed must at one time have been under water, and that the
surrounding heights, still free of alluvial matter, were then the

  <FOOTNOTE>117 borings have just been made in the bed of the river, between Glasgow and
Findlayston, a distance of perhaps 16 miles; and throughout this course nothing has
been found which may not be regarded as alluvial. Along this parish, running mud,
sand, gravel and clay, sometimes mixed with small stones, form the chief materials.
Along a considerable way, the bed of the river consists of white soft mud.


