
338                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ground around the castle, because the names of the neighbouring
baronies seem to be of as great antiquity.  At present it is em-
ployed to designate the castle and the chapel, with the small land-
ed property connected with them; and also the village of Roslin,
which is mostly situated on a different estate.  Besides, the name
Roslin has been lately given to a new parish, which is wholly a
disjunction quoad sacra from Lasswade.  This disjunction was
made by the Presbytery of Dalkeith, in 1835, in consequence of
an Act of the General Assembly, in 1834, called the Chapel Act;
and it is this parish of which it is proposed now to give an account.
   Extent--The extreme length of the parish is 5 1/2 miles, and its
extreme breadth is 3 3/4 miles.  It contains about 10 square miles,
and is somewhat irregular in its shape.
   Boundaries.--It is bounded on the north by Lasswade parish;
on the east by Cockpen and Carrington parishes; and on the
south and west bv Pennicuik and Glencross parishes.
   Topographical Appearances.--While the parish rises gradually
from north to south, partly up the course of the river North Esk,
it is, at the same time, most beautifully and romantically diversi-
fied in its character.  The river North Esk, which traverses the
parish little more than a mile, but which forms its boundary for
about five miles, is one of the most remarkable streams in Scot-
land for magnificent scenery, from its commencement in the Pent-
land Hills, to its termination in the Frith of Forth, at Mussel-
burgh.  It is chiefly, however, in that-part of the Vale of the Esk
which has been denominated "Roslin's rocky glen," where there
is the principal concentration of beauty and grandeur.
   Temperature.--The parish, varying in elevation from 300 to
upwards of 800 feet above the level of the sea, possesses an at-
mosphere considerably lower in temperature than that of the me-
tropolis, from which it is distant about seven miles.
   The climate has been often remarked to be uncommonly salu-
brious in its nature.  It is probable that there are few localities
on the face of the earth, where the average rate of mortality is
lower than it is in the village and vicinity of Roslin.
   Springs--Along the precipitous banks of the Esk, there are
multitudes of springs of the purest water.  One of these, in the
neighbourbood of the castle, is named St Matthew's Well, from
which the greater number of the inhabitants of Roslin village are
supplied with waters.  The extreme purity of the water of this well
is owing to. its filtering through a very  deep stratum of gravel;
                                3

