
                                       ELGIN.                       17
             sold, and the money drawn applied to the purchase or more raw
             material. There are upwards of seventy aired and'infirm females
             on the books of the society, who are either occasionally: or con-
             stantly employed.  They express their gratitude for the aid which
             keeps them from the degradation of begging, and seem very sen-
             sible how much the relief which their own industry thus procure's
             for them, is superior in relish and respectability to the ordinary
             gratuity. A committee of ladies attend at the sale-roomon on a stat-
             ed day every week, to give out and take in work,- and it is chiefly
             owing to their benevolent and active services, that the society is
             flourishing in the. sixth year of its existence. Beyond the inciden-
             tal expenses, the annual loss upon the manufactured articles is a
             mere trifle.

             <TABLE>
               Produce.-The average amount and value of raw produce yearly
             raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follo
                                   Grain,                      L. 14485
                                   Potatoes and turnips,           3606
                                   Hay,                             292
                                   Pasture,                        2920

                                                              L. 21,300
             The thinnings of plantations may probably amount to L. 100 per
             annum.

                                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
               Town.-There are no villages in the parish, and Elgin is the
             only town. It has been already stated that it is not amanufactur-
             ing place, and that the population, are capitalists, professionals meng
             retailers, artisans, and labourers. It has ten fairs annually for the
             sale of cattle, horses, &c. and a weekly Market on Friday for grain,
             poultry, butier, and other articles, of farm. And g4rden'produice'.
             The small farmer generally sells his grain to the ia-orn-factor a6d
             the large farmer disposes of his barley to the brewer or distiller, or
             sends it with his-wheat-and oats to the Leith, Londdn, and Liver-
             pool markets.  Some years ago a considerable'traffick in wheaten
             flower was carried on with Aberdeen and some of the provincial
             towns of that and the neighbouring county of Banff but of late
             this trade has'ratber declined. There it also aclass in 1he town
             called meal-mongers, who, purchase small quantities of oats, which
             they manufacture, and retail to the trades-people and labourer
               Police.-The magistrates have the superintendence of the police.
             They apoint a fisml for the burgh, and occassionall hold courts
             for determining trifling debts amd disputes concerning burgage pre-
             perty, and for the trial of petty offences committed within the
               ELGIN.                            B


