
                      PARISH OF AUCHTERGAVEN.

          PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

             THE REV.  THOMAS NELSON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
          Name.-AUCHTERGAVEN is stated in the former Account to be
       a word of Celtic original, and to be thus written in that language,
       Uackdarghamb-thir,-a term said to signify the upper part of thd
       winter land.  No reason is assigned for this derivation, and none
       is obvious.  The name, however, is doubtless of Celtic origin;
       and I have received these accounts of its etymology, 1. That it
       comes from Uackdar, the top, and Gabhainn, a young bullock,
       a yearling.  By the union of these two words Auchtergaven
       is formed, and literally signifies the Hill of the young Cattle-a
       name which may have been suggested by the circumstance of the
       elevated ground occupied by the church having been a common
       on which the parishioners had the right of grazining their young
       stock: or the name may have taken its rise from cattle market
       held in that locality; and indeed a market, chiefly for cattle, is
       still held annually near the same place, in the month of November.
       2. The name by another derivation is said to be compounded of
       Uachdar, and cun, dogs; so that Auchtergaven signifies the Hill of
       Dogs; and the reason of the designation is said to have been this:
       When the Kings of Scotland had their court at Scone or St John-
       ston, this was the place where the dogs were uncoupled, when the
       King and his attendants took the diversion of the chase.  A dis-
       trict of the parish, at this day famous for its game, bears the n`le
       of Kinglands.  The first part of the name, Uachdar, top or
       height, is accurately descriptive of the situation of the church,
       which stands proudly upon the activity of eminence,  and is a
       conspicuous object from the greater part of the parish.
       Staiiley-ic4i its baoto
          Extent and Boundaries.  The parish, from Stanley on its east-
       ern to Corrody on its westerns extremity, is fully l0 miles in
       length; and from Marlhaugh, on its southern, to the top of Birnam-
       hill on its northern extremity, it is upwards of 6 miles in breadth.


