
88                               ORKNEY.

and the sea-reed are plentiful near the sandy beaches; and the
sea banks themselves are often ornamented by the cowslip, thrift,
and sea-pink, epilobium and cranesbill.
   Zoology.-Few places -present more encouragement to the sports-
man than the parishes of Cross and Burness, for though there are
no grouse or hare-, as on Eday or on-:the  mainland of Orkney,
there are great numbers of lapwing, snipe, and landrail; while
rabbits are not counted by hundreds, but by thousands. On more
than one farm 3000 rabbits are taken yearly The rocks are te-
nanted by large gocks of the wild pigeon; and the lakesi sounds,
and bays are filled with almost every variety of water- fowl. - About,
the 20th of June or later, as the season has been favourable or
otherwise, literally elo,uds of the golden plover arrive from the
north; and with vast, numbers of the sandpiper tribe, of the cur-
lews herons, and whimbr'els, they are to be folind on the moors
and flat shoresof the island, until early spring calls them off to
their breeding4,places in less populous regions. Very many varie-
ties both of water and land birds remain on the island, all the sea-
son, and breed there. Of these the oyster-catcher, the redshank,
the dunlin, the dotterel, the turnstone, the'tern, and several va-
rieties of the gull tribe,-the eider-duck, the common wild duck,
the teal, the shield drake, and others of the duck tribe, with larks,
buntings, and starlings, are the most numerous. Of the last nam-
ed birds, the starlings, the writer took from his dovecot in one
morning DO less than twenty-two dozen.
. The- fish caught round the island are, cod, ling, skate, bolibut,
flounder, and the young of the coal-fish, here called sillocks and
cuiths. These last -are caught on the fly, either from the rocks, or
from the stern of a small boat; and in addition to the supply of
food which they form at all seasons of the year, and the quantity
of oil for household use produced from their livers, the catching
of them is Do despicable sport, and would be preferred to the fin-
est river fishing by thosd who would rather fill theiri basket in one
hour, than exercise their patience by waiting all day for even 11 a
glorious nibble." Lobsters are caught in great numbers by boats
from the shorei and bought up and conveyed to the London
market, direct from Sanday, by smacks. Seals; are pretty nu-
merous; but,as - there are no resident sportsmeni they - are not
often shot.The otter, -frequentso the rocks and caverns on the
West side,      is occasionally  seen stealing his way to; Bea
But the most exciting of all fishings, if fishing it can


