
                        WESTRUTHER.                           87

sessment, the family of the principal resident proprietorare inde-
fatigable and exemplary in attending to the wants of the poor; and
even during their periodical absence, they furnish the minister and
others with the means of relieving the indigent and the distressed.
We may say, indeed, that there are few parishes where the condi-
tion of the poorer classes is better than in Westruther.
   This parish has long been peculiarly infested by sturdy beggars
and vagrants. But by a regulation lately made on the threatened
appearance of cholera, they were prohibited from being entertained
in the parish; in consequence of which, few or none are now to be
seen. The same regulation adopted in other parishes, could not
fail to be equally beneficial. The minds of the benevolent in this
parish were reconciled to the measure by a subscription raised to
provide lodging and necessaries for those houseless wanderers who
might be overtaken here by night.
   Inns.-There are five alehouses in the parish,-more than are
required for the convenience of the inhabitants. It is proper, how-
ever, to add, that the workin-classes of Westruther are generally
a sober race.
   Fuel.-The nearest place whence coals can be procured is about
twenty miles distant from this parish, in consequence of which
numbers are precluded from the use of them. The fuel in
general use is peat. The wages of a labourer employed in digging
this fuel are 2s. 2d. per day; and two days' work of a caster, with
two assistants to hurl and spread out the peats as they are cast,
are reckoned sufficient to meet the demand of a hind's or labour-
er's family. The farmers, and others in better circumstances, take
sometimes a much longer time. Coal is from 11d. to 1s. per cwt.
Turf is now prohibited to be taken for fuel.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
This parish has been advancing for a long time in an almost
geometrical progression, in everything that constitutes a "right
moral, and a right economical," state of a parish,-in its general
appearance,-in the rank it holds among the agricultural parishes
of the county,-in its means of communication with other parts of
the country,-and in the intelligence of its inhabitants. Forty
years ago more than a third of the land was waste and incapable of
improvement, on a great proportion of which the yellow corn is now
seen to wave; and if a similar interval pass before a third Statis-
tical Account be demanded, such an inroad shall have been made
on the few bogs and mosses that are still unimproved, as will leave
little to tell of the ancient condition of Westruther beyond the name.
   June 1834.


