
     of Unst, in Shetland

   General Character.-The people are frank and open in
their manners; bold, hardy, and humane; and industrious,
as far as circumstances have arisen to excite and cherish in-
dustry among them.  In cases of shipwreck upon these shores,
the sufferers are receive by the islanders with the kindest
and most attentive hospitality.  The poor of the parish are
treated as children of the families into which they are ad-
mitted.  Music and dancing are favourite amusements, es-
pecially in winter.  Many of the common people play with
skill upon the violin.  Gin is the spirituous liquor most ge-
nerally in use; and although there ar no ale-houses, is
often drunk by the lower classes in too great quantities.
Violations of chastity happen now and then.  An inordi-
nate taste for finery in dress has, of late, begun to prevail
through the island.  None of the young men ever enter in-
to the army.

   Proposed Improvements.-An increased bounty upon the
fishery, perhaps a conversion of the teinds, rents, and scatt
into money, and any fortunate concurrence of circumstances,
that might induce the natives to turn their attention more
to the improvement of their sheep and wool, would un-
doubtedly contribute greatly to better the circumstan-
ces, and increase the numbers of the inhabitants of this
island.  It is believed, that when Shetland was finally ce-

     VOL. V. C c

<FOOTNOTE>

preciptous, and are said to have been places for the execution of crimi-
nals.  Near these is a ruinous building, said to have been the Judgement
Hall.  A causeway leads to it from the foot of the rock.  On the hill of
Crossfield are some concentric circles of earth and stone, with eminences
raised in the middle.  Upon the same hill there is a small heap of stones
is the form of a grave, surrounded with a row of rude pillars.  Two an-
cient obelisks remain; one near Lund, a thick and shapeless rock; the
other near Uya Sound, seems to have been a mark for directing into that
harbour, and is ten and half feet high, slender and tapering to the top.


