
			PENNINGHAME.			     183

the demand. Cutting peats and moving are generally had at 2s. 6d.
per day. Artisans commonly work in their own houses now, and
charge for the work done. There are, howeve, still a few excep-
tions, and their wages are from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per day for wright;
and from 2s. 6d. to 3s. for masons.
	Live-Stocks.--The sheep of the original breed have been men-
tioned, and they still constitute the stocks of the sheep-farms; but
sheep of the Leicester, Cheviot, and other breeds have been in-
troduced into the parish, particularly into the south end; and
they seem to be increasing in number. Cattle of the Galloway
breed are over the whole parish, and much attention has been paid
to the improving of them. There are some Irish cattle in this
parish, by which the original breed is in some places affected.
Kyle cows have also been introduced, partictlarly near to New-
tonstewart. They are considered preferable, when mmilk is the
principal object in keeping them. The pasture seems to suit them
very well, and the management of them is beginning to be well
understood. In this district, the object formerly was to rear cat-
tle. There is much more attention paid to dairy produce since cat-
tle became of less value, and of course did not pay the farmer so
well.
	Husbandry.--The general character of the husbandry pursued
is good. In old and life leases, the tenants are commonly left much
at liberty in the management of their farms; but these leases are
now not many in number; and in all recent leases, the rotation of
crops is distinctly specified, and strictly observed,--though there
may be some small deviations permitted in particulas circum-
stances. The common and most approved rotation is one grain
crop (oats), though two are frequently allowed, a green crop,
a grain crop, and the land sown with rye-grass and clover, &c.
to lie in pasture for a longer or shorter period according to the
number of fields, and other circumstances of the farm. A crop of
barley is most common after a green crop. The system of hus-
bandry would be improved by cleaning the land better,--in many
cases, by ploughing deeper,--and by more care in making the fields
dry.
	Improvements.--There has been some improvement in reclaim-
ing waste moss land. One tenant has reclaimed about seventy acres
on the west side of the Moss of Cree. The land was worth about
3s. 6d. a year per acre. Improved, at the present low rate of value,
it is worth about L. 1 a year per acre (Scotch.) The expense of im-


