
	               KIRKMICHAEL,                      503

while the elegant farm-houses which have been erected convey
to the mind of the beholder the pleasing impression of liberality on
the part of the landlord, and domestic comfort on that of the
tenant.
  About thirty years ago, the proprietor of the barony of Dalhoan
commenced feuing on one of his farms in the heart of his estate,
with the view of increasing his rental, and raising the value of land
in the neighbourhood.*   This undertaking happened to be enter-
ed upon at a most favourable time, during the war, when manu-
factures were in a very flourishing condition.  A large influx of
wanderers from the other side of the water caused the high rents
to be maintained, and houses to be still more in demand. In this
way fresh encouragement was given for new buildings. A great
proportion of the inhabitants of Crosshill, 800 out of 1000, are
either Irish or of Irish extraction. In many instances, it must
be confessed, they exhibit the too common characteristics of
their countrymen, indolent, improvident, and passionately ad-
dicted to spirits and tobacco. At the same time, it is but doing
them justice to say, that they have visibly improved in these re-
spects. They are beginning to appreciate the excellence of quiet
and orderly habits, and can now spend, in healthful exercise and
rational amusement, those hours that were previously consumed in
degrading sloth or sensual indulgence. Not a few take a pride in co-
pying the example of their Scottish neighbours, have a wish to pos-
sess a suit of better clothes for Sabbath, and to appear like other
people at church.
  Manufactures.--The manufacture of cotton is the staple trade
of the place. The large Glasgow warehouses appoint agents here,
who give out the cotton to the hand-loom weavers, and are respon-
sible for its manufacture into the required fabric. By this means, a
large sum of money is transmitted weekly from Glasgow to the coun-
try. Children are put to the loom, as early as the age of ten. Wo-
men are frequently as expert weavers as men. Females who have
not been brought up to weave, make a livelihood by filling bobbins.
  There is another very extensive branch of industry,--the Ayr-
shire needle-work, which is executed in this village, in a very superior
style. It is a valuable means of employment, and furnishes decent
support to many respectable females, yet it is to be feared that the

<FOOTNOTE> For the origin and early history of Crosshill, and other facts in this account, the
writer is indebted  to the MS. of the Rev. Mr Kennedy, late Minister of this parish.
Through the kindness of an esteemed friend, Mr Alexander Kennedy, now in Austra-
lia, the use of his father's papers was very obligingly allowed.


