
     Of Aberdour.

large cairn of stones at Coburty, about 2 1/2 miles E. from the
church; from this cairn a considerable part of the stones being
taken away to build enclosures, and the earth below where
they lay being digged up for making dunghills, it was found
to be mixed with a number of human bones*.

   Diseases.-There are no diseases peculiar to this district,
the bodily complaint that most prevails among all ranks,
young and old, is rheumatism.

   Proprietors, Church, School-house, etc.-There are only two

     4 D 2

<FOOTNOTE>

is 40 feet.  The breadth of the last, and outer parallel, is irregular, from 5 to 8
feet, and its depth 4 feet; the distance between it and the former parallel is 12
feet.  Though this fortress could now be of little service, even if remaining in
its former strength, being commanded by the neighhouring ground, yet before
the use of great guns, it must have been a very strong place, and could have re-
ceived supplies of men and provision by sea, as at full tide a small vessel could
have lain to at the very foot of the castle rock; the garrison, however, might
have been starved for want of water, by cutting the pipes, which conveyed the
water to the castle, from a spring about 200 paces distant, some remains of
which pipes have been found of late years by the tenants, in digging the ground
between the castle and spring.  And tradition says, that it was this circumstance
which obliged Henry de Beaumont, the English Earl of Buchan, to capitulate,
when besieged therein by Andrew Murray, regent of Scotland, during the cap-
tivity of King David Bruce, in the year 1336.
*The tradition is, that the Danes having landed on the Buchan coast, and
pillaging the country in their way to Murray, then in possession of their coun-
trymen, were come up with, at the place where now stand the cairns of Memsie
in the parish of Rathen, by the Scotch army, and defeated, three of their leaders
being slain, over whose buried bodies the 3 cairns there were raised, on the very
spot where each of them fell; that the Danes retreated, and were again over-
taken and defeated at Coburty, the cairn being raised over the graves of their
slain; and that the remains of this Danish army were finally defeated and cut
to pieces, on a heath about a quarter of a mile W. from the church of Gamery,
which still retains the name of the Bloody Pots; in memory of which victory,
the skulls of 3 of their slain leaders were built into the inside of the church Wall
where two of them still remain, the other being consumed through length of
time.


