
586                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

nately becoming every day less frequent, no criminal case has oc-
curred for many years.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The modern improvements in agriculture are
now in full operation, not only on the farms in the actual posses-
sion of the proprietors, but on those also occupied by their tenantry;
and crops of every description are frequently raised, both as to
quantity and quality, equal to any in the county.  The farms
(with the exception of one upon Sir Andrew Leith Hay's estate)
are not very extensive.  They vary from 80 to 100 acres in
extent.  There are twenty occupiers of land qualified (in con-
sequence of their rent being L.50 and upwards) to vote at an
election for a Member of Parliament.  A considerable extent
of ground is let in small farms under L.50, and crofts of from two
to fifteen acres.  The greater part of the ground susceptible of cul-
tivation is now under a regular rotation of cropping.  What is cropping ge-
monlv called the seven years' shift is the mode of cropping ge-
neraliy adopted.
   Improvements.-Much has been done in the way of improve-
ment, since the beginning of the present century.  Several hundred
acres of marshy ground have been completely drained, and now
produce weighty crops; many acres of moorland, upon which the
appearance of ridges was still visible, showing, that they had at one
time been cultivated, have again been brought under the plough,
and a very considerable extent of land has been trenched, parti-
cularly upon the estate of Wardhouse.  The old custom of erect-
ing folds for young cattle in summer, has now gone into disuse;
the modern style of farming having rendered the land unfit for
erecting such fences.  The dwellings and mode of living of the
inhabitants have also kept pace with the improvements in agricul-
ture.  Many of the houses of the farmers are now built of stones
and lime, instead of turf-and covered with slates instead of straw
they have generally one apartment at least floored with wood, and the
walls and roof neatly cieled and plastered.  The more extensive
farmers use machinery in the thrashing of their grain; and in har-
vest, the scythe has universally supplanted the use of the sickle.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market-town in the parish; the
nearest is that of Huntly, distant about eight miles.  The great-
est part of the grain, however, is taken to Inverury, distant eighteen
miles, and, conveyed to Aberdeen by a canal-the carts in return


