
42  		               FORFARSHIRE.

and Steeple Churches,-there being four churches and five mi-
nisters in the same edifice.

	The appearance of these churches, with their lofty, massy, and
time-worn tower, is on the whole imposing. From their situation
they are highly ornamental, and they are convenient, too, as places
of worship. The tower which adjoins their western end is 156 feet
in height. The top is surrounded with a battlemented stone rail,
and on the summit stands a small house, which disfigures the beauty
of the structure. The use or object of this house it is idle to con-
jecture.

	In 1823, St David's Church, in North Tay Street, was erected.
Built by the Independdnts in 1800, and used by them for several
years, it is now an Established church, handsomely fitted up, con-
taining nearly 2000 sitters, and most convenient for the population
on the north-west of the town. By the constitution of this church,
the town-council became bound to erect an additional church, when
the three incumbents then in the Old and South Churches should
be removed, the New Church to be supplied by one of their suc-
cessors. By this arrangement every minister will have in time his
own church and congregation.

	Dundee has three chapels of ease,--St Andrew's Chapel, built
in 1772 by the kirk-session and trades, and still under their ma-
nagement; the Chapelshade Chapel, built in 1789 by a Relief
congregation, and now in connection with the Church of Scotland;
and a small Gaelic Chapel, in which our Highland population hear
the gospel preached in their mountain tongue.

	The minister of the first charge of Dundee has a stipend of
twenty chalders, which, by the fiars of 1831, produce about
L.309; he has also L.10 in money; a glebe of five and a-half
acres, worth, for cultivation, about L.5 an acre;--in all about
L.347:--and lately he has obtained a substantial manse.
The stipends of the other five ministers are L.275 each. In St
Andrews and Chapelshade Chapels the stipends are about L.200.
In the former an assirt`nt is employed, in consequence of the men-
tal affliction of the incumbent. The Gaelic minister, in addition
to his other emoluments, has hitherto enjoyed L.10 a-year from
the Society for the Diffusion of Christian Knowledge.

	Though possessing eight churches and chapels, and nine mi-
nisters connected with the establishment, Dundee is as yet one
parish; and the discipline and poors' fund are managed by a ge-
neral session, containing at present, in addition to six ministers,


