
562                            AYRSHIRE.

have usually covered the expenditure. These facts demonstrate,
that there exists in the mind of the public a conviction of the
utility of the institution. The town is divided into fourteen di-
tricts; these are apportioned among the medical gentlemen, as
near as possible to their respective locations, and each is taken in
every day charge by a surgeon, for the period of at least twelve
consecutive months. This plan has fully realized the anticipations
of its advocates. While it has diminished the expenditure, it has
by no means pressed heavily upon the medical attendants, and they
have had the satisfaction of doing something like justice to their
patients. The average income and expenditure is L. 50. During
the year 1835, the cases admitted for treatment were 243, being
somewhat more than an average number since the commencement.
During that year, there were comparatively few epidemic diseases.
The list of diseases contains onl five cases of small-pox, all of
which terminated favourably. The numbdr of fever cases amount-
ed to 45, of these five were fatal. In 1831, there were 105 cases
of fever; and in 1832, the appalling number of 246. Since that
period, the ravages of this disease have been comparatively slight.
During 1833, the admissions under that head amounted to 43,
and in 1834 only to 15.
	Savings Bank.--The savings bank was instituted in June 1821,
and is found to be of great utility. The depositors are chiefly la-
bourers, operatives, and maid-servants. At the commencement of
the institution, many of these classes did not well understand its
nature; and some of them  even suspected that the Government
had some design on their purses. But explanations by the clergy-
men, and the publication of the annual reports, have completely
removed their suspicions. They now appreciate its merits, and
avail themselves of the opportunity thus offered to them, to depo-
sit their savings where they are perfectly secure, and constantly
increasing by the accumulation of interest. The bank receives
sums from 1s. to L. 10. The depositors are required to withdraw
their savings when they amount to L. 1O, being such a sum as an-
other bank will receive. And many of them have actually trans-
ferred this sum to the banks, and finding themselves richer
than, they ever expected to become, they have taken courage and
opened new accounts. The number of the individuals that have
taken the benefit of the institution since its commencement, to the
31st of May 1837, is 3156. The number that had accounts open
at the same date, 955.


