
140                           EDINBURGHSHIRE.

<TABLE>

   Average of marriages from the parish record of proclamation
of banns:-

        1831,   1832,  1833,  1834,  1835,  1836,  1837,
         19      14      6     14     18     16     18

   The number of families of independent fortune, statedly or oc-
casionally resident in the parish, 4.
   1 insane and 1 fatuous person reside in the parish; 2 deaf and
dumb, and 1 blind.
   Number of illegitimate births during the last three years, 16.
   Habits and Character of the People.- On the estate of Clifton
Hall, especially, several cottages have been built on a remarkably
neat plan, and most of them are kept in excellent order, by the
families living in them; in other parts of the parish likewise, se-
veral places might be specified, where habits of cleanliness seem
evidently to prevail. But it is to be regretted that this is by no
means universal. The larger villages, and especially that of Kirk-
liston, are very deficient in this respect. There are in this village
several houses, recently built, and these are generally kept in a
clean and neat condition; but in many of the old houses, the ha-
bits of the families are still very far behind the standard which,
in this part of the country, ought certainly to be reached by all;
and there is little perceptible approach to it. on the whole, the
people of the parish enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the comforts of
social life, and are contented with their circumstances. Outward
decency of conduct is generally maintained by them-but it is to
be feared that here, as in other parts of the country, the low price
of spirituous liquors has been productive of most pernicious con-
sequences, in regard to the moral habits of the people.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The number of farms in the parish is 30; the number of farm-
servants, statedly employed in the management of these, is about
140. There are 11 wrights; 9 smiths; 5 tailors; 8 shoemakers;
5 grocers; 2 candlemakers; 4 bakers. There is one medical
gentleman in the parish.
   Agriculture.- The number of acres, standard imperial measure,
in the parish, is 7722, of which the whole may be said to be cul-
tivated, or in plantations, or in permanent pasture, with the ex-
ception, perhaps, of a small quantity of waste land on the detached
farm of Liston Shiels. The plantations are not extensive; on the
lands of Newliston, Clifton Hall, Carlowrie, Foxhall, Niddry and
Humbie, there is a good deal of old timber, and over various dis-


