
264                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

repeatedly surveyed, and there are plans of the separate estates in
the possession of the respective proprietors.  The estate of Aber-
dour was surveyed about twenty years ago, when it was purchased
by Mr Dingwall of Brucklay from Mr Gordon, the former pro-
prietor; and Auchmedden was surveyed in 1810, and again in
wall, Esq. of Brucklay, proprietor of the estate of Aberdour, com-
prising three-fifths of the whole, and Sir Charles Forbes, Bart. of
Auchmedden, proprietor of the two remaining fifths.
    Parochial Register.--The parochial register of this parish was
supposed to be the oldest in the Church of Scotland, but, by some
unaccountable accident, the most ancient part of it was lost about
the year 1815, and what now remains commences at the year
1698.  It is very regularly kept, but the baptismal register is very
defective, owing to the extreme negligence of parents in getting
their chilren's names inserted.  It is hoped that this evil will soon
be remedied by legislative enactment.
    Antiquities.--At a place calles Chapelden, in the land of Auch-
medden, the ruins of a Roman Catholic chapel are still to be seen,
on a haugh opposite the Toar of Troup.  The walls are completely
demolished, and nothing remains but a heap of stones, which have
been held sacred by the husbandman; for although in the midst of a
cultivated field, they have never been touched by the plough.  The
only fort, or castle, in the parish is that Dundargue, for a par-
ticular description of which, reference is made to the former Sta-
tistical Account.  In addition to what is there stated, it may be
proper to observe, that when Edward Baliol came to claim the
kingdom of Scotland, Sir Thomas Beaumont accompanied him,
and took and garrisoned the Castle of Dundargue in right of his
wife, she being the eldest daughter of Cummine, Earl of Buchan,
who had no male issue, and to whom the castle belonged.
    There are numerous cairns and tumuli scattered through the
parish.   Such as have been opened have been found to contain a
rude stone coffin, enclosing the bones or ashes of a human body.
A cairn on the farm of Towie, on the estate of Auchmedden, cal-
led Brodie's Cairn, deserves particular notice.  My informant re-
members three cairns of the same name, but with regard to his
one in particular, the traditions is as follows: A farmer of the
name of Brodie murdered his mother, whoose body was brought to
the gate of the church-yard of Aberdour, and every individual in
the parish called upon to apply the hand to the naked corpse,
   









































































