
                              GREENOCK.                  439

         and yarn-making, coopers' and joiners' work, cabinet-making, and
         upholstery, chipping of logwood, flour and oat-meal manufactur-
         ing, brewing, distilling. A cone, and relative buildings were at
         one time occupied as a bottle-work, and crystal manufactory; but
         they are not in operation at present.
           Referring to the first of these, there are seven ship-build-
         ing companies in Greenock and Crawfordslike, giving employment
         to about 1200 persons, men and bnys. Two of the companies
         have commodious dry docks, their own property. One has a dock
         belonging to the corporation, in lease; one has a patent-slip
         dock; and all have access to the large dry dock belonging to the
         town. One of the companies has a chain and anchor work at-
         tached to the building yards, and two of them have saw-mills, for
         their own convenience. The situation of the town, and the depth
         of water at high tide, afford every facility that can be desired, for
         building and launching. From 6000 to 7000 tons of shipping are
         launched yearly; and repairs, which are the most profitable to the
         trade, are executed to a great amount. If the demand were
         greater, more work might be done.
           Boat-building is a distinct business from ship-building. There
         are four companies in this department, who employ about 40
         workmen; and launch from 700 to 800 tons annually of all de-
         scriptions of boats.
           Two wages of ship and boat-builders are the same. For car-
         penter work, men receive L.1, 1s. and boys 6s. weekly. Sawyers
         have L. 1, 5s.; all of them work ten hours every lawful day, and
         in winter from sunrise to sunset. Their work is liable to inter-
         ruption from the weather. It is healthful employment, and has
         nothing in it peculiarly unfavourable to morals. In most of the
         ship-building yards the drinking usages have been abolished;
         and the money formerly spent in that worse than brutal gratifica-
         tion is now expanded in the purchase of tools.
           3. Iron Works.&c.-There are three iron founderies and forges,
         employing about 1050 persons, boys included, who work ten hours
         every lawful day. In these there are made to order all sorts of cast
         iron-work and machinery; but steam-boilers and engines, and the
         iron-work connected with these, are their principal manufactures.
         Of steam-engines, there have been manufactured from 2000 to
         2500 horse-power yearly. One company alone since it started has
         furnished machinery for more than 40 steamers of the largest class.
         A considerable number of English built steamers have been sent to





























