
628                        PERTHSHIRE.

moderatinn rare enough in those, while he also retained the
pastoral charge of St Modoes. From the records of the Presby-
tery of Perth, it is evident that he bestowed considerable pains in
the management of that part of his diocese. As peepetual mode-
rator, he appears dowb to the year 1632 to have been a very re-
gular attener of the meetings of Presbytery, which were then of
when the power of Presbytery became again ascendant, Lindsay
had complaints lodged against him for his prelatic condtct. These,
as the record bears, were brough forward by the "Laird of Mon-
creiff and Mr William Row, in the name of the gentrie and bur-
gesses of the Presbyterie," and the bishop was called upon to an-
swer them before the General Assembly of 1638. The Assem-
bly found him guilty "of receiving consecration to the office of
Episcopacie condemned by the Confession of Faith; of pressing
the kirk with novations in the worship of God," &c.; and while
he was "deposed from the pretended Episcopall function, and sus-
pended from all ministerial function," it was provided, that, "if he
should acknowledge that Assembly, reverence its constitutions, and
make his repentance conforme to the order prescribed, he should
be continued in the munistrie of St Madoes." On the 30th of Ja-
nuary 1639, he gave in his declaration of repetance of the Pres-
bytery of Perth, and became again the humble minister of St Ma-
does, where he continued till his death, which happened soon after.
     Archibald Stevenson, minister of this parish from 1747 to 1784,
was a man of great talents, learning and piety. He was one of the
leaders of the popular party in the Church, and in point of a know-
ledge of her constitution and laws, he was regarded as superior to
them all. The late Dr Inglis of Edinburgh, who remembered his
appearances in church courts, always spnke of him as second to no
token of his powers behind him, but what is to be found in a speech
on Catholic Emancipation, (now very rare), in the General As-
semblu, 1779 distiguished  by extrardinary sagacity, and great
power of diction and of argument. *

<FOOTNOTE>The following is a list of the minister of this since the Reformation. A
reader precaded the first Protestant minister, who was
      Alexander Lindsay, admitted 1591, died                               1639
      James Campbell      do.     1640,   do.                              1667
      John Omey,          do.     1668, translated to Dumbarnie,           1676
      George Drummond     do.     1676, died                               1687
      Thomas Hall,        do.     1688, ejected for disorderly practies,   1698
      George Blair,       do.     1701, translated to Perth,               1706



