
160 	                           AYRSHIRE.

lee, the Ayr is joined by the, waters of the Lugar. It afterwards
runs a course of ten miles, and joins the Frith of Clyde at the town
of Ayr.
	Geology.--The soil in the parish is various, for the most part of
a clayish nature, except some fields about Mauchline, which are of
a light sandy or mixed kind. A few fields consist of a deep loam,
well adapted for every kind of crop. On the south side or the pa-
rish there are extensive strata of red freestone, in many places up-
wards of forty feet in depth. On the north side, white freestone,
limestone, ironstone, and also coal abound, but the thickness of the
strata is inconsiderable.
	Botany.--The following is a list of the more rare plants in the
parish, and the spots where they are to be found: Vaccinium
oxycoccos, creeping bilberries or cranberries, found on the rocks
near the Ayr; Asperula odorata, sweet-scented woodruff; Campa-
nula urticifolia, nettle-leaved bell-flower,--these two are found in
woods: Botrychium lunaria, moonwort, found upon the plea-
sure-ground of Barskimming; Scolopendrium officinarum, harts-
tongue; Hypericum, Androsamum, tutran, St John's wort; Vinca
minor, less periwinkle; these three found in the woods on the
banks of Ayr: Tzollius Europaeus, globe-flower, also on the banks;
Drosera rotundifolia, round-leaved sundew; Drosera longifolia,
long-leaved sundew; Comarum palustre, marsh cinquefoil; the
three last, found in the Kipple moss, on the estate of Barskimming:
Serapias latifolia, helleborine, under the shady beeches: Daphne
laureola, spurge-laurel; Lycoperdon tuber, truffle, found: among the
woods in various parts.
	Soil.--The soil seems well adapted for the growth of trees, the
young plantations being remarkably thriving. They consist most-
ly of firs, ashes, oaks, and beeches. On the estate of Barskim-
ming there are larches of very great dimensions. They were among
at the first of the kind that were brought to this country. They were
at first carefully preserved in hot-houses. They are now the tallest
trees in the woods. In the churchyard of Mauchline, in the centre
of the town, there is an ash 15 feet in circumference, containing
upwards of 300 solid feet. On its top a colony of rooks have fixed
their residence. The age of this tree is unknown.
			    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	There is no connected history of the parish. It was once a priory,
belonging to the Abbacy of Melrose, and when that abbacy was


