
			TUNDERGARTH.                     201

money, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. But as the
money stipend was converted into grain at the average fiars' price
for seven years, and part of the heritors surrendered the teinds, it
consists of about L. 56 in money, and somewhat more than fifty-six
double bolls of victual, barley, and meal.
	There are very few dissenters of any description in the pa-
rish, and these few do not originally belong to it, but have come
from other parts of the country. The people in general seem at-
tached to the Establishment. They have perhaps kept as close to
it since the revolution, and have had as few grounds for being dis-
satisfied, as any other in the district. The church is in general
very well attended. The number of communicants may be about
150 or upwards.
	Education.-There is one established school in the parish, where
the tsual hranches are taught. The salary is the maximum.
There is also the interest of L. 100 for behoof of the free school
of the parish. The interest of this sum is usually employed in
paying for some of the poorer children. The parochial school-
master is provided with the usual accommodations, as directed by
law. The school fees are for reading and writing, 2s.; for arith-
metic, 3s. 6d.; and for Latin, 5s; and the amount actually received
is about L. 20 per annum. The charges for other branches are
regulated by those of the adjoining parishes.
	The people can all read and write; they are in general very
sensible of the benefits of education, and desirous of having their
children instructed in the ordinary branches. The two extremities
of the parish lie at rather too great a distance from the school.
This is an evil that cannot easily be remedied, as the funds of the
parish and population are not adequate to the support of two re-
spectable established schools.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.-The poor are supported by the col-
lections in the church, which may average about L. 13, the interest
of L. 100, and a voluntary contribution by the heritors of 10s.
on every 100 merks valuation. How the L. 100 was acquired is
not very certain. Whdther it has accumulated, or part of it was
originally mortified, cannot be ascertained. The number of poor
at present on the roll is 4. They receive 6s. 8d., 3s. 6d, and
3s. 4d. per month, according to circumstances. Besides these
there is a fatuous person, for whom the parish pays L. 10 per annum.
Occasional demands in addition to what is now stated are made
upon the funds. There does not appear to be any growing dispo-
sition to apply for parish relief.


