

       1122                   PERTSHIRE.

       mate children born.  No obituary has been kept till very latele.
       The number of burials in 1842 was 56, which is probably rather
       above the average.
         Four families of independent fortune reside in the parish.  The
       number of proprietors of the yearly value of L.50 and upwards
       resident in the parish, is eight; not resident, six.  There are 6
       blind, persons; and 5 insane or fatuous.
         Until lately, the Gaelic language was generally used in the
       northern part of the parish.  English, or rather the dialect of this
       part of the lowlands, is now universally spoken.
         Rmuggling and poaching were at one time prevalent; but the
       former is now entirely suppressed, and the latter has become com-
       paratively rare.
                                IV.--INDUSTRY.
         The inhabitants of the country part of the parish are almost ex-
       elusively edgaged in agriculture, those of the village in weaving
       and the retail trade.  There are 53 farmers, and 109 males re-
       gularly engaged as farm servants.  There are seven master manu-
       facturers, and 404 weavers, besides a number of old men, women,
       and children employed in winding.
         Agriculture.--It is impossible to give a strictly correct state-
       ment of the extent of land under cultivation, as no accurate mea-
       surement has been made of the principal estates, but as nearly as
       can be ascertained, the number of arable acres may be stated at
       8,100; under wood, 1070; leaving 24,990 in waste, pasture, sites
       of houses, roads, &c.  There are two undivided commons; the
       Muir of Mornity, extending to about 330 acres, and the hill of
       Alyth, 120 acres.  Two extensive commons have been divided
       within the last fifty or sixty years; the forest of Alyth, and the
       lands of Bardmony and Aberbothrie.  These lands, extending to
       about 600 acres Scots, were, till forty-five or fifty years ago, pos-
       sessed by two proprietors in run-rig.  By the division, their value
       has been more than tripled, and the whole of them, in place of less
       than half, is now under tillage.  The moor of Alyth might still
       be added to the cultivated land with a reasonable expectation of
       profit.  From the nature of the subsoil, furrow draining would in
       gendral be necessary to render the ground of much value.  A
       considerable extent of uncultivated ground in the upland dis-
       trict might also be profitably brought under tillage.  A consi-
       derable part of the moorlands in the forest is not inferior in na-
       tural capability to those parts which have already been brought


