
                               MADDERTY.                   749


    10d. ; Alexander Anderson Henry, Esq. of Woodend and South
    Ardberry, L.796, 16s. 4d.; Anthony Murray, Esq. of Dollerie,
    L.211; Lord Lyndoch of Balgowan, L.164, 2s. 8d.; Rev.  A.
    Maxtone, Fowlis, North Ardberry, L.193, 6s. 8d., and Redford,
    L.45, 6s. 8d.; Miss Rattray, Dubheads, L. 146, 10s. 4d.
       Mansion-Houses.--The only mansion-houses in the parish are
    thosd of Dollerie and Woodend.
       Antiquities-Abbey of Incheffray.--This religious house was
    founded in the year 1200 by Gilbert Earl of Strathearn, and his
    Countess Matilda.  It was dedicated to the honour of God, the
    Virgin Mary, and John the Apostle and Evangelist.  The site of
    this famous abbey is on a small rising ground, which seems, from
    its situation and name, to have once been an island surrounded by
    the water of the Pow.  In Latin, it is denominated Insula Missa-
    rum, which is said to be a literal translation of its common name,
    Inch-effray, for Inch-peffray, the Island of Masses, or the island
    where mass is said.   It was endowed with many privileges and im-
    munities by David and Alexander, Kings of Scotland.  The edi-
    fices of this abbey, which were once extensive, are now in ruins,
    and have, on several occasions, supplied abundance of stones for
    building houses and making roads in the neighbourhood.  The
    few remains of this ancient abbey, with six or seven acres of land
    in the immediate vicinity, belong to the Earl of Kinnoul, who, in
    consequence of this comparatively small possession, is patron of
    about twelve parishes that formerly were attached to the abbey.
    Mauritius, abbot of this place, was present with Robert the Bruce
    at the battle of Bannockburn, and is reported to have had brought
    along with him the arm of St Fillan.  This relic might, indeed,
    have given some encouragement to the superstitious; but one arm
    of a brave Scotsman, fighting in earnest for the liberty of his coun-
    try, had more effect in obtaining that memorable victory than
    could have been produced by the innate virtue of all the relics of
    the dead that could have been collected.  "James Drummond, a
    younger son of David Lord Drummond, and his lady, a daughter
    of William Lord Ruthven, was first styled Lord Inchafry, being
    Commendator of that Abbacy, and afterwards created Lord Mad-
    derty by King James Vl. in the year 1607.  He married Jean,
    daughter to Sir James Chisholme of Cromlicks, and with her got
    the lands of Innerpefry, which were her mother's portion, being
    heiress of Sir John Drummond of Innerpefry.  He had, by his
    said lady, two sons, John Lord Madderty, and Sir James, the


