
     Statistical Account

very much the appearance of a volcano at a distance,
though it has no signs of one when more nearly examined;
for it is covered with peat bank over the top, to the depth
of 6 or 8 feet at least.  The average height of the Knock-
hill above the adjacent vallies may be about 400 yards.
It is said, that in a clear day, part of 12 counties can be di-
stinctly discerned from the top of it.  There are only other
two hills in the parish.  The hill of Silliearn makes part
of the eastmost of the three ridges, into which the parish is
divided.  It rises about 100 yards above the rest of the
ridge, extending from N. to S. about two miles, and from
E. to W. above a quarter of a mile.  The Gallowhill is
a small hill of about 200 acres area, making part of the Da-
voch of Grange, lying N. of the church, upon the south end
of the middle ridge or division of the parish, and is so call-
ed, because it was the place of execution for criminals,
tried and condemned in the abbot's regality-court; for the
Abbots of Kinloss, as well as the great feudal barons, had an
heritable right of judging in all civil and criminal matters
in their own domestic court, by their bailie of regality,
within a certain district, generally their own estates, and
from this court there lay no appeal; nay, they could even
reclaim a cause out of the King's courts, if it belonged to
their jurisdiction, and judge it in their own.  This right, so
derogatory to the honour and power of the Crown, and to
the administration of justice in the national courts, as well as
to the liberty of the subject, was abolished after the rebellion
in 1745, and a compensation in money given by Parlia-
ment to the heritable proprietors.  The low part of the
parish is in general pretty generally cultivated, except some
low mosses, and the cultivation has crept more than half
up the surrounding hills.  The land for a mile N. of the
water of Isla, lying upon the side of a rising ground, sloping
to the south, is a good soil, tolerably dry and early, and


