
                             ASHKIRK.                          277

done so for the last five years during the severe indisposition of
the present incumbent.  Divine service is in general well attend-
ed, and the deportment of the congregation highly decorous.  The
Earl of Minto is patron of the parish.
  The number of families in the parish attending the chapels of
Dissenters or Seceders is 25.
  Education and Literature.--There is only one parochial school.
The branches taught are, reading, writing, arithmetic, geometry,
land-surveying and mensuration.  The average number of scholars
may be stated at 40.  The schoolmaster's salary is L. 30, and the
average amount of fees may be stated at from L. 16 to L. 17 per
annum.  He has a garden consisting of 1 rood 28 poles imperial
measure.
  There is a large and handsome new school-house nearly ready
for being opened, measuring 31 by 20 1/2 feet within the walls.
  Libraries.--There is a very well managed parocjial library, con-
toaining a very good selection of books; and James Douglas, Esq.
of Cavers, with a beneficence as honourable to him as beneficial
to the parish, has sent a large number of volumes, which, after be-
ing read, he withdraws, and replaces by others.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--The poor are chiefly supported by
legal assessments, which amount from L. 48 to L. 56 per annum.
The number of paupers upon the roll at present is 8, and three
families receive temporary supply.  It does not appear that pau-
perism has been on the increase for a considerable number of years,
from the data which the register affords; but the direct tendency
of the system of assessments is to weaken the ties of kindred, to
lower the moral tone of the people, to relax industry, and to di-
minish independence, unless met by powerful checks, from the pe-
culiar situation of the parish.  The yearly average collections at
church amount to L. 6, 18s. 3d.
  Inns.--There are no inns in the parish, and the character of the
inhabitants may be regarded as sober and industrious.
  Fuel.--The principal fuel used in the parish is peat and coal.
But coal, being distant more than thirty miles, can never be rated
under 1s. 3d. per cwt.; and often is much higher, which makes the
expense of coal so great as to place that article beyond the reach
of the poor.  But nor only this parish, but the whole surrounding
district, suffer the pressure of this great evil, which admits of no
effectual cure, but a rail-road through the Carter Fell.


