
388                   STIRLINGSHIRE.

of the late Dr Robert Knox, in 1794, when a deviation from the
terms of union was observed to take place, by the minister preach-
ing oftener in LArbert than in Dunipace.
  This apparent indifference about Dunipace on t1he part of the
minister, reduced still farther the debris of that congregation, the
greater part of whom had already become Seceders. At last, on
the 28th of April 1799, alternate service was finally given up. In
1801, complaint was made to the presbytery. of Stirling against
Dr Knox, who obtained a vague kind of sentence in his favour,
which was afterwards confirmed by the synod of Perth and Stir-
ling "allowing Dr Knox to preach oftener in Larbert than in
Dunipace on account of the increase of population in the former
parisb;"--a decision evidently ultra vires of any ecclesiastical court,
the civil rights of the parish being thereby injured, such as the col-
lection for the poor, &c. After this, Divine service was performed
two days in Larbert, and one in Dunipace till 1823, when Dr
Knox declined preaching altogether in the parish of Dunipace.
The sacrament of our Lord's supper was not administered in Du-
nipace, after 1795 till 1830. A process before the church courts
was commenced by the beritors in June 1825, for recovering the
rights of the parish of Dunipace; but the death of Dr Knox in the
month of December following, put an end to that contest. The
present incumbent the Rev. John Bonar, was inducted to the
charge of these parishes in 1826, and immediately resumed the
practice of preaching two Sundays in Larbert, and one in Duni-
pace. But the impropriety of having either of these parishes
without the regular dispensation of Divine service, became so ap-
parent to all concerned, that, after some preliminary arrangements,
an assistant to Mr Bonar, at the joint expense of both parishes,
was obtained, by which Divine service was performed in both
churches every Lord's day. Mr Bonar, however, continued to
preach as above, till the opening of the new church of Dunipace.
Since that time, Mr Bonar has preacbed alternately in both churches,
agreeably to the original terms of union between these parishes.
The congregation of Dunipace has from a few individuals, increas-
ed to several hundreds. The kirk-session at present consists of
the moderator and three lay elders. Here, as elsewhere, there
is an unwillingness to accept of that office.
    Old Church.--This church was situated within a few yards of

    <FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, other two elders have been elected,--making the
present number five.


