
     of Inveraray.

the hereditary jurisdiction of Judiciary and Sheriff-ship,
with which the family of Argyle were, for some centuries
inverted as their courts would fall, in general, to be held at
Inveraray.  It was erected into a royal burgh by charter
from King Charles I. dated at Carisbrook castle, in the Isle of
Wight, 28th January 1648.  The only revenues belonging
to it, as a burgh, arise from the petty customs, (among which
is included a small roll on cattle passing through the burgh,
to the lowland or English markets, the number of
which, may amount, at an average, to about 4000,) and the
rent of a common, which, from the first erection of the
burgh, has been bestowed upon it by the family of Argyle.
Both these articles may amount to about L. 30 Sterling an-
nually.  About 42 years ago, Archibald Duke of Argyle,
seeing how inadequate this revenue was for the occasions of
the Burgh, added to it a perpetual annuity of L. 20 per an-
num, for which he granted security upon his estate.

   Castle.-Although the family of Argyle, upon their co-
ming to Inveraray, conformed to the customs of the times, by
building a very large and strong castle, within a small di-
stance to the present one, towards the river, (which has
only been pulled down within these 24 years); yet it does
not appear, that for many ages, they did any thing consider-
able, towards the improvement or embellishments of the
place, till about the middle of the last century, when the
Marquis of Argyll, began to plant trees, some of

<FOOTNOTE>

herence to the Presbyterian interest.  As a tribute to their memory,
a monument is erected at Inveraray, near the centre of the town.  Such
was the barbarity which marked those times, that the plantations and
nurseries at Inveraray were then almost totally destroyed.  It ought also
to be remarked, that by the wise and vigorous exertions of Lord May,
the burgh of Inveraray was secured, when General Gordon, with an army
of 3000 men, came to surprise it, in 1715.


