
                          STIRLING.                            391

1030 1/3 imperial acres.  The soil of the landward part is generally
of a rich carse clay.  The King's Park, which is somewhat ele-
vated above the carse, and of an undulating surface, and some parts
of the high grounds in the neighbourhood of the castle, consist of
what is here called dry-field, that is, a sharp, warm soil, adapted
to the cultivation of oats, barley, turnips, &c.  There is scarcely
any waste hilly ground in the parish.  There are no caves or ca-
verns.  The sloping eminence on which the upper part of Stirling
and its citadel are built, in combination with the River Forth, the
rich vale through which it flows, and the magnifident scenery.
formed by an dxtended plain and fine ranges of hills and moun-
tains beyond, give it great picturesque beauty.  This eminence,
rises gradually from the south-east, and terminates abruptly on the
north-west.  On the highest part of it, where it is girt by lofty and
precipitous rocks, at an elevation of 220 feet above the plain,
stands the ancient Castle of Stirling, which, when seen from the
south or west, itself forms, with its solemn gray battlements and
tower, and the sheer precipice beneath, an object of great and strik-
ing beauty; and commands all around a panorama of almost un-
rivalled loveliness and grandeur, comprehending in its details, (one
of which is the extraordinary winding of the slowly receding and
gradually extending river,) almost every feature that can gratify
the sense of sight, and present to the mind an impressive image
of natural beauty, adorned with the artificial, but legitimate, em-
bellishments superadded by the hand of industry.  At a small dis-
tance, and in different directions, are seen three or four similar
eminences, rising like this from the surrounding alluvial flat.  All
these, and especially the Castle-hill of Stirling, are said by those
who have visited the East, to bear a striking resemblance to the
eminences on which the Acropolis of Corinth and of Athens, and
other citadels, are built.
   Meteorology.--The temperature of the atmosphere here, as com-
pared with the neighbouring districts, is warm; the ground being,
with the exception of the upper parts of the town of Stirling, but
a few feet above the level of the sea.  In the winter season, the
frosts are generally of short continuance, and alternated with open
and comparatively mild weather.  Occasionally, the are intense
and continued; even to the effect of, in some rare instances, co-
vering the Forth with ice of considerable thickness, and making it
practicable for sliding and skaiting, and converting it into a tbo-
rougfare between Stirling and the village of Cambuskenneth Ab-


