
			GLASGOW.			225

Hamilton erected the first steam engine in Scotland at Barrachine
for drawing up coals from a pit. Mr Dixon's "Fire-Work" coal
pit takes its name from its being the first of the Glasgow pits where
coal was drawn up by fire or steam. *

	That the citizens of Glasgow have ever been loyal, patriotic,
and generous, may be collected from the foregoing brief account
of the city. When the country was suffering under civil war they
raised an armed force in defence of their civil and religious liber-
ties, and when menaced by the enemies of their country, they stood
nobly forward in its defence. In times of local distress their liber-
ality knows no bounds, and their support of religious and benevo-
lent institutions has never been surpassed in any community. That
the citizens of Glasgow have done honour to departed worth, re-
ference is made to the statues and monuments erected in their city,
and that their gratitude is not confined to the dead will be shewn
from the following splendid acts:
	Mr James Dennistoun, of Golfhill, one of his Majesty's Deputy-
Lieutenants for the county of Lanark, manager and principal part-
ner of the Glasgow Banking Company, retired from business in
1829. On that occasion a number of the principal inhabitants of
the city and neighbourhood, taking into consideration the high
character which Mr Dennistoun bore in the community, and the
estimation in which he was held by all classes, resolved to request
his acceptance of a public dinner as a mark of their esteem and
regard. Mr Dennistoun having accepted the profered compli-
ment, the dinner was given in the great hall of the Royal Ex-
change Buildings on 2d December 1829. The Honourable Alex-
ander Garden of Croy, Lord Provost in the Chair, Samuel Hun-
ter, Esquire, Croupier, and thirty-six gentlemen of the first re-
spectability acted as Stewards. Long before the chair was taken
upwards of FOUR HUNDRED gentlemen had taken their places. +

<FOOTNOTE>It is a curious fact, which we believe is not generally known, that, previous to
the year 1775, all colliers and other persons employed works in Scotland,
were, by the common law of the land, in a state	of slavery. They and their wives
and children, if they had assisted for a certian period at a coal work, became the pro-
perty of the coal master, and were transferrable with the coal work, in the same man-
ner as the slaves on a West Indian estate were till lately held to be property, and
transferred on a sale of the, estate. Besides the law founded on the usage of the
country and decisions of the courts, sundry Scotch statutes were enacted for regulat-
ing this description of slavery.
	 At six o'clock the Lord Provost entered the hall, accompanied by Mr Dennis-
toun, Sir John Maxwell of Polloc, Bart., Mr Campbell of Blythswood, M. P., Mr


