
                                   FORTEVIOT.                     1173

        which the water makes in its passage through it, is believed to
        have given rise to the name by which this remarkable place is
        known.  A little above the Humble Bumble is the Linn of Muck-
        arsey, about thirty feet perpendicular, which, when the water is
        high, and comes foaming from the hills, exhibits a beautiful cas-
        cade.  The banks of the May, and several other places in the pa-
        rish, abound with plants not frequently to be met with, as the Li-
        thospermum officinale, Astragalus uralensis, &c, a great many of
        which have been discovered by Lieutenant-Colonel Murray Bel-
        shes, brother of the proprietor of Invermay, and an eminent florist.
                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
          Antiquities.-This parish affords not a little matter for the in-
        quiries of the antiquary.  Here, it is said, was the residence of
        some of the kings of the Picts in remote periods; and here King
        Kenneth, after the Pictish kingdom was annihilated, departed this
        life, as narrated in the MSS. of Melross, and Andreas Vintonius,
        who wrote in the time of Robert Duke of Albany.
          Halyhill, near the present church, was the summer residence
        of Malcolm Canmore, and others of the Scottish kings, who
        granted many charters from this place.  At certain distances
        from the palace were erected large stones, by way of pillars;
        as the Standing-stane of Bankhead and Cross of Dronochy.  Se-
        veral urns and stone-coffins, with fragments of human bones,
        were found some years ago in different parts of the parish.  The
        mill of Forteviot, and the Coblehaugh, mentioned by Andrew
        Wyntoun, yet remain.  At Coblehaugh was the boat for ferrying
        over the Earn.  The Miller's daughter was mother to Malcolm
        Canmore.
          The Halyhill, as it is commonly called, a small eminence at the
        west end of Forteviot, was once the site of a royal residence, first,
        it would appear, of the Pictish, and afterwards of some of the
        Scottish kings.  Here Kenneth II., having reigned in peace six-
        teen years, after revenging the death of his father Alpin, whom
        the Picts beheaded, by exterminating that people, and entirely
        subjugating their territory, died of a fistula.  This place seems to
        have been a favourite residence of King Malcolm Canmore, and
        many charters are said to bear date from it.  Near to this place,
        Edward Baliol encamped his army, 31st July 1332, on the Mil-
        ler's Acre, hmmediately before the bloody battle of Duplin.  There
        is a stone cross, quite entire, a good vvay up the rising ground
        (Bankhead) on the opposite bank of the Earn, almost straight


