
                           FARR.                            77

ment. The teinds are exhausted. There is a catechist appointed
by the kirk-session, and paid by the people.
   There is no Dissenting chapel in the parish; and, with the ex-
ception of one shepherd from the borders, who is of the Anti-
burgher persuasion, and a shepherd's wife from Lochaber, who is
a Roman Catholic, there is not a Dissenter of any description in
the parish. Divine service is generally well attended, on ordinary
and communion Sabbaths, in the parish and Government church;
and the people, old and young, are punctual in attending family
and village examinations, are in general well acquainted with the
Shorter Catechism of our church, and have regularly the worship
of God in their families. The average number of communicants
may be stated at 130.
   There is no society for religious purposes established in the pa-
rish; but, for the last nineteen years, collections have been made,
almost annually in our congregations, for missionary and educa-
tional objects in Scotland, and the average amount of these is about
L.5, 10s.  Sterling.
   Education.-There are at present four schools in the parish, viz.
the parochial school; one supported by the Committee of the Ge-
neral Assembly; one by the Glasgow Auxiliary Gaelic School So-
ciety ; and one on the Second Patent of the Society for Propagat-
ing Christian Knowledge in the Highland and islands of Scotland.
The parochial schoolmaster is qualified to teach Latin, Greek,
mathematics, and the ordinary branches of English literature; and
the teacher of the General Assembly's Coinmittee is required to
teach Latin, mathematics, English, and Gaelic. The branches
generally taught, are English reading, and grammar, writing and
arithmetic, and Gaelic reading.
   The parochial teacher has the maximum salary; L. 3 Sterling,
in lieu of a garden; L. 1 13s. 4d. of session-clerk dues; 4s. for
proclaiming banns, and registering each marriage; 6d. for record-
ing each baptism; and a house of three apartments. His rate of
school-fees is, for beginners, 6s. per annum; for reading and
writing, 8s. ; for arithmetic, 12s.; and for higher branches, 20S. per
annum. The teacher employed by the Committee of the Gene-
ral Assembly has a salary of L. 25 ; three apartments; a croft
of land, and a garden from the heritor; and fuel provided by the
inhabitants of the district. He is allowed to exact fees, according
to the rate demanded in the parochial school; only in cases of in-
digence certified by the minister and elders, a certain modification,


