
444                       ROXBURGUSHINE

meter.  In the centre a small space is inclosed with a strong wall,
and round it are eight circles of different sizes, all surrounded by
a stone wall, and all of them having had a door or opening to the
east.  On the summit of the Side-hill, and nearly opposite to
Carby, on the'north side of the Liddal, there is another strong
encampment, nearly of a square form.  It is 300 feet in diameter.
The wall or rampart is entirely of earth, and `bout 18 feet high:
This camp has none of the interior circles of the former.  On the
farm of Flight, and near to the castle of Clintwood, there are
two camps at a little distance from each other; the one round,
and fortified with a stone wall about 100 feet diameter; and
the other square, about 168 feet in length, with two ramparts of
earth.
     Picts Works.-There are a great many round-abouts in the pa-
rish, commonly called Picts Works'.  They are all circular, an
strongly fortified by a wall, composed of large stones.  They are
frequently found, the on  e at a little distance from, and opposite to,
the other.  There are two nigh Heeds-house, two on the farm of
Shaws, one on Toftholm, one on Foulshiels, one on Cocklaw, one
on Blackburn, and one on Sorbytrees.  On the farm of Mill-
burn there is a small circle enclosed by nine stones, which seems
to have been a Druidical temple.  Tradition says Lord Soules was
burnt there.  The'bill is called Nine-Stone Ridge.
   Cairns,&c.-There are many cairns in different places.  The most
remarkable of these is on the farm of Wbisgills.  The quantity of
stones is immense, and they are mostly of a verv larle size.  Near
these, there is a large stone set on end, about 5 feet high, called
the standing-stone.  This cairn is in the middle of an extensive
and deep, moss.  It can be approached on horseback only on one
side, and that with much difficulty.  There is not a stone to be
seen near it.  At Milnholm there is a cross of one stone, 8 feet four
inches high, set in a base 1 foot 8 inches.' This is a piece of great
antiquity.  A sword 4 feet long is Cut Out on the south side of the
cross, and immediately above several letters.
                           III.--POPULATION.
                     Amount in 1801,   -     1781
                               1811,   -     1887
                               1821,   -     2838
                               1881,   -     2227
Number of famhlies in 1831,    -       -     -     -      -     461

             chiefly, employed in agriculture,     -      -     194
                        in trade, handicraft, or manufactures,  116


