
     Of Longforgan.

   Potatoes.-Potatoes may in every respect be treated
nearly in the same manner with advantage.  The ground
prepared in the same way; the crop will certainly be im-
proved in quantity by dunging well in the drills, perhaps
not in quality.  As the stems of the potatoes are not so lux-
uriant, for the purpose of improving a succeeding crop, the
drills may be nearer, perhaps about 2 1/2 feet, for it is of the
utmost consequence to the ground, to prepare it for a
succeeding crop that the whole should be completely co-
verred with the stems of the potatoes, or with the green crop
of whatever kind.  The potatoes ripen sooner than the
yams, and the manner of preserving them is the same; but
they do not keep juicy so long; and while the one is most
excellent food for man, the other is equally, perhaps more,
beneficial for cattle.
   Potatoes have been long an object of particular attention
to the villagers of Longforgan, as well as those who have
small farms as of those who have none; and the practice is
promoted by the master farmers who occupy the rich
brae land in the neighbourhood, letting out small portions
of it which they mean to be wheat, at perhaps the rate of
four guineas or more per acre.  The farmer ploughs and
prepares the land, and each man plants or dibbles his mea-
sured portion with potatoes.  Sometime after this, and be-
fore the plant appears above ground, they loosen all the

<FOOTNOTE>

that purpose; by which means the cold chilliness from washing will be-
taken off, which is much more dangerous to horses, and is much oftener the
cause of diseases in the bowels than is generally thought.  But if, notwith-
standing all this care, symptoms of cholic appear, let a drink be prepared
consisting of an English quart of small beer warmed, with a table spoonful
of ground pepper, and near an English pint of malt spirit (whisky), and
given immediately, which seldom fails to cure.  If the complainant does not
yield to this, and if it be entirely from food, from one-half to an ounce of
laudanum should be given in a warm drink; and at any rate, if the horse con-
tinues in pain, it is always safe to let blood.


