
     of Montqubitter.

and hostile factions of Bruce and Cumine, trees were almost
extirpated in Buchan.  As this parish is comparatively level,

<FOOTNOTE>

moderate rents, to settle on their estates; or advanced, on what was called
Steelbow, a cover on their farms to spirited and enterprising people, who, it
was hoped, would gradually repay them.  A ray of improvement burst from
these gloomy seasons.  One Morrison, driven from his home by famine, lived
for some years in Ireland, but returned to his country with the good seasons,
and brought along with him a few potatoes, which he taught the neighbour-
ing gentlemen to cultivate.
   Another season of scarcity, occasioned by deep and untimely snow, occurs
in the year 1740.  True, indeed, oat-meal rose not above 13 s. 4 d. per boll;
but as there was no manufacture established in the country, and no work for
the day-labourer, the utmost misery, though it fell short of death, was generally
felt by the labouring poor.  Many offered, but in vain, to serve for bread;
and Mr Duff of Hatton, who was then building, found a number of stout
men, who thankfully accepted two pence each per day in full for their
work.
   When the ‘ra of industry and improvement commenced, it was fondly
hoped that the wants known to our fathers would never be known by us.-
"Our fields and gardens, said we, produce a variety of provision, which will
"infallibly preserve us from starving, even though our corn should fail.  Cat-
"tle and manufactures will furnish money, and commerce will readily ex-
"change our money for bread.  How little, therefore, have we to fear, let
"the seasons be as unfavourable as they may?" Thus the people reasoned:
but to their reasoning the year 1782 gave the lie direct.  The coldness and
storminess of summer I782 excited fears in the minds of the discerning; but
none suspected the magnitude of the impending evil.  On the 5th of October,
when oats and barley were generally green, a frost, armed almost with the ri-
gour of a Greenland climate, desolated in one night the hope of the husband-
man.  The grain, immediately contracting a hoary whiteness, ripened no
more.  The potatoe and turnip, dwarfish from the severity of the preceding
season, were extremely damaged.  The produce of the garden was destitute
of its usual nourishment.  The fields yielded not one-third of an ordinary
crop.  Oatmeal, dark in colour, was acid and disagreeable to the taste.  No
market appeared whereat we could supply our urgent wants.  Complete and
hopeless ruin stared us in the face; and all ranks indulged the views of gloomy
dispondence.  If, at this critical period, the American war had not ceased,-


