
     Statistical Account

the highest honour on the gentlemen concerned, and promi-
ses to be of extensive utility, by exciting others to follow
their example.*

<FOOTNOTE>

Rouat, of whom mention has been made already, and concerning whom
there are these two ancedotes. The church-officer complaining one day
to the servant, that Mr Rouat was too much with the Gentles, was replied
to, that her master had scripture for that; for, says the apostle, " Do we
turn to the Gentles"  He was convinced and relieved, and perfectly
pleased with the gentles.  When the sacrament was to be given for
the first time by the gentleman who was then minister, Miss Dunlop,
afterwards Lady Wallace, came to church rather early, and expressed to
an old servant her satisfaction at seeing the house so decently filled.
"Madam said the old man, this is nothing to what I have seen in Mr
Rouat's time, I have heard the boogers cracking at 6 o'clock o' the 
morning! The boogers cracking, What do you mean James, said Miss
Dunlop ? Yes Madam, continued James, I have seen the folk in his time
sitting on the balks of the kirk like bykes o' bees." These stories, trisling
and ridiculous enough in themselves, show the spirit of the times, and
that it was possible in those days, at least for the same person to be a
gentleman, a scholar and a popular preacher.  Mr Rouat was afterwards
translated to Jedburgh, where he lived but a short time.  His son was
sometime Prosessor of Church History in the college of Glasgow, and
died within these few years in the possession of all that esteem which was
due to the worthy son of a worthy, father, Mr Baird succeeded Mr
Rouat as minister of Dunlop and was, if inferior to his predecessor in
popularity, his equal in presence of mind, prompt expression, and pleasant
manners, He was moreover, like him too, a warm and persuasive preacher,
a sincere Christian, and an honest man.-Those that follow are still living.

   *The school-house is of the same age with the tomb, and was built by
the same person, as will appear from the following inscription, above re-
ferred to:
     1641.
     "This school is erected and endowed by James Viscount Claneboyes
     in love to his parish, in which his Father, Hans Hamilton, was pa-
     stor 45 years, in King James the sixt his raigne."

     ICL V.

   It is unfortunate for the schoolmaster, and indeed for education in the
parish, that we know nothing more of that transaction, and it would cer-


