
                      MUCKAIRN.                     515

riority and feu thereof they still retain. They have the lands in
Benderloch called the priory lands of the monastery of Ard-
chattan, all contiguous, lying by the shore side over against Muc-
kearn, from Ardachy to Dailchaderly inclusive, holden in feu of
them by two cadets of their own family, whose titles are Ardchat-
tan and Inveresragan, whereof Ardchattan has the lands of Ard-,
chattan, Inion, Ardachy, Craig, and Caidderlies, and Inveresra-
gan, the lands of Inveresragan, Blarcreen, and Kinnacraig, only
the monastery and what is contained within the precincts thereof,
which is not above five or six acres of ground, Ardchattan holdeth
of the king.
	"This monastery was founded about the year 1231, by M'cul-
lo, a race of people who once had a great part of Benderloch;
but now there are few of them in that country. The Monks here
were of the order called Vallis Caulium, or Vallis Umbrosa;-they
were a branch of the Cistertians, and were kept in great strict-
ness, being wholly intent on their devotions, and confined within
the walls of the monastery, so that it was only lawful for the prior
and one of the order to go abroad upon necessary occasions.
They were duly employed in dressing of orchards for fruit, and
gardens for herbs, for the use of the monastery. Not long before
the Reformation, there were some of the MacDougalls priors here,
whose tomb is yet extant, with an inscription in old characters."
	To the information communicated in the above document, it is
not necessary to make many additions. The following observa-
tions may suffice.
	Name.-It is not unlikely that the name Muckairn is derived
from the Gaelic Muc, "the wild hog or boar," and Cairn,
"dens," the compound signifying "the wild hogs' dens." The
names of other localities in the neighbourhood indicate that these
formidable animals were at one time numerous in the country, as
the Gaelic reader will at once infer, from the following names of
farms in the parish of Ardchattan, "Bar-na-muc," "Ard-mhuc-
innis."  The whole race, it is superfluous to add, has many years
ago been extirpated.
	Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is about 9 miles long
from its eastern to its western extremity, of an irregular figure,
with a medium breadth of from 5 to 6 miles. Its western section
from Achnachloich, now Stonefield, onwards, is distinguished by
the name of the strath, * and its eastern, as the heights of Muck-
airn; + and the whole is bounded on the north by Loch Etive; on

<FOOTNOTE>Mucairn-an-tsrath.      Braigh-Mhucairn.


