
     Statistical Account

was divided 9th September 1696, without any share being
laid off to the minister in lieu thereof.  Against these dila-
pidations, the then incumbent, Mr James Borland, as mi-
nister of Bedrule, protected, in his own name, and in name
of his successors in office, ministers there; and this he did
on the ground, and at the time, when the heritors were oc-
cupied with their arbiters in dividing the same; and, there-
upon, took instruments in the hands of Thomas Cranstoun,
notar public, in presence of sundry witnesses, as a copy of
said instrument, now before the writer, more fully shews.
But Mr Borland, having been then advanced in life, seems
to have done this merely to exonerate himself, and to pre-
serve, as well as he could, a right to any of his successors,
who might think it expedient, fully to prosecute it:  "For,
the law has ordained, that the minister or parson, quatenus
parson, never dies, but he and his successors are viewed in
a corporate capacity.  Hence, all the original rights of the
parsonage are, in the eye of the law, preserved entire and
inviolate to the successor.  The present incumbent and his
predecessor, who lived a century or more ago, are, in law,
one and the same person; what was the right of the one, is
still the right of the other."  There was likewise a small
common near the church called Gourlay Bog, on which the
minister of Bedrule was also in use to pasture, and, like the
former, was divided, but at a later period, without any part
thereof being assigned him, or any indemnification, as yet
made for the loss the living thereby sustained.  He has
right to cast 10 darg++ of turf^^ annually, viz. 6 on the muirs
of Fulton, Corscleugh and Bedrule; 2 on Newton Muir,
and 2 on Rewcastle Muir.  Indeed, as coals are at a very

<FOOTNOTE>

++A dar of turf is as many as can be cast with one spade in one day.
llFor a minister's right to fuel, etc. and all other privileges, according
to use and wont, vide chap. 165. Parl. 13. James 6th. 21st July 1593.


