                     	ARDCLAGM.	                          29

   provincially called haughs, holms, and straths, are very fertile.In
   the lower or northern division, where the sandstone beds are cut
   through  by the burn of Lethen, the thickness of diluvial matter;
   sand, and gravel, exceeds 300 feet. Over the whole surface of
   the table-land of the parish are strewed erratic blocks of granite
   and gneiss, which are mostly water-worn, and have apparently.
   been transported from considerable distances, as they differ li-
   thological character from the rocks in the neighbourhood. Peatr.
   mosses also abound in the table-land.
      Zoology.,Red-deer are now seldom seen in the parish of Ardw.
   clach, but roe-deer are numerous.  The common and alpine hares
   are abundant; And rabbits have of Iate years found their way into
   the parish, and are excessively injurious to the young plantations
   Foxes, badgers, polecats, foulmarts, and weasels are  plentiful;
   but the wild-cat is now seldom met with.  The otter is occasional
   ally trapped on the banks of the Findhorn, and brown and scaly
   lizards frequent the moors. The common viper or adder,  and
   Anguis fragilis, inhabit the weedy districts and rocks of the riven,
      Of rapacious-birds the most common are the common buzzard,
   kite, sparrowbawk, ringtail, and kestril, common and horned owls,
   ravens and hooded crows.
      Black game and grouse are abundant; and heron partridges,
   woodcock, snipe, curlew, plover, and, wild-pigeons are also found.
   Wild-duck and teal frequent the marshes; and innumerable sea-
   fowl and other aquatic birds nestle on the islands in the Loch of
   Belival.
      Salmon is still caught in considerable quantity, but was former-
   ly so abundant in the parish, that it was common for servants, eh-
   tering on an engagement with any family resident on the banks of
   the Findhorn, to stipulate that they should not be fed upon' salmon
   beyond a stated number of days in the week.
      Botany.- Thd woodland scenery of the parish is well deserving
   of notice. At Coulmony, and Lethen are to W seem trees of lareia
   dimensions, and stateliest'growtb, of beech, -elm, sycamore, birch
   alder, pine, and others, besides extensive plantations of more re-
   cent date. Towards the upper part of the parishi, along the banks
   of the Findhorn, scattered remnants still exist, among the clift, of
   the great Caledonian forest of the red Scotch pane.  These mag-
   nificent trees send forth their ideal  branches, clothed in
   the darkest foliage, in manner which gives them a picturesque
   character never to be met with in Lowland artificial plantations.


