
     Statistical Account

tred at the rites of the worshipper, the temple where he
worshipped.  Alas! in the defacement of those works of
ancient piety and art, is there not left us a memorial,
that the wisest and the best have cause to guard, in the col-
lision of opposing opinions, against an uncharitable and per-
secuting spirit?  We revere and bless the leaders of the Re-
formation, for the religious light which they shed on our
land; but, surveying the ruins before us, this lesson is im-
pressed on the heart, "Let him that thinketh he standeth,"
in charity and love, "take heed left he fall*."
   The steeple, (which was new roofed in 1762), stands at
the west end of the north aisle.  It was begun by Bishop
Lauder in 1469, and was finished by Bishop Brown in 1501.
There are four bells in it, one of which is rung every morn-
ing at six, and every evening at eight and at ten o'clock.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The original letter, containing the order issued at the Reformation
respecting this cathedral, is at present in the hands of the compiler.  From
the colour of the ink, and the shape of the letters, he believes the body of
the order, (on comparing it with the signature), to be the writing of James
Stewart.  He subjoins a copy of it, preserving the spelling and the place of
the postcripts as they appear in the original.  It is addressed,
   "To our Traist friends, the Lairds of Arntilly and Kinvaid.
   "Traist friendis, after maist harty commendacion, we pray yow fall not
"to pass incontinent to the Kyrk of Dunkeld, and tak down the haill images
"thereof, and bring forth to the Kyrk-zayrd, and burn thaym oppinly,
"And fielyk east down the altaris, and purge the Kyrk of all kynd of mo-
"numents of Idolatrye.  And this ze faill not to do, as ze will do us singu-
"lar emplefeur; and so committis you to the protection of God.  From
"Faill not, bot ze tak zuid heyd.   (Signed)
"that neither the daiks, windocks,  "AR. ERGYLL.
"nor durris, be ony ways hurt
"or broken               eyther     "JAMES STEWART.
"glassin wark or iron wark.   
                                    "RUTHVEN"


