
                    PARISH OF MORTLACH.

           PRESBYTERY OF STRATHDOGIE, AND SYNOD OF MORAY.

               THE REV.  MORRIS FORSYTH, MINISTER.


                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL, HTSTORY.
        Name.-THE name is very ancient. In the charter given by
     Malcolm II about 850 years ago, to the first bishop of this early
     see, it was, called Morthelac or Morthlac. From the situation of
     the church, which is in a deep and hollow valley, some naturally
     enough think it is a corruption of the Gaelic word Morlay, great
     hollow,-while others derive it from Mortislacus, the lake of death,
     alluding to a battle which was fought here, and which will be no-
     ticed in its proper place.  Various other fanciful etymologies have
     been given.
        Extent, Boundaries.-Surrounded by Glass on the east, Cabrach
     and Inveraven, including Glenlivat, on the south, Aberlour on the
     west,-with Boharm and Botriphnie towards the north,- it lies 51
     miles north-west from Aberdeen, and 30 south from Banff. Its
     form is irregular; the greatest length from the head of Glenrinnes
     to the point where it borders the Spey on the north, is fully II
     miles; and the greatest breadth, from the banks of the Doveran to
     the foot of Benrinnes may be as much. It is encompassed with
     hills, the principal of which are Corhabbie and Benrinnes. The
     latter towers conspicuous above all the others, being distinctly
     visible from the sea, from which it forms a good land-mark. Its
     height above the level of the sea is estimated at 2561 feet; from
     its base, 1680.
        Climate, Springs.-The air is pure and wholesome, thourb. ra-
     ther moist than dry.  We have several chalybeate springs similar
     to those of Peterhead.  There is one of a petrifying nature be-
     tween Mortliven and Boharm. Besides the Doveran, which merely
     skirts the parish towards the south, the only two rivulets in the pa-
     rish, are the Fiddich and Dullen. The former has its source in Glen-
     fiddich, towards Strathdon, the latter in Glenrinnes, on the bounda-
     ries of Glenlivat; they unite about a mile below the chureb, and,


