
138			DUMBARTONSHIRE.


on its banks, there is a very fine white sand, which would answer
well in the manufacture of glass.--The only other collection of
waters in the parish is the Forth and Clyde Canal, which runs
through the north side of it for about four miles from Castlecary
on the east to Achinstary on the west. Pike and perch are found
in the canal, and coot and wild duck are seen upon its shores.  On
a small stream near to the old house of Castlecary, there is a
waterfall of about 80 feet, which, together with the deep dell, the
overhanging and surrounding woods, the old mill and miller's
house now in ruins, the murmuring of the water, and the songs of
the birds which strike the ear, renders it a scene at once pictur-
esque and romantic.
                      lI.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  I am not aware of any history of the parish extant. The Old
Castle of Cumbernauld, together with the barony, which in the
end of the thirteenth century belonged to John Cumyn, Earl of
Buchan, came into the possession of the Flemings of Biggar and
Cumbernauld, in the course of the fourteenth century, who were
afterwards created Earls of Wigton.
  In the early period of Scottish history, the Flemings of Cum-
bernauld are often mentioned, and make a distinguished figure in
the transactions of those unsettled times  They came originally
from the low countries. Under a grant of David I., Baldwin, a
distinguished Fleming, settled at Biggar, in the upper ward of
Clydesdale, and in the reigns of Malcolm IV. and William I. was
Sheriff of the shire. Sir Malcolm Fleming was Sheriff of Dum-
barton in the reign of Alexander lll. Robert, his son, was one
of the chiefs who, at the treaty of Brigham, March 12, 1289-90,
proposed the marriage of Margaret of Scotland with Prince Ed-
ward of England. He swore fealty to Edward, assisted at the
murder of Cumyn at Dumfries, and was one of Bruce's associates
in his arduous endeavours to restore the liberties of his country,
and received from him a grant of the lands of Leinsie and Cum-
bernauld, they having fallen to the Crown by the forfeiture of
Comyn. Sir Malcolm Fleming, his eldest son, remained true to
the family of Bruce, and belonged to one of the four corps into
which the Scottish army was divided at the disastrous battle of
Halidon Hill, 19th July 1333. Sir Malcolm Fleming retreated
from the field of contest, and secured the Castle of Dumbarton,
of which he was governor, and from thence carried in safety to
France, the young King, David ll. with his infant consort, Joanna,
where they found protection until their return to Scotland, 4th


