
                      KTNCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                    1267

     ing cattle, and keeping in order every thing connected with their
     farming establishments.  The females in particular are occupied
     in needle work, knitting stockings, spinning flax and wool, making
     coarse kinds of dresses for themselves and their families; in car-
     rying eggs, fowls, butter, and cheese to the market; and in bring-
     ing in return things necessary for domestic use.  The system of
     small wheel spinning and hand-loom weaving,, which used to pre-
     vail in this parish, as well as in the other parts of Scotland,
     has been superseded by machinery in the cotton and woollen ma-
     nufactories.
       Much time is spent during a great portion of the year in cart-
     ing pests and produce to various places.  The sale of peats was
     formerly carried on by all the moss people, and engaged much of
     their time and attention, and was found to be so profitable that
     in some years individuals have been known to realize from it as
     much as L.40 Sterling.
       Agriculture.-There are about 6560 acres in this parish which
     are cultivated.  There are 142 acres of moor which are unfit
     for agricultural purposes, but would be profitable if they were
     planted; and there are 470 acres of moss, a great part of which
     will soon be removed by floating, or by making it into peats, and
     the subsoil, consisting of a superior quality of clay, brought into
     cultivation.  There is no common remaining but about 10 or 12
     acres in the vicinity of Thornhill, open and unenclosed, as liable to
     certain servitudes.  There are on the estate of Blair Drummond,
     about 500 acres in permanent pasture, and ornamented with
     trees, and about 300 acres of woods.
       In the pleasure grounds at Ochtertyre there are about 24 acres
     of fine old trees.  And on a part of the moss there are about 24
     acres of a young plantation.
       The trees which appear to be indigenous to this parish are, the
     oak, common and mountain ash, Scotch fir, elm, alder, birch,
     plane, beech, and various kinds of willow.  The spruce, larch, and
     silver fir, and others of the fir kind, as also the walnut, and Spa-
     ish and horse chesetnut have been at different periods successfully
     introduced.  The spanish chestnut grows rapidly and to a great
     size, and its timber when matured is considered as next to the
     oak in value.
       The management of the woods in this parish with regard to re-
     gular thinning,periodical felling, pruning, and the like, has been
     very judicious.


