
488                        PERTHSHIRE.

with the remarkable salubrity of the atmosphere, have long procur-
ed for Crieff the distinction of being accounted the Montpelier
of Scotland.
   Boundaries, Extent, &c.-The parish of Crieff, guoad civilia,
is divided into two parts, viz. the Highland and the Lowland, which
are separated from each other by the intervention of the parish of
Monzie.  The Highland division, in addition to Corrienmuck-
lock, contains by far the greater part of the stratb of Glenalmond,
through which the river Almond runs a course of more than nine
miles. The lands on the north side of the river belong to two
brothers, viz. Javaes Murray Patton, Esq. Perth, and Thomas
P`tton, Esq. W.S. Edinburgh; and those on the south side be-
long to Abercairney. The whole of this tract of country, with the
exception of the lower portion, exhibits a very good specimen of
the wild and romantic, and even sublime in Scottish mountain
scenery; and though it be naturally much, better fitted to afford
occupation to the sportsman, and the shepherd than the husband-
man, it was once the home of, a goodly number of contented fa-
milies. When the former Statistical Account was drawn up, the
pulation of Glenalmond amounted to 500 souls, and the annual
rent was about L. 700. The rental (including the yearly value of
What is not let)  has now increased to considerably upwards of
L. 2000, but the population has decreased to 230; and while the
diminution of the one and the increase of the other, have certain-
ly been caused b the custom Which has, for sometime back, been
prevaitiling, of converting the pendicles of former days into large
and extensive farms and sheep-walks, we have a strikinff proof of
the fact that the latter mode is the more profitable for the pro-
prietors.
   In addition to the district of Glenalmond, there are two de-
tached portions of land in the low country, which belong to the
parish of Crieff quoad civilia; viz. Callander and Achalhanzie or
Alchanzie; the former, consisting of several farms, lier to the
north-west of the House of Monzie, and is the property of Sir
William Keith Murray, Bart of Ochtertyre; the latter, consisting
of one form, lies east of the House of Cultoquhey, and is the pre-
party of Anthony Maztone, Esq. asdbysey both of the fore-mentioned
a population of 60 sotls. But as the whole of the fore-mentioned
places have beem annexed to the parisle of Monzie, quod sacra, *

<FOOTNOTE>"The following entry occurs in the records of the kirk session.  At Crieff,
September 20, 1702. This day was read from the pulpit the communication of Parks-


