                                DUMFRIES.                  11

the friary formerly stood, is still called the Friars' Vennel.  The
castle of the Maxwells has already been mentioned.  In the year
1583, a strong building, called the New Wark, was erected, which
served the double purpose of a fortress and a place of safety, where-
in the effects of the inhabitants might be secured against the law-
less attacks of the borderers.  No vestiges, however, of this build-
ing, or of either of the castles, or of the friary, now remain. *
     On a slight eminence at the entrance of the town by English
Street, may still be trained the foundation of Saint Christopher's
Chapel, which was built by King R\o5bert Bruce as a place where
mass might be said for the soul of his father-in-law, Sir Christo-
pher Seton, who was hanged on the spot by order of Edward I.
On the left bank of the river, just above the town, is another emi-
nence, which is designated in the ancient records as the Moat
Brae, and which still bears that name.  This artificial mount, like
many of a similar description in Galloway, is supposed to have been
formed and used by the Saxons as a place where their freeholders met
for the administration of justice;  + but, owing partly to the encroach-
ment of the river, and partly to the spot on which it stood having
been laid out as pleasure ground, it has entirely lost the peculiar
features which characterized it as a relic of antiquity. At no great
distance, is another mound, seemingly of a similar nature, called
the Kirkland Moat. "In fact," says Chalmers, in his Caledonia,
"there was a moat hill in every district of North Britain, during
an age when justice was administered to a coarse people in the open
air."
     Near Castledykes above-mentioned, is a field called the King-
holm; which name may either have been given it by Bruce after

<FOOTNOTE>The ancient armorial bearings of the town were a cheveron, with three fleurs de
lis; but instead of these, St Michael, the tutelary saint of Dumfries, represented with
wings, a pastoral staff in his hand, and clothed in a friar's dress, treading a serpent
under his bare feet, has long been used.  The motto is "Aloreburn" or "Lore-
burn,"--a word of which the precise import has never been ascertained.  It is cer-
tain, however, that it was the ancient slogan or war-cry of the inhabitants, and is be-
lieved to be a corruption of the words lower burn, having reference to a small rivu-
let, the banks of which used to be the rendezvous of the inhabitants when they as-
sembled in arms on the approach of a hostile force. Accordingly, a street in the im-
mediate neighbourhood of the original course of the stream in question, bears the
name of "Loreburn Street."
<FOOTNOTE>Moat or Mote signifies metting.  Thus, the Saxons termed their national coun-
cil a Wittenagenmote (meeting of the wise), and a county court they named a Folkmote,
that is, a meeting of the people.  The word mote was transferred from the assembly
to the place where the assembly was held, as in the caw of the word Church.


