

118                        ROXBURGUSHIRE.

of an ancient fort called, probably from its figure, Ringly Hall;
but whether this fortification is to be regarded as of British or Ro-
man origin, is disputed by antiquaries. It is nearly in the form
of a circle, with a diameter of about 160 feet, defended on the
north by the precipitous rock on which it stands, and the Tweed
which washes its base; and on the other sides it is secured by two
deep ditches, and ramparts of earth dug out of them. There ap-
pears to have been a gate on the east side, which faces a tumulus
at no great distance, in the parish of Roxburgh, with which it was
probably connected. The whole is now planted over with trees,
which will no doubt have the effect of preserving this memorial of
former times, for a while longer, from the ravages of the plough.
   There is a tradition, that in one of the wars so frequently car-
ried on by the sister kingdoms of Scotland and England, (but in
which of them it is not said,) the English army occupied this sta-
tion for several days, while the Scots lay on the opposite side of
the river in a ravine, thence called "Scots Hole." The English
at length, being superior in number, resolved to cross over to the
enemy at a ford a little above this spot; and the Scots having attack-
ed them on a rising ground, (which is vet called the "Plea-brae,")
and while part of the army was still entangled in the stream, an
obstinate battle ensued, in which the English were beaten, and
many of them slain. Their bodies were buried in consecrated
ground at a place on the south bank, thence called Rutherford, be-
cause the Scots said their enemies had there been made to rue-
their-ford. This must be an old story, for Rutherford was a con-
siderable village, and went by this name at least several centuries ago.
Long before the Reformation this place, and the territory around it,
formed a distinct parish, which had a church and an hospital of its
own. Of these buildings there are now no remains; but the church-
yard, which had long ceased to be a burying-place, was ploughed up
only about twenty-five years ago, and the grave-stones were broken
and thrown into drains by an improving farmer. The patronage
of Rutherford, which at one time belonged to the Earls of Douglas,
was granted before the year 1483, by James Rutherford of that
Ilk; but the church being afterwards suffered to go to ruin, the
parish was united to Maxton, and the advowson fell into oblivion.
The hospital was dedicated to St Mary Magdalene, and destined
"for receiving strangers, and maintaining poor and infirm people."
It was restored "to the master" by Edward I. in the year 1296,
                              4


