
     Statistical Account

to run to natural grass for 8 or 9 years, after which it is a-
gain broken up and treated as before.  This wretched mode
of farming, however; though too general, is not universal.
Mr. Gordon of Craig, one of the heritors, has a farm sub-
stantially enclosed, subdivided, and improved, in which the
useful and the ornamental are happily united.  Another of
the heritors, Mr. Forbes of Brux, has also a farm in the pa-
rish.  At an age, when the spirit of enterprize and exertion
generally subsides, he undertook a work which required even
youthful activity.  When above 60, he took under his ma-
nagement, about 150 acres of his estate, consisting partly of
outfield and partly of heath.  This he has enclosed, and
more than three-fourths of it is carrying weighty crops of
turnip, corn, or grass.  He is now in his 84th year, and is
still pushing on his improvements with considerable vigour.
A few of the farmers have likewise adopted the modern hus-
bandry, and with some success.  One improvement only, and
that on so narrow a scale as to be scarcely worth mentioning,
is pretty general.  Not above 20 years ago, hardly any of the
tenants had potatoes, turnip, or sown grass, except in their
gardens.  Mr. Gordon of Craig, recommended raising them in
the fields, and sent his gardener to teach the mode of culture.
Now, every one has a few falls of potatoes and turnip, and
some a little rye-grass and clover, in the fields*.  There are

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is, however, to be feared, that without the operation of some unfore-
seen cause, the progress of improvements here will not be very rapid.  The
following are among the reasons that lead to this uncomfortable conclusion:
1st, It requires a considerable time to draw men from long confirmed habits.
2dly, If money be the sinews of war, it is no less the sinews of farming; and
that is wanting among the tenants of Auchindoir, 3dly, The principal market
for our produce, is Aberdeen, and it is at the distance of 36 miles.  4thly, The
leases are short, and not a few of the farmers are tenants at will, without any
lease at all.  5thly, All the tenants pay mill-multures, which are a tax on in-


