
			PARISH OF PARTON.

		PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCUDBRIGHT, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.

                  THE REV. W. G. CROSBIE, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name Extent, &c.--The name "Parton," which this parish is
said to have received before the end of the thirteenth century, is
supposed to signify, in the Gaelic language, "the hill top," which
is perfectly descriptive of the situation. Its greatest length from
north to south is about 5 miles; its greatest breadth from east to
west, about 7; and its whole area is about 28 square miles. It
is bounded on the north by Balmaclellau; on the east by Kirk-
patrick-Durham, from which it is separated by the small river Urr;
on the south by Crossmichael; on the south-west by Balmaghie,
from which it is separated by the Dee; on the north-west by
Kells, from' which it is separated by the Ken, a river that is in
some places about half a mile broad. The general character of
the parish, in point of surface, is very uneven, though there is no
hill of considerable height, with the exception of Mochrum Fell,
towards the northern part of the parish. There is a hill farther
west, called "Cruckie Height," which affords an extensive and
interesting view of the vale of Ken and Dee. The rich and va-
ried scenery commanded from this point has been done great
justice to, in a  descriptive poem by the late Mr Gillespie of
Kells.
	Hydrography.--On the farm of North Dullarg, a chalybeate
spring was discovered many years ago, and considerable attention
was then directed to it; but, the property soon falling into other
hands, it was neglected, and no effort has since been made to res-
cue it from oblivion. It is supposed to possess, in some degree,
the qualities of the old well at Moffat. The Dee joins the Ken
about half a mile above the church, and, though much smaller, it
gives the name to the united river, which it retains till it enters
the Solway Frith at Kirkcudbright.  There is a variety of lochs
in the parish, the principal being Corsock, Lurky Patiesthorn, and
                                  6


