
     of Kilmalie.

   Martial Spirit.-Upon the sea coast, the people are fond of
a sea-faring life.  Their disposition, however, leads them to
delight more in the sound of the pipe, and in the clang of
arms, than in the majesty of the tempest; thinking it more
honourable to serve in the field of Mars, than in the empire
of Neptune.  By an authentic register, it appears, that, during
the war in 1756, Kilmalie and Kilmanivaig parishes, between
them, furnished 750 men to the army and navy.  It is almost
needless to say, that the natives of Lochaber prefer enlisting
in Highland regiments; and it is perhaps equally so to mention,
what valour and conduct they have displayed, and what glory
they have acquired, under prudent commanders.  The Legis-
lature would then surely act wisely, by encouraging such a use-
ful and warlike body of men, to remain in their native country.
No step, however, has hitherto been taken for that purpose;
and the system adopted by the landlords, of farming their

<FOOTNOTE>

sheep, or thereabout, and a stone of meal per week:  All of which are equal
to about 20 L.-If a servant be employed for the purposes of husbandry, and
lives by himself, with a family, but ready to answer when called on, to assist
in the work of the farm, he is paid as follows:

<TABLE>

   Grass for 2 cows, valued at                        L. 2 10 0
   Ditto for 20 sheep, valued at                         2  0 0
   Lands for potatoes, etc. valued at                    1  0 0
   Maintenance, when working for his masters valued at   3 10 0
   Oat-meal, 3 1-half bolls, valued at                   2 18 4
   Cash,                                                 5  0 0
                                                        -------
                                                     L. 16 18 4

</TABLE>

     He has also the use of his master's horses.

   Upon black cattle farms, the wages are something different.  Domestic ser-
vant men have from 5 L. to 6 L.; women, from 50 s. to 3 L.  In harvest, or in
time of cutting peats, the men have 1 s, per day, and the women from 6 d. to
8 d, with their dinner.


