
610                     ARGYLESHIRE.

scenery. The design is by the late David Hamilton Esq.; and
there was none of that talented, architect's plans which he himself
considered more satisfactory. Hafton House, of the mixed mo-
dern Gothie, is equal in size to Castle Toward; and its situation
on the western shore of the Holy Loch adds a pleasing feature to
the coast view; while, from its low and sheltered situation, and its
extensive park attached, it commands an extensive inland view of
the Frith of Clyde. Glenfinart House, built by the present pro-
prietor, Archibald Douglas Esq., in the mixed English manor-
house style, is beautifully situated in the glen by which it is
named, and occupies the site of the former mansion-house for
many years occupied by the late Earl of Dunmore. The
mansion-house of Benmore, the residence of George R. Wil-
sone Esq., situated at the foot of the lofty hill whose name
this property bears, presents an interesting feature in the al-
most alpine seene around it, and its well arranged and finished
grounds surrounding it, both please and surprise as the grounds
are entered, presenting so perfect a contrast to the ruder features
of the scenery which the eye had been resting upon, while ascend-
ing the valley of the Eachaig, on the verge of which it is situated.
The villas around and in the neighbourhood of Dunoon present
a very pleasing and cheerful appearance, and among them it might
be deemed almost invidious to make any distinctions. The Castle
House, already mentioned, now the property and summer residence
of Robert Eglinton Esq., is, in point of situation and interest,
closely allied to the old Castle of Dunoon, and graces the village;
while the house itself, as if sprung from the ruins of the scarce
discernible walls of the ancient fortalice, presents an emblem of the
change that has passed ever our father-land.
   The parish church of Dunoon is a modern erection, from a
design by Mr Gillespie Graham: it was erected in 1816. Its
order is Gothic, and there are perhaps few modern parish
churches occupying so commanding a positinn, or more success-
fully designed. It has been recently enlarged, by a consider-
able addition to it in length, under the superintendence of the late
David Hamilton Esq., in 1834. In 1839, farther additions were
made. Subscriptions having been entered into for procuring
proper clock and bell, suited to the altered state of the village
and neighbourhood, the tower was raised eight feet, which brought
it properly to correspond with the incresed length of the build-
ing, by the recent addition made to it. The clock  was presented


