
212                         FIFESHIRE.

ing the harbour of Eyemouth." Again, in 1682, " A voluntary con-
tribution is ordered for building a stone bridge over the water of
Ness, at Inverness." And again in the same year, we find three
acts of the privy-council quoted, ordering collections in favour of
"the harbour at Burntisland, to repair it; in favour of Dumbarton,
to erect a bridge across the water of  Leven; and in favour of my
Lord Pitsligo, for repairing the harbour at --------." There are
many more of the same kind; but the above will amply suffice to
shew the many practical benefits the church has been the instru-
ment of conferring on almost every town and sea-port of our na-
tive land. It was the practice in the seventeenth century for par-
ties intending to be married, to enter into a public contract, and
to deposit with the kirk-session a sum of money in pledge of
their sincerity and good behavour. The form observed is record-
ed with amusing simplicity. As, for instance, " Contracted George
Brewhouse and Helen Kinloch, and consigned their pledges ac-
cording to order, that they should marry within the space of forty
days, and carry themselves civillee till their marriage." It did
happen occasionally that the pledges were forfeited for lack of
the requisite civility, and sometimes too for other reasons, as, for
instance, on the 28th of February 1675, there is given to the
bursar " be Andro Law, 4 lbs. being his daughter's pledge, which
was given because of her fail in not taking of William Buist in mar-
riage, after being thrice proclaimed." The oldest register is
full of proclamations, read by order of the King and Council,
which forcibly mark the unquiet aspect of the times, and the grow-
ing jealousy of the government, as the eventful era of the Revolu-
tion approached. We shall conclude this branch of our account,
by extracting an entry of a peculiar interest: " 1678, May 18, a
proclamation was read from the pulpit by the minister, ordaining
the whole heritors within the parish to cause their tenants, cottars,
servants, and all others on their grounds to compear at Cupar on
Friday the 23d of May instant, to clear and vindicate themselves
from the late murder of my Lord. Archbishop of St Andrews."

                      III--POPULATION.

   The population of this parish has gradually but regularly de-
clined since the end of the last century. At that time the popu-
lation was nearly 400. By the census of 1831, it amounted to no
more than 195, and this year it has been reduced to 170 of all
ages, which we sincerely hope will prove its minimum. This rapid
decrease is to be attributed to the extinction of the village; and


