
     Statistical Account

ly met with; and iron ore appears to be in such abundance
in Buittle, as well as the neighbouring parishes, that some
have thought an iron manufacture might be copiously sup-
plied*.  Certain burrows in the earth, frequently talked of

<FOOTNOTE>

*Though the writer of this account proposed to be concise
on the subject of antiquities, he cannot help mentioning here
certain subterraneous passages or galleries, discovered in this
neighbourhood.  There are dug through a firm kind of gravel,
perhaps iron ore; nor is the roof supported by wood, or
arched with stone.  Into one of there lurid grottos, the present
Mr Maxwell of Terraughty, when a boy, descended, and tra-
velled farther than perhaps prudence could choose to accompa-
ny curiosity.  The upper part of this passage or cave he de-
scribes as above; " the bottom (says he) was like an ill swept
"kirk, and here and there were heads of spears, and human
"bones."  If those excavations were ought else than iron
mines, they must have been places of sepulture.  Tacitus, how-
ever, plainly says of the Germans, Funerum nulla ambitio, sepul-
chrum cespes erigit+.  And though Caesar calls the funeral ob-
sequies of the Gauls, Sumptuosa et magnifica pro cultu, he says no-
thing of their carrying the bones of the dead into caverns.  It
would be mere pedantry to shew, that a work, such as that a-
bove described, has as little to do with the religion of the Gauls
and Germans, as with their funeral rites, and the conclusion
must be, that such works are perfectly Scottish.  Any inquisi-
tive gentleman, wishing to know farther on this subject, might
apply to Mr Maxwell of Terraughty, whose affability and good
sense need no commendation.  Or if any antiquary chooses to
repeat Mr Maxwell's experiment, the inhabitants of Auchen-
reoch, near Spottis-hall, will yet point out the entrance.  Pity
but the celebrated Mr M'PHERSON would explore this descensus
Averni; the world might be blessed with an appendix to Fingal,
and with recent accounts from the spirits of Leda and of Dr Sa-
muel Johnston.  In several parts of this country, too, there are
oblong squares, made with banks of stone.  In the centre there is
a hearth; and, in digging up the banks forming the square, col-
lars, chains, hooks, and forks have been found.  Such places
have, by some ingenious gentlemen, been supposed to be ac-
commodations for burning dead bodies; and certain niches in
the surrounding banks, understood to be receptacles for the

+TAC. de Moribus Germ. cap. XXVII.


