
                           DUNNET.                          35

The extent of sea Coast is about 15 miles, 1 1/2 miles of which
to the south of Dunnet are level sand, the remainder rocky.  The
shore round Dunnet-bead is quite inaccessible from the land,
forabout eight miles, except at two or three places where the in-
habitants can go down with difficulty.  The remainder along the
Pentland Frith is low and accessible at several creeks.
Climate.-The atmosphere is clear when the wind is from the
sea; when from.the land it is in autumn and spring moist, and the
weather variable.  The climate is on the whole healthy.  Snow
seldom lies any length of time, nor do frosts generally go deep
into rthe soil.  Crops are late in ripening-in general from four-
teen to twenty days behind the Lotbians.
    The current in the Pentland Frith is exceedinly strong during
spring tides, so that no vessel can stem it.  The flood tide runs
from west to east at the rate of ton miles an hour, with new and
full moon.  It is then high water at Scarfskerry at nine o'clock.
Immediate.1v as the water begins to fall on the shore, the cur-
rent turns to the west, but the strength of the flood is so great in
the middle of the Frith, that it continues to run east till about
twelve.  These contiguous currents, running with such velocity from
opposite directions, have a strange appearance from the land.
With a gentle breeze of westerly wind about eight o'clock in the
morning, the whole frith seems as smooth as a sheet of glass,
from Dunnet-head to Hoy-head in Orkney.  About nine the sea
begins to rage for about 100 yards off the Head, while all without-
continues smooth as before.  This appearance gradually advances.
towards the fritiv, and along the shore to the east, though the effects
are not much felt upon the shore till it reaches Scarfskerry-
head, which is about three miles distant from Dunnet-head, as
the land between these points forms a considerable bay. By two
o'clock thewbole fritb seems to rage.  About three in the after.
noon, it is low water on the shore,'when all the former phenomenon,
ma are reversed-the smooth water beginning to appear next the
land, and advancing gradually till it reaches the middle of, the
Frith.  From the strength of the tides, and the surprising velo-
city of these contiguous currents in opoosite directions,  Pentland
Frith is a very dangerous navigation to strangers, especially if they
approach near the land.  But the natives along the coast are so
well acquainted with the direction of the tides, that they can take
advantage of every one of these currents, to carry them safe to
one harbour or another. Hence very fev accidents happen but


