
30                            ARGYLESHIRE.

tures yield; and in the hands of an ordinary tenant, who turns his
horse to the field or moor when his work is finished, they do, and
they will become long-legged, hard-boned, and slow, ever hungry,
ever unseemly, and never fit for labour.  No horse can surpass
the native breed in hardy endurance; he will be fat where the
larger horse will perish; he may be taken from the moor to trot
ten or even twelve miles an hour, and turned out to grass again
ungroomed.  And he is fit for carrying twelve or thirteen cwt.
along the Highland roads.  Give him more size by better food,
more beauty by attention to the breed, and for all the purposes of
the Highland farmer, he will not be surpassed in usefulness by any
horse in, the world.
   The poorer and richer order of tenants rear pigs, and the pre-
judice against them only exists among aged persons.
   The farm buildings are, in some instances, of great extent--
the Duke * of Argyle having built office-houses upon the most
commodious plan on one farm, + and also supplied others where
they were required.  Generally, however, it is only the indepen-
dent tenant that is provided with a commodious dwelling-house or
good office-houses.  The houses, barns, &c. of the smaller ten-
ants are thatched with rushes, which endure two years, or with
ferns, which endure for seven,--and that, in some instances, when
the houses are built on a bed of roof slate.
   In some cases the tenants hold leases of nineteen years; in
others their right is restricted to nine years; and very many hold
their lands from year to year.
   The rents are generally equable and fair.  There are three
ways in which the value of lands in lease is calculated, and by
which a farmer, on taking the average prices of the past year, is
guided.  The first of these is by an actual survey of the lands
and an estimate of the value in acres; the second is by the amount
of gross returns which may be annually expected, deducting in-
terest wages, and expense of management, which are supposed
equal to one-half of the produce: and the third is the market
price of grazing a cow or sheep, and one third is the market
   Thus to give an example of each of these methods, and first,
of the value per acre, on the supposition of the accuracy of the
measurement, let a farm be supposed of

<FOOTNOTE>Father to the present Duke.
          For a description of these admirable barns, &c. see Smith's Agricultural survey,'
or Garnet's Tour.


