
     Statistical Account

off from the burn that runs beside it, in the form of a
wing*.

   Situation and Extent.-The two united parishes, or what
is now called by the common name of Halkirk, is in length
24 miles from N. to S. W.  Its breadth is various, being
in some places 12, in other places 10, in some 8, in others
7 miles, from the N. E. to the N. W.  It is bounded on
the N. by the parish of Thurso; on the N. E. by the pa-
rishes of Bower and Wattin; on the S. and S. W. by the
parishes of Latheron, Kildonnan, Reay; on the W. by a
detached part of the parish of Thurso, and on the N. W.
by the parish of Reay again.  It is situated in the county
and presbytery of Caithness, and belongs to the provincial
Synod of Caithness and Sutherland.  It is an inland parish,
and the most centrical in the county.

   Soil.-The soil is in general very good, though very va-
rious.  In some parts it consists of a mixture of clay and
loam, in some of a heavy or light kind of clay altogether,
in many parts of a mixture of clay and a light kind of

<FOOTNOTE>

*The river that runs by the kirk is called Amhine Thorse, i. e.  River
of Thurso; whence it may be supposable, that the river is called from a
person or place, as rivers commonly are.  The place or person might have
been termed Thor, or Thorsa, a Danish word; now, Thor, or Thorsa, as
it might have been pronounced in that language, is the name of a north-
ern deity, from which was derived the name of a day, Thursday, and of
persons, with some variations and compositions.  Thus, for instance,
there were of old of the name Oddin, or O'Doine, another northern deity,
from which we have Woddinsday, or Oddinsday, or O'Doinesday; and
there are to this day persons of a name patronimically derived from it,
viz. Macodoine, or Oddin's Son.  This may lead to a discovery of the
name of this parish.  The place where the kirk stands is truly a laggan,
or low place, in the strict sense of the word; and then, why might it not
be compounded by the addition of Thor, or Thorsa, and so called Thor
O'Laggan, or Thorsa O'Laggan, i. e.  The low place of Thor, or Thorsa:
as Thurso is in Earse called Inver Thorsa, i. e.  The Mouth of Thorse.
Thus Inverness, etc.  From Thor several names are also derived, as Tor
quil, Macthorquil, Thorkelin.


