
			     ST CYRUS.                         293

three and four miles by indirect roads. The Sittings in the older
part of the church are set apart to the heritors and their tenants,
and such seats as the latter may not require, are let to feuars and
other inhabitants, in some instances at a nominal rent, and in
others at 1s. 6d. or more for a sitting. The newer part of the
church has not yet been divided. There are two services during
six months, from April to September, which are usually well at-
tended. The average number of male heads of families is 225,
and the whole number of communicants 700.
	The manse was built in 1797. It has since undergone some
slight alterations, and is now in good repair. The glebe is four
Scotch acres in extent, including the sites of the manse, offices,
and garden, and may be valued at L. 10 per annum. The stipend
is 17 chalders, half meal and half barley, and with L.10 for com-
munion elements, amounted, by the fiars prices of 1837, to L.241.
	In the year 1798, according to a census of the population re-
corded in the session minutes, there were, in the parish, 15 fami-
lies of Seceders, 2 families of Bereans, and 8 families of Episco-
palians, comprising in all 112 individuals. Since then, the num-
ber of Dissenters from the Establishment has been very much
diminished. In 1837, there were only 27 individuals in the parish
who were not in communion with the Established Church. Twenty-
three of these were persons belonging to a congregation in the neigh-
bouring village of Johnshaven, in connection with the United Asso-
ciate Synod; 3 were Bereans; and 1 Episcopalian. There are,
besides, one or two individuals who do not profess to be in com-
munion with any body of Christians. Since 1837, one family of
Seceders, consisting of 11 individuals, has come to reside in the
parish.
	A parochial association for religious purposes, under the direc-
tion of the minister and elders, was instituted in 1836. The con-
tributions in that and the following year, for the Assembly's India
Mission, and Highland Schools, amounted together to L.50. In
1838, the sum collected for the same objects was L.30. Contri-
butions of nearly equal amount have since been made for the
other schemes of the Assembly; and the collections at the church
doors, for charitable purposes, average about L.15 a-year.
        Education.-There are at present six schools in the parish, be-
sides the parochial school. Five of these are conducted by fe-
males, who teach reading, sewing, and knitting, and, in one case,
writing; and one is conducted by a male teacher, who is qualified


