
74                          BANFFSHIRE.

This no doubt might, in some degree, be remedied, by the erecting
of a new gallery between the two already erected at the ends. But
other alterations would be requisit.  There is sufficient accommoda-
tion for 357 people, but it is desirable that upwards of 400 should be
accommodated.  These inconveniences, it is hoped, will ere long be
remedied.  All the sittings are free, with the exception of those in
one of the galleries, which was erected by the heritor, and seated
by the kirk-session. The rents, however, in this gallery are not
very burdensome, being in no case more than 6d. per annum for
each sitter, and some of the back seats only 3d.
  The manse was built about fifty years ago, and received a tho-
rough repair, and partial enlargement about six years ago. It is
an exceedingly commodious and good house.  The extent of the
glebe is about 8 imperial acres, and may be worth about as many
pounds annually.  The stipend amounts to 14 cbalders half meal
and half barley, with L.1, 15s. 3 4/42d., arising from a mortification
made in 1675, by Mr Robert Sharpe, Sheriff-clerk of Banffshire, *
together with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
  There is no dissenting or other chapel in the parish. The
whole of the people, with the exception of about six individuals,
belong to the Established Church, and are in general pretty re-
gular in attending public worship in the parish chureh, the only
one which they either desire or need. The average number of
communicants is about 330.
  There has been lately an association formed in the parish in
connexion with a presbyterial association, for promoting the spread
of the Gospel in connexion with the Church of Scotland. The ob-
jects are partly parochial, and partly general. The general objects
are,-the promoting of church extension, the circulation of the Bible,
the Assembly's Schools, the India Mission, and Colonial Churches.
The parochial objects are,-keeping up and extending the Sabbath
school library, procuring Bibles for poor people in the parish, either
gratis or at a reduced price, as circumstances may require, and aid-
ing poor people in the education of their children, by paying such
proportion of the school fees as may be deemed requisite. It is
intended that one-half of the funds shall be applicable to parochial,
the other to general purposes,-the latter, though received and re-
mitted by the presbytery, to be distributed as the contributors shall

<FOOTNOTE>This Mr Robert Sharpe, there is reason to think, was brother of the but too fa-
mous Archbishop Sharpe. He married the heiress of Ordeans, a small farm in
the neighbourhood of the manse of Deskford.  Hence, probably, his liberality to the
minister.
                                      4


