
                          QUEENSFERRY.                            7

winter, it is very mortifying to see the London fishing smacks fit-
ted with wells, carrying off numerous cargoes of cod to the south-
ern markets, while our own fishermen only occasionally, while en-
gaged in the herring-fishery, employ a line or two for that pur-
pose with very indifferent success. To the westward of the town
a salmon-fishery has been established, which has been carried on
very successfully by its present tenant, Mr M'Queen. Stake-nets
are employed, in which, particularly in the months of July and
August, great numbers of salmon, grilses, and sea trout are caught.
They are regularly sent to the Edinburgh market after supplying
the demand in the neighbourhood,
   The herring-fishery is the principal employment of the inhabit-
ants during the winter months. Masons, quarriers, with the re-
gular fishermen, are occupied from the end of November to the
beginning of March in this very useful and profitable branch of
industry. It commenced in the year 1792, opposite to the town,
in St Margaret's Hope, Inverkeithing Bay, &c. Since that time
it has been carried on with various degrees of success. The earl
period of the fishery was more successful than in recent years.
During the war, the prices were high, and several curers embarked
in the trade, and so many as 600 barrels were cured at this
port. In 1831, which was a very abundant fishery, perhaps
1500 barrels were cured; but the curers, unable to cope with the
carters, who came front all quarters of the country to purchase the
herrings, could take advantage of those days only when the supply
exceeded the demand. Forty or fifty carts were frequently in at-
tendance, carrying away from 6600 to 12000 each. The price va-
ried from 6d. to 1s. 6d. per 100. The curers seldom purchased
at a higher price than 7s. the cran or barrel. There are twelve
boats belonging to the town, carrying each four or five men, and fur-
nished generally with twelve nets, fifty yards long and thirteen yards
deep. But the boats employed in the fishery from other places,
Fisberrow, Prestonpans, Cellardykes, Buckhaven, &c. may amount
to about 50 or 100; the greater part of these discharge their cargoes
at this port. This occasions a considerable bustle in the town,
and is a principal source of revenue, each boat paying 4d. and every
cart 6d.  When the curing goes forward briskly, about twelve women
are employed in preparing the herring for the barrels, which pay a
duty, when cured on the pier, of 4d., and in the port, 2d. Those
who are expert in the business can easily earn 2s. or 3s. per day.
Though this trade is most beneficial to the country at large, it is


