
30			KIRKCUBRIGHTSHIRE.

creeks, possessed 54 vessels-tonnage, 2069. No foreign vessels
trade to the port. A little above the harbour is a ferry, where
passengers are carried across the river in a flat-bottomed boat of
an oblong form, with both comfort and expedition. To each end
of the boat is attached by hinges, and suspended by chains, a broad
platform or pathway, by which all kinds, of vehicles can enter, and
depart without loss of time, and almost with as much ease as if
travelling along a common road. The boat is commodious, and
can hold at once four carts with their horses attached, or two car-
riages and one gig. It is moved along a chain by a crank wench.
The rent of the boat and boat-house is L.128.
	Incorporated Trades.--There are no public or private associa-
tions in the  parish for the encouragement or improvement of any
branch of industry; but there are six incorporated trades namely,
the Squaremen, 36 members ; Tailors, 13; Weavers, 22; Ham-
mermen; 13; Clothiers, 20; Shoemakers, 17; total number of
members, 121.
	Market-Town.--The only town in the parish is Kirkcudbright;
and there are no collections of houses in it to which the term
villages could be applied. In Kirkcudbright, a weekly market is
held every Friday, but it is not well attended. At one time, more
foreign trade was carried on by the burgh than at present. Sel-
dom more than one cargo of wood, containing about 15,000 feet,
has been annually imported. Much coal and lime is received from
Cumberland ; and a great many articles of general traffic, such as
flour, herrings, groceries, haberdasheries, hardware, iron, lead,
slates, freestone, &c. are conveyed from Liverpool and other
places, both by land and sea. Bone-dust and guano are also fre-
quently imported. From the parish of Kirkcudbright are regu-
larly exported, corn, potatoes, meal, wool, turnips, beans, black-
eattle, sheep, salmon, grass-seed, timber, staves. From the 5th of
April 1842 to the 5th of April 1843, there were sent from the
port of Kircudbright 50 quarters of wheat, 338 quarters of bar-
ley, 5268 quarters of oats, 6 quarters of beans, 8 tons of meal,
688 tons of potatoes, 7840 stones of wool, 60 tons of turnips, and
80 cwt. of rye-grass-seed. 721 black-cattle, and 12,005 sheep,
were also exported from Whitsunday 1842 to Whitsunday 1843.
	Means of Communication.--The means of communication which,
the parish enjoys are excellent. Two commodious steam-boats
sail regularly from Kirkcudbright to Liverpool, once in the week
in summer, and once in the fortnight in winter. Two coaches


