
302                     BERWICKSHIRE.

parish, without a few observations on the woods and plantations,
and the principal trees within its bounds. In all, there are about
550 acres of wood, of which about 440 belong to Sir John Hall,
Bart. principal proprietor in the parish. These woods are of dif-
ferent descriptions, but, for the most part, they are natural. Con-
siderable quantities of trees, however, have, especially of late years,
been planted. The soil is evidently most congenial to oak, and
this, accordingly, is the principal tree in the parish,-there being
about 300 acres covered with it. Generally speaking, the species
is the Quercus sessiliflora, not the Quercus robur; and many very
fine picturesque trees of this kind ornament the rocky sides of seve-
ral of the deans. Much attention has been paid by Sir John Hall to
the management of his woods. Indeed, nowhere is a better sys-
tem carried on, and nowhere, accordingly, are woods in a more
thriving condition. From this attention which has been paid to
the subject, the following facts become apparent,-that on soil
formed from the debris of greywacke, Scotch firs and beeches will
not thrive, though many attempts have been made for this pur-
pose; but that oaks, on whatever soil t6y are planted, uniformly
succeed. On the sandstone district, however, especially in the
neighbourhood of Dunglass, both firs and beeches thrive amazingly,
-there being few places in this country where finer trees of the
latter are to be seen. A considerable number of Spanish chest-
nuts have been planted, within a few years, in both districts of the
parish; and in both situations they thrive well. A good number
of larches have also been planted, principally for the purpose of
sheltering the young hard-wood. Many of the beeches in Dun-
glass Dean, and in the park, are above 100 feet in height, and
hundreds of them have an average girth of 8 feet. There are also
some very fine sycamore trees, and a considerable number of large
and very handsome ashes. Among the more ornamental trees,
the holly seems to be one that suits the soil and climate best. The
laburnum also thrives well; and there is not, perhaps, a spot in
the kingdom where the ivy is more luxuriant or ornamental. In
the mosses, some very large fossil oaks have been occasionally met
with.
              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-So far as we are aware, there is no account of the
history of this parish, either printed or in manuscript, with the ex-
ception of the last Statistical Account. That it has been the theatre,
however, of many important events, and that its ancient history,
                              3


