
   of Carsefairn.

tains, be exposed to the piercing air on their summits, and that
they often continue wet for whole days and nights.  That it is
not so must be attributed in a good measure to the discreet use
of warm woolien clothes, particularly the plaid, with which
every inhabitant of the parish male and female is provided*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It may not, perhaps, be improper, to take notice of one o-
ther disease which formerly prevailed in this, and still prevails
in many other places of the south of Scotland, viz the
yaws.  This disease is always caught by infection.  The vi-
rus which spreads the contagion, is evidently ot the venereal
kind; but the mode of receiving it is different in this and in
the lues venerea.  The infection is almost invariably commu-
nicated by the saliva of the person diseased.  The first symp-
toms are usually a pricking pain, with a slight inflammution,
and sometimes a small ulcer in one or both sides of the throat.
The inflammation often extends over the fauces and uvula
The amygdalae, and sometimes parotids, swell on one or both
sides.  In this stage of the disease, it is unpossible to distinguish
it from a slight cynanche, or common sore throat Afterwards
the pain and inflammation, instead of being removed by the
means which usually prove effectual in the cure ot the cynanche,
gradually increase for several weeks or months.  By this time
the whole of the fluids are tainted, and the disease further makes
its appearance on the scrotum, penis, and sides of the thighs,
or perhaps more frequently in tumours in the anus, watch soon
break, and become painful ulcers.  Red or purple spots some-
times appear on the breast, or other places of the slein, and the
whole habit of body is disordered.  Though the disease usually
begins in the fauces, yet the palate is seldom much injured, or
the cartilage of the nose affected, as in case of lues when of
long standing.  The writer has seen no case where the bones
either of the legs or arms were affected.
   The mode of cure is exactly the same as in a confirmed lues,
by the use of mercury, to such a degree as gently to affect the
mouth, and for such a length of time as may remove every
symptom, which will seldom be less than six weeks of two
months, and often considerably more.  An effectual mode of
preventing it is neither to lup from the same dish, drink from
the same cup, or smoke from the same pipe, which hath been


