
252                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

themselves to be carried down the mid-channel or main stream;
while they would secure for the public many of the salmon which
at present become the prey of the seal and grampus.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  The ancient history of this parish is involved in much obscurity.
Though locally situated in the county of Ross, it has belonged to
tbat of Cromarty, since the time of George Viscount of Tarbat.
The founder of his family was Roderick M'Kenzie, second son to
Colin of Kintail. Roderick was knighted by James VI., and
left two sons, John and Kenneth, the former of whom was created
a baronet in the following reign, and at his death bequeathed
his lands to his son George. He was the original purchaser of
the lands of Cromarty, and in the reign of Queen Anne was made
Secretary of State and Earl of Cromarty. An act was procured
by him, in 1698, which annexed the barony of Tarbat and his
other lands in Ross-shire to the shire of Cromarty "in all time
coming, and to all effects;"-among these, was a large proportion of
the parish of Fodderty, whence its anomalous connexion with the
neigbbouring county.
   The parish was formerly divided into three, viz. Fodderty,
Kinnettas, and Tollie, in Brahan. In the first two, there are burying
grounds still in use, and in which the older inhabitants remember
to have seen the remains of chapels. Traces of a burying
ground are also to be met with on a small island below the
Castle of Brahan; to the place of worship which the Tollie
district would seem to have been formerly attached.
  Antiquities.-North of the burying-ground at Fodderty, lies
Croich-an-Team puil or Temple-croft, in which several stone-coffins
have been found. One, containing two skeletons, was dug
up within the last four years. - Coffins Of the same kind have been
met with near Keppoch Lodge, and in the heights of the property
of Hilton. The name usually given to them is Kistvaen,
from cist, a chest, and maen changed to vaen, a stone. Sometimes
an urn has been found in them; but those discovered in this parish
contained only bones and ashes.
  Of those sepulchral remains called cairns, there is an excellent
specimen on the heights of the property of Hilton, which
measures 260 feet by 20 feet. It is situated on a little rising
ground, having at the east end a standing-stone. Its height has,
of late years, been much diminished by the removal of the stones


