
     Statistical Account

parish, and the adjacent country, plainly appear to be Go-
thic, Saxon, or Danish.  For example, South-essie, Middle-essie;
and North-essie, signify the South, Middle, and North pasture,
or feeding place, from the Teutonic Essen, to feed.  Pittin-
heath, compounded of the Saxon Pit, and Heath, the name
of a well known shrub.  Pitfour, the hollow trench; Pitsligo,
anciently Pitsligach, the slaughter hollow.  Cruden, was cer-
tainly a part of the ancient Cruthenica, or Pictish kingdom,
so called from Cruthen the first king of the Picts.  Deer, the
name of a neighbouring parish, signifies a valley, and is very
expressive of the situation of that place.  Broadland, the land
of bread.  Crimond, anciently Creichmont, the dow or little
mount.  Lonmay, anciently Longmay, the long green, etc.

   Woods:-At present there is no wood in the parish, ex-
cept a few old planes at Inverugic.++  The proprietor has
paid much attention to the raising of wood on his other estates;
particularly in the parishes of Deer and Longside, where he
has planted 940 English acres.  They were all planted with
Scotch firs, which succeeded in about one fourth of the whole,
and that part has been filled up with barren timber of dif-
ferent kinds.  Where the Scotch firs have failed, the larch
and spruce have come forward; and it seems probable, that

<FOOTNOTE>

++There is clear evidence, that, at some former period, a great part of
this parish has been covered with wood, chiefly oak, aller, birch, hazel, and
willow the remains of all which are found in the mosses.  No roots or trees,
however, of the Scotch fir have been found, which shows that this kind of
wood is not proper for this part of the country.  It would appear that the
woods in this country had, at one time or other, been destroyed by fire, as the
marks of that element are visible on many of the roots and trees that are dug
up in the mosses.  It may not be an improbable conjecture, that this happen-
ed anno 1308, when King KOBERT BRUCE defeated CUMINE Earl of Buchan,
near Inverury.  Fordun, ^^after narrating this defeat, adds, "comitat im de

llFordun, vol. II. p. 241.


