
4                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

several volumes of tales and travels, and has distinguished herself
as a very elegant and lively, as well as instructive writer. Sir
John, in his account of eminent characters, states, that the Os-
walds of Glasgow, who were eminent merchants there, were ori-
ginally from Thurso; and that Richard Oswald, merchant in
London, and one of the plenipotentiaries from Great Britain in
settling the peace in 1783, was an unsuccessful candidate, upon
a comparative trial, for the office of schoolmaster of Thurso.  He
makes mention also of a Mr M'Intosh, son of a schoolmaster in
Thurso, who became an eminent portrait painter in Moscow; and
of two young ladies of the name of Liddell, natives of Thurso,
who had removed to Edinburgh, who showed a great turn for mu-
sic and painting,, and attained to considerable eminence in the
latter art.
   Chief Land-owners.-The chief land-owners in the parish, be-
sides the Crown, which possesses the lands of Scrabster, are, Sir
George Sinclair of Ulbster, the present excellent and accom-
plished Member for the county; James Sinclair, Esq. of Forss,
who is constantly resident, and who deserves much commendation
for his anxiety to provide the young on his estates with the means
of a proper education; Sir John Gordon Sinclair of Murkle, and
Sir Patrick Murray Thriepland of Fingask.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, including the
Session records, extend to seven volumes, of about 600 folio pages
each.  The first entry is in 1648.
   Antiquities.-About half a mile to the west of Thurso, in the
centre of the crescent-formed bank which skirts the bay, stand the
ruins of an old castle, beautifully situated on the sea, once the
residence of the bishops of Caithness.  Scarcely any of the build-
ing remains, but it appears to have been a place of considerable
size and strength.  About two miles to the east of the town, is
the burial place of Earl Harold, the possessor at one time of the
half of Orkney tend Zetland, and of the half of Caithness, who
was slain in battle in the year 1190, while endeavouring to recover
his property from the hands of a tyrant, the wicked Earl Harold.
Over his grave the late Sir John Sinclair, on the suggestion of
Mr Alexander Pope, minister of Reay, one of the greatest anti-
quries in the north, erected an edifice, called Harold's Tower,
which, as seen from a distance, possesses somewhat of a striking
appearance.


