
                         BOTHWELL.                            801

and in 1821, it was again augmented to 18 chalders, half meal,
half barley, with L. 10 for communion elements.
   The manse is large, comfortable, and in good repair.  The
glebe consists of above 4 arable acres, but is deficient in the legal
allowance for pasture.  There is an orchard of nearly two acres,
but the soil and the situation are not considered favourable for
fruit trees, and the crop is precarious.
   This parish has been distinguished by the liberality of its collections
and contributions for religious and charitable object.  The
first collection for the British and Foreign Bible Society amounted
to upwards of L. 90 ; the second to L. 50 ; the largest, perhaps,
that were made for the society in any country parish in Scotland.
An association was formed in 1816, for aiding religious and benevolent
institutions in general.  In that year upwards of L. 60 were
raised by subscriptions and donations, and distributed among the
Hamilton Auxiliary Bible Society, the Hibernian Society, the
Society for Gaelic Schools, and other institutions of a similar nature.
When the Apocrypha controversy took place, the Hamilton
Bible Society was dissolved, and the association at Bothwell was
also allowed to go down.
   The average yearly collections at Bothwell, (as distinct from
Holytown parish,) for religious and charitable purposes, may be
stated at L. 50.
   Education.-There are three parochial schools in the parish,
one at Bothwell village, another in Holytown, and the third at
Newart Hill.  The incumbent in the former has the maximum
salary of two chalders; the other two half a chalder each.  The
school-room at Bothwell is at present in a very wretched condition,
totally inadequate to the number of scholars, and in such bad
repair as to be absolutely injurious to health.  In other respects
the school is in a most flourishing condition, under the efficient
superintendence of Mr James Hamilton, the present master. *  The
number of scholars may average from 100 to 120.  The branches
taught are, English, writing, and arithmetic, geography, Latin and
Greek.  The school-fees for reading are, 3s. per quarter ; for
reading, writing, arithmetic, geography, and English grammar, 4s.
Latin and Greek, 5s,  The average number of scholars attending
the school at Holytown is about 20, and atg Newart Hill above l00.
   There are besides the parish schools, several on private adven-

<FOOTNOTE>An excellent school-room and dwelling-house for the teacher have recently been
built, partly by parochial assessment, and partly by private subscription.


