
           418                         PERTHSHIRE.

           where farm produce of every kind can be disposed of to the great-
           estadvantage. There are three villages in it: Longforgan, the whole
           of which belongs to George Paterson, Esq. of Castle Huntly :
           Kingoody, entirely the property of James Mylne, Esq.; and Balbun-
           noch, including the range of houses, recently erected on the estate
           of Mylnefield.
              The means of communication with other places enjoyed by the
           parish are diversified and ample.  It has the benefit of a post
           every day in the week, the office, however, being at Inchture.
           The great road to Aberdeen by the coast runs through it, and
           from this two roads branch off, one leading to the Kingoody quarries,
           and westward through a lower part of the Carse, till it rejoins the
           turnpike at the sixth milestone from Perth, and the other leading over
           the Sidlaws to Cupar-Angus and into Strathmore.  There are three
           coaches, and occasionally four (one of them the mail) which pass
           and repass daily, and, connected as they are with the movements
           of other public carriages which start from Perth and Dundee, af-
           ford constant opportunities of intercourse with all parts of thd coun-
           try.  There are very few bridges in the parish, and these over in-
           considerable streams, but they are all in good condition, and an-
           swer the purpose for which they were originally built.  At
           Kingoody there is a sort of harbour, which was constructed by Mr
           Mylne, for receiving and sheltering the boats employed in convey-
           ing stones to various quarters, not only in Scotland, but also in
           England.  Lime from Sunderland is frequently landed at it for
           the use of the neighbouring proprietors and farmers.  Grain too is
           shipped from it on their account, and of late years large quantities
           of potatoes for the London market.
              Eccleiastical State.-The church, which is a very commodious
           and comfortable one, was erected in 1795, and is at present, with
           a few trifling exceptions, in a state of complete repair.  It is too large,
           however, containing more than 1000 sittings, nor is there any proba-
           bility of the ample accommodation which it affords being speedily
           required.  But it could not be better situated for the great bulk
           of the population, though about 25 families in the north-western
           quarter of the parish are at the rather inconvenient dhstance of
           from three to five miles from it.  Some of the communion tables are
           let annually at very low rates for the benefit of the poor, and a few
           other seats also are let by these of the tenantry, who, from the ex-
           tent of their farms, have more church room than is necessary for
           their servants and cottagers.  But all the other sitting are free,


