
     Statistical Account

family of RIDDEL, of that ilk, one of the most ancient, if
not the very oldest in Scotland*.

   Character and Manners.-The people in general, a very
few excepted+, are sober and attentive to business, there be-
ing plenty of work for such as chuse not to be idle, or half
employed.  They are regular in attending the ordinances of
religion, and many have made no small degree of improve-
ment in Christian knowledge.  They adhere strictly to the

<FOOTNOTE>

HOME, great-grand-father of the wife of the present minister,
a man eminent for his piety, and simplicity of manners, came
from the Merse to join with his suffering brethren in Divine
service.  Under the influence of that principle which " think-
"eth no evil," he informed a gentleman, on his returning home,
where he had been, who gave information to the servants of
government, whereupon he was apprehended, condemned, and
hanged at the Cross of Edinburgh.

*Tradition says, this family fixed itself betwixt the seventh
and eighth century.  A late well informed and elegant histo-
rian was of this opinion.  As positive proofs, Walter Riddell
of Riddell married Violet Douglas in 936.  About and after
that period, grants of land were made by the kings of Scot-
land, and by some of the Popes, particularly by Pope Alexan-
der II.  A place of worship was erected near the house of Rid-
dell, which had a burying ground, called Chapel Park.  When
in tillage, human bones occasionally have been plowed up.
This burying place was transferred to the present church-yard.
Upon the outside of Riddell ayle, there is inscribed H. R. 1110.

+Previous to the rupture with America, a woman guilty of
child-murder petitioned for banishment, which was granted.
She denied to the father her being with child, and would not
hearken to his proposals for marriage; yet, so violent was his
attachment to this monster of depravity, that he accompanied
her to America, in the hope she would relent, and at last give
him her hand.-A well disposed woman, upwards of 70 years
of age, at times subject to religious melancholy, asked of a
neighbour a good book to read; Ambrose's War with Devils was
put into her hands, the reading of which entirely deranged her
mind and led her to commit the fatal act of suicide.


