
370                               FORFARSHIRE.

beyond the range already mentioned, with the exception of some
towards the north-western extremity of the parish. Though these
have been quarried, for slates, for many years, yet it is only with-
in the last thirty years that they have been worked for pavement
to any extent. * About sixty labourers are employed in them for
the season. They are worked in the common way: as the seams
which lay nearest the surface consisted chiefly of slates, they have
been mostly worked out. The best pavement and slate strata can be
split into plates of from 1 inch to 14 inches in thickness, for pave-
ment, and of any portable dimensions, and of 1 inch to 1 1/4 inch in
thickness for slates. The pavement is squared in the quarry. The
slates are used in the neighbouring country. Upwards of thirty
carts are employed in carrying the pavement to Arbroath, (at the
rate of from 4s. to 6s. per 100 superficial feet,) where it is ship-
ped for Leith, London, Glasgow, Aberdeen, and various other
places; that which is so well known by the name of Arbroath pave-
ment being chiefly from this parish. The sales have incre`sed
considerably since the coast duty was taken off. Pavement
rock of a fine grain and of a bluish-colour, with a shade inclining
to green, is found of sufficient thickness for stair steps of any
size. It is also suitable for columns, balusters, and other archi-
tectural ornaments. A stratum of light-coloured pavement is oc-
casionally found, which is finely variegated with dark cloudy spots
and veins, which, when polished and varnished, has a beautiful
appearance, resembling dark-coloured marble, and answers well
for chimney jambs, lobby tables, &c. The pumps required for
drawing off the water from the quarries, are driven by windmills,
with moveable wooden frames. +
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as stated by the occupiers of the several farms, exclu-

<FOOTNOTE>In the rental alluded to of 1675, no mention is made of the quarries.
	In 1739 Mr Garden of Troup, who then held the lands of the barony of Car-
mylie in lease from the York Building Company granted a sublease of the slate quar-
ries on that barony (excepting those on the mains of Carmylie,) for 300 merks yearly.
	--Old Documents.
	At an after period, the tenants in their vicinity were allowed to quarry as they
pleased on their respective farms, upon their paying to the landlord a certain pro-
portion, of the value of the rl`te and pavement quarried.
       Greate difficulty has been experienced, for some time past, in getting rid of the
water, which has increased in the principal quarry beyond the power of the common
pump, owing to the increasing depth of the quarries from the dip of the strata. To
remedy this, a drain was commenced some years ago, at the distance of half a mile
from that quarry, and has been pushed on at a great depth to within 400 yards of it,
and a tunnel now in progress, 3 1/2 feet in height, by about 3 feet in width, has been
blasted for 180 yards of that distance, through a hard sandstone. It is a most labori-
ous and expensive operation, but will, when completed, effectually drain the quarries.


