
186                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

The whole arable land has been long enclosed with hedges and
ditches, which are kept in a very superior taste and style. Those
fields which lie immediately below the house of Alva, at the bot-
tom of the Woodhill, were enclosed and planted more than a
century ago, and were among the first enclosures in this part of
the country.
   Till within the last forty years, the state of agriculture in this
parish was miserable. The practice, however, of fallowing, liming,
and cleaning the lands to obtain good returns-the advantage of
having broad clover for summer food for horses, and being able to
work them constantly, instead of sending them to graze for five
months among the hills at much expense,-are now understood and
acted on. Experience has proved the soil to be good, and when
properly cultivated, capable of great improvement, and of pro-
ducing wheat and all the strongest grain.
   The improvement of the land was long kept back here, as else-
where, by the farms remaining limited to a very few acres, and also
by the farmers being bound by their leases to drive coals from the
pits on the south bank of Devon to the shore of Alloa. Lord
Alva at length prohibited this absurd and unprofitable practice,
and the farmers have been since enabled to turn more decided at-
tention to the improvements of husbandry. Since 1796, the ex-
tent of the farms has been enlarged with great advantage to the
landlord, and greater respectability to the tenant. Formerly, the
farms were limited to 30 and not more than 70 acres, now they
run from 100 to 200 acres each.

   The number of acres, Scotch measure, in arable and other tillage is 830.
   Of land never cultivated, but applied to sheep pasture, upwards of 2000 acres.
   Of cultivated land lying in pasture, and let to grazing 120 acres.
   And of ground under wood there are 188 acres.

   Rent of Land.-The average rent of land let to farmers is from
L.2, 10s, to L.3, 3s. per.acre,-for oxen and milk cows grazing,
about L.4 per acre. The grazing of sheep is rated about 4s. 6d.
each, or L.4, 10s. per score. The common breed of sheep here
is the black-faced kind, and of cattle, the Ayrshire and the short-
horned, or a cross betwixt these.
   Wages.-The rate of farm-servants' wages, who work as la-
bourers, is from 8s. to 9s. per week; and a ploughman receives
L.25 per annum, including all provisions.
   Produce.-The average produce of grain of all kinds raised in
this parish, is 3060 bolls,-of potatoes, turnips, cabbages, &c. the
average gross amount is valued at L.1020,-of hay cultivated, at

