
     Of Clackmannan.

tick, it evidently makes Mr. Bruce of Kennet the chief of
the Bruces; since, according to it, he is descended from
Sir Robert Bruce, the eighth laird of Clackmannan, being
three generations later than the Earl of Elgin, who is de-
scended from Sir David Bruce, the fifth laird of Clack-
mannan, according to this tree.  On the margin of the
tree is a narrative, giving an account of the family of the
Bruces*.
   Mr. Bruce of Kennet has also a claim to the attainted
title of Lord Burleigh.  His grandmother, by the father's
side, was Mary Balfour, the youngest daughter of the
fourth Lord Burleigh; whose only son Robert killed a man
in 1707, and was condemned to die, but escaped from prison

<FOOTNOTE>

*Copy of the Narrative on the Margin of the Family Tree of the
BRUCES OF CLACKMANNAN.
Reader,
   Since we are to speak of the genealogic of that heroick Prince King
Robert Bruce, take notice, in the first place, that this sirname (whither
corruptly pronounced for Le Preux (the valiant), as in the old records
it is oftentimes written Le Breuse, or a Topicall sirname De Bruis, from
a town and castle of that name in the Grisons country, hath originally
from France; where, about the year 1145, lived Peter Brucie, famous
for writing against the Romish errors of transubstantiation, whose fol-
lowers, by the Popish writers, are stiled Petro Brusiani.  About the year
1050, divers noblemen of Normandy, coming over with Q. Emma, set-
tled themselves in England; after her death (being hated of the English)
were forced to retire for Scotland, which was then nearly allied to the
Duke of Normandy, by reason that King Kenneth the III, and King
Malcom the II. married two daughters of that house amongst the rest.
   I. Adelme le Bruis, Preos or Breos (for so diversly is he named), ob-
tained in Scotland the lands of Bouilden.  This Adelme joined, in the
year 1066, with William the Bastard, Duke of Normandy, in the con-
quest of England; and, for his valiant service, was highly rewarded with
great lands there, namely, the castle and barony of Skelton, and lordship
of Cleveland, the lands of Hert, Hertnesse, Hertlepool, Danby, Leving-
ton, Yarum, Guisburgh, Shorp, Sibthrop, Carleton, Westly Broston,


