
	268                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	ander Nicolson, and others were in the place, but it is said that
	they belonged to the Episcopalian Church.
	     Modern Buildings.-There are no modern buildings in the pa-
	rish, with the exception of the Government church and manse at
	Steinscholl,'and it may be added, the parochial schoolmaster's dwel-
	ling-house, and farm-steadings. Both Scotch and foreign timber is
	used for building. As no lime is manufactured in the parish, it is
	generally conveyed by sea from Broadford, where Lord Macdonald
	allows it to his tenants, at a lower rate than what it can be, disposed
	of to those from another property. The hamlets and cottages of
	the lotters or small tenants are but of inferior construction. They
	are generally built of rude stone, and the intervening chinks are
	filled with dry mould in place of lime or mortar. As no wood for
	roofing grows in the place, the same is purchased on the mainland,
	and conveyed by sea to the parish. The roofof a lotter's dwelling
	consists of six or eight rude cupples, made of unsquared timber,
	over which a few beams are laid transversely to support the "keb-
	bers," which in their turn support the turf and straw made use of
	as thatch. It must be acknowledged that there is as yet a want
	of cleanliness and comfort displayed in the construction of many of
	these dwellings. Notwithstanding the march of general improve-
	ments, still many of the Hebridean crofters, actuated by ancient
	prejudices and mistaken ideas, admit their cattle under the same
	roof with themselves. The houses generally consist of three
	apartments, which are separated either by stone walls or partitions
	made of wattled-work, straw, or reeds. The middle apartment is
	the one principally occupied by the family, who have the fire in
	the centre of the floor, over which the crook is suspended from
	the rafters above.On the one side of the fire, a wooden bench or
	rude sofa is placed,of sufficient size to contain five or six people,
	while on the other side is found the good-wife's "sunnag" or rus-
	tic arm-chair, of plaited straw, near which are the cradle, spin-
	ning-wheel, "amraidh," or cup-board, a large covered pot con-
	taining the kelt for family dress, undergoing the slow process of
	indigo dye, and the other paraphernalia which are indispensable
	for immediate family use. The inmost apartment serves the pur-
	poses of barn or bedroom, sometimes both, while that next the
	door is occupied by the cattle. The houses are, for the most part,
	annually unroofed, for the purpose of applyingtbe sooty turf and
	thatch, as manure for the potato ground.
	   There are three meal-mills in the parish, one in each districts


