
316                              ARGYLESHIRE.

into many small rocky heads, which form a number of rugged in-
accessible creeks. The coast, however, along the two sides of the
island, lies more in a straight line, and forms in most places a low
sandy beach; and, where it is interrupted with rock, the rocks do
not shoot out into the sea, as at the extremities of the island, but
run along shore.
     Harbours.-Iona cannot boast of -the hospitality of its sbores,
or of anythingdone by nature or art to facilitate foreign inter.
course with it.Properly speakino,, there is no harbour belonging
to the island but, in a small sandy bay below the ancient abbey,
anchorage ground in five-fathoms water, within two cable-lengths
of the shore, is to be found. There is, another landing place for
boats, but a very dangerous one, except in good weather, upon the
south-west part of the island. This is a creek lined with perpen-
dictilar rocks of serpentine marble, and exposed to the western
swell of the Atlantic ; it is called Port-na-Curach, or the barbour
of the boat, by wav of distinction, it beino, here that Saint Columba
landed, when be arrived from Ireland. The word culch signifies
that sort of boat which the ancient Irish and Caledonians con-
ttructed with ribs of wood and covered with bides, and which is
to be seen on some of the rivers of Wales, at the present day. On
one side of this barbour, is an oblong heap of earth, the supposed
size of Columba's curach, presenting the form of a boat with the
keel up.
 A vast tract near this harbour is covered with heaps of stones
of unequal sizes, and these, it is said, were the penances of monks,
who were to raise heaps, of dimensions equal to their crimes; ,and
to judge by some of these heaps," Pennant says, 11 it is,no breach
of charity to think, there were among them enormous sinners."
 Climate.-Sheltered by the island of Mull from the cold east-
erly win and surrounded by the ocean, Iona enjoys a verv tem-
perate climate, remote from the extremes of beat and cold. It is
seldom that, in winter, the freezing degree takes place - and if

<FOOTNOTE>In the Wodrow MS, Advocates' Library, under date 1701, the following appears
rolaetve to this  " In I Callimkill (alias Ionia) there is a harboui, a mile distant,
westward from tbe buildings of the place, where stones may be found, as clear many
of them as some glasses. This harbour is called Port-a-charrich, from the ship that
Calimkill and asosociate came upon Ireland to that place. Thelength of
this curachan or ship is obvious to any who goes to the place it being marked up it
the head the harbour upon the grass between which the two pillars of stones,setup to
show forth ye samain between which pillars there in three score of foots in lenght
which was the exact length of the curachan or ship."


