
			     GLENISLA.                    433

income of the poor about L.38. The average number of persons
receiving occasional aid from the funds is 4. The annual sum
distributed amongst them is from L.3 to L.4. Generally speak-
ing, the poor consider public aid as degrading, and are reluctant
to apply for parochial relief.

   Fairs.-There are two annual fairs. One of these, at which
a few horses are offered for sale, is held on the 1st Wednesday of
March, O. S. The other is held on the 1st Wednesday of Au-
gust, O. S., for the sale of sheep and cattle.

   Inns.-There are 4 small inns in the parish.
   Fuel.-The fuel consists chiefly of peats, procured at various
mosses, at the expense of making and carriage.

		   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

  Since the date of the last Statistical Account, smuggling has
been entirely suppressed; the statute labour has been converted
into money, a change of system the good effects of which are every
year becoming more apparent by the improved state of the roads;
a stone and an iron suspension bridge have been thrown across the
Isla; occupancy by runrig has, with a single exception, been
abandoned; and one-third at least has been added to the culti-
vated land of the parish.

  The reduction of the duty on ardent spirits, whatever bad con-
sequences may have resulted from it elsewhere, has been produc-
tive of the best effects here, both in respect of the morals and in-
dustry of the population. By putting an end to illicit distillation,
it has been the means of directing the efforts of the people towards
extensive agricultural improvements. And the consequences are,
that while formerly, to use the words of the last Statistical Ac-
count, "the grain produced in this district was not sufficient for
the consumption of the inhabitants," several thousand bolls of it are
now, unless in very unfavourable seasons, annually sent to the market.
While formerly most of the families laboured in a vocation at
once dishonourable, debasing, and yielding them at best a preca-
rious means of subsistence, they are now actively engaged in pur-
suits which tend to enhance their own comfort in every point of
view, and to benefit the public. These happy results are already
so apparent, that the suppression of smuggling which was at first
generally bewailed as a great parish calamity, is now unanimously
acknowledged to have proved a positive parish blessing.

  It should also be mentioned, that upwards of 10,000 acres of
hill ground have, in course of the last twelve years, been divided
among those proprietors by whom they were formerly held in com-


