
124                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

nut, holm oak, cedar, with various species of fir, &c. Some of these
are magnificent trees; the silver firs of Campsail have already
been particularly noted.
  Those planted of late years consist of all varieties of the pine
tribe, with oak, ash, and birch, which are indigenous to the soil.
Within the last thirty years, the appearance chiefly of the south-
ern district of the parish has been greatly improved by numerous
plantations, harmonizing exceedingly well with the more ancient
trees of the Castle grounds, and the natural woods skirting the
shore.
   The Gallowhill, for example, which lies immediately opposite
Greenock, a few years ago, was a mere heath and furze cover for
game, but now bears to its summit a luxuriant forest of this descrip-
tion, and which, resting on a base of beautifully pendant fields,
highly cultivated, forms one of the most interesting and remarkable
objects to be found in any locality. The woods are kept in good
order, all fenced and drained, and according to the most approved
rules periodically thinned.
   Rent of Land.--The average value of land under the plough
may be rated at L.1, 5s. per acre; the charge for grazing a cow,
L.2, 1Os.; and, for a full-grown sheep, 5s. The rental of the pa-
rish may be estimated rather below L.3500.
  Rate of Wages.--Agricultural labour averages 1s. 10d.; arti-
sans, 2s. 6d, per day. Farm servants are hired at L.7 and L.8
for the half year, with bed, board, and washing. On three or four
farms only are there married ploughmen, who receive, in lieu of fixed
money wages, allowance in produce with free house, garden, and
cow's grass, amounting in the aggregate to L.32.
  Implements used in husbandry cost tbus,--an iron plough,
L.4, 10s.; pair of wooden harrows, L.1, 15s.; wheelbarrow, L.J.
5s.; one horse box-cart, L.8, 10s. Sawing of timber,--yellow
pine, 3s. 6d.; hardwood, 4s. per 100 feet.
  Breed of Cattle.--The common breed is Ayrshire, and a con-
siderable portion of the parks is under grazing for black and
West Highland cattle. A few sheep are kept; and on one farm
a small herd of goats.--An association has been lately formed for
improvement in this branch of rural economy, and it may be stated
as a token of its probable success, that, at the last annual meeting
of the Highland Society held in Glasgow, two oxen fed on the
farm of Mr Lorn Campbell, his Grace's chamberlain, under whose
                                 3


