
                        LOCHDROOM.                               89

expense from Dingwall to Ullapool, which, being a new thing in
the Highlands, astonished the natives not a little. But the line
chosen was so absurd, and the execution so wretched, that the, road
has been, for many years back, not only useless, but dangerous, to
foot-passengers and riders on horseback; and to wheel carriages
almost impassable, while several of the principal bridges are car-
ried away, or threatened with being so; or deserted, from the ori-
ginal line of road being changed. A new road, therefore, with
the requisite bridges, of which there has been much talk of late,
would be an immense improvement, both for the lieritors and popu-
lation of Lochbronm. To talk of manufacturing or agricultural
improvements to any considerable extent without these, is vain and
visioi-iary. Even if a hand manufacture, on the smallest scale,
were introduced, which would enable the females of the parish, by
any employment suitable to their sex, to purchase: Newcastle or
Liverpool coal for fuel to their families, instead of degrading their
persons,'and often losing their lives, by carrying peats upon their
backs, from almost exhausted mosses inaccessible to horses or to
carts, it would be an unspeakable benefit to the country.
   In a moral point of view, the great improvement needed is-
additional means of religious instruction. On this subject, the
people at the two extremities of the parish, viz. Coigach, con-
taining a population of 1975, and Laigh, containing a popula-
tion of 1187 -souls,-have lately presented very strong petitions to
both Houses of Parliament representing their melancholy state of
almost total destitution, and imploring the interposition of the
Legislature in their behalf. And it must be allowed, indeed, by all,
that in a parish which, if divided into four, with ministers and church-
es at the most convenient stations, would leave many of the pa-
rishioners at the distance of ten, twelve, and even fifteen miles, of
rugged road, from any place of public worship,-there is need of
Legislative interposition. The voluntary scheme will not suit
here.
   But, whatever effect these applications may have in procuring
churches and clerical teachers for the parish of Lochbroom, it can
never be satisfactorily accounted for, that, out of the large amount
of Royal and lay Bounty contributed annually for the religious
and moral improvement of the Highlands, so very small a pro-
portion should find- its way to this enormous parish. The parish,
it is true, has been highly favoured with schoolmasters for the in-
struction of youth by the Gaelic School Society,, and by the Gene-


