
                 KILTARLITY.                                  497

extent of the groundin the vicinity of the castle has been taste-
ftilly laid out as a rosary and flower-gardeft by theRight Honour.
able Lady Lovat.
  Family of Fraser of Lovat.-Before the Fmsers came into
possession of them, the estates of Lovat, as also a great part
of Stratherric and Abertarff, belonged to a very powerful fa-
'mily of the name of Bizzet. The Frasers appear to have come
to Inverness-shire about the end of the thirteenth centuryj
from the counties of Peebles and Tweeddale, in the former or
latter of which the ruins of their principal residence, Castle
Fraser, may still be seen. The prevalence of the name Fraser
in this district is accounted for by a tradition that the Biz-
zets were induced, from various motives, to assume it instead of
their own, on the occasion of the accession of the Fraser family to
the estate. Be that as it may, there are certainly hardly any Biz-
zets now to be met with in this country.
  The late Mr Fraser of Lovat died without issue, and the pro-
perty (an entailed one) descended to a distant branch, possessing
the estate of Strichen in Aberdeenshire. The present proprie-
tor is the principal heritor of this parish, and was raised to the
Peerage in 1837. He also posses.3es extensive lands in several of
the surrounding parishes, and is much esteemed by his tenantry . as
a kind and considerate landlord. The family resides almost al-
ways in the country, and his Lordship, by annually, expending im-
mense sums in improving and adorning his estate, provides employ-
ment for a great number of the peasantry, who, were this not the
case, might be obliged to migrate elsewhere in seArch of a livelihood.
At the same time that the fact speaks volumes for the unosten-
tatious charity, and active benevolence of Lady Lovat, it is Very
gratifying to have it to state, that the more necessitous of the.
poor in the parish are, by the directions and at the expense of this
amiable ladv liberally supplied with nourishing food and warm
clothing, and the best steps adopted for having their other wants
relieved so soon as made known. The number of poor privately
comforted in this way is very considerable.
  The present family of Lovat professes the Roman Catholic reli-
gion, and Lady Lovat is- descended of one of the oldest and high-
est Roman Catholic families in England, being daughter to Lord.
Stafford.
  Belladrum.-About a mile southward from Beaufort, lies the ele-
gant mansion.house of Belladrum. It is about three or four'hundred


