
238                     PERTHSHIRE.

rious ways is liberally exercised towards the indigent, and the
wants of the poorer inhabitants are readily relieved.
   Education.-There is one parochial school and one unendowed.
The parochial schoolmaster's salary, including L. 2, 2s. 9 1/2d., in
lieu of a garden, amounts to L. 36, 7s.  1d.; as session-clerk he has
also a salary of L. 2, 10s.; register of baptisms and marriages,
L.5; school fees, L. 25; total L. 68, 17s. 1d. He has good ac-
commodation. The unendowed school produces yearly about
L. 15 to the teacher; but lie is paid for other things, as collecting
the road-money, &C.
   In the parochial school, the usual branches of education are
taught, also Latin, Greek, French, geography and practical ma-
thematics. In the other, the teacher is qualified in much the
same manner, but has no advanced scholars. School fees for read-
ing and writing are very moderate. The poor pay none.
   Every person above childhood, or eight years of age, can read,
and there are few who cannot write. The people in general are alive
to the benefits of education, and endeavour to send their children
to school, part of the year. The distance from school is nowhere
great.
   Poor.-The church collections average yearly about L. 36, 10s.,
which sum, together with interest of money saved by the session,
(L. 16, 17s. yearly) and mortcloth-money, has hitherto supported, in
part or wholly, from nine to fourteen paupers in ordinary times.
According to circumstances, we give from 4s. to 10s. a month.
   There is no alms-house or workhouse in the parish, or in any
of the towns near it. A house of this kind is much wanted, to
which we could send silly or weakly paupers, paying board, &c. for
them. Few are averse to receive parochial relief. Some, how-
ever, consider it degrading.
   Friendly Society.-The ploughmen have a friendly society here
of about eight years standing, and it is found advantageous. We
had a saving bank, but, from the low rate of interest for money,
are giving it up.
   Inns.-There are five inns or taverns in the parish. Not more
than two are necessary for travellers, &c.,
   Fuel.-The fuel used is chiefly coal from Dundee, the cost, in-
cluding carriage, about 1s. 5d. per cwt. Wood is also used as fuel.

		  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since last Statistical Account was written, great progress has
been made in the theory and practice of husbandry; and in


