
                   CORSTORPHINE.                        241

  In the ancient taxatio of 1167, the Kirk of Gogar is valued at
12 marks, and in Bagimont's Roll, at L.5, 6s. 8d.  John Coise's
stipend was the haill third of the parsonage and vicarage of Go-
gar, and amounted to L.22, 4s. 5d.  Scots.
   The only distinguished rector of Gogar was Willielmus Man-
derstoun, who was also Doctor in Medicine, and Rector of the
University of St Andrews in 1530.  He was the author of two
learned works in logic and moral philosophy,* and probably held
the living of Gogar as a sinecure.  Another rector, James Heriot,
Bachilarius in Decretis, died in 1440, and was buried in Corstor-
phine church.
  Gogar Kirk, Church-yard, and Glebe. -A small portion of the
kirk of Gogar, which still exists, was converted into a family bu-
rying-ground, by the proprietor of the estate, soon after the Re-
formation.  In 1748, Sir Robert Myreton of Gogar applied to
the presbytery for a feu of the glebe and church-yard of Gogar,
consisting of four acres of arable land, then let at L. 4 per annum,
and he offered to pay to the minister and his successors that rent
as a perpetual feu-duty.  This arrangement was formally agreed
to by the Presbytery, and was acted on down to the year 1825,
when Dr Scott, then clergyman of the parish, having been ad-
vised that the transaction was illegal, raised an action against Mr
Ramsay of Barnton, and was successful in recovering the glebe
and church-yard as an inalienable property of the church. It is
now let by the clergyman at a rent of L. 4 per acre.
  Ecclesiastical Statistics.-The church is seated for 536 persons.
Of this number there are appropriated to the heritors, according
to their valued rent, 470 sittings: to the minister, 11; the elders,
10; the schoolmaster, 8; pew for baptisms, 5; and to the poor,32.
  Education.-In the Report of the Presbyterian Visitation of
August 1598, it is said that "they fand na schoolmaster in the
parish, qlk they desyrit thame to amend." Whether this re-
commendation was immediately attended to does not appear; but
from an entry at the commencement of the parish register, it is
evident that a school existed previous to 1646.  In that entry it
is stated, that " Mr James Chalmer had agreed to be schoolmaster
on receiving one hundred merks, for the payment of which the
whole heritors were to be stented according to the proportiion of
their lands, in addition to what had been doted to former school-
master by George Lord Forrester, viz. ane house and yards within

<FOOTNOTE>See M'Crie's Life of Melville, Vol. i. p. 487.

EDINBURGH.                                Q



