
                         KILDALRON.                          667

are yet, however, to be met with, who avoid it is as long as pos-
sible.
   Fairs.-There are fairs held in Portellen for the sale of black-
cattle in the months of June, July, August, September, and No-
vember.
   Inns.-There are three licensed public-houses in the parish,
and many licensed retail shops. The tendency of such houses is
here, as in other places, injurious to the morals of the people;
but it must be admitted, that drunkenness is not at all so preva-
lent, since smuggling was suppressed. The introduction of legal
distilleries has been of great advantage in this respect, and also in
giving employment to many of the people. There are six distil-
leries in the parish, all in active operation.
   Fuel.-Turf is the fuel principally used in the parish ; but coals
must be used in a few years, as some of the mosses have been
improved and others cut out. Turf cost from 1s. 6d. to 2s. per
cart, and coals from 12s. to 16s. the ton.

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The most beneficial improvements would be, draining, enclos-
ing, and making good roads to the different farms, all of which
would promote the industry and comfort of the people; and good
schools in the remote districts would add much to their welfare.
   The principal variations betwixt the present state of the parish
and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account,
are, first, in the additional number of schools established in different
parts of the parish; the suppression of the demoralizing practice
of smuggling; the sure and ready markets which the farmers have
for their bear and barley in the different distilleries; the improve-
ments made in the system of husbandry, by which a greater supply
of food is raised with less expense and labour. Another improve-
ment, which is very advantageous, is the superiority of the stocks of
black-cattle and sheep now in the parish, to those formerly kept
in it, and the better methods of rearing and feeding them, in con-
sequence of which they can be sent to market much earlier in
the season than formerly.

   April 1844.


