
			ARBROATH.                              81

ance of either. Only it deserves to be noticed that the spire of
the church, which was rebuilt in 1831, is one of the most elegant
structures of the kind to be seen in Scotland, and reflects much
credit on the architect, Mr Henderson of Edinburgh. It is in what
is commonly designated the Gothic style, and was erected at the
expense of L. 1300, a considerable part of which was raised by
voluntary subscription. The Episcopal chapel has a plain exterior,
but is neatly fitted up within. The dissenting meeting-houses are
of a very homely aspect, but most of them, nevertheless, are groan,
ing under a load of debt. The Town-house is a handsome build-
ing, erected in 1806. Besides the great hall, which is an elegant
room, it contains an office for the use of the town-clerk, and apart-
ments for the meeting of the town-council and the small-debt court.
In the upper part of the building is the prison, which is now made
secure, and is kept in excellent order. The Guild-hall is a plain
unostentatious edifice. The Trades-hall was erected in 1814,
at an expense, the weight of which is still felt by the incorpora-
tions. The academy, built party by private subscription in
1821, has a chaste appearance. * In front is an excellent play-
ground for the scholars. Amongst the public buildings in the pa-
rish may be mentioned the Signal-tower for communicating with
the Bell-Rock light-house, which is twelve miles distant, on a rock
in the ocean. Several of these structures are built of stone brought
from the shores of the Firth of Forth, whilst others are composed
of a red sandstone from quarries in the immediate neighbourhood.
Of this last kind of stone most of the houses in Arbroath are built.
The colour, however, does not appear to be a favourite one, as
many of the proprietors have lately painted the outside of their
houses, so as to give them the appearance of a light gray. The
town, as a whole, cannot be called handsome. Part of the High
Street looks well; but most of the other streets are narrow.
although elegant houses are to be met with in most quarters of the
town, the generality have a very ordinary appearance; and, in the
cross streets, many of the houses are only one storey in height.

			III.--POPULATION.
	The registers of marriages and baptisms furnish the only means
by which an estimate may be formed of the population of the
parish in ancient times. Taking these as data, the number of in-
habitants may be calculated to have been 1500 about the time of

<FOOTNOTE>The building of the Academy cost L. 1600.

        FORFAR.                         F


