
     of Caerlaverock.

library to the presbytery of Dumfries, which town he repre-
sented in parliament.

   Miscellaneous Observations*.-The inhabitants of Caerlaverock
are in general plain, honest, sober, industrious, and charitable.
From their vicinity to Dumfries and the shore, they are more
polished and liberal than some of their inland neighbours.
The farmers, though none of them rich, are yet, in general,
in comfortable circumstances.  This they owe to their own
frugality, skill, and industry; but, in some measure, also to the
advantages of being near a considerable market town; the vi-
cinity of two sea-ports; and the circumstances of their bor-
dering upon Lochar moss, which supplies them with abun-
dance of fuel; though, at the same time, from the great
waste of time and labour, so precious to the husbandman,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antiquities.-On the south side of the parish, not far from the shore,
are scarcely to be traced the vestiges of a moated triangular castle; probably
that from which the name of the parish is derived, and supposed to be the
Carbuntarigum of Ptolemy.  A little to the north-east of these remains, are
to be seen the still more venerable ruins of another and more modern castle, of
similar shape, but much larger dimensions; long the principal residence of the
noble family fo Maxwell; which has been so well described by Grofe and Pen-
nant, as to render any particulars here unnecessary.  Not far west of this castle
rises the hill Wardlaw; on the top of which, are yet visible, the vestiges of a
Roman incampment, cobjectured to be the Uxela of Ptolomy.  The hill after-
wards served as a watch-tower to the castle; for which purpose it was well sit-
ted, commanding a very extensive prospect in almost every direction.-On
the borders of this parish is a mount, called the Bailey Know, one of these en-
campments called moats; near which, some iron hoops and chains were found.
-A little below Glencaple Key, close by the shore, was a cell or a chapel,
dedicated to St Columba; near this is a well, of which no person was permit-
ted to drink without leaving a portion of victuals, or a piece of money, as an
alms to the inhabitant of the cell.


