
194			KINCARDINESHIRE.

Church, and divine service in it is well attended. There are five
or six Episcopalians, and a considerable number of Roman Catho-
lics. There are about eight Roman Catholic families. There is
also a large Roman Catholic seminary, where from twenty-five to
thirty-five youth of that persuasion, chiefly intended for the priest-
hood, are maintained and educated under the tuition of a presi-
dent, and several masters. Forming part of the buildings of this
seminary, is a Roman Catholic chapel, which is attended by a few
Roman Catholics besides those in the parish. This seminary and
cbapel are on the property of Blairs, which, as has been already
noticed, was gifted, not many years ago, to the church of Rome, by
Mr Menzies of Pitfoddels.
	Since 1833, one family. of Burgher Seceders has entered the
parish.
	Education.--A new parochial school, apart from the school-
house, has just been erected, capable of accommodating 90 scho-
lars, allowing 15 inches of seating for each. The branches of in-
struction generally taught are, English, (reading and spelling,)
writing, and arithmetic. The Scriptures are read daily, and the
catechism is taught regularly. Latin is taught occasionally. The
salary is L.30 per annum. The amount of the school-fees receiv-
ed may be about L.10.
	There are two or three teachers connected with the Established
Church who have small schools, in which are taught reading and
writing. Their remuneration is what they may receive from the
parents, except that one (who teaches sewing also) besides small
fees, has a house, and some additional aid from Mrs Boswell of
Kingcausie. The average number of all the children that receive
elementary instruction at these schools (exclusive of the parochial
one,) may be about 40. In the parochial school, at a late exami-
nation, the number present was 77. On many Sundays, before
public worship begin, children of the parish come up to the pa-
rish church, and receive instruction from the minister, the elders
of the church assisting.
	There is a parochial library. It was instituted in 1822, and now
contains 336 volumes.
	Savings Bank.--A savings bank was instituted in 1823. The
stock, June 2, 1832, was L.278. 9s. 3d. There were received
from June 2, 1832, to Ist June 1833, L.63, 10s. 6d.: drawn
during that period, L.84, 17s. Id.; leaving stock in the savings
bank, at the, date June 1. 1833, L.257,2s.8d,. It is by servants


