
     of Lecropt.

church of Lecropt, a hills where the baron used to hold his
court, during the prevalence of the feudal system.  The Gal-
low Hill is near the Court Hill*.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The advantages are, our
vicinity to the market of Stirling, where the parishioners can
purchase any commodities they stand in need of, and get a
good price and ready money, for whatever they can spare for
sale.  They are near plenty of coal, which contributes to their
domestic comfort; and abundance of cheap lime enables them
to improve their ground.-Bad roads are a great disadvan-
tage.  Another inconvenience, no less severely felt, is the
want of good water in the Carse.  There is but one small ri-
vulet in the parish, which is employed in carrying away the
moss.  There are some springs immediately below the Bank,

<FOOTNOTE>

built by the Caledonians, to watch the motions of the troops
stationed on the Roman wall, betwixt Borrowstounness and Old.
Kilpatrick, begun by AGRICOLA after his irruption into the
north in the year 79, and completed by ANTONINUS PIUS.  The
Caledonian line was about 3 or 4 hours march, in most; places,
from the Roman wall; and this chain of sorts, whether it was
constructed by GALGACUS, who was no less sagacious than
brave, or by his successor, was planned with consummate judg-
ment, not only for the reason, already mentioned; but because
this is the narrowest tract of Scotland that the Romans' ever vi-
sited, and therefore the most easily defended, and also, because
there are few sords in the river, which runs in the strath lying
on the south; and, if Moss Flanders then existed, it must have
been an impassable morass, and a good barrier, as far as it ex-
tended, on the Caledonian frontier.

*According to the summary proceedings of those times,
sentence of death, execution, and interment, followed one another
in such rapid succession, that graves, gallows hills, and mòt, or
court hills, are sound contiguous, not only here, but every where
else.  The court hills are called m•ts, or m•t hills, from the
Gaelic word m•t, or m•d, which, to this day is the only word
for a court of judicature in that language.


