
	                    CARMUNNOCK.                     599

Cart, however, runs along its western boundary, the banks of which
being high and craggy, and thickly wooded, are in some parts very
picturesque and beautiful. On this stream is situated the village
of Busby, containing a population of nearly 1000, mainly sup-
ported by a printfield and cotton-mill. A small portion of this
village, within which is the printfield, belongs quoad civilia to the
parish of Kilbride, but is annexed quoad sacra to Carmunnock.
The other, and by far the greater portion of it, within which is
the cotton-mill, is in the parish of Mearns.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The parish presents but few remar-
kable geological features. Whin or trap-rocks prevail through-
out the district In the estate of Cathkin, which is nearly one-
third of the parish, almost all below the surface is solid whin, and
indeed, the same may be stated of a considerable portion of the
remainder. On the same estate there are two fine specimens of
basalts. Throughout the parish there are several quarries of
decomposed trap much used for farm and parish roads. There is
also a quarry of freestone of considerable extent, the stone roughly
Granulated, but of a very firm texture. A few scams of coal are
to be found in the parish, but only one of them has hitherto been
wrought, 4nd that very partially. The coal was of an inferior
quality, and chiefly used for the burning of lime in the neigbbour-
ing parish of Kilbride. My own impression is, however, that
good coal, to a small extent exists in the parish, forming, in, a few
instances, the cropping out of some of the seams that constitute
the great coal basin of the Clyde. Limestone and ironstone are
also to be met with, both of them of the first quality. Though
the former has not yet been wrought, I am informed that a bed of
it was nearly contracted for last year; and a bed of the latter was,
about the same time, wrought to a small extent for trial, and may
soon attract the notice of persons interested. They are both in
the estate of Castlemilk. The general direction of the strata of
the parish is from south-west to northeast, and they have almost
uniformly their dip or declinature towards the Clyde.
        Soil.-There is no great variety of soil. Generally speaking,
may be said to consist either of a free earthy mould, averaging
seven inches in depth, on the surface of the whin rock mentioned
as so common or of a wet clayey soil on a retentive bottom, the
latter yielding excellent crops when well drained and generously
manured, but occasionally so mixed with sand as to render it na-
turally poor and unproductive.


