
372                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

making in all L. 5724, 12s. 0 1/2d., which, divided by seven, gives
for the average revenue L.817, 16s.
   Tunpike Roads.-The turnpike roads are, the south road to
Aberdeen, the west to Banff, and the north to Fraserburgb,
amounting altogether in length to about nine or ten miles within
the parish.
   Coaches.-There are four coaches connected with Peterhead:
the Mail to and from Aberdeen daily; the Mail to and from
Banff daily; the Defiance stage-coach to and from Aberdeen
daily; and the Lord Saltoun stage-coach betwixt Peterhead and
Fraserburgh every alternate day.
   The Harbours.-These harbours, from their peculiar situation
at the termination of the most easterly promontory of land in Scot-
land , and the great resort to them, deserve particular notice.
   The earliest notice taken of these harhours is in the charter of
erection of the town of Peterhead, by George Earl Marischall, in
1593.  In that charter the Earl binds himself to "build ane bul-
wark in the mouth of the haven called Port Henry."  This bul-
wark was accordingly erected by his Lordship, and is the same for-
merly noticed as being used by the fishermen in the Ronheads for
landing their boats.  The bulwark is built in a very rough man-
ner, with masses of undressed granite.  It has never required to
be repaired, and the original pieces of oak timber used as moor-
ing posts, are still in a serviceable state.  This harbour is capable
of holding from six to eight vessels, not exceeding 100 tons bur-
den; but is seldom used except by the fishermen for their boats.
   It does not appear at what time the south haven or harbour had,
been erected, but it does not seem to have been of much import-
ance at the beginning of last century; for in 1702, the whole re-
venue arising from it was only L.71, 6s. Scots, and it was ca-
pable of containing a very few vessels of small size.  It would seem
that at this time the pier of the harbour had fallen into decay, and
was in need of repair.  In the year 1705, in consequence of the
great public utility of these harbours, an act of the Privy-council
of Scotland was passed, authorizing a voluntary contribution for
repairing the harbours of Peterhead, to be made throughout the
three Lothians, and all north of the Forth.  No collection, how-
ever, was made in consequence of this act, the Earl Marischall
having been of opinion that he would be able to obtain more effi-
cient assistance from the British Parliament; but in consequence
of his being, engaged soon after in the Rebellion, the matter was


