
                          LANGTON.                          245

been appointed, who, besides a house and garden, and a salary of
L. 20 paid by the Marchioness of Breadalbane, receives the school
fees and other emoluments. His income may amount, to L. 60.
The average number of scholars is between 60 and 70. The school
is taught on the most approved principles, and the fees charged
are,-English reading, 2s. 6d. per quarter; writing, 3s.; arith-
metic, 3s. 6d.; geography, 5s.; practical mathematics, 5s.; Latin,
6s.; Greek, 7s. 6d.; French, 7s. 6d.; theoretical mathematics,
8s. 6d. The gross amount of the fees received is about L. 32.
There is no other school in the parish.
   A Sabbath school is taught by the assistant-schoolinaster, with
the aid of some respectable individuals, and under the superin-
tendence of the minister. It has existed, with two short intervals,
for nearly twenty years, and has been attended with the most im-
portant advantages. There is a library for adults, containing
some valuable books in history, biography, and divinity.
   Charitable Institutions.-The only institution of this nature is a
Friendly Society, instituted in 1803. Its object is to provide support
for those members who are suffering from sickness, or who are per-
manently disabled by the infirmities of age, and to defray, in part,
their funeral expenses, with those of their wives. Every applicant
must be of a good moral character,-of a healthy constitution,-
not exceeding forty years of age,-and must produce a certificate
signed by respectable individuals, stating that he is a peaceable
member of society. Members are received from any part of the
county; but, from the existence of similar societies in Allanton,
Chirnside, Swinton, and Dunse, applications are rarely made by
persons living at a distance. The terms are, a sum of 7s. 6d. as
entry-money, and a permanent quarterly subscription of 1s. 6d.
No one is entitled to assistance till after being three years con-
nected with the society. If he should by irregular conduct bring
on illness, he receives no aid, but, on the contrary, is liable to a
fine not exceeding 5s. Before aid can in any case be granted, the
member, if residing in the village of Gavinton, must, within a week,
apprise the deputy-director of his illness; or, if living elsewhere,
he must apprise the preses or treasurer. Every application must
be accompanied by a certificate from the minister and an elder.
If a dispute arise between the society and any of its members, it
is referred to the decision of two individuals,-one chosen by each
party. Should these umpires not agree, they are empowered to
choose a third, by whose decision the parties are bound.
   The number of members at present on the roll is 146. Those
receiving aid are 32, of whom 9 are superannuated and 23 sick.


