
360                     KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

fated voyage to England. It is situated in a little creek, surrounded
by vast and precipitious cliffs, and called Portmary in remembrance
of the Queen. The scene is appropriately wild and sublime; and
the contemplative stranger who visits it in the stillness of evening
is apt to imagine that the waves fall here with a more mournful-
dash upon the shore, and that the cadence of the autumn wind is
more low and melancholy than elsewhere, as if Nature's self were
conscious of, and lamented the unhappy event she had seen take
place upon the spol.*
	The residence of Portmary is immediately contiguous to the
sea. This estate is entailed, and is now the property of Mr James
Lenox of New-York, the only son and heir of a native of Kirk-
cudbright who migrated to America upwards of sixty years ago,
and who recently died one of the richest men, and most eminent
merchants in the United States. Along the coast of Solway to
the east, lies the estate and ancient mansion of Orroland. The
late Mr Cutlar Fergusson, Member of Parliament for the Stewartry,
succeeded to this estate about thirty-five years ago, while still
prosecuting his professional pursuits hi India. His brother, Mr
Henry Fergusson, soon after removed from Craigdarroch,--the
family residence in Dumfriesshire--to Orroland, where be com-
menced an extensive system of improvement-modernising the
mansion-house-rebuilditig the farm-steadings--draining and re-
newing the fences--laying down extensive plantation in the most
tasteful manner--and thereby giving a new character to this side
of the parish. Still farther east we have Barlocco, the curious
residence of Mr Macartney, hanging over the Solway, and Ras-
carrel, the property of M.r Vans Agnew of Sheuchan, also conti-
gous to the shore. This brings us again to the Bay of Auchen-
cairn.
	To return to the valley of Dundrennan. From this point west-
ward  the parish of Rerrick assumes a pastoral character, till it
terminates in the farm of Castlecreavie, forming the western ex-
tremity of the estate of Dundrennan, which abounds in Roman an-
tiquities, and the higher grounds of which look down upon the deli-
ous scenery of St Mary's lsle and the Bay of Kirkcudbright. To
the east of Castlecreavie lies Auchengool, the property of John

<FOOTNOTE>The substance of some of the preceding observations was furnished some time
since by the compiler of the present article to the " Picture of Scotland;" but, in so
far as they have been repeated here, it is by permission of the very liberal publishers
of that work.


