
                     PARISH OF KNOCKANDO.

               PRESBYTERY OF ABERLOUR, SYNOD OF MORAY.

            THE REV. GEORGE GORDON, MINISTER.


          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE parish of Knockando, or as it for-
merly was spelled, Knockandow, derives its name from two Gaelic
words, which denote Black Hill, or Hill with the Black Head. The
parish of Ma Calen, or Macallan, is now annexed to Knockando,
but no distinct record of union is preserved. According to Shaw,
Knockando was a vicarage depending on the parson of Inveravon,
and Ma Calen or Elchies, a vicarage depending on the parson of
Botarie.
   Extent, Boundaries.-Knockando is of a long irregular figure,
stretching along the banks of the river Spey, and extending about
15 or 16 miles in length, whilst varying from 2 to 6 in breadth.
It is bounded on the west by the parishes of Cromdale and Edin-
killie; on the north by Dallas and Birnie; on the east by Rothes;
and, on the south by the river Spey, which separates Knockando
from Inveravon and Aberlour, in the shire of Banff.
   Topographical Appearances.-The external appearance of
Knockando parish is considerably diversified by rising grounds and
intervening glens, with occasional level hauglis stretching along
the river side. On the northern boundary the ground is hilly, form-
ing part of a tract known by the names of the Hunt Hill and the
Mannoch Hill. In the western direction of the parish is an emi-
nence called James Roy's Cairn, which is generally supposed to
be the highest ground in Morayshire. In fine weather there is a
very extensive prospect from its summit. Along the banks of the
Spey the scenery is in general picturesque, especially at the man-
sion house of Knockando, and the bridge of Craig Elachie. The
hills are covered with various kinds of heather, and the banks of
the river are in many places skirted with wood.
   Caves.-There are two eaves in the parish,-the cave of James
An Tuim, i.e. James of the Hill, at Dellagyle. This James An


