
130                         KINCARDINESHIRE.

harvest, westerly winds prevail; but in the month of August, this
district is occasionally visited by severe northerly storms, which
break down and injure the crop. *  The climate is favourable to
health. There are no prevalent distempers in the district.
   Hydrography.--There is a mineral spring at Johnston, the waters
of which are chalybeate and of considerable strength. The small
stream of Luther, which runs through the parish in a direction
from north-east to south-west, takes its rise in the lower ridge of
the Grampian hills in the parish of Fordoun; and about three
miles below the mill of Blackiemuir, which is in the north-west
corner of this parish, it falls into the North Esk. In its course
the Luther has formed several considerable fields of alluvial de-
posit, of wbich great part were brought into cultivation a good
many years ago, and have been found extremely productive.
About eighty or ninety acres remain uncultivated, in consequence
of circumstances afterwards referred to.
   Soil--"The whole of the district to the south of the Luther
may be described as a deep clay loam, incumbent on clay and
freestone, generally rich and productive. That part below the
village of Laurencekirk, is rather a cold clay on a retentive sub-
soil. The haugh ground on each side of the Luther consists of
alluvial deposits of clay and sand, which being incorporated with

<FOOTNOTE>In regard to this peculiarity, I have been favoured with some observations, which
I shall here transcribe, from George Robertson, Esq. Haugh-head, a gentleman to
whom I have been greatly indebted in making inquiries with a view to this report,
and whose acquaintance with all subjects connected especially with agricultural mat-
ters, renders his information highly valuable. "These northerly storms," Mr Ro-
bertson says, "do not extend more than fifteen or twenty miles to the southward into
Forfarshire, at least they are not felt with the same degree of severity. The inten-
sity of these gales may perhaps be accounted for by the situation and lye of the Gram-
pians, and more particularly by that of the Moray Frith, and the mountains and head-
lands along its shores. The storms which blow from the north and west, descend
with great force from the mountains and glens of Ross-shire, sweep along the Moray
Frith, to which they are confined by the high land on the south, until they reach
Trouphead; after which, finding no obstacle, they take a more southerly direction
over that comparatively level country east of Trouphead, Bennachie, and the hill of
Fare. Their velocity and strength are rather increased by the interruption offered
by the low and narrow ridge of Grampians lying between the Dee and the How of
the Mearnr. Farther to the south and west, the Grampians increase both in width
and elevation, there being in fact a screen of three ridges, which completely protects
the western part of Forfarshire, viz. the southerly range between the How of Angus
or Strathmore and the Dee,--the elevated ridge between Dee and Don,--and the still
wider range of hills between Don and the lower districts of Banff and Morayshire.
These successive ranges of hills, being not less than forty miles in breadth, prove a
great protection to the country lying immediately south of them, and naturally turn
the wind in a south-easterly direction, until it reaches the level districts of Aberdeen-
shire, over which it sweeps, increasing in velocity as it approaches Kincardineshire.
Whether the cause here assigned for the violence of the northerly gales in this parti-
cular district be correct or not, their effects are severely felt, and much complained
of, by the tenantry." I may here mention, that, in preparing this Account, I have
also received obliging information from John Peter, Esq. Factor for the Earl of
Kintore.


