
                      MARYKIRK.                              299

is neither copious nor very strongly impregnated with iron. Close
to the mansion-house of Balmanno is a very fine springs, known
formerly, it would seem, by the name of "St John's Well," the
water of which, in a more superstitious age, was held to be of pe-
culiar potency in curing diseases. On the farm of Muirtown, till
very lately, there were two springs within ten yards of each other,
very remarkable for their difference of temperature. The water
of one is slightly impregnated with sulphur, but has not been ana-
lyzed. They are both now dried by the tenant.
  Rivers.-There are several small streams in this parish, such as
the Black burn, the Dowry burn, the burns of Balmakelly and
Balmaleedie, which, tbough highly useful to the inhabitants, can
scarcely be deemed worthy of notice. The North Esk, and the
small river of the Luther, are the only two streams at all worthy
of the name of rivers connected vith the parish. The North Esk
has its rise in the neighbouring county of Forfar, and, flowing in
an easterly direction, reaches the shire of Kincardine, after which,
flowing in a south-easterly'course, it divides the counties, and falls
into the sea about four miles from Montrose. The Luther, rising
in the Grampian hills, above the village of Fordoun, flows at first
in an easterly direction, till it reaches the parish of Laurencekirk,
through part of which it flows in a south-westerly course, and, being
joined by several insignificant brooks, enters the parish of Marykirk,
about a mile below the village of Laurencekirk. It still continues
its westerly course, until within. a mile of its junction with the
North Esk, when it suddenly turns to the south, emptying itself
into that river a little below ihe North-water-bridge, on the great
north road from Edinburgh to Aberdeen. This small river, the
Luther, may flow within the parish a distance of five miles, and
from its source to its mouth may be about thirteen miles in length.
Its temperature would seem to be higher than that of the larger
stream of the North Esk. The North Esk and Luther both
abound in excellent trout.
  Geology.-Little of a satisfactory nature can be stated regard-
ing the geological structure of Marykirk. The whole parish, ap-
pears to rest on red sandstone, overlaid to a considerable depth by
the original soil. The sandstone is, however, exhibited in the chan-
nel of the North Esk, at Inglismaldie and other places, and is or
has been worked at Balmakewan and Hatton, but to no great ex-
tent, the expense of tirring the rock, and of clearing the quarry of
water, being such as to reader the operatious unprofitable. A


