
                            0XNAM.                            267

March, a tryst or market for hiring shepherds is held at the same
place.
     Alehouse.--The only alehouse in the parish was lately built for
the accommodation of persons attending these fairs.  Being situ-
ated in a remote and thinly peopled district, it proves less injuri-
ous than it would otherwise do.
     Fuel.--At a former period peat and turf, which were had in
abundance, were the only fuel sought after.  On some of the up-
land farms they are still in use.  But coal is now the fuel chiefly
used here.  That of the purest quality is procured from Tarret-
burn, in the county of Northumberland.  It is carried a distance
of twenty-two miles, and is commonly sold at 10d. per cwt.  No
small quantity, besides, is brought from other Northumbrian col-
lieries bordering on the east coast.  But a somewhat higher price
is demanded for it, owing especially to the distance being greater
than to the southern pits.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBi3ERVATIONS.
     The state of agriculture in this parish has greatly advanced
since the publication of the former Statistical Account.  Yet it is
an indubitable fact, that a large proportion of the lands under til-
lage would become still more productive, and also that the coarse
and swampy pastures would be substantially improved, by draining
them more thoroughly, and to a much greater extent.  The more
copious application of lime and bone manure to the soil would
unquestionably enable the farmer to raise not only turnips, but
every other kind of crop, in richer abundance.  At the same time,
it may be remarked, that the very fertile and highly cultivated
grounds cannot, even under the present excellent system of hus-
bandry, be brought to a state of much greater improvement.
Where shelter is specially wanted, forest trees might, with signal
advantage, be planted on an extended scale.  A few years hence,
the young thriving plantations, and the many enclosures furnished
with hedgerows, will successfully impart a much more clothed and
ornamented appearance to the district.
     It may be observed also, that the circumstance of so many of
the farms being held by non-resident tenants, as well as the un-
sparing suppression of cottages, has necessarily diminished the,
number of industrious and respectable inhabitants.  However, very
few of the working classes are wholly disabled for profitable exer-
tion, either by disease or the infirmities of old age.  The people
generally lead sober and active lives, show a commendable atten-


