
    326                        PERTHSHIRE.

    where the decisive battle took place, we are left entirely to con-
    jecture.
       Next he encamps at Ardoch, eight miles and a-half from the
    former station, which agrees with the calculations of Ptolemy and
    Richard; and, granting all this, the remaining part of Agricola's
    history, so far as the parish of Muthill is concerned, becomes
    plain.  We have only, in accordance with others, to state, that
    Agricola being apprized that his enemy surpassed him in numbers,
    and in the knowledge of the country, and that they meant to at-
    tack him in divers bands, divided his army into three parts, and
    marched, to prevent their surrounding him.  One part encamped
    at Dealgin Ross, the other at Strageath, and the other remained
    with Agricola, in the small oblong camp at Ardoch.
       On this hypothesis, it was the 9th legion which was assailed by
    the Caledonians, during night, and had their guards slain in the
    trenches of Dealgin Ross; and this may have been nving to the
    information which the Caledonians might receive of the 9th le-
    gion, as being the weakest "ut maxime invalidam." During the
    time that they were engaged in the camp, Agricola heard from his
    spies, in what direction the great body of the Caledonian army lay,
    and as it seems to have been between him and the camp, so he
    hastened forward, and commanded the lightest of his foot and
    cavalry to charge them, whilst yet engaged in the rear, and the
    whole army presently after to give a mighty shout.  This attack of
    Agricola and his men upon the rear-guard of the Caledonians
    must have been in a small glen, in the west end of this parish,
    two miles south of Dealgin Ross; and so the design of the shout
    would be, that the Romans in the camps of Dealgin Ross might
    hear and know that those in the small camp of Ardoch bad come
    to their assistance.  This may be inferred from the Roman sol-
    diers regaining courage, and beating off their enemy to such a de-
    gree, that, had not the woods `nd marshes served for shelter to
    the fugitives, the war had been concluded by this victory.
       We therefore fix upon Blair-in-roan as the place of the de-
    cisive battle between Galgacus and Agricola at this time.  Of this
    we have presumptive evidence,-the name itself, as signhfying the
    spotted battle-fields,--a small stream which runs through the glen,
    and is one of the sources of the Machony, named Tai-na-blair, sig-
    nifying the stream of the battle-field,-besides, the several upright
    stones in that quarter, still called by the country people the Ro-
    man stones,-and in addition to all this, the discovery a few years


