
                       MOFFAT.                           107

had a monument erected to his memory in 1769.  The water, as
analyzed by Dr Garnet, contains 5 cubic inches azotic gas per
wine gallon; 84 grains of sulphate of iron in the same; 12 grains
of sulphate of alumina; 15 grains oxide of iron.  The taste is not
unpleasant.  The water is richest immediately after heavy falls of
rain; and it keeps long, and may be sent to distant places when
the bottles are well-corked and sealed.  A large wine-glassful is
the common dose of the Hartfell Spa, taken twice or thrice a-day.
  The Well, as it is called, was discovered nearly 200 years ago, and
continues to maintain its character as a slow but sure and safe re-
medy in the complaints to which waters of this description are ap-
plied.  It sparkles like champagne when taken from the foun-
tain, and becomes pleasant by habitual use; some at last pre-
ferring to drink it before the purest spring-water; and, being
light, it is taken in very large quantities.  Dr Garnet's analysis
gives 4 cubic inches of nitrogen gas in the wine gallon; 5 cubic
inches of carbonic acid gas; 10 cubic inches of sulphuretted hy-
drogen gas; 36 grains of muriate of soda.  This water is now
conveyed in pipes to Moffat, for the use of persons inclined to
have it there for warm-baths; but those who drink the water, of
course, find it purest and most pleasant at the fountain, about a
mile from Moffat, where a woman attends in an apartment for the
use of visitants.
   Lochskeen.--The only lake of importance is Lochskeen, formed in
an elevated mountain basin, rather mossy, and having one or two
rocky islets within its waters.  Lochskeen is about three-quarters of a
mile in length, and one quarter in breadth.  Its elevated situation
is thought to be above 1000 feet above sea level, and yet it con-
tains the finest trout in this part of Scotland.  The outlet of its
waters is by the lofty cascade, called the Gray Mare's Tail, falling
over precipitous rocks, which have been computed in all at 400
feet elevation above the vale,--this waterfall being broken into
parts.
     Geology and Mineralogy.---The soil of the vales is alluvial, and
contains many rounded stones, with sand and gravel.  The dry
mountain soil are light, with grass and heath; but the growth of
peat-moss heath is interrupted by draining and burning.  Grass
mixed with heath grows to the summit of the mountains, the out-
lines of which are curved and somewhat regular.  The rivers and
rivulets have opened scars in various places, exposing the sub-


