
		       LEGERWOOD.                              355

		     IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture- The number of acres in the parish amounts to
8430. Of this land, 3470 acres are regularly under cultivation;
1830 are in permanent pasture, but are cropped occasionally, for
the purpose of renewing the sown grasses when they die out; 2830
acres have never been cultivated, some of which might be improved
perhaps, as pasture, but not otherwise; and 300 acres are in wood.
There is no part of the land in a state of undivided common. About
16 acres are of natural wood, which consists; with a few ash trees
and young oaks, chiefly of alder, birch, and hazel. The planta-
tions are of larch, spruce, and common firs, with a small proportion
of hard wood. They are all young, protected by good fences, and
appear to be in a thriving state.
   The land forty years ago, as appears from the former Statistical
Account, was held by seventeen tenants. It is now occupied by
nine, several of the farms being extensive.
   Rent of Land.- The average rent per acre is from 12s. to 15s.;
The average rent of grazing is at the rats of L. 3, 10s. per ox or
cow grazed, and at the rate of 15s. per ewe or full-grown sheep
pastured by the year. The rental of the parish is L. 3800.
   Live-Stock.- The common breeds of sheep are the Leicester and
Cheviot, and a cross from these. The cattle are now chiefly, and
until of late they were solely, of the short-horned breed: and very
great attention is paid to the rearing and fattening both of sheep and
cattle. Every arrangement of the farmer has some reference to
this paramount object; and the remark of the intelligent writers
of the last Statistical Account is still applicable, " even a stranger
might judge, at a first aspect, that the feeding and fattening of sheep
and cattle are the primary objects of the industry of the farmers of
this parish." Not an acre, probably, of the large portion of land,
1830 acres, which has been stated to be occasionally under culti-
vation for the purpose of reclaiming the pasture, remunerates by
its grain produce, at present prices, the outlay in labour and manure,
and seeds. Of that portion, also, which is under regular cultiva-
tion, there is much which is considered to be scarcely profitable,
and which would be kept, therefore, in, permanent pasture, were
straw and hay and turnips not needed for the winter sustenance
and fattening of stock. A five years' rotation of crop is observed
on all the farms; and, as potatoes are not grown for the market,
one-fifth of the cultivated land may be said to be annually in tur-
nips, two-fifths in oats and barley, and two-fifths in grass, of which
scarcely one-sixth is cut for hay.


