
94                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

Cordwainers, the Fleshers, the Barbers, the Wrights, (including
the Coopers and Masons,) and the Bakers.  It is uncertain at
what period these corporations were formed into a joint society.
The first mention of the deacon-convener is in 1587, when the
person holding this office was appointed, along with others, to ar-
bitrate between the craftsmen and the burgesses.
   About the year 1610, the Joint Society of Incorporated Trades
instituted a fund for the relief of decayed members; and in 1632,
Dr Guild, one of the ministers of Aberdeen, founded an hospital
for poor artificers, in the place formerly occupied by the monks of
the Holy Trinity.  The corporations of Hammermen, Bakers,
Tailors, Wrights, Cordwainers, Weavers, and Fleshers contribut-
ed to the establishment and support of this hospital.  The objects
of relief are not now, as formerly, received into the Trades' Hos-
pital, but relieved as out-pensioners, and the building is used for
the purposes of meetings of the trades, and as a school for the
children of tradesmen of both sexes.
   The fund for distribution has, by various bequests, and by the
rise in value of land purchased in the close vicinity of the town,
increased considerably, so as to enable them, of late years, to dis-
tribute about L.600 annually, among about 130 decayed members.
   By the deed of Dr Guild, who was one of the principal found-
ers of this fund, " None shall be admitted to its benefit but those
who shall be of good fame, and not reduced to poverty by their
own vice or drunkenness or intemperance; and therefore that none
receive the fruits of the said mortification but good, holy, and so-
ber men."
   A Widow's Fund was instituted in 1771, a small payment from
entrant members being reserved for this purpose; and the annual
proceeds of this fund now yield L.5 each to about 150 widows.
   In 1816, a supplementary Widow's Fund was projected by
Convener John Leslie; and in 1828, it had so far accumulated as
to be available, and since that time the proceeds of it have been
annually distributed.
   During the year 1837, the general funds of the trades for dis-
tribution amounted to L.1102, whereof L.572 were distributed to
122 superannuated members; L.490 were apportioned among
150 widows; and L.40 were paid as bursaries to students at Ma-
rischal College.
   Besides these general institutions, in which all the corporations
have a common interest, each possesses its own peculiar stock and


