
                              HALKIRK.                             71

sition. These recesses diminish gradually both in height and
breadth towards the outside of the wall, and each of them ends in
a narrow opening, which appears to have admitted all the light
which found an entrance to this gloomy abode of the heroes of,
battle and of rapine. These openings seem also to have been cal-
culated as convenient positions from which those within the castle
could shoot at such of their foes as dared attack them in this fast-
ness, which, before the invention of gunpowder, must have been of
considerable strength. There are other recesses in the walls, not
unlike small rooms, 5, 6, 7, and 8 feet long, by 2, 4, and 5 broad,
and 6 1/2, 7, and 8 feet high. On the ground floor in the north
side there is a strongly built dismal hole, 10 or 12 feet by 41, and
about the same height with those already mentioned. It is cover-
ed with massy stones, and must from its appearance have been a
place either of concealment or of imprisonment The whole su-
perstructure is of a hard durable species of stone found in. the vi-
cinity. On the north-west side of the tower there is a fosse, 6 feet
deep, and about 20 broad, which protected it on that side, and the
river afforded it some defence on the other. The other buildiog in
ruins, or rather the commencement of a more spacious and com-
modious castle, projected on a more elegant plan belongs to a
more improved era of architecture, and is of a modesn date com-
pased to the tower. The front height of this ruio varies  from 12
to 15 feet. The building is esected on a baok elevated 6 or 7
feet above the bed of the riwer, and looks towards the east, on
which side, and within a very short distance thereof, the river flows
with a murmuring hum over a rough, stony chaonel. All that
seems to have been built of this well projected and pleasantly si-
tuated castle is the ground floor, 100 feet in length by 50 in
breadth, divided into six vaults, four of which have two port-holes
in each; aod there is one in each end of a passage which runs bd-
twixt the end aod the centre vaults. The diameter of these port-
holes varies from 3 1/2 to 4 1/2 inches. Each vault has a door com-
muoicatiog with the passage just mentioned, and to each end of
which there is a stair descending from the back of the building.
The dimeosions of these vaults are 17 and 17 feet squase, by 13
io height. Some of them have small wiodows 1 1/2 feet by 1 foot.
All the light admitted into two of them eoters through a vesy nar-
row opeoiog above the port-holes. By whom and at what period
the tower was built aod iohabited, and by whom the more modem
building was commeoced aod so, far carried on, are questioos not


