
     			CORSTORPHINE.                       239

   After Mr Fordyce's death, during the ministry of the two follow-
ing clergymen, discipline was so totally relaxed, that on Mr Oliver's
appointment, he found only a single elder in the parish, and dis-
covered that the register of discipline had been discontinued for ten
years, while the few entries between that period and the death of
Mr Fordyce are in general dated at the manse, where it appears
Mr Chiesley usually held his meetings of session.
  Election of Ministers and Elders. -Sir Robert Keith Dick of
Corstorphine is patron of the church.  In the list of clergymen,
we have mentioned the form in which they were severally elected,
where any record of it is preserved in the presbytery or parish re-
gisters.  The consent and concurrence of the congregation, was
most carefully sought in the elections prior to 1665, and in the
elections of Mr George Fordyce, and probably of his predecessor.
The others, with the exception of the present incumbent, who was
settled under the Act of 1833, were the presentees of absolute pa-
tronage.  Enough has been stated above to enable the reader to
judge which of the two systems has worked best in this parish.
   There were deacons as well as elders from the planting of the
church down to the expulsion of Mr Hunter in 1662.  At first the
session was elected or re-elected annually and publicly received be-
fore the congregation.  In September 1656, there is an entry in
the register of discipline, complaining that, "for many years by-
gone, the elders and deacons had not been changed nor publicly re-
ceived before the congregation, whereby the power and autharity
of the session was ready to be vilified, the people neither knowing
the charge and duty of such as were over them, nor were those in
charge put in mind of their charge, nor solemnly engaged to the
same."   It is then stated that it is "the order and practize of this
church that, either yearly or in similiter congregations in the coun-
trie, each two years, there should be a new election of the elder-
ship."
   Both elders and deacons were always elected by the previous ses-
sion, except in 1684, when the heritors named to the minister the el-
ders they wished for their respective districts,Lord Forrester appoint-
ing those for the barony, and the others for their own estates.  The
form of election at first was for the session to meet ana agree upon
a list of persons qualified for the office and living in the several dis-
tricts into which the parish was ecclesiastically divided.  The pre-
sent elders and deacons of each district were then removed, and in
their absence the rest of the session proceeded to elect an elder or


