
                        DALKEITH.           485

The surname of Scott was probably first employed as the dis-
tinctive appellation of a Scotsman residing among foreigners, and
continued to be applied to him agter his return to his native land.*\f
The antiquity of the name is proved by its occurrance in charters
of the earliest period.   In course of timesm the families of this
name multiplied into innumerable ramifications.  Of these fami-
lies, two have been regarded as the chief, viz. the Scootts of Bal-
weary in Fife, and the Scotts of Buccleuch in Selkirkshire.  The
ancestors of this latter family had existed for some generations,
(1296-1446) in Lanarkshire, under the designation of the Scotts
of Murdieston;--till, in 1446, Sir Walter Scott exchanged the
lands of Murdieston for the lands and barony of Branxholme in
the county of Roxburgh.  Among the circumstances which led to
this transaction, there are some which are highly characteristic of
the family and the times.  The propreitor of Branxholme had
complained to Scott, in the course of a  conversation about their
lands, that he was grievously annoyed by the frequent inroads of
the English freeboters; upon which Scott proposedan excambion
of their estates.  The proposal was accepted, and Acott dryly re-
marked, that "he had no doubt the cattle of Cumberland would
be found to be as good as the cattle of Teviotdale."  Here the
Scotts continued for some generations as border chieftains of the
highest renown.  They were first designed by the title of "Do-
minus de Buccleuch,"  In the Parliament held by James III. at
Edinburgh, anno 1487.  Attaching themselves to the interest of
the royal family, they became rivals of the house of Douglas, and
gradually rose in wealth and influence, till, in 1606. Sir Walter
was raised to the peerage under the title of Lord Scott of Buc-
cleuch; and in 1619, his son, Lord Walter, attained the dignity
of Earl of Buccleuch.  It was during the minority of Francis, the
second Earl, as we have mentioned above, that the estate of Dal-
keith came into their bands.  This nobleman was prematurley
cut off by disease in the 25th year of his age, havings died at Dal-

     <FOOTNOTE> We have similar examples in the surnames of Inglish, Wallance, and Fleming.
                "Uchtred Filius Scot" is the earlies instance of this names that is met with.  He
is found as a witness in the Charter of Foundation of the Abbey of Selkirk in . D.
1113, (Dalrym. Coll. pages 237 and 405); and also in the "Inquisitio facts per Da.
videm, &c. ibid. 340.  Several other very early instances are mentioned by Sir James
Dalrymple, who remarks that the word "Scot" is not to be considered as originally a
surname, but a distinctive appellation derived from the name of the country to which
the individual belonged.  Some of the families to whom this name was applied, as-
sumed afterwards a different surname, while others retained it.  Dalrym. Collection,
pages 411-414.
     The Charter of Excambion is dated 23d July 1446.--Douglas peerage,p.ICO.
     Scott's Lay of the Last Minstrel--Notes.


