
                       TRAQUAIR.                                 49

and the population scanty, no mail or stage-coaches travel in it. The
turnpike roads are now much improved--the bridges over the dif-
ferent burns are good--and the timber bridge lately erected over
the Tweed on the new line of road to Innerleithen and Edinburgh,
by the patriotic exertions of the landholders in this and the neigh-
bouring parish, has been a public benefit.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated as nearly as possi-
ble in the very centre of the parish, as to its territorial bounda-
ries, but fully a mile from the centre of the great mass of the
population.  Owing to the mountainous character of the parish,
the public roads must invariably follow the course of its streams.
Hence one line, leading from Peebles, runs along the banks of the
Tweed from west to east for about twelve miles within the parish,
and another of about three runs from north to south along the
banks of the Quair and one of its tributaries.  On this road the
church stands, about six, five, and two miles from the different ends
of the parish.  The inhabitants on the estate of Kailzie, amount-
ing nearly to a sixth part of the whole population of the parish,
finding themselves on an average not much above three miles
from Peebles, and six from their parish church, regularly go to
Peebles to worship, either with the Establishment, if they can find
seats, or, if not, among the dissenters; and consequently, by the                 1                                                    1
annexation of that part of the parish of Kailzie to Traquair, in-
stead, as it ought to have been, to Peebles, if it was to be suppres-
sed at all, a very large addition has been almost necessarily made
to the ranks of the session.  Above all, the distance of the church
from the centre of the great mass of the population is but too good
an apology for its being seldom visited by children.
     There is, however, little chance of a change in the situation of
the church, as it was built only in 1778, and floored with wood,
and furnished with stoves, and made as comfortable as possible a
few years ago.  It is in excellent repair, fully capable of accom-
modating the half of the population and every seat in it free, al-
though of course appropriated to the several farms into which the
parish is divided.
     The manse was built in 1793 or 1794, and received a large ad-
dition, and very extensive repairs in 1814.
     The glebe measures about 12 imperial acres, and might let for
about L. 20 per annum.  The stipend, modified in 1821, is 17
chalders, half meal and half barley, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. of commun-
     PEEBLES.                      D



