
     Of Mid-Calder.

   Extent and Population.-The parish, which is now
called West Calder, constituted formerly a part of this
one, and the whole was then known by the name of Cal-
der Comitis.  From the time of this division, the parish
which I am describing, has been denominated Mid-Cal-
der.  It is about 7 miles in length from N. to S.; and
no part of it is much above 3 miles in breadth.  The
population, according to Dr. Webster's report in 1755,
was 760 souls.  It contains, at present, 1251 inhabi-
tants; 689 of whom are in the country part of the pa-

<FOOTNOTE>

mon price, for many years past, has been 1 s.  The peck contains 8 lbs of
Scotch Troy, or Dutch weight, the lb. of which is to the Avoirdupoise,
or English lb., as 7600 grains is to 7000.  Potatoes have been sold here
this autumn, when disposed of in quantities, at 4 s. 8 d the boll, which
contains 16 pecks; and 2 of the pecks, by which potatoes are sold in this
place, exceed a Winchester bushel, by 69/100 parts.  There is not much
fish brought to this market; but there is plenty of it to be had in Edin-
burgh; and we have two carriers in this town who go thither twice a
week, besides several from different parts of the parish, who go on stated
occasions.  Our butcher meat is charged 3 d, and sometimes 4 d., or up-
wards, a lb. Dutch weight.  Poultry is dearer in proportion, and eggs are
sold at 4 d., 5 d., or 6 d. the dozen, according to the season of the year,
and as circumstances require.  New milk costs 1/2 d. the mutchkin, which is
one-tenth less than the English wine pint; and butter milk is sold at 1/2 d.
a Scotch pint, which is one-tenth less than an English wine gallon.
A good ploughman will not engage himself for less than 8 L. a year, and,
in general, he expects more.  Along with these wages, he has bed and
board in his master's house; but when he is married, and has a cottage of
his own, he has allowances of different kinds, which, on the whole, may
amount to 15 L. or 16 L. a year.  Footmen, gardeners, etc., have wages in
proportion to the circumstances in which they are placed.  A female ser-
vant, fit for common household work, demands, independent of bed and
board, from 3 L. 10 s. to 4 L. a year.  Those in a superior line have more,
according to their situation.  A common labourer, if he find himself
with food, gets, at an average, 1 s 2 d. a day during that season of the
year, when he can work from 6 o'clock in the morning to 6 o'clock in
the evening.  A few years ago, a labourer of this kind had no more than
10 d. or 1 s.  The wages of mechanicks have been advanced in proportion.
 

