
                               CULLEN.                         321

   the aforesaid Sir Walter Ogilvie of Auchleven, was a man of great
   abilities, and a favourite of James VI, by whom he was raised to
   the dignity of the Peerage, and created Lord Ogilvie of Desk-
   ford, October 4, 1616.  His son and heir, James, second Lord
   Ogilvie, was created Earl of Findlater by Charles I., 20th Febru-
   ary 1638, by patent to the heirs-male of his body; but, having no
   male issue, he obtained a new patent, 18th October 1641., in fa-
   vour of Sir Patrick Ogilvie of Inchmartin, who had married his
   eldest daughter, Elizabeth.  This St Patrick became second Earl
   of Findlater, and died 1658 leaving an only son, James, third
   Earl, who died 1711, and was succeeded by his son James, fourth
   Earl, K. T., the celebrated lawyer and statesman, who, during his
   father's lifetime, was created, 28th June 1698, Viscount Seafield,
   and, 24th June 1701, Earl of Seafield, Viscount of Reidhaven,
   with remainder, on failure of male issue of his body, to his other
   heirs of entail.  He died 1730, and was succeeded by his ion and
   heir, James, fifth Earl of Findlater, and second Earl of Seafield, who
   died 1764, leaving the following issue, viz. a son, James, by whom
   be was succeeded, and two daughters, Margaret and Ann; the
   former married to Sir Ludovick Grant of Grant, Bart., the latter
   to John second Earl of Hopetoun.  Janies the sixth Earl of Find-
   later, and third Earl of Seafield, died 1770, and was succeeded by
   his son and heir, James, seventh Earl of Findlater, and fourth
   Earl of Seafield ; on whose death, without issue, 1811, the Earl-
   dom of Findlater, which was limited to the heirs-male of the body
   of the first Earl, became extinct; but the Earldom of Seafield,
   and the other titles created by the patent of 1701, together with
   the whole of the family estates, devolved on his cousin, Sir Lewis
   Alexandei Grant of Grairt, Bart. son of Sir James Grant of
   Grant, Bart, and grandson of Sir Ludovick Grant of  Grant,
   Bart., and his wife, Margaret, elder daughter of James, fifth Earl
   of Findlater, and second Earl of Seafield. Sir Lewis Alexander
   Grant, fifth Earl of Seafield, assumed the name of Ogilvie, and
   died 1840, without issue.  He was succeeded by his brother, the
   Honourable Francis William Grant, the sixth and present Earl of
   Seafield, who has male issue.
    The house of Seafield is lineally connected with the following
   noble families: Aberdeen, Airly, Athot, Banff Buchan, Caith
   ness, Eglinton, Elphinstonel Fife, Glenicairn, Gray, Hamilton,
   Hopetoun, Huntly,  Kinnoul, Lauderdal, Lovat, Morton, Oli-
   Phant, Rothes, Saltoun. Chief seats: Cullen House, Banffshire;


