
                        LOCHWINNOCH                    103

   Candlemaking was carried on for some time by Mr James Con-
nel of Calderhaugh, but it was discontinued about 1828.
   Mr Crawfurd and his brother have a mill for carding and spin-
ning wool, in which they employ 22 workers.  It is in the third
story of a very fine mill near the Calder.  This elegant building was
erected in 1814, and the under part of it is one of the largest,
and most complete corn-mills in the country.  After the dried
oats are put into the happer, they go through the whole pro-
cess of shelling, winnowing, grinding, and sifting, and are prepar-
ed for the bags and the market without any other manual labour
than that of superintending the process, which is carried on wholly
by machinery.
   But the cotton-mills mentioned in the former Statistical Account
have for the last forty years been by far the most conspicuous ma-
nufactory in the parish.
   The old mill was erected by Messrs G. Houston, Burns, and
Co. about 1788, and is now the property of W.Wright and Co.
It is situated on the rising ground on the north-west side of the
village, and is driven wholly by the waters of the Calder and re-
servoirs connected with it.  The building consists of five stories
with garrets, lighted by 152 windows and 40 sky-lights.  It con-
tains 8140 spindles, and the yarn varies in size from No. 60 to
80, and the water-twist from 24 to 30.  It employs altogether 170
workers, old and young, who receive about L. 148 of wages a-fort-
night.
   The new mill was erected by Messrs Fulton and Co. in 1789,
and is now the property of Messrs Fulton and Buchanan.  This
large and elegant building stands upon the level around near the
foot of the High Street.  It is not, however, in the line of the street,
but placed so far back as to form a large, and fine area in front of the
mill, enclosed by a parapet wall, surmounted in the centre by an
iron railing, which is in the line of the street.  It stands near the
banks of the Calder, by the waters of which it was wholly driven
till a large addition was built to it in 1825, when a steam-engine
was erected, which is now used along with the water in driving this
mill.  It consists of five stories with, garrets, and, is lighted by 360
windows and 60 sky-lights.  It contains 25,224 spindles, which
work 12,000 lbs. of cotton every fortnight.  The yarn varies  in
size, from No. 36 to 84, averaging 60. It employs 345 workers,
who receive about L. 260 of wages a-fortnight.
   About 1788, a small cotton-factory was commenced by a num-


