
                             OLD DEER.                          147

might have led them to prefer, while they saw no persons, they
heard a voice thus accost them:

              "It is not here, it is not here,
              That ye're to big the Kirk o' Deer,
              But on the tap o' Tillery,
              Where many a corpse shall after lie."

   A church accordingly was built on a knoll or small mount, em-
braced by a semicircular bend of the Ugie, and, as was customary,
a piece of ground around it was set apart for a btrhal-place, so that
the weird is fully verified, in the great number of interments that
have taken place, during the lapse of centuries, in a wide and po-
pulous parish.
   There are visible proofs still remaining that this parish was for-
merly the scene of warfare, occasioned by family feuds, civil strife,
or the invasion of the country by foreigners.  On the top of the
bill of Bruxle, and at Den of Howie, near Fetterangus, there are
traces of fortifications and encampments; and near the foot of
Arkey-brae, there is a cluster of tumuli, pointing out the graves of
warriors who fell in a bloody contest reported to have taken place
between Edward, the brother of King Robert Bruce, and Cum-
ming, the Earl of Buchan, with their followers and clansmen.
   In the insurrection of 1745-6, there were risings in behalf of
the exiled Stuarts, many of the beads of families being; attached
to the Jacobite interest.  That rough partizan of the fallen cause,
Gordon of Glenbucket, instead of attaching himself to the main
army, extended hiss barbarities into the lowlands; and as the
Laird of Kinmundy was known to favour the opposite side, he
showed some of his rude civilities to that house, particularly to the
lady, who was left in command of the garrison.
   Present State of Property.-The three principal landholders re-
side in the parish, Baptain Ferguson of Pitfour; Mr Ferguson of
Kinmundy; and Mr Russell of Aden.  There are six others who
have estates here, viz. the Honourable William Gordon of Ellon,
proprietor of Skelmuir; the Rev. J. S. Burnett has Dens and
Little Crichie; Mr Buchan of Auchmacoy, Knock; Mr Gordon
of Nethermuir, Kidshill and Greenbrae; Lord Lovat a portion of
Skillimarno, at the north extremity, of the parish; and Mr, Forbes
Irvine of Schivas, the pendicle of Cairaeummer.  Besides what
belongs to these individuals, between a fifth and a sixth part of the
whole parish, estimated according to the valued rent, is mortified pro-
perty, appertaining to various charitable trusts.  Clachriah &c. pur-
chased lately from Pitfour, belongs to the Trustees of the late Mr Gor-


