
                             PEEBLES.                           23

to certain districts, and its demoralizing influence was not gene-
rally felt.  Cheap whisky, from the licensed distiller,is vended
through the whole country, and many districts, formerly strangers
to the small still, and distinguished for the order and sobriety of
the inhabitants, now suffer from its baneful effects.   Private vices
have, in the fullest sense of the word, been made for the time to
produce, not public benefits, but an increased revenue, as if any
state could be benefited by the corruption and moral degradation
of its inhabitants.   The consumption of whisky by the drunkard,
may for a while swell the returns of the excise, but eventually, the
prosperity and the welfare of the country must suffer from his un-
productive labour.
 Banks.--A branch of the British Linen Company's Bank.was
established some years ago in the burgh.   There are two friendly
societies,--a savings' bank,--a curling and coursing club.   The
royal archers occasionally visit the place.   Poaching is very little
known.   Salmon are killed at all seasons when found in the river;
but unless an information is lodged with the sheriff-substitute or
the justices of the peace, no notice is taken of the trespassers in
close time.   The leisterinq of salmOn may be considered a kind
of amusement, requiring much skill and address, and affords a
good recreation for those of sedentary habits; and so far from lead-
ing, like poaching in game, to corruption of morals, many who en-
gage in it, are as respectable and well-behaved young men as the
burgh contains.
 Fairs.-The charter granted by James the Sixth, confirmed to
the burgesses the right of holding " three free fairs thrice in the
year," two of which were to be continued for the space of forty-
eight hours, and the third to last no less than eight days, "ac-
cording to use and wont."   Four fairs are now held annually for
hiring servants, and the sale of cattle and sheep, but one day is
found quite sufficient for  transacting all the business of each fair.
 Fuel.--There is very little peat-moss in the parish, and coals
form the chief article of  fuel.   They are brought from Mid-Lo-
thian, and cost about 8d. or 9d. the cwt.
 Prison.--A list of the commitments for the last six years was
prepared; but as many of these were for offences of a trifling na-
ture, such as being a vagrant, and suffering one night's confine-
ment, it is unnecessary to swell these pages with the detail.  The
average number of commitments for the county for the last six
years amount to about 28 a-year.
 March 1834.


