
     Of Markinch.

tower*, which stands on the N. side, and near the N. W. angle
is 45 feet by 36 over the walls, and 80 feet high.  The top

<FOOTNOTE>

with the immense tracks that have no coal metals (or strata that usually ac-
company coal), nor any appearance to indicate coal being contained in them.
But the coal fields themselves are very far from containing coal every where.
The county of Fife, for instance, is a coal field, and has been held out in a late
publication, on the causes of the scarcity of coal, as containing an almost inex-
haustible fund of that useful mineral, and as every where containing coal.  No 
assertion could be more slenderly founded; it is probably much nearer the truth,
that for every acre in Fife containing unwrought coal, there is not less than 50
that have no coal in them, nor any national probability of any being found.
That there is still much coal in Fife, is a certain fact; but if no other part of 
Britain is better stored with it, it is equally certain, that more than one half of 
the whole quantity in the kingdom is already exhausted.  Add to this, that the 
remaining half must be wrought with engines at a vast expense; and it is not
absolutely certain whether, in quantity or quality, it may equal that part of the 
coals already exhausted.  To prove what is above alleged, would not, perhaps, 
be very difficult.  Take all the coals in Fife, wrought out, or now working, 
one after another, examine consumption, and the quantity of ground wrought out 
within the last ten years, and compare this with the quantity of ground which 
the proprietor supposes to contain coal as deep as there is a possibility of work-
ing, it would immediately be known, supposing the consumption the sames,
what number of years the remaining coal would supply the demand, at the same 
rate of consumption.  Such an inquiry, I am afraid, would amount to a full proof 
that another century will consume the whole. 
*Connected with the tower is a house of 3 stories, built by General Sir Alex-
ander Leslie, extending to the N. E. corner; and on the E. side of the court is 
another house of the same height, built by the present Earl of Leven's grandfa-
ther.  From the vaults under there new buildings, and the thickness of the 
walls in the lower story, it appears probable that the old buildings had been 
equally extensive, and that the new bouses had been raised on the foundations 
of the old.  On the S. and W. sides of the court, there is a high strong wall, 
which appears to be coeval with the tower: and without the wall there has 
been a large soffe, the remains of which are still to be seen.  The gate way is 
on the W. side, beside which, and under the wall, there is a pit.  There is also
a duageon, or dark cell in the bottom of the tower.  This casstle stands in the 
middle of an oblong square, inclusive of 300 acres, fenced by a stone and lime 
wall.  Near it there is a garden of about 7 acres, enclosed by a wall of 12 feet 
high, and a great deal of fine old trees around.  Balgonie, which anciently


