
		             LEITH.                         767

mity of the Links, and were erected in the year 1813. A sum of
L.8000 was raised in shares of L.50 for this purpose, each share-
holder, or a member of his family, having a perpetual right to the
use of the baths. The building is handsome and on a large scale,
containing seventeen hotl cold, and tepid baths on the lower floors,
besides a large plunge bath. The remainder of the building is
occupied as a hotel and lodgings, for the accommodation of visi-
tors to the baths.
   Harbour and Docks.-The harbour of Leith is situated at the
mouth of the Water of Leith, where that river joins the sea. By
virtue of a charter dated the 15th March 1603, commonly called
the Golden Charter, as well as by various prior grants and acts of
Parliament, the magistrates and council of the city of Edinburgh
acquired right to the ports and harbour of Leith and Newhaven.
These grants were farther ratified by the statute of 1621, and a
royal charter dated 1636. The district comprehended in these
grants extended from Wardie Burn on the west, to Seafield toll-
bar on the east, including the whole shore, beach, sands, and links
within these boundaries.
   In course of time, as the trade of Leith increased, great incon-
venience was experienced from the deficient state of the harbour
and the want of docks, where vessels might lie afloat at all times.
Accordingly, in the year 1788, the magistrates and council of
Edinburgh applied to Parliament, and obtained an act authorising
them to borrow L. 30,000 for the purpose of constructing a dock,
and for opening up the streets in the vicinity. Several other sub-
sequent acts were obtained, as well as extended powers of borrow-
ing additional sums of money.
   In 1800, the eastern wet-dock next the tide-harbour of Leith
was commenced, and finished in about six years; and in 1810
the middle dock was begun, and completed in 1817. Each of
these docks is 250 yards in length, and 100 yards broad,-both
extending to upwards of ten English acres of water, and affording
space sufficient to contain 150 ships of ordinary dimensions, such
usually frequent the port. To the north, of the two wet-docks
are three dry or graving-docks, each 136 feet long, and 45 feet
wide at the bottom, while they increase in area at the top. The
width of the entrance is 36 feet. The whole are constructed of
the best and most durable materials. "In the report presented
to the House of Commons by the select committee, 1819, it is
stated that the two wet-docks cost about L. 175,086, the three



