
                       TARLAND AND MIGVIE.                   839

in each of which there are above 300 volume.  One of them
contains books only on religious subjects.
   Fuel.-Peats are obtained from the hill of Fare, already men-
tioned, and from some inland mosses, several of them now nearly
exhausted.
   Inns, &c.-Beside the inn in the village, in which all the dis-
trict courts are held, there are not fewer than ten or twelve houses
or shops in the parish in which spirits are sold.
   July 1842.

                  PARISH OF TARLAND AND MIGVIE.

       PRESBYTERY OF KINCARDINE O'NEIL, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

            THE REV. AND. WATSON,        }  MINISTERS.
            THE REV. J. WATSON, A. & S.  }

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, &c.-THE name is of Gaelic extraction, and signifies a
"flat or level land."  The parish of Tarland is separated by a
burn from Coull, on the south; on the west, it is bounded by the
parish of Logie-Coldstone; on the north, by the parish of Leo-
chel-Cushny; and on the east, by the parish of Coull to near the
end of the Cromar district.  Its length is nearly 4, and its breadth
2 miles.
   The church in the annexed parish of Migvie is situated near the
west end of the Cromar district, and is distant from the parish church
of Tarland about three miles westward.  The parish of Migvie is
bounded on the south and west, by the parish of Logie-Coldstone;
on the north, by the parishes of Towie and Coldstone; and on
the east, by the parish of Coldstone.
   At what period these parishes of Tarland and Migvie were united
cannot be ascertained either from record or tradition.  Public worship
is at Migvie church, every third Sunday through the year.  A detach-
ed part of the parish of Tarland lies in Strathdon, distant twelve
miles from the parochial church of Tarland, and containing a popu-
tion of 191 souls.  This part of the parish of Tarland is bounded
on the south by the river Don, three or four miles in extent.  It
is about two miles in breadth, and bounded on the west, north,

