
558                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

in the neighbourhood some old town." Whatever there may be
in this, the new town has in lapse of time passed away as well as
the old, if there was one, there being now only what was the man-
sion-house when it formed a separate property, and a farm-steading
remaining,-the church and manse having been removed, nearly a
hundred years ago, to a more central situation for the united pa-
rishes. Anciently, Newton comprehended that part of the parish
which is described by Chalmers as lying "on the western side
of the Esk below Dalkeith," the barony of Lugton, however, being
interposed betwixt it and the river, except for a short distance to-
wards the south-eastern extremity; and was composed of the lands
of Sheriffhall and Newton; while the other comprehended the
lands of Edmonstone and Wymet, now written Woomet, Wol-
met, and Woolmet. "This name," as the same author observes,
"is of very doubtful etymology."
   Boundaries, &c.-The parish is bounded by that of Dalkeith
on the south; Inveresk on the east; and Liberton on the north
and west. It may be 2 1/2 miles in length by nearly 1 1/2 in breadth,
-comprehending an area of upwards of 3 square miles. What
formed the ancient parish of Newton is generally of a uniform
surface sloping towards the Esk; the other part, however, is chiefly
occupied by a ridge, which, commencing in the parish of Inveresk,
makes a considerable rise just after entering this parish, and passes
on by a gradual ascent to Gilmerton, where it attains its highest
elevation.
   From the crest of the ridge there is a very commanding pro-
spect. Owing to the want of wood, the landscape for the most
part is very uninteresting, and its aspect is far from being improv-
ed by the large villages of red-tiled houses and numerous steam
engines connected with the collieries.
   Climate, &c.-The climate is genial and salubrious, less rain, it
is believed, falling in this parish and that of Inveresk adjoining,
than in most other places, from the westerly, which are the prevailing
winds in summer, carrying the clouds past on either side, after
leaving the Pentlands,-constituting what is called a weather-shed.
In common with the east coast in general, however, it is exposed
to the ungenial easterly winds which prevail in the early part of
the season, though the fogs with which they are so often accom-
panied do not prevail so much as on the opposite shores of the
Frith. We are not aware that there are any peculiar phe-
nomena of the atmosphere which serve as prognostics of the


