
     General Appendix to

dy rustic, while they prove utterly insupportable to the man
of softer education; and the outrages of lawless lust, which
are more dreadful than death to the female of a delicate and
virtuous soul, are little felt and soon forgotten by her, who
has been long resigned to licentious pleasure.  Distress, when
it falls on those who have seen better days, as it is more poig-
nant to the sufferers, is generally more commiserated by the
spectators.  To the positive hardships of the schoolmaster,
which we have shewn to be of no small magnitude, are su-
peradded all those which arise from education and habit.  A
cultivated mind, improved sensibility, some acquaintance with
the comforts of life, and previous hopes of attaining those
comforts; all conspire to deepen the gloom of present pover-
ty.  In relieving the wretched, then, these ought to be con-
sidered in the foremost rank of sufferers, especially as their
distress is the consequence of chance, not of folly; and if
they are overlooked, it must be a constant stigma, not only
on the feelings, but the justice of the nation.
   Having now examined the nature of the scholastic system,
which is certainly repugnant to equity, let us next glance at
the consequences, which appear not less hostile to general expe-
diency.  The first important consequence is, that the schools
are not supplied with proper teachers, these being either too
young, or possessed of too little knowledge; or, what is very
commonly the case, perhaps deficient in both respects.  A se-
cond consequence consists in the continual fluctuation of mas-
ters, who seldom occupy the same department even for a few
years, and who are always ready to quit the profession for
any opening in another line*.  Hence frequent vacancies,

<FOOTNOTE>

*The greater part of school salaries at present are enjoyed by expectants of
the church.  That an alliance should take place, and might take place with ad-
vantage between the two professions, seems highly probable.  It would no doubt


