
                  PARISH OF MID AND SOUTH YELL.

           FRESBYTERY OF BURRAVOE, SYNOD OF SHETLAND.

               THE REV. JAMES ROBERTSON, MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  THIS parish is formed by the junction of the Mid and South,
parishes of the Island of Yell, (formerly written Zell,) one of the
three islands in the Shetlandl group, commonly called the North
lsles. North Yell, the third parish into which Yell is divided,
being joined to Fetlar, quoad sacra, constitutes a portion of
another ministr. To the ministry of Mid and South Yell are
joined the Islands of Samphrey and Bigga, both situated to the
westward of, and distant from, the mainland of Yell about a mile
and a-half The former contains six families, the latter, until
within the last few where it has been converted into a grazing
island, was generally occupied by eight tenants. It may be, re-
marked, that the teinds of Bigga are I paid the one-half to the in-
cumbent of Yell, the other half to ibe minister of Delting. To
Mid and South Yell is also attached the Island of Haseussey, si-
tuated about a mile from its east coast, and. occupied at presea
by six families.
   Situation, Extent.-The south extremity of this parish lies in
60&deg; 40&deg;, and its most northern in about 60&deg; 51' of north latitude.
It reaches from 18' to, 32' west, making its extreme length some-
what more, than 13 miles, and its extreme breadth nearly 7.
   Boundaries.-On the east side it is bounded by Colgrave Sound,
which I separates it from Fetlar; on the south, by Lunnafirth
which runs between it and the parish of Lunnasting; on the west
by Yell Sound, on the opposite shores, of which are the parishes
of Delting and Northwavine. Colgrave Sound averages three
miles in breadth, Lunnafirth four, and Yell Sound six miles. In
Yell Sound, the current is perhaps the strongest of any on the
North Coast of Shetland, its rapidity at spring-tides being eight or
nine miles an hour.
   The Island of Yell lies in a, direction nearly north-east by


