
     of Clunie.

   Curiosities and Antiquities.-Among the first, may be
ranked a deep peat moss, of an excellent quality, on the
very summit of Ben-achally, but such phaenomena are com-
mon in the Highlands: In the face of that mountain, which
looks towards the east, there is a cave of considerable mag-
nitude, appearing at some distance like a giant dressed in
short black cloaths: This cave is called the Drap, or Drop,
from the water oozing through the crannies, and perpetual-
ly dropping from the roof of the cave.  Below the Drop,
and near the foot of the mountain, is a cove, called Henry's
hole, from its having been in former times the hiding-place
of some robbers or plunderers of that name.  There is, in
the high grounds of the park of Laighwood, another cove
that has obtained the name of the Tod's-chair, (Fox's-chair),
from its frequently affording a safe asylum to reinard:
Here large fragments have been severed from the impend-
ing rock, probably by a thunder-bolt, and still show, by their
corresponding angles, the places from which they have been
detached.  One of these fragments forms a sort of table at
the entrance of the cave, and a seat, where the spectator en-
joys a wild and romantic view of the neighbourhood.  The
old wall or dike of the park of Laighwood may, not im-
properly, be classed among the antiquities of this parish.
It was built upwards of 4 centuries ago, of dry stone; is in
some places 6 or 7 feet high, and 4 feet broad a-top, and
notwithstanding it great age, does not appear to have un-

     VOL. IX. K k

to be the moose-deer.  Some of these horns, which are of an amazing size,
are in the custody of the Duke of Athole, and of Mr Farquharson of Inver-
cauld-We have mortar of a very strong adhesive nature, forming an ex-
cellent cement; and rich clay, which, when applied to a light sandy
soil, has proved an excellent manure.  Pipe-clay is found in the loch of
Clunie, and likewise some marl, which it would be impracticable to
drag, on account of the depth of the water.  Marl, more accessible, may
probably be discovered in some other parts of the parish, when they shall
have been properly investigate.


