
                             STOW.                        413

The session records afford a continued illustration of the remark
concerning the moral efficacy of the doctrines of the Reformation.
At first, there generally appeared several, persons every Sabbath
for the sin of uncleanness (the individual appearing three times for
the same offence).  For one aggravated case of adultery and for-
nication in 1704, there were no less than twenty-two appearances
made in the place of repentance.  The cases of scandal gradually
decrease till we come to the gratifying fact, that not one occurs
from 11th March 1705 till 28th July 1707.  During this period,
as at other times, it is frequently recorded, that the minister in-
quired of the elders "if they knew of any case of scandal it their
bounds;" but "no delations were made."*
   There is frequent mention in our records of the "Baillie of
Regality," who appears to have been invested with very consider-
able powers, to the great benefit of the village and neighbourhood.
I have not been able to ascertain when this office ceased; but it
is of great importance that it should be restored.+
   Eminent Characters.--George Pringle of Torwoodlee was the
representative of an ancient and influential family.  This gen-
tleman was distinguished for his piety, decision of character, and
the heroism with which he suffered in the cause of civil and reli-
gious liberty.  He had signalized himself by his loyalty to the
exiled family during Cromwell's usurpation, and his good service
was not unknown to Charles.  It appears, indeed, to have given
him some influence in the early part of that reign, for we find
Walter Pringle of Greenknow, in the parish of Gordon, ascribing
a short delay of his banishment to Elgin, to this gentleman, whom
he designates "my brother, Torwoodlee."  This was in January
1665.  But it was impossible that a man of such piety and patrio-

<FOOTNOTE>There occurs, indeed, two or three instances of Sabbath-breaking during that
time, which were then visited with a public rebuke.  One of these cases was that of
two men and a woman spending the time of the afternoon service in one of their
houses "drinking a chopin of ale."  If this appears to some a comparatively venial
offence, what will they think of the following?  It was usual to pay on the Lord's
day certain dues to the precentor and church officer on the baptism of children. On
Sabbath, 26th March 1699, the session appoints, "that, upon complaint by the pre-
centor or church officer, or the fact being otherwise notor, they will be repute and
censured as Sabbath-brakers," who offer such dues on the Lord's day.
     The powers of the "Baillie of Regalitie" appear to have been succeeded by the
institution of a "Commissary Court" held in the village of Stow.  Having conversed
repeatedly with the oldest inhabitant of the village, whose accurate recollections go
farthest buck, I find that he remembers a "Commissary Court," held by a Baillie
Henderson from Lauder, constituted in name of " Charles Earl of Hopeton, heritable
baillie of this regality, "and "holding off the Commissary of Dunkeld."  He recol-
lects being repeatedly present, when a youth, and hearing "the Court fenced" in the
above words.  This must have been subsequent to 1770. We know that, till the Re-
volution 1688, this was a church regality, subject to the Archbishop of St Andrews.


