
     of Dunottar.

was built there, during the contest between the parties of
BRUCE and BALIOL, by an ancestor of the Marischal family;
who acquired this right, upon condition of building a parish
church in a more convenient place, which probably occasioned
a translation to the present situation.  Before the use of artil-
lery, this castle, from its situation, must have been altogether
impregnable+; but, by the modern art of war, could be easily

     F f 2

<FOOTNOTE>

+Its great reputation for strength gave occasion to a circumstance which ren-
dered it very remarkable.  The REGALIA of SCOTLAND (the crown, sceptre and
sword), were deposited here, in the year 1661, to preserve them from the Eng-
lish army, which over-ran this country during the civil wars of that period. Be-
ing lodged in this place by order of the Privy Council of Scotland, Earl MARI-
SCHAL, proprietor of the castle, obtained from the public a garrison, with an or-
der for suitable ammunition and provisions.  He, joining the King's forces in
England, appointed GEORGE OGILVY of BARRAS, a neighbouring proprietor,
who had been officer for several years in the King's service, to be lieutenant
governor of the castle.  This trust Mr. Ogilvy maintained with the greatest
resolution.  For after all the other forts and places of strength in Scotland were
reduced by the English army, a body of troops, under the command of Lambert,
sat down before Dunnottar.  It was first summoned to surrender in November
1651, and repeatedly afterwards during the course of the winter, About the
beginning of May following, the siege was converted into a blockade.  And
though Governor OGILVY was in the greatest straits for provisions and ammu-
nition; with a most scanty garrison, and though he received orders from the
Earl Marischal, by that time a prisoner in London, to deliver up the place, and
was repeatedly urged by the Chancellor of Scotland, and others, to convey away
the regalia to some secure place in the Highlands, and thereafter capitulate;
yet he still held out, till pressed by famine, and by the mutiny of the garrison,
and having found means to convey the regalia privately to the clergyman of
Kincrieff, in which parish Mr. Ogilvy's property chiefly lay, he at last capitu-
lated upon honourable terms.  The English, not finding the regalia, as they
expected, were highly disappointed, and shut up the Governor and his wife
close prisoners for a year, using every severity or allurement for years afterwards,
to induce them to a discovery: But in vain.  Mr. Ogilvy continued his fidelity
during all the interval, till the restoration of Charles II.; when, addressing
him, he made known his trust, and received orders to deliver tile regalia to the


