
374                          RENFREWSHIRE.

<TABLE>
                                                       Number of Farmers in

         		  Parishes.			1695.	   1795.

        Eaglesham					135	    63
	Mearns				,		138	   124
	Neilston, (Knockmade and Shatterffats included,)178        153
	Cathcart,				         41	    29
	Kilbarchan,					195        104
	Lochwinnoch,					186	   148
	Inchinnan,					 54	    30
	Erskine						 80	    70
  In the present year (1836,) the number of farmers in Kilbarchan
is 90.
  Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land varies, according to the
quality of the soil and other local circumstances, from L.4 to L.1,
or less, per acre.
  Wages.-The wages of able and industrious agricultural labour-
ers are from 10s. to 12s. per week.  Farm-servants receive from
L. 9 to L. 6 per half-year, with board; females from L. 3, 10s. to
L. 5, according to circumstances.  The latter rate of wages is given
only to experienced dairy-maids, or to those who are to have a
charge in that department.
  Live-Stock.-The cattle in this parish are mostly of the Ayr-
shire breed.  They are generally of a brown colour with spots.
Those are preferred that have small heads and ears, with slender
necks and horns.  They weigh, in general, from four to five ewt.
A considerable proportion of their produce is carried to the
neighbouring towns and villages in the shape of milk, butter, and
churned-milk.  The system is now generally approved of keeping
the cattle in the house during winter, with the exception of two
or three hours in the forenoon; whence results the double ad-
vantage of their dung being regularly added to the stock of
manure; and that the fields escape being poached with their
feet in the wet season.  They are fed on chopped straw,
stewed with turnips, potatoes, and chaff; to which a portion
of mill-dust, bran, or bean meal is frequently added.  Mangel-
wurzel is beginning to  be cultivated more commonly for, this
purpose.  The draught horses are generally of the Clydesdale
breed.
  Farm-Steadings, Fences, Leases, &c.-Those farm-steadings
which have been erected within the last thirty or forty years, (and
this includes a considerable proportion,) are generally constructed
in the form of three sides of a square, having a court in the mid-
dle.  With the exception of some ten or twelve in the vicinity,


