
     of Dunnet.

ledge of the tides.  The safest way for strangers is either to
take a pilot on board, or to keep at a considerable distance
from the land*.  The frith is said to be about 12 miles broad,
opposite to Dunnet, though no exact measurement has pro-
bably been taken.

   Harbours.-Though Dunnet Bay runs far into the land, it
affords no shelter for any vessel upon the N. side of it, which
is contiguous to Dunnet Head, as it is exposed to the W.  But
on the Pentland Frith, to the E. of the Head, there are several
very secure havens for boats or small craft.  The haven of
Brough, close by the Head, is well sheltered from every wind

<FOOTNOTE>

*In spring 1791, there was a vessel from Dantzic, of about 500 or 600 tons
burden, passing through the frith, on a voyage to Liverpool.  The master, find-
ing the current against him, in the middle of the frith, when about 8 or 9 miles
E of Dunnet Head bore in for the shore, where he fell in with the last of the
ebb, called by the people here the wester birth.  The wind was about N W.
The current brought him up past Scartskerry; but he was so near the shore,
that the people on land were much alarmed for his safety.  Soon after, a boat
went out, and offered him a pilot, which he refused; on which they advised him
to stand some miles out to sea.  When he came up close with Dunnet Head, he
tacked, and stood out only about a mile to sea.  Finding the current strong to
the W., he thought it unnecessary to continue longer on that tack, as he knew
it was not near low water in the frith; upon which he tacked again, and stood
to the W., hoping all danger was over.  He cleared Dunnet Head; but by
that time it had begun to flow upon the shore; and the easter birth setting in,
soon reached him with considerable strength.  Upon finding his vessel carried
to the E., by the stern, and fast approaching the head land, he attempted to
tack, but found that impossible, as the wind and current, being nearly m the
same direction, the vessel would not answer the helm.  He then attempted to
wear, but with no better effect.  The people on shore observed, that nothing,
in that situation, could have saved him, but dropping an anchor over the stern;
and the moment he found that hold, so as to turn the vessel, slipping the cable,
and standing to sea.  Neglecting that precaution, he was driven ashore and
wrecked, and that through mere ignorance; without the least stress of weather.


