
			PARISH OF CRAWFORD.

	PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		THE REV. THOMAS ANDERSON, MINISTER.

		  I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--Crawford is supposed by antiquarians to signify the
road or passage of blood. This derivation seems natural, from
the circumstance of the old Roman road passing through the vil-
lage and crossing the river Clyde below it, towards the old Castle
of Crawford, which stands on the right bank of the river,--where it
is probable many bloody conflicts took place between the invaders
and the native inhabitants. Part of the parish was formerly known
by the name of Douglas Moor, and part of it by that of Friar Moor,
but the district or parish is now designated Crawfor Muir. It lies
in the south-east corner of Lanarkshire. There are two farms, in
the corner of Lanarkshire, attached to the parish of Moffat, in the
county of Dumfries, quod sacra.
	Extent, &c.--The length of the parish is about 18 miles, and
the breadth 14 or 15 miles, but from its irregular figure, it does not
contain more than 118 square miles, or about 75,500 acres. It
is bounded by eleven different parishes: chiefly by Crawfordjohn
on the west; by Sanquhar, Durrisdeer, and Morton, on the south-
west; by Closeburn, Kirkpatrick-juxta on the south; by Moffat and
Tweedsmuir on the east; and by Lamington on the north.
	Topographical appearcances.--The range of the mountains is
chiefly south-west and north-east; but the parish may rather be re-
garded as a group of mountains or hills, the glens or valleys run-
ning in every direction. The Louther mountains lie chiefly in
this parish, and they are generally stated to be about 2450 feet
above the level of the sea. The acclivity of the hills being in ge-
neral gentle, they are for the most part covered with heath or grass,
Which affords excellent pasture for sheep. The valleys or flat
grounds which separate the hills are partly dry, and partly wet and
spungy. Grounds of the last description when improved by drain-
ing, as many of them are, produce great quantities of coarse hay,


