
122                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

of pretty high ground. After crossing this somewhat elevated
track, we reach the valley along which the "Black Devon" runs.
Immediately to the north of this stream, the elevation of the
land begins again to increase, and it continues to rise, sometimes
with a gentle and sometimes with a steep acclivity, for the space
of more than a mile. On reaching the summit of this compara-
tively high ground, the beautiful and extensive district, through
which "the clear-winding Devon" flows, spreads itself out to the
view. And we are then conducted, by a somewhat steep descent,
to the margin of that river, by which on the north the parish of
Clackrnannan is bounded.
   Where this parish is situated, the rivers Forth and Devon are
almost parallel to one another; but they flow in opposite directions,
and the distance between them is more than four miles. Although
most of the intermediate country be under cultivation, there
occur some fine woodland scenery, and likewise two very pretty
lakes. To the youth of the surrounding country and neighbour-
ing villages, one of the lakes is, on the evenings of summer an
object of peculiar attraction, not on account of its romantic ap-
pearance and secluded situation, but because it abounds with perch,
and contains very eligible places for bathing.
   The only rivers connected with this parish are the Devon, the.
Black Devon, and the Forth. The source of the Devon is on
the northern declivity of the Ochil hills; and, after running ten
or eleven miles in an easterly direction, it is forced by the rela-
tive position of the hills and valleys to make a turn towards the
west, at a place called " the Crook of Devon." After pursuing
a westerly course, through a beautiful and romantic country, for
twelve or thirteen miles, it pours its waters into the Forth, at a
point nearly straight south from the locality of its source.
   The Black Devon has its origin in the high and hilly country, of
wbich the western division of the parish of Saline is composed,
and, after pursuing a somewhat devious, but upon the whole
westerly course, it makes a sort of semicircular sweep round the
western base of the hill on which the tower and town of Clack-
mannan are situated. It subsequently runs in a south easterly di -
rection, and unites with the Forth about two miles from Clack-
mannan.
   Opposite to the parish, the river Forth is not now, even at spring,
tides, much more than a mile in breadth. A great contraction
and deepening of the river have been occasioned by the very ex-


