
200			AYRSHIRE.

tainly too many among us who have cast off all fear of God, and
yield themselves up to the practice of wickedness in some of its
most degrading forms, yet the people in general are sober and in-
dustrious, and distinguished for a regard to religion and its ordi-
nances. Not only is the form of godliness kept up, but its power
appears to be felt, by not a few among them maintaining a conver-
sation becoming the gospel.
	The illegitimate births for the last three years do not average
more than one yearly. There are, however, many children be-
gotten previous to the marriage of the parties.*

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agricultural and Rural Economy.--The parish contains about
5520 Scots acres, of which there are

<TABLE>
	    at an average under crop,	            1250
             in cultivated grass lands and meadows,      2320
            in gardens and plantations,	             150
            in hill pasture,                             1800

	Rent of Land, &c.--The valued rent of the parish is L. 2840,
16s. 10d. Scotch. Its real rent is about L. 7800 Sterling. The
average rent of land is L. 1, 10s. per acre. The duration of leases
is from twelve to nineteen years. The lands are all enclosed; the
farms skilfully managed. The steadings are almost all slated, and
are comfortable and commodious.
	Fisheries.--Salmon are taken both at Ardrossan and Saltcoats,
in considerable numbers, in what is called the bag-net, and are
mostly forwarded, per coach, to the Glasgow, Paisley, and Kilmar-
nock markets, and sometimes to Liverpool. The white-fishing is
carried on to a very trifling extent, but there are from fifteen to
twenty boats regularly employed in the herring-fishing. The lochs
in the West and North Highlands are their principal fishing
grounds, though, herrings are frequently caught in considerable
numbers in Saltcoats bay. Some of our boats go to the cod and
ling fishing on the coasts of Barra and other islands, and are ge-
nerally well repaid for their toil and risk.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>
                  Oats,			  5565 quarters.
                  Wheat,                        671   do.
 		  Potatoes and turnips,	  1897 tons.
                    Cultivated hay,             692 do.
                    Meadow hay,                 130 do.
                    Cheese,                   10,000 stones.
	Stock.--Number of horses and cattle in the parish for year 1836:
horses, 131; milk cows, 675; cattle, 570; and sheep, 184.

<FOOTNOTE>There are two or three large families of tnbaptised bastards in the parish.


