
322                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

other places.  The one is the constant drain upon the population,
arising from the necessity under which a large proportion of the
young men are laid of repairing, in search of employment, to
places where the market for labour is less limited.  The other is
the gradual and extensive removal from the neighbourhood, of re-
sident gentry, whose expenditure gave employment to many in-
dustrious labourers, as well as encouragement to the retail trade of
the town.  It should be remarked, however, that both these sources
of diminution are, to a small extent, countervailed by the influx
of aged labourers and others, who are either driven * from the
rural parishes when they cease to be fit for work, or attracted to
Kelso by the hope of participating in its ample cbarities.  Within
a few years, also, a considerable accession has been made to the
population by the increased resort to the town of a very unde-
sirable class of persons, the Gypsies, who are now about as nume-
rous in Kelso as in Yetholm, their prescriptive settlement; and
who are not found, when transplanted to the crowded lanes of a
town, to preserve that quiet and orderly demeanour which is said
to characterize them in Yetholm, where they seem to feel that they
have a character to support.  It may be added, that late years
have also witnessed the settlement among us of a few Irish ;
the gleanings of those immense annual swarms, whose successive
emigrations threaten, if not speedily arrested, to lower and dete-
riate, to an extent frightful to contemplate, the character and
manners of the populace of this island.  These occasional fluctu-
ations in the aggregate population furnish but too accurate an
exponent of the constant change which is taking place among the
individuals composing it.  Though a few Border-names keep their
ground, from generation to generation, and thereby indicate that
the mass is not without a few stationary particles, the great ma-
jority of the inhabitants may be regarded as "strangers in the
land."   The number ofland-owners is far from considerable, who

<FOOTNOTE>"Driven," though a strong term, is but too aptly applied in this instance.  To
prevent the aged and infirm becoming burdens on the poor rate, it is the practice
of some of the heritors of purely landward parishes, to demolish every cottar-
house, which is not absolutely necessary as accommodation for the needful complement
of farm-labourers and country-artisans.  In this way, infirm labourers and widows
are compelled, the moment they cease to be available workers, to leave their parishes
in despite of all the ties of local attachment which may bind them to the spot, and to
take their chance of an uncertain livelihood among strangers and in the unhealthy
lanes and closes of a town.  It is astonishing that the aristocracy should be so blind
to their own interest, not to say dead to the claims of humanity, as to incur, for the
sake of paltry economy, the hatred instead of the blessing of a class of worthy per-
sons, to whom separation from the place of their fathers' sepulchres, is the greatest of
calamities.
                                             3


