
                          INVERESK.                       281

characterized the mind and monarchy of the wise, yet womanly,
the erudite, yet pedantic, James VI.
   It was in this same room that Prince Charles Edward slept on
the night after his victory over the Royal army at Prestonpans.
   Pinkie House, although a very large stucture, is evidently only
part of a magnificent Gothic design, which has never been com-
pleted. It appears to us that the building was intended to be-
quadrangular, and that the fountain of elaborate architecture in
the shape of a Papal mitre, which stands upon the green in front,
should form the centre of the court. The original garden still re-
mains, with its ornamented walls, and richly carved doorways, pi-
lasters, and sun-dials; and the grounds which surround the whole
are eminently beautiful. From historical associations, the locality
is one of the most interesting in Scotland; nor ought it to be
overlooked that "Pinkie House" is sacred to the lovers of Scot-
tish song, as affording a theme wedded to one of the sweetest and
most touching of our national melodies.
   On the forfeiture of the Dunfermline earldom in 1688, the ba-
rony was purchased by the Tweeddale family, with whom it re-
mained till 1778 when bought by the late Sir Archibald Hope of
Craighall.
   The original barony of Pinkie comprehended little more than
thirty acres, lying to the east of the south of the mansion-house;
but the property has of late years been greatly extended, from pur-
chases of property in the vicinity, by the present proprietor, Sir
John Hope, the Vice-Lieutenant of the county.
   Stonyhill, about half a mile north-west from the Roman bridge,
was, in former days, the residence of Sir William Sharpe, the son
of the famous Archbishop, who was returning from a visit to this
spot, when murdered on Magus Moor; and nearer to our own
times, it was the property of the infamous Colonel Charteris. It
is traditionally recorded here, that the populace, assembled in the
avenue down which the funeral procession of that wretched person
had to pass, and bespattered the hearse with filth and garbage.
   Before falling into the hands of the Sharpes, Stonyhill was long
possessed by a family of the name of Dobie--and the most an-
cient medal attached to the silver arrow given by the magistrates
of Musselburgh to be shot for annually over the Links by the Royal
Company of Archers, represents one of them in the costume of
the time, and the date of 1603. The same gentleman from sub-
sequent medals, appears to have gained it thrice, upon which, by


