
202			AYRSHIRE.

such rising importance as to merit a somewhat lengthened and par-
ticular account.
	Inn.--The inn or hotel, one of the best in any country town in
Scotland, affords every accommodation which can be required. It
contains ten public rooms, and eighteen bed-rooms, with cold and
warm baths. The offices, too, are excellent and extensive.
	Baths.-- The baths of Ardrossan,--a large and somewhat elegant
building,--are well known, and deservedly in repute. They were
projected by the late Earl, on the tontine principle, in the year
1807. For many years after his Lordship's death they were shut
up, and the promises allowed to fall into a state of decay. In the
year 1833, they were brought to a public sale, and purchased by
A. Macfadzean, Esq., M. D., the present proprietor, who has at
considerable expense put them again into a complete state of re-
pair. The basins are all of marble, with dressing-rooms attach-
ed to each. There is one fitted up expressly for the poor, which
is open to them gratis. There may now be got almost at a moment's
notice, hot, cold, shower, shock, and vapour baths. Attached to
the baths, there is a large and commodious lodging, which is ge-
nerally occupied during the bathing season.
	Crescent.--Around the fine sweeping bay which the sea forms
between Ardrossan and Saltcoats, there is a plan of a crescent
formed, which, when filled up, will be unequalled, both for beauty
of situation,and magnificence of design. A number of very hand-
some villas, uniform in line, but varied in style, have already been
erected, and are generally occupied by their respective proprietors.
The pavilion, a very handsome building, is the occasional residence
of Lord Eglinton.
	Harbour.--The harbour of Ardrossan is formed on a most mag-
nificent design, and were it to be completed according to the ori-
ginal plan, would scarcely be inferior to any in the kingdom.
It was originally projected by Lord Eglinton, who was joined in
carrying it into execution by several gentlemen of Ayrshire, and
other places, taking share in the undertaking. The expense of
the work, however, far exceeding the sum subscribed by the share-
holders the whole subsequent expense devolved upon his Lordship,
to the amount, it is said, of little less than L. 100,000. The
work was carried on with great spirit by the Earl as long as he
lived, but has been suspended since his death. The harbour,
though unfinished, is capable of accommodating at present a great
number of vessels of almost any size; there being from 12 to


