
170                      PEEBLES-SHIRE.

to determine whether capital might be used with advantage for the
extension of agriculture, especially in Megget, where the distance
from lime and from any additional manure that might be required
is so very great. It is likely, however, that 50 or 60 acres might
be added to the cultivated land with a reasonable expectation of
profit. About 20 acres in separate places have been lately planted
with the usual varieties of wood. These plantations exhibit proofs
of the good taste and public spirit of the proprietors.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is L. 1 per acre,
or rather more. The rent of grazing is estimated at L. 3 for an
ox or cow, and 5s. for a ewe or full-grown sheep; but in some high
situations, where storms in winter may be very injurious, it is a little
less, about 4s. 9d.
   Rate of Wages.-The wages of male farm-servants are front
L. 10 to L. 13 per annum; of female from L. 6 to L. 7, with vic-
tuals and lodging. Male-servants who are married, instead of food
and accommodation in the house of their masters, have a free
house for themselves and families, six and a-half bolls of oatmeal,
pasture for a cow in summer, and fodder in winter, ground for,
planting half a boll of potatoes, and coal or peat brought for their
use, all which, with the payment in money, may amount to L. 24
or L. 25 per annum. Shepherds, as a remuneration for their labour,
have pasture for 40 or 45 sheep, with food and lodging, in the,
house of their masters. If married, they have, like those who are
employed in agriculture, a separate habitation, the same quantity
of oatmeal, six bolls and a-half, pasture and fodder for a cow, com-
monly a piece of ground for potatoes, and the conveyance of fuel,
which, with the produce of their sheep, may be estimated at above
L. 30 Sterling per year. But the amount of their wages is very
uncertain, varying with the seasons and the state of the markets.
Masons and carpenters have from 15s. to 18s. per week, with-
out victuals; and slaters from 18s. to L. 1. Day labourers re-
ceive 2s. and upwards per day, in summer, and from 1s. 8d. to 1s.
10d. in winter.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.-The cattle are generally a mixture of
the Ayrshire and short-horned breeds. One-half of the sheep are
black-faced; the other half are Cheviot, or a mixture of these.
   Husbandry.-The farmers are men of capital, intelligence, and
enterprise. They are very attentive to their flocks and their herds,
and skilful in the management of them. They readily use any
expedient for melioration which experience has proved to be effi-
cacious. They consider the nature of the land which they occu-


