
     Statistical Account

men, women, and boys.  Finding their own victuals, they
receive of wages from 3 s. to 5 s. a-week, according to
their age and expertness at the business.-Craigo bleachfield,
which is likewise rented from the proprietor of Craigo by
a gentleman in Montrose, is at present subset to a bleacher.
It was formerly used for bleaching of thread, but is now
chiefly employed for whitening cloth.  It affords work du-
ring the proper season to 6 or 7 hands, at about 8 d. a-
day.  Both fields lie on the banks of the Northesk, within
half a mile of one another.  The rent is extremely mode-
rate, only a good deal has been laid out on proper houses,
machinery, etc.  At the mill of Craigo, besides the mill for
grinding meal, there is a mill for cleaning yarn for the
duck manufacture, and brown sheeting; it likewise con-
tains an apparatus for beating coarse thread, and furnishes
pretty constant work for 3 hands, each of whom may earn
at the rate of 10 d. a day Here also is a flax mill, employ-
ed in breaking and scutching flax, after a much improved
method, at the rate of at least 1500 stones avoirdupoise
yearly.  This mill gives constant employment to about 8
hands, each earning from 7 s. 6 d. to 9 s. a-week.  The
flax wrought here is all for home consumption.  Near the
above is a waukmill and dyehouse.  At the mill of Logie,
besides a meal and barley mill, there is hard by the river
side a snuff mill, held in feu from Craigo by a merchant in
Montrose.  Between 30 and 40 years ago, when this mill
was first erected, and when importation of tobacco was al-
lowed at the port of Montrose, there were annually manu-
factured here, and sold at about 1 s. the lb. for exportation,
near 40,000 lb.  snuff.  Since the importation of tobacco at
Montrose was prohibited, this manufacture has considerably
declined.  Tobacco for this mill is now conveyed coast-
wise by the Canal from Glasgow.  There is now only one
person employed here, and about 5000 lb. of snuff annual-


