
	66                       SHETLAND.

	spread out as soon as mown, an before night put up in cocks.
	This method is continued for a few days, when it is led home, by
	which means the natural juices and nutritious properties are pre-
	served, as well as the fine smell. A little salt is often mixed with
	it, when building.
	   Meadows.-The meadows and boggy land arise from springs
	of water issuing from higher land and running through crevices in
	the limestone. These meadows produce a quantity of coarse
	grass, which is made into hay for fodder for the cattle in winter.
	From these wet grounds, as well as from stagnant waters, there
	arises a mildew, whenever a slight frost takes place, especially on
	the fall of a north wind during the summer or autumn seasons.
	This exhalation or ground-fog is. frequently seen to arise from
	these bogs like the smoke of so many fires, until, uniting, it forms
	one dense cloud over all the damp ground. It instantly destroys
	vegetation. The potato crop, in particular, is ruined whenever
	it reaches it. Not only do the stems soon wither, but the poi-
	sonous matter seems to descend into the bulbs, which renders
	them so unpalatable, that some seasons even the swine will not
	eat them. For the last four years, the crops in all our valleys,
	at a little distance from the sea, have been ruined by early frosts,
	accompanied by mildews. The crops within the vortex of the
	cloud on the lower ground, are often completely destroyed, while
	the tipper part of the same field remains unharmed. The oats
	and barley, under the influence of the mildew, assume a dirty white
	appearance.
	   The advantages of draining are fully experienced. It is carried
	on it a very sufficient manner by Mr Hay, on his property at Lax-
	firth and other places. But it is not to be expected that tenants,
	without either capital or leases, are to follow his example. And
	until bogs are drained, and the stagnant water carried off, the
	saving of the crops must always remain precarious.
	   Considerable quantities of waste land have lately been brought
	into cultivation; some by the tenants themselves. It was for-
	merly the practice for the landlord to mark out a piece on the
	common, and assigp it to a tenant, who, on condition of bringing
	it under crop, had it for seven years rent free. But it was seldom
	the tenant could drain, trench, and inclose it properly.
	   It has been the practice here, as in all other parishes of Shet-
	land, to cut tip the best soil in the common, carrying it home
	either for manure, or to spread under the cattle in the byre. By


