
                            LEWIS-STORNOWAY.               135

arable land would retain its stamina, and the new land would be
pulverizing; the rents would then be certain and easily secured.
Besides, at the end of the lease, the lots or farms would be worth
at least double the former rent.  But when thousands are engaged,
all the summer season, making kelp, their crofts and lots are ne-
glected, potato fields are overrun with weeds, consequently the
return is small, and part of the gain by kelping is lost in their
potato crop; their cattle are much neglected; corn fields are de-
stroyed; and the tenants distressed for their rents.  Many of the
herd boys that should attend the cattle during the summer heats,
are kelping; many beasts are lost in mossy veins, and fall from
rocks, when they run wild during an excessively hot day,-so
that in this way, the gain by kelp becomes a loss.  The kelping
system is thus a great obstacle to agricultural improvement.  It
is the opinion of many, that the manufacture of kelp has injured
the fishing trade on the Lewis coast, because the smoke is injurious
to the fish; because the ware from which the kelp is manufactured,
is supposed to be a great part of the food of the fish; and because
the kelp ware is supposed to be a shelter or covert to the finny fry
from their numerous voracious enemies.
   Whatever be the cause, it is very evident that herrings and dog-
fish do not visit the shores of Lewis, in such large bodies, as before
the kelping system began ; for, by dog-fish oil alone, the tenants in
Ness, parish of Barvas, paid their rents; and the take of herrings is
trifling compared to what had been formerly.  In the fifty miles
of coast in this parish, 3000 barrels have not been caught and
sent to market, for the last five years.  Though the manufacture
of kelp should entirely cease, years may elapse before the fish visit
the friths and lochs, in such immense bodies as formerly.
    Navigation.-The number of vessels belonging to the port is 67,
the whole tonnage 3059.  The smallest is 15 tons, the largest
142 tons.  The number of boats, in the district of the port, regis-
tered amounts to 1500.
   A very considerable number of foreign vessels, and British ves-
sels from and to foreign parts, put into the harbour of Stornoway :
 but the number of foreign vessels importing cargoes, does not, on
an average, exceed one each year.
   In Stornoway, there is a well-regulated custom-house ; a col-
lector comptroller, and tide-waiter.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Towns.-Stornoway is the only market-town in the pa-


