
700                             PERTHSHIRE.

a variety of useful instructions.  Here nearly 200 scholars annually
receive, gratis, the benefit of a most excellent education in the
ordinary branches. A similar endowment, that should put the
northern wing of the parish on a footing with Strathtay, would,
in addition to the parochial school, form an ample provision for
the educational necessities of this wide-spread parochial charge.
The scholars throughout the parish are in the proportion of 360
males to 270 females. Persons that cannot read, above fifteen
years of age, 50. There are two sewing-schools on a Society sa-
lary.  About 50 girls attend.  There are six Sabbath schools,
which are taught gratis, either by the ordinary teachers, by mem-
bers of the kirk-session, or other qualified individuals. It is
deemed advisable to teach them on a uniform and very simple
system.  Each teacher is provided with a small manuscript book,
prepared by the minister, in which are.marked, under several pe-
riods, a series of Scripture lessons, adapted to give a general and
consecutive view of the Bible history.  The principal dates, with
numeral references to the chapters or parts of chapters illustrative
of each period, as also to the prophecies delivered under each,
are alone entered in the manuscript. A rigorous, patient, and
minute examination on each portion of Scripture read forms the
chief exercise, and is entrusted to the teachers under the occa-
sional and periodical supervision of the minister. The Shorter
Catechism is gone over, by very minute portions at a time, in
the same way.  Memory-work is in a great measure dispensed
with, *except as connected with intellection and reference; the
first end in view being to lead the young to a habit of reading the
Scriptures with attention and understanding.  There are 230
scholar in attendance on six, Sabbath schools.
     Friendly Societies.- The Strathtay Farmer's Friendly Society
commenced in January 1826.  Since that time, 620 members
have been entered in their books, including about 50 honorary
members, who derive no benefit from it. It has, paid upwards of
L.1000 to the objects of its institution, and, has about as much
more at interest. It allows 4s. a.week for the first sixteen weeks
of a member's illness, 3s for the next like period, and 2s. so long
as he may continue on the invalid list.
     The Athole wrights' Brotherly Society war instituted at Logio-
rait in 1812. 676 members have since been entered on the books.
Expended L. 2568. Present stock at interest, L. 1448. There
are at present 13 men and 4 widows receiving reasonable support
from the fund.


