
350                            LANARKSHIRE.

<TABLE>
Of land in pasture, rating it at L. 3 per cow or full grown ox; L. 2
	per head of young cattle; and 7s. per ewe or full-grown sheep, in-
	cluding the fleece,						709  9	0
Of one garden,								 30  0	0
Miscellaneous produce not enumerated under any of the foregoing heads,	 47  0	0
Total yearly value of raw produce raised in the Kilbucho part of
	parish,                                                     L. 4575 11   8 1/2
	The gross annual produce of the united parish, therefore, is
L. 15,049, 18s. 5 1/2d.; and the gross rental, as nearly as can be com-
puted, is L. 5210.
			V.-- PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--Biggar is the market-town and the post-town of
the district. The two parishes are contiguous, and the village of
Culter is distant from the town of Biggar nearly three miles.*
	Village.--There is but one village, and, as has been already stat-
ed, it contains only 175 persons. It is pleasantly situated close
upon Culter water. The houses are scattered along the stream, in-
terspersed with fine old trees, neatly built, and in many instances
adorned with honeysuckle, and flowering shrubs. It has its mill,
its smithy, and small grocer's shop, and altogether presents a very
pleasing aspect to the passenger. The turnpike road from Dum-
fries to Edinburgh lies through its centre by an excellent bridge,
built a few years ago.
	Means of Communication.--The Dumfries road now mentioned
is carried through the parish for the space of nearly four miles;
and the parish roads are kept in good repair. Where there are hills
the roads must often be uneven, and such is the case here; but no
pains are spared to render them smooth and dry. The parish roads
are about ten miles long.
	Ecclesiastical State.+--The church, which was built in 1810,
and contains 350 sitters, is situated conveniently enough for the
bulk of the people.++ Within it is sufficiently commodious, but
the exterior is plain and tasteless, which is the more to be regret-
ted, as the beautiful site and splendid trees amid which it stands,
would have done ample justice to a handsomer building. The

<FOOTNOTE>Culter is distant from Edinburgh 30 miles, from Glasgow 36, from Lanark II
and from Peebles 17.

      +Chalmers in his "Caledonia" says, that "Richard, the parson of Culter, witnes-
sed a charter of Hugh de Biger on the 14th of February 1228-9, and he appears as
parson of Culter before that time. In 1296, Mestre de Tillol, the parson of Culter,
swore fealty to Edward I. Thomas de Ballasky was rector of the church of Culter
in 1388. George Shoreswood was one of the King's clerks, and rector of Culter in
the reign of James II." And we learn from the same authority, that "at the Refor-
mation this benefice was held by Mr Archibald Livingston, who reported in 1562
that the revenues of the parsonage and vicarage of Culter were leased by him for 160
marks yearly."
     ++ None of the seats are paid for, but none are common, they being divided among
the heritors according to their respective valuations.


