
184                           FIFESHIRE.

tion. And as this coal-field produces the finest coal for that pur-
pose, the working of it has been much more extensively carried on.
The depth of the mining operations at the northern boundary of
the parish is 300 feet from the surface, and that of the main drain-
age level is only about 250 feet; consequently machinery is required
to raise the water from the mines, a distance of about 50 feet, in-
stead of which, had the level been carried duly horizontal, the
whole of the coal now drained by machinery would have been level
free. And thus bad due regard been paid at first to the drainage
level, the expensive machinery now erected on the works would,
in a great measure, have been unnecessary.
  The coal-field of this parish extends two miles north and south
and one mile east and west, and forms the basin or trough of the
coal-fields in the neighbourhood. For, upon drawing a line in a
north-eastern direction from the point at which coal is first found
to the extremity of the parish, it appears that the coal and its ac-
companying strata uniformly rise to the east as well as to the west
of that line. To the east it rises rapidly, and throws out the crop
of the upper coals before it goes out of the parish; the under ones
are found on the verge of the Aberdour parish. At every dike or
dislocation of the strata northwards, the coals are thrown further
east, until the same coals in quality, though not the same in num-
ber, or in thickness, are found to extend into Lochgelly parish,
and so on eastwards, throughout the whole of that coal country.
  To the westward of this line, the same takes place, but not so
rapidly, and this forms the most interesting and valuable coal-field
in the western district of Fife. The same dikes and coals can be
traced with great regularity from the east of this, to the west of the
parish of Dunfermline, with little or no variation in the line of bear-
ing, although they are more or less depressed by the intersection
of diagonal dikes changing the direction of the strata.
  In order more fully to shew the metals passed through in the
progress of sinking for coal, we shall here annex a correct section
of the strata as taken from actual measurement.

<TABLE>

	         Section of a pit at Fordel  Colliery.

                       Fath. Feet. In.                                Fath. Ft. fn.
Surface sand and clay,    4    2    6        Dark-grey freestone,       2    1   8
White freestone,          1    2    0        Soft light freestone,      2    0   9
Dark yellow do.           0    2    3 1/2    Blae,                      0    2  10
Soft blae and bands,      1    4    0        Blawlowan coal,            1    0   3
Blue blae,                1    1    2        Grey freestone bands,      0    1  10
Dark grey freekone,       2    1    8 1/2    Light-yellow freestone,    1    2   6 1/2
Do. with bands,           0    4    3        Dark-yellow do.            0    2   8
Yellow freestone,         1    3    5        Do. mixed with blae,       0    3   3 1/2


