
486                     ARGYLESHIRE.

through a steep romantic glen, along which are walks which lead
to many interesting scenes. Some of nature's sweetest views are
discovered from the high ground.
             	   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-The western extreniity of the district ap-
pears to have been the theatre of sanguinary conflicts betwixt
the Aborigines and their Scandinavian invaders and plunderers.
Vague traditions do not constitute our only ground for believing
this. The names of several of our localities attest it; our many
cairns and detached obelisks also attest it, exclusive of the heroic
poetry of the son of Fiugal and of the songs of many a later bard.
But, passing over these, there were other occurrences in our
bounds which come within the range of authentic history. Mac-
Phaidan, an Irishman, who was serviceable to Edward I. when
engaged in his attempt to subvert the independence of Scotland,
and to whom that monarch, in 1297, made a grant for his ser-
vices of the lordship of Argyle and Lorn, was attacked by Sir
William Wallace, and defeated, A. D. 1300, at the north-east side
of Ben-cruachan, near to the pass of Brainder.  Wallace, on his
way to Argylesbire, was met in Glendochart by Sir Niel Camp-
bell, Knight of Loch Awe, with 300 men. They found Mae-
Phaidan posted at Ben Cruachan. The onset is said to have
been keen. Many hundreds of MacPhaidan's followers were
driven to the lake and drowned; and though he himself, with
fifteen men, fled to a neighbouring cave, his retreat was discovered,
and he was there slain.
   After Robert Bruce was overpowered at Methven bv the army
of Edward I., under Aylmer de Valence Earl of Pembroke, lie
set out, with his few remaining followers, for Argyleshire, to join
his connection, Sir Niel Campbell. In these circumstance,
Bruce was attacked at Dalry, near Tyndrum, by Alexander Mac-
dougall Lord of Lorn, who was married to the aunt of Comyn,
whom Brtice had killed in the Greyfriars' Church at Dumfries.
As might be expected, Bruce was discomfitted; but not till be had
given renewed proofs of personal valour. Two brothers, adhe-
rents of Macdougall, vowed if they met Bruce that they would
either dispatch him or perish in the attempt. They were both
slain by Bruce's own hands. This happened in 1306.
   In 1308, Bruce returned again to Argyleshire, with the view of
chastising the Lord of Lorn. The Macdougalls lay in ambush to


