
                         MEARNS.                      513

last place gives its name to the best sort of cheese manufactured
in the west of Scotland. Perhaps, originally the name was not
applied to any particular place, but was a general appellation
applicable to an indefinite extent of pastoral country, which, it
later times, took the names of the Kirk Towns, or more con-
spicuous villages with which the several places composing it were
respectively connected. That somewhat extensive district lying
between the rivers Dee, and North Esk, now better known by
the name of Kincardineshire, was anciently, and is still occasionally
known by the appellation of "the Mearns." This parish, with East-
wood and Eaglesham, and part of Cathcart, constitute the south-
eastern district of the county of Renfrew.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish of Mearns has, upon the
whole, an excellent eastern exposure ; indeed the general rise of
the parish is decidedly from east to west. This, from the nume-
rous swells and irregularities of which its surface is generally com-
posed, may not be observed everywhere; but if we take the sur-
face on the great scale, we shall find that it dips eastward to La-
narkshire, and rises to the west in the direction of the Atlantic
Ocean. This sort of ascent is not in general favourable for cul-
tivation in this part of Scotland, as it shows that the land is rising
to its maximum height above the level banks of the Clyde on the
one hand, and the flat and sandy shores of the ocean on the other.
We shall presently see, however, that the richness of the pasture
lands is dependent not so much on climate and exposure, as upon
soil and subsoil. The geological features of the district insure
a warm, dry, and porous soil which here carries off the surface
moisture, and in this almost constantly weeping and dripping cli-
mate, also the superfluous rains. The greatest length of the pa-
rish, from its eastern to its western extremity, is about seven miles
and one-quarter; and it is about three miles and a quarter in
breadth. There arefive parishes in the county which are larger ;
but none superior to it in the properties already described. The
parish of Mearns is bounded on the west by Neilston ; on the north
by Eastwood; on the east by Eaglesham and Carmunnock, in tho
county of Lanark ; on the south by Fenwick; and on the south-
west by Stewarton,-the two last in the county of Ayr.
   Meteorology.-The meteorological features of this parish are the
meteorological features of most other parishes in the west of Scot-
land.  It derives, some advantages certainly from its relative posi-
tion, its peculiar exposure, and rock formation ; but at the same
time, has to contend with the inequalities of climate, and the cold


