
                          KILCHOMAN.                          645

rugged, in many places with high perpendicular cliffs, and with a
few bays, where fishing-boats are kept; but, from the incessant
heaving of the Atlantic, they must be hauled above the high-water
mark. The largest bay is that of Kilchoman. It is about a mile
in length, with a south-western aspect ; but, being without head-
lands, it offers little or no shelter.
   Lochgruinard, on the north-east side, runs inland about four
miles. A great part of it is dry at low-water, and is a place of
safety for small vessels.  There is a bar, but with sufficient depth
in the channel, which is rather intricate.
   Lochindaal, which forms the eastern boundary, is of consider-
able extent. At its entrance, between the point of the Rinns and
the Mull of Oa, it is eight miles broad; and it is twelve miles in
length. It forms a good roadstead, and is much frequented by
shipping during the stormy season.
    Meteorology.--The temperature of the atmosphere is mild.
Neither the extreme beat of summer nor the intense cold of win-
ter is felt here. The prevailing winds are west and south-west.
The heaviest rains fall with the wind at south-east, south, and
south-west. Whenever it veers round to the west and north-west,
the weather becornes showery, and clears up.
   The climate is mild, but may be called damp. The chief
difficulty which the agriculturist has to contend with arises from
the heavy gales of autumn. In places not exposed to their in-
fluence, luxuriant crops may be grown, and delicate plants suc-
cessfully cultivated. The climate is also favourable to the duration
of human life. Persons who lived temperately have attained to a
good old age; yet, as illicit distillation prevailed so generally, few
men have passed the meridian of life without contracting diseases
incident to free indulgence in ardent spirits, many of whom are
cut off suddenly by inflammatory diseases; but, from the suppres-
sion of smuggling, these diseases, are abating in intensity.
   Hydrography.-The only frith that needs be mentioned is the
one that separates Isle-Orsay from the point of the Rinns. It is
less than half a mile in breadth. At certain states of the tide the
current, which runs northward for ten hours and a-half, is very
rapid; for an hour and a-half it runs in the contrary direction;
while, outside the island, the set and run of the tide are regular.
   At the village of Portnahaven there is a strong chalybeate
spring. There are several lakes. The largest is Lochgorum,
which covers 600 acres. Its depth is from five to seven feet. It


