
                        NEWBURGH.                       75

Frith of Tay where it is caught. The nets for this purpose
are fixed by stakes in the rapids, produced by the heads or dikes
which project into the river; and continue, while the river is clear
of ice, during the winter months. A heavy speat is likewise un-
favourable to the fishing. The spirling is much relished by the
inhabitants, and also at Perth, where it finds a ready market, from
1s. to 1s. 6d. per hundred.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, may be valued as
under :
<TABLE>
Grain of all kinds,	 .      .      .        .        .       .       L. 3154
Potatoes, turnips, &c.	 .      .      .        .        .       .          1295
Hay,         .       .    .      .      .        .        .       .             308
Land in pasture,       .     .      .       .        .        .      .          200
Gardens and orchards, which includes value of potatoes raised in ditto, be-
      ing for domestic use,   .       .       .        .        .               900
Fisheries,        .      .      .       .       .        .        .             120
                                                                           ________
                                                                            L. 5977

   Stock.- Number of horses and cattle in the parish of Newburgh
for year 1835:-1. Country district, 50 horses; 45 milk cows;
and 78 cattle. 2. Town of Newburgh, 35 horses; 75 milk cows;
and 13 cattle.
   Manufactures.-Cunningham in the course of his researches re-
specting Macduff's Cross, says, " And pitie it were, that so old
and famous a monument in this our kingdom should be so closlie
dormant in a poor country village." Surely the antiquary forgot
the compliment he had just paid, in giving to Newburgh the ho-
nour of conferring upon the whole county the denomination of the
Kingdom of Fife. " No trader," it was remarked in the last
Statistical Account, " no trader has as yet appeared in New-
burgh, whose extensive	transactions in commerce would entitle
him to the name and character of a merchant; though per-
haps the time is not far distant when many will be found here of
that respectable description." That time has arrived; and New-
burgh can now boast of a considerable number of spirited indivi-
duals who are engaged in extensive commercial speculations, and
fully entitled, as others of their countrymen, to the honourable ap-
pellation of British merchants.
   The principal branch of trade consists in the weaving of linens,
termed by the workmen Dowlas sheeting, and for which a ready
market is found in London, Leeds, and Manchester; also in the
West Indies and South America, to both of which places it is ex-
ported directly by our merchants here. A few years ago, indivi-


