
                     IRVINE.                             623

Charta to be so great as rich and wealthy transgressor's,--there-
fore the Lords reposed them to their oaths, and prorogated the
diet, and allowed the ordinary to consider the quality and frequency
of the transgression, with the circumstance, condition and the
ability of the party, and accordingly to modify and adjust the fine
as he saw fit. Says Fountainhall in the conclusion of his report.
"This importation of meal is good for the poor, plenty making it
cheap, but it sinks the gentlemen's rents in these western shires;
which of the two is the greater prejudice to the bulk of the na-
tion, problema esto? Where we must likewise balance the low and
damage we suffer by the exporting so much of our money in specie
to a foreign country to buy it, which diminishes our own, pro tanto.
But if the victual was purchased in Ireland by exechange of our goods
given for it, that takes away that objection, founded on the export-
ing our money." Boswell v. Gray, 29th January 1712, Mor. Dict.
p. 9398.
	The revenue of the burgh is derived chiefly from landed property.
In the year l697,it amounted to L. 1557, 2s. 7d. Scots, and the ex-
penditure to L. 1431, 6s. 7d. Scots. In the year 1840, the revenue
amounted to L. 1675, 6s. lld. Sterling, and the expenditure it
L. 1567, 15s. 4d. Sterling. The sources in which the revenue
of the burgh originated are distinctly pointed out in several char-
ters. In some measure, these sources have been dried up; but to
what extent or by what means, it is not easy to determine. There
is a charter in favour of the burgh, all dated 8th June, 1572, by King
James VI., in which he grants to the said burgh, all revenues belong-
ing to churchmen within the territory of the burgh, for the purpose of
erecting a school in Irvine. In this charter, he refers to annual-rents
levied from certain farms, also to tenements, Orchards gardens, crofts,
fruits, and duties; but of the value of these grants, no definite es-
timate can be formed. These, all and sundry, were united and incor-
porated, as ordained by James in terms of this charter, "benceforth
and hereafter to be called Our foundation of the school of Irvine."
Such was the destination of the revenues belonging to churchmen,
and more especially to the Carmelite friars, within the territory of
the burgh. What was formerly done in fulfilment of this design
does not appear from any known documents; but in part payment
of an academy built by subscription in Irvine, at the expense of
L,2100 Sterling, and having a royal charter, money has lately
been expended by the burgh to the amount of L. 1633, 4s, 6d.
Salaries for the encouragement of teachers in this academy are


