
     Statistical Account

tion in a marsh:  there walls are since pulled down.  There
was a chapel in former times towards the east of the village
of Caverton, but no vestige remains.  A small church, yard is
still occupied in sepulture by some families in the parish, (and
probably by some others), whose ancestors had privilege there;
and a spring in the adjacent field, north of the church-yard,
bears the designation of the Holy Well, or Priest's Well.  A-
bout a quarter of a mile south from the family house of the
late Mr. Hall of Haugh-head, situated on the banks of the Kail,
there is an eminence, seemingly artificial, called Haugh-head
Kipp (the adjacent fields being level), of a circular form.  It
had formerly been planted round with firs, some few of
which are still remaining:  Upon the top of it a plain flat

<FOOTNOTE>

Laird of Buccleugh, and still part of his Grace's estate in this district.  It is re-
ported to have been occupied by Hepburn,  Lord Bothwell; but no inscription or
monumental information can be traced to confirm this tradition.  The incum-
bent has seen a medal of the Empress Faustina, that was taken from the heart
of a peat found at Moss Tower It was about the size of a half crown; the
letters and inscription were very distinct.  In Wester Moss of Eckford, nuts,
roots, and pieces of large oak, and other trees, have been dug up; also some
horns of the red deer, very large, and the skull of a bison-Since writing the
above, the incumbent visited and inspected a place, vulgarly called the Black
Dike, which, by its elevation above the contiguous plowed field, cannot fail of
attracting observation.  It is on a rising ground, about half a mile from Kail
water, and to the east thereof.  This tumulus measured 27 feet over; at its
western extremity, where it appeared to have been dug for a small space, from
side to side 33 feet.  Its whole length is 342 feet; and at the eastern extremity
iris 42 feet over.  It lies an a direct line E. and W.  The materials of which
it is composed, so far as can be observed, are fine loose mould, intermixed with
large stones, covered over with heath, although there is none in its immediate
vicinity.  This tumulus, or barrow, as reported to have been a place of sepul-
ture in troublesome times; but no human bones have as yet been dug up.  In
the year 1349, during the reign of Edward the III. of England, and David
Bruce of Scotland, when the Scotch invaded the English borders, 5000 of their
army dropt clown dead of the plague, having caught the infection, which at
that time raged through the realm of England; but whether their bodies were
there interred is uncertain.


