
                        PRESTONKIRK.                             25

The first, which was erected seven years ago, is a low pressure; and
the other two are high pressure ones.
   The principal improvements since the date of the last Statisti-
cal Account are the cultivation of a large extent of common, and
the much better state in which the roads are now kept.
   Fisheries.-There is a small salmon fishing in the river Tyne,
but the part connected with the -parish is so insignificant as to ren-
der it not worth mentioning. The greater number are caught at
the mouth of the river, in the parish of Whitekirk. It is rented,
however, by a person residing in this parish; but it is generally
believed to be scarcely sufficient to pay any rent, as it is attended
with considerable labour, and expense of time.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish is computed to be nearly as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds, wheat, oats, barley, beans,      L. 23000  0  0
Potatoes, turnips, mangel wurzel, &c.                               4500  0  0
Hay,                                                                1200  0  0
Land in pasture, at from L. 3 to L. 5. per acre Scotch,             4600  0  0
Gardens and orchards,                                                250  0  0

                     Total yearly value of raw produce,         L. 33450  0  0
Rental, L. 10500.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office at Linton,
where letters are delivered from Edinburgh every day, and the
mail to Edinburgh from London passes daily. The great Lon-
don road passes through the middle of the parish; its extent is four
miles; on which at present five public coaches travel daily,-the
London mail, one stage coach to London, one to Berwick-upon-
Tweed, and two to Dunbar, all from Edinburgh. There is only
one bridge, which is over the river Tyne, in the line of the great
London road, near the village of Linton; it is in good repair, but
too narrow, and awkwardly situated for carriages.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is upon
the whole convenient. It is only half a-mile from the eastern ex-
tremity of the parish, but it is at an equal distance from the other
extremities; its greatest distance from any part being from three to
four miles. It was built in 1770, and enlarged in 1824 to the ex-
tent of 200 sittings. The whole number which it can contain now is
about 800. The, whole of the sittings were originally free, and
divided among the heritors; thus excluding all the inhabitants of
the village, which constitutes nearly one-half of the population.
But the heritors agreed to give up so many sittings for the use of
the villagers, fifty of which, are let for the sum of 1s. each per


