
30                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

St Katherine will be found in the Notes to the Lay of the Last
Minstrel. From these annexations, the parish has become very
spacious, though not compact, stretching to a length of nearly
12 miles, with an average breadth of 4. The picturesque range
of the Pentlands, and the river Esk, with its tributary streams, form
the most striking local features. The bills run from north-east to
south-west, at an elevation of nearly 1700 feet above the sea. The
river rises amongst them, and, flowing in a south-easterly direction,
leaves the parish a little below the village of Penicuik after a course
of about seven miles. The romantic valley of Logan Water, which
divides the Pentland range, celebrated for its pastoral beauty, and
supposed connection with the Gentle Shepherd, forms also a strik-
ing feature in the scenery of the parish.
   Climate.--In its natural history the parish presents but few phe-
nomena deserving particular attention. The most prevailing winds
are the west and south. The east is not felt here so keenly as in
the neighbourbood of Edinburgh; but the west, from blowing across
the extensive moors between this and Linton, has but little of the
blandness for which in general it is celebrated. It is both cold
and damp. The progress of drainage and planting is annually, how-
ever, lessening this evil. Still at present, the climate, though much
ameliorated by the astonishing progress of agricultural improve-
ment of late, cannot be described as good. The great extent of
wet moorland, together with the height of the country, averaging
about 800 feet above the sea, necessarily produces cold and mois-
ture. The former cause cannot be remedied, but the latter might;
and from the happy effects of draining and planting at Whim, in
the neighbourhood, good encouragement is held out to prosecute
its removal. Drainage of moss would, however, appear to be at
first accompanied by prejudicial effects to the health, as its decom-
position is stated by Sir H. Davy to prove very unhealthy.
   Hydrography.-The springs are both numerous and remark-
ably fine,-a circumstance which has proved of great importance
to the parish, as it probably was the first inducement to establish
those extensive paper manufactories for which the neighbourhood
has long been celebrated, and which are at present carried on to
a great extent. Chalybeate, mineral, and petrifying springs are
also to be met with. It was, at one time, in contemplation to sup-
ply Edinburgh with water from the Silver-burn,-one of the many
beatiful streams which here descend from the Pentlands; but one
in the neighbouring parish of Glencorse was ultimately preferred.

                              4

