
			MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                731

         quents the neighbourhood of the extensive plantations in the dis-
         trict, and often, during severe winter storms, visits the low grounds
	in quest of food.    In 1805, the late Sir P. Murray introduced the
	spotted Asiatic or Manilla deer into the pleasure-grounds of Och-
	tertyre,-the only pure stock of the kind then in Scotland.  The
	low grounds abound with hares and rabbits; and the usual descrip-
         tions of vermiti, such as foxes, martens, wild-cats, weasels, bad-
         gers, &c. are occasionally to be met with.  In dredging the loch
	of Ocbtertyre for mar], stag horns of great size and dimensions
	have been frequently found.  In former times, Glenturret was
         kept as a forest for red-deer ; but the forest was broken up up-
	wards of a century ago.  In the Account of the Rev.  Mr Porteous
	afterwards referred to, it is stated, that, about the middle of the
	seventeenth century, two wolves, the last seen in Scotland, were
	chased from the wood of Trowan, and followed by their pursuers
	into the Highlands, where they were killed,
	  Of the fe`thered tribes, the- birds of prey chiefly entitled to con-
         sideration are, the black eagle, various species of the falcon, the
	raven, the carrion-crow, and the hooded-crow. The eagle hatches
	annually in the stupendous cliffs of GlentLirret, on the east side of
	Benchonzie; and to secure the young, which is generally accomplish-
	ed by a person armed with a fowling-piece, and let down by means
	of ropes from the rocks above, forms an enterprise-, which, whilst
	it affords considerable amusement, is not altogether unattended
	with danger. This glen, we are informed, was also noted, in for..
	mer ages, for producing falcons of a superior breed, which 'were
	eagerly sought after when hawking formed a'favourite, if not the
	principal, amusement amongst the field sports of the country;-
	and it is remarked, in the former Account of this parish, that the,
	pair which were presented to George III. at his coronation by the
         then Duke of Atholl, as a symbol of the tenure by which be held,
	the Isle of Man, of the Crown of England, were procured froin
	Glenturret.  The eagles commit great depredations upon -the
	sheep -flocks during the scarcity of game, frequently carrying
	Dff lambs in their talons to feed their nestlings ; and the raven
	and crow are also destructive when they find sheep entangled in
	bushess or lambr straggling from their mothers, or unable-to fol-
	low them closely by reason of weakness or cold.  They commence
	their attack by picking out the eyes and afterwards feed upon the
         carcase; but, by a wise provision of nature, restricting all noxious


