
     Statistical Account

   standing the temptations inseparable from the species of traf-
fic they are constantly engaged in, in the cattle markets, they
are not addicted to drinking.-However unaccountable, in
such a place, the want of inns and alehouses may be, there is
not one in the parish; a circumstance perhaps not unfriendly to
health and morals; nor are the inconveniencies attending it
felt by travellers, because of the hospitality of the people.
With all the necessaries, and some of the conveniencies of
life, they live happy and content at home.  They are not in
general litigious; nor are law-suits frequent, which is a con-
sequence of their honesty in dealings.  That the natives of a
place full of mosses, and interspersed with swampy grounds
should be healthy, and subject to no local distemper, may
appear a little problematical; yet, excepting a few severs,
which are by no means frequent or fatal, the hooping cough,
measles, and small-pox in the natural way, are the only diS-
eases known here.  The most common disease of which they
die is old age.  Of late, the consumption has appeared in 4
instances; in each of them fatal, excepting one case.  Those
who died of it were attacked when at service in other coun-
tries.  It is not pretended to account for the healthiness, of
the people.  Perhaps the great fires constantly burning in
their houses, have considerable influence in counteracting the
effects of the exhalations which are continually rising from
the earth.  Strangers, not accustomed to them, catch cold.

   Valued Rent, Servants Wages, etc.-The valued rent in
this parish is 1290 l. 2 s. 10 d. Scotch.

<TABLE>

Men servants gain yearly about (Sterling)   L.  5  5  0
Women ditto                                     2 10  0
Geese are sold at                               0  2  6
Hens are sold at                                0  0  6
Butter per lib.                                 0  0  6
Cheese per quarter                              0  1  0

</TABLE>


