
     Statistical Account

   This town has been long distinguished for making and ex-
porting excellent malt, and for making good malt liquor of
all kinds.  A public brewery, especially for small beer, has
been lately set up.  But private families, in general, brew
for their own use.  The strong ale made here, is esteemed,
by good judges, equal to the Burton ale.

   To Montrose, there belong, commonly, about 16 or 18
fishermen, but many of them are old, and for some years
past they have had very indifferent success.  Haddocks are
just now remarkably rare, and consequently extremely dear.
The mussels belonging to this place are excellent, both for bait
and eating, and they are never dangerous.  They are to be
found in great plenty, all over the river and at the harbour.
Oysters have been laid in a deep part of the river, to try if
they will succeed there, but a sufficient time, for a full trial
of the experiment, has not as yet elapsed.  Incredible num-
bers of lobsters were, some years ago, taken on this coast.  Pen-
nant, in his tour(1772,)p. 2, mentions, that 60,000 or 70,000
were, at that time, sent annually to London; but that branch
of commerce is now laid aside, as not sufficiently advanta-
geous.  Quantities of white fish, as cod, turbot, etc. might be
taken on the great sand banks off this coast.  The Long for-
ties extend parallel thereto; and beyond that, lie, Montrose
pits, (see Hammond's chart of the North Sea), a great bank
with six pits in it.  If we reckon from the surface of the
water, they are from 40 to 100 fathoms deep.  Those banks
swarm with fish, but are nevertheless much neglected.  At-
tempts have, indeed, been made for some years past, but unsuc-
cessfully, owing to the misconduct of the persons employed. 

   There are at present 3 ships, belonging to Montrose, con-
cerned in the whale-fishing business.  They generally go to
Davis Straits.  The trade is very precarious, but they have,
upon the whole, been more successful than many others.


