
                           OCHILTREE.                        105

now be estimated at from L. 300 to L. 400, and some have brought
as much as L. 500. Scarcely any improvement in the system of
husbandry can be suggested, which is not already in progress. As
regards the town, it would be very desirable that it were lighted
with gas, and that some of the streets were better paved. It is
proposed to establish immediately a carpet-manufactory, which will
materially increase the means of employment. And the Glasgow
and Ayr railway, the terminus of which is to be in this parish,
will immensely increase the facilities of communication. On the
whole, as respects local advantages, there is much cause for con-
gratulation. But it is to the extension of our educational and re-
ligious institutions, and a higher appreciation of them by those for
whose benefit they are designed, that we chiefly look, as calculat-
ed, under the Divine blessing, most effectually to promote the hap-
piness and comfort of the labouring classes, and of all ranks of the
community.
	May 1837.

                          PARISH OF OCHILTREE.

             PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                    THE REV. JAMES BOYD, MINISTER.*

                 I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--OCHILTREE is derived by Chalmers, in his Caledonia,
from the British Uchle tree, signifying the high town, or dwelling-
place; by others, from the Gaelic Uchle, Camp, to which tree is
annexed, thereby forming Ueble-tree or Camp-tree, or from O'
Chaltearan, which signifies a district of a country covered with
trees of all kinds. Which of these derivations may be the proper
one, it is difficult to determine; but any of them may be well ap-
plied to the situation of the place. The first name given answers
to the high of the old castle of Ochiltree, which is upon the brow
of the high rocky banks of the Lugar, and the others may have
arisen from a place called the Camp, and the rising ground, now
occupied by the houses and gardens of the village, where there

<FOOTNOTE>Furnished nearly in its present form, by Robert Pettigrew, Esq. of Polquhairn.


