
     Statistical Account

feet.  On the north side of the town, a little west from the
cathedral, on the brink of perpendicular rock, are the ruins
of the castle, known by the name of Cardinal Berthune's be-
cause therein he resided, and therein was slain, in 1545,
by Norman Lesly and his company.  From the castle,
westward, there anciently ran a street, called the Swallow-
street, said to be the residence of the merchants.  It is now
a public walk, between the walls of gardens and fields.
The inhabited streets are 3, running nearly from W. to E.
but not quite parallel, as they all terminated on the ca-
thedral, in the E. end:  The South-street or Shoegate,
Market-street, and North-Street.  These streets are inter-
sected at right angles, by narrower streets called wynds.
On the south side of the South-street, nearer the west end,
is a much admired ruin of a chapel, belonging to a convent
of Gray friars; the roof is a continuation of the walls
formed into a Gothic arch.  Within tbe boundaries of this
convent, is the public grammar-school and school-house.
At the west end of the North-street, was a convent of
Black friars, of which nothing now remains but a part of
the garden wall.  Immediately adjoining to the west port
of the South-street, is a suburb, called Argyle, Argael, or
Northgyle; to which reference is made in stating the popula-
tion of this parish.  The reason of the name is not known*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*St Andrew's is a royal burgh, and for electing a member of the Bri-
tish Parliament, is classed with Cupar,Perth, Forfar, and Dundee.  The
government of the city is vested in a provost, dean of guild, and 4 bailies,
who with the town-treasurer, are called the office-bearers in the council.
and are elected annually at Michaelmas by the whole council.  The
dean of guild here has the precedence of the bailies, and is preses of the
council in absence of the provost.  No one is eligible into the council,
who is not a burgess and guild brother, assessed in a portion of the public
burdens within the city.  The provost in the only member of the council
who is not obliged to reside.  He has also this further privilege, that he


