
	                          KINGHORN.                   817

	nent men, such as Sir Isaac Newon, Franklin, Watt, Sir W.
	Scott, and others; and several stucco casts from the frieze of the
	Parthenon, taken from the Elgin marbles in the British Museum.
	The school is taught on the most approved principles.  The at-
	tendance of pupils averages about 120.  A wide range of instruc-
	tion is affforded them. Besides the usual branches of English and
	grammar, writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping, mathematics,
	pure and practical, French, Latin, and Greek, the children are
	taught the uses of the various specimens which the museum pre-
	sents to their youthful inquiry, and thus they receive an initiatory
	knowledge of geology, mineralogy, &c.
	   The salary is L.25 . The school fees for each scholar average	
	18s. per annum, and amount to L.100 annually.  The teacher
	has neither house nor garden, the arrangement made for the re-	
	tirement of the former teacher having considerably crippled the
	means of the burgh for providing suitable accommodation for his
	successor.
	   There is another school in the town, attended on an average
	by 50 children, who are taught the elementary branches of reading,	
	writing, and arithmetic.  It is not endowed, and the teacher has
	no remuneration except the school fees.
	   There is also a female and infant school; the average number
	attending both is about 80.  A sewing-school for the girls is now
	in full operation.
	   There is an efficient school in the village of Invertiel, where
	the usual elementary branches are taught, and also practical ma-
	thematics.  It is attended by 70.  A school-house is provided
	for the teacher, but no salary beyond his school fees.  The chil-
	dren in the northern parts of the parish are obliged, on account
	of the distance from Kinghorn, to attend the schools in Auchter-
	tool.
	   Sabbath school teaching has long been vigorously carried on
	here for instructing the youth in the principles of religion, and
	training them to its practice.  The parochial teacher has one
	under his charge, attended by 125;\f and the, minister has had
	an adult class for several years, which he has lately taught on the
	Thursday evenings, attended on an average by 50.  This class
	
<FOOTNOTE> This school is partly endowed by the late Mr Philp, who left tothe districts in
	which his other charity schools are established, L.10 to each for the instruction of a
	Sabbath evening school, besides a similar sum for house-rent.
	   FIFE.                           3F                                                        3 F


