
206                          FIFESHIRE.

than half a mile.  On the north it is bounded by the parish of
Flisk; on the east by a section of Abdie; on the south by Moni-
mail; and on the west by Abdie.
  Topographical Appearances.-The parish consists of two ridges
or prolongations of two chains of hills that intersect this portion
of Fife; and of the valley enclosed between them. The north-
ern ridge is a continuation of Norman's-law. It is cultivated
to the top, and produces every description of grain of excellent
quality. From the farm-house of Higham, which is perched on
the summit, it descends precipitously to the level carse land that
borders the Tay from Newburgh to Birkhill, and which is gene-
rally known by the name of the Barony. A narrow stripe of Dun-
bog parish reaches the banks of the river, to the westward of
Balinbriech Castle, and is called Higham Plouts.  From any point
of this northern elevation, the prospect that meets the view is of
equal grandeur and beauty. The eye from this commanding po-
sition takes in a vast extent of country, diversified with all the fea-
tures of the most interesting scenery, on a scale of unusual mag-
nitude. The rugged Grampians fill up the horizon to the north,
towering above the intervening range of the Sidlaws, which form
the southern boundary of Strathmore.  To the westward, the eye
follows the windings of the Tay, till it is lost behind a projecting
shoulder of the hill of Kinnoul, and surveys almost with the same
glance the valley of the Earn intersected by its shining river.
Opposite, is spread out the Carse of Gowrie, smooth and level as
a floor, and confessedly one of the most fertile districts of Great
Britain; and to the east appears the flourishing town of Dundee,
and the Tay, now increased to an estuary, mingling its waters with
those of the German Ocean.
  The southern ridge, again, is, at least in the parish of Dunbog,
of greater altitude than the one to the north. Generally speak-
ing, it is uncultivated and almost barren. Patches of it have in-
deed, of late years, been brought under tillage by the use of bone
manure; but improvement in this way seems to be carried as far
as nature will allow; the prevailing character of the hill being
rocky and sterile. The greatest, and perhaps the only, improve-
ment of which these dreary heights are susceptible, is that which
would be accomplished by planting them with wood; and it is im-
possible not to regret, and that deeply, that this very obvious and
simple improvement had not been attended to long ago.  The val-
ley included between these hills is composed of excellent soil, pro-
                                  3


