
     Statistical Account

not only draw prognostications of the weather, but accord-
ing to their creed, also discover future events.  There they
are dimly pourtrayed, and ingenious illusion never fails in
the explanation.  The veneration paid to this planet, and the
opinion of its influences, are obvious from the meaning still
affixed to some words of the Gaelic language.  In Druidic
mythology, when the circle of the moon was complete, for-
tune then promised to be the most propitious.  Agreeably to
this idea, rath, which signifies in Gaelic, a wheel or circle,
is transferred to signify fortune.  They say, "ata rath air,"
he is fortunate.  The wane, when the circle is diminishing,
and consequently unlucky, they call mi-rath.  Of one that
is unfortunate, they say, "ata mi-rath ari."  Deas uil, and
Tuath uil, are synonimous expressions, allufive to a circular
movement observed in the Druidic worship.
   Nor is it to the moon alone that they direct their regards;
almost every season of the year claims a share of their super-
stition:  Saimh-theine, or Hallow Eve; Beil-teine, or the first
day of May; and Oidhch' Choille, or the first night of Janu-
ary.  The rites observed at Saimh-theine, and Beil-teine, are
well known, and need not be described.  But on the first night
of January, they observe, with anxious attention, the dispo-
sition of the atmosphere.  As it is calm or boisterous; as the
wind blows from the S. or the N.; from the E. or the W.,
they prognosticate the nature of the weather, till the conclu-
sion of the year.  The first night of the New Year, when
the wind blows from the W., they call dar-na coille, the night
of the fecundation of the trees; and from this circumstance
has been derived the name of that night in the Gaelic* lan-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The opinion of the genial and fertilizing nature of the west wind, so pre-
valent in many countries of the Highlands, is one of those opinions that scem  
to have deReuded to them from the Druids.  Vugil who was born in the Cif-
   

