
                              DALLAS.                          201

Lord's Supper is regularly dispensed once a year; and diets of ca-
techising for -the old and young are held in the spring of the year.
   Education.-There are four schools in the parish, viz. a paro-
chial school, an endowed school, and two female u nendowed schools.
The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L. 34, 4s. 44d. : be
bas also a share of the Dick bequest, which amounts to L, 2%
3s. 3d., and about L. 12 of school-fe6s; which in all amount to
L.74, 7s. 71d.  Sterling.  The parochial schoolhouse has lately
undergone great repairs; and an elegant class-room on a new plan
has been built separate from the dwelling-bouse, to accommodate
more than an hundred scholam The endowed. school is situated
in the east end of the parish, on the lands of the Earl of Fife,
for behoof of the children on his estate.  The schoolmaster has
L.3 per annum, a free house, and garden.  Latin is not taught in
it. In the female schools are taught reading, knitting, and sew-
ing.  The fees in these schools amount only to L. 5 or -L. 6 per
annum.  There is also a Sabbath school in the parish, which is
well attended.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Tbere are at present 24 poor on
the roll; but none of them depend altogether upon the collections.
The distribution of the funds takes place twice a year. The
amount of collections from January 1839 to January 1840, was
L,16, 14s. 6d.  Sterling.
   Inns.-There are three public-houses in the village, and one in
Kelles. One would be quite sufficient in the village.
   Fuel.-The people use very little coals, on account of the inex-
haustible fund of moss which is in the parish.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the last Statistical Account was published very great
changes have taken place in the parish; the most striking of which
are, the erection of the village; the improvement of the roads
leading to Forres, Elgin, and Knockando; the attention paid to
the cultivation of the land and the rearing of cattle; the quantity
of moorland taken in; and a decided improvement in the moral
and religious habits of the people, since the suppression of smuggling.

	February 1842.


