
                          KILILEARNAN.                              71

ly divided between the present two.  The stipend of Killearnan has
been, ever since, 145 bolls of barley, 51 bolls of meal, and L. 8,
4s. 2d. of money, without any allowance for communion elements.
It is now the smallest stipend in the Synod of Ross; and there are
no means for augmenting it, as -no vacant teinds were left in this
parish, when the annexation took place.  There are no chapels,
belonging to any other denomination than that of the Established
Church, in this parisb,-though a few of the parishioners attend
a Scots Episcopal chapel in the parish of Kilinuir Wester and
Suddy, built upon the property of Allangrange.  The people are
generally a churchgoing people.  There 'is a catechist in the
parish'supported by the interest of L. 300, funded for the purpose
from the stipend of the parish which bad accumulated during a
vacancy of eight years, while the right of presentation was liti-
gated between the Crown and the Honourablq Mrs Hay Macken-
zie of Croniarty, before the Court of Session and the House of
Peers.  The process was finally decided by the House of Peers in
favour of the Honourable Mrs Hay Mackenzie, in the month of
July 1814.- The eommunicants of this parish are 150 in number.
including the elders.
   We have bad a quarterly collection in the parish, during the last
twelve years, for missionary purposes,-whie-b may amount yearly
to from L. 8 to L. 12.
   Educatiom-There are two schools in the parish,-the parochial
school, and one endowed by the Society in Scotland for Propa.
gating Christian Knowledge.  We have, besides, a female school,
taught on the second patent of the same Honourable Society.  In
the parochial school, the following branches are taught, viz. mathe-
matics, book-keeping, mensuration, Greek, Latin, English, writ-
ing, Gaelic, geography, English grammar, &c.  In the Society's
school, are taught English, Gaelic, translating English into Gaelic,
writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping.  The attendance at each
school is from So to 100.  The salary of the parochial school, in-
cluding the legal allowance for a garden, is nearly L. 30.  The
salary of the society schoolmaster, along with a small cro'ft free of
rent, is only L. 15.  The schoolmistress gets L. 5. : The quarter-
ly charge for school fees may be from Is. to 4s.  The children of
the poor are taught gratis: and the good effects of early education
is seen in the industry, sobriety, and good conduct of our youtlL
    Poor.-The Dumber of-persons in the parish reciving paro-
chial aid is betwixt 60 and 70 ; they receive Yearly front 6s. to 12s.



