
                  PARISH OF WATTEN.

     PRESBYTERY OF CAITHNESS, SYNOD OF SUTHERLAND AND

                  CAITHNESS.

     THE REV. ALEXANDER GUNN, MINISTER.


     I.  TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE etymology of the name Watten is uncertain.
Some have supposed it to be a Danish word, signifying water, and
to have derived its application from the circumstance of this parish
containing the largest lake in the county.
   Extent, &c.-The parish extends in extreme length from north-
east to south-west about 10 miles, and in extreme breadth from
north-west to south-east about 7; and its superficial contents may
be reckoned in square miles at from 60 to 65. It is surrounded
on the north, east, south, and west, by the parishes of Bower,
Wick, Latheron, and Halkirk, respectively; the boundaries or di-
viding lines however, cannot with propriety be called natural, but
are, generally speaking, wholly conventional.
  Its figure, making allowance for some considerable irregularities,
may be called rhomboidal. Its surface is in general extremely
level, the principal irregularities deserving rather the name of
undulations than of bills. The valleys are consequently of very in-
considerable depth, with the exception of that which forms the
basin of the principal lake. Its range is from north-west by west,
to south-east by east, and the adjoining ground rises with a very
trifling acclivity. The medium elevation of its bottom above the
level of the sea is thirty feet. There ate various glens in the
southern part of the parish, but of small size, forming the channels
of rivulets which have their sources in wet moorland grounds.
Their forms are exceedingly irregular, their connections at an average
angle of 30&deg;, and their differences. in point of elevation very
inconsiderable.
  Meteorology.-Under this bead, little can be said either intetesting
or important. The average temperature of the atmosphere
seems to differ little from that of the midthe districts of the east
  CAITHNESS.


