
                        GLADSMUIR.                       185

the ploughs struck upon some large stones, which, when dug up,
were found to be coffins composed of flag-stones of a peculiar qua-
lity, probably a kind of puddingstone, others of a kind of red flag-
stone, common in the neighbourhood. The coffins were about 5 feet
long by 2 broad, all of them containing bones. More have since
been dug out: and it is probable there are many still remaining
in the ground beyond the reach of the plough. Specimens of the
stones are reserved by the tenant, and are also in my possession.
On the eastern part of the same farm, not far from the coffins, an
urn was found full of bones. It was broken in the taking up, but
the fragments are in possession of Mr Black.
   On the farm of Southfield, about a mile to the south of Long-
niddry, while the labourers were employed in making drains, they
found a variety of small silver coins of different dates and sizes,
chiefly British. They were given to the tenant, with whom they
are to be found. Similar coins were found in the neighbouring
farm of Greendykes, some of which are in the possession of the
proprietor. It is probable the place had been some military sta-
tion, where they had been deposited.
   Modern Buildings.-There are hardly any modern buildings of
consequence in the parish. The House of Redcoll, built about
twelve years ago, and inhabited by the proprietor, is a neat substantial
building, with a garden and set of good offices. It has a porter's
lodge, and an approach from the road of about 300 yards, with a
belt of trees on each side.
   The house at Southfield was built, about thirty years ago, by the
proprietor Mr Gray, and inhabited. by him. But when the farm
came into the possession of the Earl of Wemyss, it was given to
the tenant as, a dwelling-house, and has since been occupied by
him. It is a small but handsome house, with a considerable num-
ber of trees scattered about it. It is open to the north, but quite
shut up in the view to the south.
   The farm-houses are in general good. A new one was built
last year upon the farm of Hoping Mains. Some have undergone
repairs and got additions. Those at Penston and Westbank have
got a substantial set of new offices with slated roofs. But, among
all the farm-offices in the parish, and I may say in the county,
none are to be compared to those of Greendykes. They were
built by the proprietor a few years ago, and are more like the
offices you might expect to find connected with a Ducal Palace,
than the house of a tenant.


