
                         GLENCAIRN.                     335

of families attending the Established Church amounts to 330,
and the number of persons of all ages attached to the Established
Church may amount to nearly 1500. The number of families con-
nected with the Dissenting meeting-house in this parish, and two
other Dissenting meeting-houses in a neighbouring parish, is about
111; and the number of persons of all ages attached to them,
nearly 600. The average number of communicants at the Esta-
blished Church is about 600.
   Education.-There are five schools in this parish,-of vhich three
are parochial and two unendowed. Latin and Greek are taught
at the parochial schools. The joint salaries of the parochial sehool-
masters amount to L. 51, 6s. 8d. The first and second may re-
ceive each L. 20 a-year of fees; and the third L. 14. This sum
is unequally divided amongst the teachers;-the first having L.25,
13s. 4d.; the second, L.17, 2s. 2 1/4d., and the third, L.8, 11s. ld.
As the heritors pay the maximum salary none of the teachers can
claim a dwelling-house.
   Libraries.-There are two subscription libraries in the village
of Minnyhive, and a congregational one belonging to the Dissenters.
   Poor.-The yearly amount of collections at the Established
Church is L.45; but besides this, the heritors have for a number
of years past raised a voluntary contribution of L. 50 per annum.
These sums, together with the interest of L. 300 of mortified money,
are found requisite for the support of the poor, who are very nu-
merous. There are upwards of 30 paupers, who receive from
1s. 6d. to 2s. per week.
   Fairs, &c.-There are three fairs held yearly at Minnyhive, in
the months of March, July, and October, for the purpose of hir-
ing servants for the half year, and for the hay and harvest seasons.
A new market for lambs was established this year. From the
quantity of stock exhibited, and the concourse of people who at-
tended, it promises to succeed.
   Inns.-There are five inns in this parish, and several alehouses,
but their effects upon the morals of the people have not been con-
sidered hurtful.
   Fuel.-The fuel used in this parish consists mostly of peat and
coal. The former is distant about four miles, and the latter six-
teen miles; the expense of peat is about 5s. per cart load, and of
coal about 10s.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The most striking alterations which have taken place, in this



