
                                KILMADOCK.               1239


      or their banishment for a limited period.   By 'stopping the sup-
      plies, every member of the family is interested in the good con-
      duct of the whole, and a banished child, man, or friend, finds no
      rest at home.  The morals of the people are in general very cor-
      rect; no drunkard is permitted about the establishment.  We in-
      quired of an intelligent medical gentleman at Doune (Dr M'Ansh)
      whether the spinners were as healthy as the other villagers.  His
      answer was, 'They are not so robust (owing to their confine-
      ment), but their health is as steady and uniform.'
         "Immediately adjoining the works is a handsome little village,
      built and founded by the company, which contains about, 1200
      inhabitants.  The houses are neat, built in one long street paral-
      lel to the water course, and are two stories high, with attics.
      They are most exemplary patterns of cleanliness, and to each
      house is attached a small piece of garden ground, and a range of
      grass plot for bleaching.  A school-room is united to the esta-
      blishment, capable of containing 200 children, and a teacher is
      paid by the company.  The young children generally go to school
      when about five years of age; and as none are admitted into the-
      works until they are nine, they are mostly good readers, and able
      to write and cypher before they enter the works.  The children
      employed in the works from nine to thirteen years of age, must,
      according to the Factory Act, work only eight hours per day, and
      about three hours are devoted to the school-room.  The number
      at this age amounts to 100, and they are divided into relays of 33
      each; so that while two relays are at work, one is attending school.
      The youth above thirteen years of age and under sixteen are ex-
      pected to attend an evening school four nights in the week; and
      a Sabbath school in the village contains about 150 pupils.  Thus
      the works at Deanston seem to possess every facility and recom-
      mendation ; they have changed the aspect of the country---beauti-
      ful and romantic as it is-by introducing into it habits of industry,
      order, and the highest mechanical genius and dexterity; they
      cause a circulation of money to the extent of about L.20,000 per
      `nnum ; they furnish employment for the people of all ages; they
      have called forth the spirit and activity of the agriculturists to
      meet the ever-recurring demands of the place; and ini all respects
      they are a splendid monument of British enterprise, skill and per-
      severance."*

<FOOTNOTE> To this account it may now be added, that Mr Smith has ceased to be part-
     ner, and has retired from the management, while the machine making department is


