
584                ARGYIESHRRE.

subulata); the smooth field pepper-weed (Lepidium Smithii); the
trailing and upright St John's wort (Hypericum humifusum and
pulehrum) ; the charming sweet-sceuted gymnadeiiia (Gymnadenia
conopsea) ; the green and the white babenaria (Habe.,taria viridis
and albida); and, finally, the common and the heart-leaved tway-
blade (Listera ovata and cordata.)
    Stone walls afford sufficient nourishment for the pellitory of the
wall (Parietaria officinalis), especially at.Achenwillin, and at the
old Castle of Toward. The stamens of this plant are of a most
curious structure, jointed and elastic, so that in fine warm -weather
they may be seen, as the buds expand, to unroll themselves with
a jerk, and scatter little clouds of pollen or fertilizing dust to a
considerable distance. The wall pennywort (Cotyledon Umbili-
cus) is nourished in the same situations.
    Woods and coppices,, especially if moist, produce the common
and alpine enchanter's nightshade (Circtva Lutetiana and alpina);
the daffodil (Narcissus Pseudo-na7-cissus), is seen on banks near
Dunooti, apparently wild; and tb6 lesser winter gum (Pyrola
minor), and the tutsan (Hypericum Androswmum), grow at Kil-
mun and Ardentinny.
    In rocky places are observed, the northern bedstraw (Galium
boreale), and, among the bills, the mountain sorrel ( Oxyria reni-
formis), whose leaves have an agreeable acid taste; also the stone
bramble (,Rubus saxatilis). The higher mountains of the parish,
such as Benmore, not being of sufficient elevation to hold out the
prospect. of a rich harvest of alpine plants to the botanist, have not
been examined 'with the attention which they perhaps deserve.
But the following alpine productions may be mentioned -. the dwarf
cornel (Cornus suecica) ; procumbent Sibbaldia (Sibbaidia pro-
cumbens), which is named in bODOUr of Robert Sibbald, who wrote a
natural history of Scotland so early as the closing part of the se-
venteenth century, and who then pu ' blished a figure of this plant;
spiked mountain woodrush (Luzula spicata); the purple moun-
tain saxifrage (Sa-Kifraga oppofitifolia), a lovely flower, well
adapted for adorning artificial rock-work; the alpine rasp or cloud-
berry (Rubus Chamemorus), which bears a beautiful and finely
flavoured large orange berry; the alpine meadow-rue ( Thalictrum
alpinum) ; the rose-root (Rhodiola rosea) ; and, lastly, the least
alpine willow (Salix herbacea), a gentis of which many of tile
kinds posiess an arboreseent character, while the present minia-
ture species, of which little foree;ts, if they may be so called, are
                    3


