
534                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

escape the August frosts, that are so destructive to the crops on
the margin of the river and rivulets.  Last season every potato
field on the banks of the Don was ruined early in autumn, while
those at the very head of the glens escaped without injury.  This
may be partly accounted for by the vicinity of the water, but the
visitations of this scourge are involved in much obscurity.  Some
farms, apparently in every respect as favourably situated as their
neighbours, are proverbially "frosty places." Nay, sometimes
one field on the same farm and with the same exposure, is more
liable to be affected with frost than another only separated from
it by a fence.
   Connected with the soil, it may be stated as a fact, probably of
some interest in a geological point of view, that the peat mosses
are all situated on tire tops of the hills,-many of them of vast
extent and very great depth.  The peats taken from the different
mosses are as various in point of quality and value, as the coals
from different seams in a coal country.  Some of them supply a
rich black peat, which, when properly dried, becomes almost as
bard as coal, and makes excellent fuel burning with brightness,
and throwing out a very strong beat.  In Corgarff and Glen-
Nochty moss-fir is found.  It was, and not at all rarely still is,
the practice for some of the poorer classes, who cannot afford other
light, to go to the moss, and with a long probe something like
a rude auger, search for trunks of trees buried perhaps six or eight
feet deep.  These, often of a diameter of 12 or 13 inches, are
dug up, carried home, and cut into splits.  Then being dried on
the kilchan, or on a kind of round brander with spiral bars, they are
made use of in place of candles, thus illustrating the passage in
Ovid,

             " Flammifera pinus manibus succendit ab AEtna."

A good piece emits a strong resinous smell, and when lighted,
the rosin boils out at the root of the flame like a torch.  In pro-
vincial language they are termed candle, or fir-candle, in contra-
distinction to a tallow-candle, which is denominated " white
candle."
   Zoology-This parish, comprising extensive woods, mountain,
and moorland, affords a great variety of animals, some of them
common, to the Lowlands, and others only met with in the High-
lands: rather a full account, although without pretension to mi-
nuteness, of its zoology, may therefore be permitted.
   Among the quadrupeds we have the red-deer, (Cervus Elaphus,)


