
<APPENDIX>

of my respect for the Church of Scotland, and of every individual connec-
ted with it.  I remain, with esteem, Sir, your faithful and obedient ser-
vant,

     JOHN SINCLAIR.

     WHITEHALL,
     25th Jan. 1796.

     No. XIV.  Circular Letter, dated 1st December 1796.

     SIR,

   A circumstance has just occurred, which must give a considerable
degree of uneasiness, to every person interested in the prosperity of that
excellent institution, the Society for the Benefit of the Sons of the Clergy.
It is this:  A plan, I understand, is in contemplation, for publishing an Ab-
stract of the Statistical Accounts, with a view of intercepting a considerable
share of the emolument to be expected from that publication.  In order to
defeat so invidious a project, I propose to draw up the result of the whole
Inquiry myself, in a separate Work, to accompany the last volume of the
Statistical Publication; but, for that purpose, it is absolutely necessary, that
I should immediately have all the deficient parishes in my possession; of
which, I have the pleasure to inform you, there are only 14 now remain-
ing, each of which I am in daily expectation of receiving.  You will, I am
persuaded, see the necessity of sending me the Account of your parish in
course; for until it arrives, no progress can be made in drawing up the in-
tended Abstract.  I hope that this measure will defeat the malicious inten-
tion oft hose people, and will be the means of securing a considerable sum,
for a very Benevolent Institution, whose success we must all feel a pleasure
in promoting.
   Expecting to hear from you in course, for not an instant should now be
lost, I remain, with esteem, your faithful and obedient servant,

     JOHN SINCLAIR.

     EDINBURGH,
     1st Dec. 1796.

   The following Note to the above Letter, was sent to some of the Clergy,
whose Accounts had unfortunately fallen by.

   N. B. I am sorry to give you the trouble of drawing up another copy of
your Account; but after the most diligent search, I have not been able to
find the one you were so obliging as to send me.  From my changing so of-


