

                 DUNOON AND KILMUN.	                607

Dunoon as a summer residence. The number was but small, in-
deed, who could find any accommodations to suit them.  In
the year mentioned, James Ewing Esq., then of Glasgow, and now
of Levenside, in Dumbartonshire, commenced building the  ma-
rine villa called, since, the Castle House, on the grounds imme-
diately adjoining Dunoon Castle. The taste displayed in the erec-
tion of his villa, and in the laying out of the grounds around it,
pointed out to others the advantages of the locality, of which several
individuals of respectability soon availed themselves; and the vil-
lage has since gone on increasing.
  About the same period, but a few years earlier, the pur-
chase of the estate of Auchavullin, and other neighbouring
lands now forming the estate of Toward, by the late Kirkman
Finlay Esq., formed an era in the agricultural history of the pa-
rish, and in all its rural economy.  Not more successful and dis-
tinguished as a British merchant was Mr Finlay in his commercial
pursuits, than he became here as an agriculturist, and an improver
of lands presenting no particular attractions nor promise of easy
conquest, when he became their proprietor. With many local dis-
advantages and local prejudices to combat, Mr Finlay had been
but a few years the proprietor of those lands, when, in the several
departments of inclosing, draining, planting, tillage, and systema-
tic husbandry, not to speak of ornamental landscape improvements,
more strictly so termed, his estate became a pattern, the benefits
of which, it may be affirmed, without prejudice to the claims of
other proprietors to the like merits, were felt and appreciated, and
his example followed throughout the whole district. In the de-
partment of planting, indeed, within the bounds of the united pa-
rish, a good deal had been previously done on the estate of Glen-
finart by the late Earl of Dunmore. But success had scarcely yet
been demonstrated, when Mr Finlay commenced his operations on
the Toward estate. About the same period, also, the late James
Hunter Esq. of Hafton became proprietor of that estate in the neigh-
bourhood of Dunoon, and, in building, planting, and other im-
provements, set the same beneficial example, which has since been
still more extensively followed up by his son, James Hunter Esq.
the present proprietor of the same estate, now considerably enlarged.
  The picturesque village of Kilmun on the Holy Loch was be-
gun about the year 1829, by David Napier Esq. of Glasgow pur-
chasing an extensive feu of lands running along the eastern shore
of that arm of the sea, from the late General Campbell of Mon-


