
878                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

themselves, they are particularly so to the farmers in their imme-
diate neighbourhood, for, being unable at that period to go far
from their nests in search of food, they are daily seen actively em-
ployed in turning clods, and clearing of vermin the newly sown
fields, so that few complaint are heard in this parish of the de-
structive ravages of grub.
   Water-Birds.-Among the gulls which come up the Dee in
spring are seen the common gull, the laughing or black-headed
gull (Larus ridibundus), and the kittiwake (L. rissa).  On its
banks are found the water-ouzel (Cinclus aquaticus), the gray wag-
tail (Motacilla alba), the yellow wagtail (Motacilla boarula), the
common sandpiper (Totanus hypoleucos), and, though more rarely,
the ring-sandpiper or dottrel.  The oyster catcher (Hirmatopus
ostralegus) abounds in the same locality, making its appearance
early in February.  This bird, according to Buffon, " never inha-
bits the marshes or the mouths of rivers, but remains constantly
on or near the beach ; probably because fresh waters do not af-
ford the proper subsistence."  In this country, however, its habits
are different ; for it collects sustenance not only on the fresh water
beach of the Dee, but even in the neighbouring fields, in which it
may be seen feeding almost daily ; and that not in the vicinity of
the sea-shores, but in this parish, every little inch in the channel of
the river, and every extended bed of pebbles on its margin, being
annually occupied by so many of these wakeful and noisy birds,
that the ear is fatigued by their shrill unceasing cry.  In the loch
of Drum there is a great variety of water-fowl, among which may
be specified, the water-hen (Gallinula choloropus), the common
coot (Fulica atra), and the little grebe.  It is also frequented by
the heron, golden-eyed duck (Anas clangula), and the widgeon
(A. penelope).  The mallard (A boschas), teal-duck (A. crecea),
and wild goose are abundant.  In severe winters, a few swans ge-
nerally pay it a visit ; and in such seasons also, the goosander
(Mergus marganser), sometimes appears on it and the Dee, but
so rarely, that only two of them have been shot for several years.
   Ichthyology.-In the burns of Gormac and Culter, common
trout are sufficiently numerous, especially in the latter stream, to
afford tolerably good sport to the angler.  In the loch of Drum,
eels are plentiful; and some, perches (Perca fluviatilis), which
were put into it a few years ago by the late proprietor, have in-
creased considerably.  Pike are also abundant in it, and attain a
large size.  Their fry which escape, and inhabit the still pools of


