
	          DYKE AND MOY.                               227

	Kintessack, which was given for want of sufficient support.
	There is great need of one in that locality; and there is now
	some prospect of its being established under more favourable cir-
	cumstances. There is a Society school in Edinkillie, near the
	confines of this parish, which puts the benefits of education within
	the reach of those who are at too great a distance from the parish
	school. There is a female school in the village of Dyke, the
	teacher of which has a house and garden, and a small endowment.
	There is another female school in the village, and one in Kintes-
	sack, wholly supported by school-fees. The number of children
	attending school in the parish, is about 20O.- There is an annual
	sum of L.8, los. 6d. arising from two mortification's for the edu-
	cation of the children of the poor. There are none in the pa-
	rish above ten years of age, who cannot read.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
	on the poor's roll, is 90; and the average amount of collections,
	for the last seven years, is L.43, 6s. 8d. There are, besides, three
	bolls of barley, from a mortification for the use of the poor, and
	the interest of L. 100 for the clothing of poor children. The al-
	lowance- to each varies from 2s. 6d. to L. 1, IOs. per annum, ac-
	cording to circumstances. Besides these public funds, the pro-
	prietors and their families distribute, during the winter, coals,
	money and clothing to the most necessitous upon the respective
	estates.
	   Inns-There are 7 ale-houses; far more than are necessary
	for the accommodation of the parish. To the credit of the inha-
	bitants, it may be added, that they are not much frequented.
	   Fuel.-Turf and wood are in most general use for fuel among
	the poorer classes. From the breadth of plantation in the parish,
	wood fire is cheap. Ships deliver coals, when the weather per.
	mits, within the parish, opposite to the harbour of Findhorn. The
	nearest sea-port is Nairn.

	   March 1842.


