
     Statistical Account

country affairs, or for promoting the comforts of life*.
From the occupations of the inhabitants, it is evident that
they cannot be numerous.  Agriculture, however capable
of affording the means of subsistence, never collects within
the fame bounds such numbers, as do the various branches
of manufactures cultivated throughout the inland.  Fewer
hands can conduct its operations.  One great object, too,
which in its present state it seems to have in view, is to take
from these hands as many as possible.  In many places, pro-
prietor and tenant have united to accomplish this object.
to have a large and easily collected rent is naturally desired
by the former, and this has effected the annihilation of the
little tenants scattered over the country; to save as many
servants as possible in the management of country affairs,
the latter has imagined it to be important economy, and
this has often substituted unmarried men in the place of nu-
merous families. the healthiest and the purest nursery of
the most vigorous and innocent class of our countrymen, has 
hence been much depopulated.  However true it may ap-
pear, that a numerous class of tenantry are incapable of
keeping the ground in order, or of paying the proper rent,
there are bounds, beyond which the idea must prove fatal
to the country in which it is put in practice; and it is evi-
dently full of danger, whatever else it be, to turn away the 
cottagers who have been wont to reside on a farm.  The
natural consequences are, that servants of that kind are


<FOOTNOTE>       

*There is no baker in the parish.  The greatest part of the bread con-
sumed is prepared by the families who eat it.  The increase in the consump-
tion of wheaten bread has of late been considerable, but that it bears no
proportion to the use made of oaten and pease meal in baking bread, is ap-
parent, from the circumstance of the parish having no baker of its own,
May it not be inferred from these, that in times of scarcity it is no alle-
viation to the wants of the poor, when the rich give up the use of flour.
The cafe is different in large towns.  There is no flour preferred by bakers,
nor barley by brewers, to that which this parish raises.


