
                           HUTTON.                           163

The amount of the stipend is sixteen chalders; the one-half heal
the other barley, with L. 10 for communion elements. The sti-
pend this year, from the low price of grain, amounted to little more
than L. 200.
   There are no dissenting or seceding chapels in the parish. The
individuals belonging to the various sects of dissenters, viz. Burghers,
Cameronians, Relief church, &c. do not exceed one hundred. Three
families are attached to the Episcopalian, and one to the Roman
Catholic persuasion. Divine worship is generally well attended
If there was a comfortable church and larger accommodation, the
numbers attending public worship would be increased, as many fa-
milies have at present no seats. The number of communicants
for the last seven years has varied from 400 to 450. The church
collections for the benefit of the poor amount annually to about
L. 20, independently of collections on extraordinary occasions, or
for objects unconnected with the parish.
   Education.-There is one parochial school: and three others,
the teachers of which are paid by the school fees. One of them
Is in the village of Paxton, where a house for the teacher and a
school-room were built at the expense of the late Mr Home, and
by him left for the benefit of the village. The branches of edu-
cation taught in the parochial school, and in that of Paxton, are,
reading English, English grammar, Latin, arithmetic, geometry,
writing, &c. In all the schools the scriptures are read daily; and
the Shorter Catechism taught. The salary of the parish teacher is
the maximum-the situation altogether maybe worth from L. 70
to L. 80 per annum. Latin seems almost banished from our pa-
rish schools in this county. The fees paid per quarter are, Latin,
7s. 6d., English grammar, 5s., arithmetic, 3s. 6d., writing, 3s. read-
ing, 2s. 6d.
   There are few children above eight who cannot read, and, with
two or three exceptions, all the adults in the parish are able to do
so. Most of them also can write, except a few of the more aged fe-
mates, in whose younger days this accomplishment was not so com-
mon as it is at present. The benefits of education the people ful-
ly appreciate, and are anxious to educate their children in a man-
ner suitable to their circumstances. Times must go very hard with
them when they neglect this duty. Children of paupers, and those
of very circumscribed means, are educated gratuitously by the pa-
rish. Ample means of education are provided, and none of the
children are at an inconvenient distance from school.
   There are two Sabbath schools, attended by young persons of


