
108                         ORKNEY.

out to some of the fisheries in summer.  This mixture of employ-
ments is not favourable either to great skill or to much profit in
any particular department; but with such a limited field, and es-
pecially surrounded with so many who have both the leisure and
the inclination in most things to help themselves, it is scarcely
possible for any one to gain a sufficient livelihood by confining
himself to any single occupation.
   In the last Statistical Account, ninety-four persons were stated to
be engaged in agriculture, and nineteen in fishing.  This division,
however, was formed, not because there was a complete distinction
between the two classes of persons, but because their principal sup-
port was derived from these respective occupations., Judging by
the outlay of time, all of them might be designated as agricultu-
rists,-as, during eight months in the year, their main employment
is connected with husbandry.  But in this, younger brothers and
sometimes other relatives give their work for their food, while for
every think besides they must be indebted to the lobster and her-
ring-fisheries; and these, therefore, may with propriety be named
from the occupation which yields them most advantage.  There
are also about a dozen employed as farm-servants, and two men
who are called millers, though a large part of their time is spent
otherwise, the one as a smith, the other as a carpenter.
    These are the only divisions that subsist anumg the inhabitants
of this island.  There is no merchant, no baker, no shoemaker,
no innkeeper; and the consolation of being without the last, is al-
most enough to reconcile one to the inconvenience arising from the
absence of the rest.  This is an inconvenience felt only by the
few, who are in the habit of using things, which the island itself
does not furnish, and a little care and experience soon teaches them
bow to provide against it.
    Agriculture.-The cultivated part of the island has never been
exactly measured; but about a fourth only of the whole surface
is waste, the greater part of which is the portion along the west
and north-west side, which is rendered sterile by the spray.  This
portion may therefore be rogarded as hopelessly sterile.  But the
small tract in the interior, which is still unreclaimed, is now divided
off, and promises in a few years to be all in a state of cultivation.
     Rental.-The whole rental of the island is nearly L. 500.
The sort of farms and the style of farming which prevail here,
Are rather of a primitive nature.  With the exception of one farm,
which pays a rent of about L. 80, there is none that exceeds L.2.5,
                              3


