
                      BANFF.                                 27

present bede-bouse, may have formed one of its appurtenances.
The yards or garden grounds of the monastery, with its chapels
and other dependencies, are supposed to bave extended beyond the
present southern limits of the town, and as far as the small rem-
nants of the "Lodging" of the Earl of Airly in Duff House kit-
chen garden.
  The precise time when this religious house was first established
here is uncertain. It is supposed, on what authority I know not,
to have been as early as the time of Malcolm the Maiden, or even
of Malcolm Canmore. The charter granted by Robert Bruce
evidently implier that it had existed before, probably long before,
the date of that instrument, since it goes merely to confirm  "Deo,
beatae Mariae virgini, et religiosis viris Fratribus de Monte Car-
mele, capellam beatae Mariae juxta villam de Banff, una cum solo
ad eandem capellam pertinente, ad inhabitandum ibidem Ecclesiam
et aliis domos sui ordinis, et ad inbabitandum dom. locum cum fra-
tribus ejusdem ordinis, prout a summa pontifice' eiisdern fratribus
specialiter est concessum ; praeterea damus et concedimus hac pre-
senti. carta nostra confirmationis, fratribus ibidem deo servienti-
bus, et servituris, illam davatarn terra cum pertinentiis quae ad
dictam capellam ante presentem collationem nostram pertinere so-
lebat, ad inveniendum panem vinum et ceram ad cultum domini
ibidem devotius exercendum."
   It is not perfectly clear whether the chapel of the blessed Mary
here mentioned was one on the present site of Lord Fife's mau-
soleum, or the old church (formerly called St Mary's) on the bury-
ing ground of the town, but more probably the latter.
   At the time of the Reformation, it is well known that many of
the religious houses, foreseeing the difficulty of preserving their
possessions, adopted the plan of feuing them outat a low considera-
tion to powerful laymen; and a ready chapman of this description
seems to have presented himself to the Carmelite brethren, hn the
person of Sir Walter Ogilvie of Duhlugas,-an individual who ap-
pears to have been gifted with a rare turn for the acquisition of
property.*  In a charter dated 1544, the friars make over to Sir
Walter the Dawhaugh and its pertinents, but reserve a certain
space of ground (adjoining the site of Lord Fife's mausoleum,)

<FOOTNOTE>His tombstone, built into the oId church wall, is one of the oldest monumenfs in
the churchyard. The wonder is, that he did not contrive to get all the churchyord,
to himself.


