
140                       LANARKSHIRE.

Iron-works, when he left Glasgow for Kinneil House, near these
works, where he constructed a small steam-engine. The cylinder
was of block-tin, eighteen inches diameter. The first experiment,
which was made at a coal mine, succeeded to admiration indeed
his, success was so great, that he procured a patent " for saving
steam and fuel in fire-engines." Dr Roebuck's affairs becoming
embarrassed in 1775, Mr Watt formed a connection with Mr Boul-
ton of Soho, Birmingham, where they had the exclusive privilege
of making steam-engines for a period of twenty-five years.
	On the expiration of the exclusive privilege, the engineers of
this city commenced making steam-engines; and to such an extent
is this business carried on here for every part of the country, that
there are now fourteen firms who make steam-engines or mill ma-
chinery. Some of the works are more like national than private
undertakings. Three houses alone employ upwards of 1000 per-
sons in this important branch of trade.
	It appears from Dr Cleland's folio statistical work, that in 1831
there were in Glasgow and its suburbs thirty-one different kinds of
manufactures where steam-engines are used, and that in these, and
in collieries, quarries, and steamboats, there were 355 steam-en-
gines=7366 horse power; average power of engines rather more
than twenty horses each. The increase of engines in four years
may be taken at about 10 per cent.
	 The Cotton Trade.--The manufacture of linens, lawns, cambrics,
and other articles of similar fabric, was introduced into Glasgow
about the year 1725, and continued to be the staple manufacture
till they were succeeded by muslins. The following is a brief ac-
count of that important event;
	About the year 1730, the late Mr J. Wyatt of Birmingham
first conceived the project of spinning cotton yarn by machinery.
The wool had to be carded in the common way, and was pressed
between two cylinders, whence the bobbin drew it by means of the
twist. In 1741 or 1742, the first mill for spinning cotton was
erected in Birmingham; it was turned by two asses walking round
an axis, and ten girls were employed in attending the work. A
work upon a larger scale on a stream of water was soon after this
established at Northampton under the direction of Mr Yeoman;
but nothing new had occurred in weaving till 1750,  when Mr John
Kay, a weaver in Bury, invented the fly shuttles. In 1760, Mr
James Hargreave, a weaver at Stanbill, near Church in Lanca-
				4


