
     Statistical Account

tains abount 66 dwelling-houses, and 266 persons, 53 of whom 
are under 7 years of age*.  There are 36 freeholders in the 
burgh, whole freeholds, at present, are reckoned, at an ave- 
rage, at 50 s. yearly, with a privilege of pasturage for 72 
soums of sheep upon the common, 5 sheep being reckoned to 
a soum.  Sometimes poinds are driven and executed at the 
cross of Prestick.  A freeman, when incarcerated, cannot be 

<FOOTNOTE>

bably the same kirk that was in the time of Sir William Wallace, Warden of 
Scotland, when the contest about the freedom and independence of the Scottish 
Crown commenced, under Edward I., and continued for about the space of 40 
years.  Wallace is reported to have had a remarkable dream near this kirk, 
where Sir Ronald Crawford of Crosby, his uncle, sheriff of the county, had 
appointed a convention before that fatal justice Ayre, held by the English in 
the town of Ayr.  After performing his devotions in the church, he fell asleep 
in some place nigh to it, and had a delineation of his future fortune in a vi- 
sionary scheme upon his imagination; and upon his awakening, had a particular 
interpretation of it, by a man whom he found upon the spot.  The whole is 
related in the Poem of Blind Harry, in his 7th Book, who copied the facts 
from the history of Wallace's life, written in Latin by Mr. John Blair, Wallace's 
intimate friend and companion. 
*The charter erecting it into a free burgh of barony, was renewed and con-
firmed by James VI., as administrator for his son, Henry Duke of Rothsay, Earl 
of Kyle, Carrick, and Cunninghame, Lord of the isles, Prince Steward of Scot-
land, at Holyroodhouse, 19th June 1600, in the 33d year of his reign.  The 
narrative of the charter expressly says, that it was known to have been a free 
burgh of barony beyond the memory of man, for the space of 617 years before 
its renewal; but there are no papers besides the charter, that can instruct it to 
be so ancient.  It was the head burgh of barony of the bailiery of Kyle Stew-
art, when the county was divided into 3 districts, Kyle, Carrick, and Cun-
ninghame.  Kyle was subdivided into King's Kyle, and Kyle' Stewart: the last
extended from the river Ayr to the river Irvine; the former from the river Ayr 
to the river Doon, and had Ayr for its head burgh.  Camden says, that the 
Stewart of Kyle Stewart had his residence at the Castle of Dundonald.  By 
their charter, they have a right to choose a provost and 2 bailies, with coun- 
sellors, and to grant franchises for several trades; to hold a weekly market, and 
fair in the mont of December, at the feast of St. Nicolas, which is the 6th
of that month, according to the Popish kalendar; but most of these privileges 
are fallen into disuse. 


