
744                         FIFESHIRE.

successors, for ever, the burgh, the harbour of the same, and all
burgage farms of the said burgh, with the small customs, lie tolls,
stallages, with courts and their issues; also common pasture
within the muir of Kirkcaldy, and pertinents thereof, as freely in
all and by every respect as the burgesses of the burgh of Dun-
fermline have enjoyed and possessed." Not long after this dis-
position was granted, the holding of the burgh was changed.
From being one of the burghs of the lordship of Dunfermline, it
was erected into a free royal burgh, with all the privileges of other
royal burghs. The original charter having been lost, the date of the
royal burgh's erection is unknown. Charles I. granted a charter of
confirmation to Kirkcaldy in 1644, ratifying all its former rights
and immunities; and erecting it de novo, into a "new free burgh
royal," with enlarged powers and privileges. Prior to the grant-
ing of this charter, the magistracy consisted of two bailies and a
treasurer, but the charter of Charles gave power to choose " a
provost, bailies, a dean of guild, and a treasurer, for administra-
tion of justice, and government of the burgh." The provost has
also the title of admiral.
   Historical Notices.-This town suffered severely during the civil
war that followed the contest between the English Parliament and
Charles I.; and also in the struggle maintained by the Covenan-
ters in Scotland. It appears from a statement in the burgh re-
cords, that no less than 94 vessels belonging to this port, of the
value of L.53,000 Sterling, were lost at sea, or taken by the enemy,
between the beginning of the war and the restoration. The pub-
hc authorities and inhabitants of Kirkcaldy espoused the cause of
the Parliament, and opposed the Royalists.
   The cause of the Covenanters also was well supported here.
The presbytery records show, that the cause was popular in the
district, and that the covenant was very generally subscribed.
This parish added a large force to the Covenanters, as may be
inferred from the circumstance, that the battle of Kilsyth alone,
in 1645, is said to have left 200 widows in the town. The ge-
neral feeling may be gathered from the session records, in wbicb
we find " runawayes from their cullors warnit," and " declared
contumacious." Sums were allowed from the poor's funds " for
horses to cary woundit men," and to be given to " woundit men."
On the margins of both the presbytery and session records, spe-
cial notice is taken of the "batell of Kilsyth."
   Maps, &c.--No map or survey of the town or parish is known to


