
     Statistical Account

the parish, but some time ago this sum was unhappily lent on
personal security.  The debtors failed, and neither stock nor in-
terest could be recovered for 15 years past, which has reduced
the parish to much difficulty in supporting the poor.  In that
distressing year for this country, 1783, a contribution was set
on foot, and 72 L. was collected, mostly from the principal he-
ritors.  This sum was laid out in the purchase of oat meal,
which was sold to the poor at the reduced price of 10 d. per
peck; the remainders of the original stock was laid out in the
same manner three or four times, and the meal still sold
at the same price till the month of September following;
when the capital was then reduced to a few shillings of bad
halfpence.  For 9 months 105 families received of this meal
every 14 days, which rendered their condition, in that straiten-
ing time, more comfortable than most of their neighhours.
For these 15 years, that neither stock nor interest could be
got, the poor have been supported by the collections made
in the church on Sundays, mortcloths, and the dues for the
proclamation of banns, and by occasional charities from the

<FOOTNOTE>

the white fog is found equally rotten with the heath, and the
peat becomes hard and black, and exceeding good fuel.  This
affords a demonstrative proof, that all moss, however deep, is
composed of the vegetables that once grew on the surface.  In
the freestone quarry at Wilsontown, there was dug up a few
years ago the trunk of a large oak tree, some feet below the sur-
face, completely petrified.  The side of the tree that lay upmost
had lost the bark and part of the wood by rotting, before this
petrifaction had come on; but the under side had the bark en-
tire, with all that irregular fluting, which is observable on the
bark of every full grown oak.
   There are several mineral springs in different parts of the pa-
rish impregnated with iron and sulphur, but the most remark-
able is a spring on Leven Seat, so strongly impregnated with
allum, that when tasted, for one can only taste it, it affects the
mouth as if it were liquid allum, so that it is with difficulty that
the lips can be separated.  The water is so amazingly cold, that
it is next to impossible to swallow it.


