
				DUMPRIES                          23

rent is about L. 40 Sterling. The minister of the New Church
has neither manse nor glebe.

<TABLE>
	The amount of the stipends is as follows; St Michael's, or the Old Church, L. 309
		Sterling.
  The New Church, from Bishop's rents,     800 Merks.
      Parsonage teinds,                    400
      Town's revenue,                      600
                                          -----
                                          1800 == L.100 Sterling.
      From the Exchequer,                           141 13 4
                                                  -----------
                                                  L. 241 13 4
       To this the town adds as a free donation,      40  0 0
                                                  -----------
                                         Total,   L. 281 13 4

	There are eight dissenting places of worship in the parish, which
we have already particularly specified. The stipends of the dissent-
ing ministers are paid from the seat-rents, and amount to from about
L. 100 to L. 130 eabh; they have, besides, a free house, and an ad-
ditional allowance for expense at the time of the communion. 125
families attend the Relief chapel, of whom 102 live within the pa-
rish; 70 families attend the Cameronian chapel, of whom only 12
live within the parish; 56 families attend the Episcopalian chapel,
one-third of whom are without the bounds of the parish; 43 fami-
lies, all within the parish, attend the Methodist chapel. It is sup-
posed that the total number of individuals attending the dissenting
places of worship may be about 700.
	The Roman Catholic chapel derives a large proportion of its
congregation from the neighbouring burgh of Maxwelltown, a great
part of the population of which consists of low Irish. The bishop
resides in Edinburgh.
	Societies for Religious purposes.--There are in the parish a
Bible Society, a Missionary Society, a Bible and Missionary So-
ciety, a Highland Education Society, a Samaritan Society, for pro-
moting the temporal and spiritual welfare of the poor, Ladies' and
a Gentlemen's Liberian Society, for the purpose of promoting the
interests of the colony of free blacks on the coast of Africa, an As-
sociation against Infidelity and Radicalism, and a Benevolent So-
ciety, the object of which we have to notice in the sequel.
	Education.--This parish is well supplied with the means of edu-
cation, the total number of schools being no less than thirty-nine.
None of these are parochial, but four of them are endowed schools,
under the patronage of the magistrates, town-council, and ministers,
and are united under the name of the Dumfries Academy. The


