
348                      RENFREWSHIRE.

     The manners and morality of the better classes have, in general
-been ameliorated, and the decencies and proprieties of life are
better observed.Cursing, swearing, drinking to excess, Were,
thirty or forty years ago, very common in these classes. The pro-
fanation of the Lord's day was carried often to a great lengt:,-
it was a day of feasting to friends from the city. , At such feasts
deb-,iie-hery reigned; and nothing was more common than to see
the guests of some returning home drunk, singing and roar-
ing, bla.-,pbeming, and disturbing all the neighbourhood. Now
scarcely aiiythidg of all this is either seen or heard. But the evil
habits they have parted with, are taken up by multitudes of the
working classes, who glory in their sbame, and whose vices appear
stillmorefrigbtful,bywantingtheamenityoftheirsuperiors. We
speak of the irreligious and ungodly which abound here, as in all
manufacturing p#rishes; but, as said already, the externally decent,
and apparently pious and churchgoing population, equal in intelli -
gence, intellectual improvement, and moral aiid religious babits,
any classes of the same rank found in the country.
Literature.-There are no parochial or otl,,er circulating libraries
in the parish. Through the influence of the present minister one
was got tip, and continued for'many years. It was pretty exten-
sive, but, owing to circumstances unnecessary to be detailed, the
library was sold, and the proceeds distributed amongst the sub-
scribers. The 11 Levern's MechaDiCS' Institution" has, to a certain
extent, supplied its place. It has a library, in which some of
the best publications are to be found, relative to science and the
arts, and especially to mechanics.
Charitable Institutions.-There are in the parish one Society
for charity, and seven Friendly Societies, whose object is the re-
lief of'their members when sick, or reduced to poverty. Some
,of them have been in existence since 1797 ; others were instituted
in 1799, 1805, 1806, 1819, and 1821. Hitlierto, their happy
tendency has been to promote industry, and excite the desire of
independence, wbilst they remove the humbling idea arising from
parochial or eleemosynary charity.
Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of person.-,
receiving parochial aid from the poor's fund, from February 1836
to-February 1837, was 168, out o, a population of 9187 souls.
The gross expenditure in 1 36 was L. 595, 12s. 21d., , It Ing
upon an averagenearly I.., 3, 10s. I Id. to each per annurn. This
sum of L -695,12s. 21 d was raised as follows :-By collections at
           


