
828                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

branches of the Great North Road from Aberdeen to Inverness.
It commences at Old Meldrum, and terminates near to Sheela-
green, in the parish of Culsamond. Its length in the parish, tra-
versing the east and north sides, is nearly four miles. No public
coach, as yet, runs through the parish on this road.
   Ecclesiastical State.-This parish is said to have formerly been
a personage or prebend in the diocese of Aberdeen, and to have
been given as an alms'gift by Malcolm Canmore to the bishop of
that diocese. The Established Church, the only place of wor-
ship in the parish, being nearly in the centre of it, is very conve-
niently situated for the parishioners, not being above three miles
from the most distant of them. It was built in 1798, and is at
present in good repair. It affords accommodation for 400 persons,
allowing 18 inches, or for 450, allowing 16 inches for each per-
son; and by re-arranging the seats, and adding a couple of galle-
ries, it might, if necessary, be made to contain 600. The inha-
bitants have sittings in the church gratis, as occupants of houses
and land rented from the heritors, and there is no person in the
parish who does not enjoy this privilege.
   The manse was built in 1799-1800. A thorough repair, and
comfortable addition to it, together with a new and complete stead-
ing of offices, were very liberally and handsomely given by the
heritors in 1830.
   The extent of the glebe, including the grass land, is about 7 1-2
acres, which might be let for L.12 annually. The stipend arising
from the teinds of the parish of Daviot proper, and increased by
an annual payment from Her Majesty's Exchequer in Scotland,
amounts to L.150.
   The number of Presbyterians in the parish, old and young, was
in May last 664; of Episcopalians, 112; of Seceders, 5; and of
Quakers, 4.
   Divine service in the Established Church is generally well at-
tended, and the average number of those who regularly communi-
cate there is 350.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish.
In it are taught English reading, English grammar, writing, arith-
metic, geography, book-keeping, mathematics, Latin, and Greek.
The Assembly's Shorter Catechism is also carefully taught, a por-
tion of the Bible daily read, and God's blessing on the business of
the seminary daily implored. The scboolmaster's salary is L.30, and
the average annual amount of his fees about L.20. He also par-


