
204                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

finest land. It is rented at L. 27.  The stipend is, as enlarged by
the King's bounty, L. 150, and L. 8 for communion elements.
   The number of people attending church about 160; attending
meeting, I should think about 40 in all.
   Divine service in the Established Church is remarkably well at-
tended. Number of communicants about 100.
   The probable amount of church-door collections may be annually
about L. 8, 10s.; for religious purposes about L. 6.*
   Education.--One parochial school in the parish; salary maxi-
mum; school fees about L. 25 per annum.
   All can read and write; and the people are deeply alive to the
importance of education.
   There is a parochial library, which is little prized.
   Poor.--Number on poor's roll, 3; two of whom have 12s. per
month, and one 6s. per month, raised by assessment. The assess-
ment amounts, on an average, to L. 22, 10s.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the preceding Account was drawn up a considerable im-
provement in the Parochial Economy has taken place. The re-
proach of disgraceful farm steadings and shamefully executed en-
closures has been in a great measure, though not altogether, wiped
away by the erection of plain but commodious houses on several
of the farms, and the building of substantial dry stone dikes pret-
ty generally throughout the parish, especially during the last two
or three years. The parish church, too, has been greatly im-
proved by the raising of its walls, formerly too low, and by the
addition of a small gallery, containing nearly thirty sittings, erect-
ed at the joint expense of two of the heritors, Thomas Adinston,
Esq., and John Borthwick, Esq. In noticing church accommoda-
tion, it may be proper to mention that a great proportion of the
inhabitants of the upper district of Stow parish, to the north of
the Armilt or Crookston water, in consequence of the distance
from their own parish church, find it more convenient to attend at
Heriot. Some steps have been taken to disjoin that district en-
tirely from Stow, and annex it quoad sacra to Heriot, and it is
hoped that an arrangement so reasonable and desirable will soon
be completed.

<FOOTNOTE>The sum of L. 12, 4s. was collected in Heriot church last
year (1838,) for the General Assembly's Schemes.

 October 1839.


