
                          AUCHTERMUCHTY.                     781

formed in 1806, and at present numbers 213 members. The
annual payment is 5s. During illness, a member of it becomes
entitled to 3s. 6d. per week for the first nine months, after which
the allowance is reduced to 2s. When any member is superan-
nuated, he has a permanent weekly allowance of 1s. It is proper to
state, that, while in this as in every district containing a considerable
population, there are some individuals hackneyed in mendicity, there
is in this parish a prevailing disposition among the poor to refrain
from seeking parochial relief. An honourable, though laborious
independence, is in general preferred to the resources of charity.

February 1843.

                            PARISH OF AUCHTERMUCHTY. *

                       PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                    THE REV. ROBERT JOHN JOHNSTONE, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, &c.-THIS parish is bounded on the east by the pa-
rish of Collessie ; on the south by Falkland ; on the west by
Strathmiglo ; and on the north by the parishes of Abernethy,
Newburgh, and Abdie. It extends in length from north-west to
south-west, 4 miles, and in breadth from east to west, nearly 2
miles ; but at the north and south extremities, it does not exceed
1 mile in breadth. The burgh and town of Auchtermuchty, which
contains a population of 2550 persons, is situated about a mile from
the southern boundary of the parish, which is washed by the river
Eden, and is distant from Kirkcaldy fifteen miles, Cupar nine miles,
Kinross ten miles, Newburgh five miles, and from Perth fifteen
miles. The line of road from Stirling to St Andrews, perhaps
one of the straightest and most direct in Scotland, passes through
the southern extremity of the town ; from the former of which
places it is thirty-three, and from the latter twenty miles. The
eastern line of communication between Perth and Edinburgh, via
Newburgh and Khrkcaldy, passes also through the town, and a coach
has now been established on the road for several years.

<FOOTNOTE> From notes furnished by Mr Archibald Dickson, parochial schoolmaster of Auch-
termuchty.



