
     Statistical Account

the other at Ardeonaig; and it was customary for the mini-
ster of the parish to preach in the three places alternately.

<FOOTNOTE>

stone in the church-yard.  When mad people were brought to
be dipped in the Saint's Pool, it was necessary to perform cer-
tain ceremonies, in which there was a mixture of Druidism and
Popery.  After remaining all night in the chapel, bound with
ropes, the bell was set upon their head with great solemnity.
It was the popular opinion, that, if stolen, it would extricate
itself out of the thief's hands, and return home ringing all the
way.  For some years past this bell has been locked up, to
prevent its being used to superstitious purposes.
   It is but justice to the Highlanders to say, that the dipping
of mad people in St Fillan's Pool, and using the other ceremo-
nies, was common to them with the Lowlanders.  The origin
of the bell is to be referred to the most remote ages of the
Celtic churches, whose ministers spoke a dialect of that lan-
guage.  Ara Trode, one of the most antient Icelandic histo-
rians, tells us, in his 2 d chapter; that when the Norwegians first
planted a colony in Ireland, about the year 870, "Eo tempore
"erat Islandia silvis concreta, in medio montium et littorum:
"Tum erant hic viri Christiani; quos Norwegi Papas appel-
"lant: et illi peregre profecti sunt, ex eo quod nollent esse hic
"cum viris Ethnicis, et relinquebant post se nolas et baculos:
"ex illo proterat discerni quod essent viri Christiani."  Nola and
bajula both signify hand-bells.  See Du Cange.  Giraldus
Cambrensis, who visited Ireland about the end of the 12th cen-
tury, speaks thus of there relicts of superstition: "Hoc non
"praetereundum puto, quod campanas,bajulas baculosque
"sanctorum ex superiore parte recurvos, auro et argento aut
"aere confectos, tam Hiberniae et Scotiae quam et Givalliae
"populus et clerus in magna reverentia habere folet; ita ut
"juramenta supra haec, longe magis quam super evangelia, et
"praestare vereantur et perjurare.  Ex vi enim quodam oc-
"culta, et iis quasi divinitus insita, nec non et vindicta (cujus
"praecipue sancti illi appetibiles esse videntur) plerumque pu-
"niuntur contemptores."  He elsewhere speaks of a bell in
Ireland, endowed with the same loco-motive powers as that of
St: Fillan, Topog, Hiber. L. 3. c. 33. & L. 2. c. 23.  For in
the 18th century it is curious to meet with things, which asto-
nished Giraldus, the most credulous of mortals, in the 12th. St
Fillin is said to have died in 649.  In the 10th year of his
reign, Robert the Bruce granted the church of Killin in Glen-
dochart to the Abbey of Inchaffray, on condition that one of
the canons should officiate in the kirk of Strathfillan.


