
752                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

allowed to fill up their shares to double the amount of the former
limits; while the qualifications of the office-bearers were at the
same time increased to double the amount. When the rival com-
pany of the Royal Bank was established, that company purchased
up all the notes of the Bank of Scotland which they could lay
their bands on, * and made such a run upon this bank as reduced
them to considerable difficulties. To avoid such distresses for the
future, the Bank of Scotland, in 1730, began to issue L. 5 notes
payable on demand, or L. 5, 2s. 6d. six months after their being
Presented for payment, in the option of the bank, and two years
afterwards they began to issue L. 1 notes with a similar clause.
The other banking companies in Scotland followed the example;
till at length the whole country was deluged with notes even so
low as for five shillings, while silver almost disappeared. To re-
med these abuses, an act was passed in 1765 prohibiting all notes
under L. 1, and declaring void all the optional clauses.
   The bank apartments are in that large building at the head of
the Mound, which is built on a large elevated dead wall to the
back, where the ground descends suddenly. The present capital
of the company is one million Sterling.
   Royal Bank.-By the articles of Union, Scotland was declared
to be liable to the same duties which were levied by way of cus-
tom or excise in England. As these duties had, in England, been
appropriated for the discharge of the national debts contracted
before the Union, it was deemed reasonable to give Scotland an
equivalent for this additional burthen. This sum was ordained to
be paid for certain purposes and to certain persons or bodies cor-
porate mentioned in the articles of Union and subsequent statutes.
The proprietors of these sums to the extent of L. 248,550 Ster-
ling, were erected into a body corporate, under the name of the
Equitialent Company, and the sum mentioned was declared to be
the joint stock of the company.
   This Company, at their own desire, obtained a royal charter,
empowering such of them as inclined to subscribe their shares in
the joint-stock for that purpose to carry on the business of bank-
ing. Accordingly, in 1727, the subscribers were erected into a
body corporate, called the Royal Bank of Scotland, with governor,
who was obliged to hold L. 2000 stock; deputy-governor, a holder
of L. 1500; ordinary directors, L. 1000; and extraordinary, L. 500.
The sum originally subscribed was L. 111,000, which in 1738
<FOOTNOTE>Arnot, p. 531,


