
90                      BANFFSHIRE.

the Deveron, connecting this parish with Turriff, built in 1826 of
red sandstone, is of great utility, and cost L. 2503.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, wbich was built in 1806, and
is in excellent order, is situated on the south-eastern boundary of
the parish,-a very inconvenient position for the people, some of
whom are between four and five miles from it.  There is a morti-
fication in favour of the minister, of 200 merks, which lies in his
hand free of interest, and is transferred to his successor.  This
was left by the tutor of Cromarty, in testimony, it is said, of the
minister's hospitality, which he had on a particular occasion enjoy-
ed. The church accommodates between 400 and 500 persons.
There are no free sittings.  The manse had a very considerable
addition made to it in 1828.  The glebe, the yearly value of which
may be stated at L. 14, consists of about 4 1/2 acres arable land, and
between 4 and 5 acres of den fit for pasture.  The teinds of the
parish are exhausted.  The stipend is paid partly in money and
partly in meal. The money stipend is L. 134, 6s. 2d; the meal
stipend 58 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 lippies, which is paid according to the
fiars price, by an arrangement between the minister and heritors.
The whole stipend for the year 1835 was L. 172, 15s. 6d. In favour-
able weather, the church does no more than accommodate the re-
gular hearers. There are 4 Episcopalians who worship at Turriff,
where there is a minister of that persuasion; and 2 Roman Catho-
lics. All the rest of the inhabitants attend the parish church. The
number of communicants is about 350.  There are two extra-
ordinary collections in the parish yearly, -one for the Aberdeen
Infirmary, the other for the Assembly's India Mission and the
Schools in the Highlands and Islands.  On each occasion, the
contribution averages somewhat above L. 5.  The average amount
of collections for the poor is L. 56, a considerable part of which is
supplied by the family of Forglen, who are resident.  Neither of
the other heritors is resident.  The session is composed of five
members.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish,-the parochial,
and the female school for sewing, which is unendowed, except that the
school-house was erected by the subscriptions of the heritors and pa-
rishioners. Besides these, there are one or two schools taught by fe-
males, where the instruction is of a very elementary kind. At the
parish school the branches are, English reading, geography, mathe-
matics, Latin, writing, book-keeping, and occasionally Greek and


