
   168                        BANFFSHIRE.

   But, whatever may be the chemical action of bone-dust, it has here
   been experimentally and satisfactorily proved that this manure can
   impart no richness to any kind of soil, unless naturally dry or tho-
   roughly drained. To the soil of this parish, generally, it is well
   adapted, and has accordingly been almost universally used, al-
   though its application has hitherto been exclusively confined to
   the turnip crops. The quantity here employed varies from twenty-
   five to thirty bushels per Scotch acre, at a price which has varied
   from 2s. 4d to 3s. 8d. per bushel ; but even a much smaller quan-
   tity has sometimes been applied with surprising effect. The best
   practical farmers are of opinion that thirty bushels of bone-dust,
   in good fresh land, not exhausted by over-cropping, will produce
   as good turnips, and stand out the rotation as well as if twenty-five
   cubic yards and upwards of farm-yard dung had been applied.
   	Crops raised.-Some years ago, wheat was raised in considera-
   ble quantities, but, since the fall in price, this crop has been al-
   most entirely discontinued. Bear and barley are also at present
   raised to a very limited extent. Bear seems the more suitable of
   the two to our soil and climate, ripening earlier, and affording a
   better qualLy of grain. Chevalier-barley has been tried, but
   is fast wearing out of repute. Except in very favourable seasonsg
   it is found too late for our climate. Various kinds of oats are
   sown, according to the nature of the different soils, such as potato,
   Hopeton, birly, sandy oats, &c. The potato oats are mostly
   confined to the deep loarns. The Hopeton are getting thicker
   in the husks upon being re-sown. The birly and sandy oats are
   excellent kinds, and well adapted to our soil and climate, and, as
   they are little known in the southern counties, their quality may
   be stated in comparison with the old common oats. They are from
   eight to ten days earlier, produce more straw, and yield four per
   cent. of more meal. Their average weight in 1836 was 42 lbs
   per bushel. Good sandy oats bring the same price as potato oats.
   They are also as early, and have a great advantage over them, in
   producing a much. greater quantity of straw, in being less liable to
   shake, and not apt to give way at the roots. Pease and beans,
   though once common, are now scarcely sown in the parish. The
   average number of imperial acres in yearly grain crop is 2846, and
   the average produce is 9792 imperial quarters,being an average
   produce per imperial acre, of nearly 3 quarters 4 bushels, or per
   Scotch acre, of near] 4 quarters 3 bushels. Ten of the best
   farms on and, imar the banks of the Doveran produce, on an ave-


