
			MONKTON AND PRESTWICK.                   177

Scotch acres in extent, and for the last fifteen or sixteen years rent-
ed at from L. 5 to L. 5, 5s. per acre. The stipend is 17 chalders
of victual, half meal, half barley, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. as allowance
for communion elements. About 600 persons regularly attend
church since the new church was opened. There are about 200
Dissenters, young and old, of all persuasions, in the parish; of
these about 60 are Roman Catholics. Divine service is attended
with considerable regularity in the parish church. The number
of communicants is about 400. The average of collections in
the new church cannot yet be given.
	Education.--There is one parochial school in Monkton, attend-
ed by between 100 and 130 children. In Prestwick there is one
private school, attended by from 40 to 50 children. There are
also two Sabbath eveningn schools, attended by from 160  to 180 or
200 children, most of whom do not regularly enjoy any other means
of education. The branches of instruction taught in the two day
school are, English reading, English grammar, writing, arith-
metic, practical mathematics, and, when pupils offer, the elements
of the Latin language. The parochial schoolmaster has the maxi-
mum salary, with a house, school-house, and a garden of the sta-
tutory extent. The teacher in Prestwich has the use of the town-
house of the burgh for a school-house; and the burgh usually make
him an annual allowance for rent of dwelling-house. The school
fees, are, for Engling reading alone, 2s. 6d. per quarter; for read-
ing and writing, 3s. 6d.; and for all the other branches taught, 4s.
It is believed there are very few, if any, in the parish unable to
read, and parents in general are very much alive to the benefits of
education. The number of schools is sufficient for the parish.
	Poor.--There are from 15 to 20 poor receiving regular paro-
chial aid, to the amount of from 3s. to 4s. a-month. There are
also others receiving occasional aid. The annual amount of con-
tribution for their relief may be stated at about L. 50 Sterling, of
which L. 35 is collected at the church door, L. 10 is raised by vo-
luntary subscription among the heritors, and the rest is made up
by fines, proclamation dues, &c. &c. These is still remaining
among the poor a considerable reluctance to apply for parish re-
lief, if it can by any means be avoided.
	Prison.--There is one prison in the burgh of Prestwickm, which
is about to be rebuilt. Imprisonment is not frequent. There are
four public houses in Prestwick toll, four or five in Prestwick, and
	AYR. 				M


