
688				FORFARSHIRE.

It contains 75 square miles. It is bounded on the north, by Loch-
lee; on the east, by Edzell; on the south-east, by Stracathro; on
the south, by Menmuir; and on the west by Menmuir, Fearn, Tan-
nadice, and Clova.
   Topographical Appearances.--The cultivated and inhabited part
of the parish lies along the Westwater and its tributary streams,
extending about 9 miles in length, and averaging nearly one mile
in breadth. The rest consists of hills and moorland, used as sheep-
walks.
   The hills in this parish form part of the Grampian range. The
highest is Wirren, or the hill of springs. There are several others
of considerable elevation.
   Except in the southern part of the parish, where there is some
level ground or haughs, the cultivated land lies on acclivities, ris-
ing gradually from the Westwater and other streams to the foot of
the hills.
   Hydrography.--There are a few mineral springs in the parish,
but of no great importance or magnitude. The principal stream
is the Westwater, a branch of the North Esk. Its source is in the
upper part of the parish, direction south-east; its whole length
about twenty miles. It joins the North Esk about five miles south-
east from the parish at Inveriskandy, i. e. Inveresk and Dye.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks composing the hillr are
all of the primary formation, and, of course, contains no fossil or-
ganic remains. The prevailing kinds of rock are clay-slate and
mica-schist, understood to overly a bed of gneiss, but their extent,
thickness, &c. are unknown. A vein of blue slate traverses the
parish from east to west, and is understood to extend to a great
distance in both directions--indeed, from the German Ocean to
the Western Isles. The slate is of the same kind as that found
at Dunkeld, and Easdale, and is thought to be a continuation of
the same vein which is wrought at these places. The vein was
opened here a few years ago, and wrought for a short time; but
from want of capital or some other cause, this work was discon-
tinued. Some limestone is found in the parish, but of no practical
utility. Red sandstone appears immediately on the south side of
the Westwater, where it divides this parish from Menmuir; but
none in the parish.
   Although the mineral springs indicate the presence of iron in some
of the rocks, no ores of that or an other metal have been found
in the parish. None of the simple minerals found. Various al-


