
2                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

gular cavity, which seems to have been formed by the fall of a frag-
ment of the rock from the upper part, leaving a canopy of stone
stretching overhead, while a portion of the broken mass rests upon
the brink of the ledge that forms the floor. This place is called
the " Maiden Bower Craigs," and is reported to have been used
by the Druids in the pr`ctice of some rites, employed as a test of
virginity.
        Meteorology.-The aurora borealis, which is often observed
here, assumed an uncommon appearance for many evenings in the
beginning of the winter of 1830, and particularly on one occasion,
when the zenith presented a blood-red appearance, with rays of a
pale colour playing across its surface. Suddenly the fainter rays
concentrated themselves into a focus, from which they quickly
diverged in every direction, presenting a beautiful eradiation. In
connection with the aurora, we must not omit to mention the ap-
pearance of two luminous arches, which were that year observed in
this parish, as well as in other parts of the kingdom,-the one be-
tween eight and nine o'clock on the evening of Friday, the 17th of
September, and the other about the same hour on Tuesday, the 5th
of October. On the evening of the 17th of September, the polar
rays gradually formed themselves into an arch, considerably broader
than a rainbow, stretching over from the eastern to the western
horizon, and broader towards the former than the latter quarter.
The highest part of the arch then passed the zenith, and moved
southwards, which gave it the appearance of falling, till it gradual-
ly faded from the view. The phenomenon presented on the 5th
of October was very similar to the above; but it is remarkable,
that, in this instance, the rays flickering for some time in the east,
and darting upwards toward the zenith, did not succeed, till after
several seemingly ineffectual attempts, in throwing an arch across
the heavens. These two beautiful meteors were of the same pale
colour usually presented by the aurora borealis, in the form which
it generally assumes,-stars being distinctly visible through them,
even during the period of their greatest brightness. Several phe-
nomena of a similar nature were obrerved in September 1833.
	The east and north-east winds prevail during spring, and are
often very injurious to vegetation. The south-west wind, however,
is the most prevalent throughout the year. A lurid appearance in
the eastern horizon, called from its direction, a " Carlisle sky,"
the rolling of the clouds landwards, their gathering about the sum-


