
                      WHITBURN.                         83

   The next minister who succeeded Dr Porteous as minister of
Whitburn was the Rev. Mr Baron, who afterwards became Pro-
fessor of Moral Philosophy in the University of St Andrews.
Professor Baron was born at Kershall, in the parish of Corptor-
phine, in 1735; he died in 1803. He received the greater part of
his education at the University of Edinburgh. His first settlement
took place at Wawfray. His reception in the parish was not very en-
couraging; but similar occurrences were not very unusual at that
time. In 1774, he published an essay on the mechanical principles
of the plough, and in 1777, a "History of the Colonization of the
Free States of Antiquity, applied to the present Contest between
Great Britain and her American Colonies." This work attracted
much notice, in this country, and on the continent. It called forth
several keen replies in England, and in the following year a French
translation was published at Utrecht. When at Whitburn, be
likewise wrote his history of the political connection between Great
Britain and Ireland, which was published about 1780. Soon after
be went to St Andrews.
   It is proper to mention, that he wrote an account of the life of
Thomson, which was prefixed to an edition of the "Seasons,"
published at Edinburgh. He also was a contributor to the Edin-
burgh Magazine. Among the distinguished men who then adorn-
ed the literature of Scotland, few were more conspicuous than the
late Lord Karnes. With him Mr Baron lived on terms of fa-
miliar intercourse. His Lordship, about this time, succeeded
in reviving the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh, originally es-
tablisbed by the celebrated Maclaurin. Of this Society Mr Baron
was a member. In a few years, chiefly at the instigation of Frin-
cipal Robertson, this Society merged in another on a more extended
plan, and was incorporated by royal charter under the name of
the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Of this Society Mr Baron was
an original member. He was nominated Professor of Rheteric
and Logic in the University of St Andrews without his knowledge.
This appointment compelled him to give up his benefice at Whit-
burn; but as a compensation for the loss of his living. the King
was, many years afterwards, pleased to confer upon him a pension
of L.100 a-year. His Lecture son Rhetoric were published in 1806.
   Mr Baron was succeeded in the charge by Dr James Somerville.
He was born in Car watch in the year 1747.  He was appointed
minister of Whitburn in 1779, in which charge be laboured about



