
                                       METHVEN.                            155

          about 1100 sittings, which are in general nearly all occupied.  The
          only other place of worship in the parish is a meeting-house in con-
          nection with the United Associate Synod, formerly Antiburgher
          Seceders.
             About the year 1770 this parish had become one of the most
          thorough Seceding parishes in Scotland, and the parish church at
          that time was almost entirely deserted.  By an enumeration, very
          carefully taken in the beginning of the year 1836, it was found
          that the gross population of the quoad sacra parish was then 2450,
          and that the number of communicants belonging to the Establish-
          ed Church was 903.
             In this parish there are no Dissenters in the proper acceptation
          of that term, for all those who do not belong to the church are
          connected either with the United Associate Synod, or with the As-
          sociate Synod of Original Seceders, who have a place of worship in
          a neighbouring parish.
             The number of families in the parish altogether is 630;  of
          these, 354 belong to the Established Church; 234 to what were
          formerly Antiburgher Seceders: and 21 to the Origin`l Seceders.
             The manse is an elegant modern edifice, built in the year 1830,
          at a very considerable expense, and may justly be regarded as an
          unquestionable proof of the liberality and good taste of the heri-
          tors.  It is the largest, and perhaps the bdst finished and most
          convenient, manse in the presbytery.
             The stipend, as modified in the year 1829, is 18 chalders, half
          meal, and half barley, payable by the fiars of the county.
             The glebe consists of 15 acres of good land, capable of bearing
          all kinds of crops, besides 10 acres of unimproved moor land, which
          was allotted to the minister, as his portion of the common, at the
          time it was divided.
             Education.-Nothing can be more satisfactory than the state of
          education in this parish.   There are very few if any adults that
          cannot read, and by the exertions of the benevolent, the poorest
          children have the means of instruction afforded them.  About one-
          ninth of the population is continually employed in attending
          school, and while the general progress is extremely gratifying,
          there are many instances of great proficiency in every department
          of education.  The parochial school has, for `bove twenty years,
          been under the superintendence of the present eminent teacher
          Mr R. Wilson, whose services and whose character have earned
          for him the esteem and confidence of all those among whom he


