
   196                        BANFFSHIRE.

   rural economy being rapidly extended, it is hoped that the con-
   tinued appliance of the means of intellectual and Christian instruc-
   tion will, under the Divine blessing, have a corresponding success,
   and be instrumental in making the moral improvement of the pa-
   rishioners to keep pace with the advancements that are made in
   other respects.  From the latter source only can flow the true and
   permanent happiness of individuals and communities; and states-
   men would do well to keep in view, that all national prosperity will
   just be healthy and secure, in proportion as it is based on the cha-
   racter of a moral and religious people.

      February 1842.


                        PARISH OF CABRACH.\f*
                  PRESBYTERY OF ALFORD, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                   THE REV. JAMES GORDON, MINISTER.


                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-THE name is derived from words in the Gaelic lan-
   guage signifying the Timber Moss, the parish being covered with
   moss and fir.
      Boundaries, Extent, &c.-The medium length of the parish
   from south to north is 5 miles; the breadth from east to west, 3
   miles. It is bounded on the north, by the parish of Glass; on
   the south, by Glenbucket; on the east, by Kildrummy; and on
   the west, by Mortlach and Inveraven.
                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY
      Antiquities.-There is a tradition that one of the Kings of Scot-
   land, Malcolm Canmore, bad a residence in the parish, at a place
   called the "King's haugh," on the farm of Spenwell, and it is said
   there are still ruins of a castle to be seen there.  I went in con-
   sequence to examine the spot, where I found ruins indeed, but such
   as bad evidently been the abodes of later and humbler occupants,
   though the nature and quantity of materials might countenance
   the idea that they had been taken from the remains of some for-

<FOOTNOTE>From Notes furnished by the Rev. William Ronald, parochial schoolmaster of
    Cabrach.


