
318                               AYRSHIRE.

The practice of landlords, and the voice of the tenantry seem to
be at variance on the subject of the effects of such a System. I
shall not attempt to decide the point, though I may be allowed to
remark, that the tenants who have shewn the greatest enterprise
in improvement, and expended most liberally, have their farms on
leases of nineteen years.
	The enclosures are, in general, in good condition and abundant.
The farm-steadings in some cases are not remarkable for comfort,
though in this respect considerable improvement has been made of
late years.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained,--

<TABLE>
         Grain, almost wholly oats, 1100 quarters at L. 1, Is.,              L.1155
         Green crop, chiefly potatoes, 81 acres at L. 8,                        648
         Hay, chiefly meadow,                                                  1800
         Sheep, 8000 pastured, 4s. each,                                       1600
         Cows, 270 at L. 4, 1Os.,                                              1215
         Heifers, &c., 440 at L. 2,                                             880
         Coals,                                                                1441
                                                                              -----
                                                                           L.  8739

	Manufactures.-- The chief manufactures of the village are wool-
spinning, and the weaving of plaiding, tartan, and carpets. There
are two small woollen mills, employing together about thirty hands.
The yarn spun in the largest was wont to be disposed of wholly
to the Kilmarnock carpet-manufacturers; but four years ago, the
proprietor of the mill added to it also a carpet manufactory, where
he has now eight looms constantly at work. The yarn spun in
the other mill is also manufactured on the spot, into blankets,
plaids, and packing-cloth, &c. There are about forty weavers,
besides, in the village, the greater number of whom are occupied
with tartans; a few weave cotton cloth, and a few are customer
weavers, i. e. weaver of home-spun yarn. There was wont to
be a bleachfield of some extent on the f`rm of Dounieston, at the
foot of the parish,--tbe increased importations of Irish linen, and
the extensive substitution of cotton goods for home manufacture,
gradually lessened its employment, and for two years it has been
given up. The premises were last year converted into a thread-
mill, which has been for some time in active operation.
	Those in the mills work ten hours a-day: the weavers' days
and hours are regulated entirely by their inclination or their ne-
cessities; but, being industrious, I apprehend their six days may
average twelve hours each. At this rate of labour their earnings
may average 1s. 6d. per day.


