80                      LANARKSHIRE

   The failure of the Wilsontown iron-works gave a dreadful blow
to the prosperity off that part of the country in which they are si-
tuated, and was felt not only in this parish, but in all the parishes
around.  It closed a market to the proprietors and tenants for al-
most every kind of produce they had for sale, and which they found
ever ready and convenient.  Many of the labourers, too, had all
their hard-earned savings embarked with the company, and were
in a moment reduced to a state of beggary; and of the old and
infirm, many who hoped to spend their old age in comfort and in-
dependence, were added to the paupers' roll.  Even to this day,
indeed, the parish feels, in this way, the effect produced by the
failure; for though many of those who were thus ruined in their
circumstances are dead, yet not a few still remain to swell our as-
sessment.  In a word, it may fairly be questioned whether the erec-
tion of Wilsontown iron-works was advantageous to the parish or
the contrary.  They no doubt gave an impetus, while they flourish-
ed, to improvements, which probably otherwise would never have
been made; but there can be as little doubt that they have brought
burdens on the heritors which they would never have been called
to bear.  As happens in most cases, where such a population has been
collected, the morals of the people have also suffered severely, and the 
religious character of the former inhabitants has been exchanged
for indifference and lukewarmness.  But of this hereafter.
   The advantageous situation of Wilsontown as an iron work will
best appear from a sketch of the minerals connected with, and be-
longing to it.
   The Wilsontown coal-field lies in the form of an elliptical bason
or trough, bearing east of north to west of south about three miles.
The dip is at right angles to the bearing, and is in general about
one to seven or eight.
   The main coal, called the "four feet coal," is the lowest; above
it are several thinner seams,--one of which, resting on a stratum
of fire-clay, is about two feet in thickness, and has been wrought
occasionally, both for the use of the works and for sale.  The ac-
companying strata are numerous and various,--sandstones or free-
stone of different texture and hardness, fakes of various colours,
blaes, (bituminous shale and slate-clay,) fire-clay, small ribs of
ironstone, &c.  Above these, and about thirty fathoms above
the main coal, there is a stratum of limestone of excellent qua-
lity.  It is five feet thick, and from it has been taken the whole
supply for the use of the furnaces, and all the numerous and va-
rious erections since the commencement of the works.  About
