
	     TINGWALL, WHITENESS, AND WEESDALE.                  63

	agriculture. These conditions, however, have never been ful-
	filled.
	   In 1776, Lord Morton sold his lands and casualties in Shetland
	to Sir Laurence Dundas, the ancestor of the present Earl of Zet-
	land, for the sum of L.66,000.
	   Burdens.-There were many burdens imposed on Shetland,
	such as scatt, wattle, sheep, and oxpenny. Although it is main-
	tained that scatt was the Danish land-tax, yet, until lately, it was
	never levied, when the lands were not under cultivation; but, in, a
	process before the Court of Session in 1829, this casual payment
	was made a feu. Scatt varies on the merk from 4d. to, 1s. 6d.,
	those farms or rooms having a right to a large common paying
	more than those not having such a privilege. The scatt was for-
	merly paid in butter and oil. The Shetland proprietors have also
	to pay the British land tax. The wattle was a tax imposed on
	every family, paid in barley to the foud or bailie. It is said to
	have had its origin from presents made to a pious lady, sent over
	by the Bishop of Orkney to bless the pastures, in order to the in-
	crease of the flocks. It is now included in the scatt. Sheep and
	oxpenny had their origin from a certain number of sheep and oxen
      furnished for the governor's table from every parish. It was also
	paid in butter and oil. It, too, is now included in the scatt.
	The feus were also paid in butter. All these butter payments
	were made in merks and lispunds. The lispund was formerly
	15 lbs.; but, in a process lately before the Court of Session, it
      was made 30 lbs. Tron, or 32 lbs. Avoirdupois.
	  By a late act of Parliamentt, the Earl of Zetland (then Lord
	Dundas) obtained leave to dispose of his feus, scatt, &c., which
	have almost all been bought up by the Shetland heritors.
	   Land Rent.-The land mails or rents were anciently paid in
	woodmail, afterwards converted into money and butter. The
	merks land were rated at 6 penny, 12 penny, &c. The 12 penny
	paid 16s. and 16 lbs. butter. The tenant also paid the teinds in
      kind, now converted into money.They also paid one fowl for
	every house or reek "to feed his Majesty's hawks." This claim

          <Footnote>First granted as a compliment to Bothwell, when he took refuge in Shetland
	after his marriage with Queen Mary.
	      See Pundler process.
	      Woodmail, or mill, (cloth payment) was a strong woollen cloth made in Shet-
	land, valued at 2s. per guilding. There are six cuttles or Scotch ells in one guilding.
	      The Bishop of Orkney formerly drew one-half of all the corn teind in Shetland,
	except in the parish of Tingwall, the Archdeacon having the whole of the teinds
	parsonage and vicarage.


