
     286                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

     plied. The Frith, properly so called, contains few important
     kinds of fish, with the exception of the salmon which pass up to
     the rivers; all others, poor and sickly from the freshness of the
     water, are seldom sought for. Beyond the bar of the Gizzen
     Briggs, however, the waters abound with various species, of which
     the most important, in an economical view, are the cod, haddock,
     whiting, flounder, and skate; to which may be added, the halibut,
     turbot, crowner, dog-fish, and many others, besides some small
     trout to be found in the streamlets of the parish. The principal
     shell-fish in the bay (besides many that are less known) are mus-
     sels, cockles, whelks, and crabs, all occasionally used as food; but
     the mussel alone is turned to any great account, existing as it
     does in great abundance upon the sand-banks of the Frith, wbence
     it is yearly removed by fishermen, to be employed for bait. While
     on this head, it may be mentioned, that a few years ago there
     were stranded, west of the town, on the grounds of Mr Ross of
     Cromarty, a number of large porpoises, amounting to about a hun-
     dred, which were frightened, it is supposed, into the bay by a
     thunder storm which had occurred the evening before.
        Woods.-Most of the wood grown in the parish is the Scotch
     fir, with occasional beltings of larch, elm, beech, ash, and birch.
     All of these species thrive well, except where exposed to the keen
     sea-breeze. The estate of Tarlogie contains the finest old trees
     in the parish, many of them, of a venerable appearance and ma-
     jestic height.
                            II.- CIVIL HISTORY.
        Ancient State of the Parish.-Tain appears to have been, in an-
     cient times, a place of considerable importance. From a well-authen-
     ticated document immediately to be mentioned, it is found that
     the Burgh dates its constitution from the latter half of the eleventh
     century, having been originally privileged by Malcolm Canmore,
     -a king celebrated as the successor of Macbeth, and son of the
     murdered Duncan celebrated, too, as the introducer of several
     new customs and dignities into. Scotland;-and claiming to
     be regarded farther as among the first * European sovereigns
     who adopted the enlightened policy of establishing free mu-
     nicipal corporations. At what period the town became, an im-
     portant  ecclesiastical seat, we know not, nor whether its connection
     with St Duthus (who is said by Sir, Robert Gordon, in his History
     of the Family of Sutherland, to have been Bishop of Ross about

     <FOOTNOTE>See Robertson's Charles V. Introductory Trestise, notes 15-18.


