
	                      LAURENCEKIRK.                               151

ly or other stated payments, or to gather such a sum as may be after-
wards deposited in an institution of a more permanent kind. As
connected with this parish, there may also be mentioned the Mearns-
shire Farmer Society, which holds its meetings at Laurencekirk.
It was instituted in 1792, for making provision for the widows and
children of deceased members, each widow receiving L. 10 an-
nually. It has now a capital stock of upwards of L. 7000, and in-
cludes among its members, in number about 120, persons of va-
rious professions in the surrounding country. The present preses
is the Viscount of Arbuthnott, who, with his well known public
spirit, has taken a very active interest in the welfare of the society. *
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are, at present, 38 persons
receiving a stated allowance out of the poor funds,--at an average
of about L. 2, 10s. a year each,--and at least as many others re-
ceiving occasional supply in sums of various amount, up to L. 1 an-
nually. About one-fourth of the regular paupers are males, the
others being chiefly aged women. The class of destitute women
is rapidly increasing from the discontinuance of employments,
by which females advancing in life were wont to earn some
livelihood; yet such is the inevitable result of the extensive
use of machinery. There is a pauper lunatic maintained in the
Montrose asylum, the expense of whose board is paid by the heri-
tors. The ordinary collections in church throughout the year
amount to rather more than L. 60; from the letting of seats be-
longing to the poor funds, (see p. 145,) there is drawn annually
about L. 10; the dues for mortcloths, and other small sources
yield from L. 7 to L. 10; the two principal heritors usually send
donations, of which the average annual amount has for some years
been about L. 25; and, after payment of all expenses falling on
the funds, there is fully requisite, in order to keep both sides of
the accounts duly balanced, a sum of about L. 30, being the in-
terest arising from several legacies and other sums belonging to
the funds. Of these legacies one was bequeathed in 1646, by
William Lawson in Powburn, who mortified "300 merks to the
kirk of Convay," the principal to relahn in the hands of the kirk-
session of Montrose. In 1825, Mrs Shank, relict of the Rev.
AIexander Shank, minister of St Cyrus, left L. 100 to the kirk-
session in aid of the poor; in 1832, Alexander Crombie, Esq. of
Phesdo, left L. 19, 19s., for the same purpose; and in 1883,

<FOOTNOTE>This was written in 1836. The present present Preses in the Master of Ar-
buthnott.


