
374                        FORFARSHIRE.

class who cannot write; but there is reason to believe that nearly
all the young people who have attended school of late years have
received instructions in writing.
	The number of scholars present at the annual examination of the
parish school for the three years preceding 1831, averaged 61;
the number on the roll, 64. The greatest number attending school
in 1831 amounted to 124, of whom 60 attended the parish school;
40 the private school; and the remainder, a private school adjoin-
ing a remote part of the parish. The distance of that part, con-
taining a, population of about l00, is such as to prevent the at-
tendance of the children at the parish school, more especially as
the young are now sent to school at an earlier age than was usual
in former days. There was a private school in that quarter, which
has been discontinued of late, and no additional school seems to
be required for,tbeir accommodation, as a parish school, and the
private school alluded to, are in their neighbourhood.
         Though the number now attending school * be not so great as
could be wished, it is yet greater in proportion to the population
than the number stated as attending in my predecessor's time, when
the population was 700,--a fact which seems to imply an increase of
intelligence on the part of the parents, in appreciating more highly
the benefits of education; and, so far as I have had an opportunity
of judging, I am inclined to think, that an increase of intelligence
has become visible, particularly amongst the Young, within the last
twelve or fifteen years.
	Literature.--A parochial library was instituted here in 1828,
and is under the management of the kirk-session. The readers pay
1s. pdr annum, for the purpose of keeping the books in repair, and
of purchasing a few additional volumes. It is hoped that this in-
stitution, while it tends to increase the intelligence, will also tend
to promote the religious and moral improvement of the people.
	There is another library in the parish, which was instituted se-
veral years ago, by an ingenious young man, who taught at that
time a private school in that quarter. It is managed and supported
by the people in that part of the parish, and, so far as I can learns
is in a prosperous state, and likely to prove conducive to their im-
provement.
	Charitable and other Institutions.--A Friendly Society was in-

<FOOTNOTE>This number, I-am glad to find, is increasing, for the number of scholars in
February 1835 attending the parish school, and the private schools mentioned since
last census, amounts to 147, while the population since last census has increased
about 12.


