
	598                          PERTHSHIRE.

	parts with sand, resting on masses of sandstone and clay slate, -
	these two substances being laid in alternate strata, and forming slop-
	ing banks and eminences of considerable height; and rendering
	the general surface of the parish extremely uneven.  The dip of
	the strata is inclined to the north-west, at an angle varying from
	30 to 40 degrees.
	  Coal mines were wrought here at one period, but are now too
	much exhausted to afford a profitable return.  In some places,
	there is found good tenacious clay, of considerable depth and ex-
	tent, which might be turned to advantage in making bricks, tiles,
	&c.  There is also fire clay of good quality, fit for pottery, and
	which has been partially wrought.  Thin seams of ironstone ap-
	pear in different places between the beds of clay slate, rich in ore,
	but not sufficient in quantity to defray the expense of working.
	  A bed of limestone of about eight feet in thickness is found in
	one place, but at such an inclination as to be but partially wrought.
           Zoology.-In zoology, there are one or two species of animals
	met with in the parish, which are becoming rare.   The roe, (Cer-
  vus capreolus,) the most beautiful of the deer family, is frequent-
	ly seed: it is, however, much persectted, being considered very de-
	structive to the young plantations.  The badger has also been
	seen. The viper, (Coluber berus,) the only species of the serpent
	tribe found in Scotland, is seen during the summer months bask-
	ing in the open sandy spaces among the heath.
           Botany.--A few of the rarer plants found here may be pointed
         out.  Narcissus pseudo-narcissus is found in one spot growing
	abundantly, and has by some been supposed to be indigenous;
  butthere is reason to think that its existence there, seemingly in
	a wild state, is owing to its having been cultivated in a garden, at
	one time situated there.  Doronicum Pardalianches is found at a
	short distance from the last mentioned plant.  The other plants
	which are not so common are, Adoxa moschatellina, Aquileqia vul-
	garis, Arum maculatum, Ballota nigra, Briza media, Chelidoni-
	ummajus, Cistus Lelianthemum, Corallorhiza innata, Nepeta cataria,
	Parietaria officinalis, Polyqonum bistorta, Pyrola rotundtfolia, So-
         lanum dulcamara, Trientalis Europea.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	  Town.-The town was erected into a royal burgh in the year
	1588, by -James VI., and, in conjunction with Stirling, Dunfermline
	Queensferry, and Inverkeithing, sends a representative to Parlia-
         went.  The object of greatest historical interest is the Abbdy or Mo-



