
16                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

bour of Aberdeen, the trunks of a good many oaks of large size
have been dug up, in such situations as to lead to the conclusion
that they had not been brought down by the river, but had grown
where they were found.  One of these, which, when entire and
covered with its bark, must have exceeded 15 feet in circumference,
is set upon the Inch or flat ground between the basin of the har-
bour and the bed of the river Dee.
   No great variety of plants can be said to belong to this parish,
but by the industry of the inhabitants, to which the establishment
of a Horticultural Society about ten years ago, has not a little con-
tributed, a great many of the natives of other districts, and not
a few exotics both esculent and ornamental, have been success-
fully cultivated, and may be said to be almost or altogether natu-
ralized here now.
   The mineral productions of the parish are not less limited than
those of the other departments of natural history. The east parts
of the parish lie altogether on a bed of sea-sand and the low
grounds on the north and east sides, as well as on the bank of the
Dee along nearly half of the south side generally speaking, shew
extensive beds of peat moss lying under the vegetable mould. The
higher grounds are nearly composed of beds of gravel and small
rounded stones.
   Climate and Salubrity.-Notwithstanding the variableness of
the climate, the salubrity of Aberdeen is Dot inferior to that of
other places in the neighbourbood, which are more favourably si-
tuated in this respect.  Catarrhs, pulmonary complaints, and
rheumatism, may be said to be the only diseases that can in any
degree be deemed consequences of the exposed situation of the
town on the east coast of the island.  As in every other large
town, there is a considerable number of cases of fever and other
contagious complaints, which may be regarded as consequent ra-
ther on the crowding together of a great number of individuals,
and on the unfavourable circumstances in which they live, than on
the climate or situation of the district.  The tables drawn up at
the infirmary and dispensaries information to a certain extent,
regarding, the diseases prevalent in a portion, of the community;
and if there were accurate bills of mortality kept they would
supply a good deal of additional information, though it would not
be quite complete or accurate, as many who have lived beyond
the bounds of the parish are buried within it, and vice versa.  In
the absence of this information, little more can be said than that
                           4

