
				AULDEARN.		           15

   facture are as follows: wheat, per quarter, L.2, 10s ; barley, per
   quarter, L. 1, 10s.; oats, per quarter, L. 1; potatoes, per bushel,
   1s.; turnips, per acre, L.5, 10s. ; hay, per cwt. 3s 4d. ; butter,
   per lb., 8d. ; cheese, per lb., 4d. beef and mutton, per lb. 4d. 
   fowls, each 1s. ; eggs, per dozen, 3d. in summer, 6d. in winter.
   Mason-work 2s. 6d. per day; carpenter do., 2s.
      The cattle are of various kinds, chiefly Highland.  The sheep,
   as before-mentioned, are generally of the white-faced breed.  The
   system of husbandry in the parish has of late been greatly improved.
   The general rotation of cropping is the six course shift, to which
   the tenants on all the estates except Kinsteary are bound.  The
   order is as follows : lst year, grass ; 2d, grass ; 3d, wheat or oats ;
   4th, oats; 5th, turnips and potatoes ; 6th barley or wheat.  The
   five course shift is thus arranged: 1st year, grass; 2d, grass; 3d,
   wheat or oats; 4th, turnips and potatoes; 5th, barley or wheat.
   Some of the farms on Colonel Gordon's lands are encloftd with
   good stone dikes.  Much waste land in all parts of the parish has
   been reclaimed within the last thirty years.  Great improvements
   have been made by draining, and by the use of lime and marl,
   bone, dust, and ather manure,
      The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
      The state of farm-buildings has of late been much improved,
   but few enclosures have been made except on the property of Co-
   lonel Gordon of Cluny.
      The principal improvements recently introduced are better
   roads, better farm-buildings, and the greater productiveness of the
   fields by thorough cleaning, and good manuring.
      The principal obstacles to improvement are the want of capital
   on the part of the tenants, the want of a good harbour at Nairn,
   and the want of due encouragement from the proprietors.
      Produce.-- The average gross amount of raw produce yearly
   raised in the parish, as nearly as can be aacertained is as follows :

  		Groin of all kinds,		   L.8440  0  0
		Potatoes and turnips,                2110  0  0
   		Hay,				      300  0  0
   		Posture,			     2375  0  0
   		Wood,				      540  0  0
   				Total,          L. 13,765  0  0

   			V.-- PAROCIRIAL ECONOMY.
      Market- Town.-- There is no market-town in the parish.  Nairn,
   the county town, is the nearest, and, lies two and a-half miles to
   the westward of the churc.  There is but one village of any


