
     of Tulliallan.

   Shipping and Commerce.-Kincardine is a creek, within
the precincts of the custom-house of Alloa*.  For there 40
years past, a considerable number of ship carpenters have re-
sided here, who built annually several sloops and brigantines.
Vessels of 200 and 300 tons have been built here, for the
West India trade, and the Greenland fishery.  In 1786, there
were 9 vessels upon the stocks at one time; and the number
then belonging to this place was 91, and their tonnage 5,461;
which is about 200 tons more than what belongs to Alloa,
and the whole precincts of that port, at present; and more than
half of the tonnage+ of Leith in that year.  If the distilleries,
in this parish and the neighbourhood, had not failed, they
would have been considerably increased: But owing to these,
and a stagnation of trade that succeeded in this place for two
years, theirshipping decreased; and, since that period, 24 vessels,
amounting to 1859 tons, have been sold or lost.  Within these
three years, trade has begun to revive, and several vessels have
been built.  The number of sloops and brigantines belonging
to Kincardine, at present, is 75, and their register tonnage
4043.  All these, excepting two are included in the 5261 tons,
which, in the Statistical Account of the parish of Alloa, are

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the beginning of this century, there were no shipping of any consequence
belonging to it.  They had only 5 boats, from 10 to 20 tuns burden, These
were employed in carrying salt to Leith, and importing from thence wood, and
iron, for the use of the pans, and in the lime trade.  They went no farther.
But after some ship carpenters had come to settle in it, the spirit for ship build-
ing prevailed so much, that, in 1740, they had 30 vessels, from 15 to 60 tons
burden, amounting to 860 tons.  In 1745, several of these were employed in
government service.  When the coal was working, and the salt pans going,
they had abundance of exports; but since these were given up, they have had
none.  Yet this did not destroy their spirit for trade and ship building; for they
had the address and good sense to become carriers to other ports.

+Vide Loch's Essay on the Trade, etc. of Scotland, Vol. II. p.

</UNREADABLE>


