
104                STIRLINGSHIRE.

of Sir John Drummond, married Robert, Earl of Carrick, High
Steward of Scotland, who afterwards succeeded to the throne by
the title of Robert III. The fruit of this marriage was two sons,
one of whom afterwards became James I. Thus the parish may
lay claim to the bonour of having produced a lady from whom
descended the Royal House of Stuart; and who was not more
distinguished for rank and station, than for the many virtues which
adorned her character.
   Eminent Men.--The Napiers of Merchiston had, at one time,
considerable possessions of land in this parish. On the 22d Fe-
bruary 1494-95, Archibald Napier got a charter under the Great
Seal, "of the lands and mill of Gartness, the lands of Dolnare,
Blareour, Gartharne, the two Bollatis, Douchlass, Edinballie," &c.
with the woods and forests thereof, and the fishings of the waters
of Anerich and Altquhore, in the Earldom of Levenax and shire
of Stirling. The whole, with some other lands in adjoining pa-
rishes, was incorporated into a free barony, and called the barony
of Edinbellie Napier. *
   The great grandson of this Archibald Napier was John Napier,
the famous Inventor of Logarithms. According to some autho-
rities, he was born at Gartness, in this parish, in the year 1550.
At all events, he is known to have resided there, at various pe-
riods of his life. Upon his return from his travels on the conti-
nent, be betook himself to those studies and pursuits which have
immortalized his name. The seclusion of Gartness, an isolated
corner, far from the haunts of men, was congenial to a mind de-
voted to the mysteries of theological and mathematical science.
In that sequestered spot, living like a hermit, and engaged in
studies, which few, if any, in these parts could comprehend, it is
not to be wondered at, that he was looked upon by the common
people as a wizard, and was consulted as one who had insight into
futurity, and intercourse with invisible beings. The retirement of
Gartness was not without its annoyances. It is told of him that
the noise of the waterfall and of the mill in the immediate neigh-
bourbood of his residence, tried his temper not a little by disturb-
ing him in his studies. The former he could not prevent; but
often, when engaged in abstruse calculations, he was in the habit
of ordering the miller to stop the constant clack-clack of his wheel.

<FOOTNOTE> A miserable cottage on the farm of Finnich-Drummond, in this parish, is the
last vestige, by name, of this once splendid barony. In the farm of Craigievairn, there
is a large field which still goes by the name of "Lady Napier's Field."


