
                     PARISH OF ARBUTHNOTT.

      PRESBYTERY OF FORDOUN, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

               THE REV. JAMES MYLNE, MINISTER.

            I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.--AUTHENTIC documents in the possession of the Vis-,
count Arbuthnott afford the most distinct evidence that, previous to
the twelfth century, the name of that family and of the district was;
Aberbothenothe: that, about 1335, it had become Aberbuthnot;
and about 1443, Arbuthnott. Aber denotes the influx of a river
into the sea, or of a smaller stream into a larger; Both, Bothena,
a dwelling, a baronial residence, Scotice "The House;" Neth, or
Neoth-ea (Jamieson's Scott. Dict. Diss. p. 18,) the stream that
descends or is lower than something else in the neighbourhood;
whence the name Aberbotheno, the may be understood to mean,
"The confluence of the water below the Baron's house." This
derivation is perfectly applicable to the site of the ancient castle,-
and the present nouse, the residence of the Arbuthnott family,
who have been from time immemorial proprietors of the great-
er part of this parish. The house stands on the narrow point
of a projecting eminence, overlookidg the water of Bervie, as it
flows through a beautiful valley on the south: close beneath it on
the east, a rapid rivulet, formerly of considerable size, runs through
a deep hollow, and joins the Bervie a few hundred yards below.
	Extent and Boundaries.--This parish contains from 14 to 15
square miles of surface. Its greatest extent from east to west is
about 5 miles, and from north to south about 4 1/2. It is bounded
on the west, by the water of Bervie, which separates it from the
parishes of Laurencekirk and Fordoun; on the north, by the Forthy,
which separates it from Glenbervie; on the north-east, by Dun-
nottar; on the east, by Kinneff; on the south, by tbe parish of
Bervie, from which it is separated by the water of Bervie for two
miles and a half; after which it turns to the south-west, on which
side it is bounded by the parish of Garvock.


