
                        ARDROSSAN.	                       195

in 1832, between 4 and 7 feet below the surface, there were dug up
a great number of hazel nuts with the kernels entire, but so tender
as scarcely to bear being handled.
	Soil.--Between the sea and the foot of the hills the soil is in ge-
neral light and sandy, and in the higher and more inland parts, it
is chiefly of a tough clay, though in many places mixed with a bet-
ter kind of earth. Throughout the whole parish, the soil may be
said to be fertile; rendered so by long cultivation, and in the lower
parts by the copious application of sea-ware, and in the higher, by
draining and the free use of lime.
	Zoology.--Much attention is paid to the breed both of horses
and cows, especially of the latter. The Cuninghame breed of
cows is well known, and highly valued, both on account of the
beauty of their form, and the quantity of milk which they yield.
The Cuninghame or Ayrshire cow is of a moderate size, generally
of a brown colour, mixed with white spots; the neck and head small;
the horns short; the limbs slender; the udder finely shaped; the
body straight from the shoulder to the tail, and all the parts well
proportioned. When and by whom this breed of cows was intro-
duced into the country, or from what place they were brought, are
questions which have never received a satisfactory answer. About
eighteen years ago, a peculiar race of cows was kept in Lord Eglin-
ton's parks at Ardrossan. They had no horns, were all white, with the
exception of the muzzle and inside of the ears, which were black.
When fully grown they weighed from twenty-five to thirty stones
avoirdupois. Their number was limited, and being very shy, they
had to be killed by shooting, which it required some precaution to
accomplish. At his Lordship's death they were all sold off, and with
them, according to some, perished the last remains of the breed of
the ancient cows of Scotland. Besides the horses employed in
husbandry, a few are bred for sale; many young cattle reared, and
cows fattened for slaughter. Some of the farmers keep a few sheep,
and almost all of them pigs, which in rummer are fed with whey, of
which those who make cheese have a greater quantity than they
can either sell or use in their own families. Sea-birds of almost
every name frequent the coast, and many of them lay their eggs
and hatch their young on the Horse Isle. The rocks along the
shore towards the north of Ardrossan are much frequented by
seals. Others are found in the Stanley and Caddel Burns, and Caaf.
Polecats are no strangers, and the badger may sometimes be seen
in Monfode bank. There is a large fox cover on Knock-georgan.


