
			  LANARK.                              15

times it seems to have had various altars; one consecrated to the
holy cross, was styled the Ruid Altar, and another to the Virgin,
Our Lady's Altar. To the chaplain who served the latter, James
IV. granted in mortmain a tenement in lanark, which had fallen to
him by royal right. The charter is thus noted in the general index
of charters in the Register office. "Willielmo Clerkson, capellano
moderno ad altare gloriosissimae Virginis Mariae, infra ecelesiam
parochialem de Lanark," dated Lanark, 18th October 1500. In
the reign of Robert III. John Simpson, a burgess of the town,
founded and endowed a chaplainary in this church. The ground
around it continues as of old to be the parish cemetery. For a num-
ber of years it was abandoned to shameful neglect; and the hands
of mischievous boys co-operated with time in accelerating the de-
struction of the venerable ruin. Its appearance has also suffered very
materially by the erection of an ugly square tower in the centre,
for the accommodation of grave-watchers. But better feelings
have lately prevailed. The churchyard has been enclosed with a
wall; and a small fund was raised for the purpose of using means
to prevent the total dilapidation of the ancient pile. Considera-
ble repairs were made, which it is hoped will uphold it a century
or two longer to grace the spot where so many generations of La-
narkers repose. *
	Before the Reformation there were various chapels in this pa-
rish, of which, however, there remain at the present day scarely
any other memorial than the tradition of their existence, and the
names which they have given to the spots at or near which they
were situated. +

<FOOTNOTE>If the dead were conscious of what takes place above them, the ashes of at least
one of the sleepers in this churchyard must have been disturbed by the profanations
which used to take place in it. I allude to Mr William Birnie, of whom it is said
in Nesbit's Heraldry, that when of age, and after three years study abroad, he was
upon the 28th of December 1597, presented by King Jamess VI. to the parish of
Lanark. An interesting reprint of an old and learned work of this person, entitled
" The Blame of Kirk Burial tending to persuade to Cemeterial Civilities," has late-
ly been made by William Turnbull, Esq. advocate. The author, in quaint but
powerful language, inveighs against the practice of burying in the area of churches,
but delivers many admirable sentiments on the honour due to the resting-place of
the dead. It would appear that in his day the ecclesiastical profession required more
various and extensive accomplishments than are now deamed necessary, or even be-
coming in clergymen. For it is said of Mr Birnie, "that be not only learnedly
preached the gospel in this parish, but, because of the several quarrels and feuds
amongst the gentlemen, was obliged many times, as he well could, to make use of
his sword"
  Some notice  respecting the chapels of St. Nicholas, at St. Leonards, and the cha-
pels at Cleghorn and East Nemphlar, will be found in the original MS.


