
     Of Old Luce.

   Rent, Heritors, Stipend, etc.-The valued rent of the
parish is 5991 L. 15 s. Scots, and the real rent about 3500 l.
Strling.  There are 9 heritors, 5 of whom have houses,
in which some of them reside constantly, and others occa-
sionally.
   The church is too small for the inhabitants, but toler-
ably well finished, and in good repair.  The King is pa-
tron.  The stipend, by an augmentation lately obtained,
is about 100 L.  The manse was built about 50 years ago,
and is a large and good house.  The glebe has evidently
been the garden of the abbey, and contains exactly 12
acres, including the ruins, manse, and present garden.
The ruins notwithstanding the immense quantities carried
away, still cover, or render of no value, about 1 1/2 acre of
the glebe.
   The abbey was founded in the year 1190* ; and it ap-
pears from the ruins, to have been a very extensive build-

     VOL. XIV. 3 R

<FOOTNOTE>

there has been a progressive union of two or more of these.  This has
lessened considerably the number of sumers.  But, besides the division
of land into small farms, there was, in general, a farm servant upon
each of them, called a cottar or worker, who had a house, with a wife
and family.  The number of these diminished, of course, with the en-
largement of farms; and their number has again decreased in consequence
of the farmers preferring unmarried servants, in their families, to the
cottar in his own house.  The enclosing of land has likewise contributed,
in part, to the depopulation, by rendering herds, who generally had
wives and families, altogether unnecessary.  These causes have occasion-
ed the depopulation; and unless manufactures be introduced, there is no
probability that the population will increase, while the mode of large
farms continues.

*The monks were of the Cisterian order; and a Thomas Hay was
appointed commendator so late as 1560.  The Pope's bull, dated at
Rome, 2d May 1560, appointing him, Commendator Vallis Lucis atque
de Glenluce, is still in the possession of the commendator's family, in this
parish, Sir Thomas Hay of Park, Baronet.


