
                        CLACKMANNAN.                       133


Stirling and Alloa to North Queensferry about three o'clock in
the afternoon. There is a coach from Alloa to Glasgow, which
passes Clackmannan, every week-day morning a little after six
o'clock, and returns every week-day evening about half-past eight
clock. The steam-boats which sail between Stirling and Granton
pier, afford to the inhabitants of Clackmannanshire a very cheap and
very agreeable mode of visiting Edinburgh, and all intermediate
places. Alloa and Kincardine are the places where Clackmannan-
shire passengers are received and landed.
    Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated beside the
town of Clackmannan, and its position in reference to the popula-
tion of the parish is as eligible as any that could have been select-
ed. But the extent of the parish, and the amount of the popu-
lation are so great that neither any one church nor any one minister
could be regarded as sufficient for them.
   From the church of Clackmannan, the parish extends towards
the north-east, six and a-half miles : and towards the north-west,
fully four miles. In the north-west division of the parish, there is
a population of 1800, whose average distance from the parish
church is more than three miles. The writer, feeling deeply con-
scious of his utter inability to do anything like justice to a population
of about 5000, scattered over a surface of nineteen square miles,
set himself to the task of endeavouring to raise money for the
erection of an Extension church in the north-west division of the
parish. By the Divine blessing, on the exertions which were em-
ployed by himself and others, funds for the purpose were at length
realized, and the new church will be finished by the beginning of
January 1842. The writer now entertains the cheering hope of
seeing, ere long, an ordained minister labouring in the new parish
of Sauchie, and of being thereby himself enabled to concentrate
his exertions on a somewhat manageable field. The Extension
church of Blairingone, in the parish of Fossaway, is not a mile
distant from the north-east extremhty of the parish of Clackmannan,
and, accordingly, a district of considerable extent, but of small po-
pulation, has been detached ecclesiastically from the writer's pa-
rish, and connected with the quoad spiritualia parish of Blairingone.
After deducting the amount of the population of the two districts
to which allusion has been made, there will remain under the wri-
ter's own pastoral superintendence about 3,300 souls. And when
the parish has been circumscribed in the manner which has been
mentioned, none of its population will be more than four and a-


