
270                        LANARKSHIRE.

interruptions, it has been in the bands of his descendants. The first
of the interruptions alluded to was about the year 1581, when it fell
for a short time into the hands of Captain Stewart. The other sus-
pension (equally short in duration) was in 1654, when, by Crom-
well's act of grace and pardon, William Duke of Hamilton, de-
ceased, was excepted from all benefit thereof, and his estates for-
feited; reserving out of them L. 400 per antium, to his Duchess
during her life, and after her death, L. 100 per annum, to each of
his four daughters, and their heirs for ever. The Castle of Cad-
zow seems to have been repaired at different periods. The keep,
with the fosse around it, a narrow bridge on the south, over the
fosse, and a well inside, are still in good preservation, and are all
of polished stone, of a reddish colour. Several vaults, and the
walls, probably, of the chapel, and other offices, are still visible.
Cadzow Castle has been celebrated in a fine ballad by Sir Wal-
ter Scott. The Castle of Darngaber (i. e. the "house between
the waters," or, as some have supposed, the "hiding place of the
goats,") in the S. E. side of the parish, is said to have been built
by Thomas de Hamilton, son of Sir John de Hamilton, Dominus
de Cadzow. Its ruins stand on a small knoll at the extremity
of a tongue of land, where two rivulets meet. The foundations
only of this ancient fortress can now be traced. They are entire-
ly of flat shingly stones, without lime, and seem never to have been
subjected to a tool. Small vaults have been discovered, which
are not arched, but drawn together as conduits sometimes are.
It is probable, therefore, that Thomas de Hamilton did not build,
but only repaired, this Castle.
	The most perfect, and indeed, the only tumulus, properly speak-
ing, in this parish, is at Meikle Earnock, about two miles south of
Hamilton. It is at present about 12 feet diameter, and 8 feet
high. It was formerly much larger, and hollow at the top. When
broken into, several urns were found, containing the ashes of hu-
man bones, some of them accompanied by the tooth of a horse.
There was no inscription seen, but same of the urns, which were
all of, baked earth, were plain, and others decorated with moulding,
probably to distinguish the quality of the deceased.
	ln the haugh, to the north of the palace, there is an ancient
moat-hill, or seat of justice. It appears to be about 30 feet dia-
meter at the base, and about 15 or 16 feet high, and is flat at the
top. When it Stood formerly in the midst of the town, it formed
part of the garden of an alehouse, and was dressed with the spade,


