
                              INVERARY.			        19

fluence would be felt less degrading, and thEIr arbitration accept-
ed with less reluctance.  Their frequent residence here must also
have modified the views and softened the manners of their depend-
ents; and probably also the military operations, in which they
were frequently engaged, might be the means of diffusing among,
their retainers and followers an acquaintance with the habits of
their southern and more civilized countrymen.  But, whatever, the
reason may be, so it is that we have no accounts of petty warfares,
and jealous chieftains, and cruel oppressions connected with this
parish.
   Any movements here seem to have arisen rather from religious
than civil causes.  Archibald, the fourth Earl of Argyle, succeed-
ed to the estate and titles of his father in 1542, * and embraced
the principles of Protestantism at an early period of the Reforma-
tion.  His influence and example, it is believed, kindled the war
of opinion speedily among the people, and, on his death-bed, he
bequeathed to his son Archibald, the fifth Earl of Argyle, those
principles which he himself valued so dear.
   The son possessed the wisdom, and followed the councils of
his father, giving thereby steadiness to the impulse which the
cause of truth had here received.
   About this time, also, Mr John M'Vicar, a native of this pa-
rish, and proprietor of Stronmagachan, renounced Popery.  He
was educated at Rome, and received orders from the Popish
church, but, embracing the principles of the Reformation, he mi-
nistered in this parish, seemingly with the charity and the wisdom
that are so proper apd so valuable during times in which the views
of men are undergoing any great transition.  A man of command-
ing talents and devoted piety, surrounded by many family connec-.
tions, and with strong convictions in his own mind, the parson of
Kilmilieu, as he is still familiarly called, feared not to avow his
views of truth, and to maintain them in the face of rank and power;
while, by being all things to all men, Roman Catholics and Pro-
testants vied with each other in their respect for him.  The writer,
has obtained a large stone, about thirteen inches in height, and
two feet in diameter, cut into an octagonal form, with a font above
and below, once the property of Mr M'Vicar and which he used
in the baptism of Protestants and Roman Catholics, by turning
either side, for water or holy water, according to the opinions or
Prejudices of his people.  The fact way instruct us in the religious

<FOOTNOTE>Life of John Duke of Argyle, page 11.


