
                      MID-CALDER.                        371

induce us to believe that it was founded by Sir William Crichton,
Lord High Admiral of Scotland, who had a possession in the pa-
rish of Cramond. This castle is supposed to have been built about
1440, and Sir William is said to have been connected with the
noble family of this parish. These reports, however, are destitute
of any historical proof.
  Murieston Castle, now the property of Mr Keir, having fallen
into decay, the present proprietor has repaired, or rather rebuilt,
a small portion of it. The other very ancient building at Pum-
pherston, the property of the Earl of Buchan, has long been in
ruins, and has lately been entirely removed. The mansion-house
of Linbouse likewise bears the marks of great antiquity, having
towers and battlements, which are still in tolerably good preserva-
tion.
  In the southwest district of this parish is a Roman camp or
post, in a state of tolerable preservation. It stands on a com-
manding situation, on the summit of an eminence called Castle
Greg (Castellum Gregis,) near the passage of the ridge which se-
parates Lothian from Clydesdale, and to the west of which passes
the road from this parish to Lanark by Crosswoodhill. In this
camp, now the property of Alexander Young, Esq. of Harburn,
several Roman coins have been dug up in good preservation, on
which the Roman eagle is sufficiently apparent. This camp is
not situated in the parish of West Calder, as was supposed
by the author of the last Statistical Account of that parish, but
in the farm of Camilty or Cameltree, in this parish. Some years
ago, three enterprising young farmers dug up the foundation of
the well belonging to this camp; and, under the great stone in
which the flag-staff had stood, they discovered a considerable
quantity of Roman coins, some of which were purchased by a
goldsmith in the city of Edinburgh.
 The ancient part of the building of Calder House may also be
considered as a work of great antiquity. The walls are impene-
trably hard, and are about 7 feet in thickness. The great hall-
which is now the drawing-room, stands upon arches, and, in early
times, was paved with stone.
 In this large apartment, formerly called the hall of Calder
House, the great Reformer, John Knox, administered the Holy
Sacrament of the Supper, according to the Protestant form, for
the first time in Scotland after the Reformation. This room, ac-
cordingly, is appropriately adorned at the one end by an excellent


