
140                           FIFESHIRE.

and more probable of the two is, that about two or three hun-
dred years ago, a noted robber or house-breaker suffered the ex-
treme penalty of the law here, and that, from this circumstance, it
got the name of Gallowstown, afterwards of Gallaton. It was long
a place celebrated for the making of nails: and when Dr Adam
Smith resided in Kirkaldy, he frequently came to converse with the
more intelligent nailers in this village respecting their mode of barter.
  The village of Boreland is the most inconsiderable of the three.
it is about half a-mile to the south-east of Gallaton; it was found-
ed about a century ago, and is inhabited by those who are employ-
ed in the coal works. About twenty years ago, there were fully 300
individuals residing here; but by the last census the population does
not exceed 184. This arises from the coal works being carried on
on a less scale than formerly.
  Means of Communication.-The parish enjoys ample means of
communication with almost every part of the country. It has two
post-offices or rather sub-offices; Kirkaldy being the nearest post-
town. The turnpike roads are in excellent condition. There is
one which leads to Dundee and Aberdeen, about four miles and a-
half in length; another leading to St Andrews by Ceres, about
three miles in length; and another which branches off from the
great road to Dundee and leads into the interior of the country,
north from the village of Gallaton. Besides two steam-boats which
ply regularly to Newhaven, a packet which plies three times a-week
to Leith, and an occasional one to Dundee, no fewer than six pub-
lic carriages travel on the turnpike roads, -two to Aberdeen, one
to Dundee, one to Perth, one to Montrose, and one to Crail.
  The only two bridges in the parish which peed to be mentioned
are those on the water of Oar and Lochty. The one is about two
miles and a-half from the cross of Dysart, and the other about
three miles.
  The harbour of Dysart, the revenue of which belongs to the
burgh, has been long and well known not to be one of the safest
on the Frith of Forth. In winter, when the wind is easterly,
it is extremely dangerous. The swell inside of it is so great
that ships have been frequently driven from their moorings, and
have been almost wrecked in it; indeed, it is no unusual thing
to be obliged to scuttle them. This arises not so much from
the situation of the harbour, as from the construction of the east
pier. Several eminent engineers and naval gentlemen have repeated-
ly given it as their opinion, that, were part of it taken down and car-
ried out in a different direction, Dysart might not only be made


