
                       DUDDINGSTON.                        397

neighbourhood, there are three spirit-shops, and in Wester Dud-
dingston, there are four taverns. These last-mentioned taverns
depend more upon the population of Edinburgh for their encou-
ragement, than on the inhabitants of the village in which they are
situated, and this accounts for their number.
   Fuel.-Coal is universally used, and is procured in great abun-
dance from the pits in the surrounding parishes. The price va-
ries, according to quality, from 10s. to 12s. per ton.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   It may be remarked, that the now highly cultivated estate of
Duddinston was much later than Prestonfield in undergoing any
real or substantial improvement. The tenants originally possess-
ed their land in run-ridge, or run-dale, and resided in the villages
of Easter and Webster Duddingston, and had access to a common,
upon which they pastured their cattle that were kept by a common
herd. Previous to the year 1746, there was not an instance of a
lease ever having been granted upon the whole estate. In 1751,
the late Earl of Abercorn began to subdivide his estate into com-
modious farms, to build suitable farm-steadings and offices, to en-
close his fields with hedges, and to improve them by draining.
Before l746, the medium rent was 10s. per acre; at the time (1794)
when the last Statistical Report was written, it averaged L.2, 2s.;
at present it will average L. 5, 10s. per acre.
   In 1762 the Figget lands, containing 70 acres, upon which
Portobello is now built, was a perfect waste covered with furze and
whins, and let to one of the tenants of the Duddingston estate for
200 merks Scots, or L. 11, 2s. Sterling. These lands were
sold the following year for the sum of L. 1500. The purchaser
immediately began to improve his property, and in a few years
after be divided it into separate lots for feus, which be granted, ac-
cording to locality, from L. 2, 2s. and upwards per acre, by which
he obtained in a very short time L. 7 per cent for his purchase
money.
   This parish, with the Perception of a direct carriage-road from
Wester Duddingston to Edinburgh, enjoys every facility and ad-
vantage which good roads, in all directions can afford. The peo.
ple are now much better lodged, their mode of dressing and liv-
ing is greatly improved, and much more' attention is paid to do-
mestic cleanliness and comfort.
   Revised August 1843.


