
                           RESCOBIE.                     603

accurately ascertainned. Tradition bears that the name of the
castle was Brainsdale, or Barnsdale, perhaps a corruption of Banes-
dale, and that the foundation of the castle are still to be seen in
the loch in a clear day. It is evident from the kirk-session re-
cords, that Rescobie once had its kirk-town; but this also has
dissappeared.
	Rescobie is said to have been a considerable burgh of barony.
it seems to have formed a part of the archdeaconry of St Andrews,
and it gave name to a barony within the regality of St Andrews.
In 1557, the Archdeacon of St Andrews, with permission of
the Archbishop and chapter, granted to Richard Shoreswood a
charter of the lands of Wilkienstone ( in Fife ), and of the brewlands
and alehouse of Rescobie.
	In 1561, at the general assumption of the rents of ecclesiastical
benefices, the spirituality of the kirk of Rescobie is stated as a part
of the benefice of the archdeacon. And in the Archibishop's tax
roll of 1630, Pitscandly, Carsebank, Carse, Balmadies, and mill
of Rescobie, appear among the lands which held of the archiepis-
copal see. *
        Eminent Characters,-King Dofnald, or Donald the seveth,
called by some Donald Bane, the brother of Malcolm Canmore, +
is said to have died in confinement at Rescobie, anno 1097. After
being defeated and taken prisoner, his eyes were put out by the or-
ders of his nephew, King Edgar, according to the cruel policy of
a barbarous age. The "Chronicon Elegiacum," a monkish Poem,
alluding to these things, says,

		"Rursus Dofnaldus, Duncano rege peremto,
		Ternis rex annis regia sceptra tenent.
		Captus ab Edgaro vita privatus. At ille
                  Rescolpyne obiit: ossaque Iona tenet." ++

	For Rescolpyne there is given as a varios reading in the mar-
gin, Recolbyne. It has been doubted wheather the expression in
the third line, "vita privatus," means that King Donald was re-
duced to, and lived in a private condition, or that he was put to
death by Edgar. But the words that follow seem plainly to re-
strict the expression to the first of these interpretation. Of this
illustrious but unfotunate personage, it is said again, "Donald
Mac Donachat regnavit iii. annis. Hic captus est ab Edgar Mac-

<FOOTNOTE>From Martini Reliquiae Divi Andreae
      Knox's Topography of the Basin of the Tay.
      Forduni Scotichronicon, Lib. v. chap 29.


