
                          PARISH OF RHYNIE.

               PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE, SYNOD OF MORAY. *


		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	The old parish of Essie was, very long ago, united to that of
Rhynie.
	Boundaries.--The parish is bounded on the north by  Gartly;
on the south, by Auchindoir; on the west, by Cabrach. Its fi-
gure is nearly square.
	The soil is various. There is but one mountain in the parish:
it is called Noth, about 1000 feet above the level of the sea.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers.--These have been irregularly kept.
	Land-owners.--The sole land-owner in the parish is His Grace
the Duke of Richmond.
	Antiquities.--The most remarkable of these is on the summit
of the hill of Noth, and considered by MacCulloch to be the re-
mains of a vitrified fort. What appear to have been the walls are,
in some parts, more than ten feet in thickness. It is very difficult to
conceive how such a mass of loose stones could, by any artificial
process, be cemented together by fusion, and, supposing that the
requisite heat could be excited, it is difficult to conceive it possi-
ble so to regulate the heat throughout so great a mass, as that only
so many of the stones should be fused as were required to cement
the others. The conducting power of earthy matter is so very
low, that the outer surface would be run before the centre could
be warled. The result of such a process would be case-harden-
ing; but the fact is, the cementation is as perfect in the centre as
on the surrace more immediately exposed to the fire.
	At the foot of the hill, on the north-west, there are several tu-

<FOOTNOTE>From notes furnished by the Rev. Thomas Wright.
	The proceedings consequent on the presentation to the parish of Marnoch in 1837,
led to the deposition, by the General Assembly in 1841, of the Rev. William Allar-
dyce, minister of this parish; in which Mr Allardyce and a minority of the General
Assembly do not acquiesce. They have obtained a suspension and interdict from the
Court of Session.


