
                                NORTH UIST.                        181

      land possessed by each family.  At present, it is notorious, that
      there are no less than 390 families not paying rents, but living
      chiefly on the produce of small spots of potato ground given
      them by some of their neighbours and relatives.  Subdivisions of
      this kind, from the purest motives of humanity, will and must
      take place.  To force the people away, has been entirely repug-
      nant to the humane feelings of the Noble proprietor and his ma-
      nagers.  A few years ago, when it was necessary to remove some
      of the inhabitants from a place where they could hardly earn a
      scanty subsistence, Lord Macdonald very generously afforded
      them assistance to emigrate to British America.
         Steam navigation, judiciously arranged and properly conducted,
      would in some degree supply the want of local manufactures, by
      affording facilities of export, and of communication with the south.
         No regular steam-boats are employed to ply to this quarter: and
      the failure of the attempts that have been made to establish them
      has arisen from the circumstance, that the boats were not well fit-
      ted for the kind of trade proper to the district.  They should have;
      been adapted to convey cattle, &c. instead, of being splendidly fit-
      ted up for passengers.
         In conjunction with the projected plan of sending cattle and
      other produce from the West Highlands to the Liverpool and
      Glasgow markets, were a steam-boat of proper constructions for the
      conveyance of cattle established to ply during the season alter-
      nately, along the west side of Skye with the Long Island coast,
      and the east side of Skye with the oppposite part of tbe main-
      land,--no doubt can, exist that I the speculation would succeed,
      and would prove extensively beneficial to these remote quarters.
      The great variety of other raw produces that might be exported,
      and the goods of various kinds required for the overgrown popu-
      lation, would, in a short time create, a trade-which, must, inevi-
      tably spur the industry, and promoted the comfort of all, classes of
      the inhabitants.

        1837.


