
664                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

tion. Recollecting that a citizen of Edinburgh, Thomas Moodie,
had many years before left a sum of money now accumulated, in
the hands of the town-council, for building a church, the inhabi-
tants now applied to King James, begging that he would interpose
his authority for the fulfilment of the pious citizen's bequest. A
royal mandate was in consequence issued, and a piece of ground
purchased for the church and burying-place, and the building
was begun in 1688. The church is in the form of a cross, with
a handsome front, and cost about L. 2400 Sterling. In the burial-
ground lie the remains of Dr Adam Smith, Professor Dugald
Stewart, and Ferguson the poet.
   Leith Wynd and New Street churches are within this parish.
The parish of Canongate is a collegiate charge. The first mi-
nister has a stipend of L. 240 and a manse. The second has
about the same stipend, and is allowed L. 50 in lieu of manse.
Tha stipends are partly paid from the Exchequer, &c. and the
remainder is made up from the annuity tax.
   St Cuthbert's or West Church.-There was a church in the
present situation of the West Church as early as the time of Mac-
beth. In the charter of foundation of the monastery of Holyrood-
house, there is mention of donations made to the church of St
Cuthbert by that monarch, who usurped the throne in the year
1052. The present building was erected in 1775. It is a plain
square church, with a handsome spire, which was afterwards add-
ed; and being seated with double galleries, it will contain 2400
persons. It was built at an expense of L. 4231 Sterling. The
parish of St Cuthbert's originally included the suburbs to the
west and north of the ancient royalty, and formed a large and
populous parish. After the great increase of the new town, how-
ever, the increase of population in this direction rendered it neces-
sary to subdivide the parish into several new ones. This is a
collegiate church. The stipend of each of the ministers is-20
bolls of wheat, 10 oats, 189 barley, 189 oatmeal; L. 15 are allowed
for communion elements. There is one manse belonging to the
oldest minister by ordination; and there is an annual allowance of
L. 60 to the other minister, the consequence of a gift, in former
times, of an house and piece of ground now converted into bury-
ing ground, and made a part of the St Cuthbert's church-yard.
There is also a mutual globe which is now feued, and yields to
each minister upwards of L. 200 a year.
			       3


