
     of Kirkaldy.

was their state about that time, and so unpromising had the
prospect become; first, through the non-importation agree-
ment of America, and afterwards, through the commence-
ment of hostilities with that country, that some of the ma-
nufacturers thought of turning their capital into a different
channel.
   One of them*, however, previously resolved on an at-
tempt to introduce the manufactures of this place into the in-
ternal comsumption of England.  The attempt was made,
and immediately succeeded; and the manufacture of checks
and ticks having been of late resigned in many parts of that
country, for finer and more profitable articles, and the dif-
ference in the price of labour too, enabling the Scots ma-
nufacturer to furnish them at a lower rate, the demand from
England has increased; and the trade has in consequence
been progressively advancing for 15 years, without suf-
fering any other interruption, than that periodical stag-
nation, which is produced in times of prosperity by over-
trading.
   At present the manufactures of Kirkaldy employ about 810
looms+; of which about 250 are in the parish++, about 300

<FOOTNOTE>

*The late Mr. James Fergus, of the house of John Fergus and Sons; to
whose discernment and spirit, the manufacturers of this district owe their in-
troduction to a market which of all others yields the quickest and surest re-
turns,-the inland market of England.
+This number is ascertained from lists furnished by the manufacturers in-
dividually.  The whole district employs about 2000 looms; the produce
which for the year ending 1st November 1793, when the returns from the
stamp-office to the trustees are made up, may be estimated at L 110,000.
++The whole looms in the parish, which are triple the number that
they were 4 years ago, amount to 266.  But of these from 10 to 16 are em-
ployed by inhabitants of the neighbouring parishes; two of whom have shops
here for the purchase of goods, but are not ranked among the manufacturers
of the parish.


