
                        MARKINCH.                      667

sonry. The space thus enclosed forms an oblong area of 108
feet by 65. The main entrance into the court is by an arched
gateway, flanked on each side by towers, which bear marks of hav-
ing been at one time provided with battlements and machieoulis.
Over the arch are the remains of a chamber, communicating with
the tower by a narrow passage conducted in the thickness of the
wall. The castle has once been surrounded on three sides by a
deep fosse, and a strong rampart of earth. On the side of the
river no defence was needed other than the inaccessible nature of
its position. With all these stern appliances and means to pro-
voke assault and to resist aggression, history records no tale of
siege sustained, nor doughty feats of arms performed under its
walls, or within the fair and ample domain by which it is surround-
ed,--nor are its precincts stained by any of those deeds of blood
or torture which throw an interesting gloom over so many similar
monuments of feudal times. The earliest proprietors of Balgony
of whom there is any record, are the Sibbalds. It afterwards pass-
ed by intermarriage to a cadet of the family of Lundin. In the
reign of Charles I. the lands of Balgonie were purchased by Ge-
neral Alexander Leslie, who was created Earl of Leven by that
hapless monarch, with succession to heirs-general of his body,
lawfully begotten. Owing to the failure of male heirs in the per-
son of Alexander, third Earl of Leven, the title and estates de-
volved to his sister, Lady Catherine Leslie, who was married to
the second son of the then Earl of Melville, and became Countess of
Leven in her own right. By the death of his elder brother, the Lord
Raitb, her husband succeeded to his paternal title and inheritance,
thus uniting the two earldoms in one family. In 1823, the beau-
tiful and extensive estate of Balgonie was purchased for the sum of
L. 104,600, by James Balfour, Esq. of Whittingham, brother of
the late General Balfour of Balbirnie, who, it is understood, de-
signs to rebuild the castle, at present fast hastening to decay, on a
scale answerable to his ample fortune, and the ancient grandeur of
the pile.
     The principal seat of the Balfours was the castle of that name,
as already mentioned. They reckon their descent from the time
of King Duncan, and their names appear as sheriffs of Fife, and
as present at successive Parliaments, down to the reign of Robert
II. The ancestor of the Balbirnie branch was a cadet of Balfour
of that Ilk; who, having married a daughter of Thomas Sibbald
of Balgonie, obtained with her a grant of the lands of Dovan, in


