
     of Dunkeld.

in the style of the architecture.  The pillars are round; two
range of arches, (seven in the length of the range), and
above them a range of windows, (equal in number), rise on
each another in the walls of the nave.  At the west end of
it, the remains of a magnificent window meet the eye.  In
the wall of the south aisle, there is a monument which has
been erected over the grave of one of the bishops.  A figure of
a bishop, with his Episcopal staff and dress, still lies in the niche
which had been cut out for it.
   The area of this part of the building is employed as bu-
rying-ground by the inhabitants.  On the day on which
the sacrament is dispensed in the church, a tent is erected
in it, and sermon delivered;-a striking picture of the mu-
tability of human opinions, and human things!
   The porch of the south gate of the cathedral, built by bi-
shop Lauder, is mentioned by Abbot Mill* to have been a 
handsome piece of architecture, and "beautified with seve-
"ral fine images."  The images have been long since de-
stroyed, and the whole wears the appearance of decay.
   One cannot cease looking at the nave and aisles of the
cathedral, without lamenting as he sees them stand roofless
and in desolation.  While he muses, he mourns with regret
over the blind and hasty zeal, which, in the ardour of chan-
ging a creed, demolished a building, nor spared, in its ha-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Manuscript History of the Lives of the Bishops of Dunkeld.  Mill
was one of the Canous of the cathedral in the time of Bishop Brown and
Bishop Gavin Douglas; and is remarkable from being made in 1532, (see
Lord Harles' Catalogue of the Lords of session), the first President of the
Court of Session.  A copy of the work quoted above (which there is rea-
son to believe belonged to Bishop Sinclair) is in the Advocates Library in
Edinburgh; and there is a copy transcribed from that one in the library of
the Duke of Atholl.  His Grace has a translation of it also, made at the re-
quest of the late Duke, by the Reverent Dr Bisset of Logierait. 


