
                                  CAPUTH.                            679

	great improvement, not only in the labouring of the soil, but also
        in the quantity and quality of the crops;  and it is presumed that
        proprietors can in no way more effectively and permanently pro-
        mote at once their own, and the interest of the tenant, than by
	giving liberal encouragement to carry it into full operation.
           Embanking.-After sudden thaws or heavy rains the Tay fre-
        quently rises to a great height, and is therefore liable to inundate
        the low grounds along its sides.  At Delvine it rose in 1831 fifteen
        feet above the lowest mark there in 1826.  The late Sir Alexander
        Muir Mackenzie, and Lady Keith, raised embankments to a great
        extent, and on the most scientific principles; these, with self-acting
        flood valves on the drains, &c. now completely protebt these estates
        from all ordinary inundations of the river.
           Live-Stock.-The cattle are of a mixed breed.  The larger and
        finer breeds of Teeswater (short-horned) and Ayrshire being intro-
        duced among the original stock, which were principally of the
        Angus-sbire dodded cattle, have much improved it.  They grow to
        a good size, are early fattened, and are generally sold in Blair-
        gowrie, for supplying the London, Glasgow, and Edinburgh mar-
        kets.
           Horses.-The local agricultural associations have done much
        for the improvement of the breed of horses for agricultural pur-
        poses by awarding high premiums for the best Clydesdale horses
        to travel the district.
           Sheep.-Many of the farmers are getting into the way of keep-
        ing a few Leicester sheep, which, from the high price of wool, and
        the benefit these are to the land, are rather a profitable stock.
        Others of them purchase what is termed a flying stoctk in the
        atttumn.  These are in general three year old wethers, which they
        feed off on their turnip, and sell them the following spring, but
        what is more general, the farmers let their turnip with fodder, to
        graziers and others, to be eaten down by sheep.  The sheep
        husbandry is much approved of, and found very profitable on dry
        soil.
           Swine.-There is a great variety of breads of swine.  However,
        the large mill swine are most sought after from the great size they
        grow to, but the American and the original Highland bredd are
        of much better quality.
           Wages.- The wages of a common farm-servant vary from
        L.12 to L.14, with board and lodging ; and those of women ser-
	vants from L.5 to L.7 for the year ; labourers from 8s. to 10s.



