
     Statistical Account

part of Lecropt and Kincardine, on the east; and Callander,
part of Port of Monteith, and another part of Kincardine, on the
west.  It is separated from Muthill, by a hill called Uaine-
voir, (which is, properly, Uaigh-mor); and from the parish
of Kippen by the river Forth; and for a considerable way
north from this river, it interests the parish of Kincardine.
The whole area of the parish is supposed nearly equal to a
square of 8 miles, or 64 square miles.
   The soil is various, viz. carse-clay, till, loam, sandy soil,
boggy soil, heath or moor, and moss.  The lands on the
side of Forth are rich carse clay; the rising grounds to the
north comprehending the lands of Coldoch, Craighead,
Spittalton, and Gartincaber, are mostly a rich garden mould;
the south banks of the Teith, are a mixture of till and loam;
the north banks, and the grounds for, perhaps, a mile north-
ward, are not so rich, having a mixture of land.  In this
district, however, there are several farms of excellent quali-
ty, capable of producing all sorts of grain in perfection, par-
ticularly, in the lands of Craigton, Annat, Argaty, etc.

   The higher grounds of the parish, extending to Uaigh-
mor, are mostly wet boggy ground, and moss and moor.
   The lands round the town of Doune, being occupied by
the inhabitants, and enriched with the manure of the place,
and the cattle-markets, are now rendered a fine garden
mold; and those to the east of the town, comprehending the
lands of Newton and Row, are a strong rich till, perhaps,
equally fertile as carse clay.  The quality of these lands,
probably, gave life to their name, Row, which is, likely,
the same with the Gaelic word ruadh, signifying reddish,
these lands being of a reddish colour.
   The various soils above described, at the same time, con-
sist of various degrees, on account of their local situation.
The lands on the south side of Teith, rise gradually towards
Gartincaber, and, from thence, slope gradually to the level


