
                            MONYMUSK.                       471

the minister of the parish of Monymusk, authorized by, and as
moderator of the kirk-session, and the minister of the parish of
Chapel of Gorioch (in which parish lie the lands of Afforsk) as
moderator of the kirk-session thereof."  The managers meet
half-yearly in the months of January and July, in terms of the re-
gulations, for settling the treasurer's accounts, and any other busi-
ness regarding the school or funds.
   The teacher of Lord Cullen's school receives a salary in meal
and money, amounting to about L. 50, less or more, according to
the interest of money and the fiars price of grain; and the parish
schoolmaster has an allowance from the fund, also in meal and
money, of from L. 8 to L. 10, variable with interest and price as
above, for teaching ten or twelve poor scholars, less or more, as
may be recommended by the kirk-session, and for keeping an
evening school three months in winter, for which fees are payable
by the scholars, and a Sunday school in summer.  A like number
of poor scholars, recommended as above, is also taught gratis at
Lord Cullen's School, and the poor scholars at both schools are
furnished from the fund with all the requisite books.  There is
also a small surplus fund, to which the excess of income above ex-
petiditure is yearly added, for the purpose of keeping the school-
house in repair, and meeting any other exigencies necessarily con-
nected therewith.
   The salary of the parochial schoolmaster, payable by the heri-
tor, is L. 26, and he also receives from the Trustee of the late Mr
Dick's bequest to the schoolmasters of the counties of Aberdeen,
Banff, and Moray, about L. 30, less or more, yearly.
   The yearly amount of fees at the parish school, which is situat-
ed in the village south of the Don, amid the greater proportion
of the population, may be about L. 13 at an average, and at Lord
Cullen's School L. 10.
   The general expense of education per year, in respect of school
fees, does not exceed from 8s. to 10s., as the fees are low.
   The parochial schoolmaster has an excellent house, with more
than the legal accommodation, the repairing and enlarging of which
in 1826 cost about L. 200.  He has also a good garden.
   There are no other regular schools in the parish: nor are any
such necessary.  There is, at present, a school for females, but
unendowed; and one or two other private schools are occasionally
kept by aged females, or other uneducated persons, for very young
children, before they are able to attend the public schools.


