
             150                       PERTHSHIRE.

             Lordship of Methven and Balquhidder was conferred on Lodo-
             wick Duke of Lennox, in whose illustrious family it continued till
             it was purchased in 1664, by Patrick Smythe of Braco, great
             grandfather of the present Lord Methven, from Charles the last
             Duke, who dying without issue, anno 1672, his honours, (of which
             Lord Methven was one,) with his estate and hereditary offices, fell
             to Charles II. as his nearest male beir; the King's great-grand-
             father and the Duke's being brothers."
                "It is only necessary to mention farther under this article, that
             BESSY BELL and MARY GRAY, celebrated in one of our lost po-
             pular songs, are said to have been buried in this parish, about half
             a mile west of the present house of Lednock."  And that "the
             common tradition is, that Bessy Bell was daughter of the Laird
             of Kinvaid, and Mary Gray of the Laird of Lednock.  Being
             near neighbours, a great intimacy subsisted between the young
             ladies.  When they were together at Lednock, the plague broke
             out, anno 1645; to avoid which they retired to a romantic spot
             called BURN BRAES, on the estate of Lednock, where they lived
             for some time, but afterwards caught the infection from a young
             gentleman, an admirer of both, who came to visit them in their
             solitude: and here they died, and were buried at some distance
             from their bower, near a beautiful bank of the Almond."
                Resident Landed Proprietors.-The only landed proprietor per-
             manently resident is Robert Smythe, Esq. of Methven.  Se`t,
             Methven Castle, "which stands with a dignified appearance" on
             a bold and steep eminence in the park, where, according to Guthrie
             the historian, Bruce, in the year 1306, was defeated by the Earl
             of Pembroke.  The castle is a good specimen of the style of an-
             cient baronial building, and was finished in the year 1680.  Its ori-
             ginal dimensions have been greatly enlarged by extensive addi-
             tions built to it from time to time, both by the late Lord Methven,
             and by the present proprietor, Mr Smythe.
                Lord Lynedoch, the only other landed proprietor, who has a
             seat in the parish, resides also occasionally at Lynedoch House or
             Cottage, which is pleasantly situated on the north bank of the Al-
             mond, and is justly celebrated for the beauty of the surrounding
             scenery.
                                   III.-POPULATION.
                The actual statement of the population of this parish, at any
             very remote period.-if any such statement ever existed-cannot
             now be traced.  The  earliest account we have of it is in the year


