
562             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

  4. The Glasgow, Paisley, Kilmarnock, and Ayr Railway was
authorized by an Act of Parliament passed in 1837, and has been
executed at an expense of L. 812,137, 15s. 6d. It extends forty
miles, and the branch to Kilmarnock eleven miles. Near Dalry
the line parts into two brancHes, the one running to Kilmarnock
as above, the other passing oil to Kilwinning, where it joins the
Ardrossan Railway. The whole line was opened on 12th Au-
gust 1840. New branches are projected.
  5. The Ardrossan and Johnstone Railway was authorized by
an Act,passed in 1840, which separated it from the management
of the proprietors of the Glasgow, Paisley, and Johnstone Canal.
The capital is L.80,000. A junction has been effected with the
Ayrshire Railway at Kilmarnock. Passengers go by this line to
Ardrossan, and from thence by steam-boats to Ireland, Liverpool,
and Fleetwood, on the direct railway line to London
  Since the opening of the Glasgow and Greenock Railway, a
reduction of more than fifty per cent. has taken place in the fares
of steam-boats on the Clyde. According to the report of the di-
rectors of the above railway for the balf-year ending 30th No-
vember 1841, the receipts for that period have been to the amount
of L.25,205, 1Os. 6d. being at the rate of L. 969, 8s. 10d. per
week.The disbursements on account of revenue within the half-
year were L. 13,273, 9s. 2d. The cost of locomotive power has
been 12.84d. per mile, being a reduction of eleven per cent. on
the same item in the preceding half-year's accounts. The greatest
number of passengers carried in one day has been 8510, and the
average during the summer season, carried down to the watering-
places on Saturday, and brought back oil Monday, about 4000.
The total number carried in the, half-year was 402,241. The
numbers travelling on the railway amount to forty-seven per cent.
more than were computed in the Parliamentary tables. Should
the railway from Dumbarton up the Leven valley be completed,
it will add to the traffic of the railway. Already several saw-mills
have been erected adjoining the live, and the large cotton-mill
and other works on the Shaws Water, having now commenced
operations, will much benefit the line. All the lines here have
Suffered much from the late failures and stagnation in trade. It
is welI known that an increase of thirty per cent. and upwards has
taken place almost universally, on English railways between tile
first and second years of their opening, but, from the above cause,
the whole numbers travelling by canal and on the joint railways,
between Glasgow and Paisley, arm now three per cent. less than


