
280                      PERTHSHIRE.

also distributed to others, who are not so destitute.  The weekly
collections made in the church, and the sums drawn for the use
of the mortcloth; and L. 12 of interest for a sum of money placed
at the disposal of the kirk-session, for the benefit of the poor,-
are, with the aid of private charity, found sufficient for their mainte-
nance.  The heritors, however, assess themselves annually in the
sum of L.21, 17s. for the support of a lunatic, in Murray's asylum,
Perth, and two illegitimate children.  There is, unquestionably,
a reluctance on the part of the people to accept of parochial aid.   '
  Fair.-There was formerly a fair (St Lawrence's) held on the
green of Monzie, on the 22d and 23d of August, for sheep and
the ordinary articles of merchandise.  The first day of the fair is
still held at Monzie, for lambs, sheep, and cattle, but the second
day of it has been transferred to Crieff, and is now reckoned one,
of its eight annual fairs.
  Alehouses.-There are three alehouses in the parish,-one in
Monzie, and two in Gilmerton.
  Fuel.-The fuel is coal, peat, and wood. A ton of coal, brought
from Bannockburn, a distance of twenty-five miles, costs L. 1.
The same quantity from Dollar, distant twenty-four miles, costs
15s.  A cart load of peats upon the estate of Monzie, including
cartage, is 3s., and the wood (which is bought chiefly at sales) is
equally dear.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  That this parish has made equal advances in prosperity with
other parts of the country, during the last forty years, we do not
take upon us to assert; but when we compare the present period
with that in which the last Statistical Account was drawn up, we
recognize a great improvement in its general condition.
  The present is distinguished beyond the former period by a
more enlightened and judicious management of farming opera-

tions,-an improved breed of cattle and sheep; superior roads, a
total abolition of smuggling, and, as a consequence, by a greater
sobriety; an improved style of living and dress; and a more ge-
neral diffusion of the blessings of education.
  The establishment of infant Schools (if one might hope for such
where the population is so thinly scattered,) with a library con-
taining a judicious selection of books, calculated to instil sound
principles and correct views on all subjects, would unquestionably
go far to elevate and improve the moral and intellectual condition
of the people.
   May 1837.


