
432 	                  FIFESHIRE.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   No turnpike road passes through any part of this parish, and
there is no inn or alehouse in it. The nearest post-town is Cu-
par, distant about four miles and a half.
   Ecclesiastical State.-There is no dissenting place of worship
in the parish, and the Dissenters, who chiefly belong to what are
called the Relief and Associate Synod, are not numerous,-seldom
exceeding thirty individuals.
   The parish church, which was built in 1826, is a very plain
but commodious house, placed in a centrical situation. It is
seated for 280, and none of the seats are let. Each heritor
accommodates the people upon his own ground with seats. But
though the church is sufficiently large for the population, there
is still a want of seats in those divisions of the church which be-
long to heritors, who, by feuing their ground, have raised a
greater number of people upon it than their proportion of the
church can supply with seats. This is a hardship for which no
legal remedy is yet provided. About one-half of the population
regularly attend public worship on the Sabbath, and about one-
third of them are communicants. No society for religious pur-
poses is, at present, established in the parish. But there is, in ge-
neral, an annual collection so appropriated, amounting to L. 6 or
L. 7. The minister's stipend consists of 1 boll 2 pecks of wheat;
45 bolls, 1 firlot, 2 pecks of barley; 39 bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, 1
lippie of meal; 29 bolls, 3 pecks, 3 lippies of oats; and L. 82, 12s.
2d. The teinds are valued and exhausted. The glebe is about 6
Scotch, or 7 acres 2 roods imperial measure, which may be
valued at a rent of L. 12. A new, manse was built in 1815, and
offices in 1828; and both are in good condition.
   Education.-There is only one school in the parish. The
schoolmaster has the maximum salary,-with an addition of 50
merks Scots per annum,-a mortification of an old date by an
heritor in the parish to the person then called the reader.
The common branches of education, English reading, writing,
and arithmetic, are taught. But the schoolmaster is qualified
to teach English grammar, Latin, practical mathematics, and
geography, and sometimes has a few scholars attending these
higher branches. The fees per, quarter are 2s., 2s. 6d., and
3s. The fees received, by the teacher may amount to L. 15 or
L. 20 per annum. There are none in the parish who cannot read,
and few who cannot write, and are not also somewhat acquainted


