
158                 KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

evince their loyalty to their sovereign, having contributed each a
gaud, or bar, of iron, brawny M'Kim and his sons were set to
work, and soon produced the famous cannon, known by the name
of Mons Meg. The manufacture of this extraordinary piece of
ordnance was carried on at Buchan's Croft, in the immediate vi-
cinity of the three Thorns of the Carlinwark, where the king had
encalped. It is composed of a number of separate bars held
firmly together by strong hoops of iron, in the form of a cask.
Its calibre is 19 1/2 inches. With immense difficulty, this prodi-
gious cannon, which weighs six tons and a-half, was dragged to
a commanding position, since called Knochcannon, right in front
of Thrieve Castle. The charge, it is said, consisted of a peck of
powder, and a granite ball, the weight of a Carsphairn cow. It
was discharged with such effect that the first shot produced the
greatest consternation among the inmates of the castle, and the
second went through the thick walls and carried away the right
hand of the countess, the celebrated Fair Maid of Galloway,--as
she sat at table within the banqueting-hall, and was about to
raise the wine-cup to her lips,--a circumstance regarded by the
people in the country as a direct manifestation of the vengeance
of Heaven, because that hand had been given in wedlock to two
brothers, and that whilst the lawful spouse of one of them was still
alive. The garrison immediately surrendered; and the grateful
monarch presented to M'Kim the forfeited lands of Mollance,
as a reward for the service he had rendered his country by con-
structing so noble an engine of war. According tn the custom of
Galloway, where persons are generally called by the names of the
lands they possess, M'Kim soon came to be known by the soubri-
quet Mollance. The cannon was named after him, with the ad-
dition of Meg, in compliment to his wife, whose voice, it is said,
rivalled that of her namesake. Thus the original name of the
gun was Mollance Meg, which, in course of time, was contracted
into Mons Meg. Drummond of Hawthornden is the first author
who uses this contraction, "sicuti Mons Megga crackasset,"--
which has led people unacquainted with the history of Galloway
erroneously to suppose that this famous cannon was forged at Mons
in Flanders. But no proof whatever has yet been adduced to
that effect, whereas there is very conclusive evidence of its having
been constructed in Galloway. The ball which made the can-
non hole in the wall of Thrieve Castle as well as those which
are shewn in the Castle of Edinburgh, as pertaining to Mons


