
                                  ERROL.                            395

     but they have recently been claimed.by the city of Perth.  The
     proprietor, however, has the acknowledged right of the ferry,to
     Newburgh, and lets it along with a house for the boatman, at the
     annual rent of about L. 20.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ENOMOMY.
       Marhet- Town.- The nearest market-town is Perth, which is at
     the distance of ten miles. The principal intercourse, however, is
     with Dundee, from 'the extensive manufactures of which, almost all
     those which are carried on in this parish are derived.
        Besides the village of Errol itself, there are three others Carse-
     Grange, Westown, and Lee-town.  Of these, the, last mentioned is
     the largest, although even this does not contain a population much
     above 100 individuals. Chapelhill and Glendoick are hamlets
     rather than villages.
        Means of Communication.-There is a post-office at Flatfield,
     which is on the public road, almost immediately below the vhllage
     of Errol, and at the distance of about a mile and three quarters.
     Besides this, there has for many years been a receiving-house in
     the village, between which place and the office, a runner goes every
     morning; and since the month of October last, the postmaster him-
     self has been in the practice of receiving and delivering letters in
     the village.
        The length of turnpike roads in the parish is about nine miles.
     There are besides the mail two public coaches which travel'on
     the great turnpike road.
       The only harbour yet, capable of being made use of, is that of
     Port-Allen.  Its present is rather a dilapidated state.  The em
     bankment, however, which is now going on will, among other be-
     nefits serve to deepen the channel, and facilitate the entrance of
     vessels into the harbour, till such, time as steps are taken for com-
     pleting the new pier and barbour, about three-quarterr of a mile
     farther down the river, and so much nearer the village of Errol.
         Dcclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish I church is on
     a gently rising ground, at the north-east end of the village of Er-
     rol. There is no place which could have been more convenient
     for the greater part of the opulation, with the exception of that
     on which the former church was erected, but which could  not
     have afforded a sufficient area for the new, without an interfer-
     ene, with the repositories of the dead in the surrounding bury-
     ing-ground, which it was most desirable to avoid.  Its distance from
     the extremities of the parish does not exceed three and a quarter,


