
86                     PEEBLES-SHIRE.

prietor of Broughton.  In glenholm there are three residing heri-
tors or families: Loch of Rachan, Welsh of Mossfennan, and
Tweedie of quarter.  The non-resident heritors are, Sir John
Hay of Hayston and Smithfield, Baronet, M. P.; Sir John Na-
smyth of Posso, Baronet; Hunter of Polmood, and Seton of
Dukepool.
  The property of the last mentioned gentleman is in extent no
more than a Scotch acre.
  Sir James Montgomery is proprietor of the eight part of Glenkirk,
amounting to L.34 Scots of valuation.  The heritors of Kilbucho
are four in number, of whom three, namely, the Honourable Lord
Medwyn, John Dickson, Esq. of Hartree and Kilbucho, and John
Cuninghame, Esq. of Duchrae, are non-resident.  The fourth,
James Richardson, Esq. fo Springfield, in proprietor of the old
manse and glebe, on which he resides.
  Parochial Registers.-- The parochial registers go back as far as

<FOOTNOTE>There is a curious, if not fabulous, tradition as to the mode in which this pro-
perty was acqured.  It runs thus: That, as one of the Scottish kings, (perhaps
James IV.) who occasionally, during the hunting season, spent a few days at Pol-
mood or Badlieu, was returning from one of those rambles, which the frequently un-
dertook in disguise, he passed the castle of Drummelzier, the seat of Sir James Tweedie,
who was in the habit of exacting homage, and levying tribute, from all passengers.
The king came up to an old man, a cobbler, named Bartram, tending his cow, and
amusing himself with a tune on the bagpipe.  The monarch accepted an invitation
to the cottage of his new acquaintance, where he was hospitably, but with homely fare,
entertained by the cobbler and his wife.  In the morning the king disclosed to his
host who he was, and made him a grant of certain lands in view of his house, to the
extent of fourteen acres, with the pool in the centre, to be called Drone instead of
Duckpool, in memory of the tunes playdd on the bagpipe the evening before, and
as much more ground at the food of the Holms water as would keep a mare and a
foal, with a brood sow and nine pigs, and a free passage for themto and from his
house; and they were to be driven at no barder rate than a woman could walk knit-
ting a stocking, or spinning on a rock or distaff.  Bartram was also to have five
soums of sheep on Holms common.
  After the king, accompanied by the cobbler, who had offered to be his guide, passed
the castle-gate without yielding the accustomed homage, they were immediately pur-
sued and arrested by Sir James Tweedie and his armed followers.  Thereupon, the
king, taking a small bugle horn from his side, and sounding it, in the course of a
few minutes four-and-twenty belted knights came from Badlieu to his assistance.
The haughty feudal chief, having now discovered the dignity of his prisoner, fell on
his knees, and implored the clemency of his sovereign, who forgave him for the pre-
sent, but upbraided him with his tyranny and exactions, and commanded him against
a certain day to attend his pleasure at the palace of Holyrood.  The pool in the
Tweed where the king was arrested is to this day known by the name of the Drone
pool.  It ir near the march betwixt Badlieu and Glenbreck.  The king charged
Bartram to appear in his holyday array at Holyrood on the day appointed for Sir
James Tweedie's trial, which he did, and was honoured with taking precedence of
all the nobles on their entrance into the royal presence.  Tweedie was tried for his
offences, stript of the greater part of his possessions and titles, and was the last de-
scendant of the Frazers of Oliver that enjoyed the honour of knighthood.  Lawrence
Tweedie, Esq. of Oliver, is said to be the only surviving representative of that family.
The property of Bartram, now called Dukepool, has dwindled down to its present
dimensions, as is alleged, by the encroachment of the neighbouring proprietors.  It
is now the property of Mr Seaton, son-in-law to Mr John Bartram.


