
52                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

quantities gravel and pieces of rock imbedded. This clay occurs
in quantity underneath a layer of peat in several places 16 feet in
depth. Superimposed upon this sort of clay is often found another
of a yellowish colour, less tenacious and in smaller quantity.
Marl occurs pretty extensively in the bed of the principal lake,
but rarely elsewhere. It does not exceed 4 or 5 feet in depth,
and is generally covered with several feet of mud. Bog iron-ore
occurs in various places, generally in dry, clayey moorland ground,
but only scattered over the surface. Of peat there is a very great
quantity, varying in depth from a few inches to 16 or 20 feet, and
always resting on a bed of clay. It contains, as is usual, immense
quantities of wood, oak, birch, and pine: very large pine trunks
are frequently found, being sometimes met with even at the depth
of 16 feet, with the bark and wood apparently quite entire, very
light, and highly inflammable. The bark is generally of a silvery
gray colour, and the wood dark-brown. Here chiefly occur horns
of deer, and the very few other remains of animals that have been
hitherto discovered.
   The soil is generally composed of a clayey loam, in which the
clay preponderates, with an average depth of from one to two feet,
and, naturally wet, from the very retentive nature of the subsoil.
Though the soil is DOW much improved by draining, the only other
varieties occur in the low flats adjacent to the water courses, which
are composed of sand and other alluvial matters, and in the moor-
land districts where the peat predominates over the clay. Boulders
are not unfrequent in the first mentioned soil; they rarely exceed
two or three feet in diameter, and are composed of granite, lime-
stone, whinstone, sandstone, &c. but most frequently of porphyry.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, Sir Ralph A. An-
struther, Bart. of Balcaskie; William Horne, Esq. of Stirkoke;
William Sinclair, Esq. of Freswick; Sir P. M. B. Thriepland of
Fingask; Major-General William Stewart of Stratb, &c.
  Parochial Registers.-,rbe parochial registers have been regu-
larly kept since 1701, and are not very voluminous.
  Antiquities.-There are numerous remains of Pictish houses,
apparently similar in every respect to those elsewhere found, but
in such state of ruin that nothing material appears which has
not been already often noticed. In one part of the parish, there
still exist what are supposed to be the remains of a Druidical cir-
cle, in a beautiful natural amphitheatre, covered with verdant turf,


