
                  KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                 307

forward, as one amongst other facts, that seven score men from the
two districts of Ross and Icolmkill were at the battle of Inver-
keithing. The destruction occasioned by the civil wars in the
days of Charles I. and Cromwell, and a famine and pestilence dur-
ing the reign of William and Mary, almost depopulated the whole
parish. In King William's time, people died for want upon the
high road, and were buried where they lay down,-their few sur-
viving relatives having neither strength nor means to carry the
bodies to the common burying places. Upon the whole coast of
Brola, it is said only two families survived, and very many parts
of the other districts were, by the same causes, desolated.
  The return made to Dr Webster in 1755, including Iona, waxs
1685. In the month of February 1791, Mr Dugald Campbell,
the then incumbent, numbered the whole parish, and a return was
given of 3002; thus nearly doubling the population in forty-six
years.
          Amount of population in 1811,  -   3205
                                  1821,  -   3967
                                  1831,  -   3819
                                  1841,  -   4102

  Language.-The Gaelicc language is chiefly spoken, and pre-
vails in the parish, although there are not many who cannot speak
or understand the English. Within the last forty years, a bet-
ter knowledge of the English tongue prevails, from its being
taught in the schools, and from the greater intercourse opened up
with the low country by means of steam-boats. The Gaelic of
this parish is considered very pure, supposed to arise from its con-
nection with the learned characters who flourished in Iona.
  Character of the People, &c.-The inhabitants in general are
quiet, sober, humane, kindly towards each other, and religiously
inclined. They are healthy, and capable of undergoing much fa-
tigue; but the habits of many of them are not over-industrious,
which is to be regretted, as something more of this kind infused
into their general character would be much to their advantage.
A dash of superstition is mixed up with their feelings, and many
be traced to some opinions handed down by their ancestors, per-
haps from the time of the Druids. Among these, it is, by some
of the common people, believed, that the spirit of the last person
who was buried, watches round the burying-ground until another
body is interred, to the spirit of which he delivers up the charge
of watching, and so on ad infinitum.



