
                         EDINBURGH.	                  671

pline and to punish delinquencies among the students, but the
council reserved to themselves the right of deposition and of en-
acting statutes for the regulation of the seminary.
  According to the custom of the times, each regent continued to
carry on, through the mathematics and philosophy in successive
years, the class which had commenced with the languages.  The
principal devoted his pre elections solely to divinity till the year
1620, when a second divinity professor was appointed.  Yet sub-
sequent to this, several of the principals still continued to deliver
theological lectures.  The course of study continued for four
years.  During the first year, about six months were spent chief-
ly in the study of the Greek and Roman classics, accompanied
by frequent exercises in translation and original composition; the
remainder of the session was occupied in the study of the dialec-
ties of Ramus, and in committing to memory and reciting large
portions of the ancient poets and orators.  In the second year,
besides being exercised in Greek themes and versions, the students
proceeded in the study of logic, rhetoric, and some parts of ma-
thematics, and in the latter months the practice of oratory was
encouraged by public declamations.  The third session, carrying
forward the public studies and classical learning, introduced the
youth to the knowledge of some branches of natural history and
philosopby, as also the cultivation of the Hebrew language.  In
the fourth session, ethics, physics, and metaphysics formed the
principal objects of study; but the greater part of the time was
occupied in the practice of disputation.  The regent prescribed
the subject, and every candidate was matched with an antagonist.
The regents were required to exercise a habitual inspection of
their charge both in the public class and in the hours of recreation
in the fields, while the principal maintained a daily superinten-
dence and presided at the public devotions.  The practice of each
regent teaching the same class during the whole period of the
course was discontinued in 1708, and since that time every pro-
fessor is limited to his own particular department.
   It was the original intention that all the students should lodge
within the walls of the seminary and wear an academical dress.
For some time chambers were furnished within the college, each
student paying L.4 Scots, but the increasing numbers of students
rendered this plan at last impracticable.
   In 1710 the English Dissenters offered to contribute L.1000
a year for the support of a hospitium, on condition that their stu-


