
     of Loth.

to L. 713: 13: 5 1/4 ster.  The stipend, including L. 50 Scotch
for communion elements, is L. 26: 7: 9 1/3 ster. and 5 chalders
of bear.  The schoolmaster's salary is only 100 merks Scotch,
and there was no proper school house till last year, on
which account the parish frequently wanted a schoolmas-
ter.  At present there is a decent school-house, and betwixt.
30 and 40 scholars attend it.  The registers of baptisms and
marriages have hitherto been ill kept, and frequently neglect-
ed.  The number of baptisms, at an average, amount to about
40, of marriages 24, and of burials 16.  There is no fund for
the poor but the weekly collections, which are very small, little
is given in silver, and the copper is frequently bad.  The tenants
give their alms in meal at their houses or at the mills, and the
gentry are frequently their own almoners.  There are 5 mil-
lers, 3 smiths, and 7 or 8 wrights; but some of them have
land, and hardly any have constant employment in their dif-
ferent departments.  There are also taylors, shoemakers, and
weavers; but these, for the most part, are likewise labourers
and cottars.  There are 2 or 3 pedlars that import from Aber-
deen or Glasgow such things as the common people have oc-
casion for; but hardly one of them depends entirely on that
commerce for his living*.

     R r 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*All the tenants, cottars, and fishers, pay bodily service, or what is called
carriages, to the landlord or tacksmen.  The incumbent having applied to a
parishoner in whose knowledge and integrity he had great confidence, for infor-
mation on this subject, received this answer: "Your inquiries as to services
"or carriages performed by the subtenants and cottars on my farm, in conse-
"quence of Sir John Sincliar's Statistical queries: having suggested the follow-
"ing thoughts on that subject, you are at liberty to use them as you please.
"Whatever the nature and extent, use or abuse of servives were formerly, I
"believe they are now generally a kind of commutation-rent, which the
"possessors of narrow and detached spots of arable or grass ground, on the


