
358			BERWICKSHIRE.

of the inhabitants are at a greater distance than two miles and a-
half. It is not known at what time the church was built.  It ap-
pears, however, from an inscription upon the edifice to have been
extensively repaired in 1717. It was again repaired in 1804, and is
in good condition. It contains 203 sittings; a greater number of
persons might be accommodated, but not comfortably. There are
no free sittings, nor are there any let for money. They belong to
the different proprietors, according to their valued rents, and are by
them apportioned to the tenants, who hold them for their own ac-
commodation, and that of the people who live under them.
   The manse was built in 1750, and enlarged and repaired in 1812.
The glebe extends to ten acres, and may be worth about L. 15, *
and the stipend is 14 chalders, half meal and half barley, with
L. 8, 6s. 8d. Sterling of money. There is no chapel of ease at-
tached to the Established church, or Dissenting or Seceding cha-
pel in the parish.
   The number of families in the parish, as before stated, is 98; of
which thirteen families belong to the Secession, and attend the
chapels at Lauder or Earlston; the rest attend the parish church:
and the number of communicants is from 190 to 200. There is
a branch of the Berwickshire Bible Society in the parish, and an
association for contributing to the Highland Schools and Indian
Mission, under the management of the General Assembly's Com-
mittees. Thd church collections yearly for these purposes are ex-
pected to amount to L.10 or L.12.
   Education.-There is only the parochial school in the parish.
The branches of instruction generally taught in it are, English
reading and grammar, writing, arithmetic, and occasionally book-
keeping and practical mathematics. The salary is L. 28 per an-

<FOOTNOTE>I have been favoured by Mr Macdonald of the Register Office with an interest-
ing notice respecting this matter. It is the answer of Mr George Byres to the in-
quiry instituted by Government in 1625 into the provision made for the support
of the clergy, and is understood to have been furnished in 1627.
   " The kirk of Legertwood is ane of the kirkis of Paislay; the patronage thereof is
now in the hands of Alexander Cranstoun of Rummiltounlaw : the present provisioun
thereof is three chalders of aitt meal, and the vicarage, quhilk extendis to twa hun-
dreth merkis; the teindis of the said paroche, as according to the stent of the Abbay
of Paislay, fyfteen chalders of victuall, quhairof the minister has three chalderis.
   " There is husband land parteining to the parsonage fued to the guidman of Rum-
miltounlaw be the Abbot of Paislay, quhair of the minister hes four akeris.
		(Signed)       " Mr GEORGE BYREs, Minister of Legertwood."
  An augmentation was granted to this gentleman in 1635 by mutual agreement of
the eritors; who were John Cranstoun, titular of the teinds; John Cranstoun of
Corsbie; Andrew Ker of West Morriston; Francis and John Wilkison of East Mor-
riston ; Robert Hart of St John's Chapel, advocate, heritor of nine husbands land of
Birkenside; Gilbert Lauder, heritable proprietor of Whitslaid and Bridgehaugh;
John Brown of Kirkhill.


