
             796                           PERTHSHIRE.

                 When the muriate of lime (chloride of calcium) was considered
             by physicians to be a remedy worthy of trial in the treatment of
             scrofula, these waters, from containing it in large quantity, were,
             of course, highly extolled.  This remedy, however, has since
             fallen into merited disrepute, and it is now on all hands allowed
             to be of little or no service in checking, the disease in question.
             The same remarks, of course, are applicable to the Pitkeatbly
             water: in such cases it can be of no service; and by usurping
             the place of more active remedies, must be prejudicial, by incur-
             ring all the evils of procrastination.
                There is a vulgar notion abroad that these waters possess great
             efficacy as an external application, and poor people from all quar-
             ters may be seen every season with diseases which a little surgical
             skill and attention could easily have eradicated, daily performing
             the required ablutions, in the confirmed hope of an almost mira-
             culous cure: and this belief is not confined to that particular class,
             for it obtains also among those whose education would be a gua-
             rantee for their better judgment.
                It is a pity that such is the case, as most of the diseases allud-
             ed to are such as proper surgical treatment could soon overcome,
             whereas, the result of the treatment adopted is a degree of irrita-
             tion which renders the disease previously manageable, altogether
             Incorrigible.
                Among diseases of this kind may be mentioned, chronic ab-
             scesses, ulcers, and some affections of the eye.
                The Pitkeathly warm-bath has been recommended in diseases of
             the skin, but on what grounds cannot be ascertained, as it con-
             tains no substane in its composition that can have the slightest
             specific action on the vessels of the skin.  Of course it answers all
             the purposes of ordinary bathing, and may be used to the same ex-
             sent
                In concluding these observations we cannot help remarking, that
             whatever may be said  against the indiscriminate use of these wa-
             ter, they are at least valuable in so far, that they are generally
             taken cheerfully, and when other medicines would be refused or
             neglected; the patient must undergo change of scene, salutary ex-
             ercise, and, in short, altogether be placed in the situation of all
             others most conducive to the speedy recovery of an invalid."
                The mineral water may be found in greater or less abundance
             over an expanse of from lO to 12 acres, stretebing over the Pit-
             keathly, Dunbarny, and Ballenderick properties.  On one of the
                                             3


