
480			AYRSHIRE.

of both the parishes of Old and New Cumnock. In 1650, the ex-
tensive parish of Cumnock was divided, and the southern division
was formed into a distinct parish called New Cumnock, for which
a new parish church was built. The northern division, containing
the burgh of barony of Cumnock, formed the parish of Old Cum-
nock. The old church remained till 1754, when a new church
was built.
  Historical Notices.--It is related in the Life of John Welsh, mi-
nister of Ayr, that about the year 1600, two travelling merchants,
each with a pack of cloth upon a horse, who had been denied an
entrance into Ayr, because Mr Welsh assured the magistrates that
the plague was in their packs, had, on their being dismissed from
Ayr, gone to Cumnock, and there sold their goods. There fol-
lowed upon this such a plague in the town of Cumnock, that the
living, it is said, were hardly able to bury the dead. There are
still traditions of this melancholy event to be found among the
people; and the place is pointed out where those who died of the
plague are reported to have been buried, at a short distance from
what was then the churchyard. But I have not heard of any re-
mains of human bodies having been found there.
  Eminent Men.--The application of steam to the purposes of na-
vigation, which is brought to such a high decree of perfection
among us, owes its original invention to the late Mr James Taylor,
who, for many years, superintended the mines on the Dumfries
estate in this parish.
   Mr Taylor was living in the family of Mr Millar of Dalswinton,
in the year 1787, when the latter gentleman made trial, in the
Frith of Forth, of a vessel he had constructed with intermediate
paddles, driven bya capstan.  Mr Millar's experiment was very suc-
cessful, in so far as the utility of the paddles was concerned; but
on seeing the men very much exhausted, by the labour of turning
the capstan, Mr Taylor became convinced, that, in order to ren-
der the experiment really useful, some other power must be ap-
plied.  He suggested the steam engine to Mr Millar, as a power
that might probably be employed with advantage. An engine was
accordingly constructed, and on the 14th October 1788, the ex-
periment was made on the lake of Dalswinton, with a double boat,
having an engine, with a four inch cylinder, placed on the deck.
The boat was propelled by the engine, at the rate of five miles an
hour. This was the first specimen of steam navigation in the
world. For it was not until the year 1807, nineteen years after-


