
     Statistical Account

separated from the main land by a narrow found, through which
vessels pass with good pilots.  Its name is Celtic, either Aon-
da, "the island of one colour," or Aon-taobh, "the island of
"one side;" in either of which senses the appellation is just
and applicable.  For viewing it from the sea upon the S. it
appears wholly dusky and green; and rises gradually by a gen-
tle ascent from the sea upon the S. side towards the N. so as
to consist of one face or side, and to have nothing upon the N.
but one tremenduous rock of 80 or 100 fathoms high in some
places.  It is a mile square, having some fertile spots for rear-
ing corn and hay, but the natural and proper application is
the converting it to a sheep walk, as there no foxes could an-
noy the slocks, nor contagion find access to it.  The present
rent is L. 12 sterling*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Here once lived Little Fohn M'Dboil-mbich-Huisbdan, a gentleman of the
Assint M'Leods, who were a branch of the M'Leods of Lewis, or Shiol Tor-
quil.  He was low of stature, but of matchless strength, and skill in arms;
kept always a bierlin or galley in this place with 12 or 20 armed men, ready
for any enterprize.  Some alledge he practised piracy; but of this there is no
certainty.  By him it was that judge Morison of Lewis, of whom se-
veral respectable families now living there are descended, was slain.  This
judge had King James VI's. commission for maintaining justice and good or-
der in that country; and though he was murdered by this M'Leod, it was
for no persoanl quarrel, or injury done M'Leod himself, but in revenge of his
being instrumental in putting to death one of that family, who acted as
laird of Lewis.  The preceding laird of that place dying without lawful issue,
but leaving a number of natural sons, (some say 60), a contention arose a-
mong them about the succession to the estate.  The eldest being not so po-
pular among the name, as one other especially, the son of gentlewoman
whose parents were of considerable influence among the tribe, was obliged to
leave Lewis, and live upon the main land.  Judge Morison being inform-
ed that there was a French vessel employed in killing fish contrary to law up-
on the neighbouring coast, sent for the reputed laird, who lived nera that
place, and taking also a party along with him, boarded this vessel, and
made her a prize; but whether by stress of weather or design, they came


