
     of Fossaway and Tulliebole.

some places by the jutting out of the rocks, concealed from
the eye, and in others, appearing again; when he sees it
here calm and smooth, there all covered with foam, and in
other places broken, boiling, and tumultuous, and remarks
the multitude of fowls which are constantly flying about, he
will readily acknowledge, that the whole forms a very diver-
sified, beautiful, and romantic scene; which well deserves to
be described, and to attract the attention of travellers.
   3. Caldron Linn.  A mile farther down the river, is
found the Caldron Linn.  There are here two falls of water.
The uppermost fall is 34 feet in height; but is not perpendi-
cular.  The other is 44 feet in height, and is almost com-
pletely perpendicular.  The two falls are distant from each
other, 28 yards.  The distance between the rocks, on each
side of the river, is not every where the same; but increases
from 12 to 22 feet, and is least at the highest fall.  Here too
are intervening rocks; and there is one like a pillar in the
midst of the water, horizontal on the top, by which many
persons have passed from the one side to the other.  In the
space between the two falls, are 3 round cavities which the
water has formed in the rock, which have the appearance of
large caldrons, or boiling vessels, from which the name is
derived.  In the first, there is the perpetual agitation of boil-
ing water, the second is always covered with foam, and the
third is constantly calm and placid.  The caldrons are of dif-
ferent dimensions; and the third which is the largest, may
be perhaps 22 feet in diameter.  When the river is low, they
communicate with each other, not by the water running
over their mouths; but by apertures made, by the force of
the waters in the course of time through the rocks which
separate them, at perhaps the middle depth of the caldron.
In consequence of this, the third caldron, which communi-
cates with the great fall, has formed an opening for itself,


