
308                        FORFARSHIRE.

	Upwards of ninety years ago, a handsome silver basin for bap-
tisms, 20 oz. 7d. weight, was presented to the parish by. Mr Dick
of Pitkerro. It bears this inscription,- "Ex dono Johannir Dhck de
Pitkerro, in usum parochiae suae nativatis de Othlaw, A. D. 1742."
One of the communion cups was also presented to the parish, and
bears this inscription,-"Ex dono Eliz. Smith, in usum parochiae
de Oathlaw, 1789."
        Education.-The parish school is the only one in the parish.
The branches commonly taught are, reading, writing, arithmetic,
Latin, and geography. The salary is the maximum, L. 34, 4s. 6d.
and the amount of school fees may at present be about L.18. The
teacher has rather more than the legal accommodation. The
general expense of education per year may be about 15s. There
are comparatively few between 6 and 15 years of age unable to read
or write, and fewer still above that age. There is no part of the
parish so distant as to prevent attendance, and no additional schools
are required. The people are in general very much alive to the be-
nefits of education, and have made very considerable improve-
ments in many respects, since the facilities for education have in-
creased.
	The total number of scholars at the school is 53; their attend-
ance is generally for a period of six or seven years.
        Library.-There is a Parochial Library, which was instituted
some years ago. It received a large contribution of books from Mr
Douglas of Cavers, and now consists of several hundred volumes,
chidfly religious.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on the
poors' roll is 5,-the highest rate being 1s. 9d. per week, the lowest
1s. There is one woman, a lunatic, in the Montrose Asylum, at an
expense of L.16 per annum board, and L.2 per do. clothes. Since
1824, there has been one foundling on the parish, at an average
expense of L.7 per annum.
	The annual amount of contributions for the poor may be thus
stated: Church collections, L.19, 2s.; money at interest, L. 5;
"Hanton's Bequest," L. 4, 1Os.; total, L. 28 12s. The average
annual receipts thus amounting only to L. 28, 12s, while the an-
nual disbursements are L. 41, occasioned by the expense of the lu-
natic in Montrose Asylum, and the foundling,-the heritors have
agreed to give, a yearly donation to make, up the defeciency, so long
as these expenses remain upon the parish.


