
                          BORROWSTOWNNESS.                  129

Peneltun, (Cambro-British, and Saxon, indicating a later period,)
may refer to Weltoun, * which is farther east than Kinneil, and
which, probably, is not far from the place to which the wall was
finally extended.
   Near the farm-steading of Upper Kinneil, and a little south of
the Roman wall, there was a small tumulus or cairn, locally known
by the name of the Laughing Hill. On its being opened to ob-
tain stones for drains, four stone-coffins and four urns were found.
The coffins contained black mould; and the urns, which were
full of human bones, were inverted and placed upon flat stones.
Probably the bodies were burned, and, after the calcined bones
were collected and put into the urns, the remaining ashes were
put into the coffins. The bones, when first discovered, were al-
most white; but, when exposed to the air, they very soon became
black, and crumbled to dust. Several pieces of charcoal were
found amongst them.
   A stone coffin and an urn, similar to those already mentioned,
were found in the north side of an eminence called Bell's Know,
immediately above the town of Bo'ness.
   A curious battle axe, coins, and other antiquities, have been
found in different parts of the parish. One of the coins last found
is a large silver piece of James VI.
   Near Inneravon, there is an old tower, with traces of consider-
able ruins connected with it. Sibbald calls it a Roman watch-
tower; but it has not the aspect of a Roman tower. In the
beginning of March 1455, "James II. kest down the Castell of
Inveravyne, and sine incontinent passed till Glasgow," on an ex-
pedition against Douglasdale, &c. The old ruin at Inveravon is
most probably one of the corner towers of the Castle of Innera-
von, built on the site of the Roman station.
   Below Kinneil House, upon nice coast, there was formerly a cas-

<FOOTNOTE>It is not surprising that Penguaul, Penfahel, and Peneltun should ultimately be-
come WeItun or Weltoun, through the prevailing influence of the Saxon language.
The omission of the initial syllable is not without example. Edinburgh was, and
still is, Dun-Eiden in Celtic; Incuningham is now Cunningham; Linlithgow is oc-
casionally written Lithgow, even in important documents. The interchange of gu,
w and  + in pronunciation, may be traced, even to this day, in different parts of Scot-
land. Weltoun seems to have been a locality of some notoriety nearly 200 years be-
fore Sibbald wrote his Account of Linlithgowshire. Alexander Hamilton in le
Grange, had a charter, under the great seat, of the lands of Welcoun in Linlithgow-
shire, of date 8th February 1524. Two important requisites of a Roman station ex-
ist at Weltoun, viz. an eminence, and a good supply of water. These might have
rendered it a eligible site for a station, although the wall, probably, did not termi-
nate at that place, but in its vicinity, and nearer to the Frith.
   LINLITHGOW.                             I


