
258                        ARGYLESHIRE.

smooth or undulating outline meets the eye at any point, but
all is sharp, rugged, and abrupt.  The many lochs and arms of
the sea give a character to the whole, which no inland view can
ever possess.  The mouth of the Clyde, the Kyles of Bute, the
Sound of Kilbrannan, the North Channel towards Ireland, West
Loch Tarbert, the Sound of Jura, Lochcaolisport, and Lochfine
are distinctly visible from the top of Lliabh Gaoil; and yet so
completely is the distance occupied by the islands which are in-
terspersed in every direction, that the Atlantic is nowhere vi-
sible.
   Turn the eye to any point you choose, and the prospect from
the top of this hill is most extensive; Bute with the Cumbray Isles,
and the coast of Ayrshire are seen in one direction; Arran with
its splintered peaks is a most conspicuous object Kintyre is visi-
ble throughout its whole extent ; Ireland with the Isle of Rathlin,
are so distinctly seen, that few people would believe them to be
fifty miles distant.  The northern parts of Ireland appear high,
and in exact keeping with the other objects around; Gigha, and
the little isles at the point of Knap come next; Isla, as seen from
this hill, has not a striking appearance, but its neighbour,
Jura, amply makes up for its deficiencies; Scarba appears, what
it is in reality, a high mountain rising at once from the sea; Mull
is seen very high, and there is a bolder swell about its mountains
than those of Arran, which gives it a grander appearance.  Ben
Cruachan and Ben Lomond are boldly in relief, as well as many
f the Perthshire mountains, the tops of which are clearly seen
from Lliabh Gaoil.  Other hills of less height and interest run
parallel with Lliabh Gaoil, and are separated from one another by
deep and well-sheltered dales.
   The extent of arable land bears but a small proportion to the
pasture, and is very much intersected by hills and marshy grounds.
With regard to the pasture in the valleys, it is very good; but to-
wards the summits of the hills, it becomes rather coarse and
scanty.
   Hydrography.-There are five or six lakes in the parish, most
of which abound with salmon trout of good quality and flavour.
These lakes, however, add very little beauty or interest to the
landscape, as, with the exception of one or two, they are not to be
seen, except from the summits of the highest hills; in the parish.
The parish abounds with rivers and streamlets, all of which are
fordable in summers.  During the floods of winter, the larger ones


