
			INVERNESS.                              25

   pense exceeding L. 6000. The town is exceedingly well lighted
   with coal gas, and supplied with water in pipes from the river.
   The original cost of the gas works, which are very complete, in-
   cluding the expense of forming the company, and procuring an act
   of Parliament, was L. 8757; that of the water-wheel for raising the
   water from the river, and pipes, L. 4872. Certain parts of the pro-
   fits have been laid aside to pay the interest of borrowed money,
   and to form a contingent fund in case of unforeseen demands; but
   since the year 1828 the company has paid dividends to the share-
   holders, which have gradually increased from 1 1/2 to 4 1/8 per cent.
   Subscriptions for the formation of this company were commenced
   in 1825.
      Villages.-The only villages in the parish are those of Clach-
   naherry, at the "Watchman's Stone," above-mentioned, about a
   mile to the west of the town, containing about 300 inhabitants,
   chiefly fishers and boat-builders,-and Culcabock village, one mile
   to the south-east of Inverness, which is occupied by about 100 la-
   bourers and masons.
      Coaches and Public Conveyances-Besides a four-horse daily
   mail-coach to Aberdeen on the one band, and to Ding wall, Tain,
   and Thurso on the other, two daily coaches proceed from Inver-
   ness on the coast road to Elgin and Aberdeen; one twice a-week,
   and in certain seasons daily, to Perth by the great Highland road,
   and Diligences occasionally ply in summer between Inverness,
   Strathpeffer, and Cromarty, through the adjoining district of Ross-
   shire, called the Black Isle; and to these means of conveyance
   are to be added the steam and sailing vessels above described, and
   carriers by land in almost every direction.
      Caledonian Canal.-In this part of the statistics of the parish,
   it would be improper to omit a short sketch of the history and di-
   mensions of the Caledonian Canal, which passes through the centre
   of the parish and Great Glen of Scotland, and the beneficial effects
   of which on the general commerce of the country, and the local
   improvement of this district, have scarcely as yet fully developed
   themselves.
      The subject of the Caledonian Canal, and connected with it va-
   rious other extensive improvements in the Highlands of Scotland,
   having been brought under the attention of Government, a prepa-
   ratory survey and report of the whole was made by the late Mr
   Telford, by command of the Lords Commissioners of the Trea-
   sury, in the autumn of 1802, and in September of the following


