
     Statistical Account

birch and Alder.  But this house, and that of Bennetsfield,
near the South-West corner of the parish, belonging to Colin
Matheson, Esq; have both been allowed to fall into disrepair,
as the proprietors of them reside in other parts of the coun-
ty.
   One of the finest woods here is that called the Craig-
woods,* near Fortrose, belonging to Mr Ross of Cromarty.
It contains most kinds of forest-trees, beautifully intermixed,
on a rocky bank, by the sea.  It was all cut down about 30
years ago, for making palisadoes and fascines to Fort George,
when they apprehended a visit from Mons.  Thurot's squa-
dron.  It has since grown up finely from the roots anew.

<FOOTNOTE>

*This wood makes part of the old estate of Rosehaugh, which belonged
to the late celebrated Sir George Mackenzie, King's Advocate.  The pro-
perty is said to have been so named from a small haugh contiguous to the
bank, where a great many sweetbriars and wild roles used to grow.  The
ground having been mostly brought into tillage, they are not now so nume-
rous.  On this haugh, along the bottom of the wood, lies the road from For-
trose to Avoch:  And there can scarcely be imagined a more delightful sum-
mer evening's walk than this,-when, on one hand, the Western sun glitters
through the trees,-the birches send sorth their fragrance,-and the singing;
birds serenade you;-and, on the other hand, you behold the beautiful bason
before mentioned, with vessels and boats plying upon it with cheerful indus-
try.  It is said that Sir George Mackenzie was so sond of this walk, and of
that on Chanonry point, which stretches out a mile and a half into the sea,
covered with short close grass, as smooth and soft as a carpet, that he used
to call it rudeness and want of taste in any of his friends or acquaintances to
side on horscback along them.  The Right Hon.  James Stewart Mackenzie,
Lord Privy Seal, who succeeded to Sir George's estate in this county, sold the
lands of Rosehaugh to the late George Ross, Esq; of Cromarty, one of the
most spirited improvers hitherto known in Ardmeanach.  Mr Ross gave good
employment many years to a multitude of labouring people from all the
neighbouring districts.  But, unfortunately for this parish, he died before he
could get his plans of improvement extended so far.
A few years ago, Captain Kenneth Mackenzie of Newtown, another he-
ritor, attempted to enlarge the beautiful scene of the Craigwood, by planting
his part of the same bank to the westward.  But as the rocks and steepness
prevented him from getting proper fencea made, his young trees have been


