                                                     
                            DUNBAR.                            93

Second Division, four in number, on 10th April 1833, resumed con-
sideration of the case, with the returned opinions, and, unanimous-
ly concurring with the minority of the Consulted Judges, decerned
in terms of the first conclusion.
   The burgh appealed; Lord Brougham having offered, when
he had ceased to be Chancellor, to hear Scotch cases, heard this
one: and on his motion, the House of Lords, 10th April 1835,
"Ordered and adjudged, that the interlocutor complained of in the
said appeal be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and it is further
ordered, that the cause be remitted back to the Second Division
of the Court of Session, in order that the said Court may proceed
further in the said cause, as shall be just and consistent with this
judgment."
   The kirk-session. were called as parties in this action, but did
not appear. They are most anxious, however, for an equitable set-
tlement of the question, and the minister has never concealed his
opinion, that the separation contended for would eventually benefit
both parties. Since it has thus been found that there can only be
one roll of poor in a parish, if it shall be further found that there
must also be only one management and one assessment laid on the
whole inhabitants according to the estimation of their substance,
this judgment may prove most vexatious even to the burghs. It
directly or indirectly affects every parish in Scotland. It leaves the
burghs which have land ward districts without a law; it introduces
confusion into the whole system, and, there is reason to believe,
that it is neither supported by the facts of the case nor by the acts
of Parliament.
   The case is one of very great importance: and those who take
an interest in it may consult the process. Lanark is about to try
the same question.
   Jail.-The jail is in a very bad condition, and has been legally
condemned; but fortunately it is seldom occupied. Two town-offi-
cers and two Sheriff-officers are all the police required in this peace-
ful district.
   Fairs.-There are two fairs in the year, where all the usual wares
and cattle are exposed:-one of them at Whitsunday, and the
other at Martinmas, old style, if these days shall fall on a Tuesday;
if not, on the first Tuesday thereafter.
   Fuel.-Coal is the only fuel used, which is imported from Wemyss,
Charleston, Borrowstounness, and Sunderland. Scotch coal costs
from 7s. to 9s. per boll of 12 cwt. English coal from 10s. to 12s.
according to quality.


