

132                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

glebe contains about four acres arable, and five acres meadow,
moss, and garden, with policy; and whole is worth L. 10
a-year. The legal right to grass, in addition, has never been
prosecuted for, nor made good to the minister, nor an equavalent
asked.
	There is no chapel of ease, nor dissenting meeting-house;
nor are there above four or five families of dissenter, or secenders
within this parish, which contains not one Catholic residenter, nor
one of the Episcopal persuasion. The number of communicants
is about 380, out of 981 people,--not including strangers who
join in that ordinance.
	Religious Societies.--There is a Bible Society, vhich is renew-
ed every three years, whose little funds go to various religious
purpose. A weekly prayer meeting has been long in existence,
and is attended by a few of the heads of families.
	Education is regularly conducted in two parochial and two con-
tribution schools; and there are also three other inferior schools
in the parish.--the whole of them affording instruction to above
200 children. The salary of the first parish schoolmaster is
L.34, 4s. 4d. being the value of the maximum of two chalders,
and that of the second school, where the teacher labours during
pleasure, not being regulary settled, is equal to one chalder,
L. 17, 2s. 2d. The school fees are each of the three principal
schools, exclusive of candlemas presents, being about L. 3 in each
of them.
	Friendly Societies, &c.--A friendly society, constituted on prin-
ciples too flattering to be implemented, and a bank for savings,
were both lately dissolved, the interest being small, and the Dum -
fries banks remote, with some risk and expense in rdmittances.
	Poor.--The regular number on the poors' list varies from 8
to 10 or 12; and there are several, indeed many others, who need
incidental aid in various ways for themselves and their children.
The average yearly amount of church collections for the poor is
about L. 30. The average allowance for those on the regular list
is rather above L. 4 a-year to each. The collections do not suf-
fice without voluntary  contributions, in which none of the heritors
are deficient, the principal heritor setting an example; and, in
years of emergency, such as 1800, suscriptions and contributions
no regular assessments are necessary for the support of the poor.


