
     118                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.


     mail-coach lines are only about 16 miles long within the parish;
     all the roads bridges are kept in safe order, and coaches cross
     one another daily in each of the lines to Glasgow and Edinburgh.
       Ecclesiastical State.- The church was rebuilt in 1790, and, by
     the liberality of James Earl of Hopetoun, it was put down on some
     ground of his own among aged and venerable trees, in a most
     appropriate site, and not in the church-yard. His Lordship also
     made the building larger and handsomer at his own expense. It
     accommodates about a thousand sitters; and contains two square
     seats allotted for  strangers, and also a few pews for the poor.
     The manse was built in 1771, and an addition to it in 1810.  The
     glebe is let at L. 25 rent; and the stipend is now 17 chalders, or
     for the present year, L. 240 Sterling. In the continued indispo-
     sition of the Rev. Mr Johnston, he allows a sum for the regular
     services of the pulpit, which are performed by Mr Wilson, preach-
     er of the Gospel.   The parish church is attended by about 335
     families; and the number of communicants in the sacrament of the
     Lord's supper is seldom under and sometimes above 500.
        There is a Burgher meeting-house in Moffat; but it cannot be
     very fully attended, or endowed, as only a small proportion of the
     parishioners are dissenters.
        Religious Societics.- There have been two religious or Bible
     associations in Moffat for many years; one female and one male.
     These have contributed regularly for sacred purposes.  A Sab-
     bath-school is taught in the afternoon, and  well attended in the
     parish church.   The collections at the parish church are respect-
     able, and are supported by liberal contribution from the heritors;
     there being many poor in Moffat, and a great want of employment
     for the industrious poor, especially in winter.  Farmers are not
     made liable for one-half the sums yearly assessed, most of the  he-
     ritors paying the whole for their land.  The collections at the
     meeting-house cannot be very great.
         Education.- No situation appears more favourable than MOf-
     fat for the purposes of education.  A boarding and day-school for
     girls would be very convenient, if all the branches they required
     could be well taught in the village.  There are some arragements
     in view as to the two principal schools, of which it were premature
     to mention particulars; only a conjoined seminary , out of both as an
     academy, would be very beneficial, and might also be expected soon
     to proper In the meantime a subscription-school is well and



