
                            HAMILTON.                       265

narkshire," we will only mention the three following among the rarer
species: 1. A variety of Antirrhinum repens. The stem is simple,
and has four linear leaves in whorls from top to bottom. The
whole plant is glabrous, and is found on an old wall, to the north of
Hamilton wood. 2. Cnicus eriophorus. This magnificent plant
is now common in waste ground at Woodyet. 3. Chrysocoma Li-
nosyris, or flax-leaved-goldilocks. This plant, a native of the
south, has lately appeared on the banks of the Clyde, in a very re-
mote spot, in great abundance. The roots or seeds have proba-
bly been brought down by the water.
	A description of the Cryptogamiae of this parish and district is now
in preparation.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Notices.--In 1153 and in 1289, the old Scottish kings
held their courts at Cadzow; which continued to be royal pro-
perty till after the battle of Bannockburn. This district has been
occasionally the scene of important events, which, as they are well
known in Scottish history need not be here particularly noticed.
	Covenanters.--In November 1650, Cromwell sent General Lam-
bert, and Commissary General Whalley, to Hamilton, with five re-
giments of cavalry to overawe the west-country, Covenanters, or to
bring them over to his own terms. They were there attacked, by
Colonel Kerr, with 1500 horsemen from Ayrshire. The Cove-
nanters succeeded in securing a number of the horses; but Lambert
having rallied his forces, overtook the "spoil encumbered foe" two
miles west of Hamilton, killed Colonel Kerr and about 100 of his
troops, and took many prisoners.
	On Sabbath Ist June 1679, Captain Graham, (afterwards Vis-
count Dundee,) on his way to the field of Drumclog, seized, near
Hamilton, John King, a field preacher, and seventeen other people,
whom he bound in pairs, and drove before him towards Loudon
Hill. Mr King, who was probably in disguise, is described by
Crighton as a " bra' muckle carl with a white hat, and a great bob
of ribbans on the back o't." The Covenanters, after their success
at Drumclog, deeming it unlawful to fight on the Sabbath except
in self-defence, returned to the field of action, where they offered
up thanks to the Almighty for the victory they had gained; after
which they took some refreshment in Strathaven, and marched to
Hamilton in the evening. Next day, (June,2d,) flushed with vic-
tory, they resolved to make an	attack on Glasgow. One division
of them, commanded by Mr Hamilton, attempted to	penetrate by


