
         152                          PERTHSHIRE.

         of the latter to be half the number of that of the former, the ave-
         rage annual number of births in this parish for the last seven years
         would be 58.  If there be any advantage in the registration of
         births, either in a public or private point of view, the method by
         which this can be most generally accomplished is certainly a desi-
         deratum of no mean importance.
            The average number of deaths for the last seven years is 37;
         and that of marriages, 17.
            Within the last three years there have been 10 illegitimate births.
            Character of the People-It is not to be expected that every few
         miles of different locality should furnish the observer with-striking
         peculiarities of character, but there are advantages possessed in
         one place which another does not enjoy, and which have a consi-
         derable influence in modifying the feelings and habits of a com-
         munity.  Thus, without facilities of reading, and freedom of inter-
         course with other districts, how slow would be the march of im-
         provement,-how imperceptible the change of society.  The in-
         habitants of this parish possess both these privileges.  Having a
         library of considerable extent and variety, they have within their
         reach the means of knowledge, and, living in a district intersected
         by the great road which connects Glasgow with Perth and Dun-
         dee, they become early acquainted with what is transacted in these
         populous cities, and imbibe some portion of the activity and enter-
         prise of their inhabitants.  Thus they are an intelligent and in-
         dustrious people, devoting their time to the acquisition of the means
         necessary for their support, and spending their leisure hours in
         amusing or profitable reading.  They are, moreover, kind and
         hospitable, moral and religious, shewing a becoming regard for the
         authority of the gospel, and a most exemplary regularity in attend-
         ing public worship.
                                  IV.-INDUSTRY.

         <TABLE=Agriculture and Rural Economy.>

         The total number of imperial acres in the parish is about      10,700
         Cultivated or occasionally in tillage,                     8600
         Under wood and plantations,                                1750
         Moor to be cultivated or planted,                           250
         Moss,                                                       100
                                                                  _______
                                                                  10,700
            The gross rental of the parish exceeds L. 11,000; and the ave-
         age rate of the arable land let is about L. 1,7s. per acre, compris-
         ing the various gradations from L. 3 per acre down to 12s.  The
         extent of the farms v`ries from 280 acres to 40,-and pendicles


