
                       KILSPINDIE.                          1163

  dee.  The general appearance of the ground is pleasing, and pre-
  sents to the eye an agreeable variety of moor and cultivated land.
  Towards the southern extremity, the ground is flat; at about a
  quarter of a mile farther north, it rises with a slope, for two miles,
  till it reaches an elevation of more than 600 feet; intersected in
  three different places, by the burns of Rait, Kilspindie, and Pi-
  trodie.  The remaining part has a northern aspect.  The hills
  are generally barren ; in many places, the surface is covered with a
  short heath, wet, and full of those whitish or grey whinstones
  which indicate a poor unkindly bleak soil.  The bottom is a bad
  sort of clay, commonly termed mortar or till.  But though, in
  general, the summits of the hills are barren and heathy, there are
  many pleasant spots, in hollows and glens, where the soil is good
  and fruitful in a high degree.  All those parts of the hills which
  slope towards the Carse are well cultivated, producing crops of
  every kind that is to be found in the low country, and of equal
  quality,--potatoes and turnips in much greater quantity.  That
  part of the parish which lies in the bottom of the Carse is gene-
  rally very wet, but of a deep rich soil-a mixture of clay and moss
  producing in good seasons very luxuriant crops.  The Hill of
  Evelick, the highest in the parish, and not far from its centre, has
  been calculated, from barometrical observations, to be 832 feet
  above the level of the sea.  Viewed from the south, it has a coni-
  cal appearance, and is covered with a fine green.  This hill com-
  mands from its top a most extensive and delightful prospect in
  every direction, embracing within the range some of the richest,
  most magnificent, and beautiful landscapes in Scotland.  In look-
  ing towards the north, east and west, a splendid scene everywhere
  meets the eye.  In the foreground lies the extensive vale of Strath-
  more, seen almost from end to end, behind which tower the Gram-
  pian mountains, with the loftier Benglo, Shechallion, and Benvor-
  lic, rearing their snow-clad tops in the far distance.  On the south-
  east, south, and south-west, the Carse of Gowrie, with its spacious
  fields and fine orchards, clothed with the richest gifts of Ceres
  and Pomona, lies directy below,; and, beyond that, the Tay, the
  coast of Fife, the Lomond bills, and the hills near Stirling.
    Geology-- Nearly the whole of the parish, and especially
  the hills, is composed of amygdaloid trap and, sandstone.  The
  trap is found at differetxt depths, and varies in  its deegre of hard-
  ness, being softer and more brittle where it comes near the surface,
  and becomes exposed to the influence of the weather.  The sand-


