
	1220                         PERTHSHIRE.

	it not been for the improvement hereby effected, they could not
	have  continued to pay their rents, although these are now lower
	than they were once.
	   An embankment has lately been made on the estate of Kin-
	fauns, by which an island in the Tay is connected with the main-
	land.  This embankment is composed of the gravel taken from
	the bottom of the river, in the process of deepening it, is of great
	width, and is considered of sufficient strength to confine the ri-
	ver, in time coming, within narrower bounds; and by means of it,
	a considerable extent of arable land may be expected to be ulti-
	mately reclaimed from what was formerly part of the bed of the
	river.
	   Quarries.-Throughout the whole hilly part of the parish, quar-
	ries of whinstone may be got, of excellent quality, either for build -
	ing, or for road metal.  Three are at present wrought.
	   Fisheries.-The salmon fishings of the Tay are the only kind
	of fishings carried on in this parish. These belong partly to the
	Right Hon.  Lord Gray,--partly to the city of Perth, partly to Sir
	John S. Richardson, Bart. of Pitfour,--and partly to Mr Hay of
	Seggieden.  Lord Gray is the principal proprietor of these in this
	parish, and, indeed, in the whole river.  His fishings are at pre-
	sent let in cumulo at a rent of L.3027, 16s. a-year, although, some
	time ago, they were as high as L. 4000.  His Lordship's fishings
	within, this parish are worth about L.2200 a-year, and give em-
	ployment to 60 men ; those belonging to the city of Perth and to Sir
	John S. Richardson, are let at rents amounting together to L. 766, 13s.
	4d., and employ 32 men; those belonging to Mr Hay of Seggieden
	are let at a rent of L.400, and, at present, employ only I2 men.
	Adding all these together, therefore, it appears that the whole
	salmon fishings of this parish are at present let at a yearly rent of
	L.3366, l3s. 4d., and give employment to 104 men.  These are
	all fished by net and coble; and, besides the 104 men already
	mentioned, a considerable number of women and boys derive em-
	ployment from them in working nets; &c.
				V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   It has been already stated that there is neither town nor vil-
	lage in this parish.  The nearest market-town is Perth, which is
	only about one mile and two-thirds distant from its western ex-
	tremity.
	   Means of Communication.--The nearest post-office is that of
	Perth, but there is now a receiving house wihtin the parish.  The


