
500                           EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   Lugton.-This place, which is called Lugton in the ancient re-
cords, formerly constituted a separate barony, with a fortalice, and
belonged to a branch of the family of Douglas.* The earliest pro-
prietor that is met with is William Douglas, Lord of Liddesdale,
who, about the middle of the fourteenth century, obtained the barony
of Dalkeith by his marriage with Marjory Graham, the heiress of that
property. Subsequently the barony of Lugton seems to have been
for a time divided; as we find that one-third part was possessed in
the reigns of David II. and Robert II. by Henry Douglas, who is
designed of Lochleven and Lugton.+ After the attainder of the
Regent in 1581, it was acquired by Patrick Crichton,+ in whose
family it remained a considerable time. In 1693 we find it in-
cluded in a charters granted to Anne, Duchess of Buccleuch, and
in that family it still remains. The barony of Lugton was detach-
ed from, the parish of St Andrew's in 1633, and annexed to the
parish of Dalkeith. The village, till very lately, was chiefly in-
habited by colliers.
    Cowden.-This place, called Colden in our ancient records,
was, so far back as our information goes, comprehended within the
barony of Dalkeith. It was possessed by Peter Luband, Knight,
in the reign of Robert I.; but on his being attainted, it was confer-
red upon Robert de Lawder,** who received various other grants
of forfeited lands from that distinguished prince. At what period
it came into the bands of the proprietors of Dalkeith we have not
been able to ascertain. It now consists of two farms, Easter and
Wester Cowden, which, together with a part of the farm of Lang-
side, and the village of Whitehill, make up the south-eastern por-
tion of the parish. The coal-fields in the grounds of Cowden
were begun to be worked in 1837. Dwelling-houses for the col-

<FOOTNOTE>Among the missing charters of David II., there is one entitled, "Charter to Wil-
lism Logtoune of the lands of Logtoune in vice. Edinburgh."-Robertson's Index,
page 40, 14. See also Regist. Magn. Sigill. 68, 232; 156, 14.
   "In 1707," Sir R. Sibbald informs us, "that the track of a Roman road appear-
eth yet in the way from Musselburgh to Lugton, and from thence to Borthwick
Castle."-Caledon. Vol. i. page 143, note (k.) But no traces of it, in this parish
at least, are now to be seen.
    Robert. Index, 65, 5. and 125, 4.
    Acts of Scott. Parl. Vol. iii. page 274.
    In 1640 Sir David Crichton of Lugton is commissioner for the shire of Edin-
burgh. He officiates at the conferring of knighthood upon four esquire. "He put a
gilt spur upon their right heel, as being the ancient test knight then present."-Bal-
four's Annals, Vol. iii. par 140.
    Acts of Scott. Parl. Vol. iii. 140.               Ibid. Vol. v. 145
    Register Magn. Sigill., page 12, 62. See also 13, 68, and 17, 89. The same
Robert Lauder received an annual penvion of L. 20, to be derived from the revenues of
the jusdiciary courts held on the north of the river Forth. (Page 3l, 67.)


