

100                KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

eascade worthy of its present celebrity, both on account of its na-
tural beauty, and from having been the spot where the ejected mini-
ster of the parish, in persecuting times, occasionally baptized the
children of his flock.  In alluding to the scenery of Balmaclellan,
the extensive and varied prospect in the neighbourhood of the vil-
lage is well entitled to notice.  Tourists,  painters, and poets have
all endeavoured to do it justice, but we have seen no effort either
of the pencil or pen at all worthy of it.  It will stand a compari-
son with the fairest scenes in the Highlands, and present a fine
combination of all the features mentioned by Scott in his descrip-
tion of national landscape:

             " Land of brown heath and shaggy wood,
             Land of the mountain and the flood."

    Geology.--The principal rocks are whinstone and slate.  There
are two quarries of the latter within the parish.  The metal is
excellent, but they have not been wrought to any extent for several
years.
    Zoology.--The lakes of Balmaclellan are frequented by a great
variety of water-fow].  Here wild geese and swans are occasional
visitants.  The cool is rarely found, yet we have seen its rude and
singular nest among the reeds on the rushy  margin o Loch Ken.
It is so constructed as to float on the surface, and to rise or fall
with the water.  A still rarer bird is the kingfisher.  It has been
seen hovering over the Garple, and wathching its prey as it rose to
the surface of the stream.  The small grebe is seldom noticed.
Herons are by no means uncommon.  Allured by an abundant
supply of fish, these birds wander at certain seasons by the loneliest
streams and most secluded lakes.  The rapacious birds are not
numerous.  The eagle confines his range to the wilder scenery.
west of the Ken, and rarely crosses the parish.  Hawks, however,
reared in other quarters, take long flights, and  sweep the culti-
vated fields for partridge and smaller birds. A pair of ravens
still maintain their residence.  Rooks, on the other hand, are
abundant.  Swarms of them, proceeding from two colonies in the
parish, and reinforced by those of kenmure, annoy the farmer in
seed-time and harvest.  On the whole, however, from their de-
struction of noxious insects, they may be looked upon not so much
as a nuisance as a benefit.  A few years ago, a sort of grub settled
on the summit of the hills, and, spreading its ravages downwards,
reduced the green heights to  absolute sterility.  Thither the rooks
were gathered together, and after waging war with the destroyer,



