
662                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

was erected by Mr Forbes Mitchell of Thainston, after the great
flood in 1829.
   The whole parish, except the small possessions within the
burgh, being held under entail, the leases are seldom for more
than nineteen years; and they are drawn up with reference to the
rules and regulations of the different estates.  The tenant is al-
lowed meliorations for houses and dikes to the extent of from one
to two years rent.  The rent is all payable in money at Whitsun-
day and Martinmas.  But Lord Kintore has now altered the
terms to Candlemas and Lammas, which his tenants justly consi-
der as a very great favour.  The occupiers of his Lordship's lands
seldom or never remove; for when the leases are within about two
years of the expiry, a competent valuator surveys the farms, with
instructions to value them on the liberal principle,-" Live and let
live;" and at this valuation the tenant may continue to hold his
farm.
   The farm-buildings have been much improved of late.  The dwel-
ling-bouses, in many cases, are slated, and a few of the steadings also.
They must all be built of stone and lime, and on an approved
plan, before meliorations can be obtained.  Happily the bothy sys-
tem is almost unknown here.  The farm servants, though their
sleeping accommodation is often separate, generally have their
victuals provided in the farm-house.  An intimate and kindly in-
tercourse is thus promoted between master and servant, which has
for the most part a very salutary effect.
   The extensive planting which has, for some time, been going on
is deservedly considered to be a great improvement.  Much of
the waste land, indeed, is better adapted for that purpose than for
cultivation, on account of the immense quantities of large stones
on or near the surface, of the soil. Considerable progress has also
recently been made in bringing new land into cultivation.  One
of Lord Kintore's tenants, Mr Abel of Auquherton, has improv-
ed, within the last thirty years, upwards of 120 acres, for part
of which he had the honour to receive the Highland Society's
medal.  On the farm of Crichie, several fields have lately been
dried by furrow draining.  The materials used were granite broken
to a proper size, and filled in to a considerable depth.  The result
of this expensive but effectual mode of improvement has been very
satisfactory.
   The straighting of the Don, followed up with proper excam-


