
502                         ARGYLESHIRE.

The decrease in the population, as above, may be ascribed, in
some measure, to the uniting of farms, especially in the upland
districts of the parish, where sheep-farming prevails; and to the
enlarging of the Marquis of Breadalbane's deer forest in that di-
rection.  The non-residence of our heritors, who, with their fami-
lies and establishments, resided upon their properties in the parish
when the former census was taken, contributed to the same result.
With the exception of two, who pass a few months of the year
on their properties here, the heritors, for some years back, have
been non-resident; a circumstance which operates unfavourably on
the interests of the parish.*  The Gaelib language is that which
prevails, and it is spoken with much purity.  More than nine-
tenths of the people prefer religious instruction in the Gaelic,
while a majority can receive such instruction through the medium
of that language only.
                        IV.--INDUSTRY.
Agriculture and Rural Economy.--Although a pastoral rather
than an agricultural district, the extent of ground in the parish
cultivated or occasionally in tillage is conriderable.  Minute accu-
racy of admeasurement is not attainable, but it is believed the
amount exceeds rather than falls below 1650 standard imperial
acres.  The soil consists chiefly of a light loam, requiring, from
its absorbent qualities, frequent manuring, but yielding, wben ju-
diciously managed, fair crops of oats and bear, with potatoes, at
once prolific atid of superior quality.  It seems desirable that tur-
nip husbandry, which succeeds well, was more generally intro-
duced; but this is scarcely to be expected till the arable ground
is better enclosed and subdivided than at present.  Besides all
extent of pasture and waste land, which cannot with accuracy be
ascertained, there are large tracts of moss.  It is very problema-
tical whether, provided means could be obtained, the reclaim-
ing of these dreary tracts would prove a profitable application of
capital, though it would doubtless greatly improve the appear-
ance of the country.  But there is no great likelihood of the thing
being attempted.--There are fully 2700 imperial acres under wood,
seven-eighths of the whole, if not more, consisting of oak coppice,
which is carefully attended to, and cut at the end of every twenty
or twenty-one years.  The plantations consist of Scottish fir, larch,


<FOOTNOTE>Colonel Campbell of Ardchattan has recently become a residing heritor, with his
son-in-law and daughter, Mr and Mrs Popham.


