
                        DUDDINGSTON.                387

Grande Bretagne depuis," &c; par T. M. de Selmonet, A. Pa-
ris:" printed probably in the year 1672. An English translation
of this work has also been published.  Charles Lumsden was for
a short time one of the regents in the University of Edinburgh;
and, in 1586, was appointed minister of Duddingston. He pub-
lished, in 1600, an English translation of Rolock's "Exposition
of some of the Select Psalms."  Mr David Malcolm was
minister of Duddingston prior to the year 1741. He had de-
voted touch of his time to the study of languages and antiquities,
and was received a member of the London Antiquarian Society.
He published some essays and letters in 1739, which display a
very considerable knowledge of the Celtic and Hebrew languages,
and were chiefly intended to form an introduction to his unfinish,
ed Celtic Dictionary. Those essays are commended by Mr Pink-
erton, and quoted by Gibelin in his " Monde Primitif, and Bul
Iet," in his "Memories Celtiques." His successor, Mr Pollock,
soon after his admission, was appointed Professor of Divinity at
Aberdeen. We think it proper to state also, that the celebrated John
and Archibald, successive Dukes of Argyle, spent much of their
time at Brunstane, in this parish ; and, it is said, received a part
of their education from the Duchess, their mother, who resided
constantly here, prior to the year 1734. The late Sir Alexander
Dick of Prestonfield, who died in 1785 at the venerable age of
83, was a gentleman well known and highly respected for his ge-
neral attainments in literature, public spirit, and elegance of man-
ners. Sir Alexander was the intimate friend of the celebrated
Dr Samuel Johnson, who, while residing in Scotland with his
friend Boswell, spent several days with him at Prestonfield. Be-
ing a younger son, he had studied medicine as a profession. He
took the degree of M. D. at the University of Leyden; practised
as a physician for many years in Pembrokeshire; and on his suc-
ceeding to the family title, and on his consequent residence at Pres-
tonfield, he was seven times successively elected President of the
Royal College of Physicians in Edhnburgh. The Rev. Thomas
Gillespie, who was the first Relief minister, and founder of the
Synod of Relief, was born at Clearburn, in this parish, in the year
1708. He died on the 19th January 1774, at Dunfermline. The
late minister of Duddingston, the Rev. John Thomson, was a
nember of the Royal Scottish Academy of Painting, and was ad-
mitted to be the most eminent landscape painter a his day in
Scotland.
 Land-owners.- The chief land-owners are, the Most Noble the


