
                         WALSTON.                           855

rony, and, transmitted with it to the present possessor.  Like the
neighbouring parish of Dolphinton, it passed from the hands of
Walter Olifard, who died in 1242, successively into those of the
Morays and the Douglases. *  Sir John Ramsay next obtained it, and
held it for a few years, When it was forfeited and bestowed upon Patrick
Hepburn, Lord Hailes.  On the forfeiture of James Hepburn, the
too famous Earl of Bothwell, in 1567, the barony of Walston, and
the patronage of the church, once more fell to the Crown, and were
granted by James VI. to John, Earl of Mar. By this distinguish-
ed nobleman, the barony of Walston, with the patronage of the
church, was sold towards the commencement of the seventeenth
century to Robert Baillie, merchant-burgess of Edinburgh, a
son of Matthew Baillie, of St John's Kirk, who, dying at Walston
in 1655, + was succeeded by his son Christopher, ++ on whose de-
cease in 1693 his son John succeeded, who in June 1709, sold S the

<FOOTNOTE>Sir Thomas Moray of Bothwell, by marriage with whose daughter and heiress
the lordship of Bothwell passed into the family of Douglas, granted to Sir Robert
Erskine and Christian Keith, his spouse, the lands of Walayston and Elgereth, in
Lanarkshire, to be holden of him and his successors ; and this grant was confirmed
by a charter of David II. (vide Douglas' Peerage, Earls Menteith). John, Earl of
Mar, was lineally descended from Sir Robert Erskine and Christian Keith, and this
may have been the reason why, on the forfeiture of the Earl of Bothwell in 1567, he
obtained a grant of the barony of Walston from the Crown ; and why that grant was
excepted from a revocation made in Parliament 29th November 1581.  The barony
and lands of Walston, with the advowson of the church, were included in the grant of
the whole property of the lordship of Bothwell to Francis Stewart in 1581, and this
grant was ratified in Parliament, 29th November, in the same year, when a protest
was made against the grant to the Earl of Mar.  The attainder of Francis, Earl of
Bothwell, in 1593, extinguished whatever right he had to the property of Walston
and left the Earl of Mar in undisputed possession of the property, temporal and Spiri-
tual.-Vide Chalmers's Caledonia.  The Earl of Mar occasionally resided at Wal-
ston for his recreation in hawking, and was there in 1601 with his lady, Dame Maria.
Stuart.-Vide Memorie of the Somervilles.  His hunting seat was a square tower,
pulled down within these few years to build cow-bouses, which now occupy the site.
          Robert Baillie obtained a charter from the Crown, in his own name, and that of
his wife, Marion Purves, which is dated 30th November 1632,  He and his son
were suspected of favouring Montrose's attempt.  Robert Baillie mortified 400
merks for the use of the poor of the parish.
          Christopher Raillie married Lilias, daughter of Sir David Murray of Stanhope,
and Lady Lilias Fleming, daughter of the Earl of Wigton. He built the aisle at the
South end of the church, where his father, himself, his son John, and Grizzel Rachel
BAillie, John's daughter and heiress, are interred.-Vide, tombstone in vault.  His
body was embowelled and embalmed at an expense of 400 merks.  Christopher pre-
sented to the church of Walston in 1657, four silver communion cups, which yet re-
main to attest his liberality.  On them are engraved his Arms, and those of his wife;
and over the shield is a cypher, in which are blended the letters, R. B.; M. P. ;
C.B.; L. M.; being the initials of his father's name, and that of his mother, his own,
and his wife's.  Christopher Baillie was suspected of malignancy in 1646, and was
fined L. 9600 Scots by Middleton's parliament in 1662-Vide Wodrow, by Burns,
Vol. i. p. 272.  Christopher Ballie mortified, 12th October 1660, L., 1000 Scots
money, the interest of which to afford a salary to the schoolmaster; this was lost by
mismanagement towards the end of last century, having been lent many years before
on issuficient security.
          Vide Morison's Decisions, 16891, and 8433.
   It appears from the records of the Presbytery of Biggar, 1709, that John Baillie


