
262                               BANFFSHIRE.

to the Chapel of Ease at Enzie. There is a tolerably good har-
bour, and, as has been stated, considerable business is, done in
exporting grain, and in importing salt and coals. There are 7
large boats, and 10 small.
   Herring Fishery.-About Christmas, the fishermen engage with
the enrers in the herring fishing, at the various curing stations on
the coast of Caithness, at Fraserburgh, Peterhead, and Aberdeen.
They receive from the fish-curer a bounty on each boat from L.8
to L.10, and 1Os. 6d. for every cran which will contain from 600
to 700 dozen, with four pints of whisky weekly. Each boat requires
four men, and sometimes a boy. In a successful season a boat
way take in one night upwards of 40 crans; from 150 to 180 is
reckoned an excellent fishing for the season. The number of
boats in this parish is 245; and, taking the average of each boat
at 100 crans at 1Os. 6d., the amount will be L. 18,375.
   Means of Communication.-The roads, upon the whole, in all
directions, are good, and kept in an excellent state of repair. The
post-road runs through the parish from east to west for ten miles.
A coach from Elgin to Banff passes and repasses daily along this
road, affording an easy and expeditions conveyance to various
parts of the county. The condition of the bridges and fences is
good.
   Harbours.-There are two harbours, one at Buckie and the other
at Portgordon. Ships of considerable burden enter the harbour
at Portgordon, where, as has been stated, considerable business

<FOOTNOTE> The large boats are from 12 to 14 tons in weight, and the small ones between
4 and 5. The price of a large boat is L.27; masts and sails, including cordage,
L.16 ; each net is from 45 to 50 yards in length, and costs L.3, 10s. In fishing
cod, ling, and haddocks, a large boat requires eight men; and each boat has, from
February to April, nine lines, containing 800 hooks at a yard's distance. From this
period, when the season for taking large fish begins, till April, the fishermen seldom
go farther from the shore than fifty miles. From the end of April, or beginning of
May, they frequently sail out to the distance of eighty miles in search of skate, are
then each boat has eighteen lines. Skate is found in great abundance in a particular
spot of Caithness, called the Skate Hole. Cod, ling, halibut, tusk, and skate, are
the only large fisb caught in any quantity in the Moray Frith. They are salted in
pots on the beach, and dried on the rocks, or on a temporary frame made for the
purpose. Skate, however, is dried without salt, and the halibut is used fresh. The
ling and skate are most valuable, on account of their livers yielding a considerable
portion of oil, which is sold from l0d. to 1s. per pint. Cod, ling, and tusk, are in
season from May to February; skate is good at all seasons; and halibut in high per-
fection about July. In June, the dried fish is packed in the large boats, and carried
for sale to the different towns along the Fife coast, to Edinburgh, Glasgow, and oc-
cassionally to Ireland. A cargo is valued at L.100.
   The crew of a small boat consists of five men, with a boy. The small boats are
used for taking baddocks, whitings, flounders, &c. Mackerel is caught from July
till the end of August, by it line sunk with lead, and the hooks baited with tiny sub-
stance of a bright or red colour. They are also frequently taken in the salmon
stake nets in large quantities.


