
352                 BERWICKSHIRE.

year 1160, Malcolm IV. granted to his Stewart, Walter, the son
of Alan,-Birchensyde and Legerdeswode, as they had been held
by his grandfather David in his demesne. Walter, his grandson,
and the third Stewart, gave the lands of Birebensyde in marriage
with his daughter Euphemia, to Patrick, who succeeded as Earl
of Dunbar in 1232; and Robert the Stewart, who succeeded to the
throne, granted to Alan de Lauder, his tenant of Whitslaid, many
manorial rights in Birchensyde, Legerdswode, and Morristown,-
a grant which was confirmed by King Robert II. 13th June 1371.
   The family of Lauder were still in possession of Whitslaid in
1635. It afterwards belonged to the Montgomeries of Mackbie-
hill; * and, along with Birkenside, came by purchase into the pos-
session of Mr Innes of Stow. Morriston and Legerwood were, in
1635, in the possession of the ancient family who still hold it. The
barony of Corsbie appears at an early period to have belonged to
the Cranstouns of Oxenford, and in 1635 it was still in their pos-
session. Dodds afterwards passed to the Hays of Mordington, and
then came by purchase to the family of Spottiswoode. The rest of
the barony, comprehending the farms of Boon and Corsbie, belongs
to the Most Noble the Marquis of Tweeddale.
   East Morriston, in 1635, belonged to Francis and John Wilkison.
It was afterwards the property of Mr Peter of Chapel, and was pur-
chased by the late Thomas Scott, Esq.
   A part of Birkenside, which in 1635 belonged to Robert Hart
of St John's Chapel, advocate, became in 1689, the property of
William Shillinglaws, elder and younger, of the elder in liferent;
and is now in the possession of Colonel William Shillinglaw, their
lineal descendant. It is the opinion of Colonel Shillinglaw, that
his ancestor, whose entrance to the parish seems to have been con-
nected with Mr Calderwood's return, and who was an elder and
keeper for sometime of the Session records, assumed the name of
Shillinglaw, in consequence of transactions in which he had been
engaged during the previous troubles; and that his real name was
the ancient, and in this quarter, honourable, name of Kerr.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry in the pa-
rochial registers is September 8, 1689. They appear to have been
regularly kept, but are very meagre.
   Antiquities.-Of the three ancient towers which are mention-

<FOOTNOTE>There is a tombstone in the churchyard to the memory of William Montgo-
mery of Mackbiehill, who died at Whitslaid in 1689, which was repaired by his
grandson, the Right Honourable James Montgomery, Lord Chief Baron of the Ex.
chequer, in 1798.


