
	10                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

have been reclaimed from waste land. It is enclosed and subdi-
vided by stone fences, and in a high state of cultivation. The
rest of the estate is let to small tenants, and they, of late, have
adopted a rotation of crops.
   Major Gunn Munro's estate in this parish lies in the vicinity of
the burgh, and the greater part of it is well-farmed by a gentleman
residing in the town. The rest of it is also well-farrned by two in-
dustrious individuals, who now grow wheat, where they formerly cut
peats.
   The steadings on the large farms throughout the parish are
generally good and commodious. Attached to several of them
is a thrashing-machine. These are of various powers, according
to the size of the farm. Some of them are wrought by water, and
some by horses.
    The ordinary duration of leases here is nineteen years.
    Live-Stock.-As to the live-stock in the parish, it is only ne-
cessary to observe, that the breeds of black cattle and horses,
particularly the latter, have been greatly improved of late years.
Cheviot sheep have also been introduced into store farms, and have
succeeded well.
     Husbandry.-The five-course shift is the rotation of crops
adopted in the parish,-1. oats; 2. turnips and potatoes; 3. barley
and grass seeds; 4. hay or pasture; and, 5. pasture. On account
of the low price of barley, the wheat husbandry has been recently
introduced. The produce is sent on consignment to Leith, where
it is sold at the prices of the time ; but the grower has to submit
to a heavy deduction for freight, agency, &c.-not less than 4s.
per quarter.
    Rate of Waqes.-The wages of farm-servants are various. The
principal servant has generally L. 8 per annum, six bolls of oat-
meal, a pint of skimmed milk per diem, or an agreed equivalent
for it,-some eight, some ten barrels of coals, a certain extent of
land for potatoes, and a free house. Young men hired by the
year have from L. 2 to L. 2, 10s., with cost and lodgings.
    The wages of female-servants for -the half-year are generally from
L. 1, 10s. to L. 2, with victualr in the house. The wages of able-
bodied men for day-labour are from Is. to 1s. 6d.; those of the
women, 6d., except when at harvest work, when they have 1s.; but
no victuals in either case.
    The daily operations of various kinds that are necessary on


