
 776                        PERTHSHIRE.

 villages of Pitlochrie and Aberfeldy. The latter contains 2 sur-
 geons and laboratories; 1 writer and notary-public; 1 printer, sta-
 tioner, and bookbinder; 6 grocers; 4 haberdashers; 2 clothiers or
 merchant tailors; 1 hardware and pottery retailer; 2 bakers; 2
 fleshers; 2 coppersmiths ; 1 saddler; 2 dress-makers; 3 milliners;
 2 female accoucheurs; 3 shoemakers; 1 sheriff-officer; 1 consta-
 ble; 2 appraisers and auctioneers; 1 tallow-chandler; 2 smiths;
 and various other tradesmen and artisans.
   Means of Communication.-The parish is in the possession of
 ample and various means of communication. There is a regular
 post-office at Aberfeldy, through which the diligence, conveying the
 mail, and carrying three or four passengers, passes to and from Dun-
 keld every day in the week, with the exception of Tuesday. From the
 same office, and upon the same days, the Dunkeld diligence runs
 through a detached district of this parish, on the south side of the
 Tay, to Kenmore, and another conveyance, of an inferior descrip-
 tion, but for similar purposes, branches off to the north, and passes
 through Appin to Fortingall, and both return the following morn-
 ing to Aberfeldy. The inhabitants of Glenquaich and neigbbour-
 ing districts have their letters and parcels conveyed and dispatched
 four times a week by means of a runner betwixt Dunkeld and a
 sub-office stationed at Amulree ; and to accommodate the people
 of Foss and Fincastle, and places adjacent, a post-gig runs three
 times a-week to and from Pitlochrie, and another sub-office at
 Kinloch-rannoch. Besides the Dunkeld mail, a public coach was
 started, about three years ago, betwixt Dunkeld and Lochlomond,
 by some of the principal inn-keepers on that line of road, for the
 accommodation of tourists and travellers, and it still continues to
 run for three or four months in the summer. There are portions
 of three turnpike lines of road in the parish. Their aggregate
 length may be about thirty miles, having three toll-bars with-
 in the parish. On these roads, there are weekly carriers to
 and from Perth and Crieff. The rest of the parish is variously
 intersected with private roads. A bridge, however, is much wanted
 over the Lyon, to communicate with Kenmore.
    Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated in the vil-
 lege of Dull. Considering the extent of the parish, the church
 could nnt have been placed originally, perhaps, in a more centri-
 cal situation; but the inhabitants of several districts had to travel
 a great distance. Since that period, this has been, in a great
 measure remedied by the erection of additional places of worship.


