
                         LONGFORGAN.                        413

ash, elm, plane, lime beech, Spanish chestnut, &c. &c.  Much of
this wood is old, and some of it of larger dimensions.
   From the variety of soil and climate by which thd parish is di-
versified, the average rent per acre of arable land in it, cannot be
ascertained or stated with any degree of exactness.
   Rate of Wages, &c.-The wages of labourers, in winter, are from
8s. to 9s.; and in summer, from 1Os. to 11s. per week.  Females are
allowed 9d. a-day for hoeing, and 1s. when employed in taking up
potatoes.  Unmarried farm-servants have from  L.13 to L. 14, with
6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal annually, and a pint of new, or three chopins
(English quarts) of skimmed, milk daily.  Their master, besides,
provides them with fuel and bedding, the whole amounting to up-
wards of L.26 a year.  Foremen, or grieves, as they are called,
receive from L. 5 to L. 8 more, according to their qualifications,
and the extent of the charge with which they are entrusted; and
those competent to build stacks, &c. get L. 1 or L. 1, 10s. in ad-
dition.  The yearly wages of married servants are about L. 12,
with a house and garden, the same quantity of milk and meal, and
the coals which they may wish to lay in brought home to them.
But few now have cows kept for their use.-Smiths generally con-
tract for farm-work by the year; but what they receive depends a
good deal on the nature of the soil and other circumstsnces.  A
cart-wright, when he is occupied ten hours, a-day, has 2s, with
breakfast and dinner.  A coup-cart will bost from L. 11 to L. 12;
a corn-cart, L. 4, 4s.; a wooden plough, L. 2, 15s.; a harrow, 12s.;
an iron plough, L. 3, l0s.; and an iron harrow, 18s.  These are
the average prices; but of course they fluctuate a little, according
to the weight of iron required, and the expense of it at the timd.
   There is no such thing here as shearing or cutting down corns
at so much per day, or at a certain sum for the whole crop, what-
ever may be the duration of the harvest.  These practices, either
one or other of which was formerly adopted, are now completely
relinquished.  The whole work is executed by what is termed
threaving.  A threave of wheat is 2 stocks (shocks) of 14 sheaves
each, the girth of the sheaf, when properly bound, being 33 inches.
A threave of oats, barley, or beans, is 2 stooks of 12 sheaves each,
the sheaf being 30 inches in circumference.  The usual allowance
for the former is 4 1/2d., while 3d. is paid for the latter.  The ex-
pense of cutting down a Scots acre in this manner, amounts on
an average to somewhat more than 12s.  But persons of all ages
obtain full employment; and while the young and the old are re-


