
                           ANCRUM.                        245

ed by the additional beauty of a numerous herd of deer; Ches-
ters, the more modern residence of William Ogilvie, Esq. a large
and handsome building, erected about forty years ago, and delight-
fully situated on the banks of the Teviot, at the mouth of a deep
glen or dell, which stretches up behind the house, beautifully wood-
ed on both sides; and Kirklands, the elegant seat of John Richard-
son, Esq. occupying most romantic position on a wooded height
over the water of Ale, which, sheltered by the picturesque green
knolls and grey rocks and woods of Ancrum, forms an appropriate
addition to the striking and beautiful scene of the church and old
bridge, and mill immediately below it.  This house, which has been
recently erected after a design by Blore of London, is of the Tu-
dor style of architecture, and of the reign of Henry VII.
     Eminent Men.--"Worthy famous Mr John Livingston," as he
was fondly termed by his contemporaries, was, by an act of the
General Assembly, settled minister of Ancrum in the year 1648.
He was one of the three ministers sent over to King Charles II.
in Holland in 1650, to make arrangements regarding the coming
of that monarch to Scotland, and to treat with him in various im-
portant matters, both civil and religious, before his admission to
the exercise of his government.  In 1662, Mr Livingston, with
many other ministers, was deposed for non-conformity, and hav-
ing been also sentenced to banishment, he went over to Holland,
where he occupied himself in his favourite pursuit, biblical litera-
ture, till his death, in August 1672, in the seventieth year of his
age.  For farther particulars of this remarkable man, "who was
honoured by the Lord to be an instrument in the conversion of thou-
sands," reference may be made to a manuscript of his in the Ad-
vocates' Library, and which is entitled, "A brief Historical Re-
lation of the Life of John Livingston, Minister of the Gospel at
Ancrum, with his memorable Characteristics, exemplified in the
Lives of a considerable number of eminent Divines and private
Christians in Scotland."  His bhography is contained in the Lives
of Illustrious and Distinguished Scotsmen, by Robert Chambers,
and several particulars relating to him are to be found, in Wod-
row's and Kirkton's Histories of the Church of Scotland.
     Land-owners.--Proprietors of land of upwards of L. 50 Scots va-
luation: Sir William Scott of Ancrum, Bart; Sir George Douglas

<TABLE>
          Lime, in circumference,     27 feet
          Weeping ash, do.            20 feet 8 inches
          Walnut, do.                 10 feet
          Willow,                     13 do. 5 inches.
     These are merely specimens of a great many of a similar size.


