
			HOUNAM.                           189

are also black barren moors and uncultivated heaths, which afford
shelter to a variety of game. The proportion of land fit for culti-
vation in the parish is exceedingly small. It is in general so hilly,
that, out of 14,458 acres, there are not above 583 under tillage.
About one-tenth of the whole is either rocky, or consists of heath
or of moor land, or peat moss cut for fuel or converted into meadow
land. The hills, however, afford valuable and extensive pasturage,
and abound with perennial springs of the purest water.
    Through the valleys formed by the rising grounds, the waters
of Kale and Capehope take a serpentine course of several miles.
Most of the low-lands in cultivation are on the banks of the Kale;
and though there are some comparatively level tracts along it, well
adapted for agricultural purposes, yet they generally rise, with an
acclivity by no means gentle, till they terminate in heights. The
vales formed along these water-courses are narrow; that of Cape-
hope is not only more confined, but less fertile, and more heathy.
The arable lands are, however, sufficiently productive to repay
any care or labour that may be bestowed upon tbem. In some
other vales, still more confined and secluded, there is also a pro-
portion of land in cultivation; but these lands are better adapted
for pasturage.
    The western part of the parish is generally more level, although
there are several rising grounds interspersed, which descend by a
gradual declivity towards the Kale. At the bottom of several of
these rising grounds, there is a portion of arable and meadow land,
of a sandy earth, or light sandy loam or gravel.
    There are few of the hills of an altitude deserving particular
notice, though their general height above the sea is considerable,
the loftiest hill, that of Hounam Law, situated at the north-east-
ern extremity of the parish, and the highest on the border except
Cheviot, (which is 2856 feet of elevation,) attaining, according to
barometrical measurement, 1464 feet of elevation, the summit
whereof is in latitude 55.30o, and longitude 2.24o west from Green-
wich. It is of a conical shape, has a declivity north and west, and
may be ascended all the way on horseback. At the base, it mea-
sures about 9 miles in compass, and its superficial extent is 1730
acres. This eminence, which, from its green flat summit, com-
mands a very rich and extensive prospect over a wide tract of cul-
tivated country, is said to have been in former times a noted sea-
mark.
    The height of the lower hills has not yet been accurately ascer-


