
                     KILLEAN AND KILCHENZIE.                          383

     Lobsters and crabs of the largest size are numerous, and gene-
    rally used as bait for fishing cod.  One family in the parish have
    of late made it their sole business to catch lobsters, and send them
    by steamers to the Irish and Liverpool markets, from which they
    have derived considerable profit.   With the exception of a few
    large brown mussels adherinj to sunken rocks, no bivalved shell-
    fish of anv description are to be found along the coast.  In shallow
    bays, a few prawns and shrimps occur, and great shoals of sprats
    and herring fry.
     Botany.-No plants are to be found in the parish, but such as
    are occasionally to be met with in every district of the Highlands
    bordering upon the Atlantic Ocean.  The botanist will sometimes
    find along the rocks of the shore, Crambe maritirna or sea-cale,
    Eringium or marine holly, Epilobium, crane-bill geranium, creeping
    convolvulus, scarlet poppy, starworts, rose campions, St John's
    wort, musk roses, bog pimpernel, sea bind-weed, scurvy grass,
    maiden-hair, celadine, and many others.
      With the exception of a little brushwood in hollows and glens
    at a distance from the sea, the parish is destitute of natural.wood.
    Within the last thirty years, a considerabld extent of land has
    been laid down with plantations of larch and other forest trees,
    upon the properties of the late Sir Charles M1Donald Lockhart,
    and Mr Macalister of Glenbarr, and are succeeding beyond ex-
    peetation' They are regularly thinned, and kept in, good order.
    The thinnings from the plantations at Largie now supply the ten-
    ants of the parish with wood for building houses andsome farming
    utensils.
      The soil of the parish is well adapted for the growth of forest
    trees; but, except in situations such as Largie and Glenbarr, pro-
    tected from the influence of high winds and sea air, the climate is
    very ungracious for raising timber of any description The want
    of shelter, and the nipping cold which accompany north- west winds
    in the end of spring, and beginning of summer, and' cheek early
    vegetation, appear to be more pernicious to the growth of trees
    than sea air.  The trees wbich thrive best are, ash, plane tree, elm,
    beech, mountain ash, alder, and black Italian poplars.  In all pro-
    bability, the marine pineaster would suit the climate, because in
    the opposite island of Gigha, which is exposed to every blast that
    blows across the Atlantic, a few which have been planted among
    larches, &c., seem to have retained their foliage, and flourish with
    vigour among other trees of a; dwarfish and withered appearance.


