
                 	CRAIGNISH.			51

cockles, and spout-fish,; The two former are found in great abun-
dance at the head of Loch Craignish, and the latter in a bay on
the western coast. These are of considerable service to the
poorer inhabitants in spring and summer.
      		      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	The parish belonged for some centuries to two families of the
name of Campbell. The one to which the larger portion of
it belonged, was the family of the Campbells of Craignish.
The other family was that of the Campbells of Barbreck. Of
the latter, Captain Donald Campbell, who travelled overland
to India, and published an account of his travels, was a lineal
descendant. In Wodrow's history of the sufferings of the
Church of Scotland, from the Restoration to the Revolution, it is
stated that a gentleman of this family joined the Earl of Argyle
in 1685, was appointed a Colonel in his forces, accompanied him
in his expedition to the low country, and after his leader's death
underwent a public trial. In a catalogue contained in the same
work, of the Scottish noblemen and gentlemen, on whom fines
were imposed after the: Restoration, ostensibly on account of their
submission to the late government, but in reality on account of
thir suspected attachment to Presbyterianism, the names of Alex-
ander Campbell, Captain of Craignish, and Donald Campbell of
Barbreek, occur. The former was fined in L.4000 Scots, and
the latter in L.266,13s. 4d. Scots.*
	Tradition relates that a severe engagement took place, in an-
cient times, between the Danes under Olave or Olaus, the son of
their monarch, and the natives headed by their king, in the valley
of Barbreck. The battle began, it is said, on a spot called Drim-
ree. In the first encounter the natives were obliged. to give way

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, a printed "account of, the Campbells of Barbreck
from their first ancestor to the present time, "has been kindly forwarded to the writer by
Frederick William Campbell, Esq. the present representative of the family, and the on-
ly surviving son of Captain D. Campbell, the Indian traveller. This account traces
the origin of the family to the fourteenth century, and to the' house of Argyle. It ap-
pears from it that the result of the publictrial, undergone by Colonel Campbell, who
joined Argyle in 1685, was, that the lands and Barony of Barbreck were gifted to
Sir James Stewart, Sheriff of Bute, afterwards created Earl of Bute. They where,
however, never taken possession of by Sir James. It also appears from it, that the
embarrassments occasioned by the fine stated' above, were ultimately the cause of the
family disposing of the estate of Barbreek, and fixing their residents an lands pur-
chased in Kintyre.
	A curious relic, counsisting of a tablet of ivory, was long preserved in this family.
It was called "Barbreck's bone," and was esteemed a soveraign, cave for madness.
When borrowed, a deposit of L.100 was exacted to insure its safe return. It is now
in the possession of the Antiquarian Society of Edinburgh, having been presented to
it in 1829, by Freaderick William Campbell, Esq. of Barbreck.


