			GLASFORD.                          299

More wheat, however, was sown during the last than in any pre-
vious year. Potatoes are a prevalent crop. Nineteen years is the
general term of leases. Some of these are conditional, which im-
plies a liberty of resigning, provided that the parties are not satis-
fied at the termination of such years as may be specified. The
farm-houses may be considered rather comfortable; a number of
them have been recently built. There are three freestone quar-
ries near the village of Westquarter, and one at a place called Flatt,
from which most of the buildings are supplied. A large lime-work
is in operation in that division of the parish, termed the Moors.
Coal has also been found in different parts, but not in abundance.
At present there is one colliery going on in the estate of Cruther-
land, for the use of the property chiefly.

<TABLE>
	Produce.--The annual produce may be as follows:

		Potatoes,	40 acres Scots.
		Turnips,	10
		Hay,	       261
		Oats,          320

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	There is no market-town in Glasford. Strathaven is the near-
est, distant about two and a half miles. The parish contains three
villages, Westquarter, Chapelton, and Heads. The population of
Westquarter is 501 ; of Chapelton, 558; of Heads, 68.
	Means of Communication.--Letters are conveyed to these vil-
lages from the post-town Strathaven, by a runner who goes daily.
The turnpike-road leading from Strathaven to Glasgow, by east
Kilbride, stretches four miles through the parish; that from Strath-
aven to Hamilton, about two and a-half miles. Two stage-coaches
run in opposite directions, both from Strathaven, one by east Kil-
bride, and the other by Stonehouse, to which there is easy access.
The bridge over the Avon at Glasford mill is very narrow, and not
in good repair. It is proposed to have it widened. That over the
Calder at Crutherland is better. Thorn and beech hedges pre-
vail, which are now obtaining much more attention than in former
years. This is particularly visible in the moorland parts, where en-
closures of any kind are few.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, built in 1820, is situ-
ated in the village of Westquarter, which is almost at one extre-
mity of the parish, being distant from the other end six miles. It
is in good repair, and calculated to contain 560 sitters. The
manse was built in 1804. An addition and offices were erected in
1833, which render it very commodious. The glebe and garden,
&c. include between eight and nine acres of excellent soil. The

