
                      KILDONAN.                            139

parish, but he is by no means a stationary animal, and wanders
over wide tracts of country, from one stream to another.  The
polecat, the weasel, the mountain hare, and the mole are like-
wise met with.  Sheep of the Cheviot kind, which equal in
the quality and weight of the fleece, and the value of the
carcass, the Cheviot stocks 'from which they were originally ob-
tained, occupy the whole pasture grounds of the parish; and the
shepherd's dog must not be omitted, fbr without this faithful -and
tractable animal, it would be impossible to conduct sheep.farming in
the successful manner now done.  The first of -these dop "re
obtained from the borders; but there is now a cross between them
and the country colley dog, which is more valuable than the pure
breed, and excels the southern dog in' sagacity and hardiness.
Birds of prey are numerous. - The common eagle (Falco albivil-
la), the raven (Corvus corax), the hooded-crow (Corvus cornix),
and some species of the hawk abound.  The hills of Kildonan.
have ever been -celebrated as among the best grouse ranges in the
north.  The strath is well stocked with black-coek, and- the tops
of the highest mountains with ptarmigan.  The river HelmsdaI6
has a valuable salmon-fishery, which is fished under the direct con-
trol of the landlord, in a manner the best calculated, in all respects,,
to protect the spawning fish and the smolts, and which it is expect-
ed will elicit, beyond doubt, the success of the liberal system hact
recourse to, over the former close and severe mode of fiabing.
The lakes, already referred to, abound in trout and char; and
lamprey eels are said to ascend the river Helmsdale about the
month of June.  The fresh water muscle (Mytilus anatinus) is
also found in the bed of the river Helmsdale.
Botany. ' The diversity of soil, and the different degreesof al-
titude and shelter which this parish affords, cover its surfhce with
a great variety of plants; but these are all, with few exceptions,
.common to similar localities throughout the Highlands.  The
haughs and low parts of the strath are verdant - with succulent
herbs ,and the finer varieties of grasses; and here the birch, the
mountain-asb, the hazel, aspen, and white willow, ornament the
banks of the river, and some of the sloping sides of the bills.  The
mosses have their peculiar plants, of which the cotton grass.- (Erio-
phorum) is the most conspicuous and most valuable. - The exten-
sive mountain sides are chiefly covered with heat-her an' d ling;'and
the ifew rare plants which have been observed -are among; the Al-
pine tribe on the highest hills; -of which Arbatus alpina, and the
eloudberry, (Rubus chumamorus) are the most abundant. A


