
234                             KINCARDINESHIRE.

From every inquiry we have made, we are inclined to believe that
it is only within the last twenty years that woodcocks ceased to
emigrate from Dee-side in spring, as they do in almost every other
district of Scotland.
	The preservation of game being an object of considerable inte-
rest to proprietors in this quarter, it may be worth while to give a
complete list of their natural enemies. We can speak positive-
ly to the following species of the falcon tribe having been shot in
the district:

<TABLE>

	Falco Albicilia        Falco Milvus         Falco Nisus
	 Buteo                 palumbarius            gentilis
	aeruginosus

	A specimen of the peregrine falcon, which some naturalists
identify with the gentil falcon, was sent to us from Glendye in
1835.

<TABLE>
		Falco cyaneus                Falco Subbuteo
		 Tinnunculus                      AEsalon

	To this list of rapacious birds we may add the raven (Corvus
corax), the carrion crow (C. corone), the hooded-crow (C. cornix)
the magpie (C. pica), and the jackdaw (C. monedula). In this part
of the country, the hooded-crows do not emigrate, and seem to
identify themselves with the common crow and the jackdaw.
Sometimes, though rarely, the starling (Sturnus vulgaris) is found
in company with them.
	The following are the only quadrupeds of the destructive kind
which are now found in the district:

<TABLE>
	Canis vulpes          Mustela nivalis       Mustela Martes
	Mustein Putorius           Erminea             meles

	The wild cat (Felis cattus) is rare, if not now extinct.
	Among the rarer species of birds which have occasionally been
seen in the parish, we may mention the kingfisber (Alcedo ispi-
da), and the hoopoe (Upupa epops) have been seen passing to
other places of resort. The ring-dotterel (Charadrius hiaticula)
makes its nest every season within the water-mark at the conflu-
ence of the Feugh and Dye.
	Botany.--Scarcely any plants which can properly be called rare
are found in the parish. The following, however, are not very
common, and may therefore, be deserving of notice. The Schaenus
albus, found by a botanist in tbe parish some years ago, most pro-
bably in one of the mountain glens; the Briza media grows oc-
casionally-by the side of the river; Festuca gigantea, which is rare;


