
                             DUTHIL.                            123

schoolmaster has all the legal accommodations, with maximum sa-
lary of L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d. a year. The school fees amount to nearly
L. 20. He has also his accustomed fees as session-clerk, and an
annual allowance from the Dick bequest.
   Literature, &c.-We have one Subscription Library in Foch-
abers, and two Itinerating Libraries, with 50 approved works in
each, presented to the parish by the late Duke and the Duchess
of Gordon, all affording to numerous readers much solid instruc-
tion and useful entertainment. Under the same distinguished pa-
tronage, a society was formed for disseminating the Scriptures, and
co-operating with kindred institutions, under the denomination of
the "Fochaber Association for Religious purposes."
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The principal funds for the main-
tenance of the poor are from contributions of individuals, the in-
terest of a little money, and the usual collections in the parish
church. They average about L.70 a-year. There are upwards
of 50 paupers upon the roll; but private liberality prevents any
thing like absolute destitution. The collections in church average
about L.13 a-quarter. There are a considerable number of families
who enjoy the privilege of what is called the "Bede Meal," an
ancient provision of the Gordon family, chiefly for the support of
old men. Private alms are liberally given, and the people in ge-
neral are charitably disposed.

   January 1842.

                        PARISH OF DUTHIL./f*

             PRESBYTERY OF ABERNETHY, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                  THE REV. WILLIAM GRANT, MINISTER.

                   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
            Name.-THE ancient name of the parish was Gleann a cheatker-
nich-the Heroes' Glen-probably derived from the extensive
power possessed by its ancient proprietors, and from the many
brave feats performed by them in the defence of their widely scat-
tered domains from the ecnroachments of neighbouring chieftains,
as well as from their success in arresting the predatory incrusions

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr W. Dunbar, Parochial Schoolmaster of Dut hil.


