
656                      ARGYLESHIRE.

  Bowmore, the nearest market town, is twelve miles distant.
The post-office is at Bridgend, nine miles distant. The letters
are brought thence by a private runner. The mail is received and
despatched four times weekly,--twice by a steam packet, and twice
through Jura by the ferries.
   Portnahaven is the only place where a vessel of any draught of
water can be kept, and even there only during settled weather. In
stormy weather, the swell of the ocean breaks in with such tremen-
dous force and violence, that no vessel can ride with safety, and
the fishing-boats, which are of the size and description used at
Newhaven, must be hauled up on the beach.
  Ecclesiastical State.--The church is built in a central situation,
being about nine miles from the most distant part of the popula-
tion. It is, however, inconveniently situated for the great part of
the parishioners who are located near to each extremity, and, on
the east side, at a distance of five miles from the church. In win-
ter the attendance is necessarily limited; but, in favourable wea-
ther, the number who attend is considerable. The church affords
accommodation for about 700. The sittings are all free.
   The church and manse were built in the years 1825 and 1826.
They are handsome and commodious, substantially built, well fi-
nished, and are kept in a state of good repair. The glebe con-
sists of 26 acres, and may be worth from L.12 to L.15.  The
stipend is the minimum.
   There is a Parliamentary church at Portnahaven. Two addi-
tional churches are much wanted,--one at Port-Charlotte, with a
population of about 800 within two miles of it, and all above five
from the parish church; another at the head of Lochgruinard,
where the population is about 900, and all within three miles of
the proposed site, and all above five miles from the parish church.
A church here would accommodate a part of the population of
Killarrow and Kilmeny, who are from seven to nine miles distant
from their respective churches, and would be within three miles
of a church at Gruinard.
   The average number of communicants is about 240. There
are eleven elders in the parish. There is an Independent chapel
at Port- Charlotte; but, there being only ten families of Dissenters
in the parish, the congregation is small.
   The church collections for religious and charitable purposes
average from L.12 to L.15 per annum.
   Education.-Besides the parochial school, which is very ineffi-

                             4


