
160                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

of ground; one of four or five acres, over which a number of peo-
ple have the right of feal and divot (taking turf for putting on the
ridges of houses thatched with straw;) the other of four acres, on
which the burgh has the right of holding the annual fairs. The
trees that are chiefly planted are larch, silver, spruce, and Scotch
firs, oak, elm, ash, and plane. The management of the planta-
tions is in general good.
   Rent-Wages.-The rent of land varies exceedingly, according
to situation and quality. Enclosures round the town are sometimes
let as high as L. 3, 3s. per imperial acre. On the other hand,
there is land let at very little more than 7s. The average per im-
perial acre may be 16s. 6d.
   Husbandry.-Sheep are hardly kept in this parish at all. The
only pure breed of cattle found here is the Ayrshire. Mixed
breeds are very numerous. The husbandry is fully more pas-
toral than arable, the vicinity of the metropolis, and the nature
of the soil, making the dairy a very profitable part of the farmer's
arrangements. Most of the late improvements in husbandry are
finding their way into this parish, in so far as climate and soil will
admit of them. The improvements most required are draining
and planting. In regard to the latter, some proprietors have of late
done a good deal. Mr Weir, Senior, of Boghead, has been the most
extensive improver in this way, having, in the course of twenty
years, planted 86 acres. But many properties continue almost
destitute of wood, though its shelter is in this district very valu-
able. In the way of draining and reclaiming waste land, a great
deal, has of late been done by the resident proprietors, who farm
their own land, and by tenants. Some tenants have put drains in
every field of their farms. The ordinary duration of leases is nine-
teen years. Rents generally are fixed in money. The terms of
leases are commonly fair to both landlord and tenant. If the sti-
pulations of a lease are strict, yet deviations from them are never
challenged, if the proprietor was that the tenant is doing justice
to the land. Farm-houses and buildings have latterly been con-
siderably improved. In very many cases, however, they are much
inferior to what they should be. This, with want of capital, and,
in some cases, want of encouragement by the proprietors, are the
greatest obstacles to improvement in the agricultural state of this
parish.
   Quarries, &c.-Besides the lime and coal-works already noticed,
there are several freestone and whinstone quarries. Of the for-


