
     Statistical Account

perty in Sky, and the barony of Glenelg.  The estate of
Harris was sold by Colonel Macleod of Macleod, in 1778,

<FOOTNOTE>

lands and Islands a degree of aristocratical influence entirely in-
compatible with the liberty of British subjects. While the mu-
tual attachment of the chieftains and their clans subsisted, this
evil was neither felt nor complained of.  The chief reigned in
the hearts of his vassals, who bore his exactions, and followed his
fortunes with zeal and alacrity  At that time his object was
men, now it is money.  The inhabitants of these countries had
then a degree of security in their possessions, arising from claims
either of kindred or services to the chief.  Now they consider
themselves as mere birds of passage.  When a tenant is disposses-
sed, in consequence of the proprietors demanding more rent than
he is able to pay, or, as has often happened, in revenge of a
slight offence, to which an unguarded spirit of independence,
deserving better treatment, may have led, he has no resource
left him but to emigrate out of the kingdom.  It happens, in,
fact, that the aera at which the leases expire on one of these
great estates, (if indeed there be leases granted upon it), proves
almost invariably an aera of emigration; and, without entering
into a disagreeable detail of the various circumstances in the con-
duct of proprietors, which serve to produce this periodical de-
population, the undeniable existence of the fact is, we appre-
hend, sufficient to establish a position of serious importance, hum-
bly submitted to the consideration of an impartial public, viz.
`that the state of these countries can never be effectually im-
`proved, nor the most valuable interests of the inhabitants pro-
`perly secured, while the people are left entirely dependant on
`the power of a few selfish individuals.'
Among-the multitudes who groan under the severe exactions
of these arbitrary chieftians, there is one description of people
whose destiny is sorely to be lamented by every man whose
breast is susceptible of any generous feeling; we mean the high-
er order of tenants, a set of men who have every claim to the
appellation of gentlemen, though now, too generally, secluded
by the untoward circumstances of their fate, from that degree
of independence in their native land, to which their birth, spirit,
and education, so justly entitle them.  Most of them are descen-
dents of different branches of the chieftian's family, originally
settled in patrimonial possessions on the estate.  Many of these
possessions had devolved in regular succession from father to son,
through a long course of ages, on the present race of gentlemen,


