
                   BANFF.                                      55

magistrates propose to erect a building\f* sufficient to embrace at
once accommodation for an infant school, for a free school on the
Madras system, and for class-rooms for the academy teachers,
(besides a library and museum-;) it being intended to admit the
more promising boys from the free schools to the benefit of a more
complete education in the classes of the academy.
  By a will dated 8th February 1819, Mr Alexander Cassy, tr
native of Banff, and then residing at Pentonville, near London,
left the residue of his estate, (after payment of certain legacies,)
in trust to the magistrates and town-council of Banff,-.appointhng
"the interest accruing therefrom to be expended half-yearly, and
every half-year, towards the support of poor, aged, and infirm per-
sons, of both sexes, incapable of maintaining themselves by labour,
born within the precincts of the said burgh, and helpless orphans,
and other deserted children of both sexes, born as before, until
they attain the age when they ma be deemed capable of provid-
ing for themselves. And I hereby declare it to be my desire, that
those who become objects of this charity, shall be selected at the
discretion of the mkjority of the aforesaid town-council, always
giving the preference to the most necessitous." These are the
whole directions contained in the will as to the mode of bestowing
the charity; ' but the magistrates, previously to entering on the
administration of the funds, procured, for their more specific direc-
tion, an opinion of counsel, by which they have since been guid-
ed in the selection of cases for relief.
   Under the provisions of this will, the annual sum of L, 300, be-
ing the dividends- upon L. 10,000, 3 per cent. consols, fell, in the
year 1824, to the disposal of the magistrates. A farther sum of
L. 7000, 3 per cents., together with the value of a house at Pen-
tonville, will fall in on the demise of certain liferenters named in
the will.
   The average number of aged and infirm persons receiving re-
lief from this fund since July 1824, is 59; smallest number at
one time, 55; greatest, 66. The average number of familiesof
children (of one to six in each family,) 28; smallest number, 24;

<FOOTNOTE>A chaste and classic design, (furnished by Mr W. Robertson of Elgin, archi-
tect,) has already been adopted by the trustees. The eastern facade is designed to
be 154 feet long, and to consist of a portico in the centre, in the Grecian Ionic style,
with side buildings and two protruding wings at the extremes, adorned with pilasters
and entablatures in the same taste. The situation of the building on the ascent on the
south-west of the town will be such as to give it every advantage, particularly when
seen, from the road that approaches from the south, across the river, and ever the trees
environing Duff. House park.


