
               PARISH OF TRINITY-GASK.

      PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING,

           THE REV.  ALEXANDER H. GRAY, MINHRTER.



                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        TRINITY GASK, generally pronounced Tarnty, occupies a beau-
      tiful situation in Strathearn, extending principally on the north
      side of the river, about four miles east from Crieff, and two straight
      south from Auchterarder.
        Name.-The word Gask signifies, I am told, slope or brae, and
      this description is perfectly applicable to the parish, as the amount
      of level ground in it is comparatively very small. There is ano-
      ther place bearing the name of Cow or Coul (i. e. behind) Gask,
      in the parish; and when Kinkell was joined, the united parishes
      got the name of Trinity-Gask, or the three united braes, which it
      still retains.
        Extent, &c.-There are about 1 1/2 square miles of the parish
      extending westward on the south side of the Earn; on the north,
      it is about 5 miles long by 3 broad,-giving a total of 18 1/2 square
      miles.
        Hydrography.- The only remarkable spring is the Trinity Well,

      a little south of the manse, of great renown in Popish days for the
      performing of miraculous cures, fortifying against plague, witch-
      craft, and such other evils.  I have heard it said that a prohibi-
      tion of such practices is to be found in the records either of the

      parish or of the presbytery, but I have not hitherto been able to
      discover it.  The right of bleaching at this well is one of the pri-
      vileges of the minister.  The Earn is our principal river, flowing
      along the whole length of the parish, from west to east, in windings
      beautifully diversified. In many places, its sloping banks are rich-
      ly wooded by the band both of nature and of art.
      Mineralogy.  The parish presents few features of interest to
      the mineralogist.  At Colquhalzie, in the western extremity of the
      parish, the Earn flows through a deep ravine or chasm of red clay-
      stone rock of a soft quality, crumbling by the action of the sun
      and frost.  To the westward, it becomes gradually intermixed with


