
                            AUCHTERGAVEN.                 437

moss, covers an area of upwards of 19,000 imperial acres, of
which
<TABLE>
                about 6000 are viable
                       796 are under wood,
                      1200 are in pasture, roads, ditches, &c.
and the remainder, amounting to considerably more than the half
of the whole, is hill and moorland, fit only to be employed as
sheep-walks, and pasture for black-cattle. There  is no part of
the parish in the state of undivided common.  Each proprietor
knows the bounds of his own property, although there is a claim
preferred by the Laird of Airlywight, on behalf of his tenants, to
cast turf on the ground, once a peat-moss, to whhch they had a
right.  But this claim is not sanctioned by the Duke of Atholl.
Sub judice lis est.  Much of the land stated as pasture is capable
of cultivation, and much formerly in that condition has been re-
claimed of late years.  Upwards of 100 acres of green pasture
land have been added to the arable portion of the Obney estate, be-
longing to Sir William D. Stewart, since the commencement of the
present leases, seven years ago.  Nearly as large a portion has
been added to the arable land in the barony of Tullybeagles.
And valuable improvements-draining, fencing, and encroach-
ments of the corn-fields upon the moors, are in progress throughout
the parish.
   Woods.-Larch, Scotch fir, and a small quantity of oak, are the
kinds of wood planted on the Strathord property, belonngin to the
Duke of Atholl.  The plantations are from twenty to forty years
of age, and all thriving well.  A considerable portion of the wood
in the barony of Obney is oak and other hard-wood trees.  It is
only seven years old, and occupies a part of the Birnam Fordst.
Thd wood is well distributed throughout the parish in clumps and
belts, and gives it a rich and sheltered appearance.  More than
one-half of the Airlywight estate is surrounded by a broad belt Of
Scotch fir and larch.  The woods are regularly thinned, and used
for fences, and the wood-vnrk of tenants' houses.
   Rural, Economy-Rent.- The average rent of land in the parish
may be stated at L. 1, 5s. per acre.  Some farms, however, are let
as high as L. 2, 10s. per acre. Grass parks, let annually by public
roup in spring, bring about 10s. an acre more than land in lease.
A milk cow is grazed at the rate of L. 3 ; an ox L. 2, 10s. ; and
a ewe 10s. per annum.
   Wages.-The general rate of wages for labourer, per day


