
                     DOLLAR.                          81


Only a few miles south from its source. The Devon, after
the sudden turn which it takes westward at the Crook, pre-
sents, as it ffows through the parishes of Fossaway and Muckbart,
some scenes of singular beauty. Of these, we may notice the
Deils Mill, the Rumbling-brig, and the Cauldron Linn or Falls of
the Devon, which attract the notice of all travellers for amusement
Its medium breadth is about 100 feet; its depth seldom exceeds
two or three feet, except when it forms itself into pools, which are
often five or six feet deep, or more. It is subject to considerable in-
undations after heavy rains ainODg the hills where it takes its rise,
or after the sudden melting of new fallen snow. These floods or
spates, as they are sometimes called, often prove very injurious to
the farmers whose lands lie on the borders of the river. The De-
von abounds with trout, and also with par below the falls; but, as
it is much frequented by anglers, more especially in the neighbour-
hood of Dollar, fewer fish are found than formerly. The best
trouting station is in the parish of Glendovan and higher up. There
are no par here, which corroborates the experiments of Mr Shaw,
tending to show that par are young salmon in a certain stage, and
they cannot ascend beyond the falls. The small streams or burns
which descend southward to the Devon from the glens in the
hills, abound with trouts of the finest quality, which are often
caught in great numbers-more especially after warm showers.
The Devon, being but a small stream, is not navigable; but it
might easily be made navigable by deepening its bed. A survey
of the river was made in 1766 by James Watt, engineer, who re-
ported that its elevation above the Forth at Cambus was trifling, and
that it might be made naviggable as far up as Dollar, at an expense
not exceeding L.2000. But nothing farther was done in the matter.
  Mineralogy.-The rocks of this parish consist chiefly of two
classes, viz. Ist, Trap rocks, 2d, Coal formation rocks. The
north part of the parish consists of that range of the Ochill moun-
tains which presents to the south a regular line of front running
in an east and west direction for a number of miles; this line pas-
ses through the parish a little northward from the town of Dollar,
  These mountains are composed of trap rocks of various kinds,
in thick beds, and very much on edge, the dip being to the south,
and the line of bearing from east to west.  The great mass is of
the amygdaloid class, and clinkstone porphyry, of a light colour.
The former abounds with agates, in the cavities of which small
quartz crystals are found.
  It is, however, particularly to be remarked, that Gloom bill, Im-
CLACKMANNAN.


