
852                           AYRSHIRE.

89 families and 165 members in Darvel and its neighbourhood
professing to adhere to this body. Besides the above there are 3
Roman Catholic, 2 Episcopalian, and 10 or 12 Baptist families in
the parish.
        Education.-The total number of schools in the parish is six;
of these, one is the parochial school, situated in Newmilns.
Darvel and Alton have schoolrooms and dwelling-houses for the
teacher, provided for them by the Loudoun family; one in Now-
milns is a female school, which is partly supported by subscriptions.
The other two, Harkowsike and Newmilns, are wholly unendowed.
The amount of fees paid to the parochial schoolmaster is L.40
per annum. The salary is the maximum, with house and garden.
He receives L. 14 per annum, as clerk to the session and heritors,
and L. 10 per annum, as factor on a mortification for the benefit
of the poor, left by a Mrs Crawfurd.
	There are about 450 children attending at present all the schools
the parish. The children from the landward districts enter
school when about five years of age, and remain about five years
at school. In the villages, they are sent between the years of
five and seven, and remain from eighteen months to three years.
The education in the manufacturing villages is sadly defective.
This arises solely from want, not of the will, but of the means on
the part of the parents to educate their children. Nothing can ex-
ceed the anxiety of the parents in this respect, but they can neither
spare their children's work nor their wages. The female school
has been of much service in useful branches of knowledge,
industry, and habits of neatness in the children. The wages are
4s. a-quarter, including books, &c. It is attended by about 60
scholars; and, though only begun five years ago, has sucbeeded
admirably. The parish school is most efficiently taught.
        Literature.-There are three libraries in the parish; one is
congregational as to superintendence, but every individual in the
parish may read from it at ls. a-year. It was established two
years ago, and contains nearly 3OO volumes. The other two, one
in Darvel, and one in Newmilns, are subscription libraries, and
have been established for many years. They contain together
about 1000 volumes. These libraries have been of incalculable
benefit in instructing and interesting the working classes.
        Friendly Societies.-There are in the parish one Masonie to
relieve the sick and infirm, brethren connected with the lodge;
two, Co-operative, to obtain groceries, meal, cheese, &c. at
                              3


