
                             APPLECROSS.                         101

     end of April.  The climate is not considered as unhealthy, nor
     are the people subject to any distempers but such as are common
     in other parishes on this coast, as fevers, rheumatisms, palsies,
     consumptions, &c. ; and these are not often very prevalent or de-
     structive.
        Zoology, &c.-There are great herds of deer, and some roes in
     the hills and woods.  There are also beasts of prey, as foxes, pole-
     cats, &c. which do considerable mischief among sheep, poultry,
     &c. Of birds there are several kinds, as heath-hens, black-cocks,
     partridges, ptarmigans, wild-pigeons, plovers, snipes, wild-ducks,
     &c.: also birds of prey, as eagles, kites, hawks, &c.  There are
     various kinds of salt water fish, as herring, cod, ling, sythe, cuddy,
     flounder, &c.; also shell-fish in considerable quantity, as cockle,
     spoutfish, mussels, &c. There are great quantities of the latter
     found in the bay of Applecross, where the sea ebbs a great way,
     and leaves an extensive strand,-tbe people in great numbers,
     sometimes to the amount of a hundred and more, coming with
     sticks of a particular description, to dig the sand for shell-fish,
     with which they fill large creels in a short time, and which affords
     a wholesome and nourishing food.
        There is a good fir wood at Shieldag, producing timber fit for
     boats, vessels, and buildings, &c.  At the mansion-house of Apple-
     cross, there are some young thriving plantations, consisting of ash,
     elm, larch, fir, &c.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
        Land-owners.-The land-owners are, Thomas Mackenzie, Esq.
     of Applecross; J. A. Stewart Mackenzie, Esq. of Seaforth; and
     Sir F. A. Mackenzie of Gairloch, Bart.
        Parochial Registers.-There are some registers of baptisms and
     marriages, commencing in the year 1779, but they have not been
     regularly kept.
        Antiquhties.-There are a few antiquities, as a small obelisk,
     near the parish church, and some little remains of the Popish re-
     ligious houses; but they are of no importance.
        Modern Buildings.-There are no modern buildings, except.
     ing the parish church at Applecross, and a Parliamentary church
     and manse at Shieldag.

                             III-POPULATION.
       In the year 1790, the population was 1734.  According to the
    census in 1831, the number was 2892; of whom 1450 were males,


