
                          LISMORE AND APPIN.                 239

is so well known in history, that it is not necessary here to say
any thing on the subject.
   Eminent Men.-Among the eminent characters connected with
this parish, the first that we shall mention is Donald Stewart,
comnonly called Domhnull nan ord, Donald of the hammers, who
was the son of Stewart of Invernahyle, in Appin.   Between the
family of Invernahyle and Cailein Uaine, i. e. Green Colin, who
was the Dunstaffnage of the day, there subsisted a feud which led
to the destruction of the family of Invernahyle by that of Dun-
staffnage, at the time that Donald was a child; but he escaped
sharing the fate of his family by the fidelity of his nurse, who led
with him to Ardnamurchan, where her husband, who was the
blacksmith of the district, resided. *  He lived some time during
the beginning of the seventeenth century, and died an old man at
Invernahyle.  He was buried at the back of the church of Lis-
more, and his grave is marked by a plain stone, with a two-edged
sword engraved on it.
   The Right Honourable Thomas Babington Macaulay, M. P.
for Edinburgb, is grandson of the Rev. John Macaulay, who was
minister of this parish previous to the year 1766.
   Captain Dugald Carmichael, whose name is mentioned above
under the head Botany, was a native of Lismore.  His knowledge
of natural history in general was very extensive.  After serving for
a time as surgeon in the 72d Regiment of foot, he accepted a
commission in the same regiment, where he continued to distin-
guish himself until the conclusion of the late war.  He then re-
turned to his native parish, and spent the remainder of his life in

<FOOTNOTE>This humble mechanic soon bare for Donald an affection equal to that which he
had for any of his own children, and, having no hope of ever being able to restore
him to Invernahyle, resolved to bring him up as his son, to his own trade.  Donald
grew rapidly in stature and in strength; so much so, that, at sixteen years of age,
he could wield a sledge hammer in each hand, and work at his foster father's anvil,
and, at the same time, displayed a power and magnanimity of mind and sentiment
far superior to any of the class with which he was associated.  The blacksmith laid
up these things in his heart and from them predicted that his foster son would yet
arrive at an eminence more suited to his mind and lineage than the hammer and the
anvil, and resolved to give him all the assistance in his power in a two edged sword
which he made for him.  When the sword was presented to Donald, he was told of
his birth and lineage, and of the circumstance which brought him to Ardnamurchan ;
upon which he burned with rage, and, bidding an affectionate farewell to the man
whom he always believed to be his father, he sallied forth from his obscurity, breath-
ing revenge agrinst Cailein Uaine and his kindred, and, taking with him twelve of his
companions from Ardnamurchan, he reached Corpach in Lochaber, where he forged
in a smithy a two-edge sword for each of his followers, and with these he procceded
to Dunstaffnagge, where he slew Cailein Uaine and fifteen of his retainers.  After this
he carried on an exterminating war against the Campbells, and could not be recon-
ciled to them till the day of his death.


