
                           EYEMOUTH.                         335

and prosperous condition. It has an income of L. 36 a-year from
land situated within the parish, and of course ranks as an heritor.
Such an institution must have a tendency to promote industry and
to excite a desire for independence; yet the extreme readiness some-
times manifested, even in the case of trifling ailments, to take ad-
vantage of its provisions, shows that those feelings of independence
are not so strong as they ought to be. The allowance given at
the death of a member is L. 6, and to the poor widow and her
destitute family it is a most seasonable and grateful relief. Per-
haps the existence of such an institution in the parish may go far
to account for the fact, that a savings bank, though twice tried
here, has never succeeded. The nearest bank of that description
is one established at Dunse.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of stated paupers on
the roll last year was 35; and the sum raised by legal assessment
for their support was L. 199, 16s. 10 1/2d. The landward part of
parish, which alone is rated, being small, this forms a heavy bur-
den on the heritors and their tenants, and the experience of the
last few years sufficiently shows that it is a burden progressively
increasing. Assessments have produced their usual effects here
in weakening the feeling of honest independence, which formerly
so much characterized the people of Scotland; and, so far from
there being now any aversion to apply for parochial relief, there is
rather a disposition to demand it as a right.
   The average of church collections may be stated to amount to
L. 26 annually. These are distributed among the industrious poor
by the minister and session, without any interference on the part
of the heritors.
   Fairs.-Two fairs are held annually in the parish, at which,
however, no business is transacted.
   Inns.-In the former Statistical Account, it is observed, "there
are very few law pleas or disputes in this parish, because we have
only one writer. There is one good inn, and too many alehouses."
With the latter part of the quotation the writer most cordially
agrees. We have no fewer than 14 alehouses; and, as two or
three would be amply sufficient for all the business transacted in
the town, it may easily be supposed that the effect of such a num-
ber upon the morals of the people must be most pernicious.
   Fuel.-Fuel is abundant and cheap in this parish, being pro-
cured by land carriage from Berwick at an average price of 9s.
per ton; and from the Firth of Forth and Newcastle at average
rates of 10s. and 12s. respectively.


