
542                      ARGYLESHIRE.

siderable sums of money having been expended upon it in the
course of the last year.  A spacious vestry, a gallery and comfort-
able apartment for the accommodation of the Jura family, were
furnished, chiefly at the expense of Mr Campbell of Jura.  The
passages were paved with freestone slabs from the quarry of Air-
dantallin near Oban.  The interior of the church in Jura now ex-
bibits such an air of comfort and elegance, as is surpassed by no
other in the islands of Argyle.  The sittings in both churches
are free.
   A new manse and office-houses, with garden wall, were built
last year, and are now occupied by the minister.
   The extent of the glebe is about nine acres Scotch measure.
The soil, though poor, is not unproductive, the crops being forced
by means of enormous quantities of sea-ware annually heaped upon
it. Calculating by the average value of land in its neighbourhood,
its value may be stated at L.10 per annum.
   The stipend is L.200, burdened with the payment of L.50.
yearly for an assistant in the island of Colonsay. The teinds are
understood to be exhausted.  The stipends are paid in money,-
L.69 by the Exchequer, the remainder by the heritors.  Divine
service in the church is generally well attended, many coming
from distances of ten, twelve, and sixteen miles.
   Education.-- The maximum salary is divided among three pa-
rochial teachers, two in Jura and one in Colonsay.  The defect
in the act 1803 anent parochial schoolmasters is, in this parish,
amply provided against by the liberality of the principal heritor,
Mr Campbell of Jura, who has expended a large sum of money
in the erection of two commodious school-rooms, with accommoda-
tion for the teachers and their families.  He has also allotted to
each a garden and a small pendicle of land, sufficient to maintain
a cow and to grow potatoes to serve their families.  There are
besides, two schools upon the establishment of the Society for Pro-
pagating Christian Knowledge, one in Colonsay, and the other
in Jura.  There are also three unendowed schools in the parish.
Average income of the teachers, L.12 per annum.  The number
of scholars attending all the schools, 347.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number at present upon the
poor's roll is 22. They are divided into three classes and relief
proportioned to their necessities is afforded them.  The amount
collected at the church, for the last four years, varies from L.12
to L.14 Sterling.


