
72                          DUMBARTONSHIRE.

teal, horned grebe, red-throated diver, water-rail, and cross-bill;
indeed this last bird has not been observed in the parish till last
summer, and it is observable that the fir cones, its peculiar food,
were particularly abundant last year.
  In the lochs, salmon and sea trout are common; the herring visit
them early in the season, and are often taken in great abunance,
particularly in Loch-Long; cod, whiting, haddock, and seth or
coal-fish are also abundant, though not so much so as formerly.
There are a few oysters in the Gareloch, but they are both more
numerous and larger in Loch-Long. The bottle-nose whale, por-
poises, otters, and seals, are occasionally seen. About thirty years
ago, a specimen of the opah or king-fish was taken on the shore
near Helensburgh, and a few years since a tunny Of the enormous
length of 9 feet, probably the largest that has ever been taken in
the British seas, was captured in the Gareloch. Both of these have,
been preserved in the Andersonian Museum, Glasgow.
  Botany.-There is a very considerable variety of plants found
in the parish. Among those which are not very common in Scot-
land, are:

Veronica montana	Dipsacus sylvestris	  Spirea filipendula
Cirema alphina	        Plantago media		  Thalictrum flavum
Blysmus rufus 		Solanum dulcamara	  Bartsia viscosa
Eriophorum alpinum	Verbascum nigrum	  Mclampyrum sylvaticum
---------- gracile	Myrrhis odorata		  Genanium pratenae
Phalaris canariensia	Conium maculatum	  Malva sylvestris
Poa maritima		Drosera longifolin	  Carduus marianus
---nemoralis		Rumex alpinus		  Habenaria viridus
Festuca ovina		Triglochin maritimum 	  --------- trifolia
------- bromolders	Adoxa moschatellina	  Typha angustifolia
Bromus			Cerastim tetrandrum	  Carex lavigata
Montia fontana		Prunus domestica	  Aspidium lobatum.

It has been already observed, that the climate is particularly fa-
vourable for the early appearance of the wild flowers. It spares
also the garden flowers till late in the season, and last New Year's
day there were both carnations and ten weeks stock in flower in
the manse garden ; and in the neigbbourbood the gooseberry
has occasionally a second crop of blossom towards the end of the
year. Many of the more tender green-house plants stand the
winter out of doors, and the laurustinus and varieties of laurel thrive
particularIy well.

                        II--CIVIL HISTORY.
  Historical Notices.--Tbe history of this parish has not been il-
lustrated by any published account excepting the very meagre
outline contained in Sir John Sinclair's Statistical work. Some


