
     General Appendix to [Vol. v.

different on this subject.  Mr. Sievewright has advanced no
new argument against the antiquity of the vowel points.  His
publication, however, discovers him to have studied the He-
brew with great care, and to have been no small proficient in
that branch of literature.
   John Gillies, LL.D. F.R.S. & S.A. son of the deceased
Robert Gillies, late merchant here, is the brightesh literary
ornament of Brechin.  His translation of the orations of
Lysias and Isocrates from the Greek, with his introductory
discourse on the history, manners and character of the Greeks
from the conclusion of the Peloponnesian war to the battle of
Chaeronea, his first publication, procured him no small de-
gree of literary fame.  It pointed him out as a thorough Greek
scholar; which I have ever considered as the foundation of
all real literature.  His history of Greece is the completest
and exactest of the kind which has yet appeared.  His view
of the reign of the late king of Prussia, and his parallel betwixt
that prince and Philip the Second of Macedon, discovers Dr.
Gillies to have investigated the principles, genius and consti-
tution of the antient states of Greece, and the modern go-
vernments of Europe, with an equal degree of attention and
accuracy.  He makes a considerable figure in the republic of
letters, and does honour to the city which gave him birth.
   Mr. William Guthrie, once minister of Finwick, was born
in the parish of Brechin.  He was eldest son of the laird of
Pitforthie; and resigned his paternal estate in favour of ano-
ther brother, that he might be at more leisure to prosecute
the functions of the sacred office.  Mr. Guthrie had a
sufficient measure of learning; but was peculiarly eminent
for his piety, and his fervent, indefatigable zeal in promoting
the interests of Christianity.  He wrote a little treatise, entitled,
'The Trial of a Saving Interest in Christ.' This little trea-
tise, however much it may be despised in an age of atheism


