
464                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   At a later stage in the period above-mentioned, a harbour was
built at Portmaholmack, and a herring-fishery established there,
which, though it is to be regretted that they may be justly charged
with having caused a declension in the morality of many of those
who are occupied thereabout, are, in other respects, a very considerable
advantage to the parish. The harbour, from its centrical
position, affords great convenience to farmers shipping grain; and
the herring garbage, when mixed with earth, is found an excellent
manure.
   In the year 1798, the farm of Mickle Tarrel in the parish was
taken on a nineteen years' lease, by a farmer who had studied the
most approved system of agriculture in East Lothian. The farm,
which then consisted of about 250 acres of arable land, was occupied
by several small tenants whose lands were in a state of wretchedness,
and their houses afforded accommodation for neither man
nor beast.
   This farmer brought with him horses and implements of husbandry
of the very best description from the south, as also farm-servants
of his own training. This was the first introduction of
modern husbandry to this part of the country, from which the introducer
obtained the name of Farmer George. In bringing his
system into practice, be had at first to contend with many deeprooted
prejudices. Even the proprietor could not then understand
how his interests were to be promoted by encouraging his tenants.
In the first place, a dwelling-house was to be built, as also a suitable
set of offices, houses, and a thrashing-mill, and a garden, &c.
enclosed. All this was done at the farmer's expense, without any
assistance from the proprietor, and at an outlay of L.1500.
   The soil being good, and the new system bringing it into favourable
operation, the farmer soon began tb reap the reward of his
expense and labour, and in the seventh vear after his entry, he had
the satisfaction of obtaining for his wheat and oats the highest price
in Mark Lane,-circumstances which dissipated the opposition of
prejudice, and raised up a spirit of imitation.
   In the year 1802, Mr Archibald Dudgeon, a native of East Lothian,
took the neighbouring farm of Arboll, which he still occupies.
He likewise brought with him a choice assortment of farming
implements from the same county, as also horses and farm
servants. The latter did not remain long, though with an excellent
master, and with whom some of his present servants have been
for upwards of thirty years. Next, Mr Macleod, the Sheriff of the


