
404                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

mily whose influence endangered the security of the throne, ap-
pears at any rate to have been dictated more by policy than by
justice.  Here also, in 1437, took place the more righteous exe-
cution of Sir Robert Graham and several of his associates, for the
assassination of this able and accomplished, but ill-fated prince,
in the convent of Black Friars at Pertb.  In the castle itself, in
1451, James II., assisted by Sir Patrick Gray, captain of his guard,
and in the presence of a few members of his council, perpe-
trated the murder of the Earl of Douglas; an act, which, however
he might esteem it necessary for his own protection against the
enormous power and perhaps dangerous designs of that baron and
his retainers, has justly fixed an indelible stain upon his memory.
This took place in a small room, or rather closet, known bv the name
of the Douglas Room, in the north-west corner of the building, where
were then the royal apartments, and which is now the residence
of the governor.  The third James, who was distinguished by
peaceful tastes, and literary and other accomplishments, in advance
of the barbarous and turbulent age in which be reigned, resided
frequently in the castle.  Besides repairing and embellishing such
parts of this favourite residence as had gone into decay, he erected
in it several new and handsome structures.  One of these was the
Parliament House, containing a fine hall, 120 feet in length, and
other suitable accommodations, which was a noble and magnifi-
cent fabric, but which is now occupied by mess-rooms and other
apartments for the garrison, and although in good preservation,
is much deteriorated, both in its external and internal appearance.
Another was the Chapel royal; which, however, James VI. de-
molished, erecting on its site the present building; part of which is
now occupied by the armoury, the remainder, after many years' dis-
use in this character, having been within these few weeks restored
to its sacred purpose as a chapel for the staff and garrison.  The
Palace, now converted into barracks for the soldiers, was begun by
James V., and finished by Mary.  It is all in hewn stone, in a
singular style of a architecture, neither Grecian nor Gothic; em-
blematical figures standing on wreathed balustrade pillars on pe-
destals supported by grotesque figures, under something like Gothic
arches, and pediments of the windows.  Two of these are
said, tob be figures of James and his daughter.  Some of them
have been removed.  The form of the building is square, with a
court in the middle, where the King's lions are said to have been
kept, still known by the name of the Lions' Den.  It contained


