
24                   DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

branches taught at the academy are, Greek and Latin, English,
mathematics, geography, arithmetic, book-keeping, writing, French,
and drawing. The salaries of the masters, and the school fees, are as
follow:--The salary of the master of the grammar-school is the inte-
rest of L. 660, 6s. 3d., with fees at 7s. 6d. per quarter. The salaries of
the other masters are, the interest of L. 204, 8s. 10d. each, with fees
at 5s. per quarter, for English reading, geography, arithmetic, and
writing; but at 10s. 6d. per quarter for mathematics. The French
and drawing classes are not endowed, and the teachers have the
power of fixing the amount of their own fees. Two other schools
are supported by the Benevolent Society above alluded to; one of
these being instituted for the instruction of poor children of both
sexes in reading, writing, arithmetic, and the principles of religion;
and the other for teaching girls to sew and read the Bible. The
teachers have each a house attached to the school-house, and a
salary,--that of the former being L. 60 per annum, and that of the
other L. 20, with sixpence a month from each pupil. There are
also two adult schools, one for males, the other for females. These
are supported by charitable contributions, and are attended by
about 200 scholars, chiefly Irish, of whom about eighty are females.
The remaining thirty-one schools are private Undertakings, the
teachers being supported by the wages only. Of the private
schools, eleven are taught by females, and twenty by males. They
are of various grades, from dame schools for infants, to seminaries
where the higher branches of mathematics and the languages are
taught.  Wages from 1s. 1d. to 10s. 6d. per quarter. The people
in general seem fully alive to the benefits of education. *
	Literature.--The presbytery of this district has a valuable li-
brary in Dumfries; besides which, there are three others belong-
ing to societies. Of what are called circulating libraries, there are
four kept by booksellers on speculation, and a select one, open to
the public. There exists also a Mechanics' Institution, in the list
of whose members appear the names of many respectable indivi-
duals belonging to the town. There are already four public read-
ing-rooms. Two weekly newspapers are published in Dumfries.
Other periodical works have been often attempted, but have never
prospered.
	Charitable and other Institutions.--Poor's-House.--The Poor's-
House was erected in 1753, from funds bequeathed by William
Muirhead, "Merchant Adventurer" in Carlisle, and James Muir-

<FOOTNOTE>The formation of an Infant School is at present contemplated.


