
776                    	    AYRSHIRE

and improving exercise. And many were the instances of the
careless sinner aroused and subdued by his preaching; and many
he had the happiness of witnessing in their lives and conversation,
as the humble and devoted followers of that Saviour whom he un-
ceasingly held forth to the acceptance of all. In short, the moral
change wrought among them by his ministry, was a notable instance
of the power of God accompanying the exertions of one of his
choicest instruments."
	Eminent Men.--This parish was the birth-place or residence
of several distinguished men, and amony these the first place
is due to the Rev. Mr Guthrie. Descended from an ancient
family in Angus-shire,the Guthries of Pitfortie, he was the
eldest son of a numerous family, three of whom devoted themselves
to the work of the Christian ministry. It would seem he had re-
ceived an excellent education under the care of a pious mother,
and that he studied under the celebrated Samuel Rutherford, then
Professor of Divinity in St Andrews. Abouth the age of twenty,
he made over the estate of which he was heir to his brother, that
he might have no worldly cares to withdraw him from his studies
and the duties of the sacred office. At the early age of twenty-
four, he was appointed to the pastoral charge of this parish; and
such was the ardour of his piety, and the fame of this eloguence,
that a considerable number of the regular attendants on his mi-
nistry came from Glasgow, Hamilton, and Lanark. After he
had been settled here twenty years, during which time he was
too considerable a person to have escape the jealous eye of the
Government, he was at last ejected with all the rudeness of mili-
tary despotism by the instrumentality of the Archbishop of Glas-
gow. He survived this event little more than a twelvemonth. He
was buried in the family vault of Pitforthy, in the cathedral of
Brechin.
	Captain Paton, a distinguished officer among, the Covenanters,
was a native of this parish. He was born at Meadowhead, of
which his father was farmer, and was himself elployed in agri-
culture till the age of manhood,when he whent abroad, and en-
gaged as a volunteer in the German wars. For his heroic con-
duct at a siege, he was raised per saltum to the rank of cap-
tain. On his return to Scotland, his courage and military ex-
perience gave him a prominent place in the transactions of this
persecuted country. Of his prowess in battle many instances
are recorded. He fought at the battle, of Worcester, where


