
        248			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	present vertical fronts of great height, with blocks and detached
	fragments strewed in piles below, which must have fallen down
	from the impending cliffs, by the waste of time.  The hill in which
	Quiraing is situated, Creag-Nisdale, and a hill to the south of
	Duntulm, &c. afford striking instances of this.  The trap rock
	more generally undergoes the process of decomposition, and on
	that account, where it is formed into lofty cliffs, the decomposed
	parts slope away from their bases to considerable distances.
	  The stratified rocks exhibit, in several places, extensive ranges
	of natural masonry, over which the trap rises in the columnar form
	to considerable altitudes.  While the more perishable rock- is
	washed away, that which is more durable remains in the shape of
	isolated pillars of all sizes and altitudes.  Such changes and de-
	compositions cause the formation of numberless pinnacles and
	conoidal points, which resemble at times the turrets or ornaments
	of artificial masonry.  Detached columns are therefore frequent,
	and some of them rise to a great height over bases of small di-
	mensions.
          The stratified rocks in the parish are very irregular, and in many
	parts so greatly distorted and broken, that their dip, angle of in-
	clination, and other properties, can hardly be ascertained.
	  Near the north boundary of the parish, the trap descends to
	the water's edge, and conceals entirely from view what may exist
	under it.  A little to the south the strata reappear, but to a very
	small extent.  Near the Castle of Dunttulm, and southward, the
	shore presents thin beds limestone, with shales of various co-
	lours, verging to flinty slate.  Some specimens of carbonized
	wood are here found, sometimes in detached pieces, and sometimes
	imbedded in blocks of coarse sandstone.  Under the lofty cliffs
	of the eastern boundary of the parish, fragments of coal, cbert,
	and flinty slate are met with.
	  At Borniskittag-point, west of the manse, there are three
	caves, one of which, called Uamh an 6ir, hasb een said by many
	to resemble in miniature, Fingal's cave in Staffa.  In the whole
	range of this highly interesting headland, facing the north, the
	shore, for nearly a mile, is hemmed with precipices, which have
	assumed the columnar disposition, and which display picturesque
	combinations of form.  Near the point where the caves are,
	the columns, broken above and below, present square flat sur-
	faces.  The parts of them which remain below, rise above each


