
                            KINNEFF.                        319

had some connection with the Knights-Templars has been inferred,
partly from its name, (the chapel of St John), and partly from
other circumstances. In 1632, among the lands in which Sir
Robert Arbuthnott was served heir to his father, we find "Terris
templariis de Kinneff infra parochiam de Kinneff." These "ter-
rae templariae" would seem to have belonged at some period to
the Knights of the Temple. There is still a house in the parish
well known by the name of the Temple, and there is the hill of
St John, at the foot of which lies a farm called the Chapel of
Barras.
	The first minister of Kinneff after the Reformation was Mr
Alexander Keith. From the "Register of Ministers and their
Stipendis sen the year 1567," printed for the Maitland Club, he
appears to have held the parishes of Katerling, Barvie, Arbuth-
nott, and Garvott, in addition to Kinneff, and to have enjoyed in
all an income of L.26. He var succeeded by Mr James Raitt,
who died in 1620. Mr James Strachan, the next incumbent, was
deposed at the period of the second Reformation in 1639. * To
him succeeded Mr James Granger, who died in 1663.  At that
period, Episcopacy having been established, James Honeyman,
brother to the Bishop of Orkney, was appointed to Kinneff, which
he held till his death in 1693. He was succeeded by his son
Andrew, who, in the call inserted in the session records, under
date March 19, 1693, is described as a preacber of the Gospel,
and who appears to have continued without ordination till 1702.
On his death in 1733, he was succeeded by his son James, who,
again, in 1780, was followed by a son of the same name, the latter
surviving only for a single year. For four generations, during
118 years, the parish had thus been held by the members of a
single family. Mr Patrick Stewart was settled in May 1782, and
his son, Mr Allan Stewart, as assistant and successor in Septem-
ber 1818.

<FOOTNOTE>Gray, of all the lands in which they were infeft, among others, the lands of Kinneff,
with the tower thereof, and the patronage of the chaplainry of the chapel of Barras.
-Acts of Parliament of Scotland, Vol. v. p. 625.
          He must have been a very zealous Partizan, for, when Episcopacy was again in
the ascendant, we find Parliament (3d May 1661), granting him the sum of L. 100
Sterling, in consideration that he "has been put to great sufferings these many
yeares bygone; and alwayes given constant testimony of his loyaltie and affection to
the King's Majestie, and injustly deposed from his service at the kirk of Kinneff for
the same."
          Wodrow says that Archbishop Gladstanes, in his youth, was minister of "the
church of Saint Kenneth, in the shire of the Mearns."  (Biograp.  Collect I. p. 234).
Kinneff is probably meant, but I have been unable to find any confirmation of the
statement.


