
8                        BANFFSHIRE.

mate,-cold and hot, dry and damp, succeeding each other with
the greatest rapidity and irregularity,-tbe town is not only subject
to no peculiar complaints, nor to a peculiar severity of any com-
plaints, but is in every respect, and in a high degree, healthy.
What one would least expect in such a climate, pulmonary com-
plaints are both rare, and of a gentle type when they do occur.
Consumption is far from frequent. Hooping-cough is only found
in a mild form. Patients in the latter complaint are often brought
to this neighbourhood from some distance; and, in the opinion of
some, the locality is favourable to their recovery, in a degree be-
yond what the mere change of air (known to be always beneficial
in this disorder) can sufficiently account for.
   Zoology. *- 1. MAMMALIA.-This section of natural history does
not seem to require any particular notice; the animals compre-
hended under it, in this parish, being such only as are common
throughout the counties of Aberdeen, Banff, and Moray. It may,
however, be remarked, that of late years several instances have oc-
curred of the hedgehog (Erinaceus Europaus,) + having been
found in the parish, where at no distant period it was unknown.
It is probable that this animal advances with the progress of cul-
-tivation, and especially with the planting of hedges and trees. The
hare (Lepus timidus) is, on the contrary, and for the same reason,
decreasing in numbers, especially in the more immediate vicinity
of the town, and, it is conjectured, is retiring to those open grassy
wastes, and sea side downs, which are more congenial to its habits.
The roe-deer (Cervus capreolus) is found wild in Lord Fife's woods.
   II.BIRDS-1. -Land Birds.-The red grouse (Lagopus Scoticus)
is found sparingly in the upper and heathy districts of the parish.
The partridge (Perdix cinerea) is common, and we have been in-
formed by a sportsman well versed in these matters, that he once
met with a specimen of the quail (Coturnix vulgaris,) in a cul-
tivated part of this parish. The pheasant (Phasianus-colchicus)

<FOOTNOTE>For the section on Zoology, the compiler of the account is indebted to the kind-
ness of the Rev. James Smith, rector of Banff Academy.
    The scientific names here,given are taken from "Fleming's History of British
Animals." published in 1828, That subdivision was necessary, and, to a great extent
in the genera established by Linnaeus, cannot be doubted. It appears, however, to
be questionable, whether, in the above-mentioned work, the learned author has not
shown a tendency to approach the opposite extreme, and to exalt unnecessarily,
into distinct genera, a number of animals which hitherto have ranked only as species,
The frequent and excessive change of genera and species is one of the most annoying
obstacles which the student of natural history has to encounter; and, except where
clearly and absolutely necessary, the practice ought as much as possible to be discoun-
tenanced.


