
     of Cambuslang.

after sermon was ended, he retired with them to the manse, and frequent-
ly spent the best part of the night with them in exhortations and prayers.
Next day before sermon began, they were brought out, commonly by
More and Bowman, and having napkins tied round their heads, were
placed all together on seats before the tent, where they remained sobbing,
weeping and often crying aloud, till the service was over.  Some of
those who fell under conviction were never converted; but most of
those who fell under it were converted in a few days, and sometimes in
a few hours.  In most cases their conversion was as sudden and unex-
pected as their conviction.  They were raised all at once from the low-
est depth of sorrow and distress, to the highest pitch of joy and happi-
ness; crying out with triumph and exultation, "that they had over-
"come the wicked one; that they had gotten hold of Christ, and
"would never let him go; that the black cloud, which had hithertho
"concealed him from their view, was now dispelled; and that they
"saw him with a pen in his hand blotting out their sins."  Under
these delightful impressions, some began to pray and exhort publicly;
and others desired the congregation to join with them in singing a par-
ticular psalm, which they said God had commanded them to sing.
From the time of their conviction to their conversion, many had no
appetite for food, or inclination to sleep, and all complained of the se-
verity of their sufferings during that interval*.  This singular work soon
became public, made a great noise, and brought vast numbers of people
from all quarters.  The minister, who at first was assisted chiefly by
preachers in the neighbourhood, soon got abundance of assistance from
his brethren; some of whom came at his desire, and others of their own
accord.  Among those who resorted to Cambuslang on this occasion,
there were many of the most popular ministers in Scotland; such as,
Messrs. Willison of Dundee, Webster of Edinburgh, M'Knight of Ir-
vine, M'Laurin of Glasgow, Currie of Kinglassie, Bonner of Torphichen,
Robe of Kilsyth, etc.  Mr Whitefield, who had been in England for
several months, did not arrive till June.  The sacrament was given twice
in the space of 5 weeks, viz. on 11th July and 15th August.  Immense
multitudes of hearers and spectators were present at both, but especially
at the last.  On the Sunday, besides the tent at the foot of the
brae above described, where the sacrament was dispensed, other two
tents were erected.  At each of these there was a very gret congrega-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some women who had born children, declared, that while they were
under conviction, they endured more bodily pain than they had ever done
in child-bearing.


