
GOLSPIR.                              25

the Little Ferry inlet, and the third by the sea-shore, with a con-
siderable sinuosity.
Caves.-In the former Statistical Account, two caves are describ-
ed,-the one, Uaigh Mhic Ghil Anndreis, GillaDder's Cave, in the
eastern part of the parish; and the other, Uaigh Thorcuil, Tor-
quil's Cave, in the hill above Dunrobin.  It may be observed,
that the former is on the face of a white sandstone rock, and seems
to have been formed by the gradual action of the elements; that
the latter is in a loosely stratified red sandstone rock; and that
its formation appears to have been co6val. with the present structure
of the rock itself.  The eastern half of the coast in this parish is
mostly rocky, and the western low and sandy.
Meteorolo
gy.-The climate of this, and of the adjacent parishes
on the coast, may be considered temperate and mild.  Snow seldom
lies long on the ground; nor can the climate be called rainy.  The
east winds, indeed, which are not unfrequent, sometimes occasion
cloudy and damp weather; and, when they blow hard for a day or
two, they bring with them much rain; but this rain is almost uni-
formly succeeded by a tract of fair mild weather.  The south
winds, which are the least frequent, are rarely accompanied with
rain; and it is in occasional showers only that the west and north-
west winds bring rain.  The gales from the north-west are here by
far the hardest.  Those dense fogs, which so often occur, on the
east coast of the island, to the southward of us, are here of rare
occurrence.
Ailments of the rheumatic kind aTe perhaps the most prevalent;
but not in any remarkable degree; nor can these be ascribed to
any peculiarity in the climate.
ffYdrography.-The fresh-water lakes in the parish are Lochs
Horn, Lundie, Farralarie, and Salachie, none of which exceeds
half a mile in length, or one-third in breadth.  The Reet, which,
as already observed, forms part of the western boundary of the
parish, is the only stream connected with it that can be denomi-
nated a river.  It flows through the valley called Strath
.fleet. At
its lower part, it is slow and meandering, and contains trout, and'
sometimes salmon.  In the glen- of Golspie, there is a cascade,
which, when there is any quantity of water in the stream, has a
very fine effect.  The surrounding scenery has of late been greatly
improved; and the traveller, who rests at the inn, and who takes
pleasure in such things, wiff find himself rewarded, in visiting it.
Geolog,._ The following geological remark-S relative to this pa-


