
			FODDERTY.                              255

	departing received from M'Kenzie a present of several heads of
	cattle. As he and his followers were driving these across the low
	grounds to the west of Druim-chatt, they observed the M'Donalds
	approaching to avenge the insult which bad been offered to the
	sister of their lord, and immediately returned to assist the M'Kenzies.
	The remains of the Brodies who fell on the occasion are said to have
	been buried under these stones. Tradition attributes the victory
	which the M'Kenzies gained chiefly to the aid which they received
	from a little man with a red night-cap, who appeared suddenly among
	them. Having knocked down one of the M'Donalds, be sat upon
	the lifeless body, and, when asked the reason, replied, "I have kil-
	led only one man, as I am to get the reward only of one man."
	He was told to kill another, and he would receive double-he did
	so, and sat on him likewise. The chief of the M'Kenzies on learn-
	ing the circumstance came hastily to him, and said, "Na cunnte
	ruim. 's cha chunnte mi ruit," meaning, Don't reckon with me, and
	I'll not stint thee-whereupon the little man arose, and with every
	blow knocked down a M'Donald, always saying, " 'O nach cunn-
        tair ruim cha chunnte mi ruit." He helped the M'Kenzie to
	gain a decisive battle, and then disappeared into Loch Kinellan.
	Gillespie lost his head on the occasion, which is said to have roll-
	ed down into a well, where it was afterwards found. This conflict
	is commonly called the battle of Blar-na-pairc, from the district of
	this parish in which it was chiefly fought. The beheading of Gil-
	lespie and many of his followers renders it not improbable that it
	was the same with that of Blar-na-ceaun, or the battle of the heads.
	   Castle-Leod, said to have been built by Sir Roderick M'Kenzie,
	tutor of Kintail, and which was one of the principal seats of the
	ancient Earls of Cromarty, is situated on the west side of Strath-
	peffer, near the base of a beautifully rounded topped hill. It is five
	stories in height, exclusive of the attics. Around the eaves are
	three bartizans, one on the south or front, measuring 42 feet by
	3 1/2 feet, and the others on the east and west sides, 18 feet by 3
	feet each. There are four turrets, and numerous loopholes which
	rise from the lowest to six different heights. Over the principal
	entry are two stones having the arms beautifully cut on them in
	high relief ; and above two of the windows to the north, are on one,
        R. M. K. 3. Agus. and on the other, M. M. C. 1616. The
	walls in many parts of the building are from seven to eight foot
	thick, and the dining-room or ball, which is of considerable
	height, and measures 32 feet by 21 feet, exclusive of the rececesses,


