
               470                        ARGYLESHIRE.

               more than a couple of cows and a few sheep, and is connected with
               the mainland by a stone bulwark, along which is conducted the pub.
               lic road, which, beyond the ferry, diverges to Inveraray and Glen-
               orchy.
                  The prevailing features of the parish are most conspicuously
               mountainous.  Its aspect, however, is agreeably diversified by ro-
               mantic valleys, rivers, plains, and wooded bills.  Towards its west-
               ern extremity, on both sides of the Benderloch range, there is a
               considerable extent of cultivated land, though the south-west side
               still presents a wide waste of unreclaimed moss and moor. With the
               exception of the plain at Glenure, and a few patches besides, the
               arable land commences towards the north, below Barealdine House;
               stretches thence by Shean ferry, Locbnell-house, and Keil, on-
               wards to Connell ferry, and then from Connell eastward, with par-
               tial interruptions, to the ferry at Elan-duirnish.  Proceeding up-
               wards from this ferry, along Loch-etive, little cultivation is to be
               seen on either side.   Lofty mountains bound there, in all direc-
               tions, a very circumscribed horizon; and, excepting  at Cadderlie
               and Ardmaddy, these high grounds rise so abruptly from the
               margin of the loch, as to leave no level land to be subjected to the
               plough.
                  Mountains.-Ben-cruachan.-This is the highest mountain in
               the county of Argyle. It is said to tower to a height of 8669
               feet. Its base describes a circumference of more than twenty
               miles.  Towards the north, from the vale of Glencoe, its acclivity
               is precipitous; but from the south, behind Inverawe, its ascent is
               more gradual, and, besides lesser eminences, it terminates in two
               conical summits, which command a panorama of surpassing magni-
               6cence.
                 Ben-cochail, which is next to Ben-cruachan towards the north,
               would-, in most situations, be regarded as a lofty mountain; but,
               overshadowed as it is by its gigantic neigbbour, it seems to dwindle
               into a moderately sized bill.
                Ben-starive is situates still farther up the locb.  It forms a noble
               object in the landscape as the iraveller advances, and attains an
               elevation of at least 2500 feet.   Its base is of great amplitude,
               but its furrowed sides and rocky summit exhibit indications of total
               sterility.  Among the debris on its sides and in the channels of
               its waters, specuriens of crystallized quartz, of great size, and sus-
               ceptible 4 a high polish, are found by the solitary shepherd and
               these are turned by him occasionally to good account.  The Ben-


