
                           KINCLAVEN.                     1135

   valuable oak coppicas on the different properties, which are cut
   down every twenty or twenty-five years.
      Fisheries.-The salmon fishings are highly valuable at several
   stations on the Tay, particularly at Ballathie, and below the ce-
   lebrated Linn of Campsie.  In the early part of the season, this
   latter station is one of the best on the upper part of this fine river.
   The angling on the Tav for several miles below the junction of
   the Isla has long been celebrated, and is noticed as such in the
   late Sir Humphry Davy's "Salmonia." The salmon are nearly all
   sent to Perth for the London market.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Markets.-Perth may still be regarded as the market-town, to
   which the inhabitants of this parish chiefly resort, both for the
   disposal of their agricultural produce, and for the purchase of
   their clothes, merchandise, and other articles of domestic economy.
   It may be mentioned, however, that, since the neighbouring vil-
   lage of Stanley has so much increased in size and population,
   shops of an improved description have been opened there, `nd a
   considerable portion of that mercantile business is now transacted
   at Stanley, which used formerly to be done in Perth.
      In one respect, the recent increase of the village of Stanley
   has been of great benefit to the farmers and pendiclers in its im-
   mediate neighbourhood, by affording them a ready and convenient
   market for the daily sale of their milk, which is by far the most
   advantageous way of disposing of the produce of the dairy.
      Villages.-At a former period there were several small villages
   in this parish, of which the sites are now known only by the trees
   by which they were adorned.  The village of Arntully, however,
   still remains, of which rather a graphic and ludicrous description
   is given in the former Statistical Account.  It is now greatly di-
   minisbed in size and population, and, in a few years, will, in all
   probability, also disappear.   Its inhabitants are all linen weavers,
   who occupy a small portion of ground sufficient to maintain a cow,
   and produce meal and potatoes for their families, and who receive
   their webs from agents employed by the manufacturers of Cupar-
   Angus, Blairgowrie, Newburgh, and other places.
      Means of Communication.-There are three principal roads
   which traverse the parish, and meet in a triangular form.  One,
   on thd west side, leading from Perth to the boat of Caputh, and
   kept in an excellent state of repair; another, passing along the
   south-eastern side of the parish, from the boat of Kinclaven to the


