
584                         PERTHSHIRE.

   Land-owners.- The chief land-owners are, Lord and Lady Wil-
loughby de Eresby; Sir David Dundas, Bart. of Dunira; Mrs Wil-
liamson of Lawers; Thomas Graham Stirling, Esq. of Dalginross;
James Drummond, Esq. of Strageath; Robert Stewart, Esq. of
Ardvorlich.  The Marquis of Breadalbane is connected with the
part of this parish annexed, quoad sacra, to Balquhidder.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers consist of ten
volumes; the date of their earliest entry is 1693. The money trans-
actions seem to have been always regularly recorded, and the re-
cords of marriages and baptisms are tolerably full. I find from
the records of Pr4mbytery, which commence in 1660, that there
have been three presbyterial visitations of this parish; one on Au-
gust 7th 1678, under the system of pseudo-Episcopacy, then esta-
blished, at which time it is noticed that there were eight elders,
who, were exhorted to assist the minister in censuring faults, and
additional elders were ordered to be elected. A second visitation
took place on June 10th 1707, when the elders were exhorted
to their respective duties as Christians and elders, and particularly
to be careful to attend on meetings with their minister and among
themselves for prayer, religious converse, and privy censures.
The third visitation was on 20th August 1718.
   The ministers of this parish since the Revolution were, Mr John
M'Allum, ordained in 1702, translated in 1710 to the parish of
Callander; Mr Dugald Campbell, inducted 1711; Mr Adam
M'Adan, inducted 1721; Mr Andrew Mushet, inducted 1723;
Mr AEneas Shaw, inducted 1731 ; Mr Robert Menzies, ordained
in 1743; Mr Hugh M'Diarmid, admitted 1781; Mr Patrick
M'Isaac, admitted 1802; Mr William Mackenzie, ordained 1829.
All the ministers previous to Mr M'Diarmid appear to have been
inducted on the, call of the heritors, elders, &c.
   Antiquities.-A very curious relic of antiquity has been preserved
in the family of Ardvorlich, from a verv remote period.  It is ap-
parently a lump of pure white rock crystal, about the size and
shape of a large egg bound with four bands of silver of very an-
tique workmanship. Over a considerable district of the country,
it is known by the Gaelic name of the Clach Dearg, which means
the red stone, arising probably from a reddish tinge it appears to
have, when held up to the light. The water in which the stone
had been dipped, has been considered a sovereign remedy in all
diseases of cattle, and many persons even from distant parts of
the district are in the habit of resorting to Ardvorlich to procure


