
     Statistical Account

yet, by being situated at no great distance from Caithness, this
disadvantages is in some measure obviated.
   2. The want of roads within the country, and towards other
places.  Were the people called out, and make to work upon
the roads according to the slatute, travelling here might in time
be rendered commodious and easy.
   3. The want of schools.  There is indeed a legal salary of
100 merks for a schoolmaster, but that, without other emolu-
ments and school fees, is no sufficient encouragement for one
properly qualified; and the great distanches of the several habi-
tations, and the want of fit houses for boarding, render it im-
possible for a school here to be of general benefit to the people.
A few years ago, the Society for propagating Christian Know-
ledge gave a schoolmaster to this parish with L. 10 of salary,
yet all at once thought fit to remove him, because there was
no greater number of scholars than 17 attending the school;
yet, had they duly considered the situation and circumstances
of this place, they might have easily seen, that granting the
means of instruction to 17 scholars in this remote quarter,
was a greater charity by much than giving a school to a popu-
lous inland parish, like Kiltearn in Ross-shire, which could
so easily maintain a schoolmaster for itself, and yet that was
the place to which they removed our schoolmaster.
   4. The want of communication with post towns, which is not
only grievous to the inhabitants, but also a public disadvantage
and loss.  This is a place of general resort for all kinds of ship-
ping, on account of the many excellent harbours, where they
ride in safety in all weathers.  Here, therefore, before they
face the North seas in their outward bound voyages, they
are ready to put in, and desirous of acquainting their em-
ployers and friends with their condition; and also, in their re-
turn from these seas, they are in the same way willing to give
information to their concerns at home.  Besides, the sleet


