
     Statistical Account

run E.  They are in length perpendicular to the line of
ascent of the Grampian ridge, on which they lie, or nearly
so: The W. end of them, however, inclining somewhat to-
wards the Grampian ridge, on the ascent of which they
lie, and the E. end of them being in the same proportion
turned away from it.  They are in that part of the ascent
which is flattest; those parts which are steepest have them
more rarely.  In the grounds of Polcalk there is a dale
and drum along the very top of the steepest declivity.

   Highland Districts.-The insulated and cultivated part
of the parish at Persy, is a level spot on the right bank of
the Shee, or Blackwater, possessed by two proprietors.
North Persy, Mr Farquharson, rent, and worth, L. 58 Ster-
ling; valued rent, L. 156 Scots, South Persy, Mr Stewart,

<FOOTNOTE>

the rivers are streight.  It is always a crooked river that runs across the
drums; sometimes following the dale, and sometimes breaking over the
drum.  And suffice it farther to observe, that the centre of gravity of the
earth, depends on the relative position of the materials thereof; so that if
the water enveloping the north pole, were, by some means, transported to
the south pole, a new center of gravity would be thereby formed, and the
waters would never return to their old bed, but would adhere to the new
center
I would farther add upon this head, a passage from Dr Edmund Halley's
Astronomy of Comets.-"Hitherto no comet has threatened the earth with
"a nearer approach than that of 1680, (whose period is 575 years).  For
"by calculation I find, that November 11th, 1 h of, that comet was not
"above the semidiameter of the fun to the northward o the way of the
"earth; at which time, had the earth been there, the comet would have
"had a parallax equal to that of the moon; this is spoken to astronomers.
"But what might be the consequence of so near an appulse, or of a con-
"tact, or lastly, of a shock of the celestial bodies, (which is by no means
"impossible to come to pass), I leave to be discussed by the studious of
"physical matters."  Another return of this comet may clear up its history,
and that of the changes of the earth.  Its 8th bygone visitation of the earth,
happened four years after the time vulgarly assigned for the universal de-
luge.  Four of these visitations have been recorded in history.


