
618			FORFARSHIRE.

of repair. This arises partly from the insufficiency of the road-
money, though principally from a most imperfect mode of manage-
ment. It is to be hoped that measures will soon be adopted to
remedy an evil universally complained of. The bridges are not
so numerous as they require to be, and several are very insecure.
The fences are partly of thorn, and partly of dry stone. They
are imperfectly kept, and deficient in number.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is centrically situated,
and as convenient as could be for the greater part of the popula-
tion. Its distance from the farthest extremity of the parish is five
miles. The date of its erection is 1840. It is built almost on
the same site as the former church was, which must have been
erected previous to the era of the Reformation, and which had be-
come ruinous and unsafe. It is a plain building, but neat and
comfortable.  The church-yard walls have been rebuilt, and the
whole ground suitably laid out.  The church affords accommoda-
tion for 240. There are no free sittings, the whole area being di-
vided among the heritors and their tenants.  The manse was
built in 1792. An addition was lately made to it, and it under-
went a very thorough repair. It is now in every respect commo-
dious and comfortable.  The glebe is about 4 acres. From the
excellency of the soil, it is of considerable value. A grass glebe of
12 1/2 imperial acres was lately designed to the minister, from
church lands in the neighbourhood of the manse.  The decreet of
the Presbytery, however, has been opposed by the heritors, and the
matter is at present in dependence before the Court of Session.
The amount of the stipend is L.157 of money, and 6 bolls, 3
pecks, 0 1/3 lippy of bear. L.1, 8s. 1d. was formerly paid in name
of grass money. The church was originally a parsonage be-
longing to the abbey of Arbroath.  After the erection of the ab-
bey into a temporal lordship, the burden of the stipend devolved
upon the titular of the tithes,-the consequences of which was that,
by the decreet of the provisions dated in the year 1635, a considera-
ble part of the stipend was allocated upon abbey lands, in the
neighbourhood of Arbroath, from which it continues to be payable.
All the inhabitants, with the exception of the families of the two
resident heritors, who are Episcopalians, belong to the Establish-
ed church.  The average number of communicants is about 200.
   Education.-There is no other save the parochial school in the
parish. The branches of eduation are those which are usually
taught. The salary of the schoolmaster is L.23 in money and


