
386                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

ing; Sir Walter Scott's works; Alison's History of Europe; the
philosophical works of Reid and Stewart, Hume, Beattie, &c.
   Another library was instituted in October 1836, under the name
of the "Peterhead Mechanics' Library."  It already contains
upwards of 200 volumes, consisting of religious, historical, and
scientific works.
   Scientific Association.-The only scientific society here is the
"Peterhead Association for Science, Literature, and the Arts."
This Society was established in 1835.  At its monthly meetings
there are occasional lectures, and the Society is in the course of
fitting up a museum, to which various donations have already been
made of shells, minerals, antiques, &c.
   News-Room.-The news-room is supported by the annual sub-
scription of a guinea from each of the readers.  There are received
three London daily papers, a daily shipping list, an Edinburgh
paper thrice a week, and the Aberdeen Journal.
   Friendly Societies.-When the last Statistical Account of this
parish was written, there were nine friendly Societies in the town;
subsequently several others were formed, and the greatest num-
ber at any time was seventeen.  After the passing of the Act 10
Geo. IV. which made it imperative on Societies to remodel their
rules, and adopt tables founded on the scheme of mutual assur-
ances, a general panic arose among the members of nearly all these
Societies.  Few of them could be convinced of the advantages
which the Legislature had in view by the alteration which was thus
forced upon them, and so averse were they to adopt the scheme
proposed, that they refused to make that inquiry into the state of
their funds which time had rendered necessary.
   No fewer than ten friendly Societies in the town of Peterhead
were entirely broken up in the course of a year or two, and their
funds divided among the members.  This was the more to be re-
gretted, as the greater part, if not the whole of these Societies
were possessed of very, considerable funds, and, up to the time of
thehr dissolution, had continued to pay annuities to the widows and
children of deceased members, and to members in old age, the
want of which, particularly among a certain class of the commu-
nity, has since been severely felt; and although in some instances
it might have been found on investigation, that a reduction in the
amount of annuities would have been necessary, in order to put
all on equal footing, and secure the stability of the institutions,
yet, in evry case the funds were in such a state that great advan-


