
	               AUCHINLECK.                              323

than 2 miles on an average in breadth. It contains about 19,000
acres. It is bounded on the north by the parishes of Mauchline,
Sorn, and Muikirk; on the east by Muirkirk and Crawfordjohn;
on the south by Kirkconnel, New Cumnock, and Old Cumnock;
and on the west by Ochiltree.
	Topographical Appearances.--There is nothing very remarkable
in the appearance of the parish. It is on the whole a cold and
bleak district, particularly towards the east, and, lying in a high and
exposed situation, is by no means distinguished for its fertility.
Airds Moss occupies the centre of it for about four miles on its
eastern boundary,--which tends to give it an aspect of barrenness in
that direction; but further to the south, and especially on the banks
of one or two streams which traverse the country, there are a
number of farms which produce fair crops of oats, and in some few
cases also of turnips. The more westerly part of the parish is al-
most wholly cultivated, and has a greater appearance of fertility,
from being better clothed with wood, and from the farms being
more numerous and better enclosed. The soil, however, here is
generally composed of a cold, stiff clay, which requires constant
liming or manuring to produce a tolerable crop, and which is very
apt to sour, from the frequent rains which fall upon it, and lie up-
on its surface. The holm lands are very productive. Glenmore
is a wild valley of 5 or 6 miles in extent.
	Meteorology and Hydroqraphy.--In common with the rest of
the parishes which lie so near the western coast, this parish is much
visited by rain, and the prevalence of the south-west wind makes
the climate damp. From the peculiar direction, however, in which
the ranges of the hills run, it perhaps, on the whole, enjoys drier
weather than some of the neighbouring parishes.
	The principal streams connected with the district are the rivers
Ayr and Lugar. They are nearly similar in size, and ultimately
unite about a mile below the extremity of the parish. The for-
mer, after flowing through a great part of the parish of Muirkirk,
forms the boundary between it and Auchinleck for a short distance,
and then enters the parish of Sorn. The Lugar is formed by the
junction of two smaller streams, and forms the boundary between
Cumnock and Auchinleck for 5 miles, and between Auchinleck and
Ochiltree for about 2 miles.
	Geology.--There is a great variety of minerals. Sandstone is
abundant, and of different qualities. Lime has long been wrought
as well as coal, and there is an extensive field of ironstone toward


