
                        CORSTORPHINE.                       209

army, Cromwell at last succeeded in bringing on the unfortunate
battle of Dunbar, which enabled him to retrace his steps, and re-
turn to Edinburgh as a victor.*
   Shortly after this victory, part of the English army occupied Cor-
storphine and its vicinity, where they continued till the month of
August in the following year.  During this period, both the clergy-
men and the principal landed proprietors absented themselves from
the parish, and Lord Forrester was actively engaged in attempt-
ing to raise the country against the English. In retaliation for
this hostility, the English soldiers defaced the stone figures of the
Forresters in the chancel, damaged the whole interior of the
church, pulled down the place of public repentance, and laid waste
the estate of Corstorphine.+
   Estates and Proprietors.--The two principal properties in this
parish, in former times, were the estates of Corstorphine and Go-
gar, which, for a long series of years, were occupied by influential
families. The first noticed proprietors of Corstorphine are, Da-
vid le Mareschall, in the reign of Alexander II., and Thomas le
Mareschall and William de la Roche, whose names occur in Rag-
man's Roll of 1296. The family of the two former continued in
possession of that estate till the reign of David II., when it was
forfeited by David le Mareschall, and given by the King to Mal-
colm Ramsay. It was next held by William More of Abercorne,
who disponed it to his brother, Gilchrist More, by whom it was
sold, in August 1376, to Adam Forrester, Burgess of Edinburgh,
in whose family it remained down to the year 1698. This family
is so interwoven with the history of the parish, and conferred on
it so many benefits, that we cannot pass them over without some
farther detail. The founder, Adam Forrester, was a successful
merchant in Edinburgh, and probably acquired the greater part of
his fortune in the reign of David II. by trading with England. In
the Rotuli Scotiae, we find a license granted to him to bring grain
into Scotland without payment of duty. In the same reign, he
acquired the lands of Whitburn and Niddreff, and in the follow-
ing several additional estates. In 1373, he was Provost of Edin-
burgh, and in 1382, Sheriff of Lothian.++ He was frequently em-
ployed in embassies to England, and seems to have been held in
much esteem by King Robea III., who made him Keeper of the
Great Seal in 1390.& In 1402, he was present at the Battle of

<FOOTNOTE>See Memoirs of Captain Slingsby, &c,    Parish Register and Nicoll's Diary.
          See Rotuli Scotiae Vol. ii.             Reg. Mag. Sigil. p. 184.
          EDINBURGH.                                         0


