
568                             LANARKSHIRE.

hill fifth seam is found of two feet, which is rather of superior
quality.
	6, 7. At a considerable unascertained distance lower, and be-
low the first limestones, two seams are found, called the Carluke
seams, the one about two feet, and the other, twelve feet lower, a
little thicker, the uppermost being of good quality.
	8. Lastly, at the distance of eleven fathoms is the Tower coal,
of two and a half feet, found at Whiteshaw Bridge. A number of
crow seams, as they are called, besides these, are seen, not worth
working.
	Southward, at Orchard, on the other side of the fault before-
described, and in relative connection with the coal range passing
up the Clyde, unaffected by the fault, one of the Carluke seams is
wrought; and at Tower of Halbar, also on the south of the fault,
the Carluke (6 and 7) and the Tower (8) seams are also wrought.
	At Mashockmill, sixteen fathoms below the Tower coal, the
Lesmahagow cannel, or gas coal, is found, which here is from
ten to sixteen inches, with ten inches of dross coal below. This
coal has not been found in what we have called the Carluke
basin of sufficient thickness to pay the working of it; but its lo-
cality occupies a wide circle.
	At Gare, towards the eastern boundary of the parish, the lime
bands which lie above the Carluke coal seams (6 and 7) are in-
troduced by a downcast of great extent, and of course these coal
seams, and those lying under them, occur in that quarter, in con-
nection with another basin which has only been partially explored.
	A large extent of the main, splint, &c. seams on the estates of
Brownlee, Mauldslie, and Milton-Lockhart, on the west and south
of the fault, bounding the Carluke basin on these points, has never
been examined or worked; and till very lately, the outcroppings
only of the Castlehill first and the Carluke seams have been
wrought, so that, in a sense, the Carluke coal basin, and the field
to the south and west of it are untouched. The entire coal range
in the parish (containing 45 or 46 small seams, besides those
above-mentioned), consists of a succession of shales, freestones,
fire-clay, ironstone, &c. and corresponds with that at Shotts, Wil-
sontown, and Douglas. The only important fault in this basin
is a slip or upcast of from 40 to 50 fathoms, running in the di-
rection of one of the boundaries already given, namely from be-
low Whiteshaw Bridge to Belston.
	Between the coal and the principal limestone beds, there is a


