
340			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

stone is to be Split. A block of 14 tons is soon cut to the size
and shape required, by the power of the "plug and feather." As
the " plug and feather" have extraordinary mechanical powers--
are of great use in quarrying operations--and are rather a novelty
" in these parts," a description of them may here be given. When
a hole has been bored of the required depth, two wedges are in-
troduced into the hole, with the thick end down, and a third is
introduced between them, with the small end down, and by driv-
ing the one in the centre, the combined power of three wedges is
thus obtained, and made to bear upon every hole, and thus split the
stone. A few holes charged with " plug and feather" will be found
sufficient to split a very large stone. In splitting granite in this way,
the quarrymen are careful to place the holes and the wedges parallel
with the reed or grain of the stone. This arrangement renders
the process comparatively easy; and the skilful workmen can
shape their blocks and paving-stoner with as much comfort as if
they were cutting wood in a saw-mill. As a proof of the extraor-
dinary power of the " plug and feather," it may be stated, upon
the authority of the present skilful overseer, that masses of 500
tons are sometimes lifted or removed by their aid. The cranes,
chains, rails, waggons, " braiks," employed about the quarry are
all of the strongest description. There is one very fine traversing
crane. There are several " inclines." The largest is upwards of
300 yards, and rises about an angle of 40&deg;. The railroad on this
incline is double, so that the loaded waggons in going down the
one road draw up the empty waggons on the other.
	Fisheries.--There are several fisheries in this parish upon the
Cree, and in the bay, principally for salmon, spirlings, flounders,
herring, &c.; and the nets employed for taking them are stake-
nets, bag-nets, draugbt-nets, fish-yards, and half-nets. The rental
of all the fisheries in the parish may be about L. 100 a-year.
	Manufactures.--Kelp was at one time manufactured in this
parish, but is now given up. This, however, is not to be regret-
ted, because the sea-weed may be turned to a much better ac-
count in manuring the land. The tan-work, cotton factory, and
mill for shot lead,* mentioned in the old Statistical Account as
having been in operation in Creetown in 1794, have long been
given up. There is `t present a small carpet manufactory near
Creetown, which lately employed about thirty hands. In the
meantime there is little doing. Prices have not been remunerat-

<FOOTNOTE>It was here the first patent shot was made.


