
8                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

tury by the purchase of Lethington, which was afterwards their
chief residence. Sir Richard Maitland of Lethington, born in
1496 and died 1586, aged 90 years, was a man of distinguished
merit and abilities. He was many years a Lord of Session and
Lord Privy- Seal. Two small volumes of his poems have been pub-
lished by Mr Pinkerton. The eldest son, William, was secretary
of state during the reign of Mary Queen of Scots. The character
and fate of this accomplished statesman are well known. All his
brothers were men of uncommon merit and talents, and, like him-
self, reflect a lustre on the place of their nativity. John, the se-
cretary's next brother, rose to the highest offices and honours in
the state, being advanced to the dignity of Lord High Chancellor
of Scotland, which he held till his death, 3d October 15.95. In
1590, he was created Lord Maitland of Thirlestane. * Thomas,
the youngest brother of the Secretary and Chancellor, was high-
ly accomplished as a scholar and gentleman. He is one of the
Colloqutors in Buchanan's celebrated dialogue, "De jure regni
apud Scotos." Some of his Latin poems published by Scotstarvet
are extremely elegant. John Earl of Lauderdale, son and heir of
the Chancellor, was a nobleman of the greatest worth. +

<FOOTNOTE>liament, and allowed 6s. 8d. per day for his expenses. The allowance (5th July
1681 ) to Provost Cockburn and his man for each days' attendance in Parliament was
L. 5 Scots.
   On 24th September 1698. the large sum of L. 236, 2s. Scots was voted as commis-
sion few to the Parliament in July. August and September last, so that the practice
of paying members continued till the period of the Union.
   Before the Revolution every parent was obliged, under a penalty, to have his
child baptized by the Established clergyman, and registered, At present few Dis-
senters register the names of their children.
   It appears from the records of the town-council, that the pest, after making fearful
ravages in Edinburgh, travelled eastward; for it is stated (20th September 1530,)
that the weekly market was suspended, and all travel to or from. Edinburgh, Leith,
or other suspected places was interdicted by the magistrates, under severe pains and
penalties.
   In l244, the town, composed chiefly of wooden buildings, according to the custom
of the times, was totally consumed by fire. That this happened not by accident,
but by wilful design, seems evident, as in the same night Stirling, Roxburgh, Lanark,
Perth, Forfar, Mantrose, and Aberdeen shared the some fate. In 1598, almost the
Whole town  was again consumed by fire, owing, it is said, to the carelessness of a
maid-servant. Ever since this calamity, a curfew goes through the town at eight
o'clock at night during the winter months, when, after tolling a bell, a crier repeats
a feer rude rhyraes, alluding to the misfortune, and warning the inhabitants to great-
er caution in future. This is called, "coal and cande."
     There is a most superb and costly monument of the chancellor and his lady in
the aisle of the church of Haddington, belonging to the, Lauderdale family, 24 feet in
length, 18 feet in width, and 18 feet high. There are two compartments supported
by three black marble pillars, 5 feet high each, with capitals of white alabaster of the
Corinthian order, arched above. In the western compartment are figure's of Lord
Thirlestana and his lady at full length, in white alabaster, close to each other, in a re-
cumbent, posture.
    In the east compartment of the marble monument referred to in the aisle of the
church of Haddington, are figures of the Earl and his Counter, similar to those of


