
28                            FIFESHIRE.

which no very certain information is possessed, but which might fur-
nish interesting subject of investigation to those who devote them-
selves to such inquiries. One of the most prominent of our me-
morials of past times is a mound, consisting of a cairn of stones, a
short distance south of the village of Collessie, usually called the
Gask-hill. It is about twelve feet above the level of the ground.
It has been supposed to be the remains'of a Roman station. It
consists of loose stones, now grown over with turf. A few years
ago a sword, about eighteen inches in length, with one edge, and
so formed that it might be used either for cutting or thrusting, but
much corroded by time, was dug up from among the stones. Some
fragments, too, of human bones were found here, enclosed by a few
large flat stones. From their appearance, position, and mixed state,
and their baviDg evidently been subjected to the action of fire, it
would require less effort of fancy, than antiquarians sometimes
exert, to suppose these remains to have consisted of what the Ro-
mans called the ossilegium, or gathering up of the bones, after the
body was burnt.
  About a quarter of a mile east of the village, and within the
grounds of Melville, there is one of those large whinstones placed
on its end, so frequently seen in other parts of the country. It is
upwards of nine feet above the ground, and about six feet in cir-
cumference. This stone is near the spot where the house of Hall-
hill stood, but probably of much greater antiquity.
  Tradition marks two spots near the hamlet of Trafalgar, and
at about equal distances to the east and the west of the inn known
by that name, as the sites of two ancient military forts, which were
probably intended to secure the pass leading from Newburgh to
the central part of Fife. This must have been a station of great
importance in times of war, as, with the exception of one other
pass, it formed the only access to the interior of the county from
the north. The loch that lies upon the road between this place
and Newburgh has in consequence received the name of Lindores,
(Linne-doris) the water of the pass.
  The eastern fort was called Agabatha, or marsh-field castle.
This name was appropriate to its situation, as, within the last forty
years, the fields adjoining the little eminence called a castle, were
a complete marsh, although now under cultivation. The eminence
itself was surrounded b a ditch or moat forming in a remote age
the most effective kind of fortification. Several relics of antiquity
have been found at this place. Among others a quern or hand-


