
348                          LANARKSHIRE.

hope is damped by the consideration, that "the Wisdom which
cometh down from above is first pure."

			IV. -- INDUSTRY.
	The tables under this head are again given separately, in order
that it may be seen what portion of the parish lies in Lanarkshire,
and what in the county of Peebles.

<TABLE>
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--
Old Culter contains 9950 imperial acres, of which there are either cultivated or occa-
	sionally in tillage,							2671
Of lands which never have been cultivated, and which remain constantly in
	pasture there are							6871
Acres in a state of undivided common,						   0
Acres planted are,								 408
The Kilbucho part ofthe parish contains a 1597 imperial acres, Of these there
	are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage,		        1319
Of lands which never have been cultivated and which remain, constantly in pas-
	ture, there are								 251
Acres in a state of undivided common are		      			   0
Acres planted are,								  27
	In the united parish, there are still perbaps from 100 to 200
acres which might be profitably brought under the plough.
	Rent of Land, Wages, &c.--There is great diversity in the qua-
lity, and consequently in the rent of arable land. Whilst some of
the, better sort might be lot as high as L. 4 or perhaps L. 5 per
acre, a still greater proportion would scarcely bring 15s.; but the
average may be given at L. 1, 3s. The average rent of grazing
is at the rate of L. 3 per cow or full-grown ox; L. 2 per head of
young cattle; and 5s. 6d. per ewe or full-grown sheep. Wages are
the same as in the neighbouring parishes.
	Breeds of Cattle.--The sheep with which our hills are pastured
are of the sort or black-faced kind. No other kind has ever been
tried, as the grounds are reckoned, too hard and bare for rearing a
finer species. They are all regularly smeared with tar and oil at the
approach of winter. The horses are mostly of the Clydesdale, and
the cows of the Ayrshire breed. Upon this latter kind of stock a
very great improvement has been made of late years. Till very
lately the cows in this district were neither of the Teeswater
Ayrshire, nor of any regular and approved breed, but a mixture of
all the different kinds; but now a fine animal is known and appre-
ciated, and consequently the inferior kinds are rapidly disappearing,
This amelioration of stock we owe in a great measure to a Farmer's
Society instituted in Biggar, which has an annual competition, at
which stock of all the different kinds is exhibited, and prizes duly
awarded.
	Husbandry.--Whilst our farmers have been improving their


