
     Statistical Account

correspondence is between the parish and Ireland, that
meal, though cheap there, is never imported to the pa-
rish from that country*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Wages, etc.-The wages of household labouring servants have in-
creased very rapidly within these few years.  In 1780, the common
wages in the year for men servants were from 2 L. 2 s. to 2 L. 10 s., with 4
pair brogues.  Wages increased gradually to Whitsunday 1792, when
the common rate, to the next Martinmas, was 2 L. 10 s., with 2 pair of
brogues; and from that term to Whitsunday 1793, the wages were 3 L.,
with the same number of brogues.  This rapid rise in wages was owing
to the great demand for bands for manufactures, and other works, carried
on in the Low Country of Scotland, and in England.  Such was the rage
that seized young fellows to leave the country at that period, that it was
with the utmost difficulty servants could be got at any wages.  The com-
mon practice is to got off in April or beginning of May, some to the
Low Country of Scotland, and some to England.  They generally come
home again to their parents and relations in November, and seldom en-
gage in any work till the season for leaving the country returns again.
Numbers also go to the harvest, and return again in the latter end of
October or beginning of November.  This custom is productive of more
evils than one.  It spreads a spirit of giddiness, idleness, and immorality
through the parish.  These emigrants also bring home diseases that prove
fatal to many; such as fevers, small pox, measles, etc.  This advance of
wages is very hurtful to the improvement of the country, as few country
farmers can afford so much.  It is true, the wages are not in appearance
greater than in the Low Country; but they must appear, as they is
reality are, much higher, when the situation of the country is taken in-
to consideration.  The ground is interspersed with rocks and large loose
stones, unfavourable to the plough, so that a great part is digged.  Ma-
nure, etc. is carried on horseback, as there is no road for carts; and
even in the shortest days, no work is carried on with candle-light; so
that, upon the whole, a servant, where a proper system of farming is
carried on, will perform double the quantity of work.  If wages con-
tinue on the increase, the country must be turned to large grazings,
where few tenants are necessary, or divided into small spots, when eve-
ry man will be able to cultivate his share with his own hands.  In the
first case, mossy and heathy grounds will, in the course of a few years,
return to their first state, after all the trouble taken to bring them to
tillage and to grass; and in the second, the people must remain so poor,
that they can neither enclose nor improve then lands properly.


