
712                       FIFESHIRE.

by one of Eisdale slate. A few years ago, some further repairs
were made on it, which rendered it more comfortable. But in
1838, the presbytery, on a report by Gillespie Graham, Esq.
Architect, condemned it, and issued a decreet for building a new
church, in which the heritors unanimously acquiesced. The
greater part of the walls still remain, and form an interesting re-
lic of the olden times. The old church bell bore the date 1638;
but it was lately recast. On the pulpit, which was of oak, was the
date 1674, with this motto, Sermonem vitae praebenti, Phil. ii. 16.
The materials of this pulpit have been converted into a chair and
table, for the communion elements, in the new church, preserving
as much of their original appearance as was consistent with what
they have been adopted to.
   The new church, which was planned by John Henderson, Esq.
Architect, Edinburgh, contains 400 sittings on the ground-floor;
provision being made for the erection of galleries afterwards to
contain 200 more, if required. It is an exceedingly comfortable
place of worship. The site chosen for it is only at a short dis-
tance from that of the old church ; no other place being more
convenient, considering the localities of the parish. It was opened
for worship in May 1840, and proves a great accommodation to
the parish.
   The manse was built in 1802. It underwent some repairs in
1829, and is in pretty good condition ; though, from the defects
of its construction originally, it is still cold. The old offices were
removed in 1829, and the present ones built, They are small,
but comfortable.  A barn and cart-shed, however, are still to be
erected. The glebe contains a little more than eight acres, ex-
clusive of the space occupied by the manse, offices, and garden.
It is at present worth L.24 a-year.
   The stipend is one of those which receive aid from Government.
It consists of 61 bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, 1, 4/18 lippy of meal; 30
bolls, 3 firlots, I peck, 3 4/18  lippies of bear; 19 bolls of oats; and
L.216, Is. 4d. Scots, being the whole teinds of the parish. The
Government allowance is L.36, 10s. 6d.
   The number of persons belonging to the Established Church
is 652. The number of families, 127. The average attendance
during the summer months may be estimated at 220. The num-
ber who are in the habit of attending throughout the year, but not
all present at any one time, amounts to upwards of 350. Several
persons, belonging to the Establishment, are in the habit of at-


