
    156                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

    places freestone is also to be got in the parish, and at Badensgill,
    limestone of an excellent quality has lately been discovered.
	The hill of Leadlaw, in the immediate vicinity of the village of
    Linton, would indicate it to be possessed, or supposed to be pos-
    sessed, of the mineral after which it is named. Accordingly, at-
    tempts have been made, at different periods, in search of lead on
    this hill. The last attempt was made only a few years ago; but on
    both occasions the attempts were unsuccessful. It would also ap-
    pear, that, in the neighbourhood of the lead workings, search had
    been made for silver, and the ground in various places exhibits th
    appearance of the operations ofthe workmen, which to this day are
    known by the name of "the siller holes."
	Amongst the mineralogical productions of the parish, pebbles
    should not be omitted to be mentioned, which are often to be found
    of great beauty, and vying with the celebrated Cairngorum.
	Soil.-The soil is various. Generally the sub-soil sand or gra-
    vel with a mixture of moss, and is of more or less fertility. In the up-
    per part of the parish the land is interspersed with heath, and con-
    siderable tracks of moss of various depths and quality. In the lower
    district of the parish, there is much excellent land, producing good
    crops, and well adapted to the turnip husbandry. There the soil is
    generally a sandy loam, with an intermixture of clay and moss.
	Hydrography.-On the farm of south Slipperfield, there is a
    loch or sheet of water, of about a mile and a-half in circumference,
    and of considerable depth, frequented during summer, by flocks of
    water-fowl, abounding in pike and perch, and resorted to in winter
    by those who delight in curling. This sheet of water is nearly in
    the centre of an extensive track of ground, consisting of upwards of
    2000 acres in a state of nature. It is almost entirely covered with
    heath, and presents every variety of moor and moss. On this moor
    various important improvements are carrying on.
	Besides the Lyne traversing the parish from north to south,
    there are the Esk and the MedWin, both arising out of the same
    range of hills to the north,-the former being the eastern, and the
    latter the western boundary of the parish; as a proof of the height,
    of that part of the country, whilst the main branch of the Medwin
    winds its course to Clyde, a stream goes off from it at Garvaldfoot,
    and finds its way to Tweed. The parish everywhere abounds in
    excellent springs of water. None of them are medicinel, except-
    ing one at Rutherford, which goes by the name of "Heaven aqua."
    Who gave it that name, or first discovered its virtues, is not known.
    Situated formerly so as to be extremely difficult of access, the new


