
                             PENNINGHAME.                187

the district. Perhaps tanninf and currying leather may form a
limited exception.
	Navigation.--The river Cree is, navigable for small vessels to
Carty, within about a mile of Newtonstewart; and the parish is
dependent on ship-carriage for lime, freestone, and coals. Mer-
chant goods and other commodities are now generally brought by
the same kind of conveyance.
	VesselS of 70 and 80 tons can sail, to the port of Carty with
spring-tides; but the vessels which commonly sail into it are from
35 to 45 tons burden. The steam-boat that plies between the
Frith of Cree and Liverpool, has sailed to Carty; but the windings
of the river from an objection in point of time. There is no other
navigable river in the parish.
	Societies.--There are a Horticultural and an Agriculture So-
ciety in the parish. But they were instituted two or three years
ago only, and there has not been suffient time for judging
what their effects may be. There is reason to hope that they
may be beneficial.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Towns.--The only maket-town in this parish is New-
tonstewart, the population of which in 1831 was 2241; and there
is every reason for believing, that the population is every nearly
the same in amount at present extent. The first feu-contract is dat-
ed 1701.
	As has been stated, very little trade on a scale at all extensive
is carried on in Newtonstewart. Bacon curing has been practised
since 1830, to the great benefit of the district. Perhaps, on an
average, from L. 5000 to L. 6000 a-year have been expended by
the curers. The wool trade has been carried on for some years
also, by people in Newtonstewart; but how much has been pur-
chased on commision, how much on personal risk, I have not
ascertained.
	The police of the country of Wigton has this year been al-
tered and extended; An officer with a salary now resides in
Newtonstewart; and it is contemplated, that he shall have an
assistant. For a few years, an officer has been paid by the
heritors and others, with a small allowance from the country.
From the situation of Newstonstewart, on the great road from
London to Portpatrick, where it is intersected by the road from



