
     Statistical Account

with safety.  This circumstance renders the carriage of grain,
wood, and indeed every other article, to and from port ex-
tremely difficult and tedious.  From the narrowness of their
farms, they can keep only horses of a very small size; which,
with the badness of their roads, obliges them to make several
journies, where one might otherwise serve.  Every thing, by
these means, must be carried on horse-back, and that, too, in
very small quantities.

   Character etc.-Fond of dress, rather to excess, too much
of their earnings, particularly of the younger part of both
sexes, goes to gratify their fancy in that respect; and it is not
always with the best or most substantial articles of any kind,
that they are supplied.  Being naturally of a sprightly turn,
what appears the most showy gains their choice; and, while
it pleases for a little, its service is soon at an end.  This lively
turn, is, perhaps, one reason why our young men, in general,
show such a relish for a military life.  No sooner does a recruit-
ing party make their appearance, than numbers, even before
they are fit to carry arms, are willing to inlist.  Wages, it
must be allowed, do not bear a proportion with what is given
in more southern counties; but these, like every other thing,
are daily increasing*.  Sripplings now get more than 30 s. per

<FOOTNOTE>

   About 15 or 20 years ago, a man servant, qualified for all the pur-
poses of farming, did not look for more than 18 s. or 20 s. per half year, with
3 bolls subsistence, half oat, half bear meal; the former at 8 1/2 stones per boll,
the latter at 9 stone.  Women, qualified for tending cattle throughout the win-
ter, driving the plough, and filling the dung cart in spring, had only about
8 s. Sterling, with just half the subsistence allowed the man.  Why so little
subsistence was and still is allowed to women, no good reason can be assigned.
Established customs cannot always be accounted for, nor are they easily or sud-
denly overturned.  This article of wages, however, has of late risen, and still
continues to increase.


