
                               KILLIN.                             1085

     Breadabane is connected with this parish from very remote times. *
     Finlarig, one of their ancient seats, is near Killin.  It occupies a
     fine site, embosomed in wood of a venerable age at the north-west
     end of Lochtay, with the river Lochay sweeping past its base.  The
     castle was built by Sir Duncan Campbell, seventh Laird of Glen-
     orchay.  The following incidents are from the "Black Book of
     Taymouth."   1. Sir Colin Campbell, first Laird or second son
     of Duncan, in a Knight of Lochaw, "conquessit the takir of the
     ten mark landis of Auchmore."
       2. Sir Duncan Campbell, second Laird of Glenurquhay, who
     was at the Field of Flodden with King James IV. " He con-
     quessit the heritable tytill of the barony of Finlarig."
       3. The third Laird, Sir Colin Campbell, son to the second,
     who died 1523.  " He biggit the Chapel of Finlarig to be ane
     burial for himself and posteritie."
       6. The sixth Laird, Sir Colin, who succeeded 1550, and died
     1583, "conquessit the superiority of M'Nabb, his haill landis."
       7. Sir Duncan Campbell, " sevint Laird of Glenurquhay,"
     who died 1631, "in his time biggit the Castle of Finlarig, Pitt,
     and office-houses thairof ; repaired the chapel thairof, and decored
     the same inwardlie with pavement and paintine; for the bigging
     and workmanship quhairof he gaiff ten thousand poundis." "Item,
     in the zeir of God 1627, he causit big ane brig over the watter
     of Lochay, to the great contentment and will of the countries"
     "He was ane great Justiciar all his tyme, throch the quhilk he
     sustenit the deidly feid of the Clangregour ane long space.  And
     besydes that, he causit execute to the death mony notable lym-
     maris.  He behiddit the Laird of Macgregor himself at Kand-
     moir, in presence of the Erle of Athole, the Justibe-Clerk, and
     sundrie other nobilmen."
       Several other families of the clan Campbell, such as Glenfal-
     loch, Loobdochart, &c.,  connected with, or cadets of, the family
     of Breadalbane, long resided in the parish, and owned extensive
     properties.  Many scions of these hotses have distinguished them-
     selves in the service of their country.
       M'Nab of M'Nab,-Kinnell, on the banks of the Dochart, was
     long the residence of M'Nab of M"Nab, who was descended from
     the abbots of Glendochart.   A manuscript in our possession gives
     a minute account of this ancient family.  In the reign of David

<FOOTNOTE> For an interesting account of the Breadalbane family, see the able Account of
     Kenmure.


