
                          KILMORIE.                             43

length, likewise very narrow for it length; the former celebrated
for its salmon, the latter for its tread.
	Lochranza is the only salt water loch in the parish. It is about
a mile in length. Near its head, and on the south side, a small
low peninsula projects into the loch, and forms within, a commodi-
ous basin of great depth and security. On the peninsula stands
the ancient castle of Lochranza, once a royal hunting residence,
but now roofless, and fast falling to ruin. During the season of
herring-fishing, Lochranza is a place of great resort. Two or
three hundred boats may often be seen lying at another, drying
their nets in the bay; and seldom will a lovelier sight be seen
than when, in the summer evening, they move simulteneously out
of the loch, separating as they advance, to shoot their nets on the
fishing-ground.
	Geology and Minerology.--Arran has been much resorted to
by geologists and mineralogists. Within the limited compass
of this account, we can do nothing more than give a brief sketch
of this part of the subject, and in doing so, we shall endeavour to
conect. as much as possible, the local with the scientific arrange-
ment. For this purpose, we shall commence at the primary for-
mation, which extends from Lochranza to Iorsa. To the south of
Iorsa, the country is more level, and the strata entirely of the se-
condary formation.
	Granite.--Benvarian and Glencatacol.--The granite in the pa-
rish is of a much finer grain than that in Goatfell and the adja-
cent hills.
	Mica Slate.--Mica and chlorite slate extend along the shore
from Lochranza to Iorsa, and form the hills in that district, until
they come in contact with granite.
	Clay Slate.--Argillaceous and clay-slate appear but in one
small detached spot on the south-west of Lochranza. It is very
abundant in the neighbouring parish.
	Conglomerate comes next in order, and may be seen to great
advantage along the shore, from Iorsa to King's Cave, and of seem
the secondary hills above Shisken. The ingredients that enter
into its composition are fragments of clay-slate, inch-slate, gray-
wacke-slate, quartz, a little jasper and sandstone. These are ge-
nerally rounded, as if worn by attention, and are evidently the re-
mains of former rocks, which are here comprehend.
	Red sandstone is found lying below the springmerites but differ-



