
     Statistical Account

handsomely plaistered and ornamented; but the galleries are
heavy and ill-constructed.  When Bo-ness was first detached
from Kinniel, the annual interest of the stock, provided by
the inhabitants for the minister stipend, did not amount to
800 merks Scots.  An Act of Parliament was then obtained
by petition, appointing the inhabitants to be assessed, to make
up the sum; and representatives were to be chosen annually,
by common consent of the town and Kirk-Session, to fix and
levy the tax.  During the first century after the separation
from Kinniel, the annual assessment authorised by Parliament
for making up the 800 merks of town-stipend, was often le-
vied; but for these 40 or 50 years past there has been little
or no occasion for any such contribution.  The original mor-
tified stock had been carly invested in land, 2 miles south of
the town; and it is well known, how much the value of this
kind of property has risen throughout the island within these
50 years.  The land which, during the former lease, yielded
only about L. 20 per annum, now lets for L. 50; and the tenant
having inclosed the whole, as he was bound to do by the terms
of his lease, it is probable, that the rent will be more than doubled
at the expiration of the present lease*.  To the 800 merks
Scots given by the town, the Act of Parliament obtained by
the Duke and Duchess of Hamilton, December 1669, appoint-
ed the old stipend of Kinniel to be added, and the whole, to be
the constant stipend of the minister, serving the cure of the
united parishes,-ordering also that a manse and glebe should
be provided by the Duke and Duchess, in place of the old
manse and glebe of Kinniel.  The present stipend in Sterling
money, valuing 3 chalders payable in victuals, at the le-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The fund being already more than equal to the payment of the stipend,
and ordinary repairs on the church and church-yard dykes, the managers
have in contemplation, some very essential improvements upon the avenues
around the church, and upon its internal arrangements.


