
422                     RENFREWSHIRE.

of learning and science were his cordial friends; and such was the
influence of his mild character, and perfect fairness and liberality,
even upon the pretenders to thesee accomplishments, that he lived
to disarm even envy itself, and died, we verily believe, without a
single enemy."
     To this beautiful eulogium by Mr Jeffrey, of which we have
given only an abridgement, we add the following paragraphs from
the conclusions of the Life of James Watt by M. Arago.
     " Such is a very brief sketch of the benefits bequeathed to the
world by that machine of which Papin had in his works deposited
the germ, and which, after so many ingenious efforts, Watt has
brought to an admirable perfection.  Those benefits posterity will
never compare with works which have been far too much vaunted,
and the real influence of which, at the bar of reason, will remain
for ever confined to a limited circle of individuals, and a small
number of years.
     " Men formerly spoke of the Augustan age, and the age of Louis
XIV. Some great men have ere now maintained that it would be
right to say the age of Voltaire, of Rousseau, of Montesquieu. For
my own part, I have no hesitation in predicting, that when to
the immense services already rendered by the steam-engine shall
be added all the wonders which it yet holds out in prospect,
grateful nations will also speak of the ages of Papin and Watt." *
     The estimation in which Mr Watt was held by his fellow-
countrymen, and the value that was attached to his discoveries,
were evinced by the public meetings which took place soon after
his death in almost every great town in the empire, with the view
of doing honour to his memory.  A meeting was held for this pur-
pose in the metropolis, at which Lord Liverpool, Mr (now Sir
Robert) Peel, Mr Brougham, Mr Hushisson, Mr Wilberforce,
and other eminent statesmen were speakers, and resolutions were
passed honourable alike to the living and the dead.  A similar
meeting was held in Glasgow, and attended by its most distinguish-
ed citizens.  The birth-place of Mr Watt did not fail in these
demonstrations of respect for his character and attainments.  A
meeting was held there on the 20th July 1824, at which it was
resolved to erect in Greenock a monument to his memory; and a
subscription was opened, which amounted in the course of six
months to upwards of L.1500.  A second general meeting, called

<FOOTNOTE>* Historical Eloge, by M. Arago; translated by James Muirhead, Esq.
Pp. 151, 152.



