
                     DALSERF.                          757

been perceived at first, from the abstraction of so large a portion
of the population, is in rapid course of wholly disappearing.  A
considerable number of persons belonging to the parishes of Les-
mahagow, Carluke, and Cambusnethan, were always inclined, for
convenience's sake, to make the church of Dalserf their place of
worship, though they were much discouraged by want of room.
Since Larkhall chapel was built, much more accommodation has
been afforded them, and they have not failed to avail themselves
of it.  It is much to be desired, as matters now stand, that a
quoad sacra separation, at least of certain portions of the above-
named parishes, should be effected, annexing them to Dalserf.
They fall naturally, and by way of neighbourhood, under the
charge of the minister of that parish.  The writer of this article
feels himself called upon to express in the strongest terms, for
himself and his parishioners, their deep sense of obligation to the
promoters of the General Assembly's Extension Scheme, for the
good which it has done in this parish and neighbourhood.  There
are no societies in the parish for religious purposes; but collec-
tions are regularly made in the parish church for the Assembly's
Schemes, and occasionally for other general and local objects.
The amount of money collected in this way is (exclusive of Lark-
hall) about L.10 or L.12 per annum.
   Education.-There are two parochial and endowed schools in
the parish, viz. the principal one at Dalserf, and a district one in
Larkhall. Dalserf parish school, like the church, is inconvenient-
ly placed for the population.  It is at present, however, the only
school in the old parish, and is well attended.  A small private
school was kept up for some years in the village of Rosebank, but
not affording encouragement, nor even subsistence to the teacher,
it has of late been abandoned.  The school at Larkhall was in
the first instance built by subscription, but in a short time was
adopted by the heritors, and has for many years been endowed, re-
gulated, and supplied by them in terms of the Act nf Parliament,
The two parochial schoolmasters are required to be qualified to
teach English reading and grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-
keeping, practical mathematics, and Latin.  Both of them attend-
ed College for two or three sessions.  In the parish school there
are generally young persons learning Greek and French.  The pa-
rish schoolmaster has the maximum salary of L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d., with
a house and garden of the dimensions and extent required by law.
He is besides, session-clerk and collector of poor's rate. His of-
  LANARK.                                  3c


