
				BEATH.				179

six miles from the centre of the parish. Blair-Adam Inn, in the
parish of Cleish, is the post-office, nearly three miles from the manse.
The great north road from Queensferry to Perth, one of the best
in the kingdom, passes through the parish, a length of four miles.
There are three public daily coaches, including the mail, travelling
on it. The bridges are in good repair, and the parish is all en-
closed and subdivided, chiefly with good stone fences, called Gallo-
way dikes.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is the only place of pub-
lic worship. Its situation is convenient for the population, but not
so its size, affording accommodation to only 250 sitters. It is an
old, cold, damp, fabric. In 1808, it underwent a repair, and stands
greatly in need of another. If the beritors consulted their own in-
terest, and the accommodation and comfort of the people, they
would cause its foundation to be dug up.
   In good weather the church is remarkably well attended. The
average number of communicants is above 200, and the number is
annually increasing. Of the population nearly 200, old and young,
are Burgher Seceders, the only description of Dissenters in the pa-
rish. Their number has greatly diminished within the last twenty
years.
   The manse was built in 1801, and a small addition was made to
it four years ago. The glebe consists of 8 acres, and may be
worth from L. 16 to L. 20 yearly. The teinds are exhausted, and
the stipend is the minimum.
   Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish.
Its situation is central. The usual branches of education are
taught in it.  For the last fourteen years, owing greatly to the su-
perior merits of the teachers, Mr. William Beatton, lately called to
the parish of Kennoway, and his brother, who has succeeded him,
it has been attended by an average of I00 scholars. The fees are,
per quarter, for English reading, 2s. 6d.; reading and writing, 3s.;
do. do. and arithmetic, 4s.; Latin and Greek, 5s. The school-
master's house and school-room were lately erected, and are good
and commodious. The salary is the maximum: the fees may
amount to L. 30 per annum. There are very few persons in the
parish above six years of age who cannot read. In general, the
people are alive to the benefitsof education. There are, however,
some exceptions, chiefly among the colliers.

   <FOOTNOTE>Since the above account was given in, a handsome and excellent church has been
erected, calculated to afford ample accomodation to the parishioners, and which re-
flects great credit upon the liberality of the heritors.


