
     of Laswade.

formed such exploits of valour during the contest for the
crown between Bruce and Baliol, used to conceal himself.
Here, he was resorted to by the young warriors of his day,
who considered it as a necessary piece of military education to
have been of his band; and from thence he sallied forth as
occasion presented itself*, and attacked the English, then in
possession of Edinburgh+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Dalrymple's Annals.

+About half a mile above Hawthornden stand the vener-
able ruins of Roslin.  A particular description of these ruins
would be superfluous here, as they are universally known, and
drawings of them are every where to be seen.  They have suf-
fered much within these 40 years.  It is uncertain when this
castle was built; most probably in the beginning of the 12th
century, when William de Sancto Clare, son to Waldernus de
St Clere, who came over with William the Conqueror, obtain-
ed from Malcolm Canmore a grant of the barony of Roslin.
No mention is made of it in history, till the reign of James II.
when we read of Sir William Hamilton being confined there-
in, for engaging in the rebellion which Earl Douglas had rais-
ed against that monarch.  In 1554, it was burnt by the army
of Henry VIII. along with Leith and Craigmillar.  This castle
was the ancient seat of the St Clere's, a family of great note in
this country.  They had very extensive possessions, and many
titles; being Earls of Caithness, and Orkney, Dukes of Olden-
burgh, etc. and they were for many generations patrons and
Grand Masters of masonry in Scotland.  This honour was con-
ferred upon them by James II. and continued in their family
till lately.
   On the hill immediately above the castle, is the chapel of Ros-
lin, founded by William Earl of Caithness and Orkney, for a
provost, 6 prebendaries, and 2 singing boys.  The founder en-
dowed it with the church-lands of Pentland, 4 acres of land near
that town, the kyps and 8 soums of grass near to Pentland.
This chapel is a beautiful piece of Gothic architecture; and, not-
withstanding some damage it sustained by a mob in 1688, is still
very entire.  It is 68 feet in length, 34 in breadth, and 40 in
height: The roof is arched, and supported by 2 rows of pillars.
It is highly ornamented with curious workmanship.  The pre-
sent building is only the choir of a large collegiate church, that


