
170                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

commonly known by the Name of the Balmore Haughs, most of which
are possessed by proprietors whose ancestors, in feudal times, and
at a very moderate rent, feued from the House of Montrose, and
resided in Balmore, but who are now, in more peaceful times, scat-
tered along the property. The second stage gradually ascends
towards the north, and is pleasantly diversified by gently swelling
knolls. It contains more acres than the firsts, and is clay soil over
till, which, being mixed with heavy clay and stones, is hard and
retentive of moisture. The third, or highest stage, is at bottom a
light sharp soil over whin-rock, with a few patches of croft and
moss land, but towards the height is moorish ground, rising more
than 300 feet above the level of the sea,--whence there is a com-
manding prospect in all directions, especially towards the south.
  The whole of the parish has a southern exposure, sloping from
north to south. Its climate is exceedingly salubrious, its inhabi-
tants free from disease, and many of them long-lived,--the united
ages of fourteen of them amounting to l150 years.
  Mineralogy.-The minerals are coal, lime, ironstone, of various
kinds,fire-clay, pyrites,and alum-ore. The different strata of these,
when undisturbed by incidental troubles, follow, at a certain angle,
the general elevation of the surface, with a dip to the south or south-
east, towards the bed of the Kelvin. Towards the north-west and
higher grounds, these strata are cut off by the primitive rock, but,
towards the east, they join and form a continuation of the extensive
coal-fields of Campsie. The general thickness of the coal and
lime, wrought here for more than 150 years, is between 3 and 4
feet, and commonly found from 12 to 24 feet beneath the surface,
covered with a mass of argillaceous slate traversed by bands of
ironstone, and immediately above the lime by a stratum of calca-
reous freestone, which is a roof to the mines. Till lately, the
ironstone principally wrought was the common argillaceous kind,
found in layers of from 3 to 7 inches thick; but lately, there
has been discovered in the coal mines of Barraston, the property
of Robert Hendry, Esq. a more valuable species of iron-ore, long
considered peculiar to the mines near Airdrie, where it was first
discovered by the ingenious Mr Mushet about thirty years ago,
and proves to be a combination of iron with carbonaceous matter,
but richer in metal than any ore yet analyzed, in this part of the
island. The fire-clay, is found in a bed of from 8 to 10 feet thick,
and, for many years, has been manufactured into bricks of a very
superior quality, in resisting the action of the fire. The local


