
164                        FORFARSHIRE.

up through the centre of the loch, and exposes the marl to its bot-
tom on each side. The whole bed consists, first, of a layer of
moss, mixed with alluvial earth; then a layer of marl; and at the
bottom, a layer of clay. The bed is wrought in a systematic man-
tier; first, the moss is removed, and thrown into a bed prepared for
it; then the marl is taken away; and then a layer of clay is thrown
upon the moss, which is thus converted into land of great fertility.
The marl occupies about 100 acres, and varies from four to six feet
in depth. From this bed of marl, horns of deer and of other ani-
mals are occasionally dug: In particular, there was dug up one
pair of antlers with seven branches, which is preserved in the house
of Logie.
	In the meadows of Logie the shells are abundant. When taken
up they are frequently entire; but, after a short exposure to the
atmosphere, they crumble into a fine white powder, which effer-
vesces with acids. This is not always, however, the case; for I
have a quantity, of shells which were collected in this locality, and,
although they have been for some time in my possession, they still
retain their form.
	Prevalent Distempers.--The parish max be said to be in general
healthy. Asthmatical complaints, so common in some districts, are
scarcely known here; the diseases to which the people are most lia-
ble are inflammatory complaints; which, about twenty years ago,
were often fatal, but which now, from the improved mode of treat-
ment, and the free use of the lancet, in general end favourably.
These complaints do not arise, so far as we can discern, from any
local cause. Scrofulous affections were once common, but the
symptoms have been mitigated by the improvement which has
taken place in the food of the people, their clothes, and their
houses. In this last respect there is still abundance of room for
unprovement, especially in the town. Of the diseases once com-
mon in this parish and neighbourhood, which have in a great mea-
sure, disappeared, by far the most remarkable is what is provincially
called the leaping. The curious reader will find an interest-
ing account of this extraordinary  disease in the third volume of
the Edinburgh, Medical Journal, and in Dr Jamieson's Statistical
Account of Tannadice. It may be said to consist in a morbid
propensity to running, leaping, or tumbling, which the patient is
uniable resist. During the paroxysm he has all the appearance
of madness. Cold bathing is said to be the only remedy; but


