
                          PARISH OF CARESTON.

          PRESBYTERY OF BITECHIN, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

                  THE REV. DAVID LYELL, MILNISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, &c.-Many centuries before the erection of this parish,
the lands of which it consists are said to have taken their name
from Carald, a Danish leader,'who, in his flifht from the battle
of Aberlemno, was slain, not far from the present farm-house of
Nether-Careston; and, in order to perpetuate the uaetnery of this
achievement, his victors raised over his place of sepulture a bar-
row, and on it erected an obelisk, named from him Carald-stane,
or Carald's-stone, contracted afterwards into the more modern
term Careston. The obelisk has long since been removed, but
the barrow yet remains. * Others derive tLe name of this parish
from the ancient but now disused Celtic word carald, which at one
time denoted the quality red, as being the colour of the rock which
forms the middle portion of the subsoil of this parish. But if so,
why should the compound word Caraid-stone be formed from both
the Gaelic and Saxon languages instead of that of the, former
alone, and then it would thus have been expressed Feant-carald,
rock-red? + It may still be added, that at one time this parish

<FOOTNOTE>See the Topography of the River Tay, by Mr James Knox, p. 115.
  Fearn in old Gaelic signifies rock. See the Quarterly Review for November
1881, and January 1882, p. 849. In the Gaelic tongue, the adnoun is always placed
after the noun to which it refers. That fearn signified rock in former time appears
to be further borne out from this term being applied to the Fearn Isles, or rocks on
the spass of Northumberland, on one of which (Longstone) the worthy family of
Darlings reside; North Faro or Ferro, beyond Shetland; and Ferro, one of the Ca-
narite. Our neighbouring parish soems, too, to have had its name of Fearn, from its
subecil of rock, which crops out from the ground in the vicinity of its church. There
is also a parish in the north named Fearn or rock.


