
			FALKLAND.                           929

	that lay around the palace. While he was enjoying this pastime,
	in the month of June 1592, a desperate attempt was made by the
	unprincipled Francis Earl of Bothwell and his associates to obtain
	possession of his person. "Bothwell understanding the King to be
	at quyetness in Falkland, be the secret advertisement of certayne
	courtiers, rade from the water of Esk to Falkland, accompanied by
	the Master of Gray and a goodly number of horsemen. But when
	they came to the palice, they found not sik reddenes as was sup-
	posit, bot be the contrare certayne people provydit to resist, sa
	that Bothwell was repulsit, and he, to his perpetual ignominie,
	fled away with shaymeful dreador; and before thay departit, thay
	spulyeit the King's stable, and reft many horses bayth out of the
	town of Falkland as also furth of the park."\f
	  A few years later (1600), James was exposed to another assault
	in the same place, for at Falkland the first scene was laid of that
	dark tragedy, known in Scottish history as the Gowrie conspi-
	racy. An account of this painful affair was published at the time
	by royal authority. "His Majesty, having his residence at Falk-
	land, and being daily at the buck hunting, (as his use is in that
	season), upon the 5th day of August 1600, raide out to the parke,
	between six and seven of the clocke in the morning, the weather
	being wonderfull pleasant and seasonable. But before his Majes-
	tie could leape on horseback, Maister Alexander Ruthven, second
	brother to the late Earle of Gowrie, being then lighted in the
	town of Falkland, hasted him faste down to overtake his Majestie
	before his onleaping, as he did," &c. He enticed James to Perth,
	and the result is well known.
	  After James succeeded to the crown of England, Falkland
	ceased to be a royal residence.  Charles I. slept in the palace
	once or twice, and Charles II. also visited it; but after the de-
	parture of James, it ceased to become the scene of important
	events, and hastened to decay. Fairney of Fairney acquired
	the heritable offices of Forester of the Woods and Muirs of
	Falkland, the lands of Nuthill, &c. In 1604 Fairney sold these
	offices to Sir David Murray of Gospetrie, Lord Scone, for 4000
	merks, and about the same time James VL. gave a grant to his
	Lordship of the offices of Constable of the Castle, Forester of
	tbe Forest, and Ranger of the Lomonds of Falkland, on account
	of his services at Perth, 5th August l6OO. The estate then passed

<Footnote>The Hist. of King James the Sext.-Bannatyne Club Book. Edinburgh, 1825,
	p. 250.
	    FIFE.                        3N

