
     of Longforgan.

charter to the estate of Monorgan*.  Three rivulets also
take their rise in this parish+.

   Minerals.-Hitherto nothing has been extracted from the
bowels of the earth in this parish but stone and shell marl;
but there are several mineral springs, particularly about
Castle Huntly, which are strongly impregnated with iron;
and from the red colour of the soil in many parts, and from
the weight and appearance of stones found very near the
surface, there is every reason to believe that the bank of
Forgan abounds with iron ore.

<FOOTNOTE>

*If ever salmon were caught in that part of the river which bounds this
parish, it must have been at a very remote period, probably before the Tay
formed its junction with the Erne at Inchyra, and when the Castle land ex-
tended much farther south, and occupied a great part of what now forms 
the bed of the river Tay.

   +Two of these rivulets rise from one point, directly north from Long-
forgan, in that vale which runs across the parish.  One, taking an eastern
direction, unites with the burn of Benvy, south of Gray, turns two corn-
mills, a fulling-mill, and one flour-mill; and after serving as a boundary
between the countries of Perth and Forsar, for a great part of its course, it
empties itself into the Tay at Invergowrie Bay.  The other, running west-
ward, enters Lord Kinnaird's park in the parish of Rossie, where it falls im-
mediately into a larger stream, which takes its rise in the upper part of this
parish, and which, in its course, before the junction, turns five corn-mills,
four lint-mills, one barley-mill in this parish, and one threading-mill in the
parish of Rossie.  After they are united, they continue in a western direc-
tion as far as the Old Castle of Moncur, and are there joined by the burn
of Balledgarno.  This united stream there takes a southerly direction, and 
for a considerable way divides the two parishes of Inchture and Longforgan.
It again enters this parish, and proceeding eastward, passes through the
parks of Caste Huntly, turn a corn mill at monorgan, after which, its
stream, being guided by a canal, dug within flood-mark, at a considerable
expence, withing these few years, it washes the harbour of Kingoody, and
empties itself into the Tay south of Mylnefield, under the name of Bur
of Monorgan, but in the charters and old writing it is called the Burn of
Mountain.  This burn, through its whole course, abounds with excellent
scout.


