
314                      BERWICKSHIRE.

two bolls of wheat. The allowance for communion elements is
L. 8, 6s. 8d. The amount converted into money was for stop and
year 1832 nearly L. 230; for crop 1833 about L. 220. The
Crown is the patron of this living.
   A chapel belonging to the United Secession church was erected
about forty-five years ago at Stockbridge about a mile south from
the village of Cockburnspath. Particular circumstances led to its
erection, which it would not be agreeable here to state; but hav-
ing once been erected, it has continued not only to exist, but to
keep together a very considerable congregation. It ought to be
stated, however, that the congregation is not all from this parish,
but that a pretty large portion of it is from the adjoining neigh-
bourhood. The managers have the letting of the seats, and they
bind themselves to pay their minister L. 100 per annum. This
sum, however, notwithstanding that a considerable debt still re-
mains unpaid, is generally increased, so as to make the minister's
income from L. 120 to L. 125 per annum.
   The chapel is to be considered in the light of a fen from Sir
John Hall, Bart. a yearly acknowledgment being now exacted of
a boll and a half of barley.
   The number of families attending the Established Church is
about 112, but a considerable additional number attend from the
adjoining parish of Old hamstocks, on account of the more con-
venient distance. The number of families in the parish who at-
tend the meeting is about 87. There are some families in the
parish who are members neither of church nor meeting, and these
we have not included. The number of male heads of families in
communion with the church is 90, attached to the meeting 74.
The average number of communicants at the Established church
is about 285. Notwithstanding what we must acknowledge to be
the very considerable number in this parish attached to the Seces-
sion, it is exceedingly gratifying to be able to state, and we do it
from a very recent personal visit to almost every house in the pa-
rish, that exceedingly few, indeed, can be said to be attached to
voluntary principles, notwithstanding the too numerous attempts
at the present time to inflame men's minds upon this subject.
Were people left to their own quiet judgments, there is no wish,
we are persuaded, throughout this country, that the Established
church should be overturned. Multitudes we have seen who do
not even know what is meant by the term voluntary, and, from
what we have lately seen, we are perfectly certain that many of
                               4


