
     Statistical Account

that the inhabitants can get their home-spun yarn manufac-
tured into cloth.  The great wages made by weaving, induces
many parents to put their boys too early to that business,
which stints their growth, occasions swellings about their
legs, and hurts their morals, by rendering them too soon in-
dependent of their parents.  The same temptation is pre-
sented to the girls by the flowering of muslin, which, by
confining them too soon to a sedentary life, makes them
pale and sickly, and is likely to subject them to nervous
complaint all their lives.  There is a cotton mill erecting
at the town of Strathaven, which, it is said, will employ
from 60 to 70 hands.  There are other two in contempla-
tion.  About 30 years ago, there was only 1 baker in the
town.  There are now 3, and all well employed.  The
number of butchers too has been doubled within the same
period.  There are 22 public houses in the parish, 20 of
which are in the town, and about the same number of deal-
ers in tea and tobacco.  Some accidents have happened of
late years, from the retailing of bad whisky.-There are
commonly 2, sometimes 3 surgeons in the town, and the
same number of writers*.

   Rent, Division of Property, etc.-The valued rent of the
parish is L. 7650 Scots, the real rent is about L. 6000 Ster-
ling, exclusive of the rents of the houses in the town.  These

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices of Labour and Provisions.-The price of labour has advan-
ced almost a third in the course of the last three of four years.  The wa-
ges of a man-servant, who lives in the house, are from L. 9 to L. 10 a-
year; and of a woman-servant, from L. 3, 10 s to L. 5.  A labourer by
the day earns 1 s. and his visuals, and in harvest, 1 s. 6. d. or 1 s 8. d.
Masons wages are now 2 s. and 2 s. 2 d. a day.  In the neighbourhood
of the town there is a good deal of labour in the fields done by the piece,
especially digging.  This place being only 16 miles distant from Glas-
gow, and having a number of carriers who go there weekly, the price of
all kinds of provisions is only a trifle lower than in that market.


