
                         MORDINGTON.                     345

are commonly bound down in their leases, which extend to the
term of nineteen years; and they are seldom permitted to have
more than the half of their land in tillage.
   But the crop which ought especially to be noticed, on account
of the improvements recently made in the mode of its cultivation,
is the turnip crop. Turnip husbandry is conducted in this parish
on an extensive scale. Turnips are highly valuable for feeding
cattle during winter, either on neighbouring grass-fields into which
they are carried, or by being used in houses or sheds. On the
light and dry soil, of which the greatest part of the parish consists,
the feeding of sheep on the ground where turnips grow is consi-
dered highly advantageous, and is the method universally adopted.
The ruta baga, or Swedish turnip, whose hardy and durable qua-
lity renders it so advantageous to the farmer after the early tur-
nip has been used, is cultivated in the proportion of one-third to
the white globe-turnip. The land on an average may yield 5 bolls
of 6 bushels of wheat per acre; 6 1/2 of barley; and 7 1/6 of oats.
Pease is a crop scarcely at all raised,	except in the lower parts of
the parish, where the land will yield from 6 to 8 bolls per acre;
and of hay no more is raised than is necessary to supply the horses,
cattle, &c. in the parish; but on an average of seasons, the crop
amounts to from 180 to 220 stones per acre. Potatoes are raised
in small quantities for home consumption, and generally amount to
from 25 to 30 bolls of 40 imperial stones, per acre. An acre of
turnip will pasture ten sheep for six months. The ground is farm-
ed under the four-shift husbandry.
   Produce.-The gross amount of the raw produce yearly raised in
the parish may be as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds, 361 7 bolls at 24s.   -   -         L. 4340  0  0
Of turnips and potatoes, 283 acres,   -   -   -   -                   1143  0  0
Of hay, meadow and cultivated, 12000 stones at 7d.   -   -             350  0  0
Of land in pasture, rating it at from L. 3, 10s. to L. 4, 15s. per cow or
    full-grown ox, grazed, or that may be grazed, for the season; and
    at 11s. per ewe or full-grown sheep, pastured, or that may	be pas-
   tured, for the year,   -   -   -   -   -   -                       1000  0  0
                                                                      ----------
              Total yearly value of raw produce raised,            L. 6843  0  0

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

    Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated, on the
whole, conveniently for the population, being not farther than three
miles from the most distant part of the parish. It was built in
1757, when it was removed from its former situation on the south
of Mordington House. The field on which it stood is still known


