
                          ROSLIN.                         349

wall, a low arched door, now shut up, by which a person might
have entered it without passing through the chapel above.  On
the same side of the building there is a recess for a chimney.
Both in the north and the south walls there are several niches, of
various kinds, which may have been designed for keeping the sa-
cred vessels employed in the service of the chapel, and the vest-
ments of the priests.  In the south-east corner, there is a piscina
or font, with a square niche on the east side of it.  The roof of the
small chapel, like that of the large one, is divided into five com-
partments.  The ribs are beautiful specimens of the ingrailed cross,
while the compartments themselves are plain.
   Nearly a century ago, the chapel received some considerable
repairs from its proprietor, General St Clair, who caused the lower
roof to be covered anew with flag stones, the windows to be glazed,
and the floor to be mended in several places.  It is now undergo-
ing extensive repairs from the liberality of the present Earl of
Rosslyn.
   Endowments of the Chapel.--At the time when the chapel was
erected, it was endowed by its founder with the church lands of
Pentland, four acres of meadow near that town, with the kips and
eight sowmes of grass.  In the year 1523, one of his successors
farther endowed it with some portions of land in the neighbour-
hood, for dwelling-houses and gardens to the provost and preben-
daries.  These possessions, which were not very ample, passed
away from it at the Reformation; and on February 26th 1571,
the provost and prebendaries, by a deed, in which they complain
that their revenues had long been forcibly withheld from them
resigned them absolutely into the hands of the laity.  Father
Hav says, that to this deed there were appended the seal of the
chapter of this collegiate church, being St Mathew in a church,
ed upon white wax; and the seal of Sir William Sinclair, the then
baron of Rosslyn, being a ragged or engrailed cross, red upon
white wax.*
   Rosslyn Castle.--Rosslyn Castle is situated about 200 yards
below the chapel, on a rocky eminence, which is almost enclosed
in one of the folds of the Esk, which here assumes a beautiful ser-
pentine form.  Little now remains of this ancient and venerable
stronghold, but a majestic pile of ruins: though the triple tire of
vaults on the left, and the massive walls, as well as the enormous
fragments which are scattered about, cannot fail to impress the

<FOOTNOTE>Extracts from the Records of the Presbytery of Dalkeith, curious and interest-
ing as connected with Rosslyn Chapel and its proprietor, for the time being, are de-
posited along with the MS. of this article.


