
                   NORTHMAVING.                                    81

house to house, according to their fancy or inclination, in order to
obtain a lodging and the necessaries of life.
The annual amount of funds for the relief of the poor is about
L. 24. The yearly collections at the church door is about L. 8,
and tbe.s4cramental collection is about L. 10. Besides, the funds
are increased to a small extent, by interest received from a small
surn deposited in the bank, and money on loan.
There is no other regular mode of procuring funds for the sup-
port of the poor, than those now mentioned. 'But should mis-
fortune befal a family, the elders are sometimes employed in their
several districts to obtain what they can from the, charitable for
their relief. In this, they sometimes succeed very well, and col-
lect in small sums, from L. 3 to I- 4, which afford a seasonable
relief,, not only to the afflicted, but also to the poor funds, which,
are kept very low on account of the numerous applications for sup-
port.
It does not appear that there is a disposition among the poor to.
refrain from seeking parochial reli6f, neither do they consider it as
degrading. A few are to be found, however, who, in the most
miserable circumstances, would rather starve, than seek the least.
support from any person. Others, again, are not ashamed to seek
support from the funds, for their friends, who ought to feel ashamed,
when they consider their own circumstances. Their application is
generally resisted.
   Fairs.- In this parirb, there are three fairs or markets 1eld every
year, at which cattle and horses are bought., and sold. In the,
month of May, there is a sale of milk cows, young cattle, and horseqt
and again, in the month of November, for fat cattle and horo"'.
These salos are attended by a great number of people, and by
some from, a verv --reat distance-
   Fuel--Peat is tbe,fuel that is used by all in the,parish. 4nd the.
cutting, curing, and flitting bomei ,are, in some cases, attended
with c4ausiderable expense. In Awo or three genteel familles*
Scotch or English cAml is occasionally used.
June 1841.

SHETLAND.                                F


