
                   LEWIS--LOCHS.                        167

   There are many good harbours in the parish of Lochs, the
principal of which are, Cromore, which is in the entrance of
Loch Erisort, Lochshell, and Marig, in Loch Seaforth. These
harbours are sufficient to accommodate shipping of any burthen.
Their depth is from fifty feet downwards.
   Villages.--The inhabitants of the parish of Lochs reside in de-
tached villages, having a population varying from 40 families down-
wards. The most of these villages or farms are lotted in dif-
ferent divisions, each tenant having his house on his own lot, and
contracting with his landlord separately for his yearly rent, so that,
the tenants living on the same farm hold their lands independent-
ly of each other. Sone of them have their tenements placed
more promiscuously. These divide their spots of corn land as
they are detached upon the farm, giving each other a proportion
according to their respective rents; and that each may have his
just share of the benefits of the pasture also, they restrict each
other to a proportion of c I attle corresponding with the amount of
their rents : thus securing to each other, by mutual consent, a share
of the produce of their farm, proportionate to their respective rents.
   Church. --The parish church is situate on a small peninsula,
on the farm of Keose. Its situation is centrical; but-the arms of
the sea, by which the parish is intersected, render a regular at-
tendance on divine service impracticable during the winter.
There is a part of the parish situated on & north-west side of
the island, between the parishes of Uig and Barvas, a distance of
eighteen miles from the parish church of Lochs, where the mi-i
nister of Loebs is bound to preach once every three months.
This district is named Carloway, and stands more in need of the
labours of a missionary than any other place in the Long-Island.
The inhabitants of Carloway have no opportunity of attending di-
vine service, except when the minister of Lochs preaches there.
The population of Carloway is 901. The stipend, converted to
money, amounts to L. 150. The manse was lately puCin good re-
pair. I cannot ' state precisely either the extent or value of the glebe.,
The parish church is a new building, sufficient to accommodate;
700 sitters. . Public worship is well. attended, excepting when the
violence of the weather detains such of the parishioners as must:
have recourse to boating, in Coming to church. There is not a Go-
vernment church, nor any place of public worship in the parish of
Lochs, excepting the parish church. There is not a single dis-
senter from the Established Church in an part of. the Iewis, Is-


