
		     AUCHTERDERRAN.                             171

geometry, mensuration, geography, navigation, book-keeping,
church music. Considering their moderate means, the parents are
remarkably anxious to procure education for their children, and
none of these grow up without being put to school. Our paro-
chial schools have been much improved by the augmenting of the
salaries,-a measure equally wise and benevolent.
  Savings Bank.- A savings bank has been kept in this parish ever
since that kind of institution was introduced into Scotland. It was
for some years managed by Mr Greig, the dissenting minister of
Lochgelly, and myself jointly. Upon Mr Greig's death the ma,
nagement devolved wholly upon my family. The amount of de-
posits has varied from L. 900 to L. 400. The persons depositing
are all of the industrious and poorer classes. The sums deposited
are sometimes as low as L. 1, and never of great, amount. They
are deposited with the Kirkaldy branch of the Bank of Scotland.
It is to be regretted that this sort of institution has not become more
prevalent. Perhaps it would become more prevalent, if, instead
of dividing into single parishes, a number of parishes were group-
ed together, such as those of a presbytery or a small county. The
small county of Kinross carries on with success a county savings
bank, kept at the county town.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-Our poor are supplied from our
collections at the church, and from the interest derived from a sum
of money (about L. 700) in the management of the kirk-session.
But though our collections have increased, yet, for the last two
years, the interest of our money has decreased in a greater propor-
tion. Yet we are averse to frequent assessments; for although our
heritors are well inclined to our poor, we think it would not prove
ultimately for the public benefit to apply often to this resource. Dur-
ing my long incumbency we have had only three assessments on
the heritors for the poor, and these were for very moderate, sums.
Our number of poor upon the monthly list runs from 15 to
22 families. To each of these families the kirk-session distri-
butes monthly 3s. at an average. But our greatest disburse-
ments the session reserves for occasional charities, for sickness, for
severe accidents, for house rents, for school wages to poor children,
for defraying the expenses of patients going and coming to or from
an infirmary, &c. Every individual case is inquired into, and care-
fully judged of by the session.
  Alehouses.-We have 12 of these in the parish.


