
     of East Monkland.

pensive.  Lime* is the most general one.  Ploughs of diffe-
rent kinds are used, but chiefly the Scotch plough, of a light
construction, which is molt commonly drawn by 2, some-
times 3 horses, it being now rare to see 4 horses yoked in
one plough.  From the high prices given for cattle, butter,
and cheese, the farmers have of late turned their attention
chiefly to the rearing young cows and horses, and improving
the breed, in which they have made great progress.  They
now rear as fine draught horses and milk cows as any in
Scotland.  There are about 200 milk cows kept in the town
of Airdrie, which not only supply the inhabitants with milk,
but have greatly improved the neighbouring fields by their
dung.  Potatoes+ are now become a general crop, and are
used both for family use and feeding cattle, Turnip and
cabbage husbandry are little practised, though the few trials
made, have succeeded well.  The management of the dairy
is well understood, and carefully attended to.  Cheese, equal
to Stilton, (perhaps not inferior to Parmesan), is made by
some families; but this superior kind is mostly made for pri-

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is got from the lime-works in Cumbernauld parish; but
the long carriage makes it very expensive.  This, however, will
be in some degree remedied, when the Monkland navigation is
finished, (which it is expected to be in the course of next year),
as lime will then be brought by water carriage.  The most ap-
proved method of using lime, is to lay it on the surface some
years before breaking up.  This makes the pasture more valu-
able, and never fails to produce plentiful crops.  A considerable
quantity of dung is got at Airdrie, which sells as high as 20 d.
and 2 s. the single cart-load.
+They answer the purpose well; but there is a prejudice a-
gainst the culture of them, that they weaken and impoverish the
and, although the very reverse is the fact, as it has been found,
by every judicious inquirer, that potatoes, next to pease and
turnips, are the most enriching crop that can be put on any soil.
A disease in this valuable root has lately made its appearance,
commonly called the curled leaf; but this disease chiefly affects
potatoes planted in wet or low grounds.


