
             MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.                  1183

principal apartment is the public school, 74 feet long, and 34 wide,
used for all purposes where several classes are assembled together,
and for competitions, examinations, &c.  A lofty staircase, with a
ceiling of enriched groins and a massive stone balustrade, con-
ducts to the three principal apartments, which open from the same
vestibule,-the Hall, the Library, and the Museum.  The dimen-
sions of the first of these is 71 feet by 34; of each of the other
two, 75 feet by the same width.  The interior altitude of all is
about 32 feet to the top of the  enriched ceilings, painted in imi-
tation of oak.  Adjoining to the Library are two small rooms, used
for reading, and as an office for the librarian; and on the Museum
side are a room for the meetings of the Senatus Academieus and
one for containing additional articles of Natural History, adjoining
to the class-room in which that science is taught.  The astrono-
mical Observatory is placed in the highest story of the tower.
There are six class-rooms for teaching Greek, Latin, Natural His-
tory, Mathematics, Natural Philosophy, and Moral Philosophy and
Logic; one for Scotr Law and Conveyancing; three for Divinity
and Oriental Languages, in one of which is held the Theological
library; two others, at present occupied by the lecturers on Mate-
ria Medica and Agriculture; and five used in teaching the Practice
of Medicine, Surgery, Anatomy, Chemistry, and Practical Che-
mistry.  Besides these seventeen class-rooms, there are also a spa-
cious Chemical Laboratory, and two rooms adjoining for Chemical
Apparatus; a Dissecting-room adjoining the Anatomical Theatre,
and rooms for Anatomical preparations; an Anatomical Museum,
fitted with glass cases and a gallery; and two rooms for holding
the apparatus used in teaching Natural Philosophy.  The college
servants have suitable accommodations; and to most of the class-
rooms is annexed a closet for the professor; but no part of the
building has been appropriated for lodgings for any of their
body, the whole being set apart for the public purposes of edu-
cation.  The plan of heating is by warm air supplied from
furnaces placed in the sunk story, excepting in three of the class-
rooms, in which the circulation of hot water in iron pipes has been
adopted.
   When a new and wide street is opened from the College gate,
passing by a gentle declivity towards the East Churcb, a fine ef-
fect in regard to architectural beauty will be produced besides
the advantafer which the property in the neighbourhood will re-
ceive from the improvement.  This design, together with the re-


