
                           MONIFIETH.                     555

	There is a Dissenting chapel in Broughty Ferry. It was built
by Mr Haldane, but is now the property of Mr Erskine of Lin-
lathen, and given by him to be used as a place of worship in con-
nection with the United Associate Synod of the Secession Church.
There is, however, no fixed pastor at present; nor has there been
for some time.
	The distribution of the population among the various Christian
denomination is as follows:

<TABLE>

	   Church of Scotland in Monifieth,   1273.     Broughty Ferry, 1650.
     Dissenters,                         152                       165
     Episcopalians,                       11                       112
     Catholics,                            9                        13
     Unknown,                             25                        36

and the number of communicants in connection with the Establish-
ment is about 1300.
	A parochial Bible and Missionary Society, established many
years ago, has some years since been cut down into two,-one in
Monifieth, and one in Brnughty Ferry,-by which the schemes in
which the Church of Scotland has embarked are specially supported.
  Education.-The total number of schools in the parish worth
mentioning, (Sabbath schools are not included), is eight; viz. one
parochial; three supported wholly by Mr Erskine of Linlathen
(two female schools in the parish of Monifieth, the other, an infant
school in Broughty Ferry); two partially endowed, the others on
the teachers' own adventure. There is besides an excellent school
in connection with the church of Broughty Ferry; but it is situated
just beyond the boundary of the civil parish of Monifieth. The ave-
rage number of scholars yearly is 490; and it may be said ge-
nerally, that most of the children who ought to be at school are
sent to it, and that the benefits of education are known and appre-
ciated. The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accomodations
on a very comfortable scale. His salary is L.25, 13s. 4d. per an-
num, * and his school-fees average about L.35 more.
	It is important to notice the exertions made by the Church of
Scotland in behalf of education during all her history, but especi-
ally before schools were endowed by the authority of Government
in every parish. The sessional record gives some interesting in-
formation on this head, regarding what was done in Monifieth.

<FOOTNOTE>To explahn why, in such a parish as Monifeith, the maximym salary has not as
yet been givem to the schoolmaster, it may be proper to mention that the heritors
pay L.45 yearly in pensioning off the old schoolmaster, who from age, had become
unfitted for his laborious duties. When this burden ends, doubtless the maximum
salary will be given.


