
694               ARGYLESHIRE.

Synods of Argyle and Glenelg, the two being then comprehended
under the name of the Synod of Argyle; and much of the business
of the members constituting their meetings consisted in hearing
applications from destitute parishes for the means of grace, and in
appointing supplies, which were necessarily few and inadequate.
From 1638 to 1660, notwithstanding the troubles of the times,
the extension of the church attracted the attention of the minis-
ters and of the Marquis of Argyle, that stedfast friend of Scotland
and its church, whose patriotic acts and efforts are exhibited not
more in the annals of the country than in the more obscure re-
cords of our synods, our presbyteries, and our kirk-sessions. In
1650 and 1651, a private commission of Parliament, of which he
was the chairman, was appointed for the plantation of kirks within
the province of Argyle, whose acts, in dividing the united parishes
and constituting them into separate parishes, anticipated what it
is now the warmest wish of the friends of the Church of Scot-
land to see accomplished.  This parish was also under their con-
sideration, and there is now among the MS. papers of the Synod
of Argyle, * an act extracted under the hand of John Zuill, clerk
to the Commission, dated 17th October 1650, continuing the
summons raised before them for the planting, dividing, and dis-
membering of " Kilmichael and Glassary," having on the back of
it the execution of its due intimation. The events which occur-
red soon after this prevented the accomplishment of the object
contemplated in these proceedings. After the restoration of Pres-
bytery, in 1690, the ministers and elders of the Synod of A rgyle,
with the concurrence of the General Assembly, applied to the
Commission of Parliament for plantation of kirks and valuation of
teinds for an order on their clerk to give extracts+ of the " haill
decreets." In the same year, dated 4th August, the Synod of
Argyle received a letter from Sir Duncan Campbell of Achna-
breck, proposing ++ the convenience of planting a church at Loch-
gair, where he designs the residence of his family, and promising
for the advancement thereof to dedicate the tithes that he hath
about that place for the use foresaid, as a part of the stipend of
the minister to be there, and offering himself ready to build a
church fit for the place upon his own expenses." And the Synod

  <FOOTNOTE>These MSS., among the papers of the Synod of Argyle, were found in Darleith
With May Crawford, relict to the deceased Alexander Zuill of Darleith.--Synod
Records, Vol. ii. p. 97.
            MSS. among the papers of the Synod.
            Records of Synod, dated 6tb August 1600, Sess. 1O, Vol. ii. p. 58.


