
102                          ORKNEY.

wanted.  The parochial schoolmaster's salary is L.46, 14s. 41d.,
and the average yearly amount of school fees received is L.10.
The average number of scholars attending the parochial school is 53.
   Poor.-The number of poor persons receiving aid from the
session in Cross is 13, and in Burness, 11; and the sum dis-
tributed to each has been 2s. 6d.  The amount of collections
for, the poor at the churches has been L. 5, 10s. yearly, which,
with a donation of L. 1, 1s. from Mr Balfour of Trenaby, has
formed the amount of the provision for the poor, excepting
that there is, on Mr Laing's property of Stove, a mortification
by the proprietor of four small cotts or farms, worth now L.5,
5s. each of yearly rent, for supporting four superannuated ser-
vants, who spend thirty years in constant service on the princi-
pal farms; failing whom, the session are empowered to draw the
rent for behoof of the poor upon the farm of Stove in the first in-
tance, and, in lack of them, for the general poor of the parish.
The charity has not latterly been well administered, and hardly
any one of the persons now in possession of the farms are paupers
of the description contemplated by Mr Fea, the benevolent mort-
gager, nor are they entitled to hold them.
   Fuel.-There are no peat-mosses in the Island of Sanday, and
the inhabitants of Cross and Burness are consequently ill supplied
with fuel.  Each family endeavours to procure a boat or more of
peats from the neighbouring Island of Eday, to which the cottar
adds prepared cow and horse dung, and the larger tenants coals
from the Frith of Forth or Newcastle.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   It evident that these parishes are still capable of very great
improvement.  Steam-navigation, which has now reached Kirk-
wall, were it also brought through the islands, would do much, by
making the transit of grain, cattle, and other produce free from
the uncertainty attending sailing-vessels.   But perhaps the most
hopeful prospect of improvement would be from the sale of some
of the estates now in the market to men of capital and enterprise.
A few tenants from improved districts are also wanted, not theo-
rising speculative gentlemen farmers, who might cavil and carp
at things as they are, without knowing how to mend them; but
hard-working sure-going men, with sufficient capital, and with
common sense enough to make their plans conform to soil, cli-
imate, and circumstances; in fact, just such characters as are
usually described to be the most suitable for emigrating to the


