
                        EDINBURGH.                       731

professional advice on payment of from 10s. to L. 1, 1s. per
week. Attached to this hospital there is a public Dispensary,
where patients may have advice and medicines gratis, besides
being visited at their own houses if labouring under severe disease.
There are three ordindry medical officers, besides a consulting
surgeon. The extra expenses of the hospital are defrayed by
public contributions.
   Dispensaries.-There are two public dispensaries one in West
Richmond Street, the other in Thistle Street. These afford to
the poor medicines and advice, on application at certain stated hours
daily, when the medical officers attend. Children are also vac-
cinated on two days of each week. Patients may also be visited
at their houses, if confined to bed; and midwifery cases are at-
tended to in the same manner. These establishments are entire-
ly supported by donations and annual contributions; and many
thousands of the poor are thus annually supplied with medical aid.
Their affairs are conducted by a committee of contributors. A
donation of one guinea entitles the contributor to recommend pa-
tients, and to be a governor for two years; a donation of five
guineas gives the same privilege for life.
   Number of patients relieved by Royal Public Dispensary from
its institution in 1776 to 1839, 296,762; do. by New Town Dis-
pensary from 1815 to 1840, 196,821; patients visited at their
own houses, 80,299.
   Besides these, there are some other minor local dispensaries,
and two Eye and Ear Dispensaries, one in the old and the other
in the new town.
   Lying-in-Hospital.-This hospital was established in 1793.
At the came time that it forms a most useful charitable institution.
for the poor, it is also an excellent practical school for the medi-
cal pupils attending the University. The house was situated in
Park Place-an airy open space adjoining the Meadows. The
annual average number of patients received into the house was
about 220, and of patients delivered at their own houses 550. The
management is by a committee elected annually by the contribu-
tors. The funds are derived from donations and annual contri-
butions. The professor of midwifery in the University is the ordi-
nary, physician. In the Report of 1838, it is stated that "4970
patients have been delivered in the hospital, and 8554 out-patients
have been attended at their own houses, at an expense not exceed-
in L. 9307, independent of the building and area, which are so ad-


