
    	                   DUNDEE.                          11

ternity distinct from the community, and having separate rights."
As, according to the sett, five of the councillors must be taken from
the guildry,--a body of free merchants,--and as this body had no
voice in the nomination of these, or of their dean, and as three
councillors, also, must be taken from any separate three of the in-
corporated trades, who could vote for these only in the leets sent
them by the magistrates, a spirit of, dissatisfaction, with regard to
the election of the magistrates, had for a considerable time been
cherished by the inhabitants; and, after many remonstrances upon
the subject, the sett of the burgh, upon the application of the ma-
gistrates, was altered by the convention of Royal burghs assem-
bled at Edinburgh in July 1818. By this alteration, the election
of the dean and of his councillors was vested in the guildry; and
the convener of thd nine trades, who was chosen by his own body,
became a member of council. A dispute, however, having arisen
some years after the alteration of the sett, about the election of
the Dean of Guild, and the matter having been brought by the dis-
appointed party before a civil court, the burgh of Dundee was dis-
franchised by the Court of Session in March 1830; and upon the
Ilth of that month, seven persons, members of the late council,
were appointed by the Court of Session as interim managers of
the burgh.
   During this interregnum, meetings of the inhabitants were called
from time to time, in order to consult about the measures to be
employed in obtaining a new sett of the burgh, and for giving the
burgesses at large a voice in the election of their rulers. The King
in Council was petitioned upon the subject; and a poll election of
the magistrates and town-council by the burgesses and heritors, in
virtue of an order by the King in Council, dated 27th April 1831,
took place in the Cross Church on 10th May, before the sheriffs
of Forfarshire and Aberdeenshire, and the sheriff-substitute of
Perthshire as commissioners. The proceedings having been re-
ported by the sheriffs, an order of the King in Council was issued
on 27th July 1831, confirming the election of the magistrates and
council, made by the majority of the electors. The lafistrates
and council thus elected, accepted office on the 30th of July; and
on the 23d of August, an act of the 2d of William IV. extending
the royalty of the burgh, and jurisdiction of the magistrates, and
introducing new regulations as to the election of magistrates and
municipal government of the burgh, received the Royal assent. It
is provided by this set, that seven of the members of council re-


