
                       BERVIE.                           3

pervious by water. The gravel is superincumbent on a coarse
sandstone conglomerate, and, with the exception of a few patches
of trap, provincially called scurdy, this sandstone prevails through-
out the whole parish. Where seen exposed, as within flood-mark
of the sea, and in one or two sections inland, where it has been
quarried for building, it presents alternate layers of rounded blocks
of various sizes. In some layers the sandstone produces durable
materials for building; and it may be obtained at little expense,
and separated into blocks of good size. Within flood-mark one
or two veins of trap, of a ferruginous colour, have been observed;
but it is Dot very apparent that these produce much disruption of
the beds, or much alteration of the inclination of the strata, which
may be stated as generally to north-west, with a dip of 15&deg; or 25&deg;,
and havinf, with slight variation, a direction from south- west to
north-east. The veins alluded to are of a porphyritic structure,
and not more, at most, than two feet in thickness. Boulders of
various sizes, from a foot in diameter to seven feet, are seen within
flood-mark; the largest of those is a block of quartz rock. The
others are of granite, gneiss, mica slate, &c. These boulders,
however, are not numerous, excepting near the village of Gour-
don. The beach consists of a considerable mass of small pebbles
of jasper, porphyry, slate, agate, &c. Beautiful agates are occa-
sionally found in the loose soil on the higher grounds, as well as
on tbe beach; and in the Den of Peattie, through which the little
stream above alluded to, runs to the water, a large crystal of topaz
was found. It is to be observed, that on the highest part of the
parish adjoining to Benholme, which forms a hill of perhaps 400
feet and upwards in height, and which rises from the margin of
the sea, little soil is to be found, and the puddingstone appears
at the summit. The haugh lands adjoining the sea, which had
at one time been overflowed by it, are composed entirely of a mass
of small pebbles, mixed with black earth: the pebbles form the
greatest portion of the mass. These lands are very fertile; rent
at about L. 5 per acre; and it is said, that if these pebblds were
removed, the land would be rendered unproductive.
	It may be here observed, that part of the upper fields in the
parish is composed of a strong soil upon a clay bottom.
  Zoology.-This parish abounds with hares. The birds within
it are neither numerous in species, nor rare; a few may be set
down as inhabitants or occasional visitors. Horn-owl, screech-owl,
common owl, common crow, hooded-crow, rook, jackdaw, magpie


