
410                         FORFARSHIRE.

in view, desire previously to wait on the instructions with which
its celebration is accompanied. A few of the parishioners, for the
sake of convenience, communicate in the churches of the neigh-
bouring parishes. They are not included in the preceding ac-
count, and their number cannot be stated. The average number
of young communicants for the last thirteen years was fifteen.
	In 1835, it was ascertained, for the information of the House
of Commons, that the parishioners, above twelve years of age,
were 691/2 per cent. of the whole population; and, in the same
year, such male heads of families as were communicants, amounted
to 127.
	The collections in the church for eight years immediately pre-
ceding 1838, amounted to L.267, 19s. 11d., whereof L.235, 1s.
2d. were for the poor, and L.32, 18s. 9d. for extraordinary pur-
poses, Such as the propagation of the Gospel, the infirmary of
Montrose, and the relief of the destitute Highlanders. In 1834,
when subscriptions were commenced, under the auspices of the
presbytery of Arbroath, for establishing a church at Friockheim,
the parish of Kinnell, contributed above L.82, and, of that sum,
L.50 were from Sir James Carnegie.
	Education.--The parochial is the only school. The salary is
L.31, and the annual average amount of school fees is about L.15,
and the master has the legal accommodations.*
	There is a parochial library, under the care of the kirk-session.
	Poor.--The number of persons who received parochial aid in
1837, was, 15, and the disbursements consisted of monthly allow-
ances, allowances for coals, clothes, coffins, &c. The lowest
monthly allowance at present is 4s. the highest, 1Os. But wore
than L.1 has been given monthly, besides allowances for particular
articles; and the amount of allowance depends on the weakness,
destitution, or fatuity of the pauper, and the degree of aid which
may be afforded by kindred or neighbours.
	For the twenty-four years immediately preceding 1838, the ave-
rage annual collections in the church for the poor (exclusive of
extraordinary collections for other purposes), were L.31, 11s, 1d.;
tbe average annual donations, L.5, 19s. 5d.; the average annual
seat rents, mortcloth dues, proclamation dues, penalties, legacies,

<FOOTNOTE>Sir James Carnegie has built a school, in the muirside of Kinnell, for the teach-
ing of knitting and sewing to girls, and of reading to such persons as are too young
for going to the parochial school.


