
			     MID-CALDER.	                  359

(sandstone,) whinstone, and limestone, has been discovered in differ-
ent places throughout the parish. Quarries of all these have, at one
time or other, been in actual operation. One for road-metal is now
open on the estate of Howden, the property of Mrs White. This,
however, is intended only for private use. Another, on the estate
of Linhouse, was in operation not many years ago; and one on the
estate of Pumpherston, belonging to the Earl of Buchan, both of
which are now used for the public roads. A quarry of excellent
limestone has long been, and still continues open, for the supply
of the neigbouring tenantry, on Mr Hog's estate of Easter Muri-
eston. This limestone has never been found in a regular stratum,
but in long beds or nests, or of a round globular form, at short
distances from one another. It admits of a beautiful polish, and
has been used as marble, both in the country and in Edinburgh.
A considerable stratum of excellent limestone, some years ago,
was also opened up in the lands of Colzium, by pits, now the pro-
perty of the Rev. Dr Laird of Portmoak. A kiln of it was burnt
and examined by Dr Fyfe, and was found to be of the best qua-
lity; but, being too distant from coal, it afforded no prospect of
covering the expenses necessary to render it useful to the com-
munity.  A freestone quarry has long been in operation in Cal-,
der-wood. The stone is fit for all kinds of architecture, being hard
and durable, and capable of being wrought to an unlimited extent.
Within these few years, a quarry of unexhaustible freestone was
opened at the bottom of the ridge of the Cairn Hills. In this
quarry, blocks of any magnitude may be raised at a moderate ex-
pense; and the buildings which bave been already erected of this
stone, are sufficient to prove that, from its durable nature and
beauty, it is eminently fitted for all the purposes of the most de-
licate architecture. The bottom of the Cairns Hill seems to be
wholly composed of this stone; and the extent and thickness of it
must be immense. The dip of the strata of all these rocks is, in
general, towards the south. In several places on the banks of the
Murieston Water, and particularly on the property of John Kier,
Esq., there is a kind of rotten rock, intermixed with a species of
crystal, in the cavities of which have been found small portions of
bitumen; but the stone itself is of little value, because, after
being exposed for a year or two to the action of the air and
frost, it crumbles into dust. No animal remains have hitherto
been discovered in any of these rocks; but several petrifaction of
the pine tribe have been found in the strata, and small portions


