
     Of Kilmuir Wester and Suddy.

   Schools.-There are no less than 3 schools in this parish:  a
parochial school with a salary of 200 merks, a slated school
and dwelling-house, and a kail-yard, attended by 50 or 60
children; a society school with a salary of 16 L., attended by
from 35 to 45 children; and a Sunday-school established here
by Charles Grant, Esq. where 100 or more poor people are
taught to read Gaelic and English, and instructed in the prin-
ciples of the Christian religion; and all who attend this school
are not only taught, but supplied with books at Mr. Grant's
sole expense.  It is proposed this season, to cause the teacher
of the Sunday-school open a weekly school in a remote but
populous corner of the parish, so as to render this institution
more beneficial to the parishioners.

     VOL. XII. M m

<FOOTNOTE>

vast number of cairns of stones that are still to be seen there, covering the dead.
These the people still hold so sacred, that though the place was in tillage when
the battle was fought, the marks of the ridges being still visible there, and
though a great deal of the adjoining moor is now cultivated, not one of these
cairns has been ever touched.  Another circumstance that strengthens this opi-
nion is, that the heights and adjacent places go by the name of Druirn-na-deor,
"the height or the Hill of Tears." To the E. of where the battle was fought,
are to be seen the remains of a Druidical temple, called James's Temple; and
to the W. of the field of battle, are go be seen the traces of a camp, and a simi-
lar one to it to the S. on the hill of Kessock, the highest hill in this parish,
where there is also a pretty large cairn of stones, called Cairn-glas.  This hill,
which goes by the name of Ord-hill, belongs t Mr. Grant of Redcastle, who
has already begun to plant it with firs and other forest trees, and which, when
finished, will be an ornament to this and the neighbouring counties, as it lies
on the coast opposite to Inverness, and is to be seen as far down as from the
town of Elgin.  I could get no such traditional account of this battle, as could
induce me to commit any thing more about it to paper.  One circumstance wor-
thy of remark is, that a very honest and respectable family of farmers, date
their introduction to this parish from that period; and what is still more extra-
ordinary, amidst the various changes and revolutions of time and proprietors,
they have continued in the same possession, so that when people speak of a
very remote circumstance, it is a common saying among them, It is as old as
the Lobans of Drumderfit.


