108                Statistical Account

and East Mathers, have greatly contributed. But these might
have perhaps remained in their original state, had not the late
ROBERT SCOTT, Esq. of DUNNINAULD, been induced, from the
lime rocks within the flood mark at Milton, to rent the farm
bearing that name, on the estate of Laurieston. As he was
representative in parliament for the county of Forfar, which
his son now represents, in going up and coming down from
London, he was not inattentive to the system of agriculture
followed in England. Finding it superior to any hither-
to practised in Scotland, he tried to follow it, fist upon his
own estate, and afterwards upon the farm of Milton. He set
the example of draining, stoning, liming, fallowing, cleaning,
manuring, and properly dressing the fields on this farm. The
consequence was, he raised great crops of all sorts of grain, as
well as of grass. The farmers, who at first held his plans in
derision, and were unwilling to leave their own old beaten
track, began to be surprised at his great crops; and when ex-
perience demonstrated to them the success of his schemes,
they gradually turned round to imitate them. Hence arose
a spirit of agriculture, and even of emulation in it, which has
produced the happiest effects. The well filled barn yards af-
ter harvest, are striking and solid proofs of the success, with
which this spirit for improvement is crowned. The present
high, and still rising rent of land, is another proof of the same
fact. Twenty years ago, 10s. or 15s. was thought a high
rent for an acre of the best land in the parish. Now, from 20s.
to 30s., and even up to 40s. per acre, is given for the same land,
in consequence of its melioration; and no sooner does a lease
expire, than the farmers strive with one another, who shall be
tenant. Another proof of the flourishing state of agricul-
ture in this parish, is, the comfortable manner in which the
farmers can afford to live. Notwithstanding the rise of rent 
now mentioned, and the high price of labour, which shall
                                              afterwards

