
                           MORDINGTON.                   341

James IV. of Scotland, and Margaret, daughter of Henry VII. of
England, were contracted in marriage in the year 1503,-which
paved the way for the happy union, first of the two crowns, and af-
terwards of the two kingdoms. This chapel has now nothing re-
maining but part of the outer walls, and is used as the burying-
place of the family of Mr Renton of Lamberton.
   The old castle of Edrington, of which but a small part also has
escaped the mutilating hand of time, is situated at the south of
the parish, on the top of an almost perpendicular rock, which is
clad with wood, and washed by the winding Whitadder below. Like
many of the old forts in this neighbourhood, it was the scene of
frequent contests in the border wars. Its possession was often in-
cluded in treaties between the kings of England and Scotland.
In the year 1534, it was restored by Henry VIII. to James V.,
from the latter of whom it had been taken in a former war,-Henry
declaring that he made this restitution as a proof of his gratitude,
benevolence, and friendship for the Scottish king. The posses-
sion of this castle, and the lands connected with it, was thus con-
firmed to the King of Scotland and his subjects, its former owners,
free from molestation or injury on the part of the King of Eng-
land, his vassals, or subjects, or the inhabitants of the town and
castle of Berwick-on-Tweed; and it probably continued in this
situation till the union of the two kingdoms. From its command-
ing situation, it seems to have been singularly well fitted for de-
fence, especially from the south, and was likely to have been re-
garded by the English as an important out-post when they were in
possession of the town of Berwick. *
   Eminent Men.-Under this head there is nothing to be men-
tioned,-except that the Rev. Alexander Lauder, who wrote a work
against Episcopacy, and lived in the beginning of last century,
was minister of this parish.

<TABLE=Population>        III.-POPULATION.

             In 1755, the population was only   -   181
             In 1792, it had increased to       -   335
             By the census of 1821, it was   -      302
                           of 1831,   -             301
<FOOTNOTE>It is worthy of notice, that below this castle, and close by the bank of the river,
there is a flour-mill belonging to the proprietor of this part of the estate, the water-
wheel of which not only drives the mill, but also a thrashing-machine, situated up-
wards of 500 feet above it, by means of a shaft 600 feet long, which runs through a
tunnel in the rock above. This is an instance of the distance to which the powers
of machinery may be transferred by the application of very simple means.
   On the estate of Upper Edrington there is a sequestered glen, which is said to
have given rise to the old Scottish song of "Tibby Fowler o' the Glen."


