
    152                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

    being named Dun B\a5n or White Castle; and that in Canna, Corra
    Dhun or unsteady fort, from the small extent of its foundation, it being
    placed OD a high and very narrow rock.  From this castle, one of the
    farms in the island still takes its name.  About the centre of the
    Island of Rum, long dikes may still be traced, which, beginning at
    considerable distances from each other, gradually approach, until
    at last they draw pretty near to one another.  These are said
    to have been intended as toils for deer, which were once, as is well
    known, numerous in that island. To these enclosures the inhabht-
    ants collected them, and, forcing them by degrees to their narrow-
    est recesses, they were finally caught by their pursuers. The
    places where these enclosures were made still maintain the names
    of Tigh'n Sealg, that is, the hunting-houses; so that it is likely that
    at the termination of the dikes, houses were erected, into which
    the deer were constrained to enter, and in this manner a number
    of them would be at once secured.
       Mansion-Houses.-With the exception of Mr Macneil's house
    in Canna, there are no other mansion-houses.  He is the only
    heritor that resides within the bounds of the parish.  His house
    was originally intended for a farm.-house, but lately he improved it
    considerably,-insomucb, that it is now a large, commodious, and
    comfortable habitation.  Behind the dwelling-house is his garden,
    which is well stocked both with ornamental and fruit trees, and is
    otherwise exceedingly productive-in greens and roots.  In this
    garden are the only trees which are to be seen upon the island.
       In the Island of Rum, a good dwelling house, with splendid of-
    fices, was erected by Dr Maclean, the present tacksman, in 1826,
    who spared neither pains nor expense in draining, fencing, and
    planting around his residence, at the end of the harbour in that is-
    land.  His improvements have been carried on, on a very exten-
    sive scale.  They exhibit both taste and judgment, and to reward
    his diligence, his plantation of trees is now in a forward and thriv-
    ing state.  The other islands may be said to be as nature left
    them, saving that in Eigg tolerable farm-houses are to be found.
  
                           III.-POPULATION.
       In 1831, the population of the parish was found to be 1015
    souls.  Some years previous it was much greater.  In 1826  all
    the inhabitants of the Island of Rum, amounting at least to 400
    souls, found it necessary to leave their native country, and to seek
    for new abodes in the distant wilds of our colonies in America.
    Of all the old residenters, only one family remained upon the

