
                                            DUFFUS.                         41

            vernmente contributed L.2000. Several large and commodious houses
            (including an excellent inn) have been built of late years; and the
            enterprising proprietor has constructed baths for the accommodation
            of summer visitors, who frequent the place in considerable numbers.
            Regular communication with London, Leith, &c. by traders
            and stearn ships, a daily post and carriers to and from Elgin, comfortable
            lodging houses, and pleasant sea walks, add to its advantages
            as a watering-place.
              Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church, (of which Sir A. Dunbar
            of Northfield is patron,) is very inconveniently situated at the eastern
            extremity of the parish; which evil, however, is less felt, since
            the erection of a chapel  'of ease at Burghead. It was thoroughly
            repaired in 1782, and is still substantial, but, like most of the old
            churches in Scotland, constructed without the least regard to appearance,
            comfort, or commodious arrangement.  The reverse is the
            case with regard to the manse, which was built in 1830, and is a very
            handsome and comfortable house, with a most compact and convenient
            square of offices at a proper distance.  The glebe contains
            nine acres of good ground, two of which are occupied with garden,
            orchard, &c. and the stipend is 120 bolls of barley, with the same
            quantity of meal, and allowance for communion expenses.  There is
            a chapel of ease to the Established church situated at Burghead,
            the clergyman of which is paid partly by the seat rents, and partly
            by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge and the
            Committee for managing the Royal Bounty.  His stipend is about
            L. 70 per annum, and a house has lately been built for him by voluntary
            subscription. There is a Secession meeting-house in the
            village of Burghead, but not always open, from the scantiness and
            poverty of the congregation.  An Episcopalian chapel, near Kaim,
            is attended by a very limited but respectable congregation.  Divine
            service is well attended at church, and also at the several chapels,
            but it were difficult, if not impracticable, to ascertain the number of
            families which resort to each.  Fully three-fourths of the population,
            however, attend the Established Church; and twelve families
            are Episcopalians.  The number of communicants at the parish
            church is about 400.
              Education.- There are in whole eight schools within this  parish,
            four of which are taught by male teachers, and four by females.
            Of these the most important are the parochial school and that, of
            the General Assembly at Burghead, both well conducted and attended,
            and affording instruction in the usual branches of education.

                                         4




