
                             INSCH.                              755

<TABLE>
   The average number of persons under 15 years of age is about  550
         	                     betwixt 15 and 30 about	     300
           	                             30 and 50	           250
	                                   50 and 70	           200
	                           upwards of 70	                  47

   There is a good deal of wealth in the parish, the farmers, as a
body, being fully as affluent as those of any other parish in the
district.  There is, however, only one proprietor of land residing
in the parish.

<TABLE>
The number of unmarried men, bachelors and widowers, upwards of 50 years
   of age, is about                                                       21
The number of unmarried women, upwards of 45, about                       47

   Fatuous persons in the parish, one; deaf and dumb, one; blind,
(from decay of organs), two.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
Agriculture.-

<TABLE>
   Land under cultivation,                                   5312 Imperial acres.
	Uncultivated,	                                     2196
	Capable and worthy of cultivation, about	      200
	Undivided common (the commonty of Insch),	        5

   There are not above 47 acres in the whole parish under wood.
   A large proportion of the arable land is of excellent quality;
and there are some farms, the leases on which have been lately
renewed, that are yielding a very high rent, in some instances
nearly L.2 per acre, over head.  But the average rent of arable
land over the whole parish cannot be stated as higher than 18s.
or 20s. per acre.
   Very few sheep are kept.
   The cattle hitherto most generally reared have been of what
are called the Aberdeenshire or Angus-shire breeds.  The prac-
tice of crossing these with the short-horned or Durham breed is,
however, becoming very prevalent; anil the superior size of the
animals thus produced holds out great temptation to it, though
the beef is not considered to be of such quality as that of the old
breed of the country.  The cattle-shows held by the Highland
Society of Scotland and by local agricultural societies, have had
considerable effect in causing greater attention to be paid to the
rearing of stock, and consequently in improving the quality
thereof.
   The system of husbandry pursued in this as in the other pa-
rishes of the Garioch, may certainly be considered as having at-
tained a considerable degree of excellence.  The climate not be-
ing suitable for wheat, oats form the principal corn crop; and,
according to the most improved rotation, one crop of these is
taken after three years of grass; and the ground being next green-


