
                            PAISLEY.                          201

ton, and Quarrelton, with Johnston which may be considered rather
as a thriving town than as a village, in the west.  Nitshill, distant
about four miles from the old parish church, and Hurlet, about
three, are inhabited chiefly by colliers and other miners employed
in the extensive works, in, their neighbourhood.  The inhabitants
of Corsemill and Dovecothall again, also about three or four miles
from the Abbey Church, are chiefly employed in the bleachfields
and printfields on the banks of the Levern, although several of
the inhabitants of all these four villages find occupation in the
extensive cotton-mill at Barrhead, in the neighbouring parish of
Neilston.
   Elderslie, situated about two and a half or three miles from Pair-
ley is, exclusive of Johnston, the most populous village in this pa-
rish, beyond the bounds of the Parliamentary burgh.  Its inhabi-
tants are chiefly weavers, and cotton-spinners, including at the same
time several employed at the neighbouring coal-pits and quarries.
As the Glasgow, Paisley, and Ardrossan Canal stretches along the
north side of this village, it greatly facilitates its commercial inter-
course with the neighbouring towns.  Its inhabitants are well sup-
plied with excellent water, from springs in the vicinity, especially
from the famed Bore, a spring, whose water came in contact
with a shaft, put down about forty years age, when searching for
coal.  After boring forty fathoms deep, the original design was aban-
doned; but although coal was not obtained, the spring still con-
tinues to supply plentifully the inhabitants of this interesting village
with excellent water, throughout the whole year, at the rate of five
gallons per minute, being six and a half gallons per day to each in-
dividual.
   Thorn and Overton are peopled by colliers, weavers, and a few
other handicraftsman.  The population of Quarrelton consists al-
most entirely of colliers.  This village is very pleasantly situated,
on the north side of the great road from Glasgow to Beith; and
it, as well as Elderslie, and the other villages on this line, of road,
presents from morning to night, a very busy and animated scene,
from the great number of travellers daily, passing.  This village,
like Elderslie, is well supplied with excellent water.
   Johnston, which is still included in the parish, quoad Civilia, ex-
hibits a most striking illustration of the effect of manufactures, in
originating and increasing towns.
   About fifty years ago, near that bridge across the Black Cart,


