
     of Aithsting and Sansting.

June, almost every man in the parish leaves his home, and
goes to the proper fishing stations in the neighbouring pa-
rishes of Walls and Northmavine.  The expence of this fish-
ing, and the mode of carrying it on, will be described by the
ministers of these parishes.  There are about 36 fix-oared
boats, for this fishing, belonging to the parish; and many
young men are hired by fishers in Northmavine.  A few
ling and cod are caught at the south end of the parish, and
sell, ling 6d. cod 2 d.  Plenty of haddocks and whitings sell
1 d. per dozen.  Pollocks, or young seath, caught in summer,
and sell for 1 d per score.  Sillocks set in, in great quantities,
to the bays or voes in winter; but, as every man is now at
home, and can fish for himself, these are seldom sold.  Her-
rings, caught in the bays in autumn, sell for 1 d. per score,
or 3 s. per mett, nearly a barrel of fresh ungutted herrings.
No tide-ways in this parish.  The only exports sent directly
by sea are kelps herrings, butter, and a very small quantity of
oil.  Black cattle, horses, and stockings, are generally sold to
the Lerwick merchants.  No town or village.  No inns;
perhaps 30 or 40 gin and tea shops, to the great ruin of the
morals, health, and circumstances of the inhabitants.  The
landlords could easily prevent this trade; and it would be
much for their advantage to do so, as several of the tenants
spend more in these shops than they give to the landlord in
a year; and some spend all they are worth, so the landlord
gets nothing; yet this trade is carried on by his own tenants,
(who have no tacks, and might therefore be soon removed.)
   No road in the parish; and, in many places, it is not pos-
sible to make them, the hills are so rugged, and the moss so
deep.  Great plenty of fine bays and harbours, which are of
little consequence here, as a ship has hardly been seen in
some of them within the memory of man.  On the north,
the bay of Aith, and voe of Burra Frith, afford verty fine


