
                        MARKINCH.                          671

   The first year's grass is often cut for hay. It is then sometimes
pastured for one or more years, according to the, promise of grass
or the wants of the farmer. Supposing the lands in the parish
divided into ten equal parts, the proportions of the various kinds
of crop maybe estimated as under:

    Fallow or green crop.2.   Wheat, 1.    Barley. 1.    Grass, 3  Oats, 3

   Pease beans, or flax are but little cultivated. The above esti-
mate is exclusive of the space allotted to roads, fences, water-
courses, and pleasure grounds.
   Manures.-Bone manure is used in dry land; rape cake has
been tried successfully in clay and wet lands. The principal ex-
traneous stimulant applied is lime, from Forthar, Chapel, Pitles-
sie, or Inverteil lime-works. Besides the farm-yard manure, a
considerable quantity is obtained from the neighbouring villages.
   Amount of Produce.-Adhering to the sectional divisions al-
ready referred to, the following estimate is offered of the average
produce per Scotch acre: First district, wheat, 3 1/2 quarters; bar-
ley, 4 1/2 do.; oats, 5 1/2 do. Second district, wheat, 4 quarters;
barley, 3 1/2 do.; oats, 5 1/2 do. Third district in the western part
of this district, little wheat is sown; the same is the case with re-
gard to barley. Oats may be estimated at 5 1/2 quarters per acre.
   Leases.-The usual endurance of leases is for nineteen years.
Farms are let by private offers,-a mode which, while it obviates
the injurious tendency of public competition, enables the landlord
to exercise his judgment in the selection of the tenant, with a just
regard to the interests of both. A fixed sum of money is now al-
most universally substituted for the antiquated, though perhaps
more equitable, mode of rent in kind.
   Rent and Value of Land.-In consequence of the increased de-
mand for all sorts of agricultural produce on the breaking out of
the French Revolution the rentals of many estates were doubled.
At the close of the war, bowever, the value of farms fell from 15
to 20 per cent. Since the practice of forrow-draining was intro-
duced, wet-bottomed lands, such as we have described above; have
risen considerably in value.
   Wages.-Men-servants are hired by the year from Martinmas
to Martinmas. Married men receive of wages L.11 Sterling
money; 6 1/2 bolls oatmeal; coals, carriage free; and from one
Scotch pint of milk to two imperial quarts daily. They are also
allowed a free house, with eight falls of garden ground, besides


