
184			LANARKSHIRE.

important, but in a great manufacturing community, subject to
numerous vicissitudes, unknown to small towns and rural districts
it is peculiarly so. The poor in nine of the ten parishes if the
city are maintained by an assessment on the inhabitants, aided by
certains donations, and the collections or offerings on the church
doors; whilst the poor of the other parish are maintained on a se-
parate plan, to be afterwards mentioned, and the poor of the two
suburban parishes of Barony and Gorbals by a tax on rental, aid-
ed by donations and offerings. Soon after Dr Chalmers' * admis-
sion to the Tron Church on the 21st of July 1825, he discover-
ed that a great improvement might be made in the mode of main-
taining the poor, and particularly that assessment might be dis-
pensed with. Having explained his views to the magistrates, he
was translated to the newly erected church and parish of St John's
that he might be the better able to develop his plan. Accordingly,
on the 18th of August 1819, the town-council unanimously resolved
that Dr Chalmers should have a "separate, independent, and ex-
clusive management and distribution of the funds which may be
raised by voluntary or charitable collections at the doors of St
Jonh's Church for the relief of the poor resident in said parish."
The scheme was continued by Dr Patrick Macfarlan, the clergy-
man who succeeded Dr Chalmers, and is still continued by Dr
Thomas Brown, the present incumbent; and after a trial of six-
teen years, the energies of what is emphatically called the agen-
cy have not decreased. There is no intricacy in the scheme.
The members of the congregation are liberal in their voluntary of-
ferings at the church doors. The parish is divided into small dis-
tricts; numerous elders and deacons, to whom districts are assigned,
visit their respective poor, by which means imposition is easily detect-
ed, and the distribution of the fund of the legitimate poor more
surely and easily accomplished. It redounds much to the credit
of the parochial scheme, that St John's parish not only supports
its poor without assessment, but the parishioners are assessed as
other citizens for the maintenance of the poor of the other nine pa-
rishes.
	we have preferred taking the following abstract f rom Dr Cle-
land's Statistical work in 1831, to any statement which could be
made for 1835, as we have the advantage to the Government enu-

<FOOTNOTE>This distinguished divine, now a Corresponding Member of the Royal Institute
of France, received his degree of D. D. from the University of Glasgow, and of L. L. D
from the University of Oxford,--literary honours which we believe never before most
in the person of a Presbyterian clergyman.


