
                             MARNOCH.                              387

        riff and Portsoy, the village being almost in the centre between
        these places, and from eight to ten miles distant from each.  The
        parishioners of Marnoch are an industrious, quiet, well-behaved
        people, and possessing a high degree of intelligence.
           Library.-There is an extensive parochial library, as well as a
        juvenile library.  Many of the parishioners are much given to
        reading.  It may be mentioned, that, in the course of two weeks,
        60 copies of Dr Dewar's "Body of Divinity" wre sold in the
        parish.
           Ecclesiastical State.-The Stipend, as last augmented, is 128
        bolls of meal, the same number of barley, and L.10 for communion
        elements.  The glebe contains about five-and-a-quarter acres
        arable, worth L.3, 3s. peracre, and three and a-quarter acres of
        grass, worth L.1, 10s. per acre.  The manse was built in 1805,
        a plain, comfortable building, in good repair, and beautifully
        situated.  The church, built some years prior to this time, and,
        from insufficiency, rebuilt within a few years after, is still little
        fitted for comfort.  It is one of those old-fashioned barn-looking
        hourse, which are now very properly disappearing, to make way
        for more improved places of worship.
          The Protestant ministers of the parish were,-Hugo Chalmers,
          Episcopal minister of Marnoch, who died in 1707.  His son, Alexander
          Chalmers, succeeded him as Presbyterian minister, for which
          office he had been educated by his fater.-Mr James Innes, who
          died in the year 1803; and Mr William Stronach, who died in 1837.
          Mr John Edwards was presented by the patron in 1837; another
          presentation was iisued by theparton in 1838 in favour of Mr D.
          Henry.  The preceedings that led to this second presentation, or
          that ensued, need not be recited here.  We may merely mention,
          that htey led to the erection of a very handsome new church
          and manse near the village.  The church contains about 1000
          hearers, and the whole cost more than L.2000.
            Education,-There are generally three or four schools in the
          parish, vis. the parochial school, taught by the Rev. J. Largue,
          in the most efficient manner, and according to the most approved
          modern system, and two or three unendowed.  There is not so
          much need of an increase of the number, as of assistance to some
          of those already in operation, or perhaps of a second parochial
          school in the village, or a more centrical position for the present
          once.
            BANFF.


