
     of Auchindoir.

in the parish, about 60 ploughs, 140 carts, 170 horses, 900
black cattle, and 3000 sheep.  The valued rent of the parish
is, 1322 L. 11 s. 4 d. Scots.  The real rent is about 650 L. Ster-
ling.  After supplying itself, the parish exports annually a-
bout 100 bolls of bear, and 200 bolls of oatmeal.  The bear
is reckoned of an excellent quality, not unfrequently weighing

     VOL. XII. 3 R

<FOOTNOTE>

dustry; and services, which draw off their attention from their own farms, and
are much more hurtful to the tenant than beneficial to the proprietor.  It is ac-
knowledged that the inconvemencies of either, are not so much felt here as in a
country where improvements are going on, and the value of labour is better
understood; but that they have a tendency to check improvements, cannot ad-
mit of a doubt.  It is also acknowledged, that the services are not rigorously
exacted, the tenants being treated with great lenity and indulgence; but they
notwithstanding keep them in a state of dependence, as degrading to the cha-
racter as inimical to exertions.  6thly, We have no winter-herding.  As soon
as the corn is off the fields, the cattle are let loose without a keeper.  The sown
grass and turnip, are the objects of their depredations; and these, as the coun-
try is open, it is impossible for the owners to preserve.  The small patches of
turnip are indeed taken up, and after their tops are cut off, are put into houses,
or piled up in heaps and covered with earth; but where the fields are extensive,
this cannot be done.  It may indeed be said, that winter-keeping may be forced;
but the measure is so very unpopular here, that few have the resolution to at-
tempt it.
   Some of these discouragements to improvement, it is evident, cannot be re-
moved, and it is equally evident, that others can.  If the best tenants, not the
highest bidders, were preferred; if judicious encouragement, particularly long
leases, were given to the most spirited, skilful, and substantial, and if those were
assisted with a little money who seemed capable of making a good use of it; a
spirit of improvement might be excited, the condition of the tenants bettered,
and a permanent, though not immediate increase of rent obtained.  It may ap-
pear improbable, yet some facts would almost incline us to suppose, that agri-
culture at some remote period had attained a greater degree of perfection than
at present.  Many places bear the traces of the plough, which are now cover-
ed with heath; and, what is very remarkable, the ridges are all straight, level,
and of equal breadth.  Some of these places too, are at an elevation, at which,
it is now thought, corn cannot be brought to grow; but this is easily account-
ed for, if we consider that a great part of the country has formerly been cover-
ed with wood.


