
				KILBRIDE.                       39

several other changes still imperatively called for. Of these the
most important are, 1. Some additional wood for affording shel-
ter to the more exposed farms, and improving the general ap-
pearance of the parish; 2. The enlargement of the size of the
farms, and the lengthening of the leases to nineteen years; 3.
Good quays at Lamlash and Brodick, so as to afford the parish-
ioners the requisite facilities for carrying their produce to market.
	It is understood to be the wish of the proprietor, to preserve as
much as possible the present character of the parish as a romantic
rural retirement. Were his views different, there is no property
in the west of Scotland, the value of which could be nore easily
increased. The attractions of its healthy climate and majestic
scenery, make it even in its present state a place of considerable
resort to summer visitors. Many of these, if they could get build-
ing-leases, would erect villas in the parish, and perhaps reside in
it the whole year. There would thus be a home market for much
of the produce of the island that is at present carried out of it at
considerable expense; much additional employment got for the
poor and working classes; and the foundation laid for converting
the village of Lamlash into a thriving town of tradesmen and shop-
keepers, to minister to the wants and luxuries of the genteeler
classes in the parish. With the finest harbour in the west of Scot-
land in front of it, and abundance of coals on the opposite coast,
Lamlash ought to be, not a paltry Village, but a flourishing town,
the seat of manufactures and the centre of commerce. In fact, it is
a more arduos undertaking to hinder than promote its growth
and prosperity. For now the rail-road from Glasgow to Ayr-
shire is on the point of being completed, the power of steam will
bring is so near Glasgow and Paisley, that its in inhabitants can very
easily draw towards themselves a few currents from that bread
stream of wealth and industry, by which those mighty and inek-
hatstible reservois are at present feeding and enriching so many
populous villages and second-rate towns of the mainland.

	Written, January 1837;
	    Revised April 1840.


