
     Statistical Account

farmer so many days work in harvest, as they can agree
upon, for manure as well as land for potatoes; but the far-
mers would now rather pay them the common wages, than
allow them any manure, unless on the far higher terms than
formerly.  Hence it is manifest, that the demand for pota-
toes cannot generally be great.  When there is any how-
ever, it is easily answered by the farmers, who generally
plant a few more than they have occasion to use in their fa-
milies, in order to enrich some of their poorest, or to cleanse-
some of their soulest lands.  This end might be equally
well obtained by a crop of turnips, but here these are scarcely
ever raised, except a few in gardens for the use of the ta-
ble.  Meal is still cheap, because there is little demand for 
grain till seed-time, and even then it is not great, as feed-
corn is sold about 2 d. the Winchester bushel, cheaper in
the lower parts of the country, and few farmers here have 
proper granaries for keeping a considerable quantity of corn
safely after it is threshed.  The cheapness of meal and po-
tatoes is one main cause of the high price of labour.  Every
article of merchant goods is here very dear, on account of 
the great inland carriage.  Though there is plenty of peats
in the moorish parts of the parish, yet the villagers can get
almost none but at the distance of two or three miles, nor 
coals nearer than Dalmellington, which is upwards of 20
miles distant.  The dearth of fuel is a great obstacle to
the establishment of manufactures.  The roads through the 
parish are in general very bad, though since the conversion
of the statute-labour into money, they have been conside-
rably improved.  The principal roads though the parish,
are one leading from Kirkcudbright to Ayr and Glasgow,
and another which leads from Newtonstewart, now N. 
Douglas, to Edinburgh and Dumfries, by way of Monni-
hive.  A bridge over the Ken, between this parish and
Kells, would be of great advantage to the public, as the river


