
326                       HADDINGTONSHIRE.

quent records, have unaccountably disappeared, and the earliest
register we have seen is dated 19tb October 1651. From this
date the register of baptisms and of proclamation of marriages
seems in pretty good order; while from 1758 onward to a recent
date, there appear no minutes of session whatever. There are
now regular and authentic records carefully kept of the proceed-
ings of session, and registers of births and baptisms, of proclama-
tion of marriages, and of burials. The Dissenters seldom register
the birth of their children in the parish session records,-occa-
sionally they do. A serious neglect in parochial registration has
prevailed here, as generally elsewhere, we fear, in the proclama-
tion of marriages alone being recorded, and not the solemnization.
It has happened repeatedly during the incumbency of the present
minister in this parish, that proclamation was daily made and re-
corded, but the proposed marriage never took place. Parties
after marriage should present the certificate of its celebration to
the clerk of session, and have the fact of marriage duly registered.
The other parochial registers, as now conducted, however, are
more correctly the registers of baptisms than of births, and of
burials than of deaths.
   Antiquities.-This parish is noted for its antiquities, sacred and
civil; and the delineations of them, literary and graphic, are nu-
merous and valuable. The former Statistical Account is unrea-
sonably and unaccountably meagre; and details somewhat more
lengthened, perhaps, seem due to the genuine and popular inte-
rest of the subjects. Only a few brief notices, however, are all
that may be expected to receive admission here.
   Abbey.-About a quarter of a mile west from the town, on
a gentle elevation toward the south of the public road, stand
the venerable but awfully mutilated ruins of the Abbey of North
Berwick. It was a Cistertian nunnery, founded by Duncan Earl
of Fife, who died in 1154, of which there are, on the whole, very
accurate views in Grose's "Antiquities of Scotland." The site
is admirably chosen, commanding extensive and magnificent
views-on the one hand of the beautiful and lofty Law, and on the
other of the rich and variegated coasts of Fife, the Frith with its
numerous rugged rocky islands, and the immeasurably expanding
ocean. It was consecrated to the Virgin Mary, and richly endowed
with lands in the manor of North Berwick, and with revenues
from different sources in Fife, Berwickshire, Roxburghshire, Ayr-
shire, Edinburghshire, and West Lothian. Its founder bestow-


