
     of Moy and Dalarossie.

nants or cottagers, cannot be ascertained with precision; but it
is supposed, that the number of the former is about 200, and
that of the latter not less than 340; which, with the proprie-
tors residing in the parish, makes the number of houses a few
more than 540.

   Proprietors, Rent, etc.-These parishes are the property of
13 heritors, all holding of subject superiors, except the Laird
of Mackintosh.  Five of these heritors reside in the parish.
The valued rent of the parish is 2,234 L. Scotch.  The real
rent is about 1000 L.  Sterling, and is increasing considerably,
by sheep farms.  As pasturage is an important object here,
in letting of farms, pasture ground is considered as well as the
arable land; and land is let not by the acre, but by the piece,
or lump; and therefore the rent per acre cannot be specified.
Besides the rent in money, customs are paid in kind by most
of the tenants, such as wedders, eggs, fowls, and other arti-
cles.  Personal services are likewise exacted by the proprie-
tors from their tenants; as casting and carrying home a certain
quantity of fuel; shearing a certain number of days in harvest;
carrying loads from distant parts of the country; and per-
forming numbers of other things, that are scarce worth men-
tioning, but which are very troublesome to the poor people
liable to this treatment.

     3 S 2

<FOOTNOTE>

was from 10 s. to 12 s. in the half year; and a day labourer had 4 d. per day,
with his maintenance, and 7 d. without it.  Now, the wages of a farm servant
is from 2 L. to 2 L. 15 s. in the half year; that of a labourer 6 d. with, and 1 s,
without victuals, per day.  The wages of a female servant, about 50. years ago,
was between 6 s. and 7 s.; now, from 15 s. to 20 s.  Sterling in the half year.
Female servants always receive their maintenance in the family, in which they
live; the greater part of the men servants have their victuals in the family, and
some receive meal in lieu of their victuals, at the rate of 6 bolls per annum
to a full grown man, and 4 bolls, of 9 stone Dutch weigh; each, to boys.


