
180                        RENFREWSHIRE.

thereon."  On September 20th, in consequence of a letter from
the Duke of Argyle, the town agreed to send to Stirling "as many
armed men as possible," and they ordered twenty guns to be bought
at Glasgow,"  They agreed to support "20 men" at 4s.  Sterling
weekly, and "a barrel of powder and as many balls as necessary"
are sent with the men.  Burgesses are found to volunteer on this
service.
   On December 28, 1745, "the baillies and council being in-
formed, that a great body of armed men under the command of a
persone who styles himself Prince Regent of the Kingdome, have
come unto the city of Glasgow, and made sundry demands upon
the inhabitants of the said city,"-"and being also informed that
a party of the said army are intending to come to this place; and
being afraid that they may make demands thereon in like manner,"
they appoint a certain number to "meet and treat with the said
partys, and make such agreement with them as they can in the
best and easiest manner possible for the safety of the place and
inhabitants; and the town's credit is pledged in the meantime, so as
to prevent the harm that might happen if the party should levy
from the particular inhabitants."  Next day the Pretender by his
secretary (Murray of Broughton,) sent a summons to the magis-
trates to repair to the secretary's office.  An imposition of L.500
Sterling is laid upon the "haill inhabitants," and on January 3,
1746, a receipt is granted under the hand and seal of Charles for
this sum.  The sum originally demanded was L.1000, but the
magistrates by good management procured its mitigation to L.500.
The sum was borrowed in name of the town from different persons
in the place as they could furnish it, and the council agree to "re-
lieve the thesaurer so soon as a proper hand can be found to advance
the whole sum" upon the town's security.  This "proper hand"
was soon found in the person of "Colonel William Macdowall of
Castlesemple," to whom in return a bond for L.500 was granted. *
   The colours used by the "volunteers" in 1715 and 1745, are
still preserved among the town's archives, and have been occasion-
ally displayed on the battlements of "the castle," on days of public
 rejoicing.
   In 1753, an action was raised by the town of Paisley against John
Murray of Broughton, for repetition of the L.500 levied in 1745,

<FOOTNOTE>Copies of the "summonses", by the Pretender, and other documents of the time,
are to be seen in the charter chest of the town of Paisley of date 8th, and 20th, De-
cember 1745, 24 3d, and 10th January 1746.


