
88                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

there are no sales; and if only two or three appear, it is in their
power to regulate the market.
   Villages.-There are three villages, namely East-Barns, West.
Barns, and Belhaven.
Means of Communication.-Seven miles, six furlongs, and ninety
yards of the great road to London, pass through the parish; and
there are excellent conveyances, both east and west. There is a post-
office in the town, where the royal mail arrives everyday at forty-five
minutes past ten o'clock in the forenoon from the north, and at
twenty minutes past eleven o'clock forenoon from the south. Steele's
coach, which is both speedy and comfortable, leaves Dunbar for
Edinburgh every week-day at seven o'clock in the morning, and re-
turns to it on the same day at the same hour in the evening. The
Union and Berwick coaches pass and repass every week-day.
There are carriers twice every week, and regular packets to Leith
and London.
   Harbour.-The harbour is safe and commodious, has 9 feet
of water at neap, and 14 at spring tides, and adinits vessels of
800 tons burthen-but on Account of rugged rocks at its entrance,
skilful pilotage is required. The convention of Royal burghs in
1785, voted L. 600 to improve it; and Cromwell in his time grant-
ed 1,300 to repair the east pier, which had been destroyed by 4
storm.
   Ecclesiastical State-The worthy St Baldred, it is said, was the
apostle of East Lothian. He fixed his cell at Tynninghame, and
preached the Gospel through the district, sometime duringthe sixth
century; and his successor was the pious St Cuthbert; but the sub-
ject is involved in obscurity. The parish belonged originally to
the bishopric of Lindisfarne; and at the decline of the Northum-
brian kingdom, it was ceded in 1020, with the rest of Lothian to
the Scottish King, and annexed to the bishopric of St Andrews.
In addition to the present parish, it then contained the parochial
districts of Whittingham, Stenton, and Spott, which were chapelries
subordinate to the mother church. This very extensive parish
had six chapels, namely, Pinkterton, Heatherwick, Whittingham,
Peashiel, Stenton, and Spott. Dunbar with its chapel of Whit-
tingham was valued in 1176 at 180 merks, which, says Chalmers,
is a greater valuation than any other church in Scotland could
bear." The Earls of Dunbar were proprietors of the whole Pa-
risk and patrons of the church and subordinate chapels. Patrick
the tenth Earl, in 1342, converted this parochial into a collegiate
church, which was the first establishment of the kind in Scotland.


