
300                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

during summer, and to have collected of that metal to the amount
of L.100,000 Sterling. Many heaps of sand and gravel cast up
then, are still to be seen on the banks of several streams, near the
places now mentioned. The search, it is said, became unprofitable
when the wages of a workman exceeded fourpence per day. A
mine has been cut a considerable way into one of the mountains,
close by the Wanlock stream; which is supposed to have been cut in
search of gold. For such as wish to procure a little in a state of pu-
rity, or for the purpose of being formed into a ring, &c. it is still
collected by the minners, though not in any great quantity. It is
generally found at the bottom of the glens, of a granular form, dis-
seminated among rocks, and mixed with sand and gravel. During
the last four years, two specimens have been found which weighed
respectively ninety and sixty grains.
	The lead-mines at Wanlockhead were opened up by Sir James
Stampfield, about the year 1680, and were wrought by him with
some success, but not to any great extent, till the Revolution.
In 1691, he was succeeded by Matthew Wilson, who procured a
lease for nineteen years, and wrought the vein called Margaret's
in the Dodhill. He carried his workings quite through that hill,
from Whitecleuch to Wanlock stream, and was very successful in
his discoveries. He was again succceeded in 1710, by a Company
for smelting lead ore with pit coal. They had a lease for thirty-one
years, and wrought to a considerable extent in the veins of Old Glen-
crieff and Belton-grain, but were not very successful in their ope-
rations. At length, after much discouragement, they had the good
fortune to find out the veins of New Glencrieff, where in a very
short time they raised a great quantity of lead-ore.
	In 1721, a numerous Company was formed, of persons residing in
different parts of the kingdom, under the name of the Friendly Min-
ing Society. They entered into partnership with the smelting Com-
pany, for working the mines upon a farther lease of fifteen years, in
addition to the one already obtained by the latter company of thirty-
one years. The two companies thus united, carried on their ope-
rations in all the four principal veins then known, and to conside-
rable extent, till 1727. They then separated from each other,
and prosecuted their works in different grounds. The smelting
company entered on the east side of the Wanlock stream, and vi-
gorously continued their operations till 1734, when, having suffer-
ecl great loss, though they had raised much lead, they resigned
their lease. An individual partner in the company, however, Mr


