
                           ST NINIANS.                           329

process consists of two distinct objects, viz. thorough-draining and
subsoil ploughing.
  1. Thorough-draining.--This consists in a series of parallel drains,
running all in one elevation, and terminating in a common drain, si-
tuated in the lowest part, or where the formation of the surface re-
quires it parts, of the field. This drain is called the main, and is al-
ways deeper and wider than the parallel drains. It is, moreover, at
right angles to the others. It is usually three feet deep, a foot to six
inches in width at the bottom, and four feet wide at the top. These
dimensions are necessary when the field is large, and even when
small, if the subsoil be particularly tenacious, and retentive of
moisture. The best mode of constructing this drain, is to build
it with stone and lime in the form of the letter U, and then co-
vering it with flags, care being had that the flags do not come
nearer to the surface afterwards to be placed upon it, than twenty
inches, in order that the subsoil plough may meet with no obstruc-
tion. The soil is then thrown over it, and it is then brought to
the level of the arable surface, and so nothing is lost. Cheaper
methods have frequently been followed with success, and these
will easily suggest themselves to the practical farmer, especially
that one of using a larger sized drain tile, manufactured for the
purpose, and put in as is usually done in carse fields. The pa-
rallel drains are cut to the depth of two feet when tiles are to be
used, and to thirty inches when stones can be had. Tiles are
used almost always in the carse, because stones cannot so easily
be procured, but in the dryfield the other mode is followed, as
stones can be procured in sufficient abundance. The tiles are
made in the form of, and in the same proportion as the letter U
inverted, U; but to give the drain a greater degree of durability,
as well as to prevent vermin from penetrating the soil, and there-
by choking the drain, a flat tile is also used, upon which the other
is placed. The soil is then cast into the drain, and the work is
finished, and the expensive but most efficient improvement is bid
from observation, working, however, like many of the operations of
Divine Providence, in an unseen but most efficient manner, in the
production of extensive benefit to the community. In the dryfield
the process is somewhat different, as stones which are gathered on
the field are used instead of the tiles. The drain, as mentioned
above, being cut to the depth of thirty inches, the stones are broken
so small as to pass through a ring of two inches and a half in dia-
meter, and are then thrown into the drain to about the height of
eight inches. Upon them is then placed a layer of old straw, hay,


