               432                        RENFREWSHIRE.


               fallen considerably since that period; but the rent of arable land
               in the neighbourhood of a populous town like Greenockc if taken.
               separately, would probably be found considerably above the highest
               average. In making this computation, we exclude the rental of
               small parcels of ground within the burgh, or in its immediate rental of
               bourhood.  The fixed rent of ground of that description is 1s. per
               fall, or L. 8 per Acre.
                  Rate of Wages.-Farm-servants receivd of wages from L. 6 to
               L. 8 in the half-year, with bed, board, and washing. The wages
               of day-labourers are, for good workmen, in winter, 2s. and in sum-
               mer, 2s 6d. per day.
                  Live-Stock, &c.-The black-faced, or Highland breed, is the only
               breed, of sheep in this parish. The cattle are of the Ayrshire
               breed, and of late years have been greatly improved.  An annual
               cattle-show, under the auspices of a committee of the Highland
               Society, has contributed much to the amelioration of the stock.
               Mr Marshall, our worthy Sheriff-substitute, is the moving spring
               of that commottee.
                  The practice of furrow-draining has recently been applied with
               much success to land under tillage.  Lime, procured from a great
               distance, is used as a manure to a considerable extent.
                  The land is let in general on a lease of nineteen years.
                  The late Sir Michael Shaw Stewart applied himself with great
               zeal, and at very considerable expense, to, the improvement of the
               farm-buildings and enclosures on his estate, particularly the former.
                  We are not aware of any special obstacles in the wax of farther
               improvement in the branch of industry to which these observa-
               tions refer.
                  Quarries.-The only quarries worked in the parish of Greenock
               are of sandstone.  Even these are not worked to any great extent.
               The red sandstone. Even these  are not neighbouring parishes of Gourock and
               Inverkip is preferred; and the finer kinds of white or gray sand-
               stone, for polished ashlar are brought by water from quarries on
               the banks of the Forth and, Clyde and Union Canals.
                  The Shaw's Water-Works.-Before proceeding to give an
               enumeration of the manufactories in this parish we would call the
               attention of our readers to a most ingeniously contrived plan for
               the creation of water-power, a plan we believe, altogether sin-
               gular in the history of manufactures in this or in any other
               country;  executed at a comparatively small expense, and in actual
               operation during the last thirteen years.















