
                            MONYMUSK.                        467

   The average rent or cost of grazing is about L.2, 10s. per ox or
cow grazed for the season.  There are, as already noticed, very
few sheep kept in the parish.
   Wages.-The rate of labour for farm-labourers is 1s. 8d. per
day in summer, and 1s. 4d. in winter; for wrights or house car-
penters and masons 2s. per day through the year.  Sawyers
receive at the rate of 2s. per 100 feet, equal to about 3s. per day,
all providing their own victuals; but these rates are found to vary
with the value of agricultural produce, and the demand for the
different kinds of labour.
   A good system of husbandry is carried on in the parish, a re-
gular rotation of cropping being observed, to which the tenants
are bound by their leases; and the most approved modern imple-
ments of agriculture are in general use.
   The general duration of leases is for nineteen years, which term
is considered favourable to the occupier, as being an encourage-
ment to improvement, by giving him an opportunity of reaping the
advantage of it.
   The farm-buildings have been greatly improved of late years,
many of them being built with stone and lime, and slated, in con-
sequence of encouragement given on the part of the proprietor,
who supplies the wood gratis, and allows payment at the expiry of
the lease for mason-work of the walls, and for slating, but not ex-
ceeding a certain amount or extent of building stimulated in the
lease, the value to be ascertained by two competent judges mu-
tually named, or oversmen, in case of their differing.  On some of
the farms, the fields are well enclosed with stone dikes.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, may be reckoned.
as follows :-

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds,                                           L.8020  0  0
           potatoes and turnips cultivated in the fields,                  2970  0  0
           hay,                                                            1970  0  0
           land in pasture, rating it at L.2. 10s. per cow or full-grown
             ox grazed, or that may be grazed, for the season,             1450  0  0
           the annual thinning and periodical felling of woods and
             plantations, there being little cut in the woods of Mony-
             musk at present, besides dead and decaying wood,               500  0  0
                                                                          ------------
                    Total yearly value of raw produce raised,          L.14,910  0  0

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-There is no market-town in the parish, the
nearest being Aberdeen, distant nineteen miles from the village of
Monymusk.  This small village, containing at present a popu-


