
				FORRES.                      175

   longing to the Establisbed Church in the parish is about 340;
   non-parishioners who communicate, about 320.
      Collections and contributions are regularly made for the religi-
   ous and educational schemes of the church, amounting to from
   L. 26 to L. 30 a-year, being somewhat more than L. 5 annually
   for each of these important religious institutions.
      Education.-- There are six schools in the parish for the educa.
   tion of boys, taught by male teacher, four of which are associated
   in the academy, or Anderson's Academical Institution.  The teach-
   ers of three of these being the parochial schoolmasters, receive sa-
   laries from the funds of the burgb ; the fourth, a charity school,
   for educating poor children of the parishes of Forres, Rafford, and
   Kinloss, is endowed by funds left by the late Jonathan Anderson,
   Esq. of Glasgow.  The other two schools are supported by the
   fees and contributions of the scholars.  There are two boarding-
   schools for young ladies, having four teachers, neither of which is
   endowed ; and there are two other females who teach a few chil-
   dren, and receive small salaries from the burgb funds, besides fees.
      At the academy, including the free school, the branches of edu-
   cation taught are, the English, French, Latin, and Greek lan,
   guages, writing, arithmetic, mathematics, English grammar, geo-
   graphy, history, and drawing.  In the boarding-schools are taught
   all the common branches of female education, such as the, Eng-
   lish, French, and Italian languages, English reading, grammar,
   history, geography, writing, arithmetic, music, drawing, and all
   kinds of needle-work.  Sacred biograpby, and history, together with
   an acquaintance with the principles, doctrines, and duties of Christ-
   ianity, are taught in all the male and female schools, and several
   of the teachers, both male and female, assist in the Sabbath even-
   ing school taught in the parish church, which is commonly attend-
   ed by from 200 to 300 children.
      When the last minute examination was made into the numbers
   of children attending the schools of Forres, it was found, that
   644 were then receiving education, of which number 379 were
   boys, and 265 girls.  About the same number, and in the same
   proportion, of boys and girls are attending the different schools,at
   present, which is perhaps as high a proportion relatively to the po-
   pulation as is to be found in any other parish in the country.
      Literature.--A Subscription Library was established about forty,
   years ago,, which contains a tolerably good collection of books, prin-
   cipally in the departments of history, travels, periodicals, &c. which


