
108                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

the precipice in front of the castle. Near the south-western ex-
tremity of this area, is seen the entrance to Kemp's Score, a fright-
ful chasm in the rock, which we formerly noticed. Immediately
adjoining this chasm, we find the remains of an old outwork now
in ruins, which gives a highly picturesque effect to the scenery.
Passing this outwork, and advancing a few steps towards the brink
of the precipice, we find a concealed half-formed footpath, which
winds down the wooded front of the rocks, and leads to a projec-
tion about twelve feet above the bed of the torrent, which is here
seen forcing its way beneath shelving rocks, which now and then
conceal it from the view of the spectator. This is certainly the
most romantic part of the scenery of the castle, and will amply re-
pay the labour of those who have sufficient nerves to undertake
the descent; for it is not without some degree of risk that the
attempt is made-as one false step would infalliably precipitate the
traveller into the abyss below; and it is only by laying hold of
shrubs and roots of trees, with which the path is strewed, that
the descent and re-ascent can at all be effected.
   It has been matter of surprise to many, how a place like Cas-
tle-Campbell, almost inaccessible, by its steep approach and rug-
ged road, should have been chosen as the residence of a noble fa-
mily. But there can be no doubt that the family of Argyle fre-
quently resided here, and indeed made it their favourite residence,
till it was burnt by Montrose in 1644. That the family frequent-
ly lived here, appears from the various feu-charters given to cer-
tain inhabitants of Dollar, conveying to them portions of land, on
the condition of their performing certain services to the family,
when they resided in the castle. * One piece of land, for instance,
was given to one person for supplying bread to the family, to an-
other for furnishing butcher-meat, and oats for the horses ;
to another for supplying coals; to another for providing beer,
&c. On the grounds givdn to the brewer of the family,
there is a small eminence or knoll, called the brewer's knowe
-which name it still retains. But independent of the evidence
arising from the feu-charters, we know from general history,
that the castle was frequently made the residence of the Ar-
gyle family. About the year 1556, Archibald, the fourth Earl of
Argyle, lived here. Knox, in his history, informs us that he vi-

<FOOTNOTE>In some of the charters, the vassals are taken bound to carry the wine used in
the castle from the Port of Alloa, and in others, to furnish horses to bring their supe-
rior and his family from Stirling.


