
     Of Chirnside.

poses of prisons, but that, taken together with the cas-
tles or tower-houses of the chieftains, near which they 
always stood, they constituted a chain of fortresses, run-
ning, partly on Whittadder and on Blackadder banks,
from almost the one end of the country to the other.
Thus, we can reckon a line of them, at short distances,
in this neighbourhood, viz. Kello-bastel, in Edrom pa-
rish; the Basteldikes-here; Foulden-bastel; and the
Bastel-riggs, in Ayton parish; besides other westward
of Kello, the names of which I do not now exactly re-
collect*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-Chirnside, as a barony,
had, and still holds the privilege of an annual fair, at a
late season of the year, but accommodated to the de-
mand for its old staple commodity; which was that of
sacking, or bags for corn.  It draws together a good

<FOOTNOTE>

*To conclude the antiquities, there are only two names of places in the
parish, besides Chirnside, which require etymology, or explication.  The
first is that of Pepperlaw, a steading, or place of farm-houses, situated on
an eminence, making part of the bank of Belly mire.  The name, although
odd, is intelligible, when written, or pronounced, as it ought to be.  The
Pepperlaw, which denotes the hill upon the side of a muddy rivulet, such
as issues from a bog, or mire; the word Pepper, being German, or Saxon,
signifies black pepper; and therefore, is applied to a stream of a black co-
lour.  It has indeed, its interpretation, in the name of Blackburn, given
to the village, on the east side of the mire, near which runs a brook of the
same source, and complexion.  An easy swamp, is, in some places, called the
Pepper, and there is one well known by that name near Newbeath, in
East Lothian.  The other name wanting derivation, is Idington, about
which I can only offer a slight conjecture, not having had opportunity of
seeing its orthography in any old papers; which, yet, I suspect may be
Eddington, denoting a place where there are eddies, or deepening of the
shallow water into pools; a circumstance that is apparent and remarkable,
all along the entry to it from the W. to the N.


