
     Of Cullen.

ceiving alms is 80; which is very great, considering the num-
bar of the people; the chief reason of this is, the liberal sup-
plies which they receive from the beneficence of the noble fa-
mily here, makes them press in from all corners.  As there

<FOOTNOTE>

the late Rev. Mr. Lawtie of Fordyce.  John Lawtie, burgess of Cullen, be-
queathed his whole property, consisting of a house, a small garden, and a croft
of land for behoof of the poor of Cullen, which pays of yearly rent to the kirk-
session, 1 guinea.  William Leslie of Birdsbank, an heritor in the parish, be-
queathed the sum of a 1000 merks Scotch, the interest of which, was to be ap-
plied as an encouragement to a schoolmaster in Cullen, under direction of the
magistrates of Cullen.  This money, by a negotiation of the magistrates, was
settled in the hands of the Earl of Findlater, upon his agreeing to make some
addition to it, and he thereby is become patron of the school, the magistrates
and council paying 1 L. 2 s. 2 d. 12ths, of a farther addition, which makes the
salary in whole 5 L. Sterling yearly.  A man of the name of Smith, who had a
small house, a garden, and a croft of land, left them and the rents of them as
an additional encouragement to the schoolmaster of Cullen-the rent of the
whole is about 1 L. 10 s. yearly.  John Lorimer, town-clerk of Cullen, appoint-
ed a piece of land, with 1 or 2 houses upon it, for the education of a boy at the
school of Cullen, of his own name, or related to him.  Besides the rent of the
houses, the land paid, in the end of the last century, 6 bolls charitat bear, that
is, 6 bolls, 6 pecks barley, yearly.  This foundation has been very useful in
giving education to a number of the founder's relations; and among others, to
a great nephew of his own, Mr. William Lorimer of St. James's parish, Lon-
don, who out of gratitude for the benefit of his own education upon his great
uncle's burse at the school of Cullen, appointed by his last will, a sum of money
fit to produce, by interest, 1 L. Sterling yearly, to purchase books for his great
uncle's bursar at Cullen; and also, 10 s. yearly to the schoolmaster at Cullen, for
his attention to said bursar: And further, the said Mr. William Lorimer ap-
pointed the interest of 200 l. Sterling, for a bursary at the Marischal College of
Aberdeen; and that his great uncle's bursar at Cullen, when found qualified,
should enjoy this bursary at the college, with the relations by his mother alter-
nately.  Mr. William Lorimer's bursary is under the direction of the masters of
Marischal College, and the magistrates and church-session of Cullen.  John
Watson, merchant in Edinburgh, appointed the interest of 1000 merks Scotch,
for assisting in the education of a boy at the school of Cullen, related to himself
by father or mother; also, the interest of 100 L. Scotch, to be paid to the mas-
ter of the school of Cullen for the boy's education.  Collector John Ogilvie of


