
40                        FORFARSHIRE.

on the former, manufactures of all kinds are sold, together with ar-
ticles of provision; on the latter, in addition to these, grain. From
the fertile district of the Carse of Gowrie, the upland parishes on
the north, the rich tract that lies to the eastward, and from Fife, a
plentiful supply of provisions and grain is at all times brought to
the town. The fish-market is well and cheaply supplied; haddock,
cod, ling, flounders, skate, and sometimes turbot, are caught at the
mouth of the Tay; fish from the south coast of Fife are sometimes
conveyed to the town in carts, and women from Achmithie carry
crabs, lobsters, and dried fish to Dundee,--a distance of twenty-four
miles, and return with the price in the evening. These women are
particularly strong and active. The Tay is also supplied with sal-
mon in its season. The markets for provisions in Dundee, whe-
ther as regards the quality or cheapness of the articles, are not
excelled by any in the kingdom.
	The villages of Lochee and Broughty Ferry are partly in the
parish of Dundee; the former being about two miles distant, the
latter about four.
	Means of Communication.--Dundee, from its situation, has am-
ple means of communication with other places, both by land and
water. The coast road to Aberdeen passes through the town, and
there are turnpike roads to Cupar Angus, Forfar, and Brechin.
The mail and other coaches to Aberdeen pass and repass daily. A
coach starts in the morning direct for Glasgow, and the intercourse
through Fife by means of several coaches connects Dundee inti-
mately with Edinburgh. In addition to these, there are conveyan-
ces which in summer minister to the health and pleasure of the in-
habitants. A rumbling, though capacious vehicle has hitherto plied
betwixt Dundee and Broughty Ferry for the benefit of sea-bathers.
The steam-boats to Perth invite passengers at an easy fare to a
trip up the Tay, affording a prospect of uncommon beauty; and of
late the expdriment has been tried, though not successfull, through
the summer months, of plying a steam-boat betwixt Dundee and
Leith.
	Rail-road.--In 1825 a rail-road was projected to connect Dun-
dee with Newtyle, and in 1826 was begun to be constructed. It is
now completely opened, and coaches and waggons are employ-
ed to carry passengers and goods. The length of the rail-road
is eleven miles, and the cost upwards of L. 50,000. Leaving
Dundee on the north, it ascends an inclined plane of about 800
yards in length, and rising one yard in ten; at the top of this plane


