
     Statistical Account

theron, Forss, Swinzee, and Clyth.  These were places of
strength in the days of rapine and violence.  Most of these

<FOOTNOTE>

garden, when Robert Gun shot him with an arrow from his
bow.-They went immediately into his house, took his wife one
of bed, and carried her and her infant child in a large basket
they had prepared for that purpose, to Braemore, where Gun
resided How soon the mother recovered, she was reconciled
to Robert Gun, notwithstanding of his murdering her husband.
She begged of him to call her infant son William after his de-
ceased father, though she knew, had her husband been alive, he
would have named him HECTOR, after his own father Hector
More.  Robert Gun held the lands of Braemore of the Earl
of Caithness in tack, but he would pay no rent to his Lordship.
After being much in arrears to the Earl, his Lordship sent John
Sinclair of Stircock, with a party of men under arms, to
compel Gun to make payment; but Gun convened his clan,
and they defeated John Sinclair with his party.  Several were
killed, and John Sinclair was wounded in the engagement.
This shews that Robert Gun was both a tyrant and an usurper-
Young William's mother lived the remainder of her life with
Robert Gun, and had two sons by him.-After these sons had
arrived at maturity, young William and they went one day a
hunting; and William, being more successful than the other two,
killed a roe, which he desired his two brothers to carry home.
They objected to this drudgery, and said that he might carry
home his own prey himself.  But William, who by this time
had heard of his father's tragical end, told them, with a me-
nacing aspect, that, if they would not carry home the roe, he
would revenge some of their father's actions upon them, which
intimidated them greatly, (though they were ignorant of the
cause of his threatening) as they knew he had more-personal
strength than them both, he being then about 9 feet high, and
stout in proportion; they accordingly carried home the roe,
and told their mother that William had threatened them in
such a manner.  She communicated this circumstances to their
father Robert Gun, adding, that the suspected William had
heard of his father's death.  Robert Gun being afraid of young
William's personal strength, wished to be in friendship with him,
and proposed that he should marry his (Gun's) sister who re-
sided with them in the character of a house-keeper.  William
did not relish the match, and would not accept of her.  Soon
afterwards Robert gun made a feast at his house, where he col-


