
                                 BANFF.                            39

   The average rent of grazing is at the rate of about L.1, 15s. per
   ox or cow grazed, or 7s. per ewe or sheep.
      Wages.-The ordinary wages of farm-servants is from L.4, 10s.
   to L. 6 half yearly.
      Farm-labourers, according to the length of the day and other
   circumstances, receive from 9d. to 1s. 6d. per day; country wrights,
   1s. 4d.; masons, 2s. 6d.:-all these rates with victuals.
      Prices.-Wool is sold at 1s. 6d. to 2s. per pound of 22 oz. Other
   species of raw produce for home use are rarely bought or sold, being,
   generally grown by each consumer for his own particular use.  Rid--
   dles cost from 2s. 6d. to 4s., sieves 3s. 6d., but these are now sel-
   dom used, most of the mills being furnished with sifters; corn bas-
   kets (called blind sieves) 1s. 6d.; coarse wicker baskets for carry-:
   ing weeds, peats, potatoes, &c.  1s.; a sort of bass made of heather
   is sold for 2s. 6d.
      Mason work varies from L. 1, 5s. to L. 2 per rood.  Carpenter's
   work for the various descriptions, as follows: Flooring and joisting
   from 3s. 6d. to 5s. 6d. per yard; slate roofing, including rafters,-
   from 5s. 9d. to Ss. 6d. per yard; tile roofing, including rafters,
   from 3s. 9d. to 4s. 9d. per yard; windows, from 2s. 3d. to 2s. 9d.
   per foot; double lath partitions (with plaster) 2s. 6d.; doors from
   1Os. to 18s: stairs 4s. 6d. to 10s. 6d. per yard.
      Live Stock.--The parish not a sheep district; the small num-
   ber kept in it are mostly of the Cheviot breed.  The breed of cattle
   is theresult of various crosses, which do not appear to have tended
   much to its improvement; and they have occasioned the loss of a
   very good breed, formerly known by the name of the old Banffsbir'e
   breed.  Altogether, the parish is not conspicuous for its improve-
   ments in this department.  Perhaps, however, the now extensive use
   of bone manure by which an increased quantity of winter keep is
   produced, may be the means of improving the breeds of cattle.  At
   one period cattle was rather the staple produce of the district: lat-
   terly, it has become more a grain country.  The plan of husban-
   dry in universal use is the rotation of crops for five, six, or seven
   years, the latter period being most common.
      Husbandry.-In the course of the last forty years, perhaps one-
   fifth of the present arable land in the parish has been brought into
   cultivation.  Draining has also been effected to avery large extent.
   On one farm alone (Blairshinnoch, in the occupation of Mr A.-Milne.)
   16,000 ells have been formed in the course of the last six years.


