
96                         LANARKSHIRE.

rival parishes.  They are now sunk into merited oblivion, and their
place is well supplied by the not less interesting, and far less ex-
ceptionable amusement of curling.  In their domestic character
and habits the people generally are manifestly improving; and
though there is still ample room for amendment, it is evident that
the indolent, slovenly, "canna' be fashed" system of the last cen-
tury is fast falling into disrepute, and yielding to a taste for neat-
ness, and a habit of cleanliness, both as to their houses and their
persons, the effects of which are already apparent.  The farmers
are active, intelligent, and hospitable.  Equally removed, on the
one hand, from the conditions and character of the mere serf, and,
on the other, from that of the gentleman farmer, they are, some
of them, wealthy, and all of them able to make a respectable ap-
pearance, enjoy in abundance the necessaries of life, and are be-
coming daily more alive to its comforts and its elegancies.  The
lower orders are in general comfortable in their circumstances, and
contented with their lot; honest, industrious, and sober; inferior
to no peasantry in Scotland in point of intelligence, and unstained
by the prevalence of any particular vice,--poaching, perhaps, ex-
cepted, which, in the eyes of some, seems to possess an attraction
absolutely irresistible.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-There are about 2183 acres
in this parish in constant rotation; about 1600 occasionally in til-
lage; about 5388 which never have 4een cultivated, and which re-
main constantly waste, or in sheep pasture; and at least 1500
which, mith a profitable application of capital, might be added to
the cultivated land of the parish, whether that land were afterwards
to be kept in occasional tillage, or in permanent pasture.  There
is no land in this parish in a state of undivided common.  There
are only about 200 acres under wood, none of it indigenous; of
these nearly one-half have been planted within these few years on
the property of Lockhart of Cleghorn.  The wooded grounds are
judiciously laid out, and are carefully attended to.  The wood thrives
remarkably well, and promises, ere long, to give a new face to
the part of the parish, and holds out every encouragement to the
other proprietors to beautify and improve their properties in a simi-
lar manner.  It consists, in general, of larch and Scotch fir, with
a sprinkling of hardwood, in the proportion, perhaps, of twenty of
the former to one of the latter.
   Rent of Land.-The land in this parish is of such various values,
some of it being worth, perhaps, L.4 per acre, and some of it


