
428                      FIFESHIRE.

   Zoology.-No rare species of animal. or insect has. been found
here. In a pretty extensive marsh near the church, there used
to be a great many wild ducks, snipes, green plovers, redshanks,
and in winter, wild geese. These have in a great measure disap-
pear6d, in consequence of its having been drained. The open
fields, however, are still much frequented by wild geese in
winter, which sometimes do considerable damage to the young
wheat. Partridges, hares, and rabbits abound, and there are a
few pheasants, and even a strayed deer is sometimes to be seen.
Yet poaching is seldom heard of, except when a poor bare makes
a false step into a snare set for rabbits.
II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Eminent Men.-The only person of eminence in literature or
science known to have belonged to this parish, is John West, au-
tbor of a System of Mathematics, much esteemed by the scientific
world. He was son of a minister who lived about the middle of
the last century. Mr, West became an E piscopal clergyman in
the Island of Jamaica, and died a few years ago. He is said to
have left some valuable mathematical papers, some of which, it is
understood, the late Professor Leslie of Edinburgh intended to
publish, along with a memoir of the author.
Antiquities.-There are no buildings, ancient or modern, of any
importance, except the ruins of one of those square towers whiell
the feudal possessors of the land seem to have erected, for the de-
fence as well as residence of their families.
Land-owners.-The land is at present much subdivided,-no
beritor possessing more than two farms, or from 500 to 600 acres.
All the heritors are non-resident except two, who occupy their
own farms. The following is a list of the heritors according to
their valued rent:-Williarn Mackenzie of Forret; Robert Lindsay
of Straiton; David Gillespie of Cruvie; Trustees of the late Sir
William Fettes of Denbrae; George Johnston Lindsay of Ked-
loch; John Millar Bowman of Logie; Walter Millar of Tor-Ked-
16ch; Robert Russel of Tor-Forret; and Robert Murdoch of Tor-
Forret.
,Rental.-The rental of the two last is under L. 50. The whole
ue rent of the parish is L. 2916, 6s. 8d. There is a consi-
derable number of fauars, possessing from I to 8 acres. There
are eight farms above 200 acres each, and four under 100.
III.-POPULATION.
This parish, like many others, was formerly divided into smaller


