
588                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Library.-There is a small circulating library in the parish,
principally composed of religious and historical publications.  It
was established some years ago.  Small additions are made to it
from the annual subscriptions.  It has already been productive of
some good effects, giving the people a taste for reading, and
tending to check the habit of wandering from house to house, (a
custom very common in the winter evenings.)
   Savings Bank.-A Savings Bank was instituted about eight
years ago, which, considering the decrease of wages, and the low
rate of interest, has succeeded far beyond the most sanguine ex-
pectations of its originators.  It is managed by a President and
twelve Directors;-who have authority to hold four meetings an-
nually, and two extra meetings, if necessary.  About L.1000 are
already lodged.
   Poor.-The funds of the parish for behoof of the poor
amount to about L.200.  The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid varies from 16 to 20.  The weekly collec-
tions average about 7s., from which, along with the interest of
capital, and what arises from other sources, nearly L.40 are dis-
tributed annually.  The highly commendable feeling of independ-
ence is still prevalent here; and it is a rare occurrence for any to
ask assistance from the parish funds, unless in cases of actual ne-
cessity.
   The population are, almost, exclusively, agricultural in their pur-
suits.  About twenty years ago, many of the female sex derived a
livelihood from the knitting of stockings for the foreign market
This species of manufacture is now almost given up, unless in the
case of a few of the more aged, who, with the greatest diligence,
are unable to earn the small pittance of 1s. per week.
   Fairs.-There are three annual fairs held in the parish for
the sale of cattle, &c., the first in the month of April, the
second in the month of July, and the third in the month of
October.  A market was once held at Christ's Church, in the
east end of the parish, during night, in the month of May, and
which place is said to have been the scene of the celebrated
ballad of Christ's Kirk on the Green, composed by James I.: but
this market has been long ago given up.  There are still the re-
mains of a church and church-yard or burying-ground to be seen
at this place, but very few are now interred there.
   Fuel.-Peats are still generally used for fuel; but, as the mos-
ses are considerably exhausted, and no small difficulty and expense
incurred in obtaining peat fuel, coals are coming daily more into


