
                         KILMORACK.                            365

quharson comparing them with some of those in his collection;
and remarking, that in many places, the translation fell far short
of the original. The poems of Fingal and Temora were particularly
mentioned as having been thus compared.
  The late Chisholm of Chisholm, chief of the clan of that name,
cannot pass unnoticed in any account of this parish. His eminent
classical and scientific attainments, graced and sanctified by his
unostentatious and unfeigned piety, rendered him peculiarly fitted
for the honourable situation of representing his native county in
Parliament. To that situation he was called at an early period of
his life; but death cut short his career almost in its commencement
The schemes of usefulness which he projected and carried
on in the midst of his poor tenantry, remain, however, to testify
his unbounded generosity and philanthropy.
    Antiquities.-In different parts of the parish, are to be seen
the remains of many Druidical temples; and there is a chain of
walled structures within sight of one another, proceeding up the
river Beauly, and along the course of its parent streams, the Farrar
and the Glass, and from tbe latter to Glen Affric. But what most
attracts the attention of the traveller is the ruins of the Priory of
Beally, which rears its venerable walls above the aged trees which
surround it. It belonged to the order of Valliscaulium,-a reformed
portion of the Cistercians, following the rule of St Bennet, who were
brought into Scotland in the beginning of the thirteenth century,
by Malvoison, Bishop of St Andrews. This priory was founded
by James Bisset of Lovat in the year 1230. The conditions iny
behalf of its founder were, "ut pro ipso, dum viveret, orarent
Monachi; post mortem, funus corpusque exciperent, atque
animam de corpore abeuntem, per continua sacrificia et opera pietatis
prosequerentur." His charter is confirmed by Pope Gregory
Ill. Rom. Julii, pontificatus sui annor quarto. The ruins bear no
trace of turret or steeple, and are entirely destitute of sculpture or
ornament; but the area they enclose is nearly covered with tombstones
of an unknown antiquity. The north aisle belongs to
the Mackenzies of Gairloch, and the effigy of a recumbent, knight
in full panoply under an arched canopy, marks the resting-place of
Sir Kenneth Mackenzie, eighth laird of Kintail, who died in 1493.
The other divisions of it consist of the burying,--grounds of the
principal branches of the clan Fraser, of the Chisolms, and other
tribes of Strathglass. From the total absence of letters on many
of the tombstones, it may be inferred that writing was unknown


