
			LESMAHAGO.                            39

to L. 45. The heritors have assessed themselves in an additional
chaider, which is divided among a few other schools, enabling those
at a distance from the parish school, to educate their children in
English, writing, and arithmetic, and sometimes even in Greek and
Latin, at an expense of from 3s. to 5s. a quarter, according to their
studies. The consequence is, that reading and writing may be said
to be universal, and at present the different schools are attended by
upwards of 600 children. A subscription school for teaching girls
to read and sew is also kept up in the village of Abbey Green; it
is attended by about 30. There are also four well attended Sab-
bath schools for boys and girls. It does not, however, appear very
evidently that either the conduct or morals of the people have
been improved by the increased facilities of education: the vices
of drunkenness and pilfering, from whatever cause, have certainly
not decreased, while discontent has made rapid strides, and the
reluctance to come upon the poors' roll has vanished.
	Library, &c.-- There is a small subscription library in the parish,
but it is not in a very thriving state. The parishioners at the
same time receive a variety of the London, Edinburgh, and Glas-
gow newspapers and periodicals.
	Benevolent Societies.--There are three Societies in the parish,
which distribute a portion of their funds among their aged or sickly
members: the inclination however, to join in such associations, it
is feared, is now declining.
	Savings Bank.--A Savings bank was established a few years ago.
The principal depositors are farm and house-servants: and it is
now in a thriving state. The average amount yearly invested is
L. 60; withdrawn, L. 20.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of paupers has been
trebled within the last thirty years, and now amounts to 148 regu-
larly enrolled. There being neither alms nor poors' house in the
parish, they receive from 3s. to 15s. monthly in their own houses,
amounting to about L. 500 yearly; of this sum, L. 47 is raised by
collections in the church; and L. 98 is the produce of mortified
money; the remainder is made up by an assessment upon the land,
one-half paid by the heritors, and the other by the tenants. Too
little attention, however, is paid to this branch of parochial busi-
ness; the session, by giving up the practice of collecting with
ladles in the church, and individuals by propagating the idea that
the heritors are bound to support the poor, have brought the public
collection below what it was a hundred years ago, when the popu-


