                           GLENCROSS.                      311

and Leith are abundantly supplied with water. It discharges 60
cubic feet of water per minute.
   Glencross or Logan water, which rises about 5 or 6 miles to
the westward among the Pentland hills, flows with some slight
windings in an easterly direction through the parish; and then
making a sudden turn to the south, falls into the north Esk at
Auchindinny.
   About a mile above the Crawley spring, in the valley formed
by the double range of the Pentland hills, is the Compensation
Reservoir, so named from its being intended to supply to the
mills upon the Esk, the deficiency of water necessarily pro-
duced from the loss of so copious a stream as Crawley. It was
made at an immense expense by the Edinburgh Water Com-
pany. It extends over about 30 acres of land, and forms a very
beautiful lake, enclosed on eachside by the hills; and covers, to a
considerable depth, the old church and burying ground of St Ca-
tharines. It is formed by means of a great embankment across
the glen, 128 yards in length, 140 yards in thickness at the base,
and slopes gradually to the top, 130 feet above the former level of
the stream. To render it impervious to water, it was necessary
to clear out the foundation down to the rock, across the whole
width of the glen, to nearly the proposed thickness of the embank-
ment. This was a very arduous undertaking, and at one time seem-
ed indeed almost hopeless, from the depth it was necessary to go
down, (upwards of 40 feet,) before the rock was found, and the
various casualties to which such a work was unavoidably exposed.
   The middle part of the embankment, from its base upon the
rock, throughout its whole length, to the top, was then formed into
a wall of clay, 30 feet in width, well-puddled, while the two sides
were made up from the earth in the neighbourhood, and the gra-
vel, sand, and debris, which had been removed in excavating the
foundation.
   Through this embankment are built two great tunnels, one at
the lower part of the reservoir, for giving out the necessary quan-
tity of water required for the mills, and the other the "safety
tunnel," near the top, for letting off what in a flood would have
endangered the safety of the mound. The water which passes
by the "Wastewier," when it overflows, and that which is allow-
ed to escape through the safety tunnel, form at times two beautiful
cascades over the rock, as the water falls into its former channel.
   This embankment was begun in 1819, but, in consequence of
tbe great and unforeseen difficulties, which attended its formation,


