
                      CROY AND DALCROSS.                     445

near Culloden Field, the parish is intersected, for some hundred
yards, by the parishes of Petty and Daviot. From this point,
it extends for about three miles, where it is again intersected
by the parishes of Inverness and Daviot where it extends in
a south-west direction, and terminates in a point at the junction
of the parishes of Dunlichity. The extreme length from the
north-east of Blarna Fiadh, (Deer's Forest), to the south-west
of Culduthel Moor, is upwards of twenty miles, and average breadth
about three and a half miles; the whole contents being about
44,800 Imperial, or 35,471 Scots acres.
  SoiL-ln the eastern division of the parish the soil is of every
description; but scarcely two continuous acres can be found of the
same nature and quality. Here sand, there compact mortar; here
the finest vegetable mould, there cold and wet, a ferruginous crust
from an inch to three inches in thickness, which, though exposed to
the atmosphere, undergoes no change. Trench-ploughing has not
been tried; without which, thorough draining would be of no avail,
as surface water is found stagnant within a few inches of drains
made with skill and care. In the centre of the parish, whatever
might have been the original quality of the soil, by long and skil-
ful cultivation, it is reduced to the finest mould, particularly the
estate of Croy. The same may be said of the estate of Dalcross.
Though the greater part is still under the most wretched system
of husbandry, the soil is of a rich vegetable mould, from two to
three feet in depth, with a gentle declivity, so that no water in
any season can lie on the surface.
  Between Dalcross and the western district of the parish, called
Leys, there are about 1700 acres of moor nearly level; the soil is
composed of sand, mortar, and clay, with here and there some
oxide of iron, with a fine southern exposure,-and, susceptible of
improvement to arable landor a plantation of oaks, larch, and fir.
The soil of the Leys is of various kinds, but, for the most part, is ra-
ther siliceous, if not gravelly, incumbent on strata of red sandstone.
The upper end of Inches in this district forms an exception; the
soil is found to be exceedingly rich, consisting of a whitish mould,
composed of alumina and silica, with a portion of calcareous and
vegetable matter. To the northward, the alumina and vegetable
matter gradually disappear, and give place to the silex and oxide of
iron. Along the south banks of the River Nairn, soil is generally
light and gravelly, but fertile under proper management. Culdoich


