
302                        FORFARSHIRE.

branch of the Strathmore family. It was then called Auchinday;
when purchased by the present proprietor's father, the name was
changed to Newbarns. It has undergone very considerable im-
provements since ht became the property of Mr Wilkie, and the
present spirited proprietor shows an excellent taste for carrying out
the improvements of his property. Besides these two land-owners,
there are five others who have property in the parish:-Mr Lyall
of Kinnordy; Mr Kinloch of Logie, who possesses the property
of Bankhead; Mr Kerr of Wolflaw; Mr Gray of Carse. Mr Ogilvy
of Tannadice possesses a small portion lying in the vicinity of his
mansion house.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers are rather meagre,
being but indifferently kept and in an indifferent state of preservation.
They commence only in 1716. They contain a notice of the de-
forcement of the minister of Oathlaw, Mr Anderson, during the
time of divine service, in his being dragged out of the pulpit by four
women. This took place in the beginning of the rebellion of
1715. It is not stated how long the minister was prevented from
officiating in the church, as the register commences only on the
12th August 1716. *
  Old Church.-It has been already mentioned that the founda-
tions of an old church, called the Church of Aikenhauld, are still
to be seen a little below the old castle. From its situation, this
must have been the church where the family of Finhaven attend-
ed,-and, in all likelihood, at that time the parish church.  Being
almost at one end of the parish, ht is probable that when it fell into
decay, the other church at Oathlaw being more centrally situated,
became the parish church. Within the last fifty years, the church-
yard walls were standing, in which were a number of monumental
stones. These, however, have since then been taken down, and
applied to the purpose of making an embankment on the Lemno,
that runs immediately below.

                      III.-POPULATION.

	In the; old Statistical Account, the population of this parish is

<FOOTNOTE>There is a minute of date 24th August 1716, giving an account of a meeting of
session, by appointment of presbytery, which meeting appears to have consisted of Mr
Weems, minister of Fearn, with one elder, and the whole session of Oathlaw. The
four women having appeared before this meeting, and acknowledged their crime, were
ordained to stand each in a white sheet, on the pulpit stairs, in the very same place
where they attacked the minister, and then be rebuked in face of the congregation.
This sentence was put in execution. The rest of the records contain nothing worthy
of notice, consisting chiefly of an account of the weekly receipts and expenditure for
the poor.


