
170                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

in its whole extent by that range of bills which runs obliquely
through a considerable part of the county. Several of the emi-
nences in this range within the parish attain a considerable eleva-
tion: the most remarkable are the heights named Cocklerue and
Binny-Craig, the former of which rises more than 600, and the other
600 feet above the level of the sea. Nearer the centre of the range
there is a lower set of heights, named from the now nearly ex-
tinct village of Riccarton, and connected with the former series by
lateral rising grounds, which slope down towards the town of Lin-
lithgow. On the north side of the lake, there is another hill,
which, though not so elevated as those already named, from its
neighbourhood, to the Frith of Forth, commands a very extensive
and beautiful prospect. All of these heights are either cultivated
or in pasture; some of them are wooded, and the acclivity is gentle.
   Meteorology.-No regular register has been kept in the parish.
It may be stated, however, that the prevailing winds are from the
west and south-west; that the climate is good, and excedingly fa-
vourable to health. Only a few years back, an individual died in
the town, considerably above 100 years of age. Several persons
now living in the parish are above 90; while 80 and upwards is no
uncommon period of life. There are no diseases peculiar to the
parish: It has often escaped the ravages of those severe epidemics
which have, from time to time, desolated other parts of the coun-
try. In 1646, the Scottish Parliament held its meetings in Lin-
lithgow, when the plague was prevalent in the metropolis.
   Hydrography.-The parish abounds with springs, furnishing a
copious supply of the purest water. A well at Carubber was for-
merly resorted to, as possessing similar properties to the Moffat
Spa; it is now totally neglected. Even the site of it is known to
few.
   There is only one loch in the parish-that, on the north bank
of which the town and palace of Linlithgow are situated. This
fine lake hs about one mile in length, about a-quarter of a mile at
its greatest breadth, and covers 154 English acres; in some places
the depth is considerable. Several springs well up from the hot-
tom, which, with a rivulet toward the east end, and the surplus
water from the town, are its feeders. It discharges itself by a
rivulet, named the Loch-burn, which, after a short course, emp-
ties itself into the Avon. Embosomed amid rising grounds, some
of which are finely wooded, with the gardens to the north of the
town stretching along its shore, and overlooked by the noble


