
492                      	  DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

arising from their success in horse-racing and cock-fighting, which
tend more, perhaps, than any other hazardous games, to demoralize
the people. Great praise is due to the then Duke of Buccleuch
in bringing about this happy change. The great improvements
carried on by his Grace in the parish gave constant employment
both to artisans and labourers; and as the Duke resided in the
neighbourhood for some months during the busiest part of the
year, and almost daily overlooked these improvements, he had an
opportunity of knowing the character of each of the workmen,
whom he encouraged and rewarded according to their industry;
and offenders not only lost employment, but were obliged to leave
the parish. The tenants are a highly respectable, intelligent, and
independent class of men, who spare no expense or trouble in the
improvement either of their farms or of their stock. As masters,
they are kind and indulgent of their servants, and set them an ex-
ample, in their walk and conduct, of all that is religious and moral.

<TABLE=Industry>
			 IV.--INDUSTRY.
		Agriculture and Rural Economy.--

	This parish contains, in Scotch acres,                           22,500
	Of which there are cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,       16,000
	In pasture, part of which may be cultivated,                      5,500
	Under valuable wood and plantations,                              1,000
		Rent of Land.--In a parish like this, where the soil is various,
the rent per acre is regulated according to the quality. Some of
the fine holm-land along the banks of the different rivers lets so
high as L. 1, 10s. per acre; and on the high grounds from 2s. 6d.
to 10s. The grazing of a milk cow or full-grown ox for the year,
L. 2, 10s. to L. 4, 10s, and of a sheep 5s.
		Live-Stock.--The common breed of sheep is the Cheviot, to
the improvement of which the strictest attention is paid,--in select-
ing stock of the largest bone and finest symmetry to breed from.
Farmers on the lower and enclosed grounds rear a considerable
number of what they call half-bred, by crossing the largest Che-
viot ewes with a Leicestershire ram; by which the size of the stock
and quality of the wool are greatly improved. This stock is ge-
nerally sold when lambs to English dealers. Betwixt 3000 and
4000 sheep are pastured in this parish. The Galloway breed of
cattle is preferred over the whole district, as the best adapted for
the pasture grounds. They thrive well, rise to a good size, find
a ready market, and bring a fair remunerating price. Some far-
mers, however, in this parish rear considerable numbers of the
Teeswater breed. Cows vary in price, according to age and con-


