
     Statistical Account

mong 10 different heritors.  One only of them resides.  Mr.
Hamilton of Bargeny, is proprietor of the town of Girvan,
and of by far the greatest part of the country parish.  There
is a spot of ground among the hills, supposed to be above 30
acres in extent, which may be considered as a kind of com-
mon.  It has never, in the memory of man, been claimed or
possessed by any individual; but is pastured in common by the
tenants of those proprietors who have land in its immediate
neighbourhood.  In consequence of the improvements in agri-
culture, the advance in the price of cattle and sheep, and the
increase of the town of Girvan, the rent of land in this pa-
rish has, within these 40 years, been very considerably ad-
vanced.  At present (1791) the rents of the whole may be
stated at about 3200 L., and, when some old leases are out, they
will amount to a good deal more.  Its valued rent is 4621 L.
4 s 10 d. Scots.  With the exception of a few, whose leases are
of an old date, the tenants pay their whole rent in money,
In some instances, they are bound to lead coals to their land-
lords, or to pay a certain sum for this purpose.

   Antiquities.-There are, in this parish, 5 of those small
round enclosures on the tops of rising grounds, which are
commonly called camps.  Two of them are very near the
sea-side, and none of them more than 2 miles from the coast.
One of these is remarkable for having 2 ditches, the 1 pa-
rallel to the other, and each surrounding the hill on the top
of which it is situated*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A number of cairns were formerly to be seen in the parish; several of them
are now scarcely distinguishable, the stones being almost wholly removed.  In
one among the hills, which, about 7 years ago, was laid open, there was found
a vessel somewhat like an urn, open at top, made of earthen ware, unglazed,
and rudely ornamented.  It will hold about two English pints, and, when found,
contained a small quantity of dull or ashes.  It was enclosed in a kind of coffin,
consisting of broad thin stones laid loosely together.


