
                        ST ANDREWS.                              187

two o'clock A. M. to prosecute their toiL and may sometimes be
seen at it till eleven P. M. But they refresh themselves with sleep
during part of the intervening period, when the return of the
waters covers the sea-weed. Both men and women are employed in
this work, the former receiving from L.], Is. to t. 1, I Os., with four
stones of meal, and the latter from 159. to L. 1 Sterling, and three
stones of meal, for a month's labour. Although persons so occu-
pied have little sleep; are subjected to irregular periods of refresh-
ment; often stand for hours in water, and seldom have their feet
dry; yet, as this employment engages them but for a- short period,
and that at the best season of the year, the month of June, when
the sun is upwards of eighteen hours above the horizon, it has not
been found prejudicial to the health of those who are not consti-
tutionally delicate. And it does riot seem, farther than any other
occupation, to deteriorate their morals,-more than ten or twelve
persons seldom forming one company, and single families often
working by themselves.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

There is no town or village in the parish. The nearest town
is the burgh of Kirkwall, which is seven miles distant from the re-
motest, and two and a half from the nearest, part of the parish.
The road to it is one of the best in the country, though not a
turnpike, and has hitherto been kept in repair by means of statute
labour.
Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is tole-
rably central, being four miles from one extremity of the parish,
and two and a half from the other. It was built in the year 1801,
and was enlarged and thoroughly repaired in 1827. It is, at pre-
sent, commodious and comfortable, affording accommodation for
upwards of 400 per I sons. Formerly, there was a nominal rent
charged for some of the seats, but now there is nothing paid for
any of them.
The manse was originally built in the year WM, but e in a
very superficial state. In 1793 it was all renewed, except the
walls, which were then heightened and much weakened by alte-
rations. It was last repaired in 1830, when an addition was also
made to it, and is at present comfortable, but far from a state of
permanent sufficiency. The extent of the glebe is 17 acres,
and its annual value may,be estimated at L. 6. The amount of
stipend is L. 200 per ann tim, exclusive of L. 8, 69. 8d. for corn-
raunion elements.


