
642                        PERTHSHIRE.

much richer quality than the limestone in their immediate neigh-
bourhood. The great limestone bed which commences in the
south-west of Perthshire, and terminates in the north-east in Aber-
deenshire, intersects a portion of the parish, and these boulders, al-
though lying several miles off the line of this great deposit, still
appear to belong to it. Granite and quartz are found only in de-
tached pieces. Fragments of fluor-spar may be met with in several
parts, and rock crystal is found in Beinvrackie.
  Soils.-The soil, in a parish consisting of so much hill and dale,
must be extremely various.  Along the banks of the rivers it is
light and sandy. In some elevated situations it consists of till. It
is to be found of a deep rich loam, but the general character is gra-
velly. The subsoil is also found of all varieties, of hard mortar,
scarcely pervious to water, of gravel, of which there is a great pro-
portion, and some of the soil is recumbent upon lime. In the
How of Moulin there is perhaps the richest soil in the Highl`nds
of Perthshire. Fine black loam is the prevailing character, and in
the vicinity of the old castle, which was surrounded with water, it
consists of a bed of alluvial deposits, composed of gravel, sand, and
clay. It rests on peat, of a soft porous consistence, and much im-
pregnated with rulphurous matter. Underneath the peat, there is
a layer of marl, from a foot to three feet in thickness, but it is found
not to repay the expense of casting. Lime is found to be less
costly, and is more generally used.  The How of Moulin, from
the richness of its soil, yields grain of superior quality. Hence it
is called " The Garden of Atholl. " Here agricultural operations
are conducted on the most approved principles. The distilleries,
with which so many of the farmers are connected, afford great fa-
cilities for enriching their lands, and farms are now known to yield
double the crops which they were wont to bear.
  Extraneous Fossils.-In the former Account, mention is made of
the skull of a large horned animal, found imbedded in a marl pit in
the neighbourhood, and supposed to have belonged to one of those
animals, which Caesar calls Uri, and which were found in the Her-
cynian forest in Germany. In 1816 other two skulls, of nearly si-
milar dimensions with the above, were found in the same pit. As
in the former instance, so in these, the horns were lost, but the
pith was entire, and the greatest circumference of one of them was
15 inches. One of these skulls was presented to the British Mu-
seum, London; and the other two to the late Duke of Atholl.


