
   338                        BANFFSHIRE.

   fishing, on an extensive  scale, has long been prosecuted by the
   inhabitants. About one third of the whole population are directly
   dependent upon the produce of the sea, for their subsistence.
   There are seven first class boats employed in the deep sea fisbery
   each having an equipment of from eight to nine able-bodied men.
   The following is the routine of the Cullen fisherman's employ-
   ment throughout the year.  The deep sea white-fishery, which is
   chiefly for cod, skate, and ling, commences in February, and con-
   tinues to the end of May.  In the prosecution of this department
   of their calling, the fishermen usually resort to the distance of
   from twenty to sixty miles from land, and remain at sea for days
   and nights together, in the event of the weather proving favour-
   able.  On the return of the boats to shore, the operation of cur-
   ing, the fish immediately commences; the process of drying them,
   occupying a period of three or four weeks.  The month of June
   is chiefly employed in fishing for haddocks, which are cured into
   speldings. - From the end of June, the fishermen are exclusively
   occupied,in preparing for the herring-fishery, which commences
   about the 10th July, and continues for seven weeks, ending about
   the beginning of September.  At the conclusion of the herring-
   fishery, the fishermen repair to the south for the disposal of their
   stock of dried fish, and in general find a ready market.  From
   their return about the end of September, to the commencement
   of the deep sea fishery in February, they betake themselves to
   the haddock-fishery, which is generally prosecuted in skiffs or
   yawls, with four men to each, at the distance of from one to six
   miles from shore.  With tbe exception of the small quantity that
   is sold fresh, chiefly to the inhabitants of the parish, the fish
   caught at this season are cured into yellow haddocks, by the pro-
   cess of smoking.  The bait commonly used in the prosecution of
   the white-fishery is mussel, which is imported by the fishermen
   in their large boats, from the shores of Inverness, Cromarty, Ross,
   and Sutherland.  The crews provide themselves annually with
   two or three cargoes each, at a cost of L2, 10s. per boat load of
   nine tons.
      Herring-Fishery.-From the introduction of the herring-fishery
   into the Moray Frith in 1816, to 1837, the business was vigo-
   rously and successfully prosecuted at Cullen, by the native fisher-
   men.  The seasons of 1834 and 1836 having proved unfavour-
   able, the fishermen became discouraged, and perceiving that their
   brethren, at the other stations on the coast, were reaping abun-


