
170                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

fellow creatures and fellow subjects, and rescue an interesting race
from infamy, ignorance, and vice.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-There are nearly 6000 (probably 5700) acres in
the parish: of these more than 2600 are arable, and more than
3000 remain in permanent pasture. There is a common of 200
acres, called Yetholm Common, on which the inhabitants of
Kirk Yetholm have the privilege of cutting turf and grazing their
cattle: it is a wild moorish piece of ground, upon the borders, claim-
ed, I believe, by both kingdoms. On the estates of Cherrytrees
and Thirlestane, and on some small spots on the barony of Loch-
tower, there may be about 100 acres altogether, planted in wood.
As remarked in the last Statistical Account, with one or two ex-
ceptions, "the proprietors seem but little disposed to plant,
though there is abundance of land fit for no other purpose." The
planting, of a few hundred acres, besides the beauty and ornament
it would add to the parish, would greatly improve and increase the
value of the remainder of the land, and afford, what is so much re-
quired in the more exposed parts of the parish, shelter to the far-
mens' stock.
   Husbandry.-There are about 450 acres round the villages of
Town and Kirk Yetholm, farmed by the inhabitants in lots, vary-
ing from 2 to 30 acres. These fields are held from year to year;
but, so long as the occupiers are able to pay their rents, they
are very rarely disturbed. The rents they bring are from L. 2
to L. 3, 10s. an acre; and, considering the nature of the soil,
and the situation of the country, this is regarded as extremely
high. Many of the occupiers of these fields are industrious trades-
men and day-labourers, who, at their leisure hours, or when not
otherwise engaged, employ themselves in the cultivation of their
little farms, or retain them only for the convenience of a cow's
pasture. The other small tenants, who farm a greater number of
acres, are occupied more exclusively in their cultivation. They
keep, for this purpose, one or two horses, with which they also drive
coals to the other inhabitants of the villages, or to Jedburgh, where
they obtain a higher price for them; or drive lime to the farmers,
who usually prefer hiring to driving with their own horses the ma-
nure of this description which they require. The other farms in
this parish are from about 400 to 1800 acres. The larger farms
consist more than one-half of sheep pasture. The duration of the
leases is from sixteen to twenty-one years. The older cultivated
lands are enclosed With hedges; the more lately enclosed lands,
                                4


