
                            ABERFOYLIE.                        1159

     tween six and fifteen years of age, who cannot read; and if there
     are any in this unhappy state of ignorance above fifteen years of
     age, they are not natives of Aberfoyle, but must have lately come
     into it from some other parish.
       Charitable Institutions.--The kirk-session can, in terms of
     deed of settlement by the late Professor Richardson of Glasgow,
     and Mr John Stewart, merchant, Fintry, recommend two patients
     annually for admission to the Royal Infirmary of Glasgow.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
     receiving parochial aid is from 12 to 16.  The average amount
     of contributions for their relief, from L.30 to L.35, arising from
     the collections in church, an annual donation from his Grace the
     Duke of Montrose, proclamation fees, and tax for the use of the
     mortcloth.
        Until lately it was considered degrading to receive assistance
     from the parish fund, and consequently this was the last resource
     of the infirm and indigent.  At present, however, there is seldom
     to be fnund a disposition among the poor to refrain from seeking
     parochial relief.
        Fairs.-There are three fairs held in this parish in the course
     of the year: one in, April, for the sale of cattle; one in August,
     for the sale of lambs; and one in October, for hiring servants.
        Inns, &c.--There, is only one inn in the parish, kept by a most
     respectable family from England, and which is found quite suffi-
     cient to supply the wants both of travellers and of the inhabitants.
        Fuel.--Peat is the common fuel, and is found in abundance in
     every quarter of the parish.   Of wood  also, there is a consider-
     able supply ; but coals of good quality are not to be had nearer
     than Greenyards, beyond Bannockburn, at the distance of twenty-
     four miles, and consequently are procured at a great expense.

                         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
        Since the time when the former Statistical Account of the pa-
     rish was drawn up, various changes have taken place in the state
     of the country, the mode of cultivation, the value of land, and
     farm produce, and in the circumstance of the people.  In regard
     to the state of the country and mode of cultivation, a change to
     the better may everywhere be observed.  A spirit of improvement
     has been lately excited among the tenants, in general, which, if
     suitably encouraged must add greatly to their comfort and re-
     spectability.
       It is stated in the former report, that some of the sheep farms


