

212                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

  A mile above Manuel, is a place named Fechtin Foord, tradi-
tionally reported as the scene of a feud between the shepherds of
the opposite banks; and to the northward two circular eminences,
rounded by art for purposes unknown.
   Land-owners.--William Forbes, Esq. of Callendar, late Mem-
ber for the county, is principal land-owner; and, although not re-
sident himself, does all to remedy that disadvantage, by his libe-
rality to the poor and parochial institutions of the parish. There
are thirty-six proprietors of estates, or parcels of land, in the pa-
rish. Several of the last inherit the perpetual feus granted by the
last Earl of Linlithgow, in order to raise money for carrying on
the Rebellion of 1715. Twenty-one are resident; seven of inde-
pendent fortune.

<TABLE=Population>

                              III.--POPULATION.
              Amount of population in 1801,     .     1070
                                      1811,     .     1330
                                      1821,     .     1678
                                      1831,     .     1540

   The actual population cannot be short of 1700, including from
200 to 300 strangers at work on the Slamannan Railway. Indeed,
the immense fields of coal now proved to lie within the parish, and
the increasing facilities of export, make it unlikely that it should
ever fall below that number. If we except twenty-five families of
colliers lately settled, and an unusually large proportion of masons,
the population is entirely agricultural, interspersed with the ne-
cessary tradesmen.
   The number of families settled is 300.
   There is one insane person under restraint; three too weak in
mind to be employed in labour.
   The people are industrious, sober, and kind, especially to others
in distress.

                       IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--The whole parish is arable, excepting plantations
and mosses, not probably amounting to a twentieth part. The
average rent per acre about L. 1, 12s.
   Sheep is a rare stock, the fences not containing them; for the
same reason, cattle are uniformly herded in the day, and housed
at night, in the west. In the eastern division, the quality of stock
is excellent; and they are turnip fed through the winter to a con-
siderable extent, and have fences sufficient for their pastures.
There also, the system of husbandry is good; and furrow-drain-


