

       1126                       PERTHSHIRE.

       ern boundaries of the parish, and upwards of twelve from the north-
       ern extremity of the Blacklunans.  It is seated for 1290.  There
       is consequently no want of church accommodation.   The inhabi-   -
       tants of Blacklunans and the northern part of the Forest, amount-
       ing to about 250, very seldom attend, even at communion seasons.
       Their ordinary place of worshilp is a chapel at Persie, in the pa-
       rish of Bendochy, supported by the seat rents and voluntary con-
       tribution.  It would be a great boon to the inhabitants, and a con-
       siderable relief to the neighbouring clergy, if the whole of that dis-
       trict were disjoined from the six parishes with which it is ecclesi-
       astically connected, and placed under the superintendence of `n
       ordained and legally recognized minister.
         The manse was re-built in 1821, part of the old house being
       retained.  The stipend is 18 chalders, half meal and half barley,
       with an allowance of L.10 for communion elements.  The glebe
       is about four acres of good land, worth about L. 2. 10s. or L. 3 per
       acre.  There is no grass glebe.  The minister has a right of pas-
       turage on the moor of Alyth, casting peats in the moss of the
       Culpanach, and to a small quantity of teind yarn.
         There is a Dissenting meeting house in the village in connec-
       tion with the United Associate Synod.  The emoluments of the
       minister amount to L. 80 per annum, from seat rents, collections,
       and voluntary contributions, with a free house and garden.  There
       was some years ago another place of worship belonging to the Ori-
       ginal Seceders, but it is now disused.  A meeting house is at pre-
       sent building for the accommodation of the adherents of the recent
       secession in this and the adjoining parishes.   The Episcopal cler-
       gyman at Coupar Angus has a chapel in Alyth, in which he offi-
       ciates once a fortnight.  The number of sittings in the Dissen-
       ing meeting house, is 270; in the Episcopalian chapel, 92.  The
       new meeting house is intended to accommodate between 700 and
       8OO sitters.
         No exact account has been taken of the different religious de-
       nominations since 1835.  Making allowance for the few Changes
       which have since taken place, there are probably about 300 be-
       longing to different bodies of seceders; 50 Episcopalians, includ-
       ing the families of the two chief resident heritors; ;80 Roman Ca-
       tholics from Ireland and the Highlands; and 50 not known to be-
       long to any religious denomination.  The ordinary congregation
       in the parish church is at present about 800.  Several are pre-
       vented from attending, and not a few from sending their children


