
444                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

neighbouring district, for purchasing and circulating among its
members new publications.  There are two reading-rooms, where,
besides newspapers, periodical publications are taken in.  The
medical practitioners of Stirling, have, within these few years,
formed an association for promoting their knowledge of the litera-
ture, and otherwise advancing the objects, of their profession.
There are two weekly newspapers, the one published on Thurs-
day, the other on Friday; which have each a considerable circu-
lation in the town, and in the surrounding district.
   Charitable Institutions.--There are three hospitals. The most
ancient is that founded, it is believed, about 1530, by Robert
Spittal.  He had been tailor to James IV., or rather, as appears
by an inscription on the bridge over the Teith, near Doune, erect-
ed by him in that year, to James's Queen, the princess Margaret,
daughter of Henry VII. of England.  The charter of mortifica-
tion is lost, and the amount unknown.  The funds were laid out
in lands in the neighbourbood of the town. The revenue,amount-
ing to about L. 400, is applied to the relief principally of decayed
members of the crafts of Stirling, whether resident or not.  The
house belonging to it, in which also, as appears from some old
records of the kirk-session, the persons enjoying the benefit of the
charity at one period resided, is that known by the name of the
Trades' Hall, in Spittal Square or Cowan's Yard.  The number
of pensioners, who receive from 1s. to 2s. 6d. weekly, is about 74.
---Cowan's Hospital was founded in 1639, by John Cowan,merchant
in Stirling, for the support of twelve decayed guild-brethren.
The house belonging to it was erected after his death, for their
reception; but, as scarcely any could be found to accept the be-
nefit on condition of living in the house, after a period of nearly
ninety years, the patrons having purchased lands with the accumu-
lated funds, resolved to follow out the spirit at least of the donor's
will, by giving pecuniary relief to decayed members of the guildry,
and to their widows and daughters.  The sum mortified was
L.2222 Sterling.  The free revenue from the lands now amounts
to L.2000 per annum.  There are about 143 weekly pensioners
who receive from 1s. 6d. to 6s.; and eleven who receive quarterly
pensions of from L.1, to L.2 10s.--John Allan, writer in Stirling,
founded the hospital, which bears his name, by a deed of donation,
dated March 20, and June 5, 1724, for the maintenance, educa-
tion, clothing, and apprenticeship, of the male children of poor and
indigent tradesmen.  The deed contains very judicious provisions,


