
                              SALTON.                       117

   Habits and Character of the People, &c.-The general charac-
ter of the people, in a religious and moral point of view, is on the
whole exemplary, and may be considered as above mediocrity.
Within the last few years, from the period of the incumbency of
the present minister's predecessor, a very beneficial change is said
to have taken place in the moral and religious habits of the lower
orders. The young are in general well-grounded in the principles
of religion; docile in receiving instruction; and civil and respect-
ful in their manners. The inhabitants are in general attentive to
the outward observances of religion, especially in their attendance
on divine worship. Family worship is not, however, so much ob-
served as it ought, and as we trust it may yet be. Intemperance
is by no means frequent; and for some time past the parishioners
have, almost universally, abandoned the practice of using any spe-
cies of liquor at funerals,-a resolution for which they deserve the
greater commendation, as its adoption originated entirely with them-
selves. No crimes of a public nature have for years been commit-
ted; nor has the parish for some time past been found to require
any constable or police officer within its bounds.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-In an economic point of view
the parish may be regarded as exclusively agricultural; there being
now no public works within its bounds, and the only kind of handi-
craftsmen and artisans whom it supports being those whose la-
bours are either indispensably required by the necessities of the
population, or are directly subservient to the purposes of agricul-
ture.
   The following statement of the agricultural economy of the pa-
rish does not pretend to strict accuracy, but may be regarded as
making a tolerable approximation to the truth.

<TABLE>
                                                                     Imperial Measure.
   Number of acres cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,               2596
                   in permanent pasture,                                  150
                   under wood, chiefly artificial,                        420

   There are twelve farms in the parish, varying in extent from 100
to 500 Scottish acres.
   Rent of Land, 7c.-The rent of land ranges from L. 1 to L. 3
per Scottish acre. The average rent of grazing is at the rate of
L. 3 for an ox, and L. 5 for a cow. Twelve or fourteen score of
sheep are generally kept at grazing for the market, or domestic
use.



