
486                     FIFESHIRE.

   Dr Bell. the munificent benefactor of his country, and of his
native city in particular, did not live to see his benevolent purposes
carried into full operation. He died at Cheltenham in January
1832, in the seventy-ninth year of his age, leaving the bulk of the
residue of his fortune for the same valuable object, namely, the
education of the young in Scotland, on the principles laid down in
the printed manual, which details the particulars of his excellent
system.
   Two Boardin q School for young ladies, where day-scholars are
also admitted. from the families resident in the city, have long
been established at St Andrew-, In these, all the usual branches
of education that are required for females in the higher ranks of
life may be attained. Two other schools conducted by females
at present exist; and the number of pupils attending the whole of
these seminaries is about 65. In addition to the Madras College,
there are two schools in the city conducted by males, the number
of whose scholars is 52 ; and in the schools established in the
country districts of the parish, 220 young persons receive their
education. The Sunday schools in the parish are attended by seve-
ral hundreds. The people seem to be, in general, fully alive to the
benefits resulting from a good education ; and as schools have been
long established in the different districts of the parish, all have
had the means within their reach of securing it for their children.
Tbere,is, in consequence, scarcely an individual in the parish above
the age of ten years, who cannot read, and but few,wlio cannot also
write.
   These details relative to the institutions connected with the
elementary branches of education, naturally lead to a survey of
the establishments with which St Andrews has been furnished for
the acquisition of higher attainments in literature and science.
    The University of St Andrews.--This university was establish-
ed in 1411 by Henry Wardlaw, Bishop of St Andrews. Prior to
tbis period, the young men in Scotland, who aimed at the attain-
ment of a more liberal educathon than the seminaries of the coun-
try offorded, were under the necessity of repairing to foreign uni-
versities and colleges.  And as their removal thither was frequent-
ly attened with much risk and inconvenience, the discerning part
Of the community were sensible of the advantages which the coun-
try would derive from the establishment of an institution within its
limit where the higher branches of education, in science, phi-
losophy, and theology, might be attained.  Wardlaw, the eccle-
siastical metropolitan of the kingdom, was one of the individuals


