
			 DOLLAR.                           87

expensive law-suits. The case is this: The property of Wester-
town of Pitgober, in the parish of Muckhart, has a servitude of drain-
age through it for all the coal under its surface. But the proprie-
tor of the coal communicated the workings under Westertown
with those contained in certain fetis in Dollar. The proprietor
of Westertown conceived that, although be was obliged to submit
to the drainage of certain coals on his lands, he was not obliged
to submit to the drainage of the coal under these feus. After
much litigation, this case was decided in the House of Lords in his
favour. In consequence of this decision, the Dollar coal cannot
now be drained as formerly, by means of the Pitgober day level,
without the consent of the proprietor of the ground.
  None of the edge coals of the Dollar coal-basin, which lie in a
conforming situation, have been wrought. The western part of the
main coal terminates or crops out under the New Town of Dollar.
To the westward of this point, the mountain foot within the parish
is composed of rocks of the coal formation; but whether any work-
able coals exist in this district within the parish, has not yet been
ascertained. No coals have, hitherto, been found under the haugh
or holm ground in the valley of the Devon; and it is the opinion
of mining engineers, that no coals will be found there excepting
the thin coals under the mountain limestone.
   The Sheardale colliery has been wrought upon a very small
scale, for a long period of years, and was drained by means of a
day level, which discharges its water into the river Devon. Within
these few years a " winning" has been made upon it, to the depth
of 14 fathoms to the splint coal; and this colliery is now wrought
to the extent of 6000 tons yearly.
   With regard to dikes, slips, and dislocation of the strata, none
but those of the most trifling kind have been found in the Dollar
coal-basin; but the slips and dislocations are numerous in the
Sheardale coal-field. The chief slip or dislocation hitherto dis-
covered, is at or near the brow of the steep bank on the south side
of the river Devon, which is supposed to throw the coal out to
the north. This slip lies in a line nearly parallel with the face of
the Ochills, and the chief great slips in the Clackmannanshire
coal-field lie in the same line of direction. And it is worthy of
remark, that, although the north part of the coal-field lies upon an
immense mass of greenstone and trap rocks, no dikes of these last
mentioned rocks have been seen in this parish, nor, in any part of
the Clackmannanshire coal-field.
   The beautiful valley through which The river Devon, runs, is


