
     of Birse.

stones lying above the ground; a few near Inchbair seem
to have been a Druidical temple.  In the year 1779, when
they were razing the foundation of the old church, there
was found a hill stone near fix feet long, with a two-hand-
ed long sword, a hatchet and a cross carved upon it.  The
stone is now set up erect in the wall of the church-yard.
In the Forest or Glenbirse, there is standing a good pair of
a castle, which was built by Gordon of Cluny. for a hunt-
ing seat, and which is now by the tenant converted into a
sheep-cot.  In several places, particularly between Mary-
well and the church, there appears a narrow slip of ground
that has been fenced on both sides by stone walls, said to be
built by order of King Kenneth III. for confining the deer
which he wished to drive from the country, to stock a deer
park which he built in the brae of the Mearns, near his pa-
lace of Kincardine.  The wall of that park, it is said, can
still be traced, and is called the Deers-dike.  In this parish
part of the Kirktown farm is called Deer-hillock.  At Easter-
Clune there are the small remains of a square tower, said to
have been built by Archbishop Ross, who was proprietor
of the place.  It is universally agreed, that Easter Clune
was a (hunting or) summer-seat of one of the bishops of
Scotland, some say, St Andrew's, others, Dunkeld-Besides
the archbishop or bishop to whom the tower belonged, and
who was a native of Birse, the parish has given birth to
some others whose names deserve to be mentioned.  Dr Gil-
bert Ramsay, late Rector of Christ's church, in the island of
Barbadoes, was a native of this parish.  He mortified, under
the patronage of Sir Alexander Ramsay of Balmain, Bart.
and his heirs, L. 2000 Sterling, the interest for the support
of 4 students of divinity; L. 1200, the interest for the sup-
port of 4 students of philosophy; and L. 1000, the interest
to support a professor of the Oriental languages, all at the
Marischal college.  His donations to this parish are already


