
918                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

scarcely deserved the name of a science, its rules having been al-
most entirely empirical, and the experiments made in it having,
with few exceptions, been superintended by persons incapable of
keeping in view a scientific result.  The recent publication of
Liebig, however, announces the dawn of a better era, and esta-
blishes a platform on which the science of chemistry may be con-
fidently expected to render as important services to agriculture as
it has already rendered to arts and manufactures.  But it is ob-
vious, that, for the carrying out of Liebig's principles,--that, for
the various processes of analysis requisite to the perfecting of his
system,-and that for the originating and superintending of the ex-
periments that may be necessary for testing the value of artificial
manures, a knowledge of chemical science far beyond any attain-
ments that can reasonably be expected on the part of even the
most enlightened practical agriculturist, is an essential requisite.
Such a task evidently requires, too, the undivided attention of
the party undertaking it, and is, for this reason also, unfit to be
committed to the care of an agriculturist who must live by his
profession.  Immediate profit is not the object that should be
looked to.  It is probable, indeed, that, leaving out of view other
expenses, which, nevertheless, if a right establishment is set on
foot, cannot but be considerable, the services of a properly quali-
fied superintendent will alone involve a cost exceeding the annual
value of the whole farm.  But it surely cannot for a moment be
supposed, that, when a reasonable prospect of benefits altogether
incalculable is opened up to the agricultural interest, the expense
of a few thousand pounds, should such a sum be found to be re-
quisite, will deter our landed aristocracy from carrying through
the experiments requisite for the realizing of such a prospect.
Should but one experiment in twenty succeed, and the data fur-
nisbed by Liebig entitles us to form a much more sanguine esti-
mate, still, the advantages resulting to the agricultural interest
would greatly outweigh the expense incurred.  Indeed, with the
prospects now opened up to them, our extensive landed proprietors
will be altogether wanting to their own interests, if, while almost
every large manufacturing establishment in the country engages,
at a high salary, the services of a practical chemist, they fail,
through the dread of a trifling expenditure, to realize the advan-
tages which seem at length to be fairly within their reach.  It is
confidently hoped, however, that this subject will soon be taken up


