
1O                       SHETLAND.

   The West, or Burra Sounds is somewhat broader and, deeper,
extending the lengt off Burra; and, being narrowed by the ap-
proacb of the opposite points at the bridge, toward the south, it
affords a space for more tranquil boat-navigation, than any other
in the parish.
   Various springs in the different districts have a slight mineral
tinge, perhaps from the bog-iron that frequently occurs.
   Bressay has a dozen of small lochs, two or three of them only
being half a mile in length or breadth, but some containing ex-
cellent trout, seldom disturbed by the angler. Burra and Quarff
have each two small lochs.
   Geology.-Bressay and Noss belong to the old red sandstone
formation : Quarff to the clay-slate and mica-slate formations; the
Isles of House, Burra, and Hevera are of primitive formation; and
Papa of epidotic syenite.
   Quarries of coarse slate, of a grey, heavy kind, have been for
a long time wrought in Bressay, the layers being from four to
ten feet deep, mostly imbedded between rocks of sandstone.
Some inferior kinds of limestone are fouiod in Quarff and in
Burra.
   Zoology.-The headland of the Ord of Bressay affords a domi-
cile to a few eagles. The Noop of Noss, in summer, exhibits a
curious spectacle, being covered with birds of passage and others,
which occupy the narrow shelving of the rock. The noise of these
creatures is occasionally like that of the most deafening waterfall.
   Whales are sometimes seen in the Sounds. One above forty
feet long was lately brought ashore near the manse, said to be
the species Bakena boops.
   Although there are few trees here in the present day, yet there
must have been a time when they did exist in it, as many of the
ipsa corpora are found in the mosses here, as in other places of
the country. It can hardly be said that any experiments in plant-
ing made in this country have been made with such energy, that
their failure should be held decisive. Several spots near the man-
sion-house, were, some years ago, planted with willows and asb.
The plants of ash are not in the same state of progress as the willows.
Some plane trees thrive tolerably. In the ground adjoining to
the mansion-bouse, there are various plants of aspen, poplar, la-
burnum, elm, and plane-tree thriving well. The climate does not
appear to favour evergreens.
   Culinary vegetables thrive well; and gooseberry and curran


