
628                      LANARKSHIRE.

   Of molluscous, radiated, and zoophytic animals, there are many
varieties, but these, like the Cryptogamiae of the vegetable king-
dom, are too minute in their physical organization and distinctive
characters ever to become a very popular branch of natural science.
   Botany.-There are many interesting plants in this parish, of
which our present limits will only afford a very imperfect notice.
The Chara vulgaris is found in stagnant ditches, and also the Ca-
litriche verna and autumnalis.  The Veronica anagalis is found in
ditches near Newhouse.  Many species of Carices are found in the
moors, some of them scarce; also a great variety of the Orchidea.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The only historical event worthy of being recorded connected
with this parish is the great revival of religion which took place
in the year 1630, in consequence of a sermon preached by the
Rev. Mr Livingstone.  His discourse was delivered upon the Mon-
day after the dispensation of the sacrament, which was the first
time that a meeting for divine service was held upon that day.  No
fewer than 500 persons are stated to have been saviingly impressed
on that occasion.
   The parish of Shotts appears to have contributed its quota of
fighting men to the fatal field of Bothwell Bridge in 1679, as the
banner which was borne by them on that occasion may still be seen
at the farm of Nethertown, in excellent preservation, bearing the
well known motto, "For Scotland's covenanted work of reforma-
tion."  In the church-yard are interred the ashes of one of these
rigbt-hearted men of other days.  Upon his gravestone the fol-
lowing lines are inscribed,-"Here lyes the bones of William
Smith, who lived in Moremellen, who with others appeared in arms
at, Pentland hills in defence of Scotland's covenanted work of re-
formation in anno 1666; agreeable to the word of God, in oppo-
sition to Popery, Prelacy and Perjury, and was murdered on his
return home near this place."
 Eminent Men.-Three celebrated persons were born in the pa-
rish, viz. Mr Gavin Hamilton of Murdoston, the famous histori-
cal painter; Mr John Miller, who was Professor of Law in the
University of Glasgow, well knownto the world by his learned
publications; and Dr Matthew Baillie, the distinguished anatomist
and physician.  He was the son of the Rev. James Baillie, D.D.
minister of Shotts, and brother of Miss Joanna Baillie, the talent-
ed authoress.
   Dr Cullen began his practice as a medical man in this parish.


