
     Of Clackmannan.

commonly fine.  When the water has showed for 3 hours,
it then runs back for about an hour and a half, nearly as
far as when it began to flow; it returns immediately, and
flows during another hour and a half to the same height
it was at before:  and this change takes place both in the
flood and ebb tides.  So that there are actually double
the number of tides in this river that are to be found any
wherer else.  In very boisterous weather, however,these
leaky tides are by no means regular; the water only swells
and gorges, without any perceptible current, as if the two
tides were acting against each other.  The cause of this
singular phenomenon in the tides of the river Forth may
be a subject of inquiry to the philosopher; for it has not
as yet been discovered.
   The river Devon forms the N. boundary of the parish.
It takes its rise in the Ochil Hills, and, running 10 miles
directly eastward, it makes a turn to the W., at a place
called the Crook of Devon.  It passes the Rumbling
Bridge and Cauldron Lin, where it forms a scenery, wild
and beautiful, and romantick beyond all descriptrion.  It

<FOOTNOTE>

so constructed, that a waggon road is formed on the top of it, for the
purpose of carrying coals to such vessels as are too large for going up the
pow of Clackmannan to the usual shipping place.  There is another track
of land formed by the river in the same manner as the above, to the E.
of the harbour of Kennetpans, belonging to Mr. Bruce of Kennet; and
which that gentleman also proposes to embank.
   Such undertakings, when properly conducted, are attended with many
advantages:  They not only add to the extent and value of estates, but
they also contribute very much to the safety of the navigation, by con-
tracting the river, and thereby clearing and deepening its channel.
   There was formerly a salmon fishing on the river Forth at this place;
but it has been discontinued for fifteen years. Previous to that period,
the salmon was commonly sold here at 1 d. the pound.  There are always
a few cruives placed in the river, in which a variety of small fish are
now and then caught; but these seldom turn to much account.   


