
                        PARISH OF ALVIE.

		PRESBYTERY OF ABERNETHY, SYNOD OF MORAY.

		THE REV.  JOHN MACDONALD, MINISTER.


	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THis parish derives its name from the small peninsula
that constitutes the Glebe, and on which the church and manse
are built.  The etymology givenlof Alvie in the former Statisti-
cal Account is not in the least probable, and must have been ha-
zarded without a careful examination of the Celtic name. The
name is in Gaelic pronounced Ealabhi, sounding bh like v in Eng-
lish; a word compounded of ealabh, swans, and i, an island, which,
correctly translated, signifies the island of swans. What tends in
a great measure to establish this etymology is, that the lake of Alvie,
from time immemorial, has been annually visited by a number of
swans in the spring season.
  Extent and Boundaries.-The parish consists of two divisions,
separated by the river Spey. The largest and the most populous
of those divisions, situated on the northwest side of that river, may
be considered a parallelogram, of which the longest side may mea-
sure 10, and the shortest 6 miles; it is bounded on the south-east by
the Spey; on the northwest by the parish of Moy; on the south-
west by the parish of Kingussie; and on the north-east by the
parish of Duthel. The other division of the parish, situated on
the opposite side of Spey, extends from north to south in the form
of a rhomboid, of which the longest sides may measure about 10,
and the shortest 2 1\2 miles; it is bounded on the east by Rothiemur-
chus; on the west by the Insh district of Kingussie; on the north by
the Spey; and on the south by the parish of Blair.  The Surface
covered by the parish of Alvie may be computed at 84 square miles,
The parts of the Grampian mountains, at which the southern ex-
tremity of the parish terminates, form the highest hills in Scotland,
being ascertained, by actual measurement, to be 4500 feet above
the level of the sea.  The mountains forming the north-west boun-
dary of the parish are considerably lower than the Grampians; but,
  INVERNESS.                          F


