

58                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.


in an oposite direction to the northeast. About 400 yards west
of the village of Blackness, a bed of calcareous ironstone crops out
on the beach, dipping into the sea in the same direction, which,
when carefully prepared, forms a hydraulic cement of a very supe-
rior quality; for which purpose it was wrought some years ago,
and is again in contemplation of being wrought. This stratum is
covered with a strong, shale, otherwise called blea, varying in thick-
ness from 1 to 20 feet, interspersed with balls of clay ironstone,
the under layer being of the kind called alum shale, and separated
from the upper by a thin band of ironstone. The alum shale was
formerly employed in the manufacture of soda, but the work has
been lately discontintued and dismantled. About twenty yards
farther into the sea, a freestone rock of a rough granular texture
rises to the surface, and runs in the same direction as the cement
stone, forming the covering towards the castle hill, which consists
entirely of trap rock, declining by 12 1/2, also to the north-east.
In the interior, to the south-west of the parish, trap is chiefly to
be met with.
   There are many seams of coal in the parish, some of which
have been wrought at their crops or outbursts, centuries ago. The
coal-field that is in the western division of the parish is supposed
to extend across the Frith, and to be connected with the coal
formation in the opposite district in the county of Fife. The
strata are known to the depth of 135 fathoms, having been
passed by the miners in sinking pits and other operations in
the coal mines. The deepest seam that is known is the cars
coal, rising to the north-east along the sea shore. This seam
and the smithy seam come out to the surface a short distance
to the cast of Burnfoot. The foul coal and red coal take on
to the west of the road leading to Linlithgow; the western
main coal is only in the south-west of the parish, as there is not
sufficient cover for this seam to the east and north. This coal
field passes through the south-west boundary of the parish in-
to the parishes of Borrowstownness and Linlithgow. In the southern
division of it, the stara dip nearly north, with a declination of one
foot in three. In approaching the north, the dip gradually comes
round more to the west; in the middle of the field, the dip is
north-west, with a declination of 1 in 6 to 1 in 10.
   The following is a journal of the strata passed through in sink-
ing the engine or mingle, and the burn pits, which are the same
in both with as light variation in the proportions:



