                                                                      437
                       SADDELL AND SKIPNESS.

    proved with judgment and embellished with taste.  Each valley
    has its winding river, copiously supplied by the streams that score
    the mountain sides, and slowly coursing along its green banks and
    pebbled bed towards the sea, as if reluctant to depart from the
    scene ; whilst, in the distance, and on every side, nature rises in
    magnificence and repose as the heights swell into huge and ma-
    gestic proportions ; thus exhibiting at once a rare and varied com-
    bination of much that constitutes the charm of Highland and low-
    land scenery.  The highest mountain in the parish is Benintuirk
    (upon the estate of Torrisdale), elevated 2170 feet above the )e-
    vel of the sea. From no point of the same altitude in the county
    is the view more grand, extensive, or picturesque. In the fore-
    ground is the Island of Arran, to the south the Frith of Clyde,
    the Craio, of Ailsa, and the Irish Channel. From the Point of
    Corsil in Wigtonsbire, the eve can range along the illtervening
    counties, until arrested by the  "lofty Benlomond."    Hence the
    transition is easy to Bencruachan, and Benmore in Mull.  To the
    north-west is the horizon line of the Atlantic, presenting portions
    of its blue surface through the openings of the different islands
    with which it is indented, from Mull to the Giants' Causeway.
    In this range are embraced portions of seven Scottish and two Irish
    counties, and the circuit is supposed to be little less than 300
    miles.
      Meteorology.-The atmosphere is naturally moist, from being
    impregnated with the floating vapours of the Atlantic, which are-
    constantly carried about by the prevailing winds. To these are
    added the humid 'exhalations which arise from the loebs and
    marshes in the interior.  The dry east winds, however, operate as
    a counteracting element in dissipating these vapours, and in re-
    storing the equilibrium of the atmosphere.  The climate, though
    changeable, is thus rendered temperate and salubrious, insomuch
    that invalids from a distance have, after a  few months sojourn,
    found their health perfectly restored.   As a  proof of the mildness
    of the climate, many of the most rare and delicate greenhouse
    shrubs flourish in great profusion in the open air, with no other
    protection than a thin matting during the winter months.
      The prevailing diseases are asthma, influenza, inflammatory sore

    throat, and affections of the chest and lungs. A few formidable
    and fatal cases of cancer have occurred of late years.  Fevers are
    almost unknown unless when engendered by infection.  This often
    happens from the frequent intercourse of the inhabitants with the


