
                        DALMELLINGTON.                     319

   Nothing injurious to health or morals can be charged against
the employments of those engragred in manufactures. The purity
of the atmosphere effectually neutralizes any bad effects of the
sedentary habits of the weaver upon his health; and the mills are
not of such extent, as, by the numbers they congregate, to seduce
the minds of the young from the simplicity of rural life.

                V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Market-Towns.--The market-town the easiestof access, though
not the nearest, is Ayr. The distance to it is fifteen miles and a quar-
ter. The only village in the parish is that which bears its name. It
is a penny-post to Ayr, from which a foot-post comes on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday, and returns on the alternate days.
	There are two turnpike roads in the parish,--the Ayr and Dum-
fries road, which passes through the extreme length,--and another
which crosses it at the village.
	Means of Communication.--The means of communication enjoy-
ed by the parish are abundant. We have the benefit of the Ayr and
Dumfries coach going one way or the other, each day; another
conveyance to and from Ayr on market days, with carriers also on
the same days, and weekly carriers, to Glasgow, Dumfries, and Cas-
tle Douglas. The bridges are abundant, and chiefly in good repair.
There are six over the Doon, and nearly double that number over
the smaller streams, sufficiently large to admit a heavy flood. It was
not, however, always so. One bridge over the Doon is one hundred
and sixteen years old, another over the Muck is about sixty; and
I believe the first roads in the parish are of nearly as recent a date.
The fences are chiefly dry stone walls, abundant and in good condi-
tion. The hedges around the village are thriving and neatly kept.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is as conveniently situated
as it could be, to suit the population. It is in the village, and
about five miles from each extremity of the parish. It was built
in 1766, but, though of no great age, from the dampness of the
site, it is exceedingly uncomfortable; and, for both comfort and ac-
commodation, it is ripe for rebuilding. It is seated for 442, from
which there have to be deducted 36 sittings, the private property
of, and occupied by, an heritor in a neighbouring parish, leaving
for the parish 406 sittings, of which 47 are free.
	The manse was built in 1798. It underwent a thorough re-
pair in 1833, and an addition is at present being built to it. The
grebe. measures about 10 acres; and is worth L. 2 per acre. The
stipend is L. 112, 0s. 8d. including L. 8. 6s. 8d. for communion


