
204                        PERTHSHIRE.

who trace the increase of intemperance to the increased facilities
of indulgence afforded by the multiplication of public-houses.  It
is a comparatively rare thing to find persons drinking to excess in
their own dwellings.  The public-house is the invariable place of re-
sort.  It is there the habit is first acquired, and there it is strength-
ened and confirmed.  A bottle of spirits is seldom or never found
in the house of a person addicted to drunkenness; and, on the other
hand, it is as seldom found awanting in the houses of sober persons,
in the same rank of life.  From this it would appear, that if, hnstead
of adopting the temperance society principle, (which is neither more
nor less than entire abstinence, and the chief defect of which seems
to be, that it aims at more than the word of God enjoins,) an associa-
tion could be formed for discountenancing the practice of frequenting
public-houses, the members of which association should resolve
never to enter the door of a public-house, except on certain occa-
sions to be specified ; and if at the same time every exertion were
made for diminishing the number of such houses throughout the
country, it is humbly conceived that more practical good would be
achieved in the way of suppressino, intemperance, than by any other
mere human means that have yet been suggested.
  I Smuggling and Poaching.-At one time, the practice' of illicit
distillation prevailed to a considerable extent in the parish.  It is
now, happily, almost unknown.  Salmon poaching, however, still
continues to be carried on; but chiefly by persons unconnected
with the parish.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>
		     IV.-INDUSTRY.

  In the old parish of Moneydie there are:
			Imperial acres,arable,      2718
				Do.    pasture,        771
						          ____3489

  In Logiealmond:
                        Imperial acres,arable,     2237
				Do.    pasture,            4869
						               ____7106
						                _______
					Total:                 10,595
  Of the land under pasture there are ...bout 300 acres in the old
parish, and probably 600 in Logiealmond, which, by a judicious
application of capital, might be brought under tillage.  About 800
acres are under wood ; a large portion of which is old and valuable,
and consists for the most part of Scotch fir.  In the more recent
plantations, larch, spruce fir, and oak, chiefly prevail.  Of late
years, oak has been very extensively planted on the estates of Lord
Lynedoch; and as this kind of wood seems to thrive upon every


