
                         ABERDEEN.                         23

main, having a wooden front, behind which, at the distance of
about ten feet, is the original stone wall of the house.
   In 1715, the Chevalier de St George was proclaimed at Aber-
deen by the Earl Marischal, and soon after the Earl of Mar sent
to demand a contribution of L.2000 from the town, for the sup-
port ofthe Pretender's army, but of this only about one-half was
paid.  In December of the same year, the Pretender having
landed at Peterhead, passed through Aberdeen on his way to
Fetteresso, where he was met by several of the nobles attached to
his cause.  Although the magistrates at this time were on his side,
the town's people generally seem to have-been afraid to commit
themselves, and be received no effectual aid from Aberdeen.
   About 1740, some individuals in Aberdeen engaged in the nefa-
rious trade of kidnapping such young men as they could entice or
compel, to go to the plantations in Virginia, and though many were
thus decoyed or forced away from their friends, it continued for a
good many years little regarded, and a house in the Green is spoken
of as having been used for confining those who were refractory
until they could be shipped off. Several of the principal citizens
appear to have been concerned in this villany, and it was not until
one of their victims, Peter Williamson, unexpectedly re-appeared
in Aberdeen in 1758, (for the measures taken to prevent their re-
turn, or communicating with their friends, were in general success-
ful) that any check was given to it.  He had written a pamphlet,
giving an account of the manner in which had been kidnapped,
and of the hardships he had sustained, and this be sold in Aber-
deen on his return.  For this libel be was summoned before the
bailies, and was fined 10s., ordered to beg pardon of the magis-
trates and thereafter to be banished from the town, and the ob-
noxious parts of his book were torn out and burnt at the cross by
the hangman.  Williamson afterwards went to Edinburgh, where,
meeting with some benevolent persons to espouse his cause, he
raised an action against the magistrates, which was terminated by
these worthies being sentenced to pay him L.100, with all the ex-
penses of the suit.
   In 1745, Prince Charles having landed in the West Highlands,
Sir John Cope marched with the royal army to Inverness to oppose
him, but he having gone southward, Sir John returned and came
to Aberdeen in September, from whence he took shipping; and in
November Lord Lewis Gordon, the Prince's Lord Leutenant for
Aberdeen and Banff, came to Aberdeen, and took possession of the

