
854                         LANARKSHIRE.

different properties in the hands of the proprietors, to which the
writer of this account has been kindly allowed access.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers consist of a volume
containing marriages and births from the year 1680 down to the
present time, and three volumes of acts and proceedings of the
kirk-session.  Of these the first commences in 1703, and is in the
handwriting of Mr Lining, by whom it was kept most accurately
during his incumbency.  After his time, there is a great falling off,
and, upon the whole, it may be said that the registers have been
any thing but well kept.  A volume of some importance, contain-
ing acts and proceedings of session from 1655 to 1692, and re-
corded to have been in existence in 1752, has since disappeared.
It is reported to have been consumed in a fire, which burnt part
of the schoolmaster's house, many years ago; but it may perhaps
be still in existence, and if this should meet the eye of any one
who knows any thing certain of its fate, it is hoped he will be good
enough to communicate it to the writer.
   Antiquities.-A tripod of brass, supposed to be a relict of the
Roman invaders of our island, was lately struck by the plough
on the farm of Borland, and is now in the possession of Adam
Sim, Esq. of Cultermains.  The same gentleman has also in
his possession a celt found in this parish, the relict of another
race who oceupied it at a more recent period, and there
is another in possession of the writer of this account, presented to
him some years ago by the kirk-officer.  Stone coffins have been
turned up at the east end of the village of Elsrickle, and one was
lately discovered containing an urn on the farm of Hyndshieland.
On exposure to the air the urn crumbled into dust.  On the farm
of Cocklaw, there are on the high ground the remains of what has
been erroneously called a Roman camp.  It has consisted of two
concentric circular earthen mounds and ditches.  The diameter of
the inner circle is 67 yards, and the outward mound and ditch are
5 yards from those within.
   Historical Notices, Civil and Ecelesiastical.-In the earliest re-
cords relative to this parish, we find it a pertinent of the lordship
of Bothwell; and for upwards of three centuries it was either
claimed or possessed by the various individuals, who successively
inherited that Lordship, or to whom it was granted by the Crown
on their frequently recurring forfeitures.  The lands of Walston
and Elgerith, or Elgirig, (subsequently Elgerigill, and now Els-
rickle), formed a barony co-extensive with the parish ; and the pa-
tronage of the church has all along been conjoined with the ba-


