
                                EDDERACHILLIS.                            121

	and the high hills attracting the clouds, is humid, and productive of
        rheumatic and scrofulous affections, the latter often proving fatal.
	Heavy falls of snow occur, but are of short duration along the
	coast, although the higher grounds partially retain their coats till
	June. There are instances of great longevity and retention of phy-
	sical faculties. Small-pox made its appearance last season, but its
	progress, under Divine will, was soon arrested by the immediate
	and general application of cow-pox, attended to by a surgeon
	appointed for the purpose, at the expense of the Duke of Su-
	therland. Solar and lunar rainbows are not unfrequent; and a
	most striking view is that of the sun setting in summer, casting its
	rays in crimson hue across the bosom of the ocean. The aurora
	borealis or Northern Lights occasionally shew themselves, are
	extremely vivid, and, according to vulgar acceptation, "arrayed
	against each other in the order of a line of battle."  Although
	we are not strangers to the terror of the thunder storm, seldom
	or ever any accidents are heard of; flashes of lightning are pe-
	riodically common about the commencement of each quarter. A
	rare, if not an unprecedented, phenomenon in this latitude, occurred
	in winter 1838, by an avalanche destroying no less than a herd of
	twelve deer; and such was the force of that terrific body, that it not
	only killed the animals on the spot, but when the forester found
	them, their bones were crushed to pieces. The fury of sea storms
	is often the cause of great alarm and damage, particularly in
	winter, and to the observer on shore is magnificently grand when
	they are from the north-west; the noise of the billows of the At-
	lantic heaving against the rocks is tremendous, and only equalled
	by the height to which they are raised, known in some instances to
	be no less than about 600 feet against the precipitous rocks of
	Handa. Shipwrecks, however, are not so common as they were,
	owing to a lighthouse having been erected on Cape Wrath.
	   Hydrography.-The most direct approach from the south to
	this parish is through a part of Assynt to Kylesku, at which there
	is a ferry between Edderachillis and Assynt, of 380 yards broad.
	The tide of this narrow inlet is extremely rapid, readily accounted
	for by the great expanse of sea on both sides; from it two exten-
	sive lochs branch into the interior, Loch Glendhu on the left, and
	Loch Glencul on the right hand,-the former upwards of three
	miles long, by one and a-half broad, and the latter nearly five long,
	by one broad,-both of great depth, and no less celebrated for the
	quantity and quality of their herrings than for their singular wild.
	  SUTHERLAND.                        1


