
504                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

thick on the ground, and not giving them spaces at all propor-
tional to the ultimate size of the species.  The incident is as fol-
lows:  In a plantation of oaks at Haughton, made ninety-two years
ago, a number of Scotch firs have been planted dispersedly, per-
haps intended for shelter to the oaks ; and as the latter have not
thriven well, the firs have had room from the beginning to occupy
spaces proportional to their native growth, and have become large
and valuable trees,-at their present age already furnishing wood
of an excellent quality.  Not one of these trees has ever been
known to die naturally; and those which the axe has spared have
all a healthy and vigorous aspect, indicating that they might live
to the ordinary period of the trees of the native forests.  While
this has occurred with respect to them, other plantations of fir in
the immediate neighbourhood, on soil exactly similar, and planted
much more recently, but of the customary thickness have, some
years ago, died out.
   It would appear from a variety of circumstances, especially from
the prosperous state of some other fir trees in this parish, which,
from incidental causes, have enjoyed much room from the time of
their being planted, but into the particulars of all which there is not
room here to enter, that the proper correction of the error, which
has so long prevailed, would be, to plant the trees at first so thin as
to give each the space which it would occupy when arrived at full
size'and maturity of growth; and not to trust to thinning with the
axe, which is liable to many objections.  Planting in this way
would require only 200 or 300 trees to the imperial acre, instead
of 3000 or 4000 according to the present practice.
   The same error of thick planting, which has proved so fatal to
the Scotch Ar, has been fully, extended to the larch.  That spe-
cies was introduced here sixty or seventy years ago, and the trees
were at first planted dispersedly, or among scattered rows of trees
around gentlemen's seats.  These, having ample room, have, with
few exceptions, continued healthy and vigorous.  Afterwards larches
were planted to a greater extent promiscuously with Scotch firs,
or in clumps alternating with these, and equally crowded and un-
der such management, they are now dying in equal numbers with
the Scotch, fir.
   A better system in respect to this matter, begins to prevail;
for, although thin planting has not been adopted, more attention
is paid to early thinning.
   Besides the firs, many other species of trees have been planted


