
                          MORVERN.                          167

dity ; but, just when about to dash in sparkling fury over the giddy
precipice, they are interrupted in their course ; uplifted by the
opposing gale and showered backwards, a dense cloud of foaming
spray.  Again, the wind subsides, but only for a moment, as if to
display, in another form, its commanding superiority,-for it may
be, as the descending torrent approacbes the base of the rock, the
white column is seen gradually condensing, till at length the wind,
gathering all its strength, carries it upwards to the verge of the
precipice, whence, after a momentary but vain struggle, it is dis-
persed by the resistless blast, and showered, as if in sportive tri-
umpb, up into the air.
   The largest stream is Gear-Abhain, formed by the confluence
of several smaller streams, which, issuing from the parallel glens,
Glen-Dubh and Glen Geal, are received into a valley intersecting
these glens at right angles at the lower end, and carried onwards
till joined by the flow of water from the lake of Airi-Innis, when
they form what is properly termed the Gear, or short river, which,
after a brief but sparkling career, joins the sea at Lochalin.  At
the last point of junction referred to, a strange phenomenon is oc-
casionally or rather very frequently exhibited.  The principal
channel is of some breadth, and of very gentle descent, and the
body of water, on teaching an opposing bank, is divided into two
portions, one of which turns at an acute angle, and flows into
Lochalin in a southern direction, while the other flows in the very
opposite direction into the lake of Airi-Innis, which continues to
receive it until, by the augmented flow of the other tributary
streams by which it is replenished, it acquires a sufficient elevation
to repel the current referred to backwards by the very same chan-
nel, and to force the whole body of water in, the same direction
onward to the sea.  There is thus presented the strange pheno-
menon of a stream flowing, it may be, for several days in one di-
rection, and again for several successive days in the very opposite.
   In cool and refreshing springs the country everywhere abounds.
Their average temperature may be taken at 40&deg;.  Some of them,
especially on the south side of Loch Teagus, are very strongly im-
pregnated with the sulphate of iron, and one, it is said, with that
of copper.
   Scenery.-The outline of Morvern, especially as viewed from the
Sound of Mull, is no way striking, for though several of the moun-
tains are of considerable height, yet, when viewed in connection
with the bold ranges of Appin and Mull, they are of a tame and
undefined character.  There are, however, certain portions of the


