
     Statistical Account

thren, Mr. Wilson of Perth, Mr. Alexander Moncriess of
Abernethy, and Mr. James Fisher of Kinclaven, receded from
the church of Scotland, and stiled themselves the Associated
Brethren.  About the year 1744, some scruples were suggest-
ed to there brethren, then formed into a synod, with others
who had acceded to them, about the Burgess Oath, by Mr.
Moncrieff, which, in 1748, produced a schism among them.
   At the head of the Associate Synod remained Mr. Ebenezer
Erskine, and at the head of the other party, who called them-
selves Antiburghers, appeared Mr. Adam Gibb.  Mr. Gibb
excommunicated Mr. Erskine and his associates.  The excep-
tionable clause in the burgers oath runs thus:  "Here I pro-
"test before God and your Lordships, that I protest and al-
"low with my heart, the true religion presently prosessed
"within this realm, and authorised by the laws thereof; I
"shall abide thereat and defend the same to my life's end,
"renouncing the Roman religion, called Papistry."
   The Antiburghers decreed, that it was inconsistent with the
principles of the Secession, to swear an attachment to the es-
tablished religion, after having deserted it on account of its
corruptions.  The above burgers oath was used at Perth.  In
Stirling, there never was a word about religion in it, until
some few years ago, the following clause was introduced, at
the desire of some of the Antiburghers, to screen them from
the censure of their minister and session. "I swear to be a
"a faithful burgers to the burgh of Stirling, to obey the ma-
"gistrates thereof, and town officers having their lawful
"commands," The additional clause follows:  "In matters
"purely civil, so far as agreeable to the word of God.
   Since the deposition of Mr. Erskine, the third charge of
Stirling has never been filled*.  It was allowed to fall into

<FOOTNOTE>

*From the 1738, Mr. Thomas Turner, Mr. Daniel Macqueen, and Mr.
John Muschet, in the first charge.  Thomas Cleland, Thomas Randal,


