
                             INVERKEITHING.                   241

Its form is hexagonal, the extreme bredth being a little more
than three feet, and, with its pedestal, it is about four feet high.
The bowl of it is a sort of hemisphere, two feet broad, and one deep,
with a hole of about an inch diameter, pierced through the bottom.
It had been carefully buried and surrounded with straw, the remains
of which were still beside it, and it contained within the bowl of
it a quantity of human bones, probably relics, and an ink-glass.
The six angles of it are wrough into a kind of ornamental pillar,
and on every one of the six faces, there is the bust of an angel
with expanded wings, having on its breast, and supported by its
hands, a shield of a triangular form with curved outlines.  These
shields contain ancient armorial bearings.  By persons skilled in
heraldry, these of Gourlay of Kincraig; those of Alderston,
the heiress of which married the laird of Kincraig of that time
being, or of a Stuart (Rosyth,) a Clerk, a Lindsay, &c.-probably
those of Lowis of Menar, or of Loren of Harwood, or of a Fowlis,
--the arms of Melville, old Lords of Melville in Fifeshire, or of
Craigie of Craigiehall.  The difficulty of fixing some of these more
precisely aries from the bearings net being coloured of batched to
represent colouring.
  The communion cups, dated 1643, are of rather curious form,
being narrow and deep, with a long stalk and foot like a wine
glass. The workmanship is rude, and they have been made in
three pieces, and roughly soldered together. What is remak-
able, as shewing the state of the arts at the time, is, that there
is a border round the foot, which appears to have been a ribband
of metal, figured in a cress, or chased in a rolling machine, then
turued round till the ends met, and the ring thus made rudely
soldered to the foot of the cup, in the same manner as chased
plate brass articles are done in the present day.  The silver is
whiter and brighter than the most of modern plate.
  Modern Buildings.-The town is beautifully situated on a ris-
ing ground immediately abobe a small bay adjoining the Frith, with
a south exposure.  It consists of a main street, and a similar one
branching off it, besides some wynds.  These have been many
houses built or rebuilt within the last twenty years, so that the place
has been considerably extended and improved.  It contains a new
church, replacing that which was burnt in 1825 a new school-house,

  FIFE                                      Q


