
                              FORDYCE.                           187

   south-west corner of this area, and were probably used as stables
   and storehouses, have now been almost entirely removed for agri-
   cultural purposes, on the adjoining farm. The dovecote however,
   on the top of the bill, still stands in a tolerable state of preserva-
   tion, and continues to he used for its original purpose.
      Sir Walter Ogilvie got leave, in the 18th of James II., or A. D.
   1455, to fortify his Castle of Findlater with a tower and fortalice,
   and all other necessaries for a place of strength. It would appear
   to have been regularly occupied till tnwards the end of the reign
   of James VI., when it became less necessary for our nobles to seek
   their safety within the walls of their castlds. Findlater, at that
   time in the possession of John Gordon, son of the Earl of Hutitly,
   was one of the places which refused to receive Queen Mary on
   her royal visit to the north ; and a party of six tcore of soldiers
   sent out by the Queen to force a surrender, were one night, while
   lying at Cullen, surprised by him, and all of them either disarmed
   or slain. It soon, however, returned into the hands of its origi-
   nal possessors. There is an interesting, tradition prevalent in the
   district, connected with its ceasing to be a family residence.
   While the lady of the castle, it is said, was one day standing at
   an open window holding an infant son in her arms, the child sud-
   denly leapt from her hold, and, falling amidst the foaming waves and
   rocks beneath, immediately perished. The associations connected
   ed with this melancholy event were such as to make the place to
   be immediately after deserted. The district of Findlater,from which
   the castle takes its name, furnished the title of Earl of Findlater to
   a succession of noble proprietors. The title was first conferred
   on James, second Lord Ogilvie of Deskford in 1683, and continued
   to be enjoyed by the male heirs of his body till it became extinct
   in James seventh Earl, who died on the continent in 1811. The
   estates, together with the Seafield titles, then came into the pos-
   session of the present family through thd line of a collateral female
   branch; Lady Margaret, eldest daughter of James fifth Earl of
   Findlater, having married Sir Ludovic Grant of Grant, grand-
   father of the present Earl.

<FOOTNOTE>May not the name Findlater be traced to a French derivation? Fin-la-torre,
   the land's end," is an appellation that is at least descriptive of its locality, bound-
   ed as it is by the sea, and projecting farthest into it on this part of coast. This
   derivation is, moreover, borne out by the circumstance of Findlater, according to
   the earliest accounts that we have of it, having been first in the possession of a fami-
   ly of the name of Sinclair. Now Sinclair is none other than the French name St
   Clair (de sancto Claro); and Douglas in his Peerage tells us that a family of this
   name came over with William Lbe Conqueror from Normandy into Britain, and that
   two branches of that family sftded in Scotland in the twelfth century.


