
  			     KINNELL.                         407

there is generally no need of any additional dunging for the sub-
sequent crop of barley.
   There are thirteen thrashing-mills in the parisb,--one moved by
a steam-engine of eight horse power, previously by wind, and ori-
ginally by horses; seven moved by water; two by horses; and
three by either horse or water. The oldest, that of Hatton-mill,
dates from 1794.
   There is also a mill for the manufacturing of potato-flour. It
is moved by a steam-engine of three horse power.
   The average gross amount of raw produce raised in the parish,
as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:
	6920 quarters imperial of wheat, barley, oats, and pease,      L.9117
	Potatoes and turnips,                                            2960
	Grass, both hay and pasture,                                     2220
                                                                      L.14,297
   There are four spinning-mills, all on the farm of Hattonden,
besides a fifth, which has only one frame and is on the farm of-
Newbigging. Hatton spinning-mill, which is the largest, and
began to work in 1807, contains 15 frames, of 30 spindles each
for flax and tow, in about equal proportions with suitable prepar-
ing machinery, and throws off weekly about 1800 spindles of yarn,
which, as to quality, is from 3 lbs. to 5 lbs. per spindle. The-
three smaller mills will together throw off about 1200 spindles of
flax yarn; for they have no tow machinery. At none of the mills
is there any such quantity of fine yarn spun as to deserve particu-
lar notice. The deficiency of water in summer is supplied in the
case of the largest mill, by a steam-edgine of seven and a-half
horse power. Two of the others also, those of Gighty burn and
Hattonden, have smaller engines for the same reason. The mill
at Gighty burn is the oldest of all the mills, having begun to
work in 1796, and came in place of a bleachfield. Hattonden
spinning-mill began in 1819; and the Haugh spinning-mill in
1822. *

		   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means oF Communication.--Since 1829, a turnpike road from
Montrose to Forfar has passed through the northern part of the
parish, to the extent of above four miles. In 1831, the road was
opened throughout, and a toll erected. But no public carriages as
yet travel on it. There is now a stone bridge over the Lunan, at


<FOOTNOTE>Gighty burn spinning-mill has been discontinued; and Hatton spinning-mill
is undergoing repair.


