
                             PARISH OF HUNTLY.*

                 PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOGIE, SYNOD OF MORAY.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--THIS parish consisted originally of
two distinct parishes, Dumbennan and Kinoir. The former pa-
rish, which, to a great extent, is surrounded by hills, is said from
this circumstance to have received the name of Dumbennan, or
the foot of the hill.+ It is situated at the termination of the two
straths, formed by the rivers Bogie and Deveron. The hill be-
tween these rivers, which is of considerable height, and is called
the Clashmach, or gray-headed hill,++ forms part of this parish.
The latter parish of Kinoir, or the yellow-headed hill, SS stretches
for about five miles along the right side of the Deveron, after it
is joined by the Bogie on the right, and strangely enough, though
ecclesiastically united to Dumbennan, it is separated from it for
more than a quarter of a mile from this junction upwards, by
the neighbouring parish of Drumblade.|| The two parishes were
united into the one parish of Huntly in 1727.  Its greatest length
is about 10 miles, and breadth 4 miles. It is bounded on the
north chiefly by the parish of Rothiemay; on the east, by a small
angle of the parish of Forgue, but chiefly by Drumblade; south,
by Gartly; and west, by the parishes of Glass and Cairnie.
      	Rivers, Hills, &c.--The river Bogie, which rises in the parish
of Auchindoir, about twelve miles to the south-west, divides this
parish from Drumblade for two or three miles, and the Deveron,
from portions of Glass, Cairnie, and Rothiemay. The Deveron

<FOOTNOTE>By the Rev. William Sinclair, A. M.
    	The proceedings consequent on the presentation to the parish of Marnoch in 1837,
led to the deposition by the General Assembly in 1841, of the Rev. James Walker,
minister of this parish, in which Mr Walker and a minority of the General Assem-
bly do not acquiesce. They have obtained a suspension and interdict from the
Court of Session.
<FOOTNOTE>Former Aicount.               ++ Ibid.           SS Ibid.
<FOOTNOTE>The ancient burying-grounds both of Dumbennan and Kinoir are on the sites
of the old churches, and, in fact, these are the only burying-grounds still used in the
parish.


