
                       DALSERF.                              747

economy is fully as high as in the neighbouring market-town of
Hamilton.
   The Duke of Hamilton has twenty-two farms in the parish, rent-
ed at from L. 50 to L. 400 per annum.  The farm-steadings, re-
cently built, are in general commodious and neat.  Those of older
date are miserable hovels; but, as they become unfit for occupa-
tion, they will, no doubt, be replaced by buildings of a better descrip-
tion.  Tile-draining has commenced in several places of the pa-
rish with good effect, and the Duke of Hamilton has recently esta-
blished a manufactory of draining tiles near Larkhall, for the rup-
ply of his own tenants, and for sale in the neighbourhood.  The
farms are mostly let at rack-rent.  Still the farmers go on improv-
ing, and pay their rents well.  Tenants appear always to do best
with the stimulus of a smart rent over their heads.  The least
thriving portion of the farmers of the parish are the small proprie-
tors who occupy their own grounds.
   Rental, &c-The old valuation of the parish, as elsewhere stat-
ed, is about L. 3320 Scots.  The real rental given in to the Teind
Court before the last augmentation of stipend was L. 5764, and is
now probably pretty much the same.  The Duke of Hamilton's
proportion of this sum is about L. 2389, 8s. Id.  The average
gross amount of raw produce may be estimated as follows:

<TABLE>
Grain of all kinds, hay, &c.                .       .         .      L. 7000  0  0
Potatoes, turnips, carrots, beet, &c                 .         .        1910  0  0
Land in pasture, at L. 3 per cow, and L. 2 per head for young cattle,	2200  0  0
Orchard and garden produce,	.          .            .         .       1250  0  0
Coal, quarries, &c.          .       .          .          .       .    2000  0  0
Miscellaneous produce,         .        .        .        .        .     640  0  0
                                                                        ----------
                                                                   L. 15,000  0  0

Taking into account the number of acres in the parish, the gross
Droduce is at the rate of L. 3 per acre nearly.  But from the acres
there must be a considerable deduction for roads, channels of rivers,
sites of villages, &c.
   Manufactures.-The principal manufacture in the parish is cot-
ton-weaving, conducted for the most part by local agents, employ-
ed at a per centage by the manufacturing houses in Glasgow.  The
new bleachfield about to be commenced at Millheugh will give em-
ployment to a considerable number of hands, and be of benefit to
the parish.  The lace manufacturers of Hamilton employ a great
many of the females.  The prices of weaving and lace-tnaking are
frequently varying; but, in general, it requires long hours to make
a very moderate wage.  The manufacturing population is healthy


