
     of Lesly.

travagant, the farmer toils on from day to day, harrasses and
perplexes himself, and, after all, with difficulty procures the
necessaries of life for himself and family.  Though instances of
improvement daily occur, and the benefits resulting from
thence are obvious, an obstinate attachment to old established
practices too much prevails, and neither precept nor example will
induce them to alter their plan.  What is called infield is constantly
kept in tillage.  The rotation of crops, is, bear, with dung; then
two crops of oats, and then the land is dunged again for bear.
The dung is laid upon the stubble during winter, where it
lies in small heaps, exposed to all the inclemency of the season,
till the oat feed is finished.  The dung is then spread, and
the ground gets a kind of ribbing, and directly after that the
feed surrow.  The outfields or laughs carry 4 crops of oats
without any dung, and then lie 5 or 6 years in pasture, except
the part on which the cattle are folded upon during summer, which
carries 5 crops of oats.  Some of the faughs are sown with a spe-
cies of black bearded oats, which will require 2 and sometimes
3 bolls, to yield 1 boll of meal.-A very few of the tenants are
indeed beginning to adopt a better method of management.
They low a few turnips, and some rye-grass and clover.  But
their great distance from lime and other manures, together
with the badness of the roads and the scarcity of money, muff
render their progress in improvements but slow.-Notwith-
standing this wretched method of cultivation, the parish can
spare annually, at an average, about 700 bolls of meal, and
200 bolls of bear; a clear evidence of the goodness of the.
soil.  An early species of oats has been lately introduced,
which are likely to be of great benefit.  They are a fortnight
earlier, than the common oats, and produce fully as much
meal.  They are called the Peebles, or Lord Chief Baron's oats,
and were first imported into this country in the year 1783.

     VOL. VIII.   3 T


