
260                                    ARYSHIRE.

template; and nothing but the darkest prejudice could lead any one
to controvent or deny it. That "security," which the inhabitants
here were supposed formerly to possess, from their sequestered si-
tuation, against "the encroaching influences of that corruption
which other places of more business sort of advantage. The union
of the two kingdoms found Scotland with the most inadequate
means of employment for her population, miserably scanty as it
was; and previous ages of feudal barbarity had sunk the condition
of the people to the lowest point of indigence, ignorance, and im-
morality. Nor did the union, so indispensable to her ultimately so
copiously flowed from it. On the contrary, its first fruits were only
to allure the inhabitants of Scotland, altogether ignorant of trade
and commerce, and, with no systematic knowledge of agriculture,
almost universally to plunge into the demolizing vortex of smug-
gling, which, from the new excise the imposts then laid on, seemed to
offer so great a temptation. So generally were all classes, high
and low, connected with this outrageous practice, that, for a long
time, the recent and ill-consolidated government of the Revolution
was utterly unable effectually to repress such disgraceful violations
of its authority. For greatly more than Half a century subsequent
to the union, such was the inauspicious condition of this country;
and there can be no doubt if it did not rather retrograde, it was
	During the last three years there have been 6 illegitimate births
in the parish.

				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The extent of land of all qualities occasionally
in or fit for cultivation is about 6000 acres; of waste fit only for
pasture, 2650, exclusive of Little Cumbray, and from which
neither its situation nor nature admit that arable may ever be
profitably augmented from it,--attempts of this kind having al-
ready been pushed to their utmost limits, if not a step beyond
them. There is now here no undivided common. The extent
of growing wood has before been alluded to. The management
of trees is perhaps the worst understood, and least attended to
species of culture in this part of the country, and assuredly the
parish of Kilbride forms no exception to the general depravity.
	Rent of Land.--Small patches of land near the village fetch as
high as from L. 3 to L. 5 an acre, but the medium rental of the
                              	1


