
                           OLD DEER.                           163

and four miles distant from the others.  The two last established,
at Shannas and Clochcan, had for a few years a teaching apart-
ment and other accommodations provided for them voluntarily by
the, heritors and people, and a small salary each from the General
Assembly's Committee on Highland Schools.  The land-owners,
however, much to their credit, at the last adjustment of salary in
terms of the Act 1802, not only agreed to give the maximum sa-
lary required, in the case of there being more schools than one
established in a parish, L.51 and odds, but have since, of their
own accord, very generously assessed themselves for L.20 more,
in order to bring the two worst provided teachers within reach of
getting the benefit of the Dick Bequest.  The original, and what
may be considered as the principal, teacher, from the site of the
school being at Old Deer, has L.31, 6s. 7d. of yearly salary, and
each of the other two L.20.  The number of scholars fluctuates
according to the season of the year and other circumstances, from
40 to 100 at each.  The school-fees actually collected average
about L 30, and the teachers have hitherto received nearer L.30
than L.20 from the Trustees of the late Mr Dick.  There are
other two parochial schools, the one at Mintlaw in Longside, and
the other at Denhead in Lonmay, that lie contiguous to, and
accommodate, certain districts of this parish.  There is also a
teacher, whose school is well attended and well taught, settled
some years ago, with a small salary furnished by the representatives
of one of the heritors, and some of the principal tenants, on the
west boundary between Old and New Deer, about one-half of the
scholars being from this parish.  And in the village of Stewartfield,
there is seldom wanting a person who keeps a school on his own
adventure, without receiving any other remuneration for his services
than what arises from fees.  Different females, here and there,
receive girls and children to be taught needle-work with reading;
so that, at the seasons of the year most convenient for school atten-
dance, nearly 500 young persons are attending some educational in-
stitution.
   Libraries.-There is no library yet, instituted, strictly speaking
parochial; but there are fully 200 volumes belonging to the ori-
ginal parish school, purchased from the interest of money left for
the purpose by a Mr Shirras, a native of this parish, who died in
America.
   Friendly Societies.-there remains now only one of these, the
Society of Hammermen, which is in a tolerably flourishing state.


