
                              PENNINGHAME.                      167

joying the advantages of a new posting car, to ply every lawful day
between Kirkmaiden and Stranraer.
	Since the time of the old Statistical Account, the rental of
this parish has been nearly quadrupled.
	January 1839.

			PARISH OF PENNINGHAME.
                  PRESBYTERY OF WIGTON, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.
		   THE REV. SAMUEL RICHARDSON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
        Name.-THE origin and import of the name Penninghame
have been variously explained. The word appears in different
forms,-Penighame, Penyghame, and Penninghame, and in each
form sometimes without the final e. Chalmers, in his Caledonia,
seems unfortunate in his derivation of this name from the Anglo-
Saxon penig or pening, a penny, or penny land, and ham, a ham-
let or village,-the hamlet on the penny land. There has been
nother derivation proposed from the Celtic, pen-nan-caem, the
hdad or hill, ior extremity of the ridge, which term is appropriate
enough to the character of the parish, and the situation of the old
church. The Rev. Dr M'Leod of St Columba, Glasgow, has no
doubt that the name is Gaelic, and made up of two words, signify-
ing either the land for grazing young cattle, or the penny land (the
lot or portion) of the smith. That view of the derivation is sup-
ported by the circumstance of a pendicle of land, denominated the
Smith's Croft, lying within a short distance of the ruins of the old
church.
        Extent.-The average length of the parish of Penninghame is
nearly 14 miles, and the average breadth about 4. From the
windings of the rivers which bound it, the breadth is very un-
equal, so that the average is not easily ascertained with any de-
gree of accuracy; and the number of acres on the different farms
amounts to scarcely the preceding measurement; but as some of the
moss and moor pasture has perhaps not been measured very accu-
rately, the probable average of miles may be as correct an estimate.
        Boundaries.-The parish of Penninghame is boundaed on the
east by the river Cree, whichseperates it from Minnigaff toward


