
                    KIRKCALDY.                         749

Modern Buildings.-Besides the parish churcb, which will be
noticed more particularly elsewhere, we may mention here, a new
and elegant church which stands close upon the sea, on the High
Street, and was erected last year. It cost nearly L.2000, and is
an ornament to the eastern part of the town.
   The townhouse and jail form one building, and it is situated
near the middle of the town. It is a small, but very neat and hand-
some building, in the Saxon Gothic style, and cost L.5000. The
town-hall or council-room, in which the courts and meetings of
the public bodies of the town are held, is spacious and well-finish-
ed. It has lately been furnished with a portrait of Walter Fergus,
Esq. of Strathore, copied by Colvin Smith, Esq. from an original
painting by Raeburn. A number of gentlemen in the town pre-
sented it to the council, to be hung up in the hall, as a memorial of
Mr Fergus's connection for many years with the advancement and
prosperity of the trade and public affairs of the burgh.
   The town is chiefly indebted for recent and extensive architec-
tural improvements to the banks. The Bank of Scotland, the
Commercial Bank, the National Bank of Scotland, and the Glas-
gow and Ship Bank have all branches here. They have all built
large and elegant offices, and houses for the agents, on the High
Street. Besides the ornament of the bank buildings themselves
to the street, it may be remarked, that they have improved the
style of building around, and thus the aspect of the town has been
greatly changed of late years.
   In the parish there is Dunnikier House, the seat of James
Townsend Oswald, Esq., and in the town, or its immediate neigh-
bourhood, there are three villas meriting notice, viz. that of John
Fergus, Esq. of Strathore; Balsusney, the property of Colonel Fer-
guson of Raith; and St Brice-dale, the property of William Stark
Dougall, Esq. of Scotscraig.

                       III.-POPVLATION.
   No traces remain of any census of this parish having been
taken prior to 1755; but the parochial registers furnish data upon
which we may approximate at least to the amount of the popula-
tion at a much earlier date. The births, annually registered, on
an average during the ten years commencing with 1614 were
115. This number is much larger than the register has annually
received for many years past. The practice of registration was
more general then, we apprehend, than it is at present; for the
injury done to the interests of children by the inattention of pa-


