
     of Ecclesgreig, or St. Cyrus.

ditch and draw-bridge, according to the genius of those days,
but now few remains of it are to be seen.  A huge square
stone pillar, of about 12 feet high, is still standing at Stone of
Morphy, and seems to have given rise to the name*.

   Church.-About 160 years ago, the church of Ecclesgreig
stood below the Heughs of St. Cyrus, on the shore, nigh the
mouth of the North Esk.  The church-yard there still con-
tinues, and is used as a burying ground by the parish in ge-
neral+.  In the year 1632, this very incommodious situation
of the church was changed, and a new one built on an emin-
ence, a little above the Heughs of St. Cyrus, more conveni-
ent to the parish, from its easy access, and centrical situation.
By reason of the increase of the population, this church be-
came too small to accommodate the parish: It was also ill
lighted, and narrow, and going fast to decay.  The heritors
saw the necessity of building a new one; and, in the year
1787, they finished a church, which, for elegance and accom-
modation, has met with universal approbation.  It is adorned
with a small spire, which is seen at a considerable distance.
The manse has been repaired, and the office-houses rebuilt,
during the incumbency of the present minister.  The King is
the undoubted patron of Ecclesgreig.  The present stipend is

     VOL. XI. O

<FOOTNOTE>

*Whether this ancient pillar was erected, to preserve the memory of some
gallant warrior of the name of GRAHAM, or whether it be the only relick of a
Druidical temple, it is difficult to determine.  But the first conjecture seems to
be the most natural; because it is the only stone at that place, and goes by the
name of The STONE of MORPHY.

+Near the church-yard, the sea, in conflux with the varying course of the
river, discovered, some years ago, the walls of a house, that had been, from time
immemorial, entirely buried under the sand.  From its dimensions, internal
divisions, and situation, it was undoubtedly the residence of the ministers in an-
cient times.


