
     of Caputh.

the average number of persons to each house, is somewhat
more than 4 1/2.

   Cattle.  Grain, etc.-  In the parish are horses, black cattle,
swine, sheep, foxes, hares, rabbits, badgers, &c.  The hor-
ser and black cattle of the braes, or hilly part, are small
sized.  In the low country, both cattle and horses (especial-
ly the latter,) have of late years been much impro-
ved in size and goodness.  Sheep, which formerly abounded
throughout the parish, were banished from the low grounds
when the planting of forest-trees became an object of im-
portance to the proprietors.  They are of the small Scots
breed. (except a few in the neighbourhood of gentlemens
seats), and confined to the hilly part of the parish.  There
are 57 horses, 2061 black cattle, 1800 sheep, 178 ploughs,
402 carts.  The Scots plough is much used;  but the Eng-
lish plough is daily gaining ground.  There is map of
the parish in Stobie's map of the counties of Perth and
Clackmannan, published in 1783, but it is not accurate.
The number of acres has not been ascertained.  But from
a calculation made with great exactness, it appears, that be-
sides supplying itself with grain, the parish sells annually, at
an average, 4000 bolls of barley, which are mostly carried

<FOOTNOTE>

*Few remarkable instances of longevity have lately occuried in the
parish.  One man died, during the incumbency of the present minister,
who was above 90:  a gentlewoman 88 year of age:  and a considerable
number between 80 and 90.  An instance worthy of notice, is a man now
in his 85th years;  who in his youth being crossed in love, became crazed,
and has continued through life, indolent, harmless, contented, temperate,
and even indifferent about food.  For many years, he resided either in an
open shed or a hayloft, lying among straw, having only an old blanket
around him;  apparently without sleep, yet in perfect health.  He has a
fine face and figure.  His incoherencies are chiefly on the subject of war,
and the French.  He still possesses a retentive memory, and is famed in
the country for his penetration and acuteness his repartees and moral
sayings.


