
428                         ROXBURGHSHIRE.

in some respects of a more bleak and rugged cast than any of these
just mentioned.  It bears more the appearance of volcanic erup-
tion than any of the hills in the neighbourhood, or perhaps in this
part of the island.  Its hollow dells and rocky recesses were once
the haunts of the persecuted Covenanters, and not only the place
but the very stone on which the volume of God's word was laid
when the celebrated Peden declared its truths to a large congre-
gation there assembled, is still pointed out.--Independently of all
these mountains above-mentioned, another range of hills, in the
upper division of the parish, runs along the river.  And then, con-
stituting the immediate banks of the Teviot, are the holms or
haughs, which are for the most part enclosed, and in a state of
tillage.
     Hydrography.--The Teviot takes its rise, and is the principal
river, in this parish.  The whole of its course is, in length, about
forty miles, and in that course it receives the Borthwick and the Ale,
descending from their wild moorlands on the north: and the Allan,
the Slitrige, the Rule, the Jed, the Oxnam, and the Kail, with
all their manifold tributaries, on the south.  All the streams in
this parish are tributaries to the Teviot, and which, rising in the
south, find their way to it in a northern direction.  To this, how-
ever, there are two exceptions, that of Lymycleuch burn, and that
of the Frostly, which flow down their respective glens about five
miles, in a direction nearly parallel to the Teviot, the former rising
at the Pikethowe, and the latter in Linhope-grains.  The Allan
Water, the next tributary deserving of particular notice, issues from
two fountains in the same range of hills which we formerly describ-
ed, and which send the Hermitage Water south to join the Liddle.
This stream, after pursuing its course some miles by Skelf-hill and
Priesthaugh, through one of the loveliest pastoral vales, perhaps, in
the south of Scotland, turns abruptly from an eastern to a north-
ern direction, and, after a rough and rapid course, discharges
itself from overhanging birken bowers into the Teviot at Allan-
mouth Peel, about a mile above Branxholm.  The Slitrige, a stream
of greater note, also takes its rise in this parish.  Issuing from se-
veral springs in the Leap-hill, Maidenpaps, and Gritmoor, it like-
wise for some time flows in an eastern direction; but on leaving
the stately woods around Stobbs Castle, it turns its course due
north, and, after a run of ten miles, mingles itself with the Teviot,
as just mentioned.  The Rule, a rapid mountain stream, bounds
in part this parish on the east.  The woods which adorn its banks,
                                  4



