
                        KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                         1255

     posed chiefly of oak, ash, beech, elni, birch, and fir.  The soil is
     well adapted to the growth of all of these; but oak, beech, and
     fir predominate.
        In the park at Blair-Drummond there are many fine trees'
     chiefly beech and oak, which are probably not surpassed by any
     others of the same age.  Great attention has been paid to thin-
     ning and preserving them from injury, and on this account no ani-
     mal but sheep is admitted to the pasture, so that each kind of tree
     is allowed to display the peculiar beauty of its form and mode of
     growth, and to extend its branches near the ground.
        One beech, in January 1835, measured in circumference at the
     smallest part of the bole, between the swell of the roots and the
     swell of the branches, 15 feet I inch.  Another measured in the
     same way was 14 feet.  Another, at 4 feet 8 inches from the
     ground, is 13 feet, and many others at 3 feet or 3 1/2 feet from
     ground from IS feet 6 inches to II feet.  An oak at 3i feet from
     the ground is 12 feet 8 inches, and many others at the same
     height from 9 to 11 feel
        It will be observed, that these measurements refer to the per-
     pendicular height above the ground, and are taken somewhat
     higher than is usual, at what is considered the fairest point of, oom-
     parison for the dimensions of trees.
        The trees above-mentioned were not, in 1835, more than 120
     years old, and probably some years younger.
        In December 1839, a larch, which grows in sand in the south
     bank of what is called the Sand Hill, measured at 2 feet perpen-
     dicular from the ground, quite free of the swell of the roots, 9, feet
     10 inches.   Another larch, cut at the same date, measured at
     above a foot from the ground, free of the swell of the roots, 9 feet
     2 inches, having 49 rings of wood, of which 36 were red wood.
     There are also five larches above 100 years old, which have risen
     to a great, height by being planted among the other trees, one of
     which measures, at 3 1\2 feet from the ground, 8 feet 11 inches.
     From former measurements, these last-mentioned larches do not
     seem to have gained above four or five inches in the last ten years,
     while some of the beeches and oaks have added above a foot to
     their circumference.
        There are several birches of a much later date from  9 1/2 to
     10 1/2 feet, and also some old Scotch firs measuring from 8 feet 5
     inches to 10 feet.  The seed from which a plantation of Scotch
     firs, along the side  of the turnpike road near Blair-Drummond,


