

                            WESTBAY                  121


The soil in Papa-Westray is generally of a deep loam, where
it has been long cultivated. In some parts, it is gravelly, in others
clayey, and in some places a poor and insipid sand.
   Zoology.-There is not, to my knowledge, in this island, any
animal that can properly be called rare, if we except a mouse,
and of light-brown colour. It is called by the inhabetants the
vole-mouse.  It is seldom or ever seen in a barn-yard or about
houses.  It commonly keeps by the sea shore, and burrows in the
ground, especially in old feal dikes and among stones. There
is a peculiarity in regard to this island, which may be mentioned,
and which,  I understand, holds in regard to some other islands in
this county, namely, that no rat can live in it.  It is asserted that,
though this quadrupped has often been imported by shipps, it never
survives for any length of time: whereas, in the other and less fre-
quented isle, it abounds, and is extremely destructive.  There it
was imported by a wrecked vessel.
   It is well known that the grey eagle, which now visits the island
only occasionally, was wont to nestle in the lofty precipices of the
shores on the north, but that the bird-catchers, years after, seiz-
ing upon their brood, drove them away to seek a safer retreat from the
hand of the spoiler. Hence, they are seldom seen here, except when
hovering about in quest of their prey, or on their passage to the
other and more inaccessible parts of the country, such as the Hoy
hills and Heads of Heday.
   It is only the smallest kind of sheep that thrives in Westray,
and the same observation holds in regard to cows. The larger
cows do not take well with the bare pastures of Westray. In a
few years, they degenerate into little more than the common breed
of the place. This is no doubt owing, in a great measure, to the
backward state of agriculture; the want of green crops, or the re-
quisite pasture for their feeding. In Papay, where the pastures
are bette, the larger breed of casttle and horses do pretty well.
   The haddock taken here is of the largest size, and very black
on the back parts.  Turbot is seldom got in our seas.  The dog-
fish is eaggerly sought after. both for oil and family use. It is often
got in great plenty towards the end of July, and during August
and September, following the shoals of herrings which in these
most serviceble for foods to the common people, and for light, from


