
                               EDDERTOUN                          455

	their Stipends, soon after the Reformation, which exists in manuscript
        in the Advocates' Library, there is the following notice
	or this and the neighbouring parish of Kincardine:-"Kincardin
	  -Etherthane. Farquhar Reid, exhortar, xl merkis, and xr
	merkis mair sen Lambmes 1569," From which it would appear
	that these two parishes were under the ecclesiastical charge and
	inspection of only one exhorter, the difficulty of getting Protestant
	ministers to supply parishes being very great at that remote period,
	when the nation was just emerging from Popery. The uext ec-
	clesiastical notice of Eddertoun occurs in the Register of Assig-
	nations of Ministers' Stipends for 1576, (MS. in Register Office,
	Edinburgh,) as follows:-"Eddirtayn; Donald Symsoun, reidare
 	at Eddertayn, his stipend xx merkis, with the kirk land thairof,"
	&c.
           From 1576 to 1638, a period of sixty-two years, there is nothing
        known regarding the ecclesiastical history of this parish;
	but since the latter year there is a complete Succession of parish
	ministers preserved.
	   Ministers of Eddertoun.-1. Mr Hector Monro, whose name
	occurs in the list of members of the famous General Assembly
        which met at Glasgow, 21st November 1638, as one of the commissioners
        from the Presbytery of Tayn: thus, "M. Hector Monro,
        min. in Nether Taine." Mr Monro was second son of Mr
        William Monro, parson of Coulecudden * <Footnote> in Cromartyshire, about
	the end of the sixteenth, or rather beginning of the seventeenth
	century, and was proprietor of the small estate of Daan, in this
	parish, which descended to his son. He was translated to the
	parish of Kincardine about the year 1665, and appears to have
	either conformed to Episcopacy, or been one of the indulged
	Presbyterian clergymen of that period.
	   Mr William Ross,-who succeeded, was Rector of Eddertoun

<FOOTNOTE>The parson of Cullicudden was nephew of Mr Donald (or John as it occurs in
	some places,) Munro, "Hugh Dean of the Isles," or Archdeacon of that diocese,
	"Superintendant of Ross, and minister of Kiltearn," who travelled through the most
	of these districts in the year 1549, and wrote An interesting account of, them in the
	Scottish dialect and orthography, the greatest part of which Buchanan adopted in
	his History of Scotland. He was appointed at the Reformation, "Commissioner to
	plant kirkis in Ross, and to assist the Bischope of Caitness (Robert Stewart. Earl
	of March, who was, however, not in priest's orders,) in semlable planting, to begyn,
	at Lambmes 1563, stipend iiijc (400) merkis." The eldest son of the parson of
	Cullicudden was Mr Robert Monro of Coull, minister of Kiltearn, and thereafter in
	Strathnever, and by his wife, Isobell Thorntown, daughter of tbc Laird of Dalgelly,
	had two other sons and a daughter. The family were cadets of the Munros of Fon.
	lis, being descended from George, thirteenth Baron of Foulis, (1425-1452,) and
	seem to have always had some of their sons in the church.


