
                          KINGUSSIE.                             63

suitable salary, would be of incalcuble benefit; but the people are
universally poor.  Two other schools would be useful.
    There is another school in the parish with a salary of L.7
for female children, who are taught English reading, writing, and
sewing, on the establisment of the Society in Scothland for Propa-
gating Christian Knowledge.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving aid from the funds under the management of the kirk-
session in 41; and the average sum annually allotted to each is
about 20s.  Instead of being disinclined, they solicit to be receiv-
ed on the poors roll, notwithstanding of the small pittance in the
power of the distributors to bestow.  The parish is not assessed
for their maintenance,--so that they depend on casual and volun-
tary charity, eked out by the produce of a plot of potato ground,
given to every one of them.
    Fairs.--There are two fairs held annually at Fort-Augustus, in
the beginning of June and end of September, for the sale of cattle
chiefly.  Pedlars and shoemakers from various quarters attend to
dispose of their merchandise.  There are besides occasional trysts,
in spring and autumn, for black-cattle.

    Written September 1831.
    Revised February  1835.

                     PARISH OF KINGUSSIE.

            PRESBYTERY OF ABERNETHY, SYNOD OF MORAY.

            THE REV. GEORGE SHEPHERD, MINISTER.

             I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
    Name.--Cennghiubhsaiche, the Celtic term for Kingussie, ap-
pears to have been adopted as the name of the parish, from its being
so descriptive of the site of the parish church.  It signifies the "Ter-
mination or Head of the Fir Wood."  When the name was given,
the church stood upon a plain at the eastern extremity of a clump
of wood, forming part of an immense forest of fir, which then co-
vered the face of the cuntry.
    Extent, &c.--Including hill and dale, the parish extend from
east to west a distance of about 21 miles, and from north to south





