
132                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

chiefly in the neighbourhood of Ormiston Hall. This appears from
the sinking of the surface in different places. The ground on which
the house stands has all been excavated: and in 1812, the ser-
vants were, one morning, surprised at seeing a large hole close by
the kitchen, which opened into a waste that extended 16 feet
below the ground floor of the kitchen. With the view of examin-
ing and clearing out this waste, a mine w`s cut through from the
face of the bank, in the ravine called the Haining, close by the
house on the north. When this mine in the course of operation
was carried near the waste, a great body of water suddenly burst
out and forced the miner before it at the risk of his life. The
waste was cleared out and solidly built up, a drain being left at
the bottom of the different branches of it, to carry off the water,-
by which means the house and court were rendered quite secure.
This operation required no less than 310 cart load of stones to com-
plete it.
   On the south of the Tyne, there are three workable seams of
coal, the uppermost of which is from 28 to 30 inches thick. It is
not known at what time a large proportion of this coal had been
wrought. The second seam is from 30 to 33 inches thick, and is
of a good quality. Much of this seam is already wrought out, but
there is still a portion remaining in the pleasure grounds, and the
large wood to the south-east of the house. The third or under
seam is from 33 to 43 inches thick, the working of which is at pre-
sent going on under many disadvantages. The lower half of its
roof is of weak tender blames, which permit only very narrow rooms
to be driven in the coal; and one-half of the seam is fit only for
lime coal. These seams have all along been wrought by means of
a free level. The elevation of the coal seams ir one in sixteen,
towards the south-east. No pit has yet been sunk in the low
ground near the river, although some of the best informed colliers
are of opinion it might be wrought there to great advantage; and
were the projected line of road from Pencaitland to Whitehouse
mill to be carried through, this change of the road would be at the
same time beneficial to Ormiston, and profitable to the proprietor.
   On the north of the Tyne, within the parish, the seams of coal
are all entire, except some cross workings of small extent, of which
no record is to be found. In the year 1822, when a well was sunk
in the south corner of a field occupied by the factor, close by the
glebe, a seam of coal 4 feet thick was met with, at only a few feet
from the surface; but no attempt has yet been made to trace it out.


