
                          BALMERINO.                        577

                          ADDENDUM.

  While these pages have been passing through the press, I have
been informed by Dr Anderson of Newburgh, to whom I am in-
debted for the geology of the parish, that an omission occurs in
the series of deposits, as described by him, and that, immediately
after the second paragraph in which the yellow sandstone is noti-
ced, several other beds should be stated as following in the order
of superposition.  Immediately above the yellow sandstone, a se-
ries of alternating beds of sandstone, coal, ironstone, and shale oc-
cur.  There are two thin seams of coal, the lowest of which may
be observed cropping out at the farm steading of Cults-Dam, and
the other beds have been quarried about a mile to the westward.
The thickness of the whole appears to be about 200 feet.
 For "orthocerates," in the next paragraph, read "orthoceratites."


                       PARISH OF BALMERINO.

                 PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                    REV. JOHN THOMSON, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, &c.-The name of this parish, according to the most an-
cient orthography, is Balmurynach, Balmerinoch, and more recent-
ly Balmerino,-terms obviously of Gothic origin, and compounded*
of two words signifying "Sailor's Town."  It would appear that
the name was first applied to a small village of remote antiquity,
pleasantly situated on the banks of the estuary of the Tay, and
which, so early as the thirteenth century, attracted the notice of the
court as an eligible summer residence,-Queen Emergarde having
frequently visited the place for the benefit of her health; and close
to which, in the testimony of her gratitude, she founded an abbey.
Naughton, the residence of the principal heritor in the parich, is
likewise a term of Gothic origin, which according to the manu-
script register of the priory of St Andrews, was anciently written
Doldanha, afterwards Chondrohedalion, Hydrat-nachten, Hadnac-
ten, all now smoothed down into the short, and to modern ears less
dissonant, epithet of Naughton.  The Picts, according to the best
authorities, had sole possession of the whole of this district of the
  FIFE.                                   o o


