

                             PARISH OF ALYTH.

               PRESBYTERY OF MEIGLE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

                     THE REV. WILLIAM RAMSAY, MINISTER.



               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name.-THE name of this parish and village has remained
       without material change from the earliest period to which it can
       be traced; and in the very oldest documents in which it occurs
       the spelling is exactly the same as at present.   In the parochial
       records and other documents, it sometimes appears in the forms
       of Alicht, Elicht, Elith, &c.; but these variations are evidently
       accidental, and can only be regarded as instances of the loose or-
       thography of ancient times.   The name is probably derived from
       the Gaelic aileadh, a slope or ascent (dh in the Gaelic language
       being pronounced like the English th,) and seems to refer to the
       slope on which the old church and the more ancient part of the
       village `re situated.  At least, no more plausible etymology has
       been suggested.  The same name, with precisely the same spell-
       ing, belonged to one of the suppressed bishoprics in Britany, where
       a Celtic dialect was spoken.
         Boundaries, &c.- The parish is bounded on the north, by Glen-
       isla; on the east, by Airlie ancl Ruthven; on the south, by Mei-
       gle; and on the west, by Bendochy, Blairgowrie, Rattray, and
       Kirkmichael.  It is separated from the parishes of Airlie and
       Meigle by the river Isla, and from Kirkmichael and a detached
       part of Bendochy by the Ericht or Blackwater.  It is of an
       irregular oblong form, narrowing from south-east to north-west,
       with a length of 15 miles, and a transverse breadth varying
       from less than 1 to above 6 miles.  The whole extent of the
       parish is 53.375 square miles, or 34,160 statute acres, much
       the greater part of which is uncultivated.  It is divided by
       the hills of Alyth, Loyall, and Barry, into two districts of
       unequal extent, differing completely in their character and
       features.  The lower and more fertile district lies on the south
       ef these hills in the valley of Strathmore, and forms an ir-


