
                        PAISLEY.                            247

num, which enables him to teach at a reduced rate of wages,
thus bringing the means of education within reach of a class
of our townsmen who could not have otherwise procured this
blessing to their offsring.  The rate of wages per quarter in
these sessional schools is 2s., and they are at present attended by
nearly 700 pupils.
   In the New Town, a commodious infant school, with dwelling-
house for the teacher, has been lately erected by public subscrip-
tion.  The ground was gifted by James Kibble of Greenlaw, Esq.
along with a handsome subscription, in aid of the building.  It was
opened in July 1835, and the average number of scholars that have
been since attending it is about 80.  The ministers of the town
as well as of the Abbey parish are trustees.
   In the town there is one charity school, founded by Mrs Mar-
garet Hutchison, and additionally endowed by a donation of L. 500
from the late Walter Carswell, Esq.  A commodious school-house,
capable of holding 250 pupils, has been erected; and there are al-
ways under tuition from 200 to 250 young persons.
   The inhabitants of Paisley having thus exerted themselves to
increase and improve the means of education, especially among the
poor and working-classes of the community, have also begun to
turn their attention to the introduction of an improved system of
education, for the benefit of those whose circumstances enable
them to give to their children the higher branches of instruction.
With this view, an Association has lately been formed, for the
erection of a seminary to be called " The Paisley Academy," in
which, French, Italian, and German, and other modern lan-
guages shall be taught, with the principles of mathematics, me-
chanics, and different branches of natural history and philosophy.
It is expected, that, if the plan succeed, the Paisley Academy will
have associated with it a regular " school of arts," so as to furnish
to the inhabitants of Paisley and its neighbourhood, the means of
completing the education of those of their children not intended
for one of the learned professions, without the necessity of send
ing them to a distance.
   Theological Halls.-Paisley is the seat of not less than two se-
minaries for theological education; the one connected with the
Reformed Presbyterian Synod, and under the charge of the Rev.
Andrew Symington, D. D.; the other connected with the, Relief,
Synod, and under the charge of the Rev. James Thomsom, D. D..
  RENFREW                           R


