
			KELTON.                           147

lake called the Carlinwark Loch. It covers a surface of about
l00 acres. In the year 1765, this lake was partially drained
by a canal of about a mile and a-half in length, cut from it to the
river Dee. Six feet of water were thus withdrawn, and the loch
was reduced from 180 acres to its present extent. This drainage
was made for the purpose of procuring marl, an inexhaustible
store of thd very, best sort of that useful manure--the shelly kind
--being contained in the loch, and the mosses that were then ex-
posed. The canal served the double purpose of draining the lake,
and of conveying the marl in boats to the Dee, from which it was
carried to all the inland parishes which lie upon that river and the
Ken. Being thus reduced to the level of the Dee, the Carlin-
wark Loch is commonly a tributary to the river; but after a heavy
fall of rain it acts as a reservoir, being raised many feet, and all
the adjoining marshes being overflowed by the influx of the
river.
	The great road from London to Portpatric runs along the
north-western margin of this lake, whose beauty never fails to
command the attention and admiration of the traveller. It is con-
fessedly the most lovely sheet of water in the south of Scotland;
nor are there many of the Highland loch with which it would
suffer by being brought into comparison. It is fringed with wood
down to the water's edge, and studded with finely wooded islands,
which afford harbour to all kinds of waterfowl. Overlooking the
lake, the passenger has a remarkably fine view of the castle and
woods of Gelston, with the magnificent background of Dungyle
the Skreel, and Bengairn. Even after it had enriched its pro-
prietor, Mr Gordon of Greenlaw and fertilized the whole sur
rounding country by tbe marl which it yielded, this beautiful loch
was sold to the late Sir William Douglas for L. 2000.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--No coal, lime, or freestone is found
in this parish. In the mountains there is abundance of ironstone
of superior quality; but the absdnce of coal, difficulty of access,
and distance from the sea coast, must ever prevent its being ex-
tensively used. The prevailing rock is of the transition formation
--viz. slate and greywacke. The strata of greywacke exhibit
many varieties; some, which are called in the country whinstone,
are of a blue, or greyish-brown colour; of a hard and compact
grain; gdnerally break irregularly, but sometimes split into pa-
rallel slices, of which large coarse slates are made. The beds
of this stone are of various thickness, from half an inch to many


