
                   FORTINGAL.                               539

large beams of wood fixed to each other.  This island was some-
times used as a place of safety in cases of emergency; at other
times, as a place of confinement for such as rebelled against or of-
fended the chief. To this retreat, there is a road from a point on
the South side,-which road is always covered with three or four feet
of water, is very narrow, and has a great depth on both sides ot it.
  The scenery of Loch Rannoch is grand and picturesque, es-
pecially when viewed from near the east end, whence you
behold a vast body of water which covers the whole level be-
tween the hills. The whole south side, from the very margin
of the lake to half way up the face of the mountains seems
one continued forest of native birch and pine, known by the name
of the "black wood of Rannoch," hiding in its bosom here and
there as you go along, several beautiful farm villages and gentle-
men's seats. The north side, also, presents alternately extensive
woods and well cultivated spots.
  On both sides of the lake, the hills retire-gradually leaving an
immense expanse open to the view of the beholder. Above the
first tier, the highest mountains, present to the eye, their, dusky
summits; and the snowy peaks of Glenetive and Glencoe, are seen
in the west, at the distance of 40 miles as if piercing the, highest
clouds.
  Loch Erochd.-This lake extends from the head of Rannoch
in a north-easterly direction towards the stage-house of Dalwhinnie,
fully 16 miles. Its mean breadth may be reckoned one mile. A
great portion of it belongs to this parish; the rest to the parish of
Laggan,Inverness-shire. It is surrounded on both sides by craggy,
steep, and lofty mountains, of dreary apperance; but beautiful
spots are seen, here and there, on which shooting quarters
erected, and where game of all kinds, are to be met with in great
abundance. Not with standing its elevated situation its water never
freezes. *

<FOOTNOTE>Before leaving Loch Erochd, it may not be improper to notice a very old
but vague traditions prevalent, regarding the circumstances of its original forma-
tion. The tradition, old beyond the memory of several generation back, bears that
the whole space now coverd with the waters of the lake, was once an inhabited dis-
trict, and formed a parish called the parish of Feadail; that, in the courea of one
night, after the inhabitants had retired to rest, the flood-gates of some great subtor-
ranean body of water were thrown open by some fearful, convulsion of nature, and the
whole district or parish of Feadail was thus in undated, and the population, with
their cattle, houses and fields, overwhelmed by this sudden and awful catastrophe.
  The tradition also bears, that, for a long period of years, the church, and other re-
markable houses and objects were distinctly to be seen on a clear summer's day, un-
der the water. On the confines of this lake. Prince Charles Edward Stuart took
shelter for some time, after the battle of Culloden.


