
134                         STIRLINGSHIRE.


gregation, through no fault of, the minister, who is the first that
was placed in it, has fallen off to about 200 individuals in ordinary
attendance on Sabbath. The communicants, be was understood
to say to the Royal Commissioners, were once 320, but are now
not more than 271. His stipend is L.100 per annum. He has
no bond or security for its payment. He has a manse, a garden,
and small grebe.
   There are not four Episcopalians in the parish: but the Ro-
man Catholics may amount to 50, nearly all Irish.
   There is a Bible Society connected with the Established Church,
for which there is annually collected and subscribed about L.7.
The four schemes of the General Assembly, and the new object
for promoting the restoration of Israel to the Christian Church,
are all less or more supported by the people of the Establishment.
The Dissenting brethren do much in the way of similar works in
their congregations; in particular, the contributions to Christian
objects by the congregation at Loanhead, are stated to be large
and exemplary. The parochial contributions for these objects
may be estimated L.80 annually. The church door collec-
tions are not more than one-fourth of this sum.
   Ministers of the Parish of Denny since the Revolutio 168. *
Thomas Watson; ordination, time unknown; death, March
1733. William Bennet, + 22d August 1738; translated to Dud-
dingston. Edward Anderson, 23d September 1747; died April
1749. James Turnbull, 14th August 1750 ; died 20th Decem-

<FOOTNOTE>Communicated by the Rev. Alexander Leitch, Clerk of the Presbyter of Stir-
ling.
     Probably; for all the letters on the tombstone cannot be traced.
     The parish was in a state of disquietude and dissatisfaction, during the five years
which intervened between Mr Watson's death and the induction of Mr Bennet. A
presentation was issued by the Crown in favour of Mr James Stirling, and another
by Herbertshire; but tbe majority of the parish were in favour of a Mr Penman.
The great objection against Mr Stirling was his acceptance of a presentation. This
objection seems to have weighed very much with the Presbytery, which, at that
time, was decidedly of an anti-patronage character. Once, the Presbytery refused,
at the order of the Commission, to take Mr Stirling on trials for ordination, and
twice thereafter, the order of the Assembly itself to the same effect.  For the
third time, in 1737, the Assembly issued its order to effect the settlement before Sep-
tember, that year; and in case of its not being done by that time, the synod of Perth
and Stirling, at its meeting in October, were to take up the case, and to proceed with
the settlement ; and in case of their not doing so within a given time, the Assembly
appointed a commission to accomplish it before their next meeting. Even this pe-
remptory order, the Presbytery found means of evading. What became of Mr Stir-
ling afterwards, does not appear from the record. Some time thereafter, a petition is
presented to the Presbytery, to allow certain probationers therein named, to preach
as, candidates. Mr William Bennet, one of these, was chosen and ordained 22d
August 1738.


