
                ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                  333

Dunvegan, and was a near relation of the Macleod family.  It is
now, however, considerably decayed, and threatens soon tb crum-
ble into ruins except it be repaired.
   Lady Grange.--There are the ruins of two religious houses to
be seen in the parish,-one in the valley of Glendale, the other
at Trumpan, in the district of Vaternish.  The history of both
seems to be completely lost.  In the latter place is interred the
ill-fated Lady Grange, whose singular history accords better
with the dark ages of barbarism than with the general character
of the times in which she lived and died.
   Some very romantic and fabulous accounts have been given of
this lady's sufferings ; but the following particulars have been
stated to us on authority which deserves regard.  She was the
daughter of Cheisly of Dalry, a man of violent passions, whose
temper she unfortunately for herself inherited.  She became the
wife of Mr Erskine of Grange, who was made a Lord of Session,
in 1707, by the title of Lord Grange, and was Lord Justice-Clerk
during the latter years of Queen Anne's reign.  He was brother
to the Earl of Mar, who headed the ill-conducted Rebellion of
1715 against the House of Hanover; and though he did not
openly join the rebels, yet he aided them with his counsel, and
wealth.  His house was a frequent rendezvous to the disaffected
gentry and nobility; and his wife, who was not privy to the con-
spiracy, soon became suspicious of such frequent and numerous
meetings under her roof.  With the curiosity natural to her sex,
she resolved to possess herself of the secret of their proceedings,
and accomplished her object by hiding herself under a sofa during
one of the conferences.  She was warmly attached to the reign-
ing family.  Her love to Lord Grange, who treated her with much
harshness and unkindness, was by no means deep or cordial.  A
quarrel--no rare occurrence--took place between them, when she
threatened to revenge herself by disclosing his traitorous purpose
to the Government under which he lived.  He knew her violence
and her resolution too well to doubt of her fulfilling her pro-
mise; and seeing that his own safety and that of all his accom-
plices were at stake, he instantly called a meeting of them, in or-
der to devise a remedy against the danger which surrounded them.
It was agreed at this conference that she should immediately be
looked up; that a report of her death should be spread abroad ;
and that the Lairds of Macleod of Dunvegan, and Macdonald of
Sleat, whose territories were very remote, should remove her, in


