
226                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

Under the salutary, and this quarter all-pervading influence of
his example, the alternate "butt and baulk," and the serpentine
ridge disappeared; land was cleaned, drained, and limed; regu-
lar fields were formed: artificial grasses and turnips were intro-
duced, and the system of convertible husbandry finally banished
the antiquated and rude management by "outfield and infield."
After this, the rotation for some time observed was one of six years,
including two years of grass and two grain crops in succession; but
this having in most cases been found deteriorating to the soil, the
management was gradually changed to a rotation of five years, admit-
ting but one grain crop, after two years of grass; or to a rotation of
seven years, under which two successive grain crops are permitted,
but the severity of them modified by a previous rest of three years in
grass. These are the rotations now in general use, unless where a
rotation of four years has been introduced, as supposed better suited
to some peculiar soils. In this way, within the last sixty years, the
greater part of the land in Dunnottar has, from the worst mode of
management, and comparative sterility, been advanced to a pitch
of improvement, not inferior to that of any district in this part of
the country. Hardly any farm in the parish is now without a
thrashing-mill, moved either by water or animal power, and one
spirited tenant in it has lately attached a steam-engine to his
thrashing-machine.
	Quarries.--In this parish, the only quarry of noticeable extent
is in the sandstone cliff above the harbour of Stonehaven, which
has been wrought for a great many years, and has furnished stones
for the greater number of the houses in that town. It has the name
of the Redcraig, and from a part of it called Sclatecowes, a lump-
ish sort of flag was formerly taken, and used for the purpose of
slate. With these some of the primitive houses in the town are
still covered.
	Fishings.--There is no salmon-fishing in Dunnottar, although
it is thought some of its headlands admit of the lately introduced
mode of fishing with bag-nets. White fishing in the sea is the sole
occupation of the villagers of Crawton, and it is carried on by the
crews of five or six boats at Stonehaven. The parish is thus well
and cheaply supplied with various kinds of fish, as haddock, whit-
ing, cod, ling, skate, halibut, flounders, and occasionally turbot.
Lobster and crabs are caught in abundance, and of excellent qua-
lity. Herring-fishing is now prosecuted with enterprise at Stone-
haven, where curing establishments have been formed; and the


