
			   FENWICK.				775

ent periods, been met with, but till lately did not appear in such
quantity as to promise an adequate remuneration for working it.
It is proved, however, that the parish is abundantly supplied with
coal. And it is to be hoped that the enterprise of the proprietor,
the Marquis of Hastings, will be amply rewarded. On the same
lands, iron has been found in great abundance, one bed measuring
five feet in thickness.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	The history of Fenwick may be said to commence at the pe-
riod of its disjunction from the parish of Kilmarnock in 1642. At
that time, the parishioners seem to have been in a state of great
ignorance, as may be seen from the following passage from the
Memoirs of the Rev. Mr Guthrie," its first pastor. "Most of
his parishioners had hitherto been destitute of the common means
of instruction, and of the ordinances of religion; and it was only
the glaring want of church accomodation and instruction in this
neglected part of an old overgrown parish, that caused the forma-
tion of the new parish of Fenwick. Mr Guthrie, in consequence,
found them in a very low state of moral and mental improvement.
Vice had grown up in all its wildness and deformity on the basis
of ignorance. And the age and general features of that time gave
a severity and harshness of expression to the manners of those who
had enjoyed neither the softening influences of the Gospel, nor
the bland impressions of high civilization. But, in proportion to
the stubbornness of the soil, and the difficulty of breaking it up,
were the effects of his ardour and diligence conspicuous; and the
condition in which he found them, was a strong contrast to the ge-
nuine piety and moral feeling which a few years of his labours in-
troduced. He found them wandering without a guide, and sunk
in all the consequences of a neglected education. He brought
them into the great fold of the Gospel, and enlightened them by
everv means which his powerful and judicious management devis-
ed. both in the pulpit and out of it. He found them heedless of
the Sabbath;-some loitering in the fields; some gossiping in
their neighbours' houses; almost all spending it as a day of plea-
sure, without considering the important blessings it brought to the
improvement of their immortal souls. He soon gained their atten-
dance on all the ordinances of the Gospel, and their special ob-
servance of keeping sacred the Lord's day. He found a sad lack
of family devotion among them; few families in his parish, in the
course of his ministry, could be singled out as omitting this solemm


