
12                        ELGINSHIRE.

the agricultural population of the surrounding district, with the
necessaries, and such of the luxuries of life as their respective cir-
cumstances enable them to reach.
   The following statement exhibits the branches of industry in which
the male population of the parish above twenty years of age are em-
ployed. 1. Farmers, cottars, and servants employed in agriculture,
365; 2. Master manufacturers, 6; 3. Masters and workmen in retail
trade and handicraft, 703; 4. Capitalists, bankers, professional, and
educated men, 113; 5. Labourers, employed by the classes, Nos. 2,
3, and 4, 151; 6. Retired tradesmen, superannuated labourers, and
males diseased in body or mind, not included above, 77; Taxed male
household servants under twenty years of age, 12; above twenty
years of age, 8; female servants, 480.
   Agriculture.-The plans and measurements of the large estates
in the parish are generally of an old date, and do not give an ac-
curate account of their contents of waste and arable land; and it
is equally difficult to get any correct knowledge of the extent of
the small properties around the town. In stating the number of
the imperial acres in the parish cultivated or occasionally in til-
lage, and also what is uncultivated and under wood, it must be un-
derstood that only an approximation to the truth is given, from the
best information that could be obtained.

<TABLE>
	Imperial acres cultivated or occasionally in tillage,		7000
                        	remaining waste or in pasture,		3000
                        	under wood,	                 	1500

   There is a very considerable extent of waste land, particularly
on the south side of the parish, which might be profitably cultivat-
ed, if sufficient encouragement were given by the land-owners, as
lime works most beneficially on the new soil, and raises heavy crops
of grain and grass. A common between the estates of the Earl
of Fife and Mr Cuming of Blackhills has been recently divided,
and though the westmost and most extensive part of it is almost
inaccessible to wheel carriages, and no allowance given for build-
ing, or for the land improved, beyond a lease of scarcely the ordi-
nary endurance at a trifle of rent per acre, yet it is astonishing to
see with what spirit the industious settlers are bringing large tracts
into culture. It is the general opinion that a sum of money laid
out in makin roads, in a very moderate allowance per acre for im-
provements, and in planting, would be amply repaid to the proprie-
tor, and make almost the whole of this waste a cultivated and or-
namental field. There is no natural wood in the parish, and it has
been already mentioned, that larch and Scotch firs preponderate


