
302                           FIFESHIRE.

afternoon, and occasionally also in the evening; the yearly ce-
lebration of the Lord's Supper in the month of May; a Sab-
bath evening school; prayer meetings held once in two months;
and the usual visitations of the sick by the minister. The average
yearly number of communicants for the first time is about 9.
The communicants, in all, are about 330; of whom 85 are on
the roll as male heads of families, according to the General As-
sembly's act on Calls. The probable average amount of extra-
ordinary collections made in the church, for charitable and mis-
sionary purposes, is L. 8 annually.  A Bible and Missionary So-
ciety, composed of members belonging to the Established Church
in the parishes of Anstruther and Kilrenny, has, since its forma-
tion three years ago, distributed yearly to various missionary objects
about L. 18.
  There are three Dissenting meeting-houses in this parish-
Burgher, Independent, and Baptist.  The families connected with
them, belonging to the parish, are, in all, about thirty-three. There
is also a Bible and Missionary Society, composed of members be-
longing to the different denominations of Dissenters, whose funds
are believed to be considerable.
  Education.-There is only one school in the parish, the
parochial or burgh school.  The branches taught are, reading,
writing, arithmetic, geography, and occasionally Latin.  The average
number of scholars attending the school is about 80.  The school-
house is upheld by the town, as also the teacher's dwelling-house,
which has a good garden attached, and was lately rebuilt. The
teacher is appointed by the Town-Council, and he has no other
salary than L. 5, 6s. 8d. per annum derived from the town. There
are two mortifications, Henderson's and Walker's, of L. 4 and L. 2
respectively, on the former of which a number of poor children are
educated.
  Friendly Societies.-1. The Sea Box Society was formed in 1618,
and incorporated by royal charter in 1784.  The funds were
originally raised by a subscription of 8d. in the pound of ship-
masters and seamen's wages; latterly by one guinea from masters
and six shillings from seamen; annually. The rent of lands in
the possession of the society amounts to about L.390 per annum,
out of which, provision is made for decayed shipmasters and sea-
men belonging to, or trading from the port, their widows, and
children, and grandchildren if orphans.  The management is
vested in the shipmasters, who choose a box-master and clerk and
                        3

