
560	                      LANARKSHIRE.

Glasgow, to work up cotton fabrics. These weavers are as often
found handling implements of manual labour in the field as on the
loom-board,-the former employment being found more pleasant
and more rofitable than the latter.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Towns.-There is no market-town in the parish; the
nearest are those of Lanark and Carnwath,--the first, four; and
the other, two and a half miles distant from the church.
	Villages.--There are two villages in the parish,--Carstairs, con-
taining the church and parochial school, and Ravenstruther, a mile
and a half to the west. We have already spoken of the aspect of
Carstairs village, and the improvelent made on it by the proprie-
tor. It contains 420 inhabitants, Ravenstruther 100.
	Inns.--There is one inn in the village of Carstairs, the tenant
of which is licensed to retail spirits. A second existed for a short
period; but the license being withdrawn, the premises were con-
verted to other uses. One inn is quite sufficient for the place and
the parish, if even one be necessary. There is not a drunkard in
the parish.
	Means of Communication.--The great road from Lanark to
Edinburgh by Carnwath, as well as that by Wilsontown, and the
road from Glasgow to Peebles, all pass through this parish, and
are kept in excellent repair. The parish roads, kept up by the
statute labour conversion money, are also in excellent order. A
coach from Lanark to Edinburgh plies daily, and is well support-
ed. The means of communication are thus abundant.
	Ecclesistical State.--The earliest information which can be col-
lected on this subject is, that, in A. D. 1170, the church and ba-
rony of Carstairs, with right to present to the benefice, were, by
several bulls from different popes, confirmed to Robert Wishart,
Bishop of Glasgow, during the period when Bruce and Baliol con-
tended for the Scottish Crown, and referred the decision of their
right to Edward I. of England, who usurped the sovereignty. This
church and barony remained vested in the see of Glasgow till the
total demolition of church property, at the Reformation in 1588.
The rectory of the church of Carstairs, with its property and re-
venues, had been constituted a prebend of the Cathedral church
of Glassgow, and the cure was served by a vicar. By a taxition of
the prebends in that bishopric in 1401 for the use of the Cathed-
ral, Carstairs was at the time assessed in two merks per annum.
In Bagimon's Roll the prebend was taxed L. 4 Scots yearly;



