
                           LOCHWINNOCH.                       105

than once a-week, besides carriers passing through the parish week-
ly to Greenock, Port-Glasgow, &c.  For facilitating this in-
tercourse, there are excellent turnpike roads and bridges in all di-
rections.  Fences are raised everywhere, and there are private
roads, generally good, to every part of the parish that is inhabited.
A stage coach passes twice a-day along the road between Beith
and Paisley, about a mile south from the village of Lochwinnoch.
It leaves SaItcoats at 6 a.m., passes this a little after 8, and
reaches Glasgow at half-past 10 o'clock. It leaves, Glasgow about
4 P.M., and passes this a little after 6 o'clock.  The course of a
canal between Glasgow and Ardrossan, passing along the side of
Castle-Semple Loch, was marked off about thirty years ago, and
the canal was actually made as far as Johnstone; but it has never
been carried farther, and the original design is now, I believe,
abandoned.  But an act of Parliament has been obtained to form
a rail-road throughout the same line of country, and it has been
executed from the harbour of Ardrossan as far as the coal-works
in the neighbourhood of Eglington; but, I suspect, it will not soon
be carried through to Glasgow.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church was built in 1806 on a
new site opposite to the elegant west gates of Castle-Semple, and
on the west of Harvey's Square.  It is a large building, which
ought to have been square, but its corners are rounded off so as
to make it an irregular-sided octagon. It is well finished and
painted within, and lets to about 1150 sitters; but when packed
it will hold 200 or 300 more.  It has a neat spire, though rather
short. Beneath this spire, there is a paved area enclosed with ele-
gant columns, having three large and high-arched openings be-
tween them corresponding to the three large doors in the front of
the church.  It stands in a field where no person has hitherte been
buried, surrounded on three sides with a high wall; on the
front of the church there is a parapet wall, surmounted	by an
iron railing and two handsome gates, one at each end of the
wall.  The field is ornamented with trees and flowering shrubs.
The situation of the church is sufficiently convenient for the in-
habitants of the village and those on the north side of the loch;
but it is far from those in the eastern extremity of the parish, and,
in consequence of this, some of them do not attend it, but go to
Johnstone chapel.  There are no free sittings in the church, ex-
cept part of two table-seats; and the other seats are let so dear as
to be a very heavy burden upon poor person.  They vary from


