
                          INCHTURE.                    831

from Clunie, having died 14th December 1737, and his ordi-
nation having only taken place 21st March 1739.  He was
called to Stirling in 1770, and was, (as is perhaps not generally
known,) the author of the 49th paraphrase, in which Christian
love, "of all the graces best," is pourtrayed in all its charms.
His son was regularly called, and settled in this parish 21st Fe-
bruary 1771.  Afterwards he was translated to the Tolbooth
church in Fdinburgh, where he was reckoned an eminent mini-
ster of the Gospel of Christ.
   The late Commodore Douglas is also deserving of being noticed
here. Leaving the parish school, he entered into the service of a lady
in Edinburgh, who obtained admission for him as a midshipman
into his Majesty's service.  He rose by degrees through several
of the subsequent steps, and ultimately terminated his career as a
Commodore in the Portuguese service.  He bequeathed L. 1000
to the industrious poor of this, his native parish.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, the Right Honourable the
Lord Kinnaird, Captain R. K. Trotter, and James Vaughan Al-
len, Esq.
   Parochial Registers.-There are nine volumes of parochial re-
gisters, sessional records, heritors' minutes, &c. pretty regularly
kept.  The earliest entry is 1623.  For a considerable period in
the beginning of that century, there were no records of session
kept, and different kinds of business were mingled together
throughout several of the volumes.  Some of the records of the
parish of Rossie are preserved in one of the volumes.
   For a long period, baptisms seem to have been attested by
witnesses; and it was a common practice at one time to certify on
behalf of those travelling into England, as reapers, &c. that they
Were not "rebels."
   Antiquities.-The cross, which occupied a prominent place in
the village of Rossie, still remains, though there is scarce a vestige
of the habitations that once surrounded it.
   On a somewhat romantic elevation at the foot of the den, and
the southern terminus of the hill, are the interesting ruins of the
ancient church of Rossie, overgrown with ivy and ash, while
around it lie the remains of generations which have passed away.
   To the eastward of these ruins, and on the boundary of the pa-
rish, is a large stone, which is spoken of in the neighbourhood as
the "Falcon stane," and to which the subjoined paragraph, from



