
    388                             PERTHSHIRE.

    The number of proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards, is      14
    The number of unmarried men, upwards of 50 years ofage, is
               of bachelors,                                                            39
               of widowers,                                                             22
                            women upwards of 45 years of age,                           34
       The number of insane persons is, 3; of fatuous persons, 6; of blind  pesons,   3
    and of deaf and dumb persons, 4.
       The number of illegitimate births in the parish during the last three years
    three years has been 9.
       Where so large a proportion of the inhabitants is employed in
    and dependent on manufactures, by the frequent and often violent
    fluctuations of which they are necessarily affected, a great deal of
    distress is occasionally experienced.  Still, however, the people
    are, in gdneral, contented with their situation and circumstances.
       In their intellectual character, they are shrewd and deliberate,
    rather than acute.  Where they have enjoyed the advantages of
    early and careful cultivation, the natural strength of their intellec-
    tual powers becomdr sufficiently conspicuous.  In respect of moral
    character, the people, as a body, may justly be said to be decent,
    industrious, and orderly.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.

       Agriculture. The whole number of imperial acres which the
    parish contains as nearly as can be estimated from the actual mea-
    surement of each property, is 8626, all of which are either culti-
    vated or occasionally in tillage, witti the exception of those portions
    which are tinder wood.
       The whole amount under wood, including hedgerows, does not
    much exceed 200 acres.  Very few, if any, of the trees are indige-
    nous. They are confined entirely to the poorer soils, or to the
    grounds around the residences of the principal proprietors.  Ex-
    cept in two or three localities, none of those which have been plant-
    ed for economical purposes have advanced so far as to be cut for
    timber.  The young wood seems to be under good management,
    every attention being paid to its periodical thinning and prunidg.
       Rent.-The average redt of arable land in the parisb does not
    at present exceed L3, 3s. or 1. 3, 5s. per Scotch acre, which, at
    the former of these rates, is just L. 2, 1 Os. per imperial acre.  The
    land is still generally let by the Scotch acre and the rent now com-
    monlx agreed upon for.-tbe best soil, is four bushels of wheat, six
    bushels of barley, and six bushels of oats, converted into money at
    the annual fiars prices of the county.  In some instances, it is sti-
    pulated, thaf the maximum price paid for all these three kinds and
    ouanfities united, shall not exceed 3, 7s. whatever the fiars
    prices may happen to be, in other words  that the fiars shall regu-


