
       18                         Orkney                                                                              18                        ORKNEY.

       very numerous in the warm summer evenings, and often trouble-
       some to those occupied in the open air.
         Botany.-- There is a great variety of plants in the pasture
       and meadow grounds, and they are general over the whole county;
       some of which are, mint (Mentha), marsh marigold (Caltha palus-
       tris), thyme (Thymus serpyllum), foxglove (Digitalis purpurea),
       scurvy-grass (Cochlearia officinalis), water-cresses (Nasturtium
       officinale), cranesbill (Geranium cicularium), trefoil (Lotus corni-
       culatus), coltsfoot (Tussilago farfara).
         There are no trees except a few in gardens, which become stunted
       when they rise above the walls.  The willow (Salix repens,) is found
       in low ground along rivulets; also (angustjfolia,) but this appears to
       have been planted.  Hazel-nuts have been, of late, turned up by
       the plough, though none of the trunks have been discovered.
       Wbins (Ulex Europceus,) are found in some places, and no doubt
       is entertained that they have been raised from seed.  Turnips of
       different kinds thrive well, as also carrots and cabbages.  The soil
       and climate seem abundantly favourable for leguminous crops.

                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         Earl Paul, the second of that name, who lived towards the close
       of the eleventh century, had a magnificent palace in this parish,
       the ruins of which are still perceptible on the sbore of Swambister.
         Eminent Men.--The late Sir William Honyman, Lord Arma-
       dale, an eminent Judge in the Court of Session, was a native of
       this parish, and the principal landed proprietor in it.  The resi-
       dence of his ancestors was in the Hall of Claistran.
         Murdoch Mackenzie, Esq. author of the Charts, though a na-
       tive of Kirkwall, was proprietor of Groundwater in this parish, and
       of lands in different parts in this county.  Thomas Mackenzie,
       Esq. the present proprietor, is his direct descendant.
         Parochial Register.--The earliest date of baptisms is 1711; of
       marriages, 1718; of deaths, 1817.  This last was begun, in con-
       sequence of the express orders of the General Assembly.
         Antiquities.--Besides the ruins of Earl Paul's palace, already
       mentioned, there are, in various places along the coasta, from Hou-
       -ton-head eastward, the ruins of various buildings, which are sup-
       posed to be the remains of Popish chapels, and have nothing strik-
       ing in their appearance.  There are three tumuli which have not
       been opened,--one near the church on level ground,--another
       near the manse, a little more elevated; and both may be seen from


