
64                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

tion, there are only 2 persnos insane; 3 fatuous; 2 blind; and 1 deaf
and dumb.
  The dialect spoken is distinguishable, although it does not differ
much, from that of the west coast used by Burns. The finest
specimens of it in spirit, characteristic features, and idiom, are to
be found in the dialogue of those of the Waverley Novels, where
the scene is laid at or near the Scottish border. There are in-
stances in which that author admits an old word, not at present in
general use; and the reading habits of the people have insensibly
led them to incorporate with their conversational sytle much of the 
classical language of the country.
  The dress of the common people, from which every peculiarity
has long ago disappeared, is always becoming, and in good repair;
and on particular occasions, when they appear in their "Sunday's
best," it differs little from the of the upper classes. For some
years past, they seem to have been rather in straitened circum-
stances, owing to the low rate of wages, and the scarcity of work;
but by industry, temperate habits, and frugal management, they
make a shift to maintain themselves and their families comfortably;
and there are few of them who have not saved a sum of money,
upon which they can draw in any emergency. It may be truly
said, that they are an intellectual, moral, and religious people; and
that, through the excellent education which they universally receive,
and their natural capabilities, they are becoming more so every day.
  Smuggling and pawnbroking are unknown. The game laws, to
the credit of the proprietors be it spoken, are very leniently en-
forced. The parties seem to be upon honour with each other,-
the one not poaching beyond a certain extent; the other not push-
ing the enforcement of the law so far as persecution.
                  IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture and Rural Economy.-To the north of the Tweed
there are in this parish about 11,500 acres, either cultivated, or
occasionally in tillage; and about 7600, which remain continually
in pasture. The land to the south of the Tweed, which amounts
to about a third part of the whole parish, is all cultivated, except
the wide base of the Eildon Hills, and a stripe of moorland stretch-
ing from them towards the west. There are distinct traces of an-
cient culture upon the sides of the Eildons, and in the adjoining
moorland, in ground which at present none would think of subject-
ing to the plough. Are we to conclude that the soil of these
places was different in ancient times from what it is at present?



