
298                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

north and west of large extent, so level, that the draining of it
hitherto has not been very complete, from the want of proper fall
for the water.  This flat is still called the Knightland Moss,
though it has long ceased to possess that character, being now either
under the plough or in pasture.  The length of the parish from
north-east to south-west may be 7 miles; greatest breadth between
5 and 6 miles; in some places, however, the breadth is less than
2 miles.
   Meteorology.-The temperature in general may be described
as moderate, and the atmosphere wholesome, and the draining
through the parish being now very extensive, and for the most
part effectual, the climate must in consequence be greatly supe-
rior to what it had been in former years.  The north-west wind
is perhaps the most prevalent.
   Hydrography.-The only stream of any consequence in the
parish is the Bogie, which divides it on the west from the town
and parish of Huntly.  There are other insignificant streamlets or
burns inthe parish, and dividing it in part from neighbouring pa-
rishes.  Of these, the burn which on the east divides the lower
part ofthe parish from Forgue, is to be mentioned,-and the
Knightland Burn, which again divides part of the north district of
the parish from Kinore, once a separate parish, but which is now
united to the other old parish of Dumbennan,-they forming to-
getber the more modern parish of Strathbogie, or, as it is more
generally designed, Huntly.
   There are some mineral wells in the parish-none, however, of
note.  Their quality is chalybeate.  There are others that are
called saints' wells, and which are still distinguished by the saint's
particular name, or a corruption of the same-as one at Burnside,
in the neighbourhood of the church, called Teller's Well, an evi-
dent corruption of St Hilary's.  The time has been when peculiar
virtues were attributed to these, not from any mineral properties
which they were supposed to possess, but from the blessing of the
saint whose name they bear; but these and other similar supersti-
tions have, from the greater enlightenment of these Protestant
times, now very properly died away.
   There are no lakes or lochs in the parish.  A few years ago
there remained a small specimen of such at Silverhillock, the wa-
ters of which, it has been affirmed, ebbed and flowed like the tide,
but, as they be supposed, on no kind of evidence that can be sub-
stantiated.  Within these few years, by the application of proper


