
     The Statistical Account.

of the moss.  Hitherto the many and various difficulties that
presented themselves had been overcome by perseverance and
expence.  But here the extraordinary elevation of the mo-
rass, joined to its great fluidity, seemed to exclude all possibili-
ty of admitting a stream of water; and it was the general
opinion that the moss-operations had now arrived at their ne
plus ultra, and that this morals was doomed to remain a nui-
sance for ages to come.
   But the proprietor had now advanced so far that he could
not submit to retreat; and he considered himself as, in some
measure, pledged to the country for the completion of this
undertaking.  To detail the various methods practised to in-
troduce a stream of water into that morass, would prove te-
dious.  It is sufficient to say, that after a thousand unsuccess-
ful efforts, attended with much trouble and considerable ex-
pences the point at last was gained, and a stream of water was
brought in, and carried fairly across the centre of the morals.
   The greateft obstacle was now indeed overcome; but still
another remained of no small moment, namely, the discour-
agement given to settlers from the total impossibility of erect-
ing habitations upon the surface of this morass.  To find a
remedy for this evil was difficult.  Happily a resource at last
occurred.  This was to bargain with a certain number of the
old tenants whose habitations were nearest, to take leases of
portions of the morass.  But as some additional aid was here
necessary, it was agreed that 12 L. sterling should be gradually
advanced to each tenant till he should accomplish the clear-
ing of an acre, for which he or his successor is bound to pay
12 s. of yearly rent, equal to 5 per cent. upon the sum advan-
ced. When this point shall be gained, they are bound to dif-
pose, as most agreeable to themselves, either of their old or
of their new possession; for which, when once an acre is
cleared, purchasers will not be wanting.
     Y 2


