
                        ST ANDREWS.                             479

constructed near the centre of the harbour, for the purpose of re-
taining the water in the upper division, till the tide has retired,
when it is opened, and the water escapes in a torrent, carrying
along with it a portion of the sand which may have accumulated at
the bar. But even with this auxiliary the harbour is still defective,
and it does not appear to be susceptible of any material additional
improvement, unless at an expense far beyond what the funds of the
city can afford.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is in a central situation,
being nearly at an equal distance between the two extremities of
the parish. But there is a population of nearly 1000 individuals
in the western division, who are situated between two and a-half and
five miles from the parish church, and for whose accommodation,
it would be highly desirable to have a church and a minister.
And in the eastern division, there is a population of nearly 200,
most of whom are four miles from the parish church, while they
are not more than the half of that distance from the church of
Kingsbarns.
    The parish church, which was originally erected about the com-
mencement of the twelfth century, obtained a thorough repair in
1798, and is at present in a good condition. It is seated for about
2200. There are, however, no free sittings, the whole having
been divided by the Sheriff of the county, under the sanction of
the Court of Session, between the city and the landed proprietors.
A considerable proportion of the city's allotment was disposed of
to the several corporate bodies within its limits, for the accom-
modation of the members of these corporations and their families.
And the remainder was let every third year, by the city function-
aries, to such of the inhabitants as required church accommoda-
tion, and the revenue thus obtained was added to the city funds.
Several of the corporate trades have lately sold their allotments
of the seating, which now belong to private individuals. The size
and form of the church render it very unfavorable both for the
speaker and for many of the hearers. It has been ascertained
that there are nearly 500 sittings so situate, that the occupants
cannot distinctly hear what is uttered in the pulpit by any ordinary
speaker, and that in many of them they cannot even see the offi-
ciating minister. Hence, these pews are in general but thinly oc-
cupied, and many of them stand almost perpetually empty.

<FOOTNOTE>A handsome preeching station, which serves also for a school-house, has latelv
been erected in the village of Stratbkinness, which is central for this district of the
parish.


