
572			AYRSHIRE.

horizon is bounded by the serrated ridges of Cowal and the wavy
outline of the far receding bills of Perthshire, in advance of which, in
proud pre-eminence, stands Ben Lomond, the monarch of the scene.
The scenery inclosed by so noble a frame-work, especially when its
varied features are boldly relieved by the rays of the declining sun,
is well calculated to gladden the eye and exhilarate the heart of
the spectator. It may not inaptly be briefly characterized in more
appropriate terms, than we can command, as being composed of

	"Hills and dales, and woods and lawns and spires,
	And glittering towns, and gilded streams."

There are within the parish twenty-four miles of turnpike and
forty miles of parish roads, which occupy 224 acres; and there
are four corn and four lint-mills within its bounds. The parish
was accurately surveyed by Mr Robert Aitken, land-surveyor,
Beith, who, in 1829, published an atlas of the different parishes
in Cunninghame.'
	Hydrography.--The river Lugton takes its rise from Lochlibo,
and runs south-west through the parish for about three miles, and
after passing through the parish of Kilwinning, joins the Garnock
below Eglinton Castle. The Dusk rises at Threepwood, and falls
into the Garnock at Dalgarvan, below Dalry. There are no other
streams in the parish which merit particular notice. At Blaeloch-
head there is a small lake, which is thus noticed by Pont, the early
topographer of Cunninghame: "Blaa Loche, ed est, lacus palli-
dus, so named because qwhen the firmament is most serene and
cleir then is it palide and dead-coloured, contrair to all other in-
corrupt and sueit vatters." This loch has been partially drained.
There was in the day's of Pont a lake in front of Hazlehead Cas-
tle, but this has been entirely drained, so has the loch of Boghall,
as will be more particularly noticed afterwards.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--No granite nor other primitive rock
has been found in this parish. The greatest portion of it is formed
of what is sometimes called the great coal formation, and by Wer-
ner, the independent coal formation, and is classed by several au-
thors as constituting the upper series of the transition or interme-
diate rocks. A considerable extent consists of trap rocks, especi-
ally on the west and south-west parts of the parish; and in some
places, they rise into considerable hills.
	The coal measures extend along the whole of the west boun-
dary of the parish, for some miles to the south. On the east part
of the boundary on the estate of Woodside, William Patrick, Esq.
the proprietor of that estate, has found extensive beds of limestone,
				3


