
332                           AYRSHIRE.

ed from the different parishes around, is stated to be about 100.
The number of communicants in the Established Church is 417.
	Education.--The parish school and school-house are well situ-
ate, being close by the village. They are both in tolerable order.
The master's salary is the maximum, viz. L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d. There
are no Latin scholars at present. Besides the parish school, there
is a private one in the village very numerously attended. Another
is usually kept, about three miles distant from the church, towards
the lower part of the parish. One is also highly requisite in the
upper part of it, where a teacher is generally kept by the various
farmers and others connected with the district. As yet, however,
they have no proper school-house, though it is very much wanted.
It rarely happens that an individual brought up in the parish can-
not both read and write.
	Library.--There is a valuable and extensive library at Auchin-
leck House.
	Savings Bank.--At Cumnock, there is a Savings bank managed
by the parochial teacher. Those inhabitants of Auchinleck who
feel disposed to avail themselves of it, are permitted to do so,
though few take advantage of it.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 24, and the average sum allotted to each
per week is 1s. 1d., or L. 2, 16s. 4d. per year. The annual sum
required for the support of the poor is L.72, 10s. Of this sum
there is derived from a voluntary assessment on the part of the
heritors, L. 45; from church collections, L. 19; from seat rents,
L.4. 10s.; from interest on a mortification of L. 100, L. 2, 1Os.;
from mortcloth, L. 1, 10s. There is no disposition on the part
of the poor to refrain from seeking parochial relief, nor do they
seem to consider it degrading to receive it.
	Fairs.--The only fair of any consequence held in the parish is
the Lamb Fair, which takes place on the last Tuesday of August
annually, and, being the latest held in the country, is generally
much frequented.
	Inns and Ale-houses.--The number of these is six, and theyare
all in the village.
	Fuel.--As before-mentioned, there is abundance of coal in
this parish. In the upper part of it, a considerable quantity of peat
is used for fuel, of which also there is no scarcity.

	September 1837.


