
60                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

	The farm-buildings are generally in a good state, and sufficient
for the respective farms. Husbandry is in a state of high improve-
ment, the land carefully drained, and more or less of the waste
land is reclaimed every year. Many of the farmers deserve much
credit for their enterprising spirit in cultivating waste lands. Many
places which were a perfect wilderness twelve years ago, are now
drained, and producing excellent crops. Mr Scott of Brotherton
retains several farms in his own hands, and has brought them into
a state of high cultivation.
	The greater part of the land is unenclosed with permanent
fences, except on the coast, where some hundreds of acres are in-
closed with substantial stone dikes, about four or four and a-half feet
high; but the farmers frequently enclose portions of the lands with
wooden railings for one or two years, and the proprietors are ac-
customed to let grass fields to a considerable extent for summer
pasture, which bring good rents, varying from L. 1, 1Os. to L. 4 per
acre, according to the quality of the land.
	There are in the parish eleven farms provided with thrashing-
machines, more than half of which are driven by water.
        Quarries.-There is only one quarry of any importance in the
parish, which is at Benholme. The rock is a sandstone, not very
fine grained.
        Fishings.-The sea-fishing at Johnshaven was formerly much
more extensive than at present. Its decline is, in great part, at-
tributed to the system of impressment pursued during the war.
The fish caught are chiefly cod, haddocks, and turbot, with some
species of inferior importance. At the distance of several miles
from the shore, large fish, both cod and ling, are plentiful. The
fish caught are partly sold in the parish, chiefly to fish-curers,
partly carried inland to Laurencekirk, Fordoun, &c. Some are
also carried to Montrose. An attempt has been made for two years
to establish a salmon-fishery in this parish, but with little suc-
cess. The coast being rocky is not favourable for stake-nets.
        Manufactures.-The only branch of manufacture in the parish
is linen manufacture, in which about 230 hands are employed.
The weavers usually work about sixteen hours a day.
        Navigation.-Three sloops belong to Johnshaven, chiefly em-
ployed in the coal trade, and sometimes in exporting grain. The
tonnage altogether amounts to 150 tons.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Town.-There is no market-town in the parish, and
                           4



