
                       DUNOON AND KILMUN.                       593

licate shell-fish is capable of being cultivated; the more the sand
which it inhabits is turned up in searching for it, giving it in.pro-
cess of time a consistency and degree of hardness which seems to
favour the growth and increase of the cockle. Considerable quan-
tities might, even now, at every tide be gathered; and it milrht
afford profitable occupation to many a humble individual, were but
local prejudices surmounted. At spring-tides, and especially those
occurring about the time of the vernal equinox, when the greatest
extent of sea-sand along the coast is laid bare, spout-fish, or razor-
fish, are found in great numbers. The ordinary minor tribes of
shell-fish abound along the coast.
                       II.-Civil History.
No ancient history of this district is known to exist. But there
are not entirely wanting notices and references, in writings of un-
doubted antiquity, indicatin that, in the earlier centuries, there
was close and constant intercourse between Ireland and the dis-
trict of Cowal. The tradition of the Lamonts being the posses-
sors of the whole district of Cowal is still universal among the,
native inhabitants. And whatever may bave.been the fact, as to
whether that clan sprung from the Dalriadic colony, or whether
they were the descendants of a still earlier race of occupants,it is
obvious, so far as tradition can go to establish it, that the La-
monts assumed the superiority of this district at a very early period.
Mr Skene, in his very valuable work, " The Highlanders of Scot-
land," remarks, "there are few traditions more universally believed
in the Highlands, or which can be traced back to an earlier period,
than that the Lamonts were the ancient possessors of Cowal. And
it is abundantly clear, from historical notices connected with the
district, that thev continued to be the possessors of the district,
and their name the prevailing one, down to a petiod.comparatively
late,-the middle of the seventeenth century." Our notices on this
head must be necessarily brief. The general result of inquiries
directed to this subject is, that the extension of the power and
rights of the Scottish monarchy evidently operated as a disturbing
force on the more ancient order of things in this district, issuing
in the event, too frequently still the concomitant both of conquest
and colonization,-the dislodging of the native inhabitants, and
the rapid obscuration of their actual history. It appears that
Crown charters were unknown in Cowal down to the time of
Alexander IL. The first of the Stewart family is admitted to
have been Walter filius Alani, who had the island of Bute given
   ARGYLE


