
			COUSTORPHINE.                       223

   Ecclesiastical History and State--First Chapel and Parish Church.
As early as the reign of David I., we have notices of the existence
of a chapel attached to the manor of Corstorphine and subordinate to
the kirk of St Cuthberts. In a chapter by that monarch, to the Abbey
of Holyroodbouse, dated in 1128, be bestows on the canons of the
abbey, the kirk of St Cuthberts, along with the Chapel of Crostor-
fin,* and two bovates and six acres of land.  This chapel is also
noticed in the reign of Alexander II., when David le Marescchall
acquired two acres of ground belonging to it, which lay adjoining
to his estate of Crostorfin. It was afterwards converted into, or
superseded by, a parish church.
In the register of the Great Seal, the following donations to
this church are mentioned and confirmed by royal charters, viz.
1st, a donation in November 1465, by John Marshall, one of the
chaplains of the Collegiate Church of Corstorphine, of certain tene-
ments under the Castle wall of Edinburgh, for the maintenance
of a chaplain to serve at the altar of the Holy Trinity in the pa-
rish church; and, 2d, a donation, in September 1473, by William
de Camera, Vicar of Kirkurd, of property in the village of Cor-
storpbine, and annual rents, amounting to 11 merks 13s. 4d.Scots,
payable from several tenements in Edinburgh, for the support of
a secular chaplain to serve at the altar of St Ann in the parish
church. The duty of this secular chaplain, as described in the
Crown charter, is very characteristic of the times. He was to attend
the altar, and perform daily masses there, for tfie safety. of the soul.
of the late King James II.,-for the healthful state of King James
III.-for the safety of the souls of their royal predecessors and suc-
cessors, and of Sir Alexander Forrester of Corstorphine,-for the;
healthful state of Archibald Forrester of Corstorpbine, and for the
safety of the souls of his predecessors and successors-for the safety
of the souls of the father and mother of the donor, William de
Camera, and his ancestors and successors,-also of all to whom he
was indebted, or from whom be had ever received any thing while
in this world,-and lastly, for the souls of all the faithfukl dead. The
patronage of this chaplainry after the founder's death is.declared
to belong to the proprietor of Corstorphine and his heirs.+
   Second Chapel.-Towards the close of the fourteenth century,
Sir Adam Forrester of Corstorphine erected in the vicinity of
the parish church, another chapel, which was dedicated to

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 787, and Cart. of Holyroodhouse.
          M,S. Reg. Mag. Sigil.



