
	1012                         PERTHSHIRE.

	produce a considerable quantity of fruit; but the price has fallen
	so very low, that they are of very little value.
		Fisheries.-Though the parish is bounded on the north for sixteen
	miles by the noble Tay, yet the produce of the fisheries in
	all that "reach" is very trifling.   The cause of the failure of the
	salmon is not well understood; for although the fish have many
	snares and enemies to encounter in their progress up the river,
	yet, in spite of all these impediments, were the fish very plentiful,
	they would still find their way up our noble river in abundance
	As in days long, gone by. The rents of the fisheries have fallen
	prodigously, within the last thirty or forty years, to the great lose
	of the proprietors. This trade appears to have been conducted
	with too great cupidity and thirst for gain, and the present state
	of the fisheries may be a just retribution. For many years, most
	of the salmon caught in the Scotch rivers have been sent to the
	London market; and for the few fish sold at home, very extravagant
	prices have usually beeo demanded; so that the community
	in general have littk reason to regret the failure.
		Manufacturers.-Flax which was at one time an article of great
	importance in this parish, and afforded employment to a considerable
	portion of the inhabitants, is now in very few instances grown.
	The linen trade has been in abeyance for many years. There is
	but one lint-mhll in the parish. The extensive use of machinery
	in this trade has given a sad blow to the domestic spinning-wheel,
	by which many females earned a comfortable livelihood.  The
	vast importation of American cotton, and the increase of that trade,
	has occasioned a great fall in the value, and consequently in the
	price of linen manufacture.  There are only two linen mantifacturers
	in this parish, both of them active and intelligent men, and
	who are said to do business to the extent of nearly L.2000 each
	per annum.
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
		Market-Town.-There is no market-town within the, parish,
	Dunkeld is the chief markettown for the surrounding country,
	There are generally four held yearly.  The Martinmas market
	is the cbief, and usually attended by great assemblages of people
	from considerable distances. At this market there is a good deal
	of business transacted in the way of buying and selling, engaging
	servants, and other necessary matters.  Still these markets are
	attended with evils, from the great gathering of idle and loose


