
     of Kelso.

article of kitchen utensils, tea kettles, etc. and have a great
demand for them at all the markets*.

   Prices of Provisions.-Grain, by the Winchester quarter,
has sold for some years past, in Kelso market, at the follow-
ing average prices:

<TABLE>

Wheat    L. 2    0   0   Pease   L. 1   5   0
Barley      1    0   0   Beans      1   5   0
Oats        0   15   0   Rye        1   0   0

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is but justice, due to merit, to make particular mention
of JOHN GIBSON optician in Kelso, as a man of genius, who
has made several improvements in optical instruments.  His
rectifying telescopes shew objects very distinctly, by rendering
them brighter, and more free from tremors, than any we have
seen.  This arises partly from the composition of the specula,
all of which he casts himself, and partly from the correct figure
and high polish he gives them.  He has invented a reflecting micros-
cope, which shews minute objects, with much greater exactness,
than any made upon the refracting principle.  The construction
of it is very simple, and it is easily managed, and adapted to show
both opaque and transparent objects, which can be applied to
it with much facility.  He has been equally successful in the
execution and improvement of the achromatic telescopes.  He
observed, that, in the best of these instruments, some of the co-
lours were not corrected, and found that it lay in the principle;
for, on examining the nature of the crown and flint glass, of
which they are made, he discovered, that the distance of the
colours, in the oblong images, formed by prisms, made of these
kinds of glass, were not similar; and, therefore, that all the
different coloured rays, could not be united in the same point.
Whether, by using flint glass of a different composition, or by
some other devices, we know not; but he has not only over-
come this error in the principle, but likewise that arising from
the spherical figure of the compound lens.  Some of his teles-
copes, 4 1/2 feet in length, with triple object glasses, bear, with
the greater distinctness, a magnifying power of more than 240
times.  These telescopes he makes of four different lengths,
one foot, two, three, four and a half feet, and mounts them
either in sliding tubes or on stands, by which they are fitted for
astronomical purposes.


