
                              ALLOA.                          23

  At the north-east part of the parish, in the farm of Jellyholm,
near to Gartmorn dam, is a great diagonal slip, which runs from
the north-east to the south-west. The extent to which it dislo-
cates the strata, is unknown, but it throws the coals and the accom-
panying strata down to the east, and gives formation to an exten-
sive coal-field, stretching chiefly into the parish of Clackmannan,
The coals are the same as those before described; and, besides
there great slips or dislocations of the strata, there are many other
slips of less magnitude in the coal-fields.
   The Ochil mountains are composed of trap and porphyry rocks.
This fact, combined with the circumstance before-mentioned, has
given rise to many discordant theories. It may, however, be in-
ferred, that these trap rocks underlie the whole of these coal-fields.
   Quality of the Rocks and Economical Uses.--The first, class of
sandstone is applied to the ordinary purposes Of building, but they
are generally porous and liable to imbibe water, both by capillary
attraction from wet foundations, and fromrain. The red-colour-
ed variety has been frequently mistaken for the old red sandstone,
but it is altogether different from both it and the new red sand-
stone. This red sandstone belongs decidedly to the alternating
strata of the coal-formation, and is of a ligbt-red or bluish colour.
   The bands and balls of ironstone found in the strata of coal
slate are of the same kind of clav ironstone commonly found ac-
companying coal in Scotland, which yields from 30 to 35 per cent.
of pig-iron, and has been long wrought in this parish,for the iron
furnaces.
   The fourth class of rocks before-mentioned, viz. argillaceous
rock or fire clay, is of,a dark colour, and when wrougth, turns out
in irregular, lumps, very different from the coal slate. The lat-
ter, when exposed to fire, becomes of a brick-red colour, and welts
easily into a black glass-or slag. The former comes out of the
fire of a yellowish-white colour, and is found to be very refractory,
and is bonsequently much used for making fire-bricks for the lin-
ing of furnaces, where an intense heat is required.
   The coals are very abundant, and are frow a few inches to nine
feet in thickness. They are all of an open burning quality, and
composed both of splint and cubical coal. They in general hold
very little sulphur in combination, but it is found in the form of
pyrites, which can be separated from the coal and, thrown aside.
These pyrites have not been found so abundant as to be of a
use. None of them are suitable for smith's forges, wbere a very


