
                                    GOLSPIE.                                   29

	tide, are used as bait.  In the vicinity of the mussels, cockles abound.
	Heaps of oyster-shells have occasionally been dug up in certain
	parts of this, and of the neighbouring parish, to the west; and their
	shells are also found on the sea-shore, about the Little Ferry inlet,
	--affording an indication of the existence of this shell-fish in abun-
	dance, in former times.
				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Like other maritime parishes in the Highlands, Golspie appears
	to have, in ancient times, been invaded, and possessed, for a period,
         by foreign northern nations. By far the most prominent and in-
	teresting part of its history relates to the eminent characters that
	have been connected with it.
	   Family of Sutherland.-Her Grace the Duchess of Sutherland,
	who, with the other members of her family, often resides in this
	parish, at her seat-Dunrobin, is also Countess of Sutherland, in
	her own right.  The thanes of Sutherland first received the title
	of earls from Malcolm Canmore, King of Scotland, A. D. 1031.  Her
	Grace Elizabeth, the present Countess, is the twenty-third repre-
	sentative of this ancient family, and a lineal descendant of Robert
	the Bruce, King of Scotland; the third William Earl of Sutherland
	having been married to the Princess Margaret, daughter of that
	monarch.
	   The husband of her Grace is George Granville Leveson
	Gower, Duke of Sutherland, Knight of the Garter.  The de-
	scent of his Grace is also very illustrious, as well as very ancient
	Not to mention many other particulars, he is in the paternal
	line descended from Robert, the youngest son of Rollo, first Duke
	of Normandy, and, in the maternal line, from the Princess Mary,
	second daughter of the seventh Henry, King of England.
	   The family consists of two sons and two daughters,-George
	Granville, Marquis of Stafford, Baron Gower of Stittenham, Lord

         <FOOTNOTE>In all probability, the continental warlike nation of the Catti, to largely treated
	of by the Roman historians, invaded and took possession of the district of country ex-
	tending from the Pentland Frith to that of Dornoch; and that, perhaps, soon after
	the disasters brought upon them by the Roman arms. The Celtic name of the dis-
	trict, situated between the Ord of Caithness, and the Frith of Dornoch, is Catt thaobh,       '
	i. e. the side, or district of the Cutti, and the inhabitants are in Celtic denominated
	Cattich. Caithness has in English retained its original namre, for it means the pro-
	montory of the Catti; but in Celtic, it is called Gall thaobh, the district of strangers,
	from the people who at a later period settled there.  Sutherland, the English name of
	this county, evidently owes its origin to its geographical position, in reference to Caith-
	ness.  In Celtic, the title of the Earls of Sutherland is Morfhear chatt, pronounced
	Morer chatt, and that of the Countess, Bana Mhorfear chatt, pronounced Bana vorer
	chatt ; Bana being the feminine prefix.  Both the Celtic titles are expressive of no-
	bility in any degree; and thus they still continue applicable.


