
298                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

each day to religious exercises, and awaited with calm resignation
the will of Providence.
   In summer, the fishermen who have not gone to the whale-
fishing, proceed to Caithness in their large boats for the herring
fishery, where they sell the produce of their labours to the curers.
In autumn, they are again engaged in dredging oysters, and taking
white fish and herrings when they appear at the mouth of the firth.
   There are no rents payable for the deep sea fishings, and the
dues exigible for the oyster scalps are not regularly levied.
The energy and enterprise of the fishermen, with no capital but
their boats, (which may have descended to them from their fathers,
but stand in need of constant repairs and renewals,) are the sole
means of maintaining the fisheries.
   Manufactures.-The chief manufacture in the parish is that of
salt, which has been carried on for a long period,-12 salt-pans
having been built about 1630, by George third Earl of Winton.
The mode of making the salt is simply, by evaporating by means of
heat the aqueous particles of the sea, in oblong iron pans, 18 feet
long by 10 feet broad, and 2 feet deep. The sea water is raised
into the pans by buckets, swung on a suspended pole; and the coal
used is of the small description, unfit for most other purposes.
   A man and a boy are employed in each of the six salt-pans now
in operation; the wages of the former being according to the quan-
tity of salt produced, or about 18s. per week, and of the latter 8s.
per week. The female members of the family also assist in tak-
ing the salt out of the pans, and carrying it to the "girnels" or
stores.
   Of late, a steam engine has been erected at Cockenzie for grind-
ing bones and rape cakes, brought chiefly from Germany, to be used
in agriculture, which have been found peculiarly beneficial as a
manure for turnips and other crops.
   In Portseton, also, another steam engine has lately been erected
for bruising linseed and expressing oil from it. The residue is
formed into cakes for feeding cattle.
   These employments afford a fair remuneration to the workmen,
and do not seem prejudicial either to health or morals.
   Navigation.-The number of boats belonging to the fishermen
amounts to 31, of which 10 are of about 16 tons burden, and 21 of
7 tons.
   There are two vessels belonging to the new harbour at Cock-


