
170                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

siderable breadth is sown annually, the soil being particularly
adapted to turnip husbandry.
   Rents.-Arable land rents from 15s. to L.2, 15s. per acre, ac-
cording to its quality;-average about L.1, 5s. per acre.
   There is a very considerable extent of barren ground in the
lands both of Fintray and Wester Fintray, which might be ren-
dered useful by being either cultivated or planted. And the ju-
dicious improvements of draining and inclosing, which Sir John
Forbes has introduced on his lands, and which are being carried
on, partly by himself and partly by his tenants, will, it is to be hop-
ed, cause the barren district of the parish to present a more cheer-
ing aspect at no distant period.  For, notwithstanding the clamours of
agricultural distress, improvements were never carried on here
with greater spirit than at present.
   Farm-houses and offices have been greatly improved in appear-
ance within the last forty years, and the occupants are much better
clothed, and fed, and lodged.
   Leases.-The general duration of leases is nineteen years-a
space too short for encouraging an enterprising tenant to lay out
his capital on improvements, with any reasonable prospect of ad-
vantage.
   Next to the agricultural population may be mentioned trades-
men of various crafts, who reside in the parish, such as 4 black-
smiths; 4 masons; 8 carpenters; 4 tailors; 6 shoemakers; 3
millers; 2 sawyers; I watchmaker or mechanic, and 4 shopkeepers:
amounting in all to about 36, independently of their families.
   Manufactures.-The only manufacture of this parish is.that of
fine woollen cloth, by the Messrs Crombie, at Cothal Mills, which
was begun about the year 1798, under a different firm, and has
been carried on since that period without intermission. Mr John
Crombie has conducted it since 1806.  It produces, on an ave-
rage, from 7500 to 8000 yards per annum, of the value of from
14s. to 24s. per yard.  This branch of business, principally owing
to the number of complicated and variable processes, through
which the material must pass before_it be brought out in a finished
state, is attended with several difficulties and is almost confined to
three or four counties in the west of England and Yorkshire.
These difficulties have been overcome here, by encouraging Eng-
lish operatives to settle in this country; and the business is now
managed by an English foreman over each different department,
having under his inspection Scotch and English labourers, who


