
298                         PERTHSHIRE.

es of Auchterarder and Trinity-Gask on the east, and by those
of Muthil and Dunblane on the west.
  Soil.-In such extent of surface, the soil is necessarily varied.
The south part of the parish is traversed by the Ochil hills, and
affords good pasture for sheep.  The middle is formed by the ex-
tensive moor of Tullibardine, which is covered with young planta-
tions. The northern part consists of rich and well-cultivated lands.
  Climate.-The climate corresponds with the high elevation of the
land above the level of the sea.  The prevailing winds are those from
the west.  Rains in summer, and snow showers in winter, are more
frequent than in the lower surrounding districts.  The difference,
however, is not so great as to cause any peculiarity in the produc-
tions of the earth : or in the kinds of animals to be found; or in the
constitution and health of the inhabitants.
  Rivers.-Beside the rivers Devon and Earn, at the south and
north extremities of the parish, there are three others of inferior
size,-the Madrany, which rises in the hilly part of the parish of
Muthil, and falls into the Earn at Kingkell,-the Ruthven and
the Allan, which both take their rise in Gleneagles.  The first is
but a small stream, and runs eastward through the parish of Auch-
terarder till it falls into the Earn.  For three miles of its course,
it runs through Kincardine Glen, a place of great natural beauty,
-its high banks being broken with small cascades, and all covered
with fine copsewood of oak, hazel, and birch.  The Allan too, is
here but a small stream.  It runs to the west, through the adjoin-
ingparish of Dunblane, and falls into the Forth below Stirling Bridge.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The landed property in the parish principally
belongs to James Moray, Esq. of Abercairney ; and to Lords
Str`thallan and Camperdown.  What does not belong to them is
the property of three other individuals.
  Parochial Beyisters.-The parish records extend back to 1738,
and have been regularly kept since that period.
  Antiquities.-There are not many vestiges of antiquity to be
found here. From thd immediate vicinity, however, of the cele-
brated Roman encampment at Ardoch, there are several traces
of military works and adventures.  There are three places where
entrenchments are still so evident as to leave no doubt of their
having been used as out-posts to the Ardoch station.  And the
situations of all the three is well chosen for local defence for mu-
tual communication, and for extensive survey.  In different other


