
734                        LANARKSHIRE.

by "the power of pit and gallows," possessed by feudal superiors
and lords of the soil.  The traces of two ancient tumuli may still
be discerned in this parish.  In removing one of these a few years
ago at Dalpatrick, the workmen came upon a stone-coffin, about
two feet and a half long, and one foot and a half wide, composed
of flag stones, in which an urn was deposited.  In the coffin some
bones were, found, among which was a human under jaw, quite
entire, and containing all the teeth except one.  The urn was
about six inches high, of baked earth, reddish without and dark
within, of a coarse texture, narrower at the louth and bottom, and
apparently formed in a mould of straw, or some such material, before
it was put into the fire.  Another urn, of nearly the same shape and
size, but ofa whitish colour, of a finer texture, and ornamented about
the handle, was found among the rubbish; and also a smaller vessel
of baked clay, which appeared to be a lamp.  A part of these relics
is in the possession of William Lockhart, Esq. of Milton-Lockhart.
In removing the cairn, a curious whinstone, of a roundish form,
and about four inches in diameter, was picked up, perforated with
a circular bole, through which the radicle of an oak, which grew
near the spot, bad found its way.  This curiosity is in the posses-
sion of Mr William Henderson, at Dalpatrick, who removed the
tumulus.  There was formerly another cairn at the south-west
end of the parish, called Cairncockle, which occupied the highest
land in the whole district.  Some old persons recollect of its be-
ing surrounded by a ditch like a fortification.  It has long been re-
moved.  Castlehill and Cairnsilloch, (i. e. the dirty tumulus, or
burial-place for mean people,) Dear the village of Dalserf, were no
doubt, as their names intimate, once remarkable places.  About
twenty years ago an easthern pot was dug up in a garden in the
village, of Millheugh, containing brass or copper and silver coins
of the reigns of Elizabeth, James I., and his son, Charles I.  Near
the same spot an ancient silver coin was got when deepening a
mill lead.
   The Rev. John M'Millan, the well-known successor of Cargill,
Cameron, and Renwick, and thd individual from whom the Ca-
meromians or Covenanters, in modern times, are frequently called
W'Millanites, resided for some time at Braebead, near Millheugb,
in this parish, and was buried in the churchyard of Dalserf, near
the south-east corner of the church.  He was father of Mr M'Mil-
han, who was settled at Sandyhills, near Glasgow, and grandfather
of the late Mr M'Millan of Stirling Professor of Theolqgy to the
Reformed Presbtery.  On Sabbath, 8th September 1839 a ser-


