
				URR.  			   353

the year 1760, to the revenue regulations of Great Britain, it
is inconceivable how much the agriculture of every parish in the
maritime parts of Galloway was thereby benefited. Marl has
long gone into desuetude in Galloway, and the calcareous manure
substituted in its place is that of lime imported from the coast of
Cumberland, and of late bone-dust for turnip crop imported chiefly
from Liverpool. A large quantity of grain is exported from this
and adjacent parishes chiefly to Liverpool, and the farmers are both
skilful and industrious.
	Oats, barley, wheat, turnip, and potatoes are the chief agricul-
tural produce of Urr. The annual rent of the parish is supposed
to be about L. 16,000 Sterling.
	Live-Stock.--Horses, black-cattle, sheep, and swine are in ge-
neral the live-stock.
	Sheep are fed in great numbers, especially of late years, upon
the turnip crops, and the facilities now afforded of raising turnip
by the recent use of bone manure, and of conveying fat sheep to
Liverpool and other English markets, by means of steam-vessels,
have greatly tended to increase the system of sheep feeding in
this district of country. The rearing of pigs, and feeding them
for the market, has long been carried
have greatly teiided to increase the system of sheep feeding in
this district of country. The reariiig of pigs, and feeding them
for the market, has long been carried on to a great extent in this
country.
	Manufactories.--There is a paper manufactory in the village of
Dalbeattie, where there are falls of water very favourable to the
operations of machinery. There are also corn, flax, and sawmills
in different parts of the parish.
                V.-PAROCIRIAL ECONOMY.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the parish church is upon
the whole pretty central; but the parish ouabt to be divided into
two, with a church in each. The amount of stipend is at present 16
chalders, half oatmeal and half barley, paid in money according to
the fiars' prices of the country, and L. 10 allowance for expenses
attending the administration of the Lord's Supper. The glebe is
about 12 acres of extent, and worth about L. 15 per annum.
	Education.-The schools in this parish are at present eight in
number, and in all of them the ordinary branches of education are
more or less taught. Three of these are parochial schools,-one
in the centre of the parish, with an average attendance of 80
scholars; another at Dalbeattie, with an attendance of 90 scholars;
and another at Milton, having 50 scholars. The salary, in
toto, is L.51, 6s. 6d. Of this L.22, 8s. 9d. goes to the teacher
        KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                              z


