
444                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

tatoes or turnips; third, barley or wheat; and fourth, hay or pas-
ture. Where potatoes or turnips are not grown, fallow wheat is
raised, succeeded by hay or pasture. Peas and beans are now
grown less commonly than was the case in former times.
   A great proportion of the wet soils, which appear to have been
at one time regularly cultivated, is now seldom subjected to the
plough, but allowed to remain in pasture. When occasionally such
soils are broken up, it is usual to take two crops of oats followed
by a fallow, and, the fourth year, to sow them down again with
grass seeds and oats.
   Rent of Land-The rent of arable land varies from 10s. to
L. 3 per Scotch acre.
   Wages.-The, wages of young unmarried men living as farm-
servants in the house of their master are from L. 5 to L. 7, with
bed and board. Married farm-servants or hinds get from 1.15
to L. 16 in money, with a house and small garden, six and-a-half
bolls of meal, three bolls of potatoes, coals driven, and two diets
daily during a month of harvest time. The weekly wages of la-
bourers are 9s. or 10s.
   Draining has been, and continues to be practiced to a consider-
able extent, and with the most favourable results. Much, how-
ever, remains still to be done in this department. Furrow, or, as
it may more properly be called, thorough draining, is executed
after the following method: The distance between the drains va-
ries from 15 to 18 feet, according to the nature of the soil, and the
depth of the cut is from 2 to 2 1/2 feet. Where stones only are
used, they are broken to a small size, and the drain, which, at the
bottom, varies in width from 4 to 7 inches, is filled to the height of 12
or 15 inches. Where tiles are used (and these are generally placed
on soles) the drains are about 2 feet deep. But the plan most
approved is to combine these two methods, covering the tiles with
6 or 8 inches of small broken stones; and in this case the drain is
commonly 2 1/2 feet deep.
   Live-stock.-The breeds of sheep include the black-faced, the
Leicester, and the Cheviot. The cattle are chiefly of the Ayr-
shire and Teeswater breeds, and crosses between these.
   On many of the farms in this parish the dairy is the principal,
and on some the exclusive object: and there are few on which this
species of industry is not carried on to a greater or lesser extent.
The produce carried to Edinburgh, where it finds a ready
market. A gentleman who several years ago, had the largest
dairy establishment in this parish,-one of the largest, indeed, in


