
                         BOTHWELL.                            779

Scotland.  In 1336, he was at Bothwell from the 18th of Novem-
ber till the 13th of the following month, and in the course of that
time fifteen writs, of greater or less importance, were given at
Bothwell, having the following marks subjoined : " T. R. apud
Bothwell, P. I. P. M. regem."  Some of these writs are entitled
as follows: " Rex Edwardus in Scotia agens assignat commissa-
rios ad tractandum apud Londinum de defensione Angliae," &c.
(11th December.)  " De supersedenda electione hominum in di-
versis oppidis," &c. (18-25th November.)  The Castle and Lordship
of Bothwell afterwards passed through a great variety of hands.
The changes which took lace in the possession are fully enume-
rated in the former Statistical Account, and it seems unnecessary
to repeat them here.
   Archibald Earl of Forfar, who died at Stirling in 1715, of the
wounds he received in the battle of Sheriffmuir, was then proprie-
tor of the lordship.  On his death the estates returned to the
possession of the family of Douglas.  Archibald James Edward,
first Baron Douglas, was, after a long litigation, confirmed in the
possession of them by a decision of the House of Peers in 1771.
They are now possessed by his eldest son and beir, Archibald,
second Lord Douglas.
   This parish is associated with one of the most interesting events
in the history of Scotland-the engagement which took place be-
tween the troops of Charles II. and the Covenanters, on the 22d
June 1679, commonly called the Battle of Bothwell Bridge.  The
circumstances are too well known to require particular detail.  The
king's forces, under the Duke of Monmouth, were drawn up on
the Bothwell side of the Clyde.  The Covenanting army, amount-
ing to about 4000 men, occupied the opposite bank, belonging to
the Duke of Hamilton.  The centre of the bridge, which was
then long and narrow, having a portal in the middle, with gates,
had been barricadoed by the Covenanters, and was the chief scene
of the engagement.  This post was defended by Hackston of Ra-
thillet and Hall of Haughbead, with 300 men.  Hackston dis-
played great courage, and did not abandon the pass till all his
ammunition was expended.  When his men were withdrawn, the
Duke's army, with their cannon in front, defiled along the bridge,
and formed in regular line as they reached the other side.  The
Duke commanded the foot, and Claverhouse the cavalry.  The
Covenanters were soon thrown into disorder, and fled.  Monmouth


