
                             TURRIFF.                          989

teinds, and giving power to the burgesses, with the consent Of the
prebend, to choose yearly, bailies and other office-bearers, for the
government of the burgh, with a right also to the burgesses and
inhabitants to hold weekly markets at the Market Cross on Sun-
day, and public fairs at the fast of St Peter called Lammas, and
at St Congan, with the whole tolls, liberties, and privileges of
free markets.  In 1546, Master William Hay succeeded to the
prebend of Turriff, in which he continued until his death in 1582,
and was buried in the north-east side of the church, where his
tombstone may still be seen.  Among the professors whom
Erskine of Dun ejected from the University of Aberdeen in 1568,
was Mr Thomas Austin, Augustinus or Ogston.  He retired to
his native place, Turriff, where be died in 1592, having acted for
twenty-four years in the double capacity of clergyman and school-
master.  It would appear that James VI. passed a night in Tur-
riff on the 22d April 1589, but, as his Majesty's visit was rather
accidental, with the exception of the honour conferred on the town
by the King's presence, we do not find that be showed his favour
for it by any other mark of royal regard.
   Down to 1627, certain lands were held by the parson of Tur-
riff as kirk lands, but in that year Mr Thomas Mitchell, parson of
Turriff, with the sanction of the Bishop of Aberdeen, the Earl of
Errol and others, granted a charter of these lands to Francis Hay,
son of Francis, Earl of Errol.  Mr Mitchell was formerly minis-
ter at Logie-Buchan, and, in consideration of his being presented
to the parish kirk of Turriff, he, in thankful remembrance there-
of, obliges himself to ratify his feu infeftment of the town and
lands of Turriff, Knockiemill, and others, as also his tacks of the
teinds of said parish, and not to come in the contrair under the
penalty of L.3000.  The obligation is dated  29th June 1624.
Mr Mitchell was an Episcopalian and Royalist in the beginning of
the civil wars.  In the volume of sermons and elegies on the
death of Bishop Patrick Forbes, we find some dolorous verses by
Mitchell.  One of the couplets runs thus,

      "Some for their David dool'd, some for their temple grat.
      Some for Josias shouted, in the valley of Josaphat."

   Soon after this period, he became a zealous Covenanter. Spald-
ing, the local annalist of the proceeding of the day, states, that
at the "Trot of Turriff" in 1639, (at which skirmish by the way,
the first blood was shed that flowed so abundantly during the next
twenty years,) the loyalist barons, after dispersing the Committee


