
438                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

grounds belong to the Earl of Seafield.  On tile south side of
the lake, a neat and commodious shooting lodge is built, surrounded
with thriving belts of plantations, which afford much
shelter, and are at the same time highly ornamental.
   Mansion-Houses.-Castle Grant, one of the seats of the family
of Grant, is the only building in the parish entitled to particular
notice.  The house is a very ancient and magnificent building,
beautifully situated on the north side of the Spey, and about the
distance of two miles from that river.  It is environed with extensive
forests of aged trees of amazing stature and variety.  The
house is a high quadrangular pile of several storeys, with lower
wings added to the length of the opposite sides. Within the last
few years, the castle has undergone very extensive repairs and improvements.
The view from the house is truly magnificent.  In the
distance, the Grampians are seen towering in majestic grandeur,
and their bases clothed with forests of dark waving pines. The
internal arrangements of the house are in excellent keeping with
its venerable and commanding exterior.  The apartments are
large, well finished, and  superbly furnished.  The dining room,
which is 47 by 27 feet, and of a proportionable height, is a most
magnificent hall, altogether worthy of the chieftain of a powerful
clan.  There are many valuable paintings in the house by Vandyke,
Guido, Rubens, Poussin, &c. ; but the Death of Patrocles,
by Hamilton, is reckoned the best in the collection.  In the front
hall, there are from 30 to 40 portraits of gentlemen of the name
of Grant, said to be excellent likenesses.   In the castle there is
also a very extensive, armoury, where there are to be seen specimens
of the most rare and ancient armour. " Every thing within and
without," says Robertson in his View of Agriculture in the County
of Inverness, " denotes the habitation of a chieftain, and brings
to remembrance those days in which the head of every tribe was
surrounded by his own clan.    His castle was their fortress ; his
approbation was their pride ; his protection was both their duty
and their interest. In his safety their own fate was involved; in
his hall, stood the board to which they wpre always welcome; there
he sat with all the feelings of a father in the midst of his children ;
he acted as their general in the day of battle, their judge
in the time of peace, and was at all times their friend."
<TABLE=POPULATION>        III.-POPULATION.
                Amount of population in 1755, .  3063
                                        1821, .  2907
                                        1831, .  3234


