
          PARISH OF KIRKCUDBRIGHT.


   PRESBYTERY OF KIRKCUDBRIGHT, SYNOD OF GALLOWAY.


      THE REV. JOHN M'MILLAN, MINISTER.*


        I.- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.- It seems nearly certain that the name of this parish,
which, at different times, has been variosly spelled, was derived
from the famous Saint Cuthbert.  The ancient parish church
stood in a burying-ground about a quarter of a-mile to the east of
the town, and was dedicated to the Northumbrian Saint, as were
several other places of worship, both in England and Scotland.
The burying-ground still retains the name of Saint Cuthbert's
church-yard.  The name of the parish is but a slight change from
Kirk-Cuthbert, the  Church of Saint Cuthbert.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.- The parish consists of three ancient
parished, namely, Kirkcudbright, Galtway, and Dunrod; Kirk-
cudbright lies on the north, Galtway in the centre, and Dun-
rod on the south.  The two latter parishes were annexed to Kirk-
cudbright about the year 1683, buth their church-yards, which are
still used, retain the ancient appellations of Galtway and Dunrod
church-yards.
   The modern parish of Kirkcudbright approaches the form of
an oblong square, the west side protruding at the burgh and St
Mary's Isle.  It is bounded on the north by the parishes of Kel-
ton and Rerwick; on the east, by Rerwick; on the south, by the
Solway Frith; and on the west, by Borgue, Twynholm, and
Tongland, the centre of the river Dee forming this boundary line
till it passes St Mary's Isle, south of which it expands into an es-
tuary . The extreme lenghth of the parish, from the march of Kirk-
bride on the north to Balmae head on the south, is  upwards of
8 miles, and its extreme breadth, from the east side of the estate
of Gribdae to a bend in the Dee at the town of Kirkcudbright, is
about 3 1/2 miles.  Its superficial area contains about 23 square
miles or upwards of 15,000 imperial acres.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by thd Rev. William Mackenzie, Minister of Skirling, and  author of
the History of Galloway.
 KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                                   A


