
		ROSEMARKIE.                           359

small capital of above L.200, on which capital the kirk-session
have always felt a reluctance to encroach, though the pressing cir-
cumstances of the poor seemed frequently to call for it. Besides
the above, there are two mortifications for the poor of Chanonry;
the one by Barbara Mackenzie, Countess of Seaforth, anno 1680,
of 17 bolls 2 firlots land rent, under the administration of the mi-
nisters of Rosemarkie and Avoch; and the other of 27 bolls, from
some lands disponed by Bishop Paterson, and other lands pur-
chased with money mortified by Sir Alexander M'Kenzie of Coul;
whereof the magistrates are administrators. John Fowler, Esq. a
native of this place, who died in Jamaica, also bequeathed the sum
of L.100 to the poor of Fortrose.
   Friendly Society.-There is a society in the united royal burgh,
termed "the Fortrose and Rosemarkie Friendly Society," esta-
blished in January 1831, which promises fair to be of benefit to the
poorer classes of labourers and mechanics therewith connected.
   Inns.-At Fortrose there is a good inn, and both there and in
Rosemarkie several smaller inns, where inferior accommodation
may be bad. But it would be highly desirable that the number of
low tippling-houses should be more limited.

	MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   The appearance of the people, as respects their manners, dress,
and habits of industry, shews, that in these, of late years, there has
been a great advance. The improvements in agriculture since the
time of the former Statistical Account, have been very considerable,
and are daily on the increase. The taste for reading in various depart-
ments has pervaded all classes of society; so much so, indeed, that
among tradesmen and the labouring classes, many valuable works
are now to be met with, particularly of a religious character
where in former times such publications were seldom looked for,
and but rarely found. There can be no doubt that the bulk of the
people in the towns would be inclined to industrious habits. But
for want of regular employment, in the absence of manufactories
of any sort, they are not so well provided for, as where advantages
of this description are enjoyed.

Drawn up most 1839.
Revised February 1840.


