
                         STIRLING.                                 403

the village of Newhouse, in that of St Ninians, inflicted upon them,
with the loss, it is said, of onlv one man, a complete defeat, with
great slaughter.  From this decisive codflict, which had a power-
ful influence in leading to the great result of the general action of
the following day, the ground, which formed probably the cen-
tre of the struggle, obtained the name of Randolph Field; and two
stones, one of which still remains within the wall separating it from
the public road, and near the gate of the avenue leading to the
mansion-house, were erected in its commemoration.  The famous
battle of Bannockburn, which decided the long d6pending, contest
for the claim of the English monarchs to the sovereignty of Scot-
land, and finallv established the independence of the kingdom,
but whose details do not belong to our subject, its scene lying
within the parish of St Ninians, of necessity produced the imme-
diate evacuation of Stirling and its castle by the English gover-
nor; who entered into the service of the Scottish king, while the
garrison, agreeably to the terms of the previous agreement, were
suffered to pass unmolested into England.
   From this period, no event of national importance took place
here till the reign of James I.  On the 24th and 25th of May
1425, Murdoch, Duke of Albany, who had been regent of the
kingdom during the captivity of this prince in England, Duncan,
the aged Earl of Lennox, his father-in-law, and Walter and Alex-
ander, his sons, were beheaded on a small mount in the neigh-
bourhood of the castle.  This eminence forms part of the Gow-
land hill, lying to the north of, and separated from, the castle by
the hollow way already mentioned, called the Ballengeich road,
and is the most northern extremity of the hill, looking down upon
the plain below.  It is surrounded by a kind of parapet, and has
on it the remains of artificial works; from which appearances, com-
bined with its name, the Mote Hill, it seems to have been at a
very early period the place where councils of the chiefs were held,
and justice was administered.  It is also known by the name of the
Hurly-Haaky, probably from its being the scene of a childish
sport, known to have been practised at a later time.  These exe-
cutions took place by authority of a parliament held in the castle,
in which James presided; and by the verdict of a jury of twenty-
one members formed out of that body.  This severe measure, if
demanded by considerations of state necessity, which it is some-
what difficult to collect from the researches of the historian, but
Which were probably connected with the overgrown power of a fa-


