
                     MONIMAIL.                            43

more; and the different plantations contain 500 acres in all.
There is no undivided common, and little if any ground unimprov-
ed, which would repay the expense of cultivation. The trees are
skilfully managed. The kinds most commonly planted are, Scotch
fir, larch, beech, oak, ash, elm, and plane.
  Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land per acre varies from
L. 1 to L. 3; the average may be somewhat above L. 2. The
charge for grazing depends on the size of the animal and quality
of the pasture. The grazing for an ox varies from L. 2 to L. 3, 10s.
the average about L. 3; for a sheep, from 7s. to 12s. the average
10s.
  Live-Stock.-The most common breeds of cattle are the Fife-
shire, Ayrshire, and Teeswater; with the different crosses produ-
ced between them. The Fifeshire is most esteemed for breeding,
and the Ayrshire for milk. Few sheep are reared in the parish,
but considerable numbers of the Cheviot and black-faced breeds
are bought in autumn, and fed on turnips through the winter.
  Husbandry.-The system of husbandry pursued varies accord-
ing to the nature of the different soils. On the richer fields, a
rotation of four years is followed, and the principal change lately
introduced is the taking of a crop of potatoes instead of fallowing
previous to sowing wheat. The potatoes are either employed in
feeding cattle, or are shipped. for the London market. This plan,
however, seems likely to prove ultimately injurious to the soil. On
the poorer ground a different rotation is preferred, the fields be-
ing left two or three years in grass. In managing them, the prin-
cipal improvement is the applying of bone manure to raise a crop
of turnips, which are afterwards eaten by sheep upon the ground.
This has enabled the farmer to cultivate a good deal of thin land,
which must otherwise have remained untitled.
  The farms are generally well laid out, and thoroughly drained.
They are let upon leases of nineteen years; and the rents are in a
great measure paid according to the fiars' prices of the county.
They vary in size from 150 to 400 or 500 acres. The farm-stead-
ings are substantial and commodious, and the system of husbandry
good.
  The principal improvement since the former Statistical Account
was published, is the draining of a morass of 30 or 40 acres; but
owing to the subsiding of the mossy soil, and consequent loss of
level, the improvement has not been so complete as might bave
been anticipated.


