
     Statistical Account

   Extent, etc.-The parish of Stirling is chiefly confined to
the town.  The whole land in it does not exceed 200 acres.
The castle, with the constabulary, by which is meant a small
portion of land, formerly annexed to the office of constable,
are not reckoned in the parish of Stirling.  As little are the
Royal Domains, or King's park.  They are exempted
from all parochial assessment, and are in the parish only quoad
sacra, and that only since the chaplain ceased to officiate, or
reside in the cattle.  The landward part of the parish lies be-
tween the town and the Forth.  It extends along the south
side of the river, from Kildean, about a mile above the bridge
of Stirling, to the east of the town, with some parks on the
the south of it.  These lands, on an average, are rented at
50 s. per acre.  The small village called the Abbey, which
occupies the place where the celebrated Abbacy of Cambuf-
kenneth once stood, and which is situated in a northern link
of the Forth, east from Stirling, has hitherto, along with the ba-
rony of Cambuskenneth, in which it is situated, been reckoned
part of the parish of Stirling.  What gave rise to this arrange-
ment is not known, unless it was, that the servants belonging
to the Abbacy worshipped in Stirling; or that the Canons,
Monks or Friars of that monastery, performed divine service,
in the church of Stirling, and formed a kind of connexion
which continued to subsist after the reformation.  One thing
is certain, that it has subsisted; for there is actually a seat in
the church of Stirling, allotted for the inhabitants of that vil-
lage; and it appears, that an elder from it has fat in the sess-
sion of Stirling, almost uniformly since the year 1559.  The
barony of Cambulkenneth pays a part of the stipend of the
first minister of Stirling; but it is subject to poor's rates in
the parish of Logie, and to the jurisdiction of the sheriff of
Clackmannan.  The commissary of Stirling also exercises his
jurisdiction over it as a part of the parish of Stirling; and


