
     Statistical Account

They are obliging and hospitable, chearful, contented, and
charitable.  There is no dissenting meeting-house in the pa-
rish.  Excepting a very few, who seem to be tossed about
with every wind of doctrine, the people are united and set-
tled in their religious opinions.  They seem to have less of the
form than of the power of godliness, and to entertain pret-
ty liberal and enlightened ideas with respect to both natu-
ral and revealed religion.  Seldom are any of them guilty
of enormous outrages against the rules of morality.  Mur-
der and suicide are unknown among them.  None of them,
natives of this parish, has been hanged or banished these 60
years; and no person was ever known to perish here for
want of bread.  Few of the young men join the army or
the navy.  The martial spirit of their forefathers has sub-
sided, and the target and the broad sword have given place
to the ploughshare and the sickle.  They are of a middle
stature, and tolerably handsome figure.  Whether it be
owing to those more laborious exertions to which they are
accustomed in their younger days, or to some other cause,
their size is said to be comparatively diminished, and their
bodily strength impaired.  We have this on the authority
of old persons still alive; but such persons are apt to be
partial to the times that are past; and allowing age all the
credit and respect to which it is entitled, we can no more
believe that our worthy great-grandfathers were all giants,
than that their degenerate posterity are all pigmies.-
Both the men and the women have of late years improved
greatly in dress and cleanliness.  In their manners and cu-
stoms, which on the whole are neither rude nor refined,
they resemble their neighbours, the lowlanders on the one
hand, and the highlanders on the other; and, like the lat-
ter, they are generally fond of the agreeable and innocent
diversions of music and dancing.  Their convivial enter-
tainments, terminate sometimes, though rarely, in intoxica-


