
<APPENDIX>

lxxix

"structing, to have a clear and distinct account of all the parishes in our
"kingdom; and none should be averse to contribute their endeavours, in
"promoting and furthering such an excellent undertaking, which has not
"as yet been done by any pen that I know of; and I cordially wish it may
"succeed," &c.
   From the little attention that had been paid to those inquiries, so evident
from this letter, much success could not be expected.  Short memoran-
dums respecting a number of parishes were received; but hardly any of them
entitled to be printed.  It is singular, that some of the best accounts are
from the county of Caithness; and indeed it is proper, on all such oc-
casions, that the remote districts, which are the least known, should, if
possible, be described with the greatest minuteness and accuracy.
   The next attempt was by Mr William Maitland, an author well known
by his history of London, and other works.  He circulated also a number
of printed queries; but I understand, that the answers he received were
very few, and that he soon found it necessary to relinquish the design.
   It may be proper, in this place, to mention, the successful attempt made by
the late Dr Webster, which he begun in 1743, and completed in the year
1755.  Though restricted merely to the state of the Church, and the popu-
lation of the kingdom, yet this respectable clergyman, found the utmost dif-
ficulty, in completing his undertaking, in the space even of 12 years.  It is
fortunate, however, that he was able to accomplish it; as it furnishes data,
for making a comparison between the population of that period, and of
the present times; without which, it would be hardly possible to have sa-
tisfied the public, that the inhabitants in Scotland had materially increased
within the last 40 years.
   Mr Pennant, to whom the world owes so much entertaining, and so
much useful information, was led to imagine, from the high idea he enter-
tained of the Clergy of the Church of Scotland, that he could prevail
upon them, to favour the public, with exact descriptions of their respective
parishes; and his wishes were in some instances complied with, but not to
any great extent.  Scotland, however, must always remember with grati-
tude, the spirit with which he pervaded every part of that country, and the
favourable accounts he published both of it, and of its inhabitants, which
contributed to remove many of the prejudices entertained against them.
   The last attempt, previous to the commencement of the Statistical Ac-
count of Scotland, was by a respectable body, the Scotch Society of Anti-
quaries, of which David Steuart Erskine, Earl of Buchan, was the founder.
A printed plan, for that purpose, was drawn up and circulated.  The account
of each parish, it was proposed should be divided into seven sections.  The first
was to contain a geographical and topographical description of the parish:


