
				STRONSAY AND EDAY.                 159

	the residence of Mr Fea of Clestran, who, about a century ago,
	dexterously captured the pirate Gow, who had come with his ves-
	sel to Calf Sound, and was thus the means of arresting him in
	his wicked career, and giving him over to merited punishment.
	The late Sir Walter Scott, as is generally believed, has taken
	this incident as the groundwork of his novel, entitled the Pirate.
	   Antiquities.--There are several monuments of antiquity in these
	parishes.  Towards the north end of Eday, there is a standing-
	stone in the midst of a lonely heath.  It is about 17 feet in
	height; and although a remarkable object, tradition says nothing
	as to its origin.  There are various remains of ancient places of
	worship, and likewise places for interment, in these islands.  Of
	the latter there is one deserving of more particular notice, at
	Housebay, in the south end of Stronsay.  In this burying-ground,
	a number of bodies have been laid along side of each other, and
	separated from the rest by stones placed on edge at the foot and
	head, and on each side.  It does not appear that wooden coffins
	had been used ; but, by way of substitute, a rude stone box had
	been formed for the head of the corpse, composed of stones set on
	edge, and one laid over them as a lid covering the face.  The rest
	of the body, it seems, had been covered only with the bare earth.
	   There are various Picts' houses of considerable size in the
	southern parts of Stronsay.  One of these is of greater magnitude
	than the rest, situated on the neck of land connecting Lambhead
	with Stronsay.  It contains several apartments which, by their
	smallness and rude construction, show, that the inhabitants must
	have made little progress in the arts of civilized life.
	   Below this ruin, towards the west, there are the remains of an
	ancient pier, formed, as is supposed by some, for the protection of
	vessels.  It is now in such a state of dilapidation, that it is impose.
	sible to say when it was made.  Its appearance is that of a mound
	of stones, extending to about 90 feet in breadth, and running into
	the sea in a westerly direction about 800 feet, and then turning
	southward in a direction towards the extreme point of Lambhead
	about the same length,--leaving, however, at the extremity, a suf-
	ficiently capacious entrance for vessels.  And although, at this
	part, there is no breakwater, it may have been protected in another
	way, as a strong current runs continually past the headland across
	the entrance, so that the waves would be broken in passimg it.
	The lower division of the pier (if such it was) has suffered most
	from the violence of the waves, as it is now covered over at high


