
     Statistical Account

   Language.-The language principally spoken in this pa-
rish is the Gaelic.  In the heights of the parish, very few
of the inhabitants understand any other language.  But in
the lower end of the parish, many of them being taught to
read and write at school, can transact ordinary business in
English, only they speak this language with the Gaelic
idiom.  They have all a strong predilection for their mo-
ther tongue*.

   Manufactures.-There is a lint-mill established in the
E. end of the parish for some years past; a waulk-mill
and dye-house have also been erected within a quarter of a
mile eastward of the church this very harvest.  There are
8 licensed distilleries in the parish.  In these about 2496
bolls of barley are annually distilled into spirits.  These
spirits are bought by whisky merchants from Lochaber,
Kintail, and Strath-glass.  There is also a considerable
wood manufacturer in this parish.  For many years past a
saw-mill has been erected on the river Beauly, about 2 1/2
miles westward of the church.  Here the Beauly dividing
into two branches, forms the small but beautiful island of
Agaish, which is of an oval figure, and about a mile and a
half in circumference.  The island is principally formed of
a rock of hard whinstone, rising in a sloping manner about
100 feet above the level of the water: it is covered with
natural oak, birch, alder, and hazel, and affords good pas-
turage for sheep, goats, and a few Highland cows, during

     3

<FOOTNOTE>

*The names of places are all obviously derived from the Gaelic, and are
descriptive of the situation, the nature of the ground, or something re-
markable near the place, by which it is distinguished.  As, for exam-
ple, Belladrum, in Gaelic, "Bal an drom," "the town on the emi-
"nence;" Brunach, a corruption of "Breagh-achadh," "the beautiful
"field;" "Eskadale," "the dale of the waters;" here two rivers
partly surround the arable ground, and often overflow a great part of the
same.


