
68                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

verness-shire, who, more than a hundred years ago, had taken
shelter there, and for some time supported himself by the deer of
Bein Chlibrig, and the flocks of the neighbouring tenants. Any
farther description of the caves and caverns in this parish is con-
sidered unnecessary in this work.
   Bays, &c.-There are about thirteen miles of sea-coast, from
Naver Bay in the west to Baligil Burn in the east. With the ex-
ception of Kirtomy and Armidale, and a few more creeks where
boats can land in moderate weather, the coast is either bold and dan-
gerous to mariners, being composed of perpendicular or projecting
rocks, from 20 to 200 feet high, against which the waves of the North-
ern Ocean break with awful fury; or there are shallow sands, on which
heavy surges are almost invariably rolling. The bays are Naver,
Farr, Kirtomy, Armidale, and Strathy. The principal headlands
are, Airdniskich, Aird of Farr, Aird of Kirtomy, and Strathy Head.
From this Head, the Lights of Cape Wrath and Dunnet Head
are seen in clear weather.
   Climate.-Considering the latitude of this parish, which is 58&deg;
30 north, the temperature is on the whole mild; and there are no
diseases prevalent that can be ascribed to any peculiarity of the
climate.
   Hydrography.-In every district, valley, mountain, and hill of
this parish, there is an abundant supply of perennial springs of ex-
cellent water. So far as known to the writer, their chemical pro-
perties have not been ascertained; but it is evident man of them
run on iron ore. The number of fresh-water lochs of various di-
mensions in the parish is very considerable; the largest of which
are Loch Naver, Loch Coir-na-fearn, and Loch Strathy. But the
most interesting of the whole is Loch Naver, in respect both of ex-
tent and scenery. It is 7 miles long, and about 1 1/2 miles broad. Its
depth is ascertained, by sounding, to be in some parts 30 fathoms.
Its shore is in some places pebbly, in other parts rocky and sandy.
It is richly supplied from the adjacent hills, mountains, marshes,
and valley ground, with large tributary streams, especially the rivers
Mudale and Strathvagasty, which enter the loch near the inn of
Aultnaharve. The scenery around it is very interesting, having
Bein Chlibrig at no great distance on the south; several low hills
and abrupt rocks nearer its shore; its banks beautifully skirted
with a variety of indigenous trees growing to a considerable height;
-the distant hills of Kildonan to the south-east, and those of the
Reay country to the west, appearing in their grandeur from certain


