
654                        FORFARSHIRE.

The railway, after crossing Dighty Water on the south-east, pur-
sues its course for four miles to the north-west extremity of the
parish. It has a depot, for the accommodation of the neighbour.
hood, established near the Milltown of Auchterhouse, and affords
conveyance for 2500 tons of goods and 3000 passengers annually
to and from Dundee.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church of this parish was erected in
1775; the architecture is partly new and partly old. On the west
end of it, is a bell-house in the form of a steeple, and on the east
end is a cemetery of very old but very entire workmanship, in the
vault of which lie the remains of some members of the family of
Buchan, of the family of Strathmore, and of the family of Airlie,
the proprietors in succession of the barony of Auchterhouse. If
repaired, and more regularly seated, and better lighted, the church
would be a very comfortable place of worship, adequate to the ac-
commodation nf the parish. The number of communicants varies
from 370 to 400, and there are no seats let by the landed proprie-
tors, and only a few by the kirk-session for very small sums in aid
of the poor's fund.
	The stipend of this parish, which was augmented in 1831, is
111 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 lippie of meal; 104 bolls, 3 firlots, 1 peck,
2 lippies barley, 3 bolls wheat; and L.45, 0s. 4d. of money. The
manse, which was repaired in 1827 and 1828, is a commodious and
comfortable house; and the glebe, which, besides a small garden
and the stance of houses, is about seven acres in extent, has been
valued at L.15. The Earl of Airlie is patron of the church, and
titular of the teinds of the parish.
	There is one Roman Catholic family, and one Roman Ca-
tholic individual, one Episcopalian family, and two individuals of
the Independent Congregational persuasion in the parish; but all
the rest of the people belong to the Established Church, and are
in general attentive to religious observances, and devout in their
department in the house of prayer. They fear God and honour
their sovereign, and meddle not with those that are given to change.
	The estate of Balbeuchly is held by the proprietor cum decimis
inclucis a trunco nunquam separatis, and has no right to church accom-
modation in this parish. It is said to have been part of the church
l`nds belonging to the Bishop of Dunkeld, and to have been alien-
ated from him and attached about the middle of the eleventh cen-
tury by a Pope's bull to the parish of Caputh, at ten or twelve
miles distance. Pastoral services, however, have been, and are per-


