
		 INVERESK.                         255

tion of them, as seen by Randolph, the English resident at the
Scottish Court, was transmitted by him to Sir Robert Cecil af-
terwards the famous Lord Burleigh, the minister of Queen Eliza-
beth.   The two letters containing this have been since very pro-
perly preserved in the second volume of the Transactions of the
Scottish Antiquarian Society; and in the " Britannia" of Cam-
den, which was published not long after this, period, we find the
circumstance thus alluded to.
   "A little beyond this (Seton,) the river Eske empties itself
into the Frith, after running by Borthwich, which has barons of its
own name of Hungarian extraction, by Newbottle q. d. New Build-
ing, anciently a little monastery now the barony of Mark Kerri,
by Dalkeith, lately the pleasant seats of the Earls of Morton, and
Musselborow, below which, A. D. 1547, when Edward Seymour,
Duke of Somerset, entered Scotland with a regular army to claim
the performance of the treaty by which Mary Queen of Scotland
was engaged to Edward VI. of England, the day proved fatal to
the youth of the most noble families of Scotland who there fell in
battle.  I cannot here pass over that inscription, which the learn-
ed J. Napier, in his Commentary on the Apocalypse, mentions to
have been dug up here, and of which the eminent Sir Peter Young,
tutor to King James VI., made this more accurate copy.

			  APOLLINI

			   GRANNO

			  Q. LVSIVE

			  SABINIA

			    NVS

			   PROC

			    AVG

			 V. S S L V M.

Who this Apollo Grannus was, and whence he had this name,
none of the Society of Antiquaries, that I know of, has yet inform-
ed us. If I may be allowed to interpose my inferior judgment, I
should suppose Apollo, called Grannus by the Romans, was the
same whom the Greeks called A-roXXwv Axagoexoune, or the lotig-
haired; for Isidore calls the long locks of the Goths Granni.  But
this by way of digression."*
   The reference alluded to, by the great Napier of Merehiston,
is in these words: " In every part of that empire (the Roman,)
are there infinite of these temples idols, and other monuments

<FOOTNOTE>See Gough's Camden's Britannia, Vol. iii. p. 303-4.


