
                             DUNNICHEN.                    147

sides. They were filled with human bones, and urns of red clay,
with rude ornaments upon them; the urns being filled with whitish-
gray ashes. By exposure to the air, the bones and the urns moul-
dered into dust.
	In a round gravel knoll near the Den of Letham, a consider-
able number of similar graves was found. The graves were situ-
ated in a thick bed of fine sand, which intersected the knoll; and
were constructed every way similar to the former. They contain-
ed human bones, which seem to have been crammed together
without much regard to arrangement. The urns with their ashes
were every way similar to the former. The neck-bones of some
were adorned with strings of beads. These were of a beautiful
glossy black colour, neatly perforated longitudinally, and strung
together by the fibres of animals. They were of an oval figure;
large and small ones were arranged alternately; the large ones
flat on the two opposite surfaces, the small ones round. They
seemed to consist of ebony, or of some fine-grained species of wood,
which had been charred, and then finely polished. On keeping
them some time, they split hnto plates, and the woody fibres sepa-
rated. The bones also, and the urns, mouldered into dust. In
some of these graves rusty daggers were found, which fell in pieces
by handling. It appears the bodies had been first burnt, as the
ashes contained numerous particles of charcoal of wood.
	Land-owners.--The parish, as formerly stated, is divided into
three properties, namely, Dunnichen, Tulloes, and Dumbarrow.
James Hawkins, Esq. advocate, is heir-apparent to the estate of
Dunnichen. He resides at Dunnichen House, and is the only re-
siding heritor. Tulloes belongs to John Oughterlony, Esq. of
Guynd. Dumbarrow belongs to Alexander Lyall, Esq. of Gardyne.
	Eminent Persons.--The only person of eminence we ever heard
of connected with the parish, is the late George Dempster, Esq.
who was many years member of Parliament for the Forfar, Dundee,
&c. district of burghs; but his character and conduct are too well
known to require any illustration.

<TABLE=Population>           III--POPULATION.

The population, as taken by the Government census, was
            In the year 1801,               1049
                        1811,               1288
                        1821,               1433
                        1831,               1519
In the census of 1831, there were found in the parish 331 inha-


