
			SANQUTHAR.                           301

Wightman, retained liberty to work in the southern part of their
boundary. He confined his operations to the south end of Mar-
garet's vein. But they were very unprofitable, and terminated with
his death in 1747. The mining liberty which bad been possessed
by him was unoccupied till 1755, when it was entered on by the
firm which still continues, Messrs Ronald Crawford, Meason and
Company, by whom it was wrought extensively, and'with much
success. They continued their operations in Margaret's vein forty-
three years. For carrying off the water they erected three steam-
engines. The first was in 1778, and supposed to be the second
erected by Mr Watt in Scotland. The Friendly Mining Society,
having resigned their lease in 1734, were succeeded in the boun-
dary which they bad possessed, by Alexander and William Telfer,
who obtained a lease of the northern part of their grounds for
twenty-one years. They succeeded in raising great quantities of
ore, which sold at a high price. At the expiration of their lease
in 1755, Messrs Ronald Crawford, Meason and Company, were
also their successors, who now possessed the whole of the mining
liberties at Wanlockhead. This enterprising and eminently suc-
cessful company continued the works which had been left by Messrs
Telfer till 1775. About this period they discovered good ore in
Belton-grain vein above water level, and continued working there
till 1800. Then finding the ore above water level to be mostly
wrought out, they were under the necessity of erecting one steam-
engine, a second in 1812, and a third in 1817. The expense of
erecting these engines, and supplying them with coal, which,was
brought from the parish of Kirkconnel or the west end of the parish of
Sanquhar, a distance of about ten or twelve miles, must evidently have
been very great. But still, the works were profitable till about five
years ago, when the free trade system was introduced by legislative
enactment, and foreign lead was allowed to be imported to Britain,
without being subject to the payment of duty. From that period,
the price of lead being much lower than formerly, the company
must have suffered great loss. The veins have also presented great
poverty. Cove vein, which is the present scene of labour, has never
been rich. During the period which elasped from 1823 to 1827,
the company sunk forty fathoms under level, and erected two
steam-engines under ground, but the quantity of ore found did not
answer their expectations, and was not commensurate with the ex-
pense incurred in raising it. The five engines last mentioned
possessed collectively 268 horses power. Previous to the erection


