

       1116                        PERTHSHIRE.

       pointed and ordained be the minister and session to read everie
       Sab before the imcoming of the minister to the pulpit, red this
       day," &c.  In 1667, Mr Thomas Robertson was inducted as as-
       sistant and successor, with the usages and ceremonies of the Epis-
       copal Church.
         The Forest of Alyth was so called, as having been a hunting-
       ground of the Scottish Kings.  In the Register of the Great
       Seal, published by Thomson, (p. 134, No. 40, Roll 5), there is
       a charter dated in the sixth year of the reign of Robert II., vest-
       ing John de Roor in the office of Justiciary of the King's Forests
       of Clunie and Alyth.
         Before the Reformation, the benefice of Alyth was attached to
       one of the prebends in the Cathedral of Dunkeld, and the patron-
       age seems to have been exercised by the bishop down to the Re-
       volution.  There was also a chapel dedicated to St Ninian, de-
       scribed as situated "infra coemeteriam ecclesize parochialis de
       Alyth."  The chaplainry was likewise in the gift of the Bishop of
       Dunkeld.  The vicarage of Alyth and the chaplainry of St Ni-
       nians were unquestionably distinct offices, although they might
       sometimes be held by the same person.  It seems most probable
       that the chaplainry was a provision for the clergyman who dis-
       charged the duties of curate of the parish in the absence of the
       incumbent.  The lands of Balwhyme, in the neighbourhood nf
       Alyth, formed part of the provision of the chaplain.  In a dispute
       with respect to the teinds of Balwhyme, which took place about
       thirty years ago, the Earl of Airie produced a deed, executed in
       1554, by Robert Fowler, Chaplain of St Ninians, with consent
       of the Dean'and Chapter of Dunkeld, the see being then vacant,
       conveying the lands of Balwbyme, with the teinds, &c. to Ogilvy
       of Clova.  A charter of confirmation was granted by the bishop
       in 1546.  There is also extant a deed of cognition and infeftment,
       dated 1670, vesting Mr Thomas Robertson, assistant minister of
       Alyth, in the chaplainry and altarage of St Ninians, to which he
       had been presented by the bishop, on the demission of that be-
       nefice by the incumbent of the parish.  In this document, the
       chapel is said to have been situated "on the north side of the
       kirk-yard."  The site is still pointed out.  The feu-duties of
       Balwhyme were drawn for a long time by the minister of Alyth,
       as part of the stipend, but they are now merged in the Teinds.
         Remarkable Persons.-Nessus de Ramsay, the founder of the
       -famil of Ramsay of Bamff, was a person of considerable note in
       the thirteenth centurv.  He held the office of Physician to King


