
                        LADYKIRK.                         185

market-town. The parish is, however, chiefly supplied with ar-
ticles of consumption from Berwick, nine miles distan, by a, carrier
weekly. There is a branch penny post every day from Cold-
stream to Ladykirk, obtained inconsequence of a petition go up by
the present incumbent.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated nearly in the centre
of the parish, about 1 1/2 mile from each extremity. It is built in
the form of a cross, is a handsome and substantial structure of
Gothic architecture, and is composed of lofty freestone arches in
the interior, and is covered with a stone roof. It has, however,
been as much as possible disfigured by modern bad taste. As
notified by a Latin inscription in the interior of the church, it
was repaired by Mr Robertson of Lady kirk in 1743; and a belfry
was then added, which is not at all in unison with the building.
From the interior of the church a school-room has been portioned
off, much to the injury of its appearance. Although situated on a
rising ground, which commands an extensive view, (instead of being
permitted to stand alone as an ornament to the country,) it is closely
surrounded by a ruinous farm-stead. It is seated for 300 persons,
and affords ample accommodation for the parishioners. It is also,
rendered comfortable in winter by two stoves.
   The manse was built about sixty years ago. After the acces-
sion of the present incumbent in 1819, the heriters, and minister
repaired and added to it. Like most manses, especially old ones,
having been wretchedly finished at first, (doubtless according to the
cheapest estimate,) it has been and ever will be, a continual oc-
casion of expense to both. More has been already expended on
repairs than would have built a commodious new house; and it
shakes from the foundation with every blast.
   The glebe contains eleven acres of land, of very good quality,
has been lately drained and improved, and would let at present for
about L. 2, 10s. per acre. The amount of the stipend is six chal-
ders in grain, and L. 88, 2s. 8d. in money, and averages about
L. 170 per annum. All the teinds are valued and exhausted.
   There is one dissenting chapel in the parish, belonging to the
Burghers. The minister is paid from seat rents, and the salary
amounts to L. 118 per annum, with a house and garden. There
are 63 families, or 272 individuals (children included) who at-
tend the Established church. There are 45 families, or 183 in-
dividuals (children included) who attend the dissenting chapel.
Divine service is well and regularly attended. The average num-


