
		          LEWIS-STORNOWAY.                            139

	tempted to establish meeting-houses, but were not successful. The
	people, though fickle, have an attachment to the Established Kirk.
	There is a local missionary society formed here, not " subject to
	local authority." The number of communicants at the last sacra-
	ment did not exceed 40.
	   The annual amount of church collections for religious and cha-
	ritable purposes averages L. 30 Sterling.
	   Education.-The total number of schools is 13: one parochial
	school; one from the S. P. Christian Knowledge; two from the
	Gaelic School Society; one female school endowed by Mrs M'Ken-
	zie, and Miss Mary Cam, formerly mentioned. In this school, 60
	scholars are taught reading, writing, and sewing, Mrs S. M'Ken-
	zie having sent the female teacher to Edinburgh, to learn t he system
	taught in the School of Industry there; salary about L. 20, with
	free lodgings in the seminary.
	   There are two schools supported by the country people, in Knock
	and Melbost; three supported by Mrs S. M'Kenzie and the people
	conjunctly; three are unendowed, or chance schools. There was
	one upheld by individual subscription, in which the fashionable
	branches were taught to a limited number of scholars; salary L. 60,
	including fees. It was discontinued lately.
	   In the grammar and parochial school, all the branches consti-
	tuting a classical education are taught. The parochial teacher's
	salary is only L. 32. The amount of school fees does not exceed
	L. 20, and is seldom so much, as many are taught gratis, and the
	fees are ill paid. The parochial teacher has not the legal accom,
	modation.
	   The annual expense for English reading, is ftorn 10s. 6d. to
	14s ; for Latin and the higher branches L. 1, 4s., for each scholar.
	The number between six and fifteen years of age, who cannot read,
	is 586. The number upwards of fifteen who cannot read is 1265.
	   Literature.-There is one circulating library, established by Sea-
	forth and his lady.
	   Friendly Societies.-There are two Friendly Societies and a
	Masons' Lodge. The lodge existed since 1767, and in four years
	distributed L. 300. The Trades Society was formed in 1769; the
	Friendly Society, since I801. Both give nearly 5s. per week to each
	sick member.
	   The Hon. Mrs S. M'Kenzie is very charitable to the poor,-
	giving medicine, food, and clothing to the necessitous.
	   Bank.-There is a branch of the National bank in Stornoway.


