
146                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

but still better known to commerce. Who has not heard of Car-
ron Works and Kelvin Dock?
   There are several rivulets and burns in this parish. The most
remarkable is the Garrel, as its name denotes, a rough, brawling
stream. It rises on the Garrel Hill, one of the Kilsyth range;
its whole course, till it runs into the Kelvin, is above three miles.
In a mile and a-half it falls 1000 feet, having a great number of
cataracts in its course. The narrow chasms worn by its rapid
and powerful stream in winter, are singularly romantic, and well
repay the fatique and occasional wetting of the curious visitor.
The course or bed of the Garrel burn, below the Garrel Mill, is,
for the most part, dry, its waters being carried off to the Town-
head Loch, to the east of Colzium, excepting in a spate, when it
comes down with great fury. When it arrives at the Burn Green,
near the town of Kilsyth, it is joined and replenished by the small
burn of Ebroch, which rises at the foot of the Barwood, about one
mile east, and then joins the Kelvin, after flowing half a mile in
the valley westward.
   The whole of the low ground was, at one period, a loch or mo-
rass; but now, we have only one, the Townhead Loch, which is
chiefly artificial, and a reservoir for supplying the canal. It is of
an oval form, full three-quarters of a mile long, and from one-
quarter to half a mile broad. It covers seventy-five acres imperial.
The country round it, especially on the north, is very rugged and
barren. A few firs are planted at the east end, and of late, a consi-
derable plantation of trees has been formed at the west end. The
old trees near the house of Mr Marshall of Townhead, with the
island near the south-west end, give the whole the semblance of a
natural sheet of water of great beauty. The banks have been
raised, and the sluices, formerly of mason-work, are now of cast or
malleable iron. A couple of swans were, a few years ago, brought
to this loch; but they soon became tired of their situation. It
abounds in excellent trout. It was originally an extensive hollow,
as if scooped out for the purpose. At one place only, was there
a deep opening, by filling up which to the height of twenty-five
feet, the work was at once completed; and, by leaving a sluice in
the centre, it can be filled or emptied at pleasure. The expense
was remarkably moderate, in proportion to the extent of surface,
and the quantity of water it contains. The whole is finished in
an ingenious manner. There are two other mountains-streams
worthy of notice in the West Barony, viz. the Quinzie and Nether-



