
			GLASSERTON.                     45

back. The bottom of the hamper was fastened with a pin put
through a staple or iron loop, and when they wanted to disload
their cargo they had only to take out the pin, when the bottom
the hamper opened, and the contents fell out without removal of
the creels from the horse's back. This, to be sure, was but a slow
and troublesome method of carrying out manure, but, not unfre-
quently, a still more laborious and tedious process was rubmitted
to, for the people sometimes carried the creel upon their own backs,
and the writer of this Report is old enough to remember having
seen this method practised in the moorland parts of this county.
When the wearisomeness and drudgery of these operations are
taken into consideration, it is not very wonderful that manure was
not carried to a greater distance, or that the fey, as they called it,
should have the benefit of the whole manure collected in the farm.
This, then, was the origin of what is now called rich old fey-land.
A field of a good natural soil being selected, it received the whole
of the dung for very many years. Among the other good qualities
of rich fey-land, this is one, that it does not deteriorate by remain-
ing in pasture; but, on the contrary, continues to improve. This
will account for the above assertion, that the best pasture in the
county is to be found in this parish, for there are several fields of
fey-land in pasture, which have not been ploughed for upwards of
eighty years.
	Breeds of Live-Stock.--The breed of Galloway cattle here has
hitherto been preserved pure and genuine; and this parish has al-
ways been considered as forming part of that particular district in
the county, where the Galloway breed of cattle is, to be found in
it utmostperfection. But I am afraid the time is approaching, when
it shall only be said that such things were, and when it may be even
necessary to appeal to such a record as this to prove the fact.
	The dairy system is now beginning to be considered more pro-
fitable than breeding. This is an opinion whhch is fast gaining
ground. And we have already in this parish three or four farms
stocked with Ayrshire cows. This of course will contaminate the
Galloway breed, perhaps displace it altogether. For the progress
of contamination will be more rapid here, than almost any where
else: for this reason, that feeding calves for veal is never practiced
this part of the country. Besides in order to unite the two systems
together, (I mean breeding and cheese-making,) Galloway, bulls are
used, which produce black stock. This first cross is growthy, and feeds
well. Some think that they even come to maturity sooner than
the true Galloway breed:--of course the bullocks of this descrip-



