
			ISLAND OF SKYE-STRATH.                           303

	decay of the mountains which back the plain, is invalidated by
	the presence of gneiss, hornblende, and schist, which do not occur
	in these mountains.
	  Zoology.-Mammalia.-Red-deer abound in Lord Macdonald's
	forest; and roe-deer are to be found in the woods.  We have the
	fox and wild-cat, both particularly destructive to lambs, game, and
	poultry.  We have likewise the weasel; but the only polecat
	ever seen in the island was some years ago killed in this parish,
	in the vicinity of one of the ferries to the mainland.  From this
	circumstance, it is probable that it might have unobserved found
	its way across in the ferry-boat.  The otter and seal are common,
	and are very destructive to salmon.
	  Land Birds.-These are, grouse, black-game, ptarmigan, and
	partridges, the eagle, and a variety of hawks; the raven, the hood-
	ed-crow, &c. &c. A grouse with white wings was last season shot
	on the property of Mr Macalister of Strathaird, and a rook with
	white wings has been observed in the parish.
	  Aquatic Birds.-Wild geese, the cormorant, the scart, the
	teal, the mallard, the tern or sea-swallow, and a variety of gulls.
	  Waders.-The heron, the water-hen, the corn-rail, the wood-
	cock, the snipe, the golden plover, the lapwing, &c. The corn-
	rail appears early in May, and takes its departure in September.
	The woodcock appears early in October, and leaves early in
	March.
	  Fishes.-These are, the salmon and trout, which ascend the
	rivers for spawning about the middle of September, and are suppos-
	ed to return to the sea in February: the cod, haddock, whiting,
	ling, lythe, coal-fish, skate, sand-eel, conger-eel, thornback, floun-
	der, sole, and, occasionally, a John Doree; the angler or sea-devil,
	the grey and red gurnard, the mullet, the dog-fisb, the kingfish,
	aud cuttlefish, &c.
	  Shell-Fish.-At the Sound of Scalpay there is an extensive
	bed of oysters of a superior quality, but of small size.  We have
	also the mussel, the cockld, the razor-fish, the welk, the crab, the
	limpet, and the lobster; all of which are of considerable import-
	ance in an economical point of view, being much used as food by
	the lower orders during the summer months in particular, and du-
	ring seasons of scarcity in general.
	  Botany.-The only plants peculiar to this parish are the rare
	Eriocaulon septangulare; and the Dryas octopetala of the limestone,
	which occurs in great profusion.  All the varieties of planted


