
148                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ways enabled the kirk-session to extend far more widely, than
they otherwise could the benefits of this charity. The amount
received by the kirk-session, from the hearse and mort cloth dues,
during the same five years, is as follows:-1833, L. 17, 4s. 6d.;
1834, L. 12, 9s. 6d.; 1835, L. 10, 13s.; 1836, L. 13, 18s. 6d.;
1837, L. 13, 9s. 6d. The amount derived from the sale of the
effects of paupers during same period, L. II, 14s. Id.; the amount
of expenses, necessarily connected with these sales, L. 4, 16s. 3 1/2d.;
balance available for the relief of the poor, L. 6, 17s. 9 1/2d. The
amount derived from the dues for the erection of headstones in the
church yard at 5s. 7 1/2d. each, during the same period, L. 2, 5s. The
amount derived from fines for trespasses, &c. 15s. Besides these,
there are no other sources of revenue for the relief of the poor, ex-
cept the contributions by the heritors, in proportion to their several
valuations. These contributions are in the form of what may be
justly termed, although the expression seem paradoxical, Volun-
tary Assessment. The heritors meet twice a-year, for the purpose
of examining the state of the poor's funds, and fixing. the assess-
went, necessary to meet the deficiency of the funds already men-
tioned ;and for the five years referred to, it was found requisite to
fix this assessments the rate of L. 200 per annum. This high rate
was, in part, rendered necessary by a charge of L. 21 per annum,
during the above period as the board of a lunatic in the Edinburgh
Asylum. There can be no doubt that the system of supporting
tbe poor by assessments is in all respects evil,-it checks the feel-
ing of benevolence towards the poor, in the minds of those who
are able to afford relief to them,-it greatly reduces the amount of
collections at the church-doors; and to the existence of an assess-
ment, is undoubtedly to be ascribed the fact, that unhappily there
are very few instances of a disposition on the part of the poor, to re-
frain from seeking parochial relief, or, to feel the regular receiving
of it, as any degradation.* It ought to, be mentioned under this
head that a most useful donation to the poor has been bestowed
annually at the beginning ofs the year, by the Earl of Hopetoun,

<FOOTNOTE>While truth requires this statement to be made, the writer feels great pleasure
in recording an instance of a very opposite mode of feeling and acting. A poor and
aged women, on the death of her husband several years ago, was admitted on the
poor's roll, and received for about seven years, an allowance of 3s. 4d. per month.
She succeeded, by the death of a near relative, to a small sum of money, and not on-
ly was her name withdrawn from the roll of paupers, but the entire amount of what she
had received during the period of her destitution was repaid by her family. It would
assuredly augur well for the moral condition of the country, if examples of such just
and honourable dealing were occurring more frequently. Unhappily they are very
rare.


