
               466                        ARGYLESTURE.

               minister of the second charge. The stipend of the minister of the
               first charge is L. 150 ; but be has three glebes, the rents of
               which, including houses in the burgb, amount to L.92 yearly.
               The stipend of the minister of the second charge is also the
               mininum, with a glebe let at L. 25. There are within the
               burgh a Relief church, seated for between 1000 and 1100; a
               Secession church, seated for about 600 ; an Independent meeting.
               house, seated for about 300 ; and a Roman Catholic chapel, seated
               for about 200.
                 Education- In the burgh and parochial school, English reading
               and grammar, writing and arithmetic, book-keeping, geography,
               mathematics, navigation, Latin, Greek, and French are taught.
               The salary of the rector is the maximum, payable by the landward
               heritors, and L.20 from the burgh, with a large school-house, and
               commodious dwelling-house for boarders, and a garden, rent free;
               and the fees paid to him, independent of his boarders, may ave-
               rage from L. 120 to L. 180 yearly, according to the number and
               quality of his scholars;  but he is obliged to keep and pay one,
               and if necessary, two or three qualified assistants, approved of by
               the magistrates and town-council.
                 Miss Campbell of Gowan Bank, who died in January J843, it,
               her lifetime built two schools at Dalintober, which is a suburb of
               the town, at an expense of L. 1150, and by her will she left for
               their endowment to the session of the Established Church, and
               certain other trustees, the sum of L. 4600.  One of these schools
               is for the education of poor boys, and the other for the education of
               poor girls.  This benevolent lady also left to the female school of
               Industry, the sum of L. 600; to aid in supporting a parochial mis-
               sionary, the sum of L. 300 ; for Sabbath schools, L. 300 ; to the
               poor of the parish, L. 500 ; to the Female Benevolent Society,
               L. 600.  In the landward parts of the parish, there are two schools
               supported by the General Assembly, and one by the Society in
               Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge, and in the burgh
               there is another school supported by the sale Society.  Besides
               these, there are six unendowed schools in the parish, five in the
               town and one in the country.  In two divisions of the parish, thinly
               peopled, endowed schools are very much wanted.  No fees are
               now charged from poor scholars attending the Dalintober schools.
                 There are eleven Sabbath schools in the town attended by
               above 1000 children.
                 Societies.-There are a Parochial Association for education ge-


