
    292                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

      The belief in the second-sight, which formerly prevailed here,
   as well as in other parts of the Highlands, is wearing away. Such
   as pretended to be gifted with this supernatural quality seem now
   to think their first sight is quite sufficient for all necessary and
   useful purposes, without the aid of the second; and that the reali-
   ties of the present world give them enough to do, without troub-
   ling themselves about wbat is going on in the world of spirits.
      Habits.-In cleanliness and other domestic comforts, there is
   ample room for improvement. The Highland dress is wholly
   extinct, and their clothing now consists of kelt or tartan of their
   own manufacture. The walls of their mean huts are commonly
   built of stones, and, instead of mortar or lime, the middle is cram-
   med with earth to keep out the cold air. The interior is divided
   into two or three apartments by a thin partition of boards, or a few
   small sticks woven with straw. The apartment next the door being
   appropriated to the cattle, is much lower than the rest of the
   house, in order to give room to the dung to accumulate, which is
   seldom removed oftener than once or twice a year. Of the other
   two apartments, one is the. sitting-room of the family, and the
   other both bed-room and barn; but some have a separate place for
   thrashing their corn. The fire is placed in the middle of the floor,
   and the smoke finds its way through a hole in the roof, or by the
   door. The leading articles of furniture, which is of the humblest
   description, consist of a table of very rough workmanship, a few
   stools, two or three chairs, and an easy chair called sunnag, made
   of straw, and th e sole property of the goodwife. In the more
   respectable houses, there is along the wall a betich made in the
   form of a sofa. on which half-a-dozen of people can sit. In such
   as want this convenience, there is a row of stones covered with
   turf. The door is the principal aperture for the admission of air,
   which, as the cattle enjoy the benefit of it first, cannot be of the
   purest description when it reaches the rational inmates.  Light is
   admitted through a few panes of glass placed in the thatch.
      Character.-The people are kind and hospitable as far as their
   limited means permit. The stranger is always a welcome guest.
   It must, however, unwillingly be acknowledged, that they do not
   live upon terms of such sincere and cordial friendship with one
   another as they did some thirty or forty years ago. Passions
   which interrupt the peace and harmony of the neighbourhood
   prevail; petty thefts are on the increase; litigations are more
   frequent; and  disputes, which used to be amicably settled


