
			DALRY.                                       217

                  II--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Accounts of the Parish.--The only history of the parish hitherto
published is to be found in Robertson's Topographical Account of
Cuninghame. Colonel Blair, of Blair, has plans of every farm on
his property, and a map of the whole estate. Many other proprie-
tors have plans of their property. A map of the parish was pub-
lished in 1827 by Mr Robert Aitken, land-surveyor, Beith.
	Witchcraft.--This parish was the scene of one of those revolting
acts which disgrace the annals of Scotland, of condemning per-
sons to the flames for the imputed crimes of sorcery and witch-
craft. This case, which is allowed to be the most extraordinary
on record, occurred in 1576. Elizabeth or Bessie Dunlop, spouse
of Andrew Jack in Linn, * was arraigned before the High Court
of Justiciary, accused of sorcery, witchcraft, &c. Her own con-
fession appears to have formed the principal evidence against her,
and this was doubtless procured by torture. The substance of it
was as follows: That one day when driving her cows to pas-
ture, being greatly grieved by reason of affliction in her family, a
person appeared to her who described himself as one Thome Reid,
officer to the laird of Blair, who had died at Pinkie, and who in-
formed her of what would take place in her family. Thome visit-
ed her frequently after this, by whose aid she commenced the
practice of a wise woman, curing diseases, and assisting in the re-
covery of stolen goods. Her profession appears to have prospered
until she drew the evil eye of the law upon her, when, having been
apprehended and imprisoned in the jail of Irvine, and subsequent-
ly tried at Edinburgh, she was condemned to be "worried" at the
stake, before being consumed by the flames. The intervention of
Thome Reid, as a partner in guilt, did not avail the unfortunate
woman, neither did the fact operate in her favour, that her skill
was never directed to iniquitous or hurtful ends. It is rather sin-
gular that no tradition exists of this tragical occurrence in the
neighbourhood.+
	Eminent Characters.--Among the patriots who resisted the
usurpation of Edward I., Sir Bryce Blair stands distinguished.
This parish has the high honour of being the birth place of this
distinguished individual. Under pretence of holding a Justice-

<FOOTNOTE>Linn or Lynne, originally the property of an ancient family of the name of Lynne,
is believed to be the locality of the well known poem in Percie's Reliques of Ancient
Poetry, "The Heir of Lynne."

<FOOTNOTE>The trial of Bessie Dunlop is detailed in "Pitcairn's Criminal Trials," and Sir
Walter Scott has embodied it in his treatise on "Demonology and Witchcraft."


