                            LADY.                              137

a wall thickly studded with circular forts, running to the north-
west across the Nessq and thus enclosing fully a third of the whole
Ness.  These small forts on the wall are now, only ruinous cairns.
They are all, or most of them, placed on the inside of the wall.
The few on the outside seem to have been so placed for security's
sake, as they are uniformly on gentle risings.  The wall does not
run in a straight line, but has several curves, to avoid low spots of
ground which are, in winter, covered with water.     The enclosed
space is literally covered with tumuli and heaps of ruins.  None
of those now remaining are of great size.  The largest have been
levelled and ploughed over.  The peaceful husbandman has now
succeeded the restless and daring sea-kiDg.  The sickle and the
scythe have succeeded the sword and the battle-axe.
11 Most of these tumuli which have been opened, contained
burned stones, ashes, bones, and sea shells.  In some of them, were
graves lined with flat stones.  An axe, said to be of bODe, was
found some years ago, but was destroyed by the ignorant people
who found it.  An arrow or spear-head was also found at the same,
time. It is of stone, three inches long, and lozeDge-sbaped. The
point is broken off.  Many such articles might have been disco-
vered, bad proper per'sons superintended the removal of the tumuli.
46 A number of the smaller heaps within the walls are formed
of what the country people call cramp, and are said by them to
have been used as places of sacrifice.   For whatever purpose they
were used, it is plain they must have been the sites of strong and
long-continued fires.  The cramp resembles the refuse from a
glass-blower's furnace.  It is of a reddish colour, and contains por-
tions of a coarse glass, stones, and sometimes fragments of earthen
vessels.  The sea-weed, with which the shores abound, must have
furnished the fuel.  This, by long heat, would be reduced to kelp,
and, by a continuance of the beat, and the admixture of sand and
stones, would, in process of time, produce the cramp.
There is another burgli, a little to the westward of Augmund's
Howe, also built close by the beach, but considerably less than the
former.   On the north-west side, there is a circular enclosure of
about an acre, which has, at one time, been under. cultivation, and
has given the name of Quoyness to this building.
" Throughout the Ness, there are several circles of stones, with,.
for the most part, a central stone also set on edge.   None of these
stones are more than. two feet above ground,- and perhaps about as.
Inuch under.  All the circles measured nearly the same in earn


