
120                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

  Banknock coal is the common fuel of the parish and neighbour-
hood, and is sent by means of the adjoining canal, both to Green-
ock and Edinburgh. There are three strata of this mineral in
the district of Banknock. No. 1. The upper seam of 60 acres,
3 feet 6 inches thick. No. 2. The thin seam, 160 acres, 22
inches thick; and, No. 3. the main seam, of about 100 acres and
5 feet thick. The deepest pit at present is 68 fathoms deep.
  Wood.--There are no plantations in the parish; but there may
be about 200 acres of coppice wood on the property of William
Forbes, Esq.
                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  The parish of Denny was originally a part of the parish of Fal-
kirk, from which it was separated, as is supposed, (for the records
are lost), about the year 1618. The rector of Falkirk had a vicar
at Denny, who, besides the small tithes, had a valuable glebe of
28 acres, which was by the last vicar, before the Reformation in
1560, in some way, secured to some of his family connections.
The vicar's name was Oswald. The property was confirmed to
the family by a formal approbation of James VI. Excerpts from
that proceeding, written in Latin, are before me. The text is
not complete. The property continued in the name of Oswald
until the death (about twenty-five years ago) of James Oswald of
Dryborough. Dryborough is adjacent to Denny, and is the name
by which the ancient grebe lands are at present known. The
Protestant minister had 4 1/2 acres Scots provided for him out of the
grebe lands,--a provision which is still enjoyed by his successor, and
which constitutes the whole glebe land which now belongs to the
cure. There are deeds among the sasines of Stirling shire from I520
to 1620, kept in the Register-Office Edinburgh, which the curious
will be rewarded by consulting on the subject of church lands, as
applicable to, the.parish of Falkirk, and to Denny, as part of that
parish. The minister of the parish of Polmont, disjoined also
from Falkirk about a century ago, draws from the heritors in
Temple Denny, in this parish, the equivalent for his grass grebe,
a satisfying evidence that both parishes were, at one time, portions
of the parish of Falkirk.
  Chief Land-owners.--William Forbes, Esq. of Callendar is
the principal land-owner in the parish. He has lately added
to his extensive domains in various parishes in Scotland, the
60e estate of Denovan, on the opposite side of the Carron,
and is now principal heritor in Dunipace as well as in Denny.
                                 4


