
                           CANISSAY.                           25

   Freswick, at present A minor, patron of the parish; and George
Sutherland Sinclair, Esq. of Brabster.
   Parochial Registers.-The registers commence in 1651, and
were regularly kept till the Restoration.  From that period down
to 1706, there are no records of any kind whatever.  The only
other gap occurs a few years prior to 1747.  From this latter
date down to the present time, the registers have been regularly
kept; all the births and marriages are registered; the deaths are
not.
   Antiquities.-This parish seems at one time to have been di..
vided into districts, and to have had chapels for religious purposes
in each of them.  Scarcely a vestige now remains of any of these
chapels, but several aged individuals remember to have seen some
of them.  They are still known by name.  At Mey, on St John's
Head, there was one dedicated to St John; at Freswick, one to
St Maddan; at Brabster, one to St Tustan;' at Duncansbay, one
to the Virgin Mary, the locality of which is still known by the
name of Lady Kirk; and it is highly probable that what is now
the parish church was originally intended only for the use of the
adjoining district.  At Freswick are to be seen the ruins of an
old castle, called Bucholie Castle.  It seems to be of very great
antiquity.  Pennant in his Tour says that it was inhabited by a
Danish nobleman of the name of Suenus Astellf in the twelfth
century.  It is situated on a high rock, almost surrounded by the
sea, and appears to  have been a place of considerable strength.
On the top of Duncansbay Head, and about fifty yards from the
precipice, may be traced the site of a circular building of about
twenty feet diameter, which is supposed to have been a watch-
tower, and to have communicated with a similar one on the top
of the Wartb Hill.  The distance from Duncansbay Head to
the Warth or Watch Hill is about two miles, and a signal from
the one would of course be readily perceived at the other.
There are no traces  of camps or forts; but from some entries
in the Session records it would appear, that either Cromwell or
some of his officers were in this remote corner.  Thus March 29
1652, "No session holden, by reasone the Inglishe being quarter-
ed in the bounds, the congregation was few in number, and ther
Was not a sederunt of elders, nather:was ther any delinquents
charged." Again May 2, 1652, " Ther not being a sederunt, by
reasone of a partie of Inglishe horsemen being in our feilds, whilk
made the congregation fewer in number, and severall of the orders,
to be absent." And again, December 80, 1655, "Adam Seatton


