
174                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

state of society at the time. "The counsel, upon the coming
of the Comitie of Estattes to sit within this borough, fering that
sundrie of the inhabitants taken advantage of the thrang that
will be by time, will extort the leadges resorting heir to for their
chambers and bedes; their for they have sit down their prices
following, ordaining the same to be observit by the haill inhabi-
tants, and no contraveint, viz. the pryse of the noblemen's chamber,
cole, and candle, with two beds for 24 pound 20 shillings; and
of the gentlemen and commissioners of borrows, the price 13s.
4; and the pryse of the rest of the leadges resorting to the said
burrow for cote, candle, and the bed, 24 pounds 6 shillings 8;
and the groomes and footmen are to pay for their bed 3 shillings."
In the last Statistical Account, mention is made of a singular in-
stance of revenge which occurred in the early part of last century.
   Eminent Characters.-Linlithgow is famed as the birth-place of
the beautiful, but unfortunate Mary Queen of Scots.
   Several of the rectors of the burgh school have been men of emi-
nence. Among these may be mentioned Ninian Winzet, the rector at
the time of the Reformation, and who is distinguished as the defen-
der of the falling Church of Rome, in several encounters with John
Knox. Kirkwood is a better known individual, as the author of
the Latin Grammar, which was used in Scotland till superseded
by that of Ruddiman. He also made himself famous in b is day
by his long controversy with the council, and his satire upon that
body entitled "'The Twenty-seven Gods of Linlithgow." The ce-
lebrated John Eirl of Stair is said to have been educated bv Kirk-
wood, and to have boarded in his house. In later times, the resi-
dence of the Lord President Blair was in the parish, who built the
House of Avonton, near to Linlithgow.
   Land-owners.-The principal proprietors of land are Mr Stew-
art of Physgill; the Earls of Rosebery, Hopetoun, and Selkirk;
Mr Seton of Preston; and the Duke of Hamilton.
   Parochial Registers,-The earliest date of parochial registers
is February 1613, and the volumes are regularly kept.
   Antiquities.-Of the Roman period, few remains exist in the
parish. A Roman road runs along the summit of the height on
the north side of the lake, terminating, at its western extremity,
in the parish of Bo'ness, at an old military station on the line of
the great wall. The road appears to have formed part of the com-
munications connected with that remarkable rampart. Near to
the road, an urn containing ashes, was dug up a few years back.


