
     Statistical Account

   Cattle markets.-The people here, as well as in many
parts of the Highlands, have but too much cause to

<FOOTNOTE>

neighbours possessions several years before they expire.  In short the ill
temper produced by these unlucky interferences, sometimes lives longer
than the leases.  It is hard, therefore, to throw unnecessary temptations
in the way of people; and therefore what might remedy all this and
answer better, is, 3dly.  That the master, after being well informed, and
due consideration of the nature, quality, climate, advantages and disadvan-
tages of each farm, should set a specific rent on it, as high as he thinks
it can bear, and them offer it to the possessor, and to none other, if he
does not reject it, paying due regard at the same time to abilities, in-
dustry, character and principle; and if the possessor declines it, then
to give it to some other proper person, who may think it worth that
rent, 4tbly, That when a proprietor gets good tenants, he ought to give
two or three nineteens, with a certain rise of rent at certain periods.
This would make their minds easy, and induce them to act with spirit,
because of their having a pretty sure prospect that they or theirs might
reap the fruits of their industry.  Fifteen or 19 years leaves are very bad for
people of circumstances and industry; because when an industrious man upon
a short lease puts his farm in the best order he can, he makes it the greater
temptation for others to offer for it and remove himself.  There is ano-
ther thing which the tenants of the principal proprietor complain of
much, and which they reckon a grievance, tho' it is only the consequence
of their agreement by their leases, that is, the paying for the building or
reparation of church, manse and school-house.  This was no doubt in-
troduced in time of wadsets or mortgages, of which there are none now
on the estate.  It would be equally for the interest of the heritor to take
this all on himself, as is generally done over all Scotland, and substitute
an addition to the rent in place of it.  This would likewise be most plea-
sant to any incumbent; because, when any thing is wanted in that way,
the people murmur and complain, and look upon themselves an distressed
by the minister.

   Cottagers.-Their is a class of people much neglected, at least very
little attended to, not only here but in most countries in the Highlands,
i. e. the cottagers.  They not only have their houses from subtenants, but
sometimes from the subtenants of subtenants; and few of them allowed
to keep a milch cow or a horse, even for paying for them.  This, in a
country where there is not constant employment for such, by daily labour,
must of course keep them miserably poor, and force them often to beg


