
                         FORGUE.                           609

ber 1716.  Both were promised, but neither ivas forthcoming, so
the presbytery had to proceed without escort to the church of
Forgue.  Nor were they the only party that was prepared for the
settlement; the people were equally prepared.  They met the
presbytery at the church-yard in a crowded body, bent on violence
and outrage; commenced a furious attack upon them with stoner,
and staves, obliged them hastily to retire, and literally chaced
them beyond the bounds of the parish.  They then returned to
their homes in triumph, in the fond belief that they bad prevent-
ed the settlement.  The presbytery, however, was not to be thus
baffled: they proceeded to the church of Auchterless, a distance
of nine miles, and there effected the settlement of Mr Forbes.
The settlement was scarcely over, and the brethren met in presby-
tery, when a presentation was lodged, by James Spence, in Pen-
ny-burn, issued by Mr Morrison, the patron, in favour of the Rev.
James Ratnsav, minister at Bennethie, to be minister of Forgue,
and placed upon the presbytery's table with all due formality.
The scene that followed, it would be difficult to describe; suffice
it to say, that the effects of these proceedings were for a long time
painfully felt in the parish.  The ringleaders in these mobbings
were forced to leave the country-and, after a series of years, the
peace of society was restored, and the affections of the great body
of the people gained over to Mr Forbes; a result in a great mea-
sure brought about by his prudence, piety, benevolence, and ex-
emplary conduct.
   As in the cases of Inverkeithnie and Forgue, the inclinations of
the people bad been consulted, so in all other cases of the settle-
ment of ministers about this period, and long afterwards, the feel-
ings of the people concerned formed with this Presbytery the
principal object of attention.  The concurrence of the congrega-
tions was considered in all cases absolutely necesary to give vali-
dity to the presentation of the patron; and what now goes with us
by the name of intrusion seems to have been then altogether un-
known.
   Education.-There is only one parochial school in the parish,
though one or two more would be required.  the schoolmaster's
salary is the maximum.  His school-fees may amount yearly to ra-
ther more than L.20; and he derives, farther, a proportion of the
Dick bequest.  He has a good schoolhouse and garden; and
teaches English, writing, Latin, and mathematics, &c.  The
school-fees range from 2s. to 7s. 6d. per quarter.
   ABERDEEN.                              Q q


