
                      OLD KILPATRICK.                         23

in the west of Scotland, especially in Cantyre and the Hobrides,
and of the twelfth century. But as this cross (as mentioned in the
former Statistical Account) was then used for a foot bridge, one
side is completely disfigured, and the other very much injured.
There has been an inscription, but two side figures and a running
ornament are all that now can be perceived. There is a similar
cross at Barrochan, in the parish of Kilallan, which has been en-
graved in Hamilton of Wishaw's description of Renfrewshire.
   Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, Lord Blantyre; Wil-
liam Dunn, Esq. of Duntocher; James Hamilton, Esq. of Barnes;
Andrew Buchanan, Esq. of Auchentorlie; Colonel Geils of Dum-
buck; W. C. Stirling, Esq. of Edinbarnet; John Cross Buchan-
an, Esq. of Auchintoshan; Alexander Campbell. Esq. Of Barn-
hill; Robert Glasgow, Esq. of Glenarbuck.
    Parochial Registers.--The Parochial registers for marriages and
baptisms begin at 1688, and are regularly kept; but, from decay,
are imperfect till 1740. The registry of baptisms does not, how-
ever, shew the number of births, as the Dissenters do not register
their childrens' names.
   Kilpatrick, a Burgh of Barony.--Why the use of the Privileges
of being a burgh of barony should have ceased, it is difficult to
say, as there is as much need as ever for bailies and tbeir officers
to restrain the bad, and encourage the good. The jail is still
standing with its iron bars on the windows, and its door well tud
ded with nails, but it is now used as a private dwelling. A bur-
gess-ticket, dated 13th day of October 1760, states that Kilpa-
trick is a burgh of barony, in virtue of a charter under the Great
Seal, dated 27th January 1679. It declares that the village of
Kilpatrick is to be the head burgh of barony, with power to name
bailies, to create and admit burgesses, in and to all the freedoms,
liberties, and immunities allowed by law, and known to a appertain
to any sick burgh within the kingdom.

<TABLE=Population>
                    III--POPULATION.

In 1755, the parish is said to have contained 1281 souls.
At the date of the last Statistical Account,  2452
In 1811, 1595 males and 1833 females, in all  3428
In 1821, 2007 males and 1685 females, in all  3692
In 1831, 2820 males and 3059 females, in all  5879

   The cause of so vast an increase is the erection of so many
lic works, especially the cotton spinning and power-loom weaving
factories at Duntocher and Faifley.
   Most of the chief heritors are resident, with the exception of


