
                                  CRIEFF.                            507


         Bridgend and Pittenzie have been feued by the family of Broich;
	the former after the year 1730, and the latter after the year
	1766.  And Burrel Street;  Burrel Square; that part of Brown's
	Row below M'Farlane's Lane; and the villas north of the Comrie
	road, where the new church is built, were feued by the Right
	Honourable Lord and Lady Willoughby d'Eresby in the years
	1809 and 1810.
	   These feus are of various dimensions;  but the avdrage size
	is 400 square ells; and the rates of feu-duty are as follows:-
	The old feus paid considerable sums in the name of purchase
	money, in addition to a small feu-duty which is annually
	to be paid to the superiors.  Dollerie's old feu-duties range
         from 2s. 6d. to 10s. each; and Broich's are nearly the same.
         James Drummond of Perth's feus, and those of George Drum-
         mond of Milnab, are possessed on low terms,-so very low, indeed,
	that, in some instances, the feu-duties are nominal.  The com-
         missioners' feus paid no purchase money, but they pay a yearly
         feu-duty of 4s. each. Lord Perth's feus paid each L.4 Of pur-
	chase money, and are paying 2s. Od. of yearly feu-duty.  And
         Lord Willoughby's feus, as well as those that have of late been
	granted by the other proprietors, have paid no purchase money,
         but are paying a yearly feu-duty at the rate of L.16 per acre.
           Pechs.-The pecks are patches of lands, containing each a
         fourteenth part of an acre, which `re regularly let to the inhabi-
         tants at a yearly rent, and which may be continued or recalled at
         pleasure by the proprietors.  They are all the property of Messrs
         Murray of Crieff and Dollerie, and M' Laurin of the Broich, with
         the exception of a few whibh belong to lord Willoughby d'Eresby.
         And the rents range between 4s. 6d. and 9s. each; that is to say,
         they are let at the rate of from three to six guineas per acre.
           Acres.-The acres differ from the pecks. in nothing but their
         size and rents.  They contain from one to seven acres each, and
         they are commonly let from, two to three guineas per acre.
           The three proprietors ot the town, and lady Baird Preston of
	Ferntower, have between them upwards of 300 acres of land, let
         out in these pecks and pendicles.  The community, in general,
         are thereby enabled to raise corn,  potatoes, and other necessaries.
         Many of them alsok keep a cow or cows by which they have it in
         their power, not merely to add to the comfort of their own families,
         but also to supply the wants of their less fortunate neighbours, at


