
114                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

1708, mentions this place in these words: "They find plenty of
iron ore near the wood of Dalbog."
   Bog iron ore, of the latest formation, has been found in the neigh-
bourbood of the village. Large fir and oak trees, in a good state
of preservation, have been found at great depths from the surface
of the ground in different places in the parish.
   In some places, the soil is alluvial; in others, it is a stiff clay of
a brownish colour. Deep moss prevails in some low situations;
and gravel, with a thin sprinkling of moss or vegetable mould, is
often observable on the higher grounds and moorish lands.
   Zoology.--On the hills, the red grouse abound. The alpine
or white hare is occasionally seen. In the woods, `ll the usual
kinds of birds are to be met with. Black game has become ra.
ther numerous of late. The woodcock is an annual visitor and
residenter from October to March. Pheasants have been intro-
duced, but have not multiplied to tbe extent desired. In the North
Esk are all the varieties, except pike, of fresh water fish; but
salmon have rarely ascended above a water-fall near The Burn-
house, till of late, when the fall has been lowered to let them up
the river. Perch and other kinds of fish abound in the lakes at
Fasque and The Burn. Hares and partridges are numerous in the
fields. All the other kinds of animals common to the country,
whether wild or domesticated, are to be seen.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.--The land-owners of the parish, in the order of
their valued rents, are, Captain M'lnroy of The Burn and Arnhall;
John Gladstone, Esq. of Fasque; Sir John Stuart Forbes of Pit-
sligo and Fettercairn, BarL; Sir Alexander Ramsay of Balmain,
Bart. late M. P. for Kincardineshire; The Hon. Donald Ogilvy
of Clova and Balbegno, Colonel of the Forfarshire and Kincar-
dineshire Militia; The Right Hon. the Earl of Kintore; Miss
Robertson of Dalladies; The Right Hon. the Viscount Arbuth-
nott, one of the sixteen representative Peers of Scotland, and
Lord lieutenant of the county.
   Maps, &c.--There is nn lap of the parish, except what is con-
tained in the maps of the county by Garden and others, or in the
plans of the different estates belonging to the foregoing proprie-
tors.  By these plans, it appears that it contains less surface, by
at, least 1000 imperial acres, than the quantity stated by Garden,
and by the writer of the last Statistical Account, on his authority.
Till that Account, appeared, there was no history of tbe parish.


