
                            DUMBARTON.                            11

tolerably well built street in the shape of a crescent, and several
other smaller streets. The houses are generally closely built to-
gether, and many of them very ill-aired. The principal street is
kept very clean, and well paved, and has for some time been light-
ed with gas. In 1831, the population was about 3300, but
since that time it has decreased considerably. The affairs of
the burgh are managed by a provost, two bailies, a dean of
Guild, a treasurer, and ten councillors. Before the Reform Act
passed, tbe council was divided into two classes, merchant and
trades' councillors; but since the passing of that act, the distinc-
tion has been abolished. The bailies are empowered to hold
Courts for the administration ofjustice, but they do not hold them
at any stated period, and they sit when business requires their
attendance. The Sheriff of the county holds regular Courts in
Session time every Thursday for the Sheriff Court processes, and
commissary causes, and on every second Thursday for small debt
causes. The business in these courts has fallen off very much of
late years.
  Manufactures.-Previous to the year 1831, a considerable trade
was carried on in the town of Dumbarton. A very extensive crown-
glass and bottle-work was then in full operation. At the time
when the old Statistical Account of the parish was published,
there were about 130 individuals employed in these works, and
the amount per annum of duties paid to Government was L. 3800
Sterling. * Some years after that, the number of workmen war,
about 300, and the quantity of coal consumed per annum was
about 17,000 tons. The largest sum of money ever paid by the
company to Government for duties was L. 119,000 Sterling: this
was in 1818. The duties never afterwards amounted to so large
a sum. When these works were in operation, there were about
2000 tons of shipping belonging to Dumbarton. The number of
vessels now belonging to the port is about 40,-containing in all
about 1212 tons burthen. The glass-works are to be exposed to
sale, in a short time, when it is expected that they will be sold,
and that trade will again revive. +
  At high water, the river Leven is navigable for large vessels up
to the quay of Dumbarton; but at very low tides none can come
up, unless of a small size. This is partly owing to a bar across the
mouth of the river at Dumbarton Castle, and partly owing to seve-

<FOOTNOTE>Stat. Account, Vol. iv. page 23.
          Since the above was written, the Glass-works have been sold, and are going on in
a flourishing manner.


