
                                    WICK.                           125

     dark-bluish calcareous flagstone, which continues along the coast
     to the cliffs southwards of the burgh of Wick. This deposit dif-
     fers from the general formation of the district in being in thicker
     beds, on which account it is much used in building. The stratal
     dip is generally to the north-east, with, however, numerous inter-
     ruptions.
        Of the cliffs to the south of the Bay of Wick, the stratal
     dip is in the same direction, and the flagstone is surmounted
     by soft greenish micaceous shale and sandstone. The opera-
     tions near the southern side of the new harbour of Pulteneytown
     have brought, into view a very singular disposition of the superior
     recumbent detritus. This, for the space of about 100 yards, is
     composed of large stones, huddled together like the rubbish of a
     quarry. The bank of fine bluish clay, resting upon this, is of con-
     siderable height. Imbedded in it, and near its summit, lies a con-
     spicuous mass of coarse-grained dark-grey granite, of perhaps
     twenty tons in weight. It has been blasted with gunpowder, and
     various idle attempts have been made, but happily without success,
     to destroy this huge and remarkable boulder. A similar granitic
     boulder is found opposite, on the northern side of the bay. These
     are the only-specimens known of this kind of stone in the parish ;
     and they bear evident marks of having beem rolled alone by some
     mighty current.
        Farther along the coast, on the south side of Wick Bay, nearer
     the Castle of Auld Wick, where the sea-cliffs are above thirty feet
     in height, and far above the reach of the high tide, the uppermost
     strata have been deranged by some mighty force directed upon
     them from the Moray Frith. Enormous masses of rock have been
     broken off from their beds, and thrown upon one another in most
     terrific confusion. One prodigious mass has been heaved from its
     bed below, and placed upon a similar rock immediately above, on
     which it is supported by a small stone between them, so that a
     person can walk beneath it.
        About four miles to this south of Wick, the line of bearing of
     the schistose rocks is altered; and from a point near Ulbster,
     where they begin to dip in an inland or westerly direction, a great
     change, is observable in the physical character of tbe country.
        Fossil Orqanic Remains.-Ichthyolites are universally spread
     over this extensive deposit; and their occurrence is not confined
     to one particular stratum, but is characteristic of this vast schis-


