
     of Kincardine.

   Language.-The Scotch language is spoken ordinarily.
But as for many years past, a considerable proportion of
the servants here have been natives of the highlands, and
of late above a hundred families from these countries have

<FOOTNOTE>

been long established.-They being almost uniformly high where the price of
labour is high.
   While therefore the more regular employment and the higher wages, that
are now given to labourers and handycraftsmen, are justly considered as the
principal causes of the diminution of the poor; I hazard the opinion, that the
salutary effect of these was owing greatly to the mode of managing their poor
adopted by this parish.
   When it was determined that the poor should be restrained from begging,
this parish very wisely resolved to preserve the distinction betwixt those who
had begged, and those who had lived at home, and received supply from the
session; these last being in general industrious, and free from the vices that
prevail too often among the begging poor.
   The begging poor alone were put on the parish fund, and previous to this
being done they were obliged to give an assignation of all their effects to the
parish.
   The intention of this assignation was, not only to prevent any from pre-
tending poverty, but also to put it in the power of the managers to regulate
the funeral expences of such of the poor as died.
   People of that rank have their pride and their prejudices, as well as their
superiors, and it was wisely determined to make use of these on that occasion,
and to affix such a degree of discredit upon those maintained from the poor's
rate, as to prevent, as much as possible, the establishment of it operating as an
encouragement of idleness, or a want of economy.
   The wisdom of this management has appeared in its effects.  The aversion
of the poor to a funeral, from which any part of the usual expence has been
retrenched, has prevented several persons from claiming to be put upon the
roll.-The desire of what is called a decent funeral, i. e. one to which all the
inhabitants of the district are invited, and at which every part of the usual en-
tertainment is given, is one of the strongest in that rank of people.  The ex-
pence of it amounts nearly to 2 L.  This sum therefore every person in mean
circumstance is anxious to lay up, and he will not spare it unless reduced to
the greatest extremity.


