
36                 		KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

night and morning, and their feet once in the week. They are
bathed once in the mouth, and the male prisoners are shaved twice
in the week. Clean linens, clean stockings, and clean handker-
chiefs are furnished to them every week, clean sheets every fort-
night, and clean blankets every month. They are allowed to lake
daily exercise in the open air, and are supplied with various kinds
of employment in their apartments.
	The jail is under the particular superintendence of the County
Prison Board, consisting of nine members, the steward, or his sub-
stitute ex officio being one.
	The new system of prison discipline is in operation. The keep-
er, matron, and male warden riside within the precincts of the pri-
son, and the prisoners are regularly visited by the chaplain and
surgeon. The keeper acts as schoolmaster. Thirteen individuals
were committed during the last year who could not read.
	Fairs.--Hiring fairs for farm and domestic servants are held
annually on the last Friday of March, and the last Friday of Sep-
tember. A day for hiring hay and harvest workers is likewise
held yearly on the Friday, immediately preceding Keltonhill fair
at midsummer, but not much business is transacted on any of the
days. The ancient fairs of the burgh have fallen into desuetude.
	Inns.--The parish contains twenty-seven inns, or houses licensed
to sell spirituous liquors. It is probable, however, that the num-
ber will soon be materially diminished.
	Fuel.--Coal is the principal article of fuel used both in the
town and country. The average price is about 11s. per ton of 20
cwt. Wood and peat, which are procured in the neighbourhood,
are also used, though in small quantities. The coal is generally
brought from Cumberland.
	Constituency.--The town contains 102, and the country 26 elec-
tors, Kirkcudbright, with Dumfries, Annan, Lochmaben, and
Sanquhar sends a member to Parliament.

			   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The size of the town of Kirkcudbright has considerably in-
creased since the last Statistical Account was written. One
building Society was formed in 1808, and another in 1810.
These Societies erected in whole 112 houses, which have not only
enlarged the town, but, from lowering the rents of houses, tended
to augment the population of the parish. In 1838, a Gas Light
Company was formed, and a great improvement has taken place
in the lighting of the streets.
	The people are now better-fed, better clothed, and better


