
                      OLD KILPATRICK.                      31

is one-eight on every boll of meal. Besides, somewhat more in
the case of some of the farms would have been produced by a sim-
ple surrender of the teinds than has been by the calculations which
have been made. The stipend in 1835, as the allocation now
stands, was L. 226, 9s. 5d., without any allowance for communion
elements.
   Owing to the crowded state of the parish church, which is al-
together too small for the population, a parish missionary has been
employed for about two years, who regularly preaches on Sabbath,
visits the sick, and has classes for religious instruction during the
week. His preaching station is at Faifley. The place holds from
200 to 250 hearers, and is generally crowded to the door. His
salary is L.50, and has been paid by a private individual. There
is an additional church now building by subscription at Duntocher,
which is to contain 800 sittings. The principal heritors, with few
exceptions, came forward in the most liberal manner in aid of this
undertaking. Mr Hamilton of Barnes began the subscription
with L.100; and it is but justice to say, that he and the ladies of
the famil are ready to promote every good work. Mr Buchanan Of
Auchintoshan subscribed L.100, and made offer of ground for the
building. A site offered by Mr Dunn was preferred, who sub-
scribed L.200; Mr Buchanan of Auchentorlie also subscribed
L.100. Many others contributed liberally, botb heritors and other
inhabitants. In all, about L.900 has been subscribed, and it is
hoped that, as much additional will be contributed as, with the aid
of the Church Extension Fund of the General Assembly, will leave
the church, when completed, free of debt.

<FOOTNOTE>It must now be added, that the new church at Duntocher is flnished.  The cost
of the erection, after deducting the drawback on wood and glass, was L. 1459, 1s. 2d.
The amount of contributions to meet this expenditure, including L. 300 from the
General Assembly's Church Extension Fund, was L. 1299, 12s, 5., leaving a defi.
ciency of L. 159, 8s. 9d.  But as it was desirable that the new church should begin
without any incumbrance, the treasurer, who was the minister of the original parish,
gave up his claims for the balance, so that the managers undertook their charge free
of debt.
   The church was opened on Sabbath the 25th September 1896, and the Rev. John
Pollock, who had been labouring in the district for more than two years as parish mis-
sionary, was ordained the minister on the 6th of October.  Mr Pollock was translated
to Baldernock parish on the 29th of March 1898, and the Rev. William Alexander,
who is now minister of Duntocher, was ordained to the charge in October 1898.
  The parish of Duntocher was disjoined quoad sacra from the parish of Old Kilpa-
trick by the Assembly of 1896.  The inhabited part of the parish is about a mile and
a half in length and three quarters of a mile in breadth, and its nearest extremity is
nearly two miles from the original parish church.  From a census taken by the late
minister, the parish was found to contain 3336 inhabitants, of whom l604 professed
to belong to the Established Church.  With the exception of three heritors' families,
and three or four other families, all the population may be said belong to the work-


