
8                 DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	The disease now prevailed in almost every part of the town,
but raged with the greatest severity in English Street, St Michael
Street, King Street, Queensberry Street, and the closes leading
from the High Street. The practitioner, as he went his rounds,
was often beset by several poor distracted creatures at once, eager-
ly seizing him by the clothes, and each imploring a preference
in behalf of some suffering relative. Trade of every description
was at a stand; and few shops remained open except those of
apothecaries, and of some bakers and grocers;-other men of
business having, for the most part, retired from the scene of dan-
ger. Partly from this cause, and partly from the want of a suffi-
cient number of hands to prepare the materials, many who had lost
their nearest relations were obliged to dispense with the wearing of
mourning. As no inhabitant of the country would willingly brave the
influence of the tainted air, the market-day was undistinguished from
the other days of the week, over all of which a more than sabbatical
stillness seemed to reign. Many families fled with the utmost pre-
cipitation to the country, and the houses in the streets occupied
by the higher ranks were, with few exceptions, shut up. Flight,
however, did not always ensure safety. Many perished by the way,
or on reaching their destination, far from medical aid and the com-
forts of home. The gentlemen of the Faculty, worn out by incessant
toil, were forced to ride even the shortest distances, and theirs were
the only vehicles to be seen on the streets, with the exception of
hearses, which, without the usual formality of a funeral, hurried
the dead to the "ever yawning and never satisfied grave."
	As we have just hinted, the deceased, while the pestilence was
at its height, were, for the most part, followed to the place of in-
terment by none but their immediate relations, and were often
conveyed thither without even a single attendant save the driver of
the hearse. When, however, a funeral procession was to be form-
ed, the mourners, instead of entering the house of the deceased,
were in the habit of assembling in the middle of the street a few
hours after the death was known to have taken place, and of pro-
ceeding to the churchyard in front of the hearse, or on the weather
side of it. Such families as possessed burying-grounds of their own,
made use of them; but for the rest, two rows of large pits were dug
in the more unoccupied part of the cemetery; and in these the bo-
dies were piled one upon another,--every coffin being surrounded
by a layer of quick-lime. Each pit, when the coffins had reached
to about two feet from the surface, was filled up with lime and


