
                    PARISH OF KINCARDINE O'NIEL.

        PRESBYTERY OF KINCARDINE O'NIEL, SYN0D OF ABERDEEN.

                  THE REV. JOHN RODGER, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-IN old registers the name is uniformly written Kincar-
den O'Neal. Kincarden is said to be derived from Gaelic words
signifying " the head of the hill." The village of Kincardine O'-
Niel, in which the church and manse stand, is situated in a valley
at the south-west corner of a hill of considerable height, named
Ordfundlie.  A rivulet, named Neal or Niel, running by the vil-
lage, gives, it is supposed, the addition of O'Niel to Kincardine.
   Extent, &c.-The average length of the parish from south to
north is seven miles, and the breadth from east to west five.  The
form resembles that of a parallelogram, with some projections and
indentations in its sides.  As the extreme length in some places
is fully eight miles, and the breadth above five, the area is probably
about thirty-five square miles.  On the west, the parish is bounded
by those of Aboyne and Luvnphanan ; on the north, by the pa-
rishes of Tough and Cluny; on the east, by Midrnar and Ban-
ehory-Ternan; and by the river Dee on the south, which, in its
windings, divides it from the parish of Birse and part of Aboyne.
   This parish may be said to be divided into three great straths
or portions, by hills of considerable extent and height; one of
which, the hill of Learney, may not improperly be regarded as a
continuation of the hill of Fare.  It runs in a circuitous direction
north-west by west, cutting off a considerable portion from the
other two divisions of the parish.  The hill of Fare, which inter-
venes betwixt Midmar and Banchory-Ternan parishes, forms a
part of the east boundary of this parish.  It furnishes good peats
to the tenants around its base,--the circumference of which is
reckoned fourteen miles.  It is in height nearly 1600 feet above
the level of the sea, and is a landmark to ships on the east coast
near Aberdeen.  The other bills in the parish are cultivated or


