
         			PARISH OF BIGGAR.

		PRESBYTERY OF BIGGAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.
			THE REV. JOHN CHRISTISON, MINISTER.

			I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name and Boundaries.--IN ancient charters, the name is gene-
rally written Biger and sometimes Bigre. Its origin is very doubt-
ful, but probably, as Chalmers thinks, from the Scoto-Irish words
big, thir, pronounced big'er, and signifying soft land. This de-
scription does not apply to the parish generally, nor even to the land
immediately around the town; but the old castle of the family of
Biggar stood in the middle of a morass, and this circumstance,
which has evidently given rise to its own name Boghall, may be
thought to justify the derivation now given of the name of the
parish.
	Biggaris a border parish of Lanarkshire, on the south-east, where
it marches with the county of Peebles. It is bounded on the
south by Culter and Kilbucho; on the east by Skirling; on the
north by Dolphinton and Walston; and on the west by Libberton.
Its length from the south-west, where it is washed for about 300
yards by the Clyde, to its north-eastern extremity, is 6 1/2 miles. It
approaches the form of a triangle, and contains 11 1/2 square miles,
or 5852 Scots acres.
	Topographical Appearances.--There is a good deal of level land
in the parish, but generally speaking it is hilly. The hills are of
moderate elevation, sometimes half forming themselves into ridges,
but in general pretty much detached. Their near equality in point
of height, their gentle activities round backs, and surfaces unbrok-
en by natural wood, rock, or torrent, preclude all picturesque ef-
fect, but they present nevertheless a very pleasing aspect. To-
wards the south they subside into a plain of considerable extent.
This plain, which is the lowest land in the parish, is about 628 feet
above the level of the sea.  The town, which stands on a gentle
elevation between it and the hills, is, 695 feet, the ridge of heights
north-west of the town, 1260, and Bizzberry, on the north-east,
1150.				1


