
104                         PERTHSHIRE.

pidity, while the success of their operations on the fords has been
in the highest degree satisfactory and encouraging.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The original church of Perth was desig-
nated "the Church of St John the Baptist." It is altogether un-
known when and by whom it was founded.  It could not be built
before the year 412, for it was not till then that the Picts, who in-
habited the country to the south of the Grampian mountains, be-
came converts to the Christian faith; and if it be the fact, that till
the time of St Ninian (from Galloway) there was no church
built of stone in the country, it could not be before the year 452.
The Picts were the ancestors of the generality of the people, and
Ninian laboured as a missionary among them.
  The church edifice was extensive and magnificent, as appears
from historical facts and from vestiges which still remain.  But
after the year 1226, when it, with the tithes of the parish, was
given to the Abbey of Dunfermline, the edifice was neglected.
The monks endeavoured to throw the burden of upholding it upon
the town, and the town upon the monks; and when the monastery
churches began to be built in the parish in the reign of Alexander
II. its interests were almost entirely neglected.  This was parti- -
cularly the case during the national disturbances which began in
the year 1290.  At length, however, Robert Bruce, having in a
great measure restored good order in the kingdom, directed his
attention to the repairing of the church of St Johnstone.  His
death, which took place 1329, put an end to these laudable efforts.
The following letter be addressed to the abbot and convent of
Scone, as proprietor of some quarries in the neighbourhood, to ob-
tain the stones which might be necessary.  "Robert, by the grace
of God King of Scots, to our beloved and faithful religious men,
the abbot and convent of Scone, greeting: We request, and that
very earnestly, that you will grant liberty to take hewed stones
from Kincarrachie and Balcormac, for the edification of the church
of Perth and of the Bridges of Perth and Earn, providing always
that this liberty shall not be of any prejudice or damage to you.
Given at Glasgow, the 4th day of July, in the forty-third year of
our reign."
  In the year 1400 the edifice was in good repair.  Before that
time the east end or choir had been rebuilt.  The former altars of
the saints were removed, and a multitude of new ones began to be
founded; only the great altar of St John Baptist, according to the
superstitious feelings then prevalent, required to be kept up and to



