
276                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

and west, the rains and storm beat with great severity in the win-
ter months, as these ridges are 600 feet and upwards above the
sea level at Grangemouth.  Between most of these ridges, there
is a considerable field of moss, under which is found nothing but
coarse sand, or a reddish till, which is very unfriendly to vegeta-
tion. Towards the south and south-west of the parish, there are
several hundreds of acres, entirely moss, varying from three to
twelve feet in depth, the substratum being chiefly sand, affording
no inducement to remove it. The farms in the parish are in a
much better state of cultivation, than they were in fifteen years
ago. The ploughing competitions in the spring have had a good
effect in stimulating the young to industry, and to a higher improve-
ment of their lands. Of late years, the resident heritors have
paid particular attention to their dairies, and in rearing young
cattle, from the produce of which the tenant chiefly pays his rent.
Though the iron plough be in general use in the parish, yet the
old Scots plough seems to have the preference both in opening
and making a wider furrow.

		     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

   Parochial Registers.--The oldest register of kirk-session com-
mences 1681. There are several loose papers, apparently com-
munion-rolls, bearing date 1635.
   Valuation and Rent--The valuation of the old parish in the
cess books, is L.2349, IIs. 7d. Scots, and the rental in 1771 was
estimated at L.3092, 6s., which is somewhat more than the pre-
sent rental. The valuation of the Annexation is L.1066, 13s. Id.
Scots, and the rental in that year was about L.1147, 6s. which is
about the present rental. There are 25 resident and 14 non-re-
sident heritors, and in the annexation, 7 resident, and 5 non-re-
sident heritors. The principal proprietors in the parish and An-
nexation are, Mr Carrick Buchanan of Drumpellier; Mr Forbes
of Callendar; Carron Company, and Captain Fergusson; Mr Wad-
dell of Balquhatston; Mr Ralston of Ellrig; Mr Taylor of South-
field. They are all non-resident, with the exception of Mr Ralston
and Mr Waddell. Some of these lands have been in the pos-
session of the same families from the period when they were first
feued.

		  <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
                 Amount of population in 1801,          -      923
                                         1811,          -      993
                                         1821,          -      981
                                         1831,          -     1093


