
     of Killearn.

60 feet in height, over which the rivulet of Dualt, falling
precipitately into a deep Linn, forms a delightful cascade,
which adds not a little to the grandeur and solemnity of
the scene.  About half a mile from Dualt glen, and in the
estate of Croy, is Ashdow, which exhibits a scenery in many
respects peculiarly striking.  It consists of a high rock, over
which the water of Carnock precipitately falls, and, by the
work of many ages, has cut out for itself a deep and wind-
ing passage.  The projecting rocks, on both sides the water,
are wild beyond description.  Nearly meeting at the top,
in some places, they widen below into beautiful curva-
tures, naturally hollowed out in various directions.  The
romantic appearance of the rocks is set off to advantage by
trees and shrubs hanging, in great profusion, over the clefts.
The rivulet dashing over the precipice, and rumbling
through the deep-worn channel; the united harmony of a
great variety of the feathered tribe; and the dark shade,
which perpetually rests upon a great part of this picturesque
scenery, conspire to fill the mind of the beholder with the
most pleasing ideas of the grand, the delightful, and the
solemn.  The estate of Croy, now the property of William
Richardson of Croy, Esq; Professor of Humanity in the Uni-
versity of Glasgow, is receiving daily improvements.
   Ballikinrain, the property and summer residence of Ro-
bert Dunmore of Ballindaloch, Esq; occupies one of the most
pleasant situations in this part of the country.  The man-
sion-house, which is of a modern construction, is by far the
most elegant and commodious dwelling-house in the parish.
The estate, before it came by marriage into Mr Dunmore's
possession, belonged for several centuries to the Napiers of
Ballikinrain.  The last proprietor, John Napier of Balli-
kinrain, Esq; was the sixteenth of the name and family of
Napier, who, in succession, possessed the estate.  It is now
enriched with many agricultural improvements, especially


