
                           HAWICK.                                 409

with the exception of benches inconveniently placed in the passa-
ges, and these, capable of accommodating about 33, with all the
other sittings, whether let or allocated, are not only fully occupied,
but the stairs to the pulpit and to both the galleries are generally
crowded.
  Various attempts h`ve been made for the purpose of removing
the evils under which the parish has been suffering from such a
sad deficiency in the means and opportunities of religious worship.
So far back as 1802, the subject was strongly pressed on the at-
tention of the heritors, by a petition from the magistrates, town-
council, and kirk-session, and, after various meetings and delibera-
tions, they have at length agreed as to the necessity of having a
new church capable of accommodating 1500, and have recorded
their opinion to that effect.  There seems, however, to be no im-
mediate prospect of this plan being carried into execution, as se-
veral formidable obstacles remain yet to be removed.
  1. The present church is not legally condemned, and, from the
opinion of competent judges who have carefully examined it, is still
in a sound and sufficient state, though uncomfortable in the ex-
treme, and in every point of view unfit for a place of religious
worship.
  2. A large majority of the heritors, in accordance with the feel-
ings of the great body of the people, have resolved on the erection
of the new church on the site of the present building. This, how-
ever, cannot be effected, so as to accommodate the requisite number;
without encroaching considerably on the adjoining burying-
grounds, which is decidedly objected to by one or two individuals
whose opposition is strengthened by the fact, that the church  is
not legally condemned.
  3. The difficulties have been somewhat increased by certain
parties claiming right to act as heritors, on the ground of their
being assessed for the poor, although they are not rated in the
county cess-books, and have never paid any portion of assessment
for parochial buildings.
  It ought not to be omitted, that His  Grace  the Duke of Buc-
cleuch, influenced by a laudable regard for the best interests of
the people, has resolved, in the meantime, to build an additional
church at his own expense-a measure which, while urgently re-
quired, is likely, when carried effect, to prove of great  benefit
to the community.

   ROXBURGH                             D d


