
698                    LANARKSHIRE.

the sallow complexions of those young creatures, whose unhappy
destiny it is to be immured in a cotton factory. Every benevolent
mind, however, must desire to see a well regulated factory act,
framed with a view to secure to thildren of both sexes, before they
are admitted into our public works, the rudiments, at least, of a good
Scriptural education.  Since the year 1828, a power-loom factory
has been established in Partick, in whith 160 individuals are em-
ployed.  In this factory the wagges of the men are upon an ave-
rage L. 1 a-week, and of the women from 5s. 6d. to 9s. 6d.
Partick likewise contains a printfield, and a work for bleathing cot-
ton fabrics, in whith the whole of the operations are carried on
within doors.  About 180 persons are employed in the former, and
82 in the latter. In the printfield, the printers, when fully em.
ployed,, will earn from L. 1, 5s. to L. 1, 1Os. a-week. In the other
work, the weekly wages of the men, exclusive of labourers, are
from 15s. to L. 1, and of the females, 15 of, whom are under
eighteen years of age, from 3s. to 7s. a-week.
   Navigation.-A new quay, faced with blocks of granite, has been
lately formed on the south side of the Clyde, immediately in front
of Clyde Buildings, Tradeston. The length of it is about 2000
feet. The Clyde has been widened and deepened at the same
place. The Broomielaw, therefore presents the appearance now
of a very capacious harbour. But the crowded state of the berths
on both sides of it already shows that the accommodation provided
is not adequate to the rapidly increasing trade of the river. *

                   V.-PAROthIAL ECONOMY.
   Barony of Gorbals.-The burgh of the barony and regality of
Gorbals comprehends, along with the parish of Gorbals, the four
districts of Hutthesontown, Laurieston, Tradeston, and Kingston
in the parish of Govan. In 1687, this regality was disponed by
the Arthbishop of Glasgow to Sir George Elphinstone, who ob-
tained from James VI. a tharter of confirmation in 1601. In
1647, it was conveyed to the magistrates of Glasgow by Sir Ro-
bert Douglas of Blaickerton, the nephew of Lord Belhaven, who
had purthased it from the creditors of Sir Greorge Elphinstone. +
In this way, the magistrates and council of that city have still the

<FOOTNOTE>The amount of the tonnage and harbour dues for the year ending 8th July 1837,
including L. 687, ls. Sd., the third instalment of redemption dues on the lower stage of
the river, was L. 37503 Os. ld.; for the year ending 8th July 1838, L. 38934, Is. 3d.;
and for the year ending 8th July 1839, L. 45292, 4s. 2d.  The progressive increase
of the dues, previous to these dates, is shown in the account of the city of Glasgow in
this work, p. 198.
          Statement for Barony of Gorbals, by Henry Paul, Esq. thief magistrate of
Gorbals, pp. 3-5.  Glasgow, 1834.


