
                     KEMBACK.                             721

posits; one of which is connected with the coal formation, and the
other with that of the old red sandstone. The geological corre-
sponds with the geographical position of the parish, which occupies
an intermediate place betwixt the coal-field on the south, and the
old red sandstone on the north. The lower beds of the former
rest inconformably on the upper beds of the latter. The trap
consists of veins of greenstone and a few isolated patches of clink-
stone. A vein of lead ore also occurs in the series.
   Dura Den, a beautiful and interesting valley, traverses the pa-
rish nearly at right angles to the plain of the sedimentary depo-
sits, and exhibits a well-defined section of the entire series of these
beds. Without leaving the road, the whole are laid open, to the
eye of the observer, and may conveniently be examined in detail.
   The geology of this district has lately acquired very considera-
ble celebrity. Dr Anderson was the first who drew the attention
of the learned to its interesting relies, in his essay on the Geology
of Fifeshire, published in the Transactions of the Highland So-
ciety. Since that time it has been visited by some of the most
eminent in the science, and commented upon in various publica-
tions.
   The sandstone beds, which belong to the old red, are here of a
bright yellow colour, and attain a thickness of from three to four
hundred feet. Their position in the series is determined by their
organic remains, which are identical in every respect with those
found in the red formation. They also lie conformably on that de-
posit, as may be observed at the out-crop at Dairsie church, both
having an inclination of nearly 10\1d. Towards the base of the rock,
the sandstone assumes a variegated reddish appearance, where
soft beds of marl or clay are interposed, and which vary from an
inch to several feet in thickness. The lineal extent of the depo-
sit, of which a section is here laid open, is nearly a mile, and rises
in precipitous mural cliffs of great height, indented with caves, in
which the persecuted of a former age are said to have found an asy-
lum.
   The whole deposit is extremely rich in organic remains. Seve-
ral entire fishes, with fins, tail, scales, and thinnest filmy members,
have been procured. Along with three or four belonging to com-
pletely new species, if not genera, and of which no account has
yet been published, specimens of the Holoptychius, N., and Pte-
richthys are to be found in the greatest abundance.  Beautiful
plates of five distinct animals are figured in Dr Anderson's Essay.
   FIFE.                                          ZZ


