
                      DUNLOP.                              297

tion among them is unknown. There are no indications of their
being discontented with their situation. They are distinguished
for shrewdness in managing their affairs, as well as for persevering
industry; and as they generally retain the frugal habits of the
olden time, many of them have prospered in their worldly circum-
stances. Though not much given to reading, they have almost
all a small collection of books, chiefly in divinity. As in other
places, there are some persons addicted to intemperance, and the
other grosser vices, but in general they are sober and moral in their
habits. They are commendably regular in their attendance on di-
vine ordinances. Family worship, it is alleged, is more neglected
than in former times, but is still kept up in a considerable propor-
tion of families. Though the killing of game without a license
is not looked on as a very heinous offence, especially if the per-
mission of the proprietor on whose land it is found has been ob-
tained, poaching is little practised. Smuggling is altogether un-
known.
	During the last three years there have been 4 illegitimate births.

                              IV.--INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--According to the information
received from the different farmers as to the extent of their re-
spective holdings, it appears that the parish contains 6554 impe-
rial acres. This estimate can be considered only as a near ap-
proach to the truth, several of the properties not being measured.
The land may be thus divided:
<TABLE>
         Cultivated or occasionally in tillage,                     5834 imperial acres.
                {Natural pasture,                                    311
         Uncultivated,  {Meadow,                                     248
                        {Moss,                                        30
         Under wood (planted,)                                       131
                                                                    ----
                                                                    6554
	With the exception of moss, which would not repay the expense
of improvement, and meadow, which is more valuable in its present
state than if it was brought into tillage, almost all the uncultivated
land consists of steep banks where the plough could not be used,
so that probably not more than 40 acres of it could be cultivated
with profit. There is no natural wood. The kinds of trees plant-
ed are, larch, Scotch fir, ash, elm, beech, and plane.
	The management of the plantations on some of the larger
estates is good, pruning and thinning, as well as draining and fen-
cing, being carefully attended to. This cannot be said of the ma-
nagement on many of the smaller properties, The plantations on


