
                            DRUMOAK.		                885

ceeded to the estates upon the death of his fattier, in 1761, and
is the nineteenth laird, and the fourteenth in descent, being both
the heir of line and the heir of entail of this ancient and bonour-
able family.  He holds the patronage of the church, and, in point
of valued rent, is the principal heritor, and resident in the parish.
   Leys.-That part of the land of Leys which is situated in this
parish, and forms the next great division of it, lies within the
boundary of the county of Kineardiue, and has, for upwards of five
hundred years, been in possession of the family of the present Pro-
prietor, Sir Thomas Burnett, Bart. The family seat is at Crathes,
in Banchory-Ternan, which renders it unnecessary to enter mi-
nutely into the history of the family here, as that will be done
with greater propriety in the account of the parish in which the
family is resident.  It may, however, be suitably observed, that a
character of the lands of Kilhenach, Clerach, &c, (in this parish,)
was granted to Alexander Burnard, by King Robert Bruce, in the
eighteenth year of his reign, (1324,) and was confirmed to his suc-
cessor, Robert Burnard, by a charter under the Great Seal, grant-
ed by King David Bruce, in 1358.  The first time that we find
the name of this barony assumed as the distinguishing title of the
family is in 1409; and King James III., in 1481., gave a charter
under the Great Seal of the lands of Canoglerocht to Alexander
Burnett of Leys.  In the year 1621, Thomas Burnett received
the honour of Knighthood from James VI. ; and, about five years
afterwards, " Charles I. created him a Baronet, by his Royal pa.
tent, to him and his heirs-male whatever, terrarum barotiiae et re-
galitatis de Leys-Burnet, in Nova Scotia in America." * Sir
Thomas Burnett, who succeeded to the patrimonial honours and
estates in 1838, is the nineteenth Laird, and the eight Baronet of
Leys, and ranks as the second heritor in this parish.
   Park.-The lands of Park (described in the original charter
as situated in Kineardineshire, but now rated in Aberdeenshire,)
formed, as has already been observed, part of a royal chase,
and, having been reserved by Robert I. when he gave the fo-
rest lands to William de Irwin, were granted, by Charter from King
David Bruce to Walter Moigne.  In 1348, John Moigne, Lord
of the Park of the Drum, executed a disposition of it to Alexan-
der Irvine, Lord of the Drumn ; and, in 1393, the said John
Moigne granted a charter in favour of said Alexander Irvine of
a chalder of meal, paid of old to him by William de Burnard, for
susstentation of the Park of Drum.  These lands continued in the

<FOOTNOTE>Baronage of Scotland.


