
            40                             BANFFSHIRE.

            Still there is great room for improvement in this way-perhaps
            more in this than in any other way that could be mentioned         '
               Some years ago a considerable improvement was effected by the
            straighting of the burn of Boyndie.
               The ordinary duration of lease is nineteen years.  This, if not
            generally complained of, is by some considered to be of too short
            duration, in respect that, as farms may be generally supposed to
            be left, by outgoing tenants, in a somewhat impoverished condition,
            the new entrants can scarcely have time, in a period of nineteen
	    years, to bring them properly into condition, so as to reap the
            benefit of their outlay before the termination of the lease.
               The greater part of the lands in the parish are enclosed and
            subdivided with substantial stone dikes; and the farm-houses and
            offices good and sufficient-some of them superior to the generality
            of farm accommodation, even in an improved district such as
            this parish.  Any deficiency that exists in this respect may perhaps
	    be owing to its being the more general practice in the district,
	    that the tenants erect the farm accommodations, receiving
            an allowance at the end of their lease; and the consequent inducement
	    they have to lock up, in this way, as little of their capital as
            possible.
               Quarries. - The granite at Cairns of Ord (mentioned in the
            Geological section) is of excellent quality for building, and has
            been wrought for that purpose; but, owing to its distance from the
            sea, not to such an extent as it would otherwise have been.  The
            different species of rocks already described as existing in the parish
	    are also in some places quarried for building materials; but
            (unless at the time when the new pier was constructing) there
            have never been any considerable operations in this way; partly
            because the peculiar sort of stones afforded are not much prized
            for building, and partly because there is no great quantity of building
	    going on to require stones of any sort.
               Fisheries. - All the different kinds of white fish used for food
            that are, to be found in the sea adjoining the parish are fished
            for, and brought to market, but only by individual fishermen on
            their own account, and therefore not on any great scale.  It is the
            opinion of some, however, that if the cod, ling, and turbot fishery
            were prosecuted in this parish on a scale of sufficient extent, it
            might soon become of importance. These fish are said to be very
            plentiful about twenty-five or thirty miles off the coast.
               Lobsrets and crabs are sold in the local markets, and peri-


