
			HAMILTON.                                 287

	The ancient parish of Cadzow, now Hamilton included former-
ly the chapelry of Machan, (i. e. the "little plain,") now the pa-
rish of Dalserf. Chalmers, in his Caledonia, (Vol. iii. p. 683,)
informs us, that "David I. with consent of his son, Earl Henry,
granted the church of 'Cadihou,' with its pertinents, in perpe-
tual alms to the church and bishops of Glasgow, and this grant was
confirmed by the bulls of several popes, inter 1170 and 1186."
The church of Cadzow, with the lands of Barlanerk and Badler-
nock, became afterwards the appropriate prebend of the Dean of
the see of Glasgow. In 1273, William Frazer, a younger son of
the Frazers of Tweeddale, was Dean of Glasgow and Rector of
Cadzow, when he was appointed Chancellor nf Scotland. In 1454,
Andrew Muirhead, a son of Muirhead of Sauchope, was Rector of
Hamilton, and afterwards Bishop of Glasgow. Hamilton, by the in-
fluence of the first Lord Hamilton, was made a collegiate charge
in 1451; and thereupon a new church was built with a choir, two
cross aisles, and a steeple, all of polished stone, and highly orna-
mented. It was finished in April 1462, and George de Graham
appointed Provost. The patronage of this establishment was vest-
ed in Lord Hamilton; but the patronage of the parish church of
Hamilton continued, as before, with the Bishop of Glasgow. Man-
ses, gardens, and glebes were provided for the provost and eight
prebends; besides a manse, garden and glebe, for a chaplainry, de-
dicated to the Virgin Mary. There is a farm at Edlewood still
called the chapel. At the epoch of the Reformation, Mr Archi-
bald Karry, "the vicar pensioner," had twenty merks yearly; and
the dean had L. 349 in money, 16 bolls of meal, 24 bolls of oats,
and 24 capons yearly. A plate of the old collegiate church is given
by Grose in his Antiquities of Scotland. This building continued
till 1732. One of the cross aisles still remains, and is used as a
burying-place by the Hamilton family. On a stone cross, on one
of the walls, is cut out "Galatians, chapter vi. verse 14."
	After Popery had been abolished in Scotland, and the Presby-
terian form nf worship introduced by the act 1588, c. 99, had been
established by that of 1592, c 116--two ministers were settled in
Hamilton, upon a provision of eighteen chalders of victual. Read-
ers or catechists seem also to have been appointed in this parish,
In 1574, Mr John Davidson, minister, together with the kirk-land
of Hamilton, had out of the third of the deanery, of Glasgow
L. 82, 11s. 1d., and out of the third of the priory of Blantyke,
L. 27, 15s. 6d., together with L. 23, and 18 bolls of meal  out of


