
        342                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

difference to the value of early education lies, it is to be feared, at
the root of the evil--an indifference strengthened by the loss of
self-respect, which a habit of asking and taking indiscriminate
charity engenders, and not dispelled by the spectacle of the salu-
tary working of a thoroughly enlightened and energetic system of
tuition. It is to be hoped that the infant and juvenile schools
connected with the new church will be conducted in a manner
fitted at once to enlighted the popular mind on the subject of
education, and arrest that tendency to apathy with regard to its
benefits now too palpably discernible. Yet considering how diffi-
cult it is to raise by voluntary contribution, an adequate and regu-
lar provision for competent teachers, the philanthropist cannot be
sanguine of much amelioration, until clearer symptoms display
themselves of a disposition on the part of the legislature to make
liberal provision both for normal and primary schools.
        Sunday Schools.--Besides the week-day, there are 6 Sunday
schools;--4 connected with the Established Church, and 2 be-
longing to the Secession and Relief congregations respectively.
Originnally there was but one school, attended by children of all
denominations, which was held first in the parish Church, and
afterwards removed to the Secession meeting-house; but for
many years past, the division into Church and Dissenting schools
has obtained, as also that of the former, into male and female
schools. The average number of Sunday scholars may be stated
at 500, of which 300 belong to the Church, and 200 to the Dis-
senters. By far the most important of these schools, in point both
of numbers and efficiency, is the girls' school conducted by ladies,
members of the Establishment. Under the head of Sunday
schools may be enumerated, though they meet on a week-day
evening, two weekly classes, connected with the parochial congre-
gation, one, a class of candidates for admission to the Lord's Sup-
per, the other, a normal class of Sunday-school teachers.
        Literature--Libraries.--Kelso is rich in libraries. The prin-
cipal of these, "the Kelso Library," has existed since 1750, and
now contains a collection of about 5000 volumes, including many
standard English works in all departments of literature. In com-
mon with the commodious building in which it is kept, it is the
property of about seventy shareholders, by whose subscriptions it
is supported, and to whom the books are accessible. "The New
Library," and "The Modern Library" are also the property of
joint-stock companies. They were founded in 1778 and 1800, and
                        3


