
350                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

try; and it is not above forty years since the cavirich mhora,
or black-faced breed of the south, were introduced here. The
gentleman who did introduce them is still living, though of an ad-
vanced age. The black-faced sheep were found to answer very
well; but they are now rapidly giving place to the Cheviots, which
are found to answer still better. Every extensive farmer in the
parish has adopted them as the most profitable stock; and great
attention has been paid to their improvement, so much so, that it
is generally admitted that there are not better sheep in the whole
county, than are reared in this parish.
  The black-cattle may be said to have given place almost en-
tirely to the sheep. The crofters still keep them; but those that
they have, are of a very inferior description. There are only two
of the gentlemen who retain what is called a fold of cows. These,
however, are of very fine quality; and it is evident that the soil is
well adapted for the rearing both of sheep and black-cattle.
  Husbandry.-Tbe most improved methods of husbandry were
adopted several years ago by the land proprietors and the
wealthy tacksmen; but their example seems to have produced no
effect on the common people, who still pursue a very antiquated,
laborious, and unprofitable mode of tilling their land. It is rarely
that they use a plough; and though they are sufficiently well ac-
quainted with the use of the spade, they never apply it to this
purpose. The instrument in use among them is called cas-chrom,
literally the crooked leg, a kind of clumsy spade, or rather a very
rude and primitive plough; probably the primitive one which
was subsequently so much improved on in various parts of the
world. The cas-chrom is pointed with a piece of iron nearly half an
inch in thickness, about ten inches in length, and four in breadth,
which may be called its sock. Into this is fixed the sole, a strong
piece of wood from two to three feet in length; and to the sole is
fastened, by means of,nails, the handle or stilt, which is about five
feet in length, cnnsiderably thicker than a man's wrist, and forms
a very obtuse angle with the sole or lower part. At the junction
of the sole and handle, there is a wooden pin, called sgonnan, fixed
in at right angles to the sole, for the foot to rest upon when the
implement is used in digging.
  With this implement, rude and unwieldy as it is, accomplishing
the work very superficially, do thousands of the inhabitants of this
island, and of a few other portions both of Inverness and Ross-


