
			HODDAM.                              291

sandstone, and are from three inches to a foot in thickness. Im-
mediately above this, we come to thin beds of clay-ironstone, pearl
gray-coloured slate-clay, and grayish-white and reddish-brown sand-
stone, lying on beds of slate-clay, which alternate with beds of
limestone containing numerous petrifactions, but chiefly mytulites
chamites, and corallites. Still higher up the stream, we come to
beds of limestone from one to two feet thick, alternating with beds,
of grayish-black coloured slate-clay and of grayish-white coloured
sandstone. It may be mentioned particularly that the coal for-
mation is to be distinctly observed in various parts of thd parish,
but especially towards the north. Several attempts have already
been made to obtain coal (a great desideratum here,) but hitherto
without success, owing, doubtless, to the want of funds sufficient
for carrying on the work. At present some of the speculators are
employed in sinking a pit, on one of the banks of the stream al-
ready alluded to, about three quarters of a mile above Ecclefechan.
They had not gone far down, when they pierced one vein of coal
(about an eighth of an inch thick,) and though they have since
descended about seventy or eighty feet, without meeting with any
more, they are still in great hopes of ultimately arriving at an
abundant store of an article, for the supply of which at present
the inhabitants of this part of the country* are so dependent on
their English neighbours.
	At Barhill (north-west corner of the parish) porphyritic amyg-
daloid appears reposing on sandstone, which again reposes on
greywacke. It continues along the whole of the ridge which runs
between this hill and Burnswark, and is to be observed in several places
lying on coarse conglomerate and sandstone, which reposes on very
much inclined strata of very compact small-grained greywacke:
On the west side of Burnswark, at a considerable height, a grayish-
coloured sandstone appears, marked with reddish-brown spots, and
covered by slate-clay, and on the due north side (higher up the
hill) there are to be seen fragments of grayish-white coloured
sandstone, but the highest part of this hill is composed entirely of
amygdaloid. +

      The soil may be classed under three kinds. First, the holm
land, which lies along the banks of the Annan and Mein, and

<FOOTNOTE>The great, almost the only, drawback which this parish sustains is the want of
coals. The cheapest and best are generally to be procured at Annan, (five miles dis-
tant,) but a horse draught of them can rarely be obtained for less than 10s, or 11s.
See Jameson's Mineralogical Survey of Dumfries-shire.


