
                          KINGGARTH.                     93

rochial church. The inhabitants are in general a church-going
people. The annual average of communications, during the last
thirteen years, has been 281. There is one family in connection
with the United Associate Synod; and one person who is a Roman
Catholic. The rest of the people belong to the Established Church
	Education.--There are three schools, one of them parochial.
In it the usual branches of education are taught, including Latin
and Greek; in the others, chiefly English-reading, writing, and
arithmetic. The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accommo-
dations, with the minimum salary.  The other, teachers have
school-houses, and dwellings, and a small salary, allowed them by
the Marquis of Bute; the rest of their support is derived from
school-fees, which are moderate. The present number of schools
appears to be sufficient for the parish, they being so situated as to
afford access to instruction for the children from all quarters. The
people seem duly to value the blessings of education. There are
few, if any, between the age of six and fifteen years, who are not
taught to read, and to write at the proper age; and above fifteen,
not one, probably, of the native inhabitants, who has not been taught
to read, and few who cannot write. A gradual improvement in
morals has undoubtedly accompanied the progress of education.
A parish library, established some years since, affords increased
facilities for the attainment of knowledge, and a growing disposi-
tion to read is beginning to show itself among the rising genera-
tion. In the respective school-houses, Sabbath-schools are esta-
blished under the superintendence of the minister, which are nu-
meroulsly and regularly attended.
	Poor and Parochial Funds,--The number of poor at present on
the session roll is 13, besides three persons receiving occasional
parochial relief. The greatest sum given to a pauper during the
year past has been 10s. 9d. per quarter; the smallest 4s. The
sum that has been collected at the church during the same period
is L. 18, 8s. 7d.
	Ale-house.--There are six ale-house in the parish; three of
which are in the village of Kilchatan-bay. Of these last, two are
superfluous, and likely to prove injurious to morals, as the multi-
plication of such houses, especially in villages, is invariably found
to be.
	Fuel.--The fuel in general use is coal, which may be purchas-
ed at any of the landing-places, at 7s. 6d. a cart of 14 cwt.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	In taking a general view of the parish at present, compared with


