
738				ABERDEENSHIRE.

skirts of the hill, there are three cairns, two on the south and one
on the north.  The largest and most entire on the south side, now
nearly covered with wood, was probably connected with the for-
tress above, as an entrenchment or out-post; and afterwards se-
lected as the sepulchre of those chiefs who may have fallen in bat-
tle.  The circular entrenchment formed by the earth dug out of
the ditch is 60 feet in diameter, surrounded by six great stones,
the remains most likely of an entire circle.  In the centre is a
cairn of loose stones supporting five large ones, which have all the
appearance of sepulchral monuments.  Besides these, there are
three other cairns, and several tumuli in different parts of the pa-
rish, and the remains of three Druidical temples.  On the farm
of Tilliorn, in the land of Cullerley, there is a large Pictish work
in the form of a horse-shoe, hollowed out ; but it is uncertain
whether it had been a fort, or a tank or cistern for holding water.
It goes by the name of " Fusee."  An ancient spear was lately
dug up on the estate of Echt.  It is now in the custody of Mr
Forbes of Echt.  It appears to be made of bell metal, is 2 feet 3
inches in length, at the broadest part of the blade 1 3/4 inch in
breadth, and weighs 4 lbs. 2 1/2 oz.  Avoirdupois.
   Modern Buildings.-A spacious, elegant, and most commodi-
ous mansion-house was built by the late William Forbes, Esq. of
Echt in 1820, and finished by his son, the present proprietor.  It
stands near the site of the former mansion, in a park containing
80 acres.  The grounds are laid out with superior taste, and as
soon as the young trees have attained to a proper size, the effect
will be delightful.  To promote this, and to obtain early shelter
for the house, Mr Forbes has transplanted 145 large trees, on the
plan of Sir Henry Steuart of Allanton, Bart.  These trees con-
sist of oak, ash, beech, elm, geen, plum, lime, thorn, and maple,
of which only four or five have died.  The size of the trees runs
from 15 to 45 feet in height.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
	The population of this parish in 1755 was       1277
                                       1793,      -    968
                                       1821,      -   1030
                                       1831,      -   1030
                                       1841,      -   1078

   The cause of the decrease was the uniting of a great number of
small farms or crofts into farms of larger dimensions ; and the sin-
gular fact of the population in 1821 and 1831 being the same,
principally arose from the peopling of a small property formerly

