
58			CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

the town of Alloway, (particularly mentioned therein, amounting
together to L. 8, 13s. 4d., dated 3d October 1497.)
   In the year 1739, Mr Robert Johnston, merchant in Alloa,
left some houses in the town, the rent of which, with the interest
of L. 600 then in the hands of a company of merchants in Glas-
gow, was to be applied for the maintenance of an assistant minis.
ter. The L. 600 was unfortunately lost in the hands of one of
the partners, and nothing left for the assistant minister but the
rent of the houses, now somewhat under L. 25 a-year. This loss
was compensated by the late worthy Lady Charlotte Erskine.
Her ladyship, by a deed executed in 1787, bequeathed L. 1200
for making an addition to the church of Alloa, to afford accommo-
dation to the poor inhabitants who are unable to pay for.it; and
the remaining seats to be let at a moderate rent yearly; the sum
to be applied first in keeping the said addition to the church in
repair, and the surplus to be added to, the stipend of the assistant
minister. Her ladyship, also, bequeathed the sum of L.800 for a
stipend to ati assistant minister in the parish, "the right Of nomi-
nating and presenting the said assistant minister being in the gift
of the proprietor of the estate of Mar."
   The church is seated for 1561 persons. There are free sit-
tings for paupers which accommodate about 60 persons. There
are also 246 sittings let for behoof of an assistant minister, under
the late Lady Charlotte Erskine's settlements.
   The manse was built prior to 1700, and has been several times
repaired.
   The glebe consists of 12 acres, worth L. 6 per acre. The
stipend is 19 chalders, half meal and half barley, payable by the
flars of the county; with an allowance of L.10 for communion
elements. The last augmentation was granted in 1831. There
is but a small amount of unexhausted teinds, viz. L. 101, 9s. 7d.
The parish minister is allowed free coal, i. e. on paying the ex-
pense of working and driving.
   The causes of the separation between the Original Burgher As-
sociate Synod and the Establishment havina, been removed, the
Rev. John Wright, minister of the former denomination here,


<FOOTNOTE>Of the four silver communion cups, two were a donation, each with this inscrip-
tion:  "'This'cup was dedicated to the Church of Alloa by Helen Hamilton, reliet
of Mr Robert Johnston, merchant there, 1741." A large . and'mauy silver cominu-
nion plate is thus inscribed, "This dedicat to the Kirk of Aloway, by. Ladie Marie
Areskine, daughter to the Earle of Mar; and payed be monies mortified be her
for the end, before her death; and made anno 1691."



