
45O                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

prevalent in the country, every precautionary measure was adopted
for keeping it out.  The soil is in general light, and such as is
well adapted to the turnip husbandry.
     Hydrography.-The only lochs are, Primside or Yetholm Loch,
partly in this parish, and partly in Yetholm ; and Linton Loch,
partly in this parish and partly in Lintnn. *The principal ri-
vulets are the two beautiful streams of the Kale and the Beau-
mont.  Both of them rise in the Cheviot range.  The Kale runs
from south to north, until it nearly reaches the village of More-
battle, where it suddenly turns to the west, and after a further
course of several miles, joins the Teviot about five miles above its
junction with the  Tweed at Kelso.  The Beaumont, continuing
its northerly direction, enters Northumberland, where it falls into
the Till, another tributary of the Tweed.  Their pure crystal
waters flowing over fine pebbled beds, in continually recurring cur-
rents and pools, and between fine grassy banks, abound in excel-
lent trout, and are well adapted for angling.  In the end of autumn
the salmon from the Teviot and Tweed ascend the Kale for the
purpose of spawning, when they are killed in great numbers dur-
ing the evenings and nights by torch light.  Frequent attempts
have been made to put a stop to this illegal practice, but hitherto
with little success.  No salmon enter the Beaumont, being pre-
vented by a dam near to its mouth.  A similar dam has lately
been erected across the Kale, near to the Teviot, for the purposes
of machinery, which will probably have the effect of also prevent-
ing, or at least, of greatly obstructing the passage of the fish, and
of diminishing their numbers.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Land-owners.-The number of heritors is II, and in the order
of the value of their properties they are, the Duke of Roxburgh,
patron of the parish, and proprietor of the greater part of the
lands on Beaumont water ; the Marquis of Tweeddale, to whom
the barony of Morebattle belongs; Sir George Warrender of
Whitton; Mr Pringle of Clifton; Mr Ker of Gateshaw, the
only resident heritor, and in the superior attention to ornamental
improvement on whose estate the advantages of residence are to
be seen; Sir John Scott Douglas of Belford; the Society for
Propagating Christian Knowledge; Mr Oliver of Lochside; Mr-
Wilson of Otterburn ; Mr Turnbull of Heavyside; and Mr Dar-
lina of Temple Hall.

<FOOTNOTE>For which see the Statistical Accounts of Yetholm and Linton.


