
     168                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

     land. Preachers from dissenting Associations have laboured among
     the people of Lewis for many years; but they all failed to unite
     a single individual to their own society. About 530 families at-
     tend the Established Church.
        Education.--The remoteness of some parts of the parish of
     Lochs from the parish school, renders it impossible for the greater
     part of the rising generation, to avail themselves of the means of a
     liberal education. To have the means of education disseminated
     to an extent adequate to the necessities of the people, three other
     schools are requisite. This is owing principally to the physical
     character of the parish, the habitable parts of which are separated
     from each other by arms of the sea, and by extensive tracts of waste
     ground. The parish schoolmaster's salary is L.28, and his fees
     do not exceed L.1, 10s. a year.
        There are only 12 persons in all the parish who can write; but
     half the inhabitants from twelve to twenty-four years of age can
     read the Gaelic language, which is the only language spoken
     generally. A few of the males can speak broken English. It was
     by the instrumentality of the Gaelic School Society that so many
     of them were enabled to read Gaelic.
        The Gaelic School Society has four schools at present in the
     parish of Lochs, which are the only schools in it. The parish
     school has been vacant for many years, from the want of accommo-
     dation,-wbich has been much against'thelinhabitants, who seem
     to hold the benefits of education in very high estimation; but that
     grievance has been removed. A commodious school-house has
     been erected recently, and a teacher appointed.
        Poor.-The only charitable contributions in this parish are
     raised at the church after divine service. The amount of these
     contributions is generally low, in consequence of the poverty of the
     people; but the poor of the parish are supported chiefly by their
     relations. Such of them as are destitute of near relations, find
     willing friends in their neighbours and acquaintances to administer
     to their necessities. The number of paupers in the parish has not
     as yet been actually ascertained.
        Jail-Alehouse.--There is no jail in the parish of Lochs. The
     next to it, is that of Stornoway. There is only one inn, viz. that
     of Lochshell, which is frequented by seafaring men only.
        Fuel.-The fuel used here universally is peats, which are of ex-
     cellent quality, and in very great abundance. This fuel is not on-
     ly abundant but convenient also; for the peat banks, or the moss


