
                          WIGTON.                                      5

                      <TABLE>III.--POPULATION.
                        In 1801,              1475
                           1811,              1711
                           1821,              2042
                           1831,              2337
The yearly average births for the last seven years is                 50
                       marriages,                                     14
The number of families in the parish is                              508
                        chiefly employed in agriculture,             113
                             in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  173
There are seven proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50,
and upwards.
	There are 3 fatuous, and 4 blind persons in the parish.
        Character of the People.--The inhabitants, with the exeception
of the Irish settlers, are nearlyl all natives either of the burgh or
county. The names of families that are still most prevalent
in Wigton, such as M'Kinnell, M'Kie, &c., were the predomi-
nant names so, early as the year 1495. (MS. Advocates'
Library, Jac. V. 8. 8.) The condition of the people has been
greatly improved since the time of the last Statistical Account.
They are now more cleanly in their habits, more comfortably
lodged, and in consequence of a more easy communication, and of
a more frequent intercourse with other districts of the country,
both their diet and their dress are of a better description. Of
the moral character of the inhabitants of this parish, a favourable
account may justly be given. They are, in general, intelligent and
well informed. They have access upon moderate terms to a well-
selected subscription library stablished in 1794. With the pro-
gress of society, and the more extensive diffusion of knowledge,
their morality has also kept pace. Their attendance upon the or-
dinances of religion is devout and exemplary, and, upon the wholes,
their habits are regular and temperate. When cases of distress
occur, they uniformly evince a liberal and benevolent spirit.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Aqriculture.--Since the time of the last Statistical Account
much additional ground has been brought into cultivation, and new
and improved modes of husbandry have been adopted. The num-
ber of acres in the parish, cultivated and uncultivated, the writer
cannot precisely ascertain.
	Produce.--The following table gives a near computation for the
year 1833, of the produce of this parish, the rental of which is
about L. 4500.

out sentence of law, hanged by Major, Winram, for their adherence to Scothland's re-
formation, convenants, and national sqlem league, 1685."


