
96                         AYRSHIRE.

their boats in preference to whisky. But the number of brewers
has of late years declined; and it is to be feared that, with the di-
minished consumption of beer, ardent spirits are proportionably in
greater request.
	It is pleasing to have to state, that poaching is almost unknown.
The same may be said of smuggling--and there is not a pawn-
broking establishment in the town.
	On the whole, it may be said, that, although few of the inhabi-
tants are wealthy, the number of persons in extreme poverty is less
than is commonly to be found in other communities of similar ex-
tent. An unusual proportion of families live in houses built by
themselves; and though the circumstances of many of them be
humble, they are contented, and, comparatively speaking, comforta-
ble. Instances of gross immorality are unfrequent. And while it
must be acknowledged that here, as in other parishes where the
population has outgrown the means of church accommodation, not
a few habitually absent themselves from public ordinances; the ge-
neral character of even these is superior to what we might have
been led to anticipate. No doubt much of this is owing to the
example of their church-going neighbours, who elevate that con-
ventional standard of morality, below which it is reckoned disgrace-
ful to fall. And, respecting the latter, it is proper to mention, that
they have long been distinguished for a more than ordinary respect
for religion and its ordinances; and there is reason to believe, that
there is not a small number among them who are imbued with
the spirit of genuine piety, and live under the influence of divine
truth.

<TABLE=Industry>

			    IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--
The number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish, which are either
	cultivated or occasionally in tillage is,	                        336
The number of acres which are waste or in pasture,	                         93
Number of acres which might be added to the cultivated land of the parish,	 76
		in a state of undivided common,	                                  0

	All the land belonging to the freemen is now divided, with the
exception of eight acres reserved fora quarry. There are almost
no trees in the parish; nor is it easy to rear them, from want of
sufficient shelter. And so long as the lands were common proper-
ty, there was little inducement to any individual to expend money
in plantations, which would soon fall to be possessed by another.
This was, indeed, an insuperable obstacle to all kinds of improve.
				4


