
                       QUEENSFERRY.                             3

the time, Passagium Reginae, and in the vulgar tongue, the Ferry,
or the Queen's-Ferry, by which name it was then known. There
was formerly a house on the beach, near some shelving rocks,
called the Binks, which, it is understood, was built for the Queen's
accommodation while waiting the arrival of her boat from the op-
posite shore, on her way to Dunfermline, the royal residence. So
much attached to this princess were the inhabitants, that her foot-
mark was cut out in the solid rock; and some of the inhabitants
speak of it as being in existence in the recollection of the ancient
inhabitants.
   In a charter of Malcolm IV. the town was called Portus Re-
ginae, who granted a free passage to the monks of Scone, ad Por-
tum Regineae. Pope Gregory, in 1234, confirmed to the abbot
of Dunfermline, dimidium pussagiae sanctae Margarita Reginae.
This was also granted to the abbey of Dunfermline, by Robert I.,
regranted by Robert III., and confirmed by James II. in 1450.
At the Reformation this right was disposed of by the abbot, in
sixteen shares; but there is evidence on record that he actually
sold eighteen-sixteenths.
   Though a port so early as Malcolm IV., it was not a royal
burgh in 1556, when a tax was levied on royal burghs, but it pro-
cured a charter of erection into a free royal burgh in 1636. Its
erection was inuch opposed by Linlithgow, which was appeased
by some degrading concessions. It appears to have sent a repre-
sentative to Parliament in 1639. Under the Union it has the
privilege of choosing a representative to Parliament, along with
Stirling, Inverkeithing, Culross, and Dunfermline. The town-
council consists of twenty-one, of whom two-thirds were formerly
merchant sailors, and three were deacons of crafts. The number
of persons residing within the royalty, whose rents in property or
tenantry amount to L. 10, are 20; and in the extended royalty
there are 10 persons resident rated at the same amount.
   The parish was an erection from Dalmeny, in the year 1636,
ratified by Act of Parliament 1641, at which time, the place
seems to have acquired considerable importance, in conse-
quence of its commercial intercourse with Holland. At this
time it possessed nearly twenty great ships, with several coast-
ing vessels of a smaller size. A church was built in 1633,
on the ruins of a very ancient chapel. Some tombstones
bear the date of 1685, and one, apparently of a much earlier pe-
riod. The magistrates and town-council are patrons of the church.


