
336                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

horned and dodded or hummel breed.  Of late years the Teeswater
has been introduced as a cross; and it is the opinion of some of the
principal farmers, that the best stock are produced in this manner.
Perhaps the advantages of the change have not yet been thorough-
ly tested by experience.  The chief superiority of the new breed con-
sists in their coming sooner to maturity; but their introduction
upon any farm must be regulated be the keep which it furnishes.
Horses are reared chiefly for draught, and the breed of late years
has been much improved.
   Roads.-Like all other inland parishes, Fyvie has to contend
with the disadvantage of long carriages of produce and manure.
The nearest harbours are Macduff to the north, and Aberdeen and
Newburgh to the south, the distance varying according to the lo-
cality of the different parts of the parish, but on an average being
about twenty miles.  The roads, however, are good, and in addi-
tion to the harbours already mentioned, Inverury, situated at the
termination of the canal to Aberdeen, has lately started into im-
portance as a mart for all farm produce, and for lime, bone-dust,
coals, &c.  The commutation road-money of the parish, about
L.123, is expended at the sight of the heritors and their factors,
under the direction of the district trustees, and the account of the
ontlay submitted to and sanctioned yearly by the general county
trustees; but, in addition to the assessment, the tenants very readily
contribute the aid of their horses and carts in driving materials; and
many useful roads have been made by the heritors for the general
accommodation of the parish, without any assistance from the com-
mutation funds.
   Labour.-The corn crop is almost universally cut by the scythe
in place of the sickle, and the regularity and perfection of the
work is the admiration of all who see it for the first time.  The
additional quantity of straw obtained by the scythe is of great im-
portance, but perbaps the chief advantage, besides saving of ex-
pense, is the economy of time in an uncertain climate, as it is now
well established, that, "owing to its being less compressed in the
sheaf," the crop is ready to be carried to the corn-yard in a much
shorter period.  The farm-servants are very rarely married men,
the system of having hinds being scarcely known in Aberdeenshire;
and their wages vary from L.5 to L.7 in the half-year, besides
victuals.  They are generally hard-working men, and quite as good
ploughmen as are to be found in other parts of Scotland.  The
common wages of women servants are L.3 in summer, and L.2 in


