
<APPENDIX>

lxxxviii

   Col. 2. The second column will give a statement of the population of
Scotland, as drawn up for the information of Government, by the late Rev.
Dr Alexander Webster, one of the Ministers of Edinburgh, and completed
by him in the year 1755.  The Doctor's account was never printed, but
there are some copies of it, in manuscript, in private hands.  In his intro-
duction to the report, he states, "That he had established, in the year 1743,
"a general correspondence both with clergy and laity, for preparing a
"scheme, which was afterwards ratified by Parliament, for a provision
"for Ministers widows:  That he had improved that correspondence, for
"the purpose of procuring lists, either of individuals, or of persons above a
"certain age, in the different parishes of Scotland: That, when the lists
"contained only those above a certain age, he calculated the amount of
"the whole inhabitants, by the proportion which they might be supported
"to bear to the number of fouls, according to the most approved Tables,
"compared with the fact in many parts of Scotland, where the Ministers,
"at his desire, not only numbered their parishioners, but distinguished their
"respective ages.  So that, it is humbly apprehended, the account he has
"given of the number of the people, is sufficiently exact to answer every
"valuable purpose."
   Dr Webster's original inquiries, it would appear, were merely for the
purpose of fixing data, to calculate the principles, on which the Society for
the benefit of the Widows of the Scotch Clergy, might be established:  But
afterwards, at the desire of that respectable character, the later President
Dundas, then Lord Advocates for Scotland, to whom the work is dedicated.
he drew up a General Report, with a view of ascertaining:  1. The popula-
tion of Scotland.  2. The income of the Clergy, an augmentation of which
was then a subject of discussion.  3. The Patrons of the different livings,
and, 4. The number of fighting men, an inquiry considered to be of pecu-
liar importance at that period, in consequence of the warlike spirit which
the Highlanders had then recently displayed, a small body of whom had
boldly marched from their native mountains, till they had reached within a
few miles of the metropolis of the empire.  The number of fighting men in
Scotland, were then computed at 253,076-
   It is extremely fortunate, in many points of view, that this inquiry was
begun and completed.  In the first place, it enabled Dr Webster, (whose
exertions on this occasion, and skill in political arithmetic, cannot be too
much praised), to draw up the calculations for the Widows fund, on such
just principles, that the result has turned out hardly in any respect different
from his computations; and thus a most valuable institution was establish-
ed, on foundations creditable to the author of it, and advantageous to a most
respectable body of men.-In the second place, it furnishes a useful source
of comparison, with the present population of the country, which otherwise


