
                APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.                     185

tion,--the births in the parish nearly doubling the deaths,--a pro-
gress kept in check, however, in a sligth degree by emigration to
Canada. It may be as well, perhaps, to remark here, in order to
account for the small numbers of deaths compared with the births,
that there are no towns, villages, or manufactories in the paris,
and that all that portion of the population consisting of farm-
servants is a shifting population,-- most of them being at the health-
iest period of life, and hardly any of them remaining in the pa-
rish during life,--that is to say, long enough to add to the bills of
mortality.

<TABLE>
1. Number of families in the parish,                                             161
          of families chiefly employed in agriculture,	                      69
                      chiefly employed in trade,manufactures, or handicraft,      37

2. Number of unmarried men, bachelors or widowers, upwards of 50 years of age,     5
          of unmarried woman,including widows, upwards of 45,			     9

3. The average number of births yearly, for the last 7 years,			    23
                      of deaths,					                  11 1/7
       		      of marriages,						           7
 4. The number of persons at present under 15 of age,			               393
				    upwards of 70,				               18

   There are four fatuous individuals, and one deaf and dumb.
   Character, &c. of the people.--The habits of the people are
sober and industrious; and, in regard to cleanliness, they may
justly claim their full share in the improvements in this respect,
acknowledge to have taken place among the Scottish tenantry.
From the high prices of agricultural produce duing the late war,
and the consequently high rents, the landholders of Applegarth
and Sibbaldbie considered their tenants and justly entitled to im-
proved accomodation. The farm-houses, accordingly,are near-
ly all new,and in general very commodious; and the occupiers, in
their improved circumstances, encouraged by the liberality of their
landlords, and willing to second them in matters so materially con-
nected with their own comfort, furnished their houses in a style of
neatness strikingly contrasted with their condition twenty of twenty-
five years ago. Habits of cleanliness were almost of course, natu-
rally formed, and now happily influence both their in-door and
out-door arrangements, their dress, and in general their whole
style of living. At the same time, they are althogether free from
the error of living above their means. Indeed, it has been alleged
by some of the high-spirited farmers in some neighbouring parishes,
that they go to the oppnsite extreme. It would be well, perhaps,
if we could say to Scotch husbandmen in general, what may be



