
292                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

carefully preserved by the present proprietor, the Earl of
Wemyss.
   The old Palace of Seton, with its fine gardens and terrace-walks,
which the monarchs of Scotland and their court in former times
delighted to visit, are now no more, the remains of the former
having been pulled down by a late proprietor, to build a modern
and not very elegant mansion, while the policy and walks have
suffered the necessary consequence of being detached from the
abode of luxury and wealth. When King James VI. was on his
way to England to take possession of the throne on the 4th April
1603, on his train approaching Seton, he met the funeral of the
first Earl of Winton, one of the most faithful adherents of his un-
fortunate mother; the King halted his retinue, and sat down on
the south-west turret at the corner of the garden, which is still
quite entire, and adjoining the present road, till the funeral of this
old supporter of his family moved past.
   The old tower or fortalice of Falsyde is also of considerable an-
tiquity. It was formerly in the possession of the Winton family,
and probably given off to a junior branch. It offered some re-
sistance to the army of Protector Somerset on the morning of the
battle of Pinky in 1547, and was then burnt; but the strength of the
mason-work, the tower being arched at the first story, as well as on
the top of the building, prevented entire destruction. Additions of
a later date, but of a less massive structure, appear subsequently to
have been made, and, as very frequently happened, the family of
Fawside of that ilk seem to have removed to a more modern mansion
when peaceable times arrived, at the union of the crowns,-as there
now exists in the immediate vicinity of the old castle, a house with
the initials I. F., I. L. above one of the windows, and the date 1618.
In the stair of the oldest part of the castle, is a curious place of
concealment, and the old dovecot at a short distance has another
small recess, with an ancient grated door. The view of the Frith
of Forth and the waving line of sea coast from this spot, with the
rich and varied fields of Mid-Lothian stretched beneath, is per-
baps one of the finest that can be found in the vicinity.
   This parish has been the scene of some interesting historical
events in former times. Between Tranent and Falsyde, a despe-
rate engagement took place with the Scotch and English caval-
ry, the day before the battle of Pinky in 1547, when the Scots
were overpowered, and lost 1300 men, which probably contributed
in no slight degree to the disastrous result on the next day, the
                                6


