
     1268                  PERTHSHIRE.

       Rent of Land.-The average rent of carse land per acre has
     been about L. 2, 7s., and of the dryfield, about L. 1, 7s. The
     average rent for grazing an ox or a cow is from L. 3 to L. 4 per
     annum.  This is not a sheep grazing parish.
       Rate of Wages.-The rate of labour during summer and winter,
     for the different kinds of farm-labourers and country artisans, is
     from 2s. to 3s. per day ; of masons, carpenters, and other country
     mechanics, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. per day.  The yearly wages of
     ploughmen are from L. 14 to L. 18, and of women employed as
     farm-servants from L.5 to L.8.
       Live-Stoch.- The horses in this parish are of a medium size,
     altogether fitted for agricultural purposes ; but as the labour of
     the carse farms requires a more powerful horse than that of the
     dryfield, a larger size is reared for this purpose by across between
     the hardy race of the western district of Perthshire, and the
     Clydesdale horse.  Of late years, much taste and skill have been
     shown by the farmers in selecting at the neighbouring markets
     horses of strength and symmetry, by which means the breed has
     been much improved.
       The cow common to the Highlands of Perthshire till of late
     years prevailed; but for dairy purposes the Ayrshire breed has been
     generally reared, and has been found profitable to the farmer for
     milk, butter, and the Market.  A cross of one remove between
     the Ayrshire cow and the short-horned bull, has by some farmers
     been lately introduced for the purpose of increasing the size of the
     stock, as well as for dairy purposes, but the practice has been too
     limited to warrant any general conclusion.
       A five years' system of rotation is generally followed by the
     farmers in the dryfield, and a six years' rotation by those in the
     carse, and during this rotation marked attention is paid to the
     draining, cleaning, liming, and manuring of the land, which has
     greatly  increased the return of every kind of produce, both in
     quantity and quality..
       Kincardine Moss.-It may be proper to take some notice here
     of the history of the moss of Kincardine.  In-showing the recent
     improvements of the parish, this becomes in some degree unavoid-
     able, and the utility is obvious, because these interesting topics are
     more satisfactory and useful when condensed in a Statistical Ac-
     count, than when in detached statements in various publications.
     The reader may see a good account of this moss and its improve-
     ments in the Farmer's Magazine for August 1817, containing a plan
                                         4


