
950                     GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

affords but a weak heat, it is what the miners call a lean coal, and
has therefore been but little wrought. There are a number of
these, seams under the sour-milk coal, all of a lean quality, and
generally much interlaced with laminae of stone, blaise, or shiver.
Under the last mentioned have been found several strata of ex-
cellent lime; and more of these thin seams of coal again have been
discovered under the lime, but all of them which have yet been.
tried are of a lean quality. The lime found near the surface on
the elevated ground is supposed to be a continuation of some one
or other of the last mentioned strata, found under the coal, which,
in the course of their natural rise, have come within reach, in the
places where the superincumbent strata of coal and all its accom-
panying fossils did not exist; as lime worth the working has ne-
ver yet been discovered above these coal strata, nor in any place,
till after the valuable seams of coal have skirted out at the sur-
face; and any coal which has been found under the surface lime
is of the same lean quality with that which lies under the deep
buried strata of lime. The above is the number and order of the
coal strata everywhere along the Clyde, where they are entire.
However, this is not always the case. All the mineral strata lie
inclining towards the river on both sides, generally somewhat
obliquely, and with various degrees and directions of declivity,
rising as they recede from it, till they skirt, or, as it is expressed
by miners, crop out one after another, so that the first coal which
is found in some places is perhaps the third or fourth in the above-
mentioned order. These are distinguished by the name of the
Clyde strata, or seams of coal, and not only lie along the sides of
that river, through all the plain country, but branch out less or
more along the principal streams, on some of them to a great ex-
tent. Besides these, there are other seams of coal in the county,
of a somewhat different nature. In the parish of Shotts, a fine
yolk coal is wrought, resembling the coal found upon the sides of
the Forth, and supposed to be a continuation of one of the same
strata. Upon the sides  of the Douglas River are extensive col-
lieries, which supply some of the southern provinces where that
fuel is wanting. The coal here is also similar to that an the
Forth.  On the south-west boundary of the county is coal of
the same quality with that wrought on the coast of Ayrshire. It
crops out at the surface about the middle of Avondale parish.
   There are stillsome other variations in the coal strata which merit
attention. Near the northernboundary of the county a species is found


