			KILMORIE.                   41

we have mentioned, and which is also found at Shisken, there
are numerous caves and fissures, some of them very spacious and
romantic. These will be more particularly described under an-
other division of this account. The extent of coast is about 30
miles, and is in general bold and rocky, especially at Dippen,
Struey, Brown Head, and Drumidoon. The principal bays are
those of Kilpatrick, Machry, and lochranza; bu it is only in the
last that there is either shelter or anchorage. The principal
headlands are Dippen, (a land-mark well-known to all who navi-
gate that the Clyde,) and the Brown Head. Off this, and about a mile
from the shore, lies the Iron Isle a sunken rock of considerable
length, but only visible at low water. About the same distance from
land, and opposite Kildonan, lies the low and green island of Pladda,
on which a lighthouse 40 feet, high was built about, the same year 1800.
A new, higher, and more elegant one was built in the year 1828.
The former one was allowed to remain, and thus, by showing two
lights, the one above the other, Pladda light is distinguished from
Cumbrae, which lies about twenty-two miles farther up the Frith.
These lights are stationary, and erected upon separate towers,
the one above the other. They appear like two stars of the first
magnitude at the distance of four or five leagues, or at lesser
distances, according to the state of the atmosphere. When seen
in one line, they bear from each other, north and south.
	The temperature of this parish, and other parts of the west coast
surrounded by the sea, is understood not to be so warm in summer,
nor so cold in winter, as that of other places in the same parallel,
and of thesame elevation, on the east coast, nor does the medium tem-
perature vary so much here, as it, does in the same pa-
rallel on the opposite continents of Europe and America. The
air is keen and bracing; the climate dry and salubrious, for though
the height of the mountains attract the clouds, and cause more
rain to fall here than in parts which are less hilly, yet the
rens rivulets which run down their sides, and flow through the glem?
soon carries it away, and thus the country is free from all (??) (??)
pours which (??) from stagnant waters, and from all (??) (??)
comes which prevail in low and humid coumtries.
	Thunder-storms are by means of (??) (??)
summer. It is impossible to convey to one who (??) (??) (??) (??)
thunder-storm among the mountains, (??) adequate (??) (??) (??)


