
ARGYLESHIRE.
and there are many fine blocks of it, five or six feet long, both in
the walls and in the rubbish. The labour of quarrying and fortn-
ing such a quintity of this stone as so great a building required,
is, Dr Walker savs, 11 a piece of work like the Egyptian obelisks,
whose execution must strike with surprise the people of modern
times.  "The rock is solid, the stone of almost impenetrable
hardness. The windows, doors, cornices, arches, pillars, and
other monuments of the cliurcb,,many of which have been ex.
quisitely carved, are all of a fine gray freestone, broilight from
quarries in another part of Mull at a considerable distance.
The cement of the building, like that of other ancient structures,
is so strong, that it is easier to break the stones than to force them
asunder. It is of lime that has been calcined from sea shells, and
formed into a very gross mortar, with coarse gravel in a large pro-
portion, and a great quantity of the fragments of white coral,
which abounds upon the sliores of the island.*
Monastery.  Along the north side of the cathedral, and ininie-
diately adjoining it, is the moiiasterv, consisting of a number of
buildings of different sizes, and evidently built at different times.
Boece gives this monastery a very early antiquity. He says, that
after the defeat of the Scots at the battle of Munda, A. D. 379,
the survivors, with all the religious, fled to this island, and were
The original founders of the monastery.  But the account given by
Bede seems much more probable, that	Columba was the original
founder, as has been before related.  In the monastery were the
cells and apartments of the religious, but now so perfectly ruinous
that they couvey no distinct appearance.

 * We must here again regret that space does not allow a particular description of
this cathedral, &c.  Vide MS. in relentis.
It is said that there were in the cathedral, a fine peal of bells, which were re-
moved to Glasgow at the time of the Reformation; but by a letter from King Charles
I. to the Bishop of Rapho in Secretary Stirling's MS.  Register, it would appear that
one of Iona's own bishops gave a helping hand in plundering the cathedral, and that
he had removed two of the principal bells and placed them in some of the Rapho
"Reverend Father in God.--Whereas we ar informed that Andro late Bishop of
Rapho at his transportatioun from the Bishoprick of Yles did, without just cause or
aney warrant frome our late royall father or us, carie with him two of the principal
bells that were in Icolmkill, and place them in some of the churches of Rapho; to
which purpois we doc remember that at the tyme of your being Bishop of Yles you
were a sutter to us for effectuating that thing at your prediceasour the Bishop of
Raphoe's hands, which we now reguyre of yow.  Therefor, and in regard we have
gavin ordour to the present Bishop of Yles for repalring the cathedrall church of
that Bischoprick, and that it is fit that such c`use delyver unto the said Bishop these two
belles for the use of the said enthedrall church with such tymlie convenience as may
be; which we will acknowledge as acceptable service done unto us.--Whythall, 14
March 1635.


