
     Statistical Account

   The character of this prelate has been differently repre-
sented by different historians.  While Bishop Burnet writes
of him with the pen of severe obloquy, another of his bio-

<FOOTNOTE>

" finding the opportunity, divided into three parties, which took up the
" three ways he could take homewards.  Nine of them assaulted the coach
" within two miles of this place, by discharging their pistols, and securing
" his servants.  The coachman drove on for half-a-mile, until one of his
" horses was wounded in three places, and the postilion wounded in the
" hand.  Then they fired several shot at the coach, and commanded my
" dearest father to come out, which he said he would.  When he had
" come out, (not being yet wounded), he said, Gentlemen, I beg my life.
" No! bloody villain, betrayer of the cause of Christ, No Mercy! Then,
" said he, I ask none for myself, but have mercy on my poor child, (his el-
" dest daughter was in the coach with him), and holding out his hand to
" one of them, to get his, that he would spare his child, he cut him in the
" wrist.  Then falling down upon his knees, and holding up his hands, he
" prayed that God would forgive them; and, begging mercy for his fins
" from his Saviour, they murdered him, by sixteen great wounds, in his
" back, head, and one above his left eye, three in his left hand, when he
" was holding them up, with a shot above his right breast, which was
" found to be powder.  After this damnable deed, they took the papers out
" of his pocket, robbed my sister and their servants of all their papers, gold
" and money; and one of these hellish rascals cut my sister in the thumb,
" when she had him by the bridle, begging her father's life.  God, of his
" infinite mercy support this poor family, under this dreadful and unsup-
" portable cafe, and give us to know why God is thus angry with us,
" and earnestly beg not to consume us in his wrath, but now that his anger
" may cease, and he may be at peace with us, through the blood of a re-
" conciled Saviour; and also may have pity upon this poor distressed
" Church, and that he may be the last sacrifice for it, as he is the first Pro-
" testant Martyr Bishop in such a way.

"Dear Sir, as my worthy father had always a kindness and particular
" esteem for yourself, son, and family, so I hope you will be friendly to his
" son, who shall ever continue, worthy Sir, your most faithful, etc. etc.
W. Sharp."

"ST ANDREWS, 10th May 1679,
"1/2 hour after receipt of your's

"On Saturday next is the funeral."


