
     of Campsie,

Attending to that distinction of bishops churches, and mensal
churches, it was one of the bishops churches gifted by
Donald, Earl of Lennox, to the See of Glasgow, in the year
1270.  Those who delight in magnifying the riches of the
church of Rome, take particular pleasure in pointing out the
yard where the parson of Campsie's corn-stacks were arrang-
ed, and the site of the mill which was constantly employed
in grinding his grain.  There is reason to believe, that he was
not the least wealthy heritor of his parish.  Previous to the
Reformation, we know that Lamberton and Beaton were
parsons of Campsie, and afterwards both of them bishops of
St. Andrews, men who made some figure in their day*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since the Reformation, the names of the clergy who filled that charge,
and the dates of their admission, have been preserved in the presbytery re-
cords of Glasgow; and they furnish us with a pretty good specimen of the
spirit of the times.  There is reason to believe, that the clergyman of this
parish continued Roman Catholic, and accassionally performed this sacred
function in the parish, till the year 1572; he is said to have been a branch of
the family of MARR: about that time, we find a Mr William Eskine, a re-
lation likewise of the MARR family, parson of Campsie; he was afterwards
titular Archbishop of Glasgow; he is said never to have been in holy orders:
How long he continued parson of Campsie, we know not; but we find,
   1st, Mr Stoddart, presbyterian minister of Campsie, on the 3 d of November
1581.
   2d, Mr James Stewart is settled assistant and successor the 25th of March
1607.
   3d, Mr John Crichton was admitted the 23 d of April 1623:  He was depo-
red for what was called corrupt doctrine:  There is a tradition in the parish,
that he was such a remarkable stout, well breathed man, that he could walk
in forty minutes to the top of the Campsie Fells, eating a pease bannock, to
a spot which, to this day, goes by the name of Crichton's Cairn.
   4th, Mr Alexander Forbes was admitted the 16th of December 1629;
and was deposed for not conforming to the Synod of Glasgow, on the third
of April 1639.


