
     Statistical Account

derable quantity of human urine; above 2000 gallons a-day.
They have about 1900 iron-bound casks dispersed among the
manufacturing and tradesmen's houses in Glasgow and sub-
urbs.  For each calk full they pay a certain price, which, with
the expense of collecting, costs them about 800 l. a-year, for
an article which formerly ran in waste through the kennels
and drains of the streets.  The dying of Turkey red on cot-
ton, though a very late discovery in this kingdom, was esta-
blished in Glasgow earlier than in any part of Great Britain.
In the year 1785, Mr. George Mackintosh being in London,
fell in with Monsieur Papillon, a Turkey red dyer from Rou-
en, carried him with him to Glasgow, and, in conjunction
with Mr. David Dale, built an extensive dye-house at Dal-
marnock in this parish, upon the banks of the river Clyde,
where cotton is dyed a real Turkey red, equal in beauty and
folidity to East India colours.  There is another dyehouse,
equally extensive, lately erected for the fame purpose, in the
neighbourhood of this one, also in the barony parish, under
the management of Mr. Papillon, who is now connected with
another Company.  At both places the Turkey red colours
are now made in great perfection.  By means of these establish-
ments, the ingenious and industrious manufacturers of this
place are enabled to make cotton-pulicate handkerchiefs, e-
qual in beauty and quality to any in the known world.  And
although the Messrs. Bouilles (one of whom is fixed at Man-
chester) did obtain a premium from Parliament for the Tur-
key red, the business was first established here; and specimens
of manufactured pulicates of a superior colour, it is said, were
produced before a committee of the House of Commons, (made
by Mr. Mackintosh, who was the first who manufactured any
here) while Mr. Bouille could only produce cuts of cotton-
yarn done by him.  It is now computed that there are above
1500 looms employed in this is branch of pulicate alone, in


