
     of Aithsting and Sansting.

the lands.  The rent paid to the landlords is 326 lispund,
19 merk butter, and 1713 L. 16 s. Scotch.  Converting the
butter at 3 L. Scotch per lispund, it is in all 2693 L. 16 s.
Scotch, or 224 L. 9 s. 8 d. Sterling; but the butter rent is
now charged by the heritors at 8 s. and sometimes at 10 s.
per lispund.  After all, this is but a nominal rent; for each
tenant receives his possession from the landlord, on condition
of putting out the sixth share of a boat to the long fishing,
and delivering the wet fish to him or his tacksman at 3 s. 6 d.
Sterling per quintal or cwt. and his oil at 10 d. or 1 s. per
cann; so that the real rent of the parish depends on the pro-
fits the landlords make of the fish and oil, and is only known
to themselves*.  Great part of the parish was lately let to
a tacksman, who paid above double rent for it; and, as the
fishings proved remarkably good during his tack, he made
considerable profits.  The poultry (one for each merk land)
is included in the rents as stated above.  They pay also three
days work from each family, when required; ands when not
paid in kendars, converted at 6 d. per day.  They are always
maintained by the landlord; and their meat very often ex-
ceeds the value of their work.  The parish also pays to Sir
Thomas Dundas, the superior, for scatt, wattle, and oxpenny,
110 1/2 canns oil, and 30 lispund, 6 merk butter, and 140 L.
3 s. Scotch money; in all, 297 L. 6 s. Scotchs or 24 L. 15 s.
6 d. Sterling.  This was evidently the land-tax paid to the
King of Norway or Denmark before there islands were an-
nexed to the crown of Scotland, and has been, perhaps very
unjustly, continued on the tenants in Zetland, who, as they pay
cess or land-tax to Britain besides, amounting generally to
5 d. or 6 d. per merk, may be said to pay double cess every
year.  They pay also corn teind, 8 d. or 10 d. per merk
land; one half of which to the superior, as bishop's rent,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Vide parish of Dunrossness.


