
                                  WICK,                          167

      in 1839.  It is capable of holding, on the ground-floor, about
      380 sitters.  The galleries are not yet erected.  They have
      no minister.
        Wesleyan   Methodists.-This congregation was established in
      1837.  Their numbers are not great.
      Education.-It was a favourite maxim with the Scottish Reform-
      ers, that there should be throughout the land a kirk and a minister
      for every 1000 inhabitants, and a school beside every kirk.  The
      nobles and gentry, however, voted this a pious imagination, pil-
      laged the church, expended the plunder on their own pleasures,
      and left the poor to perish for lack of knowledge.  But the mi-
      nisters of the Scottish church were Christians.  They were not to
      be daunted by the hostility both of the land-owners and of the go-
      vernment, and by their unceasing exertions and untiring perse-
      verance, schools as well as churches were gradually planted and
      endowed in all the parishes of Scotland.
        Caithness, however, was long behind the rest of the country.
      In 1567, only Wick and Thurso had ministers; the rest of the
      parishes were supplied with readers or exhorters.  In 1576, Dun-
      net, Halkirk, and Wick had each a minister and a reader.  The
      other parishes appear to have been altogether vacant.  The dis-
      turbances and distresses caused in the seventeenth century by the
      Episcopalian intruders and persecutors, threw the country back
      into the Popish darkness and disorder out of which it had been
      rapidly emerging.  In 1697, when the Presbytery of Caithness
      was, after the Persecution, reconstituted by the Commission of the
      General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, only Thurso, Dun-
      net, and Reay had ministers of the Presbyterian Church.  Most of
      the parishes were vacant, amongst which was Wick.  In one or two;
      there were Episcopalian incumbents, a sample of the men who
      had been intruded in the times of Episcopacy, scandalous in their
      lives, and opposed, or at least indifferent to the promotion of
      either the religion or education of the people.  The people were,
      in consequence, ill-educated.  In 1701, when a call by the parish
      of Wick was moderated in to Charles Keith, the second minister
      of this parish after the Persecution, it is stated by the records of
      the session, that the call " was unanimously subscribed by the heri-
      tors and elders present, and consented to by a greater number who
      could not subscrive."
        The Presbytery were incessant and unwearied in their endea-
      vours to remedy this enormous evil, by the planting of schools;



