
                         STRATHDON.                       559

further improvement, or how far the happiness of the productive
classes might be increased, it would not be easy to determine.

   April 1838.
   Revised and partly re-written April 1839.

   Earthquakes.-The writer avails himself of permission given him,
while these sheets are passing through the press, to notice the in-
teresting phenomenon that occurred in October 1839, of several
distinct shocks of earthquakes.  The most-remarkable were those
on the 17th and 23d of the month,-the former at ten minutes
before three o'clock A. M., and the latter at twenty minutes past
ten P. M.  In both cases a rumbling noise preceded the concus-
sion, which was accompanied with a tremulous and undulatory mo-
tion, somewhat resembling the feeling on board ship when a wave
strikes heavily against the bow of the vessel.  The undulation was
so violent, that, in some instances, people were turned round in
their beds ; and the concussion so severe, that the doors slammed
violently, and the glasses danced on the table.  The concussion
was most distinctly felt in the upper parts of the houses, and uni-
versal testimony concurred in giving the direction from the south-
west,-a fact which leads us to trace the connection of the shocks
felt here with those at Comrie about the same period.
   The only other fact necessary to mention is, that the week pre-
vious to the last shock, the weather was dry and favourable for
harvest operations.  The barometer had risen to 29.75.  On the
22d there was a heavy rain from the east, which continued during
the 23d, (the day of the shock).  From that date the weather be-
came completely broken.  The barometer was carefully examined
on both occasions, but did not appear, at the time, to be sensibly
affected by either of the shocks.  By a strange anomaly, however,
it stood high during the long period of continued wet weather which
followed.  It is a remarkable circumstance, too, that the shock of
an earthquake, which was felt here in 1816, (and which appears
to have been much about the same in violence with those of last
year,) was followed by a long track of wet weather, so that in that
year, as in the last, the crop was wholly lost.

   December 1840.


