
                            DUNSE.                          255

of the laird of Wedderburn, who was also exasperated by the re-
cent murder of his chief, the Earl of Home, though under the pro-
tection of an invitation by the Regent Albany to Edinburgh. The
warden being worsted by the Homes, fled unattended towards Dun-
bar, pursued by the laird of Wedderburn. His horse being swamped
in the bog, he continued his flight on foot, but was overtaken by
his adversary, who cut off his head, and carried it, fastened to his
saddle girth by the hair, in triumph to the Castle of Wedderburn.
As the bog is on the confines of the parishes of Dunse and Edrom,
and the deed was done in the parish of Edrom, while the perpe-
trator was a distinguished person in the parish of Dunse, the dis-
credit of it falls in some measure on both; and it is, perhaps, in-
cumbent on the writers of the statistics of both parishes to record.
the atrocious fact.
   Modern Buildings.-These are,-Dunse Castle, a very splendid
edifice, in the Gothic style of architecture, the greater part modern,
but added to an ancient tower said to have been built by Randolph,
Earl of Murray.-Wedderburn Castle, a very elegant building, in
the Grecian style of architecture.-Manderston, also a fine in
sion, situated in a lawn, and adorned with a lake and other embel-
lishments.-The town-house of Dunse, a modern building, (the
foundation stone of which was laid in 1816,) in the Gothic style of
architecture. The present church was built in the year 1790. It is
as remarkable for the plainness of its exterior as for its neatness and
commodiousness within. The Saxon pillars and arches of the old
church, which it replaced, indicated its antiquity. From a date on
the gallery, called the Burgess-loft, it seemed to have been repaired
in 1572.
   The estate and patronage of the church belonged in early times
to Duns of that ilk, and were granted by Robert the Bruce to Ran-
dolph, Earl of Murray. The latter granted a charter in 1316 to the
monks of Newbattle, with an annuity of two merks out of the lands
of Kingside. The charter was dated "apud Parcum de Duns,"
in the king's presence,-Patrick Earl of March, Sir James Dou-
glas, and several persons of note, being also present.

                         <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
     The population of this parish in 1755 was,      2593
                                      1801,          3324
                                      1811,          3163
                                      1821,          3773
                                      1831,          3469
   Under the last census the number of males was 1629; of fe-
males, 1840.


