
                           BEITH.                      585

in 1825 Laura, second daughter of William Markham, Esq. of
Beeca Hall, and grand-daughter of Dr William Markham, Arch-
bishop of York. The mansion-house of Caldwell is a large and
commodious building. It was designed by the celebrated archi-
tect Adam, and is placed in an angle of the parish of Beith, being
part of the feu from the lordship of Giffen, so acute that the ad-
joining offices at a few yards distance are in another parish and
county.
	Family of Ralston.--The ancient family of Ralston, of that Ilk,
whose estate of Ralston lay near Paisley, and of whom there is dis-
tinct notice in the thirteenth century, held for upwards of 200 years
the estate of Woodside in this parish, being part of the barony of
Beith; but it was sold in 1772 by the late Gavin Ralston, on whose
death, in 1819, the male line of the family failed. There are still
several families in the district connected with them by collateral
descent, and the estate of Woodside was in 1834 purchased by
William Patrick, Esq. of Roughwood, whose maternal grandmo-
tber was eldest daughter of Gavin Ralston of that Ilk.
	Other Families.--The ancestors of Mr Patrick of Hazlehead
have held lands in the parish since 1663, and long previous thereto
held lands in the parish of Kilwinning ; the family of Love of
Threepwood, since 1633; the family of Montgomery of Bogston,
since 1663; and the family of Shedden of Roughwood since 1690.
	Eminent Men.--This parish was the birth-place of Alexander
Montgomerie, one of our more early and most celebrated Scottish
poets. He was born at Hazlehead Castle. The estate of Hazle-
head, as has already been mentioned, was a part of the lordship
of Giffen, and was given to a younger branch of the family o
Eglinton. In Pont's Cunninghame Typographized, it is said that
" Hazlehead Castell is a strong old building environed with lairge
ditches, seatted on a loch, veill planted and comodiously beautified,
the heritage of Robert Montgomery, Laird thereof; famous it is
for ye birth of yat renoned poet, Alexander Montgomery," This
account was written about 1608, recently after the death of the
poet, and gives authenticity.to the statement as to the place of
his birth. The fame of Montgomerie rests chieffy upon "The
Cherry and the Slae," his longest poem; though in some of his
manor pieces, there is a higher degree of refine sentiment and
poetical feeling.
	Hugh Montgomerie of Braidstone, a cadet of the family of Eg-
liton, was a person of much sagacity and, by an ocurrence al


