
                       ERROL.                                         377

	iron in the white sandstone, but no nodules of ironstone in any of
	the few specimens which the writer has had an opportunity of
	examining.  It may here be proper to remark, that this white sand-
         stone bears a strong affinity to the white blotches in the more super-
	ficial, or new red sandstone, found at the distance of fully five miles
	in the adjoining parish of Inchture.  These blotches are generally
	circular, but sometimes oval, and sometimes oblong; and they ap-
	pear alike frequently, whether by a vertical or a horizontal section
	of the strata.  The circular ones are always found to result from
	little spherical masses, of which they are the section; and it is pro-
	bably from a section of these, compressed while in a soft state,
	that the other figures of the blotches have been produced.  These
	white sandstone balls are much more compact and hard than the
	red sandstone around them; and, in the very centre of them, there
	is commonly found a small nucleus of iron ore, seldom larger than
	a pea.
	   Almost the only simple minerals which have been met with in
         the rocks mentioned in this account are calc-spar, quartz, and cal-
	cedony.
	   The alluvial deposit which immediately covers the solid rocks
	in the particul`r localities already referred to, is a mixture of gra-
	vel and red clay.  With regard, however, to the alluvial deposits
	of the parish in general, it may be stated, first, with respect to the
	more elevated parts, that, so far as can be ascertained by the sink-
	ing of wells, some of them 30, 40, and one of them even 60 feet
	in depth, the only substance met with, after passing through the
	till or gravel, which is immediately under the soil, is an indurated
	clay or roch-marl, as the inhabitants have called it, which becomes
	very friable after continued exposure to the air.  After getting a
	few feet below the surface, this was the only material which was
	found in digging even the deepest of these wells, with the excep-
	tion of three pretty large boulder-stones, which were met with at
	different depths.  In the immediate neigbbourhood of the lime-
	stone quarry at Murie, there was, upwards of sixty years ago, a
	marl pit, which, however, was never wrought to any great extent,
	and which has long since been covered with a young plantatinn.
            But, secondly, as to the deposits in the other or carse districts of
	the parish, at least in the lower or eastern division, it may be
         stated that, soon after passing through the soil, we come to a pale
	blue clay, wbich continues for 20 or 30 feet, then to a bed of pdat,
	varying from 3 to 18 inches in thickness; and then to quicksand,


