
			KINNETTLES.                       227

the front seat of all the galleries, accommodating thirty-six sitters,
and reserved by the heritors for themselves and their families; one
seat, on the ground floor, for the minister's family, accommodating
six sitters; and one seat, also on the ground floor, for the elders,
accommodating six sitters. All the other seats are let annually at
2s. per sitter. The communion-table, which is neat and commo-
dious, extends, with the exception of the east and west passages,
the whole length of the church, and accommodates fifty communi-
cants at each service.
	The manse was built in 1801; repaired in 1807 and 1811; and,
owing to its small size and superficial workmanship, cannot be said
to be in a good state of repair at present. But, from the disposi-
tion of the heritors to grant comfortable accommodation, hopes are
entertained of its being enlarged and repaired in the course of the
season.
	The glebe contains 8 1/2 imperial acres, and is now all arable. Its
annual value is not easily ascertained. Consisting of various kinds
of soil, and containing two acres of poor gravel, it cannot be esti-
mated at more than L. 12, 15s. per annum, which is at the rate
of L. 1, 10s. per acre. Hence the glebe, though an accommoda-
tion, is by no means a profit to the incumbent.
	As the teinds of the parish were at different periods all valued
in money at a very low rate, they fell short of the minimum stipend
by L.30, 1s. yearly; but the deficiency is made up by the Govern-
ment bounty.
	The number of families attending the Established church is 102;
the number of persons of all ages attending the Established church,
530; the number attending the chapels of Dissenters and Sece-
ders, 2; of Episcopalians, 16. Divine service at the Established
church is generally well attended. The average number of com-
municants at the Established church, 240. The average amount of
church collections yearly, for religious and charitable objects,
L. 22, 7s. 3d.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish, the parochial
and a sewing school. The branches of instruction taught in the
parochial school are, English reading, writing, arithmetic, book-
keeping, the elements of algebra and mathematics, English
grammar, geography, Latin, and French. The branches taught
in the female school are, English reading, and several varieties
of needle and fancy work. The salary of the schoolmaster is


