
                            OLD DEER                        159

of the other, at Aden, are chiefly restricted, manufacture, on their
own adventure, considerable quantities of the coarser sorts of
woollen cloth, and of yarn for stockings.  The number of hands
of both sexes and of all ages, usually employed in the different de-
partments of the work is about 30, receiving from 12s. to 13s.
weekly of wages.  This larger establishment has a dye-house and
a waulk or fulling-mill.  There are other two dyers in separate
stations possessed of similar mills, who find pretty steady and
abundant employment from the country.
   Connected with manufactures, there are, in addition to such as
work almost exclusively for people in the country, no fewer than
about 47 persons, some male, some female, presently employ-
ed, for the most part, in the village of Stewartfield, weaving
linen yarn of different degrees of fineness, for the large house at
Broadford, Aberdeen, which was erected by Mr Maberly, and now
belongs to Messrs Richard and Co. As the hands are paid by
the piece, they are not obliged to labour any precise number of
hours a day.  An expert and active individual would earn at the
present rate of prices, about 6s. or 7s. in the space of ten or
twelve hours.  Were any change of circumstances to remove or
greatly diminish this employment, many a poor villager and cot-
tager, who derives from it a moderate livelihood, would be at a loss
how to earn their bread.  The state of the country, especially as
it affects infirm or aged females, is altered much for the worse,
by the introduction and extensive I use of machinery for spinning
flax, and knitting stockings.  No farther back than the beginning of
the present century, any woman could have found more work in this
way than it was in her power to accomplish, and, if she was tolera-
bly acquainted with the business, could have won with ease, and
by a species of work well suited to the sex, from 3s. to 4s. a-week.
Now, it requires no small interest to find even occasionally some-
thing to do in that line, and the allowance is scarcely a third of
what it then was.  This cause alone, though it stands not alone,
might account for the increase of pauperism, and the proportion-
ate demand on public charity.  If those in better circumstances
could devise means for procuring employment, and giving mode-
rate remuneration, to such as need and could profit by it, relief
administered in this form would be incomparably more serviceable
than a direct alms of the same value.  It would do much to keep
alive that honourable, spirit of industry and independence, so far
as independence consists in a desire not to be burdensome to others,


