
672                        LANARKSHIRE.

be worked when those seven are exhausted. *  The dip or incli-
nation of the coal, at Jordanbill and Cartnavel, on the north side
of the Clyde, is to the north-west.  But at Bellahoustown, on the
south side of the river, where a pit has been recently sunk to the
depth of 19 1/2 fathoms, the dip is to the east and south-east.  In
this latter pit the coal that is raised is only 19 inches thick, but
8 inches of that are parrot or cannel coal, which sells at a high
price for the purpose of being converted into gas.  At Jordanhill
and Cartnavel, in a depth of not more than 50 fathoms from the
surface, there are no fewer than rixteen beds of coal, which vary
in thickness from 3 inches to 2 feet.  Two of these are worked.
One contains about 7 inches of gas coal of the finest quality;
the other is considered a very good household coal.  Above the
gas coal, there is a very valuable seam of black-band ironstone,
from between 10 to 15 inches thick, and lower down, there are
several seams of that description of ironstone, which is named clay-
band, ranging in thickness from 5 to 12 inches.  This was proved
by the late Mr Colin Dunlop to contain from between 30 to 33
per cent. of iron.
  Zoology.-The less common birds are the goldfinch (Fringilla
carduelis); the golden-crested wren (Motacilla regulus) ; the,
buzzard (Falco buteo) ; the grey owl (Striz ulula) ; the white
owl, (Strix flammea) ; the siskin (Fringilla spinus) ; the teal
(Anas crecea) ; the bald-coot (Fulica atra) ; the water-hen
(Fulica chloropus) ; the kingfisher (Alcedo ispida) ; and the star-
ling (Sturnus vulgaris).  In the fifth volume of the last Statis-
tical Account of Scotland, under the article Glasgow, a list is
given of the various kinds of fish that have been found in the river
and Frith of Clyde.  There are much fewer salmon now caught
in the Clyde than formerly.  We may form some idea of the spi-
rit and industry of the fishermen of former times, and likewise of
their success, when we find it stated, that in the sixteenth century,
the burgesses of Renfrew, who had enjoy the privilege of fishing
salmon on both banks of the Clyde, had often sixty boats so em-
ployed, during the whole of the spring and summer. +  An old
fisherman assures the writer, that, fifty years ago, ten salmon were
caught at the different fishing stations in the parish for one that
is caught now.  He attributes this failing off to the pollution of

<FOOTNOTE>Account of Minerals belonging to the Corporation of Glasgow, p. 17.  Glas-
gow, 1896.
          "Sexaginta piscatorias neves," Leslie Scotia Descriptio, p. 10.
						  3


