
158                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

being almost surrounded by impassable bogs and marshes, must have
been a place of great strength. It was in allusion to this circumstances
that James VI. is said to have declared, "that the man who built
Lochwood, though he might have the outward appearance of an
honest man, must have been a knave at heart." Towards the end
of the sixteenth century, it was burnt by Robert, natural brother
to the chieftain, Lord John Maxwell, who, with savage glee, says
the historian, exclaimed, while its flames ascended to the skies,
"I'll give Dame Johnstone light enough to show her to set her
silken hood."* It was again repaired and inhabited until three
years after death of the first Marquis William of Annandale,
which took place there in 1721, when it was finally abandoned by
the family, and suffered gradually to fall into decay.+
	Modern Buildings.--There is no other mansion-house in the
parish, excepting Raehills, the seat of J.J. Hope Johnstone, Esq.
which was built by his grandfather, James Earl of Hopetoun, in
the year 1786, and is of the castellated or old English baronial
style of masonry, prevalent in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. A
large addition fronting the south, and containing several splendid

<FOOTNOTE>
	 It was in revenge for the destruction of Lochwood's "lofty towers, where
dwelt the Lords of Annandale, "that the Johnstones, aided by the bold Buccleuch,
the Elliots, the Armstrongs, and the Grahams, these bravest of all the warriors
of the Scottish border, attacked and cut to pieces a party of the Maxwells
near Lochmaben, where, among the slain, fell Robert the incendiary himself,
the natural brother of the chieftain. The surviving few then took refuge in the
church of Lochmaben, but the church, with all that was in it, was burnt to ashes by
the Johnstones, and it was this sacrilegious and barbarous act which in its turn occa-
sioned the memorable battle of Dryfessands, in which the Johnstones finally prevail-
ed; and Lord Maxwell, after having performed prodigies of valour, and while "en-
gaged in single combat with Lord Johnstone, was slain behind his back by the cowardly
hands of Will of Kirkhill. A tradition entitled to consideration prevails among those
whose forefathers lived near the very spot whdre the bloody border battle of Dryfe-
sands was fought, that upon that occasion Lord Maxwell was mortally wounded, and
fell unknown,--that a few hours after the "battle was o'er," the gudewife of the
Kirkton, a place adjacent to the scene of action, repaired to the spot in quest of her
husband, or for some other purpose, and having accidentally discovered his Lordship
lying in a state of exhaustion, but still able to tell his name, that this heroine des-
patched him with the huge key of the tower which she carried in her hand.
	+ About seven years ago a considerable number of silver coins of various sizes,
and one large gold one, (a double Jacobus,) were discovered by a person sowing
grass-seeds in the cow-park of Good-hope. They consist chiefly of half-crowns,
shillings, and sixpences, of the reign of Elizabeth, James, William, and Mary,
and are now in possession of the proprietnr at Raehills. A few other silver coins,
cheifly half-crowns of James VI., and shillings of Elizabeth,were, much about the
same period, discovered in an earthen pot by a man who was clearing out the foun-
dations of an old wall or dike near the farm-house of Kerse of Kinnel.


