
                 ISLAND OF SKYE--SNIZORT.	          291

this parish, there is the following interesting account: "Ina
cairn lately dug up, was found a large stone chest, or coffin,	made
of four stones, about 5 feet long, and 4 1/2 broad. Upon the layer,
which is a large single stone, of nearly 6 feet by 5, and 1 1/2 foot
thick, was found the handle of a small weapon, resembling much
the hilt of a sword, quite corroded with rust, and a pin, which
seemed to be compound metal, about 7 inches long, somewhat
rounder than a pretty large probe; the one end was flat and
broad, and the other round and sharp-pointed. Within the coffin
was an urn of burned clay, nicely carved, but without any inscrip-
tion. The urn being broken by the tools employed in removing
the layer, none of its contents were discovered."
  About fifty years ago, there was found in a moss dug for peats,
on the farm of Sheader, a small box full of arms, which were not
shaped like the modern ones, but short and broad. On one
of them, when cleared of rust, was the name Bocchus, who is said
to have been sheriff of Ross-shire; for Skye at that time formed
a part of that shire, when the Macdonald family held the Earldom
of Ross. That which had the name Bocchus seemed to be the
principal sword of justice, which used to be laid before the sheriff
on the table, when holding his courts, and the other arms appeared
to belong to inferior officers. The box and arms were given to
Lord Alexander Macdonald, grandfather of the present Lord.
  Many of those circular duns, which the traveller meets with in
other parts of the Highlands, are to be seen here.

<TABLE POPULATION>

                    The population in 1755, was 1627
                                      1794,     1808
                                      1801,     2144
                                      1811,     2275
                                      1821,	2789
                                      1831,	3487

Among the superstitions of the people, it may be noticed, that
there is nothing so much dreaded by many as what they term an
evil eye. As an antidote against this, the following verse is to be
repeated by the person who dreads it, when washing in the morn-
ing:--

                    Gu beannaicheadh Dia mo sh-il,
                    'S beatinaichidh mo shuil na chi:
                    Beannaichidh mise mo n...bidh,
                    'S beannaichidh mo n...bidh mi.

                    Let God bless my eye,
                    And my eye will bless all I see;
                    I will bless my neighbour,
                    And my neighbour will bless me.


