
               KILTARLITY.                                   	    	  499

Belonging to the Established Church,                        	   	 2186

	Do.	do.	of the poor and wqrking clasus,   	   1736
	Belonging to	other denominations,		     	    	  488
	. Do	do.	of the pcor and working crassest -  	    370
Total in the parish of the poor and working population,  - 	   2106
        Do.       those in affluent or comfortable circumstances,   553
                                                                   2669  2669
Thus showing that fully three-fourtbs of the entire population
were, at that time, of the poor or labouring classes, and I am of
opinion that the proportions are Still about the same. The only
Dissenters in the parish are Roman Catholics.
The language usually spoken is the Gaelic, but it is losing
ground rapidly.

               IV.-INDUSTRY
Labourers receive from Is. to Is. 6d., and tradesmen from 2s
to 3s. per day. Women earn Is. per day during the harvest season,
but only receive from 6d. to 9d. per day for field labour, during
the rest of the year. Farm-servants, besides affair allowance of
victual and fuel, receive from L. 8 to L. 12 per annum, accord-
ing to their character and qualifications. Housemaids and other
fernale domestics receive, on an average, from L. 3 to L. 4 per an-
num; few of them obtain so much as L. 4, 1Os.
Agriculture has made rapid progress here within the last twenty
years, and due attention is now paid to liming, draining, and the
most approved rotation in cropping.
  To illustrate the rapid change which has taken place in Strath-
glass within the last few years, I may mention that about eight
years ago, when the existing leases were granted, the arable land
would not average above 10s. per acre; but now that such effec-
tive measures have been resorted to for the prevention of smug-
gling, the same land may be considered worth at least L. I per
acre.
          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  The nearest post-office is at the village of Beauly, which is
about two miles from the eastern boundary of the parish, but there
is a runner who daily traverses a great part of the parish, and
leaves the letters at centrical receiving-houses.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which was built in
1829, is only about three miles from the eastern extremity of the
parish, so that, unless the mission comprehended the district of
Strathglass, its situation might be justly considered as extremely,
inconvenient for the parishioners at large. It is built on the same


