
			WAMPHRAY.                            139

month. Joining to these the two succeeding months of the present
year, the average of the whole will be 29.4/d1.
	Cold east winds prevail much in winter, in spring and the
beginning of summer; and though then, during the day they may
follow the sun, yet they too often resume that direction during the
night, and being commonly accompanied with frost, they prove
very hurtful to vegetation and the blossoms of fruit-trees. It is
true, indeed, that this parish, enjoying a westerly and south-west-
erly exposure, is in a great degree screened from their piercing cold
by the large intervening hills. But when it blows hard, with snow
from that quarter, we frequently fell its bitter effects, in sweeping
the dry snow over the heights into the deep glens, and covering the
ground where the sheep could be best sheltered from the severity
of the storm; and thus, unless the shephered has been on his guard,
enveloping the unwary animals in its deep wreaths.
	Snow storm.--This was particularly experienced in the month of
March 1827, when there occured the severest storm remembered
here since 1794. The snow adhering to the top and branches of
trees, and freezing immediately, bent them downwards with its
weight, and the wind afterwards acting upon them with force made
great destruction, especially among the Scotch, spruce, and silver
fir-trees. It was a sublime sight, after the cessation of the storm,
to view the avalanche formed in the deep ravine or on the banks of
wood, and the shattered remains of trees appearing here and there
above its surface. As the storm was renewed in all its severity on
a following day of the same week, a considerable number of sheep
were lost; but as every exertion was made to recover as many as
possible, a great number were found under a considerable depth of
snow a long time after,--some after three or four weeks, and even
then living, though much weakened.
	Winds.--The most prevalent winds, and at the same time the
highest, blow from the south and south-west. These are very
commonly accompanied with torrents of rain, especially after a
continuance of dry weather, according to the proverb, "long foul,
long fair." The inhabitants of this parish are skilled in the usual
prognostic of the weather, and especially in those affored by the
two conspicious hills of Queensberry and Criffel.
	Climate.--The climate is moist. And this may be accounted
for by the vapours which rise from the Solway, being driven in
this direction and attached by the high hills. The farmers ac-
cordingly puts the end of his corn-stooks in one or other of these


