
     of Old Kilpatrick.

dunged and limed, produced excellent crops, and their pa-
sture grass is remarkably rich and nourishing.  The di-
stinction of outfield and infield is totally suppressed.  Carts
are universally used.  Convenient and centrical farm hou-
ses are built upon almost every farm, many of them stated.

   Produce and Cattle.-The crops raised are corn, bear,
barley, wheat, pease and potatoes; and there are ready mar-
kets for all these, either at the different villages and works
in the parish, or at Glasgow.  The horses and black cattle
in this district are of the best kinds.  Several of the tenants
rear them.  On the grounds of the upper part of the parish,
great numbers of cattle and sheep are pastured.  The hills
of Cockney always produce remarkably fat cattle and sheep.
Better seldome appear in the Glasgow or Paisley markets.

   Manufactures.-This parish, from its local advantages, (ha-
ving a great many falls of water, issuing from the high
grounds,) from its good roads, and its vicinity to Glasgow,
is full of different manufactories, all of which are in a thri-
ving situation, and employ at high wages a very great
number of people*.  To give the reader an idea of the num-

     VOL. V. G g

<FOOTNOTE>

Is clay, 3 and 4 horses are thought necessary.  As all personal services are
justly considered as destructive, they have been necessarily abolished in a
part of the country where agriculture has arrived to so high a pitch of
perfection.  Thirlage, however, and mill services, still remain.  But
these, it is hoped, will soon also be suppressed.  Even statute-labour,
known in almost every county in Scotland, is here converted into money.

*The prices of labour and provisions, in this and in all the parishes ad-
joining to Glasgow, are regulated in a great measure by Glasgow.  As
these have been detailed by some of the clergy in the neighbourhood, it
is thought unnecessary to repeat the particulars here.  In general, it may
only be observed, that they bear a proportion to one another, and that all
ranks and degrees of persons in the parish are now much more wealthy,
and in a much more prosperous situation, in every respect, than their ance-
stors.


