			           GIRVAN.		             397

<TABLE>
	Number of all other families,					     244
	Average number of births yearly for the last seven years   156
		       of deaths,					            84
		       of marriages,					      68
	Males in the parish,					          3291
	Females do.						                8139
	Males upwards of 20 years,				          1614
	Number of persons at present under 15 years of age,       3015
        	                     upwards of 70,                  320

	On comparing the above state of the parish with that in 1791, it
would seem that, in few places of Scotland, has the population in-
creased in such rapid proportion as in Girvan. This has been
chiefly owing to the encouragement given to the building of small
houses in the town, which are soon filled with the lowest orders of
the people of Ireland, who come over with the view of obtaining
employment in the weaving of cotton. The increase is chiefly of
this description; though, in the same period, there has been an in-
crease in the country part of the parish of about 500, who are chief-
ly engaged in agriculture.
	Character and Habits of the People.--In no part of the kingdom
are people, of the same rank in society, more respectable than the
native inhabitants of this p`rish. They are possessed of honour-
able feelings, strict integrity, and great affability and kindness, to-
gether with a strong sense of that independence so characteristic of
the people of Scotland in former times. In point of dress and
diet, they do not indulge beyond their means; but they are not be-
hind their neighbours, in what may be called real improvement, in
these particulars. So much, however, cannot be said of that por-
tion of the population which is properly Irish. They have but very
little, indeed, of that independence of spirit for which the native in-
habitants are distinguished. They are improvident; and, in the day
of need, so far from shewing reluctance at receiving charity, they
are often unreasonably clamant. On their first arrival from Ire-
land, many of them are much more like mendicants than people
intending to support themselves by their own industry. In a day
or two, perhaps, the father of the family, (for they often come in
large families,) gets employment upon the loom, and the mother
and children, set out, in different directions, and actually beg. The
apartments in which they reside are very uncomfortable; there is
little or no regard to cleanliness, and their beds are absolutely wretch-
ed. This description, however, does not apply to all; for there are
certainly some, especially of those who have been for years settled
in the parish, and got connected with the natives by marriage, who
are careful, cleanly, and comfortable; but the bulk of them are


