388			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Ionization in so many parts of our eastern coast, that it seems
reasonable to take the name as it stands, and to suppose it to mark
an early settlement of some enterprising or discontented colony
from Flanders. Hugh, the seventh laird of Kilravock, had an as-
sedation of these lands from King James IV., 6th July 1439, which
narrates the previous possession by his family. Many subsequent
leases are preserved in the Kilravock charter chest. In July
1639, the Earl of Moray, having then acquired the lordship,
changed the leasebold into a feu, and the lands of Flemington and
part of Bracholy continued to be held in feu of the Moray falily,
as far down As I have investigated." The manuscript already quot-
ed, records that Flemington was obtained from the Earl of Moray
for 3000 merks, since the Earl, beino, very kindly, gave them a
good bargain. Shaw in his history of Moray, Part ii. Family of
Kilravock, gives a minute account of the manner in which, by a de-
cision of the House of lords, 1787, Flemington became separated
from the Kilravock estate. Since the last Statistical Account was
written, Flemington has been sold. Flemington is now divided
into two estates. The chief part, now called Gollanfield, has
been purchased by the present proprietor, John Gollan, Esq.
and the other part, perhaps about a sixth of the whole, by Major
Fraser of Fort-George, who has retained the name of Flemington.
  Lord Cawdor is the only other proprietor in this parish. He
possesses a narrow stripe of land descending from the ridge of
Croy to the moss. It is called Calder Brachlaicb, and from this
name must have belonged to the family of Calder. There is no
vestige of a record as to either the manner or the time in which
it came into the possession of the Caiders. The factor writes me,
" the earliest charter I can find is of February 1662; but from it
there seems no doubt that it was, long before that time, in the fa-
mily, and is understood to be comprehended in the more general
description of the thanage and barony of Calder, now called Caw-
dor." The local tradition is, that Calder Brachlaich went as pin
money, or to grow lint to one of the Earl of Moray's daughters,
who inarried a laird of Cawdor. This account is, we think, un-
founded: for there is no evidence that the Earl of Moray ever pos-
sessed it. It is not improbable that it was acquired by the Cald-
ers, from Rose of Kilravock, and was at one time considerably
larger. In the manuscript history of the seventh laird of Kilra-
vock, it is stated that the Bishop (Andrew) and Hugh Rose, dis-
puted their boundary; and a story is told, which would imply that


