
66                            SELKIRKSHIRE.

parish of Yara and annexation of the same to the  parish of Ettrick,
dated 28th May  1650, we fiend the following reasons for their dis-
union from the one, and for their annexation to th other; these
lands were "lyant far distant from their auin paroch kirk," they were
therefore annexed to Ettrick "quharunto they ly mair ewest."

Buccleuch.---In the lonely vale of Rankle-burn, surrounded by
a dense mass of hills, are the two forlorn farm-steadings of the
Buccleuchs. A deep ravine, near the road leading from them
to Hawick, is pointed out as the place where the buck was slain,
and which grave, according to tradition, their name and title to the
family of Buccleuch. Let the limping lines of old Satchels carry
us thither.

              "Good Lancelot Scot, I think his book be true,
              Old Rankle-burn is designed Buccleuch now;
              Yet in his book no balls read he,
              It was buck's eleuch, he read to me;
              He told me the name, the place, the spot,
              Came all by the hunting of the buck.
              In Scotland no Buccleuch was then.
              Before the buck in the eleuch was slain."

A small crook, in the steepest part of the cleuch, about half-away
between the east-house and the mill-dam-ford, (which is a pool or
ford on the Hawick road,) is pointed out as the place where the
buck was taken; but, if Satchels be correct, it was not here the
buck was slain, for he says,

              "The very place where the buck was slain,
              He built a stone house, and there he did remain."

Now the foundation of such a house, as we might conceive it
should be, were dug up between three and four years ago, and up-
on the spot has been built, whithin these twelve months past, the
farm-house of Easter Buccleuch.* In the buck's eleuch are the
marks of the site of an old mill.

              "For they built a mill on that same burn,
              To grind dog's bran, tho' there grew no conr."

Fifty years ago, the walls of this mill were "Knee high;" now they

<FOOTNOTE>*"There are no vestiges of any building at Buccleuch, except the site of of cha-
per, &c." says Sir Walter Scott in his notes to the Lay of the Last Minstrel; and all
the writers we have seen giving a description of this ancient and famed spot, use near-
ly the same language. But we are inclined to think that the family of Buccleuch
had once a baronial residence here." See in the Notes to the Lay of the Last Min-
strel, an account of this spot written by the person who dug up the foundations.





