
           			PARISH OF NENTHORN.

                PRESBYTERY OF KELSO, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                        THE REV. JOHN GIFFORD, MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-NENTHORN was anciently, called Nai-
thansthirn; a word which the writer of the former Statistical Ac-
count derives from someremarkable thorn trees formerly existing in
the parish. It has a more probable connection with two singular
ranges of rock called the Meikle, and Little Thairn, about half-a
mile from the church on the banks of the Eden,-places once noted
in the district as haunts of superstition. The prefix appears to
be the name of some person or object; but the etymology is quite
uncertain.
   Topographical Appearances.-The parish is of an irregular out-
line, somewhat resembling a sand-glass, or the figure 8, being
nearly divided in the middle by Roxburghshire on the other, it extends
west: and tracing aline from one extrmity to the other, it extends
to about four and a-half mile in lenght, by not more than two at
the widest part. Owing to the peculiar form, however, the ac-
tual area is but 5 1/3 square miles, or 3400 English acres. It is
bounded on the north by Earlstoun; on the east by Stitchel and
Ednam; Kelso on the south; and Smallholm on the west, on which
side it has the small stream of the Eden as its boundary for three
miles. The position lengthwise, is from north-west to south-east,
with a gradual but undulating declivity from a rocky ridge of hill
across the northern part to within a mile and a-half of the town.
of Kelso. These undulations, six or seven in number, at distances
of less than half a-mile, stretch from east to west parallel with
the Tweed, till thy are lost in the flat of the river. Through the
first and largest of the series, the stream of the Eden has forced
its way, leaving the eastern bank a wall of bare and precipitous
rocks a hundred feet high; while, on the western side, the ground
slopes with easy ascent to its original elevation.
   Meteorology-The mean temperature of the atmospheres for



