
     of Kintail.

puted miles from Kilduich in Kintail, to Knocsin in Strath-
glass.  It is allowed to be the nearest communication between
the E. and W. seas; and, though daily frequented by people
from Sky and other places, to Inverness and Dingwall, with
heavy loads, there is no inn to accommodate travellers, except
the booths of shepherds, which in stormy weather they fre-
quently burn for feul.-Within 3 miles of Kintail, at a place
called Belloch, is a high ridge of hills which environs this dis-
trict on the E. and would render it inaccessible from that quar-
ter, if nature had not left a small gap in the mountain, as if
it had been sawn down to the middle, which leaves room for
3 passengers to go a-breast.  The ascent on the E to the Bel-
loch is about 100 yards in a zig-zag direction.  The western as-
pect is truly steep and vexatious: the intermediate space on
the top is a quarter of a mile long, and 5 feet broad.  The
traveller finds himself, in passing through this gut, inclosed
with hills of rueful aspects, inspiring awe, and often quick-
ening his pace*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*After the battle of Culloden, Lord George Sackville, entered Kintail by
this road, driving cattle and plunder before him.  Mr John M'Lean, the
minister of this parish, appeared before his Lordship, to protect the Kintail
men, (being at that time loyal subjects), from unmented insult; but, from
the simplicity of Mr M'Lean's dress, his Lordship inferred imposition; and,
seizing a loaded pistol, gave orders for his appearing instantly before him with
his library, that his opinion concerning his sacred character might no long-
er remain in suspense; otherwise he would suffer for daring to insult him.
This uncommon salutation, added to the natural trepidation of the venerable
old man,-he made all possible hasle to bring back a volume of Pool's Anno-
tations, which convinced his Lordship, that the want of pontificial robes in
the Highlands was no obstacle to veracity.  This volume of Pool's Annota-
tions is still within the precincts of the place; carefully laid up in the lib-
rary of the minister of Glensheal, and preserved like the old Palladium of
Troy.-Of all the travellers attempting the Afric road, none ever left such
memorable traces behind him as Mr Ross of Easter Fern, who after the


