
                    PARISH OF PRESTONKIRK.

PRESBYTERY OF DUNBAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

THE REV. JAMES THOMSON, MINISTER.
THE REV. JOHN THOMSON, ASSISTANT & SUCCESSOR.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE, name of this parish was originally, and so early as
the twelfth century, Linton,-the name still given to the principal
village in the parish, which appears to have been so called from a
lynn or waterfall in the river Tyne, at the place where the village
is situated. This continued to be its principal name till the Re-
formation; but before that period it was also known by the name
of the Halch or Haugh, from the circumstance of the church being
situated near a haugh on the banks of the Tyne; hence it was af-
terwards called Prestonhaugh; and at a later period it received its
present name of Prestonkirk. It is still designated "Preston-
haugh, otherwise called Prestonkirk," in Presentations and other
legal writings.
   Extent and Boundaries.-Its extent is about 4 miles from east
to west, and about 7 miles from north to south; and it consists of
about 15 square miles. It is of an irregular figure, stretching out
for 2 1/2 miles into a narrow stripe of land to the northward, which
is detached from the rest of the parish. It is bounded on the west
by the parishes of Haddington and Athelstaneford; on the north
by Dirleton and North Berwick; on the east by Whitekirk and
Dunbar; on the south by Stenton, Whittingbarn, and Moreham.
   Topograhical Appearances.-The surface is a little varied, but
there are no hills or valleys of any considerable extent, with the ex-
ception of Traprain-Law, a hill situated towards the south boundary
of the parish. The extent of this hill is about 4O Scotch acres, and it
affords excellent pasturage for sheep, but is too steep and precipi-
tous for cattle. On the south side it is very nearly perpendicular.
A little to the north of this hill is a curious irregular valley of con-
siderable depth, and very narrow, in the bottom of which runs a
very small rivulet. This valley is considered the most fertile part


