
               CAMPBELTON.                                457

porphyry on the estate of Kilkivan, which is much used in the
erection of buildings in Campbelton and the neighbourhood.
The Island of Devar produces some beautiful varieties of green
as well as of brown porphyry, easily wrougt, and to be obtained
of any size, and extremely ornamental when polished, but as yet
neglected. Far superior in beauty and variety to any in the dis-
trict, this rock produces not less than ten or twelve different kinds.
The old red sandstone extends to the estate of Killellan. The
catalogue of simple minerals is extremely brief. Quartz being
universally diffused is to be found in veins and imbedded 'masses
in the mica-slate formation. It is sometimes found in the druses
of the porphyry, crystallized, and inclining to amethyst. Cale
spar is also found in the limestone districts and in the amygdaloidal
and basalt rocks in the south-east district of the parish. The
only mineral, however, which has been wrought here is coal, and
this has been done to a considerable extent. The works are situ-
ated within three miles of Campbelton, to which a canal has been
cut for the purpose of carrying the coal. The coal is of an infe-
rior quality, and, on this account, the distillers import a large por-'
tion of that used by them from the low country. It is supposed
that thirty tons a day are consumed of this coal in the town of
Campbeltoti. The mine was wrought, since its commencement,
by a Company ; but within the last year has been let at a rent to a
single tacksman.
Fishing.- All the white fish formerly taken on the coast were, tin-
til these few years, caught by what are called hand-lines, that is
single lines lowered into the sea by the band and pulled into the boat
when the fish is hooked ; and, were It not for the prolific quality of
the fishing ground, this never conld have remunerated the hardy
fisherman. But a very superior method has lately been adopted ;
two families from Morayshire, having lately come to reside in
Campbelton, introduced the long-line which has proved so very
successful. This is a line floated by buoys on the surface of the
water, and from it are suspended from ten to fifteen hundred lines,
with a baited hook on each, and of such length as to reach
that certain depth where the fish are known to congrdgate. The
fishermen do not require to'abide by this line as they did by the
hand one. Being supplied with two sets, whenever one which has
been in the water eight or ten hours is drawn they shoot the
Other, and immediately proceed to land the fish This method
has been adopted by almost all the fishermen of Campbelton and


