
                             PETERHEAD.                      375

Parliament was applied for and obtained, for the further improve-
ment of the south, and the erection of the north harbour.  Soon
after this, 50,000 cubic yards of rock and other stuff were ex-
cavated from the bottom of the south harbour,-the jetty of the
west pier was extended 40 feet,-a quay, extending 300 feet in
length, was built upon the east side of the harbour,-an addition of
about 200 feet in length was made to the west pier, which cost
about L. 13,800, including a grant of L.3900 obtained from the
Commissioners for Highland Roads and Bridges out of the For-
feited Estates' Fund.  By these improvements the south harbour
was rendered capable of containing from 100 to 120 vessels in
complete safety.  The rock and other stuff taken from the bot-
tom of the south harbour, was deposited in the direction of a
small rocky island, called the Greenhill, so as to connect it with
the south, and form the boundary of the north harbour; and
this stuff was protected from the sea by a bulwark.  The trade
and shipping still continued to increase; and in 1815 it was found
that additional accommodation had again become necessary.  Un-
der these circumstances, the governors of the hospital and the
trustees of the harbours again applied to the Parliamentary Com-
missioners for Roads and Bridges, and made offer to find security
for one moiety of the expense of erecting the north harbour, and
building a graving dock, which had become very necessary, in
consequence of many vessels being stranded, and sustaining da-
mage during the winter season upon the coast near to Peterhead.
The Commissioners having agreed to grant one moiety, ordered
a survey and estimate to be made by the late Mr Thomas Telford,
civil-engineer.  Mr Telford accordingly gave in a report and
plans for the works.  The harbour was begun to be built in 1818;
but, owing to the exposed situation of the breakwater or great pier,
and its having to sustain the great force of the sea from the east
and north, when in an unfinished state, and in consequence un-
protected, it was totally destroyed by a tremendous storm which
occurred in October 1819.  Upon being applied to, the Com-
missioners agreed to bear one-half of the expense of rebuilding
the pier, which was immediately set about ; and the north har-
bour, according to Mr Telford's plan, was finished in September
1822, at an expense of L. 25,194, 2s. 3 1/2d.  This harbour, being
unprotected on the north side, the trustees soon after commenced
to build a pier in that direction, which is now to be completed,


