
476			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

stones, under which it is reported one of the Kings of the Picts is
buried."
	Ecclesiastical History.--The parish church is at present in a
ruinous state; but is to be rebuilt next spring. It was erected about
the beginning of the eighteenth century. Nearly one-half of it
was rebuilt in the year 1750, when a considerable portion of the
freestone was taken from the ancient castle on the top of the Doon.
According to Chalmers and the Rev. Peter Rae, the church of
Tynron belonged of old to the abbot and monks of Holywood, who
enjoyed the rectorial tithes and revenues, and the cure was served
by a vicar. At the Reformation, the rectorial tithes of the church
were let for the payment of only L. 30 a-year. To the parish church
of Tynron, there belonged lands of considerable extent, which, at
the Reformation, passed into lay hands; after the Reformation, the
church, with its tithes, was vested in the King by the general an-
nexation act. They were after wards granted in l681 to John Mur-
ray of Lochmaben, who was created Earl of Annandale in 1625, and
died in 1640. They were inherited by his son James, the second
Earl of Annandale. The advowson of this church was afterwards
acquired by William Duke of Queensberry, who died 1695. On
the death of William the last Duke, in the year 1810, the patronage
went to the Duke of Buccleuch and Queensberry, to whom it now
belongs. In Mr Rae's manuscript account of the Presbytery of Pen-
pont, I observe a Robertus Welsh, Canonicus et Vicarius de Tynron.
"He was succeeded, (observes Mr Rae,) in that vicarage by Mr
Taylor; and the Reformation, or establishment of the Reformed
Protestant religion in the Church of Scotland having taken place
anno 1560, Mr Taylor renounced the Popish religion, and complied
with the Reformation, wherefore he continued in the ministry of
Tynron, and conformed to the act of Parliament made in the like
cases. He enjoyed the kirk-lands during his life. Upon his conform-
ing to the Protestant religion, he married and had children, and
some of his posterity, as I am informed, are still living in that parish."

<TABLE=Population>
			III.--POPULATION.
		Population in 1801,                           563
                                1811,                           574
                                1821,                           513
                                1831,                           493
	From 1811 to 1821, the decrease may be accounted for from a
considearble portion of the land having been thrown out of cultiva-
tion in consequence of the reduced price of produce. From l821
to the last census in 1831, it may be amounted for from the dif-


