
60                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

which, along with sand and sea-weed, afford every facility in the
way of manure. The common of Hilliclay being now divided
and enclosed by the respective proprietors, and fast yielding to
cultivation, very little of the parish can be considered as unfit for
husbandry, and what is not already under cultivation, affords ex-
cellent pasture for young cattle and sheep,-of the latter of which
there is a large increase of late years, and that of the best de-
scription.
   Minerals, &c.-Limestone and freestone, slates and flags abound
in the parish.
   In the raising of stone for pavement much has been done for
some years back. The finest quality of this is found on the pro-
perty of Mr Traill of Ratter, the stratification being so very regu-
lar and plane, that it answers admirably for streets, without any
surface dressing. The layers are from three-quarters of an inch
to five inches thick and upwards in the quarry; the colour of the
stone from a smoke-gray to blue. This stone is very hard, and
exceedingly strong and durable. Some of the oldest houses in
Caithness are roofed with it, and it has been employed with
advantage for granary floors, being laid on joists at the ordinary
distance, in the upper as well as low flats of buildings. The
inhabitants of London, Newcastle, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and
other towns are now reaping the benefit of pavement exported
from this parish. At Castlehill, machinery is employed in
sawing the edges and polishing the surface of the stone, which
is now used in this prepared form for lobby floors, tables, hearth-
stones, and mantel-pieces, and other purposes within doors. Up-
wards of 100 labourers are constantly employed, and numerous
cargoes of this useful commodity are exported every season; the
proprietor having erected a neat qnd commodious harbour for
his own use, has now the pleasure and advantage of seeing his
own and other vessels coming in and going out in safety in the
immediate neighbourhood of his mansion-house,-the tonnage re-
quired being from 3000 to 4000, and the annual shipment of pave-
went alone being from 300,000 to 400,000 square feet.
   On the estates of Olrig and Murkle, there are also quarries of
slate and flag of good quality.
   The line of sea coust belonging to this parish is not more than
two miles from east to west. At the extremities of this line are
the bays of Castlehill and Murkle, both abounding with fish of
every kind peculiar to the coast, sought after (with the exception


