
     of Channelkirk.

those belonging to the Marquis of Tweeddale, which are
pretty extensive.  This Nobleman is by much the great-
est proprietor in the parish; his property being equal to
one fourth of the whole.  The number of ploughs in the
parish is about 50.  They are all of the English construc-
tion, or what are known by the name of Small's ploughs*.

   Number of Black Cattle, Sheep, etc.-The number of
young cattle annually reared, I have not been able to as-
certain, but I am well informed, that not fewer than 100
bullocks and cows are yearly fed on turnip for the butcher.
Of the black-faced sheep, which pasture on heath, there
may be from 6000 to 7000.  The number of black cattle
is from 400 to 500.

<FOOTNOTE>

*With respect to the agriculture of the parish, it may be in general
observed, that the quantity of grain produced, in good years, is consider-
ably more than sufficient to support the inhabitants; but in cold and wet
seasons, our oats and bailey do not properly, and are often very ill
got.  In harvests 1782 and 1783, the situation of the farmers, and in-
habitants in general, was truly deplorable.  It was the end of December
before the harvest was finished, after the greatest part of the crop had
been destroyed by frost and snow.  Without a supply from other quar-
ters a real samine would have taken place; our farmers were obliged to
buy the whole of their seed-corn for crop 1783, from the east parts of
the county, and from the Lothians.  Some Dutch oats were also brought
from, Leith at an exorbitant price.  The red oats, so called, I presume,
from their colour, prevail very much in the parish at present.  They are
found to suit the soil and climate, better than any early species that has
hitherto been tried.  They ripen as soon as the Dutch and Polish; are
more luxuriant on the ground; and not so apt to fall by the wind.  The
principal crops in this parish are oats and rough bear; prase grow very
readily on our light soil, but from the coldness of the climate, very sel-
dom attain complete maturity; oats are sold as early in March as the
frost will allow; bear from the middle of April to the end of May.  The
time of harvest is very uncertain; it is very seldom general, however, be-
fore the end of September.
   

