
				TAIN				293

	boll; Hon. Mrs Hay Mackenzie of Cromarty, patroness of the pa-
	rish; the Duchess Countess of Sutherland, Sir Charles, Ross of Bal-
	nagown; George Mackenzie Ross of Aldie; Hugh Ross of Knock-
	breck; Fitzgerald Murray of Pitculzean; Daniel Ross of Hartfield;
	lich; and George Ross of Moorfarm. Only the two last named
	are permanently resident.
	  Languages.-The whole town and parish is at present nearly
	equally divided between the English and Gaelic languages. The
	latter is generally spoken in the country and in Inver village; but
	the former, by the higher ranks in the country, and by almost every
	one in the town. Gaelic has of late rapidly lost ground; in fact, it is
	rare to find a native of the town, under twenty or thirty years of age,
	able to speak it with ease; and it is never heard among the children
	on the streets. In the country, the change has not been quite so
	marked. The number of individuals able to speak Gaelic only,
	are, in town, 66; in country, 96; English only, in town, 100; in
	country, 36. If, however, we reckon those who are unable to
	speak or understand both languages with ease, each of these num-
	bers must be greatly increased.
	  Character, &c.-There is nothing very remarkable in the habits
	or character of the people. Their ancient spirit of loyalty has
	not quite died away, and a tendency to insubordination in any shape
	is seldom manifested; while the general tone of feeling, we may
	add, is decidedly towards religion; and though much of this is,
	doubtless, a habit of thinking transmitted from the generations
	gone by, yet much, it is believed, may be ascribed to the genuine
	workings of a living power, actuating individual minds, and through
	them leavening society in the mass.

				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	  Agriculture.-The number of acres in the parish, cultivated or
	uncultivated, has never been ascertained. A great proportion of
	the lands once belonged to the burgh; most of them have been
	from time to time feued out at a rent of 6d. per acre; and thus,
	within the last thirty or forty years, much additional ground has
	been brought, into actual cultivation, and still more planted with,
	thriving fir woods.  All these lands werd before considered by the in-
	habitants of the burgh as a common right, so that considerable re-
	sistance was made to the first attempts of the magiastrates thus to
	deprive them of their ancient privelege of pasture. For a consider-
	able time bank, almost all the available burgh land has in this way


