
52                       ELGINSHIRE.

Kingstons, many human skeletons were founds confirming the statements
of our provincial historians, that several skirmishes had been
fought at different times in that quarter.
   Historical Notices.-The village of Kingston has, with the exception
of three or four houses, been built within the last twenty-
five years. The first dwellings erected there were mere temporary
wooden sheds, built by Dodsworth and Osbourne, for the accommodation
of their workmen, and by them named Kingston
Port, after Kingston-upon-Hull; and not, as Sir Thomas Dick
Lauder states in his excellent history of the Morayshire Floods, in
honour of Charles II. who landed here on his return from Holland.
These gentlemen purchased the forest of Glenmore from the Duke
of Gordon in 1784; and for many years carried on a most extensive
trade here in timber and ship-building. I am informed that,
subsequent to 1793, they built twenty-four vessels, two of which
were upwards of 750 tons register burthen; two of nearly 600 tons;
the rest from 50 to 500 tons. Several other shipbuilders have
during that time built 126 vessels, measuring from 29 to 200 tons;
of these Mr W. Geddie built 43, and be still carries on the business
successfully. All these vessels were built of Highland natural
grown for timber, and have been found to last as long as many vessels
built of oak; and are insured at Lloyds and by the other Sea
Insurance Companies on equal terms with vessels built of oak.
The four large vessels above-mentioned were long employed by
Government in the transport service; and two of them were afterwards
engaged by the East India Companyin the India and China
trade.
   Since the flood in 1829, the harbour of Garmouth has been far
from good, nor can it be improved until the action of the sea shall
force in, and raise the gravel bank on the east side of the river, so
as to form a barrier - against and yield a shelter from the sea during
stormy weather. To attempt the erection of a pier i-s out of the
question, as the channel shifts almost eveiry speat, and the nature
of the ground precludes the possibility of obtaining a secure foundation.
A large quantity of gravel is brought down the river during
everv flood, and forms into ridges at the water mouth, often
rendering access into the harbour impracticable except for vessels
of small burthen. At present the ordinary depth of water on the
bar at the lowest neap tides is only 6 feet, and at the highest
stream tides 12 feet. Since 1815, the depth of water in the bay,


