
               		   BALLANTRAE.                          423

ing or Catholic place of worship in it. Divine service is generally,
well attended. The number of communicants is from 430 to 440.
The parish was disjoined from the presbytery of Ayr, and annexed
to that of Stranraer in 1699.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The amount of the ordinary church
collections, &c. for the behoof of the poor, is within a few shillings
of L. 50 yearly. The number of poor at present on the roll is 14;
but many others receive occasional relief as circumstances seem to
require. The highest payment to a pauper is L. 6, 10s. a-year,
the lowest L. 1, 15s. There is no assessment, voluntary or other-
wise. The ordinary collections, &c. generally suffice for this very
moderate allowance. A considerable source both of annoyance and
expense to the kirk-session is the passing of paupers (chiefly Irish)
who are unable to travel. The great read from Glasgow to Port-
patrick runs for eleven miles through the parish, and hence there
are many applications to be passed southwards, but not one towards
the north. Paupers, if forwarded at all, must be forwarded twelve
miles.
	A few years age, a benevolent lady of the name of Caddall be-
queathed the sum of L. 4500, and 15 acres of land, to build and
endow a chapel and school in Glenapp in connection with the
Established Church, and also to found a bursary for a student pre-
paring for the ministry. The trustees whom she nominated have
set the school and the bursary in operation, have selected the land
for the glebe, and intend to proceed with the chapel as soon as the
funds, after the necessary building and enclosing, will afford a de-
cent competency to a clergyman. Persons of the names of But-
ters and Caddall are td be preferred. Were this chapel opened,
the parish would have church accommodation ample, even beyond
its present need. The upper end of Glenapp is four miles from
the parish church, and the lower end eight; the chapel is. intend-
ed to be near the middle of the glen.
	Education.--There are four schools in the parish, three of which
are endowed. The parish school has the maximum legal endow-
ment; and, besides, the interest of L. 400 annually, to educate
poor children, two-thirds of whom are to be nominated by the patron
of the parish, and the remainder by the kirk-session. The amount
df fees actually received by the schoolmaster is about L. 16 a year,
of the other emoluments arising from the school L. 48, of the whole
L. 64. The school in Glenapp has L. 25 of annual salary; and
the other has a small annual endowment of about L. 6. The ele-


