
                  	CAPUTH			 	     671

   Boudaries.-Its figure is very irregular, save on the south,
which is nearly a straight line for 1O miles, marked by the bourse
of the Tay, from Dunkeld to the mouth of the Isla;' which river
forms the boundary for a considerable space on the east, viz. from
where it receives the Lunan. This latter stream again separates
it on the north-east from Blairgowrie.  On the north it is bound-
ed by Lethendy and Clunie; on the west,by Dunkeld and Dow-
ally.  It contains about 16,000 square acres, or 25 square miles.  It
is about 13 miles in length from west to east, and,  varying from 2
to 7 miles in breadth.
   In the Lives of the Bishops of Dunkeld, (a MS. written by Alex
ander Mylne, * Canon of Dunkeld), it is related that Bishop Brown,
in the year 1500, divided the parish of Little Dunkeld into the
old parish of Little Dunkeld and the parish of Caputh; and "at
Caputh he built on his own charges, a quire, with painted ceiling
and glazed windows.  He gave for the support of the vicar,a vi-
carage, which bad been formerly united to his own see, four acres
of glebe-land, and the rising ground, called the Mute-hill, to build
a,church-upon."
   From the same author, it appears that the parish of Dowally was
originally a part of Caputh. "Upon information (says Mylne),
that the Irish was spoken in the Highland parts of the parish of
Caputh, the, Bishop (Brown) built and endowed a church,in ho-
nour of the blessed Mother, St Anne, among the woods of the
chtrch lands of Dowally." +

<FOOTNOTE>Alexander Mylne lived in the times of George Brown, Bishop of Dunkeld, from
1484 to 1514, and of his successor, the celebrated Gavin Douglas, to whom his work
is dedicated.  The original MS. in Latin, was presented by the late Duke of Atholl to
the Antiquarian Society of Perth, and printed in a volume of their Transactions. A
MS. translation of its possesion of a gentleman of Dunkeild, who kindly favour-
ed me with perusal of it.
       There has been, for a considerable time part, a good deal of discussion as to the
precise boundary between Caputh and Dunkeld. The small burn of Ketlochy, which
rises in Craigie-Barns, an which runs through the eastern part of Dunkeld into the
Tay, a  little above the bridge, was the ancient boundary.  But, this boundery is no
longer visible, the water being conveyed by a conduit beneth the houses on the west
side of Atholl Street, so that all of the town on the east side is in Caputh parish. The
cause of this singularity will appear from the following extract taken from the Rtatis-
tical Account of Dunkeld and Dowally, written by the Principal Baird in 1798: "The
boundaries of Dunkeld, viewed as a parish are not extensive, but they are not hitherto
distinctly ascertained. As it was the seat of the Bishop and the service of the cathe-
dral was performed either hhr chaplain, or by some of the clergy who had fixed
benefines in other quarters of the diocese, it was not necessary at that time to consti-
tute it formally a parish, to mark its limits. In fact, it does not appear that this
was ever done. It is not entered as a parish in the cess-books of the country, and
none of the old title-deeds of the proprietors described the property as lying within the
parish, but within the city of Dunkeld. What is now, therefore, the parish, includes
only was formerly within the boundaries of the city. These, in the course of the
present (eighteenth) century have been considerably altered; for the comme-
tions of 1689 the greatest part of the houses were burnt by the irritated and licentious


