
102                          FORFARSHIRE.

   In the foregoing table, are included, as unable to read or write,
those only, who, by their own confession, or that of their parents
or guardians, have never been taught even the first principles of
reading or writing. But those are not incltddd, whose inability to
read or write has been occasioned by blindness, insanity, or any
other physical defect. It may likewise be stated, that many of
those who have left school, and who profess to be able to read or
write, can do so very imperfectly. We have not, however, the
means of distinguishing such from others who have so profited by
their education as to enjoy the advantages arising from it.
	In the parish there are in all twenty-four schools; four of
which, connected with an establishment which has of late been
termed the Arbroath Academy, are under one roof.  These four
are endowed,--and may be viewed as having come in place of what
was originally the parochial school. The other schools in the
parish are unendowed. One of them is supported by an associa-
tion, termed the Arbroath Female Benevolent Society, for the in-
struction, gratuitously, of poor children. The school-house was
erected out of funds raised by subscription. An infant school was
established in 1831,--and is supported partly by subscription, and
partly by means of school fees. Besides these, there are two
schools for the instruction of young ladies in the useful and ele-
gant branches of female education. And, in addition to these,
there are ten schools, intended chiefly for beginners, taught by
elderly women in the more humble walks of life. The acadely is
under the superintendence of a rector, and three masters, to each
of whom a separate department is assigned.  The salary of the
rector is L. 34, and L. 6, 10s. in name of house rent. Including
the emoluments derived from a mortification by the late town-clerk,
Mr Colvill, for the education of five poor children, his income,
apart from fees, may be estimated at about L. 50 per annum. The
other masters have each a salary of L. 25 per annum. The fol-
lowing is a list of the branches taught at the academy, with the
fees annexed, as authorized by the magistrates and directors.

<TABLE>
                1. Classical and Mathematical Department.
Latin and Greek, with antiquities and ancient geography, per quarter,  L. 0   8  6
French,              						            	  0  10  6
French, with either Latin or Greek, or all three,                         0  13  6
Mathematics,          							              0  10  6
Navigation,           							              0  10  6
	Do. per course,  						                    1  11  6
	Do. with lunar observations, per course,                            2   2  0


