
    		   BANCHORY-TERNAN.                       345

was, as formerly intimated, the son of the youngest brother of
John Douglas, Esq. of Tilwhilly. He commenced his education
at Dunbar, but was soon removed to Oxford, where he was first
entered as a commoner, and afterwards elected an exbibitioner
on Bishop Werner's, foundation in Baliol College. Becoming a
curate in 1747, he was recommended by a friend to the Earl of,
Bath as a travelling tutor to his son; and the history of his sub-
sequent life is little else than a chronicle of the honours and pre-
ferments which were heaped upon him, chiefly through the pa-
tronage of that family. He received several livings in the church,
and became, successively, Canon of Windsor and of St Paul's,
President of Zion College, a Trustee of the British Museum,
Bishop of Carlisle, and was ultimately removed to the See of Sa-
lisbury. He was a favourite in the Royal Palace, and an esteemed
member of Dr Johnson's Club.  Nothing is perhaps more re-
markable in his long career, than his uniform good fortune. He.
died, May 1807, in the eighty-sixth year of his age. Before, his
preferment in England, he kept up intercourse with his relations
at Tilwhilly, and visited them occassonaly. His first literary
work was the Vindication of Milton from the Charges of Lauder,
1750. The Criterion of Miracles was published four years
afterwards. Besides these, he wrote two controversial treatises
in theology, four in history, eight political pamphlets, five pre-
faces, or introductions with notes, &c. to books, two sermons, and
one volume of travels, left in manuscript. His select works, con-
sisting chiefly of the " Vindication," "Criterion," and an Account
of his Continental Tour, were printed in I volume, 4to, with a life
by his son.
	Dr George Campbell, born 25th December 1719, was the son
of the Rev. Colin Campbell, one of the ministers of Aberdeen.
His father was a descendant of Campbell of Moy, who was a cadet
of the family of Argyll ; but of this parent be was deprived at
nine years of age, and had the energy of his character early stimu-
lated by difficulties into exertion and self-reliance. He studied
at Marischal College, under the celebrated Blackwell; and having
ing originally intended to follow the profession of the law, he sub-
sequently became ati apprentice to a Writer to the Signet in
Edinburgh. Before, however, the terra of his apprenticeship ex-
pired, he renounced that hntention, and devoted himself to divinity.
He began his theological studies in Edinburgh, and finished them
in Aberdeen, where he was licensed as a preacher, 11th June


