
          496                                PERTHSHIRE.

          (singeing,), and certainly it was from no want of inclination on their
          part that the "tither sing" was not given it.  But they were pre-
          vented by the superior,  who generously interposed his authority
          to protect the town,  even though its inhabitants had espoused a
          different political interest from that which he was himself support-
          ing with all his might.  We know not how the calamity was per-
          mitted to happen in his father's time, or whether any efforts were
          then made to prevent it.  The same authority, doubtless, which
          averted it in the latter case might have done so in the former; and
          the subjoined copy of an original order, which was given by the
          Duke of Perth, in the year 1713, exhibits a specimen of the man-
          ner in which that authority was usually exercised, and of the con-
          sequences which might be likely to follow disobedience at the hands
          of the Highland soldiers.  It was issued when the Duke was rais-
          ing those troops with which he joined the standard of the Earl of
          Marr, and fought at Sberrif Muir.  It is titled on the back,-
          "Order Ja. Ld Drummond to William M'Gruther,  William
          M,Nivan, and Alexr.M'Gruther, farmers in Glenartney, 1713."*
             Previous to the reign of Maleolm Catimore, in the eleventh
          century. the chief titles of distinction under the King in this coun-
          try were those of Abthane and Thane.  The Abthane of Scot-
          land was invested with a jurisdiction over the whole kingdom;
          and the Thane possessed a similar power over a district.  But,
          as Malcolm had lived a considerable time in England,  when he
          from the usurper Macbeth, he introduced the English offices
          and titles into Scotland, after his restoration to the Scottish Crown:
          and, subsequently to his time, we find the antiquated title of Ab-

          <FOOTNOTE>Thd order runs in the following terms:- " William M' Gruther in Dalclathick
          yow are hereby ordered to acquaint William M'Nivan in the same town, and Alex-
          ander M'Gruther in Dalchrown, to goe along with yow as officers, to Command the
          Company of our men that is to bnme out of your glen, and all the men are hereby
          ordered to obey your Commands on their highest perill, which you are to intimate to
          them as you will be answerable to us, and this shall be your warrant.  Given
          Drummond Castle this fifteenth day of August one thousand seven hundred and
          thirteen years."  "See that none of the men of Achinner of whatever rank be absent,
          as they will be answerable, and all the men in good order."  (Signed) DRUMMOND
          This curious document was found among the papers of the late Miss M' Guther;
          and it may be worthy of notice that he, together with his two companions, obeyed the
          instruction of their superior, and took the command of the company that was raised
          in Glanarthey; but, after the insurrection was put down and the disturbances quelled,
          they were banished to America, on account of that obedience, and sold as slaves.  From
          this captivity the two M'Gruthers, who were ransomed by their friends, returned
          home in the gruise of travelling packmen, and remained seven years in hiding with-
          are having either at kirk of market.                                                                                         th-


