
336                   STIRLINGSHIRE.

much would be done to remedy these evils, and the complaint so
frequent, and so just, of distance from any place of worship, would
in a great measure be removed.
  The manse was builtin 1809, and, though somewhat damp, is rather
a comfortable house. The glebe contains four acres of arable land,
which, along with the grass glebe, yields L. 30 of annual rent.
The stipend is nineteen chalders, one-half meal and one-half bar-
ley. There is an assistant minister, for whom provision has been
made out of the teinds, to the amount of L.50 per annum, which,
by voluntary subscription through the parish, is raised to above
L.100 a year.
  In 1788, the right of patronage was purchased by the parish,
the price was upwards of L.600. Every head of a family in full
communion with the establishment has a right to vote in the elec-
tion of a minister. The right of presentation is now lodged with
a committee of nine, consisting of three heritors, three elders,
three heads of families. The members of this committee are
chosen by the people, and hold their places for life, if they con-
tinue in full communion with the Establishment. The committee
is obliged to present, in due time, whatever candidate is recom-
mended by the majority of votes.
  There is in St Ninians a Relief meeting-house, containing up-
wards of 1300 sittings, the minister of which has L. 190 of stipend;
a manse and garden with one acre of ground. There is another
meeting-house in Ba-burn connected with the United Secession;
the minister has L. 80 of stipend.
  At all these places of worship, divine service is generally well at-
tended, and a number of the parishioners, besides, are connected with
the different congregations in Stirling. By a census taken by the
kirk-session in 1834, it appears that 4428 individuals belonged to
the Established Church, and that 4839 were connected with other
denominations. Since that time, those connected with the Esta-
blishment have considerably increased. Previous to the new erec-
tions the number of communicants in the Establishment was about
1200. Still, nearly 1000 belong to the parish church, and as there
are a goodly number at Plean, and a much larger number at Ba-burn,
it is evident that a very considerable increase, both, of hearers and
communicants, has taken place since those churches were opened.
  The new church at Ba-burn was opened in October 1838 --that
of Plean in March 1839; but at Plean, they had regular worship
on Sabbath in a large room, at the cottage, for some time before.


