
4                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the rods on the supposition, that they had already been extracted
in that direction. When forty-five fathoms had been reached
without success, the directors ordered the old pit to be opened;
and when the workmen had proceeded to the depth of eight fathoms,
they found the remains of a horse gin with an axle of oak, the iron
part of which was much worn.  They were unable to descend far-
ther without machinery to draw off the water, and the funds being
exhausted, the undertaking was relinquished.  In digging amongst
the rubbish thrown out of the old pit, a hard gray stone was found,
with a piece of well-formed coal attached to one of its sides.
   The only ore hitherto found in the parish is that of iron, which
occurs in a bed of about three feet thickness, at a short distance
from Jedburgh, near the precipice already mentioned.  It lies be-
twixt the primitive and secondary formations.  A quantity of vitri-
fied matter was lately dug up on Howdean Moor, resembling what
is found at vitrified forts.  It was comprised, however, within the
space of six feet.  The soil did not appear to have been exposed
to the action of fire. In draining bogs at Scarsburgh and Hunt-
hill, hazelnuts, together with a few remnants of black oak, were
found at the depth of ten feet. Oak-trees of great dimensions are
occasionally found in the alluvial soil at the side of the Tiviot.
   As might be expected from the extent of the parish, and the
inequality of the surface, the soil is various, consisting of clay, of
a mixture of clay and sand or gravel in various proportions, and in
the neighbourhood of Jedburgh chiefly of loam.
   Zoology.-The squirrel is found in the parish.  The horned-owl,
the fern-owl, and the kingsfisher, are frequently found on the
banks of the Jed; and in the more elevated parts of the parish,
the plover, the dotterel, and fieldfare, are common.  The starling,
which for many years had disappeared, has again returned, and be-
come common. The following are a_few of the rare insects:-
Bembidium impressum, Tetratoma fungorum, Nitidula punctatis-
sima, N. grisea, Telephorus cyaneus, Ptinus imperialis, Rhynchites
cylindricus, Sphaeriestes immaculatus, Lophyrus pini, Hipparchia
blandina, Sphinx ligustri, Chironomus elegans, and Sargus Reau-
muri. *
   Botany.-The botany of this parish has not yet been sufficient-
ly investigated.  The whole extent of it was anciently covered with
natural wood, and was known by the name of Jed Forest, which
also included Southdean and part of the neighbouring parishes.

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Stephens' Entomologx.



