                                  ARDCLACH.				37

        Husbandry.-The improvement in the mode of farming in this pa-
      rish, within the last few years, is most marked and decided.  Previous
      to 1831, very few of the tenantry followed any regular rotation of
      cropping.  The land nearest their steadiogs was kept constantly in til -
      lage, receiving the whole manure of the farms, and cropped with bar-
      ley or bear, potatoes, and a few drills of turnips, which was followed
      by grain crops, year after year, as long as they Were worth shear-
      ing.  The land farthest from the steadings was cropped with three
      or four, and sometimes more, grain crops, in close succession, and
      was then abandoned, to remain for seven years or upwards in a
      state of nature, overgrown with weeds, and totally unproductive'
      It was then "tathed" by folding cattle or sheep upon it, broken
      up, and cropped as before. In consequence, of this mode of farm-
      ing, the tenants, as way well be supposed, were reduced to a low
      ebb.  But their condition has been ameliorated, and the husbandry,
      of the parish immensely improved, by the course which has been
      pursued in the management of his property, by James C. Brodie,
      Esq. of Lethen and Coulmony who succeeded to those estates in
      1829, and became resident in the parish during the following year.
      Mr Brodie has encouraged his tenants to lay off their farms, whe-
      ther large or small, in regular shifts; and they now follow gene-
      rally a six-shift course, raising green crops and sowing grass-seeds
      in regular rotation as follows;-I. grass; 2. grass; 3. oats; 4.
      oats; 5. green crop; 6. grain, with grass-seeds.  To render this
      system successful it was necessary to supply the tenants with lime,
      and lime was given them on credit,-those of smaller holdings be-
      ing employed in carting the tbinnings of the plantations to the
      shipping port of Nairn, and carrying along with them orders for
      lime, which they brought home to their fields, instead of returning
      with empty carts.  They were further supplied, also on c6edit, with
      superior seed-corn, instead of resowing, year after year, the pro
      duce of their own land ; and, wherever a additional accommo-
      dation was required in their houses, new buildings were erected Of
      good masonry, and according to regular and approved plans. The
      result of this system has beenmost beneficial.  The husbandry of
      the parish and the condition and circumstances of thei tenant are
      vastly improved.  The old turf hovels are everywhere fast disap
      pearing; the smallest crofter now aims at building his comfortable
      and substantial cottage of stone and lime; and the larger tenants
      proceed, as suits their convenience, with the erection of their
      houses and regular square of office, their old houses being some-


