
114			STIRLINGSHIRE.

at the disposal of the kirk-session, are such as arise from the
church collections, mortcloth money, donations, and the interest
of L. 185, which has been realized from mortifications, and savings
from church collections. The collections, on an average of the
last seven years, amount to L.35, 9s. 3 3/4d. There are at present
on the roll 17, who receive, according to their circumstances,
from 7s. 6d. to L.1, 12s. 6d. per quarter, besides occasionally
coals, cordials, and extra help, when in sickness or destitution.
   There is still much of the good old Scottish feeling among the
people, of reluctance to receive parochial aid. The fact, that, at
the period when the last Statistical Account was written, there
were 38 poor on the roll and now only 17, is a proof that the people
are either in better circumstances, or that they are, if possible,
more unwilling to receive such help. It is no uncommon occur-
rence for the parishioners to raise by subscription, a sum of money
in aid of some individual or family who have been thrown into
destitute circumstances, by affliction or bereavement, rather than
that they should be subjected to the humiliation of becoming pa
rish paupers. An instace has just occurred. A poor, industri-
ous family had their eldest son (a promising young man, a stu-
dent,) brought home to them in fever;--and he died. The fa-
ther and mother were seized. The father died; their means were
exhausted, and there were eight young children to provide for:
and the poor, widowed, disconsolate mother, from her sick-bed, en-
treated of the minister who offered her relief, that whatever he
bestowed should not be from the parish funds. The people's sym-
pathy and prompt liberality have done for her what the parish
funds could ill afford. Such a spirit, while it may be characteriz-
ed as that of honest pride, it is to be hoped, has respect to the
promise, "Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them
alive--let thy widows trust in me." Such a spirit, there is no
doubt, will lead to industry, and will raise up friends to help, and
so will God fulfil his promise.
   Police, Prison, &c.--There is not a justice of peace, nor magis-
trate of any kind resident within the bounds of this parish neither
is there a jail or lock-up house from the most westerly verge of
the county onward to Stirling,--a distance of nearly fifty miles.
The consequence is, that crime and misdemeanour frequently go
unpunished, the arm of the law not being long enough nor strong
enough to reach so far; and parties who have been injured, pre-
ferring to suffer damage rather than be put to the trouble and ex-


