
124			   AYRSHIRE.

parochial teachers has all the legal accommodations, with a salary
of L. 30 per annum. The other teachers are supported solely by
fees. The expense of education varies from 12s. to L.1, 2s. per
annum, according to the advancement of the pupil. The whole
of the native population can read; but there are some of the Irish
settlers, and a few of the younger members of their families, who
have not been instructed in reading. In general, education is
sought after; and the Sabbath schools, of which there are several,
are well attended, and have occasioned a visible improvement in
the moral habits of the poorer classes.
  There is a small parochial library lately established; but, with
regard to this and the other branches of parochial economy, it
may be observed, that, owing to their close vicinity to Ayr, many
of the parishioners, and religious associations established in that
town, while they enjoy the benefits of the dispensary and savings
bank for Ayr, Newton, and Wallacetown.
   Friendly Socities.--Several friendly socities have excited in the
parish; but it generally happens, that when the weekly assessment
in support of their funds increases much, in consequenses of age,
infirmity, or prevailing sickness amongst the members, these insti-
tutions are broken up. In order to remedy this defect incident to
all such socities in which the weekly contribution varies, and in
times of exigency rises to an amount inconvenient for the mem-
bers, a funded female friendly society was esteblished a few years
since under the patronage of Lady Lilias Oswald, to which the
ordinary members pay a regular puarterly assesment of 1s. 2d., and
receive an alienment of 4s. per week in sickness, besides an allowance
for marriage and funeral expenses. There are a number of ho-
norary members who contribute a higher rate, with the view of
giving effect to the institution; and as there is (chiefly owing to
the liberality of the patroness) a stock of about L. 320, it is
hoped that the funds will be able to meet the increased demand
upon them, which must be expected, as the present members be-
come aged and infirm.
  Poor.-There are about 80 regular and temporary paupers on
the roll, who receive at an average 1s, per week,--10s. being the
highest, and 1s. 6d. the lowest monthly allowance. For the last
twenty years, there has been an assessment for the support of the
poor, which is levied on the real rent land houses, one-half
payable by the proprietors, and the other half by the occupiers.


