
     of Lochcarron.

Every thing almost is reckoned a sign of rain.  If there be 
a warm or hot day, we shall soon have rain; if a crow be-
gin to chatter, she is calling for rain; if the clouds be
heavy, or if there be a mist upon the top of the hills, we
shall see rain.  In a word, a Highlander may make any
thing a sign of rain, there is no danger he shall fail in his
prognostication.

   Antiquities.-At the ferry town of Strom, are the re-
mains of an old castle.  It belonged once to the Mac-
donells of Glengary, who were porprietors of part of
Lochcarron.  There were quarrels between them and the
family of Seaforth:  The consequence was, that Seaforth,
with some difficulty, dispossessed them*.

<FOOTNOTE>

   There is one opinion, however, which many of them entertain, and
which, inded, is not peculiar to this parish alone, that a Popish priest can
cast out devils, and cure madness, and that the Presbyterian clergy hve
no such power. A person might as well advise a mod to pay attention
to a merry Andrew, as to desire many ignorant people to stay from the
priest.  The most effectual antidote against this delusion is to lay before
them some of the laughable of the Popish miracles.

   *The history of the siege of Castle Strom, as it is related in a manu-
script history of the Mackenzies, and in Prossession of several people in
Rosshire, is literally as follows: "Lord Kenneth of Kintail, in spring
"1609, gathered considerable forces, and befiged the Castle of Strom
"in Lochcarron, which at first they held out very manfully, and would
"not surrender it, though several terms were offered, which Lord Kin-
"tail seeing, and not willing to lose his men, resolved to raise the siege
"for the time.  But the defendants were so unfortunate, that all their
"powder was destroyed by the women they had within, having sent
"them out under silence of night to draw water out of a well that
"lay just at the entry.  The silly women were in such fear, and the
"room they brought the water to so dark, for want of light; still as
"they came in, they toomed the water in fatt, missing the right one
"wherein the few barrels of powder they had lay; but on the morrow,
"when the men came for more powder, having spent what they had the
 

