
                           LUSS.                             161

science. His labours in perfecting the Gaelic translation of the
Scriptures, will embalm his memory in the hearts of the natives of
the Highlands.
   Parochial Registers.--The registers of baptisms and marriages
from 1698 till 1735 have been very irregularly kept. From the last
date till 1780, more care has been manifested. Since then, up to
the present, they have been well kept, but are not voluminous.
   Antiquities.--About a mile and a quarter south from Luss, there
was a cairn, called Carn-ma-cheasog, from St Mackessog, a native
of Lennox, who was a bishop and confessor, and suffered martyrdom
at this place about A. D. 520.  The church of Luss, in which he
was buried, was dedicated to him, and he was long regarded as the
tutelar saint of this parish. He was commemorated on the lOth of
March. In the church-yard,there were discovered some stone coffins
of considerable antiquity, but without any inscription. Each of them
consisted of an entire stone, with a cavity cut out of it fit for hold-
ing a dead body at its full length, and a stone lid for covering it. *
   At Dumfin, on the northern bank of the Froon, around the summit
of a round hill, are traces of an ancient fortification. Tradition
points to it as a residence and stronghold of Fingal, King of Mor-
ven.  The name Dumfin is compounded of Dun and Fin, and
denotes the fort of -Fin or Fingal. The traditions of this coun-
try represent Fian M'Coul or Fingal and his associates as giants,
of whom the most extravagant feats are related. For example, an
enormously large stone or mass of rock is pointed out, which it is
said, Fingal, standing on the top of Benbui, took upon his little
finger to throw to the top of Shantran Hill, a distance of several
miles, but that not being rightly balanced, it fell into a small brook
mid-way between the two.
   Modern Buildings.--Ross-dhu House is the only mansion: de-
serving notice. It was built by the great-grandfather of the pre-
sent proprietor, about sixty-five years ago. It is beautifully situated
on the promontory of that name.  A part of the walls of the more
ancient edifice, as well as a roofless chapel still used as the family
cemetery of the Lairds of Luss, situated hard by, add variety to the
appearance of this beautiful spot.
  At Little Dumfin, there is a mill for grinding corn; another in
which wood is sawed and charcoal ground ; a third for cutting log-
wood for the dye-works on the river Leven. The stream of the

<FOOTNOTE>There is a statue of St MacKessog, which formerly stood at Bandry, but is now
in the family burying-ground of Sir James Colquboun, at Ross-dhu.

   DUMBARTON.                                    L


