
224				BANFFSHIRE.

Hard-wood trees are vigorous and healthy in the vicinity of the
Castle of Boyn, where, though so much under the influence of
the sea air, they prove the perfect congeniality of our climate to
the more valuable kinds of native wood, when enjoying, the com-
bined advantages of shelter and fertile soil. The orchard of the
castle yields abundant crops of the black and red wild cherry.

				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
  History.-There is a manuscript history of the town and parish
of Banff in the hands of Patrick Rose, Esq. Sheriff-clerk, drawn
up by his late father, which contains some notices of the ancient
land-owners of this district.  The same gentleman possesses the
decreet of disjunction of Banff from this parish, of which it for-
merly was a part, dated 17tb June 1635. Plans of nearly the
whole lands of the parish are in the hands of the noble proprietor.
  By tradition this parish is held to have been the scene of an en-
gagement with the Danes, at a point near the old church. Ac-
cordingly, a trench, filled with bones of a large size, is known to
exist on the north side of the road, about thirty yards from the
churchyard. The field to the north of the road is at the present
day known by the name of the " Arrdanes," and another on the ris-
ing ground to the east is called the " Swurd -danes;" names believ-
ed to carry in them the remembrance of the position of two several
divisions of the invading Northmen, armed with arrows and with
swords. Was this the battle in which Indulf, the Scottish King,
was slain, A. D. 968? It took placen " in littore Boina."  Yet
it may be fairly doubted whether Cullen, also within the district of
Boyne, has not a preferable claim to the honour of having been
the locality of that battle. More probably this was one of the
engagements under Malcolm II. contemporaneous with those at
Gamrie and Cruden. The connexion of the patron. saint of the
parish with that king, and the known taste of the latter for build-
iag churches, in acknowlidgement of his victories, and restoring
those wasted in his wars, favours the supposition, that the church
of theis parish, dedicated to St Brandon,\f* had owed its existence
of restoration to his liberalitv in connexion with such an event as
is supposed in its neighbourhood.\f+

<FOOTNOTE>Brandon was a monk of the order of St Benedict, who died about A.D. 1000.
His festival was held on 16th May.Brandon fair, now held in Banff, formerly, it is
understood in "Braunon How", near the old church, takes place on 26th May, N.S.
He had been held in great estimation and personal friendship by Malcolm II. pre-
viously to Malcolm's victorious carrer against the Danes as King of Scotland, which
dignity be only obtained in 1003, after the date of Brandon's death.
          The events referred to in the text seem to warrant us in asserting, what is not
generally known, that Scotland, at least, has been saved from slavery, not once only,
by a "battle of the Boyne."


