
     Statistical Account

at the time of the celebration of the sacrament of the Lord's
Supper.  It amounts, at present, to about 25 L. Sterling;
which, with money for the pall, fines from delinquents, and
the interest of 120 L. Sterling at 4 1/2 per cent. distributed quar-
terly and occasionally, is adequate to their necessities, with
what little some of them can earn for themselves.  None of
the parishioners are allowed to beg, as they are all supported
in their own houses*.

   Rent.-The valued rent of the parish is 3153 L. 7 s. Scots.
The real rent about 1500 L. Sterling.  The rents are paid
partly in money and oat-meal, and a variety of customs and
services.  On some estates the tenants are bound to pay but-
ter, ducks, hens, capons, etc. to dig, dry, carry home, and build
up a certain quantity of peats, and to carry from the nearest
sea-port, coals for the proprietors use.  They are also bound

<FOOTNOTE>

*By the famine in 1782 and 1783, the inferior ranks were reduced to the
greatest extremity of want, and many would have perished without extraordi-
nary assistance, which was cheerfully afforded.  Happy for this country, provi-
dence brought about a peace; so that the pease which were laid up for the
navy, were sold off, which was the saving of the North of Scotland.  By large
purchases of these and English barley, and by a noble and seasonable supply of
these articles, gratuitously sent from London, by the humane and benevolent
Messrs.  Ph-n and E-is, the lives of the parishioners were preserved.  The
kirk-session's funds were reduced by the exertions made, from 180 L. to 120 L.
Sterling.  It is worthy of observation, that notwithstanding the scarcity, and
that three-fourths of the people lived for several months almost wholly on pease-
meal, to which they had not been accustomed, yet there never was in the me-
mory of the oldest man living, better health enjoyed by the parishioners.  The
physician's aid was seldom wanted.

Wages.-A day-labourer has 8 d. a-day; a wright 8 d.; a tailor 6 d., all ex-
clusive of victuals; men servants, for farming, from 7 L. to 8 L. a-year; women
servants 3 L.; men hired for harvest 2 L., and women 20 s. All these are nearly
double of what they were 30 years ago.


