
                           DUNNET.                            45

to employ and give subsistence to more people than it contains at
present.
   The principal tenants have, in general, leases of from fourteen to
twenty-one years. The smaller are at will, but are seldom re-
moved so long as they pay their rents, or conduct themselves with
propriety, unless to make way for some other arrangement; and
in that case they are generally provided with a possession else-
where.
   Quarries.-Dunnet-Head affords Excellent freestone for all
building purposes, besides mill-stones, rollers, gate-posts, &c.
The demand is limited, and the rent about L. 10 yearly. The
other parts of the parish are well supplied with quarries for build-
ing, making roads, fences, and drains ; and in one case there is a
tolerable quarry for pavement, which is at present working on Mr
Traill's estate of Inkstack, which pavement is sawn in the edges,
and wrought up to be fit for exportation to London, at a conside-
rable expense affording profitable employment to a number of
people.
   Fisheries.-The salmon are kitted in the usual way, and sent
to London. The cod and ling are sometimes sold as mud-fish in
winter; in spring and summer they are dried.

   Gross Amount of Raw Produce.-

10,000 quarters oats and bear, at L. 1,                          L.10,000,
Hay, turnips, and potatoes,	                                4,000
Pasture of all kinds,                                               1,500
Fisheries, exclusive of herrings taken at Thurso and Wick,            400
Quarries,                                                             200
                                                                 _________
                                                                 L.16,100
   Manufactures.-Formerly, a quantity of kelp was burned along
the shore. It has been discontinued for some years, not paying
the expense of manufacture. A number of females are ermployed
in winter making herring nets, and working straw plait; but neither
affords above 4d. per day. The growing of flax and making of
linen has also been discontinued in a great measure; and from
there being no other employment, except a little woollen cloth for
home wear, females are not well employed in this winter season.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns, &c.-Thurso and Wick are the market-towns.
There is nothing that can be called a village in the parish. Thurs-
so, is nine miles from Dunnet church. A sub-office to Thurso
was established in 1839.  There is no post-office at present.
It is hoped this grievance will, soon be remedied.  There


