
350                           FIFESHIRE.

ment Bounty. The glebe now exceeds the measurement given by
my predecessor, I acre. 8 roods, and 29 falls. This is owing to
art excambion, in which the minister got quantity for quality. The
grebe is now much more convenient for the minister than former-
ly. He draws a rent for the grass in the church-yard.
To return to the church itself, after this view of the temporari-
ties of the benefice, it is said, I believe on good traditional autho-
rity, to have been built about the fortieth year of David". reign,
(1369.) His father Robert 1. had died 1329. Tradition says,
that David and his Queen, narrowly escaping shipwreck on the
stormy frith," had found a landing on the shore, hard by St
Monan's, and that, as an expression of gratitude for their delive-
rance, they had caused to be erected a chapel to St Monan, the tute-
lary saint of the place. By David's charter, dated Edinburgh, he
grants to this chapel the lands of Easter Birney in Fife, and some
lands in the sheriffdom of Edinburgh. James Ill. gave it to the
Black-friars. It had afterwards a convent at Cupar annexed to it,
and both it and the convent were annexed by James V. to a con-
vent at St Andrews.
The condition which this well known fabric exhibited ten years
Vo had been its condition for ages.
Situated at the west end of St Monan's, and separated from it
by a small brook, and within fifty yards of what is shown as St
Monan's Cell, it exhibited a beautiful specimen of Gothic archi-
tecture, in the form of a cross, with a steeple of hewn stone
in the centre, square so far, and terminating in a spire of eight sides.
There remained no vestige of building from the steeple westward;
but to the north and the south of it, were to be seen the unroofed
remains of a transept, or wings, at right angles to the body of the
fabric- The main part of the building, extending eastward from the
spire, with vaulted roof, as well described by my predecessor, and in
Sibbald, was used, as above -mentioned, as the parish church. How-
ever interestii)g'to the'antipuarian, it was most uncomfortable
as a place of worship; danip, cold, its walls covered with green
mould, and presenting altogether an aspect of chilling desolation.
In 1772, the late incumbent, in respect of its uncomfortable and
ruinous condition, raised a process for repairs before the Presby-
tery, and obtained a decreet against the beritors for repairs, ex-
tensive and substantial.
17% heritors conceived that this was not an expense with which
they; ought to be btnAe6,6d,' fomsrfiuch as the feuari of St Mo-
4

