
     The Statistical Account

which they pay L. 16, is computed to be worth L. 100 year-
ly.  Instead of heath and stones, we now see good crops of
barley, oats, turnip, potatoes, kail, etc.  Where formerly a few
beasts of prey or birds lodged, many human creatures may
be supported.  The hill is now planted, and has two pleasant
walks; and the firs begin already to repay part of the trou-
ble and expence laid out.  The whole planting on the estate,
all done by the present heritor, is not below 400 acres.  Mr.
Brebner has not altogether confined his attention to the farm
in his own hands, but extended it over several parts of his
estate.  Having plenty of excellent stones, he has built at his
own expence some good farm houses to his tenants; and en-
couraged them to inclose, clean their grounds, and lay down
green crops.  The good effects of this laudable conduct begin
already to appear.  The rents, which have encreased here as
in other places, are punctually paid; and the tenants, who
only can improve the country in an extensive manner, are ex-
erting themselves in seconding the wishes and views of their
good master.  One of them, Robert Meston, has this year
gained the farmer's prize.  These prizes are premiums offered
by gentlemen in the neighbourhood, (who have associated
themselves in a club to encourage agriculture,) for the best
acre of rye grass and red clover after turnip.  I cannot help
doing justice to this gentleman by adding, that having plen-
ty of moss grounds, he has gotten about 20 new crofters to
settle near them.  These are improving pieces of barren ground
around their habitations; and are frequently employed by
him on his own farm.  As much yet remains to be done on
the estate, and Mr. Brebner is an old man, it were much to
be wished that his son and successor would reside at Lairney,
to prevent the new improved lands from putting on their ori-
ginal and long continued cover; carry on the improvements;
and, as he is well able, imitate his father in doing good to


