
68			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

Kirkmichael-fell, at the other extremity, about 1100 feet. The
southern part of the parish is, in general, level; though there are
several rising grounds interspersed, which descend, by a gradual
declivity, towards the farm of Cumrue, at the southern extremity,
about 190 feet above the level of the sea.
	Climate.--The quality of the soil of this parish,--the conti-
guity of the mountains before-mentioned,--and the rivers and
burns by which it is bounded and intersected,--render the air in ge-
neral rather most. But from the rapidity of the waters, in conse-
quence of the very considerable declivity of the ground, the air is
frequently changed, and not permitted to stagnate. The inhabit-
ants are in general remarkably healthy. When a severe epidemic
disease prevailed last season to a fearful extent in Dumfries, which
is only eight miles distant, there was not a single instance of infec-
tion in the whole of this parish.
	Hydrography.--There are several veins of ironstone and ochre
in the parish, and consequently many springs of chalybeate water;
but none of a strength so remarkable as to deserve particular no-
tice. There are two lochs or lakes,the one on the summit of the first
mountain range, called Crane Loch,--one acre in extent, and very
deep; the other, called Cunirue Loch, on the farm of that name,--
four acres in extent, and fourteen feet in depth. This loch formerly
comprehended ten or twelve acres, but has been reduced by drain-
ing to its present size. There are two, or three small cascades in
Garrel Water, the largest of which is eighteen feet in height.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The general direction of the strata
of the transition rocks which compose the high ranges of this, pa-
rish, is from north-east to south-west; and their angle of north-
westerly dip with the horizon maybe stated at from 45 to 60 de-
grees. About half a mile from the manse is a rock of alum-slate,
having interspersed through it iron pyrites. The lower part of this
parish is of sandstone formation, incumbent on the cropping of the
basaltic rocks, and ranging, near their junction, almost parallel.
Its strata there dip towards the south-east, having a very consider-
able inclination. Two miles south of this, at Ross, where it is
wrought, this rock dips about one in three south-westward, the beds
stretching from south-east towards north-west. The colour is red
The several holms on the banks of the different streams appear to
have been formed by deposits washed down, in the course of ages,
from the higher grounds.


