
     Statistical Account

Sterling, partly paid in victual, partly in money.  Infield 
land, in small parcels, lets at L. 1 the boll's sowing; mea-
dow, at 7 s. or 8 s.; outfield, from 2 s. to 4 s.; but in 
large farms, the rent is not near so high.  The lands are in 
general uninclosed.  Property, in land, has not shifted 
much for some time.  Thirty years purchase, when the 
estate is low rented, is the common price.  Barley, oats, 
pease, turnips, potatoes, clover and rye grass, with small 
quantities of lint, are the productions of the parish.  There 
are very few trees.  At Knapornay, and upon the Mains 
of Udny, are some inclosures of Scotch sir, sir for use.  At
Udny, are ashes, elms, beeches, and planes, of considerable 
size.  Those few proprietors who reside in the parish, and 
12 or 13 of the farmers, have fields of sown grass and tur-
nips.  They purchase lime for thier grounds, and have a 
proper rotation of crops; but among all the others, the 
old mode of farming prevails, viz.  Each year they manure 
with the dung of their cattle one third of what is called 
infield ground, in which bear is sown; then follow two 
successive crops of oats, by which means the ground is never
cleaned of weeds.  They fold their cattle on the outfields, 
and take 3 or 4 successive crops of oats.  The great pro-
duce of the parish is oats, made into meal by the farmers;
part of it is paid in rent to the proprietor of the land, and 
the remainder sold at Aberdeen.  Much more grain is pro-
duced in the parish than is annually consumed in it.  The 
farms are universally thirled to a mill, and obliged to pay, 
some the 11th or 12th, many the 16th or 20th part of the 
produce to the tacksman of the mill, whether the corns 
are carried to the mill or not.-Formerly there were 80
ploughs in the parish.  Ten or twelve oxen were then gen-
nerally used in a plough.  Horses being seldom used, un-
less during spring, after a severe winter; the farmers some-
times then yoked their horses in a plough.  Now there are 


