
                        DUNIPACE.                     381

under L.50 per annum of real rental. Of these twenty-nine
heritors, eight are Dissenters, whose joint valuation amounts to
L.401, 6s.
   Mansion-houses.-Herbertshire Castle.-This is a very ancient
building. The date of its erection is unknown. Its situation on
the north bank of the Carron is very beautiful. The banks of the
river above the house are extremely picturesque,-sloping in
stripes of verdant meadows, tufted with trees to the water's edge,
and rising boldly into rocks fringed with brushwood, and crowned
with plantations, amid which a beautiful variety of walks conducts
to the most striking features of this romantic scene. It was
originally a royal hunting station. In the fifteenth century, it was
in the possession of that once powerful family the Sinclairs, Dukes
of Orkney. In tbe following century, it was the property of the
Earls of Linlithgow, from whom it passed into a family named
Stirling cadets of the Stirlings of Auchyle in Perthshire. An
heiress of this surname, Lady of Lord Alva, Senator of the Col-
lege of Justice, sold it about seventy years ago to a Mr Morehead,
wbose grandson sold it in 1835 to the present proprietor, William
Forbes, Esq. of Callendar, M. P. for the county of Stirling.
   Torwood Castle.-The ruin of this castle stands about a quarter
of a mile to the westward of the turnpike road from Falkirk to
Stirling, surrounded by the remains of the ancient Caledonian fo-
rest. Its history is involved in much obscurity. It was long in
possession of the Baillies, who were at the same time proprietors
of Castlecarry, in the parish of Falkirk. One of these Baillies
married a daughter of the first Lord Forrester, by whom, he be-
came father to the second Lord Forrester, from whom this estate
came by purchase into the possession of the late Thomas Dundas,
Esq. grandfather of the present proprietor, Colonel Dundas of Carron
Hall. The forest of Torwood is associated with all that is ennobling
in patriotism and personal valour. Here stood Wallace's oak, 12
feet in diameter, in the hollow of which he and his patriotic compani.
ons, it is said, used to meet and concert their plans for wresting their
country from the grasp of the ambitious Edward. This noble son of
the forest disappeared about'thirty years ago, after having weather-
ed the storms of a thousand winters. Not far from the site of
this tree, Mr Donald Cargill, in the month of September 1680,
in the presence of a numerous assembly, pronounced sentence of
excommunication against some of the most violent persecutors of


