

    158                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

       Manufactures.-There is no manufacture of any kind but that
    of kelp, in which all the population capable of manual labour is
    employed for two months in the year.
       Navigation.-There are only four small vessels belonging to
    owners on this property.  They are employed in transferring kelp
    to market.  The harbour of Scalpa is much resorted to by foreign
    shipping.
    
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       Ecclesiastical State.-The year in which the parish church
    (which is now in ruins) was built cannot be accurately ascertained.
    It is about the centre of the parish, and formerly acbommodated
    250 sitters.  The present incumbent has applied for a new church.*
    The manse was built in 1827, and the value of the glebe is about
    L.16.  The stipend has been made up by Government to L.150.
    A Government church was erected at Bernera in 1829.  The
    district assigned to the pastor comprehends all the islands in
    the Sound of Harris.  A missionary is supported by the Royal
    Bounty at Tarbart.  A church and manse were granted for his ac-
    commodation by the late proprietor, A. N. Macleod.  All the pa-
    rishioners profess to belong to the Established Church.  The an-
    nual church collections amount to L.2.
       Education.-The total number of schools in the parish are four,
    -one parochial, and three supported by the Gaelic School. So-
    ciety.  The branches taught in the parish school are, Latin, arith-
    metic, writing, and English reading.  The -parochial schoolmaster
    has only L.21 of salary, and fees are seldom exacted.  The
    school-house is in such a wretched state of repair, that parents
    have been under the necessity of withdrawing their children.  Very
    few above thirty years are able to read.  The young people read
    the Scriptures in their native tongue.
       Poor.-The church collections are so trifling, that a distribution
    of the funds rarely takes place.  They are expended in the inter-
    ment of paupers.  It would be highly desirable that the proprie-
    tors should give an annual allowance for the support of the poor
    in the parish.
       Fairs.-The annual cattle-tryst takes place in the month of
    July.
       Inns.-There are two licensed inns in 'the parish.  They are
    seldom frequented by She natives.
       Fuel.-Peat is the only fuel used by the inhabitants.

    <FOOTNOTE>A now church wax erected last season capable of accommodating 400 sitters.

