
	      COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.			359

ances in the strata, it is probable that the sea continued to flow
through the bed now occupied by the Peffer, after both sides of it
had becom dry land, when, of course, the ground to the north
would form an island. The Tyne is by far the largest stream in
county, yet its course is so short, and its waters so limited, as
hardly to deserve the name of river. It rises in Edinburghshire
and running eastward through nearly the centre of East Lothian,
a level fertile district, to which it is highly ornamental, it falls
into the sea at Tynninghame, after a course of little more than
twenty miles. Besides enlivening the landscape, it is at the same
time, found highly convenient, indeed valuable, by the number
mills it puts in motion during its course, and likewise by its effec-
tually draining all the county to the south of the Garleton ridge
already spoken of. Salton and Gifford waters, as the streams are
named, are tributaries to the Tyne, by draining into it all the
south-west section of the county. Beltonford-burn is the only
other stream in the district worthy of notice. It rises in the pa-
rish of Garvald, among the Lammermuir-hills, and, after a north-
eastern course of about eight miles, falls into the sea a little to the
west of Dunbar. It is but a trifling streamlet, of a few yards
broad even at its mouth; yet its banks are distinguished by some
of the sweetest scenery in the county, as at Beil, for instance, the
elegant mansion of Mrs H. N. Ferguson, where nature and art
united have done so much to adorn and beautify the landscape.
   Geology.-The geology of the countx presents a field of inquiry
deeply interesting to the philosopher, and of profound contempla-
tion to the partially informed, as well as to the man of science or
general learning. It can hardly be said to have as yet been studied
with reference to agriculture, notwithstanding of its intimate con-
nection with that art, and its direct influence in determining the
character of the husbandry of every nation, wherever the business
is properly understood. It is therefore particularly deserving of
notice when treating of a district that owes so much to its agri-
culture. The county exhibits in very, marked features two lead-
ing geological divisions within its boundaries: lst, The Lammer-
muirs, composed of transition strata, and chiefly those of nep-
tunian or aquatic formation. These hills stretch from east to
west along the entire southern, border of the county, and form near-
ly a fifth: part of its superficial contents. They are from 500 to up-
wards of 1700 feet in height, and are consequently unfitted for grow-


