
188                                 FIFESHIRE.

the outer part of them is generally very perfect, and is covered
with coaly matter.
  The soil in this parish is very various. In the southern parts it
consists generally of a deep strong loam, mixed with clay. The
sloping banks lying to the south are of a lighter and drier nature.
Where the coal formation commences the soil is generally wet and
stiff, and there are also a few mossy swamps covered with heath.

	             II.-CIVIL HRSTORY.
  Land-owners.-The whole lands in the parish belong to three
proprietors, who are generally resident, viz. the Right Honour-
able the Earl of Moray, who resides at Donibristle; Admiral
Sir P.,C. H. Durham, G. C. B. at Fordel House; and Sir Ro-
bert Mowbray, Knight, at Cockairney. There has lately been
built on the grounds of the Earl of Moray, a dwelling-house, which
is at present occupied by P. Anislie, Esq. who acts as his Lord-
ship's Commissioner. It has been named St Colme House, be-
ing situated nearly opposite the island of that name in the Frith
of Forth.

		      III.-POPULATION.
  In 1755, the population of the parish was stated to be 761.
Since that period it has been nearly doubled. The principal
cause of its increase is to be attributed to the extension of the
Fordel coal-works, and to several small feus, which have been
granted by the proprietor on his lands in the neighbourhood of the
colliery. The population in the southern division of the parish
has greatly diminished of late. The old village of Dalgety, along
with the parish school, and some other houses which were situated
near the old church, have all been removed, as the properties in
that neighbourhood have gradually come into the possession of the
Earl of Moray, and have been thrown into his Lordship's exten-
sive enclosures.
  The number of individuals residing in villages is as follows:

<TABLE>
	At St DaVid's, a small village on the sea cost,	       142
         Hill End, only a small part of which is in the parish,        43
         At Crossgates,                                               176
         At Fordel Square                                             141
         Rows of Collier houses,                                      798

            Population of the parish in   1801,    -       890
                                          1811,    -       816
                                          1821,    -       912
                                          1831,    -      1300

  There has been no obituary kept in the parish for the last fifty
years.


