
566                          FORFARSHIRE

Angus and Glammis stations. These lines are otherwise wrought
by horse power.
	The line of railway from Dundee to Newtyle was amongst
the earliest undertakings of the kind in the country. Its summit
level is said to be upwards of 420 feet high. The undertaking was
at least a bold one.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1767 and is in
good condition. It holds about 500 sitters, is conveniently si-
tuated. A few sittings are reserved free for the poor. There are about
100 seats for letting, disposed of at a small annual payment, ap-
propriated in behoof of the poor's fund. The manse was built in
1771. It does not appear to have been originally a well built and
finished house, and is not in good condition. Commodious and
well-built office-hotises were erected in 1833. The statutory ex-
tent of the glebe is six Scotch acres. It is of light soil; in rent
value not exceeding L.1, 10s. per acre. The stipend consists of
77 bolls, 1 peck , 4/5 lippie of barldy; 75 bolls, 1 firlot, 1 peck, 5/6 lip-
pie of meal, 1 peck 1/5 lippie oats; and L.32, 11s. 5 1/12 d. Sterling
of money.
  Education.-A new parochial school was lately built, of hand-
some structure, and sufficient accommodation for 150 scholars.
The salary of the schoolmaster is the maximum, with a free house
and garden. The fees vary from 2s. to 7s. per quarter,-the
latter charge including education in all the higher branches taught
in the school. The amount of fees actually paid in the year may
be about L.50; and from session-clerk dues and other sources,
from L.5 to L.10 may be realized. There is a school on private
adventure taught in the parish; also two or three taught by fe-
males.
	Sunday schools have, for a long time past, been in the parish.
There are at present two in connexion with the Establishment,
having an average attendance of upwards of 100 scholars; and
one in connexion with the United Secession
  Libraries.-About twenty years ago, a library, consisting chiefly
of religious books, was established ih the parish. A marked inte-
rest in it was evinced by the people, till the books, about 130 vo-
lumes, had been very generally read by them. Eighty-four vo-
lumes, selected from the London Sunday School Union's excellent
Collection have been lately procured, and added to the library.
  Savings Banks.-A branch s`vings bank of the Dundee Na-
tional Security Savings Bank, was opened, in the parish in 1839.


