
                     CARNOCK.                           705

   Antiquities.-In the charter granted to Sir George Bruce of
the barony of Carnock, mention is made of the tower of Carnock;
and tradition assigns a Roman camp to a farm in the parish which
bears the name of Camps. No vestiges of either, however, are
now to be found. Remains of Roman urns were dug up by the
plough on Carneil hill more than twent years ago, and a few
coins have been occasionally met with; but no certain informations
about them has been obtained by the writer.
  In the former Statistical Account of the parish notice is taken
of " an ancient cross," situated in the northern division of the vil-
lage. " This cross," it is said, " is of a circular form, containing
six rounds of stone steps, rising one above another, and gradually
diminishing in diameter as they ascend. In the middle grows a
venerable thorn tree, which was, even within these few years, co-
vered with leaves and blossoms in summer; but is now much de-
cayed." This venerable thorn, which was probably more than two
hundred years old, being reduced at last to a decayed trunk and a
single branch, and in constant danger of falling, was a few years
ago cut down. The cross itself has also been removed. The
road-maker being abroad, and finding the venerable " rounds of
steps" in his way, first got them remodelled, and then pulled down
altogether. And thus, though our carriage-way has been greatly
improved in consequence, we have been deprived of almost the
only relic of the olden times that we possessed. Several referen-
ces are made to the " thorne" in the session record. The fol-
lowing entry is characteristic: " Feb. 6, 1653. For asmuch as it
has been found yt many breaches of the Lord's holy Sabbath has
been occasioned by people's gathering about the thorne on the
Sunday afternoons, some by yr buying and selling of servant's
corne in the harvest, and some by other frivolous and idle dis-

<FOOTNOTE>meeting of this date, granted leave to certain persons to erect a seat for themselves in
the church, and " every one of them are to givel in 24s. to the poor. "-" 12 July 1657
The elders wer appointed once in the moneth to give ane accompt of those under yr
severall charges, and to see who are sick, under necessity scandolous in yr cariiage,
or defective in familie deuties. "-" 21 Feb. 1658, A collection was publickly inti-
mat for the relief of a poor man in Sauling, called Rot. Harrower, who had his
house brunt."-,, 22 Ntay 1659, Given to a stranger supplicant, 6s. To another
stranger supplicant, 4s. To a poor disabled souldier, 2s."-" 18 Decr. 1659, There
was a contribution intimat to be for the support and supplie of the people in Pitten-
weyme, &c. who had suffered so much skaith by the inundation of waters "-" 15
April 1660, The elders were exhorted to visit the sick more frequently, for them, and
nister declared, that the sick told him yt few or none of the elders came to them, and
they were sharply rebuked."-" 29 July 1666. There was contribution intimat for
repairing the harboree of Inverkeithing."
FIFE.                                                            yy
the which, and," every one ofltbem are to give in 24s. to the poor. 12 July 16,


