
				SOUTHDEAN.                                       103

    uninteresting country which must be traversed before entering into
    Scotland.*
	Ecclesiastical State.-The patronage of the parish is partly in-
    vested in the Crown, and partly in Lord Douglas. By a question
    raised at the death of the late incumbent, it is understood that his
    Lordship enjoys two returns in succession; the Crown one. This
    is owing to his Lordship having been patron of Southdean pre-
    vious to the annexation of a portion of Abbotsrule, which was sup-
    pressed above fifty years ago, and of which the Crown was patron.
	The stipend consists of 16 chalders of victual, half meal and
    half barley. There is a sum of L.9, 14s. 6d. allotted for the
    provision of communion elements. The grebe is 40 acres in ex-
    tent, and may be rented at L.40 per annum. The church was
    built in the year 1690; it has, since that period, undergone many
    repairs, and it is now in excellent condition.  The present manse
    was erected on the site of the old one in 1795.  A considerable
    addition has been just completed, which renders it in every way
    a most excellent and commodious dwelling. There are about 30
    families of Dissenters in the parish.
	Education.-The school-room is in a tolerable state of repair,
    The schoolmaster is accommodated with a house and garden, and
    the salary is the maximum.  His fees may amount to about L.16
    a-year.  The average number of scholars is 67, the greater pro-
    portion of whom only attend reading, writing, and the more sim-
    ple rules of arithmetic.  There is no other school in the parish; but
    those who are too distant to attend here, are conveniently enough
    situated for attending schools in other parishes.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of paupers is 25.  The
    whole rates amount to L.160,-chiefly from assessment, but partly
    from church collections.
	Inns.-There is but one alehouse in this parish, and that at
    the extremity of it, at the Carter toll-bar.
	Fuel.-Coal is the principal fuel now in use.  The nearest pit
    is fifteen miles distant.  They are 7d. a bag, four and a-half of
    which make a cart load.  The carriage to this place costs 6s. 6d.
    Peats are not so generally used as they once were, and turf is
    scarcely ever made use of now for fuel.

    <Footnotes>
	*It may be proper here to mention, as relating to this parish, that the scene of
    Reidswire, the last border battle, lies along the range of the Carter-hills, near the
    Carter Bar. These hills, by the last measurement, are computed to he 2020 feet
    above the level of the sea.  The raid of Reidswire has been too often related to re-
    quire any account of it here.  It may be sufficient to refer to the description in the
    Border Minstrelsy, Vol. iii. p. 154.
	Revised December 1834.


