
           402                        PERTHSHIRE.

           date, no other mode of procuring funds has been resorted to be-
           sides those which have been sufficiently referred to in the preced-
           ing statement.  As to the operation of the assessment, it must be
           confessed that, although it certainly has diminished the yearly
           amount of the ordinary collections by more than one-fourth, it has
           not hitherto been allowed to increase the number of the poor, nor
           otherwise, upon the whole, enlarge the expense of maintaining
           them.  It has, however, been attended with a great deal of trouble
           and vexation. An assessment on means and substance, with all
           the delicacy that can he used, is of so inquisitorial a nature, that
           it is sure, in  many instances, to give offence; and then men's
           leans and substance are so constantly varying, that the assess-
           ment listis have yearly to undergo a corresponding alteration, else
           complaints and heart-burnings, if not litigations, are the almost in-
           evitable consequences.  With all the liberal and conciliatnry pro-
           ceedings which have been employed, it cannot yet be said that the
           system in this parish has been working smoothly; and several
           among the heritors themselves are of opinion, that, in so far as con-
           cerns their shareof the assessment as a body, it would be more ex-
           pedient to abandon the principles both of the real rent and of means
           and substance, and revert entirely to the principle of the valued
           rent; while, with respect to that share which may be required from
           the tenants and other inhabitants they would either leave these
           individuals to furnish it, on any principle on which themselves
           should agree, or require them to adjust the matter in private with
           their respective landlords.  Some such plan as this would not
           on save much trouble and expense but it might even yet be the
           means of ultimately superseding a general assessment altogether,
           by stimulating and enlarging the more wholesome form of contri-
           butions by collections at church.
             Fair-There were at one time two markets held in this parish,
           the one in the month of July, and the other in October. The
           latter has long been discontinued.  The July market, though
           gendrally attended by an immense assemblage of people from the
           whole surrounding country, is almost exclusively a hiring market.
             Inns and Ale-houses.- In the village of Errol there are eleven
           houses for the sale of ale and spirits, not more than three of which
           can be called inns. In the landward part of the part of the parish there are
           three of four inns, besides two additional ale-house. With one
           exception, there-could not conviniently be fewer of these houses
           in the country districts than there are. With respect to the vil-
					4


