
                         ABERDEEN.                               61

added, it has now reached to nearly L.2900; the interest of which,
along with occasional donations, and sometimes, in cases of necessity,
a small portion of the principal, is annually expended in the purchase
of coals in summer, which are distributed during winter in por-
tions of one-fourth of a boll or one-sixteenth of a ton to each fa-
mily.  The fund is placed under the management of twenty-one
gentlemen chosen from the kirk-session, the magistrates, the ma-
nagers of the Poor's Hospital, and the contributors or their trus-
tees.  The quantities of coals distributed for the last seven years
have been as follows:-

<TABLE>
             1832,	-   175 TONS.
             1833,	-   185 1/2
             1834,	-   185 1/2
             1835,	-   184 1/2
             1836,	-   174
             1837,	-   334 (a second distribution having geen made.)
             1838,	-   175

   Ladies' Working Society.-It is little more than a year since this
society was instituted for the purpose of providing industrious fe-
males with the means of support, by supplying them with needle-
work, mostly of a plain and useful kind, and by exposing the fruits
of their industry for sale at a moderate price.  It may be regarded
as a useful assistant to the Clothing Society, and as serving, in
some degree, to lessen the demands on the funds of the Female
Society.  It is managed by a committee of ladies, land depends
for its fonds entirely on the contributions of members, and the sale
of the work done for the society by its objects.
   Clothing Society.-This society was commenced in 1817, for the
purpose of supplying articles of clothing to the industrious poor.
It is managed by a committee of ladies who superintend the mak-
ing of the clothes, and personally investigate the cases recom-
mended before any supply is given.
   The funds arise entirely from the contributions of members,
with occasional donations and legacies.  From deficiency of funds,
the society has been unable, in general, to make a distribution of
clothes oftener than once in two years, when articles, to the value
of about L.300, have been given to nearly 1000 individuals, each
article being previously stamped with the name of the society.
   Within the last year, the plan of the society has been modified
in several particulars, the chief of which is, that the clothes dis-
tributed shall not be considered as given, but as lent to the per-
sons receiving them,-a measure by which the society will be bet-
ter enabled to guard against the abuses to which they were for-


