
744               EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of 18 from Town-Council 5 Lords of Session, 28 Kirk-ses-
sions, 3 Episcopal Clergy, I Court of Exchequer, 6 Advocates,
6 Writers to the Signet, 1 University, 18 Guildry, 2 College of
Physicians, 14 Incorporated Trades, 2 Convenery, 1 Candlemakers,
1 Barbers. From this body, who were elected once a year in the
month of July, a committee of 21 Ordinary Managers was ap-
pointed to conduct the usual detail of business.
   In 1844 an act of Parliament was obtained, whereby the ma-
nagement of the city poor was consigned to the town-council of
Edinburgh, and considerable alterations have since been made
in the establishment; the lunatics have been transferred to
Morningside Asylum; and the poor children have been boarded
out with families in the country.
By this act, also, is given to assess the inhabitants for
the accumulated debt incurred by the late managers.
   Buildings for the Poor.-1. The Charity Work-house or Poor
House, capable of accommodating 450 inmates, with a chapel in
the Centre, where prayers are conducted morning and evening
and on Sabbath sermon preached twice by the house governor,
who is a licentiate of the Church of Scotland. This house is
under the management of a resident house governor, the chaplain,
and a matron.
   2. Children's Hospital, capable of containing about 220, under
a superintendent and his wife. In this department there is a regular
school, where the children are instructed in reading, grammar,
writing, arithmetic, geography, and general knowledge, according
to the improved system of teaching, under a master and assistant,
with the addition of a sewing mistress for the girls in that branch,
when of a proper age. The boys are apprenticed to different
trades, and the girls placed out at domestic service.
   Form of application and of granting relief.-All applications for
relief by the poor are made at the office of the treasurer; where
a printed form or schedule of a petition is issued to the applicant,
containing a series of questions to be answered and filled in, as
to residence, reasons for applying, &c. This is returned to the
Office certified by an householders and elders aa directed. It is then
taken charge of by an officer for the purpose, called the inspector,
who visit the parties, and makes up a separate corresponding re-
port.
   These petitions with the inspector's reports, are considered by
the committe on application, on stated days; on which the par-
ties are desired to attend, and their circumstances considered.


