
56                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

the parochial school, and has no other school within reach.
There is another district of the parish, in which some families re-
side, Braes of Langwel and Achinluachrach, at a still greater dis-
tance from any permanent school, in which the Gaelic Society's
teacher at present officiates.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-On an average of years, the num-
ber of paupers regularly receiving parochial aid may be stated at 84;
but, in addition to these, there are several who receive occasional
aid. Persons admitted on the poors' roll are generally advanced
in age; and charges for the interment of paupers form a consider-
able expense on the fund. This fund consists of a yearly donation
from the Duchess of Sutherland, regularly made, but depending
on her Grace's good will, interest of L. 200 bequeathed by a be-
nevolent individual, a native of the parish, and the church col.
lections, the yearly average amount of which is L. 16. The
average annual allowance to each pauper for some years back has
been 4s. 9d. It has been felt degrading to receive parochial re-
lief; but there are many applicants for let who are rejected.
    Inns.-There are three houses in the parish, and one on the
confines of it, licensed to retail spirits. They are found injurious
to the morals and circumstances of the working classes.
   Fuel.-Moss, cut as peats in the months of May and June,
and abounding of the best quality at no great distance from the
inhabitants, is the fuel used by all. It is procured at considerable
expense of time and labour; but the very poorest never fail to
supply themselves with a stock sufficient for the year's consump-
tion.

         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In the parochial school, writing and accounts have been so
well taught for several years back, that many Young men have set
out from the parish, and found employment, some as clerks in
mercantile towns, and some on plantation estates in the West In-
dies. In general, these are reported to be persevering and indus-
trious; and small remittances frequently made to poor relatives,
afford a pleasing proof that they are prosperous. Were the means
of acquiring education given more, fully, there is reason to con-
clude that, in every respect, an improvement in the condition of
the inhabitants must follow.
  Roads and bridges-justly claim particular mention in the im-
provements wbich have taken place here, since the time of the last


