
                       LARBERT.                          365

   There are 710 inhabited houses, and 38 building, or under
thorough repair.
   In the parish, there are six insane, and as man deaf and dumb
persons.
   Language.--The language of the working-class has been much
improved within the ]art twenty years, i. e. it has become some-
thing more like the modern written dialect of English. There is
still a coarseness of expression, which is too general. In cleanliness,
a more marked improvement has taken place. The people are
better lodged and better clothed. The luxury of the midden is
still indulged in, but it has given place, in a great many instances,
to the flower-plot. We are often delighted by seeinf the labourer
or handicraft-man amusing himself with the easy toil of tending
his flowers after his day's work. The agricultural peasantry are
unchanged in their diet, which is full and wholesome, save by the
use of pig-flesh, which has become very general, and thus a supply
of kitchen is secured at an easv rate. Among the manufactur-
ing people, wheat bread is in very general use, but among the
landward folk, the oat-cake, and occasionally scones of barley
and potatoes, have the preference. The use of butcher-meat has
greatly increased during the last ten years.
   Poaching is common, especially hare-snaring.
   The game of curling is keenly pursued by the farmers, masons,
and such others as are impeded in their work by hard frost. The
colliers play at quoits, and also at long bowls, which consists in
hurling a four or six pound shot along the high road, to the occa-
sional annoyance of the passenger.
   Before the establishment of the Carron iron-works, the parish
was thinly peopled, and the population consisted of a few country
people, who grazed some cattle and ploughed a small portion of
the land. Their food consisted chiefly of oatmeal, barley meal,
and milk, potatoes being, at that time unknown in the country.
   Seventy years ago, viz. about 1760, just before the establish-
ment of the Carron Iron-works, the surface of the parish had a

   <FOOTNOTE>Miden, me-dyng, a muck heap, moeg dyng in Danish, composed of moeg, which
signifies muck, and dyng, a heap.
   The butcher in the dialect of this part of the country is called the flesher. The
word flesh-er is from Viees honwer, Dutch, a butcher, literally a feller and cutter-up
Of flesh.
   At the old farmsteads, there used to be seen a stone mortar in which barley was
pounded. This mortar was made of a block of sandstone,--the hollow of the mor-
tar being about one foot in diameter, and one foot in depth.
   The mill for making pot barley by grinding off the husk *as introduced from Hol-
land.


