
176			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

quenting the river Annan will include nearly all those found in this
parish. The tributary streams contain only trout, pike, minnow,
and eels, and a small proportion during autumn and winter of les-
ser migratory salmon.-The sea-lamprey (Petromyzon marinus,)
vulg. Ramper-eel, ascends the river in the end of June and begin-
ning of July to spawn, and continues for a month and sometimes
longer.-The small river-lamprey vulg. Nine-eye, is found early in
spring on the edges of sandy banks, and most frequentlx at the
mouth of some small rivulet nr ditch. This species is marked doubt-
fully, as one or two of the lesser lampreys are yet confounded.
	Two species of eels inhabit the river and ditches, and are gene-
rally confounded as one. They are at once distinguished by the
form of the head and snout, which in the one is broad and flatten-
ed, and in the other narrow and sharp-pointed. Neither have yet
been characterized properly.
	The Pike is tolerably abundant, and is supplied from the lochs of
Lochmahen, which have communication with the Annan. They
are seldom taken in the river of more than ten pounds weight, but
become fine and in good condition after a short residence.
	The Roach is found in small numbers in the still parts and back-
water of the river, but always of small size. They also are derived
from the Lochwaben lochs.
	The Chub or skelly is very abundant, swimming in large shoals in
the swashes or stiller parts of the river. They grow to a consider-
able size, and spawn gregariously on the shallows in June and July.
The Common minnow, three-spined stickle-back, and loach, are
all abundant.
        Salmonidae.-This important family were forlerly, it is well
known, much more plentiful in the Annan than at present. Abnut
fifty years ago the fisheries in the parish were let, and the salmon were
so abundant as to afford considerable emolument to the tacksman,
and sport to the angler. At present, no part of the river within the
parish would pay the expense of nets. Even at the mouth, where
it enters the Solway, the extensive fisheries long established there
have fallen two-thirds in value. One cause of this diminution is
to be found in the stake-nets erected at the river's mouth, which,
by intercepting a great part of the fish, have almost annihilated
the fishing in the upper parts of the river, and consequently de-
stroyed the interest which the upper proprietors would otherwise
have in preserving them from poachers during the breeding season.
Another cause is the improper period fixed for close-time, which


