
554			AYRSHIRE.

to be lamented, however, that Kilmarnock is not likely to partici-
pate in the advantages of an immediate communication with the
Glasgow and Ayrshire railway. It was the wish of the directors of
the railway to have brought it through a place so important, but
the difficulty of finding a practicable level prevented so desirable
an object.
	The railway, which runs from Kilmarnock to Troon, is another
great advantage, to the parish. The practicability and usefulness
of such a line were long since clearly pointed out. The difference
of the respective elevations of the depots is only 80 feet. It was
finished, in 1812 at an expense of upwards of L. 50,000. It is a
double road, constructed with flat rails, resting on blocks of durable
stone. Its length is nine miles and a-half. Horse power alone is
used, for which 1 1/2d. per ton per mile is paid. The dues are 2d.
a mile per ton. We may mention that, in 1816, a locomotive en-
gine, the first of the kind started in Scotland, was tried. It was
intended to convey coal to Troon from the Duke of Portland's col-
liery, but, from its detective construction and ill adaptation to flat
rails, it only drew ten tons at the rate of five miles an hour. Since
then, no attempt has been made to introduce steam power. As it
will in a few years very possibly become a branch of the western
railway, several changes may take place in its construction, and it
is not unlikely that the only propelling power used will be steam.
By means of this railway, there is free intercourse with the harbour
of Troon. Quantities of timber, grain, slates, and lime, are brought
into the parish, and about 70,000 tons coal annually conveyed
out of it. About 200,000 tons pass along it in the course of the
year. The farmer gets lime cheaply conveyed to his farm,--the
landlord's property is increased in value by the facility of commu-
cation with the market-town, and the public have a ready means
of transport to convenient watering-places.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish of Kilmarnock is one in civil
matters; but the name embraces the High Church parish, which
lies in the town, and is disjoined quoad sacra. The Laigh or ori-
ginal parish church is situated in the heart of the town, two miles
from the western extremity of the parish, and seven from the north-
east boundary; and though a such a distance from some of the
population, it could not with propriety be placed otherwise. It
was rebuilt, in 1802, with a commodious square staircase at each
angle, conducting to the galleries,--a precaution adopted in con-
sequence of the melancholy occurrence in 1801, already noticed,
                               4


