
                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.

grounds now forming the glebe. A veil of mystery hangs over it
which will probably never be dispelled; but as it forms the parish
burial ground, as well as the site of the church, an opportunity is
afforded, every time a grave is opened on the higher parts of the
eminence, of observing the vast accumulation of stones which at
one time or other may have there been brought together by human
hands.
  Family of Porteous.-Hawkshaw was formerly, and for upwards
of 1000 years, the residence of the family of Porteous, allowed to
have been the chief of the name; and the armorial bearing of that
family has for a motto, "Let the Hawk Shaw." Near the dwelling-
house are faint vestiges of a chapel and burial-ground, where the
sculptured head of a monk was found some time ago.
  near Tala Moss, in the same neighbourhood, there is a spot
new which a detachment of sixteen horsemen from Oliver Crom-
well's camp at Biggar was surprised and barbarously murdered by
Porteous of Hawkshaw.
  It is also report that here at one time a number of predatory
barbarians from the English border were attacked and killed by
the inhabitants.
  Family of Fraser.-Oliver Castle was the paternal seat of the
Frasers. "This noble and ancient family," says Nisbet, "were
originally from France, and settled in Scotland so early as the reign
of Achains 794, coeval with Charlemagne. The posterity of this
emigrant were Thanes of the Isle of Man, and afterwards in Tweed-
dale, where they first assumed the name from the French straw-
berry Frasses. In the reign of Malcolm IV., they possessed an im-
mense tract of land in the south of Scotland, particularly in Tweed-
dale, and were dignified with the power of High Sheriff of the
couty; and in the reigns of Alexander II. and III., and during
the minority of the queen, Sir Simon Frazer, lord of Oliver Castle,
1292, with the heroism of a sound patriot, fought and defeated,
with the assistance of Cummin and 10,000 Scots, a superior num-
ber of Edward First's army, said to have been 30,000 starong, near
Roslin, 27th February 1303. But he did not long enjoy these merited
honours, for, like the renowned Sir William Wallace, he was put
in the hands of Edward, and, like him, died a martyr to his country's
wrongs. His son being sent into exile in France, left his two
sisters in possesstion of the estate, who soon after divided the lands
in marriage with Fleming of Wigton,* and Hay of Yester;+ but,

<FOOTNOTE>* Ancestor of the Earl of Wigton. + Ancestor of the Marquis of Tweeddale.






