

                           ALYTH.                               1119

       The old church, which is now unroofed, and will soon be en-
       tirely demolished, is a building of considerable, though uncertain
       antiquity, having been in a ruinous state for upwards of two hun-
       dred years before it was disused.  It was probably dedicated at
       its erection to St Molonoch, or Malachi, Bishop, as the original
       fair of the village is still called St Malogue's, apparently a cor-
       ruption of the latter name, and coincides with the day consecrated
       to that saint in the old Scottish Calendar.  St Molonoch was a
       disciple of St Brandon, and is mentioned in Keith's Catalogue of
       Bishops as having flourished or deceased, A. D. 629.  The build-
       ing had never any pretensions to architectural beauty.  Some
       pillars and arches, in the Saxon style of architecture, are appa-
       rently much more ancient than the rest of the building.   It was
       originally intended to preserve them when the church was pulled
       down; but this, it is feared, will be found to be impracticable,
       Near the pulpit is a plain stone monument, to the memory of the
       Rev.  Thomas Lundin and his wife, who died in 1636, within a
       few days of each other, and were buried in the same grave.  It
       was erected in 1748, by the Rev. J. Robertson, then minister of
       Alyth; and it hs a singular coincidence that his own death took
       place under the same circumstances which had affected him so
       much in the case of his predecessor.
         Modern Buildings.--The new church was completed in 1839,
       from a design of Mr Hamilton of Edinburgh, at a great expense.
       It is a remarkably handsome and commodious structure, in the
       Norman style of architecture, and bears ample testimony to the
       taste and skill of the distinguished architect.  There are few ru-
       ral parishes in Scotland, and not many even in towns, which en-
       joy the advantage of possessing such an appropriate and splendid
       edifice for the services of the sanctuary.   Bamff House, the seat
       of Sir James Ramsay, Bart. about three miles to the north-west
       of the village, is a respectable mansion of considerable antiquity,
       and sufficiently improved in later times to render it the elegant
       and commodious residence of a country gentleman.  The prin-
       cipal houses in the lower part of the parish are, Balhary, the seat
       of John Smyth, Esq.; and Jordanstone, George Knhght, Esq.
       The former is a large and commodious mansion, erected about
       twenty-five years aoo by the present proprietor.  The church
       and most of the houses are built of a durable red sandstone, of
       which there are sevdral quarries in the parish.
         Parochial Regigters.-The parish records are in general full
       and well kept.  The register of births and marriages commences


