
28                    PEEBLES-SHIRE.

the remains of one, may still be seen in the neighbourhood, made
of Aberdeen granite.  Whether this may indicate that the Aber-
donians of ancient times made a trade and profit of the stones on
thier moors, as at present, or whether it had been left by some re-
treating army, it is not easy to determine.  It appears that the
upper stone of these simple corn-mills, which was turned by a
wooden peg in a hole near the edge, was always forined of rough
mica-slate.
  A quarry of large and thick slate, which was dressed for pave-
ment, was once wrought at Hollylee ; but the particular sort that
was in demand, instead of rising with the acclivity of the hill, sunk
downwards, so that it became impossible to work it, unless by ac-
tual mining.  It was long, therefore, abandoned ; but of late the
present proprietor has, with admirable effect, used it again, along
with Arbroath stone, in making tessellated pavement for the lobby
and principal passages in his house.
  A quarry of clay-slate for roofing was likewise wrought for many
years below Thornylee, at the eastern boundary of the parish, but
the workings were too near the river, so that there was a want of
room for disposing of the tirring and refuse.  Both slates and
flags were moreover of interior quality for pavement.
  The mixture of gravel, not much water-worn, with ferruginous
clay, which is called till, and is found over all the country, but ne-
ver above the, most recent alluvial deposits, was hardly to have been
expected in the valley of the Tweed, where it is nearly a mile in
width.  But in driving the large beams that support the wooden
bridge lately erected below Traquair house, so much opposition
was met with from impenetrable matter, as to induce the belief
that at no greater depth than six feet there was a bed of till.
  There is a large accumulation of small rounded gravel and fine
sand at the foot of the hill, called the Curlee.  Some years ago a
sand-pit was dug in it for the purpose of building and plastering.
The sand appeared to have been deposited in layers, generally dis-
tinctly marked, and having an irregular waving appearance, as sand
often has when left by the ebbing of an eddy tide upon a beach.
Among the various strata, there was one consisting of the debris of
coal. Taken altogether it distinctly indicates the agency of a
large and deep body of water flowing with a current down the val-
ley of the Tweed, and probably meeting with another flowing down
the valley of the Leithen.   But there is no coal in the course of
either. This coal-gravel, therefore, could have been brought by


