
136			LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

Coal.-The outcropping of some of the seams of coal in this
neighbourbood must have attracted notice to this mineral at an
early period.  About the middle of the fifteenth century, Pope
Piuss II. expressed his astonishment at "black stones" being given
in alms to the poor of Scotland. Even as early as 1291, a char-
ter was granted in favour of the Abbots of Dunformline, giving
the right of digging coals in the neighbourhood of the convent.
The seams of coal in this neighbourbood are, generally speaking,
of good thickness, and excellent quality; and most of them appear
to have been wrought at a very early period, in different places,
and frequently to a great extent. When the salt-works (consist-
ing of sixteen pans, producing about 37,000 bushels annually,)
were in full operation, the average quantity of coal raised in twelve
months might be about 44,000 tons. For nearly forty years past,
however, no pit has been in operation in this parish, the coals be-
ing raised in the neighbouring parish of Carriden. But lately, ow-
ing to a serinus irruption of water, the works there were interrupted,
when an old pit was're-opened in Bo'ness, and was wrought for a
short period. At the bill, the great coal was then sold at 10s.
per ton, and the chews at 6s. per ton. The great coal was shipped
at 9s. per ton, and the cheics at 7s. per ton.
   The neighbourhood of the Snab has been proposed as the most
favourable situation for a new winning of the coal-field. The es-
tablisbinent of a colliery at this place is expected to be of consi-
derable advantage to the town.
   Ironstone was formerly wrought to a considerable extent, but is
wrought only in small quantities at present, along with the coal.
   Quarries.-From the trap reek or whinstone quarries are ob-
tained stones for building, and excellent metal for the roads.
   There are several freestone quarries in the parish, the best of
which is at Craigenbuck. The stone which it yields, is of excel-
lent quality, and is much used far hearths and ovens.
   The limestone, which is more suitable for mortar than for ma-
nure, is not wrought at present.
   Fisheries.-The inhabitants of this place turned their attention
to whale-fishing about sixty years ago. At one time eight whale-
ships behind to Bo'ness. But this branch of industry, though
attempted at different periods, has not been prosperous, and only
one vessel is employed in it at present. There are twn boiling-
houses for preparing the whale-oil; one of which has been repaired
lately, and made very complete in its arrangements.




