
226                              LANARKSHIRE.

	The company which was most respectable, was composed of all
political parties. As the festival was given in honour of the pri-
vate virtues of a most excellent man, politics were excluded. The
object in view, the respectability of the company, the talent dis-
played in the speeches, and the sumptuousness of the entertain-
ment, were never surpassed in this city. *
	A number of the inhabitants of Glasgow, "taking into their con-
sideration that Dr Cleland, who had recently retired from pub-
lic life, had discharged the arduous duties of an important office
for upwards of twenty years, with honour to himself and great be-
nefit to the community," called a public meeting, which was held
on the 7th August 1834, when it was unanimously resolved that
some mark of public approbation should be given to him. Ac-
cordingly, the magnificent sum of L. 4603, 6s. was subscribed in
a few weeks by 285 individuals of all grades of society, from his,
Grace the chief of the Scottish nobility to the industrious artisan.
The committee of subscribers are now erecting an ornamental build-
ing in Buchanan Street, which is to be handed down as an heir-
loom in the family of him on whom they have conferred the dis-
tinguished and unprecedented honour. The building is designated

"THE CLELAND TESTIMONIAL."

Maxwell, Younger of Polloc, M. P., Mr Robinson, Sheriff of the county, Mr Mon-
taith of Carstairs, Mr Finlay of Castletoward, Mr Ewing of Levenside, Mr Camp-
bell of Ballimore, Mr Dalglish, preceptor of Hutchison's Hospital, the Very Reve-
rend Principal Macfarlan, the Reverend Professor Macgill, the Reverend Professor
Chalmers, Mr Dennistoun of Dennistoun, Mr Fergus of Strathorn, Mr Stirling of
Kenmure, Mr Houldsworth of Cranstonhill, Mr Buchanan of Dowanhill, Mr Smith
of Carbeth-Guthrie, Mr Dunn of Duntocher, Mr Alston of Auchinraich, Mr Mac-
ferlan of Kirkton, Mr Kincaid of Kincaid, &c. &c.

<FOOTNOTE>The speech of the Lord Provost, in proposing the toast of the day, was distin-
guished for fine feeling and graceful delivery, and the writer cannot resist the oppor-
tunity to add the following part of it. After some introductory remarks his Lord-
ship said, "We are assembled this evening to pay a tribute to the excellence of the
character of the guest on my right, and certainly I hazard nothing when I say, that
never was tribute more rightly deserved, or more sincerely offered, for the manifes-
tation of our admiration of such genuine worth is alike due to him, and honourable
to ourselve. Johnson said of Burke, that no one could by chance take shelter with
him in a shed to shun a shower, without perceiving that he was a great man. Now
it may be said of Mr Dennistoun with truth, that no one could meet him, however
trivial the occasion, without perceiving that he was a good man. But I am well aware,
Gentleman, that you all know the estimable qualities for which our friend is so much
beloved; that you all know his warmth of heart, his social kindness, his unassuming,
but manly manner, his liberality in business, and his generosity in friendship: and I
feel most confident, that I speak not only the sentiments of every one present, but of
every one who has the good fortune to know Mr Dennistoun, when I assert, that, if
ever a man Possessed the full and undivided esteem and respect of society during a
long period of active usefulness, it was Mr Dennistounn, and if ever a man carried
with him to the great enjoyments of domestic life, the affectionate good wishes of all,
it was Mr Dennistounn; and Gentlemen, I shall only add, because it is to the honour
of humanity, that I do believe Mr. Dennistounn is without an enemy."


