
                                CRAMOND.                           591

Cochlearia officinalis		Rosa rubiginosa		*galanthus nivalis
Beta maritima			----spinosissima	      *Tulipa Slyvestris
Crambe maritima			Daphne Laureola		*Narcissus bifforus
Ligusticum Scoticum		Spircea salicifolia	*Sedum album
*Hippophae rhamnoides	   *Helloborous foetidus	Cheiranthus Cheari

   Of the Algae on the rocks between high and low water, or left
by the tide on the beach, the following may be mentioned-some
of which are also useful in the arts, in medicine, and for culinary
and domestic purposes.

Chondrus crispus*	Odonthalia dentata	Halidrys siliquosa
--------mamillosus	Ptilota plumosa		Furcellaria fastigiata
Laminaria digitata	Desmarestia aculeata	Chordaria flagelliformis
--------saccharina	Fucus vesicilosus	Ulva latissima
Rhodomenia palmata	-----serratus		-----lactuca
Delesseria sanguinea	------nodosus		Enteromorpha compressa
----------alata		------caniculatus

   The general mildness of the climate is evinced by old lofty
elms, oaks, and beeches, unscathed by storm or sea-breeze,
though close on the shore; and by the same trees still as vigorous
in growth and stately in form, reaching a considerable ascent on
Leny Hill. On the banks of the Almond are also tall luxuriant
trees of the Thuya occidenialis and Pinus strobus: the cluster
pine of the south of Europe (Pinus pinaster)+ is growing well in
Dalmeny Park and on the sea margin under Muir House. The
Italian rye-grass (Lolium Italicum) is extensively and successfully
cultivated near Wardie burn.
   Zoology.-The zoology of this district naturally though indi-
rectly points to the past, when the wild bear (Sus scrofa) of the
Caledonian forests was an object of interest to the Roman;\+ and
when, too, a portion of this part of the ancient royal chase
was granted by King Robert the Bruce in the charter of Muir
House-a name itself, like those of "King is medow and mure
of Cramond," implying a very different state of things from the
present.
In the course of last century, not a few instances are on re-

<FOOTNOTE>This species, when bleached and prepared, is sold under the name of Irish moss,
The Zoetera marina, also an object of interest in our manufactures, occurs among
the Leith rocks.
          The Pinus pinaster grows well at Raining near Selkirk, some hundred feet
higher. The Botrychium lunaria recently extirpated by Granton quarry and im-
provements, is plentiful on the green hills near Selkirk.
          The wild boar occurs in the sculptured remains, and "the tusks of boars"
were found among the Roman ruins discovered at Castlecary, in making the canal be-
tween the Clyde and the Forth.-Roy's Milit. Antiq. of Scotland, p. 200.  The "So-
lidus apor," indeed, at a Roman entertainment had become an object of ambition and
also of daily occurrence, even before the conquest of Britain.-See Plin. Nat. Hist.
Lib. viii. cap. ii.
    See MS. Charters, Vol. i. Signet Library, and Acts of Scot. Parl. A.D. 1606.


