
                         LTFF AND BENVIE.                   569

is properly termed the parish of Liff and Benvie, to which, with
that part of the quoad sacra parish of Lochee, which formerly be-
longed to Liff, the following observations have reference. *
  Extent and Boundaries.-This parish is situated at the south-
west corner of the county of Forfar, being bounded on the west,
by the parishes of Fowlis Easter and Longforgan (both in Perth-
shire); on the south, by the river Tay; on the east, by Dundee
and the united parish of Mains and Strathmartine; and on the
north, by the Dighty, a small river which divides it from the pa-
risbes of Auchterhouse and Lundie. The extent is about 6 miles
from east to west, and 4 miles from north to south. The land
rises with a gentle slope from the Tay for nearly three miles, till
it reaches an elevation of about 400 feet. The remaining part
has a northern aspect. The turnpike road from Perth to Dundee
passes ndar the south boundary for the space of one mile, and the
road from Dundee to Meigle and Cupar-Angus traverses the pa-
rish for three miles, near its eastern limit.
  Hydrography.-There is no river in the parish. Several small
streams flowing from the west, and joined, within less than a mile
of the Tay, by the rivulet running through Lochee from the east,
are then called the Burn of Invergowrie, which, after passing Bul-
lion bleachfield, and a little further down furnishing a sufficient
water-power for the flour-mills of Invergowrie, falls into the bay of
that name. +
	Near the village of Benvie is a spring strongly impregnated
with iron. It was formerly in great repute as a tonic, and was ap-
plied externally in cutaneous disorders, but is now entirely ne-
glected.
  Geology.-The geology of this parish has of late attracted con-
siderable attention, in consequence of a variety of fossil organic
remains very recently discovered in the den of Balruddery, by Mr
Webster, the proprietor; having, with one exception, been declared
by Professor Agassiz to belong to entirely new species; and also,
in consequence of very considerable difference of opinion hav-

<FOOTNOTE>The reasons or motives which led to the separation of the parish of Logie from
Dundee, with which it was at one time connected, it is impossible now to ascertain;
btt, in regard to Invergowrie and Benvie, two things are undoubted, 1st, that both
these parishes were very limited extent and population; and, 2dly, that the teinds,
in both cases, were inadequate to the suitable maintenance of a clergyman.
   It is very currently but erroneously assumed, that the Burn of Invergowrie is the
boundary between tbe counties of Perfh and Forfar. The farm of Bullion and lands
of Dargo lie on the weat of said burn, and are confessedly in the county of Fortar and
parish of Liff. The marches between the counties and parishes are, at this particu-
lar point, irregular and ill defined.


