
532                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

tioned road to Langholm near Mount Annan, and from thence to
Ecclefechan, where it joins the Carlisle and Glasgow mail-coach
road; there is a fourth public road from Annan by the bridge, and
along the west side of the river to Brydekirk village, where it crosses
the Annan by a substantial stone bridre of three arches. Upon
all these roads, toll-bars bave been erected, from the rents of which,
and public assessments, they are kept in proper repair.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church of Annan was built in
1790. It is a handsome structure, and surmounted with an ele-
gant steeple and clock. It is commodious, neatly seated, with
galleries on three sides, and well lighted, having four spacious
windows in front, and smaller ones on each end. It does not, at
present, afford sufficient accommodation for the whole congrega-
tion, containing only 1190 sittings, the population of the parish
when it was builtt consisting of only 2300, whereas the popula-
tion of the burgh alone contains more inhabitants than the whole
of the parish, at the period when the church was erected; and in
consequence of the allotment of seats to the landed proprietors,
and their tenants and retainers, as well as the ancient burgh pro-
prietors, a want of accommodation has been felt by the more recent
settlers in the burgh. There are two Dissenting meeting-houses
in the town, both of which have been recently built. One of them
belongs to the Associate Synod, and the otber to the Relief Church.
They are both very handsome buildings, commodinus, and well
attended by their respective hearers. The former of these has
been long established in the burgh, but the congregation of the
latter has only been formed within a few-years past. There is
also a preacher of the Independent persuasion, but it is understood
he has not yet got any suitable chapel fitted up.
	The manse of the present incumbent of the Established Church
is commodious and in good repair. The glebe land belonging to
the cure, properly speaking, consists of 10 acres of good land
around the manse. Besides this, the minister had formerly a right
of foggage, feal, and divot, on Annan common; but, when the
division took place, in lieu of his right, 6 1/2 acres of moor ground
were allotted to him, which at present let at the yearly rent of
L.2, 10s. From this, however, falls to be deducted an annual
feu-duty to the burgh as superior, of L.1, 13s. 6d., leaving to him
from this source 16s. 6d. yearly. The present, stipend is 19
chalders of victual, half meal and half barley. It is variable in
yearly value, being regulated by the county fiars prices of meal


