
470                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

near the chapel for the support of six poor persons, in 1396. In            1384, some French knights, who had come to Scotland in quest
of military adventures, were invited to the Castle of Dalkeith.
Here being kindly received, they joined James,* Earl of Douglas,
in an unprovoked excursion into the northern counties of England,
and returned laden with booty, and elated by the capture of nu-
merous prisoners.+  The success of this excursion gave rise, in the
following year, to a more numerous arrival of the French, who not
being able to find sufficient accommodation in Edinburgh, were
billeted in Dalkeith and other neighbouring towns, till the arrange-
ments for taking the field were completed. As the expedition was
not of local interest, any further notice of it here is unnecessary.
   Sir James Douglas, first Lord of Dalkeith, was engaged after
this in various important public transactions. Among others he was,
in 1398, appointed one of the council to assist the Duke of Al-
bany in the government of the kingdom.+  He died in the year
1420, at an advanced age, of an epidemic, which Fordun calls le
Quhew,-a sort of influenza occasioned by the great irregularity
of the temperature in the preceding part of the year, and which
seems at this time to have proved fatal to many, both of the nobles
and of the lower classes. He was buried in the Abbey of New-
botyle.
   Sir James Douglas, second Lord of Dalkeith, and eldest son of
the preceding, succeeded his father. He obtained from his father,
while yet alive in 1391, a grant of the  castle and town of Dal-
keith; and in 1401, having married Lady Elizabeth Stewart,
daughter of King Robert 111. (1390-1406), he obtained from that
Prince a grant of the barony and Castle of Morton in Dumfries-
shire, and of the lands of Mordington and Whittingham. In 1402,
be was present at the disastrous battle of Homildon, under the com-
mand of Archibald, fourth Earl of Douglas, and was taken prisoner

<FOOTNOTE>when the Charity Work-house was built. One of the Beid Houses stood directly
before the (old) manse, facing the principal street;-the other stood a little to the
east of the church, Of the Beid Houses there are no remains, as they were pulled
down by the purchasers, and new ones built on the ground where they stood. Dal-
keith, 17th February 1796." MS. Letter from the Rev. W. Scott, Minister of Dal-
keith, to General Hutton.-Hutton's Coll. Vol. v. Adv. Lib.
     The famous James who fell at Otterburn.
     Tytler's History of Scotland, Vol. iii. p. 26-35, from Froissart.
     Tyder's History of Scotland, Vol. iii. p. 89,-from the first volume of the Acts
of Parliament of Scotland, (not yet published.)
     Fordun a Goodull, Vol. ii. p. 460.
     Two wills of this distinguished Baron, dated 1390 and 1392, containing some
cuirous information, are inserted in the Bannatyne Miscellany, Vol. ii, page 105-
120. Edin., 1836.
     Regist. Magn. Sigill. p. 203, No. 23.


