
366                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

itself, yet it commands an excellent view of one of the most beau-
tiftil and magnificent landscapes in the north.. Take our stand
on almost any spot in the parish, look towards the 'north, and a
delightful scene every where meets the eye.  In the foreground.,
the Frith presents itself, with an timber of ships lying on the beach
at various points, or perhaps here and there a sloop sailing down
with spread canvas, or beatiiig up a'ainst the wind. At its ter-
miriation, it receives the waters of the Conan. Directly opposit6
the middle of the parish, lies the town of Dingwall, surrounded by
rows of trees, and finely situated on a rich carse, formed by the
abrupt contracting of the Frith to about half its breadth. As-
cending, rapidly from the edge of the water, a beautiful slope, all
the way from Braban, extends to the east as far as the eye can
reach, in the highest state of cultivation, adorned with hedges,
rows of trees, and clumps of wood-interspersed with neat farm-
houses, and the splendid mansions of gentlemen. Among thes6
latter may be enumerated, Braban Castle, Tulloch Castle,
Mountgerald House, the princely castle of Fowlis, and Novar
House. From the eastern'parts of the parish, the celebrated vale
of Strathpeffer, lying north-west, beyond Dingwall, is seen to great
advantage. On a fine summer evening, when the sun shoots his
slanting rays through the masses of mist which roll alena the
bosom of Ben Wyvis, or through the fleecy clouds that float over-
Strathpeffer and Dingwall, down on the still waters of the Frith,
especially when there happens to be a drizzling rain, the scene, as
viewed- from this side, is highly enchanting- The blaze of the
light reflected from the water; the variety of rich tints produced
by the refraction ' of the rays in their passage through the clouds;
from the softest green to the most brilliant red, conspire to form'
a picture exquisitely beautiful, and gorgeous beyond description.
In the distance, again, rises to the horizon a range of bills piled on
one another, extending in the form of a crescent for about twenty-
five miles, commencing with the hills of Urray on the west, and
terminating in the hills of Ardross on the east. In the centre of
this chain, sits in majesty Ben Wyvis, often either capped with
snow, or enveloped in mist, and erecting its lofty front, as if looking
down with contempt on every pretender to elevation around it.
     " Verum ' haec tantum alias inter caput extulit urbes,
     Quantum lenta solent inter viburna cupressi."
Hydroqraphy.-It has al ready been observed, that the north of
the parish is in part bounded -by the Cromarty Frith, which ex


