
214                 ROXBURGHSHIRE.

  Rate of Wages, &c.--Labourers earn about 1s. 9d. a day through-
out the year; artisans, 2s. or 2s. 3d. ; men-servants get about L. 10
a year; women L. 4 or L. 4, 10s. during the summer, and L. 2
in winter.  A hind is sometimes paid in the following manner: A
free house worth probably L. 2; 10 bolls oats ; 2 do. barley; 1 do.
of pease; 4 carts of coals ; 1000 yards of potatoes, a capful of lint-
seed or a bushel of barley sown,--the master preparing and ma-
nuring the ground.  Bondage work is general in the district, that
is to say, every cottage is bound to furnish the farmer with a field
worker, paid at the rate of 10d. a-day.
  Lime costs 8s. 6d. a single cart load; good stable-dung, 3s.
Bone manure may be purchased, ten miles distant, at L. 1, 1s. a
quarter.  Turnips 3d. a week per sheep.  Hay 8d. a stone of
22 lbs.
  Stock, &c.--The common breed of sheep is the Cheviot, crossed
more or less with the Leicester.  One gentleman has for some
years kept a few merinos.  The cattle are mostly of the short-horn-
ed breed.  There may be 9500 sheep in the parish, 300 cattle, and
about 80 horses.  The annual quantity of wool sold may be gues-
sed at 2000 stones of 24 lbs. each, which in price might average
last year L. 1, 6s., counting the white L. 1, 10s., and the laid wool,
L. 1, per stone.
  The duration of leases varies from nine to nineteen years; but,
of late, from the uncertainty of the times, short periods have ge-
nerally been adopted.
  Husbandry.--Considerable attention has been paid to farming,
both as regards the improvement of stock, and the melioration of
the soil.  There is no want of capital for profitable enterprise.
Five out of the nine heritors farm all or great part of their estates.
The system of husbandry is good, and calculated directly to enrich
the country.  Draining and liming have been executed with ma-
nifest advantage.  Much heath, too, has been reclaimed within
these forty years.  Perhaps more land has been brought under
the plough than will yield a profitable return, unless it be after-
wards laid down permanently in grass.
  The older farm-buildings are very indifferent; the newer ones
are good, and afford ample conveniences.
  Enclosures.--The enclosures are improving.  Feal or turf dikes
are now seldom employed.  Stone walls and hedges are generally
in use.  The former are the most effectual; but they are like-


