
1064                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

per Scotch acre.  The usual system of cropping followed in
the parish, as generally throughout the district of Marr, is the
seven years'  shift ; and to observe this rotation most of the tenants
are bound by their leases. A less exhausting course, however, is
beginning to be introduced, viz. the six years' shift, which only
differs from the former by taking one grain crop instead of two
after lea. The only grain crops to which the climate is found
congenial, are oats and big. The surplus grain is carried to mar-
ket at Aberdeen, and the carts return loaded with lime, coals, or
bone-dust. There are only three farms in the parish exceeding
100 acres arable. Most of them are only from 20 to 50 acres,
and many of them mere crofts, extending from 5 to 12 or 15
acres; and the smaller the farm, generally the higher the rent,
arising chiefly from a competition among steady farm-servants,
who have saved from their wages as much as is sufficient to stock
one of these small holdings. The usual duration of the leases
granted is nineteen years. There is improvable ground in the
parish, perhaps equal in extent, and not inferior in natural quality,
to what is already arable, but which, on a nineteen years' lease,
would scarcely repay the expense of bringing it into tillage. In
cutting down the crops, the sickle has of late been superseded by
the scythe.
         Farm-Buildings.-The farm-houses with lum and earthen-floor
have entirely disappeared, and in their stead plain and comfortable
erections have been built with chimneys, and one end at least
floored with wood; and those erected within the last few years
are slated, and generally of two stories. An improving style of
offices has also begun to be introduced. This better system
has chiefly arisen from the houses becoming more generally the
direct property of the land-owners, in place of being built or paid
for by incoming tenants. Some of the farms, too, have of late
been well enclosed with stone fences at the expense of the pro-
prietors.
	Under this head, it may be also mentioned, that traces of the
plough are visible far up the brows of the hills, and at greater
elevations than it is thought any grain would now ripen. These
alpine rigs are all straight, arising, it is presumed, from the plough *

<FOOTNOTE>The plough with a single handle is said to have been then used. The writer
has seen such a plough at work in the higher district of Caithness, and was
struck with its Resemblance to the old Roman plough as described by Virgil, Geor-
gica, lib. i. 162. Ovid, too, alludes to the single-banded plough, "stiva" (not stivis)
"innixus arator."


