
160                     ARGYLESHIRE.

   Collections for charitable or religious objects have not been
made yearly in the churches, on account of the poverty of the peo-
ple.  The amount collected for these purposes during the last
seven years will average about L.4, 10s. per annum.
   In the Argyleshire districts there is one family of Episcopalians,
besides that of the proprietor, Sir James Milles Riddell; three
or four individuals Anabaptists; and two or three Roman Catho-
lie families.  The profession of the whole remaining population
is that of the Established Church, the number about 3279, ac-
cording to last census.  In the Inverness districts there are only
two denominations, that of the Church of Scotland, and of Rome.
The former amount to 300, the latter 2058.
   Roman Catholic Chapels and Priests.-There are five Roman
Catholic chapels, and two officiating priests; under the jurisdic.
tion, it is believed, of the bishop residing in Glasgow.  The
priests, it is said, receive a small salary from Rome; but their
chief pecuniary resource is the fees charged for their administer.
ing their seven sacraments.
   Education.-In the parish church district, there are the parish
scbool at Kilchoan; an Assembly's school at Kilmorie; a Gaelic
school, kept in operation during the winter months at Achnaba, by
means of L.5 from the Synod of Argyle, and which is meant to itine-
rate among the remote hamlets; a Gaelic school, supported, for the
present, at a similar expense, during the same season by a private
individual ; total, four schools.  In the parish of Aharcle, au As-
sembly school at the church ; another at Kinlochmoidart.  In the
parish of Strontian, an Assembly school, also in the neighbour-
hood of the church.  In the district of the assistant at Ardnafu-
aran, a school of the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge.
   It appears, therefore, that there are only seven schools on a
permanent foundation in the parish.  Eight additional are required
to render educatio n accessible to all the inhabitants.  Until thi's
year, there were generally one or more schools taught in addition
to those mentioned, granted, however, only for three years at a
time by benevolent Societies.
   In the Argyleshire districts, the number betwixt six and fifteen
years who cannot read or write is 246 ; the number above fifteen in
that predicament, 843.  In the Inverness districts the number of
the former, 416; in do. the number of the latter, 892.


