
           678  			PERTHSHIRE.

           towns.  A road extends straight through the heart of this parish,
           of eleven miles in length, from Dunkeld to the Bridge of Isla.  On
           that line of road there are seven (and were lately eight) public-
           houses! Can all these be necessary ? or is it possible for servants
           driving their master's horses along this road to resist thesd seven
           temptations, if they have a sixpence in their pockets?
                                        IV.-INDUSTRY. *
              There is now very little undivided common in the parish.
              Rent of Land.-The rent of the arable land ranges from about
           L. 1 to L. 3 per imperial acre.  The average rent of land in the
           parish is probably about L. 1, 15s.  The best soil, and conse-
           quently the highest rented, lies along the north bank of the Tay.
              Husbandry.-In no part of the surrounding country has the
           style of husbandry more rapidly advanced.  All the recent im-
           provements have been eagerly adopted, and are generally practised.
           Ground bones have been largely applied ever since they were first
           introduced as a manure into Scotland ; it is of the greatest advan-
           tage, on account of the distance from the weightier manures, as it
           enables the farmer to pursue a more extensive system of green
           cropping, And conrequently of keeping and feeding more sheep
           and cattle on the farm.  This, as well as common manure, has
           been applied at Delvine as a top-dressing to the pasture grass witb
           the most beneficial effect ; bone dust, at the rate of 20 bushels
           per acre, `nd common manure at the rate of 15 tons per ditto.
              Mr James Liston, Hallhole, in this parish, some years ago, in-
           vented a very efficient and economical apparatus for dibbling bone
           manure, which be attached both to double and single turnip
           sowing machines.  A great many of these have now been made,
           and old machines altered agreeable to Liston's plan, and found to
           answer well.  These divide the bone manure most equally, at any
           rate from 7 to 20 bushels (or even upwards) per acre, and in small
           quantities at any given number of inches apart.  (See Quarterly
           Journal of Agriculture.)
              Draining.-Smith's (of Deanston Works) method of frequent
           draining and deep ploughing is yet but partially known in the dis-
           trict ; but will unquestionaby in a few years be generally and pro-
           fitably applied, especially in the higher parts of the parish, where
           the subsoil is close and retentive, and the harvest generally late
           From the results already experienced of this system in those places
           where it has been adopted, it seems the  best calculated to effect a

           <FOOTNOTE>The writer is indebted for the article Industry to Mr George Bell, Factor, Da-
           wise.



