
                      MAINS AND STRATHMARTINE.             63

the parish, in length nearly eight and a half miles. On the one,
leading from Dundee to Forfar, there are several public coaches.
There is likewise a railway from Dundee to the fertile vale of
Strathmore, undertaken in the memorable year 1825, and since
executed at an expense of nearly L. 100,000. At present it ter-
minates on its  entrance into the Strath; and, as there is no trade
in the district to which it reaches, it is not supposed that it can be
a profitable concern until branches be formed to the nearest towns.
In the meantime, it has opened up some excellent quarries, which
supply the town and neighbourhood with stones at a cheaper rate
than formerly.  There are nine bridges over the Dighty, all of
which are of small dimensions.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is conveniently situate near
the centre of the parish, and none of the inhabitants are distant
from it above three miles. It was built in the year l8OO; and contains
900 sitters. There are twenty-eight free sittings in it. When it
was built, it was thought to be too large for the parish, and some
space was left unoccupied.  Seats to accommodate 100 persons
have been lately erected by the kirk-session; and are let annually
at the rate of two shillings to each sitter. The manse was built
in 1801, is commodious, and kept in a good state of repair.
   The new glebe consists of twenty-two acres imperial, and might
let for L. 3 per acre.
   The stipend consists of 3 b. 2f. 1 p. 2 2/5 lip. wheat; 63 b. 2 f. 1 p.
barley; 106 b. 1 f. 1 p. 2 lip. meal; L. 72, Os. 2 2/12d.; and the teinds
are exhausted.  The total yearly amount of stipend, on an average
of the last seven years, converted to money, is L. 251 Sterling.
   There is only one place of worship in the parish.  Many of
the labourers at the public works have no fixed residence, and
spend the Sundays with their friends in Dundee or elsewhere.
The number of families belonging to the Established Church is
328, and of Dissenters 32. Two of these Dissenters are Irishmen,
who have married natives of the parish, and are Roman Catholics.
There are no Episcopalians at present.  The parish church has
hitherto been well attended, and the average number of communi-
cants is 720.
   There is an annual collection for the Dundee Infirmary, which
gives free admission to all the sick-poor of the parish. There is
also an annual collection for religious purposes.  The amount of
such collections is generally about, L. 10 a-year.
   Education.-There are two parochial schools; and two parochial


