
     336                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

     ing a church-spire which is much wanted in a parish where there
     is no place for suspending bells; but their liberal design was over-
     ruled by the opposition of the smaller heritors, who, for the paltry
     saving of L.420, the whole sum which the execution of Mr
     Graham's plan would have cost them, resisted an improvement
     which would have been of great and permanent advantage to the
     parish and the public.
        The church is seated to contain 1314; but in consequence of
     the polygonal shape of many of the pews, the number which it
     actually accommodates is under 1300.  The whole sittings are
     allocated to the landward beritors, with the exception of those set
     apart for the minister, sessioin, schoolmaster, and choir, and 187,
     which have been  allotted to the incorporated trades, in considera-
     tion of a contribution made by them towards seating the church.
     The inhabitants of the town, though forming five-sixths of the
     whole parishioners, have with this exception, no right to sittings
     other than the good will of heritors, who happen to have more
     church-room than is necessary for the occupants of their land. Yet
     this disadvantage is less felt than might be expected, in conse-
     quence of the liberality of the only land-owner having a surplus-
     age of church-room, the Duke of Roxburghe, who has of late years
     delegated to the kirk-session the power of assigning his surplus
     seats-about one-third of the church, to the people of the town.
        Manse.--The manse was built in 1801, and extensively repaired
     at the entry of the present incumbent in 1832.  It is a large and
     commodious house; and beautifully situate on an open space of
     ground between the town and the Tweed,--having the abbey im-
     mediately behind it, and the glebe bouiided by one of the very
     finest portions of the river, in front.
        Glebe.--The grebe is understood to contain about six acres, ex-
     clusive of the site of the manse, the manse garden, and a portion
     let as a wood-yard.  Its value, including all these pertinents, to-
     gether with an annual allowance of L.4, 15s. from the trustees
     of Kelso-Bridge, in lieu of a part cut off by the approach to the
     bridge, may be estimated at from 1.50 to L.60. There is
     no grass glebe; but the minister has a prescriptive right to the
     grass of a plot of meadow called the Knowes, which adjoins the
     church-yard, and originally formed part of the ground used as butts
     for archery. From this right be has, however, of late years de-
     rived no benefit as the Knowes have become the play-ground


