
     Statistical Account

   In a corner of the old gardens stands Stanley Hill, a co-
nical mount, chiefly artificial, raised by James, Duke of
Athol, about the year 1730.  On the north, it is co-
vered with tall trees; and on the south-west, with shrubs.
Broad walks, rising successively above each other, run round
it.  Several cannon are placed on the summit, which fire oc-
casionally a feu de joye*.
   The gardens of the inhabitants of Dunkeld lie partly on
the south side of the town, stretching from the houses to the
side of the river, which washes the bottom of the wall.
They lie partly, also, on the face of the abrupt rising
ground that overhangs the town upon the north-east.  Rent
for a small spot is paid for by each family, at the rate of
L. 4 per acre.  From its precipitous steepness, in some
places, great are and industry are necessary to labour it with
safety or profit.  A late author, in attempting to heighten
the probability of introducing horticulture with advantage,
into the bleak and high regions of the west coast of Scot-
land, refers to the gardens of the inhabitants of Dunkeld
as a cafe in point, to refuse the objection, that the exposure
and elevation are unsurmountable objections to his plan.
The objection may be groundless; but these gardens do not

<FOOTNOTE>

"tree appears, and the truffle bush is frequent on the road, to the great de-
"light and benefit of the poor camel, who devours it very greedily."   He
has mistaken the plant.  The Truffle is of the class Cryptogamia, and of the
order of Fungi.  Linnaeus' description is, "Solid, without a root, subterra-
"neous."

*One of these cannon has this inscription on it "Henrie Earle of Der-
"bye, Lord of this Isle of Man, beinge heare in Maye 1577, named me Do-
"rothe.  Henry Halsall, Receyvoure of the Peele, bought this pese, anno
"1574."  On another, there is as follows: "Henricus Octavus.-Tho-
"mas Seymour, Knyghte, was Master of the Kyng's Ordynans, when John
"and Robert Owyn, brethen, made this pese, anno Dni. 1544."


