
     Statistical Account

ton, to Alexander first Earl of Dunfermline, and Margaret
the wife of Claud Hamilton, Lord Paisley, ancestor to the
Earl of Abercorn.  The lands and Castle of Sorn were sold
by the succeeding Earl of Winton to the family of Loudon,
and after remaining in this family upwards of 150 years,
they were sold to William Tennent, Esq; of Poole, in
1782."
   There is a tradition well authenticated, that King James
V. honoured his Treasurer Sir William Hamilton with a
visit at Sorn Castle, on occasion of the marriage of his
daughter to Lord Seton.  The chair on which his Majesty
fat on that occasion was always carefully preserved at the
castle till the sale of the estate, when it was transferred to
Loudon Castle, where it is still kept as a relick of ancient
times.  It is a large chair of oak, curiously carved; and the
arms of Sir William Hamilton are on the back of it in large
figures*.
   Mr Tennent, beside repairing the cold Castle of Sorn in the
completest manner, has lately built a large addition to it,
nearly upon the same plan.  Among other apartments, it
contains a very magnificent drawing-room, with a hand-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The King's visit at Sorn Castle took place in winter; and being hear-
tily tired of his journey, through so long a track of moor, moss, and mirry
clay, where there was neither road nor bridge, he is reported to have said,
with that good humoured pleasntry which was a characteristic of so many
of his family, that, "were he to play the Deil a trick, he would send him
from Glasgow to Sorn in the middle of winter."  The trick now-a-days
would not prove a very serious one; for Satan, old as he is, might travel
very comfortably one-half of the way in a mail-coach, and the other half in
a post-chaise.  Neither would he be forced, like King James, for want of
better accommodation, to fit down, about mid-way, by the side of a well,
(hence called King's Well), and there take a cold refreshment, in a cold
day.  At that very same place he might now find a tolerable inn and a
warm dinner.


