
                    PARISH OF KINFAUNS. *

     PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

            THE REV. LACHLAN M'LEAN, MINISTER.


	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-IT does riot appear that this parish has ever been known
by any other name than that which it at present bears.  It is said
to be of Celtic origin, and is resolved, by persons acquainted with
that languafe, into ceann, signifying head, and fauns, signifying
an opening; and is thus made by them to mean the head of the
opening.  What the opening here referred to was, however, it is
not so easy to determine; and it must be confessed, that much
room is left for fanciful conjecture.   But as the western part of
this parish consists of a narrow belt of flat land, confined on both
sides by hills, and gradually expanding, or opening eastward into
the vale of the Carse of Gowrie; one of the most probable con-
jectures is, that this constituted the opening in question.  And if
this was the case, the western extremity, or upper end of this belt,
might very appropriately be called ceann fauns, or the head of the
opening; and the name being thus applied, at first, to a single spot
might, naturally enough, afterwards be extended to a wider dis-
trict, and ultimately become the name of the parish, of which that
formed a part.  As a sort of confirmation of this opinion, it may
be remarked, that though Kinfauns has been the name given to
the whole parish from time immemorial; yet, to this very day, it is
to the west end of the parish, consisting of the property of the
Right Honourable Lord Gray, that this name is applied in the
strictest sense.
    Extent and Boundaries.- The length of the parish from Barn
hill toll-bar, at the western extremity of the hill of Kinnoull, so
the east end of the wood of Glendoick, is fully five miles. The
breadth is very various, but may be estimated, on an average, at
one mile and a-half.  These dimensions give a superficial area of
seven and a-half square miles, or 4800 imperial acres, for the whole
parish.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr Robert Stewart, Parochial Schoolmaster of Kinfauns.


