
            132                          ORKNEY.

            exclusive of the weekly church collections. But there is an an-
            nual donation or bequest to the poor of the North Parish of Wes-
            tray, amounting to L. 4, 12s., by the Balfours of Trenaby. It
            has been paid to that part of the parish, for about forty years.
                Fuel.-Peat is the only fuel used in the parish by the poorer
            classes. This island was wont to supply itself and the other island
            with this most necessary domestic comfort. But since the mosses
            in this island have failed, the inhabitants have been necessitated to
            go to the Island of Eday, where peat moss abounds. There they
            are supplied at considerable expense, the ground being, per square
            fathom, 2s. 6d.

			       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
                 Besides the changes noticed in the course of this article, an im-
            portant change, since the date of the old Account, has taken place
            in the new and improved method of fishing cod, that is, by using
            small sloops of twenty-five to thirty tons burden, instead of open
            boats or yauls, which could not venture far to sea. This great
            improvement has given rise to thirty large herring-boats, belong-
            ing to the parish, averaging, in value, L. 80 each, including all ne-
            cessary outfit, viz. nets and cordage. Hence a degree of wealth
            in the parish, which formerly did not exist.
                 In order to a better system of agriculture in this parish, the
            first thing to be recommended, is the abolition of the practice of
            allowing sheep, for nearly eight months in the year, to go at large
            over the whole island.  Another essential thing would be, the di-
            vision of an immense track of common, which constitutes by far the
            largest proportion of the island of Westray. In this respect,
            Westray is behind most of the other islands in Orkney, which, in
            general, have made a division of their respective commonties, or,
            what is much the same thing, have enforced winter-herding. And
            the last requisite we shall mention, is the granting Of leases for
            such a length of time, as might encourage the expenditure of ca-
            pital on improvements.

              Revised, August 1841.


