
                  PARISH OF LARBERT.

  PRESBYTERY OF STIRLING, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

          THE REV. JOHN BONAR, MINISTER.

          I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--THE name Larbert was formerly written Lairbert
scheills, Laithbert scheills, and Lethbert scheills,--which signifies
the scheills or buts of the man named Lairbert or Laithbert.
This parish of Larbert is united quoad sacra to the parish of Duni-
pace. At present, we speak of Larbert parish proper, the form
of which is nearly elliptical,--the measures of the transverse and
conjugate axis being nearly 3 and 2 1/2 miles; while the superficial
extent is about 4 1/2 square miles, or about 2700 acres.
  Boundaries.--The river Carron is the boundary on the S.
and S.S. E. for a distance of 2 1/2 miles. The parish of Duni-
pace bounds the west and north-west, to a distance of 2 1/2 miles;
on the north, the little river, the Pow of Airth, pronounced Poo.
To a distance of 1 1/4 mile on the north-east and south-east, the
parishes of Airth and Bothkennar form the marches.
  Topographical Appearances and Soil.--The parish slopes gra-
dually from south-west to north-east. The mansion-house of
Larbert, the most elevated point of the parish, and probably
about 100 feet above the sea, is situated on an eminence which
descends abruptly to the Carron, and more gradually towards the
east for 500 yards, when the great body of the land of the parish
becomes a table slightly inclined to the east, terminating in the
lower or eastern part, in a more decided declivity on the estates
of Kinnaird and Carron Hall. From all parts of the parish,
the view is beautiful and commanding. It comprehends that

  <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Lieut.-Col. Dundas and W. A. Cadell, Esq.
            The word Poo signifies a sluggish stream. It is derived from the same root as
the English word pool, and the Latin palus. The Poo has a great part of its course
in the flat ground of the carse, and consequently is a slow running stream. Powis, two
miles north of Larbert, and Powis, two miles eat of Stirling, signify Poo House,
i. e. the house near the Poo.


