
226                                FORFARSHIRE.

	Means of Communication.--The means of communication en-
joyed by the parish are various. 1. Although it has no post-office,
yet letters, newspapers, and parcels are regularly brought to and car-
ried from the inn at Douglastown by the post, which runs daily be-
twixt Forfar and Glammis. 2. The Strathmore turnpike-road
passes, upwards of two miles, nearly through the centre of the parish;
and the turnpike-road betwixt Dundee and Forfar passes, nearly
a mile, through the eastern parts of the parish. 3. The Defiance
coach, which runs between Edinburgh and Aberdeen, travels every
lawful day on the Strathmore turnpike-road, and also the Glasgow
carrier once a-week; and on the turnpike-road betwixt Dundee
and Forfar, travel, every lawful day, the Union and Sir Henry
Parnell coaches, betwixt Edinburgh and Aberdeen, via Fife; be-
sides other public carriages betwixt Dundee and Forfar on stated
days of the week. 4. There are, in different parts of the parish,
five arched and parapeted bridges, built with stone and lime, and
one chain-bridge across the Kerbit at the Kirktown. The hand-
some stone bridge across the Kerbit at Douglastown, and consist-
ing of three arches, was erected in 1770: two of one arch each,
and two consisting of two arches each, across the Spittle-burn, were
built neatly and substantially towards the end of the last century.
These bridges are in good condition.--The fences, partly thorn-
hedges, but chiefly dry-stone dikes, are generally in good con-
dition.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Owing to the hill of Brigton and Kinnettles
rising nearly in the centre of the parish, it was judged by our fore-
fathers to be inexpedient to build the parish church in a centrical
place; but, although it stands at the south-west side of the hill, and
consequently near to the western extremity of the parish, it is not
inconvenient for any part of the population, being nearly centrical
between the northern and southern extremities of the parish, and
not exceeding two miles from the remotest corner, while that dis-
tance is considerably diminished by means of a kirk-road along the
top of the hill.
	The church was built in 1812, solely at the expense of the heri-
tors, the parishioners contributing not so much as a single carriage
towards its erection. From its having been so recently built, and
that, too, in a neat, commodious, and substantial style, it is at pre-
sent in a state of tolerably good repair.
	The church, galleried upon the principles of modern architec-
ture, affords accommodation for 420 sitters. The free sittings are,


