
                            YETHOLM.                            171

with dry stone walls; and the sheep pastures, with what is called a
"ring-fence," or "march-fence;" i. e. a dry stone dike or wall
surrounding the farm. The mode of cultivation adopted in this
parish is usually what is called the four and five-shift rotation; the
former being practised on the village lands, the latter on the larger
farms. This mode of husbandry consists in taking a crop of tur-
nips the first year; a crop of wheat or barley, sown off with grass,
the second year; a crop of bay the third year; and a crop of oats
the fourth year. According to the five-shift rotation, the ground
is allowed to lie in pasture the fourth year, and on the fifth it is
ploughed up and sown with oats. In some cases the ground re-
mains in pasture two years, which is called the sixth-shift hus-
bandry. There is no bare fallow in the parish, or extremely little.
One-fifth nearly of the arable land of the parish is annually sown
off with turnips.
   Probably one-third of the oats, and nearly two-thirds of the
barley grown in the parish, may be sold and exported. All the
wheat, and probably more than is grown in the parish, is consumed
in it: all the other crops, as of hay, turnips, potatoes, &c. are con-
sumed at home.
   The manure usually employed is common manure and lime,
which latter is driven a distance of ten miles, and costs 10d.
per boll, or 3s. 4d. a cart-load, a single horse drawing four bolls.
Forty bolls of lime are usually given to the acre. Bone ma-
nure, which is brought from Berwick, a distance of twenty miles,
has been extensively used of late years in the parish, and is found
to succeed remarkably well: it is used for turnips, 2 quarters or
16 bolls being required per acre.
   Live-Stock.-The farmers depend less upon the agricultural
produce of the land than upon their sheep. The sheep usually
preferred for the higher parts of the parish, or hilly pasture, are
the Cheviot. The Leicester, or long-woolled sheep, are preferred
for the lower and cultivated parts of the parish; and on farms
partly arable and partly hill pasture, a cross between the Cheviot
and Leicester is found to answer very well. The number of
sheep in the parish may be about 4800: of these about 1800 may
be Leicester, 1000 Cheviot, and 2000 half-bred, or a cross be-
tween the other two. Few or no lambs are sold. The cattle
usually preferred, and, indeed, the only breed of cattle in the pa-
rish, are the short-horned or Teesdale, both for giving milk and
for fattening.
   Rent and Price of Land, &c.-The average rent of the arable


