
1176                  ABERDEENSHIRE.

not previously taken a degree in arts." *  But the Royal Commis-
sioners of Visitation having, in their new plans, proposed to re-
strict the preliminary education of such candidates to Greek,
Latin, Mathematics, and Natural Philosophy, the Senatus found
that, the higher standard which they had advocated, with a view of
adding to the respectability of the medical profession, could not
be supported; and they have subsequently modified it, retaining
at the same time a full curriculum of medical instruction, in the
last regulations issued in 1840.  This extends to four years, three
of which at least must be passed in a University, including one
year at least at this University; and the classes to be attended are
Anatomy, Practical Anatomy, Chemistry, Materia Medica, Insti-
tutes of Medicine, Surgery, Practice of Medicine, and Midwifery,
each for a course of six months; and for courses of three months,
Botany, Practical Chemistry, and Medical Jurisprudence.  To
these are added hospital attendance, Clinical lectures on Medicine
and Surgery, and the compounding and dispensing of medicines.
Three separate professional examinations have been instituted for
medical degrees, which take place in April and October, and are
conducted partly in writing and viva voce, and partly by demon-
stration.  To these examinations candidates are admitted at dif-
ferent terms; to the first one, at the beginning of the third year
of medical classes, and to the others at subsequent stages. No'
fees are taken by the College or the examiners for the degree of
M. B. or M. D.,-the expense of the diploma and the Govern-
ment stamp on the latter degree excepted.
   In the "Evidence, Oral and Documentary," taken in 1826-7,
by the Royal Commissioners for Visiting the Universities of Scot-
land, and published ten years afterwards, there will be found de-
tailed statements of the views of the principal and professors of
that time on many important subjects connected with the efficiency
of university education, particularly in a minute examination of
the plans of improvement or alteration proposed by the Commis-
sion in the Curricula of Arts, Theology, and Medicine. (See Vol.
iv. p. 321-335.)
   In the same volume are contained lists of the number of stu-
dents and graduates for a long period, tables of fees, and com-
plete information as to the whole property, salaries, and endow-
ments belonging to the college.  Under this head it deserves to
be noticed, that the whole of the property with which the college
was originally endowed by its founder, has been preserved and

<FOOTNOTE>Evidence, Oral and Documentary, Vol. iv. p. 331.


