
92			FORFARSHIRE.

merits attention. The first intimation on record of such a conve-
nience is an agreement between the abbot and the inhabitants of
the town in the year 1394, by which the contracting parties bound
themselves to erect a pier for the accommodation of such vessels
as might resort to the place. The abbot submitted to bear the
greater share of the expense, in consideration of a certain yearly
duty to be paid to him out of every rood of land within the burgh.
This pier, which was of wood, having been found insufficient, it
was resolved, in the year 1725, to remove the harbour from the
foot of the East Causeway or High Street, where it had hitherto
been, to the west side of the Brothock. The principal part of this
new erection, which is faced with stone, consists of a basin about
124 yards long by 80 broad. The entrance from the sea is at the
south-west corner, where it is contracted to the width of 31 feet,
and defended, when necessary, against the swell of the ocean, by
means of fourteen or fifteen beams of wood, which can be let down
in a few minutes into a groove on each side, and then secured at
the top by bars of iron. It is still farther defended from the sea
in stormy weather, by an outer bulwark of stone. The harbour is
dry at low water. At its entrance, there is at spring tides a depth
of 15 or 16 feet of water; and at neap tides, of 9 or 10 feet. But
there is a bar of rock at a short distance from its mouth, which pre-
vents vessels of large burthen from entering it. Arbroath was long
considered merely as a creek belonging to the port of Montrose;
and shipmasters laboured under the inconvenience of being obliged
to travel all that distance before their vessels could be cleared out
at the custom-house. But it is now so far an independent port,
that a deputy-collector, comptroller, and other officers, are esta-
blished on the spot. Every practical advantage connected with a
resident custom-house establishment is, in consequence, enjoyed.
	Bell-Rock Light-House.--In connection with Arbroath as a
sea-port, mention must be made of the Bell-Rock Light-House,
--an establishment of inestimable benefit to the east coast of
Scotland in general. In pursuance of an act of Parliament pass-
ed in 1806, operations with a view to this important erection
were commenced in 1807. The building was finished in Octo-
ber 1810; and the light exhibited for the first time on the even-
ing of February 1, 1811. During the progress of the works, a
floating light was kept up in a vessel moored at a short distance
from the place. The light-house is erected on a rock in the
ocean, distant about twelve miles from Arbroath, and thirty from

				     4


