
                            DRUMBLADE.                      311

the Aberdeen and Huntly or Inverness great post-road, and four
the Huntly and Banff turnpike.
   There are three coaches the Mail, the North Defiance, and
Duchess of Gordon, that pass through the parish north and south
daily,
   Ecclesiastical State.-The division of this and the neighbouring
parishes is as preposterous as can well be imagined.  The church
is placed within a few yards of the boundary on one side, though
four and five miles from the opposite point, while the people resi-
dent there, in order to attend their parish church, have to travel
three or four miles farther, than they would have to attend one in a
neighbouring parish-nay, have actually to pass the one at a very
short distance, to get at the other, with which they are parochial-
ly connected.  The consequence is, that the strictly Parochial sys-
tem is broken in upon, and, that beautiful reciprocity of interest and
of feeling which ought ever to subsist between a minister and his
own people to a certain extent impaired.  Besides the west end of
the parish, which has already been stated as five miles distant from
the parish church, there are other points thre and four miles
distant, and nearly two-fifths of the population are at a distance of
two miles an upwards.  Were an arrangement entered into of
giving and taking, with some of the parishes adjoinidg, a very im-
portant improvement to all would be effected; indeed, were a ge-
neral revision of parishes to take place, and so great Leegisla-
tive measure founded upon it to be introduced, the benefit result-
ing therefrom would be almost universal.
   The church was built in 1773, and received some improvements in
1829, and certain additional sittings have been made out since.  There
is accommodation for between 500 and 600 persons.  The sittings
for the most part are portioned out to the occupiers of the land, who
pay something for them at entry on a lease, to the outgoing ten-
ant.  They may all be said, therefore, in a sense to be paid for,
though the payment, it is believed, is not large.  It would be of
some consequence at any general re-letting of farms on a property,
that the right and extent of church room attached to each should
be revised, and a new arrangement made where necessary; both
as considerable changes are from time to time occuring in the
disposal of families, and because the leaving of this important
matter to private settlement between outgoing and incoming
tenants, has frequently led to great irregularities in this respect.
In some instances seats have been improperly transfered altoge-


