
358                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

Mr Thomas Forbes, once a bailie in Fortrose; and under the ad-
ministration of the ministers of the parishes of Rosemarkie and
Avoch; which fund has now amounted to a sum considered suffi-
cient for accomplishing the ulterior object contemplated by the
donor.
   Education.-There are various schools in the parish, but none
of them strictly parochial. This arises from the parish school sa-
lary having been at one time conjoined with the grammar or burgh
school at Fortrose, and afterwards with the academy there; but
since withdrawn from both; and application has been recently made
to the presbytery to adopt the proper measures for the establish-
ment of said school. In the meantime, there are at Rosemarkie
two schools without salary, where the usual elementary branches
are taught, and which are well attended; one of these is an infant
school, at which from 30 to 40 children are instructed.
   At Fortrose there exists what is denominated the burgb or
grammar school, and a female school for young ladies, supported
chiefly by subscription.
   The academy of Fortrose was the first seminary of the kind esta-
blisbed in the north, and is supported out of a fund formed by do-
nations and subscriptions. In it are taught all the branches usual-
ly embraced by such institutions, under the superintendence and in-
structions of the rector and his assistant. Donors of L.50 and
their male representatives become perpetual directors. Those of
L.21 are directors for life. The many young men this establish-
ment has sent into the world, who are now filling various respec-
table situations in life, bear sufficient testimony to its character
and usefulness for nearly half a century past.
   There are three Sabbath evening schools in the parish, all of
them well attended; and which are found to be productive of much
benefit to the rising generation.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid is about 86. In this number, however, are
included a good many, who, though able to work for themselves,
receive small annual supplies, especially when they are known to
have young families. Few or none of them travel about to seek
charity in other parishes. There is a strong disposition on the part
of tbe poor to refrain from asking parochial relief; but this feeling
appears to die away soon after they get on the roll. The fund for
their support arises from the weekly church collections, which may
amount throughout the year to about L.17; and the interest of a


