
     of Crossmichael.

   Lakes Rivers, and Canals.-There are two lakes or lochs
to be taken notice of.  Erngrogo Loch is remarkable for two
small islands on it, which are breeding places for sea gulls,
that repair thither in great quantities at the proper seaton.
Loch Rohn, or Roan, somewhat larger than the former, is a
very great natural curiosity.  Its superficial contents are from
36 to 40 acres, and its depth is from 10 to 22 fathoms.  It
is situated in the highest part of the adjacent country.  No
rivulets or streams run into it, nor has it any visible supply
except the clouds.  Its waters are exceedingly clear, and,
unless the frost be very intense, it seldom freezes.  At the
mouth of the Urr there is a small harbour, at which English
lime and coals are imported, and grain and meal exported.
The Dee is formed by the junction of the Dee and the Ken,
two miles and a half above the head of this parish, whence
they proceed in their course under the name of the Dee, till
they fall into the sea below Kirkcudbright.  The breadth of
the Dee, opposite to this parish, is from 700 to 2220 feet.
There are several fords when the water is low; but all of
them are dangerous, and have been fatal to several persons,
as the pools are not seen on account of the blackness of the
water.  There are two ferries here: One is called the Boat
of Balmaghie; and about a mile above is the Boat of Living-
ston.  The water here is 45 feet deep; and this is the place
at which the canal, to be afterwards mentioned, would join
the Dee.  The meadows along the Dee, which are very ex-
tensive, never fail to be laid under water after a heavy fall of
rain.  During the winter, the floods are so frequent, and leave
such quantities of sand, that the meadows are rendered unfit
for pasturage.  In some places, easthen banks or mounds
have been erected, are erecting, or may be erected with ad-
vantage; but by far the greater part of the meadows cannot
possibly be saved from the inundations.  Some years ago, Mr

     VOL. I. Y


