
                  MAINS AND STRATHMARTINE.                  57

his mansion, by his lineal male descendant, Mr Webster, former-
ly Graham of Balmuir.
	Two obelisks, and some vestiges of a Roman camp, are the on-

ly objects that excite the curiosity of the antiquary.
  Parochial Register.-The register of Strathmartine does not ex-
tend farther back than the year 1783. The school-house having
accidentally caught fire at that time, the parish records were con-
sumed. The parish register of Mains commences with the year
1633, and for a considerable time all the miscellaneous transac-
tions of cash, as well as baptisms and marriages, and the nume-
rous cases of discipline, which were carefully taken up and minutely
examined at that period, are recorded promiscuously, as the events
occurred, in one volume. From the nature of the offences that
were subjected to public censure, and the examination of the wit-
nesses, much information may be obtained concerning the mo-
rals, habits, and customs of the people. Incidental information is
likewise procured concerning the state of agriculture. It may be
true, that parochial discipline has relaxed as the people have be-
come more refined; but the cases reported in this register do not
give us a favourable view of the morals of the seventeenth century.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION>

	In 1801, the population of the united parishes amounted to    1442
     1811,                                                      1738
     1821,                                                      1779
     1831                                                       9011

	If the register of baptisms has been correctly kept, (and there is
evidence that it has not been neglected,) we may calculate pretty
nearly what has been the population of Mains for the space of
two centuries. The number of baptisms in 1636 amounted to
24; in 1685, to 33; in 1734, to 31; in 1738, to 19; and in 1832,
to 31. It is probable that the parish, after the middle of the se-
venteenth century, reached to its present amount of population;
and that, after the middle of the eighteenth century, it reached its
lowest point of depression. It is admitted, that, after the Union,
Scotland did not flourish for more than half a century. The ca-
pital engaged in trade was of trifling amount, and, by the suppres-
sion of the Scottish Parliament, no small proportion of the rental
of the kingdon being spent in England, labourers were thrown out
of employment, and the spirit of improvement was restrained.
When commerce began to flourish, agriculture revived; farms
were enlarged; cottages, findings that higher wages could be ob-


