
260                      LANARKSHIRE.

larly one on a small rivulet which falls into the Avon above Cad-
zow Castle, where beautiful petrifactions of hypna are found. Bed
of fuller's earth (Argilla fullonica) and potter's earth (Argilla
leucargilla) are found in various quarters; and in one part a very
pure yellow ochre (Argilla lutea) in considerable quantities.
	Zoology.--Under this branch, as the parish is not a little
distinguished, a rather lengthened description may be allowed.
Among the quadrupeds, we may mention Martes abietum, the mer-
trick or pine-martin. It is very common here, producing its young
in the old nests of the crow and magpie, on the summits of the
loftiest trees. It is verv ravenous, and is frequently caught in
stamps. The weasel, ermine and foumart, abound; and also the
otter, badger, wild-cat, hedgehog, &c. The Cervus capreolus, or
roe, is an occasional visitant. Five of these were seen in a flock
in Hamilton woods last year (1833). That variety of Sorex ara-
neus which has the "upper parts dusky-gray, under yellowish
white," is occasionally observed. An individual has also a stuffed
specimen, (killed here) of what appears to be the S. quadricaudatus
of Linnaeus.
	The woods here are extensive, and vocal with birds. The four
species which follow, have not hitherto obtained a place in the
Scottish Fauna. 1. Pernis apivorus, honey buzzard, shot at Cha-
telherault in the autumn of 1831. 2. Saxicola rubicola, stone-chat.
This bird has built for many years at the root of a furze bush near
Hamilton. It forms a curious road into its nest, about half a yard
in length, through the long grass. The eggs are blue, with rufous
spots at the larger end. A fine male of this species, shot a mile
from Hamilton, is in possession of Mr Kirkland, weaving agent. *
3. Curruca sylviella, lesser white-throat. This bird, supposed to
be confined to England, is common here. The nest is sometimes
in a hedge, but more frequently among long dry grass, by the side
of a wood, four or five inches from the ground, and generally over-
shadowed by a twig of bramble or some other shrub. The nest is
more compact than that of the larger white-throat, which, in addi-
tion to its numerous names, is here called "Beardy, and Blethering
Tam." The song of the sylviella is sweeter and more perfect than
that of the common sort, and its eggs are also very different. 4.
Curruca salicaria, or sedge warbler. An individual of this species

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, I have seen another male of the rubicola shot at Hes-
pielaw, in this parish. A pair had been observed flying about during the summer,
and probably had their nest there.
					4


