
			BOTHWELL.                           799

of Saughs, grandfather of the celebrated Dr Cullen, was one of
the elders.  Mr Orr was translated to Edinburgh, and was succeeded
by Mr William Hamilton, 1709; Mr James Hamilton,
1746; Dr Baillie, 1762; Dr M'Culloch, 1767; Dr Gardiner, 22d
April 1802.
   The first call after the Revolution on the United Presbytery of
Hamilton and Lanark for a presbyterial visitation to inspect a
church and manse, was by the parish of Bothwell, 26th August
1688, which the Presbytery refused, on the ground that they cannot
legally visit.  In compliance, however, with the desire of the
gentlemen commissioners from that parish, they appoint Mr Robert
Muir, who was settled at Kilbride, Mr Alexander Young
of Hamilton, and Mr Archibald Hamilton, to meet with the
gentlemen of the parish on Wednesday 27th August, the day
following-" to give them their advice," which they did accordingly.
  The church is quite new, having been opened for public worship
in 1833. It is very fine building, not surpassed, perhaps, by any
country church in Scotland.  The style is Gothic, corresponding
with that of the old fabric at the west end of which it is erected.
The wells are supported by buttresses-the windows are large and
finely formed.  In the centre, where the old and the new buildings
join, a lofty and elegant tower has been reared, rising to the
height of 120 feet, and forming, perhaps, the finest feature in the
structure.  The prospect from the top on all sides is extensive and
Magnificent, and it affords a better panoramic view of the county
of Lanark than is to be obtained from any other site.  An excellent
bell and clock have been placed in the tower.  The bell was
provided by parochial assessment, and cost L. 146 16s.; the clock,
which cost L. 133, by voluntary subscriptions from the heritors and
inhabitants in the west district of the parish.  The length of the
building is 72 feet, the breadth 45. It is seated for about 1200
sitters, and cost L. 4179.
   A preaching station has been opened at Holytown.  By an addition
to the schoolroom, built and seated by subscription, a commodious
place of worship has been provided, sufficient to accommodate
300 persons.  The Rev. D. M'Lean has been chosen by
the sitters to officiate at the station, and the minister of the parish
exchanges pulpits with him once a month for the purpose of administering
baptism to the children of the parishioners in that district.
  Subscriptions to a large amount have already been, obtain-


