
                            INVERARY.                              25

rish are those of an old fort at Dunchuaich; those of the castle of
the Laird of MacNaughten, on the banks of the Douloch, with
those of religious houses at Kilbryde and Achantiobairt.  At the
latter place, there were lately several stone crosses of considerable
size, and in good preservation.  Nothing is found there now but
the fragments of a cross of roof-slate, which fills up a chasm in a
turf fence.  It bears no inscription.  It seems to have been a sta-
tion of some importance.  It is elevated above Lochfyne about 500
feet, and commands an extensive view.  At the base of the hill
on which it is situated, and close to the present farm-house of
Pennymore, there was also a few years ago a curiously construct-
ed stone stair which, it was supposed, was intended to lead to the
religious house above.
   There is also a stone cross in the parish, which was probably
brought from Iona, and which was for many years the town cross
of Inverary.  It was removed when the old town was knocked
down, and lay long neglected, but it is restored now to its former
office, and stands at the end of the principal street.
   On one of its narrow sides there is an inscription in Lombardic
characters as follows: " Haec est crux nobilium virorum videlicet
Dondcani M,Eugyllichomghnan Patrici filii ejus et Maelmore
filii Patrici qui hanc crucem fieri faciebat."
   In the burial-ground there are also three flags, which are sup-
posed to have been taken from Iona.  They were probably remov-
ed after the act of the convention of estates, in 1561, for demo-
lishing all the abbeys of monks, &c.  On two there is no impres-
sion but a two-handed sword.  The third is more curiously carved.
Would it not be right that such relics as these, wherever found,
should be returned ?
   A large stone, resembling the relics of Druidical times, stands
in the lawn close to the castle.  There is no tradition regarding
it, farther than that it marked at one point the boundary between
the lands of the M'Ivors and M'Vicars, as already mentioned.
   There is a round mound of earth between the present burial-
ground and the river Array, which was the old burial-ground of
Kilmilieu, consecrated in Popish times.  The present site was
chosen, it is said, by the Protestants after the Reformation, in con-
sequence of being prevented by the religious prejudices of the
Roman Catholics, from burying their dead in the same dust.  A
few trees are now growing on the top of the mound; and near to


