
                          CORSTORPHINE.                229

applying to Parliament for authority to separate the parish church
of Corstorphine, with manse, glove, teinds, fruits, and rent of the
same from the porvostry, and to unite the four prebends of the
provostry (i. e. the teind sheaves of Ratho,) to the parish kirk, but
to reserve a certain sum "to be payed by the ministers of Corstor-
phine out of these revenues to the actual minister of Ratho."
   A few years afterwards, when more enlightened opinions became
prevalent, regarding the application of church property, another
act of Parliament was obtained by Sir George, then Lord For-
rester, dissolving the four prebends, the whole revenues of which
were drawn from lands situated in the parish of Ratho, from
the parish church of Corstorphine, as "prejudicial to the kirk of
Ratho, and repugnant to the common course and order intended
for the plantation of kirks, whereby it is thought fit that each mi-
nister shall receive competent maintenance out of the teinds of his
own parish."
   After this separation, the sole remaining possession of the Pro-
vostry was the parsonage of Clerkington, which, in a manuscript
in the Advocates' Library, is valued in 1625 at L. 27, 10s. 8d.
In 1634, the Provost and first prebendary, with the consent of the
patron and other prebendaries, dissolved the collegiate church,
and separated from it this parsonage, and, in 1641, Parliament
confirmed the dissolution, annexing the four prebends to the
estate of Dalmahoy, and the parsonage to the estate of Clerking-
ton.
   Parish Church.- We have hitherto referred to the parish church
as existing previous to the religious establishments founded by the
family of Forrester.  At first it belonged to the Abbey of Holy-
roodhouse, and was connected with the church of St. Cuthberts.
It was afterwards attached to the collegiate church of Corstor-
phine, while that establishment remained in efficiency, but was
separated from it at the commencement of the Reformation.
   The first Protestant teacher in Corstorphine was Walter Cow-
per, reader, whose name is mentioned in the Register of ministers,
exhorters, and readers, after the Reformation, as having died in
November 1570.
   From 1570 down to 1587, there was no Protestant clergymen
in Corstorphine, but on 7th March 1587, Sir James Forrester of
Corstorphine and the remanent parishioners of that parish, ap-
plied to the Presbytery of Edinburgh to recognize the church of
Corstorphine as a proper parish church, praying that they should


