
	           KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

bourhood of the abbey, and received, by the hands of Robert
Winchelsey Archbishop of Cauterbury, a Bull from Pope Boni-
face VIII., redarguing the King's claim to the superiority of Scot-
land, and setting forth the title of his Holiness to thai kingdom,
as a part of Peter's patrimony. The Archbishops'narrative,
dated October 1300, may be seen in Prynne's History of Edward,
and contains an account of his Grace's detention at Carlisle till
he could find out where the King was, and a minute detail of his
perils by land, by water, and by men. *
	The Bull was duly delivered; the King held a council upon it;
but, as it concerned the welfare of Dngland, he declined giving
any reply till he should consult the States. Soon after, he dis-
banded his army, and proceeded to Lincoln, where a parliament
was assembled to prepare an answer. The Bull is endorsed,
Memorandum quod Dominus Rex tradidit Domino J. de Lange,
ton, Cancellario suo apud Northampton 24 die Decembris, ann
regis 29, Bullam quam Archiepiscopus Cantuariensis tulit, eidem
Domino Regi apud Cartanoks in Scotia.
	Soon after the battle of Waterloo, the inhabitants of New Ab-
bey, aided by the contributions of a few other individuals, animated
by those sentiments of gratitude and admiration which at that
time pervaded all classes of British subjects towards the illustri-
ous Duke of Wellington and his brave army, erected a monument
to commemorate that great and important victory. It is a gra-
nite column 50 feet high by 16 feet diameter, with a winding stair
inside, and stands on an eminence called Glen hill rising about
400 feet above the level of the sea. It is seen all over the southern
part of Nithsdale, as well as tbe Solway Frith, and along the coast
of Cumberland. +

<FOOTNOTE>The followiing extract contains all that relates to New Abbey:--"Denique cunt
audirem, diligentius explorando, quod idem Dominus Rex cum exercitu suo in re-
deundo versus eastrum de Caerlaverock quod prius ceperat, in Scotia fixisset tentoria
juxta novan Abbathiam de duz quer in Galvedia, malens periculo me, mess et mes
exponere, quam in tam longinquis partibus, quoddammodo vacuis, extra meam Dio-
caesun ef provinciam diutius sic languere, latitans in quibusdam locis secretis juxta
mare, quod dividit Angliam et Galvediam, captata temporis opportunitate in refluxu
maris, ductus ab iis quos non opportebat viae transitus ignorasse, transivi-per qua-
tuor mestus equarum maritimos cum equis et phaleris nomine magis (ratione pro-
funditatis aquarum) quam littoris et vivnrum Sabulorum introitu et exitu periculo-
sos: et quasi inopinate veni die Veneris proximo post festum Sancti Bartholomaei
Apostoli, ultimo jam transactor, ad dictum Regem, in medio exercitu suo tunc pran-
dio existentem, et quia non potuiz, ut dicebat, eo die vacare, mandavit mihi illo die
insero per duos de majoribus Comitibus, qui tum assistebant ei, quod in crastino,
videlicet, Sabbato sequente, sudiret me benigne."
	The projector was Robert Johnston, Erq. author of a volume of Travels from
Petersburgh to Moscow, and from Moscow along the line of Napoleon's disastrous
retreat through Russia and Poland.


