
     of Duffus.

skill in agriculture,-a perplexing and inconvenient variety of
weights and measures,-want of fuel, attended with lots of
health and lives among the poor,-frequent celibacy, or late
marriages, occasioned by poverty and depression,-an oppres-
sive coal-tax,-and an inconvenient distance from a Custom-
house, being 40 miles from Inverness, which is the nearest.

   Advantages.-The principal are, a sea-coast,-a good soil,-
a good people,-and a good climate.  Whether what histori-
ans remark, of our having in the plains of Moray, about 40
days more of dry weather through the year, than in any other
part of Scotland, be precisely accurate, has never been aster-
tained. 

   Character and Manners.-Society in this country is as yet
chiefly divided into high and low.  The latter class, though

<FOOTNOTE>

eess for use, peend for poind, etc.  Our people substitute the found of f for wit,
as fat for what, futch for which, etc.  They pronounce such words as filthy, fiscal,
will, which, etc. as spelt fulthy, fuscal, wull, futch, etc.  They suppress r in a
good many words, as fish for first, hess for horse, puss for purse, etc.  This is the
more remarkable, as in general the Scotch pronounce this letter much more
forcibly than the English do.  The gutturals, gh and ch, are more frequently pro-
nounced here, than in the south of Scotland.  The Scotch and French e, which is
never heard in England, though not in so frequent use here as in the south of
Scotland, is notwithstanding so prevalent as to have the name of this vowel ex-
pressed in that found:  as is alto the case in the rest of Scotland.  Here w and
v are founded for one another; but this is also the case among the illiterate in
other parts of Britain.  The French u, resembling the Tulnox found, and so
frequent at Edinburgh and the neighbouring countries, never found its way to
the north.  It was imported by the Scotch court from France.  The Scotch diphthong
ei, we use as frequently as in other parts of Scotland; for instead of pronouncing
the English i in lif, strife, etc. we pronounce those words as at Edinburgh
leif, streis, knees etc.  The found of short English i, as in pit, fit, pick, &c, is never
used in our dialect.  Its substitute is a found approaching nearer to the short
English e, than to the short English i, as if spelt, pet, fet, peck; this however is
common to our lower ranks, with the rest of Scotland.


