
348                    BERWICKSHIRE.

it from the parishes of Lauder and Melrose; on the south, by the
parish of Earlstoun; and on the east, by the parishes of Gordon
and Westruther. Its greatest length from Purves-haugh Bridge
on the south, to Dodds Mill, on the north, is 6 miles; and its breadth
from Bridge-end, on the west, to Stockbridge, on the east, is 41/2 miles.
These, however, are extreme points, and a more correct idea may
be conveyed of its extent by stating it at 5 miles in length by 3
in breadth. The boundary line is irregular: and of two portions
into which its area is divided by a pretty deep valley, the northern
and longest is, until near its upper limit, not much less than 31
miles in breadth,-while the southern, indented deeply by the pa-
rish of Gordon, scarcely exceeds 21 miles. The whole parish con-
tains about 15 square miles.
   Topographical Appearances.- The greater part of the parish lies
high; the northern part, especially, which maybe described as form-
ing with Westruther the contiguous parish on the east, a table
land of considerable elevation, extending from the narrow valley of
the Leader to the base of the Lammermoor hills. The surface of
this portion is not level, but consists of three ridges of hills, with
high valleys intervening-the two southernmost of these ridges
stretching from east to west, and the northern striking off from
them in a northerly direction, and terminating in a round massive
height named " Boon Hill," which rises 1090 feet above the level
of the sea. The soutbern part of the parish is entirely occupied
by one hill,which, on the south, slopes gradually into the vale of
Earlston, andon the cast towards the boundary of Gordon. Of
the elevations generally, it ought to be stated, that they agree in
having their direction Dearly east and west, and in having their
abruptest end almost westward, and a gentle declivity as they range
to the east.
   Climate.-The cold and moisture are considerably greater than
in the Merse and many parts of the Lothians, owing to the eleva-
tion of the land, want of shelter, want of draining, and contiguity
to the Lammermoors. The frosts in winter are understood to be
more intense than in these parts, and the falls of snow are heavier,
and continue longer on the ground. The crops in autumn are
generally later by a week, and, in backward seasons, by a fortnight,
than in the lowest grounds of the Merse. On the whole, how-
ever, the climate is not insalubrious.
   Of the very limited population, it may be noticed that there are
22 individuals betwixt sixty and seventy, most of whom are still ac-


