
836                          AYRSHIRE.

face to the largest seam is 53 fathoms. The clay ironstone of
this formation is likewise abundant, in some places extending over
several hundred acres, and near the surface. At the Old Place
quarry there are four different seams, of 1 foot 8 inches, and 15
inches in thickness. On the farm of Redding, there are five or
six seams, in all about three feet thick.

	    	     II.--CIVIL HISTORY,
	Historical Events.--Few historical events of any importance
have occurred in this parish. A spot is yet pointed out at the
eastern base of Loudoun Hill, as the scene of one of Wallace's
exploits. The fact of his having attacked and conquered a party
of English near Loudoun Hill, who were conveying provisions from
Carlisle to the famished garrison at Ayr, is recorded in all the
histories of the hero. The remains of a small turf redoubt can
now be easily traced on the summit of an almost precipitous bank,
which overhangs the old public road, where it is said Wallace lay
in ambush during the night, and whence he issued to attack the rich
convoy in the gray dawn of the morning, while it was entangled
in the narrow defile. Loudoun Hill has been the centre of more
than one warlike exploit. The Roman camp, though on the
Galston side of the Irvine, is almost beneath the shadow of the
hill; the shouts of Bruce's victorious army have been echoed
by its gray rocks; and the watchmen who warned the Covenanters
of Drumclog (which is in its immediate neighbourhood) of the
approach of Claverhouse were perched upon its summit.
	No public events of any interest occurred in Loudoun until the
time of the Persecution.  "Times, whose echo rings through Scotland
till this hour."
        But many tales of more or less interest, connected with that
season of trial, are still to be heard from the peasantry. Olaver-
house, Dalyell, and Captain Inglis, have each left behind them
records of their ignorant and cruel policy in the graves of some
of the headless martyrs of the Covenant, which are to be seen in
our church-yard. It may not be out of place to mention one or
two current anecdotes regarding some of the leaders of "the rising"
who were connected with Loudoun.
	Captain Nisbet of Hardhill was born upon the present glebe, a
few hundred yards from the manse. He commanded the Loudoun
troope at Bothwell, and carried his flag (still in good preservation
in Darvel,) safe out of the ill-fated engagement. On the reported
                		4


