
     Statistical Account

Forth, is one of the finest rivers in Scotland.  The quantity,
quality, and size of the trouts,-the endless variety of pools
and streams,-and the openness of its banks, all concur in
rendering it the favourite retreat of the angler:  In so much,
that people of all ranks, and from a considerable distance, re-
fort to it in the fishing season; and there is scarcely a peasant
or shepherd on its banks, who is not eager in pursuit of this
amusement, and eminent in the art, Where the river is
rapid and turbulent, and of a clear channelly bottom, the fishes
are smaller and whiter after being dressed: but in the larger
and deeper pools, especially as far as it is the boundary of
this parishs, where it is for the most part a large, deep, wind-
ing river, they are redder when dressed, and darker when
caught, and much larger in size.  I have seen them two, three,
and even four pounds weight; and from 18 to 24 inches long,
and full grown*.
   The Kelvin, and all its tributary streams, at least.  before it

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a tradition, that fish were much more abundant 50 or 100 years
ago than now.  It is even said, that before the Partick miln-dam was erected
over the Kelvin, salmon in spawning time came up as far as Kilsyth, and
were to be found in every pool.  It is certain that none have been found
since.
   The reasons why the small fish are less abundant, may be,
   1st, That there is much more lime used as manure than formerly:  And
it is allowed that the lees of lime are destructive both to the fish and their
spawn.
   2dly, There is much more flax raised.  Being watered in the rills and
rivulets, it pollutes the streams, and renders the water noxious to all, and fatal
to many.
   3dly, Drag-nets and pock-nets, i.e. nets in the form of a bag, are often
used, though contrary to law: all the larger fish are by that means des-
troyed.
   4thly, As none of the heritors reside, fishing is quite a common privilege
with us:  It is of course the amusement of every idler.


