
			COYLTON.                                665

	The following is the amount received for support of the poor,
payment of session-clerk and precentor, &c., in each of the last-
mentioned years.

<TABLE>
		For 1835                     For 1836.               For 1837.
Collections,            L. 55 2 4 1/4       L. 58 13 4             L. 64 19 8 1/2
Mortcloth dues, &c.         6 7 0               8  4 6                 8 19 0
Money assessed or be-
  longing to heritors,     17 0 0              18  0 0                25  8 8 1/2
			------------        ------------ Donation    -------------
                        L. 78 9 4 1/4       L. 84 17 10            L. 99 17 5

	The number of paupers has connsiderably increased within the
last firteen years. This has been partly owing to the want of em-
ployment for aged indigent females, since the erection of spinning-
mills; partly to a decreasing reluctance to apply for parish aid;
and to other causes.
	Inns, &c.--There are eight houses licensed to sell spirits and
ale; a number far greater than necessary. The facility of obtain-
ing ardent spirits, and the immoderate use of them, are undoubt-
edly among the chief causes of the immorality, disorder, poverty,
crime, and misery, witnessed in many parts of our country.
	Fuel.--A few peats are dug and used in the upper part of the
parish, but this is done from choice. Coal, of which there is the
greatest abundance in the parish and neighbourhood, is almost the
only fuel. It is got at the pits at 6d. or 7d. a creel, or 6s. per. ton
		  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since last Account was written, the inhabitants have, from the
causes already noticed, doubled in number. A very considerable
change has taken place in their dress and manner of living. The
manufactures of woollen, cotton, silks, and most kinds of clothing,
have very generally supplanted home made articles. The products
of the East and West, the baker, grocer, and confectioner, have
greatly superseded the oaten cake and homely fare of our ances-
tors. A corresponding alteration may be witnessed in the style and
comfort of houses and furniture. The soil and agriculture of the
parish have undergone great improvement. A better system of
cropping is now followed; new kinds of corn have been introduc-
ed; turnip and potato husbandry has advanced; draining of all
kinds has been very extensively practised; new plantations have
been made; farms-steads built on a larger scale, and after more
approved plans; roads have been greatly improved; and there are
facilities of communication with near and remote parts of them coun-
try, that were formerly unknown. Still, there is great room for
advancement.
	December 1841.


