
32                            ORKNEY.

months of May and June, in fishing lobsters.  At an average, for
the last twelve years, there have been 14,622 lobsters Shipped
-annually for the London market, by Gravesend smacks, which call
here twice a week during the fishing season.
Some sloops engage in the cod fishing,-tbongb this fishing is
not carried on, nearly to the same extent as in some of the other
Orkney Islands.
Manufactures.-Before the duty was taken off barilla, there
was a considerable quantity of kiblp manufactured ; but since the
price.bas fallen so greatly, it scarcely-remunerates the proprietor;
and'the consequence is, that very little is now done in the manu-
facturing of that article.  Whether this will ultimately be advan-
tageous or disadvantageous to the country, isa question upon which
a diversity of opinion prevails.  We only remark, that proprietors
evidently placed more reliance than they ought to have done, upon
the manufacturing of that precarious article, and thereby neglected
the improvement of their lands, which would have afforded them a
more permanent benefit.
There are a few straw plait manufacturers, who employ a num-
ber of women inthe town as well as in the country. This manu-
facture has been, for some time past, upon the decline ; and, being
at all times dependent upon the caprice of fashion, has lately af-
forded a scanty subsistence to the many young females who totally
depend on it for their support.  They are now allowed to plait
in their own homes, which has been found more conducive to their
health and morals, than doing so collectively, in the houses of the,
manufacturers, which was the original custom.-There is a small.
rope manufactory, 'where ropes of various kinds are made, both
for the shipping and for country, use.  From the former Account,
it appears there was a considerable  quantity of linen and woollen
cloth manufactured.  This business has now wholly. ceased here,
being superseded by the perfect machinery now in use.
Navigation.-The shipping belonging to Strou-iness has of late
years greatly increased, and is at present in a very prosperous
condition.  The kind of vessel which is preferred is the schooner,
which is found best suited for the trade in which it is employed.
The owners seldom, or never insure their vessels, and many Of
thern have succeeded well.  The number of vessels belonging to
the town i is 23 ; 2 of , them brigs, I 8, sclworxers ; 3 sloops., Their
tonnage amounts to 2132 ton-,.
The following table, which the captain of the Coast-guard in


