
                           CUPAR.                              13

may be in the middle of the, parish. It is a large and commodi-
ous, though by no means an elegant building, according to the no-
tions of elegance that are now entertained. It was built in 1785,
and is in the plain'and unattractive style of that period. It was
originally built to accommodate 1196; but, by some slight altera-
tions since made, it accommodates now 1300 sitters. This, how-
ever, is far from being sufficient for a population of 6473. And
did the law not define the extent of the accommodation that pa-
rishes should have, it might be enough to show the inadequacy of
the accommodation in this instance, to mention that, in July 1835,
the number of those that communicated at the dispensation of the
Lord's supper was 1237. Another building of the same dimen-
sions as the present would not furnish the requisite accommodation.
To obviate the evils arising from this want, an application was
made by the kirk-session to the heritors two years ago to hire the
Mason's Hall, for the benefit of those who could not be provided
with seats in the church. This they very readily did, and service
is now performed in it by the collegiate ministers every Sabbath,
to a congregation of not less than 300. The sittings in this place
of temporary accommodation are all free. The sittings of the
church are all occupied, and, with the exception of about 150,
which are free, are all either let at a small rent, or are in the na-
tural possession of the proprietors and their tenants. To get a
permanent remedy for the want of accommodation, a subscription
was entered into last year by a number of spirited and well-affect-
ed individuals, among whom were almost all the heritors, to build
another church in a convenient part of the town. The subscrip-
tions were nearly completed. An application was made to the
Presbytery to sanction the erection of the building, according to
the conditions proposed by the subscribers. The Presbytery ap-
proved and granted the application. But an application made to
the General Assembly of 1835, to sanction the whole proceedings
was met by an injunction from that venerable court, which paralyz-
ed all the proceedings of the subscribers and of the Presbytery;
and whether the building will. now go on is very questionable. It
is very much wanted. It was anxiously wishe for, by the church-
going people of the parish.  And without it, the population of the
parish, as they are daily increasing, must either go off, against their
will, as they have hitherto done in many instances, to the dissen-
ters, or they must sink, as in many other large towns, into a state
of heathenism, and show all the evils of spiritual darkness in the


