
504                    RENFREWSHIRE.


years ago on Lord Blantyre's property, while quarrying the mate-
riel for building the new mansion-house at Erskinei. Towards the
west and of the parish, these strata are superimposed by hills wholly
composed of trap rock, of a porphyritic and amygdaloidal charac-
ter, containing crystals,of felspar,and amygdaloidal portions of
caleareous spar, green earth, &c. While the workmen employed
on the Glasgow and Greenock Railway were engaged in cutting
through the West Ferry Hill opposite Dumbarton Castle, they
opened up some aplendid basaltic columns, very regular in shape,
and of immense size, which have since gratified the curiosity of
many visitors. Many of the minerals of the zeolitic family have
been found in the trap rocks on this side the clyde, as well as in
the Kilpatrick hills, which have long been famed for them. The
species Preknite, Thomsonite, Mesotype, and Cybecite, have all been
found,--the first mentioned, in great abundance and remarkable
beauty. Some of the specimens of mesotype, also, were exceed-
ingly rich and beautiful, but their texture was so friable and deli-
cate that few of the finest could be preserved. There have also
been found some fine specimens of amethystine quartz,--a thin,
but pure vein of dendritic native copper,-- some nodules of fortifi-
cation agate of inferior value, and great quantities of common
calc-spar.
   But the most interesting feature, under this head, is a new mi-
neral, which has been discovered only a few months since by Lord
Greenock, in the Bishoptoun vidge of porphyritic trap, and which,
in honour of him, has been called Greenockite. It has been as-
sertained, by chemical examination, to be a protosulphoret of
cadmium, and is therefore a species of a new genus, which stands
next in order to the zinc blendes. The specimens which have
hitherto been discovered are so small, that it is very difficult to
ascertain its characters so correctly as one could desire. In the
fifty sixth number of the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal,
for April 1840. Professor Jameson describes the Greenockite as
prismatic in form; but the following extract from a letter received
from Lord Greenock, shows, that further experiments and exami-
nation have led to the conclusion that its form is rhombohedral.
"The only addition it may be necessary for me to make to Pro-
fessor Jameson's description is, to state, that Professor Forbes has
since satisfactorily ascertained by his experiments, that the sul-
phuret of cadmium is a crystal with one axis, and therefore its
primitive form is rhombohedral and not prismatic, as some persons


