                          DUNFERMLINE.                         869

natural gifts, which she had diligently cultivated, and of decided
religious and moral character. She was born in 1622, and,
through her father's connection with royalty, was soon known at
Court, where she was held in high esteem for her talents, pru-
dence, amiableness, and benevolence, as well as strong attachment
to the royal family, to whom she made herself very serviceable.
She was appointed, by King Charles 1. and his Queen, first sub-
governess, and afterwards, on the death of the Countess of Rox-
burgh, governess to the Duke of Gloucester and the Princess
Elizabeth. Immediately after the death of Charles I., she found
it prudent to retire for a while from court to Scotland, and resided
for some time in this town with the Earl and Countess of Dun-
fermline, who always paid her great attention. Her scriptural
knowledge and piety, as well as uncommon activity of mind, were
her prominent excellencies, of which she has left substantial
evidence in some writings still extant, particularly, " Meditations
on the 25th Psalm ; Meditations and Prayers upon the First
Week, with Observations on each day of the Creation, and In-
structions for Youth." (Edinburgh, 8vo, 1778); with a Memoir,
containing many interesting and pleasing incidents of her life.
She wrote 5 books in folio, 15 in quarto, and one in octavo, all
of a religious and spiritual nature. Some of her MSS. are still
at Pitfirrane.
   Elizabeth, second daughter of Sir Charles Halket, who was
born in 1639, was married to Sir Henry Wardlaw of Pitreavie,
Baronet, in 1696, and died in 1726 or 1727. She was a lady of
great acccomplishments, and has acquired celebrity, as being con-
sidered by many the authoress of an admired poem or ballad,
entitled " Hardyknute."
   The present proprietor, Sir John Halket, is the seventh Baronet
of Pitfirrane-a commander in the Royal Navy. His lady,
Amelia Hood, daughter of Colonel Conway, descends from a
branch of the Conways of Ragley, who were elevated to the
peerage, as Barons, Viscounts, and Earls of Conway.
   Wardlaw Family.-The Wardlaws claim a very high origin,
having first come from Saxony to England about the year 500;
and they derive their name from an office which they held in the
law department under the Anglo-Saxon monarchs. There were
three leading branches of this family-the Torrie, the Luscar,
and the Balmule and Pitreavie, in this vicinity, besides those of

