
                                   PERTH.                         77

     5th May. " The session ordains John Bower, master of the hos-
     pital, to mak an substantious common mort kist for burying of the
     corps of the poor."
       The oldest tombstone in the Grayfriars burying-ground is dated
     1580; the year in which it was set apart by the minister and elders
     as managers of the hospital.
       Burgh.- The records of the burgh are of great antiquity, but un-
     fortunately the oldest cannot now be decyphered. The earliest legible
     date is 1512. Mr Cant who, sixty-two years ago, published a new
     edition of Adamson's'valuable Poetic History of Perth, with expla-
     natory notes and observations, has added to it a list of the city ma-
     gistrates from an earlier period than this; the register from which
     he obtained his information being when he wrote in better preser-
     vation than it now is. He tells us that the proper records before
     the year 1465 had been mislaid, and having given the only list of
     magistrates before that time which he could find, viz. for 1374, he
     produces a full and uninterrupted list of magistrates from 1465
     to 1765.
       Previous to the passing of the Burgh Reform Bill, the council
     elected their successors in office. The bill has introduced a new
     order of things; the town is divided in to four wards, and the inha-
     bitants in these who hold or rent property of the annual value of
     L. 10, elect the council, and the cotincil elect the office-bearers.
       The magistrates elected from the first reformed council were,
     Adam Pritigle, Esq., Lord Provost, Sheriff, and Coroner; Robert
     Bower, Esq. merchant, Dean of Guild; Thomas Robert Sande-
     man, Esq. wine-mercbant, first bailie; David Clunie, Esq. baker,
     second bailie; John Graham, Esq. boot-maker, third bailie; James
     M'Leish, Esq. dyer, fourth bailie; James Dewar, Esq. bookseller,
     treasurer.
       The jurisdiction of the Provost, Dean of Guild, and bailies, ex-
     tends over the royalty of the burgh, but the boundary of the royalty
     is not well defined. The property holding burgage situated with,
     out the line of the ancient walls exceeds in extent that within the
     walls. The jurisdiction is exercised by the magistrates, personally
     and directly. The Dean of Guild exercises judicial functions in
     conjunction with a council, consisting of the provost, three mer-
     chant bailies, two members chosen by the incorporated trades in
     their court of convenery, and four members chosen by the Guildry
     Incorporation. There are no dependencies, and there is no delegat-
     ed jurisdiction. The town-clerk acts as assesor, for doing which


