
                             LOCHCARRON.                      109

   stone.  The same gneiss rocks and clay generally meet us on the
   plain.  In the heights of the country limestone is found in beds
   in the gneiss, and is wrought for agricultural purposes by the te-
   nantry in the neighbourhood.  In Kishorn, limestone is abundant.
     Hydrograpby.- A few chalybeate springs are scattered over dif-
   ferent parts of the country, but they are not of such a nature as to
   indicate the existence of extensive strata of iron.
     Zoology.- The animals which inhabit the parish are, deer, roe,
   fox, polecat, and weasel.  Game, moorfowl, partridge, plover,
   and ptarmigan.  In our lakes, wild-duck abound, singing-birds,
   thrush, lark, linnet, blackbird, and redbreast; water-birds, gulls,
   (they have their nests in islands in our mountain lakes) duck, scart,
   curlew, sea-lark, and oyster-eater.  The black eagle builds in
   some of the most inaccessible rocks; but as great pains have been
   taken to destroy the species, it is now rare. The kite has his ey-
   rie. Of migratory birds, swans visit us occasionally in winter, wag-
   tail in February, swallow in April, and cuckoo about the same
   time.
     In the river Carron, salmon are found early in the season; but
   they are most numerous in June, July, and August; during which
   months, sea trout also come up in considerable numbers. Forty
   years ago, a common fisher could easily take with the rod twenty
   salmon in a day; at present, the most experienced angler will be
   contented with one good fish.  Several species of fishes are taken
   in the Frith, but herring may be said to be the only species of im-
   portance in an economical point of view.  The herring fishing has
   been unsuccessful for the last ten years: and may now be consi-
   dered rather a losing concern, in as much as the profits of the few
   favourable seasons can hardly counterbalance the outlays of these
   and other seasons, during which a supply for homd consumption
   is the utmost that can be secured.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      Impenetrable darkness rests on the history of this district till
   within a late period.  It was for many ages the scene of the
   barbarous depredations of contending clans, who, as the use of
   letters was little known among them, left no other memorial of
   their transactions than the dubious records of traditional poetry.
   At an early period, the parish was in the possession of several
   chiefs,- the principal of whom was Macdonald of Glengarry, who
   had the western part at Strome.  All these were gradually dispos-


