
	226                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	ed to their superiors-obedient to the laws-dutiful and loyal to
	their sovereign-charitable to the poor, and hospitable to strangers.
	They are all of the Established Church of Scotland, and firmly
	attached to her constitution, worship, and doctrine. So inviolable
	is their attachment, that lately some of them, hearing of the dis-
	putes which at this moment unfortunately disturb and agitate our
	venerable Church, and dreading that these arose from the ascen-
	dency and hostility of Roman Catholic or other sectarians, were
	heard solemnly to declare in presence of the writer of these pages,
	that sooner than the church of their fathers should suffer violence
	or change, and far ldss annihilation, they would stiffer their beads
	to be cut off. But with all their admirable mental qualifications,
	they labour under the greatest poverty, which never fails to carry
	along with it many disadvantages and many evils. And certainly, tbe
	want of cleanliness is not the least of these. From the great
	scarcity of timber, there being none fit for use growing in the
	place, and the utter inability of the people to purchase and import
	wood, they are much at a loss for the necessary accommodations
	in regard to dwelling and other houses.
	  The poor tenants are almost invariably under the necessity of
	having their cattle under the same roof with themselves without
	partition, without division, and without a chimney ; their houses,
	therefore, are smoky and filthy in the extreme; and, having little
	either of night or day clothing, and their children nearly approach-
	ing to absolute nakedness, they are fully as much without cleanli-
	ness in their persons as they are in their houses. No people on
	earth live on more simple or scanty diet, than those in this parish.
	The greater number of them subsist on potatoes of the worst
	kind, sometimes with,btit oftener witbout fish.
	  The language generally spoken in the parish is Gaelic. From
	the facility of intercourse with the low country, by means of steam-
	navigation and Parliamentary roads, the people have acquired a
         taste for the English language, and are desirous to learn it.

                                    IV.-INDUSTRY.

           Agriculture.-A Complete survey of the-whole parish has never
	been made, and consequently the number of imperial standard
	acres in cultivation cannot with accuracy be ascertained ; indeed
	the extent of arable land, compared to that of pasture or moorland,
	is so very inconsiderable, that it appears a matter of little or no
	importance whether it be ascertained with mathematical precision.


