
690                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

five individuals, then very young men; one of whom was W.
Creech, afterwards a celebrated bookseller, and Lord Provost of
Edinburgh; another, Mr Maconochie, afterwards Lord Mea-
dowbank.  The Society afterwards included among its members
most of those names celebrated in the literature of Edinburgh during
the last century.  In 1769 the Society obtained apartments in the
college in which to hold its meetings, and these meetings, were
countenanced by Principal Robertson and others connected with
the university.  The Society now possesses a hall in the university
for its own exclusive use, and a library containing 1300 select vo-
lumes.  Its meetings are held weekly during the winter session.
The subjects of discussion belong to general literature, history,
and politics.  The entry fee is L.5, 5s., and the annual subscrip-
tion, L.1, 1s.
   Societies connected with the University.-The litepary and scien-
tific Societies connected with the university meet in a hall common
to them all, on alternate nights, during the winter and summer ses-
sions.  The societies are the following:-The Royal Physical
Society was instituted in 1771, and obtained a royal charter in
1788.  It formerly possessed a hall and library in Hunter's Park;
but the society falling into pecuniary difficulties, these were sold,
and the library removed to a room in the university, adjoining
the hall of meeting.  From 1782 to 1813, various minor societies
merged into this, and in 1839 the number of members on its list
exceeded 1300.  Its discussions, which at one time embraced medical
subjects, are now confined to general science.  The government of
the society is vested in four presidents, elected annually, and five
members of council, with secretary.  The entrance money is L.1, 5s.,
and a payment of one guinea for two years afterwards.  The Dia-
betic Society is composed of students at the University exclusively,
and it meets once a week, for "the prosecution of literary and
philosophical debate."  It has existed since 1787, and probably
was founded before this period; but its original minutes by been
lost.  The Seats Law Society was instituted in 1815 by students
of the legal profession, for the discussion of subjects connected
with law.  It possesses a library of law books, principally standard
works of reference.  The Diagnostic Society was instituted in 1816
by a few students of divinity and others, for improvement in lite-
rature and philosophy.  The Hunterian Medical Society was esta-
blished in 1824 by a number of medical students, its objects being
the discussinn of subjects connected with medical sciences.  It
on its list a considerable number of members; its funds


