
		 	   MELDRUM.			     483

present it is about 50, and tho average sum allotted to each
is about 8s. per quarter.  In addition, two poor lunatics are main-
tained by this parish in the Aberdeen Asylum, with the assistance
of a sum allowed from the lunatic fund established by the presby-
tery of Garioch.  A collection is annually made in the parish
church towards defraying the expense of maintaining these luna-
tics.  Another yearly collection is made at church for the Aberdeen
Infirmary.  There are also public contributions annually made for
the whole of the General Assembly's Religious Schemes.  The
collections in church for the relief of the poor of the parish, in-
cluding those received during the time of the communion, amount
to about L. 51 annually, and they have been on the increase for
several yearspast.  In addition, there is the annual interest of L.1400
Sterling, bequeathed to this parish by benevolent individuals for-
merly connected with it.  Of this sum, L. 1200, which had been lent
previously, partly on heritable, and partly on personal security was,
on the 20th of June 1834, invested in the purchase of land in a
neighbouring parish, which promises to yield a good return for the
capital.  One tenant occupies the land, and pays his rent into the
poor's funds.  The other sums, arising from the use of the mort-
cloth, and from seat-rents of a part of two galleries, set by the kirk-
session, with permission of the heritors, for behoof of the poor,
amount to about L. 8 annually.  But from the produce of these
funds available to the poor I must be deducted annually the sala-
ries of the teacher already alluded to, of the session-clerk and
officer, and other smaller charges.  There are no other regular
funds for the supply of the poor, but frequently in seasons of sear-
city, or during the prevalence of disease, meal and other necessa-
rie are purchased for their use, by a fund raised by private volun-
tary subscription.  A great deal of charity is bestowed by all ranks
according to their circumstances ; and if this source of relief were
not always open and ready, the parochial funds, although compa-
ratively extensive, would be totally inadequate to supply the wants
of the poor, especially in Old Meldrum, where the greatest num-
ber of them reside.  There is a reluctance felt by the labouring
classes to ask parochial relief.
   Fuel.-At one time, there was great abundance,of excellent
moss in this parish, but is now much exhausted, and what re-
mains is generally of inferior quality.  Coals, therefore, are com-
monly used, especially in Old Meldrum; and as they are brought
from Aberdeen and Newburgh in earts, the expense of fuel is
greater in, this than in any of the neighbouring parishes.


