
			LOCHBROOM. 			  81

Mr Robertson set out on a journey of 700 miles, to London (an
arduous undertaking at that time,) at his own private expense,
that be might use all his infuence in their behalf.  He arrived,
while Hector Mackenzie, a retainer of the Earl of Cromarty,
and a respectable man, was on his trial; and to his unspeakable
mortification, in-spite of all his interest and exertions, Mackenzie
was condemned.  But the " Ministear Laidir" was not thus to be
put off.  He went directly to the Duke of Newcastle, and earnest-
ly entreated his intercession with the Sovereign, for mercy to the
condemned criminal.  The Duke received him favourably, and
satisfied him with a fair promise, that the man's life would be spar-
ed. He was, however, soon alarmed, by a hint from some of his
friends, that such promises by the Duke were not always to be re-
lied on; and worked his honest way again into the presence of his
Grace, where he earnestly renewed his intercession.  The Duke,
to get rid of his importunity, renewed his promise, with the offer
of his hand.  The minister grasped his band in his own awful fist,
and gave it such a squeeze, that his Grace in agony, exclaimed,
" Yes, yes, yes! Mr Robertson, you shall have him, you shall
have him." This promise was not to be forgotten, and the man
was saved.
   During many of the subsequent trials, Mr Robertson was em-
ployed as interpreter, in the taking of the evidence of witnesses; in
which capacity, from his intimate knowledge of the Highland cha-
racter, and of the arts which had been practised upon his people,
he was able so to direct the course of the examination, that he both
served the cause of truth, and the best interests of the country,
and rescued many a victim of folly and delusion from a violent and
ignominious death.
   While thus detained in London, Mr Robertson one day, in cross-
ing the Thames in a boat, was assailed by a loud voice from a hulk
then lying in the river, with these words, in the Gaelic language,
viz. " O! a Mhaisteir Seumas, am bheil thu'g'am fh...ils' an so?"
O! Mr James, are you going to leave me here?  Mr Robertson
instantly recognizing the speaker, answered, " Ah! a Dhïnvil,
bheil cuçmhn agad air l... na biodaig?" i. e. Ah! Donald, do you
remember the day of the dirk? The despairing culprit replied,
" Och a Mhaisteir Seumas, is olc an t-...ite cuimhnachan so." i.e.
Oh! Mr James, bad place of remembrance is THIS. The conver-
sation ceased.  The speaker was a Donald Mackenzie, a bold and
powerful man, well known to Mr Robertson as a quondam parish-
  ROSS AND CROMARTY.                   F


