
      136                        ELGINSHIRE.

      lief, except what arise from the weekly collections, fines, &c. and
      L.1, 12s. being the interest of L.40 produced by the sale of the
      wood of the old church, taken down in 1826.  The funds are di-
      vided once a-year; and the poor are divided into two classes.  The
      average sum assigned to each individual, annually, for the last
      seven years was, to those on the first class 5s. 3d., and to the se-
      cond 3s. 3d.; and, small as the pittance assigned to each is, there
      is a strong disposition manifested to obtain it.
         Fairs.--There were several fairs held in the kirkyard of the
      parish at one period, but they have been, since the middle of the
      last century, partly discontinued and partly transferred to the vil-
      lage of Grantown, in the neighbouring parish of Inverallan.
         Inns.--There are two very respectable inns on the Highland
      road; one at Aviemore, and the other at the hamlet of Carr Bridge.
         Fuel.--The common fuel is peats.  They are abundant and easi-
      ly obtained.

          February 1838.

                   QUOAD SACRA PARISH OF ROTHIEMURCHUS.

                     THE REV. CHARLES GRANT, MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name-Its present, which is also its ancient name, is derived
      from the Gaelic, Ràth a' mhòr-ghiuthais, signifying the plain of
      the great pines.  Its name is suited to the appearance of the country,
      which is either covered with the debris of the ancient forest, or with
      a thriving young plantation of pine of natural growth.
         Extent and Boundaries.--The parish is about seven miles in length,
      and ten miles in breadth, bounded on the north by the river Spey,
      separating it from Duthil and Alvie; on the east, by the united
      parishes of Abernethy and Kincardine; on the south and south-
      east, by the united parishes of Crathie and Braemar in Aber-
      deenshire; and on the west, by that portion of the parish of Alvie
      which lies upon the south side of the river Spey.
         Topographical Appearance, &c.--This district presents a great
      variety of surface, consisting of beautiful tracts of level ground well
      cultivated, knolly eminences, covered with birch, Scotch fir, larch,


