
14			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

tions; but a more suitable monuments is about to be erected on
the spot, as a proof how highly their grateful countrymen respect
the memory of the martyr un the southern district of Scotlands.
Mr M'Diarmid, the editor of the Dumfries and Galloway Courier,
and author of the "Sketches from Nature," calculates, in the
latter of these works, that the value of the monuments in St
Michael's church-yard, now in a state of preservation, cannot
come far short of L.100,000. Of the first class of monuments,
there are 109; of tombstones on pillars, 712; besides about 1000
other memorials of the departed, more or less dilapilated.
	In 1780, the county gentlemen erected a handsome Doric column,
to commemorate the virtues of Charles Duke of Queensberry; this
monument stands in Queensberry Square, an open space near the
center of the town. Not far from this, and awkwardly placed in the
middle of the High Street, is the Mid Steeple, the work of the famous
architect, Inigo Jones. In this structure are the chambers where the
Town-Council hold their meetings. Opposite to it, on the east side of
the street, is the Trades' Hall, an unpretending, but chaste build-
ing, erected in 1804, for the public meetings of the seven incorpo-
rated trades, to be noticed below. The Court-house is an elegant
and commodious structure, wherein the circuit and sheriff-courts,
the quarter session and the county meetings are held. Opposite
to this stands a heavy-looking building, which was at first intended
for a court-house, but is now converted into a Bridewell, the in-
terior of which is arranged on the same plan with that of Edin-
burgh, but on so small a scale, that it is thought, from the faci-
lity with which the prisoners can hold intercourse with one an-
other, to be very ill adapted for a place of confinement. Behind
this, in a low damp yard, and surrounded by a high wall, is
situated the county Jail, which, along with the Bridewell, was built
in 1807. Previously to that period, the jail was the centre of
the town. A vaulted passage under the street, forms a communi-
cation between the prison-yard and the court-house. The debtors
have the liberty of exercising themselves within the enclosed yard.
A very handsome suite of Assembly-rooms was lately erected in
George Street.
	There are in Dumfries two meeting-houses belonging to the unit-
ed Secession Church; a Cameronian, a Relief, an Independent,
and a Methodist Meeting-house; an Episcopalian Chapel, a Ro-
man Catholic Chapel, and a Theatre. The Cameronian, and one


