
                  KILLARROW AND KILMENY.	               671

60,000 gallons among them. The whisky of the island being
very much famed for its fine quality, commands the highest price
in the market.
   Fishing.-There are no regular fisbings in this parish. Salmon
and all kinds of white fish are abundant on the coast.  Fishing,
however, has never been carried on as a trade; but Mr Campbell
is now treating for letting the salmon fishings.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The stipend is L.150, with L.5 for com-
munion elements, in Bowmore. That of the minister of Kilmeny
parliamentary church, is L.120. There are also quoad sacra par-
liamentary churches at Oa and Portnahaven, endowed with the
usual stipend of L.120.
   The manse was built about the beginning of the present century.
It is a comfortable bouse and in good repair.
   Education.-There is a parochial school in Bowmore, and a
parliamentary school in Kilmeny parish. Two Gaelic Society
schools are at present in Bowmore parish. There is a female
school near Bridgend, to the teacher of which, besides accommo-
dations, Mrs Campbell of Islay gives a salary of L. 12 per annum.
There are, besides, about a dozen of adventure schools through-
out the parishes, almost all of them ofa temporary nature, notgene-
rally taught during summer months, and generally inefficient.
Two permanent additional schools are much required. The pa-
rochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary. Schoolmaster fees
about L.25 per annum. House and glebe worth about L. 12.
The teacher is also session-clerk; and Mr Campbell of Islay has
allowed him, in addition to salary, a Gratuity of L.9, 7s. 4d. per
annum. The salary of the parliamentary schoolmaster of Bally-
grant, parish of Kilmeny, is L.35 per annum.
   Poor.--The average number of poor is 45. Thirteen of them
have as nearly as possible an average of 2s. per week, and the re-
maining 32 occasional poor may be said to have about L.20 a-
year dispensed among them. Average annual amount of con-
tributions, about L.70; from church collebtions, about L.60;
from legacies, L.10. Mr Campbell of Islay, when the session
are short of funds, supplies what meal or money is required for
the poor.

  April 1843.


