
                  TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                      455

By the present arrangement, he is frequently obliged, in order to
meet the Martinmas demand, to thrash out a greater quantity of
grain than would be requisite for procuring the necessary fodder
for his cattle.  The straw before being used, is thus rendered
much less valuable, and the grain, more especially in late seasons,
is carried to market in a state of damp, which renders it unfit for
shipping.  In like manner, should the spring prove unfavouralble,
he is often obliged to prepare for the Whitsunday rent by selling
his cattle at a time when, owing to want of keep, the prices are
low; whereas, by making the rents payable at Candlemas and
Lammas, both these evils would be obviated ; and this additional
advantage would likewise be gained, that, as servants' wages are
due at Martinmas and Whitsunday, the burdens of the farmer
would be better divided over the year.
   There is an Agricultural Association, comprehending all the pa-
rishes within the, district of Alford, which has been established for
several years.  It is warmly supported by the landed proprietors;
and Lord Forbes, the president, with his son, the Master of Forbes,
has evinced a deep interest in its success.  It is not one of the
least of the good effects of such Associations, that landlord and
tenant are thus brought into friendly contact with each other, and
the bond of union, which is so essential to the prosperity of both,
greatly strengthened.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Towns.-Aberdeen is our principal market-town, and
is twenty-six and a-half miles distant from the bridge of Forbes,
where the turnpike-road enters this parish.  A considerable quan-
tity of lime is brought from the quarries at Ardonald and Grange,
The former is about eighteen miles distant, and the latter nearly
twenty and the road to both passes through Huntly ; but almost
the whole of the grain is carried to Aberdeen.  During the winter
and spring months, there is a monthly market, in the neighboring
parish of Alford, for this and fat cattle, which is well attended.
Two stated fairs for cattle of all descriptions are held annually
during the summer at the same place.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office near the
bridge, where the Mail-gig arrives daily about three hours after
leaving Aberdeen.  The Lord Forbes stage-coach runs the one
day to Aberdeen and returns the next.  Very considerable addi-
tions have been made to the Bridge-Inn this season, which, when
completed, will render it one of the most comfortable to be met


