

212      		  DUMBARTONSHIRE.

pasture of sheep and cattle. The three most elevated parts of its
surface vary between 500 and 1000 feet above the level of the sea,
which are the highest part of the little range of hills on the west,
commonly called Mount Misery, Duncryne or Duncruin, in the cen-
tre, and the elevation towards Dumbarton moor on the south.  The
western range begins at Balloch,in Bonhill, on the south, and extends
northward to Ross along the south-east shore of Lochlomond; and
is, at the highest part, about 900 feet in elevation. The part on
the north end, which belongs to Mrs Macdonald Buchanan, is
mostly planted with larch, oak, &c., but the rest is unplanted.
From the summit of Mount Misery, there is to be had an exten-
sive and splendid view. Toward the south, are to be seen the
vale of Leven, with the numerous public works along, its classic
stream, the town and castle of Dumbarton, and part of Clyde and
Renfrewshire; on the west, in the distance, the lofty hills of
Cowal, in Argyleshire, rising beyond those of Cardross, Row,
and Roseneath; and the extensive and apparently continuous
range along the west side of Lochlomond, in Luss and Arrochar,
crowned at the north end by the lofty Benlomond, and in the
same direction the intervening lake, interspersed with its many
wooded islands; on the north-east, Benledi in Perthshire; and
closer at hand, the hills of Buchanan, with the river Endrick
intervening, and meandering through the plain along the woods
and pleasure grounds around Buchanan House; and on the east,
and toward the south, the greater part of Strathendrick, with the
Ochill, Fintry, Killearn, Strathblane, Campsie, and Kilpatrick
hills, along the horizon. The hill which I would next no-
tice is Duncryne. Its original orthography was Duncruin, being
composed of dun, signifying hill, and cruin, round; and it was pro-
bably thus named from its round or conical shape. It stands in
the very centre of the parish, and is a conspicuous, beautiful, and
rather a fantastic object. It rises rapidly from the plain on the
west and north sides, to the height of about 450 feet, and, on the
isouth-east, it is only about 250 feet high, whence there is a gradual
descent to the plain extending for about a quarter of a mile. The
area of the base on which it stands seems to contain about two
acres, from which it gradually tapers to the summit, till it contains
only about two roods of surface, which is pretty level. The
ascent is rendered easy by means of pathway approaching the
bill from the north-west, and winding along the north, east,
and south, till it reaches the top, on the west. It is most-


