
                      ROSENEATH.                           119

   The Easter House, formerly the seat of the ancestors of the
present Ducal family, of the house of Argyle, is remarkable for
its position, from the magnificence of its back-ground, and the
yew avenue, with its parallel of lofty limes extending to the church
-a grouping, which excites very much the admiration of strangers.
   Besides, there have been, within the last twenty years, erected
throughout the parish, chiefly on the Gareloch, a considerable
number of villas and cottages, which, if not distinguished for ar-
chitectural elegance, generally occupy situations which command
most interesting prospects of the surrounding scenery.
   Maps, &c.-There have been very minute maps, plans, and
surveys recently made for the respective land-owners; but there are
no letters or documents existing which particularly illustrate the
history and antiquity of the parish. The sessional records do
not extend back above seventy years, and have not been regularly
or fully kept. A pretty correct list of the births, marriages, and
deaths has been kept for the last twenty years.
   There are regular half-yearly meetings of the heritors and kirk-
session for the distribution of poor's-money; and notices of these
have been regularly engrossed, in a separate volume, for the last half
century.
   Heritors.--There are only four heritors in the parish: The
Duke of Argyle; his Grace's brother, Lord John Campbell; Co-
lin Campbell, Esq. of Pealton; and Dugald Cumming, Esq. of
Baremman. The last only is resident in the parish.
   Eminent Persons, &c.--Respecting various members of the
Argyle family, whose names are honourably associated with their
country's history, reference might be made to the public records,
since none of the events in which they bore so conspicuous a part
happened here, or are especially connected with this locality,--it
being uncertain, besides, whether any of them were natives of this
parish; yet, as it seems to have been a favourite residence with
one of these illustrious men, the Marquis of Argyle, a notice of
his character may be inserted from one of the historians of his
own age.
   "He was a man of singular piety, prudence, authority, and elo-
quence; and though he had been much envied and calumniated,
yet his death did abundantly vindicate him. He left his desolate
family upon the Lord's providence and the King's uncertain favour.
As he was a very great support to the work of reformation, so it
was buried with him in one grave for many a year."


