
102              KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

              "When the mist creeps up the hill,
               Fisher out and try your skill :-
               When the mist begins to nod,
               Fisher then put past your rod."

  Botany.--Few plants, in an economical point of view, are
worthy of notice.  Chair-bottoms and mats were once formed of
the bull-rushes that fringe Loch Ken.  Quantities of teh Vacci-
nium oxycoccos, or cranberry, are still gathered from the bogs, and
the fruit of the wild bullace tree (Prunus insititia) froms an ex-
cellent preserve.  The brake or bracken, though not abundant,
is occasionally employed as litter for cattle.  Though the bota-
nist traversse the whole parish, he will find no great variety of
plants to reward his labour.  A few of the more interesting flowers,
however, may here be mentioned.  The pale butterwort (Pinguicula
lusitanica), never found on the east coast of Scotland, is plentifully
scattered over the moors.  Pyrola minor (lesser wintergreen) is found
on on spot alone on the Garple.  The densely matted foliage of
the water lobelia (Lobelia Dortmanna) often forms a green carpet
at the bottom of the upland lakes.  This singular aquatic, with
its pale blue flowers, must yield in beauty to the white lily and
water crowfoot, which, in the summer months, here expand their
blossoms in great profusion.  In addition to these, we may simply
name the following:  Solanum Dulcamara, woody nightsh`de or
bitter-sweet; Utricularia vulgaris, greater bladder-worth; Circoea
Lutetiana, common enchanter's nighshade; Viburnum Opulus,
common guelder-rose; Lythrum Salicaria, spiked purple loose-
strife; Alisma ronunculoides, lesser water plantain; Meum atha-
manticum, meu or bald-money; Briza media, common quaking
grass; Rumex alpinus, alpine dock or monk's rhubarb.  Roses,
geraniums, and saxifrages also abound.
  The plantations seldom exceed ten or twelve acres in any one
place, being mostly confined to small isolated spots.  The soil is
well calculated for the growth of trees, especially of oak and ash.
A few noble specimens of the silver fir were overturned at Bar-
scobe by the hurricane of January 1839.  They were of great
age, and had attained an uncommon size.  A solitary ash tree of
a peculiar shape has long flourished at Kollochy.  It is seen from
every point of the compass at a distance of many miles, and is
known by the name of the "Daffin-tree."  Probably it was so
called from the natives in former days assembling there for amuse-
ment, and, like the inhabitants in Goldsmith's Deserted Village,
"leading out their sports beneath the spreading tree."


