
404			   DUMFRIE-SHIRE.

	The above camp remained from 1810, when it was first disco-
vered, till a few years ago, just as I have described it, and was vi-
sited by many; but I regret to add that it is now much injured by
the proprietors having allowed it to be ploughed up order to
obtain a few crops previous to its being laid down in pasture. Had
be planted it, it might have been equally productive, and the ve-
nerable relict of Roman residence kept sacred. *
	There are two circles of stones on the farm of Coatt, in the
form of Druidical temples, the one entire, measuring about 90 feet
in circumference, the other having a part worn away by the water,
measuring about 340 feet. +
	In my former Account of the parish, having mentioned the tra-
dition of a fair said to have been held at the meeting of the White
and Black Esks at the foot of the parish, where the singular
custom of hand-fasting was observed,++ and having then endea-
voured to account for the origin of that custom, I shall here trans-
cribe another extract from Mr Maxwell's letter to me, before re-
ferred to, as illustrative of the subject. " No account can be
given of the period at which the custom of hand-fasting com--


<FOOTNOTE>The following extract of a letter from the late John Maxwell, Esq. of Broom-
holm, dated 15th April 1796, merits preservation. It was written when Castle O'er
was supposed to be the true Overbie of the Romans, but is equally applicable to the
camp at Raeburnfoot. " It is a fact sufficiently established, that Netherbie was a
Roman town, and a principal station, and likewise that the work at Burrance in the
parish of Middlebie was a considerable Roman station, and it has always been believed
that Overbic or Castle O'er was a third; these three standing at the points of a great
triangle. Roads of communication made after the Roman manner have been com-
pletely traced between Netherbie and Middlebie, and between Netherbie and Overbie.
And not only the vestiges of the last mentioned line of road, but, in many places, parts
of the road may still be seen entire, and several Roman coins have been found scat-
tered along the line, particularly a gold coin which I have seen in the possession of the
deceased Matthew Little, merchant in Langholm, which was found in the small holm,
on the south-east of Wauchope bridge, through which the road passed. It was a de-
narius aurius and an Otho, a very scarce coin. I myself found six of these denarii aurii
upon the farm of Broomholm, through which the road passes and shews itself in a very
perfect state. Three of them were Neros, two Vespasians, and one Domitian, all in
perfect preservation. They are now in possession of Lady Douglas of Douglas. As
the road where these were found goes up the Esk to Overbie, I am still strongly in-
clined to think Overbie a Roman station, notwithstanding its oval form:" The au-
thor of this-report, long after receiving the above letter, saw another denarius aurius in
the possession of the late Mr John Russell, minister of Canobie, which had been turn-
ed up by tbe plough on the glebe. It was inperfect preservation,and is, he believes,
in the possession of Mr Russell's daughter, Mrs Wigham.
           For farther account of the antiquities of this parish, see MS.
           The custom is thus described in the former Statistical Account: " At that fair,
it was the custom for unmarried persons of both sexes to choose a companion accord-
ing to their liking, with whom they were to live till that time next year. This was
called hand-fasting, or hand in fist. If they were pleased with each other at that
time, then they continued together for life; if not, they separated, and were free to
make another choice, as at the first."


