
                            TRANENT.                             297

cast iron segments are then carefully placed on it, and a thin piece
of fir-wood is put betwixt every joint. After all the segments re-
quired are built round the sides of the pit, and the whole kept
down by a building of stone above, wedges are driven into the
joints of the segments until the whole is made perfectly water tight;
the water being thus prevented from getting out of the porous
strata and escaping down the pit. In former times, this was at-
tained more rudely by casing the pit with wood; behind which, fine
clay was carefully paddled.
   From the numerous old coal pits in the western parts of the pa-
rish, and the breadth and number of the roads in that direction,
it is probable that the greater part of the supply of coals for
Edinburgh, was derived from this quarter in former times.
   Fisheries.-The inhabitants of the villages of Cockenzie and
Portseton, amounting to about 700, are almost wholly engaged in
fishing. Their boats are all open, without any deck, but of the finest
construction, and the largest class: they are suited for the more
distant fishings, and are calculated to stand a very heavy sea.
   During the winter, the fishermen are employed for the supply
of the Edinburgh and Glasgow markets, in dredging oysters opposite
their village, and in catching cod, whitings, flounders, &c. either
within the Frith of Forth, or sometimes on the Marr, a bank thirty
miles to the east of St Abb's Head.
   In spring, a number of the men go to the whale-fishing in the
ships from the Frith of Forth, and the north of England; in which
employment, many of them have distinguished themselves as the
most dexterous harpooneers. A few years ago, several of the men
endured all the rigors of a Polar winter, the ships having been en-
circled with ice in Baffin's Bay. Their sufferings were dreadful, but
the vessels were providentially drifted along many hundred miles
of coast to the open sea,-where the sailors had the joy of meeting
the ships which were sent out early in the season, in order to render
them assistance; and it is remarkable that, so far from the suffer-
ings of their friends having the effect of deterring any from this
dangerous employment, a young man volunteered to go in one of
the earliest vessels to search for his relatives, and he had the inex-
pressible delight of being in the first boat that boarded the ship in
which were his father and others connected with him. The con-
duct of the Cockenzie sailors during their long night of almost hope-
less darkness, was most praiseworthy: they devoted a portion of


