
634                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

posited in the hands of one of the heritors of the parish, who
failed, and paid only at the rate of 3s. a pound.  No assessment
has as yet been imposed on tire parish for relief of the poor; but
something, it is presumed, must soon be done for the support of
an overgrown class of paupers.
   There are on the skirts of the parish two Dissenting congre-
gations; the one consisting of the United Associate Seceders,
the other of the Original Burgher Associate Synod.  Both fire
mostly made up from neighbouring parishes. *

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the last Statistical Account was written, not only the
population has greatly increased, but the land rents have advanced
from about L.1100 to about L.3000, and, I believe, from good
authority, they are more punctually paid; while most of the farm-
houses have been rebuilt, enlarged, and improved, and the office-
houses are on a much better plan.  A considerable extent of the
fields is inclosed with stone dikes and improved; turnpike and
parochial roads have been made and are kept in good repair; stage-
coaches pass and repass daily.  Many acres of moory and marshy
ground, that were useless and even offensive, are now producing
remunerating crops of corn, grass, and trees of various kinds.

   Revised May 1842.

                        PARISH OF OYNE. +

             PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                 THE REV. DAVID SIMSON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of this parish is, in some old papers, written
Oyen, but now generally Oyne, and is pronounced Een.  Its ori-
gin is doubtful, but it is thought by some to be derived from the
same Celtic word at Inch, and to denote a place having a resem-
blance, to an island or a peninsula, an opinion which is very plau-
sible, as the parish is bounded by the river Don on the southern

<FOOTNOTE>The latter has now joined the Established Church, and their clergyman is a
member of Presbytery.
          Drawn up by the Rev. Alexander Cushny, Minister of Rayne, son of the late
incumbent.


