
                       ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.	     		937

most irreclaimable.  Within the last few years, the tract of country
along the line of the great road to Carlisle presents to the eye of
the traveller hundreds of acres bearing rich crops, where he for-
merly saw nothing but cheerless unproductive moss.  Similar im-
provements have taken place in situations less open to general ob-
servation ; and although a very large proportion of the Upper
Ward is still unconscious of the plough, as being better adapted
to pasture than to tillage, and in many places, indeed, so hope-
lessly bleak, as to forbid all attempts of the agriculturist, the pro-
portion is certainly considerably less than Naismith estimates it.
It is owing to the elevation, however, rather than the soil, that so
large a portion of this Ward is kept in pasture.  Even where
tillage has not been attempted, the pasture lands have been greatly
improved by surface-draining, which is now almost universal in the
moorland districts; and in some of the highest and wildest parts
of the county, the verdant spots that here and there give indica-
tion of their former cultivation as croft-land, and the parks, browsed
by thriving cattle, and fields bearing good crops of corn, near the
farm-houses, prove what might yet be done in reclaiming waste
lands, and hold out the most tempting inducements to farther im-
provement.  It is impossible to travel over the wide tracts of moor,
in a great proportion of which a soil naturally good is left com-
paratively useless through neglect, without regretting that landlord
and tenant were not more alive to their mutual interests in improv-
ing it; that the enterprize and industry of the farmer were not
more stimulated by the fostering encouragement of the proprietor.
The improvements might be gradually carried on with but little
annual outlay; and although it would be, in many instances, a
mere waste of industry and means to attempt to convert it into a
corn country;--by draining marshy ground, turning it up with the
plough, quickening it with lime, and after taking a crop or two,
sowing it down with the best kinds of perennial grasses, sound and
nutritive pasture might be brought to cover and beautify vast
tracts, that now lie in the most cheerless, unprofitable, and un-
seemly state.  Let only a little be done on each moorland farm in
this way annually--a due premium or allowance being made to the
tenant--and what a change might within a short time be made in
the appearance and value of the country!
   The quality of the soil does not always correspond with the
elevation.  In the highest parts of the Upper Ward, the soil is, in
some places, particularly fertile.  As the most solid bodies, when


