
             	  DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                       985

	There was another small chapel, called the Red Chapel, not
far from St Ninians, built on the top of the eminence east of the
town called the Hillhead, which was dedicated to St Jerome.
The chapel was principally erected for the inhabitants of Fun-
gorth. The building is now levelled; but its site is enclosed by a

rtone wall. From the name of the saint, the people of Fungorth are
ludicrously called to this day Jorums.
	Monuments.--In the vestibule of the choir is an ancient monu-
ment of the Wolf of Badenoch, in a recumbent position, clad in
armour, witb a lion at his feet. Round the stone plate is the fol-
lowing inscription: "Hic jacet Alexander Senescalus, filius Ro-
berti Regis Scotorum et Elizabethe More, Dominus de Buchan
et Dns. de Badenoch, qui obit vigessimo quarto die Julii." The
rest of the inscription is awanting. The words in Italics, are cut
on a different kind of stone, and recently added. The statue
stood in the ancient choir, and that part of the inscription may
have been broken off at the Reformation, in 1560, or, in 1689,
by the soldiery. The sculptor, however, has given a wrong date:
the Wolf died 20th February 1394. This personage was the ce-
lebrated Alister More Mac an Righ, the third son of Robert II.,
and better known by the name of the Wolf of Badenoch.  He
appears to have been a sort of Rob Roy in his day, and consider-
ed it no sin to plunder church lands. He was excommunicated
by the Bish6p of Moray, on account of some predatory outrage
against his ecclesiastical possessions. The Earl, however, reta-

four, he was readmitted in 1610.--Lord Hailes's Catalogue of Lords of Sess. p. 12,
note 45. In 1603, he attended King James to England.--Spot. Hist. of the Ch. of
Scot. p. 476, where he was naturalized.--Keith.
	3. James Nicolson. He was Parson of Meigle, and was chosen to preside in the
Assembly which met at Linlithgow in 1606.--Calderwood,. p.552. He was called
to Court, for agreeing with the contentions of the clergy, He died 1607.
	4. Alexander Lindsay, parson of St Madoes, succeeded. He was deposed for ma-
lignancy in 1638.--Acts of Assembly. It appears that he next year abjured Epis-
copacy, and accepted his former cliarge of St Madoes--Unprinted Acts of Assembly,
1639.
	5. George Haliburton, minister of Perth, was appointed Bishop of Dunkeld by
Charles II, in 1662. He died in 1664.
	6. Henry Guthrie, was minister at Stirling, but deposed "for malignancy," in
1648.--His own Memoirs, p. 299. After the Restoration he was again admitted to
the office of the ministry, and became Bishop of Dunkeld in 1665.
	7. William Lindsay, minister at Perth, was consecrated to this see in 1677, and
died in 1679.
	8. Andrew Bruce, Archdeacon of St Andrews, was advanced to the bishoprick of
Dunkeld on the death of William lindsay, and was ejected in 1686, for his opposi-
tion to the measures of the Court. In the year following, "his Majesty's dispensa-
tion," says Keith, p. 180, "was issued to Dr Bruce, late Bishop of Dunkeld, for ex-
ercising thd nffice of the ministry." Keith adds not unnaturally." A sight strange
paper truly I" ln the year 1688, he was appointed bishop of Orkney.
	9. John Hamilton, son to John Hamilton, who was Arcbishop of St Andrews at
the time of the Reformation. This prelate survived the Revolution, and died one of
the miniters of Edinburgh, and subdean of tbe Chapel Royal.


