
                              UNST.                          51

of the parishioners as choose, have it in their power to become
members at any time. It has succeeded very well, and consists
of about 300 volumes of religious and historical books.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are about 70 poor peo-
ple constantly on the roll. They receive from 5s. to 10s.
per annum, to help to purchase clothes. They are lodged and
victualled by a certain number of the people, fixed upon by the
kirk-session, who keep them in their houses a certain number of
days, in rotation, in proportion to the number of merks of land
they occupy; and they are generally well treated. Some of the
poor have small houses built for them by their friends, in which
they live, and the people amongst whom they are quartered send
in to them part of such provisions as they have for themselves,
and, in this respect, they shew much kindness, for we seldom hear
that the poor are in want of necessary food.
  The ordinary church collections amount to about L. 30 per
annum, and a demand for an extraordinary contribution does not
frequently occurs. But when it does, and a collection is called for
in aid of any individual case of distress, it is as liberal as could be
looked for, considering the circumstances of the people, and no
other mode of procuring funds for the support of the poor has hi-
therto been found necessary. It is, however, much to be regretted,
that there appears no disposition among the poor to refrain from
seeking parochial relief. So far from considering it degrading, they
express the greatest earnestness to have their names placed upon
the roll, when they have the slightest pretence for making the re-
quest, and when a "quarter" becomes vacant, by the death of a
pauper, there are always immediate applications for iL. It is hoped,
that, as the minds of the people become more enlarged by a
Christian education, they will assume a more independent spirit.
  Public-Houses, &c.- There is no house in this parish which can be
properly called an inn; but the kindness and hospitality of the people
are such, that a stranger can never be at a loss, and there are two
houses in the neighbourhood of Uyea Sound, kept by shop-keep-
ers, where wayfaring men will find very comfortable lodgings. There
are seven licensed retailers of spirits, ale and porter, in this island.
Some of these are of too respectable characters, to allow of any im-
proprieties in their houses; but there are others who retail liquors,
and some of them without license, who are a nuisance in their neigh-

<FOOTNOTE>That district or number of Houses, fixed upon by the, kirk-session, for the main-
tenance of a pauper, is called a "quarter."


