
				LAIRG.                             65

	schoolmaster has the legal accommodations. His salary is L.34,
	4s. 4 1/2d., and this, with school-fees, (which average L.8, 10s. per
	annum,) makes his yearly income only L.42, 14s. 4 1/2d.
	   Poor.-The poor of the parish are comparatively well provided
	for. The yearly collections are indeed small, not exceeding L.12;
	but the Duchess of Sutherland makes a yearly allowance to the
	poor of all the parishes in which she has property: and the poor of
	Lairg have, besides, an annuity of L.25, being the interest of
	L.150 left to tWm by Captain H. Mackay, above-mentioned.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	   On the difference between the present state of the parish, and
	its state at the time of the last Statistical Account, it is unneces-
	sary to enlarge. The change producedon the condition of the
	people by the introduction of sheep-farming has been already no-
	ticed,-a change which, though for the time it subjected the
	people to very serious inconvenience, is now showing its salutary
	effects in the increased industry of the population. In proof of
	this, we need only refer to the improvements so rapidly going on
	in those parts of the parish possessed by the tenantry.
	   It may here be observed, that nothing would tend more to ex-
	tend these improvements, than iving the people increased facili-
	ties for obtaining lime. To accomplish this object, the people
	should be assisted in working the lime quarries found in this pa-
	rish; nor can we doubt, from the enlightened management of the
	country, that this assistance will soon be afforded. We may far-
	ther recommend, as a grand means for enlarging the minds and im-
	proving the morals of the people, the establishment of a parish li-
	brary. The inhabitants, and especially the young, have a taste for
	reading, and would eagerly avail themselves of such an institution.
	For the awakening of this taste, they have been principally indebted
	to their present parochial teacher; an individual who has laboured
	for years not merely to communicate the dry husks of mechanical
	learning, but to enlighten the mind, and thus improve the character.

	November 1834.

         SUTHERLAND.


