
                           LOGIERAIT.                   697

creasing every year.  When first introduced, the second cutting
was much more luxiriant than the first at present, and even a
third cutting was on good land often obtained.
     Distilleries.--There are six distilleries at work in the parish.
The consumption is about 32,565 bushels of malt yearly, from
which there are distilled 65,087 gallons of spirits, paying a net
duty to Government (before the late addition) of L.8678, 5s. 4d.
It deserves to be stated, in fairness, that the result of late inqui-
ries as to the interference of these distilleries with the sanctification
of the Sabbath, was very creditable to the Christian feeling of the
several parthers; and that the near neighbourhood of distilleries
does slightly affect the morals of the parish, but, owing to some
regulation, less, on the whole, than might have been supposed.
Edinburgh and Dundee, and occasionally Glasgow, are the markets
to which the spirits are chiefly sent; but an increasing quantity is
now consumed in Perth and Perthshire.  The duty on malt is
not included in the above estimate of the revenue paid to Govern-
ment.  At the time when the inquiries were directed to the dis-
tilleries, the duty on malt was 2s. 7d. per bushel, and on spirits
2s. 8d. per gallon.  The whole malt is distilled within the parish,
and the malt duty is to be estimated with the drawback.  About
one-third of the barley consumed is the produce of the parish.
                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Villages.--The village of Logierait, near the church, contains
a population of about 150 persons, and the portion of Aberfeldy
which belongs to this parish may contain nearly 300.  The village
of Logierait is almost ruinous, and the only relic of its former very
considerable importance is an annual fair on the 22nd of August.
Western Aberfedly is improved with a number of excellent new
houses and shops.
     Means of Communication.--Strathtay has the convenience of
an excellent turnpike road.  At Logierait, the communications with
this road is by two ferries, one on the Tay, and the other on the
Tummel.  These ferries connect the Strathray roas with the great
road to Inverness on the north, and with that to Breadalbane
(from Dunkeld) on the south.  There are good ferry-boats.  That
on the Tummel is of novel construction, adapted by the artist and
inventor, Mr James Frazer, mill-wright, Dowally, to the charac-
ter of the river.  It is a fly-bridge, consisting of two boats placed
along-side of each other, at the distance of a few feet, and con-
necting amid-ships by platform, moveable on pivots, placed over








































































se



