
                         WESTERKIRK.                 435

the mother church. Adam de Glendonyng mortified, in 1391,
some lands in the barony of Hawick for the support of this chap-
lainry, for the safety of the souls of James, late Earl of Douglas,
and Sir James Simon of Glendonyng, his brother-in-law; also, for
his own soul, Margaret his wife, and their children. Bartholomew
de Glendonyng, grandson of the granter, took orders in the church,
and was presented to the chapel; but Andrew, the Bishop of
Glasgow, deprived him of his charge, in 1459, on account of non-
residence.
	The church was built in 1788; it is in excellent repair, and
may contain nearly 700 sitters. It is very centrically placed,--the
farthest distance being five miles. The number of communicants
is 170. The manse was built in 1783, and substantially repaired,
along with the office houses, in 1821. The glebe contains twenty
acres of good arable ground, and is well enclosed. The stipend,
as augmented in 1820, is 14 chalders, half meal, half barley, at the
highest fiar prices of the county,--with the pasturage of 44 sheep
on the neighbouring farm of Hertohill.
	There is not a Dissenting meeting-house in this parish; and the
number of Dissenters is, 14 Burghers, who attend a chapel at
Langholm, and 2 Cameronians, who occasionally hear sermon at
Ettrick.
	Education.--There is only one parochial school.--with the maxi-
mum salary, and the legal accommodations. The branches of in-
struction taught are, English, writing, arithmetic, geography, Latin,
and Greek. The average number attending the school in summer
is from 40 to 45, and in winter 70. The school is centrically pla-
ced, and there is no need of an additional one. The probable
amount of school fees received may vary from L. 21 to L. 22.
There is also, a small school kept by a woman, who teaches En-
glish and sewing. At the village of Jamestown, where the miners
and their families formerly resided, sometimes a school is opened
for the winter months. The people are alive to the benefits of
education; and there is a visible change in their conduct and
morals since the facilities of education were increased. There is
not an individual betwixt six and fifteen years of age who cannot
read and write.
	Literature.--In the year 1795, a library was instituted in this
parish, which contains many valuable works, several of which were
presented by the late Mr Telford, civil-engineer. So much was
he impressed with the advantages arising from select libraries, that
he bequeathed to this library the handsome sum of L. 1000, the


