
92			BUTESHIRE.

		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market.--There is no market-town in the parish. In the year
1703, James, first Earl of Bute, obtained a charter from the Crown
for the erection of the burgh of regality of Mountstuart; granting
thereto power to deal in merchandise, and to carry on handicraft
trades, to have a weekly market, and three annual fairs, and to
erect free ports and harbours; and conferring on it all other privi-
leges enjoyed by burghs of regality. The provisions of that char-
ter, however, were not carried into effect; the thriving royal
burgh of Rothesay, with its commodious harbour, in the neighbour-
hood, probably offering most of the advantages contemplated from
the proposed erection of a new market-town, and port. Rothe-
say is now the market-town for the parish, distant six miles from
the parish church.
	The villages are, Kerrycroy, consisting of a few neatly built
house at the bay of Scoulag; and Kilchatan-bay, so-called from
its being situated in the bay of that name, and which contains fifty
inhabited houses.
	Means of Communication.--There are no public means of com-
munication betwixt the parish and Rothesay; and that burgh be-
ing the nearest post-town, the want of a post-office is felt to be a
great inconvenience. There are no turnpikes, but the roads are
good, and adapted for carriages of all descriptions. The bridges
are sufficient; and the fences are attende to. There is a wharf
at Kilchatan Bay, for lading and unlading small craft; and also
at Scoulag Bay. The former is about to receive considerable en-
largement, demanded by the rapid increase of agricultural produce
exported from  this quarter.
	Ecclesiastical Stater.--The parish church is conveniently situat-
ed, four miles distant from the northern extremity of the parish,
and two miles and a-half from the southern. It was built in the
year 1826. It has accommodation for 600 persons. All the sit-
tings are free; and ample space remains for accommodating an in-
crease of population. The manse and offices were built in the year
1769. They were last repaired in the year 1833, and are in a
comfortable state. The glebe contains nearly 11 acres imperial, and
has been valued at L. 12 per annum. The minister's stipend con-
sists of 47 5/7 6/2 ?? bolls imperial of meal; and 10 quarters 6 1/6 8/2 bush-
els imperial of bear; and L. 148, 6s. 7 8/18d. money. The last
augmentation of the stipend took place in the year 1814. The
teinds are exhausted. There is no place of worship but the pa-
				4


