
                            COCKPEN.                              607

thick, excepting only one, which is of no less than 7 feet in thick-
ness. The rocks betwixt which the beds of coal are deposited,
are sandstone and limestone of from 6 or 7 to 14 feet in thickness,
and very little inclined, only from 1 to 3 1/2 degrees. It is expected
soon to reach a bed of fine splint coal, which is computed to be
5 1/2 feet thick.
   The parish is traversed, within a mile of its south boundary, by
the river South Esk, flowing from south-west to north-east. The
river flows within a few a yards of Dalhousie Castle, a venerable
structure built in the twelfth century, and which a few years
ago, received such additions and improvements by its eminent
proprietor, the late Earl of Dalhousie, as render it a truly
noble structure. Dalhousie-burn also, a fine stream, passes be-
tween Dalhousie Grange and the manse, within 200 yards of each
of them, and falls into the South Esk half a-mile to the eastward.
The North Esk also touches Cockpen parish on the north, and
forms there the boundary between it and Lasswade. The South
Esk, after leaving Dalhousie Castle, passes close by the romantic
place where Cockpen House stood, the mansion of the Laird of
Cockpen, about a furlong to the east of Dalhousie Castle; and
then it passes the singularly beautiful Dalhousie garden, the fence
of the south side of which is formed entirely by the Esk's preci-
pitous sandstone bank. The beauty of the river's high banks, all
covered with wood, (oak, ash, birch, plane, thorn, elder, &c.) and
of the gardens so situated, is greatly admired. Trees of all kinds
seem to flourish on our clay soil, except the balm of Gilead firs.
These all die about their sixteenth or seventeenth year.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The late Earl of Dalhousie, who was eminent
in the military or civil service of his country, was born in this pa-
rish: and there at present reside in it John Craig, Esq. of Pres-
tonholm; and during the summer months, John Tod, Esq. of
Kirkhill, W. S. Besides these two, the parish is the property of
the following noblemen and gentlemen: the Right Honourable
the Earl of Dalhousie, who has nearly the half of the parish; the
Most Noble the Marquis of Lothian; Mrs Dundas of Polton;
Robert Dundas, Esq. of Arniston, each of whom possess nearly
one-sixth of the parish; and Robert Wardlaw Ramsay, Esq. of
Whitehill, who has only about 40 acres.
   Parochial Registers.-The register of marriages and baptisms
has, with a few exceptions, been regularly kept from the year 1695


