
                           AUCHTERGAVEN.                         449

L. 115, 9s. 63/4d. In the course of 1837, the kirk-session receiv-
ed the sum of L. 50 from the trustees of the late John Thomas,
coach-builder in Glasgow, bequeathed by him for the benefit of
the poor of this his native parish.  This money is at present de-
posited in the savings bank, and the interest is to be used in buy-
ing warm clothing for a few aged persons. There has never been
any assessment in this parish enforced by statutory enactment ;
and it will be obvious from the above statement, that were the
heritors resident, and did they attend the parish church, none
whatever would be required, as the small sum of about L. 30, vot-
ed at their annual meetingr according to their valued rent, is but
a fraction of what they would give in the course of the year, did
they and their families attend the parish church. The only heri-
tor resident in the parish at present is a Dissenter, and consequent-
ly contributes not one farthing towards the sum collected at the
church doors.  The spirit of independence by which Scotsmen
have been so eminently distinguished is far from being extinct here.
The villages at present absorb the whole of the monthly disburse-
ments except 7s. monthly to a blind man, and 3s. to a bed-ridden
old man in the landward part of the parish.
   Fairs.-An annual fair or market was once hold on the banks
of the Ordie, at a place called the Hole of Tulybelton, a beau-
tiful dell, at which many Highlanders attended to sell wool, cheese,
and butter, and other produce of their land and industry. This
market no longer exists; but there is still a fair held at Auchter-
gaven, on the second Friday of November, for cattle, sheep, and
general business.
   Public-Houses.-There are no fewer than twenty-six houses
within the bounds of the parish, licensed to sell "porter, ale, and
British spirits," a number altogether extravagant for the wants of
the inhabitants. In the Stanley district alone, there are twelve of
these houses, which is about one public-house for every thirty-one
families.  At least three-fourths of these are public nuisances,
and most hurtful to the morals of the inhabitants, as it is by them
chiefly that they are maintained.  These houses are not so prejudi-
cial in the other parts of the parish, as they are all on the turnpike
and other public roads in it: and are supported chiefly by tra-
vellers and carriers to and from the Highlands. Still they are
more numerous than  necessary. It is difficult to get rid of houses
of this description which have enjoyed a license any length of time,
unless some complaint be preferred against therm; but the justices
   PERTH.                         F f


