
GOLSPIE.                              33

extensive, and contaiDs a great many curious and interesting his-;
torical notices, relative to the counties of Sutherland and Caith-
ness, the highlands and islands, and the country at large.  Thei
author was Sir Robert Gordon, a younger son of the family of
Sutherland.  The work embraces the space of time between the
years 1031 and 1630,-and there is appended to it a Continuation,
by Gilbert Gordon of Sallacb, to the year 1651. It was printe  'd
in Edinburgh in 1813; and of the MS. there is another manuscript
copy in the Advocates' Library, in Edinlburgh.
Antiquities.-A portion of the wall of the old church, or chape4
of this parish still remains, and forms part of the fence which en-
closes the burying-ground formerly used.  This cemetery contains
the remains of many of the Earls of Sutherland, as signified by a
plain stone placed in the old church wall, bearing this epitaph,
In hoc diruto c&,meterio, Sutherlandiev plurimorum comitum cineres
conquiescunt." The church was transferred from Culinalie to Gol-
Spie, A. D. 1619.
In the former Statistical Account of the parish, there is notice
taken of the battle fought in .1746, on the north side of the Little
Ferry, between a party of those whosided with the invading prince
and the militia of this country; in which battle the Earl of Cro
marty and other gentlemen were made prisoners.  Of the sangui-
nary nature of this battle there remain. clear proofs. Several
skeletons of those who fell, and who were buried on the scene of
action, have of late been occasionally discovered.  Alongwith these,
there have been found a number of small copper -coins, and one of
silver,-all of Mary and James, together with some copper
brooches and some glass beads. Of Iliese articles, some are  now
at Dunrobin Castle, and others in the possession of Dr Ross of
Camusmore.  Among the latter, there is a copper ring encircled
with this inscription, rudely executed; 11 Jesm Nazarenus Rex
Judworum." The remains of swords and pistols' have also been
found.
Near the ruins of the old chapel, there were'lately dug up the
handle of a balance wit h so lights both brass, and
of neat and curious workmanship, and in very good preservation
They are supposed to have belonged to the old chapel.  These,
together with some thick rings of brass, wood, and other materials
in diameter from half an inch to one and abalf, found in the same'
vicinity, are now at Dunrobin Castle; and here also are two brass
rings, three inches in diameter, and a third of an inch thick, found
SUTHERLAND.                          C


