
616                     FIFESHIRE.

  The superficial accumulations are confined exclusively to dilu-
vial clay with boulders, river silt, and peat-moss. The first of
these entirely-overlies the true rock measures, from one end of the
parish to other.  It varies from six to fourteen feet in thick-
ness, is of a yellowish or blue tenacious clay, with boulders of all
sizes, from that of a pebble to blocks of several tons weight. These
consist chiefly of primitive greenstone, basalt, granite. syenite,
porphyry, gneiss, and other primordial rocks. They must, owe
their, origin to some very general and potent a . geneyi as none of
these rocks occur in situ within a,distance of eigty or ninety miles,
The transporting power seems to have been of long duration, and
to have flowed from the west north-west, or nearly so.
   On the south of the Dreel, this clay, from southern exposure
and long cultivation, has been superficially reduced to a fine loam,
capable of bearing a system. of cropping. To the north, it is still
to a certain degree cold and retentive; but from the system of
draining pursued, and careful rotation, it bids fair to rival the
southern division in fertility.
   Silt occurs along the valley of the Dreel, from where it enters
the parish to its junction with Carnbee Burn. Beyond this, the
united streams have cut for themselves a deep glen or gill, till
their waters fall into the Frith.  Before the erosion of this glen,
the valley must have formed a lake or swamp, into which debris,
was washed, which, in conjunction with i thd growth and decay
of aquatic plants, would form the present silt. So soon as the
drainage glen was sufficiently deep, the waters disappearing would
leave something similar to what we now, find, until rendered
thoroughly and permanently useful by human industry. This silt
is, in some places of great depth, is exceedingly fertile, and might
   During land-floods, the Dreel which rises in the high lands of
Carbee, still bring down a very considerable quantity of mud,
which, if any recipient hollow lay in its way, would still form ex-
tensive beds of silt
  In the north-west parts of parish,  and immediately west of
Grangemuir Houses, a peat-moss existed, which is now planted or
converted into arable land.  This deposit occupies the head of
the valley or swamp, the very place most favourable to the produc-
tion of those plants whose continual increase and decay went to
its formation. Fourteen years ago, when draining and digging this
moss for use, the inhabitants of the district frequently discovered


