
164                     BERWICKSHIRE.

both sexes, in which they are taught the elements of religious
knowledge. The children of one of these schools come regularly
to church, and seats are provided for them. They are thus pre-
vented from spending the Lord's day in idleness; and are accus-
tomed to the solemnities of public worship.
   Libraries.-There are two small libraries in the parish, the one
consisting of miscellaneous books, and the other of books of a re-
ligious character.
   Friendly Society.-A friendly society was instituted in the pa-
rish in 1812, the object of which is to afford pecuniary aid to sick
and aged members. The annual payment of each member is 7s. 6d.
Funeral expenses are also allowed to members and their widows.
There are seventy-four persons who now contribute to it, and its
funds, which are laid out at interest, amount to L. 400.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at present
receiving parochial aid is 34,-who receive at an average 2s. per
week. There are at present several heavy cases on the parish roll,
of persons having numerous families, and, of course, receiving more
than the ordinary allowance,-thus increasing the average sum.
Nineteen on the roll receive from 1s. to 1s. 6d. per week; but there
are other families, such as those just mentioned, who receive as
high as 4s. 5s. and 6s. per week. The sum required for the main-
tenance of the poor is raised by assessment on the landlords and
tenants, according to the valued rent, with the addition of the
church collections. For this purpose, meetings of the heritors
and kirk-session are held twice a-year. This parish is not ex-
empted from the peculiar disadvantages with respect to the poor,
to which border parishes are exposed. From the difficulty of ac-
quiring a legal settlement in England, many poor persons, after
having spent the greater part of their lives on the other side of
the Tweed, return, after an absence of twenty, thirty, or forty years,
and claim relief from the Scotch parish, where they resided for the
last three years before their removal to England. Instances of this
kind are of frequent occurrence. The English parishes are very
alert in removing persons to Scotland who may probably become
burdensome; but the Scots parishes have no such legal right of re-
moving paupers to England. The vicinity to England, where pa-
pers receive a more liberal allowance than in Scotland, has a bad
effect upon the poor,-rendering them dissatisfied with their allot-
ted pittance. They are continually referring to the more profuse
system of the former, country, and hinting at what persons in their
condition would receive there. That virtuous pride, which in for-


