
960                       FIFESHIRE.

As in days of other years, it consists chiefly of two parallel streets ex-
tending along the shore from east to west, intersected by others of
inferior note.  Many of the houses are large and of ancient appear-
ance, giving evidence of the grandeur of former days, when some of
the neighbouring proprietors of land had either their house in town,
or one to whuich the dowager might retire when the old laird died and
the son came into possession of the estate.  At one period the tho-
roughfares seem to have been considerably interrupted by houses
projecting upon them at right angles here and there; but these
have been mostly bought up by the corporation and removed; so
that there are very few towns of its size in which more spacious
streets are to be found.  These are now lighted with gas, and in ge-
neral kept very clean.  There was a royal residence within the town,
upon an elevation overlooking the present harbour, of which some 
vestiges still remain; but at what time it was erected, cannot now
be ascertained, nor by how many crowned heads it was occupied.
However, the historians of the day agree in admitting that David
the First lived in it about the beginning of the twelfth century.
Sibbald says he died here, but others maintain that he died at
Carlisle, where he had a residence as Duke of Cumberland, and
that the mistake arose in consequence of the similarity of names,
Carayl and Carlisle.
     It is not unlikely that this monarch or some his successors
might have been conferred some important privileges upon the town in
which he occasionally dwelt, but of that we have only this pre-
sumptive evidence, that when Robert the Bruce granted a charter
to the burgh, which is dated at Stirling 12th June 1310, he con-
firmed to the burgesses and community privileges which they had 
enjoyed under former kings, and exempted them from all jurisdic-
tion vicecomitis de Fife.  This charter, with several new grants,
was afterwards ratified by Robert II., Queen Mary, James VI.
and Charles I.  By the charters the privileges of the burgh,
extended not only over the town and common muir, but also from
the middle of the water of Leven to the water of Puttekin, (now
called Pitmilly burn), with a right to the fishings, tolls, anchorages,
&c. in all the harbours and creeks  within these bounds, being an
extent of coast of about twenty-five miles.  Yet, through all these
rights were confirmed by Charles L. in his deed executed at
Whitehall on the 20th April 1635, there seem to have been some
heartburnings excited, and a desire express by many to get free
from the jurisdiction of Crail long before the date.  For in 1587,



