

                           HOLME AND PNPLAY.                     223

     the black-fly, nor any other destructive insect.  It often grows to
     the size of 12 lb. or 1 4 lb.; and mor,6 than thirty tons have been pro-
     duced on an acre.
       Nor are the soil and climate less favourable to the production
     of the potato, which here has not yet been infested with the dis-
     ease called the curl, so frequently injurious to this root in the
     south; and where the soil is in good heart, it has yielded from
     thirty to forty fold.  The planting of this root is found to be the
     readiest way to bring waste and barren ground into tillage.
       No less peculiarly well qualified are the soil and climate for the
     production of the artificial grasses, red, white, and yellow clover.
     Rib and rye grass, with some other kinds have been cultivated most
     successfully for green food, while they have also yielded a plenti-
     ful quantity of bay.   From land that will produce luxuriant crops
     of the above roots and grasses, there may also be expected, under
     a proper mode of management, corresponding crops of those kinds
     of grain which have been found best adapted to the soil and cli-
     mate.  The observation may be extended to flax, which, as has
     been already stated, was for several years cultivated in this parish
     with great success, and the manufacture of which into-cloth fur-
     nisbed useful employment to female industry, which, at the pre-
     sent time, is much wanted.  The same observation may also be
     extended to hemp, to which the soil that produces flax may be
     presumed to be equally favourable.  The raising of it might also
     supply employment to several additional hands, in preparing and
     manufacturing it into, ropes, sails, and nets.
       About forty years ago, the common Orkney breed of cattle was
     the only kind generally reared in the parish.  But of late years
     this breed bad been considerably improved by the introduction of
     the West Highland or Dunrobin bull.  And a more considerable
     improvement is now expected by means of crosses with the Tees-
     water or short-horned breed.
       A bull of this breed was introduced here, about two years and
     a-half ago.  The calves of the first cross betwixt this bull and
     Orkney and Dunrobin cows advanced so quickly in size and con-
     condition, in the course of twelve months, that they were readily so
     at nearly L. 6 per head; a price which commonly was with diffi-
     culty obtained for the best Orkney and Dunrobin breed of
     four years old.  The introduction of the Teeswater breed, either
     pure, or as crosses, has in various places tended much both to in-


