
                                     DUNBARNY.                  801

     charter of confirmation given and granted by us, confirming the
     charter aforesaid, dated the 14th day of April anno 1582, and of
     our reign the fifteenth year."
        Several other documents, which might be quoted, bear a re-
     ference to the same right bestowed on the Town-Council of Edin-
     burgh.
       King James VI., by act of Parliament of this date, (i.e. 5th
     June 1592), " approves, and confirms, and annexes, to remain with
     the magistrates of Edinburgh, (for Maintaining the ministry and
     hospital), whereof they have now the property and superiority, as
     the Popish clergy had, to whom these lands and annualrents for-
     merly belonged, viz. the donations and mortifications granted by
     Queen Mary, his Majesty's mother, and himself at divers times,
     of the lands, benefices, and rents, which formerly pertained to any
     bishop, abbot, and prior, or other ecclesiastic, and the general
     annexation of the temporality of benefices, to the act of Parlia-
     ment, 29th July 1585, is dissolved, in so far as it may appear to
     extend to the premises, or to the annexations formerly made in
     favours of the collece and hospital in Edinburgh, of the teinds of
     Dunberny, (which pertained to the chapel of St Giles's kirk in
     Edinburgh), in the sheriffdom of Perth, whereof the kirks of Potty
     and Moncrieff are pendicles, the parsonage of Currie, and half
     the vicarage thereof, pertaining to the archdean of Lothian, the
     lands, annualrents, houses, yards, and biggings of the Trinity
     College, within Edinburgh, pertaining to the provost and pre-
     benders thereof, and common lands and annualrents of the same,
     which annexation, his Majesty, with advice of Parliament, ratifies
     and approves, as also of new annexes the other half of the vi-
     carage of Currie, to which no person is provided; and the whole
     vicarage of the kirk of Dunberny, vacant by the deprivation of
     N. N. * last possessor thereof, to remain with the council and com-
     munity of Edinburgh in all time coming, declaring that none of
     the particulars aforesaid before disponed, and newly annexed for
     the sustentation of the ministry within the burgh of Edinburgh,
     and entertaining the hospital thereof, are, and shall be compre-
     hended in the general annexation of the ecclesiastical lands to the
     Crown." The patronage of Dunberny remained in the posses-
     sion of the town-council of Edinburgh till the year 1820, when it
     was sold to Mr William Anderson, Junior, merchant, Newburgh,
     for L.1400. It now belongs to Sir Thomas Moncrieffe, Bart.

     <FOOTNOTE>The initials only of this individual was contained in the charter.
       PERTH.                                    3 E


