
                                    DUNBARNY.                   791

      sea. The summit of this bill commands a view which has been
      termed by Pennant " the glory of Scotland." Towards the east
      the Carse of Gowrie, with its fertile and spacious plains, extends
      before the eye, with the Frith of Tay gradually widening, till at
      Dundee and Broughty Ferry, its waters swell to a majestic ex-
      panse. Towards the south and west, Strathearn spreads out its
      ample surface, being an irriguous and highly cultivated valley,
      richly adorned with wood, studded with gentlemen's seats, enliven-
      ed with the graceful and picturesque sweeps of the Earn, and bound-
      ed by the verdant and gently swelling Ochils. A curve made by
      these hills intercepts a view of Stirling, but, the hills of Monteith
      may be seen stretching beyond it. The spectacle of mountainous
      grandeur towards the west and north-west is august and imposing.
      Benvoirlich, Benmore, and other hills frown with a commanding
      appearance. Two monuments or obelisks of granite, commemo-
      rating the achievements of illustrious men, may be seen beyond
      Crieff; that of Sir David Baird, the hero of Seringapatam, on the
      elegant and conical hill of Tomahastle, in the parish of Monzie-
      vard, and that of Lord Melville near Comrie. A spectator turn-
      ing toward the north will observe, in the distance, a considerable
      part of the, alpine scenery of Perthshire, and other contiguous
      counties. At his feet is a romantic view of Perth, the Tay, Kin-
      noul Hill, and Kinfauns Castle. Before the trees that crown
      Moredun top had shot up to their present stately growth, Perth and
      Dundee could be seen from the same spot on it.
        Moncrieffe-Hill forms one of the most imposing objects that
      beautify the scenery of this district. It is covered with a rich va-
      riety of wood, which, contrasted with the bold and craggy preci-
      pices which adorn its southern declivity, gives it an appearance
      strikingly picturesque.
        Hydrography.-The river Earn rolls through this parish. Its
      waters in this district have by no means the crystal transparency
      which distinguish them near Crieff and Comrie. After traversing
      the rich loamy soil, which extends several miles along its course
      above the Bridge of Earn, it becomes considerably tinged by the
      fertile banks through which it meanders. It is reported that for-
      merly its channel ran close to the bank on which the manse is
      built. A spectator stationing himself on the new bridge, and look-
      ing westwards, will perceive the banks along which it formerly
      winded, and which it has now deserted; they are a little to the
      south of its present current. It is gradually shifting its channel


