
                             TONGLAND.                          97

in 5 1/2 attended school,-a larger proportion, I believe, than is
generally to be found in Scotland, celebrated as its people are for
attending to the education of the young.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-We have three classes of poor, re-
gular, occasional, and insane; and they are supplied with aid in three
different ways,-by church collections, by subscriptions, and by, vo-
luntary assessment. The regular poor are those upon the roll. They
are at present 15 in number, and nearly all of them old and infirm
widows. The church collections, amounting to an average of L.12
per quarter, are distributed among them exclusively, with the excep-
tion of a guinea to the precentor, and 15s. to the beadle; each pau-
per receiving not less than 7s. and not more than 15s. per quarter.
The occasional poor are such labourers as are either disabled
by disease or accident, or cannot find employment in severe
winters. The methods resorted to for their relief are petitions to
the inhabitants of the parish, and applications to the non resident
heritors; methods which hitherto have never failed to bring the
necessary supply, although individuals sometimes prove illiberal
and testy. In the winter of 1837-38 L. 36 was collected in
this manner, which was expended in coals and oatmeal. A vo-
luntary assessment, amounting to L. 24 per annum, is applied to
the maintenance of two insane females, who are boarded with
relations. Perhaps I ought to mention a fourth class of persons,
for whom a voluntary assessment has sometimes been resorted to,
consisting of individuals, who, after seeing better days, have sunk
to poverty, and reached the extremity of age. Such instances
lately occurred in two families, each composed of three indivi-
duals,-husband, wife, and daughter. One of them was upwards
of 90, and three of them were near it. As they required con-
stant attendance, the heritors unanimously agreed to assess them-
selves in L. 16 per annum, which had to be paid only twice; all
the old people having expired within two years from the time of
the assessment. There is every reason to believe, that, had this
assessment been a legal one, and as such applied to the general
purposes of Parochial pauperism, instead of being limited to special
case, it would have become a permanent burden on the land-
holders. Voluntary assessments cease, as the objects for which
they are imposed disappear; but legal assessments create a host
of applicants, whose clamours inevitably lead to their periodical and
indefinite extension. The only other source of income to the poor is
L. 100, verbally bequeathed to them by Mr Alexander Robb, on his
	KIRKCUDRIGHT.                            G


