
40               INVERNESS-SHIRE.

tain side, and part which consists of a single leap at least 100
feet high.
   Geology.-The whole neighbourhood of Loch Ness seems for-
merly to have been subjected to great volcanic action and large
eruptions of granite; and although this parish does not exhibit
much granite en masse, yet its primitive rocks everywhere display
the intrusion of various sets of granitic veins.  At the summit of
Glenmoriston, and around Loch Cluany, a beautiful white porphy-
ritic granite, with large distinct crystals of felspar, occupies an
extensive tract of country.  Beneath, in the glen itself, and along
both sides of the river Moriston, stratified gneiss prevails; but at
the eastern boundary of Urquhart, on the confines of the parish of
Inverness, another large deposit of whitish granite occurs, which
constitutes several of the hills encircling the moss of Caiplich, and
is connected with the red granites of Dochfour and Aberiachan,
described in the account of the parish of Inverness.  From behind
the farm of Polmailly in Glen Urquhart, a formation of unstrati-
fied Serpentine rock proceeds in a north-west direction, constitut-
ing three prominent summits, with several subordinate ridges, and
extending 2 1/2 or 3 miles in length, and about 1 mile or 1 1/2 in breadth.
It is distinguished by the dirty-brown colour of the surface, and the
extreme sterility of the hills formed of it,-the serpentine here as
elsewhere permitting but few trees, and hardly a blade of grass, to
grow upon it.  No beds of chromate of iron or other useful mine-
rals have as yet been discovered in this deposit, which, however,
has not been minutely examined, nor has the serpentine been po.-
lished or employed as an ornamental stone.  It is contained in
strata of gneiss, which abound in beds of gray and white primitive
granular limestone, which is partially burnt and used for domestic
purposes by the farmers of the district.  The limestone contains
very beautiful and numerous suits of actynolite, tremolite, and
bronzite, are occasionally found,-the hornblende also occurring,
both massive and slaty, and highly crystallized, in beds of various
sizes,and discovered generally in contact with veins of granite.
But the most important rock in a geological point of view, in
this district, has yet to be noticed.  It consists of a great over-
lying and unconformable deposit of old red sandstone and its asso-
ciated coarse conglomerate, and constitutes the suminits next to
Loch Ness, and the lower and more fertile portions of the vale of
Urquhart.  This deposit has been superimposed on the gneiss


