
	528                   FIFESHIRE.

  of the manufacture, it will be evident that the various works are
	most profitably arranged. The mills supply the bleachfield, and
	the bleachfield supplies the weavers: and while there is a saving,
	in this manner, as to the carriage of the various articles, there is
	also an encouragement to the manufacture of the place. There
	is every likelihood that the manufacture of this flourishing place
	will, in a few years, become more extended; and there are, at pre-
	sent, some proposals of erecting another mill on a very extensive
	plan.

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
              Markets.- There is a weekly market in Cupar, the county town,
	distant only two miles and a-balf. But this widely extended parish
	has an easy access to markets in several places: and some of the
	farmers find it convenient to send their produce to Largo, some to
	St Andrews, and a very few to Dundee. There are two annual
	markets or fairs held in the village of Ceres,-one on the 24th
	June, and the other on the 20th day of October; and both of them
	are most numerously resorted to, as excellent wool, and corn, and
	horse, and cattle-markets.
              Means of Communication.-A turnpike road runs from east to
	west through the whole length of the parish. There is also a road
	which runs from north to south, through the breadth of the parish.
	In summer, a daily-coach runs though Ceres, and joins the steam-
	boat which leaves Largo for Edinburgh. A messenger, paid by
	the inhabitants of Ceres, carries letters or papers daily to Cupar,
	the post-town. There are regular carriers from Ceres to all the
	neighbouring towns.
              Ecclesiastical State.-Ceres parish is a rectory, which, before
	the Reformation, belonged to the Provostry of Kirkbeugb, a re-
	ligious house at St Andrews. A considerable part of the east end
	of the parish formerly belonged to the parish of St Andrews, and
	about the year 1620, was annexed to Ceres, quoad sacra tantum
	(as it was long thought;) but the present incumbent discovered
	that there was no such reservation, and it is now annexed, quoad
	sacra et civilia. Ceres originally belonged to St Andrews pres-
	bytery. In the old church of Ceres, there was an aisle on the
	south, which belonged to the family of Craighall, and which, be-
	fore the Reformation, was a chapel dedicated to St Ninian. The
	schoolmaster of Ceres uniformly receives a presentation to the
	rhaplainry. There used to be a salary of L. 3 Scots paid to him;
  but, the houses in Cupar from which this salary was paid cannot


