
             PARISH OF LIBERTON.

PRESBYTERY OF EDINBURGH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                 TWEEDDALE.

    THE REV. JAMES BEGG, M. A., MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-THE real etymology of Liberton; formerly written Li-
bertun, is somewhat doubtful, although it is obviously of Saxon ori-
gin. Most probably, the name is a corruption of Leperton, and arose
from the circumstances, that an hospital for the sick of Edinburgh
was situated at or near it, although all traces of such an institu-
tion have long since vanished.  This supposition derives probabi-
lity, both from the elevated, dry, and very healthy nature of the
whole district, quite near to, and overlooking the city of Edin-
burgh and from the lands of Liberton being called in certain old
writings the lands of Spital-town - Spital being synonymous with
hospital in our old language.
  Extent and Boundaries.-The figure of this parish is exceed-
ingly irregular. It extends from nearly the eastern, extremity of
the Pentland hills to within a few yards of the sea near Fisher-
row, and from Edinburgh to within a mile of Dalkeith.  It is thus
nearly 7 miles long and about 4 miles broad. In the centre, it is
nearly square, but towards the east it becomes very narrow, and
runs out to a sharp point for nearly two miles,	between the pa-
rishes of Newton and Inveresk on the one side, and Duddingstone
on the other, in the form of a wedge.* It is bounded on the north
and west, by the parish, of St Cuthberts; on the north-east, by
Duddingstone; on the east, by Inveresk; on  the south-east, by
Inveresk, Newton, and Dalkeith; on the south, by Lasswade; and
on the south-west, by Colinton.
  Topograpical Appearances-Climate, &c.-The surface is very
undulating, and beautifully diversified with plains and rising grounds,
ascending occasionally to a considerable elevation, and from their

<FOOTNOTE> This irregular shape arises from the circumstance, that this is, properly speaking
a united parish,-the portion of it beyond Craigmillar Castle having, in former
times, been connected with the chapel at Niddry.

  EDINBURGH.					A


