
               UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.             1143

annually by the Senatus, along with four Assessors.  An appeal
may be made, from the decision of the Senatus to the Rector and
Assessors.  It is his duty to visit the College, and to correct what
may be found amiss.  Among those who have been Rectors may
be mentioned Dr John Forbes, son of Bishop Forbes, a man of
great learning; Dr William Guild, Sir William Forbes of Craigie-
var, and Sir John Macpherson.  The present Rector is the Right
Honourable Lord Francis Egerton, M.P.
   By the foundation, the Doctor of Theology was to be Principal
of the College, and, with the aid of the six students of theology
to teach divinity.  When, at a later period, the students of theolo-
gy were reduced in number, and made Regents, or Masters in Phi-
losophy, the duty of teaching divinity devolved on the Principal
alone.  But, after the foundation of the Professorship of Divinity,
the Principal gradually ceased to act as a teacher, and since 1730
or 1740 has not performed this duty.  Of late years, an attempt
has been made by the late Chancellor, Alexander Duke of Gor-
don, aided by the then Rector, Lord Aberdeen, and his Assessors,
and supported by a majority of the Senatus, to restore efficiency
to this branch of the Principal's duties; but nothing has yet been
done.  The remaining duties of the Principal are, to preside at
college meetings, to confer degrees in the various faculties, and
generally to govern (regere et gubernare) the college.  Originally,
the salary of the Principal was the largest in the College.  It now
consists of about L.110, derived from royal grants, bestowed on
the college in compensation of the losses sustained by the various
causes above alluded to ; of L.35 of fixed money salary from the
college property ; of victual salary, varying with the fiars of grain,
and amounting to from L.80 to L.90; and lastly, of one-tenth
part of the balances, namely, that of the procuration account or
college revenue, which balance is very variable ; and that of the
account of money derived from the sale of superiorities, which is
kept separate, under the name of the superiority fund, and which
varies little, the tenth part averaging about L.23.  The Principal's
salary for 1836 amounted to L.300.  He has also a house and
garden.
   The first Principal of King's College was the celebrated Hec-
tor Boece, who was invited from Paris, where he was Professor of
Philosophy, by his friend, Bishop Elpbinston.  The most dis-
tinguished of his successors in office were Alexander Anderson,
Alexander Arbuthnot, Dr William Leslie, Dr William Guild,


