
44                            AYRSHIRE.

ter is a round-headed arch, with some heavy but not inelegant
mouldings, surmounted by a square recess, in which once stood the
arms of the Commonwealth of England. The interior of the fort-
ress has been a large open space, of an oblong square shape, oc-
cupied with barracks for the military, and other buildings, and the
Church of St John, and its tower, which had been converted into
an armoury and guard-room, thus literally becoming a church mi-
litant. The stones of which the fort was built were brought
all the way from Ardrossan, by water carriage, and the whole cost
so large a sum that, when reported to Cromwell, he is said to have
asked if it had been built of silver. As the whole must in process
of time disappear, we are glad of this opportunity of recording
what remains at the present day, as a monument and memorial of
a period so remarkable in the history of Britain.

                       III.--POPULATION.

	At the time of the Rebellion in 1745, the population is said
to have been only about 2000; when the last Statistical Account
of the parish was published in 1791, it was 4100; and the last
census in 1831 fixes it at 7606. Since the Government cen-
sus, a further state of the population was taken in 1836, in order
to make returns to the Royal Commission appointed to inquire
into the want of religious instruction in Scotland, when the
amount was found to be 7475, making a decrease of 131.  But
this might easily be accounted for, from the great mortality that
took place in Ayr, in consequence of the disease of cholera, in
1832, which swept away a great many of the inhabitants. The
population of the town within the toll-bars in 1836, was 6240, of
which 2963 were, under twelve years of age; and that of the coun-
try part of the parish, was 1235. The number of families amount-
ed to 1647, making four and a little more than a-half the average
number of each family. There is a considerable number of gen-
tlemen of independent fortune resididg in the town and neighbour-
hood, as many resort thither for the sake of education for their
children at the Academy, and to enjoy the advantages of the agree-
able society of the place. A good many of this class have made
fortunes in India, and in other places, both at home and abroad.
The number of landed proprietors of the yearly value of L. 50 and
upwards, amounts to 12,--Their rentals varying from that sum to
L. 2500. The following is a state of the number of births, mar-
riages, and deaths for the last six years, since the last census was
published.


