
336			KINCARDINESHIRE.

moorlands, at the bottom and sides of the hills, north and south, are
many stone cairns, and others of a similar kind are said to have
formerly existed in various central parts of tbe parish. One of tbese,
lately opened, contained, a small coffin about a yard long, formed of
rude stones, with a little dust within. Another had various bones of
a human skeleton without any coffin. In the neighbourhood of those
near Kerloack, on the farms of Eslie and Garrol, are three stone
circles, the largest about 25 yards diameter, and the others, about
15. In each, the remains of an inner circle are visible, within
Which is a small cairn, and in all, the outer circles are tolerably
complete, containing what is called the altar stone, placed due
south, and of nearly the same dimensions in each, 8 feet long, and
4 high. The whole are composed of micaceous Schist, with Some
limestone and fr`nite, the common stones of the place, In the
moors around besides many small cairns, and some traces of for-
mer cultivation, there is a place called Knocking or Rocking-
stone; and a small peat bog, in which twenty years, ago, a circu-
lar copper vessel, Apparently very ancient, and of very rude work-
manship, was found. "It had a rim at the mouth, which was
turned outward, and perforated with three boles. It had also the
apperance of having had a handle attached to it."  Though few
places can be more bare and sterile than this situation is at pre-
sent all th hollows contain, imbedded in peat moss overlying
clay to the depth of 10 to 30 feet, abundant remains of trees,
which have evidently undergone the action of fire.
	In a wall opposite the manse is a hallow, whicb represents with
the original stones the shape, size, and situation of a coffin, found
when excavating the ground for the present road to Aberdeen.
It contained an urn of tolerable workmansbip, with some ashes.
About a mile and a half farther west, in a belt of planting between
the same road and the Dee, a stone is seen standing, 8 feet high
above ground, and 13 feet in circumference, which is the only re-
mains of a large Druidical circle, almost entire about fifty years ago,
	At the period to which these antiquities most be referred, the
surface formes a part of that great marshy forest, which, after-
wards known under several divisions and names, extended from
Mar to Aberdeen, along the course of the Dee. It was occupied
by a people of Celtic origin, for all the more ancient names of
places and objects are certainly Gaelic, and was necessarilly tra-
versed by those crossing the Grampians from the Mearns, through
the pass called Cairn o' Mooth, to the more fertile districts of



