
                      WHITBURN.                               77

the pit, and sometimes forms itself into strong pillars, which can
with difficulty be broken. It is calcareous stalactite. The fol-
lowing report of Greenridge Colliery is from Mr Bald, engineer,
who, is well acquainted with a considerable part of the parish:-
   "1st, The dip of the strata is to the north; their declination
from the horizon is in general about one in twelve, but they are
in some instances much flatter, and also steeper.  The strata are
occasionally cut by veins or slips, producing dislocations of the
strata, and these are generally in the line of bearing from east to
west. The effect of these is to throw the strata either up or down
to the rise or crop.
   "2d, The whole of the parish of Whitburn, as to its minerals,
is of the independent coal formation, and consists of the following
kinds of rocks:-
   "Sandstone, of various shades of yellow and brown, some of it in
thick beds; flagstones, and thin slaty sandstone. Mica is found
in all these, and generally very abundant in the latter. Hardness,
from very soft to very hard.
   "Argillaceous shistus, of various shades, from dark blue to black,
is found in beds of a few inches to several yards thick. This shistus,
when mixed with sand, forms a clay slaty Sandstone.  Baods and
balls of argillaceous ironstone are frequently found in this shistus.
Some of this rock is of very fine particles, decomposes rapidly
when exposed to the air and weather; when calcined, it is of a
bright-red.
   "Argillaceous rocks, of various shades of brown and approaching
to black. This is commonly found to be the bed upon which each
coal rests; in it are found occasionally small balls of argillaceous
ironstone, very much the shape of potatoes. This kind of rock
is termed fire-clay, and from it, in different places, the best fire-
bricks of Scotland are made, for resisting the action of intense
furnace heat.
   "Greenstone rock, commonly termed blue whinstone, abounds
very much in this parish, It is similar to the same kind of rock
so abundant in Scotland, composed of red or white felspar and
hornblende, and in whatever situation the bed of greenstone is,
that is, whether in, a vertical or horizontal position, the numerous
fissures, which give it a columnar form, are always, at right angles
to the bed on which it rests. This rock, is found in detached
beds, generally several yards in thicknesses forming small knolls,
and at times the summit of hills, of from 150 to 200 feet high,


