
                            BEITH.                            577

the grant cannot be ascertained, it must have been prior to 1189
and 1191, in which years the Lady Avicia and her husband died,
	Long prior to these dates, Beith was the occasional residece
of St Inan, a confessor of some celebrity, whose principal plain
of abode was at Irvine. He flourished about 839. On the Cuff
Hill, in the parish of Beith, there is a cleft in the rock, which is
still called St Inan's Chair; and at a short distance from it, a well
of excellent water, called St Inan's Well. From the Callendar of
Scots Saints, we find that the festival of this saint was celebrated
on the 18th of August; and to this day, there is a fair at Beith
held on the corresponding day, old style. Tradition, still bears
that this fair used to be held on the Cuff Hill. It was removed to
Beith after the town bad increased in population, and became a
more suitable place for a market. It is one of the principal fairs
in the county. The fair is vulgarly pronounced Tenant's Day;
but this is evidently a corruption arising from the final letter of
Saint, being sounded with the naune Inan. Similar corruptions
occur in Tantony, which is a corruption of St Antony ; and Tau-
drey, which is a corruption of St Audrey. It is worth of notice
that this corruption, and the fact of the celebration of St Inan's
festival at Beith, have been overlooked by the learned author of
Caledonia, who supposes the corruption to be that of St Tennant`s
day, or St Thenna's day.
	But the Cuff Hill has antiquities much earlier than the days of
St Inan. On the north declivity of the hill, there is a rocking-
stone of considerable size, which can be set in motion by the
slightest touch.
			               Behold yon huge
		And unhewn sphere of living adamant,
                  which, poised by magic, resist its central weight
		On yonder pointed rock : firm as it seems,
		Such is its strange and virtuous property,
		It moves obsequious to the gentlest touch
		Of him whose heart is pure; but to a traitor,
		Though even a giant's prowess moved his arm,
		It stands as firm as Snowdon.
                                              Mason's Caractacus.

	This stone is of common trap. Its specific gravity is 2.890 ; its
figure an oblong spheroid; its contents 141 cubic feet; and weight
11 tons 7 cwts. On the south side bf the hill on the lands of Cuff
belonging to Robert Spiers, Esq. writer in Beith, there stood four
stones. In the space between them were found calcined bones
and earth, having the appearance of being formed from the decay of
animal substance. This is supposed to have been a place of sacrifice.
    AYR


