
     Of Wigton.

and the people in the country, from their occupations and
habits of life, are generally strong and healthy.  Rheuma-
tism is the complaint most incident to this place, especially
among the poorer sort, arising, no doubt, chiefly from the
coldness and dampness of their houses.  But no local nor
epidemical distempers are experienced here; and it has been
remarked, that fevers are much less frequent in this, than
in some of the neighbouring parishes.  They who escape
the dangers of infancy and childhood, except such as are
afterwards carried off by accidents, generally live to the or-
dinary period of human life.  Nor are instances of longe-
vity unfrequent.  Three persons died here lately, 2 of
whom were more than ninety, and 1 above an 100 years of
age; 30 or 40 are now alive, some of whom are upwards
of 70, and others more than 80; and there is a woman at
present living in this town, who has children, grandchild-
ren, great grandchildren, and great great grandchildren
all in existence.

   Condition.-The condition of the people, especially since
about the middle of this century, has been greatly improv-
ed.  In point of lodging, of dress, and diet a material al-
teration has taken place*.

     VOL. XIV. 3 P

<FOOTNOTE>

*The miserable huts, in which the common people were formerly
lodged, have now generally disappeared; and in their place more com-
fortable houses, and much better furniture, are now to be seen.  The
old dress of the country men, even of the most respectable farmers, a
kilt coat, a blue bonnet, and plaiding hose, have been totally laid aside;
and the lowest the people, even the men servants themselves, on pub-
lick occasions, appear now in hats, in coats of broad cloth, in cotton
vests and breeches, and generally with watches in their pockets.  The
old dress, too, of the country women, even of the farmers wives and
daughters, the blue cloth cloaks and hoods, the tartan or red plaids, and
the worsed gowns and aprons of their own spinning, are also gone al-


