
102                         ARGYLESHIRE.

originally a mission, was endowed by the good Lady Glenor-
chy. The stipend is L. 60, including, it is believed, allowance
for communion elements.  Whilst the manse and manse of-
fices, and church of Strathfillan are upheld by the Society in, Scot-
land for Promoting Religious Knowledge, in whom the patronage
is vested, the church at the bridge of Urchay is upheld by the
Marquis of Breadalbane, who has provided the minister with a
good glebe and pasture for four or five milk cows, a a horse and
some sheep.
   Education.-Number of schools, 6; parochial 3, endowed 6, up-
held by Societies 2.  Glenurchy school salary, 400 merks, Inis-
hail, 600 merks, equally divided between the two, schoolmasters.
Bunawe school, salary L. 16, lately withdrawn. Sewing school,
Glenurchy, L.8.  Average amount of school-fees in all the schools,
exclusive of sewing school, from L. 1O to L. 12.
   There are few under fifty or sixty years of age in the parish who
cannot read.  There is not a Latin scholar in Glenurchy school,
where some twenty years ago there used to be a goodly number.
The Glenurchy school ranked very high for a long period of time,
for the amount of its attendance, and the success with which it was
taught.  It was resorted to from all the surrounding districts,
and could boast of scholars from the south, and even the West
Indies. It sent forth scholars who rose to distinction in several
professions,-for instance the Smiths, of whom mention has already
been made, and the late General Sir Alexander Campbell of
Achallader, some time Governor of Madras.
   Literature.-There is one parochial library in Glenurchy pa-
rish, containing from 200 to 300 volumes.  There is a small col-
lection of books attached to the Sabbath school, presented by the
Marchioness of Breadalbane, who has been pleased to take it
under her patronage.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number who receive pa-
rochial aid is 32; average annual allowance, about L.2, 10s.  Annual
donation by the Marquis of Breadalbane, L.40; value of clothes
distributed by the Marchioness of Breadalbane, L. 7 ; gratuities
giveii by the Marquis of Breadalbane, at an average for three last
years paid through kirk-session, L.8; paid through other channels,
L.6; church collections last three years' average, L.l8; proclama-
tion and mortcloth dues, average for the same period, L. 1, 8s;
total, L.75, 8s.  Nine individuals are in the receipt of pensions
from the Marquis of Breadalbane, who would require, if not thus


