
     Statistical Account

estate.  Most of them are thin, and have been wrought out
above the level of the sea.  Three of the thickest of these
beds, which are near one another, are now working.  The
uppermost bed is 5 feet thick.  The distance between it and
the second bed, is 18 inches, being a foot of coal, with 3
inches of till above and under it.  The 2 d bed of coal is 8
feet thick; under it, is a bed of stone and till 2 feet 3 inches;
and under it the 3 d bed of coal, 5 feet thick*.  They are now
working these beds of coal 60 fathoms below the surface.
The water is raised by 2 steam engines:  the coals are raised
by 3 horse gins.  Horses are employed under ground to bring
the coals to the pit bottoms.  The average quantity of coals
raised annually for 7 years preceding 1791, is 15,267 tons,
value 4000 L., and 7000 tons of culm, value 5831.; 105 per-
sons are employed+.  There are 5 beds of ironstone, which

<FOOTNOTE>

*The metals cut through in getting to the coal, are, 1st, next the surface,
2 fathom brownish stone; 2 d, 14 1/2 fathom till, very close; 3 d, 8 fathom brown-
ish stone, porous, and mixed with iron veins; 4th, 7 fathom till, mixed with
thin beds of freestone, hard; 5th, 2 fathom blueish stone, very hard, must be
wrought with gunpowder; 6th, 6 fathom till, mixed with thin beds freestone;
7th, 1/2 fathom, a hard coarse coal, mixed with stone, which is immediately a-
bove the beds of coal that are wrought, and is left for a roof.
+Dysart coal was amongst the first wrought in Scotland, having been begun
more than 300 years ago.  It was on fire nearly as far back.  It is said to have
had periodic eruptions once in 40 years; a remarkable one in 1662.  This fire
is supposed to have been occasioned by pyrites, which is found in this coal.  It
is described by Buchanan,
     "Vicini deferta vocant: ibi saxea subter
     "Antra tegunt nigras vulcantia femina cautes."
     BUCH. FRANCISCANUS.

   The effects of it may still be traced by the calcined rocks from the harbour,
more than a mile up the country.  The road from the harbour is called Hot
Pot Wynd, and another near it, the Burning.  In the beginning of this cen-
tury, the flames were seen at night coming out of the pit mouths. In 1741,


