

      684                        PERTSHIRE.

      day schools there are 5 Sabbath schools at the above places re-
      spectively, attended by upwards of 300 scholars, and which un-
      doubtedly are instrumental in promoting the religious knowledge
      and morals of the young.
         Libraries.-There is also a Sabbath school library on the iti-
      nerating principle, having a press with books at each school, which
      are given out to the scholars only on the Sabbath, when the class
      is dismissing.  Once a year the presses are arranged, and moved
      forward to the next station or school ; and thus one library is sub-
      divided intn five, and a constant interest kept up by the annual
      change of books.  There are at present about 600 volumes alto-
      gether, and the number is from time to time increased, by means
      of occasional collections and donations.  There are also small vil-
      lage libraries for more general reading in Caputh, Spittalfield and
      Meikleour respectively ; but they are now nearly superseded by
      the Sabbath school library.
         Savings Banks.-A Savings Bank was established in 1815, but
      the number of depositors is not great.  The young men seem more
      disposed to become members of friendly societies, of which there are
      several; and a good many persons are members of two or three of
      these at once, and thus, in case of sickness or infirmity, are able to
      draw from several sources a tolerable support.  These societies
      are well conducted, and are of incalculable advantage to the work-
      ing classes.
         Fair.-The only fairs held in the parish are, at Meikleour in
      the months of June, August, and October, for cattle.
         Public Houses.-There are 9 public-houses in the parish, and 3
      in the immediate vicinity of it !-the one-half of which are a nui-
      sance.  There are also two distilleries, one at Stralochie, and the
      other at Haughend.
         Fudl.-Coals, carted from Perth, are almost the only fuel that
      can be procured.  Sales of oakwood and thinnings of plantations
      frequently take place, which ae eagerly looked after by the wok-
      ing classes, as coals are very expensive.  There are no peats to be
      found, save at a moss beyond Reimore, a distance of nine miles
      from the church, and therefore of no service to the parish in ge-
      neral.  The scarcity of fuel is, perhaps the greatest hardship to
      which the poor in this squatter are subjected.  The session endea
      vours so far to remedy this evil by annually distributing a certin
      quantity of coals among the more needy, and which ar generous-
      ly carted by the farmers gratis.
            1889.


