
                              Reay.                      19

Wages.-Maid-servants' wages in the half year, from L 1, 5s.
to L.1, 10s., and men-servants', from L.3 to L.4, 10s. per half
year. The prices of provisions are aa follow: Beef, 4 1/2d. to
5d. per lb.; mutton, 4d. per do.; pork, 3d.; butter, 8d. to 10d.
cheese, 3d. to 4d.; tallow, 5d. to 6d. per lb.; average price of
beans per boll, L. 1; oatmeal, 16s.; geese, from 2s. 6d. to 3s,
each; bens, 8d. to 10d.; eggs, 3d. per dozen; salmon, 6d. per lb.;
baddocks, from 6d. to 8d. per dozen.
  Day labourers in husbandary receive from 1s. to 1s. 8d. per day
without victuals; carpenters and masons from 2s. 6d. 3s. per
day.
  Live-Stock.-The Cheviot breed of sheep are the most com-
mon since the introduction of sheep-farming. Our small native
breed of sheep is fast decreasing. Our breed of cattle is the black
Highland. Prior to the introduction of sheep-farming, improve-
ments in agriculture were daily increasing, and still a considerable
extent of new land is cultivated from the moor or hill, by Major
Innes of Sandside and Captain Macdonald of Shebster. A great
part of Major Innes and Captain Macdonald's lands are enclos-
ed. Tje roads have been greatly improved, and bridges built
where they were necessary. But the greatest improvement is at
Halladale, belonging to the Duke of Sutherland. A new channel,
at a vast expense, has been dug for the water, and a high and
strong embankment raised to confine the river from flooding an ex-
tensive meadow of very excellent pasture, thought to be worth up-
wards of L.200 per annum.
  Leases.-The general duration of leases is seven, fourteen, nine-
teen, and twenty-one years; but leases are in fact seldom granted,
which is a principal obstacle to agricultural improvements, as the
tenant, who may be removed at the will of the proprietor, cannot
depend on reaping the benefit of his labour; he is, therefore, loth
to incur expenses in improving his farm.
  Quarries.-Quarries of freestone have been opened in different
parts of the parish, one in particular at Glen-Craggach, from 40
to 50 feet deep, from which large blocks of stone for millstones
are extracted.
  Fisheries.-For several years past we have had a herring fishery
established here, at Portskerray, Sandside bay, and Lybster; as
also salmon-fishing at the same ports.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  The nearest market-town is Thurso, which is eleven miles dis-




















Wages.-Maid-servants' wages in the half year, from L. 1,15A,
to L.1, 10s., and men-servants', from L.3 to L-4, 10s. per half
year. The prices of provisions are as follow : Beef, 41d. to
5d. per lb. - mutton, 4d. per do.; pork, 3d. ; butter,' 8d. to 10d.
cheese, 31 to 4d. ; tallow, 5d. to 6d. per lb.; average price of
beans per boll, L. 1; oatmeal, 16s. ; geese, from 2s. 6d. to 3s.
each ; hen.9, 8d, to I Od. ; eggs, 3d. per dozen,; salmon, 6d. per lb.
haddocks, from 6d. to 8d. per dozen.
 Day labourer in husbandry receive from Is. to Is. - Sd. per day
without victuals; carpenters and masons from 2s. 6d. to Ss. per
day.
 Live-Stoch.-The Cheviot breed of sheep are the most com-
mon since the introduction of sheep-farming. Our small native'
breed of sheep is fast decreasing. Our breed of cattle is the black
Highland. Prior to the introduction of sbeep-farming, improve-
ments in agriculture were daily increasing, and still a considerable
extent of new land is cultivated from the moor or hill, by Major
Inues of Sandside and Captain Macdonald of Shebster, A great
part of Major Innes and Captain Macdonald's lands are enclos-
ed. The roads have been greatly improved, and bridges built
where they were necessary. But the greatest improvement is at
Halladale, belonging to the Duke of Sutherland. A new channel,
at a vast expense, has been dug for the water, and a high and
strong embankment raised to confine the river from flooding an er. .
tensive meadow of very excellent pasture, thought to be worth up-
wards of L. 200 per annum.
Leases.-The general duration of leases is seven, fourteen, ni.np-
teen, and twenty-one years; but leases are in fact seldom g I ranted,
which is a principal obstacle to agricultural improvements, as them
tenant, who may be removed at the will of the proprietor, cannot
depend on reaping the benefit of his labour; he is, thereforeloth
to incur expenses in improving his farin.
Quarries.-Quarries of freestone have been opened in different,
parts of the parish, one in particular at Glen-Craggacb, from 40.
to 50 feet deep, from which large blocks of stone for millstones
are extracted.
Fisheries.-Forseveral years past we have had &,herring-fishery
established here, at Portskerray, Sandside ibay, and Lybater as,
also salmon-fishing at the same ports.
              V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  The nearest market-town, is Thurso, which is eleven miles dis.


