
                        KIRKWALL AND ST OLA.                     11

added a new endowment by John Baifour, Esq. of Trenaby, formerly
Member of Parliament for the county, of the interest of
L.500, very liberally mortified by him in the hands of trustees, for
which the schoolmaster is taken bound to educate eight poor children,
recommended by the donor or his representatives.  These
constitute the sole endowments now possessed by the grammar
schoolmaster, which, together with the fees paid by the scholars,
make up but a very moderate living.  The school at present, and
for sixteen years past, taught by a very able and talented teacher;
Mr James Craig, is attended by from 80 to 100 scholars., male
and female, who are instructed in the Greek, Latin, French, and
English languages, mathematics, navigation, arithmetic, and
the principles of the Christian religion.  During the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries, it appears from the records, tbat
the schoolhouse was upheld, and the schoolmaster appointed
ed, by the kirk-session; but since that period, the patronage bats
been exercised by the town-council, who also, upwards of twenty
years ago, erected a new and elegant schoolhouse, in lieu of  the
old one, which bad become ruinous ;-and while they continue to
upbold the schoolhouse, as at present, and to present, as they
have done for some time past, able and respectable masters to the
school, it is not likely that their right of patronage will be called
in question.
  Besides tbe grammar school, there is one endowed by the Society
for Propagating Christian Knowledge, and attended by form
50 to 60 scholars, children of the poor; and there are several other
schools taught on private adventure.  There is a private school
for young ladies taught by an accomplished teacher, and a female
charity school, supported by benevolent ladies in the town.  There
are likewise three Sabbath schools, numerously attended, and an
infant school.
  The benefits of education are generally appreciated by parents;
and there are scarcely any betwixt the ages of six and sixty who,
cannot read.
   Libraries- There are two subscription libraries in the town, the
oldest of which, called " The Orkney Library," is on a Pretty extensive
scale.
  Charitable Institutions.-There are three Relief or Friendly societies
in the town, affording Aid to widows, orpbans and, in, Ihe
case of one at least, to sick or reduced members.  There are also


