
     Statistical Account

Grahame of Netherby; an account of which will be given
in the History of the Antiquities of Cumberland, now in 
the press.  From this camp, a Roman road can be traced
through the E. side of this parish, crossing Tarras, and
entering the parish of Langholm on the estate of Broom-
holm; from thence leading up Eskdale to the different 
stations in that quarter.

   Priory.- That this religious establishment existed before
the year 1165, the date of the charter, mentioned in the
note, p. 407,  demonstrates:  but how long before that pe-
riod, the writer has not been able to investigate.  Some 
ruins of the convent are still to be seen at Halgreen, per-
haps rather Haly or Holygreen, about half a mile to the
E. of the church.  From Halgreen, a private road to the
church is yet kept open through enclosed fields, fanctioned
by use and wont.  The church and convent are said to
have been demolished by the English, after the battle of
Solwaymoss, about the end of the reign of James V.;
which is not improbable, as the reason assigned in King
Henry's manifesto, for committing hostilities upon the
Scottish borders, not long before that event, was a pre-
tended claim to the parish of Canoby, as part of the Eng-
lish territory*.  This serves to account for the outrage

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*Quam enim cupide id bellum susceperit Anglus, ipsus edictum non
molto post volgatum demonstrat.  Ait enim, Prafidiarios Beruici
verhorum apud Scotos jactorum irritatos suisse.  Verum ipsa verba in
edicto inserta nullam contumeliam habent.  Hac causa cum ne ipsis qui-
dom satis justa videretur, Canaben viculum ignobilem, cum paupere canobio
ad situm, de quo nvlla unqlam controversia  tunguam sui juris 
repetans- BULHANAN, l. 14. cap.44

</UNREADABLE>

The historian's object at the time, was to show the srivolous pretext
of the King of England for breaking the truce.  It is not, therefore, to
be expected that he was to mention the subject of claim, in the most re-
  

