
	               LEUCHARS.                              219

propagation. These mussel beds furnish bait to many fishers along
the east coast of Scotland.
  The other streams are the Moultry, which traverses the parish in
a direction from north to south, discharging itself into the Eden,
and the Monzie burn, flowing from the west, and joining the Moul-
try. On both of these streams are meal and barley mills.
  Geology and Mineralogy.--There is nothing remarkable as to
the geology of the parish. The whole of the extensive flat known
by the name of the Tents moor seems, from the appearance of its
surface, to have been abandoned by the German Ocean at no very
remote period. On advancing westward from the Tents moor to
the Moultry, the character of the soil improves, till we find exten-
sive beds of strong blue clay. In various parts of the Tents moor,
frequent bores have been sunk to a considerable depth; but by
these nothing has been discovered but the same indurated sand by
which this vast plain is so uniformly characterized. It is supposed
that, a good way beneath the surface, a subordinate range of the
prevailing rock of the high ground district to the north-west, which
is whinstone, runs across the Tents moor in an eastern direction.
This whinstone affords numerous excellent quarries, and is much
esteemed both for the purposes of building and road-metalling.
  Lucklaw hill is composed of rocks of the trap formation. Augite
greenstone, traversed by ill-defined veins of coarse calcareous spar,
forms one prominent member in its composition, and felspar por-
phyry another. This felspar porphyry is well exhibited by a cut
which was made by the proprietor, on the face of the hill, many years
ago, with a view to quarry it. Quarrying operations are no longer
conducted, though this rock, from its extreme solidity and durabi-
lity, cannot fail to be esteemed of Considerable importance in an
economical point of view.
  Within a quarter of a mile of the Eden, on the farm of Brock-
lay, is a stratum of new red sandstone, which, from the coarseness
of its texture, and the imperfect consolidation of its component
parts, is little used as a building material. It is of a brick colour,
and bears the marks of a rapid deposition from water, with the ma-
terials of each successive deposit distinctly traceable. Vegetable
impressions have been discovered, associated with this rock. The
specimens which have been procured, we believe, are of the fern spe-
cies; but those that have been obtained are few.
  Deer's horns have been dug up in the Tents moor. Fossil re-
mains of oaks of a large species have been found in the alluvial


