
			PENNINGHAME.                    171

are very abundant in the advanced period of the season. The
fishing season extends from the 1st of January to the 25th of Sep-
tember. The salmon spawn from the end of November to Janu-
ary, and the fry begin to run towards the sea in March. There
are also sea-trouts in the Cree, which are caught in considerable
numbers in the summer season; and fresh-water, yellow, or burn-
trouts, as they are termed, are caught at all times. They are
found of a larger size, and in great numbers also in the lakes, and in
the small streams that fall into the Cree from the mountains. Pike
are numerous in some parts of the river and in the lakes. They
`re believed to be very destructive to other kinds of fish. They are
not much caught, nor are they highly esteemed. Common eels
are everywhere in the river and in the lakes, but they are not
caught, except by boys for amusement. Smelts or spirlins run up
the Cree in great numbers, particularly in March. Sometimest
the water at the flow of the tide, about the mixing of the salt and
the fresh, swarms with them. They are taken in great quantities,
and many of them are sent to England.
        Botany.-Among the exogenous plants, the natural order Ra-
nunculacecu, besides the Ficaria, the Caltha, and several species
of Ranunculus, affords us the smaller meadow-rue (Thalictrum
minus), which grows from about a mile northward from Newton-
stewart, on the bank of the River Cree, up the course of the
stream to Penninghame House. Of the order Nymphoeace, we
have both the white and the yellow water-lilies, (Nymphea alba
and Nuphar lutea.) It may be remarked, that no species of the
Papaveraceae occur here, excepting, perhaps the larger celandine
(Chelidonium majus.) I pass over several orders, which present
nothing uncommon: but I cannot avoid mentioning the, Drosera-
ceae, as furnishing the interesting sun-dew (Drosera rotundifolia,)
and the very curious Parnassia palustris. Of the Polygale, Ca-
ryophyllece, Lineae, Hypericineae, and Geraniaceae, the common
species are to be found in many places. Besides the common spe-
cies of Vicia and Lathyrus, the important order Leguminosae pre-
sents to us the rare and beautiful Orobus sylvestris, which grows
in small quantity on the bank of the Cree, a little to the north
of Newtonstewart. Of the Rosaceae we possess the common ge-
nera and species. It is, however, worthy of remark, that the
Scotch rose (Rosa spinosissima) is not, so far as I know, to be
found here, or in any of the contiguous parishes; though it is
abundant within the Rhinns of Galloway, and on the shores of


