
2                           ARGYLESHIRE.

west by the parish of Kilmichael Glassary; on the south and
south-east, by Lochfyne; on the east, by Lochfyne and the pa-
rish of Kilmorie; on the north and north-east, by the parish of
Inisail; and on the north-west and west, by the parishes of Kil-
clirenan and Dalavich.  It stretches along Lochfyne for about ten
miles, presenting an undulating outline of projecting rocks and re-
tiring bays.  Its form appears that of a crescent, constituted by
mountains based by plains of greater or less declination, and cleft
by two valleys running alone, its whole length, which meet and
bisect each other at the burgh of Inverary.  These valleys are
formed on the north east end of the parish by Glenshira and Glen-
aray, and the eye may easily trace the continuation of these to
the south-west, by each side of the bill which divides that district
into two parts.
   The parish has not been surveyed and measured, but it is said
to consist of 52 square miles, or 26,000 Scotch acres, which there
is reason to believe is much short of its real extent.  It is divided
into 116 merk lands.
   Topographical Appearances.-The general appearance of the
parish is mountainous, presenting that diversity of form which is al-
ways the result of the meeting and mingling together of two dif-
ferent mountain rocks.  Here a mountain of micaceous schistus
may be seen, rising upwards to the height of 2000 or 3000
feet, a huge and isolated mass; or stretching along in uniform
height and unbroken surface, with its sloping sides clothed with
heath and verdure; and there, collected around the base of their
prouder and older brethren, ridges of porphyry are grouped, some-
times in masses of naked rock, 700 or 800 feet high, and some-
times in low and gentle hillocks, mantled with trees or covered
with soft succulent herbage.  The result of the whole is an out-
line so diversified, so waving, and so beautiful, as is of itself suffi-
cient to delight the eye, and to give noble and characteristic fea-
tures to the scenery of the parish.
   Benbui is the most lofty of the mountains, being about 2800
feet high; and Dunchuaich with Duntorvil, which rise perpendi-
cularly in front of the Duke of Argyle's Castle to the height of
700 and 800 feet, are the most remarkable of the porphyritic ele-
vations.
   The coast is for the most part sandy and flat, excepting the

<FOOTNOTE>Smith's View ofthe Agiculture of Argyleshire,


