
                  PARISH OF ABERLADY.

        PRESBYTERY OF HADDINGTON, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND

                        TWEEDDALE.

              THE REV. JOHN SMITH, MINISTER.



             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-IT can hardly be doubted, that the parish of Aberlady
takes its name from the village. The word, however, is of un-
certain etymology. From the well understood meaning of the
prefix Aber, it has been conjectured that the stream now called
the Peffer was in ancient times styled the Leddie, and that Aber-
lady is the village which stands at the mouth of the Leddie or
Peffer, or its influx into the Frith of Forth. Such at all events is
its situation.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is about 3 miles Iong by
about 2 1/4 broad, with an irregular boundary-line. It contains an
area of between 6 and 7 square miles, or about 4000 imperial acres,
almost the whole of which are arable, and have been cultivated.
It is bounded on the north and north-west by the sea; on the
north-east by the parish of Dirleton; on the south and south-east
by that of Haddington; and on the south-west by that of GIads-
muir.
   Topographical Appearances.-The greater portion of the parish
is flat, rising very slowly from the level of the sea, and no part of
it reaches any considerable elevation. But though without variety
of hill and dale, it has a pleasing aspect, and the views from almost
every part of it towards the north and west are singularly beautiful.
It is not easy, indeed, to imagine a prospect more splendid and
varied than that which comprehends the Frith of Forth in its
widest expansion, and ever enlivened with sails, the Pentland
hills, Arthur's Seat, Edinburgh with its spirems, monuments and
castle, Inchkeith, the Lomond hills, and the peaks of the Gram-
pian mountains towering in the distance. These and many other
interesting objects, all happily combined, present a picture to the
eye universally and justly admired.
   Hydrography.-There is very little running water within the


