
258                      ADERDERNSHIRE.

ly resided in it for a considerable time.  The annual amount dis-
tributed has been generally about L.150 Sterling; but last year
it was nearly L. 200 Sterling, and there is no appearance at pre-
sent of its diminution.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   From the foregoing statement, it appears that the town and pa-
rish of Fraserburgh have participated in the general improvement
of the country since the publication of the former Statistical Ac-
count; that its population has bad an increase of 865 souls, with a
corresponding enlargement of the town; that a new, capacious,
secure, and excellent harbour has been erected, and the herring-
fishery, and other branches of trade, have been carried on to a con-
siderable extent, and with much success; that a savings bank has
been established, which is now prospering; and that great attention
is paid to the proper education of the young.  Various other im-
provements are in contemplation, which, by the favour of Divine
Providence, and the spirit of enterprise which now exists, will, ere
long, be accomplished.

January 1840.

                           PARISH OF ABERDOUR.

                PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                 THE REV. GEORGE GARDINER, MINISTER.

                  I. TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of the parish seems to be derived from a
small rivulet, which falls into the sea, a few hundred yards below
the manse.  The term Aber in Gaelic signifying a mouth or open-
ing, Aberdour may here have been applied to the mouth or outlet
of the Dour.
  The for in of the parish is extremely irregular extending frome east
to West along the sea coast about 7 miles, while its greatest length
from north-east to south-west, including a vast extent of moss and
moor, is not less than 10 and 11 miles.  There are three farms at the
south-east extremety completely cut off from the rest of the parish
of Aberdour try that of Tyrie.  Some suppose that these farms were
originally grazings for the cattle belonging to the tenants upon the


