
     Statistical Account

tired on board their ships, and landed in some other part
of the country, where the inhabitants were not in force
to oppose them.  There are likewise a great many tu-
muli or cairns; the largest are formed of stones of various
dimensions, and the letter of earth and stones thrown
promiscuously together.  In removing the stones of some
of these cairns, stone-coffins were found, formed by 4
large and 2 small slabs of unhewn free-stone, containing
ashes, and blades of offensive weapons, almost totally
consumed by rust*.

   Hints respecting Improvements.-It is almost unneces-
sary to observe, that the establishing woollen, lint, and
cotton manufactures in this country, would be of the
greatest advantage to the inhabitants.  Among many
others on the Frith of Cromarty, there is an excellent
station for a lint or hemp manufacture in this parish,
at the store-house of Newhall, where there is a fine na-
tural harbour, in which ships of a considerable burden
could lie unmolested by any wind, excepting from the
N. and N. W.-As the soil of this parish is well adapt-
ed to raising lint and hemp, the farmers would no doubt

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The only building in this parish, that has the appearance of great anti-
quity, is the castle of Craighouse, on the shore of Cullicudden, about a mile
and a half westward of the old kirk.  It is 5 storeys high, built with run lime
on a rock perpendicular towards the sea, which washes it at flood-tide; and
being surrounded on the land side by a ditch and high wall, it evidently ap-
pears to have been a place of considerable strength.  All the apartments
of the one half of it, which is most entire, are formed by stone arches, but
the floors of the other half, which is evidently more modern, have been
laid on wooden joists, part of which are still to be seen on the walls.
bout 200 years ago, the castle, with the lands adjoining, belonged to the
Williamsons of Craighouse.  The representative of which family is a Count
Williamson in Germany.  The castle and lands of Craighouse, afterward
became the property and occasional residence of the Bishops of Ross, and
are now a part of the estate of Newhall.

</UNREADABLE>


