
                           RATHO.                           95

servants who are hired by the year receive the wages partly in
kind and partly in money.  They have for the year 6 bolls, 2 fir-
lots of meal, 3 bolls of potatoes, the carriage of carts of coals,
and L.16 in money.  These different items, with their house, may
be considered equal in value to L.26 a-year.  The wages of arti-
sans are as follows: masons, 3s. a-day; wrights, 2s. 6d.; slaters,
4s.; blacksmiths, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. per day.  The price of sub-
stantial full mounted cart is L.10; of a wooden plough, L.2, 10s.;
a pair of single wooden barrows, L.2, 10s.; an iron plough, L.3, 10.;
a pair of iron barrows, L.3, 10s.
   Breed of Cattle.-There are few cattle bred in the parish, but
those which are reared are a cross between the short-borned and
the Ayrshire; this species being considered by many to answer best
both for feeding and dairy purposes.
   Husbandry.-The rotation followed on the clay loam is, I.
fallow, with fifteen tons of manure; 2. wheat; 3. clover and
rye-grass, pastured either with sheep or cattle for one or two years,
or made hay the first year, and in this case broken up and made
oats as after the two years pasture.  The rotation adopted on the
dry soft loam is, 1. potatoes or turnips after the soil is properly
pulverized and quickens gathered, and thirty tons of good stable
manure applied to the former, and twenty tons of police manure to
the latter.  2. Wheat or barley; 3. clover and rye-grass pas-
tured or made into hay, as on the clay loam; and 4. oats, which
finishes the rotation.
   Draining.-The system of draining formerly pursued was that
of cross drains.  These were all cut four feet deep, and a foot wide
at the bottom, and filled with large stoner.  The is system has now
however, given place entirely to that of furrow drains, which are now,
two and a-half feet deep, and filled with fourteen inches of small
stones, broken so as to pass through a four-inch ring.  In some in-
stances, tiles are made use of in the farrow drains, twenty-two inches
deep, with a layer of gravel above.  The leading drains in both
cases are from three to four feet deep, with a large tile in the bot-
tom, and one foot of small stones, on the top.  In such parts of the
land as have been farrow-drained, the subsoil plough has been used
with great advantage, and seems to make a complete changes upon
a spongy damp soil.
   Leases.-The general duration of leases is nineteen years;
which may be considered short when an expensive drainage has
taken palace at the expense of the farmer.


