
                                  LONGFORGAN.                         407

      felt more severely in a village on the margin of the river than in
      any other quarter of the parish; and there, too, complaints of the
      chest, and glandular diseases among children, are of more frequent
      occurrence.
         Hydrography.-The Carse nf Gowrie has never been prover-
      bial for either the quantity or the quality of its water.  But the
      village of Longforgan, the second in it in respect of population,
      cannot be considered as ill provided with this first necessary of life.
      There are two excellent springs, one at either end of it, furnishing
      an abundant supply to its inhabitants, even in the driest seasons, be-
      sides a pump and several draw- wells; the whole of them, however, it
      may be remarked as somewhat curious, are to the south of the public
      road; for though water has been repeatedly sought for on the north
      side of the road, and deep excavations made with this view, all the
      attempts to procure it there have hitherto been unsuccessful. The
      streams that run through the parish are inconsiderable, though
      they impel the machinery of three corn-mills, one lint-mill, and
      some saw-mills.  Its whole southern boundary,  however, is wash-
      ed by the Tay; but, in consequence of the height of the sand or
      mud banks, and the great breadth with which they stretch into the
      river, Kingoody, at its eastern extremity, is accessible even at rtream-
      tides, to no vessels drawing more than ten feet water; while those
      drawing above six and a-half have difficulty in reaching Monofgan.
      There is a bay here, formed by two projecting points, at the distance
      of several miles from each other; and it is understood that a large
      extent of valuable ground might be gradually gained from thelbod
      of the river, were proper measures adopted, and a combined and
      vigorous effort for the purpose made by the contiguous propiietors
      of the Carse; while at the same time, the channel, which is close
      upon the opposite or Fife side, would be very materially improved, by
      having an immense body of water directed into it, which at present
      shapes its course to the northward, and is compartively useless
      in as far, at least, as the advantages of navigation are concerned.
      Whether such an effort will ever be put forth, remains to be seen.
      Iii two of the'adjoining
      Many believe it to be quite practicable.  In two of the adjoining
      parishes, considerable portions of soil have been already recover-
      ed from the Tay, and are now under crop.

                              II-CIVIL HISTORY
         Land-owners.- The chief land-owners are, George Paterson,
      Esq. of Castle Huntly; and the Right Hon. Lord Kinnaird, to
      whom nearly eight-ninths of the whole valued rent belong.


