
     of Edderachylis.

of fishing, and nearly and constant acquaintance with the sea,
they are excellent boatmen, as well as ingenious, and ready to
learn any mechanical business; so that scarcely any astificers
in the parish but are left-taught.  And yet there are among
them pretty good carpenters and boat-wrights, dry-stone masons,
coopers, and net-makers; and, as for shoe-makers, there is scarce
a man in the parish but can make his own shoes.  They love
also to appear as decent and clean as possible; so that the sish-
ers, who frequent this place, have declared they make the
most decent and clenly appearance of any Highlanders on
the whole costs.  The Muics too are partial to the natives
of this place, as if the air of the Edderachylies mountains had
inspiration in it; for there have been, of late years, several
poets in this parish, whose compositions, mostly of the lyric
kind, have been admired by good judges, and have shewn
them to be possesed of uncommon parts and genius.

   Black Cattle, Sheep, Goats, and Horses.-The principal de-
pendence of the inhabitants for their living is upon their black-
cattle, and, by a late enumerations, they are found to have
2573 heads of the cow kind.  The quality and size of their
cattle are equal to those of any other place in the Highlands.
The price of an ordinary cow for droving, is 50 s.-of a good
one, L. 3;-and of the best, L. 4.  An ordinary milch-cow sells
at L. 3;-a good one at L. 4;- and the best at L. 5.  There
are drovers, in the country, who buy up such cattle as are sent
to market; and, after driving them to the south of Scotland,
and sometimes to England, dipsose of them commonly to En-
glish drovers.  But, though the inhabitants deal principally in
black cattle, yet, in the opinion of the most knowing people,
the nature of the country seems more adapted to the raising
of sheep; and it is thought, that it is owing to the inattention
and carelessness of the farmers, about that most useful of all a-

     N n 2


