
			        DALZIEL.                         463

tion with the sale, it is settled by the judge, whose decision is final
and binding on all concerned. The fruit is sold, some time in
the month of August, sooner or later, according to the season.
A few days previous to the sale, the intending purchasers inspect
the orchards, in order to ascertain the kinds and the quantity, and,
after a little experience, are able to estimate them with astonish-
ing accuracy. The purchaser is allowed housing for keeping his
fruit, and a place for preparing his victuals and lodging the watch-
man of his fruit; he is also furnished with hay for his horse, and
straw for packing his fruit, or receives a deduction for that pur-
pose; a few potatoes and a cart or two of coals are also sometimes
given him. After sale, the purchaser has the fruit entirely at his
own risk. The disposer generally reserves in the articles of roup
not particular trees, but such a quantity of fruit, and of such kinds
as he may require for family use.
	The fruit, about a century ago, were taken down by a person
shaking the tree, and others gathering them up; but for many
years, in so far as practicable, they have been pulled and handled
with great care. When carried to market, they are packed in
hampers and baskets of different sizes, which are placed on an
open cart without sides, (not upon springs) with straw put under
them. They are then firmly roped together and to the cart, and
are covered with straw, and with a mat such as is used by carriers.
	The principal market for fruit is Glasgow. The merchant starts
for that place generally about 12 P. M. to be in time for the mar-
ket, which opens at 5 o'clock A. M., sometimes earlier. He also
disposes of many in the towns and villages around. Occasionally,
in harvest, he visits Edinburgh; but most frequently when the
winter commences. The fruit was, till lately, sold and reckoned
by the sleek and boll. A sleek is of the size of a 20 pint cask,
and 20 sleeks make a boll,--a sleek of apples consists of 40 lbs.,
of pears 50 do., and of plumbs 60 do. Since the alteration of the
measures, they have been sold by the bushel, which is equal to
one sleek one forpit.
	The fruit-merchants are generally home wood merchants or in-
dustrious labourers who have realized some means. The occupa-
tion is a laborious one, but it is of short duration, and one of
which they are peculiarly fond. If once they have engaged in it,
they seldom relinquish the employment, however much they may
be otherwise occupied. An old man died lately, who had been
more than seventy years in the trade, who, though he never moved


