
                          ALLOA.                           39                39

Viscount of Scotland. He is also Earl of Kellie. His Lordship
has very much improved the appearance. of the neighbourhood, by
enclosing, with an elegant stone wall, Alloa Park, which to the
eastward, was wholly unenclosed. This, with the building of his
Lordship's new mansion, has, during these several years, afforded
employment to a great number of workmen.
  In 1827, he married Philadelphia, daughter of Sir Charles
Granville Stuart Menteath, of Closeburn.
  William David, Earl of Mansfield, succeeded his father, Wil-
liam Murray, the late Earl, in 1840. His Mansion-House of
Shaw Park, and the adjoining plantation are in this parish; but
the greater part of his estate in this county is in the adjoining pa-
rish of Clackmannan. When the former Statistical Account was
written, this property belonged to the Earl of Cathcart.
  George Abercromby, Baron Abercromby of Aboukir and Tullibody,
is son of the gallant Sir Ralph Abercromby, whose father, George
Abercromby, Esq., mentioned with so much respect in the former
Statistical Account, died in 1800, at the great age of 95 years:
-Sir Ralph's brother, Sir Robert, K. B., was a general in the
army, and Governor of Edinburgh Castle; and his other brother
Alexander was a Senator of the College of Justice, under the
name of Lord Abercromby-and one of the authors of the Mirror
and Lounger, in conjunction with Mackenzie and others. James,
the brother of the present Peer, late M. P. for Edinburgh,
was Master of the Mint, and in 1835, was chosen Speaker of the
House of Commons. He is now raised to the peerage, with the
title of Baron Dunfermline.
  Eminent Men.-David Allan, the celebrated painter, sometimes
styled the Scottish Hogarth, was born at Alloa in 1744. He
was sent to Rome, at the expense of the Mar, Abercromby, and
Cathcart families, for his improvement in the art of painting.
Allan was the first Briton who contended for the prize of historical
painting at Rome, where he gained the first prize.
  Dr James Beattie.-It is said that Dr Beattie of Aberdeen, in
the interval of the College Sessions, was employed when a young
man, in teaching a school at Alloa. In this situations and in.

  <FOOTNOTE>Descended from Walter, third high Steward of Scotland, and who was the first
Earl of Menteith.
  As a remarkable Instance of Sir Ralph Abercromby's benevolence of heart, and
fatherly care of his people, it may be mentioned that he wrote a letter from Ant-
werp on the 15th July 1794, to the late Mr Mitchell of Tullibody, giving directions
as to a new shool and school-house in that village.


