
                        KILBARCHAN.                          379

grandfather; as also for the souls of his father and his mother.
Which mortification is confirmed by King Robert IIL in the year
1401."*
  The present parish church was built, or rather rebuilt, in 1724,
and is still in a tolerable state of repair.  It stands in the village,
a site, on the whole, the most eligible for the great body of the pa-
rishioners, three miles from the west, and four from the eastern ex-
tremity.  Its figure is that of a St George's cross, the body of the
church standing east and west; and there is an aisle, on the north,
which has belonged to the family of Craigends, and was not even
taken down when the rest of the church was built anew, at the date
above noted.  The wing on the south belongs to the family of Mil-
liken.  Below, is a cemetery or repository for the remains of indi-
viduals of that family.
  The church is seated for about 620, and is evidently quite in-
adequate for the present population.  It might, no doubt, accom-
modate the landward population, for whom alone it was built, and
to whom exclusively it is allotted ; and there are properly no sittings
disposable but those in the area for the communion tables; and
which, by the terms of the original minute of the division of the
church, are declared to be for strangers and for the poor.  The
sittings thus declared free amount to about 50 in all.
  The manse was built in 1811, and is in good repair.  It stands
on a gently rising ground, about a furlong from the nearest part of
the village, and fully half a-mile from the church.  The glebe is
above the usual size, extending to rather more than 15 acres: it
was let for several years at a rent of L. 30 per annum.
  The stipend having, for a considerable period, been very much
under the average of that of all the parishes around, the Court,
with scarcely any opposition from any of the heritors, augmented
it to 18 chalders of meal and barley equally, and L.10 for commu-
nion elements.
  There are three Dissenting congregations.  A chapel in the
village, built in 1786, and belonging to the Relief body, may ac-
commodate at least 900 persons, or thereby.  The greater part of
those attending it are from Kilbarchan village, where 314 sittings
are stated, on authority, to have been let in 1835, and probably
an equal number from other quarters; many are from other villages

<FOOTNOTE>Carta penes P. Fleming de Barochan, quoted in Crauford's History of Renfrew-
shire.


