

338                      ROXBURGHSHlRE.

mer enjoying the right of nominating the candidates (not less
than four,) from whom the latter are to elect the minister. A
bond for a stipend of L.80 must be lodged with the presbytery
before a minister can be inducted; but the stipend is not to be li -
mited to tbe sum secured by bond, if the seat-rents and collections,
the only sources of revenue provided for in the constitution, afford a
larger income. For an addition to its ecclesiastical and education-
al edifices, which has not been completed under a cost (fabric and
site included) of less than L.3460, Kelso is mainly indebted to a
native of the parish,--Mr James Nisbet, Berners' Street, Lon-
don, with whom the design originated, and by whose munificence
chiefly it has been carried into execution. The splendid donation of
L.1500 to the object forms only one item of the amount of this
gentleman's benefits to the new church and parish.  Among the
benevolent persons who have co-operated with Mr Nisbet, a pro-
minent place is due to three of the elders--Mr John Henderson,
Mr Robert Williamson, and Mr Alexander Leadbetter, who, be-
sides their liberal donations to the funds, have devoted much time
and labour to the superintendence of the work.  The Duke of
Buccleuch, Mr Alderman Pirie, and Alexander Gordon, Esq. of
London, ought also to be mentioned as large contributors. And
it would be unjust to the parishioners generally to withhold the fact,
that their united contributions directly to the object have amounted
to L. 508. *
     Religious Denominations.--Besides the Established Church,
there are five other religious bodies which have places of worship
in the town, viz. the Episcopal Communion, the Reformed Pres-
byterians, the Original Seceders, the United Secession, and the
Relief.  The Methodists and Quakers, mentioned in the former
Account, have disappeared, though the latter body still retain the
right to use their former meeting-house for religious purposes.
An Episcopal congregation has existed in Kelso from the time of
the Revolution. The present meeting house of the Original Se-
ceders was erected in 1772; that of the United Secession in 1787;
that of the Relief, originally an off-shoot from the last-mentioned
consegregation, in 1792.  The ministers of all these bodies are paid

<FOOTNOTE>Although the new church and schools are now open, a minister and teacher ap-
pointed,and new parish ecclesiastical allocated, (the church was opened on 26th
Novepmber 1837,) no account is given in this paper of the changes which are being
introduced into the parish by the new parochial arrangements. lndeed conridering
necessarily immature state of arrangements so recently commenced, this would
have been scarcely practicable, even had it not been wholly precluded by the circum-
stance, that the materials embodied in the present account were chiefly collected in
1836.


