
     Of Monktown and Prestick.

   The parish, at present, extends in length from the N.
where it adjoins the parish of Dundonnald, and Symington 
upon the N. E., 3 1/4 miles towards the S. where it is bound- 
ed by the parish of Newtown and St. Quivox.  From the E. 
where it borders upon Tarbolton and Craigie, 3 miles in 
breadth; but in other parts, beyond the Pow-burn, scarce 
above half that measure.  On the W., it is bounded by the 
Frith of Clyde, opposite to the island of Arran.  The village 
and church of Monktown are distant from the sea about a 
mile.  The prospect is agreeable and pleasant, and the air fa-
lubrious.  Seldom any epidemical diseases prevail, but such 
as are common.  The village contains about 34 dwelling- 
houses, and 46 families, and is intersected by 3 toll-roads; 
one leading from Ayr to Irvine, another to Kilmarnock and 
Glasgow, and the third to Tarbolton and St. Quivox. 

   Church of Monktown, Burgh of Prestick, etc.-The church
of Monktown is an old fabric; no person alive can give any 
account when it was built*.  The burgh of Prestick con-
     3 D 2

<FOOTNOTE>

Newtown purchased from Sir William Maxwell, then patron, the right of e-
lecting their own minister; and with the consent of the heritors of Monktown, 
the Lords Commissioners of Kirks and Teinds, erected the burgh into a separate 
parish, and the church was put upon the establishment.  The freeholders of the 
burgh are subjected to the payment of the minister stipends, which they now 
raise from the rents of the seats.  Before this disjunction and erection took place, 
the inhabitants of Newtown were distant from the parish church of Monktown, 
about 4 English miles, and were the most numerous part of the parish, amount- 
ing to between 800 and 900 persons.  The valuation of the burgh being small, 
they had only a seat in Monktown church that could contain 12 or 14 persons 
at most.  They are still liable to all public burdens, and future augmentations 
of stipends, as heritors of the parish of Monktown and Prestick, and pay their 
usual proportion of stipends. 
*The side walls are 3 1/2, and the west gable 3 feet 10 inches thick; and still 
stands, though bended off the perpendicular on one side, and rent in the west 
gable.  The roof is mostly oak.  It has stood since the Reformation, and is pro-


