
                               STOW.                      427

volumes, was instituted in 1812, and is in a very flourishing state.
It embraces every species of English literature.
   The Sabbath school also has a suitable little library.
   Friendly Societies.--Of these there were several for a time, but
the only one now remaining is that of the Free Masons.
   Savings Banks.--The one nearest to Stow is that in Galashiels,
of which a number of persons in this parish avail themselves.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--Our session records contain much
valuable information on what may be called the history of the
poor, and the police of pauperism.  Going back to an yearly pe-
riod in the seventeenth century, we find regularly enlisted poor
and provision of weekly and monthly allowances made to them.
The numbers then varied from eight to ten and thirteen.  Coming
down another century, and so approaching the present period, we
scarcely find an increase of poor, corresponding to that of the po-
pulation.  In the years 1818-1820,temporary causes increased the
number to 20 and even 24; but, for some years back, it has varied
from 13 to 15, each receiving at an average a fraction under 6s.
a month, with interim or temporary allowances, varying from 10s.
to L.1; average 13s. to from 8 to 11 persons.  This comparison
of the number receiving aid now, and two centuries ago, is very
gratifying, and by no means justifies the gloomy views which some
entertain of the supposed deterioration in this respect of the na-
tional character.
   In considering the claims of applicants, the session allowed so
much a-week.  In 1699, for instance, it varied from 2s. to 18s.
Scots, or 2d. to Is. 6d.  Sterling, the last equalling the average
of what is allowed now at the distance of 130 years.  Besides the
pecuniary aid, mostc of the poor were "allowed to goe," that is to beg,
in the parish.  In the case of one applicant, all that is granted is
permission "to goe."  This, when the nature of the parochial
economy and police then practised is considered, might not be
the most unproductive allowance; for a list of the poor with their
allowances was read from the pulpit, and the session clerk was ap-
pointed to write testimonials to those who were "allowed to goe
in the parioch," so that if any presumed "to goe" without permis-
sion, they were immediately detected.  In addition to all these
checks, the church officer had a small sum for keeping stranger
poor out of the parish.
   During the seventeenth century, the ordinary weekly collec-
tions may be stated at from L.1 to L.3 Scots, excepting the times


