
384                 	    KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

1s. 4d. in winter; and a female's wages, also without victuals,
average about 8d. per day for turnip work, 10d. per day for hay,
and 1s. 6d. for harvest work. The number of agricultural la-
bourers in the parish is about 45 ; of artisans, about 20. There
are no able-bodied labourers who cannot find employment. The
price of meal is from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d. per imperial stone; of po-
tatoes, 12s. per boll ; of coals, L.1, 3s. per ton of 36 cwt.
			     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-town.--The market-town of Gatehouse is divided from
the parish by the Fleet; of which, indeed, a considerable portion,
called Fleet Street, lies on the Anwoth side of the river. There
is no village nor post-office in the parish, Gatehouse being the Post
town.
	Roads.--The turnpike road between Dumfries and Portpatrick
runs through the parish, nearly along the line of the shore. Pre-
viously to its being opened about forty years agro, the public road
was most inconvenient, and almost impracticable. It left the shore
at Gatehouse, and, regardless of bills or any obstruction, it went
by a somewhat irregular line over the Corse of Slakes, an eminence
about 800 feet above the level of the sea. The distance from
Gatehouse to Creetown is three miles and a-half greater, but the
road is nearly a dead level, and is one of the best in Scotland, af-
fording one of the most beautiful and picturesque drives that can
easily be imagined. Some of the parish roads are good ; others
are much neglected. A mail coach passes through the parish
daily, to and from Dumfries and Portpatrick respectively.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated rather more
than a mile from Gatehouse, and about half a mile inland from
the Fleet. It was built about seventeen years ago on a piece of
ground about 250 yards from the old venerable structure, and is
most substantial and commodious. The manse, which of late has
undergone extensive repairs, and is a superior building, is within
a quarter of a mile from the church. The glebe contains about
7 acres; and the stipend, according to the Report of the Com-
missioners of Religious Instruction in Scotland, is L. 247, 10s. 7d.
leaving a surplus of vacant teinds to the amount of L. 41, 18s. 1d.
The stipend, however, is variable, as all the proprietors, except
those of Cardoness and Kirkdale, who pay in money, are assessed
according to the fiar's prices. * Sir David Maxwell of Cardoness is

<FOOTNOTE>We may state that the stipend, in Rutherford's time, consisted of 200 merks
Scots, (about; L. 11 Sterling), derived from the teinds of the parish, and of a volun-
tary contribution on the part of his bearers.--Life of Rutherford, p. 41.


