
   294                     INVERNESS-SHIRE..

   in shallow water), as to become a nuisance before they could be
   salted; but now they seldom visit the coast.
                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Means of Communication.-There is an excellent road running
   through the whole length of the parish, and affording an easy
   communication with Portree, the nearest market-town; and there
   is a receiving-house at Uigg, to which the Harris packet comes
   once a-week for the mails.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which is situated at the head
   of Loch Snizort, near the southern extremity of the parish, was
   built about forty years ago. It was originally intended to accom-
   modate 450 sitters; but, from the great increase of population,
   beinog considered too small, it was lately enlarged by the addi-
   tion of 300 sittings; the expense of which was defrayed by private
   subscription. The manse, which is situated near the church, was
   built at the same time, and has lately undergone repairs. The
   stipend amounts to L. 150, and the value of the glebe is about
   L. 15 a-year. The minister of the parish preaches also every
   third Sunday at Uigg, one of the most destitute localities in the
   Highlands. The Antipaedobaptists, who are the only Dissenters
   in the parish, have a meeting-house here, and have been making
   some converts; but, from recent events, there is reason to
   believe that their progress is more rapid than lasting. There
   are not more than thirty members im full communion with their
   church.
      Education.-Besides the parish school, there are two other
   schools in the parish, one at Uigg, on the Assembly's scheme,
   and the other called Macdermid's Institution, from the name of
   the benevolent individual who endowed it, in the district of Borve.
   Mr Donald Macdermid, late of South Carolina, bequeathed
   L. 1000 to endow a school in Borve, where he was born, for
   the purpose of teaching English, writing, and arithmetic gratis
   to the poor children of that district. In building a suitable school-
   house, and improving an acre of land for the schoolmaster, about
   L. 200 were expended by the trustees, which lessened considera-
   bly the original fund; yet, by accumulation of interest and good
   management, they expect to give a salary of L.35 to the scbool-
   master, who is allowed to take moderate fees from such scholars
   as can afford them. The school is in high repute and numerous-
   ly attended.  Lord Macdonald's factor, the ministers of Portree,
   Snizort, Kilmuir, and Donald Macdonald, Esq. of Skeabost, his


