
420                      PERTHSHIRE.

three Sabbath schools, which have been very serviceable in diffus-
ing among the youth an acquaintance with the Holy Scriptures,
and of which the good effects would be still more apparent, were
the attendance upon them less fluctuating than it frequently is.  The
value of education is appreciated, and the people in general are so
alive to its benefits, and so anxious to procure it fortheir families, that
there are very few above six years of age who cannot read, though
numbers read imperfectly.  The distance of some parts of the pa-
rish is so considerable, as almost to preclude the attendance of
children residing there, upon the parochial school.  But no great
practical inconvenience is experienced on that account, as the
school of an adjoining parish is in the immediate neighbourbnnd.
  A library, which consists of about 180 volumes, chiefly religious
and moral, was formed in 1823.  The readers were never very nu-
merous, and it is to be regretted that they are not at present on
the increase.
  In 1824, a Savings' Bank was opened, and the hope was en-
tertained that it might have been useful to many, and that the
advantages which it held out would have been recognized and
embraced by those for whom it was intended.  The situation is
not perhaps the most favourable for such an establishment.  But,
at all events, the expectations of its projectors have been very in-
adequately fulfilled.  The accounts have never exceeded thirty-
eight, nor has the sum lodged amounted at any time to more than
L. 90.  There are now only eight individuals connected with it,
the money bearing interest is L. 36, 11s.
  Poor.- The number of persons at present on the roll is 20,
some one of them having families.  The provision made for them
varies of course according to the age or the necessities of the indivi-
dual, and other circumstances, rendering their cases more or less
urgent, but 4s., 5s., and 6s. are the general monthly allowances.
There is an insane person too, confined in the Dundee Lunatic Asy-
lum, at the yearly expense of about L.16.  The funds for sup-
porting them, and for defraying other necessary charges, arisd from
the ordinary collections at the church, from dues for the use of the
hearse and mortcloth, and for the proclamation of bans, and
from the interest received on L.230 of money.   When these
are found inadequate, the difference is made up by a voluntary
constribution from the heritors, propertioned, however, to their se-
veral valued rents in the parish, and averaging L. 30 for the last
seven years.  Annual amount of collections for the poor, L.49,                                                                                                  poor,


