
     of Cranshaws.

   Climate, Rivers, etc.-The elevated situation of the parish,
being in the middle of Lammermuir hills, renders the air
sharp and cold; it is however pure and healthy; and during
the summer months the climate is tolerably mild and tempe-
rate.  Though in all the different seasons there are frequent
fogs, yet as they are generally confined to the tops of the hills,
the health of the inhabitants is seldom injured by them*.
   The Whiteadder or Whitewater runs along the N. and E.
sides of the parish.-The river Dye also runs through part of 
this district.  They are inconsiderable streams, but abound
with trout of an excellent quality.  The banks of both were
formerly covered with natural wood, which rendered the ap-
pearance of the country in summer most delightfully romantic;
but now there is not a tree or even 4 thrub to be found on them.
   There are no manufacturers of any kind in the parish.  Its
inland situation and great distance from proper fuel, are un-
favourable to their establishment.  The generality of the in-
habitants are therefore employed in agriculture.  There are
2 masons, 4 joiners, 2 weavers, 1 blacksmith, and 1 taylor,
chiefly employed in working to the people of the parish and
neighbourhood, seldom manufacturing any articles for sale.
The inhabitants in general are frugal, sober and industrious,
free from dissipation, and not addicted to drinking, or any o-
ther species of intemperance.  As a proof of their industry and
sobriety, it deserves to be mentioned that for more than 20

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are few epidemical distempers in this part of the country.  The
most prevalt disorder is the theumatism, probably owing to the changeable-
ness of the weather, and the coldness and dampness of the houses.  Fovers
are not frequent.  And the ague, which prevails so much among the common
people in the lower parts of Berwicklhue, is almost unknown here.  The peo-
ple in general live to a considerable age.  Among the final number of in-
habitants this parish contains, there are at present 6 persons above 70 years
of age, two of whom are above 80.


