
244				ELGINSHIRE.

Veronica montana	Convolvulus arvensis	      Erysimum Alliaria
Circaea alpina	        Myrrhis odorata	              Geranium sanguineum
Bromus secalinus	Adoxa mosehatellina	      Astragahus glycyphyllus
Borago officinalis	Chrysosplenium alternifolium  Petasites vulgaris
Primula veris	        Arenaria trinervis	      Sparganium natans
Solanum Dulcamara	Potentilla Fragariastrum

   The hills, Moors, marshes, old woods, &c. of the parish, if ac-
curately explored, would, undoubtedly, furnish a much longer list
of plants, possessing greater interest to the botanist than those
mentioned above.
   The plantations are chiefly of Scotch fir, (Pinus sylvestris);
and larch, (Larix); to both of which, particularly the latter, the
soil seems well adapted, and both attain to a considerable size.
There are larches planted by the late Sir Alexander Cumming of
Altyre, now standing; the value of which, at the usual rate at
which the cubic foot is solid, is about L.5; and the present Baronet,
who has, for the last thirty years, been faithfully obeying the dying
advice of the Scotch laird to his son,* has the satisfaction of seeing,
in the large plantations of this valuable wood, formed by himself,
trees of 20 inches diameter at the root, and tapering in beautiful
proportion to a height of 40 feet.  The oaks, of the same age,
are commonly 12 inches.  If, as Dr Johnson says, "that man
is the greatest benefactor of his species, who makes two stalks of
corn to grow where there was only one," some praise may be due
to one, who, yet in his prime, has redeemed from waste, either to
the culture of the plough, or the scarce less profitable appliance
of planting every foot of his patrimonial inheritance.  Of old
wood, there are some noble specimens in the parish.  In the gar-
den of Burgie, there is a large sycamore (Acer-Pseudo-platanus),
measuring 14 feet in girth; while the diameter of its ramification,
which is equally clustering and umbrageous on every side, is fully
80 feet.  Such a "monarch of the woods" is rarely to be seen.
In the same place, there is an oak (Quercus robur), the circum-
ference of which, measures 11 feet.  But perhaps the most noble
specimens of former ages, are the beeches, which surround the
remains of that baronial hold, as if in proud mockery of the de-
generacy of the present age.  Of these there are several rows;
each, tree, on an average, having a trunk of 10 feet, with fitting
head and arms.  It is cause of regret, that, when a modern
house was judged necessary to be built, a site so begirt with the
pomp and circumstance of former times should have been abandon-

<FOOTNOTE> "Be aye sticking in a tree, Jock; it will be growing whilst you are sleeping."


