
                         EDINBURGH.                       627

nished the city ; that the public fairs and markets should no
longer, as they were wont, be held on Sunday. that the sports and
games of week days should on the Sabbath be discontinued; and
that no shops or taverns should be open, or goods sold, during
Divine service. Indeed, from the frequent and severe enactments
at this period against loose and disorderly characters, it is evident
that the morals of the community must have been gross and cor-
rupted in the extreme.
   The frequent robberies and disorders in the town by night oc-
casioned the town-council to order lanterns or bowets to be hung
out in the streets and closes, by such persons and in such places
as the magistrates should appoint,--to continue burning for the
space of four hours, that is, from five o'clock'in the evening till
nine, which was deemed aproper time for people to retire to their
houses. The Council also ordered all dunghills and filth to be re-
moved from the streets, and swine prqvented fromcomiug thereon.
  The city wall, from Leith Wynd to the end of the North Loch,
was also at this time built with a house on it, for the sum of L.4,
10s. Scotch, per rood, and forty shillings for each road of the
battlement, After the defeat of the French troops, the fortifica-
tions at Leith were demolished by an order of the council, to pre-
vent foreign forces from again occupying them to the prejudice of
the liberties of the kingdom.
   In the autumn of 1561, Mary, the youthful Queen of Scots,
after a long sojourn and education in France, arrived to take pos-
session of the kingdom of her fathers. On the Ist of September
she made her public entry into Edinburgh ; and was received with
great pomp, and, every demonstration of affectionate welcome.
One great and insurmoununtable drawback, however, was her re-
ligion. On the Sunday after her arrival, while the Catholic mass
was celebrating, a crowd of people assembled at the palace, and
were with difficulty restrained from interrupting the service, and
taking vengeance on the officiatin priest.  The magistrates of
Edinburgh, to the great annoyance of the Queen renewed their
former edict against "idolator and whoremongers,"--A classify-
ng of offences which.they persisted in using,--ordering theme on
pain of summary punishment, to withdraw and banish themselves
but of the city within forty-eight tours. Two years afterwards,
during the Queen's absence on a progress into the west, mass con-
inuing to be celebrated in the chapel of Holyrood House, the


