
			ARBROATH                              75

to. About two miles from the town there was formerly a small
lake, which has been drained these many years. It still retains
the name of Bishop's Loch. The only streams in the parish, with
the exception of a small burn which falls into it, is the Brothock.
Unless when flooded after rain, it discharges a very inconsiderable
quantity of water into the sea. It takes its rise in the parish of
St Vigeans, and, after a course of about six miles, enters the pa-
rish of Arbroath, through which it flows about a quarter of a mile,
when it falls into the ocean. As the source whence the streams is
gatherered which drives a conciderable number of spinning-mills, it
is of no little value to the place.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The country part of the parish be-
ing a narrow strip of land, is distinguished by no peculiarity under
this head which may not be described with more propriety in the
account of the adjoining parishes of Arbirlot and St Vigeans. At
the farther extremity, where the ground is from 140 to 160 feet
above the level of the sea, the soil is thin, with a clay bottom;
nearer the town of Arbroath it is black loam; and along the coast
it is light and sandy
	Zoology,--The zoologist will fine none of the more rare species
of animals in the parish. In the neighbouring ocean is to be had
an abudant supply of fish, consisting chiefly of the haddock, the
cod, and the flounder, with herring and mackerel in their seasons.
Stake-nets were erected a few years ago, in the hope of esteblish-
ing a salmon fishery, but the success has not been such as to de-
fray the expense. Shell-fish, viz, crabs and lobsters, are procured
in great plenty.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Illustrative of this department, there do not appear to be any
ancient or modern accounts of the parish in print or manuscript,
with the exception of a series of brief notices in the 	Arbrouth Ma-
gazine,--a publication which was begun and ended in the year 1800.
The only other historical or descriptive statements regarding Ar-
broath, are those to be met with in works which refer to Scotland
in general, A "Description of the Abbey of Arbroath, by James
Thomson," was published at Arbroath in 1829. which contains
a good deal of interesting, and seemingly, correct, information, in
a condensed form.
	Historical Events.--In ancient times, one of the most important
of these was the celebrated Assembly of the Estates of Scotland,


