
KILFINICH]TN AND KILVICEUEN.
thune," showing that the MS. was once the property of one of
these Betons of Pennycross, the celebrated physicians formerly
mentioned. The MS. contains eigbty-six folios in vellum,of a
quarto size, besides some slips inserted, and thirty-six folios in pa-
per. The first three folios in vellum are part of a Gaelic MS.
on astronomy, with figures of the signs of the zodiac. The other
vellum MS. seems to be mostly on physic, and is in Gaelic or
Irish character, with many contractions. There is part of an.
obituary, consisting of two folios in vellum, beginning with 1360,
and carried on to 1402.
Many copies of the life of Columba appear to have been dis-
persed through the islands in thd vernacular tongue. One copy
was found in Barra, and another in Benbicula. Dr Macpherson
says, we are informed by Lloyd in his Catalogue of Irish Manu-
scripts, " that there is still in the Bodleian library at Oxford, an,
Irish manuscript entitled,-The Works of Columbcille in Verse,
containing some account of the Author's Life, together with his
Prophecies and Exhortations to Princes."
The same industrious writer observes, that there is in the li-
brary of Trinity College at Dublin, some most curious and won-
derful ancient MSS., containing the four gospels and a variety of
other matter. The MS. is "called the Book of Columbcille," and
tbought to have been written by Columba's own I hand. Flann,
King Of Ireland, ordered a very costly cover to be given this book.
On a silver cross, which makes a part of that cover, is still to be
seen an Irish inscription, of which the literal meaning is, 11 the
prayer and blessing of Columbeille to Flann, the son of Mail-
sheaclinail, King of Ireland, who made this cover."
After Iona was shorn of the fairest portions of her revenues by
William the Lion, as before noticed, she still held many extensive
Possession. Dean Monro says she bad thirteen islands, and he
gives the nanies of reven, which he calls Soa, Naban, Moroan,
Reringe, Inch Kenzie, Eorsay, and Kannay; three of these Sevens
have changed their appellationr, so that it is now impossible to
guess at them. *
<FOOTNOTE> * Canna, Soa, Eorsa, and Inchkenneth are the other four; and from the internal
evidence afforded by the remains of cells or other establishments, MacCulloch thinks
there may be added the three Shiant Isles, the three Garveloch Isles, and the Isles of
St Cormac, which, with Rasay, will nearly make up the number; of which latter
island the Dean says it belonged to Iona by heritage, but was then "perteining" to
MacGilliechallum "by the sword."  It is probable the Treshnish Isles and Colonse
belonged also to Iona, and it is believed that Tirie at one time did, as well as the
two ends of Coll.


