
868                    LANARKSHIRE.

Caledonia to have derived its name from Symon Loccard, who
lived during the reign of Malcolm IV. and William the Lion;
who, having obtained a grant of this territory, called the place of
his settlement Symons-toun.  He adds, " in the charters of the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries, it is called Symon's town ; " villa
Symonis;" and more specially " villa Symon's Loccard."  The
name of Symonstown was afterwards abbreviated to Symontoun;
and in modern times the name has been corrupted to Symingtoun
The parish of Symontoun in Kyle derived its name from the
same Symon Loccard, who was the progenitor of the Lockharts
of Lee, and other families of the same name.  The manor of
Symonstoun in Clydesdale continued in possession of the descen-
dants of Symon Loccard till the reign of Robert I., when it passed
to Thomas, the son of Richard, who assumed from it the local sur-
name of Symontoun; and the family of Symontoun of Symontoun
continued to hold this barony till the seventeenth century, when it
returned to the Lockbarts.  Symon Loccard, the first settler,
erected at Symonstoun a chapel, which for some time was subor-
dinate to the church, which was called " Wudehirh," or Wodekirk, the
parochial district of which comprehended the territories of Tan-
cardstoun and Symonstoun.  The abbot and monks of Kelso, in-
deed, claimed the chapel of Symonstoun as a dependent of the
church of Wicestoun; and they prevailed in this unfounded claim,
by obtaining a resignation of the chapel, upon the condition, that
the chaplain presented by Symon Loccard should hold possession
of it during his life.  The monks of Kelso acquired a better found-
ed right to the chapelof Symonstoun, by obtaining a grant of the
church, which was called Wudekirk, to which it was certainly sub-
ordinate.  Before the year 1232, the territory of Symonstoun was
detached from Wodekirk, and established a distinct parish, and
the chapel of Symonstoun was made a parish church.  The church
of Symonstoun continued to belong to the monks of Kelso till the
Reformation.  The monks enjoyed the rectorial revenues; and a
vicarage was established for serving the cure.  An account of the
property of the monks of Kelso, which was made up by the
monks themselves some time between 1309 and 1316, states that
they had the church of Symonstoun " in rectoria," which used to
be worth L. 19 yearly.  In Bagimont's Roll, the vicarage of
Symonstoun in the deanery of Lanark, was taxed L. 2, 13s. 4d.
being a tenth of the estimated value of its spiritual revenues.  At
the Reformation, William Symontoun of Hardington held a lease


