
                           DUNNICHEN.                            155

he is in quest nf a person of his own sentiments, to be established in
it as a settled minister. In this he has not yet succeeded.
	Upon the whole, however, the parish church is very well attended.
The number of persons frequenting the chapel of the Congrega-
tionalists, and who reside in this parish amounts to 20. Of Se-
ceders, there are probably about 60 individuals in the parish.--
All the rest of the parishioners adhere to the established church.
	Education.--The parochial school is situated at Craichy. The
original object of placing it there was to accommodate the people
on the estate of Tulloes. But these people being mostly removed,
there are few children within reach of the school. The teacher
has enjoyed a complete university education, and is well qualified in
classical literature, in arithmetic, algebra, and the higher branches
of calculation; also in mathematics, and their application to prac-
tical purposes. He sometimes has a scholar or two in Latin, but
seldom has any demand for the higher branches of education.
The dwelling-house consists of only two apartments, and the
school-room has a cold damp floor, which is very uncomfortable
for children in winter. The number of scholars is sometimes about
30, but is often below that number. The salary is the maximum.
The fees are the lowest allowed in country schools, namely, 2s. 6d.
` puarter for beginners; 3s. for those advanced to writing; and 4s.
for those learning arithmetic. The amount of school fees actual-
ly received is very various, and in a course of years may ave-
rage from L.5 to L.6 per annum. The teacher is also session-
clerk, at a salary of L.2, 7s.: but he gives L.2 of that to the
precentor, and receives only such perquisites as accrue. He is
also collector of the parish road-money, for which his remuneration
is very trifling.
	Since the village of Letham began to advance in population,
there has always been a school kept there. There was also a
dwelling-house built for him by subscription, which the feuars of
Letham took from him without legal authority. Mr Millar, con-
nected with the Secession, is their present teacher. The same
branches are taught, and the same fees are charged, as in the
parish school. The number of scholars varies from 85 to 105.
They are not all from this parish, but partly from the neighbouring
parishes of Rescobie and Kirkden, which are contiguous to Le-
tham.
	There is another private school at the bridge of Dumbarrow,
taught by a Mr Dickeson, who belongs to our church. The


