
360                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

in the parish, the session have lately struck off all the " exsterns"*
from the list, in consequence of which the heritors have had to assess
themselves rather heavily. It is certainly not a little singular that,
in a country parish, with a population not exceeding 1300, and
with an income of above L. 400 a-year (including the collections
at church) for behoof of schools and the poor, an assessment should
be necessary; yet it is not to be wondered at, since the Hutton be-
quest, as formerly conducted, acted as a bounty upon pauperism.
Our surplus revenue for the last half year, as well as for the year
to come, will be nearly exhausted in defraying legal expenses--
making an addition to the school at Bankend--and in executing
necessary repairs on the farm-building on the estate of Barcloy.
This estate is divided into eighteen farms. As several of the
houses are old, and as the property, though not susceptible of much
improvement by the plough, yet contains many acres well adapted
for plantation, there is a channel provided for our surplus revenue
for some time to come. As any delay in these improvelents must
be injurious to the trust, it is desirable that they should be speedily
carried into effect. When completed, however, there will be a
large and constantly increasing revenue, for the application of which
the trustees will be under the necessity of having recourse to the
Supreme Court for extended powers. Unfortunately, in some
points, the power of the trustees is rather limited. The positive
terms of the deed are inconsistent with its spirit, from the altered
state,of society, and from the circumstance of the founder never
having, in all probability, contemplated such an increase of revenue.
By the deed, it is provided, that there shall be two minor schools
--but this would be impossible, were the terms of the deed strictly
adhered to, which limits the salaries of the masters to L. 1, l0s.
The trustees have gradually advanced these salaries to the amount
already stated. It would be desirable to increase them still more;
but to do this, the authority of a court must be had. With regard
to provisions for the poor, there is much truth in the remarks of Dr
M'Morrine contained in a note, + subjoined to the former Statistical

<FOOTNOTE>This term is employed by, Dr Hutton in his deed of mortification, to denote
them, who, although resident, have not been born in the parish.
          + "If the situation, circumstances, and manners of the inhabitants of Caerlavd-
rock are considered, it should seem that a fourth part of the sum allotted to the support
of the poor might be sufficient for all the purpose of real and useful charity. And, in-
deed, an attetive observer will reckon it a matter of doubt, whether the greatness of
the parish funds be productive of most good or evil. The moralist has some cause to
complain, that it dries up the sources of private charity, and renders the poorer people
less willing to assist their old and needy relations. These they seem sometimes dis-
posed to abandon to the care of the session, who cannot, by the small allowance they


