
238 			GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.


  The mica-slate, including also chlorite slate, as on Gare-
loch above Row Ferry, on which these transition rocks rest,
is an extensive formation, extending from the Mull of Cen-
tyre, and including the islands of Isla, Jura, and Colonsay. It
stretches along by the north of Loch Awe, where it meets with
the granite of Cruahan Ben, it then passes on by Ben Lawers to
the north of Loch Tay, and may he traced in a thin line as far east as
Stonehaven. This rests again upon an immense deposit of gneiss,
which extends to the north of Scotland, with patches of granite and of
oldred sandstone, here and there interspersed. The transition rocks
here are part of a thin stripe of very inconsiderable breadth, running
north-east and south-west, passing through the centre of the island
of Bute, entering this county near the south-east end of Roseneath,
crossing it by Ros-doe and the Pass of Balmaha it stretches away by
Aberfoil, Callander, Comrie, south-east of Dunkeld, passes through
Edzel, and terminates in the sea at Stonehaven. Bute is the
south-western terminus of the minerals of which the county of
Dumbarton is composed, and Stonehaven the north-east terminus.
From the same point in the north-east, an extensive formation of
old red sandstone, lying to the south, extends also from Stonehaven
to the south of Bute, having Montrose, Arbroath, Dundee, Dun-

ning, Stirling, and the town of Dumbarton standing on its south-
ern extremities. Like the greywacke, this formation runs due
north-east and south-west. As connected with Dumbartonshire,
the old red sandstone group appears in the south-west of the pe-
ninsula of Roveneath, chiefly as a conglomerate south-east of the
vale or dingle, which stretches from Campsail on the east to Port-
kill on the south-west. It passes north-east through part of Row
parish, including the Cilliter range to the north-west, and the point
of Ardmore, including Camis Eskin and Keppoch, and then
stretches through Bonhill to Inch-murrin in Loch Lomond, and on
to Balmaha and Buchannan. It constitutes, in fact, part of the
lower basin of Loch Lomond an its south-east end. It forms also
the link between the slaty rocks to the north, and the sandstone,
hire, coal, iron, &c. to south; and may be said, in some degree,
to be the basin of the Frith of Clyde. In many places along this
noble estuary, there are striking proofs of the sea having ones at-
tained a higher level, and of having overtopped its present bed
thirty or forty feet. This is strikingly exhibited in the remarkable
promontory of Ardmore, south-east of the entrance to the Gare-


