
                          PARISH OF PETTIE.

                PRESBYTERY OF INVERNESS, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                  THE REV. JOHN GRANT, MINISTER.


                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
WHAT is now called the parish of Pettie comprehends the
united parishes of Bracholy and Petyn, situate within the an-
cient province or diocese and the modern synod of Moray, and
in the county and presbytery of Inverness; with the exception
of a pendicle of Lord Cawdor's property, called Calder's Braich-
lich, which is valued in the county of Nairn.  The earliest men-
tion of these parishes is in the " Registrum Episcopatus Moravi,
ensis," or Chartulary of Moray.  They formed a united parish pre-
vious to the Reformation, under the charge of " the vicar of Petyn
and Bracholy," who was a prebendary of the Elgin cathedral, and
appointed to do duty there by a deacon. The church of Petyn
was dedicated to St Columba; for in the Chartulary, page 43, the
vicar records himself as a witness to the deed of assignation of tbe
first prebends, thus: " Ego, Walterus, Vicarius Sancti Columbae
de Petyn subscribe. " They are spoken of in the Chartulary as two
churches; for, in describing the maintenance of the prebendaries,
it is said, " de omnibus decimis garbarum infra parochias dictarum
ecclesiarum unam scilicet de omnibus decimis infra parochias de
Petyn et de Bracholy ;"* and among the " procurationes recen
tioris aevi," they are set down as " Ecclesiae de Petyn et Bracholy
concurrentes."+  There was a glebe at each church.  A field on
Ballispardan is still known by the name of the Glebe, which it has
maintained since an excambion was effected in 1762, and a piece
of land given at the church of, Petyn equal to the two glebes.
They seem to have been always united as one parish since  the
Reformation.  In the minutes of session of date June 30, 1662,
the people of Flemington are ordered to attend catechising in the
church of Bracholy.  A similar intimation is noticed March 18,
1688.  But at what time Divine service ceased to be alternately
performed in each, we have not been able to ascertain.

 Registrum, p. 72.   + Ibid. 366.



