
       492                                  ARGYLESHIRE.


	that valley, was a man of much acuteness, intelligence, and talent.
	His knowledge of the Gaelic language was extensive and accurate,
	and he was engaged, in conjunction with the Rev. Dr Smith of
	Campbelton, Dr Donald Smith, his brother, the Rev. Mr Camp-
	bell of Kilfinichen in Mull, and other learned Celtic scholars, in
	preparing a dictionary of that language, which, it is to be regret-
	ted, they did not complete and publish.  Mr MacIntyre, who died
        about fifty years ago, bad a poetical talent, and composed some
        good Gaelic songs, which are still favourites with our amateurs in
        that particular department.*
           Land-owners.-The parish is divided among six heritors,+ pay-
	ing parish rates, and all are of the name Campbell.  Arranged in
	the order of their valued rents these are,
 
 	<TABLE>
				                             Valued rents.
            Sir Duncan Campbell of Barcaldine and Glenure, Bart.	L. 131 3 4
	    The Marquis of Breadalbane,                                     88 3 0
            Archibald Campbell, Esq. of Lochnell,	         	    85 2 8
	    Robert Campbell, Esq. of Ardchattan.	                    65 7 0
            Alexander Campbell, Esq. of Monzie and Inverawe,	            35 9 9
	    Donald Campbell, Esq. of Baleveolan,	                    11 2 2

	Mr Macdonald, proprietor of the farm of Dalness, claims ex-
	emption from public burdens, on the ground of his being heredi-
	tary keeper of the royal forest. Mr Campbell of Baleveolan is a
	minor.  The proprietors of the Lochnell estates bave been connected
	with the parish during a longer period than any of our other land-
	holders.  They are descended from Colin, third Earl of Argyle,
	and have uniformly sustained a high character for patriotism and
	worth.  About the year 1594, James VI. issued a commission to
	the then Earl of Argyle to attack Huntly and the other insurgent
	Popish Lords.  They met at Glenlivat, Argyle having a force of
	10,000 men under his command.  The Highlanders, who were

        <FOOTNOTE>But our best poet, in later times at least, was James Shaw, better known as
        Lochnell's bard.  Shaw was quite illiterate, and like many votaries of the lyric muse,
	thoughtless and improvident to a very culpable degree.  But his natural powers
	were of a high order, his imagination was lively, and his kindlier feelings strong,
	though, as a satirist, it was no enviable position for any one to have incurred his re-
	sentment.  His songs and other verses would, if published, form a moderately sized
	volume, and many of them have already found their way into published collectins
	of Gaelic poetry.  Shaw died about twenty years ago.  His talents, if cultivaled.
	could not have failed to obtain for him consideration, and had his deportment been
	correct, he might have enjoyed independence, and lived in comfort.  But his irregular
	habits lost him the favour of those who were able and disposed to befriend him, left
	him an impoverished and degraded object, and brought him at last toan untimely grave.
           There are now seven heritors, the property of Glenure having recently been
	purchased by Sir Duncan Cameron of Fassfern, Bart; and Barcaldine by D. C.
	Cameron, Esq. of Foxhall, (1843.)
                                               4

