
                           TURRIFF.                          997

in the utmost harmony with those who differ from them, and have
hitherto been able, amid much contention, to preserve "the unity
of the spirit in the bond of peace."

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Contents of the parish in imperial acres.-

<TABLE>
      Cultivated land,                 13,553 Acres.
      Waste or pasture land,            4,578
      Under wood,	                      2,998
      Roads,                              128
      Moss,	                               50
                                       ------
                                       21,309 imperial acres.

   The whole parish occupies a rising ground of greater or less
degrees of elevation. In some places, the ground ascends to a
considerable altitude above the surrounding valleys, and descends
by an easy inclination, presenting a variety of table-land, sloping
in different directions. Some of the farms are of large extent,
under the management of enlightened, enterprizing, and skilful
tenants, who have not failed to introduce the numerous improve-
ments in the science of agriculture, which experience has proved
to be advantageous. The crops commonly cultivated are, sown
grasses, oats, bear and barley, turnips and potatoes, with occa-
sionally a few tares. The course generally pursued is the five
and seven shift, but especially the latter, being three grasses and
two white crops for the seven, and two grasses and one white crop
for the five; the ground being, carefully cleaned by turnips or po-
tatoes, followed by a crop of oats or barley, and laid down with
grass and clover seeds.
   Turnip husbandry is very successfully practised, and the Swe-
dish variety, so beneficial in the end of the season, thrives parti-
cularly well.
   Waste Land.-The improvement of waste land has been carried
on in this parish for the last twelve years, with great vigour. Mr
James Murray, brother of the present tenant at Burnside of Del-
gaty, received the silver medal from the Highland Society of
Scotland, for the extent of waste land he brought into a state of
cultivation, while the tenants on the Delgaty property and else-
where have successfully followed his example.
   Machines and Implements.-When the last Statistical  Report
was drawn up in 1794, there were only three thrashing-mills in
the parish; now there are sixty-three, and when it can possibly be


