
824                       FIFESHIRE.

hills, with occasional valleys intervening and generally extending
from east to west. The Roscobie ridge is very prominent.
   The principal hills are, the hill of Beath, on the north-east,
which is partly in this, and partly in Beath parish; and Craig-
luscar hill, on the north-west. The former has the greater ele.
vation of the two, is clothed with verdure to the summit, and com-
mands a beautiful prospect.
   The coast along the Frith of Forth stretches about a mile
and a half, and is partly high, and partly flat. It is chiefly rocky
in its nature, and the portion of it immediately in front of Broom-
hall house, which is steep, is covered with fine wood. At the
western extremity are the harbour, village, and lime-works of
Charleston; in the centre, the bay, harbour, and village of Lime-
kilns; and close by, on the east, in the parish of Inverkeithing,
the harbour of Brucehaven, and about a quarter of a mile onward
the ruins of the old church, and the churchyard of Rosyth, where
the ground projects a little into the Frith.
   Meteorology.-The atmosphere is generally dry, clear, bracing,
and salubrious; but there is a considerable diversity in the parish
as to climate. In the southern division, where the land has a
gentle slope towards the Frith, and is comparatively well shelter-
ed, the temperature is much milder and more genial than in the
northern, where the ground has a gradual ascent, and is more
hilly and less protected. From this circumstance, as well as the
greater wetness and inferiority of the soil in the northern district,
the harvest there is commonly two or three weeks later than in the
southern. Even in the upper and lower ends of the town, there
is a perceptible difference in the temperature, as indeed may be
supposed from the fact, that there are 200 feet of difference be-
tween their respective elevations above the level of the sea.
   A meteorological table, showing the state of the barometer and
thermometer at nine o'clock in the morning for ten years, 1825-
1834, both inclusive, was kept by the late Rev. Henry Fergus,
minister of the Relief Church, Dunfermline, well known in this
quarter for the ardour and ability with which be prosecuted scien-
tific studies as well as the amiableness and modesty of his cha-
racter. From this table, with which I have been favoured, the
following facts and calculations have been deduced as to atmo-
spheric pressure and temperature:-
   1. Atmospheric Pressure.-The subjoined table points out the
mean height of the barometer for each of the months of the ten


