
456                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

fries by Lockerbie to Langholm, built in 1830 by the county road
proprietors, at a great expense. It is indeed a great ornament
to this part of the country. It is built all of good Memel tim-
ber, and consists of seven large arches, suppnrted each by four very
large perpendicular logs of wood forced into the earth, with strong
beams, extending from one to another of these, with appropriate ob-
lique supports; the whole strongly jointed together with strong
cast metal, covered above with a double flooring of thick strong
planks ledged with a beautiful wooden palisade, covered with a coat
of white oil paint. The whole is a strong, substantial, and at the
same time elegant piece of workmanship, and does great credit to
the undertaker, Mr John Park of Ecclefechan.
	Ecclesiastical State.*--The parish church is a neat building,
situated on a small eminence on the west side of the main street
of Lockerbie, a little north from the centre of the town. It is well
fitted up in the inside, and handsomely painted. Its situation be-
ing near the centre of the parish and in the town of Lockerbie, it
is very conveniently placed for almost all the population. Its dis-
tance from the farthest extremity of the parish is only about three
miles and a-half. It was put into good repair in the year 1751,
and has since been kept so. It may contain about 750 people.
	There are two important benefactions on record,--the first of
L. 80, given about the year 1751 by the father of the late Earl of
Hopetoun, the interest of which was to be annually paid to the pa-
rochial schoolmaster; the other a legacy of L. 65, left by Jnhn Ait-
cheson, Esq. of Oulney, with a gift of two massive silver communion-
cups, in 1761.
	On the summit of the old Kirkhill, contiguous to the former
churchyard, stands the present manse, a neat building; its situation
is one of the most beautiful in the whole of Annandale. It was built
in the year 1782, and is kept in yearly repair by the heritors. It
is surrounded by a glebe of 24 acres standard measure, at present

<FOOTNOTE>Previous to the year 1757, the church stood on the middle of the holm of Dryfe,
now called Sandbed, one mile and a-half north of Lockerbie. Tradition says, that
in the year 1670, from its closeness to that stream, it was gradually undermined and
carried away by it, and that after this the church and burial-ground was rebuilt at
a small distance to the south-east in 1761, on a height upon the skirts of the present
glebe, or as it was then called Kirkhill, and thought to be perfectly secure from the
awells of the rivulet; but in the course of time it changed its course, and ran along
the foot of a scar, above which the church and burial ground stood, parts of which
gradually fell into the water, in spite both of " spades and shovels," and would soon have
been carried off. In 1757, it was removed to the town of Lockerbie, both as an or-
nament to, and for the convenience of, the town and parish.

					3

