
                             LOTH.                           189

manse,-is called 11 Ville de Estirloch," the same being situated
to the eastward of Loth-beg. The glen, also, through which the
river of Loth flows is, in old writings, called 11 the Glen of Loth,"
and not Glen-Loth, as it is now most -frequently -named;, thereby
denoting that the glen was an appendage. to the farm of Loth,
instead of having a descriptive or distinct name of its own'.
It may be added, however, as a remarkable fact connected with
this name, that Ptolemy places the Logi along the sea'coast, of
which the south boundary of the present parish of Loth forms a,
part; the 11aflumen (the river Ullie or Helmsdale) being in
their country, which seemed to extend between Ferubiumpromona-
torium (the Ord of Caithness) and Ripa alta, (the,Ardross range
Of MOUDtains towards Tarbetness). And Richard of Cirencester,
in his description of Caledonia, assigns the same locality to the
Logi, and says, after naming the Cantm, and Promontorium Pe-
nozzillum, (the high ground of the present Oykill,) 11 Huic ordine
proximus estfuvius Abona (the Dornoch Frith) ejusdemque,ao-
C0105'Logi. Hine Ila fluvius," &c.
Boundaries, Extent, Topographical Appearances.-The parish
extends in a straight line fromwest to east, about eleven miles
in length; and its breadth, where broadest, from Ben-sUarie to
the sea, is about five miles. The boundary line, if taken at
the sea shore at the Bay of Kintradwell, proceeds northward
to the top of Kollieben, and thence along a tidge of high billsy
and in a half-circular sweep, by west and north, to the top of
Ben-Uarie, (1923 feet high,) and then eastward by the sum-
mit of the high ground between the Strath of Kildonan and the
glen of Loth, and, intersecting the top of the Crask, on to Ben
Veallicb, (1$88 feet bi b,) and to the top of Knock Elderaboll;
.thence, down to the plane of the Strath of Kildonan and the river
Helinsdale, at a point about three miles above the mouth of that
river. Thereafter, following the river downwards for. about one
.mile, the march ascends the east side of the valley, and, running
nearly parallel with the line of sea coast, and at a distance of about
two miles from it, terminates to the north of the Hill of the Ord,
at the march with the county of Caithness. From this last point
to the sea, the boundary between Sutherland and Caithness forms
also the eastern boundary of the parish, and runs southward to the
steep front of the Ord at the sea, and is marked out by a low turf
wall, erected about thirty-five years ago when: this p I art of the
march between the two counties, as- to which there existed so,me


