
316                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

to bring the country under their subjection, and in prosecution of
this object, shed much of their own blood as well as that of the
natives. The Roman road appears to have been employed by
different armies in marching through this parish; and it was op-
posite to Kildean, the point at which that road first reaches the
Forth, that the battle of Stirling, or more correctly of Corntown,
was fought in 1297. The Scots were commanded by Wallace,
and the English by Lord Surrey and Cressingham. Part of the
English army had crossed the bridge, which was of wood, and so
narrow as to admit of only two men abreast, when they were at-
tacked and routed by the Scots. It has been questioned whether
the bridge was broken down by accident or design, or, indeed, if
it was broken down at all. The water at the ford is not above
two feet deep at low water, and Wallace's dexterity was displayed
in attacking, when only a part of them had crossed the river.
Cressingham was slain, Lord Surrey, who was on the south bank
fled with theremainderof the army, but was speedily pursued, over-
taken, and severely defeated at Torwood. About seventeen years
after, Edward himself, with a great army, advanced towards Stirling
by the same road. The English are said to have encamped at
the Roman station at West Plean, the night before the battle; and
on the 24tb of June 1314, was gained one of the most complete
victories ever obtained by the Scots over their oppressors. All
the facts, and varied controversies, about the battle of Bannockburn
are so well known, as to render any detail unnecessary. These
were contests between rival nations; but on the 11th of June
1448, was fought the battle of Sauchie, between Jarnes III. and
his rebellious subjects.  A stone is still pointed out, not far from
the modern house of Sauchie, in which it is said that the stand-
ard was fixed; and a large cairn of stones in the neighbourhood
was probably raised over the bodies of the slain. The field is
little more than a mile from the Bored Stone, and about two
miles and a-half from St Ninians. The King fled from the
battle, was thrown from his horse at Milton; and the house into
which he was carried, and where he was slain, is still shown.  In
the minority of James VI., some of the bloody scenes transact-
ed in Stirling extended also to this parish, In 1511, the Earl
of Lennox, the King's grandfather, held a Parliament in Stir-
ling, a party from Edinburgh marched during the night, and
attacked them unexpectedly next morning. In the scuffle, the
Regent received his deadly wound at Newhouse, between St Ni-
				   4


