
   	196                   SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

   	severely fished some years ago, by fishing-smacks, for the London
   	market, that it was, for some time thereafter, thought that the lob-'
  	ster had been exterminated along the coast.
  	  Botany.- Rare native plants are seldom met with in the pa:rish;
	but the cultivated vegetable productions are important and of the
	best quality. With the exception of a clump of Scotch firs at
	Kintradwell, and some stately sycamore and ash-trees at Kilmote,
   	and a few straggling young trees at Midgarty and Port Gower,
   	there is no growing wood in the arish. The grains raised in the
   	arable lands, are of superior quality, and ripen early and with little
   	risk, even in unfavourable seasons. The deep carse soil in the
   	centre of the parish, yields all descriptions of grain,-wheat, barley,
   	oats, beans, and pease; but the quality of the barley of this dis-
   	trict is so superior, that its cultivation is the chief object of the
   	farmer; and large parcels of this grain have been raised of late years
   	in the parish, which weighed 57-1/2 lb. per bushel; while one small
   	parcel raised at Crakaig weighed 59 lb. The herbage of the
   	bills and moorlands, however, do not excel similarly situated pas-
   	turages in their neighbourbood ; and no rare plants appear in the
   	uncultivated lands, unless we enumerate as such, Eriophorum, in
   	boggy places; Primula farinosa, in two or three plats of meadow;
   	Viola lutea in sheltered slopes of rivulets; and the fragrant My-
   	rica gale, in marshes and soft grounds. Vaccinium myrtillus, the
   	blaeberry, and V. oxycoccos, afford their wild native fruits, along
   	some of the sides of the highest mountains; and V. vitis-idea,
   	the red bilberry, is common in less elevated moorlands. The
   	steep and comparatively dry sides of the hills to the north of
   	Navidale are adorned with some of the richest and most luxu-
   	riant furze-bushes, Ulex Exropaus, to be met with in the north of
   	Scotland, and which, when brilliant with their splendid golden
   	blossoms, far exceed in wild beauty and richness, any other of our
   	native plants, and invest with credit the anecdote of Linnaeus,
   	who, for the first time, saw the furze on his visit to England in
   	1736, and was so enraptured with it, that it is said he fell on his
   	knees in order to admire its bright blossoms. Another common
   	plant, the spear-thistle, Carduus lanceolatus, rears its stately
   	and barbed-head, along the line of the old road across the
   	Ord, in such great numbers as to justify the assertion, that the
   	national emblem Of Scotland is the decorative crest of the bold
   	sea-front ot the Ord,--one of the most, characteristic headlands of
        ancient Caledonia. In the barren shingle along the sea shore,


