
     Statistical Account

Leney, where a whole river tumbles down from precipice to
precipice, over a succession of rocks for several hundred yards,
adds grandeur to the scene.

   Church.-One of the principal ornaments of the beautiful
village of Callander, is a new church, which was built about
18 years ago, with a pavilion roof, and a spire over the pedi-
ment in the front+.  It is happily set down, in the centre of
the place, and at a proper distance from the road.  The prin-
cipal expence was defrayed by the late commissioners of an-
nexed estates, and the plan designed by Mr. Baxter, architect.
The manse was built in the year 1773; and is all in good or-
der, except the west gable, which the heritors are proposing
to repair, before it go into such disorder, as to create a heavy
expence.  The stipend is 50 L. in money, 2 chalders of meal,
and 1 of bear, besides a glebe of 9 acres, including grass. Mr.
Drummond of Perth is patron.  The present minister was
admitted in 1768, is married, and has a numerous issue*.

   Schools.-On one side of the square before the church, the
school is situated; where the learned languages, geography,
elements of astronomy and perspective, are taught by one
master; writing, accounts, drawing, geometry, book-keeping,
navigation, and the elements of mathematics, by another.  The
terms are very moderate.  About 80 boys, from different
parts of Britain, and from abroad, attend.  There is also a
society school in the parish.

   Poor.-The poor, upon the public roll of the parish, are
30.  The funds for assisting to maintain them, are the public

<FOOTNOTE>

*In this spire there is a fine bell, which is heard at the distance of 12 or 14
miles, in a calm day.  It was cast at Glasgow, and purchased by a voluntary
subscription, raised among the heritors and principal inhabitants, chiefly by the
exertions of the incumbent, whose name is inscribed on it.
+Mr. JAMES MENZIES was the last Episcopal minister, and continued to
officiate long after the Revolution.  In his time, the records of the parish were
left, by his house taking fire.


