
			ABOYNE AND GLENTANNER.		   1055

son, Mrs Lynch, and their sisters, Misses Catherine and Louisa
Farquharson, (L. 173, 6s.  8d.) who succeeded as heirs-portioners
to their brother, the late Lewis Farquharson Innes of Balnacraig
and Ballogie.  Their father was male representative of the ancient
house of Inverey, and on succeeding to the lands of Ballogie and
Balnacraig, &c. in this and the neighbouring parishes of Birse and
Kincardine, assumed the name of Innes, that of his relatives, the
former proprietors. One of his authors, Findly Farquharson of
Inverey, was killed carrying the Royal banner at the battle of
Pinkie, 1547. 4. The Earl of Aberdeen, who is proprietor of a
small farm in the parish, but to which no valued rent is attached.
         Historical Events.-There are no papers or writings of which
the writer is aware, that can throw much light on events of former
times, and tradition furnishes but few particulars respecting the
early history of Aboyne; hence at what time even the castle was
first built, the writer is unable to obtain distinct evidence.-Possi-
bly this might be supplied by the Huntly charters, and the date
of the royal permission for its erection ascertained. It may, how-
ever, be inferred, from the circumstance of the castle being placed
in a swamp, and having (till in recent times the water was lower-
ed) been accessible only by boat or drawbridge, that it was erect-
ed about the tenth or eleventh century,-the moat fortification be-
ing, then followed for castles, as previously and subsequently
duns, rocks or some eminence secure from sudden attack were se-
lected for strongholds and baronial castles. In 1242, it was pos-
sessed by William Bisset, who being then, as already noticed, ac-
cused as accessory to the death of the Earl of Athol, was sum-
moned to stand his trial at Edinburth.  He went there, and of-
fered to peril his life with any of his accusers, but his challenge
was not accepted, and he being afraid that his judges might be
concussed by his inveterate and powerful enemies, the Cummines,
went with a number of his relations into voluntary exile in Ireland.
From the chartulary of Aberdeen, it appears that the Bissets gave
the lands of Aboyne to the Knights Templar, and it is a remark-
able fact, that some fields near the castle still bear the name of
"Tiran Teampull," i. e. the Templars' ground, which circum-
stance is evidence that Gaelic was then the vernacular language
about Aboyne, but which has long since retired farther west. Re-
garding the possession of the castle by the Earl of Marr, there is
also an order from Baliol, recorded in the " Rotuli Scotiae." From
the Knights Templar the lands of Aboyne passed to the Frasers


