
     of Tiry.

clay, points out another source of manufactures.  Applying
kelp might be applied to several uses, salt so convenient to
the western fisheries, might be made here.  Several other
manufactures, of which the materials are easily imported,
might be tried, such as working of nets, stockings, &c.  The
marble also might employ many hands.  Above all, fishing
should never be neglected in Tiry and Coll, one of the best
station, in all the western isles.  The attempts that have been
made, and the several fishing banks daily discovered confirm
this.  The country being flat, the seas near it will not na-
turally be deep.  Some of the banks are close to the shore.
Experienced fishers observe that, of all the places they know,
this is nearest to the fishing grounds.  In summer 1787, there
were several companies of natives employed, and, though of lit-
tle experience, they caught at one letting of 200 or 300 hooks,
from 30 to 80 cod and ling, besides a variety of scate, eels,
dol-fish, etc. and these who had harpoons and lines caught at
the same time sail-fish, each yielding from 5 to 8 barrels oil.
Herrings frequent the bay of Gott, yet there are no nets on
the island.  There are yearly companies from Barra, who
prefer this to their own island, especially as less fatiguing.
These having more experience, are more successful than our
men.  There have been also adventurers from Ireland and the
east of Scotland successful.  In one sloop particularly, though
they concealed their success, they seemed, from their heaps
upon the shore, to have caught in 2 months, from 12000 to
16000 cod and ling.  There are, this year, some companies
from Barra, one from Ayr, and one only of the natives.  They
commonly catch from 100 to 240 per day, so that sometimes
they do not raise their whole lines at once; their boats not
being able to carry the fish ashore.  Notwithstanding such a
promising prospect, of their having, with a great number of
fishing yawls, 10 boats in the parish, partly decked, which


