

204                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

come from other parishes. It is to be regretted that the family
of Airth, a very few years ago, sold the patronage for L. 2420.
It is at present again in the market, but not yet sold. A new
church was built in 1789, and, though not distinguished for
external ornaments, it is one of the most comfortable in the
neighbourhood, and more than sufficient for the accommodation
of the parish. A new manse was built in 1816, at an expense
of L.1575, and is, to the honour of the heritors, the best in
the county. The stipend is 17 chalders of victual; and the
teinds are exhausted. The glebe consists of four Scotch acres
of the best land. The Earl of Zetland has reclaimed from the
Frith of Forth, by embankments, about 200 acres, which have
not as yet been subjected to the payment of any part of the minis-
ter's stipend. There are still 800 acres which are left dry by the
tides twice every twenty-four hours, and which will certainly, at no
distant period, be recovered from the sea.
  Education.-There is no other school than the parochial, the
salary of which is the maximum. The heritors, with their accus-
tomed liberality, built a school and schoolmaster's house in 1830,
at an expense of L. 600, and they have allotted to the schoolmas-
ter the fourth of a Scotch acre for garden ground. The number
of scholars is, at an average, about 60. The branches taught
are, English grammar, arithmetic, writing, geography, mathema-
tics, Latin, and Greek.
  Poor.-From the parish being almost altogether rural, the poor
roll seldom contains more than six, who receive a weekly allowance
of from 6d. to Is., with an occasional supply of coals and clothing
during the winter season. The collections at the church door
amount to about L. 15 annually. The late John Ogilvie, Esq. of
Gairdoch, bequeathed, about twenty years ago, to the native poor
of the parish, L. 500, which is lodged in the public funds, and the
interest of which is to be laid out in the purchase of meal, when
the price exceeds the average of the last seven years by one-fourth
part, according to the flars of the county. James Watt, Esq. a
native of the parish, and a merchant in London, bequeathed also
L. 100 to the native poor, which is under the management of the
heritors and kirk-session.
  Fairs.-There are no fairs in the parish. The market-town is
Falkirk, to which the produce is principally carried.
  Inns.-There are six public-houses, five of which are in the
village of Carron Shore.


