
10                              STIRLINGSHIRE.

predeceased him, excepting one son, the,present minister of Irvine,
who is the author of several works in Theology.
  Mr William Symington of the Wanlockhead mines, inventor
of a method of moving wheel-carriages by steam, constructed,
in 1802, a steam-vessel for the Forth and Clyde Canal, which
towed two loaded sloops of seventy tons burden each, from Lock
No. 20, to Port Dundas, a distance of 19 1/2 miles, in six hours
against a head wind. It appeared, however, that the agitation of
the water would destroy the canal banks, and the design was laid
aside. Mr Symington lived many years in Falkirk, and died in
London a few years ago.
  The Rev. John Brown Patterson, A.M., was ordained minister
of this parish in 1830. He was a native of Alnwick, in North-
umberland. He became distinguished as the author of an Essay on
the National Character of the Athenians, which gained the prize
of one hundred guineas, offered in 1827 by the Commissioners
for visiting the Universities of Scotland. He died in 1835, and
his remains lie interred in the porch leading into the church,
where an elegant monument has been erected to his memory.
Since his death, memoirs of his life, with a selection from his dis-
courses, have been published in two volumes; and, more recently,
a volume of lectures. *
  Henry Belfrage, D.D., was a native of this parish, being a son
of the Rev. John Belfrage, minister of the Associate Congrega-
tion in Falkirk. He was ordained colleague and successor to his
father in, 1794, and died in 1835. He published several volumes
of sermons and other theological works.
  James Walker, Esq., LL. D., the celebrated engineer, Lon-
don, was born and educated in Falkirk. His father was a re-
spectable merchant in the town, and was proprietor and occupier
of an extensive farm in the neighbourbood.
  The Rev. Jame Burns, A.M. was a native of Falkirk. While
at college he gained several prizes. He was ordained to the first
charge of the parish of Brechin in 1798, and was the author of the
Account of that parish, which appeared in the first number of this
work,--besides other publications. He died on 2d January 1837.
  Commodore Charles Napier was born at Merchistonhall in this
parish. He is renowned for the part he-acted in the late brilliant
affair of St Jean D'Acre, and for other martial achievements.

<FOOTNOTE>He was succeeded as minister of the parish by the Rev. Alexander Melville,
who was ordained on 22d January 1836, and died on 2d December 1839.


