
     of Fraserburgh.

The harbour is small, but good.  According to the tide, there
are from 11 to 16 feet water within the harbour, and above
20 feet immediately without, a spring tides.  Vessels of 200
tons burden enter at present.  Contigous to the harbour, is
a tolerable road for shipping, in a bay nearly a league in
length, and half a league broad, with good anchoring ground.
Seven vessels, from 50 to 100 tons, employed both in the
coasting trade and in the foreign, belong to this place.  Ship-
building has been attempted here, and has succeeded well, es-
pecially since the peace of 1783.
   Fraserburgh is well situated for trade.  In the beginning of
this century, its commerce was equal, it not superior to that
on any other town on the coast, between Aberdeen and Inver-
ness.  At present it requires only encouragement to render it
again a port of some consequence.  Were the harbour en-
larged, and the piers extended a few yards forward to the
rock called the Ellie, there would be an increase of five feet
water in it; there would thereby, also, be secured about 8 feet
water at low tide, within the pier-heads.  This improvement
would probably be expensive:  but wind-bound vessels, and o-
thers, of considerable burden, would thereby find easy access,
and be sheltered in stormy weather when they could not reach
any harbour in the Murry Firth.  Having two channels of
entrance, one of them, from their situation, could always be
taken.-Another useful improvement upon its present state,
of small expence, and in some degree connected with former,
would be to erect a breaker on the rock called the Inch,
which lies a little way without the harbour.  It is observed
that, in whatever weather, there is no run within the har-
bour until this rock is covered by the slowing tide:  Therefore,
were this breaker to be raised as high as the tide slows, it is
supposed that all run into the harbour would thereby be pre-
vented.  It does not appear that the expence of this breaker

     B 2


