
90                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

ral Assembly Committee, since the latter commenced their labours.
But of catechists, the description'of teachers of all others the best
calculated to be useful to the grown up inhabitants, many hundreds
of whom are so involved in ignorance as to be incapable of deriv-
ing benefit from a continued discourse, the minister, after in-
numerable applications for many year3, has been able to obtain
only one, -of ten that are required; and for that one he could
only procure I- 7 of a yearly salary ! The gentlemen who have
the rnanagement.of the Royal Bounty, and of the funds of the
Society for PropagatiDg Christian Knowledge, may suppose that
their money is better employed in paying mirsionaries and school-
masters than catechists. But I again aver, and without any fear of
successful contradiction, that, in such parishes as Lochbroom, and
others in similar circumstances, no teachers, in connection with the
parish ministers, are so much calculated to be useful as well chosen
catechists.

May 1835.

                     PARISH OF GAIRLOCH.

            PRESBYTERY OF LOCHCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

               THE REV. JAMES RUSSELL, MINISTER. *

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

    Name.-THE name of the parish is compounded of year,
short, and loch. The parish takes its name from a salt water
lech,of the same name. At the end of this loch, the natives point
out a bollow spot of ground, which they choose to denominate
',,the Gairloch" by way of distinction, as they allege that the
parish takes its name from it; but it evidently derives its name
from the salt water loch, or rather bay, for, comparing it.with most
of the uther salt water lochs on the west coast, it scarcely deserves
the name of Loch.

    Extent, c-This parish is 40 miles long, and 30 miles broad
between its extreme points, and contains an area of about 600
Square miles. It is bounded on the south by an arm of the sea
called Loch Torridon, that runs in betwixt it and the parish of
Drawn up by the Rev. Donald M,Rae, Minister of Poolewc.


