
                                  ROSSKEEN.                                273

          It is remarkable, that the people here seem to have few, ifany, bal-
          lads or old Gaelic songs such as there are in other parts ot the
          Highlands. The ordinary food of the peasantry is oatmean and
          potatoes, chiefly the latter. The people are in general acute and
          intelligent, moral and attentive to the ordinances of religion. The
          Sabbath is well observed.-Smuggling is nearly extinct.-Poach-
          ing does not-prevail to any extent.

                               IV.-INDUSTRY.
             Agriculture and Rtral Economy.-The number of imperial acres
          in the parish under cultivation, is about 3900. The number
          of acres which never have been cultivated and remain constantly
          waste or in pasture, may be stated at 30,000. The number of
          acres under wood is about 3000. The extent of ground capable
          of improvement, with a profitable application of capital is very li-
          mited, and is gradually being brought into tillage.
             Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre, is
          about L. 1, 5s. ; though some of it is as high as, L. 2, 15s. The
          total rental of the parish may be stated at above L. 7000.
             Rate of Wages.-Day-labourers receive 1s. per diem all the
          year round, and women 6d. except in harvest, when men receive
          1s. 6d. and women 1s. Farm-servants receive in general per an-
          num L.6 in money and six bolls of meal, besides potatoes and
          fuel.
             Live-Stock.-There are various breeds in the parish of black-
          cattle, chiefly the Highland. Those kept for dairy purposes are,
          in many instances, Ayrshire and Buchan. Teeswater have also
          been introduced of late. There are annually grazed in the parish
          about 3500 sheep; of tbese, 3000 are Cheviot, the remainder black-
          faced. The Leicdster breed have also been tried on a small scale
          on one farm, but, owing to the coldness of its soil, they have not
          thriven well. A considerable number of pigs is reared, in the pa-
          rish. There are also some goats in the heights. We may men-
          tion that there is a cattle-show, and also an exhibition of grain,
          held annually at Invergordon, when a number of premiums are
          awarded,-at the one. for the best specimens of the different kinds

          <FOOTNOTE>sented to it. Upon his being, shortly afterwards, duly called to be an elder. Mr
          Bethune informed him of various duties connected with his new office, and that
          he was especially bound to put stop to the shinty playing on the Sabbath. The
          man promised to do so, and accordingly on the nex Sabbath repaired to the playing
          ground, armed with a stout cudgel. He then declared to those assembled for their
          usual sport, that, if one of them dared to lift a shinty, he should forthwith feel the
          weight of his oudgel. The players, it is said there upon quietly retired, and never
          afterwards met again on the Lord's day, for a like purpose.
             ROSS AND CROMARTY.


