
10              DUMFRIES-SHIRE.


Children seemed equally susceptible of the disease with adults, but
they sooner rallied; and seemingly their constitutions received less
detriment.  Another circumstance we must not neglect to men-
tion, is one which, so far as we know, has not been noticed as attending
cholera in any other place.  It is described by Dr Grieve, in his printed
report, as "a benumbing or tingling sensation, exactly similar to a
slight galvanic shock, felt on applying the hand to the skin of a cho-
lera patient, when in the collapsed state, (and more particularly when
the body is bedewed with a cold and clammy sweat,) which extends
from the extremities of the fingers to the elbow. and sometimes even
to the shoulder.  Occasionally the effect was so powerful, as to de-
prive the arm for a few seconds of sensation and motion.  Whether or
not," continues Dr Grieve, "this peculiarity depends upon some
extraordinary state of the nervous system, I cannot take upon myself
to determine.  It may not, however, be uninteresting to state, that
not a single individual afflicted with paralysis, partial or confirmed,
has been attacked with cholera.  The same sensation was experi-
enced by several of the practitioners of this town."
   Parochial Registers.--These consist of twenty-five volumes,
including the proceedings of the kirk-session, the record of which
commences on the 17th of September 1635.  The record of bap-
tisms commences in 1605, of marriages in 1616, and of burials in
1617; in all of which the entries are regular.
   Antiquities.--The ancient castle belonging to the Comyns
was romantically situated on a spot which still  bears the name of
Castledykes. overlooking a beautiful bend of the river, at a short dis-
tance south from the town.  It is not known at what period this for-
tress was erected, and none of its walls are now standing; but notice
of its existence is taken in the history of the reign of Edward I. * We
have mentioned the erection of a monastery at Dumfries.  For the
convenience of the inmates of that religious house, its foundress
caused a bridge to be constructed across the river Nith.  This
bridge is said at one time to have been considered, next to that of
London, the best in the two kingdoms. It formerly consisted
of thirteen arches; but, having undergone various alterations, has
now only seven left, and is used exclusively by foot-passengers.
The narrow street which leads from the bridge to the spot where

<FOOTNOTE>In the accounts of the comptroller of the wardrobe to King Edward I there is
a charge for a palisade, granted by Edward for this castle, from the forest of Ingle-
wood in Cumberland.

                                            3

<MAP=WIGTONSHIRE>


