
         124                        PERTHSHIRE.

        rative portion of the community, caused a survey to be taken of
        the city and suburbs, to ascertain the state of school accommoda-
        tion.   A great deficiency was ascertained to exist, and measures
        were promptly adopted to correct the evil.  A public subscription
        was opened for the purpose of erecting additional schools, and ap-
        plication was made to the Lords of the Treasury for aid out of the
        sum set apart by Government for the erection of schools in the
        large towns in Scotland.  The town gave a donation of L.200,
        and individual gentlemen subscribed to the amount of L.200
        more.  This having been represented to the Treasury, and satis-
        factory pledges having been given that the schools would be erect-
        ed, and conducted in conformity with the requirements of govern-
        ment, the sum of L.400 was obtained.  L.800 being thus secured
        for accomplishing the benevolent object, the building of the school,
        houses immediately commenced, and they are now nearly finished.
        They will accommodate 400 scholars.  The city is pledged to
        give to each of the teachers a salary of L.10 per annum, and the
        scholars are to pay, for the day school, 8d. per month, and for the
        evening school, 6d. per month.  The mode of teaching is to be, as
        far as it may be found practicable, that of Mr Wood of Edinburgh.
        The magistrates and town-council are the patrons.
          Literature.-There are in Perth six circulating libraries.  Of
        these, the principal one is that which goes under the designation
        of the Perth Library.  It was instituted in 1786.   It originated
        with the late Rev.  Mr Peebles, minister of the Episcopal Chapel.
        By his judicious management, it was settled on that basis on which
        it still rests.  By certain unalterable articles of agreement in the
        deed of settlement, respecting the trustees, the curators, the gene-
        ral meetings, and election of office-bearers, it is preserved entire,
        and cannot be alienated.  It is consigned over to the public, and
        conveyed in trust to certain official characters in the town and
        county, for the purposes of the institution.  It contains between
        five and six thousand volumes, chiefly of history, philosophy, and
        belles lettres.  It is kept in an apartment, fitted up for it within the
        monumental structure erected by the citizens to the memory of the
        late Thomas Marshall, Esq. of Glenalmond, formerly provost of
        Perth, to whose public spirit the city and its neighbotirhood are in-
        debted for many of its most important improvements.  The libra-
        rian attends for two hours each lawful day; and 15s. per annum
        entitles to the use of the library.
          The other circulation libraries are the property of private asso-


