
                                    APPLECROSS.                       105

         school at Kishorn, by the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
         ledge; and a Gaelic school at Badanvougie.  The scholars attend-
         ing these schools, may be averaged at 50 each school.  English,
         Gaelic, writing, arithmetic, Latin, and mathematics are taught in
         these schools.  The parish schoolmaster has a salary of L. 25, and
         L. 2 in lieu of a garden.  The fees amount to about L. 8 a-year.
         The salary of each of the teachers at Shieldag and Torridon is
         L. 20, and of the teacher at Kishorn L. 15.  The fees may be
         about L. 5 at each of these schools.  At Badanvougie, the salary
         is L. 25, but the teacher has no fees.  The parochial teacher has
         the legal accommodations. Several districts are at a great dis-
         tance from all these schools, and wish much for teachers. There
         are six or seven such districts in this parish.  Religious know-
         ledge has no doubt been increased of late; but it is questionable
         if moral improvement has kept pace with that knowledge.  Sup-
         posed knowledge puffeth up many, but it unfortunately appears,
         that they are very deficient in that charity which edifietb. There
         are also disputes and hurtful divisions which may, in many cases,
         be ascribed to the conduct of improper teachers employed by some
         well-meaning Societies, both in the metropolis and other places,
         who are unacquainted with the state of the Highlands, and misled
         by the reports of interested persons and busy bodies. And it is a
         matter, of much regret, that no small share of these remarks ap-
         plies to the case of superintendents and catechists, under the lu-
         dicrous denomination of local missionaries, though ignorant and
         illiterate, employed by so respectable a body as the Highland Mis-
         sionary Society.
            There is no circulating library in the parish, except those sent
         to the schools at Shieldag and Torridon, by the Assembly's Com-
         mittee.  It would be a most desirable measure, if several school
         societies would place their funds under the management of that
         Committee.
            In 1833 it was found there were 1100 persons in the parish
         above six years of age unable to read; and 500 betwixt six and
         fifteen years of age in the same situation.
            Poor and Parochial Funds.-The funds for the poor are very
         small; but happily the number of persons on the poors' roll is not
         large.  About 30 persons receive parochial aid-getting from 5s.
         to 7s. a-year each.  The annual amount of contributions for their
         relief is about L. 10 from church collections, and the interest of
         a sum of L. 60 deposited in the bank.  Owing to the general po-


