
706			AYRSHIRE.

the case in similar rumous structures, the most ancient part is
the least dilapidated. Most of the interior divisions have, with-
in these few years, fallen down, a few of the vaulted apartments
excepted, and in these the "lazy steer and sheep," have been
long permitted to find a shelter. The building was entirely de-
stroyed by fire accidentally kindled on the 1st May 1757, and
from which, as it occurred at an early hour of the morning, the
Earl of Crawford with his infant daughter and the domestics,
had little more than time to escape. Eighty years of exposure to
the weather have much lessened, and greatly enfeebled what the
fire had spared; while, during this long period, all the contiguous
pleasure-grounds have been torn up by the plough, or permitted to
run waste. The noble straight-lined avenue, full twenty yards in
breadth, has returned to a state of nature:--the gardens situated
to the west, instead of flowers and shrubs, are allotted to the rear-
ing of potatoes and turnips; and of the orchard grounds no traces
are now to be found. The high walls with which they were en-
closed are everywhere breaking down, and all the fine old tim-
ber, which had beautified and sheltered "the Place" for ages, and
afterwards added much to the grandeur and interest of its ruins,
has disappeared within the last thirty years.
	Glengarnock Castle.--The ruins of Glengarnock Castle stand
on a precipitous ridge or knoll, overhanging the Garnock, about
two miles north of Kilbirnie. This brawling stream skirts two
sides of the knoll, and, as the ravine through which it flows is
fully eighty feet in depth, the position, under the ancient sys-
tem of warfare, must have combined security with the means of
easy defence. The only access to the castle is from the north-
east, in which direction the ridge, upon which it is situated, is con-
nected with the adjoining field. At the distance of thirty yards
from its entrance, a depression in the ground indicates what has
been the course of a dry moat, bv which, and a drawbridge, the
approach is said to have been protected. The ground plan of this
ancient stronghold could, until lately, be easily traced, and as a
portion of the exterior walls still maintains nearly the original
height, its appearance when entire, may, with little difficulty be
yet shadowed out. From notes and measurements taken a few
years ago, it may be described in general terms, as having consist-
ed of a quadrilateral tower, with a court of less elevated buildings
extending from its east side. The entrance has been from the
eastern extremity of the latter. This facade is 46 feet long,


