
			ST ANDREWS.                          495

   Prisons.-There is a prison in the city, in which the average
number confined during the year is about 20 for theft, drunk,-
enness, and riotous behaviour. It is strong and well secured.
Particular attention is paid in it to the health, diet, and lodging
of the prisoners. Its superintendence is vested in the magistrates,
who have a jailor acting under their direction.
   Fairs.-Three fairs are held in the city annually, on days which
are still regulated by the old style of computation, viz. the second
Thursday of April, the 1st day of August, and the 30th Novem-
her. The first of the three was what Martine denominates,
"the renouned faire of St Andrews, called the Senzie Mercat,
held and kept for fifteen dayes, and beginning the second week
after Easter, whereunto resorted merchants from most of the then
trading kingdomes in Europe; trade in this kingdome being then
in its infancie." At that period, according to tradition, from 200
to 300 vessels might have been seen in the bay and barbour of
St Andrews, conveying to it the produce of foreign countries. The
fair is now confined to a single day, and the business transacted
in it is to a very limited amount. The fair in August has of late
been much frequented by the farm-servants of the eastern districts
of the county, many of them in the market-place forming engage-
ments with new masters. The third fair is held on St Andrew's
day old style, and is usually but thinly attended.
   Inns, &c.-The number of inns, alehouses, &c. within the parish
is 48, viz. 39 in the city, and 9 in the country districts. This is
unquestionably a much greater number than the exigencies of the
population require; and it were much to be wished that some ef-
fectual expedient were adopted, not here only, but throughout the
country at large, for checking an evil which has so demoralizing
an influence.
   Fuel.-The fuel which is employed in the city is coal, chiefly
conveyed by sea. from Newcastle, or the ports in the Forth where
that commodity is shipped. A part of the supply is also brought
by land carriage from Largoward, which is seven miles distant,
and from Drumcarro, which is still neaver. In the country dis-
tricts there is a greater dependence on the home supply, though
it is not confined to this alone. The present expense os sea coal
is much greater than usual, being for Newcastle coal from 18s. to
L. 1, 1s. a ton, according to quality, at the harbour, while the coal
from the Forth varies front 15s, to 18s. These who are in the
possession of horses and carriages, find it advantageous to procure



