
     Statistical Account

tent, and has three tire of ditches and mounds, which seem to
have been erected with more care, because the earth of each
mound is strengthened and secured by stones, from falling back
into the ditches.  This situation is chosen with consum-
mate art, is incommoded by no elevated ground, commands
an extensive prospect, and, in case of a blockade, has a reser-
voir, in the middle, to retain water from the clouds*.
   There are the remains of an old castle at the manse of Callan-
der, which was built or repaired in 1596, by Livingston, Earl
of Linlithgow.  It was a square tower of considerable height;
in the construction of which, strength rather than elegance
was studied.  There is a tract of fine land in this neighbour-
hood, called the Barony of Callander, which was once the pro-
perty of the CALLANDERS of Callandder, and continued for

<FOOTNOTE>

*This strong hold seems to have been erected, not only for the protection of
the inhabitants, when they were actually invaded, but as a watch tower, to
give the alarm in the prospect of danger.  It commands the most extensive
view towards the E. and is well seen from Dunmait, near Stirling, which place,
from its name, Dun-ma-it, (contracted for Dun-ma-chit, the hill of the
good prospect), and, from its situation, may have been another post for alarming
the people; and Dunmait may have got the signal of danger from some other
place farther E.  There are, in many valleys, which stretch into the Grampians,
not only from the champaign country in the E. of Scotland, from which quarter
an attack was, for several reasons, generally made, but in all other directions,
the vestiges of watch towers, of rude workmanship, to be found.  They were
situated not far from the dwellings of some of the inhabitants, on the face of
the hills, and placed zigzag from the one side of a valley to the other, and
running generally far into the country.  By means of fire lighted on these
towers, the whole inhabitants could be alarmed, to great distance, in a few
minutes.
   In Breadalbane, there are three of these, one at each end of Loch-Tay, on
the S. side, and one about the middle, on the N.; by means of which all the
people in that tract of country, from Benmore to Weem, consisting of near 40
miles, could be put on their guard, on any sudden emergency; and it is likely
that other similar posts communicated with these, down to Dunkeld, or far-
ther.


