
                          INVERURY.                                  679

a native of Keithhall, links himself with Inverury in the beauti-
ful lines subjoined. *
   Inverury was the scene of a contest between the Pretender's
and King's troops on 23d December 1745.  The rebels being in
possession of Aberdeen, and having imposed a tribute of L.1000
on the inhabitants, Lord Loudon dispatched from the north Mac-
leod of Macleod with about 700 men, for the purpose of relieving
the city, and preventing the exaction of this heavy impost. +  Lord
Lewis Gordon, informed that Macleod had reached Inverury,
marched his own regiment and all the men he had of Lord John
Drummond's regiment, with a battalion of 300 Farquharsons,
commanded by Monalhie (in all about 1200 men), to attack him.
They proceeded by the Fintray road, and reached the Ury about
sunset.  This river they crossed with difficulty, near Mill of Keith-
hall, losing a few men in making the passage. ++  They, however,
surprised Macleod, whose men were partly quartered at Artannes
and other farms in the neighbourhood of the town.  He collected
hastily such as could be brought together, and formed in order of
battle.  The action took place under moonlight, but lasted only
about twenty minutes;s for when Drummond's men and the Far-
quharsons advanced to close combat, Macleod's troops, greatly
inferior in numbers, gave way, and escaped as they best could.
Of the rebels 20 were killed in the action, besides those lost in
crossing the river, and a considerable number were wounded.  Of
the King's troops 7 were killed, 15 so wounded that they could
not be carried off the field, and 41 taken prisoners.  Among these

                  "Inneruria."
		Urbs dilecta mihi, te mollibus alluit undis
		Uritis, antiquum nomen, et inde trahis
		Te quoque Dona rigat, cristallo purior, illum
		Mox Gariochaeis Urius auget aquis.
		Cur tua Mygdoniis non surgunt tecta columnis
		Nec radiat titulis Pyramis ulla tuis?
		Cur humiles sorbis cinguntur vilibus sedes,
		Sacra quibus potius debita laurus erat?
		Ante triumphatus te juzta Brussius hostem
		Trivit, et ex illo victor ubique fuit
		Nec procul hine populos Stewarti dextra rebelles
		Fregit et Harlaeam sanguine mersit humum
		Te jactare mihi fas est, quae divite gleba
		Te beat, est cuni proxima terra meis,
		Te prope vitales puer hausi luminis auras,
		Te prope jam canis obsitus opto mori.
					Archt. Johns. Poems, Middelb. 1642, p. 441.

   The prayer of the post in the concluding line was not vouchsafed, for his gray hairs
were carried to the grave at Oxford.

<FOOTNOTE>Kame's History of Rebellion.          Kennedy's Annals of Aberdeen.
          London Gazette, 29th December 1745.


