
     Statistical Account

this century, pulled it down, for the purpose of building
a mill, and some farm houses.

<FOOTNOTE>

succeded his son Barnard II. his son Barnard III. his son Barnard IV.
who had no issue.  His younger brother John Br. had two daughters,
1. Jean, who got the lands of Exton, of whom descended the Hunting-
touns of Exton; 2. Agnes Bruce got the lands of Connington, whose
successor is Sir Robert Cotton of Connington, the famous antiquary.
   We come now to speak of Adam Lord of Skelton, eldest son to Ro-
bert first Lord of Annandale, whose successors carried in their coat of
arms, A, a lyon rampant, P. His son, Adam Bruce (second of that
name), had for his successor Peter, I, a mighty baron, who married the
daughter of Stephen of Campeigne (sister's son to the Conqueror), Earle
Albemarle and Holderness.  His son Peter II. married Havisa, grandchild
and her to William of Lancaster, Lord of Kendall, in whose right he
and his heir poss ssed that barony: He died at Mersilles in France (as 
he returned from the Holy Land) 1219.  His son Peter III had no
children; and he was last of the male succession of Adam Lord of Skel-
ton.  His great inheretance was divided amongst his four sisters; 1.
Agnes brought to her husband Sir Walter Faulconbridge the barony of
Skelton; 4. Lusie and her husband, Sir Marmaduke Thueng, had the
barony of Danby; 3. Nargaret Bruce and her husband, Robert Ross,
Lord of Watkcastle, got the Lordship of Kendall. Laderina, with her
husband John de Billa Aqua, had the lands of Caileton.
   XII.  William le Breos, for  so he and his posterity is cald, brother to
Adelme, for his service in the conquest, got from William of Normandy
the castle and barony of Bremwer in Sussex.
   XIII Peter le Breos, his son, second Lord of Bremwer, married ha-
visa, daughter of William de Momara Earl of Lincoln, in her right; she
dyed in the Holly Land, 1128
   XIV. Phillip le Breos, his son, third Lord of Bremwer, a valiant
nobleman, was one of the first adventures in the conquest of Ireland.
He married Bertha, second daughter to Millo Fitz-Walter, Earle of
Herefoord.  She had three brethren, Rodger, Walter, and Henry, one
after another Earls of Hereford, who leaveing no issue, Bertha aug-
mented her husband Philip with the Lordship of Brecknock, in Breck-
nockshire, and Abergaveny, in Munmuthshire in England.
   XV. William, his son, fourth Lord Bremwer, and also Lord of Breck-
nock and Abergavey, married Eva, one of the five daughters and co-


