

272				EDINBURGHSHIRE.

cation; but, by the charter of David L., already more than
once referred to, and which was afterwards confirmed by a Bull of
Pope Gregory IX. in 1234, the magistrates of Musselburgh had
the right given them of levying a toll at the western extremity
of the parish, for the purpose of upholding the Roman bridge over
the Esk, and repairing the streets of Musselburgh.\*  This toll is
only exigible on beasts of burden, flocks and herds, and is at this
moment in operation at Magdalen Bridge, under the name of the
Gentes custom.  How this appellation was acquired, tradition saith
not, unless we lean to the vague report that the first tackswo-
man was named Janet, and that familiarity afterwards changed the
same from Janet to Janety, and thence more remotely to Gente.
We all remember the old ballad of "The Bonny Hynd."
			They call me Jack when I'm abroad;
			  Sometimes they call me John;
			But when I'm in my father's bower
			   Jock Randal is my name."+
   From this it is evident, that wheel-carriages were not in com-
mon use at this period, either here or elsewhere in Scotland; yet
are these mentioned not only by the same illustrious King in his
charter of Holyrood, but repeatedly for the next century, in the
chartularies of the different monasteries.
   From the same curious sources, we learn, that, during the Scoto-
Saxon period, king's highways were formed in various parts of the
country.  Gervaise, the Abbot of Newbottle, mentions a certain
road, which was called Derstrette, near Colden, in the district of
Inveresk; and under Alexander III. Sir Hugh Riddel alludes
to the Regia Via, leading from Ford to the same monastery.
The king's highway from Newbottle to Edinburgh is mentioned
in a charter of 1253.S
   The celebrated chapel dedicated to Our Lady of Loretto, stood
beyond the eastern gate of Musselburgh, and on the margin of
the links; but we have no authentic accounts as to the time of its
erection.  Pilgrimages from all parts of the country were perform-
ed to this shrine.  According to Keith, (280,) it was connected
with the Nunnery of Sciennes, in the south wing of Edinburgh;
and Gough, the antiquarian, says regarding it, that pregnant-women
sent handsome presents of money accompanying their child-bed

<FOOTNOTE>In 1597 the Parliament of Scotland passed on act for repairing the brig of Mus-
selburgh.  It is unprinted.  There was also another in 1661 "for an imposition at
the brig of Musselburgh."
          See Border Mintrelsy, Vol. iii. p 310, last edition.
          Chart. Newbottle, 163		       Idem, 16.


