
220                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

the pecuniary advantage which, at a distant period, his heirs might
come to enjoy.  There are a few islets on the loch, but there has
been much neglect in leaving these, as well as the ground which
skirts the margin of the lake, unadorned with planting.  A small
patch near its edge was tried a few years ago, the rapid growth of
which will, it is hoped, encourage the proprietor to proceed on a
more extended scale.  The scenery at present around the loch
can scarcely be termed picturesque.  It is bounded on the east
by a line of benty sand hillocks: to the north there is a fine
grassy extent of downs or links, covered with cattle for six months
of the year, and affording constant pasturage for sheep.
   Geology and Mineraloqy.-The prevailing rock within the parish
is sienite and greenstone.  There is a vein of limestone in the north-
east end of the parish, on the estate of Craigrellie, which runs west-
ward through Rathen to Strichen, &c.
   Rolled blocks of granite are occasionally found.  Gravel abounds
in one of the ridges intersecting the estate of Kinninmonth, in the
south end of the parish, as also occasionally on the estate of Craigel-
lie.  Clay of fine quality abounds as subsoil on Cairnglass, along the
north-west bank, near the sea; and also from the surface to a con-
siderable depth along the ridge which divides the upper from the
lower part of Crimonmogate.  In other parts of the parish, occa-
sionally athin layer of coarse clay is found, mixed with coarse sand,
about six or eight inches from, the surface.  Bog iron ore abounds
on the estate of Lonmay, and peat in larger masses in the exten-
sive mosses in Crimonmogate and Kinninmonth; and in these
mosses are many remains of oak, common and black.  Of the last
some fine specimens have been preserved, and made into cabinet
furniture by Mr Bannerman of Crimonmogate.  There are like-
wise found many remains of birch trees, hazel-nuts, alder, and fir.
Almost everywhere decomposed roots of plants in great variety are
found, below the till or pan which abounds in the flat part of the
parish.
  The upper soil of this parish is, for the most part, a dry, light,
black, sandy soil, very slightly cohesive, resting on a coarse
hard bed of red sand in the north plain of the parish.  This red
sand is full of iron ore, and is so hard as to require repeated blows
of the pick-axe to pierce it and thereby it is detachable in large
masses from the finer white sand beneath.  The clay soils have been
already mentioned.  There are some intermediate kinds on the
estate of Crimonmogate, the south side of Craigellie, and on part
                               3


