
416                      FORFARSHIRE.

years ago. Ruthven House is pleasantly situated near where the
castle stood, and is the usual residence of the family,--a family
equally distinguished for their kindness to the poor, and their at-
tachment to their tenantry.

	Parochial Registers.--The session records have been very ill
kept, and go no farther back than the year, 1744. Those which
remain, give vdry full details of some parochial transactions. Cases
of scandal especially are given with uncalled-for minuteness, and
this is, perhaps, the reason why in this and many other, parishes
the session records have gone amassing. No one chooses to have
the iniquities of his fathers banded down from generation to gene-
ration, nor is it for the edification of their posterity that they should
be so circumstantially recorded. Much more interesting are any
notices throwing light on the history of the times, as for example
the following intimation: "Ruthven, 1745, August 20, this day,
the minister intimated from the pulpit, that, by reason of the pre-
sent public troubles and confusions, and the distractions and divi-
sions among people, he was obliged to defer the celebration of the
sacrament of the Supper for this year." We find also, that, on
the 20th of July 1746, "Thomas Crichton, at the Mill of Ruth-
ven, was rebuked before the congregation for his great sin and
scandal, as having been engaged in the late wicked and unnatural
rebellion."

			III.--POPULATION.

	In consequence of the introduction of manufactures, the popu-
lation of this parish is increasing. In 1755, according to Dr
Webster's report, the population was 280. In 1792, owing to the
enlargement of the farms, it had decreased to 220. In the pre-
sent year, it is 424. The following table shows the state of the
population and the various denominations to which they belong:

<TABLE>
Total population,                    425        Roman Catholics,             24
Males,                               179        Glassites,                   19
Females,                             246        Seceders,                     8
Children under 12 years of age,      117        Episcopalians,                7
Children under 7 years of age,        68        Average number of communi-
Belonging to the Established                     cants, about 20 of whom are
         Church,                     367         from, the parish of Alyth, 185

	According to the Government census for 1841, the population
of this parish is 471, but this included about 40 individuals who
were employed in cutting an oak coppice, and did not belong to
the parish.

	The proportion of females being so great is owing to the mills
in the parish, where females are more employed than males. The


