
                            LANGHOLM.                         423

to L. 1, 10s.; females, for hoeing turnips, potatoes, or making hay,
9d. per day. Shepherds are generally allowed the grazing of fifty
head of stock, a free house, and a certain quantity of meal, with the
pasture of a cow.
	Rental.--The valued rent of this parish, exclusive of Half Mor-
ton, as stated in the county cess-book, is 9321 merks Scots, equal
to L. 2000 Sterling: Half Morton is valued at 1650 merks, or
L. 972 Sterling,--making in whole nearly L. 3000 Sterling.
	Live stock.--The common breed of sheep is the Cheviot. This
breed is found to be well adapted both to the soil and climate,
and is very profitable, for the fine quality of the wool. The greatest
possible attention has been paid to the improvement of this breed,
and the general mode is by purchasing tups from the Cheviots, and
from improvers of the stock, at the tup fair of Hawick. It cannot
be very accurately ascertained how many thousands of sheep are
pastured in this parish; but the number may be about 9000. The
stock of the whole of this district is generally sold at the following
places, viz. lambs, at St Bothwells, Langholm, and Lockerbie;
hogs, at Applebie and Stagshaw; wedders, at Stagshaw and Ask-
rigg; and draught ewes, at Brough Hill, Kettlewell, and York.
The average prices obtained this year for Cheviot stock per head
were, for wedders, L. 1, 1s. 6d., ewes, 17s. 6d. and lambs, 9s. 6d.
	The common ingredients for smearing are tar and butter, with
sometimes a mixture of palm oil. When tar and butter are used,
the proportions are one stone of butter (16 English pounds,) to a
gallon of tar (8 Scots pints.) By the common rule of smearing,
a stone of butter to a gallon of tar should smear 30 hogs, and from
40 to 45 older sheep. The wool of young sheep takes five fleeces
to the stone of 24 lb. English, and older sheep from six to seven.
Thus the average of a whole clip may be 61/2. The wool-dealers
from Halifax, Huddersfield, and Leeds, are the chief buyers. The
wool-market is so changeable, that the average of the price per
stone is not easily fixed.
	The common breed of cattle in Eskdale is the Galloway kind,
to the rearing of which great attention is paid. In a letter of
the late Rev. Dr Brown of Eskdalemuir, he says, "the stirks,
which are a very, considerable source of emolument, are generally
sought after by dealers between Michaelmas and Martinmas, car-
ried to the Dumfries market, and sold to the Galloway farmers,
who are fond of them as being large and fat from our grassy pas-
tures; so that after they are kept in Galloway for a year, they can


