
                        DUDDINGSTON.                         395

   At Portobello, there is a chapel-of-ease, which was built in
1810. The members of the congregation have the appointment
of the clergyman, who is paid from the seat-rents. The chapel
holds 600 sitters. Number of communicants nearly 300. There
is also at Portobello a chapel of the United Associate Secession,
one d the Relief, one of the Episcopalians one of the Indepen-
dents, and one of the Catholics. The numbers attending each
of these chapels cannot be accurately ascertained.
   Education.-In the parish there are two endowed schools, and
II unendowed in Portobello, including the Sessional school for
boys. The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accommodation
and the maximum salary. The branches taught are, Latin at 6s.
per quarter; English reading, 3s.; writing, 3s. 6d.; and arithme-
tic, 4s. Average number of scholars may be 95. He is also
session-clerk, and clerk to the heritors. The other school is si-
tuated at Easter Duddingston. The teacher has a free house and
schoolhouse, with a salary of L.5, and L.2, 6s.8d. from the kirk-
session. His school-fees are the same as charged at the parochial
school; but none of the higher branches is taught. Average
number of scholars, 30.
   Literature.-A library was begun at Wester Duddingston in
the year 1821; and at present contains more than 200 volumes.
It is supported by a subscription of 6d. per quarter.
   Friendly Society.-A Friendly Society was established three
years ago, and is supported by 5s. of entry money, and a quarterly
contribution of 1s.6d. Such members receive 5s. per week for
the first five of their indisposition; and, after that period, if not
able to work, 1s. per week during life.
   Charitable Institutions.-An hospital was founded in this pa-
rish by Louis Cauvin, some time teacher of the French language
in Edinburgh, and thereafter residing at Duddingston Farm, by
trust-disposition and settlement dated the 26th day of May 1817;
and by relative codicils, he assigned and conveyed to certain trustees,
his whole means and estate amounting to nearly. L.30,000, for spe-
cial purposes therein enumerated, and mortified and appointed his
house of Louisfield, and furniture, with its adjacent grounds, as
"an hospital for the relief, maintenance, and education of the
sons of respectable but poor teachers; the sons of poor but ho-
nest farmers; whom failing, the, sons of respectable master-prin-
ters or booksellers, and the sons of respectable servants in the
agricultural line." This settlement was explained and modified.

				4


