
			FORGANDENNY.		       	951

nanted work of Reformation. Rev. 12, c. 7." The account of
this deed, which Wodrow gives in his history of the sufferings
of the Church of Scotland, Vol. ii. p. 484, substantially agrees
with this inscription. He says, "By an attested account I find
this year (1678), there was a conventicle in Perthshire, at the hill
of Caltenachar," supposed to be what is now called Culteuchar,
one of the Ochils, and belonging at present to Lawrence Oliphant,
Esq. of Condie, "in the parish of Forgandenny: and upon the
Lord's day, an officer, with a company of wild Highlanders, came
suddenly upon them, and, without any orders to dismiss, or essay-
ing to seize any of them, discharged their pieces among the poor
unarmed people. By good Providence, there was but one man
killed--Andrew Broddy, a wright by trade, who lived at my Lord
Ruthven's gate, in the green of Freeland. He left behind him a
widow and four orphans."
   The only point in which the record on the martyr's stone,
and Wodrow's account seems to disagree, is the particular spot
where the martyr was killed. The stone says  it was a cave's
mouth; while Wodrow's testimony is, that it was on the hill of
Caltenachar. The tradition of the parish is, that  the event took
place at a cave, or rather what in this quarter is termed a deigh,
or dell, on the boundary between this parish and that of Dron,
and not more than two or three hundred yards from the hill of
Caltenachar. In all likelihood, in those days, the whole of the
range extending east to that deigh might be called Cultenchar, and
Andrew Brodie's murder might be perpetrated at that spot. His
descendants, some of whom are still resident in the parish, say, that
after he had been shot, his wife, who was also present at the con-
venticle, immediately went and covered his body with her scarlet
mantle or cloak. One of the party of soldiers then came up to her,
and asked her what she now thought of her husband? To which she
replied, "More than ever I thought of him." The same thing is
related of the widow of the poor pious carrier, John Brown of
Priestfield, in the parish of Muirkirk whom Claverhouse shot
with his own  hand; but there is no difficulty in supposing that
these widows might both speak in these terms of their husbands.
   The earliest registers of the parish begin with September 24th
1654; and from that date, down to the present time, the entries are
made with great regularity and distinctness. They are not volu-
minous.
   On the north side of the Ochils, the re is a hill of considerable


