
                     LOCHWINNOCH.                               75

north by Kilbarchan ; and on the east by the Abbey parish of Pais-
ley and Neilston.
   Topographical Appearances.-Its surface is very irregular and
hilly. The highest hills in the county are situated in its western
extremity. There is a range of hills stretching along the west
coast from Greenock to Ardrossan. The highest of these are the
Misty Law and the hill of Staik, the former of which is in this
parish, and the latter forms its western boundary. The Misty
Law is said, in the former Statistical Account, to be 1246 feet above
the level of the sea, and the hill of Staik, it is now ascertained,
is somewhat more. Their hehghts were taken some time ago by
order of Government. The prospect from the Misty Law is said,
in the Account just now referred to, " to be extensive and varied
over twelve counties, including the Frith of Clyde, and the islands
of Arran, Bute, Ailsa, &c. This hill is surrounded by the moor-
land part of the parish, which abounds with game, and affords to-
lerable pasture for sheep." There is another range of high land pas-
sing through the eastern part of the parish, which stretches from be-
yond Paisley towards the western coast. This has been justly
called table-land, and almost the whole of it within this parish is
arable. Among the western hills, there are many small, and
some beautiful and romantic valleys; but the principal valley lies
between the two ranges of elevated land, on the north and south
sides of the loch. It stretches from beyond Dalry, through Kil-
birnie, Lochwinnoch, and Kilbarchan, and terminates in the east-
ern part of the great vale of Renfrewshire or Strathgryfe, which
lies on the west of Paisley, and contains many thousands of acres
of rich and valuable land. In the long and expansive valley which
passes through Lochwinnoch, there were originally three large
lochs,-Kilbirnie, Barr, and Castle-Semple lochs, the two last of
which are within this parish. At an earlier period, when the land
was not so well drained and cultivated as it ir at present, these three
lochs were sometimes, during a great fall of rain in winter, united,
and formed an extensive sheet of water, stretching several miles
along this beautiful valley. This never happens now. Castle-
Semple and Kilbirnie lochs always contain a considerable expanse
of water; but they are now far separated by cultivated land; and
Barr Loch, which lies between them and near the former, is so
well drained, that it has the appearance of a loch only durin a
heavy fall of rain in winter. In summer, it waves with the most


