
96                          ELGINSHIRE.

the finest forests in the country, and seen to a great advantage ris-
ing up the hill in fine inequalities
   Soil and Climate.-Upon each side of this ridge, lies almost the
whole of the cultivated land, in which almost every variety of soil
is to be seen, from the richest clay to the most barren sand. The
air is healthy, and on the south side of the hill peculiarly soft and
warm, during a great proportion of the year.  On the north side,
the climate is not so pleasant, the soil being rather damp and cold.
The inhabitants, however, are quite healthy, and the soil has been
much improved by draining.
   Loch of Spynie.-The loch of Spynie was formerly more than
3 miles in length, and about 1 in breadth; and the sole of it be-
ing considered valuable, if the water were drained off, a contract
for executing that undertaking was entered into by the contermi-
nous heritors, in the spring of the year 1807, and a tolerably com-
plete drainage was effected, at the expense of L. 10,744 Sterling;
but unfortunately after that great outlay, the ground was found to
be so impregnated with sulphur and iron ore, as to be almost total-
ly barren.  Almost the only beneficial results from the great out-
lay have been,-the redeeming from the influence of the water of
the loch the rich clay lands which formerly surrounded its margin,
and were occasionally flooded by its overflow.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Land-owners.-The only land-owners are the Crown, the Earl of
Fife, the Trustees of the late Earl of Fife, the Earl of Seafield, Mr
Sellar of Westfield, and the Heirs of the late Colonel Grant of
Findrassie.
   Antiquities.-The palace of Spynie, the ancient residence of the
Bishops of Moray, is situated in the eastern extremity of the pa-
rish, on the south bank of the ancient lake where the water had
been deepest.  The palace had been a magnificent and spacious
building, round a square court, having the gate on the west side, and
fortified by towers at the corners, and a dry ditch on the west and
south, and containing lofty halls, deep vaults, a chapel, stables and
other offices. These ruins are now in a very, dilapidated state, and
so rent as to be incapable of repair.  Around the ruins are some
bishop's lands, now in the hands of the Crown.  Their extent is
227 acres, of which about 36 acres are arable, 118 moor and pas-
ture, and 73 plantation.  Within the last eight years, the Barons of
Exchequer have greatly improved these Crown lands, by laying out

                                4


