
     of Blair-Atholl and Strowan.

tatoes, pease, and barley; nor do the oats escape.  The pa-
rishes are very far from the market towns; so that carriage is
very expensive, which prevents many things from being
sent to market, that would otherwise be productive.  It also
prevents the burning of coals, though fuel is at present very
troublesome to get, and is daily becoming more so.  Some kinds of
mechanic arts are much on the decline.  Since the disuse of
arms, there is scarcely a tolerable smith to be met with.  The
cafe is nearly the same with the shoemaker, who are likely to
be extirpated; because, it seems, that there are laws, that will
not suffer any hides to be dressed in the country, even though
they should pay full duty.  The tanner, therefore, both buys and
sells at his own prices; which, joined to the distance, leaves the
people very ill shod.-The being deprived of salmon is a great
loss to the country.-It is no small disadvantage, to such as
have any correspondents at a distance, that there is no post-
office nearer than Dunkeld.  There ought to be one establish-
ed at; Blair-Atholl.  The people of this, and of the neighbouring
parishes, suffer many inconveniencies by the want of it.
They must not only pay for the letters they receive, but for
those they put into the post-office.  And a great number of
letters, that would be paid for, if the office were nearer, are re-
turned to the general post-office, because those, to whom they
are directed, cannot afford time to travel so far for them, upon
an uncertainty, and others do not chuse to advance money for
letters to obscure people, whom they may have difficulty to find
out.  The hurt done to the linen yarn, by the cotton trade, has
been already remarked :  And, upon the whole, it must be allowed
to be a great disadvantage, to any country, to be very far
from markets, courts of law, and good towns, where proper
education can be had.  For to these a great part of the produce
of the country will go, never to return; especially when they
send no commodities thither.  That the Highlands have gone

     VOL. II. 3 P


