
456                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

with in a country district, with the command of excellent fishing,
beautiful scenery, and a healthy climate; and placed where the
northern roads from Huntly to Kincardine, and then through the
Grampians, crosses that from Aberdeen into Strathdon, it pro-
mises to become during the summer months a favourite place of
resort.
   The bridge is a most substantial piece of mason work.  It re-
ceived some injury in 1829, which was immediately repaired.
About three miles above it, there is a very neat wooden structure
thrown across the river by the Master of Forbes, directly opposite
to the mansion-house, which is in character with the surrounding
scenery, and adds to its beauty.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is neither old nor incommo-
dious according to its size; but, owing to the increase of popula-
tion, it does not afford sufficient accommodation for the parish.
An application is about being made to the heritors on the subject,
to which the writer, judging from the deep interest they have
always shown in whatever was likely to promote, the people's good,
anticipates a favourable result. *  Upon one of the stones in the
belfry, which, from its workmanship, clearly shows that it must
have originally belonged to a more ancient structure than the pre-
sent, there is the date 1604.
   The manse was built about thirty-four years ago, and has since
received some addition.  It is both substantial and commodious.
There is a glebe of about 9 acres, and the stipend, by a recent
decision of the Court of Teinds, is 16 chalders, half meal, and half
barley, payable according to the fiars of the year.  There is like-
wise the usual allowance for communion elements, viz. L. 100
Scots.
   We have no Dissenters of any description in the parish, and the
people are exemplary in their attendance upon the ordinances of
religion.  It may be mentioned that in the parish there is only
one church one school, one inn, and one shop.
   Education.-The school and school house, which are separate
buildings, were erected about ten years ago, and do credit to the public
spirit of the heritors.  The schoolmaster's salary is the maximum,
and the amount of his fees, although low, may, in consequence of
his zealous attention to the duties of his office, be stated at about
L. 25 per annum.  In addition to this, he enjoys the emoluments of

<FOOTNOTE>The writer's anticipations have, since the time this account was written, been
realized.


