
			BARRAY.                               217

   Labour Act and they form an improvement of the highest conse-
   quence, as without roads no other improvement can be carried
   on.
      The state of the natives is truly deplorable, when compared with
   that of every other place, where education has found its way. The
   introduction of strangers into the parish has, however, given a spur
   to industry, to which the old inhabitants had little or no inclina-
   tion, their time having been chiefly occupied by boating and fish-
   ing during the best part of the spring season, and the tillage of
   their lands having been left to the women and children; in con-
   sequence of which, the proprietor bad annually to import a large
   quantity of low country meal to support his people during the sum-
   mer season, so as to enable them to manufacture the kelp: they
   now raise as much corn and potatoes as will supply themselves,
   unless in very scarce years.
      The only way to render the people comfortable and industrious
   would be, to grant each tenant a larger portion of lands than what
   be presently possesses, as he could manage that with the same
   number of bands, and the same number of horses which he re-
   quires for the small lot; and to grant the tenants a more permanent
   holding of their lands, by leases of nine or ten years, with stipula-
   tions for improvements, and other regulations. Rents should be
   paid in money instead of services, and such services as the land-
   lord requires ought to be commuted for an adequate sum in money,
   and every shadow of vassalage done away. Rents should be re-
   duced to a conformity with the real value 6f the lands, and ade-
   quate compensation given at the end of their leases for every use-
   ful and permanent improvement. The tenants should be encourag-
   ed to build more comfortable houses for themselves, and their cow-
   houses should be separated : and each tenant should, have a kit-
   cben-garden attached to his house, well fenced round with
   stone wall. Another great benefit to the parish would be the es-
   tablishment of a more constant communication with the mainland,
   by means of a regular packet boat, --which would enable tbe peo-
   ple to bold more regular intercourse with other countries, and so to
   have: some insight into the manners, habits, and industry of other
   people. Were these improvements attended to, and due encourage-
   went given to prosecute the fisheries, them is hardly a doubt
   that this small portion of the Western Islands might rival in wealth
   and happiness, any country, of the same extent in the Highlands
   of Scotland.
      January 1840.
      INVERNESS.			P


