  
                           MELROSE.                       75

Lammas fair, and the Martinmas fair.  They are all cattle-mar-
kets; and the Lammas fair has of late years risen into such high
importance as a sheep-market, as to rival the great fair of St Bos-
wells.  There used to be a small market in the spring called the
scarce Thursday fair, a corruption for Kier or Holy Thursday,
which is said to have been in high repute as a village carnival in
Catholic times.
   Inns, Alehouses, &c.-There are no less than thirty of these in
the parish, of which the effects on the morals of the people are
most pernicious.
   Fuel.-The chief fuel in this part of the country is coal driven
from the Lothians over the Soltra, and from Northumberland over
the Carter, which sells at 1s. 3d. per cwt.  The thinnings of the
neighbouring plantations are also much used, and peats from the
moss bogs of Blainslie, of which one sells at 1s. 6d. the other at
3s. for the cart load, exclusive of carriage.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The chief circumstance in which the present differs from the
past state of the parish, is the general enlargement of the farms.
Except in the case of a carrier or miller, who rents a few acres to
furnish fodder for, and to give regular employment to his horses,
a small farm is nearly unknown.  The displacing of the old small
tenants, distinguished as they were by a primitive simplicity of
manners, was at first viewed with deep regret; that an entire ba-
rony should be committed to one man, was exclaimed against as a
public grievance.  But the introduction of a better and more spi-
rited style of agriculture which immediately followed, the rapid im-
provement of the country, which in a limited period has raised the
rental of this parish from L.4000 nearly to L.20,000 a-year, be-
sides the improved condition of the agricultural labourers, seem to
show that it was a change for the better.  The land is divided into
a limited number of great farms; and the tenants, men of capital
and high intelligence, are enabled to give the best effect to the
virtues of the soil; and the great body of the people live quietly
under them as farm-sevants and hired labourers, having no care
but to do their work and receive their wages.  The influence of
the master over the people whom he employs is immense, and not
the less that it is not perceived.  The great farms, the valuable
men at the head of them, and a resident proprietary, may be re-
garded as among the chief causes of the prosperity and tranquil-
lity for which this part of the country is so greatly distinguished.
   November 1834.

