
350                          STIRLINGSHIRE.

only by name. Many of the details were long considered to be the
fruit of the author's invention; but the testimony of subsequent
travellers has proved the truth of Mr Bruce's assertions. He was
born in 1730, and died at Kinnaird in 1794, at the age of sixty-
four.
  In the earlier part of his life, Mr Bruce was a wine-merchant
in London, and married the daughter of a wine-merchant there.
This lady died a few years after the marriage. After this, Mr
Bruce was Consul at Algiers. He received about, L. 10,000 from
Government, as a compensation for the expense and time he had
bestowed on his travels in Abyssinia. He was sufficiently careful
of his fortune, and left it in good order. He kept his colliery in
his own hands for some years, and superintended the management
of it, and erected a large steam-engine for pumping the water from
the workings.
  Mr Bruce having lived a considerable time in the countries si-
tuated on the shores of the Mediterranean, became acquainted
with a number of the languages spoken in these countries, and
knew several, so as to speak them,--Arabic, and its derivative,
Abyssinian, otherwise known by the names of Ethiopic and Amba-
ric, Coptic, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, French, Latin, Greek.
Some of these languages Mr Bruce probably spoke with tolerable
fluency. It is very rare that any one ever acquires the use of a.
foreign language, so as to speak it like a native. In order to have
a chance of succeeding in this, he must begin in his infancy to
speak the language with natives, and must live with the natives in
the country where the language is universally spoken. But if he
continues this course long, the result is, that, in acquiring the
idioms and correct articulation of the foreign sounds, he has for-
gotten and lost a good deal of his own mother tongue.

Paiz's description is inserted in Kircher's (Edipus Egyptiaus. Paiz was with the
King of Abyssinia and his army, and visited the sources in 1618. See Athanasii Kir-
cheri e societate Jesu (Edipus Egyptiacus. Romee, 1652.

  <FOOTNOTE>Habesch is the name which the inhabitants give to their country, and from this
the Europeans have formed the name Abyssinia. The Amharic is the vernacular
dialect of Ethiopic spoken in Abyssinia. The Abyssinians, it is believed, came
anciently from the east coast of the Red Sea, and two-thirds of the words in the
Abyssinian language are Arabic. The Abyssinian letters, however, are altogether
different, and are read, as the European languages, from left to right, whilst the Ara-
bic are read from right to left.
  Mithridates, King of Pontus, in ancient times, was famous for his ability in
speaking several different languages. L'Abbate Mesofanti, librarian in the Univer-
sity of Bologna, in 1817, and afterwards one of the librarians of the Vatican, was cele-
brated as a linguist, and spoke fluently a number of languages, although he had never
been out of the Pope's territory.
                                      4


