
     Statistical Account

   Farms and Inclosures.-The number of farms in Gigha is
15.  They pay from 30 L. to 100 L. rent each.  All these,

<FOOTNOTE>

and care taken to preserve them, there would be a great deal of wood in a few
years, with very little expense.
   The advantages resulting from such improvements in other places, are uni-
versally acknowledged:  Much more sensibly would they be felt in remote
islands, where at present there is not the smallest twig growing, and where,
therefore, the poorer fort of inhabitants are obliged to expose themselves, in
tricing open boats, to the hazard of a long and dangerous navigation, in order
to purchase, at a dear rate, what, by proper attention, might be raised within
the island.  On there occasions, they endeavour to make the molt of their
voyage, by overloading their boats; and, as this kind of cargo does not stow
well, there is always too much top weight, which is often attended with fatal
consequences; instances of which could be specified.  This consideration alone
should excite proprietors, to adopt every rational plan, for introducing into there
islands an article so much wanted, to render the situation of the inhabitants
comfortable, and, indeed, the only thing wanting to render these islands among
the most delightful places in the kingdom to visit, or retire to in the summer.
Nature furnished this article in great abundance formerly, and still offers
to produce it, would people but avail themselves of her bounty, by seconding
her efforts.  Besides the great advantage of fairing trees for domestic uses, and
the alteration it would make on there islands in point of beauty, it would be at-
tended with other good effects.  By increasing the degree of warmth, it would
quicken vegetation; it would also screen the fields from blasting winds; save
the corn from shaking; and, in the winter time, afford shelter for cattle.
   On places directly exposed to the storms of the Atlantic ocean, it is pro-
bable that every attempt to raise trees will prove abortive.  But in places shel-
tered from those storms, they will certainly grow, if care be taken to preserve
them from cattle, and to prevent people from destroying them.  Instead of one
large plantation, several small clumps might be tried; and where they were
found to thrive, more might be planted; where they did not, the loss and ex-
pence would be left felt.  Various kinds of trees should be tried, and different
experiments made; such as rasing them from the feed, thinning them as their
grew up, and transplanting those thus raised at different ages, and into different
soils.  Where the ground is marshy, or so much exposed that trees will not
come to perfection, it might be rendered very valuable by fairing fallows, for
which there is always a demand for tasking hoops, creels and baskets; and could


