
                  DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                 981

   Ancient Chapels.--About 1420, Bishop Cardney built and de-
dicated a chapel to St Ninian.  It stood upon the ground now

rymple says Cormac never came to settle at Dunkeld.--Collect. p. 240-5. Suppos-
ing Cormac to have been the bishop, his successor is another difficulty. Dalrymple
makes Gregory to be the fourth bishop, but Keith expresses doubts on the subject.
Mill omits Gregory altogether, and makes Walter to be Cormac's successor. If For-
dun be correct as to the time of the death of Bishop Richard de Prebenda, which he
says was in 1178, Walter would then be his successor, for his consecration takes place
in the same year.
   4. Walter de Bidon was one of the Clerici Regis, and afterwards Chancellor of the
kingdom. Though elected to the See of Dunkeld, it is said that he died before his
consecration, and cannot therefore be numnbered as one of its bishops.  Mill says that
he was consecrated in 1178, and died full of years and pious works.
   5. John Scot. This prelate was, in 1177, elected Bisbop of St Andrews by the
chapter. "Electus est ( Fordun, lib. vi. c. 35) Rege Willelmo totis viribus renitente;"
that monarch passionately exclaiming, when the election was announced to him,
"By the arm of St James, John Scot ,hall never be Bishop of St Andrews," The
Pope, however, supported the pretensions of John, and a controversy ensued, which
agitated Scotland, and embroiled William with the Head of the Church for several
years. The Pope, in consequence, was about to put Scotland under interdict, but
by Scot's entreaties that step was prevented. The dispute, however, terminated
at last, by the nomination of John Scot to the diocese of Dunkeld, with liberty to
retain the emolumentr belonging to him as Archdeacon of St Andrews, an office
which be previously held.--Ford. lib. vi. c. 35-38. This Bishop had great influence
with Pope Alexander III. "eum in quamlibet partem quam vellit ratione tamen
praevia inclinavit,"--Ibid. That Pope, at his request, constituted Argyle, which, till
his time, was a part of the diocese of Dunkeld, a separate see.  John Scot held the
mitre twenty-five years, and died in 1203, and was buried in the north side of the
quire of the Abbey-church of Newbottle, "ubi (says Fordun) claret miraculis." The
Bishoprick of St Andrews was then estimated at the yearly revenue of L.8018, 3s.
and that of Dunkeld at L.1206, 6s. 8d.--Chart. Aberbrothock, Vol. i. fol. 10, as
quoted in the Annals of Scotland, Vol. iii. p. 205. The life of Scot was written by
William Benyng, prior of Newbattle, afterwards Abbot of Coupar, and by Bishop
Lauder of Dunkeld.
   Richard de Praebenda. He was one of the King's clerici, and his kinsman.  It is
said he was consecrated in 1203, and died at Cramond in 1210, and was buried
in Inchcolm.--Fordun, lib. viii. c. 64 et c. 78. But,
   According to Mill, there was a Richard Provan named John's successor, who must
have died shortly after, and before consecration, for there is no mention of him as
bishop in Keith or any other writer. John of Leicester, cousin to King Willi`m,
succeeded John, and filled the see eleven years, and died at Cramond 1214. Keith
says that Richard de Praebenda is not designed bishop, nor is it likely that there
should have been two bishops so near to one another of the same name and surname.
   6. John of Leicester died in 1214.--Mill, Ford. lib. ix. c. 27.
   7. Hugh, called Hugo de Sigillo, a monk of Arbroath.  Fordun, lib. ix. c. 47,
calls him "vir mansuetissimus qui dicebatur puerperum Episcopus." Mill says, that
Hugo died within the year, on the 2d January, and was succeeded by Gilbert.
   Mathew Scot, Chancellor of the kingdom, 1227-31, is said to have been elected,
but died before his consecration.--Fordun, Ibid. Although stated as Chancellor,
Chalmers's Caled. Vol. i. p. 712, he died bdore 1231. Scot is not in Mill's Cat. of
Bishops.
   8. Gilbert. He had been chaplain to his predecessor, Bishop Hugh. He appears
as a witness to a deed of Alexander II. in 1227 A copy of this deed published
in 1771, by the late John Davidson, Esq. along with some other curious papers, in
the appendix to the Annals of Scotland. Though it proves that Fordun, lib. ix. c.
47, is mistaken in saying, that Gilbert was not elected till 1229, it does not fix the
date of that event. Gilbert filled the see twenty-two  years, aud was buried at Inch-
colm 1236.
   9. Galfrid Liverance succeeded hn 1236. Mill says that he reformed the cathedral
worship in imitation of the Church of Sarum, and the music according to the Gre-
gorian manner. According to Fordun, lib. ix. c. 68, Galfrid died at Tibbermuir in
1249, and was buried within the old Church, formerly the Abbey Church of Dun-
keld, "quam praedis et possessionilus dotavit, quam regulis et institutus informavit,


