
	                PARISH OF CAMERON.

  		PRESBYTERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

               THE REV. THOMAS ADAMSON, A. M. MINISTER.

 	    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATUITAL IIIISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-CAMERON became a separate and in-
dependent parish at a comparatively modern date. It anciently
formed part of the widely extended parish of St Andrews. The
following is from the presbytery records: 11 March 12th 1645, the
which day was produced to the presbytery the act of Parliament
forerecting the kirk of Cameron in a parish, and designing a
maintenance thereto, which diligence is approven-of by the pres-
bytery, and the parishioners there are seriously desired to concur
with the presbytery, to whom the right of patronage belongs,, to
condescend tipon a man for filling that place." On the 6tli of May
the following year, that is, about fourteen months after the pro-
ducing of the act of Parliament, Mr George Nairne was admitted
to the " new erected kirk of Cameron."
  The name of the parish was most probably taken from the farm of
Cameron, upon which the manse and church were buill There
is a disposition by kndro Law, citiner of St Andrews, of certain
" five aikers of his lands of Cameron, for founding, erecting,
causing build ane kirk and kirk yard, with ane manse for the mi-
nister, serving the cure thereat (viz. Cameron;) it is dated the
" twentie day of June 1642."
  The parish is of the figure of a parallelogram, and is in length,
from east to west, between 5 and 6 miles, and in breadth about 4.
It is bounded on the north by the parish of St Andrews; on the
east, by Denino; on the south, by Carnbee and Kilconquhar; and
on the west by Ceres.
  Topoqraphical Appearances.-The parish is undulating in its
appearance; the ground rises from the north to the south boun-
dary, by a succession of gentle,elevations, running nearly parallel
to one another from east to west, with rivulets flowing between
them The only hill is Drumcarro Craig, situated in the north-

