
564			AYRSHIRE.

the head of legacies and mortifications, it falls to be stated, that
the late Dr Hunter of London vested money in the funds to yield
L. 50 a-year to the poor of Kilmarnock. The late William Parker,
Esq. of London, left L. 1000, of which the interest goes to the
same objects; and the late William Paterson, Esq. of Ayr, be-
queathed L. 90 a-year, to be laid out in small annuities to decayed
persons.
	Prisons.--There is no jail in the town, and criminals, after a
short detention in the police-office, are transmitted to the county
prison at Ayr. The police buildings, with town offices, were erect-
ed in 1806; and since then, a police establisliment has been or-
ganized, composed of seven or eight officers, very effectively su-
perintended. In the absence of a sheriff-substitute, the criminal
cases disposed of are of a comparatively trivial nature; the fines
inflicted being appropriated to the support of the establishment.
	Fairs.--There are three fairs held in the course of the year;
one on the second Tuesday of May, for the sale of cattle;
another on the last Thursday of July, for horses, black-cattle, and
wool; and the third, on the last Thursday of October, for the
sale of horses. There is, besides, a weekly market held on Friday,
at which there is a regular supply of cattle, sheep, and pigs, but-
ter, cheese, and eggs; and a grain market, recently revived, is
well attended on the same day by farmers and dealers.
	Inns and Alehouses.--The number of licensed inns and alehouses
is about 150, and the evidences of intemperance are here, as else-
where, in our day unhappily but too manifest. There are, however,
few public-houses of the more degraded sort, common in larger
towns, and the police are extremely vigilant in preventing them
from making any undue encroachments upon the Lord's Day. *

<FOOTNOTE>The writers of this article are much indebted to Mr Guthrie of Mount, the ac-
curacy whose statistical information is well known in the district. The accounts
of geology and agriculture, especially, are given nearly in his own words.

	March 1839.


