
     Statistical Account

   Although from the great increase of population in the burgh,
since 1771, the inhabitants in the town are become much
more numerous, yet, from the constant emigration of young
people, the growing population receives a considerable check.
No town in Scotland sends perhaps, for its size, so many of
its children abroad to foreign countries.  Many of them have,
by their industry and application, succeeded extremely well.
Some have acquired very ample fortunes, with a fair and ho-
nourable character.

   Poor.-The number of poor people in the town and coun-
try amounts, upon an average, to 42.  They are supported
chiefly from the weekly collections at the church doors upon
Sunday.  Each person, at the quarterly division, receives ac-
cording to his circumstances, at the rate of 8 s. or 10 s.  The
whole annual collection amounts, at an average, to 70 l. Ster-
ling*.  At the quarterly division of the weekly collection,
by the minister and elders, there is a peculiarity worth men-
tioning.  The ministers and elders of the burgh meet toge-
ther, and divide the quarterly collection among the poor
people residing in the town.  Then the ministers and elders
of the country parish meet by themselves, and distribute what

<FOOTNOTE>

tinker, died here, at the astonishing age of 120.  Though he was not a native of
this place, but of Kirkmichael, in the shire of Ayr, yet, for several years before
he died, he resided often in this burgh.  This miracle of longevity retained his
senses almost to the last hour; and distinctly remembered to have seen King
William's fleet, when on their way to Ireland, riding at anchor in the Solway
Frith, close by the Bay of Kirkcudbright, and the transports lying in the harbour.
His funeral was attended by a great concourse of people of all ranks, who paid
due respect to his astonishing age.

*Dr. ROBERT JOHNSTONE of London bequeathed by will, dated September
13th 1639, the sum of 500 l. Sterling, to be employed in stock, and the interest
to be divided annually
among poor burgesses.  The magistrates are trustees for
the management of the principal, and the distribution of the interest.


