
     of Avoch

   Agriculture, &c.-Though some parts of the parish have
been measured, there is no regular survey or map of the
whole.  It is believed, however, to contain about 6000 a-
cres.  Of these, from 1500 to 2000 may be under cultiva-
tion.  But the whole produce will seldom exceed 5000 bolls;
for among the tenants here, farming is only in a slate of in-
fancy.  It has emerged but little from the rude practice of
their forefathers, a hundred years ago.  Their horses, in ge-
neral, are rniserable poneys or garrons, bought at from 3 L.
to 5 L. Sterling, each.  Their cattle are a little better in pro-
portion; but few of their sheep are worth above 5 s. per
head.  So bleak and bare, indeed, are the hill tops and
muirs, that this parish is very little calculated for sheep pas-
ture.  Their implements of husbandry are equally poor, ex-
cept with a few more careful and industrious men, who, ha-
ving got better garrons, begin of late to use the light chain
plough, with curved mold board; and perhaps a coup-cart
or two, or a small wain for oxen on their farm.  Their o-

     Vol. XV. 4 K

<FOOTNOTE>

mostly destroyed by the neighbour's cattle and sheep.  Discouraged by this,
he turned his attention next to the improvement of his farm; and has, with
great expence and labour, made out above twelve acres new land, where ne-
ver a blade of corn grew before.  Industry of this kind is beneficial to one's
country, and deserves to be recorded.
The rent of land in the country part of the parish, including various cus-
toms and services, amounts to from 12 s. to 23 s. per acre, according to the
quality and exposure:  But, in the neighbourhood of the villages of Seatown
and Kirktown, it pays in general from 25 s. to 5 cs. And here some small spots
of garden ground are let at the rate of from 5 L. to 8 L. Sterling per acre.
These last, however, are generally possessed by seamen, shoemakers, and o-
thers, who keep no cattle, and must, have a little ground for raising potatoes
and greens to their families.  Such high rents could not be paid by mere
husbandmen.
The total gross rent the parish is somewhat more than 730 bolts vis-
sual, and 900 L. Sterling.  The valued rent is 2531 L. 6 s. 4 d. Scots


