
               NEILSTON.                                   321

moors, and Jochs. The common migratory birds make their an-
Dual appearance at their proper seasons. The cuckoo and swal-
low, the curlew, lapwing, and stonecbat in spring and in the
end of autumn and beginning of winter, the woodcock and field-
fare. The Birds are, the sparrow, sparrow hawk; the thrush and
blackbird ; the lark, grey and green linnet; the bxillfineb and yel-
low-hammer.; the golden-crested wren; the blue titmouse, the
chaffinch, and starling; whicli last, tbougb rare for many years, has
again appeared in considerable Dumbers.
The water-crow and stonceliat are disappearing; and the lono,-
eared, brown, and barn owl is found onlv inhabiting somd loiie-
ly tower. The raven, crow, jackdaw, and magpie abound. The
last-is the most ferocious and destructive of all the other birds ; and,
though rewards have been offered for. everyone qf them that is shot,
thev cannot be rooted out.
This parish is not famous for the breed of any sliecies of cattle.
The only thing in which it is remarkable is its breed of milch-
COWS. Every thing has been attempted for their improvement.
The Ayrshire cow was crossed for a time with the Alderney and
Guernsey breed. This produced more butter, but less milk, and
the breed was g4ven up. Now the chief attention of farmers here,
in the middle district, is to improve, as much as possible, the Ayr-
shire cows in all their varieties.
Tliefishesinourlochsareperch,pike,aDdtrout. Troutisfound
in abundance in the Long-loch : pike and perch, large, and very
fine and abundant, in Hairlaw reservoir and loch-Libo -and trout
is found also in Cawpla-Loch. In the streams, trout of a par-
ticular kind are found, equal in all respects to the ebar in the
lakes of Cumberland. Great abundance of these and of the
common species of trout, with uncommonly large and fine eels,
are found in the small reservoirs attached to the inill-lades of cot-
ton-mills, and -other large bleaching manufactories. When these
reservoirs are drained for cleading, trout are taken in great num-
bers; some of them from 02 to 16 inches long, and thick in pro-
portion. For a time after the printfields were set down the fish
The writer of this article sold one of the mixed Alderney, or Guernsey breed, to
the late Williain Finlay, Esq. Senior, of Trees, in this parish. She produced, per
week. for the tltree flush months, eleven pounds of butter ! but comparatively little
milk in proportion. At the same time, the present minister of Dunlop had a large
fine cow, of the pure Ayrshire breed, which gave, during the three flush months,
twenty-one Scotch pints of milk in the day, as taken from the cow. These facts are
well ascertained, and m. k the peculiar difflrence between the cross and the pure
Ayrshire breed.


