
20                            WIGTONSHIRE.

ern-side of the parish, and on that account is a considerable dis-
tance, about six miles, from a part of the population. It was built
in 1828, and is a very handsome commodious building. It affords
accommodation of upwards of 600 people. There are a few sit-
ting allotted to the poor of the parish. The only benefaction on
record is the sum of L.30, left by the late Sir William Maxwell
of Monreith. The manse was built in 1820. The glebe con-
sists of about 10 acres, mostly of a light gravelly soil. The
yearly value may be about L.20. The stipend is 16 chal-
ders, half meal, half barley, and L. 8, 6s 8d. for communion
elements. There are 205 families belonging to the Established
Church, consisting of about 1100 persons; there are 55 families
6 Dissenters, most of whom attend a meeting-house in Wigton;
and there are 23 families of Roman Catholics. There is at pre-
sent a Catholic chapel building at Newtonstewart, in the neighbour-
ing parish of Penninghame. There are upwards of 300 communi-
cants in the Established Church, and in genenral divine service is
well attended. Collections are seldom made except for the poor,
and these on an average of the last seven years amount to L. 25 oer
annum.
	Education.--There are at present 4 schools in the parish, the
parochial school, and three private schools. The parish schoolmas-
ter has the maximum salary, L. 34, 4s, 4d. a-year, and his fees
may amount to about L.30. He has the legal accommoda-
tion. All the usual branches of education are taught; and at a
very low rate. English reading and grammar, 8d. per month ;
wrhting, 10d; arithmetic and goegraphy, 1s.; Latin and Greek, 1s,
8d.; and French, 2s 6d. There are very few children in the pa-
rish who cannot read and write. Many of the Irish part of the po-
pulation can do neither, but they in general send their children
to rchool, and the people seem alive to the benefit of education.
The school-house, the best in the country, stands near the church.
I consider four schools, one a female school, perfectly sufficient for
the parish. The scholars attending the public school have the
benefit of a small library.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number on the poor's
roll for the last seven years is 22, and the average sum allotted
to each is about L.3. But beside these regular paupers, there
are a number of persons in the parish who stand in need of oc-
casional aid, which on an average may amount to about L.15 a
year. The annual expendittre thus amounts to L.81, which is pro-


