
74                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

rapine and sword united to embroil and impoverish the neighbour-
hood. In these scenes Sir Aulay Macaulay of Ardincaple bore a
conspicuous part, and the,traditions of the country still preserve his
name with awe. Occasionally other bands of plunderers invaded
this district, among whom the more remarkable were the Mac-
gregors, Campbells, Camerons, and Buchanans. One of these
murderous conflicts was of sufficient importance to merit a place
in the history of the times, and was fought in Glenfruin in Fe -
bruary 1603, The older accounts of this transaction bear such
marks of partiality as to be little worthy of credit, and the tradi-
tions of the district lead us into great confusion. The recent in-
quiries of Mr Pitcairn have brought to light a mass of authentic
information, which will be found in his Criminal Trials. It seems
enough here to state generally, that Alexander Colquhoun of Luss,
having: obtained a commission of lieutenancy against "thievis, sor-
naris, and broken men," who infested the Lennox, arrived in his
country just as it had been invaded by Alister Macgregor of Glen-
strae at the head of 400 men. Colquhoun rousing his vassals, and
being assisted by some of the neigbbouring lairds, and a number
of the Dumbarton burgbers, came up with the marauders at the
farm of Strone, near the head of Glenfruin. A desperate combat
gave victory to the Macgregors. Of their opponents 140 men
were slain, the laird of Luss narrowly escaping, and many of those
at fell being, as Calderwood says, landed men of good rank.
The plunder carried away by the Macgregors consisted of 600
head of cattle, 800 sheep and goats, and 280 horses. The story
of some students from Dumbarton having been massacred in cold
blood, does not seem to be borne out by the records. The arm
of the law, too long suspended from motives of policy or partiality,
now descended upon the unhappy Clangregor, more in vengeance
than in justice. The whole race were proscribed, their name pro-
hibited, their children exiled from their native land, and it was not
until 1774 that the many penal enactments against them, which
defaced the statute book, were finally repealed. After the battle
of Glentruin, the country became by degrees more settled. The
Macgregors had ceased to exist as a clan. The Macaulays and
Buchanans were beginning to be less powerful, and the estate of the
Macfarlanes, poor in every produce but men, was inadequate to
maintain its lairds in wealth when they could no longer lay their
neighbours under contribution. The lands of these chiefs have


