
                             SANDWICK.                         59

ment in this respect, but it must be very limited, till they have
houses that are clean, in which it would be possible to keep their
persons so. At present, most of them are wretched hovels, with
holes in the roof instead of chimneys, which permit that part of
the smoke to escape, that is knowing enough to find it; but most
of the soot attaches itself to the roof and rafters, whence it de-
scends again on the inmates.
   Another bole in the roof, about six inches square, and often
without glass, is the substitute for a window; and cows, calves,
pigs, geese, and fowls, share the benefit of the peat fire, placed on
the middle of the floor for the accommodation of all. Their
food is as simple as can be imagined. Oat and bear-meal, with
milk in various forms, potatoes, cabbage, and sometimes fish, is
their ordinary diet; and most indulge in a little flesh and ale at
Christmas, or other holidays. Of their poor cots, many are only
tenants at will, and on this account, as well as others connected
with their state of vassalage, though many have peace and plenty,
I cannot say that all enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the comforts of
society and civilization, as so much depends on their landlord.
   The general character of the people, intellectual, moral, and
religious, is, I believe, much like that of their neighbours, who
have been placed in the same unfavourable circumstances, living
in a parish united to another, with public worship only once a
fortnight, and no resident clergyman. I have the gratification of
noticing in the sequel their late improvement, in these respects.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-Much of the information required under this
branch of inquiry, I expected to have procured from the tenants;
but it is proper to explain, that many of them having been prohi-
bited from divulging the secret of their real rent, and quantity of
land, I have been under the necessity of extracting the truth from
other sources. More than half of this parish has lately been di-
vided under a process of division of run-rig, and of this part, the
number of acres of arable and pasture land, with the comparative
value of each, has been exactly ascertained; and knowing the
proportion between the valued rent of this part, and that which
remains undivided, I am furnished with materials from which to
calculate the number of acres of arable and pasture land in the
whole parish, with more precision than formerly; and the know-
ledge of the real rent of a part, amounting to more than L.600,
gives me also materials for calculating the real rent of the whole,


