
164                         LANARKSHIRE.

of which one side is occupied by retorts, condensers, and other ap-
paratus; and round the other three are ranged sheds, under which
cannel coals are stored, to preserve them from moisture. These
sheds are calculated to contain 6000 tons; and to show at any
time how much coal is on hand, they are divided into compart-
ments, each containing a certain known quantity. The company
have at present 152 retorts, each capable of making 5000 cubic
feet of gas in twenty-four hours. Of these, 105 are required in
winter, and 30 in summer. The gas holders are of a very large
size, and are 8 in number, viz. 4 at the works, and 4 in different
parts of the town. By this arrangement, the pressure of gas is
equalised in all portions of the city and suburbs. Cast-iron
pipes to convey the gas are laid on both sides of the streets, under
the foot pavements, so as not to interfere with the water pipes,
and extend to more than 110 miles in length. In generating gas
for the supply of Glasgow, upwards of 9000 tons of coals are an-
nually consumed. The coke which remains after extracting gas
from cannel coal, and the tar deposited on the cooling of the gas,
are used for heating the retorts, and are found to be very economi-
cal fuel. Nor is the tar the only one of the liquid products that is
turned to profitable account. The ammoniacal water is sold to be
used in making cudbear dye, and the naphtha, in dissolving ca-
outchouc, for manufacturing water-proof cloth. The solution of
lime, after having been employed for purifying the gas, is allowed
to stand until the heavier part is precipitated; this is then collected
and sold for manure, and the liquor which remains (none of the
gas-work refuse is allowed to run into the common sewers of the
city) is evaporated under the great bars of the retort furnace,
thereby increasing the draught, and, consequently, the intensity
of the fire.
	As at other establishments, the gas is purified with lime; but
in addition to this process, it is made to pass through a solution of
sulphate of iron, by which it is very much improved in purity.
After being purified, it passes through a metre of a very large
size, made by Mr Crosley of London, the patentee. Here the
gas manufactured is measured, and by a beautiful contrivance,
called a tell-tale, which acts by the combined motions of the me-
tre on a common clock, the quantity passing through each hour
of the day or night is registered; and the extent of any irregula-
rity in the workmen, as well as the time at, which it happened, is
at once detected. The company have been peculiarly fortunate
				3


