
     Of Northmaven.

garding the penny rents; and this is called the grassum.  Be-
sides the payment of land rent to the proprietors of the lands,
the possessors pay a tax called Scatt, which was anciently the
revenue of the Kings of Denmark; and since this country
being annexed to the Crown of Scotland, has been paid to
the Crown or its grantees.  There is another payment exact-
ed by the grantees of the Crown, called ox and sheep money,
which is said to have been introduced by the Earls of Ork-
ney, when they lorded it over this country.
   In the year 1600, Patrick Earl of Orkney, built the castle
of Scalloway; among the exactions made by him for carrying
on this building, one was, his compelling the inhabitants to 
deliver a certain number of oxen and sheep yearly for the 
use of his table.  It is said, that he demanded 24 sheep and
2 oxen from each parish, which oxen and sheep were after-
ward converted into a yearly money-paymnent on the lands
in each parish.  Another payment exacted by the grantees
of the Crown, is called the Wattle.  In the beginning of the
16th century, when Popery blinded mankind, the priests
begged from these islands, money under he name of Wattle,
in consideration of the extraordinary benefit which the peo-
ple were to receive from the liberal distribution of holy wa-
ter among them.  Another payment is the cess, or land-tax;
and as the lands of these islands pay scatt, or a land-tax pecu-
liar to themselves, it was, after some struggle, that the pay-
ment of cess took place in Shetland.  Besides the above pay-
ments, the tenants pay corn-tiend:  In this parish the one
half of Sir Thomas Dundas, the other half to the incumbent,
according to use and wont.  Besides, to the incumbent is paid
cow and sheep tiend, and a composition of 15 lings for every
6 oared boat, and 10 for every 4 oared boat.  Further, the 
tenants pays to the proprietor an hen and cock for every 2
merks land, and 3 days work to the proprietor and as many.

     VOL. XII. Y y


