
324                          FIFESHIRE.

   Balcarres Den, so interesting in a geological point of view, is no
less to be adniired for the many beautiful specimens which it yields
to the researches of the botanist. Silene inflata and acaulis, Stel-
laria nemorum and holostea, Epilobium hirsutum and tetragonum,
Geum rivale, Lysimachia nemorum, Azalea procumbens, Scrophu-
laria nodosa and vernalis, Digitalis purpurea, Sium latifolium, Chry-
sosplenium Oppositifolium, Oxalis acetosella, &c. Also a considera-
ble. variety of the fern tribe occurs here:-Aspidium flix mas,
Pteris aquilina, Blechnum boreale, Botrychium lunaria, Aspidium
lonchitis, 4diantum capillis veneris. Towards the higher and mnre
sterile parts of the parish, we meet with the usual plants which
characterize such districts. Campanula latifolia, Prunella vulgaris,
Jasiotte montana, Euphriisia officinalis, Pedicularispalustris, Bart-
sia Odontites, Voc,cinium vitis idea, Erica cinerea, Eriophorum
angust folium, Briza media, S-c.
   Woods or Plantations.-There are no natural woods in this pa-
risb, butfew parishes in Scotland are so richly covered with plan-
tations.Most, of the proprietors have their residences in the pa-
rish, andround their mansions are extensive plantations tastefully
laid out. Looking down from Reres on the inclined plain to the
south, it appears like one richly wooded domain. The plantations
of Balearres, Charleton, Pitcorthie, Cairnie, Kilcon.quhar, and
Elie, all seem to unite. Lookino, to the north from the same
eminence, the woods around Lathallan and Gilston, with the
thriving plantations of Kilbracbmont and Falfield, g've to that
hiah district also a cli?thed and sheltered appearance. There are
nearly 100,0 imperial acres including hedge-rows under wood in
the parish. The most valuable wood is around Balearres, many
of the trees being nearly 200 years old, and of large size. In
Balear.res Den are nearly. 100 acres of valuable hard wood,
planted about eighty years ago. The trees are of great height;
but, from being planted in a deep ravine, are little observed. The
kinds of trees that seem to agree best with the soil and climate are
ash, elm, oak, beecii, and plane-tree. Larch, except in sheltered
situations, does not thrive here.  The genuine red Pine or Scotch
fir, which formerly used to' be planted, and was a valuable wood,
seems now to be supplanted by a soft yellow pine, having much
the same appearance, but of such inferior quality as to be fit for
little else than fire-wood.
   ZOOLOGY.-There is nothing remarkable in the zoology. Froi-ft
our having so mt ich wood we have great quantities of birds of all
                                  3


