
                               RERRICK.                      367

	Fishings.--Some year ago, a stake-net salmon fishing was
established on the west side of the Bay of Auchencairn, by the
proprietors of Balcary and Nutwood. It has been reasonably
successful, yielding a steady and increasing rent. More recently,
Mr Lenox of Port Mary has let the right of salmon fishing on
the shores near to Burnfoot. The take of salmon here has not
hitherto been great ; but the fish are of the finest quality.

                       V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Villages.--There are two villages in the parish, which have
been already described,--the one at the head of the Bay of
Auchencairn, and the other in the immediate vicinity of Dun-
drennan Abbey. There are three licensed public-houses in
Auchencairn, and two at Dundrennan, which are well kept and
regulated.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The greater proportion of the inhabitants
of the parish belong to the Established Church, although there
is a most respectable congregation or the Free Church at Auchen-
cairn, under the ministry of the Rev. Mr Murray. The patronage
of the parish belongs to the Crown ; and it is a remarkable fact,
that there have only been four incumbents of Rerrick since the
Revolution. The first of these was the Rev. Mr Alexander
Telfair, who is now chiefly known as the author of a very curious;
tract, printed at Edinburgh in 1696, under the following title:--
A True Relation of an Apparition, Expressions and Actings of a
Spirit, which infested the house of Andrew Mackie, in Ring-croft
of Stocking in the Paroch of Herrick, in the Stewartry of Kirkcud-
bright, in Scotland, 1695. It presents a curious picture of the
times, that the truth of the details of supernatural agency con-
tained in this relation " is `ttested, as what they saw, heard, and
felt" by the ministers of Kells, Borguel Crossmichael, Parton,
and Kelton, and by several of the most respectable parishioners
of Rerrick. Mr relfair was succeeded, as minister of this parish,
by Mr William Jameson, author of an ingenious Essay on Virtue
and Harmony, published in 1749, and which indicates great
metaphysical acuteness on the part of the writer. Mr Jameson
died in 1790, and was succeeded by the late Mr James Thom-
son. In 1818, his son, the present incumbent, was appointed
helper and successor to his father, who closed a long life of use-
fulness and respectability as a parish minister in 1826.


