
     Statistical Account

tives of Norway and Sweden.  They are not equal to
the large Scotch duck, in size or quality*.

   Minerals.-By several experiments made some years
ago, by Mr. Rasp the mineralist, veins of lead and silver
ore, and likewise of iron, zinc, copper, and copperas,
were discovered upon Lord Breadalbane's property in
this parish; but not in sufficient quantity to encourage
the expense of manufacturing.

   Antiquities.-There is no antiquity worthy of notice
in this parish, except the ruins of 2 or 3 buildings, sup-
posed to have been erected by the Danes.  They were
not only used as places of defence and safety in time of
war; but it appears, from their situation, in view of one
another, that they served as watch towers, to convey
signals, and alarm the coast, at the approach of an enemy.
Those forts are all erected upon rising ground, that com-
mands an extensive view to the right and left along the
coast, and might easily convey signals by fire.  The ruins
of some of them still show their strength to have been
considerable; particularly one erected upon the top of a

<FOOTNOTE>

*The most remarkable sea-fowl to be seen here, is the puffin.  It is a spe-
cies of duck, of a gray colour.  It seldom attemps to fly, nor are the
wings, which are very small and bare, capable to carry its weight to any
considerable distance.  It is almost entirely a lump of fat, and tastes of
fish.  The wild goose and swan appear frequently during the winter, but
go farther N. in time of hatching.  All the wild and tame fowls, com-
monly seen in other parts of Scotland, are frequently seen upon this coast,
and some, that are more rare, particularly the jackdaw, with red bill
and feet, hatches in this country.  We have no foxes, though they were
very numerous in those islands about 40 years ago.  Badgers are also ba-
nished.  But we have 3 different species of wild cat still remaining, that
are very destructive to lambs and poultry.  These are the common wild-
cat, the pole-cat, and martin.


