
     of Lochgoil-head and Kilmorieb.

which were then very considerable, but part of the tithes of
several other parishes, contributed to support the dignity of
the arch-dean.  The refomation of religion in Scotland,
however necessary and beneficial in general, was productive
of one evil, which could not readily be supposed to result
from such a revolution.  at that aera, at least two thirds of
the places formerly established for public worship were sup-
pressed.  Under the church of Rome, the people, every
where, had easy access to the places where they were to per-
form their devotions, and to receive religious instruction.  But,
after the Reformation, owing to the scarcity of the Protestant
preachers, and to the avarice of the Reformers, (particularly
the laymen who conducted that revolution), so few places
of worship were permitted, and these consequently so di-
stant from one another, and so divided by mountains, rivers,
and arms of the sea, as to render it extremely difficult, and
sometimes impossible, for the ministers to perform the duties
of their office, or for the people to attend on their in-
structions.  This was particularly the case in the province of
Argyle.  In order to remedy these inconveniences, an act of
parliament passed, anno 1649, empowering certain persons to
disjoin the old, and to erect new, parishes in that province.
In consequence of these powers, the commissioners dismem-
bered the old parish of Lochogoil-head, and formed it into
three separate and independent cures.  One of these in the
present parish of Strachur; Kilmorich was another; and the
mother church made the third, which, from it situation,
retained the old name.

   Situation and Extent.-This parish is situated in the county
and synod of Argyle, and in presbytery of Dunoon.  It
is about 30 miles long, and from 6 to 20 miles broad.  This
is exclusive of a district belonging to it of 5 miles in length,
which is annexed, quoad sacra, to the parish of Inveraray.

     VOL. III X


