
  	                    KILTEARN.                               323

	but in the low parts and in Evantown, both languages are spoken
	indefferently. The Gaelic School Society, by establishing schools
	throughout the country, have done much to eradicate the language.
	This may appear paradoxical; but it is actually Ihe case. Those
	children that had learned to read Gaelic found no difficulty in
	mastering the English; and they had a strong inducement to do
	so, because they found in that language more information suited
	to their capacity and taste, than could be found in their own.
	English being the language universally spoken by the higher class-
	es, the mass of the people attach a notion of superior refinement
	to the possession of it, which makes them strain every nerve to ac-
	quire it; and it is no uncommon thing for those who have lived
	for a short time in the south, to affect on their return,a total for-
	getfulness of the language which they had so long been in the ha-
	bit of using. The people are very temperate in their habits, and
	as most of the working people receive their wages only . twice a
	year they canno t have that command of money which would al-
	low them any improper indulgence. They are extremely,hospita-
	ble. However poor their own farp may be, they are anxious to have
	something gooa to offer a stranger; and thus a person entering one
	of their houses, would scarcely believe  that, with such apparent
	plenty, the inmates were probably struggling at the time with ex-
	treme poverty. This feature in the Highland character arises,
	it is to be feared, not so much from a principle of benevolence as
	from a love of ostentation, and a spirit of independence, which has
	sometimes exercised the wit of their more refined neighbours in
	the south, under the name of Highland pride'." Their dress
	differs very little from that of the peasantry throughout the country
	generally. The kilt and trews have been long since laid aside, and
	the south country dress universally adopted.
 	   Many of the superstitious notions, once so abundant in the High-
	lands, still continue to finger here; but they too, li ke their expres-.
	sive and poetical language, are fast retreating before the tide of
	improvement which has set in from the south. It is only in the
	very remote districts that ghosts. are ever seen, and fairies are now
	known only by name. The belief in witchcraft, however, still con-
	tinues deeply rooted. In former times, when families, owing to
	distance and other circumstances, held little intercourse with each
	other through the day numbers were in the habit of assembling
	together in the evening in one house, and spending the time in re-
	lating the tales of wonder which had been handed down to them


