
246                       FIFESHIRE.

whole population of the parish. Nearly the whole of the sittings
are free. Two-thirds of them belong to the landward heritors,
who give the use of them to their tenants and their servants, and
many others. The other third belongs to the burgh, for the use
of the inhabitants. An attempt was made to let those of the
burgh, but so ill did it succeed, that, in the Treasurer's'printed
accounts for 1834, the sum received for seat rents, "is stated to
be 7s." In the meantime, the people occupy these seats with-
out ceremony. The manse was built in 1798, and has attached to
it the usual legal accommodations, a barn, stable, byre, and wash-
ing-house. The garden wall is six feet high, with a coping.
There was no manse before that date, but only an allowance of
L.40 Scots paid for house rent. There was a small manse of
a "but and a ben" in the parish of Rosyth, which was pulled down
about thirty years ago,--and at that place there are still the ruinous
walls of the church and a considerable space of burying-ground,
around it. There are two glebes,-one for each of the united parish-
es. They originally consisted of about 8 acres, but when excambed
about twenty years ago, a greater quantity was given on account.
of the ground being inferior In quality, so that, including the grass
ground, the glebe now amounts to 12 1/2 acres, and might rent for
about L.40. The stipend has been thrice augmented since 1792;
the last was in 1823, and is now seventeen chalders, half meal,
and half barley, convertible at the county fiars, with L.10 money
for communion elements. It is understood that the free teinds are
nearly exhausted. There is a dissenting meeting house in the
town, belonging to the, United Associate Synod. The stipend of
the minister is L.130, paid from the seat rents, together with
a house, garden, and small grass park. The patronage of the
parish is held by Lady Baird Preston, relict of General Sir Da-
vid Baird, Baronet. The purnber of families belonging to the
Establishment, according to the minister's visitation list, is about
400, containing about 1625 persons,-the usual proportion of whom
attend public worship in the church. The communicants are ge-
nerally about 400. The number of persons in connection with the
dissenters residing within the parish is, according to a list of the late
incumbent, about 1125. The ministers and the people, both of tbe
Established and the Dissenting churches, maintain a friendly in-
tercourse with each other, and show a good, feeling and a Christian
spirit. The people in their general character are industrious and
active, peaceable and contented, well affected, and much attached


