
     Statistical Account

clining eastward, with a a dip about one foot in seven.  This
valuable seam, has been wrought, it is supposed, for consider-
ably more than 200 years.  In 1634, there were five miners
employed; of late there have been from 20 to 30; and the
yearly produce on an average of 20 years, is about 10,000
tons.  Inflammable and fixed air are met with in this mine;
but the pits are so well ventilated, there being a complete
communication between shafts half a mile distant, that, tho'
accidents sometimes have happened, they are not frequent.
It is well ascertained, that fire has been generated in these
mines, and among the coals upon the hills, by the martial
pyrites with which they abound.-The coal at Quarreltown
is one of the most extraordinary masses of that mineral in
Britain.  It consists, in effect, of five contiguous strata.  The
thickness of the whole, measured at right angles to the sur-
face of the strata, is upwards of 50 feet; but as, in some
places, the seam forms a very considerable angle with the
horizon, the thickness of the whole in these places, measured
vertically, is about 15 fathoms.  In consequence of this great
depth, it is worked in different floors or storeys.  Till of late,
the work was carried on horizontally from the shaft, so as suc-
cessively to intersect all the five strata: At present, the miner
pursues the same-stratum, rising with it.  In the former
mode of working, there were five several floors or storeys;
in the present, there are only three; the first, third, and
fifth stratum being wrought, and afterwards so much of the
second and fourth as may be done with safety.-It is difficult
to convey a clear idea of the manner in which this singular
mass of coal lies.  In a field of about 15 acres, it is found to
dip in several different directions.  At least, conceiving a
nearly circular area of those contents, the coals, from the
north, the east, and south quarters of that circle, dips pretty
uniformly towards the centre.  This, however, is, in some


