
670                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

          V.-EDUCATIONAL AND LITERARY INSTITUTIONS.
   The University.-Edinburgh possessed no university prior to
the Reformation.  The convent of Grey Friars was endowed by
James I., and several learned men were brought from the conti-
nent with the view of establishing an educational seminary in the
city; but although divinity and philosophy were taught here, the
school never acquired any celebrity.  Soon after the Reformation,
the magistrates of the city and the Protestant clergy formed the
design of a college for the education of youth; but it was not till
several years after, that they were enabled to carry their design
into execution.  Having obtained by purchase some church lands
called the Kirk of Field, and Robert Reid, Bishop of Orkney,
having left 8000 merks to found a college, the buildings werd
commenced in the year 1580.  A charter was also obtained from
James VI., which was followed by two others, and afterwards ra-
tified by Parliament.  These charters bestowed on the town-
council the power of erecting the necessary buildings, and of es-
tablishing, with the advice of the ministers, professors in the
different branches of science, (humanity, philosophy, divinity, me-
dicine, law, and any other liberal sciences,) with power to place
and remove them as they should judge expedient.  They also con-
firmed the grants of property made by Queen Mary, and em-
powered all other persons to give in mortal main lands or sums of
money towards the endowment of the seminary, bestowing also
all immunities and privileges which are enjoyed by the other
universities in Scotland.
   Robert Rollock, one of the regents at St Andrews, and a man of
eminent learning, was appointed the first and only professor or re-
gent.  He accordingly opened the college in October 1583 with a
class of eighty-four students.  Rollock was at first engaged only
for a year, with a salary of L. 13, 6s. 8d.  Sterling, in addition to
the fees of the students, which amounted to L.2 Scots yearly for
the sons of burgesses, and L.3 Scots to others, or 3s.4d. and 5s. Ster-
ling money.  As it was found that the students were very ignorant of
the Latin language, a second regent was soon afterwards appointed
to teach this language.  In 1586 a third regent was nominated, and
Mr Rollock was by the town-council appointed Principal, and in-
vested with the same authority as that possessed by the principal
of any of the other colleges in the universities of Scotland.  He
was required to attend to the doctrine and conversation of the re-
gents then appointed or to be appointed, and to preserve disci-


