
               CATHCART.                                        505

  Sir Walter Scott, in one of his magnificent semi-historical works
of fiction, which will be read by ten for one of those who study
true history, has placed Mary as a witness of the fight at Cruik-
ston Castle, to which she could not have come without passing
through the opposing army, from which also flight would have been
impossible, and at which no part of the field of Langside is to be
seen,--an error to which the writer would not have alluded, as it
heightens the interest of the novel, were it not again repeated in
the Tales of a Grandfather, which are deservedly admitted as au-
thentic history,--and few there are in Scotland who are not will-
ing to receive, without cavil, any national narrative whatever upon
the mere authority of that illustrious man!*
  Small earthen pots filled with foreign silver coin of the seven-
teenth century have, from time to time, been dug up, chiefly
on the farm of Newlands.  For wbat reason, and by what per-
son, they were buried in the earth, it is impossible to say, and
no local tradition throws any light upon the matter.  It is not im-
probable that some cavalier of fortune, some Dugald Dalgetty,
returning from service on the Continent, and taking part in the
struggle which then agitated his native country, had sought in this
manner to secure by concealment his mercenary gain, till a peace
should be restored which he did not live to witness.
                      III.--POPULATION.
  The population of this parish can scarcely be considered on the
increase.  The new village of Cathcart owed its existence to a
new line of road into Ayrshire, formed about forty years ago, and
crossing the river by a bridge built in 1800, about 300 yards be-
low the old one, over what was formerly a ford, on the road from
Carmunnock to Pollokshaws: and the inhabitants were increased
in number by the opening of a coal mine, which g`ve employment
to many families.  The working of the mine has been disconti-
nued for some years, and is not likely to recommence; and the
new high road from Glasgow to Ayr, opened six years since, pas-
see to the north of the parish, only touching it at one point.  The
direct tendency of removing, in a great measure, this crowded
thoroughfare, is to interfere with the callings of many whose pros-
perity was connected with its continuance and thus to diminish


<FOOTNOTE>in a note to the last editionof the Abbot, published under correction of Sir
Walter, the mistake pointed out to him by Mr M'Vean of Glasgow is acknowledg-
ed.  In the same note there is given from an ancient writer a short and spirited ac-
count of the battle.  In the sentence which concludes the note,however,the word
Rutherglen must be substituted for Renfrew.


