
398                      FIFESHIRE.

nine, there are now none; and at West Wemyss, where there were
formerly seven, there are only two, and at present one of them is
not working. 6200 bushels may be about the annual average of
salt made for the last three years, the average annual value of
which may be about L. 470. This forms at once a very striking
contrast to the quantity of salt made in this parish, previous to the
abolition of the salt duties;-for in 1818, 1819, and 1820, the
annual average sales of salt made at west Wemyss and Methil, was
50,400 bushels. The salt made here is excellent and obtains a
ready market.
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Towns.-There are no market-towns, properly so cal-
led, in the parish. The nearest is Kirkcaldy, which is about six
miles from the parish church.
  Villages.-There are seven villages, which are named as under:
1.East Wemyss, in which is the parish church; 2. West Wemyss;
3.Buckhaven; 4. Methil; 5.  Kirkland; 6. West Coaltown;
7.East Coaltown.  The four first are built on the sea-shore, and
are rather more than a mile from each other. West Wemyss is
a burgh of barony, having for its management two bailies, one
treasurer, and a number of councillors. Buckhaven is a large and
extensive fishing station. Kirkland is an extensive manufac-
turing establishment, under the firm of Neilson and Company;
and East and West Coaltowns are inhabited by colliers, and who
are all in the employ of Captain Wemyss.
  Means of Communication.- The turnpike road from Kirkcaldy
to Cupar by Kennoway runs through the north part of the paxish,
and is very good. The other roads, which are kept in repair by
means of the statute labour money, have been much improved of
late, although they are not by any means so good as they should
be.
  Although there is no post-office, yet we have every facility for
communication, as there is a runner or post-boy from Kirkcaldy
to Leven every morning, and again from Leven to Kirkcaldy in
the afternoon. There are two carriers in Buckhaven, who go to
Kirkcaldy every week, the one on Tuesday and the other on
Friday. There is also a carrier in East Wemyss, who goes to
Kirkcaldy twice every week, Tuesday and Friday. And there is
a woman, who goes every lawful day, carries parcels, and tran-
sacts any business with which she may be intrusted.
  Harbours.-There is a good harbour at Methil. The pier was

