
			WAMPHRAY.                                 147

for nine sitters. In fact, all who see our church express their sur-
prise that heritors so wealthy, and in general so spirited, should
allow such an insufficient and disagreeable building to stand.
	The manse is good and tolerably substantial. It was built in
1798, and underwent considerable repairs in 1825, when the pre-
sent incumbent succeeded to the living. On the whole, it is a
commodious and comfortable house. The glebe is small, consist-
ing of high ground now well sheltered by good thorn-hedges. It
is supposed to be about eight or nine Scotch acres, or about eleven
imperial ones, though its boundaries have never been clearly ascer-
tained. It appears that about eight or ten years after the Revo-
lution there was no glebe; or at least what had formerly been
glebe was occupied by the principal proprietor, and the then in-
cumbent threatened to employ, if he did not actually employ, le-
gal means to have a portion allotted to him. Though there are
church lands in the parish, yet there evidently appears to have been
no designation of a grass glebe; and though it has been greatly
improved of late, it is still far below the average value and extent
of the other glebes in the Presbytery. Its yearly value may be
about L. 12 Sterling.
	The stipend, as augmented in 1830, is fifteen chalders, half oat-
meal and half barley,--or, converted into the fiar, L. 253, 13s. 4d.,
exclusive of L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.

	There is a meeting-house in the parish belonging to the Relief
denomination, and built about fifty years ago. The congregation
are supplied at present by a worthy person as their pastor, who has
a few hearers in this parish, as well as from the surrounding ones.
As these are not very numerous nor wealthy, L. 80 is supposed to
be the nominal stipend, but the real amount is much less. It arises
from seat rents, collections, &c. The dissenting minister has also
a good garden, and a piece of land as grass for a cow.
	Eighty-six familhes out of a hundred attend the Established church;
at which there are about 170 communicants; five families are partly
Burghers; nine families belong to the Relief persuasion.
	Education.--There is in the parish only one school, at which
are taught, besides the ordinary branches, Latin, Greek, and French.
The schoolmaster's salary is the maximum, with legal accommoda-
tions. The late schoolmaster, after a long and efficient service,
retired about eight years ago, and now retains L. 20 of the salary.
The remaining L. 14, as well as the house and garden, are given
to the present schoolmaster, who has also the school fees, which


