
     Statistical Account

ference is observable, when they are made into malt.  It is
remarkable, however, that when barley and common bear
have been cultivated, for some time, in a mixed state they
spring, and ripen, and malten equally; and little difference
in point of strength or size is discernible.  This is probably
owing to the pollen of the two species mixing and falling in-
discriminately upon both, when the plant is impregnated,  and
thereby producing a sameness in the quality of the grain,
whilst the external form of the ear of each is preserved dis-
tinct.  Corresponding to this idea, the blanded bear holds a
middle place, in point of quality, between barley and com-
mon bear.  Though inferior to the former, it is of a better
quality than the latter.  This mixed kind of grain is wear-
ing out, and the culture of clean barley becoming more ge-
neral.  Till lately, little wheat was sown in this parish: at
present, between 80 and 100 acres may be raised annually.
It is doubtful, however, when the nature of the soil, in ge-
neral, is considered, whether it would be advantageous to the
farmers here, to push the cultivation of wheat to any consi-
derable extent, at least, till the improvement of the ground
is brought to a higher degree of perfection than it is at pre-
sent.  Nearly as much land may be employed in raising pease
and beans; and upwards of 100 acres for flax.  It may be
proper to observe here, that whilst improvements of other
kinds have been attended to, the culture of flax still conti-
nues to be conducted in a very injudicious and unprofitable
manner.  The farmers, besides sowing a quantity for them-
selves, their servants, and harvest reapers, let so much of
their land to others, who either are adventurers in that ar-
ticle, and raise considerable quantities, or who raise it solely
for the use of their own families.  Little attention is paid
either to the choice of the soil, or the preparation of the
ground; and of course, whilst the product is small, general-


