
	                   RATHVEN.                           251

      The oyster and mussel are not found on this coast.  The lat-
   ter, however, is brought from the Friths of Cromarty and Dor-
   nock, lodged among the rocks here, and used as required for bait
   by the fishermen.
      Botany,-In this parish, no, particularly rare plants have	been
   found.  The peach-leaved bell-flower, and giant bell-flower, are
   seen in great beauty in the woods around Cullen House.  The
   hemlocks foxglove, agrimony, brooklime, spotted dead nettle, sea
   tree-mallow, common mallow, hoary plantain, and lesser spear-
   wort, occur in the parish.
      Along the shore there are, sea-spurry, sandwort, common sea
   milk-wort, scurvy-grass, and squill.
      In the pleasure-grounds of Cullen House, which mostly lie in
   this parish, there is a great deal of very valuable wood, consisting
   of oak, ash, elm, beech, larch, and Scotch fir.  Some of the
   beeches, in point of height and dimensions, may vie with the finest
   in Scotland.  The grounds are extensive, and possess much na-
   tural beauty, and are intersected with many lovely walks, and kept
   in the highest order.  The utmost attention has been paid by Sir
   James Gordon, and Mr Gordon of Cairnfield, in pruning and
   thinning their plantations; and they have now the pleasing satis-
   faction of seeing their respective properties highly ornamented
   and improved, by a great variety of thriving forest trees.  The
   grounds around their mansions are laid out with great taste, and
   neatly kept.
       
                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      
      Eminent Men.-The only man of learning and genius, as far
   as can be discovered, a native of this parish, was the celebrat-
   ed Dr Alexander Geddes.  He was born at Pathheads, in
   the year 1737, and was descended from parents who had no
   claims or pretensions to worldly opulence or honours.  His fa-
   ther, named also, Alexander, the second of four brothers, was
   a small crofter on the Arradoul estate. The maiden name
   of his mother was Janet Mitchell; she was a native of Nether
   Dalachy, in the parish of Bellie.  In their religious tenets, both
   were Roman Catholics; consequently, young Geddes was of the
   same persuasion.  He was taught to read in the humble mansion
   of a schoolmistress, whose name was Sellar, and whose goodness
   of heart he was occasionally accustomed to make mention of to
   the latest period of his existence.  Having exhausted all the


