


       152                       ELGINSHIRE.

the outer wall six feet thick, (from which there was a sally-port)
formed the bypotheneuse of an obtuse-angled triangle, the two
sides of which were sixty feet each in length.  The great tower,
which stood in the centre, after being deserted by the bishops, and
taken possession of by owls, bats, and daws, was, from its great
height, appropriated as a belfry to the ancient adjoining church
of Kinnedder.  The fortifications on the east were guarded by a
morass, and two ditches, one of twenty-four, and a little beyond it,
another of twelve feet wide, the drawbridge of which was lately
discovered in making a drain.  The horn-work, a hollow tower to
defend these ditches, was converted by the bishops to a pigeon-
house.  The wall on this east side seems to have been about six-
teen feet high; parts of it and of the small towers yet remain, and
very lately, part of the earthen rampart.   On the north, west, and
south sides, which were probably more strongly fortified, the whole
is now completely effaced.  The Rev. Lachlan Shaw, the his-
torian of Moray, who saw them in 1734, tells us that, in his
time, the foundations of the castle and surrounding fortifications
were so entire, as to be easily traced; but since then, these walls
have been levelled with the ground; the earthen ramparts have
been thrown into the ditches which fronted them, the plough-
share has passed over it, and the place that knew this strong-
hold of the Murriffs knows it no more.  The labourers who filled
up the ditches were astonished at the quantity of ashes and oak
charcoal, and number of broken urns and human bones they met
with, in levelling these earthen ramparts, more especially under
their foundations.  The reports of witnesses yet living induced
the present incumbent to examine more minutely what yet remain-
ed of the earthen rampart, and which was about to be removed.
   Under the foundations he found the graves closely packed.  On
removing the earth, there appeared first peat or turf ashes, then
within the rude stone chest, oak-charcoal, and some fragments of
human bones.  The stone chests were scorched, and blackened
with the fire by which the bodies had been burnt.   When the
stone chests were of hammer-dressed flags, the ashes were as
smooth as if they had passed through a sieve, and were packed in
it, and the charcoal Iaid on the cover, but not a vestige of bone
among the ashes.  All that could be found among the oak charcoal
was sometimes a tooth, and sometimes small remains of the harder
bones.  Where the graves were of rude construction, consisting
   Of common undressed stones, the peat or  turf ashes were More



