
168                   KINCARDINESHIRE.

glebe, including garden-and pasture, is nearly six acres Scots.  The
stipend, with communion allowance, is L.170, and 76 bolls 3 fir-
lots meal and bear.
	There is an Episcopalian chapel in the village of Drumlithie.
The number of adherents of all ages belonging to this parish is
70. With the exception of two Seceders, the rest are of the Es-
tablished Church. The number of communicants averages 680.
The amount of collections throughout the year for the support of
the poor is L.42. There is a collection once a year in aid of the
Infirmary of Aberdeen, which usually amounts to L.7. Except-
ing this, there is seldom a collection made but for the poor of the
parish.
	Education.--Besides the parochial school there are three private
schools. The branches taught are, English, Latin, writing, arith-
metic, elements of mathematics, &c. Two of the private teachers,
in addition to their fees, have a salary each of L.5 allowed by the
respective heritors, on whose lands the schools are built. The
parochial schoolmaster has a salary of L.30, and L.2, 2s. in lieu
of garden ground. His accommodation is now ample. The school-
fees vary from 2s. to 5s. quarterly, according to the branches re.-
quired, and may amount to L.15 per annum. There is perhaps
not an individual in the parish above the age of ten who cannot
read; and the rising generation are in the course of being taught
to write.
	Friendly Societies.--There are two Friendly Societies in the pa-
rish, but their advantages are not much to be reckoned. They are
about to be dissolved.
	Savings Bank.--There is a Savings bank; but since the rate
of interest was reduced, it has made little progress. It is, how-
ever, an obvious benefit to servants, who are principally the depo-
sitors.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The number of poor receiving pa-
rochial aid is 40. The funds for their relief are derived from the
stated Sunday collections, from the interest of L.200, from casual
donations, from mortchloth-dues, &c. Of the poor some receive but
a few shillings yearly, and others from L.1 to L.2, 1Os.; some,
a moiety in aid of their house rent; and all, a pittance in name of
coal money, the proceeds of an extra collection in the beginning
of the year.
	Fairs.--There is one annual fair held in October for the sale
of cattle.


