

222                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

verge of the alluvial deposit of the River Forth. The bones were,
in general, hard and undecayed, and lay in regular connected
order from the head to the tail. They were imbedded in the blue
silt immediately under the stiff clay. It was found, from very accu-
rate levels taken, that this skeleton lay twenty-two feet higher
than the pitch of the present highest stream-tides of the River
Forth, immediately opposite. From which circumstance there is
reason to conclude, that the highest tides of the River Forth are,
in this district, at least twenty-six feet lower than they were at the
time when the whale was stranded; and it is evident that this must
have been many centuries before the Romans invaded this country,
as there was till lately upon the side of the Forth, near the farm-
house of the manor, a Roman fort, -- and the Manor Ford, which
had been connected with the fort, and formed of loose stones, re-
mains to the present day. These circumstances prove, that the
Forth has not changed its course in this immediate district for an
immense period of years.
   Sir Robert Abercromby was at all due pains to have the bones
very carefully dug up, and carried to a safe place in his court
of offices; and then, in the most liberal and polite manner, pre-
sented the whole to the museum of the Edinburgh University.
The immense canine-bone and ribs, and a few of the vertebrae,
are to be seen at the head of the lower room of the museaum. It
is remarkable that one of the ribs had been broken and knit again,
as the bone is much thicker at that place.
   Several veins have been opened and explored in this parish, is search
of copper in the Ochils, but none yielded copper in any quantity,
excepting the vein at the Mine House. The vein is the con-
glomerate or breccia rock; it runs in a northerly direction, and was
drained by a day level, carried up from the flat alluvial land, the
mounth of which is on the north side of the turnpike-road, and im-
mediately adjoining it. The late Williams, the mineralogist, visited
this mine, many years ago; and he states in his works that the ap-
pearances of copper were good in the sole of the mine; but the
vein can be wrought no deeper without the aid of machinery.
   About forty years ago, this cooper mine, after having been for
a long time abandoned as an unprofitable adventure, was opened
by the Caledonian Mining Company, and wrought with consider-
able enterprise and spirit. After they had accumulated a quantity
of dressed-ore, and the vein appearing favourable for being pro-
ductive, they erected at Alloa smelting-furnances, where excellent.


