
356	                         AYRSHIRE.

Pitcairn, forming No. 3 of his Appendix to the History of the
Kennedys. Great light has been thrnwn by these works both on
the civil and ecclesiastical state of the country, at and before the
accession of King James to the English throne; and the following
notices of events, the scenes of which were laid in this parish,
have appeared to me not only of lobal, but even of such general
interest as justly to entitle them to a place in this Account. I
shall particularly notice two of those events, not only as remarkable
in themselves, but as intimately connected with the history of the
Reformation, and as setting forth, in striking colours, that union
of religious zeal and feudal violence by which its triumphs were
at first achieved.
	One of the most learned upright, and liberal of the servants of
Popery, at the period when Knox was attacking and levelling its
strongholds, was Quentin Kennedy, uncle of the Earl of Cassilis,
and Abbot of Crossraguel; and after the publication of several
tracts on the controversy raised by the doctrines of the Reformer,
he, in the year 1561, proclaimed himself, in his chapel of Kirk-
oswald, ready to defend the mass against any one who would im-
pugn it,--a challenge which Knox failed not to accept of. After
a very interesting correspondence abnut the place of meeting,
Knox insisting on all possible publicity, and the abbot objecting
to this, on the grounds of desiring to avoid tumult, and his pre-
ference of a limited audience, as in all respects better fitted to
judge fairly of the matters in dispute; they at length agreed to
meet in the house of the Provost of Maybole, with forty persons
on each side, and notaries to record their arguments and proceed-
ings.
	Accordingly, on the 28th day of September, these champions,
accompanied with their several retinues, including several of the
nobles and gentry of the country, entered Maybole, and met in a
dingy-panelled room, in the house of the provost, which still re-
mains, and is now occupied as the tavern of the Red Lion.
Their meeting was characteristic. Knox immediately suggest-
ed the propriety of commencing the proceedings with prayer;
and, on the abbot being offended at the proposal, he would yet in
nowise be stayed, and he and his followers had of course to give
audience. The abbot seems soon to have been subdued by
the power and fervency of Knox's supplications and honestly
yielding to his feelings, he said at the clore, " Be my faith, it is
well said." The controversy turned chiefly on the priesthood


