

			BALMERINO.			593

fishery during the season of that now hazardous and precarious
employment.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Markets, Means of Communication.-The nearest market-town
is Cupar, distant about seven miles.  The nearest post-office is
Newport, and is distant about four and a half Miles from the manse.
There are no turnpike roads in the parish ; but the statute labour
roads are in good condition, and the means of communication with
other Places are various, and of easy access.  There is a passage-
boat which sails from Balmerino pier to Dundee once a week, or
oftener if required. Considering the population of the Parish,
this department of our statistics is rather meagre in its details.
There is neither baker, brewer, nor butcher within its bounds.
The navigation or shipping interest is upon an equally limited
scale.  Only the passage-boat which is a joint-stook concern, be-
longs to the parish.  Many vessels with coals, however, discharge
their cargoes during the season.  About fifty years ago, accord-
ing to the last Statistical Account, this harbour was the chief
place on the south side of Tay for shipping grain ; now not a single
boll is shipped here, if we except such parcels of wheat as the far-
mers in the immediate neighbourhood send by the passage-boat
to the Dundee bakers. The Messrs Rintoul, however, carry on
a considerable trade in potatoes which are sent up to the London
market. In some season upwards of 6500 bolls have been ship-
ped from this port by these gentlemen, besides what has been ex-
ported by them from other places.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated about the centre
of the parish, and is seated for about 400.  It was finished in
1811.  It is a plain building without any ornament, but conside-
rably deficient in a point of accommodation for the parishioner.
The heritors, however, have it in contemplation to enlarge its dimen-
sions.  The manse was built in 1816, and is one of the most commo-
dioious in the presbytery. The  glebe consist of about eight acres, and
the grass glebe as much, including the site of the manse, &c. and
both are of inforior quality.  The stipend is 16 chalders, half-
meal, half barley, and 7 bolls of wheat, with L.8 for com-
munion elements.  The collections, exclusive of extra, average
about L.18 per annum.
  The number of families attending the Established Church is
195; of Dissenting or Seceding families, 20.
  List of Ministers of Balmerino fron the Reformation.- Mr Ar-

  Fife.                              P p



