
130                  ARGYLESHIRE.

   Headlands and Islands.-The headland of Ardnamurchan is
not only the most noted in the parish, but on the whole line of
coast betwixt Cape Wrathand the Mull of Cantire, being the
westernmost, part of the mainland of Britain.  From the era of
Somerled to the reign of James VI., it constituted a georaphical
boundary between the Western Isles, which were denominated
Northern, or Southern, according to their position in respect to
this promontory.  As might be expected, vessels are not unfre-
quently cast on shore in some of its indentations, or dashed to a
thousand fragments on its rocks.  At a creek on the extreme
point, as wild and desolate a spot as can well be conceived, a few
green mounds, among the brown and withered herbage, indicate
where the mutilated bodies of shipwrecked seamen rest below.
The advantage of erecting a light-house here will, it is believed,
not be denied by any one.  The only other headland, of more
than local notoriety, is Rheu Arasaig, or the Point of Arasaig,
which projects considerably to the westward, and is a place of call
for the steamers plying from Glasgow to Skye and the Long
Island. *
   The only island worth noticing is Island Shona, which nearly
blocks up the mouth, and occupies great part of Lochmoidart.
It is about three or four miles long, by -about one and a-half
broad, mostly composed of masses of rock, rather scantily covered
with heath and wood, but exhibiting here and there spots of great
verdure and fertility.  The dwelling-bouse and surrounding sce-
nery of the residence of a respectable family on this island, are
very beautiful.
   Sands.-Wherever sandy beaches are found, they seem to be
formed in great part, sometimes, though rarely, entirely of de-
composed particles of the adjacent rocks.  This, however, is ge-
nerally largely mixed with minutely broken shells, often with clay
and more or less according as the situation; is exposed to, or shel-
tered from the violence of the sea, with mad, the residue of de-
cayed sea-weed, and the vegetable deposits of streams.  Two
kinds of shells sand, in high repute as manure, are found in banks
above, or beds under the surface.  One seems to be a collection,
pure and mixed, of common shells, minutely broken by the

<FOOTNOTE>The other headlands most noted are, Ardnish, in Arasaig; Smirapary, in Moi-
dart: Ardriminish, Sunna, Sron Chloinn Ghilleain, Rutha Ghlinn Borodail, Dun-
gallan, in Ardnamurchan.


