
64                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

about 18; but from the extreme irregularity of its surface and figure,
it is difficult to specify its precise extent in square miles. It is
situated in the Lordship of Badenoch, and must undoubtedly
rank among the most elevated and the most inland parishes in
Scotland. The bed of the Spey is reckoned about 850 feet above
the level of the sea. The parish is bounded on the east by Alvie;
on the north by the united parishes of Moy and Delarossie; on the
west by Laggan; and on the south by Blair in Atholl. Within the
parish, the Monadhliadh  * mountains stretch along the boundary
for a considerable way, serving as a northern frontier, while the
Grampians, rising in bold perspective in the distance, bound the
parish to the south.
   Topographical Appearances. -Both these ranges are generally
elevated, but contain no individual hills of sufficient altitude to me-
rit particular notice. From the Monadlhliadh and Grampian hills,
the descent is pretty gradual, and terminates in an extensive valley
of arable meadow land, intersected by the Spey,-which, with the
narrow stripes along the various tributaries of that river, and the
rising grounds to the south and north of it, forms most of the cul-
tivated land of the parish,-the remainder consisting principally of
bleak hills, covered chiefly with heath, and fitted only for pasturage.
   Meteorology.- The following results of a tbermometrical regis-
ter kept at Belleville in the neighbourhood, in 1821, has been hand-
ed to me by Sir David Brewster: Belleville, latitude, 57.5";
longitude, 47. W; annual mean temperature of the air, 44.3; mean
temperature of the winter, 36.1; spring, 41.2; summer, 53.68;
mean temperature in harvest, 46.67; mean temperature for month
of October, 47.52.
   The prevailing winds in the parish are the west and north-east,
the former generally accompanied with rain, and the latter with in-
tense cold. In consequence of the great elevation of the parish,
and its distance from the sea, the climate is cold and changeable,
and subject, in the beginning and close of the season, to heavy dews
and frost. These, although of late years much less frequent and
less severe, still prove sometimes very injurious to the crops, espe-
cially to potatoes,-an article of food upon which the peasantry in a
great measure depend for subsistence. From the numerous marshes
which at one time covered the low grounds, there axose an immense
quantity of vapour, which, upon a depression of temperature, fell
in the form of dew and frost upon the surrounding fields, carrying

<FOOTNOTE>Gray Mountain.


