
     of Kilsyth.

bursements are clearly stated for that precise term.  In the
interveening periods, the account was sometimes taken in 6,
9, or 15 months, so that the annual rate cannot be so very
accurately ascertained.  But the same proportion between the
receipt and disbursements holds, and therefore it is unne-
cessary to be more particular.  But in a parish like this, where
most of the heritors do not reside, and some have seceded
from the church, and where none of them interfere with the
poor's funds, the above facts ought to be made known to all.
Especially when it is considered, that the above sums have
been collected literally from the poor, or from the lower or-
ders of the people, that is, from farmers and tradesmen, and
the few residing heritors who attend divine service in the esta-
blished church.  Of course, the weekly collection has been ne-
cessarily small, though great in proportion to the circum-
stances of the inhabitants:  And had it not been for the se-
cession, it might have been one fifth more; for in the year
1736, and after that period, when the secession had first
commenced, there is a great defalcation; and there was a
greater still, about the year 1770, when the society of relief
was established in this place.  For it cannot be concealed,
though it is with sincere regret I mention it, that when the
people of that communion withdrew themselves from the es-
tablished church, they seem to have shut up their bowels of com-
passion from their poor brethren; at least they have witheld
their hand from relieving them.  But it is to be hoped, at least
it is devoutly to be wished, that they may speedily see it to be
their duty to assist, if not altogether to supply the poor of their
own persuasion, and not cast them off when helpless.  They
will certainly lose nothing by doing so, either in their character
as men, or as christians.  On the contrary, they will have the
approbation of the pious and the pure of every persuasion, and
the blessing of the poor who are attached to their communion.
     VOL. XVIII. K k


