
     Statistical Account

   Stone Quarries.-The stone quarries in this parish are
many and various, but the principal is at Kingoody, upon
the estate of Mylnefield, which is perhaps one the best in 
Great Britain*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Kingoody stone is of a greyish colour, called by minerologists
Grain-stone; it is difficult to work; hard and durable to an uncommon
was built of it in King David the Second's time, has shown scarce any symp-
toms of decay, except where the influences of the town atmosphere reaches.
Castle Huntly, supposed to be built in 1452, has scarce a stone in it which 
has yielded to the influence of the weather; and a gate at that place, built
of Kingoody stone, by Earl Patrick of Strathmore, 130 years ago, is crowned
with four pyramids, the points of which appear perfectly entire at this day,
(1797), not measuring more in diameter than 1-16th of an inch.  These
are only a few amongst many instances of its durability.  It produces stone
of all sixes, ant for every purpose of building, as it affords blocks of 50 feet
in length by 16 in breadth; also stone for pavements, millstones, flates, etc.
It this quarry some stone is raised of a bluish cast, of an exceeding fine
grain, and capable of a polish, little short of some marble.  The deeper in 
The quarry the stone is the better; it is soft below water-mark, ant it is
easier worked, but hardens in the common air.
   The best stone in this quarry seems to lie in a north-easterly direction, but
as its bed proceeds north and west, it degenerates at least it appears so, as
far as it has yet been traced.  About a mile westward below Longforgan,
it has the appearance of reddish granite; but it is soft and seems to yield to
the hammer, and dissolves so entirely with friction and moisture, that it has
been found totally unfit for metalling roads, but is has been used, and does 
very well for building common village-houses; farther west it has more of
that red colour, and becomes heavy, as if it tended to iron ore.
   Mr Mylne, the proprietor, employs from fifty to sixty hands in the quarry
of Kingoody; four boats for transporting stone, which are navigated by
nine hands, and not only sends stones to the whole extent from Montrofe to
Perth by water, but likewise for 15 to 16 miles of country round by land-
carriage.  He also sends considerable quantities to England; and lately
undertook, by contract to furnish stones from this quarry to two navigable
canals, the one called the Gippon's Navigation, near Ipswich; the other,
the Chelmessord Canal, near Maldon, in Essex.  He has built a considerable
village upon the spot for the labourers, the inhabitants of which at present
amount to 116 of all ages.


