
     Statistical Account

principal place of worship belonging to this parish, was the
church of St Servanus*, (commonly called St Serf's Chapel)
situated on the north side of the river Almond, and accor-
ding to modern boundaries within the parish of Redgorton.
The desertion of this church is ascribed, by tradition, to the
melancholy accident of a child of the Lord of Ruthven, who
had been baptised there, having, on the way home, been
drowned in the Almond.
   At Tullilum too, in the east end of this parish, there was
once a convent of Carmelites, but the name of the founder
is not preserved.  Our best information respecting this place

<FOOTNOTE>

'no, obiit Episcopus Galfridus, in die Sanctae Ceeiliae, apud Ty-
'birmore, et in Ecclesia Dunkeldensi tumulatur; quam Prae-
'diis et possessionibus dolavit, quam Regulis et Institutis infor-
'mavit, quam vestibus et ornamentis decoravit, quam sere per
'omnia exaltavit.'
Bishop Sinclair's name, however, is still better known in his-
tory, and the honours that adorn it are not of an ecclesiastical
kind alone.  A military exploit, that he performed in the glo-
rious reign of Robert Bruce, so delighted that wise and valiant
prince, that he ever afterwards called him his Bishop.  Edward
II. the English king, taking advantage of the absence of Robert,
who was then in Ireland, had sent a great army into Scotland
to take revenge for the losses of former years; and the English,
having been thrice defeated by Douglas governor of the bor-
ders, had recourse to the expedient of sending a naval force in-
to the Forth, to infelt and plunder the coast.  To check the
progress of those who had disembarked, Duncan Earl of Fife
assembled 500 men, and marched at their head towards the
enemy; but having observed their vast superiority in number,
he was returning homeward, leaving the country at the mercy
of the English, when Bishop Sinclair, with about 60 attendants
fortunatey met him.  Ashamed of the Earl's timidity, the
Bishop laid hold of a lance, and called, with a loud voice, upon
all the friends of their country to follow him.  Being readily
obeyed, he charged the enemy with such vigour, that he quick-
ly routed them; and those who escaped from the field of battle,
having precipitately fled to their ships, many of them were
drowned in their hurry to embark, Buchanan, Maitland, etc.
*Mill's M. S. Lives of the Bishops of Dunkeld.


