
                       MINNIGAFF.              121

    vialis, ) the heron (Arde` cinerea), the black cock (Tetrao tetrix),
    the moorfow] (T. Scoticus), the curlew ( Numenius arquata), the
    woodcock (Scolopax rusticola), the corncrake or land-rail (Rallus
    crex), the common thrush (Turdus musicus), the blackbird (T.
    merula), the fieldfare (T. pilaris), the redbreast(Sylvia Rubecula),
    the stonechat (S. rubicola), the bedge-sparrow (S. Modularis), the
    wren (S. troglodytes), the white wagtail (Motacilla alba), the gray
    wagtail (M. boarula), the skylark (Alauda arvensis), the bullfinch
    (Lozia pyrrhula), the greenfinch (I, chloris), the goldfinch (Frin-
    gilla carduelis), the greenfinch (I, chloris), common linnet (F. con-
    rabina), rose linnet (F. linaria), the house-sparrow (F. domesti-
    cus), swallow, house, (Hirundo rustica), common martin (H. urbica),
    the cuckno (Cuculus canorus), the snipe (Scolopax gallinago), the
    water-rail (Rallus aquaticus), the widgeon (Anas penelope), the
    teal (Anas crecca), the sea-gull (Larus canus), the bittern.
    The streams and lochs abound with trout. Pike are numerous
    in the loch of Cree.  Salmon ascend the Cree to spawn in the
    months of October and November, and return in December and
    January.  Sea trout are caught in profusion in the months of
    June and July. The pearl mussel is found in the river, some-
    times containing pearls of considerable size and beauty.
      Deer Parks.- There are two of these within the parish, one
    on the  estate of Lady Heron Maxwell, which contains about 100
    head of fallow deer, and the other at Garlies, belonging to the
    Earl of Galloway, the wall of which is nine miles in circumference.
    and contains 1500 acres.  There are about 350 head of fallow
    deer, and about 60 head of red deer, at present within the park.
    about two years ago, a number of the red deer were sold, and ex-
    ported to England, and a portion of the park has been more pro-
    fitably devoted to the rearing of bullocks.
      Botany.- This parish affords a wide field for botanical research.
    Among the more rare of less common plants, may be enumerated
    the Pyrus domestica, which is found on the bank of the Palnure,
    above Bargaly; Pyrola media, on the bank of the Minaock, near
    Borgan; Rubus suberectus, on the road to Machermore; the Trol-
    lius Europaus and solidago virgaurea grow in profusion on a
    small island below the confluence of the Cree and Penkill, where
    also occurs the Thalictrum flavum; on the banks of the latter
    stream the Galium bareale and the Polygorum bistorta are found;


