
		       ST QUIVOX.                              125

From the year 1812, the annual expenditure for the poor had
gradually increased till the year 1822, for which year it amounted
to L. 383, the assessment being at the rate of 7 l/2d. per pound
Sterling of real rent. From the year 1823, the expenditure has
gradually decreased till the year 1830, when it amounted to L. 219,
and the assessment for this current year, 1831, has been fixed at
5d. per pound on land, and 4d. per pound on houses, an inferior
rate being levied on houses, in consideration of the perishable na-
ture of that description of property. There is unfortunately little
disposition in the parish to abstain from asking prochial relief ;
and the facts stated above afford a practical refutation of the as-
sertion which has been so frequently made, that the expense of
the poor must of necessity increase whenever funds for their sup-
port are raised by legal assessment. Owing to the influx of poor
Irish, it wquld be difficult to find in Scotland a place more abound-
ing in pauperism than Wallacetown; and in the present most un-
fair and injurious state of the law of settlement, the expenditure
of the poor can only be kept within reasonable bounds by a strict
application of the funds to the relief of those aged and infirm per-
sons and infants for whom the law provides, and whose claims to
parochial aid is the same, whether the funds for their support are
derived from legal assessment or voluntary contribution.
  Inns.-The number of public houses in the parish is unreason-
ably great. This no doubt arises from the great demand for ar-
dent spirits which already exists; but it is obvious that the increase
of those houses, by the facilities thus afforded for the indulgence
of intemperance, must aggravate the evil.
  Fuel.-There is abundance of coal in the parish and neigh-
bourhood, which is sold at the pits from 6s. to 9s. per ton, accord.
ing to the distance from the harbour of Ayr, where it is shipped
for the Irish market.

          	MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  Since the date of the last Statistical Account, the state of agri-
culture is prodigiously improved, and the greater portion of the
parish now resembles a well cultivated garden. The population
has increased threefold, and the rental of land is more than
doubled.

<FOOTNOTE>Since 1831, the expenditure for the poor has gradually increased.

Drawn up in 1831-Revised July 1837.


