
                               YESTER.                              163

two-year old, L. 4, 10s. ditto; ditto one-year old, L. 3, ditto. For a
full-grown sheep in field pasture, L. 1, including turnips; ditto on
hill pasture, 6s. per annum. These of course vary considerably
with the price of stock and wool.
   This parish is rated in the county cess-books as follows: The
estate of Yester, L. 2911, 11s. 8d.; Newtonhall, L. 1141, 2s. 4d.;
Newhall, L. 468; Skedsbush, L. 111, 9s. 4d.; total L. 4632, 3s. 4d.
The real rental of the parish at the time of drawing up the last
Statistical Account was L. 2000 Sterling. At present it is L. 8000
per annum, having increased about L. 2000 within the last twenty
years. This increase, however, is in a great measure to be attri-
buted to the death of many of the old life renters during that period,
who held their farms at a very low rent.
   Live stock.-The common breeds of sheep in this parish are
the Leicester and Cheviot; and also a hardy thriving breed be-
tween a Leicester tup and a Cheviot ewe. The total number of
sheep is 4000; and 900 lambs are bred annually. Great atten-
tion has been paid to their improvement, especially by the Mar-
quis of Tweeddale. The cattle are of various sorts, from the fine
short-horned English breed down to the native of the Highlands
and the Shetland islands. The total number of cattle in the pa-
rish is 360; and 80 calves are bred annually.
   Husbandry.-The state of husbandry has been much improved
in this parish within the last ten years. At present, it is perhaps as
perfect here as in any part of the country. Little wheat is grown
in this parish, although it is of good quality. Barley, oats, and tur-
nips are the principal crops. John Marquis of Tweeddale and Sir
George Suttie, were the earliest and most successful in practicing
the turnip husbandry. This was about a hundred years ago. Bone
dust has of late been very generally used instead of manure, for
raising turnips, and its effects have been astonishing. Draining also
has been carried on generally and successfully throughout the pa-
rish. Lately, the Marquis of Tweeddale has erected a mill for
working the clay, and has invented a very ingenious machine for
forming the tiles which will greatly facilitate the operation of tile-
draining. A considerable quantity of waste land has lately been
reclaimed at the foot of the Lammermoors, on the farms especially
of Long Yester and Long Newton; and the crops raised will soon
repay the expense of cultivation. The general duration of leases
in this parish is nineteen years. The state of farm-buildings and en-


