
			DALSERF.			761

ciation.  The houses belonging to this society have been mostly
built since 1831.  Two associations of the same kind, of more re-
cent origin, are now in course of active operation; one is building
on the lands of Raploch, lying on the two sides of the Glasgow
and Carlisle road, as it runs from Larkhall to the southward, and
another on the lands of Avonglen, near Millheugh, belonging to
Mr William Gowans.  The houses of the former cost L. 70, and
those of the latter L. 80.  These societies do not proceed in the
mere ratio of funds actually collected by them, but borrow money
upon the value of their property and the security of the association,
and carry on their building operations with great rapidity.  The
effect of the whole system now referred to has been, and is to
cause an increase of population far beyond the usual ratio.  In a
very few years, unless some check occur, there will be a startling
accumulation of houses and inhabitants in this district, requiring
something more than increased church accommodation and pastoral
superintendence.  Indeed, there is already much need of a jail or
house of correction, with an efficient magistracy and police to take
care that such a receptacle is not, when occasion requires, left un-
tenanted.  The different societies now referred to, especially the
building ones, have beyond doubt had a favourable effect on the
character of the people, by promoting frugality and industry, and
cherishing a desire of independence.  The friendly societies for
mutual relief are not calculated to be of any lasting benefit.
They begin to pay aliment before a sufficient amount of stock has
been collected ; and hence, unless there be a large and regular
accession of new members, which is seldom the case, they are in
general in a very exhausted state by the time that the original con-
tributors have died out.
   Poor.-In 1791, there were twelve poor people who received
regular monthly aliment.  The number on the roll at present is
50, among wbom the sum of L. 15 per month is divided, at a
rate varying from 2s. 6d. to 16s. each.  The larger sum is paid
for one or two bedfast paupers, requiring constant attendance.
Besides the roll of regular paupers, there are about 40 persons
who require occasional, aid.  The sum expended in this way by
the kirk-session varies in different years from L. 45 to L. 60 per
annum.  For the last year it was L. 55.  The parish has long
been assessed.  In 1791, the assessment was L. 44, 4s.  At pre-
sent it is about L. 210 per annum, levied, one-half on the heritors,
according to the old valuation of their lands, add the other half


