
                                 PARISH OF DULL.

                 PRESBYTERY OF WEEM, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                       THE REV. DUNCAN DEWAR, MINISTER.


                      I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
                 Name.--This parish derives its name from the district of coun-
              try in which the parish church is situated, being in the fertile and
              beautiful vale of Appin of Dull, or, as it is sometimes written in
              old records, "Apnadull."  This term is evidently of Gaelic ori-
              gin, and may be thus analyzed, Ab na dail, "Abbot of the Plain,"
              or, by transposition, Dail na h-Aba, may either mean "the Ab-
              bot's Plain," or "the Water's Plain," the obsolete ab signifying
              also water in Gaelic.  That the former is the true derivation, there
              can be little or no doubt, from the recorded fact, that an abbey or
              monastery existed here, probably in the eleventh or twelfth cen-
              tury.
                 Extent and Boundaries.--The quoad civilia boundaries of this
              parish extend from the parish of Crieff on the south to the parish
              of Blair in Athole on the north,--a distance of not less than thirty
              miles.  But it is so completely intersected with other parishes, that
              its breadth is not proportionate, varying from four to twelve miles,
              and averaging about seven miles, so that its extent is abotit 210
              square miles, or 134,400 imperial acres, including roads, rivers,
              and lakes.  It is bounded on the north by the parishes of Blair
              Athole and Moulin ; on the west by Fortingall, Weem, and Ken-
              more; on the south by Comrie, Crieff, and Monzie ; and on the
              east by the parishes of Foulis-Wester, Litile Dunkeld, Weem,
              and Logierait ; and is situated between 56&deg; 25' 20", and 56&deg; 45'
              north latitude, and 3&deg; 45' 15", and 4&deg; 1' west longitude of Green-
              wich.
                Topography.--The general aspect of the parish is varied and
              uneven.  A series of parallel hills, forming a part of the Gram-
              pian range, runs through its whole length and breadth from south-
              west to north-east, diminishing in height as they approacb their
              eastern termination.  Between these hills lie the valleys or straths


