
76                          ELGINSHIRE.

of the parish are supplied with wood for paling, roofs of houses and
other purposes. On the estates of wester Elchies the average prices
are as follows:- Ash, 2s. 6d. per solid foot; oak, 3s. per do.; elm
3s. per do; alder, ls. 3d. per do.; larch, ls. 3d. per do. Scotch
fir, 6d. per do.; geen, ls. 6d ' per do.; birch, ls. 2d. per tree.
     Duration of Leases, &c.- The general length of the farm leases
is for the period of nineteen years; feus, for thirty-one years; in
the village of Archiestown, there are four perpetual feus.
     The chief crops raised in the parish are oats, viz. Hopetoun early
and late, Angus, Kildrummy, potatoe and black, oats; barley and
Scotch bear, wheat, pease, beans, potatoes, turnips, flax, and hay.
The oats and barley are chiefly sold, the remainder being used in
families, or for feeding domestic animals. The potato and turnip
crops are consumed in the parish. The rotation of crop generally
observed consists in two white crops, one green crop, and two crops
of grass. The quantity of grass seeds sown in an acre amounts
to eight pounds of clover, mixed with three bushels of rye-grass.
     The agriculture of the parish may still be said to be in its in-
fancy; but improvements are daily taking place in the system of
husbandry, and the farmers becoming more sensible of the advan-
tages of liming. The most approved methods of farming have
been adopted by Mr Reid on the farm of Easter Elchies, and by
the Rev. William Asher on the farm of Nether Tomdow, the
greater part of the latter having been recently improved and laid out.
     Manufactures.- There are four meal-mills, a waulk-mill, and a
carding-mill, in the parish. Saw and thrashing-mills have also
been lately added to one of the former description. At the waulk
and carding-mills, wool is dyed and manufactured into plaiding and
broad-cloth, blankets and carpets. Four hands are employed, but
not constantly. A good deal of weaving and spinning used to go
on throughout the parish, but there is now much less than formerly.
There are two distilleries, one at Cardow, conducted by Mr Cum-
ming; the other at Macallan, by Mr Reid; both of which are well
known for the very superior quality of the spirit distilled.
     Rental.- The valued rent of the parish amounts to L. 1987, the
real rent to upwards of L. 3000.
                  V-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Market-Towns, &c.- There are no market-towns within the
bounds of the parish; the nearest are Charlestown of Aberlour,
distant 54 miles from the centre, Rothes 10, Dufftown 15, Forres
16, Grantown 16, Eigin, Keith, and Fochabers, 20. There is a
                               3


