
SWINTON AND SIMPRIN.                                         189

which, is of oak, ash, or elm, with a few firs, appears to be well
adapted to the soil. There are some fine trees near Swinton-
House, but the great proportion of the wood over the parish is not
more than fifty or sixty years old. At the Restoration the whole
of this property, forfeited to the Crown, came into the possession
of the Duke of Lauderdale by a grant of Charles II. and conti-
nued in his hands until the Revolution in 1688. Among other
measures of spoliation he is said to have caused the whole of the
wood upon the lands to be cut, excepting one tree, a beautiful and
very large ash, which was blown down, between twenty and thirty
years ago. As the most of the wood now growing has been planted
along the hedge-rows, it shelters and adorns the fields and gives
a wooded appearance to the district greatly beyond the reality.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Brief notices respecting the parish are met with in the border his
tories; and from these, it would seem to have participated fully in
the condition, both political and moral, of the tract of country in which
it lies, during the long period of hostilities which extended with few
interruptions from the time of its separation from the Saxon kingdom
of Northumberland until its reunion with England. * The parish
presents no natural impediment to an invading force, and it does
not appear to have been ever protected by any considerable strong-
hold.+  The inhabitants, afflicted, therefore, by the precariousness
which such an exposure implies, would soon become unsettled in
their habits, disinclined to, as well as prevented from, the avoca,-
tions of regular industry, until they came, as a matter of course,
to study not more retaliation than the means of support, in visit-
ing upon their enemies evils which had blasted to themselves
the hopes of autumn, or had otherwise deprived them of advan-
tages to which they might feel that they had a rightful claim. +

<FOOTNOTE>In one of the earliest notices which we have of Swinton, it seem to have lapsed
from a state of culture, the condition probably in which it was under its lea Nor-
thumbrian monarc into a waste and desert state-for which Edgar, son of Malcolm
Canmore, presents it to Coldingham Abbey. He presents along with it twenty-
four beasts to till it anew.
   The remains of a fosse, which can still be traced in the church-yard, are the only
vestige now extant, of a state of warlike operations.
   ++The last time that we hear of its having formed the scene of a hostile encounter was on Whitsunday of 1558. Sir Henry Percy, brother to the Earl of Nor-
thumber land, and the Marshal of Berwick, overran the Merse with 8000 foot, and
200 horse, burnt Dunse and Langton, and were over taken at Swinton on their re-
turn by the Scottish forces under the Lord Keith son of the Earl Mareschal and by
the French troops, who were lying at Kelso Eyemouth, for the defence of the
marches. After an obstinate engagement, the English made good their retreat
with all their plunder-the Scottish troops being almost wholly alain, or made prisoners.


