
			RICCARTON.			609

	We have also to record, as connected with this parish by birth;
Sir James Shaw, Baronet, the first Scotchman who  had ever been
Lord Mayor of London and who is at present Chamberlain of
that city. He was born at Mosshead, on the property of Trees-
bank, and for some time resided here during his earlier years.
Though long resident out of his native parish, he fondly remem-
ber it, and contributes largely to any benevolent, scheme in con-
nection either with it or its neighbourhood. But delicacy prevents
me from saying more of this respected and most benevolent
individual.
	Colonel Macgregor, author of the Narrative of the Loss of the
Kent East Indiaman, and at present head of the Constabulary in
Ireland, is connected with the pareish by property, having married
a co-heiress of the late Sir William Cuninghame of Caprington.
	Principal Land-owners.-- His Grace the Duke of Portland;
John Smith Cuninghame, Esq. of Caprington; G. J. Campbell,
Esq. of Treesbank; the Hon. Colonel Macadam Catheart of
Craigeagillan; C. Shedden, Esq. of Knockmarloch; W. Cuning-
ham, Esq. of Lainshaw; James Fairley, Esq. of Holmes; Colonel
Clark of Shawhill; Captain Tait of Milrig; Mesers Howie of
Kaimshill;-- Cambell of Skerrington; Thomas Brown, Esq.
of Lonfin;-- Hamilton, Esq. of Hillhouse; John Deans, Esq.
of Kirkstyle; and a few others of smaller property.
	Parochial Registers.--The only registers existing or which seem
ever to have been kept, are the session records, commencing with
the year 1695; the registers of births and marriages and the mi-
nutes of heritors meetings. Except the registers of births and
marriages, none seem to have been regularly kept; and it is only
within these last ten years that the minutes for the heritors have
been at all accurately kept. The preservation of the eldest of
these registers is altogether owing to the present session-clerk, Mr
W. Hood, who, some time ago, with much labour, and pains, col-
lected them and other valuable paper connected with the parish,
and who, got them substantially bound, forming in all an import-
ant parochial document.
	Ancient and Modern Buildings.--Remains of several ancient
buildings are to be met with throughout the parish; but none
seem to have been of any grant extent or importance. The Castle
of Caprington, though much changed by late repaires, is a building
of very considerable antiquity, being mentioned in a charter be-
longing to the family, bearing date 1885, under the name of
        AYR.


