
                            BERVIE.                              9

for public worship on the 1st of January 1837, is particularly de-
serving of notice. It is an elegant edifice, built in the Gothic
style, with a square tower rising to the height of upwards df l00 feet,
and ornamented with carved minarets. The main entrance to the
church is by a splendid vestibule in the tower. It is enclosed on
the west, north, and east, by substantial walls, built of stone and
lime, with a coping of hewn work, and towards the south-east by
an elegant metal railing, in which there is a fine gate, with beau-
tiful pillars of hewn work. The small elevation of the building,
at a little distance from the street, gives it a fine effect. The tower
is seen to great advantage in all directions, and gives an air of or-
narnent and grandeur to the burgh which it had not before. The
entire building does great credit to the architect, to the undertaker,
and the workmen, and is much admired. It will stand as a monu-
ment to perpetuate to future generations the remembrance of the
piety and zeal of the heritors of this parish, for the glory of God
and the spiritual welfare and comfort of the people.
	The manse, which immediately adjoins the church, is a house
of two storeys fronting the street, and is sufficiently comfortable
and commodious. The school-house, which is situated at the
east corner of the town, is a small building of two storeys, com-
manding a fine view of the sea, but much exposed. The head
inn stands at the north-east entrance to the burgh, and commands
a fine view of the scenery above the bridge, where the old castle of
Allardice, in the parish of Arbuthnott, appears in the distance on
an elevation, surrounded with trees and shrubbery.
	The bridge thrown across the water at the approach to the
town on the north-east is a fine structure, consisting of one beau-
tiful arch of a large span. The height of the bridge from the bed of
the river cannot be less than 80 feet. The place fixed on for
building it was found to be well adapted for the undertaking, as
the banks on either side are high, and composed of rock. Experience
has proved the substantial nature of the foundation. The bridge
has never been injured by the greatest floods which have happen-
ed, while the houses on the haughs have been often damaged, and
sometimes in danger of being swept away by the swelling of the
water, and the force of the current. If easy access could be got to
the doors of the large apartments at the end of this bridge, they
might be converted to some useful purpose. They have occasionally
been used as coal-sheds, but they are at present quite empty.
	There is a meal and barley mill on the haugh below the bridged,


