
			  LOGIE.                        215


southern boundary. From the Forth to the foot of the Ochil
hills, the country is a dead level, of rich and highly cultivated carse
ground, presenting a remarkable and pleasing contrast with this
bold and almost perpendicular range of hills, rising suddenly
from the plain to the height of 2500 feet. In the parish of
Logie, the Ochils are almost entirely destitute of wood, except
in the immediate vicinity of Airtbrey Castle ; but their lofty and
precipitous front, stretching in one long unbroken chain from
west to east, clothed with rich pasture, interrupted by rugged pre-
cipices and bare rocks, presents to the eye one of the most pic-
turesque and beautiful mountain ranges to be found in Scotland.
The most remarkable peak in this parish is Demyat, well known
to the tourist as commanding one of the most extensive and finely
diversified views in the kinadom. From its summit, the Forth,
the chief of Scottish rivers, may be traced almost from its source
in Loch Ard, as far as the German Ocean. Edinburgh is dis-
tinctly seen, and it is even said that the coast of Ireland is some-
times visible. The well known windings of the Forth, and the
more humble, but hardly less picturesque meanderings of the De-
von, "Stirling's ancient tower and town," the ruins of Cambus-
kenneth Abbey, and the beautiful domain of Airthrey Castle,
form the most striking objects in the immediate foreground, while
the view on the north and west, bounded by the lofty summits of
the Grampians, extends on the south as far as the bills of Peebles-
shire.
   Climate.--The climate of the low lands of the parish of Logie
is peculiarly mild and healthy, on which account, as well as for
the benefit of goat-whey, the village of Blair Logie and its neigh-
bourhood, at the foot of the Ocbils, have long been a favourite
resort for invalids in spring and summer. The mountainous dis-
trict of the parish (which is inhibited by only five or six families,)
enjoys a much keener, though not less healthy atmosphere. The
improvement of agriculture has tended, in a remarkable degree, to
improve the general healthiness of the district.  The land being
thoroughly drained, and brought into the highest state of cultiva-
tion, ague, and other distempers, endemic in wet marshy situations,
and formerly very prevalent in this country, have entirely disap-
peared; while the great number of inhabitants who reach a very
advanced period of life, afford the best proof of the salubrity of the
climate. Infectious distempers are but little known, and even the


