
858                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

from six to fifteen years of age who cannot read, but a considerable
number who cannot write.  There may be from twelve to twenty
persons upwards of fifteen years of age who cannot write; and none
who cannot read.  To the inestimable benefits of education the inha.
bitants are in general zealously alive.  The parent who has felt the
disadvantages of ignorance is anxious to remove this obstruction from
his children's future path; and lie willingly subjects himself to
much labour, and many privations, in furnishing them with the
means of refining their taste, forming their intellectual character,
and forwarding their advancement in society.  If he enjoys the be-
nefits of a well-informed mind, he is fired with the nobler ambition
of cultivating their mental faculties, and thus putting them in pos-
session of the principle of their future advancement, than in amas-
sing for them treasures of which they might not know the legiti-
mate use.  The diffusion of the means of education has been pro-
ductive of its natural effects, increased intelliaence, and exemplary
moral deportment.  To great simplicity of manners, which has for
ages existed in the parish, there have been super-added habits of
reading; a willingness to relinquish established prejudices, and to
adopt acknowledged improvements; a higher tone of intellectual
character; and an increasing regard to the concerns of religion.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The provision for the poor is
comparatively ample; and the Rev. Robert Findlay, writer of
the last Statistical Account of this parish, is held in perma-
nent remembrance by his liberal mortification to the industri-
ous poor.  He bequeathed the sum of L.300, less legacy duty,
for the benefit of aged persons in reduced circumstances, and
the annual interest, in suitable proportions, is distributed by
the kirk-session among the intended objects of Mr Findlay's
bounty.  Of these, three only receive regular parochial aid ;
but the supply to the others is not more acceptable than season-
able.  In directing the application of this annual provision the
founder evinced much discrimination.  There are many necessi-
tous persons who thankfully receive supply from this source who
would rather submit to severe privations than have their names
enrolled in the list of the regular poor.  The funds for the ordinary
poor are as follows : Church collections, proclamations, &c. L.17;
interest of accumulated funds, L.8; seat rents, L.2, 10s. ; total
L.27, 10s., which, after deduction of L.3 per annum as salary to
precentor and kirk-officer, leaves a balance of about L.25 Sterling
to be distributed amonng eight regular poor.  The benefit of pa-


