
652                      ARGYLESHIRE.


   A Parliamentary church and manse have beeh built at Portna-
haven; an entire village at Port Charlotte, with an extensive
distillery. Port Wymss, another village in the neighbourbood of
Portnahaven, has recently sprung into existence. Within the same
period, several substantial farm-houses, with suitable offices, have
been erected by the proprietors.

<TABLE III.-POPULATION>      III.-POPULATION.

    The state of the population is as follows:-

         In 1801,   .  .  .  .  .   2050
            1811,   .  .  .  .  .   3131
            1821,   .  .  .  .  .   3966
            1831,   .  .  .  .  .   4822
            1841,   .  .  .  .  .   4505

   Gaelic is the language universally spoken by the natives in
their intercourse with one another.  The English language is
very generally understood ; and from the number of families and
individuals from the low country settled in the parish, it is much
spoken. In proportion as the natives are becoming more enlight-
ened by education, the Gaelic is decidedly losing ground.
  The custom which obtained of assembling neighbours and kin-
dred, to attend at funerals, marriages, and baptisms, led to many,
and grievous irregularities. This of late years has been giving
place to a more orderly, and decorous mode of conducting fune-
rals. At marriages, it is nearly discontinued, and at christenings
entirely so.
  In their personal and domestic habits the people are not cleanly.
In many instances, the cattle occupy the same apartment with the
family; and though fond of dress, and of appearing well attired
when they go abroad, at home they are slovenly. Their ordinary
food is potatoes, with milk and fish. During a great part of the
year, very little oatmeal is consumed. In their culinary arrange-
ments, there is great want of economy. They are improvident in
the use of their food, and wasteful of their clothing.
   As a people, they are shrewd, fond of gossip and story-telling;
there is amongst them a strong bias to cunning, and a want of truth-
fulness. Of the grown-up population the majority are unable to read;
--their minds are, therefore, comparatively uninformed,-and it
cannot be said that they are either a moral, or a religious people;
and from the influence which their confirmed habits are producing
on the rising generation, who are receiving a moral and religious
education, a very immediate and decided change is scarcely to be
expected. Till of late years, illicit distillation was universal; this


