
218                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

a proper state of cultivation.  The quantity under tillage has been
more than doubled.  Many plantations have been formed, and pre-
sent a thriving appearance.   The value of the district generally
has been immensely increased.  There is, however, still room in
the western or south-western skirts of the parish for additional plan-
tations to beautify and improve the ground.
   The following improvements in husbandry may be submitted as
occurring in this parish.
   1. Deep Ploughing.--This has of late been introduced with very
beneficial results.  In certain soils, particularly in lands reclaimed
from moor, there exists, not much below the surface, a stiff, dense
and sterile clay, which denies all passage to moisture, as well as to
the roots of plants.  This stratum, commonly denominated muir-
band, in some places only a few inches thick, may be readily
pierced and broken, by using a plough without mould-boards, fol-
lowing in the furrow made by a common plough.  This, drawn by
three horses, or better still by oxen, will penetrate to a depth of
sixteen or eighteen inches, and even raise stones of a considerable
weight.  The advantage of this procedure is, that the disturbed stra-
tum will either deepen the soil generally, or act as a drain for super-
fluous moisture in wet lands; while in dry lands, it will serve as a re-
servoir to the plants when the superincumbent moisture is ex-
bausted.
   2. Selection of Grasses for cultivation.--Very seldom is any other
kind than rye-grass with red and white clover sown.  Yet it is al-
lowed, that these are not equally adapted to every soil, whether wet
or dry, rich or poor, moor or loam.    It is to be regretted that far-
mers who have some knowledge of botany have not directed their
attention to this most legitimate and beneficial purpose.   The fit-
ting soils for wheat, for barley, and for oats, have been long ascer-
tained, and why might not experience be as successfully employed
to discover the most congenial kinds of grasses and clovers? Ita-
lian rye-grass has been lately introduced into Galloway with much
promise of advantage.  It might be tried on the banks of the Rule.
   3. Top-Dressing of Grass Lands.--The improvement of pastu-
rage is of vital importance; and in general grass thrives well in this
district.  Its growth might be farther promoted by applying com-
post or short dung to the surface.  Such a practice, with sufficient
draining, will be found to yield a profitable return.  It is the fault
of the damp climate more than the soil, when the grain crops fail;


