
                	KILMARNOCK.                         561

quested them to arm themselves in behalf of the house of Stu-
art, they obstinatelx refused. His Lordship assembled them in
the town hall, and tried them first with entreaties, and then with
threats, but not one would consent to join his standard. He then
confined his demands to their arms, for bonnet-makers and weavers
as they were, they still retained the old muskets and rusty shab-
bles of their Covenanting ancestors, and occasionally displayed them
at bloodless wapping-shaws. But this requisition they were pre-
pared to resist; and one of them had even the hardihood to tell
his Lordship, that, if they presented him with their guns, it would
be with the muzzle till him. *
         Literature.-The town library is very valuable, both from the
number of the books, and their character. It is particularly rich
in the different branches of history. The members of the society
subscribe 7s. annually, and the entry-money cannot exceed L. 2.
There is, besides, a mechanics institution, which has attached to it
a respectable collection of appropriate books.
	There are in town two reading rooms, one for operatives, and
the other for their masters, and both are supplied with such news-
papers, reviews, and public documents, as the readers judge to be
most interesting and instructive. But many of the inhabitants pre-
fer reading the public prints by their own fireside, where their fa-
milies also may hear and obtain this indulgence by forming them-
selves into small circles of readers, which are kept in order by the
observance of regulations which are of their own formation.
	There are two newspapers published weekly in town, the one de-
signed the Kilmarnock Journal, and the other the Ayrshire Exami-
ner. The Journal, which has been several years in the course of pub-
lication, has obtained an encouraging extent of circulation. The
Examiner, which commenced its literary career only about five
weeks ago, still awaits the award of the public. Both these prints
are conducted by editors who, it is believed, are well qualified for
the task which they have undertaken.
         Charitable Institution-Dispensary.-This institution was esta-
blished twelve years ago, for the relief of the poor who are unable
to pay for medical attendance and advice. It is patronised by
most of the medical practitioners in town, who attend in regular
rotation, and cheerfully render their gratuitous assistance. The
expeses incurred by medicines, house rent, &c. are defrayed by
subscriptions among the inhabitants at large. The subscriptions

<FOOTNOTE>Chember's History.

  AYR.                               N n


