
                        DUNFERMLINE.                             ç
835

       the burgh used to be between 6000 and 7000 tons per annum.
       That of the company averages at present 15,000 tons.
             Halbeath Colliery.-The next large and very old colliery, still
       farther to the east, and two and a half miles from the town of
       Dunfermline, is that of Halbeath, belonging to John Clarkson,
       Esq. The coal-field here is very extensive, comprehending, with
       all the portions leased from the neighbouring proprietors seve-
       ral hundred acres, of which there is a large portion still to work,
       but the precise extent of this cannot well be ascertained, in conse-
       quence of the want of the old plans of the workings. It may be -
       estimated, however, at above 200 acres. A valuable bed of can-
       nel or parrot coal has been wrought in it, with much advantage of
       late, in supplying the Dunfermline, and other gas-works.
             There are other two small collieries, the Cuttlehill and South
       Lethan, but at present there is little coal wrought at them.
             Fossil Organic Remains.-Tbese are found in great abundance
       in almost all these coal-fields, and they chiefly belong to the ve-
       getable kingdom. They occur in the sandstone, coals, and fire-
       clay, but principally in the shales. Some excellent specimens
       were found in the New Wallsend pit, at the Elgin Colliery, in
       the stratum No. 91 of the section previously given, which is 15
       feet 7 inches of sandstone, at the depth of from 76 to 78 fathoms
       from the surface. The largest of these have been transferred to 
7ê3 
ä       the lawn south-east of Broomhall House.
             Elgin Colliery.- 1. A Stigmaria ficoides. There are specimens
       of the body of this tree in fire-clay, with the leaves proceeding
       from the punctures, six or seven inches long. 2. There are stalks
       of the Sigillaria pachyderma. 3. There are the Lepidodendron
       obovatum, and the Lepidodendron Sternbergii, with other species.
       4. There has likewise been found a plant, which is probably a
       Megaphyton. It is a pretty long stalk, exhibiting projecting points
       like steps, from which the branches probably went off. Some por-
       tions of the bark of these trees are quite smooth, and others still
       retain the rough coally matter; while the inner woody structure,
       which is the first to decay, has disappeared, and the space has
       been filled up with other ingredients, now forming the sandstone.
             Wellwood Colliery.-At the Wellwood Colliery there have been
       found very good specimens of the Lepidodendron Sternbergii, and
       Of Calamites. There is a round stalk of one of these, more than
       a foot long, and exhibiting two divisions of growth; and ther is
       another more compressed, probably from having lain either hori-

