
606  			   FORFARSHIRE.

said to mean the grave of the multitude. Indeed, in early days,
the mansion-house of Pitscandly was on the northern border of the
lake of Restenet, where it is not improbable the battle, mentioned
by Buchanan, took place. The learned and Rev. Mr Headrick
of Dunnichen, however, seems to think these stones the remains
of a Druidical circle, * and states that it is the only one he has
seen in the county of Angus. He speaks of some of the stones
having been "demolished, so that the circle is not now complete."
This may be the true state of the case. It is not impossible that
the large stone, which is more than ten feet high and more than
six feet broad, marks the place where Feredeth, King of the Picts,
fell, or was buried; and that the other stone is in memory of some
other inferior but also distinguished chief. Many of high rank
fell at the same time with the King. Buchanan says, "cum flore
nobilitatis una interiit."
	There is also a ruin on the top of Turin Hill. It is thus de-
scribed by Mr Wright in his Statistical Account: "It has evi-
dently been anciently a stronghold, or place of defence, consisting
of various extensive contiguous buildings, with a circular citadel of
about forty yards in diameter. The situation has been well cho-
sen, being secured by an impregnable rock in front, much like the
face of Salisbury Crags, and of difficult access all around. It is
now called Kemp or Camp Castle." The Rev. Mr Headrick
takes no notice of this ruin; but it is evident from what he says
with regard to others, that he would class it among the hill-forts
that were very skilfully built of rude stones without any cement.
And he thinks that their original object was to protect particular
tribes against the violence of their neighbours, with whom they ex-
ercised deadly feuds. This is not an improbable account of the
matter. There is scarcely a vestige now of the "extensive conti-
guous buildings;" but there are still some remains of the "circu-
lar citadel." It was measured by Mr Arthur and the writer; and
the thickness of the walls was, in one place, 13 feet, and in other,
at the south-east corner, 14. The diameter within walls was 85
feet 4 inches from west to east, and 92 feet from north to south.
The area of the circle within wall is 685 square yards. Many of
the stones of the foundation are more than 3 feet long, from 2
to 3 feet broad, and about 1 foot thick.
	There is a cicular place on the Hill of Pitscandly called Rob's
Rede, which was probably also a place of defence. The form

<FOOTNOTE>Agricultural Report of Forfarshire, p.177,


