
                      TIREE AND COLL.                         205

with.  I have reckoned up fourteen or fifteen duns or old forts,
believed to be Danish, and seemingly intended as signal or watch-
towers; and it is probable there may have been more of them.
They were generally situated near the sea coast, and built of a
circular form, without any cement.  One of them, placed on the top
of a small hill, had a well within it.  The well was built with stone,
having several steps descending into it, most of which still remain,
but no vestige of the fortress now remains, the stones having been
all removed for other purposes.  There was a fortress of a more
modern date than these duns, situated in a lake near the centre
of the island, probably the occasional residence of the proprietor
or chief, from the ruins of which the chamberlain's house was
built; and the communication which formerly existed by means
of a draw-bridge, has, since then, been supplied by a mound or
causeway built across.  From this circumstance, it still retains the
name of the "Island House."  There are also several remains
of chapels or religious houses to be seen ; but a description
having been given of these in the former Statistical Account, it
may suffice here merely to mention them.  The truth is, that,
since that date, many of these monuments of antiquity have dis-
appeared, and are disappearing from year to year.  In some in-
stances, they have probably been overwhelmed with sand; in
some, the stones have been appropriated to other purposes, as the
building of dikes, houses, &c.
   Stone chests or coffins are now and then found, made up
of four stones, arranged in the form of an oblong square.  I was
induced to get one of these, called "Leac an Fhoimhear," or
the Giants' Grave, lately opened,-judging from the name, that it
might perhaps contain something uncommon.  Nothing, however,
was discovered but human bones in a decayed state, thrown toge-
ther without order, and noways remarkable for their size.
   Two stone crosses, from three to four feet high, (the only
two now remaining entire,) are still to be seen where some
of the old chapels formerly stood.  They are quite plain, without
any ornament or inscription, and one of them resting on a stone
socket.  There are two or three upright stones or pillars, six or
seven feet high, having one end sunk in the ground, and hearing
no device or engraving whatever.  Whether these were erected
as mere land-marks, or in commemoration of some remarkable
events, is not now known.
   On the north-west side of this island, and somewhat above or-


