
			      HAMILTON.                      283

ing weaving, tanneries, saddle, and shoe trades seem to have dwin-
dled away considerably, since the publication of the former Statis-
tical Account.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Town.--The town of Hamilton stands on a rising ground, gent-
ly sloping towards the east, about a mile west of the conflux of
0the Avon with the Clyde. Cadzow burn runs nearly through it.
The ancient town stood farther to the east, in the Duke's plea-
sure grounds, and was called the Netherton. That part of the
present town which stands near the flesh-market and the public
green, appears to be the most ancient. The rocks behind the
flesh-market are about twenty feet high, and were once occupied
by a mansion, called the Ha' or Hall, of which an antique dove-cot,
(which gives the name of Doo-cot-ha' to the place) is the only me-
morial now remaining. On the opposite side of the burn, stood a mill,
called the Ha' Mill, which has given the name of "Shilling Hill"
to the street where it stood. When the tun, ton, or town collected
round this place it was called Ha-mill-ton. So says tradition;
but history, which is more to be depended on, gives, as we have al-
ready seen, a different and more satisfactory account. The date
of the foundation of the lower town cannot now be ascertained.
It has been long swept away. But that the upper town is also of
great antiquity appears from the fact, that it was considerable
enough to be erected into a burgh of barony in the year 1456
by James II. In 1548, Hamilton was created a royal burgh by
Queen Mary; but Bailies James Hamilton and James Naismith
consented to resign that privilege in 1670, by accepting of a char-
ter from Duchess Anne, by which Hamilton was constituted the
chief burgh of the regality and dukedom of Hamilton. A law-
suit was entered into by the magistrates, &c. in 1723 before the Court
of Session, for the restoration of their ancient rights; but it was
not till 1832, that the inhabitants were reinvested with the privi-
lege of sending a member to the House of Commons. There are
at present about 300 ten pound franchises upon the roll. At l`st
municipal election, 126 voted on the radical interest, and 118 for
the more moderate party. There were about 55 votes unpolled.
The town is in the hands of a Provost, three Bailies, a Trea-
surer, a Town-Clerk, and seven, Councillors. Four new councillors
are elected annually, the four eldest on the list going out.
	Revenues of the Town.--The revenues of the town are consider-
able, and arise chiefly, from lands within the burgh, and shares iu


