
358                     ROXBURGSHIRE.

The larger imbedded portions are hard; and among them are
found hornstonoe, lydian-stone, and nodules, which have the look
and texture of greywacke, but so altered as to have become sili-
tious.  This variety of rock is called trap-tufa, from its resem-
blance to the tufaceous beds found in the neighbourhood of vol-
canoes; and there can be little doubt its origin is similar, and that
the heated mass, as it was raised, was of such a temperature as
to carry along with it portions of foreign matter, only partially
changing them.  It is accordingly a mechanical compound, like
the conglomerate already described,-with this difference, that
the basis of the latter is aqueous, and of the other igneous.  It is,
however, at the same time to be remarked, that, from their ge-
nerally rounded shape, the fragments would appear to have been
water-worn before they were incorporated in the fiery matters to
which they owe their vitreous lustre and consistency.  Might not
this, perhaps, assign to the elevation of the tufa,-a date poste-
rior to the accumulation of the rolled fragments which compose
the conglomerate beds; or, may not these, altered by heat, form
the tufa ?
   About a mile distant to the south-east, there is another mass of trap,
forming Minto Craigs, but which having been projected at a higher
temperature, and crystalized in cooling, has assumed that state to
which the name of greenstone is given.  It rises in several peaked
eminences, the bolder and more exposed fronts of which are turned
towards the south.  It is rather finely granular, and in some places
exhibits an imperfect columnar structure.  In consequence of this, it
has been separated by the action of the weather, forming those irre
gular fragment with which, in the course of ages, the southern
slope of the height has been strewed.
   There are also in different parts of the parish, newer deposits
of an alluvial nature, which may be here mentioned.  Gravel is
found to the depth of many feet, chiefly composed of fragments,
derived from the greywacke rocks; and thereby shewing that the
currents by which they had accumulated had set in from the west,
the direction in which those strata are found. Thet is also
throughout the district, and covering the sandstone, so as greatly
to interfere with its being quarried, a deposit of reddish clay,
known by the local name of dent.  In some places, it has a depth
of 40 and 50 feet, is penetrated extensively by calcareous veins,
and arranged in layers, having the appearance of an argillaceous
sandstone, loosely integrated.  It is of recent origin, and might
                                8

