
     of Glenorchay and Inishail.

   Beindoran, till lately, was the residence and sanctuary of the
roe buck and mountain deer; but now, the hunter roams no
longer on the hill of the chace; the sheep browze on the
heath of the forest, and the sons of the mountains have de-
serted the inheritance of their race for ages, to revisit its
springs, and glades, and secret haunts no more!  Formerly, the
wolf had his haunts in our wilds and mountains, and not on-
ly proved fatal to the cattle, but, when impelled by hunger,
or inflamed with rage, he even, at times, made depredations
on the human species.  It is said, that, in the year 1680, the
last wolf in Britain was killed by Sir Ewen Cameron of
Lochiel.

   Lakes, Rivers and Fish-The parish extends nearly for 8
miles on each side of Lochow.  This lake is, in length, about
30 measured miles, and at an average, about 3 quarters of
mile in breadth.  It is about 36 yards above the level of the
sea.  Besides the intermediate rivers and hills, which run in-

<FOOTNOTE>

"of her race.  Large and fertile Were her possessions:  her's the beautiful vales
"below, and her's the cattle which roamed on the hills around.  To Bera was
"committed the charge of that awful spring, which, by the appointment of
"Fate, was to prove to fatal to the inheritance of her fathers, and to her father's
"race.
   "Before the sun should withdraw his beams, she was to cover the spring
"with a stone, on which sacred and mysterious characters were impressed.  One
"night this was forgot by the unhappy Bera.  Overcome with the heat and
"chace of the day, she was seized with sleep before the usual time of rest.  The
"confined waters of the mountains burst forth into the plain below, and cover-
"ed that large expanse, now known by the name of the Lake of Aw.  The third
"morning Bera awaked from her sleep.  She went to remove the stone from the
"spring; but, behold, no stone was there!  she looked to the inheritance of
"her tribe:  She shricked!  The mountain shook from its base!  Her spirit re-
"tired to the ghosts of her fathers, in their light and airy halls."   OSSIAN.
   Of this ill fated female, Mr. Stewart of Strachur, has given a very ingenious
account in the statistical history of his parish.  See Vol. 4-P. 559.


