
                    KNOCKANDO.                                 81

distribution once a year, and sometimes oftener, butthose who are
in immediate want receive additional allowances as necessity re-
quires, from 2s. 6d. to 10s. During the year 1834, the collec-
tions amounted to L. 30, including ordination and sacramental
occasions. The collections at the church, the interest of L. 60
in the British Linen Company's Bank, with occasional donations
and penalties, form the only means from whence the poor are sup-
ported. The heritors allow L. 10 per annum for the support of
each of two pauper lunatics, one of whom is boarded in a farm-
house, and the other lodged in a house, rent free. Whilst it must
be admitted that the reluctance to apply for parochial aid is not
gaining ground, yet, the spirit of true Scottish independence is
still to be seen in the parish; and last year a case of this kind oc-
curred, when a poor woman in Easter Elchies, to whom the kirk-
session sent half-a-crown as an occasional supply, returned the
money, saying that, as long as she had her cow, she would not ac-
cept of one single farthing. At present there is no pauper in the
district of Easter Elchies. The parish is much infested by sturdy
beggars, and tinkers, especially during the summer season, who
drain away a great deal of what might otherwise be given to the
home-poor.
     Inns, &c.- There are four public-houses in the parish, three of
which are in the village of Archiestown, and the other at the boat
of Wester Elchies. One in Archiestown is perfectly sufficient.
The effect of such a number is decidedly most injurious to the
morals of the people. It is to be feared that there are also some
individuals who do not scruple to sell whisky even without a license.
     Fuel.- The fuel chiefly used consists of peat and turf, taken
from the different mosses. Wood is also burned, but, owing to
the distance from the sea-coast, very few coals are consumed.

          MISCELLANEOUS OIRSEiMATIONS.
     The most striking variation between the present state of the
parish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical
Account, consists in the suppression of smuggling, and the conse-
quent greater attention paid to agriculture, and the rearing of cat-
tle, together with the quantity of moorland which has been im-
proved. Draining and liming are much wanted, and also fences
for the protection bf the fields from the inroads of cdttlem and foot-
passengers. There is no agricultural Society connected with the for
parish. The formation of a local or district socilety for the im-
provement of farming and breeds of cattle and horses would be
  ELGIN.                       F


