
                            LONMAY.                           229

beech.  The farm steadings have been much improved; but there
still remains a good deal to be done in that department.
   Improvement.-What may be termed the grand improvement
introduced of late years, is trench-plougling, with four oxen or
four strong horses, once in the rotation.  By this operation a
greater depth of soil, and fresh soil has been procured, and by
this means the growth of plants has been in many places favoured
by the pan or till being pierced.  By trench ploughing, greater
moisture is obtained in dry seasons, for the roots of plants are thus
allowed to descend, and, on the other hand, in rainy seasons the
surface water is not kept up, but is speedily absorbed by the finer
and softer sand subsoil.
   Obstacles to Improvement.-Want of capital is the crying griev-
ance, and its effects are felt yearly more and more.  Small farms,
in consequence of this and the deterioration in the value of pro-
duce, cannot afford profits, after payment of rents, sufficient to
maintain the occupiers and their families.  It is truly wonderful
how any of them can continue on their present footing.  They
work hard, and live with the utmost frugality; and they contrive
to appear in decent clothing at church, and to give their children
Christian education.  I am sorry to say, their comforts, which
were visibly increased, are again reduced.
   Fisheries.-We may mention three kinds: the cod-fishing, salt-
cured, and sold wholesale.  The fish is sold in retail from house to
house for food.  St Combs is the only fishing station in the pa-
rish.  The St Combs fishermen go with their herring-boats to
Fraserburgh.

<TABLE>
Cod fishing, yearly average, winter,	.	.          L.162 0 0  } L.522 0 0
   DO.      do.   summer, to third week July,                360 0 0  }
Home trade in fish for food, per annum,	.	.             25 0 0
To which add sale of fish,	.	.	.	              17 0 0	   70 0 0
Fish dunghills sold,		.	.	.	             37 10 0
Herring-fishing from July to first week of October, 13 boats, at 150
 cranes per boat, yearly average at 10s. per crane,	.	.             975 0 0
                                                                       ----------
                                                                       L.1567 0 0

   The whole rent paid for houses and gardens to the proprietors
of St Combs is L.61, 4s.
   Average gross amount of raw Produce.-Strict accuracy is hardly
attainable in furnishing information on this head.  Few agricultu-
rists in this part of the country make regular entries of returns of
produce in their farm accounts, or of sales, so as to furnish an ave-
rage valuation thereof, and the same holds true of their live-stock.
Details of profits cannot be obtained, so as to enable us to treat


