
                              GALSTON.                        183

<TABLE>
	The number of persons of different ages in 1832 was as follows:
                           Under  15,                 1526
			Between 15 and 30,	1019
                                   30 and 50,          640
                                   50 and 70,          422
                           Upwards of 70,               81

At the same period the number of unmarried men and widowers above 50, was 56
                                 unmarried women and widows above 45 was 127
Number of families,    							 707
                  chiefly employed in agriculture,                       163
                             in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,      415
	The average number of children now residing with their parents,
or grandfathers or grandmothers is 3 6/22 for each family where
there are any children, and the number of such families is 640.
	Of this population about 2300 live in villages, and are chiefly
employed in the different branches of the cotton manufacture. A
few of the weavers have lately begun to weave different kinds of
fancy silk. The high wages which could formerly be earned at
weaving and sewing have introduced among this class a taste for
an expensive mode of living, which contributes greatly to abridge
the real comforts of life, when wages are verging, as at present, to
wards the lowest ebb. Their condition, therefore, may be now re-
ported as far from comfortable, and the discontent naturally aris-
ing from this state of things has been greatly increased by the ig-
norant or dishonest labours of political agitators, who have taught
them to ascribe to oppression and misgovernment, what is chiefly
owing to the multiplication of power looms, and other machinery.
Whether it be owing to the vain hope of a more adequate remu-
neration for their present form of labour, or a love of the ease and
apparent independence connected with the cotton weaving trade,
in which every man is literally his own task-master, the fact is cer-
tain, that few have yet left it to engage in the labours of agricul-
ture. The natural consequence is, that the rural labourers are
still in the enjoyment of those high wages which the, vicinity of
manufactures generally produces, and being well fed, and not over
worked, their condition is generally comfortable, and they are con-
tented. From this statement, it would be easy to infer the moral
and religious character of the population, upon the general princi-
ples of human experience. That of the farmers and their servants
is, upon the whole, exemplary and good; that of the manufac-
turers, though it is often excellent, is in too many cases very de-
fective.
	The number of illegitimate children during the three years pre-
ceding July 1837 was 36.


