
		               MORVERN.                          191

of worship, which are situated on the coast, distant from each
other about nine miles, while he feels himself also called upon
occasionally to preach at other stations in the interior of the dis-
trict.  Three farms, situated at the head of Loch Suinart, have
been annexed, quoad sacra, to the parliamentary parish of
Strontian, at one of which a missionary minister, stationed in the
braes of Morvern and Kingerloch, preaches once a, fortnight.
The missionary is ordained, and is paid by the Committee on the
Royal Bounty,-certain heritors giving the stipulated allowance
for accommodations.  The parish churches were built in 1799
and 1780.  They are both in good repair, affording, especially
from the present state of the population, ample accommodation.
The sittings are all free.  The glebe is supposed to contain about
sixty acres, and may be rented at the value of about L.30 annual
rent.  The stipend consists of 127 bolls, 2 firlots, 3 pecks, and 3
lippies meal, (9 stone weight) ; 15 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, and
2 lippies bear; and L.15, 17s. 2d. Sterling in money.  The
manse was built in 1779.  There are two catechists, the one paid
by the Committee on the Royal Bounty, a salary of L.8 per an-
num, and the other a like amount by the synod of Argyle.  A
Roman Catholic chapel has been erected within the last few years,
through the instrumentality of one of the proprietors, within the
bounds of the parish.  In the close neigbbourbood of the chapel,
a clergyman of that persuasion is stationed.  An Episcopal clergy-
man, residing at Fortwilliam, has been in the habit of paying oc-
casional visits to the parish, to minister to the spiritual wants of
those who still adhere, in some degree, to that persuasion ; at the
same time that, with enlightened liberality, they join in the ordi-
nances as dispensed in the parish church.
   The attendance at the several places of worship may be
stated as follows:  Number of families connected with the Es-
tablished Church, 370; of Roman Catholic families, 8; of pro-
fessed Episcopalian families, 2; average number of commu-
nicants at the Established Church, 450. * On the whole, the
people seem anxious to wait upon the stated ordinances of reli-
gion, but various causes, such as distance from church, bad roads,
and poverty, combine to prevent regular attendance.
   Schools.-The parochial salary, of which the maximum is given,
is divided among three teachers, and thus, from the terms or per-

<FOOTNOTE>About one-third of th parishioners are prevented from attending at the parish
churches, owing to distance and other physical obstructions.


