
     Statistical Account

bell, now hung in a small modern spire.  It bears the name
of Mr. THOMAS TULLOCH, as bishop of Ross, and declares
the bell to have been "dedicated to the most holy MARY and
"the blessed BONIFACE*, Anno Domyny 1460."  There are
some-stone cossins in niches+ by the inside of the wall, with
figures of the bishops in their canonicals, elegantly cut in
stone; but they are much defaced by time, and no name or
year is to be seen on them.  In the direction of the main body
of the cathedral at the E., and detached from its remains,
stands a house that was probably the vestry.  It contains a
vault below, with a strong arched roof, now converted into a

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*The favourite saint and patron of the place, by every ancient monument
appears to have been St. Boniface.  This is quite a different person from St.
Boniface, archbishop of Mentz, consecrated by Pope Gregory II., and errone-
ously supposed, by some of our Scotch writers, to be the same with the other.
The history of our saint, according to tradition, is simply this.  In the year
693, or, as others say, about the year 697, Boniface, an Italian, a grave and
venerable person, came to Scotland, to make up our acquaintance with the
church of Rome.  He built, to the memory of St. Peter, a church where he
landed, at the mouth of a little water, betwixt the shires of Angus and Mear?;
erected another church at Felin, a third at Kestennoth, and a fourth at Rose-
markie; where, being taken with the pleasantness of the place, he thought it
to, reside, and was buried there.  Bishop Lesty speak, of Rosemarkie as deco-
rated with the relicts of the saint, and the very ancient sepu and monu
ments of him and his parents; whence it would seem, that he had brought his
parents from Italy with him, in this pious expedition.

+Besides this famous saint, tradition reports, that there was buried in this
place a Danish chief, of a large size, who sell in a battle fought in the Mall
Buy, an extensive moor about 3 miles distant.  There are, indeed, evident marks
of graves and battles; and some huge piles of stones, in digging among which,
several stone cossins have been discovered. In this moor, it is probable, the in-
habitants of the country fought the Danes, after they had landed at Crosnarty.
In the church-yard, too, lies the body of Andrew Murray, a very brave man,
regent of the kingdom in the reign of David II., who, after defeating the Eng-
in many battles, and quieting the slate of the nation (according to Buchanan),
to the north, to take a view of his possession there, died in 1338
buried at Rosemarkie.

</UNREADABLE>


