
                              PEEBLES.                          21

varies from 1s. to 3s. 6d. a-week.  In the return made lately by
the writer of this article to Parliament, the average allow-
ance for 1832 was 1s. 1O 1/2d. a-week.  In addition to the above,
there are 19 orphan children on the list, and one insane female
lodged at the rate of L. 18 a-year.  The whole annual expendi-
ture, calculating for seven vears, is L. 272. *   There has for some
years been rather a reduction than an increase.  No allowance is
made to persons out of employment, if able to work; but if, from
bad health, they can not earn a subsistence, parochial relief is given
without the session taking of any cognizance of their substance.  A dif-
ferent system prevails in England; and the writer of this article has
known the church-wardens dispose of a poor man's cow before they
granted him relief in his illness; the consequence of which was, that
no distinction being thus made between provident and improvident
habits, he continued a pauper for life.
   The poor are supported by the collections at the church doors,
averaging L.62 a-year,--by the interest of L. 700,-- by mortcloth
money, and voluntary contribution of the heritors, paid accord-
ing to the valuation of their lands.  Though they contribute about
two-thirds of the whole money expended on the poor, and though
only three paupers belong to the landward part of the parish, the
moderator of the kirk-session, at the half yearlv meetings, has only
to state how much money is required, and it is cheerfully granted,
with the exception of one individual, whose contribution would be
about L. 2 a-year, but who has long refused to pay. +

<FOOTNOTE>In this sum are included clothing and education for several of the children,--the
salaries of the treasurer and kirk officer--the fees of the synod and presbytery clerks, &c.
   The most objectionable part of the present system of managing the poor is the
law of settlement, the bad effects of which are forcibly experienced in this parish.
With the exception of two or three small villages, there is no other place than the
county town to which a labouring man can resort, when, by reason of bodily infir-
mities or advancing old age, he is not equal to the duties of an able-bodied man.  As
there are supernumerary cottages in the country parishes, he must give up his
house to his successor, and betake himself to the burgh, where lodgings of all descrip-
tion can be procured.  If he can struggle on for three years by jobbing, working on
the public roads, or by living on the savings of his industry, without applying for re-
lief to the parish in which his best years were spent, and which was benefitted by his
labour, when he can work no longer, or his means are exhausted, a settlement for
himself, or, in the event of his death, for his widow, is thus obtained in this parish.
We are thus burdened not with the poor either of the town or the landward part of
the parish, but by many from all the neighbouring county parishes.  This was an evil
so much felt so far back as 1749, that "the session, considering that there are several
poor old people come into this place and parish who likely will prove burdensome to the
poors' box, and who are not clothed with sufficient testimonials, do therefore appoint
the elders in their several bounds to take strict notice of such, and apply to the magis-
trates for their concurrence to remove them out of the place, unless they produce suf-
ficient testtimonials from their respective parishes to which they belong, and from
whence they come, that they are willing to receive them back as soon as they prove
troublesome and burdensome to this place." + The resolutions and enactments of the
   Session Record.


