
                                AYR.                               13

many years, and still is, worked to a great extent in the parishes of
Newton and St Quivox, on the opposite side of the river.
	From this position of the coal-fields we are enabled to ascertain
the direction of the strata, or slope of lower geological formation
of the parish. These strata rise by a gradual ascent towards the
southern boundary, which is formed by the Doon, immediately be-
yond which begins the range of Carrick hill. But in the stratifi-
cation, some remarkable phenomena have been discovered in
searching for or working coal. It has been already noticed, that
trap or whinstone forms the main body of the rock throughout
the parish, but it is here more diversified than usually occurs in
coal districts. In the coal formation, dihes, or vertical detached
strata are common, and, as is well known, present the most for-
midable and annoying obstruction to the operations of the miner.
In Ayr parish, basalt trap occurs not only in these perpendicular
walls, cutting through or deranging the coal seams, but also sends
out protrusions and ramifications on all sides, and at various angles
of inclination. These branches or streams, for the whole appears
as if it had been once fluid, have penetrated between the other
solid strata, destroying thus the, seams of coid. This is doubtless
the cause why these seams, which in the neighbouring parishes to
the north of the Ayr are wrought to so much advantage, are un-
productive here. One seam of coal, which would otherwise be
valuable, is known to be overlaid by one of these horizontal beds
of trap, to the thickness of twenty-four feet.
	Mineralogy.--The mineralogy in this parish is not of much im-
portance. There are no metals to be found, nor-metalliferous
ores, which deserve particular notice. Along the shore, some fine
specimens of agate are occasionally met with; and in the bed of
the Ayr is procured the peculiar species of, clay-stone, with mi-
nute grains of dark felspar and mica, so well known over the
country by the name of Water of Ayr stone, and used so general-
ly as a whetstone for fine-edged tools, and for polishing marble and
metals. The organic remains which have been discovered occur
chiefly in the dark shale which accompanies the freestone and coal
formation. These consist of beautiful impressions of ferns, and
trunks, and branches of trees, imbedded in the masses of the stra-
ta. A freestone quarry was formerly worked near the town, but
it is now abandoned, and supplies of stone for building have to be
brought from the neighbouring parishes. The stone, besides, was
so far under the surface, that the working was expensive.


