
284                  KINCARDINESHIRE.

mansion houses on the other estates are in the occupancy of the
respective tenants of the lands. The house of Bridgeton is plea-
santly situated on a rising ground near the eastern extremity of
the parish. There is an excellent garden attached to it; and,
from the regular. disposition of the grounds, and some belts of
wood lately planted, the place has altogether an appearance of
much neatness. The mansion-house of Lauriston, a little to the
west of Bridgeton, occupies the site of the ancient fortress of Lau-
riston. It is a spacious, elegant building, erected some years
after the purchase of the lands, by their late proprietor, Mr Brand,
and united, as before-mentioned, to a portion of the old castle,
which was then standing. The situation, on the brink of a per-
pendicular precipice, overhanging a deep wooded ravine, is exceed-
ingly romantic, and the walks, approaches, bridges, and planta-
tions by which the grounds are adorned, render this place one of the
most delightful residences in the county. The mansion-house of
Mount Cyrus, the prnpdrty of Mr Grant, stands on a rising ground
to the north-west of the church and village of St Cyrus. It is a
substantial and graceful building, with a neat approach and ex-
tensive lawn in front, and, with its young, and thriving plantations,
by which it is on all sides surrounded, imparts an agreeable aspect
to this part of the parish. The house of Kirkside, which, with
the estate, lately came into the possession of Mr Graham Stra-
ton, on the death of his relative, Lieutenant-General Sir Joseph
Straton, is a substantial modern buildifig, situated near the southern
extremity of the parish, and acommanding a prospect of the bay,
town, and basin of Montrose, with the rich and diversified scenery
around.
	The materials employed for building, and of which the parish
affords an abundant supply, are, for the most part, the red sand-
stones of Lauriston and Woodston. Some of the older buildings
are constructed of the sandstones of the Whitecraig, others of the
trap rocks of the cliff of Kirkside, and a few houses on the west
side of the parisb, are built chiefly of the flagstones and shales of
the den of Canterland.

		      III.--POPULATION.

	Since the date of Dr Webster's enumeration, there have been
ten returns of the population. The returns from the years
1781 to 1792 inclusive, are copied from the former Statistical
Account. They appear to have been made by the incumbents of


