
                            AUCHTERHOUSE.        	  653

years duration. And in prosecuting these improvements on damp
thin soils, incumbent on a tilly bottom, the till-plough is now
used, and Smith of Deanston's system of furrow-draining is prac-
tised, with the best effect. The sickle and scythe are generally
employed for cutting down the grain crops, but on one farm, Bell's
reaping-machine has been used for several years. When propel-
led by two horses, it cuts and lays in lines neatly and regularly at
the rate of an acre per hour,--but it is not adapted to uneven
surfaces, nor to crops much laid down.
	Planting.--The Earl of Airlie and the Earl of Camperdown
have planted on their estates in this parish to a great extent. The
Earl of Airlie has planted on Sidla hill, nearly 800 acres; and
the Earl of Camperdown, on the moors of Dronly and Adamstown,
nearly 300; the plants were of larch, spruce, Scotch fir, rowan,
elm, ash, plane, beech, nn the hills and moors; but of these only
the spruce and Scotch fir promise to do well; in hedge-rows and
for ornamental plantations, plane, ash, elm, beech, chestnut, and
lime have been planted and are growing rapidly.
	Mining.--For several years previous to 1889, and after the
railway to Dundee was opened, mining in three different places
on the barony of Auchterhouse was actively prosecuted, and yield-
ed above L. 100 of rent annually to the proprietor, and gave con-
stant employment to fifty masons and labourers. But for the last
three years, all operations in these three quarries have been suspend-
ed, in consequence of the demand for building materials being
nearly extinguished by the pressure of the times. At present only
one quarry, on the estate of Scotstown, gives a little employment
to five or six men, at a rent of from L.30 to L.35. But the ex-
pense of working can hardly be provided for by the value of its pro-
duce. Under circumstances, however, that might give encourage-
ment to building, the prosecution of mining, with the facilities for
conveyance to Dundee, which the railway affords, would prove a
source of considerable revenue to the proprietors, and give em-
ployment to many industrious labourers.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town, &c.--Dundee is the nearest market-town to this
parish. Easy access hs obtained to it, either by the Dundee and
Newtyle turnpike road, or by the Dundee and Newtyle Railway.
The turnpike road takes a direction for about four miles from the
south to the north extremities of the parish; it crosses two streams
by good bridges, and is always kept in the best state of repairs.


