
<TABLE=STONYKIRK.>   						      165

                                 STONYKIRK.

Number of houses inbabited,                                            552
	  families in the parish,                                      571
          families chiefly engaged in agriculture,                     435
		               trade, manufactures, or handicraft,      99
	There are tbree persons in the parish fatuous.

<TABLE=Industry>
                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture.-
The number of acres cultivated or occasionally in tillage, is                  19100
		    constantly waste,                                           2300
		    under wood,                                                  375
		    supposed capable of being brought under cultivation with
			a profitable application of capital,                    1115
	The farm-steadings in the parish, with few exceptions, are in a
very commodious state. The farmers prefer the cultivation of
wheat to that of barley. They practise the system of grain-crop-
ping, and a farmer who, at the time of the old Statistical Ac-
count, could not produce three square yards of turnips in his gar-
den, can now have a field of 20 acres.
	Upon the whole, the modern system of farming, including re-
claiming waste land, draining, &c. is practised in the parish and
on the most approved plan; and for respectability, politeness, and
intelligence, the farmers of Stonykirk need not shrink from a com-

parison with those of any parish in this district of Scotland.
        Rental.-The rental of the parish amounts to L. 12,000 per
annum.
        Quarries, Mines, &c.-There are none of these worked in the
parish; and the salt manufacture noticed in last account is quite
neglected, as is the cultivation of flax.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The nearest market-town is Stranraer, about six miles distant
from the church. It is also the nearest post-town; but, under the
new post-office regulations, we have a petty office at the village
beside the kirk, one at Sandhead, and another between that and
Kirkmaiden,-also an intermediate station between this parish and
Stranraer.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated about two
miles from the Bay of Luce. It stands about six miles distant
from the southern boundary, and nearly the same distance from
the north-western limits of the parish. Though capable of ac-
commodating nearly 1000, it is still too limited for the popula-
tion when the inhabitants are disposed to attend. It was erected
in 1927. The sittings may be considered as all free. The manse
was erected about fifty years ago. It since received a new kit-


