
     Of North Uist.

There are no farms here fit for sheep; but every te-
nant endeavours to rear as many as will furnish him
with a little mutton and wool for clothing.  They never
thrive so well as to enable the tenant to export any.  The
number of sheep in the whole parish may amount to near
5000, of a very small unmixed breed, covered with fine
short wool, of which about 15 fleeces go to a stone.  The
price of a sheep with lamb is 4 s. 6 d. and of a wedder the
same.

   Implements of Husbandry.-Although no country can be
more capable of being improved than this, little has hi-
therto been done to recover it from a state of nature.  The 
implements of husbandry, with very few exceptions, are the
same kind that were used a century back.  The plouhg ge-
nerally used is little known any where else beyond the
Long Island.  It is drawn by 4 horses, has only one handle,
which the person who directs it holds in his right hand, as
he walks beside it, having in his left a lash to drive the
horses.  Before this plough is a machine drawn by one
horse, to which is fixed a crooked iron, of the form of a
reaping-hook, to cut the ground, so that the plough may
turn it up with greater facility.  The number of men and
horses requisite to keep this plough a-going, makes it very
expensive.  It requires one man to direct the plough, and

<FOOTNOTE>

plough used here requires more horses to keep it agoing than any other;
that the fuel is carried in the same manner that the manure is, at the
distance of a mile and a half and a miles in some places; that the kelp
ware is led by horses from the shore to the drying ground, and from thence
to the kilns, in which it is to be burnt; the occasion for such a number of
horses will in some measure be accounted for.  The great number of
working horses requisite to carry on the bussiness of the farmer does not
allow him to keep breeding mares, so that horses are in great numbers
yearly imported from the isle of Sky and Lewis, which occasions a con-
stant drain of cash from the parish.


