
                              INVERKEILOR.                       243

situated a little from the south end of Lunan bay, among the rocks.
But it is now seldom that a boat can go out to fish, as the old men
are afraid to venture, and the young men seek employment where
there is greater encouragement. There is a salmon-fishing in the
sands of Lunan bay by a stake-net; and one has been lately com-
menced in the sea belonging to the estate of Ethie by a suspension
net, as the rocky shore will not admit of stakes. The rents of
these are about L.140.
    Produce.--The yearly amount of wheat, barley, and oats, is
about 18,000 bolls. The produce of potatoes, turnips, and all
green crops cultivated for food is about L. 5,400; of hay and
sown grass, (no meadow hay,) about L.3,600 ; of land in pasture
there may be about 2500 acres. The annual thinning of woods
may bring about L.100.
    Quarry.--There is at Leysmill, in this parish, a quarry for
pavement, where it is dressed by machinery driven by a steam-
engine. This work gives employment to about fifty men. It be-
longs to Mr Carnegie of Boysack.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    Market-Town.--The nearest market-town is Arbroath. A post-
office is situated near the church at Chance inn.
    Means of Communication.--The length of turnpike road in the
parish is, of the road betwixt Arbroath and Montrose, by Chance
inn, nearly two miles; and of the road betwixt Arbroath and For-
far, through the west end of the parish, two miles. Besides the
mail-coach, there are other two coaches passing and repassing
every day by Chance inn; and carriers' carts every day. There
are five, bridges in the parish over the Lunan in good condition.
    Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situated near the
east end of the parish, and is not convenient for the western part
of it. It was built 100 years ago, is in decent repair, and was lately
enlarged by an aisle. It affords accommodation to about 700; but
the people at the west end, being at a great distance, generally at-
tend divine service at Kinnell, which lies nearer them. There are
no free sittings.
     The manse was built in 1795, and received an addition a few
years ago. The glebe is five acres in extent. The stipend 16
chalders, Linlithgow measure, of victual, payable at the fiars prices.
No chapels of ease; and no SecediDit chapels: and there are but
one family of Dissenters in the parish, and two of Episcopalians.
Divine service at the Established church is well attended, and the


