
    			    BIGGAR.                            359

the, people of the district, which leave little doubt of the engage-
ment. Blind Harry says it was fought on marshy ground, and
tradition points to a low-lying field south-east from Biggar where
pieces of broken armour have often been gathered. The remains
of a camp are also to be seen at no great distance. The English
are said to have approached the field by Cors-Cryne, and the
Scots, from their encampment on Tinto. Wallace, it is told, some
time before the battle, gained admission to the enemy's camp, dis-
guised as a cadger offering to sell provisions. By this means, he
ascertained their strength and position, but had no sooner depart-
ed than suspicion rose, and he was instantly pursued. On reach-
ing a bridge over Biggar water, at the west end of the town, he
turned on his pursuers, and putting the foremost to death made
good his escape. There is still a foot bridge over the stream to the
west of Biggar, which has been called from time immemorial "the
cadger's brig." On the north side of Bizzyberry, are a hollow
rock and a spring called Wallace's seat and Wallace's well.
	Biggar was probably the rendezvous of the Scots army, which
under Sir Simon Frazer achieved the victory at Roslin in 1302.
It is at least certain that the army marched from Biggar to Ros-
lin during the night previous to the battle.
	When Edward II. invaded Scotland in 1310, penetrating
through Selkirk to Renfrew, he spent the first six days of October
in Biggar.
	When the Scots army, after Cromwell's victory in Fife in 1651,
marched to England by Biggar, Leslie, according to Whitelock,
"summoned Bigger, and the governour returned a resolute an-
swer, that he kept it for the commonwealth of England." The
place thus summoned must have been Boghall Castle, which was
in 1651 garrisoned by the English. As Cromwell followed the
tract of the Scots army, he would probably halt some time at Biggar.
	In 1715, Lockhart, younger of Carnwatb, raised a troop in this
neighbourhood for the service of the Pretender, which after ren-
dezvousing some time at Biggar, went to Dumfries, and joined
Lord Kenmure.
	Family of Fleming.--The manor of Biggar was given by David I.
to Baldwin, a Flemish leader, whose descendants, though locally
designed of Biggar, retain to this day the original surname of Flem-
ing. Baldwin was Sheriff of Lanark in the reign of Malcolm IV.
and it has been supposed that this office became for some time he-
reditary in his family. The Flemings of Biggar appear to have


