
     Statistical Account

late years advanced in price, especially such as are fit for hus
bandry and carting.  Black cattle are generally of a good
size, being bred from large English bulls.  Although there are
not any stock farms, properly so denominated, in the parish,
particular attention has been paid to the breed of sheep within
these few years.  Their wool is much finer, and consequently
is rising in price, which is from 15 s. to 16 s. at an average
per stone.  There are 16 lb. of 24 oz. to the pound in the
stone.  The sale has been very quick, and the demand still con-
tinues.  The inclosing of land with hedge and ditch is now
prevalent, and meets the inclination of the farmer, who finds
his profit and convenience thereby.  They allow their land-

<FOOTNOTE>

at 30 s. the boll used in this country; barley from 15 s. to 18 s.; oats 15 s.;
pease and rye at 16 s.  The demand from other places frequently makes a con-
siderable alteration in the market.  Oatmeal is always sold by the stone weight,
the same as butcher meat, the medium price about 1 s. 6 d. 16 stones to a boll;
beef usually 3 1/2 d. the pound; veal, mutton, and lamb, at 3 d.; pork 4 d.; geese
1 s. 6 d. stript of their feathers and ready for use; ducks and hens 8 d; turkeys 2 s.
6 d.; all at an average.  The wages paid to domestic servants have increased much
since the improvements in agriculture took place; a man receives annually 7 L.
and a woman 50 s. with maintenance; day labourers 8 d.; women 6 d; wrights,
10 d.; mesons 1 s. in summer, and 10 d. in winter; taylors 8 d.; turnip hoers and
hay makers, 8 d.; a man for harvest work 1 s., and a woman 9 d., with their
diet.  Hinds, who provide their own diet, are allowed a free house, grass for
their cow in summer, and fodder during winter and spring, 8 bolls of oats for
meal, 2 bolls of barley, 1 boll of pease for family bread, and 1 firlot of potatoes
planted.  Every cottager pays the rent of the house by harvest labour, has a
small spot of ground adjoining to the habitation, for furnishing cabbage and
pot-herbs, some potatoes planted in the field, hut sown, and sometimes potatoes
or barley, as far as their dung covers the surface.  These cottagers, with their
families, are eagerly desired by the farmers, ready at a call upon every emer-
gency, employment being given to their children from the age of 8 or 10 years
and upwards, according to their respective abilities.  Since the cultivation of
turnips became so universal, these cottages are valued at one guinea rent through
the year:  The family are provided with turf brought home by their master.
These houses are never left unoccupied, although reared at the expence of the
farmer.


