
26                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

pledged was L.225,710, to meet the interest on which an income
appeared of L.10,042, while the value of the property belonging
to the town was L.139,440, exclusive of the value of feus in the
new streets, estimated at L.106,851; so that time only appeared
to be required to enable the treasury to overcome its difficulties. A
committee of trustees was appointed, and, by careful management,
his objqct was attained in a few years; and the last yearly accounts
just published show a revenue of L.20,452, with an expenditure
of L.17,084.  About the same time attempts were made to open
the set of the burgh, and the subsequent election of magistrates
having been informal in some respects was set aside, and certain
individuals were named by the Court of Session to act until the
next day of election.  Since that time the Burgb Reform Act has
been passed, and the election of the council is now placed pretty
much on the same footing as it originally was,-the magistrates be-
ing chosen by the council thus elected out of their own number.
   Eminent Men.-It would not be easy, and perhaps it is not ne-
cessary, to draw the line very nicely between those men of talents
and celebrity who have lived in Aberdeen, and those who have
been principally connected with Old Aberdeen.  The notice here
given can only embrace a few of the principal, and must necessarily
be very brief.
   John Barbour was born in 1330, and is said to have been the
son of a citizen who lived in the Castlegate.  He is known by his
office of Archdeacon of Aberdeen, and as the author of the me-
trical history of Robert Bruce, whieb9 as Mr Kennedy naively
re marks, "has not yet lost its reputation," adding, "the style
of his composition is regarded by the learned of both kingdoms as
an ornament to our language, and not inferior to that of his con-
temporary Chaucer."
   David Anderson of Finzeauch, commonly known by the appel-
lative of "Davie do a'-thing," was noted for his mechanical genius,
in the year 1618 promoted the improvement of the harbour,
by removing a large rock which la in the middle of the channel
at its entrance.
   George Jamieson, the son of Andrew Jamieson, a burgess of
Aberdeen, who was born about 1586, is deservedly celebrated as a
painter of portraits, and his pictures are remarkable for their soft-
ness and the clearness of the colouring.  Lists of them are given
in Mr Thom's history of Aberdeen, and in the Statistical Account
in 1797.  It may be out of place to notice, that there are still
preserved, at the back of the magistrates' gallery in the West


