
     of Inveraray

danger of losing their rank, usefulness and influence in the
scale of society.  In this parish the munisicence of the no-
ble patron has left no ground for this remark; yet he must
be totally void of all sensibility, who would not feel for
such as have been thus situated, and whose lines have been
cast in less pleasant places.*-As an instance of longetivity
in this parish, it may be mentioned, that Provost Brown,
late of Inveraray, when 100 years old, headed one of the
contending parties at a shinty match, (a game peculiar to
North Britain, something similar to the golf,) and carried the
town's colours in procession among the victors.  He died in
the 116th year of his age.-It is believed that the farmers of
a country, when not oppressed by too heavy rents, are among
the most happy, and, upon the whole, the most virtuous class
of the community.  To diminish their number, by the union of
farms, will neither add to the population, nor to the morals
of a state, though it may augment the rent roll of an estate,
particularly one, better adapted for pasture than cultivation.
On the other hand, to subdivide farms into very small sepa-
rate lots, unless these be occupied by artificers or day-labourers,
who will have it in their power, constantly to earn day wages,
when not usefully employed on their possessions, must be
equally prejudicial to the interests of proprietors and pos-
sessors.  In this, as in all other matters, extremes ought
to be avoided. It were devoutly to be wished, that the
general improvement of the country were promoted as
much as possible; and, it is believed, that it would have a

     VOL. V. Q q

<FOOTNOTE>

*The situation of the parochial schoolmasters of Scotland, also, loudly
claims the compassion of the landed interest, and their patience and meri-
torious services require a more adequate reward, than they at present enjoy.
Like the subalterns of the army, they seem justly intitled to the attention
of the public; nor it is a satisfactory answer to say, that on every va-
cancy, there are many candidates in both professions; for so there will be for
the office of beadle of Inveraray, which must e'er long be vacant, as the
present one is above eighty years of age.


