
504                        LANARKSHIRE.

of what took place on the Solway, or emerge quietly and unob-
served from their subterraneous abode, has never been ascertained.
	Modern buildings, &c.--The mansion-houses of Gilkerscleugh
and Glespin are in a very dilapidated condition and could not ac-
commodate any respectable families without undergoing extensive
repairs.
	There is only one mill in the parish, in which are ground oats,
bear, and pease.
	Historical notices.--Chalmers, in his Caledonia, mentions, that
the lands of Crawfordjohn, having come into the possession of co-
heiresses, were long held in two shares or half baronies,--that they
were united in the time of James V., when Sir James Hamilton of
Finart, bastard son of the Earl of Arran, acquired one-half of the
barony, and obtained the other half from his father,--that his succes-
sors, the Hamiltons of Crawfordjohn and Avondale, held the barony
and the patronage of the church during the reign of Mary and a
great part of the reign of her son,--that before 1625, the barony
and patronage were purchased by James Marquis of Hamilton,--
and that in 1693 the Duke and Duchess of Hamilton conferred
them on their youngest son Charles Earl of Selkirk.
	Towards the end of the last century, they were purchased from
the Earl's descendant by the late Sir George Colebrooke, one of
whose sons is the present proprietor.
	By a charter of Charles II. (18th January 1668) to Anne
Duchess of Hamilton, the village of Crawfordjohn was made a
burgh of barony, with the privilege of a weekly market and an-
nual fairs.
	Part of the rebel army, in the end of 1745, came through this
parish on their way to Glasgow, and the tradition is, that they were
in a very disorderly state. So late as 1820, I saw a cheerful old
man, the late tenant at Coldchapel, playing on the ice, and heard
him in the evening, when bantered by his companions concerning
his age, admit that he was strong enough in 1745 to provide him-
self with a musket, taken forcibly from one of the rebels.

			III.--POPULATION.
	In the former Statistical Account, the following table of the
population is given, viz.

<TABLE=Population>
			   In 1755		765
                              1761		550
                              1788		620
                              1790		590
	In the first of these numbers I conceive there must be a typo-
graphical error. For, upon conversing with persons upwards of


