
                          TORPHICHEN.                            53

but cannot be let to any others, except by private bargain between
the parties themselves. There are about fifty-eight sittings not
allocated, in what are, called the table-seats, where, consequently,
the poor may sit free. The manse, was built above 100 years ago,
and enlarged about thirty years ago, since which time it has
obtained no repairs.  The glebe is above eleven acres, only six of
which are arable.  It lets in grass for about L.13.  The stipend
is L.150, of which L.25, 7s. is granted by the Exchequer.
   There has been a new church built by  subscription at Black-
ridge.  It was opened for public worship on the first Sabbath of
June 1838.  A minister has been recently chosen for it, who is to
be supported by the seat-rents and collections, by which it is hoped-
that about L.60 will be obtained. It cannot yet be stated what
number of people may attend the church at Blackridge, as it is not
yet in full operation, consequently the respective numbers of
Churchmen and Dissenters in that district cannot be stated.  The
attendance at the parish church is almost equal to the amount of
accommodation afforded by the church, and is very regular. The
average amount of communicants is 350.  Average church collec-
tions for charitable purposes, L.25; for religious purposes, L.12.
   Education.-There are three schools in the parish, of which two
are parochial, and one unendowed. The branches of instruction
generally taught in each are, reading, writing, arithmetic, mensu-
ration, book-keeping, and rarely Latin. The salary of the paro-
chial schoolmaster at Torphichen is the maximum; at Blackridge
L.29 of a mortification and 100 merks.
   Libraries.-There are two parochial libraries in the parish, one
at Torphichen, the other at Blackridge, both of which are pretty
well supplied with books, well selected, and carefully perused.
   Friendly Societies.-There is one Friendly Society.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 18; the sum allotted to each varies
considerably, but the average, including house-rents, is about
L.4, 14s. 6d. per annum, or about 1s. 9d. weekly. The annual
amount of church-door collections is about L.25; from sums mor-
tified, or otherwise disposed at interest, there is obtained about
L.25; and the heritors have assessed themselves voluntarily to
the amount of about L.35 per annum, making the sum annually
expended for the maintenance of the poor about L. 85. It is to
be regretted, that the lofty and generous reluctance to receive pa-
rochial aid, formerly characteristic of the poor, is declining, and


