

                     ABBEY ST BATHANS.                      113

ment and well-being of man. The interest awakened by these ob-
jects is at the same time heightened by the natural scenery amidst
which they occur. *
   A substantial foot bridge has lately been erected over the Whit-
adder, which is a great convenience to the neighbourhood, a boat
having been formerly the only means of crossing the stream. To
the eye, of the traveller, whose way lies through this romantic spot,
nothing can be more striking than the contrast between it and the
barren heaths, which on one side or other he must pass to reach it.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated convenient-
ly for the population, its distance from the remotest part of the
parish not exceeding two miles. It is at present in a good state
of repair, and affords accommodation for 140 persons. The seats
are apportioned to the several heritors according to their valued
rents, and are occupied by the tenants and their servants.
   The manse was built in 1822. The extent of the glebe is
about fourteen acres of arable land, worth about L. 1 per acre
yearly rent. The stipend is one of those augmented by Govern-
ment to L. 150, besides an allowance of L. 8, 6s. 8d. for commu-
nion elements. The sum received annually from the Exchequer
is L. 93, 16s. 4d. As the larger part of the stipend, namely,
L. 137, 11s. 5d., is payable in money, the whole amount from
year to year is not much affected by the variation in the fiars.
   With the exception of four or five families, the inhabitants at-
tend the Established church. But besides the parishioners, a number
of individuals from the outskirts of the surrounding parishes find it
more convenient to attend public worship at this place than at their
several parish churches, on account of the distance. From this cause,
not only are the numbers increased of those who attend the ordina-
ry service of the Sabbath, but also the number of communicants
exceeds what the parish itself would naturally furnish, the num-
ber being usually above eighty. There is no dissenting meeting-
house or chapel within the bounds of the parish.

<FOOTNOTE> Along each side of the Whitadder, a fertile haugh stretches for upwards of a quar-
ter of a mile; beyond which the hills that wall in the valley rise on all sides, with
considerable steepness. The ground on the north side of the vale rises abruptly from
the haugh, and presents a bank finely covered with natural wood. The slope which
forms the south side of the vale is cultivated to a considerable height, and portions
of it are planted with larch and Scotch fir, intermingled with the elm, the oak, and
the ash; but still rising higher as it recedes, it at last presents nothing but its natu-
ral covering of heath. At each end of the valley, besides the opening by which it
receives and transmits the Whitadder, there opens a beautiful dell from north-west-
ward, with its appropriate brook. These romantic objects, joined with its attractions
connected with human life, render this vale, although sequestered, a cheerful and
pleasant habitation.

   BERWICK.                                     H



