
                         FALKIRK.                             3

ague were prevalent to a considerable extent, especially in the
Carse; but now, from the superabundant moisture being drained
off, and probably from the condition of the population being im
proved, ague is quite unknown.
   Mineralogy.-Coal is found in the higher districts, in such
abundance as not only to be sufficient for home consumption, but
quantities are sent by the Union Canal for the supply of the me-
tropolis. Ironstone, limestone, and sandstone are found in the
same districts with the coal, one stratum of limestone being often
found above, and another below a stratum of coal. Veins of ores of
silver, copper, lead, and cobalt are said to have been raised at diffe-
rent periods, but not in considerable quantities. In some parts of
the Carse, borings have been made, not to such a depth as to enable
us to speak with certainty respecting the mineral contents; but
as the locality is almost in the centre of the great northern coal
basin, there is every reason to believe that coal may there be found,
and of good quality.
   Hydrography.- As already stated, the parish is bounded on the
north by the Carron. This river, famed in Celtic antiquities,
and rendered classic from its connection with incidents in Scottish
history, takes its rise in the central parts of the county. It flows
in an easterly direction with a sinuous course for about fourteen miles,
and joins the Forth a little below the port of Grangemouth. At
full tide, it is navigable for vessels of 200 tons burden, as far as the
village of Carronshore, which may be two miles from its embou-
chure. Above this it is a transparent stream, and abounds with
trout, perch, eels, &c.; but farther down it has a muddy bed, by
which the water is discoloured. It seeks its way to the Forth
through a deposit of the richest alluvial matter.
    A rivulet at Castlecary divides the parish on the west from
Cumbernauld, in the county of Dumbarton. Here there is a cas-
cade of eighty feet in height, embowered in overhanging woods.
A little to the northward, the rivulet joins Bonnywater, separating
this parish from Denny and from a part of Dunipace. This stream
falls into the Carroin, about a mile below the village of Bonnybridge.
    The Grange-burn divides the parish from Polmont for two miles
on the cast. It has its rise in the upper part of the parish of Pol-
mont, and, running northward, unites with the Carron near Grange.
mouth. Formerly its junction was at that town, but, by a recent
alteration, afterwards described, the stream joins the Carron far-
ther down.


