
                       ST VIGEANS.                           499

   Within these few years, an occupation has been taken up in Ar-
broath which is threatening to change the habits of part of the
population; it is that of brokers who afford ready accommodation
to the inconsiderate to part with their necessaries, and thus in-
crease their misery. Forty years ago, few females were employed
at the loom; now, on the lighter fabrics, they are employed in
numbers, as stated particularly in the account in this paper of
"Manufactures" by Mr Canning.

<TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY>

   The extent of land in this parish is 13,400 acres, consisting of,
		Arable in present cultivation,             11,440
		Not cultivated, but capable of being so,      450
		Not suited for cultivation,                   280
		Land under plantations of wood,               840
		Suburbs of Arbroath in houses and gardens,     90
		Roads, quarries, streams,                     300
                                                ______
                                     Total,    13,400

   There are eleven miles of turnpike roads, five of railroads, and
thirty miles of roads repaired by the commutation or parish road
money. All these are favourably situated for the accommodation
of the parish and public.
   Rent of Land, &c.-The rental of land in this parish is exceed-
ingly various,-pendicles near Arbroath paying about L.6 per im-
perial acre, and an extensive farm paying only at the rate of 6s.,-
the latter on an old lease. There are now only three extensive farms
on old leases, all the rest of the parish being fully if not over-rent-
ed. There is now no undivided common. The woods in the pa-
rish consist mostly of larch, with a mixture of Scotch fir, beech,
and elm. Like most of the soil of the east coast, the soil is not
particularly favourable for the growth of wood.
   The total landed rental of the parish is L.15,500; the police ren-
tal within the suburbs of Arbroath for houses and gardens L.6905;
total, L.22,405. And, deducting L.500 for woods and waste
ground, the average rental of arable land per acre is L.1, 5s. 6d.
   The recent agricultural improvement is furrow-draining, chiefly
by flat stones coupled in setting, and covered by small stones.
Some estates have been ameliorated by trench-ploughing. Bone-
manure for the turnip, one-half fed off by sheep, is also not un-
common.
   The subjoined account may be considered as giving the rent,
cropping, and produce of what may be reckoned one of the supe-
rior or model farms of the parish, with every advantage for ma-
nure, green crop, town neighbourbood, and management.


