
     Of Kirkmichael and Cullicudden.

2 cows; or by 2 horses and 2 cows.  The farms are ge-
nerally small, consisting of from 10 to 50 acres of arable
land; of which the rents are from 6 to 36 bolls, besides
money for vicarage and schoolmaster's salary, with wed-
ders, straw, turf, hens, chickens and eggs, either in
kind or at a moderate conversion.  With only one ex-
ception, a lease was never given in this parish for a
longer period than 7 years, till, in the year 1782, the
late Mr. George Munro gave leases to 2 tenants for 19
and 21 years: Since that time, many leases have been
given on the estate of Newhall for 21 years, besides
melioration for enclosing the farms, and bringing moor
into arable land* .

     M 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*As there has been no moss in this parish for near a century past, the
men and horses have been constantly employed, during summer, in cutting,
drying, and carrying home sandy turfs, or divots, from the Mull-bui,
which, at best, is but a wretched kind of fuel, and often rendered useless
by a few days rain, after all the expense of time and labour bestowed up-
on it.  When the season is rainy, as often happens in this country, the si-
tuation of the people in this, and the neighbouring parishes, is truly de-
plorable, during the next winter and spring.  From recollecting their for-
mer miseries and hardships for want of fuel, there is, at present, an uncom-
mon degree of joy diffused among all ranks, and especially the poor, by
the late important and truly patriotic act of Parliament, which takes off
the late duty on all coals water borne to the N. of St. Abb's Head; a tax
which was partial and impolitic in the extreme, and has proved most ini-
mical to the agriculture, manufactures and happiness of the northern part
of the British empire.  As the north of Scotland has long distinguished it-
self in sending forth its thousands of brave and hardy sons to recruit our
armies on every appearance of public danger, it is now to be hoped, from
the many navigable friths with which it is intersected, the number of
people with which its coasts and glens are inhabited, and the free impor-
tation of coals, that its manufactures and trade will rapidly increase, and
soon enable it to contribute a great number of hardy seamen, as well as
soldiers, to repel the enemies of British liberty and property.-From the
superior quality of the grain, and the great quantity of barley distilled in
the Black Isle, the price of barley and meal is generally higher in this, than


