
38                            ORKNEY.

  Library.-A public library was established, nearly twenty years
ago.  It consists of a number of valuable books, and the leading
reviews of the day.  For some ears past, novels have been ex-
cluded, and works of a more solid character substituted in their
place.  The annual subscription is 7s.
  There is a Sabbath school library in connection with the Esta-
blished Church, and also one in connection with the Dissenting
congregation.
  Friendly Society.-Till very lately, a Friendly Society existed
in the town, but it 'was some years ago dissolved.
  Poor and Parochial Funds:- The average number of poor per-
sons upon the roll who receive quarterly allotments, is 85.  The
highest allowance is 4s. per quarter: but in general 2s. or 2s. 6d.
is the sum allotted quarterly.  In addition to this, however, some
allowance is made during winter for fuel; and in case. of sickness or
old age, the elder of the district where the pauper resides is em-
powered to give something additional.  Our sole dependence for
supporting the poor, is on the amount of collections made at the
church doors on Sabbath, and the fees for proclamation of banns,
and the use of mortcloth.   The ordinary collections for the last
eight years amount at an average to about L. 50 annually; and
extraordinary, to about L.20. In generalthe people are so very
poor, that they evince no reluctance to seek parochial relieE
There is no prison in Stroniness.  This greatly weakens the
authority of the magistrates, and is unfavourable to the morals of
this populous district. Were an efficient    jail erected, it would in-
timidate the lawless, and be an effectual means of preventing crime,
and the lesser delinquencies.
  Inns.-In town, there are 4 inns, kept by respectable persons, in
which good accommodation will be found, and every attention paid.
In town, the number of houses in which spirits and beer are sold
is 27, the number in which beer only is sold, 7; in all 34.
  Natural History Society.-Some time ago, a Natural His-
tory Society was instituted in town, the object of which was to
form a museum, and to collect specimens of the islands' produc-
lions, birds, fishes, shells, &c.  Considerable success has already
crowned the laudable undertaking.  A number of curiosities, do-
mestic and foreign, have already been placed in the museum.  A
respectable collection of the birds, &c. of Orkney has been made;
and soon. it is hoped, the museum will be an object worthy of
being inspected by the tourists who may visit this remote island.


