
                           GAMRIE.                         275

by hillocks surrounding a hollow, in which there seems to be a
spring, as the loch never dries. It is the nightly resort of wild-
geese, early in the spring, which, however, leave it before the
hatching season.
   There are several brooks or burns in the parish, and in general
it is well supplied with water. The burn of the Tore, or Nether
mill, (the name of the place at its entrance into the sea,) running
northward, at the bottom of a deep-wooded glen, separates tbe pa-
rish from that of Aberdour, about three or four miles, and is also
the boundary between the counties of Banff and Aberdeen. The
same boundary is then continued by the burn of Logie, which has
its source near the former, and runs in a contrary direction, se-
parating Gamrie from the parish of King Edward for several miles,
till it is joined by the burn of Minnonie on Pitgair. There is
something worth observing in the natural history of this last burn.
The deep ravine, already described, below the old church, rises
with a steep acclivity of ground for nearly a mile, preserving about
the same width and depth, to the highest ground on the farm of
Afforsk.  The den then continues a dead level for perhaps one
hundred yards or more, in a peat bog at the bottom, while the sides
are covered with furze, heath, and grass.  The water there sepa-
rates, going the one part north, to the sea at Gamrie bay, and the
other commencing a circuitous journey southward. After receiv-
ing contributions from a number of cross rills for about two miles,
till it becomes strong enough to turn a mill at Minnonie, it soon
after joins the burn of Logie, and, going southward and then west-
ward, past the church of King Edward, it joins the Doveran, runs
in it northward, through the parishes of King Edward, Alvah, and
Banff, till it meets again its old mother Gamrie, who, politely ten-
dering, her left arm, conducts it to the sea. The whole revolu-
tion from the den of Afforsk cannot be less than sixteen or eighteen

miles, while its twin brother has a short merry race among stones,
rocks, shrubs, and flowers, of less than one mile.
   There is a similar division of the water of Troup in the east,
which, rising on the farm of Northfield, runs parallel with the coast,
the one part eastward into the harbour of Cullycan, and the other
westward into the shore of Crovie. A like division also takes
place westward of the old church when one part runs east, into
the den of Afforsk, and the other west, parallel with the rocks to
the bay of Old Haven. Near its termination, viz. at the will of
Melrose, there is a steep and beautiful waterfall, that turns two


