
           904                         PERTHSHIRE.

           the others, but it has never been accurately ascertained.  The
           depth, of the others varies from 2 to about 20 feet.  The Monk-
           myre Loeb, as the name indicates, scarcely deserves the name of a
           loch, having been originally merely a shallow pool or " myre,"
           surrounded with moss and reeds, and abounding with marl, in the
           course of excavating which substance, it was gradually deepened,
           until it assumed the form of a small lake.   The rivers connected
           with the parish are the Ardle and Blackwater, which skirt part of
           the northern division of the parish,-the Ericht which is formed
           by the junction of these two near the bridge of Cally,-the Lunan,
           which partly bounds the parish on the south,-and the Lornty,
           which flows through part of the parish and falls into the Ericht,
           about half a mile above the town.       The two latter are more pro-
           perly large burns than rivers.  The Ardle rises among the Gram-
           piains, at the head of the valley of Strathardle, and, after a course
           of ten or twelve miles, forms a junction with the Blackwater.
           This last-mentioned stream has its source near the summit of
           the Cairnwell mountain, and flowing, under the Dame of Beg,
           through Glenbeg, debouches at the Spittal of Glenshee into
           Glenshee, where it is joined by the Tetnich water, and takes
           the name of the Shee for about six miles farther.    It then again
           changes its name to the Blackwater, which it retains until its
           junction with the Ardle, when the two united form the Ericht.
           The whole course of this stream to its junction with the Ericht is
           about twenty miles.  The Ericht flows along the north-east boun-
           dary of the parish, through the romantic scenery of Craighall, pas-
           res close by the town of Blairgowrie, and falls into the Isla at Cou-
           par Grange, after a course, under its own name, of about ten or
           eleven miles.  The upper part of its course, including that of the
           Shee and Blackwater, is very rapid and impetuous, particularly in
           winter, when, swelled with the torrents that pour into it from the
           hills. on both sides, it comes thundering down with headlong fury,
           carrying away everything moveable within its reach.  Close to the
           town of Blairgowrie, the bed of the stream has a considerable de-
           scent to the valley of Strathmore, and forms a small cascade call-
           ed the " Keath," which has been heightened by artificial means,
           so as to create, for the benefit of the fishings below, an obstruc-
           tion to the upward progress of the salmon from the sea.  In great
           floods, however, this contrivance is rendered of no avail, for at
           such times the impetuous torrent fills up the whole space betwixt                  'petuou.s toi,rent fills up the whole space betwixt
           the rocky banks so as to obliterate the fall altogether, and admit


