
	518                   FIFESHIRE.

	It once abounded with excellent trout, but their numbers are
	now greatly diminished; and, whether from the manufactures
	established on different parts of the river, or from the num-
	bers who go forth to fish with the natural flies, you must either
	adopt their cruel mode of fishing, or content yourself with an
	empty basket. There are several streams within the parish. Three
	of them are from the east; one from the south, and one from the
	west, unite near the village of Ceres, and form what is called
	Ceres burn. It passes through the village, and runs a mile and
	a half, north-east through the parish, and then enters the beautiful
	den of Dara, and shortly afterwards joins the Eden. Ceres burn,
	though at times an apparently harmless and insignificant rivulet,
	occasionally becomes a great and dangerous water. The sudden-
         ness of its swelling adds much to the danger. It has already wash-
	ed away one good stone bridge, * and has threatened its successor.
	There were once a good many trout in Ceres burn, but there are
	now very few. Every part of the parish is well supplied with springs
	or rivulets of excellent water. Several springs are impregnated
	with the quality of the soil out of which they arise. There is a
	mineral spring on the mains of Kirklands, the property of Mr
	Crichton. It possesses valuable medicinal qualities; and, being
	highly impregnated with carbonic acid gas, acts as a grateful sti-
	mulant.
              Geology, Soil, &c. The soil is of great variety. Along the
	banks of the Eden, in the north-west part of the parish, it is light
	and sandy, and chiefly lies upon a freestone rock. The greater
	part of the parish is a deep cold earth, lying upon whinstone rock,
	limestone rock, or tilly clay. In the neighbourbood of the village
	of Ceres, the soil is a free earth, lying upon gravel. The mosses
	and moors, which are mentioned in the former Statistical Account,
	are in great part rendered arable. Along the north side of the
	parish, there is abundance af freestone rock. Whinstone rock
	abounds on the south side. There are several quarries, which are
	very valuable either for the purposes of building or supplying the
	roads with metal. There is a quarry at Pitscottie, to which many
	Of the feuars in Cerer have free access in building their houses.
	There are quarries also at Kinninmonth and Craigrothie, which
	are very valuable for the purposes of building. On the farm of
	Newbigging of Cmighall there is a range of basaltic rock or pil-

         <FOOTNOTE>There is a very old and narrow bridge over this water. It stands adjacent to
	the present, and may likely outlive it, as it outlived its predecessor. Archbishop
	Sharpe crossed this old bridge in his last and fatal journey from Edinburgh to St
         Andrews, or rather to Magask moor.


