
			DUMFRIES.                                 25

head in Castledykes, "his brother-german," for poor orphans, and
for aged paupers of both sexes. A master and mistress reside in
the house, and the children are taught reading, writing, arith-
metic, and the principles of religion; after which they are sent to
service, or apprenticed to tradesmen. The comforts of the aged
inmates are well cared for; and, besides these, there are forty-
two widows, who receive pension at their private houses. The af-
fairs of the institution are under the excellent management of a
weekly committee of directors, the members of which are selected
from the kirk session, the town-council, and the inhabhtants. The
funds are derived partly from the interest of mortified money and
rent of lands, partly from annual subscriptions, and partly from
donations; and since its foundation, the Institution has received
donations, subscriptions, &c. amounting to more than L. 6000.
The house accommodates, upon an average, about thirty old, and
twenty young paupers. The annual expenditure is about L. 500.
Various attempts have been made to introduce some kind of han-
dicraft into the establishment, but hitherto without much success.
The girls, however, are taught to sew and to knit, and such of
the elderly females as are able, employ their time in that way;
the strongest of the men are engaged in dressing the garden, which
is pretty extensive.
	Infirmary and Dispensary.--The Infirmary was opened in the
outskirts of the town for the benefit of Dumfries-shire and Gal-
loway, in the year 1776, and is still the only institution of the
kind in the south of Scotland. As already intimated, a lunatic
asylum forms part of the institution, which has now obtained a
royal charter. Its income is derived from land and other invest-
ments of capital, and from legacies, donations, and subscriptions, in-
cluding parochial contributions, and liberal annual allowances from
the counties of Dumfries and Wigton, and the stewartry of Kirkcud-
bright. This is quite adequate to the expenditure,whibh may be stated
at L.1200 or L.1300 per annum. The average number of patients
is about 30; the number treated in the course of a year about
500; the number attended at their own homes about 470. The
Infirmary dispenses medicines, gratis, to outpatients, who do not
require to be visited. The medical attendants consist of two
physicians, two surgeons, and a house-surgeon or clerk. A licen-
tiate of the established church regularly officiates as chaplain. A
weekly committee of management is chosen from among the sub-
scribers. The donations and bequests to the Infirmary, within the


