
                           NEW MACHAR.			    1025

an equal ratio. There is good field for plantations in the parish,
and they are much wanted. Farmers have to drive wood from a
distance; and much might be done by enclosing with paling, if
wood were more plentiful. The people are generally industrious,
and a great change has taken place in their mode of living.

	June 1842.

  		           PARISH OF NEW MACHAR.

   	       PRESBYTERY OF ABERDEEN, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                     THE REV. GEORGE MOIR, MINISTER.

                 I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
    	Name.--IN the earlier registers, the parish is called the Upper
Parochine of St Machar; and in those of later date, Upper Ma-
char.  The modern name is New Machar, in contradistinction,
no doubt, to the name of the adjoining parish of Old Machar, of
which it originally formed a part.
    	Extent.--The length of the parish from north-west to south.
east may be 10 miles; average breadth about 2 1/2 miles
	Boundaries, &c.--It is bounded on the north and north-east, by
the parish of Udny; on the east, by the parish of Belhelvie; on
the south, by Old Machar and the river Don; and on the west,
by the parisfies of Fintray and Keith Hall. The greater part of
the parish is situated between gently Sloping hills of moderate ele-
vation, inclining from north-west to south-east, and is considera-
bly diversified by small hills, cultivated or under wood.
    	It may be noticed, that certain lands in the parish, called
the lands of Straloch, though surrounded on all sides by the
county of Aberdeen, are yet in the county of Banff; and farther,
that these lands, though forming part of the parish, are yet dis-
joined from it, by a section of the parish of Udny uniting itself to
the parish of Fintray. This portion of the parish of Udny, how-
ever, consisting of the lands of Torryleith, has, for a good many
years, by a decree of the Synod, been attached, quoad sacra, to
the parish of New Machar, and the lands of Straloch are now
rated and politically attached to the county of Aberdeen.
    	Meteorology.--No barometrical observations have, so far as the

        ABERDEEN.                                3 T


