
372                 GENERAL OBSERVATION

which are little, used, and which, without any loss either to indivi-
duals or the public, might with propriety be shut up.  In some places
of the district, the want of bridges to afford a safe passage over the
rapid streams. which intersect Berwickshire is severely felt, and
much complained of. In that part which is situated on the
lower extremity of the Whitadder, this is particularly the case.
The numerous fatal accidents that have occurred to persons at-
tempting to cross the rivers while in flood, have excited an al-
most universal anxiety that something should be done to prevent
the occurrence of such heart-rending visitations. Several of the
proprietors have shown a deep interest in providing a remedy, by
the erection of bridges; and it is hoped that the time is not distant
when measures will be taken to obviate this defect.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Though in the course of last century se-
veral unions of parishes took place, yet few are of an inconvenient
size.  In several parishes the churches being situated at their ex-
trernities, are rather inconveniently placed for the parishioners.  The
largest parishes in point of territorial extent are those of Lauder
and Coldingharn, both of which comprise vast tracts of unimprov-
ed and unimprovable moor.  In the latter parish, there is a Cha-
pel of Ease at Renton, where a preacher regularly officiates.  It
is doubtful whether sufficient permanent funds could be obtained to
justify the presbytery in ordaining a clergyman in this Chapel.  The
most populous parishes are Dunse and Coldstream.  The smallest
parish in point of extent is Eyemouth, and the least populous Ab-
bey St Bathans.  There are about fourteen Dissenting meeting-
houses of various denominations. *

<FOOTNOTE>Part of the parish of Oldhamstocks is situated in Berwickshire, and detached at a
considerable distance from the rest of the parish, which is in East Lothian. In all
other matters, except quoad sacra, it forms a part of the former county.


