
282                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

cent object.  A striking proof of the great humidity of the at-
mosphere, is the tendency which trees and bushes have to be co-
vered with moss, when they have stood a year or two in the ground.
   Zoology.__This parish is well stocked with the game usual in si-
milar localities.  The rooks and wood-pigeons are, by their num-
bers and voracity, very destructive to the fields and gardens. There
is a heronry on the estate of Wells, in the immediate neighbour-
hood of the parish.  These birds build their nests in tall trees, and
are preserved with great care, as a thing rare in this part of the
country.  They are great enemies to the angler, by the destruc-
tion which they make among the trouts.  Among the rarer birds
may be mentioned the most beautiful of all British birds, the hal-
cyon or kingfisher, on the banks of the Rule; the cross-bill (Lox-
ia curvirostra.) The golden-crested wren occurs, but it is very
rare.
   Insects.--Of the almost innumerable tribes of the insect race,
it would be impossible to give any adequate account, even if the
writer were sufficiently conversant with the subject to manage the
task. But it is deserving of notice, that he observed last season,
in the vicinity of the manse, a species of butterfly, which has hither-
to been supposed to be confined to England, namely the brimstone
butterfly (Gonepteryx Rhamni.)  The hitherto supposed absence
of this beautiful species from Scotland has been plausibly ascribed
to the great rarity of the plant Rhamnus catharticus, on which the
caterpillar feeds. The insect occurs in abundance, as far north as
York, and specimens are occasionally seen not much to the south of
the border; but this seems to be the first instance of its having been
observed In Scotland.  The turnip saw-fly (Athalia spinarum)
appeared in the parish last summer, and did some injury, although
not by any means to the same extent as in some of the adjoining
districts.
   Botany.--The few plants worthy of notice in the parish are the
following : Pyrola minor, woods about Wells; Fedia dentata, Ci-
chorium Intybus, meadows on the banks of the Rule, occasional,
probably introduced ; Epipactis latifolia, Euonymus Europ(ae)us,
Sanicula Europ(ae)a, Sanguisorba officinalis, Valeriana dioica. There
is a considerable extent of natural wood, consisting of birch, alder,
hazel wild-cherry, common and mountain ash.  The oak and all
kinds of fir seem to thrive well in this parish, especially the spruce.
On the estate ot Wells, in the immediate neighbourhood, there
are some splendid specimens of spruce and oak; but the old


