
                        DALKEITH.         489

  On the decease of the Countess Mary, she was succeded by
her younger sister, the Countess Anne, who was born at Dundee,
in 1651, about the time when it was besieged by General Monk.
She was married, on the 20th April 1663, to James Duke of
Monmouth, natural son of Charles II, and then only in his fif-
teenth year. On the day of their marriage, they were created
duke and Duchess of Buccleuch, and their marriage was ratified
by Act of Parliament.* Having had considerable experience in
foreign wars, his Grace was commissioned, in 1679, to oppose the
Covenanters in Scotland. Though successfull in that undertaking,
he was subsequently ordered to leave the kingdom, in consequence
of some state suspicious that he had incurred. On the death of his
father in 1685, he was induced to aspire to the throne, in opposition
to his uncle, James II. Being defeated and taken prisoner at the
battle of Sedgemoor, he was condemned without a trial, and executed
on the Tower Hill, on the 15th July 1685. By her marriage with
the Duke, which, from his loose habits, was far from being a
happy one, the Duchess had four sons and three daughters. She
was subsequently married to Lord Cornwallis, by whom she had
one son and two daughters. The Duke's personal estates and
property being forfeited to the Crown, were restored to her in
1687. Shortly afterwards she built the present palace at Dal-
keith, and occasionally lived there in princely splendour. She
died on the 6th February 1732, in the eighty-first year of her
age, and was buried in the aisle of Dalkeith.+
  Anne, Duchess of Buccleuch, was succeeded by her grandson,
Francis, His father, James, Earl of Dalkeith, second son of
Anne, by the Duke of Monmouth, lived chhietly in Flanders dur-
ing the reign of William, but returned to Scotland on the acces-
sion of Queen Anne, in 1702, and died in 1705, in the thirty-first
year of his age, leaving four sons and two daughters.
  Francis, second Duke of Buccleuch, son of James, Earl of
Dalkeith, was born on the 11th January 1695, and succeeded to
the estate in 1732. He was married to Lady Jane Douglas,
daughter of James, second Duke of Queensberry, and by her had
two sons and three daughters. She died at London on the 21st
August 1729, in the 29th year of her age, and "her remains were

<FOOTNOTE>*Acts of Scott. Parl. Vol. viii. p. 454-5, and p. 494.
+ For some brief characteristic traits of this celebrated Duchess, are Chambers'
Traditions of Edinburgh, Vol. ii. p. 42-44 (1825)

                              3



