
                             FOVERAN.                   701

derable sum of money was bequeathed by the late Mr Mather,
a native of this parish, for educating and clothing twenty poor
fishermen's children belonging to Newburgh.  The writer un-
derstands that the Magistrates of Aberdeen, Mr Mather's
Trustees, have established a school in the village for the educa-
tion of these twenty poor children.  The same benevolent
individual left L.20 per annum to the minister, or schoolmaster,
for lecturing once a-week to the poor people of the village.  The
minister preserves the right of lecturing in his own hands but the
duty has been performed during the last three years by the Rev.
Robert Abercrombie Gordon, our parish schoolmaster.  Mr Ma-
the left also four bursaries at Marischal College, under the pa-
tronage of the minister of Foveran, to be given to boys educated
at the parish school of Foveran.
   Means of Communication.-This parish is intersected by the
Aberdeen and Peterhead turnpike road, on which two mails pass
and repass daily.  There is also a daily coach from Aberdeen to
Ellon.  There are three public-houses on this line of road within
the parish.  Another turnpike road from Aberdeen to Methlick
touches the western extremity of the parish: and there is a most
useful turnpike road now completed, I believe, from Old Meldrum
to the village of Newburgh.  There are several good cross roads
which strike off from the Peterhead turnpike; and one of them in
particular, called "the Fiddes road," which branches off opposite
the Foveran Arms Inn, is most useful to the inhabitants of this
parish, as it joins the Udny turnpike road, and opens up a fine
conmunication with that part of the country.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, a plain substantial building,
was built in the year 1794, and accommodates about 700 people.
There are three very handsome marble, monuments on the inside
wall of the church, two of them belonging to the Foveran family;
and the third, which belongs to the Udny family, is a most valu-
able monument, (with busts said to be very striking likenesses of
two of that family,) and was executed at great expense, by Bacon,
the celebrated London sculptor.  Handsome churchyard, walls
have just now been built, with a fund bequeathed for that purpose
by the late Miss Robertson fo Foveran.  The atteendance of the
people at church is very exemplary, and their devout appearance
and great attention to the preacher have frequently been taken
notice of by strangers.  The number of communicants is upon
the average, bout 630.  Between 20 and 30 young communicants
come forward annually.


