
                           NESTING.                           55

fishing amounts to 2000 barrels per annum, and Mr Hunter's is in
proportion. Ling and cod, and tusk-fishing, called the Haaf Fish-
ery, commences in the beginning of June, and continues till July
and August. The produce, is sent to Leith. The greater part
of the male population is concerned in fishing;-and many men go
to the Greenland whale fishery.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-There are three churches, viz. at Nesting,
Whalsay, and Lunnasting. The church at Nesting is made for
the accommodation of the whole population at sacrament. Sker-
ries Church is sixteen miles distant from the mainland, and the
minister preaches there only once a-year. Whalsay is visited by
him eleven times in the year, and Lunnasting eleven times also.
It was intended that the Whalsay church should have been en-
dowed as a Parliamentary church; but, unfortunately, this ad-
vantage was not obtained. Lunnasting Church has been newly
repaired, and the seating is good. Whalsay Church has been
newly roofed; but the seating is not good or comfortable.
   The parish church of Nesting was built in 1794, and is in a
tolerable state of repair.
   The whole population belongs to the Established Church, ex-
cept thirty individuals, who are Methodists, Baptists, or Indepen-
dents.
   Stipend L.150; of which sum L.69 are received from Exche-
quer. The extent of the glebe is twelve marks and a-half.
   The manse was built in 1770. It was lately repaired, but again
needs repair.
   Education.-There is one parochial, and two adventure schools.
Three more are required. Education is, in this parish, at the
lowest ebb. The parish schoolmaster's salary is L.25 per annum,
and his fees do not exceed L.2 or L.3.
   Poor.-Average Dumber of paupers yearly on the permanent
roll for the three years 1835-36-37, 25. Average yearly amount
of church collections for these years, L.14, 2s. Id. Mortcloth
dues, &c. L.1, 8s.

<FOOTNOTE>Seventeen boats perished in 1832; seven of which belonged to Nesting. About
L.3000 were raised in Scotland and in London for relief of the widows; each widow
receiving L.3: each child under fourteen, 10s; and parents depending on sons, L.2.
This allowance they have got annually since 1832, and will get till 1848.

   June 1841.


