
			     TURRIFF.                           1005

lation, and driven them to out-door work ill suited to their consti-
tution and character. Bleaching has bedn long carried on here,
and well managed by R. Pearson and Son; but, from the falling
off of the linen trade, the business at the bleachfield is not now
very considerable.  Woollen cloth is manufactured at Turriff, and
Mill of Gask, as also at Plaidy. At the two former, some busi-
ness is done in dyeing both woollens and silk. Messrs Richards
and Company, Aberdeen, have established a small branch of their
business in Turriff. Previous to 1841, 28,000 yards of linen
cloth were annually woven by the workmen here; but in that year
there were only 15,470 yard; and during the current year a much
smaller quantity.
	The knitting of worsted stockings is still practised by several of
the more aged females, at a miserably low rate of remuneration.
To keep themselves in some kind of employment, these poor wo-
men weave stockings for the bosier, who pays them a monthly vi-
sit, and receive from him 3d. for a pair of the largest size.  As
the operation will fully occupy two days, it is not surprising that
the business is not prosecuted with much energy.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town. &c. and the nearest Sea Ports.--There is no
weekly market in Turriff, but a regular supply of butcher-meat, and
of the other necessaries and conveniences of life. All sorts of
clothiery and haberdashery goods, groceries, hardware, &e. can
be got of the best quality, and the number and even elegance of
some of the shops for retailing these commodities, show that the
demand is great, and that the shop-keepers have the support and
encouragement of the country. The spirit of enterprise in the
place is very considerable, embracing a share of various sorts of
mercantile speculation. Tradesmen and artisans of all descrip-
tions, masons, carpenters, shoemakers, tailors, weavers, black-
smiths, slater, &c. are here established, and by their skill and
character command steady employment. The nearest sea-ports
with, which the parish has daily intercourse, are Banff and Mac-
duff, the former at the distance of eleven, and the latter of ten
miles from the town of Turriff. The disposable grain is sent to
the one or other of these ports, which supply us with coals, lime
bone-dust, and different other articles of merchandise and con-
sumption.
	Means of Comunication.--Turriff enjoys the advantage of a
local post-office, with a free delivery of letters twice a day from


