
   		          PERTH 			131

to earn, at their ordinary employments.  These things were ob-
served by the honest-minded and industrious members, and a
spirit of jealousy and discontent was engendered in their minds
even against those who were in real distress.
   Their frequent meeting for business was another evil.  Most
of the societies laid out their funds in the purchase of property.
That required many committees, in which was  disputes arose which
could not be finalyy settled without a meeting of all the members.
These meeting not only consumed much time, but not unfre-
quently ended in an adjournment to some public-house, where the
matter was of new discussed, and where, amidst bumpers drunk to
the properity of the institution, &c. scenes of not the most sober
description took place,
   It was not unfrequently the case, that some of the principal orators
had, through their benevolent and dinsinterested exertions at these
seasons, to be placed on the sick list, and receive aliment for a
week or two.
    Bank.--There are two provincial banks,--the Perth Bank, and
the Central Bank; and four branch banks,--one of the Bank of
Scotland; another of the British Linen Company; a third, of the
Commercial; and a fourth, of the National.
   Saving Banks.--There is a saving bank in Perth. It was formed
in the year 1815.  The sum at present lodged is L.3188, 13s. 10d.
The sum deposited this year, (1836,) is L.381, 16s. 9 1/2d.  The
sum dravn in L.334,19s.8d.  The investments are generally
made by the laboring classes out of their savings.  When the
deposit of any one amounts to L.10, he is required to draw it and
lodge it elsewhere.  The interest allowed in 3 per cent.  The
bank is open every Monday morning at nine o'clock.  It would
be to the benefit fo the industrious poor and for the well-be-
ing of the country, though not to the interest of the banking cor-
porations, were the Government scheme of such institions intro-
duced.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are two separate funds out
of which the poor receive aliment.  One arises from an assessment
on the whole inhabitants of the parish, producing, at five per cent,
on the real rent, L.2128, 13s.3d.  The other arises from the
collections, &c. in the Established churches, amounting to L.723,
5s.2 1/2d.; in all L.2851.18s. 5 1/2d. From this sum must be de-
ducted the expenses of management, which for the assessed fund,


