
		               CARLUKE.                        577

	At a later period, William Lockhart of Wicketshaw, with a
party of Carluke men, was one of the first to take a share in the
rising, which terminated in the defeat at Rullion Green. * For
his share in this transaction, a sentence of forfeiture, was passed
against his property, and that of Bell of Westerhouse, who had
accompanied him. + In the proclamation, dated 9th May 1668,
authorizing the seizure of those persons who had, refused to avail
themselves of the bill of indemnity, passed the previous year, there
occur the names of no less than fourteen Carluke parishioners,--a
number, we believe, greater than that belonging to any of the
other parishes implicated. These individuals were,-William
Jack, William and John Gilkersons, William Frame, Archibald,
Robert, and Gabriel Forrest, Thomas Martin, John Scoular,
James Armstrong, William King, Archibald Hastie, Robert Smith,
and William Brown. Amongst the first ten individuals who were
condemned for being concerned in the Pentland rising, and exe-
cuted on Friday the 7th December 1666, was Cxavin Hamilton,
in Park of Mauldslie, an elder of the parish. +
        Land-Owners.-The barony of Lee is situated partly in the pa-
rish of Carluke, and partly in that of Lanark. It has been the pro-
perty of the Lockharts since they came into Scotland, with other
Norman families in the reign of David I., and is now held by Sir
Norman Macdonald Lockhart of Lee and Carnwath, Bart. whose
younger brother Alexander represents the county in Parliament.
	The barony of Braidwood belonged formerly to the Earls of
Douglas,SS on whose forfeiture in 1455 it was bestowed upon the
Earls of Angus. It passed into the possession of Chancellor
Maitland, then to the Earl of Lauderdale, and ultimately to the
Douglases again. It was sold by James the last Marquis of Dou-

<FOOTNOTE>receaved a protection, but procured it not." The buying of plundered goods appears
to have been viewed as a heinous crime. Keeping "commities as a committieman,"
sending" propynes,"and being" a souldier "were the crimes of some.
         Kirkton's Church History of Scotland, p. 234.
         Acts of the Court of Justiciary in 1667.
         Samson's Riddle, or, a bunch of bitter wormwood bringing forth a bundle of
sweet smelling myrrh, p. i.
	The following is the inscription upon a tombstone in the burial-grouud of Hamil-
ton, lying upon the heads of John Parker, Gavin Hamilton, James Hamilton, and
Christopher Strang, who suffered at Edinburgh, 7th December 1066.

	Stay, passenger, take notice what thou reads;
	At Edinburgh lie our bodies, here our heads.
	Our right hands stood at Lanark,--these we want
	Because with them, we aware ithe Covenant.

        $S Hamilton's Account.


