
674                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

always been protested against by the council as an infringement
of their rights.  The Senatus Academicus also attempted to dispute
the right of the patrons to regulate the course of study; but the
Court of Session, on the case being brought before it, decided in
favour of the right of the patrons to regulate all matters whatever
connected with the university.  The Council, however, leaves mat-
ters of discipline and ordinary detail to the principal and profes-
sors; and the regulations which are from time to time made by
them are considered valid, unless they are disallowed by the pa-
trons.
   The present principal has resumed the divinity class, and has
revived the ancient practice of delivering an annual address to the
students.
   The senatus is composed of the principal and professors, who
in right of their appointment become constituent members.  The
principal presides, and has both a deliberative and a casting vote.
The senatus claims the right of instituting new faculties, and of
fixing the privileges and immunities belonging to them.  There
are four faculties,-divinity, law, medicine, and the arts-each
of which has a dean, chosen by the faculty.  At an early pe-
riod, the faculty of divinity was separated from that of the arts;
but the precise time at which the others were constituted is not
known.  The decisions and regulations of these faculties are all
subject to the approval of the senatus.
   The winter session commences on the first Tuesday of Novem-
ber, and terminates in the end of April.  The summer session,
in which only a few of the medical classes are taught, begins on
the first Monday of May, and terminates at the end of July.  No
regular order of study is enjoined by the university,-so that any
one or more of the classes may be attended at the option of the stu-
dent; only certain regulations are prescribed by the different facul-
ties, and a certain number of classes is required to be attended
during a stated period of years by those who are candidates for de.
grees in the several professions.
   There way be said to be no general discipline exercised
over the students, farther than that personal authority which each
professor maintains over his own class as regards propriety of con-
duct while there, and regular attendance to the duties prescribed.
There are no general meetings of the students as a body.  Any
treat delinquencies are of very rare occurrence; but if they should
happens, the parties may be brought before the senatus or before


