
				LOCHMABEN.                  397

appears to be the general opinion over Scotland, that the inde-
pendent feeling which was wont to make the sons and daughters of
the poor Tabour hard to support their parents, and to avoid the
disgrace of being told that they were upon the poors' roll, is now
fast dying away. We regret to say that it is so in this parish to a
certain degree.
	Inns.--There are three very comfortable inns in the burgh, be-
sides several dram-shops in the different villages and parts of the
parish. There cannot be a doubt that one-half of these places
of entertainment is quite sufficient for the wants of the inhabitants
and of travellers; but we deem it only justice to add, that, from
the respectability of the landlords of the three inns, these houses
are kept in a superior and orderly manner, and all excess in drink-
ing is prevented.
	Fuel.--The fuel generally used is peat, which costs per cart load
from 10d. to 1s., exclusive of cartage, though a great number of
families partly use coal, which is brought by sea from Maryport
and Whitehaven in Cumberland to Dumfries, and costs 1s. per
measure, the measure being equal to twenty-eight and a quarter-
gallons, six of which make a good cart load.
		     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since 1792, when the last Statistical Account was written, a
great and striking change has taken place in the state and ap-
pearance of this parish. The commonty, which has been divided
and improved, and which was formerly a bleak moor, has given a
new aspect to the west division, as the proprietors appear emulous
to surpass one another in their improvements.
	Want of coal and lime in the immediate neigbbourhood has been
felt as a considerable drawback to improvements. Some years ago,
a survey was made by Mr Jardine, civil-engineer, for a canal from
the mouth of the Solway Frith, to terminate in the Castle loch.
If this plan bad been executed, it would have been attended with
unspeakable advantages, not only tn this, but to all the parishes in
and around Annandale. If this canal, as was proposed, had been
7 feet deep, and 28 wide at top, and from 18 to 20 at bottom,
it would have been capable of receiving vessels which would carry
60 or 70 tons, and draw six feet of water. The whole expense was
thus calculated : A lock to raise a vessel 8 feet, L. 1000; two
locks, L. 2000 ; cutting the canal per mile, L. 1000 ; the distance
being 12 miles, whole would cost L. 14,000.
	October 1835.


