
574  	                     LANARKSHIRE.

coal and lime is formed, where the old red sandstone would na-
turally be looked for; at the west point of the trap, the foul lime-
stone with its attendant numerous bands of ironstone start on edge,
are dislocated, bend back upon themselves, and lie on either side
in a position exactly as if broken in upon by a powerful agent-
the whole superior strata around Hillhead participating in this
change. On the north of the trap, and close to it, the foul band
of limestone dips north; at its westermost point, the dip of that lime-
stone is west; and to the south, the dip is south-west. In other words,
the summit of Hillhead is the trap, and around its westermost point
the strata is ranged in a semicircular form. Where the trap is
wrought, it is from 18 to 20 feet thick; its columnar form here
is beautifully seen, as well as its effects on the adjacent and sub-
jacent strata. It overlays a blackish shale resembling (probably
from its altered state) in no respect the shale of the corresponding
stratum; and on the west extremity it is overlayed by a few thin
seams of freestone. The blueshale (slate-clay) lying above the foul
band of limestone, on which the course of the trap seems to have
been arrested is changed to the colour of brick, quite like what it
is when burnt. Near the trap, in the shales in its course, large
masses, of what from description we believe to be magnetite, has
been found. To take a position on the west point of the trap,
and enumerate what we find around within a few hundred yard,
a remarkable catalogue is produced. South-east and east the
main limestone is close at hand; to the south-west and north-west
lie all the limestones from the foul band upwards, including about
twenty bands of ironstone, all at the outcrop; and on the north
there is a large deposit of peat. The trap is used as road metal,
if we are allowed to use the common phrase.
        Alluvial Deposits.-The north-east corner of the parish is al-
most entirely covered with peat, in some places to the depth of
12 feet. Throughout, it consists of a fibrous mass, containing a
vast number of trees of all sizes, generally lying with their roots
to the west, stems of reeds, large leaves of plants, and hazel nuts.
In some places, the peat merely overlays the outcroppings of the
limestone, freestone &c. but more generally a dense arenacious
clay containing boulders, in which near its surface the roots of
plants in some places are found. It is common to find beets (sheaves)
of lint and quantities of lint seed five, six, and seven feet below
the surface of the peat, in what no doubt had been steeping pools.
				   3

