
414                           AYRSHIRE.

little alteration since the last Statistical Account was drawn up,
further than that it has advanced with the rest of the country,
though not to the same degree, in the general cultivation of mind
and manners. The farmer is now a man of greater intelligence
and larger capital than formerly. He receives a better education,
and has more time for reading, reflection, and that intercourse of
life which sharpens the understanding. One important improve-
ment to this and all similar pastoral parishes consists in the culti-
vation and training of a good breed of sheep-dogs. By this means,
the writer is credibly informed, that the same work in gathering
and separating flocks of sheep can be more effectually done, and
with less injury to the sheep, by one man and a good dog, than by
many men and many dogs, whom it was formerly, about forty or
fifty years ago, the custom to assemble on all great gatherings.
This improvement is of more consequence than can be easily
calculated, being to the store-farmer what the thrashing-machine
is to the agricultural, or the steam-engine to the manufacturer.
	In some respects, this has been a neglected and ill-used parish.
It is in extreme want of roads, and the conversion-money is by no
means judiciously and properly applied. By increased facilities
of communication for the obtaining of lime and soil; and by an
increase of plantations for the raising of wood for home use, much
advantage would undoubtedly accrue to the tenantry, and the pro-
prietors themselves ultimately; but it is feared the law of entail
places a complete negative upon the distant prospective good.
	The lower classes do not labour under any grievances, but such
as are incidental to their lot and to humanity. The want of re-
gular occupation in winter is a hardship almost unavoidable; their
own ignorance and folly often prove a greater and almost equally
irremediable evil,--especially their indisposition to work except at
a wage which the profits of farming will not allow. The great
spring, however, to human industry and the true vital principle of
happiness and comfort is religion, and much has been done and is
doing to secure this grand element, and make the heart feel the
power of personal godliness, the great softener of human ills and
promoter of human good. Much might yet be done by an improve-
ment of the school system, especially the establishment of a school
library, the reading of books to be allowed as premiums, and by
a large supply gratis, or cheap, of school-books to children whose
parents often feel the burden of procuring the material of educa-
tion more than the payment of the school fees.
	September 1837.


