                          AVOCH,                              395

twelve weeks; and, were it not for the flounders which are caught
nearly opposite to the village, many families would have been des-
titute indeed. It is, perhaps, not unworthy of notice, that the first
fishing after the tempests abated is reported to have been not only
the most seasonable, but the most successful for the last forty years.
   Agriculture.-Part of this parish has not recently been surveyed,
consequently the exact extent cannot be given: but the following
will be near the truth: Rosehaugh contains 4929 acres, 26 poles
imperial, of which 2056 acres, 3 roods is arable; 1344 acres, 20
poles improveable; 1340 acres, 3 roods, 24 poles planted or to be
planted, and 187 acres, 1 rood, 21 poles waste. Avoch contains
933 acres, and Bennetsfield 336 acres.-Total 6198 acres, 26
poles.
   Rent.-The average rent of arable land in this parish may be
estimated at L.1, 3s. per imperial acre.
   Improvements.-This parish has improved immensely in its agri-
cultural aspect since the former report of it was published. Then
the horses and cattle were described as being small, and the imple-
ments of husbandry scanty and imperfect. Now the horses and cows
are in general of a very good stamp and breed; and by the art and
skill of our handicraftsmen, the implements of husbandry are abun-
dant and effective. When the last report was drawn up, there was no
wheat raised in this parish; but now, it is raised on the three estates;
and not many years ago a field of wheat on the estate of Rosehaugh
yielded thirteen returns; and last year a field of wheat on the
estate of Avoch might have vied in luxuriance and quality with any
field in the Lothians. A regular rotation of cropping, on the
most approved of four-shifts system, is almost universally observed.
Liming is very generally practised, and in most cases with eminent
success. It is not out of place to mention here that turnips are
now extensively cultivated; and on several farms they are sown
with bone manure, and eaten off by sheep; the effects of which
have been at once profitable to the farmers, and advantageous to
the soil.
   On the estate of Rosehaugh, which comprises more than two-
thirds of the parish, the leases recently expired, in consequence
of which little improvement, comparatively speaking, was effeeted
for some vears previously. But the proprietor has got a new sur-
vey and divisions of the lands, by which the possession in "run-
rig," which was very common, has been abolished and the extent
of the farms regulated and economized to suit one, two, or more


