
                       TOROSAY.                            279

utmost benefit to the inhabitants of, Kilfinichen, as it facilitate
their communication not only with the parish of Torosay, wherein
the principal fairs of the island are held, but also with the main-
land by the above-mentioned ferry.  There is a prospect of this
line being soon carried forward through Ross to the Sound of Iona.
When it is finished, it is more than probable that many of those who
come from a distance to visit tho interesting ruins of Iona, will
prefer taking this route to encountering the risk of sea sickness,
from the heavy swell of the Atlantic on the west side of Mull.
The voyage is practicable by steamers only from the beginning of
June to the autumnal equinox, whereas, by going through Glen-
more, the tourist's curiosity could be gratified at any season of the
year.
   Glenforsa is about five miles long, and three-quarters of a mile
broad.  The average height of the bottom of the valley is about
160 feet above the level of the sea.  Its direction is north-east
and south-west.  The hills which form its sides rise with an accli-
vity of about 30 degrees, and are covered with grass, bent, and
heath,  It commences on the coast of Mull, near Salen, and ter-
minates in Glenmore, at the base of Bentealluidh..
   Glencainail, situated three miles farther west, runs parallel to
it, and is of the same breadth; but it is about two miles shorter.
Its south-eastern side is formed by the hill which separates it from
Glenforsa.  Its north-western side is a part of Benmore, whose
base, taking a sweeping curve to the south-east, terminates it.
The character of the interior part of it is similar to that of Glen-
forsa; but the lower part of it embosoms a fresh-water lake of con-
siderable extent.
   On the south side of Lochbuy, at the extremity of Laggan
Point, there is a spacious cave, evidently an excavation in the rock
by the action of the Atlantic waves.  It is 300 feet in length.  Its
breadth, for the first hundred feet from its mouth, is 20, and its
height 40 feet.  It widens then abruptly to 45, and its height be-
comes 120 feet.  These dimensions it retains to its termination.
At the expansion point, there is a narrow and difficult descent to
another cave, branching off, in the direction of the sea, at angle
of 30 degrees.  It is 150 feet in leugth, 12 in breadth, and 24 in
height.  Its termination is nearly parallel to the entrance of the
main cave.  At its extreme point, there is every appearances of its
having had a separate entrance, which was shut up by the detritus
of the rock that contains it.  The whole cavity is called Odin's


