
			 PORTPATRICK.           		147

	The people are generally characterized by intellect naturally
vigorous, but uncultivated. They are capable of being excited to
very great violence of feeling: and vindictive feelings usually find
with them a fre and instant expression. But withal, they dis-
play more external courtesy towards one another, and more re-
spectful manners in addressing their superiors, than may be observ-
ed in the more populous districts. In common with the other in-
habitants of Galloway they are distinguished by a ready and un-
grudging hospitality. Among the crimes ordianrily falling under
the cognizance of the civil magistrates, assaults, rioting and fighting
on the ptblic streets, are much to be compl`ined of, btt are not so
frequent as at one time, when it used to be said at Donaghadee,
"I'll Not meddll with you just now; but stop till I get you at
Portpatrick, where there is no law." Petty thefts are prevalent.
They are often attributed to the bands of tinkers who encamp on
the common on their way to and from Ireland; but these un-
doubtedly deserve but a small share of the blame. The facilities
afforded by the wild coast for plundering the goods cast ashore in
shipwrecks, have always presented a strong temptation. The des-
perate cupidity exhibited in recent cases by many, even with the
grim spectacles of death before them, and the impossibility of de-
tecting the numerous depredators, sufficiently prove that the tone
of public morality on the question of "mine or thine" is not very
high. Profane swearing is lamentably frequent; but probably not
more so than in other parts of the country. If it be true, as has
been said, that drunkenness prevails to a more than ordinary de-
gree in Portpatrick, the assertion, which is probably incorrect,
must, at all events, be confined to the town. And here the most
favourable conclusion that observation will warrant is, that the ha-
bits of the people in thir respect are, upon the whole, better than
we find in other sea-ports, and that a great improvement has taken
place of late yearr. The Sabbath is usually observed vith out-
ward quietness. Idleness and wandering are the principal forms
of its desecration, if we overlook the national profanity of the
sailing of the mail packets, and the running of the mail-coaches,
by which many well disposed men are laid under the necessity of
labouring, anf absenting themselves frequently both from pub-
lic and domestic religious duties. An observer of the peculiar
character of the people would probably remark a natural suscep-
tibility of solemn impressions, which, however, through igno-
rance and spiritual blindness, often degenarates into superstition.


