
       38                         NAIRNSHIRE.

       times still left standing, scattered and unconnected, and strangely
       contrasting with the cleanliness and compactness of all else around.
       Instead of a poor tenantry, largely in arrear, and paying what they
       did with difficulty, their rents are now regularly paid, and arrears
       unknown, while they themselves are thriving apace, and feeling in-
       dependent through successful industry. There is now, perhaps,
       nowhere, in any upland district, a more industrious and prosperous
       tenantry than the generality of those in the parish of Ardclach.
         Duration of Leases.-The ordinary duration of leases in the
       parish is nineteen years.
         Farm-Buildings and Inclosures.-The farm-buildings, till of
       late years, were in wretched condition. They are now rapidly
       improving; and many new steadings getting tip, built of stone and
       lime, and roofed with slate, or sometimes with heather, which,
       when properly put on, makes a durable and neat thatch. The
       only enclosures in the parish are at Coulmony, where they are
       constructed of stone, supplied with iron gates, and in excellent
       order. The principal agricultural improvements recently made
       in the parish have been made by Mr Brodie of Lethen, on the
       mains of Coulmony, and upon moorish ground, on the hill called
       the Shaw, upon the estate of Lethen, at an elevation of nearly
       800 feet above the level of the sea. In these improvements, the
       Deanston system of thorough draining has been carried into effect
       with complete success; and a neat and substantial square of offices
       has been built upon the farm. Much, also, though on a smaller
       scale, has been accomplished by the tenants themselves, who are
       now quite alive to the advantages derivable from well-directed ex-
       ertion.
         Manufactures.-There are no manufactures in the parish, be-
       yond a little tartan, and plaiding, and linsey-woolsey, which hs
       manufactured for home use.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         Market-Towns, &c.-There is no market-town or village within
       the parish itself. The nearest market-towns are, Nairn, which is
       about ten miles from the manse, and Forres about twelve miles.
         Means of Cominunication.-There is no post-office nearer than
       Nairn. No turnpike road passes through the parish; but it is
       intersected by the county road from Nairn to Grantown, and by
       branches of other county roads, as well as of one of those under
       the charge of the Parliamentary Commissioners. A great deal
       has been done of late years in the improvement of district roads.


