
298                       RENFREWSHIRE.

133 were committed for the first time; 20 for the second ; 6 for the
third; 8 for the fourth; 3 for the fifth; 1 for the sixth; 2 for the
seventh; 1 for the eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth,
sixteenth, seventeenth, twenty-ninth, thirtieth thirty-first, and thirty-
second times.  In regard to the last four of these instances, it was
the same individual; and this is commonly the case in four or five
other instances.  The inmates sleep in couples.  Classification,
silence, and proper discipline are attended to in this prison, to as
great an extent as the limited space, and the supply of bed-clothing
for the sleeping cells, will admit.   A library of religious books is at-
tached to the prison, under the charge, and at the expense, of a so-
ciety of young men, who attend every Sabbath morning to give out
and receive the books, and to converse with the inmates on their
contents.  The books are greatly valued by the inmates, and well
used by them.  Attendance on chapel is generally held out to, and
viewed by, the inmates as a great privilege.  This Bridewell is un-
der excellent management; and accomplishes its end as fully as
any one of the extent in the kingdom.
   A chapel, very commodious and well arranged, is common
to jail and bridewell ; and divine service is regularly conduct-
ed on Sabbath evenings by the Established and Dissenting Pres-
byterian ministers of the place.  Pious laymen occasionally visit
both jail and bridewell, for imparting religious instruction; and a
medical attendant for both is specially appointed ; but there is no
chaplain for either!
   No subject of national police or of public morals requires more
loudly parliamentary interposition than the state of the prisons of
Scotland.  The exertions of the "Prison Discipline Society of
Scotland" deserve every encouragement; andtheir late admirable
" address," with its very valuable " appendix," ought to be exten-
sively circulated, and seriously pondered by every well-wisher to
the best interests of mankind.  Secretary of that society, Dr Gre-
viIle, Edinburgh.
   Faculty of procurators.-The " Faculty of Procurators" before
the courts of Paisley and Renfrewsbire was incorporated by royal
charter, 24th June 1803.  The office-bearers consist of a dean,
treasurer, clerk, three councillors, three examinators, and a libra-
rian.  Its members at present are 50 in number.  The library
is an excellent collection of the best standard law books.  The fa-
culty form also a society for mutual. assurance in favour of the wi-
dows of members.


