                                KELLS.                      115

teinds nf Carsfairn.  In 1755, the stipend was L. 67, 18s. 4d.;
when the last Statistical Account was written, L.80, 11s. 3d.;and
previous to the late augmentation in 1834,12 chalders,half meal,
half barley.  The rectory of Kells was united by Robert I.to the
archdeaconry of Galloway.  But in the beginning of the sixteenth
century, when James IV. enlarged the establishment of the chapel
royal at stirling, the church of Kells was transferred to it, and
constituted one of the prebends of that establishment.
   Education.-- The only school in the parish is the parochial one,
situated in New Galloway.  In addition to the elementary branches,
Latin, Greek, French, and geography are taught.  The salary is
the maximum of two chalders, and the whole emoluments of the
teacher, including wages and Candlemas offerings, may amount
yearly to L.65 or L.70.  The fees for English are 2s. ; with writ-
ing, 2s. 6d.; with arithmetic, 3s. ; with Latin, French, and Geogra-
phy, 5s. per quarter.  The school is excellently taught, and a
great stimulus has been given to the pupils by the prizes awarded
by the Glenkens Society.  A school is much required in the north-
ern part of the parish.  * The people are intelligent and fully
alive to the advatages of education.  They can all read and
almost universally write.  There is a good village library attached
to the Sabbath school.
   Poor.-- The number of  paupers on the roll has of late years
been 18 or 20.  Their allowances, except when they require
a person to attend to them, vary from 7s. 6d. to 15s. per quar-
ter ; but extraordinary cases are constantly occuring, when
more must be given.  The six years previous to 1842, from the
failure in the  potato crop, the advance in the price of meal, and
the scarcity of peat, owing to the wet summers, pressed very
heavily on the poor.
   The annual church collections now average from L.35 to L.40,
--occasional donations, proclamations, and mortcloth fees, L.06.
These sums, with the interest of L.522, 16s.at present in the hands
of the kirk-session, have hitherto met all the ordinary expense o
the poor.  The feeling of shame at being put upon the poor roll,
both on the part of individuals themselves, and their relatives, has
rather decreased.  There is a growing impression, that the heri-

<FOOTNOTE>This defect, since the above was written, has to a certain extent been removed,
through the liberality of John Kennedy, Esq. who has built a school on his property,
and pays a small salary to the teacher.


