
30                        RENFREWSHIRE.

instructed in the meaning of what they read.  In several, but
especially the grammar-school, they are trained to a degree of
expertness in processes of mental arithmetic which usually asto-
nishes observers ; and in this, as well as most of the others, they
are taught to read intelligently and accurately.  There are neverthe-
less several manifest defects in our school education.  The schools
are all in a great measure promiscuous.  Each teacher has too
many classes to attend to, and too many branches to be taught
successfully.  Then the teachers themselves are miserably paid,
and are thus forced to multiply their classes as a means of living.
The same number of teachers would, with properly assorted
cIasses, do double the work; and promote education to the same
extent.  But it is morally impossible that teachers, mainly depen-
dent on fees can ever in such a place as this attain to a due division
of labour.  Then the early removal of the children to work is con-
tinually thwarting and discouraging them.  Should it ever happen
that the proper means shall be allowed for raising our grammar-
school to the proper rank of a grammar-school, three teachers
ought to be appointed-one for English grammar, French, Latin,
and Greek-another for writing, arithmetic, mathematics, geogra-
phy, &c. and a third for English reading alone.  This would do
much for the interests of the burgh, and of the parish at large, and
is perhaps not more than might be expected, seeing there is no pa-
rochial school in the parish, and that something of the kind was
originally contemplated in the charters granted to the burgh.  School
wages are so low as from 2s. to 3s. a quarter for reading, some-
thing being added for extra branches.  Only a few who are natives
of the parish, and above six years of age, are wholly unable to read;
and such as are known to be in these circumstances are in the
course of being instructed.  As in other parishes, the children of
the destitute poor are instructed at the expense of the session.
The number of children attending Sabbath schools is about 390,
besides a class of young adults, instructed by the minister of the
parish, and amounting to about 60.  The Sabbath schools are taught
by about 40 teachers,-the boys being chiefly taught by males, and
the girls by females.  Most of the children attending Sabbath
schools within burgh attend religious worship during the morning
and forenoon services, and part of them also in the afternoon.
They are for the most part taught according to a uniform system,
which embraces the morning service as an exercise.
   Literature.-There is a parish library, from which parishioners
are allowed to read, at the rate of 2s. per annum, for one volume


