
134                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

proof is,-the traces of the transportation afforded by those dropped
by the way.
  The tradition acounting for the erection of the dunes is sufficiently
wild. According to this, they were built by two giants, of stature
and strength so immense, that one placing himself at a convenient
distance, between the mountain from which the materials
were quarried, and the site on which the dunes are reared, handed
the stones to his companion, who without further trouble, constructed
the fabrics in all the magnAde in which, it is said, they once
appeared. As evidence and illustration of the powers of this Titanic
race, a huge rock, of at least fifty tons, is shown as a missile
which the one brother burled at the other, on an occasion when
detected by him, in the act of carrying off from his castle the fire
which he bad left on the hearth on going forth to the chase. The
straits of Kyle Rhea and Kyle Akin, separating Skye at two points
from the mainland, are said to bear their names, because their
usual mode of passage was by leaping over them. In confirmation
of the whole history, their Oace of sepulture, for they perished in
war at last, was long shown and is 'Still distinguished by the name
of "Imear Dam Fear M/1ora." That we may be accurate in our
history, it may be proper to add, that one account bears, that
Rhea perished by drowning, according to the following distich:-

       Leum gach Fear air ceann a shleagh,
       Is dhuirich Mac Rbea'sa chaol.

-The  " barrow" or tumulus distinguished by the foregoing name
is situated in a little plain near Kyle Rhea. Superstition had long
attached sacredness to the spot, and predicted wrath from above on
the intruder who, with unhallowed hands, should force it to reveal
its secret.Several years ago, however, a party of gentlemen connected
with the country resolved to brave the danger; and proceeded,
but withselection of a cloudless day, to put tradition to the test.
For a time all went well; but their task was only half completed and
the wislied-for discovery but half made, when the sky became suddenly
overcast, and a thunder storm of unu-sual character compelled
-them to desist, and to restore matters, so far as might be, to their
previous condition. They had, however in their search come upon
two sarcophagi, formed of large flags, containing the remains of
human skeletons, imbedded in the finest sand, of most extraordinary
size. The bones on being exposed to the air, soon crumbled into
dust; but an idea of their dimensions is well given by an eye-witness,
who states, that when the under jaw-bone of one of the skeletons was
                                 4


