
     Statistical Account

   Pennycuick House.-This edifice was built about 1761 by
the late very respectable proprietor formerly mentioned, (Sir
James Clerk, Bart).  It stands upon a flat above the Esk,
and by taking advantage of a turn in the river, the back
front looks up the glen formed by its banks, to the ruins of
Bruntstone Castle, and the western extremity of the Pent-
land Hills.  In a flat immediately below the House, in the
same direction, is an artificial piece of water, and the garden
with extensive green and hothouses.  Both sides of the river
are diversified with eminences and glens, and the ascents be-
hind the garden, and on the opposite side of the river, are
entirely covered with wood.  The front of the House is or-
namented with a handsome portico supported by eight co-
lumns, having a flight of steps on each side defended by ba-
lustrades.  The materials were brought from the Mairfield
Quarry near the upper end of the parish.  The roof is co-
vered with lead, and a row of vases are placed on the top.
In the House are a good number of Roman antiquities cut
in stone, part of which were brought from a Roman camp at
Netherby, and some from Graham's Dyke.-The front of
the offices lies nearly diagonally to, at the distance of 280

<FOOTNOTE>

siding proprietor of Spittal, of the name of Oswald, was acci-
dentally shot in the back by his servant who was following him
to Slipper Field Loch, for the purpose of killing wild ducks.
When the house of Pennycuick was building, Adrian Watkens,
the King's printer, and another gentleman, had gone up on the
Lord's day to see how far the work was advanced, and on their
return, were both struck by lightning to the ground; Adrian
mortally, but the other recovered.  On the 21st of July 1789,
a woman sitting by the fire with a child in her arms, at her
breast, was struck dead by lightning; the child, having received
no injury, is still alive.  This happened on the same day that the
thunder broke on the schoolhouse at Gladesmuir, hurt the mas-
ter, and killed some of the children, and, according to report,
just at the same time.  There have been two instances of sui-
cide within 22 years.


