
     Statistical Account

is not above a mile distant.  It might thus, it is not unlike-
ly, be originally spelled Borghtay, from Borgh, a security,
and Tay; or, the security of the Tay.  When it was built
will not, perhaps, be easily ascertained.  It cannot be one
of the castella, or forts, which Tacitus, in his life of Agri-
cola, says that general erected, in the third year of his ex-
pedition, when he came to the aestuary of the Tay; for
these forts, we are informed by Boece, in the fourth book
of his History, were erected not on the north, but on the
south side of the aestuary; not in the county of Angus, but
in the county of Fife.  Dr Macpherson seems to be right,
who supposes that the square towers, like Broughty, were
built at a much later period.  The earliest mention of it
with which I have met, is in the year 1492, when, according
to the credulous Boece, in the Delineation of the Scottish
Kingdom, prefixed to this History, it witnessed a foolish pro-

<FOOTNOTE>

stion, as some do, whether Broughty belongs to this parish.  Towards the
end of the last century, a man committed a trespass within the hounds of
Broughty, for which he was summoned to appear at the tribunal of the
Kirk-session.  He resused obedience, under pretence that Broughty be-
longed not to this parish, but to that of Caputh, in the neighbourhood of
Dunkeld, about 26 miles N.W.  To ascertain the true situation of
Broughty, the minister wrote to a Mr Webster, then its proprietor; who
replied, that it lay neither in the parish of Monifieth nor of Caputh, but
in that of Kirriemuir, about 16 miles N.  On this the minister applied to
the presbytery, who by their deed annexed Broughty and its pertinents
for ever, quoad sacra, to the parish of Monifieth.  Had the Kirk-sefficon
records been fully consulted, it would have been found that Broughtly
was already annexed, not only quoad sacra, but quoad sacra, but quoad temporalta, to this
parish; for there it is expressly said, that on December 12, 1658, Broughty
among others paid for the reparation of the church.  It follows not in-
deed always, that a place belongs to that parish for the reparation of
whose church it pays.  It seems, however, an ackowledgement of Brough-
ty's belonging to Monifieth parish, that it paid for the reparation of the 
church there.  For had there been any evidence that Broughty belonged
not to this parish, Mr Webser, its proprietor, when called on, would
surely have been able to produce it, and not have founded his opinion
wholly on tradition.


