
922                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

six annual fairs, two of which are held in the village, and the re-
maining four on a piece of waste ground in the immediate neigh-
bourhood.  Some years ago, the Ellon fair, held at Marymas,
was one of the most important in the country, and attended by
cattle-dealers from the south of Scotland and England; as at this
market the principal surplus stock of the district was annually ex-
posed for sale.  The opening up of the London market, however,
through the facilities afforded by steam navigation has given to
the cattle trade an entirely now direction, and rendered the busi-
ness transacted at our country fairs confined, in great measure, to
the interchange of stock among home dealers.  Two of the fairs
above-mentioned are held at the respective terms of Martinmas
and Whitsunday, chiefly for the purpose of engaging servants.
This system of hiring at markets has been much condemned; but
the evils attending it seem to have been exaggerated, as the
experience of a few years is found to be sufficient to make the
masters and servants of a particular district acquainted with each
others characters, and qualified, therefore, to regulate with dis-
crimination their mutual engagements.-In respect of means of
communication, the situation of the parish of Ellon is particularly
favourable.  The village is accommodated with a post-office,
-and on the turnpike road from Aberdeen to Peterhead and
Fraserburgh, which passes through it, and lies for a distance
of four miles within the parish, there is daily a double mail both
from south and north.  Runners also, either daily or on alternate
days, afford a regular means of intercourse with Newburgh, Slains,
New Deer, &c.  Besides the mail coaches, a stage-coach, which
leaves Stricben and Old Deer on alternate mornings, passes
through the village to Aberdeen on every lawful day, and returns
the same evening.  We have two regular carriers to Aberdeen,
each of whom makes the journey to the county town twice a-week;
and the bridge over the Ythan at Ellon, being as it were the key
to the whole Buchan district, weekly communication, by means of
carriers travelling to and from Aberdeen, may be bad with every
part of that district.  Ellon is distant from Aberdeen sixteen miles,
from Peterhead nearly eighteen, and from Newburgh, the nearest
shipping-port, about five or five and a-half, with all which places
it is connected by lines of turnpike road.  During the last twenty
or thirty years, great exertions have been made to improve the
condition of the commutation roads, which were formerly much


