
146	    		          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

<TABLE>
             		                    Brought forward,       L. 8557 10 0
250 swine reared and fattened, after deduction of potatoes and grain
	consumed by them, there may be left for grass and trouble, &c. L. I
        each,                                                                  250  0 0
The rearing and breeding young horses may be reckoned                          150  0 0
Annual thinning and felling of woods,                                           65  0 0
Produce of gardens and orchards,                                                45  0 0

                                                                           L. 9067 10 0
	         	     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Market-Towns.--The nearest market-towns are; Moffat, which
is also the post town, seven miles distant from the centre of the pa-
rish; and Lockerby, at the distance of ten miles.
	Means of Communication.--The place with which we have most
regular communication by carriers is Dumfries. For some months
past, one of the carriers has travelled to Edinburgh once in the fort-
night. There are about seven or eight miles of turnpike roads, con-
sisting chiefly of the old line of road from Glasgow to Carlisle, to-
gether with that which leaves it about the middle of the parish to-
wards Langholm. The bridges and fences are excellent, and ge-
nerally in good repair.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is placed in a low se-
questered glen, surrounded on almost all sides by high rising grounds
and woody banks, and also by large ash trees within the enclosure
of the church-yard. It is situated about a quarter of a mile from
the manse, nearly in the centre of the parish in respect of locality,
but not of the population. But though it might be more centrical
to the population, it is not distant more than three and a half miles
from the remotest of the inhabitants. It is so very old that no
person can tell when it was built. It is long and narrow, being
nearly 53 feet long by 18 wide; the wall at the door is 8 feet high,
and the interior one foot lower than the surface. Altogether, it is
damp, dirty, and disagreeable both in summer and winter,--by far
the worst place of worship in the south of Scotland. The seeking
and the small wood in the roof and ceiling are entirely rotten. Yet
the present incumbent has never insisted upon any partial repairs,
aware that any such put upon such a building would only incur ex-

pense, and give little satisfaction. Though closely seated, it affords
a confined accommodation to no more than 200 sitters, and is there-
fore quite insufficient for the population of the parish. Many of
the smaller proprietors have not room enough for their own fami-
lies, much less for their servants and cottars; and Lord Hopetoun,
the patron, and a considerable proprietor, has only accommodation


