
KENNOWAY.                               379

Ballingall, proprietor of Balnkirk ; Patrick Wright, Esq. proprie-
tor of Halfields ; George Forbes, Esq. proprietor of Balgrie; John
Lawson, Esq. of Carriston, &c.
Parochial Register.-The date of the earliest entry in the pa-
rochial register, is supposed to be in 1684. The figures after anno
at the top of the page have been removed through decay of the
paper; but an entry, about half way down the same page, bearing
the date 1635, is perfectly distinct. After this, on a subsequent
page, comes July 1638 ; and though the book in which these dates
are found, is not in a state of very good preservation, yet the details
of the transactions of the kirk-session, given with great minuteness,
and often showing an extreme degree of vigilance and rigour in the
exercise of authority,. may be gathered from the. last-mentioned
date, aith few, if any exceptions, continuously down to December
1675. From this time, however, to 1690, a period of about fif-
teen years, there is an entire blank ; and the same thing"oecurs be-
tween 1755 and 1761. From this last date, up to the' present
time, the records are entire.
What could, have occasioned the blanks above referred to, it is
impossible to say determinately : but the probability is, tb I at the
minutes had been originally kept, and that the books which con-
tained them have been lost : for the volumes preserved are filled
with minutes of transactions in regular succession, and the blanks
occur in both cases between the conclusion of one volume and the
commencement of another.
Mansion-Houses.-The only mansion houses in the parish'are
those -of AuchtermairDie, Kingsdale, and Newton Hall; of which
the two last-mentioned are modern buildings ; and the materials
employed in their construction were brought from neigbbouring
parishes.
III.-POPULATION.
In the former Statistical Acco ' tint of the parish, written in 17931
it is remarked, that the number of the people and houses seemt, to
have been nearly the same for centuries; and in regar0to the vil-
lage of Kennoway, containing about one'-half of the whole inhabi-
tants, it is observed, that 11 very few houses were known to have
been built on a new foundation." The population of the parish
.at that time, seems to have amounted to nearly 1800.
Within the last forty years, however, the village and parish, re-
Starting nearly the same relative proportion in point of numbers,
a very considerable increase o t eir population. In the


