
864                             PERTHSHIRE.

collections, and minutes of session, in eight volumes, commencing
in 1682, and continued apparently with considerable regularity
to the present time.
    Principal Land-owners.-Alexander M. H. Belsbes, Esq. of
Invermay, possessing nearly half of the parish ; heirs of the late
Mr Husband of Glenearn; Earl of Wemyss; J. Beatson Bell, Esq.
of Glenfarg.
    Mansion-Houses.-Balmanno Castle, formerly the seat of the
Murrays, Baronets of Balmanno, is now the property of Alexander
Murray Hepburn Belshes, Esq. of Invermay, nephew of the last
baronet, who was killed at the age of twenty-two at Long Island,
in the American War.  It is a fine specimen, in perfect preser-
vation, of the old Scottish castle and mansion-house; part of it
of great antiquity. It is now partly occupied by the farmer,
There is also the modern mansion-house of Glenearn, a neat
small country-bouse.
    Antiquities.-In the parish church-yard there is the grave and
grave-stone of John Welwood, a celebrated minister of the Gospel
in the times of the persecution under Charles II., who died in
Perth in 1679, and was brought out and buried here during the
night.  In the old church-yard at Ecclesiamagirdle, there is the
grave of a Covenanter killed in these times.
    There were in former times two small chapels in this parish
besides the parish church.  One of these, which stood in the
east corner of the parish, at the mouth of Glenfarg, where now
stands the mill of Pottie, is now totally in ruins, no vestige of
it remaining except some part of the foundathon below ground.
The other chapel of Ecclesiamagirdle is at Glenearn, in the west
end of the parish, and still remains, though in a ruinous state.
     Rocking Stone.-On the south descent of the hill, opposite to
the church and manse, stands what is called the rocking stone of
Dron, presenting at once a monument of ancient ingenuity and
superstition.  It is a large mass of whinstone, of an irregular figure,
about ten feet in length, and seven in breadth, and stands in a
sloping direction. (Vide Old Account.)

                      III.-POPULATION.
     The inhabitants of the parish consist exclusively of a few
farmers of, high respectability and great skill, and an indus-
trious rural population. There are no resident heritors, and
the parish is divided into six large farms and four smaller hill
farms.  The population by the last census (1841) amounted to


