
1186                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

articles are added annually to it.  It commenced in 1717, when the
Principal and Professors obtained a royal warrant for applying
some vacant salaries towards purchasing instruments; and it ap-
pears, from entries in the college accounts, that the money thus
obtained was laid out under the direction of the celebrated Mac-
laurin, then Professor of Mathematics, and probably the first who
gave instructions in any parts of the Newtonian philosophy in this
university.  In 1726, a printed proposal was circulated for in-
creasing the apparatus, so as to afford a complete course of Expe-
rimental Philosophy; and in that year, the Commissioners of
Supply for the County of Aberdeen granted some aid to the de-
sign.  From 1721 to 1755, a custom prevailed of the graduates
in Arts contributing voluntarily small sums for the same purpose.
Soon after the late Dr Patrick Copland entered as Professor of
Natural Philosophy, he turned his attention to the enlargement
of the apparatus; and being assisted by a small grant from the
13oard of Trustees for the Encouragement of Manufactures in
Scotland, he employed an able workman hn the construction of a
great number of models and other apparatus, many of them of
elegant design.  The possession of these allowed him to com-
mence, in 1786, in addition to the regular course of scientific
lectures, a popular series of instructions in Experimental Philoso-
phy, illustrating many of the practical applications of science to
the arts and the common purposes of life.  These be continued,
at intervals, for many years; and upon his death in 1822, the
part of the apparatus which was his own property was purchased
by the College.  A catalogue of this apparatus is kept, and on
emoving it lately to the new building, it was for the first time
arranged in the order of subjects, the accommodation for it in the
old edifice having become, from its increase, exceedingly incom-
modious.
   The Astronomical Apparatus is another department which will
benefit considerably from the new edifice, the access to the old
Observatory having been very inconvenient, and the difficulty of
keeping the roof water-tight great.  The chief instruments are
an excellent transit, by Ramsden, of 4 feet focus, and 3 inches
aperture; a moveable quadrant, of 2 feet radius, divided by
Ramsden; and an equatorial, with circles of 18 inches diameter,
originally made, by Sisson, but afterwards divided anew, and an
achromatic telescope added, by Ramsddn.  The time-keeper is
an excellent instrument, with a gridiron pendulum, by Mariotte.


