
38                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

houses in the village. The former being lighted with gas, and
neatly fitted up, are equal to those of most country towns, and give
to the place a greater air of prosperous comfort, than is generally to
be met with in a Scotch village. A number of new dwellings-houses
have been erected during the course of the last six years and all in
a style of superior convenience and elegance. It is believed that,
did the proprietor encourage feuding, many more would be added.
In the year 1831, an enterprising individual converted the Govern-
ment cavalry barracks, which stood to the north of Penicuik, and
which had remained unoccupied since the end of the war into a
foundery, which employs a number of hands, and is in constant ope,
ration.

                        III.-POPULATION
  It has not been in my power to ascertain from any authentic do-
cuments the ancient amount of the population. There occurs, at
times, in the minutes of session a note of the number of communi-
cants, as, for example, in June 1721, there were 376, in June
1779, there were only 345. The diminution is not, however, to
be ascribed to a falling off in the population, but to the erection
of a Dissenting place of worship at How gate, in the year 1750.
Under the date of 1779, I find a note intimating that it appears
from a roll made up by the minister at that time, there were their
in the parish 1349 individuals young and old.

<TABLE=Population>

        Population in 1801,       1705
                      1811,       1827
                      1821,       1958
              	      1831,       2255

  From these it appears that the population has been progressive-
ly on the increase. This must be ascribed chiefly to the paper
manufacturies; for though there has been during the last fifty years,
a great improvement in the agriculture of the parish in reclaiming
waste lands, &c. still, from the converting of small farms into large
goes, which has taken place to a considerable extent the increase
of the agricultural population has been checked. Inhabitants ofty
the parish now living can easily remember the days when upwards
of twenty heads of families would regularly cross the Pentlands to
worship at Penicuik; now scarce a single individual comes from
that quarter of the parish, all the families there being reduced to
two or three. Improvements in machinery are now also beginning
to operate in the same way on the manufacturing population, as
a much larger amount of produce can now be raised by fewer hands.
Is would be incorrect, therefore, to estimate the property of the
                            3


