
               NEILSTON.                                    304

to the separation of the two roads above-mentioned, who did not
feel immediately a sensible difference, let the weather be what it
may.  The consequences are, the farmer, in the first district, has
his operations finished three weeks earlier in spring than those in the
third, and the same interval, nearly, takes place in harvest.
  Owing to its geographical position, the rain that falls here, with
the high winds, storms, and tempests, which accompany it, is
greater than in most of the parishes around.  The parish stands,
as it were, on an isthmus, between the Friths of Forth and Clyde.
From its great elevation, it has the whole sweep of the east winds
from the Frith of Forth to the Atlantic Ocean; and which, in
April and May, frequently traverse it with great violence.  But it
is from the S.W. and W. whence our storms and tempests, and delu-
ges of rain, generally come.  From these quarters, the wind prevails
nearly three parts of the year.  At times, especially in winter, its
power is tremendous, and strikes with such force as if it would
overturn by its fury, not only trees and houses, but mountains
from their base.  It seems, on such occasions, to be the land of
storms.
  The cause of these storms and tempests here is very obvious.
The parish lies, as a] ready noticed, between the two Friths, or ra-
ther between the Atlantic and German Oceans. The  temperature
of the German Ocean, owing to its shallowness and narrowness,
gets sooner cooled and sooner heated than the Atlantic, with its
freat breadth and depth of water.  Hence the cold winds, rush-
ing from Mount Caucasus in spring, along the Baltic, cool the
German Ocean with great rapidity, and, hurrying to the Atlantic,
to keep up the equilibrium of the temperature there, give us
those cold, chilly eastern blasts in April and May, which, with
their hoar, are so unhealthy.
  The converse of this takes place, so soon as the German Ocean
and Continent get heated, to a higher temperature, than the At-
lantic.  The colder winds of the Atlantic, rushing to the east,
where the atmosphere has become rarified, create the storms and
tempests so common in the higher districts of this parish.  Rushing
from the S. S. W., there is not a single obstacle to break their sweep
from Donaghadee to the Neilston-bills.  Hence it happens that
no extremity of weather continues for more than twelve hours,
without modification.
  Possessing such a variety of climate, it is natural to suppose that
the parish must be very unhealthy.  That it is not more so than
  RENFREW.                                X


