
40                 LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

their wealth; and were suppressed in the year 1312. Previous
to their downfall they had acquired extensive possessions in every
kingdom in Europe, which were either seized upon by the sove-
reign, or transfered to the kindred order of St John. In this
manuer, the lands of both orders came to belong to the Johannites;
though in many instances they retained the name of Temple lands,
from the Templars, as being the best known, though not the most
ancient and honourable, order.
    As the Knights of St John had adherents, so they soon acquired
posessions in every country in Europe. They were first esta-
blished in Scotland by David 1. or Malcolm IV. in the year 1153.
In the charter granted by that monarch there occur the following
words: "Qui in liberam et pumm Eleemosynam donavit Fratribus
Hospitalis Hierosolymitani unum plenarium toftum in qualibet
Burgo totius terrae suae." This small foundation was greatly am-
plified by additional grants from the succeeding king, especially
by Alexander II. and Ill., Robert II, and the Jameses II, III.,
and IV. These sovereigns not only confirmed the donations of
their predecessors, but by new grants of lands, and by grants of
privileges, powers, rights of patronage, and civil immunities, they
bestowed at length a competent revenue and territory, and erected
the dignities of the order into what was termed the Lordship of
St John and Preceptorie of Torphichen. The suppression or the
Templars tended greatly to augment the power of the Knights of
St John. By a canon of the Council of Vienna, and a bull of
Pope Clement VII., the whole lands and possessions of the
knights Templars in Scotland were conferred upon the Knights
of St John of Jerusalem. The former had their chief seat at
Temple in Mid-Lothian, the latter at Torphichen, which con-
tinued to remain their chief seat or Preceptory. Not only did
their new acquisitions, however, retain the designation of Temple
lands, but even their own original property came to be called by
the same name, which has caused considerable confusion in the
attempts that have been made to discriminate between the lands
formerly hold by the Templars and those held by the Knights of
St John.
   Several of the preceptors, priors, or grand-masters of Tor-
phichen were men of great talent, and distinguished themselves
in the public affairs of the kingdom. Mention is made of one
"Archibaldes Magister de Torphichen," who is made of one
charter of Alexander, Great Steward of Scotland, in 1252.


