
                                 LEWIS-STORNOWAY.                          117

          the cave, broke and carried away many of the finest icicles; but with
          a short respite, the plastic power of nature can restore the injury,
          d one by man.
             This cave had been the rendezvous of the seals which frequent-
          ed the Broad bay for ages; great shoals of which were seen about
          the entrance, by fishermen and herdsmen from the tops of the rocks.
          Curiosity, and the hope of securing the seals, induced some of the
          people to enter, armed with iron shod clubs and torches. By guarding
          the entrance as much as possible, the work of destruction commen-
          ced within, and vast numbers of these animals were killed. For se-
          veral years, there was, about the Michaelmas term, an annual visit
          of the seals to the cave; but finding their retreat discovered, and
          themselves so much disturbed, they now seldom enter the spacious
          hall of their ancestors.
             Through the kind attentions of Lewis M'Iver, Esq., tacksman
          of Gress, several strangers had an opportunity of visiting this won-
          derful cave. Its celebrity is increasing: and it is supposed to be
          only second to the spar cave in Skye.  The icicles and crustation
          are similar; the mouths of the caverns front each other, though
          distant eighty miles.
             Coast, &c.-The sea-coast is much indented. It is bold and rocky
          in many places; and should a person walk along the shore, the beach-
          es, and headlands, he would at least travel the extent of fifty miles
          in the parish. The shore, where the beach is flat, consists of
          beautiful sand, as the sands of Tong, Melbost, Ui, Coll, Gress,
          and Tolsta.  Blue and red clay are found on some parts of the
          coast. Of the red clay, the indigenous islanders make vessels cal-
          led Craggans, in vhich they keep their milk and carry water from
          the springs.  Where the coast is bold and rugged, it consists of
          shelving rocks, which form an angle of small inclination, as in the
          bight of Shelwick below Gress: in other parts of the coast, they
          lie in an horizontal position. Kneess is a bold lofty perpendicular
          wall of puddingstone, many fathoms in height.
             Bays.-The principal bays are Broad bay, Loch or bay of Stor-
          noway, Loch Ure, Bayble and Tolata bay. The Broad bay is not safe
          for stranger vessels, as there is a sunken reef branching from Gress
          to the Aird of Tong, and Isthmus of Ui: but vessels belonging to the
          island, and others, once acquainted with the mooring stations, are
          often sheltered here from the south and south-east winds. By moon-
          light, strangers are often deceived when going to the southward,
          The isthmus of Ui lies low, and is not 200 yard a broad in some parts.


