
128                                  ORKNEY.

                                  IV.- INDUSTRY.

       The number of cultivated Scotch acres In Westray is about                   2870
                                                Papa Westray,                       960
       The number of acres which have never been cultivated, including the diffie-
           rent bolms qr uninhabited isles connected with Westray, may amount
           in all to about                                                         3400
       In Papa, including the holm,                                                 965
       The number of acres that with advantage might be added to the cultivated
           lands in Westray may amount to about                                     700
       In Papa,                                                                     350
       The undivided common in Westray may amount to                              11650

     Mr Traill every year adds to his cultivated property in Papa,
by allowing his people to enclose what they can, of the waste or un-
cultivated, and to enjoy what is thus gained rent free, for the
space of seven years, upon payment of 6d. annually in the way of
an acknowledgement; after which period, be exacts a small rent,
     Garden-ground excepted, there are no lands under wood in the
parish; and no shrubbery or tree can rise higher than the wall that
shelters it.
     Rent of Land.- The average rent of arable land in the parish
may be reckoned at 10s. per acre. The rate of grazing an ox or
cow during summer is 8s., and much about the same for a horse,
-horses here being in general of the small size.  There is no
fixed rate for the grazing of a sheep, because every one's flock is
grazed in one great common, in which all claim an equal right.
     Wool per stone costs 7s. 6d., and manufactured into cloth, sold
at 2s. per yard. Mason-work in house building is L.1, 1s. per
rood, and in dike building, 6d. per fathom of four feet high.
Carpenter's work is 1s. 6d. per day with meat.
     Live-Stock, &c.- The breeds of sheep and cattle, in these two
islands, are almost all of the small kind; the larger breeds of either
not answering well. Both have been frequently tried; but from want
of proper pasture, and perhaps climate, they always degenerate.
Owing also to the climate, the husbandry is confined almost entire-
ly to the cultivation of oats and bear or big, the one after the
other in constant rotation, with the alternation only of a small po-
tato field in each farm. In some pf the principal farms which
have enclosures, turnip is beginning to have a place in the sys-
tem; but scarcely any artificial grass is raised, except on such
farms as happen to be in the hands of proprietors.
     Very little has been done here towards the cultivation of waste
lands,- though certainly much might be done in this way,-
especially by draining.
     The great obstacle to improvement is either the want of leases


