
112                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

And their tenantry, servants, and poor, occupy their respective al-
lotments.
   The sacrament of the Lord's supper is dispensed twice a-year,
in June and November. 444 communicants are at present on the
roll, of whom 145 are male heads of families.
   The manse was built in 1748, and has, from time to time, receiv-
ed repairs and additions. It is a substantial and commodious house;
delightfully situated on a bank overlooking the Endrick, and is per-
haps not surpassed, in the beauty of the situation, by any manse in
Scotland. The extent of the glebe, including garden and policy at-
tached to the manse, is about seven acres. Its yearly value in rent
may be about L.20. There is no grass glebe; but the minister has
an allowance of L.1, 1,3s. 4d. in lie thereof. The stipend, by de-
creet of the Teind Court in 1831, is 17 chalders, half meal, half
barley. But the heritors having since surrendered their teinds,
it is now 319 bolls, 2 pecks of meal, and L.7,  3s. 9d. of vicarage.
  By the statements laid before Her Majesty's Commissioners,
when they visited Drymen in 1837, there are 340 Dissenters in
the parish, belonging chiefly to the United Secession and Re-
lief. The remaining 1350 belong to the Established Church.
In the village of Drymen, there is a United Secession Chapel,
built in 1819, at an expense of L. 370. The minister's stipend
is L.85, and a house valued at L.15 per annum, raised from the
seat rents, by ordinary and extraordinary collections, and by occa-
sional aid from the synod fund. Those of the parish who are
connected with the Relief dissent attend the Relief chapels in
Balfron and Kilmaronock.
   Education.-The parish school is within half a mile of the vil-
lage of Drymen; but, like the parish church, is inaccessible to
more than half of the population. The teacher has L.31 of sa-
lary, and an excellent school and dwelling-house, together with
the legal quantity of ground for a garden.
   There is in general a laudable desire on the part of the parents
to give their children a good, usdful education. But classical
learning appears to be fast on the decline in this quarter, there
being only two Latin scholars in the parish sthool, and only one
college student resident in the parish.
   With the exception of about half a dozen, and these incomers
into the parish, there are none above fifteen years of age who can-
not read.
   There are two schools in the northern and eastern districts of


