          86                          FIFESHIRE.
     the estate of Scotscraig, extending the whole length of the parish,
     and now let at an yearly rent of L. 600. Formerly, when stake-
     nets were used, this fishing station sometimes brought upwards o
     L. 2000 of yearly rent. The only mode of fishing now in use is
     by net and coble.

                                V.-PAROCHIAL EcoNomy.
        Fairs, &c.-There is a sort of fair held in the village annually
     upon the first Tuesday of June, old style. In former times it was
     well attended, but is now reduced to a few hucksters' stands, and
     is of no importance to the place. The nearest market-town of any
     consequence within the county is Cupar, the county town, (eleven
     miles distant,) where several well frequented fairs are held during
     the year. The principal intercourse, however, is with Dundee, to
     which there is easy access, either by the steam-boat on the New-
     port passage, or by an excellent sailing vessel which leaves Ferry
     Port-on-Craig for Dundee, and returns every lawful day, carrying
     goods and passengers.

        Means of Communication.-The communication with this pa-
     rish has been greatly improved by the new and beautiful line of road
     between the village and Newport, a distance of about three miles.
     This road was made in 1830, almost at the sole expense of Robert
     Dalgleisb, Esq. at that time sole proprietor of the parish, and
     may be regarded as one of the most valuable improvements to the
     place which has been accomplished for many years. There are
     two piers at the ferry, at the largest of which vessels land with coal
     and other cargoes, and where 'grain, potatoes, and other kinds of
     goods are shipped for London and other ports. The smaller pier
     is the landing place for the passage-boats.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is a neat and substantial
     building. It was rebuilt in 1825, and contains from 800 to 900 per-
     sons. It is most conveniently situated for the parishioners, being in
     the village, where by far the greater number of the people reside.
     The sacrament is dispensed twice a-year, in June and November, and
     the average number of commumeants may be stated at 550. The
     people are most regular and exemplary in their attendance on di-
     vine ordinances, the church being generally well filled. There are
     sixteen sittings set apart for the poor; but there are many persons
     besides allowed to sit free.
        There is a small Dissenting meeting-house in the village, in con-
     nection with the United Secession, having about fifty members in
     the parish,- any others that belong to it coming from otherparishes.

