
394 				FORFARSHIRE.

	The parish is bounded on the north, by the parishes of Far-
nell and Marytown; on the east, by the parishes of Craig, Lu-
nan, and Inverkeilor; on the south, by the parish of Inverkeilor;
and on the west, by the parishes of Kirkden, Guthrie, and Aber-
lemno. Those parts of the parirhds of Kirkden and Inverkeilor
which are adjacent to the south-west corner of this parish were
erected by the General Assembly in 1836, into the new parachial
district of Friockheim; and in the beginning of the following year,
Mr Thomas Wilson was ordained to the charge of the district by
the Presbytery of Arbroath.
	Hydrography.--The river Lunan flows through the southern
part of the parish for nearly two miles, and, after a farther course
of about five miles, falls into Lunan Bay. In passing through
the parish, it drives two spinning-mills, two meal and barley mills,
and two thrashing-mills, with other machinery for the accommo-
dation of a farm-steading.
	The Gighty burn, which separates this parish from Inverkei-
lor on the east, falls into the Lunan, after driving three spinning-
mills and two thrashing-mills in this parish; while a similar extent
of waterfall yet remains unoccupied on the Inverkeilor side. But
the scarcity of water in the summer greatly diminished the value
of the falls.
	In Monthrewmont moor there is a large forest belonging to Sir
James Carnegie. The greater part of what is within the bounds
of this parish has been planted since 1820. The Scotch firs
thrive best, and more of them have been planted than of all the
others reckoned together. And of these last, the order as to
number is, larch, spruce, o`k, ash, plane, elm, birch. Anciently
there was a keeper of Monthrewmont moor, who was also proprie-
tor of the lands of Muirmills in this parish. He had a right to
4d. Scots for every ox, or other quadruped pasturing within the
bounds of the moor, and to the same sum for every spade that cut
turf in it for a day. And while he prevented the encroachment of
others, he could himself occupy and labour such parts as he
thought proper, and erect the necessary accomodation of houses.
About fifty years ago, the moor was divided among the contermi-
nous proprietors, and such others as had a right of commonty, ac-
cording to their several interests.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	At present, the parish is divided into four properties or estates;
      --Bolshan, belonging to Sir James Carnegie, Bart. of Southesk;


