
30                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

on the Riddell estate, for cutting and preparing the thinnings of
wood for agricultural and other purposes, suited to the demands of
the country.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Means of Communication.--The nearest market-towns are Sel-
kirk and St Boswell's, from each of which the parish is distant six
English miles.  A daily penny-post has been established in this
parish from Selkirk, under the authority and subject to the regu-
lations of the General Post- Office, Edinburgh: it is doing well,
and promises to be of great benefit to the parish and neighbour-
hood.  This is indeed a great acquisition when compared with
the dilatory and uncertain receipt and dispatch of letters, &c.
hitherto experienced.
  The roads are generally good in all directions, though there are
none of them turnpike, the whole having been made in a very pro-
per manner from the statute-labour funds, at the rate of 40s.  Ster-
ling on every L. 100 Scotch of valuation, paid equally by proprie-
tors and tenants, and they are kept in good repair.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parochial church,
now in good repair, and capable of containing the parishioners, is
as convenient as possible for the great body of the people.  It
was built in 1771, upon a deep loamy soil, lower than the conti-
guous grounds, and, from its injudicious situation, is consequently
damp.  The old church must have been of ancient erection, though
the precise period cannot be traced from known records: on a
stone of the eastern aisle contiguous to its ancient situation, there
is the date 111O.  No seat rents are demanded,--admission being
free, after heritors and tenants are accommodated.  L. lOO Ster-
ling was mortified about a century ago to the kirk-session for be-
hoof of the poor, the interest of which is regularly applied to its
original purpose by direction of the heritors.
  The manse was built very superficially in 1821 upon the lowest
of eight estimates, and within the space of a year considerable re-
pairs were found necessary, and executed to prevent the admission
of rain-water through the walls, they being almost destitute of lime.
The grebe consists of about eleven acres, and was lately valued by
two intelligent farmers at L. 17 per annum.
  The present stipend, decreed in 182O, consists of 16 chalders,
and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.  A final decreet of
locality has been extracted, and gives as follows: L. 45, 1s. 7 1/2d.
money, including communion elements; 1 firlot, 2 pecks, 2 3/4 lip-


