
			DORNOCK.                              259

or New Brunswick, which arrive here in the month of August, and
which all lie off the mouth of the canal, on the opposite side of the
Frith,--an arm of the sea which separates this district from Cum-
berland.
	Fishings.--In the Solway, and in the rivers of the parish, there
are fisheries in salmon, grilse, sea-trout, flounders, and herlings or
whitings. The salmon is chiefly forwarded to the market at Carlisle,
in Cumberland, a distance of fifteen miles. At the beginning of the
season it is there sold as high as 2s. 3d. and at the end of it, from
ls. to 6d. or 8d. per lib, The fishing is mostly carried on in the
mode of trap or stake-nets, set from the shore in a line to the
bhannel or lake, from a quarter of a mile to a mile in length, be-
ginning at the shore with a net 4 feet high, and rising gradually
till the net reaches 10 or 12 feet high, with an arm or rail at from
60 to 100 yards separate. This rail or arm is about 40 yards in
length, and is set sometimes for the flowing, at other times for
the ebbing of the tide, so as to lead the fish into a corner where
a trap or pocket is constructed with a little opening gradually de-
clining, so that the salmon or other fish once entrapped seldom or
never find the way out. The annual rent of the fishing in the pa-
rish is about L. 150. There are from fifteen to twenty persons
in the parish who make a living from pock-net or channel fishing.
The mode of heaving or hauling is now entirely laid aside.

		V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Means of Communication.--The turnpike road extends the whole
length of the parish; it is part of the great thoroughfare from Port-
patrick to Carlisle, Manchester, and London. The Carlisle mail to
Portpatrick daily, and a heavy coach to Edinburgh and Glasgow
thrice a week, pass and repass through the village. No improvements
have been productive of more advantage in this vicinity than the esta-
blishment of the steam packet called the Cumberland, and the open-
ing of the Carlisle canal. There is a cut from the last mentioned citx
to Bowness, (the ancient Blotulbulgium of the Romans,) a distance
of eleven miles. Lighters from the Carlisle basin are employed by
the merchants to convey their goods from the steam-vessel to that
city. The steamer which sails weekly to Liverpool is as regular
in her arrivals and departures as any mail. This vessel carries to
that port and other towns immense quantities of bacon harns,
sheep, and cattle, and goods of different descriptions, and lands
them the day after her departure from the canal. On the 29th


