
                   WHITSOME AND HILTON.                     177

Small bridges and conduits have been thrown over all the water-
courses, which formerly crossed the public roads at numerous points,
and often rendered them impassable during heavy rains, and in win-
ter. The fences are formed of quickset hedges, those, being in
the best order, which are maintained at the joint expense of land-
lord and tenant.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the present church is con-
venient for all the inhabitants. It stands at the west end of the
village, almost exactly in the centre, and about 2 1/2 miles from either
extremity of the parish. It was built in 1803 on Hardie's-hill,
and fronts the south-east. From the recent date of its erection, no
repairs of importance have yet been required. It is matter of regret,
however, that on the renewal of the church in the above year, suf-
ficient accommodation was not provided for the whole body of the
people. The entire number of lineal feet of seating is 344, whick-
at a moderate calculation, affords room for only 250 persons. Ac-
cording to custom, too, the seats, besides being limited, were divided
amongst the several heritors in proportion to their valued cess. By
this means, it happens that the largest space is not always allotted
to the proprietor who has the greatest number of residents on his
estates-The original walls of the manse have stood from time
immemorial; at least neither verbal intelligence nor written record
can be procured, from which to determine the period of its erection.
It must be observed, however, that numerous alterations and addi-
tions have imparted to the structure a good deal of the air of a
modern house.-The glebe of Whitsome (alone) contains 11 acres,
and that of Hilton 19, estimated at L. 2 per acre. The stipend, as
augmented in 1820, is 16 chalders of barley and oatmeal, 2 bolls
of wheat, and L. 8, 7s. 4d. in money.
   There are 85 families, comprising 422 persons of all ages, in
connection with the Established church; while 40 families, come
prising 214 persons of all ages, attach themselves to chapels of
Presbyterian Dissenters and Seceders in neighbouring parishes.
From this statement it appears, that the adherents of the kirk have
decreased, since the date of last Statistical Account, from eleven-
twelfths to two-thirds, or thereabouts, of the whole population. *

<FOOTNOTE>Since last year, 1833, when the above statement was drawn up, and a census of
the population taken, the following changes have been ascertained:

<TABLE>
                                               Present No.      Loss.    Gain.
Families,	                                   123     	  2
Inhabitants,                                   610           26 by emigration.
Persons of all ages in connection with church, 438           16
Persons of all ages who are Dissenters,        172           42
Whence it appears that, notwithstanding a decrease of 26 in the population, the
Esta-

   BERWICK.                       M







