
                        SOUTH KNAPDALE.                 263

a little oblong building, elevated about three feet above the
ground, remains uninjured by time.  The saint is said to resent
with the most summary vengeance any indignity offered to this mo-
nument.  The chapel of Kilmorie Knap seems to have been the
most considerable in South Knapdale.  Its walls are almost en-
tire; a beautiful obelisk or cross stands on the west side of the
burying ground.
   The chapel at Cove, built, as tradition says, by Saint Colum.
ba, had, till of late, undergone but little dilapidation.  Near this
chapel, is a consecrated cave, which gives its name to the farm on
which the chapel is situated.  Its altar and font still remain, and
over the former, a cross is cut on the solid rock by no unmaster-
ly hand.  It was after St Columba left this place, that he sailed
for lona and built his famous seminary there.
   Among the antiquities of the parish it may be mentioned, that
at Stronchullin on the coast of Lochfine, and not far from the
church of Inverneill, there is a thatched cottage still standing,
and in perfect preservation, which is at least two hundred years
old.  The walls are thick and substantial ; the cupples are of oak,
very massive, and still perfectly sound.  This cottage is situated
at the foot of the hill, over which, at that time, went the road to
Tarbert.  It is said, that when Alastar Macdonald (son of Colla
Ciotach,) was ravaging Argyleshire in 1643, on his way to Kintyre,
he came to this house, faint with hunger, and that wearied with his
journey, he demanded of the landlady of the house something to
eat, when the poor woman gave him a drink of milk, the only thing
perhaps which the house could afford.  Alastar received the
draught very thankfully, and in token of his gratitude, ordered his
men to spare this house where he had been so kindly entertained.
" Caomhain," (says Alastar in the language of his country,)
" Caomhain am Bothan beag ain buin na beinne, far an dfhuair
mi an deoch bhainne,"-(spare the little hut at the foot of the hill
where I got the drink of milk.)

                       III.-POPULATION.

<TABLE>
The population in 1755, according to Dr Webster, was           1292
  	         in 1772, according to Mr Hyndman, it was        1600
By Government census in 1821, males,                            966
                              females,                     875-1841
     Do.        do.    1831,  males,                           1098
                              females,                    1039-2137
     Do.         do.   1841,                                   1587

   The population of that district of the parish, which has been
annexed to the parish of Lochgilphead was in 1831, between 500


