
                           DURNESS.                                89

is seen minutely in the adjoining parish of Edderachillis at Loch-
more and Glencul, and to an extent of several miles in the parish
of Assynt, where it appears under the same general character and
of the aine formation.
   In the third or Westmoin district, a section of this bed also ap-
pears, to the extent of about five miles in length by half a mile in
everage breadth. It is separated from Durness by Loch Eriboll,
the quartz mountain range of Ceannabinn, and Benspionada. The
mountains of Hope and Strathmore are quartz and gray slate,
either horizontally stratified, or with a small inclination to the east
and north. The limestone eaves present fine specimens of stalac-
tites and stalagmites, and some of the lakes in the limestone for-
mation abound in marl. Immense circular blocks of granite are
frequently resting upon the limestone rocks: and pieces of por-
phyry have been discovered near Rispond, which are easily cut into
seals.
   Soil-Over the limestone, the soil is chiefly clay of various
depth, and yielding rich pasturage. The alluvial deposits carried
down by the mountain streams make the stratlis equally fertile.
But with these exceptions, the whole soil of the parish is a con-
tinuous surface of peat moss, varvine, from a few inches to twelve
feet in depth,-below which there are deep strata of clay or gravel.
   Zoology.-The high mountains in the interior, commonly called
the " Forest"-(a leafless one!) abound in red-deer (Cervus ele-
phas.) The roe (Cervus capreolus) is occasionally seen at Ben
Hope. Foxes (Canis vulpes,) notwithstanding the high premiums
given, are numerous and difficult to extirpate. Badgers (Ursus
meles) are almost extinct. Wild cats (Felis catusferus) are pret-
ty numerous. Otters (Mustela lutra) are found in the rivers.
Hares common (Lepus timidiis,) and alpine (L. variabilis,) are
seen, the latter more numerous; also rabbits (L. cuniculus;) pole-
cats, ferrets, and weasels (Mustela,) Moles (Talpa Europea) are
rare, and only found in one district of the parish, on the eartern
bank of Loch Hope. Rats (M. rattus) are of late immigration.
   Birds.-Amoncr the land fowls, the following are the principal:
Hawks (Falco) of different kinds. Owls, both gray and brown,
with ears resembling horns. The Royal (fulvus,) and fishing (ha-
liatus,) eagle. A colony of rooks (C.frugilegiis) may be seen in
September for a few weeks, and almost all the small birds common
   <FOOTNOTE>From one of these on the glebe, the monument erected in the church-yard to
the memory of Rob. Donn, was formed.


