
   222                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   rocks and below high-water mark, it was ultimately discovered
   that the quantity of coal procured would pay but a small propor-
   tion of the expense incurred.  The work was then abandoned,
   and has never since been resumed.  In different parts of the
   parish, but more especially in the island of Rasay, there is a
   species of granite, which, though not of equal transparency with that
   of Aberdeen, is still of a very valuable quality.  It is of a very
   hard consistency, and most useful, as millstones are made of it,
   which are most suitable for grinding oats and barley; and with
   these, all the mills in the island and in the adjacent parishes in the
   mainland are supplied.  They are found in large thick blocks be-
   low high-water mark, lying horizontally ; and after they are form-
   ed and dressed by a mason, they are sold at from L. 9 to L. 12
   Sterling per pair, according to size and quality.  On both sides
   of the harbour of Portree, there are immense high and almost per-
   pendicular rocks, formed of freestone, which, though not of
   the very best quality, being rather soft, is used in building,
   and serves as guards for chimney-heads and corner-stones.  But
   in the island of Rasay, there is a freestone of the best quality
   and in the greatest abundance.  Some years ago, it was made
   use of in building a most elegant house by the late proprie-
   tor of that estate.  In the district of Sconcer, there is an inex-
   haustible quantity of limestone.  Both limestone and freestone are
   covered with different kinds of deposits, such as sand, loam, clay,
   but more frequently with gravel.
      The quality of soil most common in this parish is gravelly, though,
   not unfrequently, sheets of deep moss are interspersed between the
   hills.  The soil in every part of tbe parish is wet and spouty.  Even
   in places which appear dry, springs of the finest water are found to
   rise, and consequently on the low grounds the grass is intermixed
   with watery plants and herbs, and these scarce furnish any food
   for animals.  They wither and decay very early in the season.
      Zoology.--With the exception of some deer in Lord Macdonald's
   deer forest at Sconcer, there are no animals in this, but such as
   are common to all other Highland parishes.  The breed of cattle
   is small but hardy; and, for the most part, they lie out, exposed
   to the inclemency of the weather, at all seasons of the year. They
   are scantily fed in winter with straw, and, consequently, in the
   months of March and April, they are low in condition, and very
   muelt emaciated.  As soon, however, as the moss grass, the kind


