
                     ARTICLE GLASGOW.                    915

of the infant school perishing altogether.  At this crisis several
of the parochial congregations stepped forward and, established
four or five infant schools; and while as careful as ever to culti-
vate and train the mind, they made Scriptural principle, spirit, and
habit predominant and all-pervading.  This was attended with good,
but the public interest could not be sustained in behalf of infant
schools, and many of them after a season were discontinued.  In
1834, the Educational Society, which might be said to have begun
with the introduction of infant schools, was revised and reor-
ganized.  It consists of persons attached to the principles of a
nationalreligious establishment of the truth, and approving of a con-
nection between the parochial schools and the national church.  Its
present objects are, to obtain and diffuse information regarding the
common schools of our own and other countries--their excellencies
and defects; to awaken our countrymen to the educational wants
of Scotland; to solicit Parliamentary inquiry and aid in behalf of
the extension and improvement of the parochial schools,--and, in
particular, to establish a Normal seminary in connection with our
parochial institutions for the instruction of teachers, in the most
improved methods of intellectual and moral training, so that the
schoolmasters may enjoy a regular professional education.  Per-
ceiving the great advantage of the moral training in the infant
schools, and, persuaded of its applicability to juvenile or more ad-
vanced schools, the Society forthwith engrafted it upon juvenile
education, and with this view selected a sessional school as a mo-
del until they should be able to have a juvenile model school, as
well as an infant model school of their own.  At these model
seminaries, a great many teachers from all parts of the country
have received instruction in the best modes of teaching and
training the young.  Such has been the success, and such the
felt necessity for an institution, to embrace the grand objects of
the Educational Society on a suitable scale in one building, that
they have erected a Normal Seminar.  This institution was su-
perintended by the late Mr John M'Crie, son of the late cele-
brated Dr M'Crie, as rector, till be was cut off by death in the
prime of his days and the opening blossom of his usefulness.
The most important facts connected with the operations of the
Normal Seminary are to be found in the following extract from
an Appeal recently circulated by the Society:
   "There are, at this moment, forty-seven students in regular


