
184				AYRSHIRE.

				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	The parish of Galston contains 14,577 acres, imperial measure,
which may be distributed as follows:

        	Arable land,	        9833 acres.
         Pasture and moss          3780
         Plantations,               964
	It is probable that 600 acres of the land which has not yet been
cultivated might, with a little	outlay, be subjected to the opera-
tion of the plough. But this could be undertaken with no other
view than to improve the quality of the pasture,--a remark which
may be applied to nearly 1000 acres of what is above stated as
arable. There is no unappropriated common in the parish; but
the proprietors of land in Galston, and even in a part of Riccar-
ton, have a right to cut peat and turf in a certain part of Galston
Muir. It will readily be believed, however, that in a country where
coals are so abundant, and may be purchased at 4s. a ton, exclu-
sive of carriage, this privilege is neither highly valued, nor fre-
quently exercised.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land is 18s. 10d.
per acre, and that of moorland pasture 1s. 1d.
         Husbandry.--The general duration of leases is nineteen years;
but upon the estates of the Duke of Portland many of the farms
have lately been put upon the English system, and the tenants
have properly no leases, but occupy from year to year. This
change does not appear to have been brought about for the pur-
pose of getting rid of the old tenants, or of enhancing their
rents; still less has it been introduced to stop the progress of
improvement. On the contrary, the farmer being liberally re-
munerated, in case of removal, for any permanent improvement
which he makes upon his farm, carries on his operations with
confidence; and the enlightened and wealthy proprietor has late-
ly taken into his own hand the conduct of the most important
species of improvement. He has erected works for the manufac-
ture of draining-tiles, and procured persons of experience in the
practice of draining; and when any tenant wishes to have his farm
improved in this way, be has only to carry the tiles to the field to
be drained, and to furnish straw to cover them in cases where it is
necessary, and the whole work is performed without any farther ex-
pense to him, except the payment of a yearly surn proportioned to
the distance at which the drains are placed. This distance varies
from 14 to 18 feet, and the yearly sum paid by the farmer varies


