
474                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

union was consummated in the Abbey of Holyroodhouse, and has
been immortalized by Dunbar in his beautiful poem of the
"Thrissil and the Rois."*
   James Douglas, third Earl of Morton, and eldest son ofthe second
Earl, succeeded his father. He married Lady Catherine Stewart,
natural daughter of James IV. by Mary Boyd; and by her he had
three-daughters, Margaret, Beatrix, and Elizabeth. A safe con-
duct to England was granted him in 1516. In 1522, he was ac-
cused of treasonably corresponding with Hume of Wedderburn,
and Gawin Bishop of Dunkeld, but was honourably acquitted in
1524.+  Having no male issue, he made an entail of his estate in
1540 in favour of Robert Douglas of Lochleven, reserving a third
part as a portion to his wife; but afterwards, as it had been ar-
ranged that James Douglas, second son of Sir George Douglas
of Pittendriech, and brother of David, seventh Earl of Angus,
should marry his daughter Elizabeth,-he changed his mind, and
granted a charter of his lands and earldom in favour of his intended
son-in-law, who, immediately after the consummation of the mar-
riage, received the title of Master of Morton, as if be had been
the Earl's own son. This grant was confirmed by royal charter
in i543.+  The Earl died in 1553.
   In September 1519, from an apprehension that the plague had
reached the metropolis, King James V. was removed by the Earl
of Arran from the castle of Edinburgh, and brought to the castle
of Dalkeith, where the court was held for about a month.
   Shortly after the death of King James V., in 1542, negotia-
tions were commenced by King Henry VIII. to obtain the infant
Scottish Princess in marriage for his son, and by this means to
reduce Scotland under his sway. As these measures were vigo-
rously opposed by Cardinal Beaton, he was suddenly arrested, on
the 20th January 1542-3, and imprisoned in Dalkeith Castle,
and thence conveyed to his Castle of St Andrews. Recovering his
liberty, the Cardinal succeeded in frustrating the scheme of Henry,
who thereupon resolved to invade the kingdom, and accomplish his
purpose by force. Prompt measures were taken by Arran, the go-
vernor, to obstruct these plans; and as Sir George Douglas of Pin-
kie, and his son, the Master of Morton, who was now in possession

<FOOTNOTE>See the valuable edition of the Poems of William Dunbar, in 2 vols. 8vo, by
David Laing. Edinburgh, 1834. Vol. i. pages 3-10.
    Acts of Scot. Parl., Vol. ii. p. 290.  + Ibid.
    Hollinshed's Scottish Choronicle, Vol. ii. p.159. Perth, 1806.
    Diurnal of Occurrents, page 26, Banuat. Club, Edinburgh, 1833.
                                    1


