
44		        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--There is no market-town within the parish.
The nearest market is Kirkcudbright, which is about three miles
distant from the church; and Gatehouse, distant about six miles
in an opposite direction. The principal cattle-market is Castle-
douglas, distant. nine miles.
	The village of Twynholm has increased considerably within
these few years. The population is now about 250. As there is
no manufacture to give employment to any considerable portion of
the inhabitants, it is rather to be regretted the populatrion
should increase. In country villages, where the people depend
almost solely on agricultural thier numbers exceed the demand of the
immediate neighbourhood.
	Means of Communication.--The great road from Carlisle to
Portpatrick lies through the centre of the parish, and consequent-
ly the mail; passes daily to and from Dumfries. The post-town is
Kirkcudbright, but it would be a great convenience for the parish
if a post-office were established in the village. The turnpike roads
are kept in excellnt order, and been much improved within these
few years, principally by the exertions and contributions of the
gentlemen connected with the parish.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is placed in the very cen-
tre of the population, and almost in the centre of the parish,
with easy access from all parts. The original site of the church
was nearly a quarter of a mile distant from the place where the
church now stands. The site was changed in 1730. The pre-
sent church was built in 1818, and in a good state of repair.
The size is sufficient for the accommodation of all the parishioners.
The only drawback is, that in the division of the church, portions
of the area are assigned in proportion to the valuations of the dif-
ferent heritor, not inproportion to the accommodation they require.
Hence, while more room than is needed is allotted to one pro-
perty, there are other properties left with very insufficient accom-
modation, and there is almost no provision made for the village
population. The church affords accommodation for about 410
sitters.  All the sittings are allocated.
	The manse was built in 1835-6, and is a large and convenient
house. The glebe is large, containing about 28 acres Scots. It
was obtained by an excambion with Lord Selkirk, the patron and


