
                             MONIFIETH.                      541

is abundant. It is eaten by some, but chieftly used by fishermen
as bait. Porpoises and seals are common.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Heritors.-The heritors of the parish are twelve in number, of
whom the chief are Lord Panmure, Mr Erskine of Linlathen, Sir
James Ramsay, &c.
	Monifieth was originally a seat of the Culdees; and, when the
old church was pulled down in 1812, and the foundations of the
present house excavated, some remains of the Culdee edifice were
discoverded. Towards the end of the twelfth century, Gilbert,
third Earl of Angus, gifted the church of Monifieth with those of
Murroes, Kirrymuir, and Strathdichty, to the Abbey of Arbroath.
The Culdees of Monifieth seem to have resisted this annexation
for a time; for in the year 1225, we find Malcolm fifth Earl of
Angus and his daughter Matilda repeating the grant. The Coun-
tess Matilda also added, aparently as an alms-gift of her own,
the whole land on the south side of the church, which, during the
lifetime of her father, was held by the Culdees. Thereafter Moni-
fieth continued to be a dependent church of the abbey till the Re-
formation. Indeed, alarge yearly revenue was drawn from it; for
the rent-roll of the abbey's book of assumptions states the valua-
tion of the church to have been in the year 1531 as follows:
Money, 23 lib. 13s. 4d.; wheat, 5 chalders; bear, 11 chalders,
11 bolls; meal, 15 chalders, 11 bolls; salmon, 14 barrels. At
the visitation of the monasteries, however, in 1501-2, by the com-
missioners of Privy-Council, the revenues from Monifieth are
stated thus; wheat, 4 chalders, 12 bnlls; bear, 12 chaldres, 9 bolls;
meal, 15 chalders, 10 bolls.
	In the flourishing days of the Papacy, the parish consisted of
four distinct chapelries; 1. Monifieth, where the present church
is situated. 2. Broughty, where the remains of the chapel are
still visible on the boundary between this parish and that of Dun-
dee.  Within the memory of man, a considerable part of the fa-
bric remained; but the stones having been found useful for build-
ing gradually disappeared, so that little more is now left besides
the foundation. The circumjacent cemetery, however, is still in
ues. 3. Eglismonichty (of which the etymology seems to be ec-
clesia montis Dichty), situated on a crag above the river Dichty,
nearly opposite the Mill of Balmossie. This chapel, long previ-
ously ruinous, was razed about eighty years ago-the mill just no-
ticed built out of the materials, the cemetery ploughed up, the
bones buried, and a circle of trees eradicated, with the exception


