
230                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

not be "compellit to hant (frequent) any other paroch kirk nor
their awin, qlk, had been fundit of auld to yt effect." On re-
ing this application, the Presbytery ordained " the Abbot of
Halierudhouse, the ministers and elders of St Cuthberts, and all
others having interest, to compear before them the following day,
and declare whether they had anything to object to this supplica-
tionm, but none having compeared, the Presbyterie directed Sir
James Forrester to lay before them all the auld fundations, rights,
and papers, instructing that the church of Corstorphine was for-
merly a parish church."
   Sir James Forrester accordingly produced the papal bulls and
other rights iu his possession, at a meeting of Presbytery held on
19th March 1587, when they were "examined and advycit upon by
the brethren of the Presbytery, who found that the kirk of Cor-
storphine was of auld, a paroch kirk, interponed their authority to,
and authorized the same accordingly, and they farther ordained a
supplication to be made to the Lord's modifiers of ministers' sti-
pends, to assign a stipend out of the thirds of Halierudhouse to
the said kirk. The first stipend must have been very small, for
its inadequacy was for many years afterwards a subject of frequent
complaint, and neither manse nor glebe were then designed to the
minister, who lived in a house in the village belonging to Sir James
'Forrester."*
   It is probable that, within two or three years after this decision
of the Presbytery, a clergyman was appointed to Corstorphine,
but as there is a blank in register of the Presbytery from 1589 to
1591, the exact period of this settlement cannot be ascertained.
In February 1589, the Laird of Corstorphine was a commissioner
of Assembly, which makes it probable that the church then had a
minister.
   On 6th June 1591, there was a visitation of Corstorpbine and
Gogar by certain members of the Presbytery, who reported that
" in the minister of Corstorphine they fand nathing sclanderous,
and all things in the kirk they fand in a good state."' And as
concerning the kirk of Gogar, "they thought good, it being so small
a congregation, and syk near to Corstorphine, that it sbould be
joinit thereto, in which opinion the brethren of the Presbytery ac-
quiesced."
   Notwithstanding the favourable opinion of the Presbytery the

<FOOTNOTE>   Presbytery. Register, Vol. i.          ibid.


