
592                        ARGYLESHIRE.

to inhabit the Frith of Clyde in abundance. Scarcely any syste-
matic pursuit of this important branch of industry is followed in
the parish. It may be said, that scarcely any of the population
are fishermen by trade, except a few who confine their attention
to the berring fishing in its season; and the few persons resorting
to the occupation of fishing doing so rather from necessity than
from choice or habit, and with but indifferent findings, and only
in the more sheltered parts of the frith. The quality of the fish
caught is but inferior generally, and the market in Dunoon but
indifferently supplied. Salmon fishing along the sea coast, with
a kind of net recently introduced, called a bag-net, has been fol-
lowed for the last few years, and with considerable success, by
an enterprising respectable family in the neighbouring parish of
Kilfinan, the Messrs Scoular. The shoals of herring annually
resorting to Loch Fine and the neighbouring arms of the sea,
seldom visit the coast of this parish or the Holy Loch. For the
last eleven years, no considerable take of them has occurred but
once. Individual herrings, sometimes to the number of a few
dozens, in the early part of summer, are frequently taken by the
rod, and with the ordinary fly bait used for the seathe.  The her-
rings thus taken are considered inferior in quality,-apparently
stragglers from the aquatic camp of the great bodies of that rather
mysterious fish.
  Shell-fish.-Lobsters and crabs are found frequently, but not in
great numbers, the fishing of tide former not being systematically
pursued, though there is no portion of the coast of Scotland more
likely to yield a good return to that special department of fishing
occupation, and within such easy access to the Glasgow market.
There are no beds of oysters meriting notice, though they are
found mostly along this whole coast of the parish, but thinly scat-
tered, and considered to be of excellent quality. In the Holy
Loch, towards its inland extremity, and the bay of Ardentinny,
there are mussel scalps of natural growth and of very considerable
extent. In the former place they are now begun to be preserved
by the proprietor, Mr Hunter of Hafton; and, by careful preser-
vation, may speedily be extended over a surface of many acres.
Along the sands in the same place, laid bare at every tide, the
common cockle abounds. It is not considered here as an article
of food, and scarcely so used at all; while, in certain parts of
Scotland; it is considered a delicacy, and is found of considerable
importance as an article of food. It is quite certain that this de-


