
     of Abernethy and Kinchardine.

small farms.  However, the sheep are greatly increased of 
late years, and the farmers endeavor to keep as many cat-
tle as formerly; so that, like Pharaoh's kine and one con-
sumes the other.  The sheep are almost all of the black-
faced kind, though few have the breed geniune, but cros-
sed.  By the tenants increasing their number of sheep, and
still striving to keep up their former number of black, cat-
tle, neither the sheep can be expected to be sold fat, nor
the cattle in general in decent marketable condition; by
which means they must always be sold at prices inferior to
what they would fetch if properly grazed; so that the pa-
rish in general is only a nursery for raising lean cattle and
sheep, to be fastened elsewhere*.-The crops here are,
barley, oats, rye, potatoes, chiefly the small black oats; on
some farms pease and a good deal of white oats.  The
crops here are often precarious, and frequently misgive to
a very distressing degree. There are only 5 farms in the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The cattle being often half starved in the winter, owing to having
too many for the straw, and sent in summer to hills covered with sheep,
are often presented to the drovers in August and September with the
former year's hair on them.  Such in the parish as do justice to thier
cattle in strawing them suffieciently, and grazing them well in summer,
have very comely good cattle.  But these are the sewest, the tenants in
general keeping their number of black cattle while the sheep are in-
sensibly increasing around them.  The promiscous pasturage of sheep
and black cattle is unnatural, and must be a losing game; people
see the error but do not mend it.  This mismanagement is not peculiar
to this district: many neighbouring parishes and counties go on in the 
same tract.  While people follow the sheep system as they do, common
sense would seem to distate to them, that they ought to let the whole hill-
pastuange go witht he sheep, and onlu keep as many cattle as their in-
land farms would graze properly in the summer.  By these means fewer 
beasts would exceed in value the present number.  Few horses are reared in
this parish, and great numbers of small ones used in it by the generality of
the tenants, which takes a great deal of money yearly out of it, and which
might be much remedied, if every farmer were to rear a foul every second
or third year.  Proprietors ought to attend to this and encourage it.

     VOL XIII. S


