
     Of Aberdour.

gets, on the other hand, bury here:  But the annual average, as in the table,
will be found to be very near the truth.  The register of marriages has all a-
long been accurately kept; and from it is the article of marriages in the table
taken The average of births from each marriage, is calculated from a hun-
dred known instances in the neighbourhood of one another.  It appears from
the table, that the number of soldiers and sailors employed in his Majesty's ser-
vice in the last war, amounts to upwards of the eight part of the whole males
residing in the parish at this time, from 20 to 50 years of age; a very large pro-
portion indeed, besides those employed in the merchant service, which farther
accounts for the small decrease of inhabitants.  The number of the horses, as in
he table, is from actual enumeration.  And so is that of the black cattle anti
sheep, as it stood in summer 1792, when their numbers are higher; with this
difference, however, that being obliged, from the reluctance of the lower rank
of people (through ignorance or prejudice) to inform as to the number of their
black cattle and sheep, to employ others than the owners in the enumeration,
their reports cannot be equally depended upon: but of there last, the number
was but small, and deviates, at most, only a little from the truth.  The sheep,
in general, are of the north country breed, only about so of the English breed
of the polled kind; but along the coast, are a good many of a mixed breed be-
tween the two.  The number of sheep has much decreased since the introduc-
tion of winter keeping, the sheep walks being too confined to enable the owner
to pay a shepherd for the whole year, and reap any profit besides from his small
flock.  All there several sorts of cattle, being, in general, but small, may be
estimated at present, at the following average value, viz. horses from 5 L. to 6 l.,
black cattle from 2 L. to 3 L., and sheep at 6 s. Sterling.  This is the opinion of
the most knowing people the writer of this article has converted with upon the
subject, but he does not sustain himself a competent judge in these matters,
Generally speaking, and with few exceptions, there are as many carts as horses
employed in the summer time in bringing home fuel, but as a good many young
horses are reared, who are unfit for drawing in the cart, the carts, as in the
table, are computed to be in proportion to the horses, in the ratio of 4 carts to
5 horses.  The ploughs are drawn, some few in the moorland part of the parish,
by 6 small horses, 2 or 3 ploughs by 8 oxen and 2 horses; and through the rest
of the parish, a few are drawn by 2 horses, but the greater part by 4, or
horses and 2 oxen, and these last are most approved of.
   In stating the funds belonging to, and disbursements made to the poor, it was
not thought fair to go back so far as the years 1783 and 1784, when the wants
of the poor required an extraordinary supply; and accordingly a considerable sum
was actually distributed: But the average is taken from the year 1792, and 6
preceding years, when there has been no extraordinary demand; and the sum
mentioned in the table, as given to the poor, several of whom have families, has,


