
                        BORTHWICK.               151

size than the mountain rivulets which have contributed to form them,
but less than the broad rivers which sweep with their accumulated,
waters through the more level country. The valleys themselves are
often both possessed of native fertility of soil and remarkable for
the picturesque views which they open of the more distant and le-
vel landscape, and they have always been selected as favourite
stations for such castles as were common during the middle ages,
and whose ruins still give so much grace and interest to the se-
cluded spots in which they now are found.
  Extent.-The parish of Borthwick is about 6 miles in length,
from Castleton on the west to Ford on the east-and 4 miles
broad, reckoning from Shank on the north to Cowbrae hilt on the
south. The form of the parish, however, is by no means regular
-for towards the east it stretches into a long and narrow neck of
land-towards the west it embraces a considerable breadth of more
elevated ground-and the valley of Borthwick itself, with its im-,
posing old castle, occupies the centre of the parish-and forms a
basin of some extent, traversed by a lively and winding stream-and
bounded on all sides by undulating tracts of hilly ground, which
give to it a peculiar character at once of mountain scenery and of
rural seclusion.
  Hydrography.-The higher part of the parish is traversed by
two streams, which have their origin in the moorland lying at the
foot of the transition hills on the south. They are severally de-
signated as the South and North Middleton Burns-they unite
precisely at the termination of that neck of land on which the Castle
of Borthwick stands-they then assume the name of the Gore-
which, after winding through the whole extent of the valley, and
passing along the foot of the rising grounds on which the modern,
village of Gore Bridge reposes, enters the South East at Shank
Point-one of the most picturesque and pleasing localities in the
whole district.
  From the proximity of these united streams to their.
and feeding rivulets on the neighbouring moorland, they often
descend in torrents very rapidly-and are as speedily restored
to their usual channel. If a heavy fall of rain occurs during the
evening or through the night, we perceive, when day dawns, that
the water has been down during the night, and left evident tokens,
of its ravages and unusual height-though, by the time that we
have opportunity to observe its corse, it has again been restored
to nearly its more ordinary state.


