
                        MOREBATTLE AND MOW.                     449

Castle, famed in Border story, the Tower of Corbet House, also
connected with the border feuds, and many cheerful farm-houses,
with their adjacent cottages; it embraces in the further distance
on the one side, the loftier range of the Cheviot, and on the other,
the fertile districts of Merse and Teviotdale, studded with gentle-
men's seats, the rich vale of the Teviot, the wooded course of the
Tweed, the picturesque Eildons, with their triple summit, Hume
Castle, Smailholm's rocky tower, the Waterloo monument on Pi-
nelheugh, with numerous other attractive and interesting objects;
and in the back ground is terminated by the distant hills of Lammer-
muir and Selkirkshire.  There is a great scarcity of wood in the
parish, which would very much improve the scenery and also the
climate.  A sufficient extent of ground might be laid out in plan-
tations without materi`lly encroaching on land otherwise valuable,
and what might be taken up for this purpose would be more than
compensated by the increased value of the remainder.  Many
patches are everywhere to be found, at present, nearly waste, which
might thus be rendered both ornamental and profitable.  Some of
the proprietors have, within the last thirty years, turned their at-
tention to improvements of this kind, but not generally, nor to any
thing like the extent that is required.
   Climate, Diseases, and Soil.--The climate is dry and healthy.
In the lower part of the parish it is mild and temperate, but in the
higher districts the winters are severe and stormy.  The spring is
liable to be interrupted by cold chilly winds, from the neighbour-
ing Cheviots proving injurious to the fruit blossoms and the more
delicate vegetation.  Fruit is here, therefore, an uncertain crop,
and not much cultivated.  In spring and autumn, fogs and boar
frosts from Linton loch on the east, and a marshy ground on the
northwest, often sit down on the valley or basin of the Kale, and
frequently injure the crops, especially of potatoes and wheat, in
the valley, and also to a certain height sometimes very distinctly
marked, on the adjacent rising grounds.  Harvest commonly
commences towards the middle of August.  The inhabitants, in ge-
neral, enjoy good health.  There is no disease to which they are
particularly liable.  Agues have entirely disappeared.  Epidemics
are uncommon.  Typhus fever seldom appears, and when it his
occasionally been imported has never spread to any great extent.
Only five or six cases of small-pox have occurred within these last
twenty years.  Scarlet fever is perhaps the most fatal disease which
now visits the district.  Cholera never entered the parish.  When


