
184                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

By recent measurement, its length is 187 feet, and its breadth, in-
cluding the aisles, 105 feet. From the centre of the west front
there rises a square tower, which was formerly surmounted by an
imperial crown. This, however, was removed a number of years
ago, from an apprehension that it was too weighty for the tower.
At the time of its removal, it was proposed to replace it by a si-
milar crown made of iron. This, however, has never been effect-
ed. Some of the windows are very beautiful, and, previous to the
Reformation, the exterior was decorated with statues, of which
only one now remains, that of St Michael, the old patron saint of
the burgh. The church, with its pertinents, was assigned by Da-
vid 1. to the prior and canons of St Andrews. It was afterwards
served by perpetual vicars, several of whom attained high rank in
the church. Formerly, the west end was used as the place of wor-
ship. In 1812, the east end was fitted up as a church at a cost of
nearly L. 4000, and now forms a very elegant church, seated for
1100 persons. The charge was once collegiate, but has been long
single. In some accounts, mention is made of an abrogated pa-
rish, that of Binny, having been, at the Reformation, united to the
parish of Linlithgow. Some, however, doubt whether Binny was
ever a distinct parish, and conceive that the chapel there was sub-
sidiary to the church of Linlithgow. There is now an excellent
manse built, since the last Statistical Account was written. The
glebe is valued at about L. 11 per annum, and the stipend ave.
rages somewhere about L. 300. There are two congregations con-
nected with the United Secession Church in the parish, one place
of worship containing about 600 sittings and the other nearly 500.
The former was rebuilt, not many years ago, at an expense of
L. 1150. There is also a congregational chapel lately rebuilt, at
an expense of L. 700, and containing about 350 sittings. More
recently, a congregation has been formed in connection with the
Free Protesting Church. They have it in contemplation to erect
a place of worship; their number cannot be correctly stated, but it
is believed that it is on the increase. When the Church Commis-
sion was here, it was computed by the Established minister, that
there were 1300 Dissenters in the parish, and by one of the Se-
cession ministers, that there were 1526,-all the rest being church-
men. Since then, their relative numbers have not changed, with
the exception of the recent secession from the Establishment, the
extent of which, as already mentioned, cannot be distinctly stated.

				1


