
                           DOLLAR.                           105

and at that time it appears that Castle-Campbell belonged to the
family of Argyle. The words are, "It is reported that Muck-
hartshire was then (1491,) feued out by Shevez of St Andrews to
the Earl of Argyle for siding with him; and I have heard that the
first feu-charter there of was granted at Dollar Castle, now Castle-
Campbell, then and still a house belonging to Argyle." *

 <FOOTNOTE> In the former Statistical Account it is said, "we cannot discover how or when
Castle-Campbell, with the adjoining lands, came into the possession of the Argyle fa-
mily." There is certainly some difficulty in ascertaining that point.  But, having
got access to the charter deeds of the family, and having made a considerable research
to get at the truth on the subject, we shall lay the result of our inquiries before the
public. In the statute 1489, which we have given above, the Castle is described as
belonging to Colin, Earl of Argyle. This Colin was the first Earl of Argyle, having
been created an Earl by King James II. in 1457. We find that this Colin, first Earl
of Argyle, married Isabella, said in Douglas's Peerage to be the eldest daughter, and
co-heiress of John, third Lord of Lorn and Innermeath. It is stated in Dou-
glas's Peerage, that this Lord Lorn made a destination by charter of his whole estate,
to the heirs-male of his body, whom failing, to his brothers, Walter, Allan, David,
and Robert. Walter, the eldest, became the fourth Lord Innermeath, as big brother
Lord John left no male issue. It is stated by Douglas that this Lord Innermeath
exchanged the lands of Lorn with the Earl of Argyle, for the lands of Baldoning,
Inverdoning, &c. in Perthshire, and that after that exchange he dropped the title of
Lorn, which was then assumed by the Earl of Argyle. Now, although Walter, the
elder brother, succeeded in virtue of his brother's will, to the principal part of the
landed property of John, third Lord Lorn, we have reason to think that the lands of
Dollar and Gloom must have belonged to this John--Lord Lorn and Innermeath,
(who had lands in different parts of the country,) and that these lands descended to
his daughters as heirs-portioners. Whether the lands of Dollar and Gloom had been
part of the Lorn property, or part of the Innermeath property, we have not been
able to ascertain; but it is probable they belonged to Innermeath, for the Lorn pro-
perty was afterwards added to Innermeath by a John Stewart, proprietor of Inner-
meath, marrying the daughter of Ergadia, the old Celtic proprietor of Lorn, some-
where about tbe year 1386. But, be that as it may, there are good grounds for sup-
posing that the lands of Dollar and Gloom did not go along with the other property
to Walter, the heir at law, but descended to big three nieces, daughters of Lord
Lorn, as heirs-portioners.
  What these grounds are, will appear from what we are now to state. John, third
Lord of lorn and Innermeath, had no son, as may he inferred from his brother suc-
ceeding him; but he had three daughters, Isabell Stewart, married to Colin, first
Earl of Argyle; Margaret Stewart, married to Sir Colin Campbell of Glenurchie;
Marion Stewart, married to Arthur Campbell of Ottar. Now, in looking to the
inventory of the Argyle title-deeds, which we have compared with the title-deeds
themselves, we find first mentioned a sasine dated 9th April 1465, of all and haill
"the third part of the lands of Dollar and Gloom in favour of Duncan Campbell,
son of Sir Colin Campbell, Knight." But Douglas (voce Breadalbane) tells us, that
the eldest son of Sir Colin Campbell and Margaret Stewart, daughter of Lord
Lorn, was called Duncan; and hence we are entitled to infer, that the Sir Colin
Campbell mentioned in the sasine was the laird of Glenurchie, who married Mar-
garet Stewart. The next sasine mentioned in the inventory of the Argyle tide-deeds,
and which is of the same date as the last mentioned, is in favour of Dame Isabell Stewart
Countess of Argyle, who was the daughter of the said John, third Lord of Lorn and
Innermeath, and married to Colin, first Earl of Argyle. The third sasine in the Ar-
gyle papers, of the same date with the other two, is in favour of Marion Stewart,
sister to the said Countess. Now, supposing the lands of Dollar and Gloom to have
belonged to John, third Lord of Lorn and Innermeath, and that they were not in-
cluded in the entail in favour of his brothers, failing heirs of his own body, they must
have descended to his three daughters, each of whom would have a right to a third
part pro indivilao till a division took place. But it may be asked, what proof have
we, that each of these three parts came into the possession of the Argyle family? As


