
538                     ARGYLESHIRE.

At those times, and in moderate weather, even small boats may
pass through without difficulty."
   Geology.--The prevailing rocks belong to the primitive class.
The formations are mica-slate and quartz-rock, occasionally tra-
versed by veins of trap or whinstone and quartz.
   Zoology.--Game, in all its varieties, abounds in Jura from
the stately red deer to the humble snipe.  The hills abound
with red grouse, ptarmigan, green and grey plover, black-
cock, and woodcock, in their season.  Hares are numerous;
pheasants and coveys of partridges, which have been lately intro-
duced, are occasionally seen.  Teal and wild ducks of every kind
and name known to the writer, including the large Scotch and
eider-duck, frequent our bays and our lakes.  There are several
flocks of wild-geese which haunt about Loch Tarbert.  There
are two kinds of eagles, the sea and the golden eagle.  Martins,
polecats, badgers, and foxes, et hoc genus omne, if they ever did
exist, are now extinct in this parish.  Otters are numerous about
the small Isles of Jura and the unfrequented sbores of Tarbert.
                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners and Heritors.--Colin Campbell, Esq. of Jura, is
proprietor of all the island, excepting the property of Ardlussa, in
the northern part of the island, which belongs to Captain M'Neill,
younger of Colonsay.
   Parochial Registers.--The earliest entry in these registers is
dated January 1810.  Those prior to that date were lost. The poor's
funds register bears the same date.  From that period they have
been regularly kept, with an addition since the year 1825, of an
obituary and register of discipline, in which the proceedings of the
kirk-session are recorded.  The register of births and marriages
in Colonsay bears an older date.
   Antiquities.--It were an endless task to enumerate the tumuli
or cairns which are to be met with in this parish, by each of which
"hangs a tale." Stones of immense magnitude, requiring the
united efforts of such a number of men as could gather about
them, to raise and place them in the perpendicularposition in which
they are now found, meet the eye, even in the most remote and
Ånfrequented parts of the parish.  The greatest number, however,
are near the sbore, and in the neighbourbood of safe landing
places.  The account given of them by the inhabitants is, that
they are commemorative of feuds and battles between rival clans;
but these traditions are often so much at variance with each other,
                                  1


