
126                          ARGYLESHIRE.

which inclose the lake continue to run inland, and form the first
part or opening of a valley, about seven or eight miles long.  The
level land here is about 200 acres in extent, (the soil moss about
two feet thick on a bed of clay,) extending about three-quar-
ters of a mile along the head of the loch, and about the same dis-
tance back into the glen, with a quarter of a mile in mean breadth.
It is all good and productive arable, though still capable of much
improvement, to which the greatest obstacle is its slight elevation
above the level of the sea.  Some fine old sycamores and other
trees around the embowered and sequestered residence of the
proprietor, attest the maturity and great size to which forest trees
are there capable of arriving.  Groves of vigorous larches and
firs, and woods of oak, birch, and ash, profitably adorn the lesser
eminences and the slopes of the high mountains.  Where the
plain of Kinlochmoidart terminates on the east, the valley takes
a north-easterly direction, and we come upon the farm of Lochans,
and a small lake not more probably than ten, or fifteen feet above
the level of the sea, the flat land being about 150 yards broad,
chiefly swampy, yet improvable ground.  After this, the valley,
under than name of Glenforslan, contracts, until, at about a mile
from its upper extremity, beyond a farm-house of that name, the
level ground ceases, and the stream fills the entire bottom.  This
last is not the least valuable part of the glen.  The hills, though
steep, are covered with a depth of soil uncommon in such situa-
tions, and of course with grass of superior quality.
   Glenuig.-About six miles from Kinlochmoidart, a valley of
this name runs for about two miles from Lochnanua to the south,
requiring no particular description.
   Glenmeuble.-This is a long deep and dreary valley, situated
in the wildest and central parts of Arasaig, extending from Loch-
morir on the north-west, towards Glenfinnan on the south-east,
for at least ten miles.  The only habitable portion is the farm of
Meoble, situated at its north-eastern extremity, where there are
some acres of tolerable arable and considerable plain.  South-east
from this, its lower part is for three miles occupied by the waters
of Loch Brosaig, a lake about a quarter of a mile broad, beyond
which the windings of the glen are soon lost in the misty recesses
of precipitous and overhanging hills.
   It would be interminable and bootless labour even to allude to
all the valleys in a parish of such vast extent, consisting, as it does,
almost altogether of hill and glen ; but one more maybe be men-


