
                         ST FERGUS.                              203

improvement, of which the soil in all parts of the parish is suscep-
tible, would appear to be: 1. Easy access to each farm by roads
serviceable at all seasons the year. 2. Keeping the main ditches
in good order so us to prevent flooding in winter. 3. Having small
ditches around each field communicating with the main ditches,
and open furrows so as at all times to let the surface water escape.
4. Trying the effects of furrow-draining.  A manufactory of tiles
for this purpose might easily be established at Inverquiny in this
parish.  There is abundance of brick clay, a ready supply of water,
and sand at a short distance.  Furrow-draining seems to hold out
the only prospect of ensuring a turnip crop on the clay lands, and
of rendering bone manure available for that purpose. * 5. A very
liberal application of lime, either mixed with earth as top-dressing,
or ploughed or harrowed into the turnip mould.  6. Converting the
money rent either wholly or in part into a grain rent, payable by
an average of the fiar prices for a certain number of years. 7. Ex-
tending the leases in conformity with a seven course shift to
twenty-one years, and arranging the fielding so as to secure on
each farm a field of grass in seven years rest. 8. A more care-
ful attention in sowing down grass lands, to the predilection of the
different grasses for their peculiar soils. + 9. Encouragement given
by the proprietor to trench those parts of the Link lands, about
Blackwater and elsewhere, which are found to overlay a rich sub-
soil of black mould.
   The farm buildings have been much improved within the
last forty years.  They belong, in general, to the tenants.  Where
the tenant builds, he is allowed one half-year's rent at the com-
mencement, and another at the expiry of his lease, for walls. The
outgoing tenant is paid by the proprietor or incoming tenant for
the roofs, according to the valuation of tradesmen mutually chosen.
The dwelling-houses on the principal farms are most of them
slated, and the offices tiled.

<FOOTNOTE>In the absence of furrow-drainage, there can be little doubt but the introduction
of the subsoil plough would be found one of the best substitutes that could be adopt-
ed, and even to that mode of draining, when tried,-a necessary auxiliary for slacken-
ing the soil, and rendering it pervious to the surface water.  The difficulty of raising
a turnip crop on the clay lands is not the only hazard which the farmer has to in-
cur.  There is often a failure of the after crop, from the field being puddled by the
operation of removing the turnips, and from the retained water wasting the dung
before the grain crop or grass can benefit by it.
          Till the cultivation of the natural grasses be resorted a close, rich, and lest-
ing sward will never be secured on the clay lands.  It is, indeed, very questionable
whether the advantages resulting from the overcleaning of the soil by the present
system of husbandry be sufficient to compensate the extirpation of the indigenous
grasses thereby occasioned.


