
     of St. Fergus.

formed a society for encouraging agriculture, and gave pre-
miums for fallow, sown grass, and turnips.  By this encourage-
ment, and by observing the great advantage that accrued from
early grass, hay, and green crops, the farmers were induced to
fallow, sow turnips, and lay down their fields in grass; and at
present, some of them have generally one third of their farm
in grass and a very considerable number of cattle are every year
fed on turnips.  Although improvements in agriculture have
made but little progress, as yet, in this parish, it is a curious
fact, that until the greatest part of the leases were expired,
there was nothing done in that way.  This is chiefly owing
to a well-placed confidence in the proprietor, who has never
yet ejected a tenant, although many of them have had no
leases for upwards of 20 years.  Many offers of an increase
of rent have been made for every farm, as soon as the lease
expired; but the possessors, or their heirs, if they inclined to
remain, have been allowed to continue in their farms, and
no rise of rent has been exacted.  The proprietor, wisely judg-
ing that improvement should precede a rise of rent, has been
at great pains to lead them to better management; and al-
though the encouragement given has not had all the effect

<FOOTNOTE>

carried oats for three or four years.  The fourth year, the return seldom
doubled the quantity of seed that had been sown.  The fifth year, they fallow-
ed the out-field, but gave no manure of any kind; and the sixth year they had
a tolerable crop of oats.  The ground was then allowed to rest for some
years, and it was seldom before the 4th year, that it got a green surface.  It
no sooner had this appearance, than it got one plowing in winter, and was
suffered to remain in that state for a year, and then had a second plowing,
and was sown with oats.  If there was any part of the field, that had not
undergone the first plowing, the surface was dug up with the spade, and
therewith dykes were made of 2 or 3 feet in height, which having been ex-
posed to the winter frost and rain, were in spring pulled down and spread
upon the ground, from which the surface had been taken.  This ground was
then plowed, and seldom failed to produce one good crop of oats.


