                    BOLESKINE AND ABERTARFF.                    59

ed farm buildings, and their arable ground partially enclosed; but
in general there are riot many enclosures in the parish.
No improvements deserving notice have recently been made;
nor does the mountainous nature of the country admit of extended
melioration, otherwise than by planting, which would interfere with
the pasture of the sheep, and consequently reduce the current rents,
-though at the distance of eighty years hence these would be
considerably augmented.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.- There are upwards of 30,000 sheep in the
parish, almost all of the Cheviot breed. Though the carcase does
not grow to a very extraordinary size, the wool is esteemed of
superior quality, and has always fetched the highest price at mar-
ket. Most of it is sold to woolstaplers in the north of England, and
the wedders and sheep are generally purchased by south country
storemasters, who frequent the great annual sheep and wool fair at
Inverness; but sometimes they are sent by the breeders to the Fal-
kirk September or October tryst, in expectation of getting a bet-
ter price than what they had previously been offered in the country.
If disappointed, they must dispose of them at a reduced price, or win-
ter them in the south, which increases the expense, and eventually
diminishes the gain, or drive them to England, which places them
still more at the mercy of the buyer.
  The parish being better calculated for sheep than for any other
stock, there is comparatively little attention paid to the rearing of
otherstock. A few gentlemen,however, are careful in procuring the
breed of genuine Highland cattle, and there is of late years an evi-
dent disposition to improve the race of horses, by crossing the na-
tive breed with the south country draught horse.
  Goats would prosper here, but would not remunerate; and sheep-
farmers are universally hostile to a mixed stock.
  Fisheries.-There is only one small salmon fishery in the parish,
which rents at L. 30 a-year.
  Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised:

    Produce of grain of all kinds,	                   L.2262	0	0
               potatoes,   	                             1334	0	0
               hay,	                                      567	0	0
               turnips,	                                      150	0	0
                                                            _______________________
                                                           L. 4313	0	0

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

Inverness, distant twenty-one miles from the manse, is the nearest
town to the parish.
   Means of Communication.-There is a post-office at Fort-Au-

