
570                         FIFESHIRE.

lity of the soil, from 10s. to L. 3, 5s. per imperial acre.  The
average rent may be stated at L. 1, 5s.  The duration of leases
is usually nineteen years, and the rents are paid partly in fixed
sums of money, and partly according to the fiars' prices of the
county.
  Rate of Grazing.-The average rate of grazing is L. 2, 1os. for
an ox or cow, and 7s. for a ewe or full-grown sheep.
  Live-Stock.-The cattle reared or fed in this parish are chiefly
of the Fifeshire breed, to the improvement of which the farmers
are most attentive.  Few sheep are pastured, and these for the
most part are of the black-faced and Cheviot breeds.
  Rate of Waqes.-The wages of a ploughman (all perquisites in-
cluded) vary from L. 16 to L. 26. Female house-servants receive
from L. 4, 1Os. to L. 6, 1Os. per annum.  The wages of male day-
labourers are from 8s. to 10s. per week; of female day-labourers
from 4s. to 5s. per week.  A mason's wages per day are 2s. 3d.;
a carpenter's are 2s.
  Lime-Quarries.-There are extensive lime-quarries in this pa-
rish, along the brow of the Pitlessie or Cults hill.  The main stratum
of limestone, which is 14 feet in thickness, is of a bluish colour,
and when burnt affords an abundant supply of white lime of the
finest quality.  About 13 feet above it, there is another stratum,
2 feet in thickness, of a darker blue colour, which, when burnt,
yields a.bluish lime.  Both of these strata are regularly quarried to
a great extent, the open face of the rock being about a mile and a
half in length.
  Farther down the hill, about 120 yards to the north, another
stratum may be observed cropping out in several places.  This
consists of what is called boulder limestone, and is 8 feet 6
inches in thickness.  It has been quarried at the eastern and west-
ern extremities of the parish for road metal, but never, so far as I
can ascertain, for supplying lime-shells.
  About the same distance (120 yards) up the hill, to the south-
wards of the main quarry, is seen the outcrop of a fourth stratum,
6 feet in thickness, pf superior quality to the lowest bed, but infe-
rior to the two middle ones.  It has been sometimes quarried, but
not regularly.  These different beds of limestone are separated
from one another by strata of coal, shale, sandstone, and a kind of
bastard limestone which the miners call "sklut."
  The limestone is obtained for the most part by "tirring," or
removing the superincumbent strata.  Mining is permitted by the
terms of the leases, where the tirring would exceed 30 feet.  And


