
236                       FORFARSHIRE.

general; and the thriving plantations, which, at the publication of
the former Account, had not commenced their growth, prove that
every encouragement is held out to continued perseverance in such
improvements.
                   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men.--Among those whn have reflected honour on
this, the place of their birth, we may mention James Webster,
Esq. Student of the Inner Temple, fifth son of the Rev. John
Webster, minister of this parish. After discovering great acute-
ness and ardour, and securing the highest opinion of his instructors,
in the prosecution of his academical studies in Scotland, this
young gentleman, with a view to practise at the English Bar, be-
took himself to his studies at the Inner Temple. The pious im-
pressions of his earliest life afterwards prompted him to pay a
visit to the countries of the east. With this object he travelled
to the continent; visited Egypt, and parts of Turkey; and, with
increasing ardour, at last, set off for Mnunt Sinai, and ascended
its memorable heights. The effect of this fatiguing expedition,
however, on his return to Cairo, was a fever, which, in a few days,
cut him off.*
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are, Colonel Fothring-
ham, Robert S. Graham, Esq., and Captain Lawrenson.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers, consisting of four
volumes, regularly kept, commence in the year 1710.
	Antiquities.--As mentioned in the former Account, there is a
Roman camp, called " Haer Faads," in one extremity of the pa-
rish, or rather partly in the parish of Guthrie, on the property of
Carbuddo. The outer ditch and rampart can still be traced, though
the ground is now planted and covered with wood. It possesses
the rectangular parallelogram of the Roman camps. Several tu-
muli are met with on thd ridges of the hills, containing, when ex-
amined; stone coffins and charred bones, as in other parts of Scot-
land.
			III.--POPULATION.
	The ancient population was greater than the present; being,
about 100 years ago, 996. At that period, many cottars were at-
tached to farms that do not now require them. The improved state
of agriculture, and the enlargement of farms, have rendered fewer


<FOOTNOTE>A Memoir of his life has been prefixed to an account of his Travels: and re-
mains, as a faint delineation to his parent and friendr, of the many valuable qualities,
which his character and talents already possessed.
				     3

