
                                    LATHERON.                   97

                                   IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-Although the lands in this
parish, are well adapted for agriculture, and although it contains
several farms in the very highest state of cultivation, yet, as the
great body of its inhabitants are engaged in the  herring-fishing,
and make, the cultivation of the soil little more than a secondary
concern it is, perbaps, less agricultural than many other parishes
in the county, that are greatly inferior in extent, population, and
internal resources.  Its pastoral qualities are peculiarly valuable,
and likely to be put in still more extensive requisition.
   It contains fully 140,000 imperial acres, of which about 9000
are arable, and about an equal quantity capable of being made so,
though at a considerable expense,  from the great number of rocks
and isolated large stones near the surfaced.  There are probably not
more than 250 acres of undivided common in the whole parish
and about 720 acres of wood of all descriptions; by far the greater
part,of which consists of natural brushwood, chiefly along the ro-
mantic banks of the rivers Berriedale, Langwell, and Dunbeath.
At the former, however, there is a considerable extent of planted
wood of all kinds and well attended to in respect to pruning, &C.;
and at the letter, there is a tasteful plantation just laid out, which
will in a few years appear highly ornamental as well as useful.  At
Braemore and Latheronwheel also a good deal has been done, and
with considerable success; as also at Lybster, where neither pains
nor expense have been spared for many years back.  But here the
roots have to contend with a less favourable soil, whilst the trees
themselves are much exposed from the want of natural shelter, the
ground being flat, and the soil damp and tenacious,-two obstacles
formidable in an ungenial climate; yet there is a striking evidence
of what can be done by pains and perseverance.
   Rent.-The average rent of arable land is certainly very high,
considering the indifferent crops raised by the small tenantry ge-
nerally. It is about L.1, 5s. per acre,-more than can be realized
by the occupiers generally,-but then the fishing is expected to
make up the deficiency.  The rate of grazing may be about
L. 2, 10s. for a cow, and go, for a sheep  or arable ground, and
15s. for cow, and 8s. for a sheep on hill pasture.
   Wages.-Day labourers, employed in ditehing, draining, or
roads usually receive at the the rate of 2d. per hour, or 9s. per week.
Masons and carpenters from 2s. to 3s. per day; men and women
employed for harvest work, the former L. 1, 10s. and the latter L.1,
    CAITHNESS.                                G


