

   1160                                PERTHSHIRE.

  rented as high as L.70, L8O, and even L.150, and that the me-
  dium rent of the grain farms was from L.20 to L.30.  With one
  exception, none of the sheep farms are at present under L.150,
  while some of them rent at L.300, L.400, and even L.500.  The
  rents of the grain farms have risen in proportion, being now con-
  siderably more than double what they were in 1792.

  <TABLE>

     The real rental of the parish, is a follows:-

  Rental of lands, including state quarry,                              L.2900   0   0
  Average produce of woods for three years past, less expense of work, &e. 430   0   0
  Game,                                                                    l00   0   0
                                                                        --------------
                                          Gross amount,                 L.3430   0   0
    In regard to the circumstances and character of the people, it
  may be observed, that a very great improvement has taken place
  within the last twenty years; and one great cause of the improve-
  ment certain is, the complete suppression of smuggling, which,
  at one period, was carried on to a great extent in the parish, and
  which was attended by its usual ruinous effects on the morals and
  comfort of the inhabitants.

    May 1843.

                          PARISH OF LECROPT.

         PRESBYTERY OF DUNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                 THE RDV.  PETER M'LAREN, MINISTER.

                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Situation, Extent, Surface, &c.--About two-thirds of this
  parish are, situated within the county of Perth, and one-third
  in the county of Stirling.  The river Teath bounds it on the
  south-west, where it meets the Forth and the Allan on the
  east.  The southern point is where the Allan falls into the united
  streams of the other two.  From east to west it extends about 3
  miles, and naearly about as much from north to south.  It con-
  tains about 2000 acres, one-half of which is a rich clay, the other
  half upland, or what is generally called dry-field.  The clay soil
  on the south is divided from the upland by a beautiful bank, which
  crosses the Parish almost parallel to the north side, and nearly at
  one-third of the distance between it and the southern extremity.


