
246                             STIRLINGSHIRE.


extent in Campsie, chiefly through means of Mr Muir, advotate,
who was afterwards tried and banished for sedition, and who had
many relatives in this part of the country. Mr Lapslie, then
minister, thought it his duty to take steps in relation to this matter,
which put him in anfortunate position with respect to many of
his parishioners, and led to many unpleasant consequences-among
others, the burning of his manse; thus furnishing another proof,
how difficult it is for clergymen to step out of their own peculiar
province, without seriously endangering their respectability and
usefulness.
  Old Families.--There are several very old families in this pa-
rish, the principal of which are the Lennoxes of Woodhead, the
Kincaids of Kincaid, the Stirlings of Craigbarnet, the Stirlings of
Glorat, and the McFarlans of Kirkton, who are derived, by the
female line, from the same stock from which the Lennoxes of
Woodhead claim descent. All these families, the Kincaids, Len-
noxes, and Stirlings of Glorat and Stirlings of Craigbarnet, have
possessed the same estates they now do during nearly four cen-
turies, some of them much longer.* McFarlan of Kirkton, or
Bancleroche, a maternal ancestor of John M'Farlan, Esq. the
present proprietor, came into possession of that estate in 1624.
Antermony was purchased by Captain John Lennox, a younger

  <FOOTNOTE> The Kincaids were in possession of Kincaid in 1280, as is proved by a charter
extant. In 1421, Duncan Earl of Lovenax conveyed to his son, Donald, ancestor of
the Woodhead family, the lands of Balcorrach, Balgrochyr, Bencloich, Thombay,
and others, in the parish of Campsie. The charter still exists. His son, John, was
served heir of his father in said lands in 1454, and seems to have been also proprie-
tor of the estates of Kilmordining and Caillie. The estate of Bencloich was sold to
Edmonstone of Duntreath In 1660, and was, by the present Sir Arcbibald Edmon-
stone, sold to Charles Macintosh, Esq. and William Macfarlan, Esq. in l894. Glo-
rat was a part of the Earldom of Levenax, and Isabella Duchess of Albany, eldest
daughter of the last Earl of the old line, was in possession of it, as appears from the
Exchequer Rolls in 1456. John Earl of Lennox, in the Darnley line, gave a grant
of the lands of Inchinnan, in Renfrewshire, "delecto consanguineo suo Gulielmo Stir-
ling de Gloret et Margareta Houstoun sposse suse, "in 1525, which is the first trace I
can find of the family; but very probably Glorat was acquired by the Stirlings about
1470, after the death of Isabella. In 1550, George Stirling of Glorat was Captain
and Governor-in-chief of Dumbarton Castle. The arms and motto, "semper fidelis,"
were granted to the family for their loyalty to their sovereigns, Charles I. and II.,
and, in the year 1666, the family was honoured with the dignity of knight baronet.
Both the Glorat family and the Stirlings of Craigbarnet are descended from the
Stirlings of Calder or Cadder, whose name appears in the Ragman's Roll, 1279.
John Striveling or Stirling of Craigbernard (Craigbarnet) is  witness to a deed in
1468. Kinnaid, "Laird of Kincaid of Stirlingshire,for his vallant service in recover-
ing of the Castle of Edinburgh from the English, in the time of Edward I., was
made constable of the said castle, and his posterity enjoyed that office for a long pe-
riod, carrying the castle in their armorial bearings in memory thereof to this day."
There is an old broad sword belonging to a branch of the family, upon which are
the arms. guies on a fesse ermine, between two mullets-in-chief, or and a castle triple
towered, in base argent, with these words.-
 	      "Wha will pursew, I will defend
               my life and honour to the end."--Nisbet's Heraldry.


