
116                       SUTHERLAND.

tess of Sutherland largely contributed.  It is Only partially seated
as yet. It is also used as a General Assembly school-house dur-
ing the week.  In the Kyle side public worship has to be perform-
ed in the open air, however inclement the weather.  Strong appli-
cations for additional accommodation in both districts have been
made to the Religious Instruction Commissioners, but hitbert
without-success.  Thereisa.GovernmentorParliamentarychurch
at Store, built in 1829.  To this is attached a population of 1403,
leaving upwards of 1700 scattered over a vast extent of inaccessible
surface, as has already been described.
   In order to carry on pastoral superintendence properly, a minis-
ter is required at Lochinver, and another at Kyleside.  There are
no missionaries in the parish.  Public worship is well attended by
the people.  The average number of communicants is 80,-a num-
ber certainly small when compared with the population.  The
communion is regularly administered once a-year.
   The stipend amounts to L. 158, 6s. 8d., including the allowance
for communion elements.  The grebe is pretty extensive.  It is
chiefly adapted for grazing, and, at the rate at which lands in the
joeighbourhood are let, might fetch a rent of L. 20 or L. 25 Ster-
ling per annum.  The manse was built about fifteen years ago, but,
from frequent storms, and its exposed situation, it very often re-
quires repairs.  The minister of the Parliamentary church at Store
has an annual stipend of L. 120, paid by the Exchequer, and a
glebe worth L. 7 a-year.
   There are no dissenting places of worship, and not above half
a dozen Dissenters in the whole parish.
   There is a catechist who. receives I., 8 annually from the so-
ciety in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge, and, with
the exception of this pittance, he is remunerated solely by the
People.  There is no such thing as,letting of church seats known
amongst us.  The average annual amount of church collections
is L. 7, 18s.
   Education.-The schools in,the parish are 7 in number, viz. the
parochial school, three from the Society for Propagating Christian
Knowledge, one from the Edinburgh Gaelic School Society, one
from the Glasgow Gaelic School Society, and one from the Genera
Asselfibly's Education Committee.  Besides tbese in various remote
district the people club together to provide a teacher for. their
childrewr-durina themintet and spring months.  None of these
schools are endowed except the parochial one.  In it the teacher's
                                  4


