
     Statistical Acount

that of East Mains, no edifice of a modern structure was
to be seen in the whole parish*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The church, indeed, had its low walls and its steeple of a tower-
like form, built with free stone, bedded with lime; and its 2 miles com-
posed of rough ashlar.  The castle, or strong house of Idington, now
quite demolished, was of the compilement of all the old towers, partly 
of free and whin stones, and some lime joined with clay mortar.  The
houses of the inferior heritors and portioners of land differed little from
those of the farmers, into the composition of which fre stone or lime
hardly entered.  The manse, as it stood at the decease of the late mi-
nister in the 1755, humbly resembled them in its form, covered with
thatch, and with a deep cume-ceil; in the second floor, it had no more
than 36 feet of wall for all its length, unless what was called an outer-
house, or kitchen, made up of cat and clay, was reckoned a good part
of it.  Before the barony of Chirnside was divided among the heritors,
in consequence of a decree pronounced by the Court of Session in the
1740, it is to be observed, that there were no outfield farms, excepting
those belonging to the three mills in the parish.  The village, like others
in the country, comprehended all the houses and cottages appertaining to
the several proprietors, great and small.  Adjacent to the mansion-house of
his domain or household.  Hence, as the land was in time parcelled out
into several farms, so many of them distinguished only by their position in
different quarters, are known here, and in other parishes, by the common
designation of mainses.  In the barony, at the period mentioned, there
were only three of those farms, and another in that of Idington.  Du-
ring the continuance of the blended property of the several heritors, the
further extention of farms and steadings was prevented by the common
property they had in the outfields.  Of these, the only use which could
be made was that of a pasturage for all the cattle and sheep of the vil-
lage.  Upon the remembrance of some old people still living, the par-
ticular account of them is said to have been, 63 score of sheep, and 13
of black cattle; and the whole number of horses is reckoned, not so
exactly, at 60.  The value of one sheep's pasture was 8 d; of an ox
or cow 20 d; and of a horse. 2 s. 6 d.  Besides the common moor adjacent
to the village, a commonalty, runnning in a certain track several miles
into Lammermuir, appertained to the barony of Chirnside.  The privi-
lege of it is known to have been used in the late minister's time, who
claimed upon it the pasturage of some lambs or sheep.


