
			   FETTERCAIRN.                       113

are very precipitious.  In some places, it has there worn a bed to
itself, through the rocks, to the depth of from 20 to 30 feet be-
low the level of the conterminous grounds.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--A particular account of the geological
peculiarities observable in the channel of the North Esk has been pub-
lished in the sixth volume of the Transactions of the Royal Society
of Edinburgh. That account was carefully drawn up by the late
Colonel Imrie, who lived several years in this parish, and paid
great attention to matters of this kind. He has observed in that
article, that "the various strata, standing in a posisiton vertical or
nearly so, and the river cutting across tbese strata at right angles,
the succession is uncommonly well exhibited, and a fair display of
the structure of the country, and of the materials composing it, to
a great depth, hs open to the attentive observer." The limits of
this paper do not admit of a particular description of the Colo-
nel's discoveries. It may be remarked, however, that he found,
either in a detached or stratified form, or in a estate of combina-
tion, distinct specimens of silicious grit or red freestone, quartz,
felspar, granite, mica, porphyry, whinstone, argilite. or thinly
slaty rock, jasper, limestone. These different kinds of rock are
in every sort of position, and often mixed together in irregular
masses. From the granite to the plum-public granite almost all
the intermediate varieties may be seen in some form or other.
Specimens. of many of these kinds ar also observable in the beds
of the burns or rivulets, which run past. Balnakettle, Dallalie, and
Bogendollo. Porcelain clay of fine quality is found in the banks
of the first of these streems.
   Mr Robertson, in his Survey of Kincardineshire, has mentioned
a substance which has been occasionally found on the farm of Bal-
nakettle, and which be has assumed to be native iron, and has tra-
ced its origin apparently on the theory of La Place, Dr. Hutton,
and others to some convulsion in the moon. The analysis, how-
ever, which he has given of its component parts differs very widely
from that which Mr Howard gave, of the appointment of the Afri-
can and Peruvian native iron which he attached. Some have
thought that it is nothing more than part of the sweepings of a
smithy, formerly in that neigbourhood; while others have believ-
ed that it might have been a kind of coarse iron imperfectly fused
and brought hither from Dalbog, a few miles distant, where an
iron mine seems to have been wrought little more than a hundred
years ago. A description of Great Britain, printed in London in

	KINCARDINE. 			H


