
                            PREMMAY                             695

                         III.-POPULATION.
   It would appear that the population of this parish has fluctua-
ed very much within the last hundred years.  The former Statis-
tical report states that "in Dr Webster's account, it was 448.
Fourteen years ago, it was as low as 260, after the old farmers
were removed.  Three years ago, it was 471 examinable persons,
or about 550 of all ages; and at present it is only about 450."
Since the date of last Account the population has gradually increas-
ed.  In 1831, it was 625 ; it is now 691.
   The people are sober, honest, and industrious, and regular in
their attendance on the public ordinances of religion.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The males are chiefly employed in agriculture, and also many of
the females at certain seasons of the year.  About thirty years ago,
such of the females as were not engaged in agricultural pursuits were
chiefly employed in spinning flax.  The perfection of machinery
has superseded this branch of industry.  This was succeeded by the
knitting of stockings and jackets,-in which employment many of
the females are still engaged.  But the allowance for this kind of
work has been of late so much reduced, that a woman, labouring
constantly, cannot earn more than from 1s. to 1s. 6d. per week.
Servants are usually engaged by the half year; men at from L.4
to L.7; women at from L.1, 10s. to L.3 of wages, all with victuals
and lodging.
   Husbandry.-The husbandry pursued generally consists in
rearing black cattle and a few sheep and horses, and in raising
oats, bear, turnips, and potatoes.  A seven years rotation of crop-
ping is that which is commonly adopted, that is to say, the ground
is allowed t lie three years in grass; two white crops are than
taken; one green crop; and one of bear or oats, with grass seeds
sown.  Leases are usually granted for nineteen years.  The farm
steadings are mostly covered with thatch; only fourteen dwelling
houses are slated.  Little has been done as yet in the way of enclos-
ing fields with stone fences.  Thomas Gordon, Esq. already men-
tioned, when improving his estate, laid out a considerable sum
in raising earthen fences and planting hedges; but these having
been long neglected, are now quite useless as inclosure.  The
average rent of outfield land may be stated at L.1 per Scotch
acre, and of infield at from L.2 to L.2 10s. per Scotch are; and
some croft land is let at L.2, 15s. per Scotch acre.
   Manufactures.-There are three mills for the manufacture of


