
    108                          ELGINSHIRE.

        The, habits of the people are marked by simplicity frugality, and
   industry. They have many domestic comforts; and the changes
   of the seasons bring to them a regular change of occupation. Most
   of the cottars cultivate a small piece of ground in front of their
   dwellings, on which they raise a few common vegetables; many of
   them rear a pig, and, according to the quantity of ground they can
   manure, the neighbouring farmer allows them to plant potatoes
   for themselves on a part of his green crop field.
        Instances of great age, accompanied with good health and vi-
   gour of the mental faculties, are common. The grandfather of one
   of the present parishioners died at the age of 106 years; an old
   woman died a few years ago aged 1O1.
        During the last three years there have been 12 cases of ille-
   gitimate birth brought before the kirk-session. On this subject
   it is not unimportant to notice, Ist, that the delinquents are for
   the most part hired servants from various quarters of the country;
   2d, that, according to an old usage, female servants for the sum-
   mer half year are often hired at Whitsunday by the farmer at the
   public market in Elgin, without any certificate of character.
                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
        Agriculture.-Between 80 and 100 acres within the parish are
   planted with wood, chiefly Scotch fir. It is thinned regularly;
   and of late years larch, and the common kinds of hard wood have
   been mixed with it. It is calculated that upwards of a sixth part of
   the surface of the parish lies waste in the state of common, formerly
   mentioned. The remainder of the surface being divided into about
   twenty-five large farms, is cultivated with great diligence.
        Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre may
   be stated at from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2 per English acre. Grazing
   of a cow or ox per quarter of a year L. 2;' do. of a sheep do. do.
   Is.
        Wages.-Wages of a farm-servant for six months, from L. 4 to
   L. 6, with victuals; out-door labourers have from 5s. to 6s. per week
   with victuals; or from 7s. to 8s. without victuals; masons may be
   engaged at 2s. per day; and wrights at 2s. per day., with victuals,
   or at 2s. 6d. without victuals; women servants are engaged for six
   months, at from L. 1, 15s. to L. 2, 5s.; women are engaged to work
   in the fieldat 3s. per week in winter, and 4s. in summer; in harvest
   time cutting and stacking per acre, at from 13s. to 15s.;cutting
   and building per acre, 8s. to I Is.  Thraving is counted at 2 1/2d. to
   3 1/2d. per thrave,(viz. two stooks.) Sometimes a man engages with
   a farmer for the whole harvest, at from L. 1, 15s. to L. 2, 5s. and


