
                     ROBERTON.                           91

Todshawhaugh; and another upon the lands of Borthwickshiels
called Camp Catle.  The name generally given to these camps by
the common people is that o the Pict's Peoch's works.  A ball
of about one and a-half pound weight was lately found near one
of these, and in another some daggers in a very decayed state.
   The old mansion-house of Harden, the ancient abode of the
Scotts of Harden, is a place which still excites considerable cu-
riosity.  The carved stucco work upon the ceiling of the old hall
is well worth attention.  The lobby is paved with marble, and the
mantel-piece of one of the rooms is surmounted with an Earl's co-
ronet, and the letters W.E.T. wreathed together, signifying "Wal-
ter earl of Tarras,"---a litle borne in former times by the house
of Harden.  This mansion-house was formerly fortified by art, and
is still so, in some parts, by nature.  In front of the house, there is
a deep glen, very precipitous on both sides, but both sides are covered
with beautiful tree.  Into this glen, it is said, that Wat of Harden,
a well-known border chieftain, used to drive the cattle which he
had carried off in his nightly raids.  From one of these excursions,
an infant was brougth home.  He was fostered by Mary Scott, at
that time Lady of Harden, and descendant of the lady of that name
commonly called the Flower of Yarrow.  This unknown child is
supposed to have been the author of many of the border songs. *--
See Leyden's "Scenes of Infancy," and "Minstrelsy of the Scottish
Border."

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Leyden alludes to this tradition in the following beautiful lines, from "the
Scenes of Infancy."
             " What fair half-vail'd leans from her lattie'd hall,
               Where red the waving gleams of torch light fall ?
               'Tis Yarrow's flower, who thro' the gloom,
               Looks wishful for her lover's dancing plume.
               Amid the piles of spoil that strew'd the ground,
               Her ear all anxious caught a wailing sound;
               With trembling harte the lovely nymph then flew,
               And from the plunder'd heaps an infant drew !
               Sear'd at the light, his feeble hands he flung
               Around her neck, and to her bosom clung;
               While beauteous Mary sooth'd in accents mild
               His fluttering soul, and kissed her foster child.
               Of milder mood the gentle captive grew,
               Nor lov'd the scenes that scar'd his infant view;
               In vales remote from eamps and catles far,
               He shunn'd the cruel scenes of strife and war.
               Content the loves of simple swains to sing,
               Or wake to fame the harp's heroic string ;
               he liv'd o'er Yarrow's fairest flower to shed a tear,
               And strew the holly leaves o'er Harden's bier ;
               But none was found above the minstrel's tomb,
               Emblem of peace, to bid the daisy bloom ;
               He, nameless as the race from whence he sprung,
               Sung other names, and left his own unsung."





