
604                           LANARKSHIRE.

L. 1, 10s. to L. 1, 15s. per acre Scotch, but some parts are let at
nearly L. 3. The gross rental of the parish has been much more
than doubled within the last forty years, and may now be reckoned
at L. 4200.
	Wages.--The wages of regular farm servants may be stated as
follows: Males, from L. 7 to L. 1O per half year, with bed, board,
and washing; females, from L. 2 to L. 5, according to their fit-
ness for work. The rate of wages for day-labourers is 2s. per day
in summer, and in winter Is. 8d., without victuals.
	Live-Stock.--The number of milch cows in the parish may
amount to 350. They are all of the Ayrshire breed, and the far-
mers generally rear a few young cattle yearly. The farm-horses
are of the Clydesdale breed, and are for the most part first rate
animals, and kept in excellent condition. Of these, there are from
two to six on each farm, according to its extent.
	Husbandry.--In few places has there been a more rapid im-
provement in husbandry, and so well is the greater part of the
land cultivated, that, notwithstanding the elevation of the parish,
and some natural disadvantages of soil, we have excellent crops of
all sorts. Improvements are still progressing, particularly in the
way of draining, which is carried on in many of the farms to the
extent of from 1500 to 3000 falls annually. Furrow-draining is
most approved of, and tiles have been much used for the purpose
within the last few years. Each farm is divided into fields pro-
portionable to its size, and intersected with roads convenient for the
carting of manure, and the removal of the crops. The fences are
for the most part of thorn, but occasionally with a mixture of
beech. They have been much better attended to of late years,
and, along with the quantity of young thriving wood, and the na-
tural diversity of hill and dale, give a richness and beauty to the
general aspect of the parish to which, thirty years ago, it was a
stranger. The general rotation of crops is, 1. oats; 2. green-
crop, with a portion of the field in summer fallow; 3. wheat;
4. hay; and then three years pasture. The cropping is so ma-
naged as to make the pasture always extend to fully one-third of
the farm, the produce of the dairy forming a great proportion of
the income of the farmer, without which it would be impossible
for him to make good his rent. Since green cropping became ge-
neral, many of the farmers make a point of having several of their
cows yielding milk during winter, in order to increase their su -
ply of manure. Notwithstanding this, a considerable quantity of


