
                                   DRYMEN.                            105

        There are still visible some fragments of the ruins of the castle
      in which he lived, overhanging the falls of Gartness. A stone,
      with the date 1574, taken from these ruins, is seen built into the
      gable of the mill. The, present proprietor, Mr Govane of Park,
      (into whose family the estate of Gartness came, about a century
      and a half ago,) has in his possession some globular stones, with
      the circles of the sphere and constellations engraved on them--
      and concave stones, with engravings of a similar character, which
      are understood to have been made by Napier. There is also a
      stone of this kind to be seen, forming one of the rybats of a win-
      dow of the mill. It is very probably to some such handiworks of
      Napier, that Butler in his Hudibras (Part ii. Canto 3,) refers, when
      be speaks of

                       " A moon-dial, with Napier's bones," *
                       And several constellation stones,
                       Engraved in planetary hour,
                       That over mortals had strange power."

          As connected by birth, and as formerly minister of this parish,
       may be recorded under this head, the name of the Rev. Princi-
       pal Macfarlan, who so ably presides over the University of Glas-
       gow, as also that of his father, who was minister of this parish from
       1743 to 1791. The latter is still remembered by the old people
       as a man of great shrewdness and vigour of mind--and of bold in-
       trepid character.
          Land-owners.--These are, His Grace the Duke of Montrose;
       William C.C. Graham, Esq. of Gartmore; Robert Govane, Esq.
       of Park of Drumqutihassle; Mrs M. Buchanan, of Drumakiln;
       James Macfarlane, Esq. of Ballwill; John Buchanan, Esq. of Car-
       beth; General Graham Stirling of Duchray; John Todd, Esq. of
       Finnich Malice; Miss M'Goune of Mains; William Lennie, Esq. of
       Ballochneck; William A. Maclachlan, Esq. of Aucbentroig; Rev.
       Dr Graham, of Balfunning; and James M'Nair, Esq. of Balvie.
       The only famil of independent fortune residing in the parish
       is, that of Robert Govane, Esq. of Park.  The number of proprie-
       tors of land of the yearly value of L.50 and upwards is, 29.  There
       are nine resident, who farm their own properties.
          Parochial Registers.-- There are five volumes of session-records,

          <FOOTNOTE>Napier's Bones. This has reference to an invention of Napier, whereby he
       contrived, by means of some small rods with the digits inscribed on them, to perform
       certain operations of multiplication and division. A tract was published in London,
       1684, containing "An Account of the Numbering Rods of the Right Honourable
       John, Lord Neeper; enlarged. Printed for Joseph Moxon, at the sign of the Atlas,
       in Ludgate Street; where also these numbering rods (commonly called Neeper's
       Bones) are made and sold."


