
			FORRES.                                163

   the hawk tribe are frequently seen ; but the kite, more  commonly
   known here as the glead, has almost entirely disappeared from the
   parish. Different varieties of swallows, and also the swift, annu-
   ally appear and disappear in their seasons; but it has been re-
   marked that the cuckoo is not now so regular a visitant of the pa-
   rish as in former years, and seveml successive summers have of
   late passed without its delightful note being heard. Of the song-
   ster tribe, the thrush, the blackbird, and the linnet are common;
   and the siskin, bullfinch, and goldfinch, although not so numerous,
   may always be found. The water-ouzel frequents the sides of
   the streams, and instance have been known of the kingfisher being
   seen in the same vicinity. It must not be omitted, that on the
   banks of the Findhorn, at the verge of this parish, a colony of
   herons have for aues established themselves. Their nests are
   built in a few aged trees, and on the face of a precipitous rock,
   from the top of which the spectator can look down unobserved,
   and witness many of the curious habits of this peculiar bird.
   They are strictly protected from disturbance by the Earl of Mo-
   ray and Sir William G. Cumming, the proprietors of the adjoin-
   ing ground. Numerous flocks of wild-geose, and ducks of several
   species, frequent the Bay of Findhorn in the winter and spring
   seasons, and in severe winters swans are sometimes seen, and have
   been shot in the parish.
 	Wood-Trees of all kinds grow well in the parish, and good
   specimens are to be seen of oak, ash, elm, plane, and beech.
   The finest oaks are on the batiks of the Findhorn, at Cot-hall, and
   belong to Sir William G. Cumming. There is an avenue of lofty
   and venerable ash-trees along the turnpike road, leading to For-
   res from the west, which have a fine effect in approaching the
   town. They are said to have been planted, upwards of a century
   ago, by direction of Mary Sleigh, wife of Alexander Brodie, Esq-.
   of Brodie, the Lord Lyon,-a lady whose memory is still che-
   rished in the neigbbourhood as a great improver and benefactress of
   the district There are-likewise some beautiful large beeches and
   elms near the mansion-bouse of Sanquar. A great part of the
   wood in the parish is under forty years of age, and chiefly consists
   of plantations of oak, larch, and Scotch fir. The most extensive
   of these belong to Sir William G. Cumming and Mr Fraser Tyt-
   ler, and are well managed with respect to thinning and pruning.
                      II.-CIVIL HiSTORY.
        No ancient documents exist which throw light on the early his-


