
152                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

ascend towards Nithsdale to the height of 1200 or 1500 feet.
The ascent of the Annan, for the six miles for which it forms the
eastern boundary, gradually increase from about 100 feet, till it
reaches 250 feet above the sea level, at the march of Kilpatrick-
Juxta. The Kinnel is much more rapid in its tributary stream Duff
Kinnel, a little above Raehills.
	Meterology.--The average temperature of the year, (judging
from observations made in the adjoining parish,) may be about 47 1/2&deg;
of Fahrenheit. The climate on the south-east side, inclining to-
wards the Annan, is somewhat similar to that of the other valleys
in the south-west of Scotland, situated from 2000 to 4000 feet above
sea level. On the north and south-west, in the valley of Kinnel,
from the vicinity of extensive tracts of wet elevated country, it is
decidedly more moist and cold at the same elevation. The pre-
vailing winds come from the south and south-west, and bring with
them the heaviest falls of rain. The severest snow storms we ex-
perience, blow from the north-east; but, owing to the southern ex-
posure of the parish, and consequent southern direction of its
streams and streamlets, snow does not lie so long upon the ground
here as in the adjacent country.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The lower or southmost point of the
parish, for upwards of a mile, lies upon a bottom of regular red
sandstone rock. The remainder of it is generally of whinstone,
of different degrees of fineness. Pieces of pure lead ore, from the
size of an egg to that of a man's two hands, have been ploughing particular
fields of several of the farms near the Lochwood, in this parish; and
this day. The proprietor, Mr Hope Johnstone, naturally con-
ceiving that these might lead to the discovery of a continuous vein
below, employed, some years ago, at considerable expense, an
operative miner from Leadhills, who, with the assistance of some
day-labourers, drove a level from Cogrieburn southward, in the di-
rection most likely to batch the vdin, if it existed. For some time
the miner was extremely sanguine of success, and boasted of hav-
ing come at last to a duskish marly clay, which he described to
those who visited his subterraneous operations as a never-failing
concomitant of lead ore. But unaccountably, and all at once, the
miner's hopes vanished, and the search on the part of the proprie-
tor was in meantime entirely reliquished. In the absence of


