
			CARSPHAIRN.                           281

preparations are making in them for separating the silver from the
lead. The proprietor has been acting hitherto as if it were his
object to exhibit the whole operations in the most perfect manner,
rather than to enrich himself. It is to be hoped, however, that
the liberal manner in which hitherto he has conducted the whole
business, may meet with an ample reward. The Honourable Co-
lonel M. Cathcart retains the mine entirely in his own hands. He
has appointed skillful and steady men as overseers; and he takes
pleasure in personally superintending the whole.
	Everything is done by the proprietor to promote the comfort of
the workmen. A large village has already been built upon the
side of the hill, additions to which are, still making; and from the
situation which it occupies, and the cleanliness of its appearance,
it presents a picturesque object to the traveller in passing among
the wild mountains. The proprietor has likewise evedenced his
liberality in his attention to the mental cultivation and moral im-
provement of the workmen.
	Though there are workmen from different quarters, yet the
greater part are from Leadhills and Wanlockhead.--men who had
enjoyed the privilege of excellent libraries, and who regretted their
separation from these means of entertainment and improvement.
So soon as the Colonel and the Honourable Mrs Macadam Cath--
cart were made acquainted with their desire of forming a library,
they sent a number of books, which laid an excellent foundation
for a library, and which, by various means, is rapidly increasing.
In addition to this, they have built an excellent school and school-
master's house; the school-house is more ample and commodious
than any in the district, and they give a liberal salary both to the
schoolmaster and female teacher.
	The mining operations have changed Carsphairn from being one
of the most rural and pastoral parishes in this country, into one of
comparative bustle and activity. More money now circulates in
one week than was circulated, a few years ago, in the course of the
year. There are now two coaches passing daily, one from Ayr to
Dumfries, and another from Dumfries to Ayr. There is like-
wise a coach from Carsphairn to Kirkcudbright on alternate days.

	March 1844.



