
                       HOUSTON AND KILLALLAN.                      47

       separates it from Kilbarchan on the south.  This river has its,
       source in the high moors and mountains that are situated betveen
       Kilmalcolm and the Largs on the coast of the Frith of Clyde. It
       is composed of several streams that unite near the mansion-houso
       of Duchal.  It runs rapidly over several precipices to the low
       country at Fulwood ; after which, it moves slowly in a serpentine
       course, receiving the river Black Cart at Moss Walkinshaw,  and
       White Cart at Inchinnan Bridge, and thence into the  Clyde a little
       below Renfrew.
         Geology.-In the highest districts of these parishes granite pre-
       vails.  In the lower district, there are sandstone and limestone
       quarries, and coals.
         Alluvial deposits moss, or  peat, in many places six feet deep,
       cover extensive fields of clay, in the low districts of Killallan, be-
       ing the eastmost part of the parish, and on both sides of the water
       of Gryfe.  Small pieces of land have been cleared o the moss, and
       produce good crops.
         Zoology.-Tbe woodlark, sometimes called the Scotch night-
       ingale, from its pleasant and plaintive notes, and singing often after
       nightfall, was common here fifty years ago, but has quite disap-
       peared since that time. Whether the introduction of foreign trees
       among the natural woods, such as larch and pines, or frequent
       liming of land, or some severe winter, have occasioned their
       disappearing,-the writer of this account will not venture to de-
       termine.
         Botany.-The writer of this account has often examined the
       indigenous plants of these parishes by Linnaeus's Genera Plantarum,
       but found none but such as are common in the west of Scotland.
         There is an extensive natural wood on Houston barony, the pro-
       perty of Archibald  Spiers, Esq. of Edersly, consisting of oak,
       birch, plane, ash. There are also an extensive natural wood, con-
       sisting of the same kinds of trees,en the estate of Barochep the
       property of Wilham M. Fleming, Esq. of Berochan, and some
       thriving modern plantation on Berochan.  But the most exten
       sive plantation in these parishes are on the high lands in Killa-
       lan, and on the mosses on the lower parts of Killallan, which Mr
       Spiers has planted with oak, larch, ash, beech, Seutch, fir. Most
       of the trees thrive well on the high land, particularly the larch.
       Those on the mosses have a good appearance at a distance but
       have not narrowly inspected for some years by the writer of
       this article.  During the severe drought this season, a very consi-


