
     of Swinton and Simprin.

The family afterwards became still more conspicuous, by assist-
ing Malcolm Canmore to recover the throne of his ancestors;
and that sovereign confirmed to them the property of the whole
parish of Swinton, by one of the first charters granted in Scot-
land, still preserved in the archives of Durham.  During the
commonwealth, the then representative of the Swinton fami-
ly having espoused the cause of Cromwell, the estate was for-
feited at the restoration of Charles II. but it was given back at
the Revolution.  However, a long exile, while their revenues
were sequestrated, had so involved the family that it became ne-
cessary to sell the three farms of Mont Suir, to the Kerrs of
Morriston, who still possess them.  And some years afterwards,
the father of the present Lord Swinton sold three farms for
L. 5500 to Provost Coutts, whose heirs sold them about 1754
for L. 6500 to William Hall of Whitehall, who, after many
meliorations at a great expence, sold them to Patrick Lord
Elibank for more than double of his purchase money.  How-
ever, after all these alienations, the Swinton estate is still a
noble and extensive property.  The whole parish of Simprin
was long the property of the antient family of Cockburn of
Langton, but their affairs falling into disorder, the estate was
sequestrated, and purchased, about 1758, by Patrick Lord
Elibank, for L. 18,000.-The most conspicuous object in Sim-
prin is the very high and spacious barn built by the Cockburns,
consisting of a threshing floor and large and losty granaries.  Lord
Elibank thinking its height exposed it to storms, lowered the
roof considerably, but left the gabels standing, so that they
still shew the original altitude of the building, which is seen
from almost every part of Berwickshire.  These are, exclusive of
the grass parks of Swinton and other pasture grounds extend-
ing to 720 acres, about fourteen farms in the parish; and each farm-
er occupies 320 acres at an average.  One farm of 414 acres
is let at 23 s. another of 400 acres at 14 s. a third of 477 acres

     VOL. VI. T t


