
                            UNITED PARISHES OF

                          CROSS AND BURNESS.

                    PRBSBYTERY OF NORTH ISIESs SYNOD OF ORKNJEY.

                      THE REV. WILLIAM GRANT, MINISTER.


        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Situation and Extent.-THE united parishes of Cross and Bur-
ness'include about one-half of the extent of the Island of Sanday,
-forming the one the south-west and the other the north-west
limbs of that island, which is very much cut up by indentations of
the sea. The extreme length of the two parishes from Spurness, in
Cross, to Whitemill Point, in Burness, is 9 1/2 statute miles; but the
breadth varies from half a mile to three miles. Cross parish is consi-
dembly diversified by rising ground; but Burness, like Lady pa-
parish, composing the rest of the island, is almost a dead flat, very
little raised above the level of the sea. Burness, anciently called
St Colm's, extends to about 2500 imperial acres, and, being al-
most surrounded by the sea it has, on all its shores, a most plen.
tiful supply of sea-weed, both. for manure and for the manufacture
of kelp. It is bounded on its west and north sides by the Atlantic
Ocean and the dangerous frith, here about seven miles wide, which
divides it from the Island of North Ronaldshay; but it is sheltered
from the full force of the Atlantic surge bythe holms of Ire and
the half-tid46 rocks or skerries of Rive; east and south, it stretches
along, and forms one side of, the Bay of Otterswiek,, anciently
called Odinswick, in which is safe anchorage for v-essels of any
size, while, at the top of this bay on the Burness side, a. sort of
inner harbour is formed by the point of Lambiness on the soft
sand of which small vessels. may be beached at any time, with per-
fect safety. The shores of Btirness are generally, flat, and L,.the
appeamnee,of the parish is green, fertile, and 1-ively,,.exotilig
near its junction with Cross parish,  where there is a moor of about
200 acres of a mott barren and forbidding appearance. There

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Robert Scarth, Esq. Sear House, rmnday.



