
                            PAISLEY.                          257

rate female servant, found in the same, at L. 9 per annum.  Both
male and female servants of inferior qualifications, are paid accord-
ing to their ability, or the agreement made with their employers.  A
common labourer, with provisions, may be procured in winter for
1s. 6d., and in summer for 2s. per day.  Artisans are employed
at 3s. or 4s. each per day.
   The husbandry pursued by the farmers is of the most approv-
ed description.  The soil, in general, although not originally of
the most fertile quality, has become very productive by cultivation;
many inducements are held out to husbandman, by the prospect of
a ready market, for every kind of crop, as well as by the facility
of procuring manure from the neighbouring towns and villages.
Tile-draining has of late been carried to a considerable extent,
particularly on the estates of the Marquis of Abercorn; and this
improvement may, in several places, be profitably carried to a still
greater extent than it has yet been, the nature of the soil requir-
ing it; and we doubt not a little more encouragement from the
landlords, of which the parish affords more than one example,
would induce the farmers to do so, and this would prove an ad-
vantage to both.  The lands are all well enclosed; those in
the upper district, chiefly with stone dikes, those in the lower
with hedges.  The farm-houses and offices, especially the re-
cently built ones, are for the most part covered with slates, while
they are both substantial and commodious.  The average extent
of each farm is about 100 acres, and the dur`tion of leases from
ten to nineteen years.  There is not much large or old timber
in the parish; the greater part is found on the Hawkhead estate,
which also contains any copse-wood that grows in the parish.  Any
other wood we meet with is generally raised around gentlemen's
houses, and is under good management.
   Live-Stock.-The horses reared in this neigbbourhood are ge-
nerally of the Clydesdale breed, which is considered very superior.
These horses are perhaps the most vigorous of any in Great Bri-
tain, and our farmers keep them in excellent condition, finding,
doubtless, that they repay the care bestowed on them.  There
are also a few of what are called half-bred horses raised in the pa-
rish, and on one estate in it, a good many racers and hunters,
chiefly for the use of the proprietor.
   The cattle are of the Ayrshire kind, to which a good deal of
attention has been paid, particularly in the high district of the pa-


