
                              ST FERGUS.	                  189

cent origin.  It contains the remains of oak, hazel, and birch
trees, which the greatest care cannot now induce to take a liking
to our soil.  Some pieces of oak, dyed black by the oxide of iron,
and susceptible of a beautiful polish, have occasionally been dug
up, and applied to ornamental purposes.  About thirty years ago,
several antlers of large and full-grown stags were found imbedded
in a bank of moss.  It is quite evident that the lower part of the
parish had at some distant period been submerged by the sea.
The substratum of the soil consists of sand intermixed with the
remains of marine testacea.  There are indications along the
coast that the land has been gaining upon the sea.
   Zoology.-Quadrupeds.  There are no rare animals found in
this parish.  About three years ago, the hedgehog (Erinaceus
Europceus,) which was not before known to have had a locum te-
nens in this district, was discovered in St Fergus, on the farm of
Nether Hill.  The otter has long had a home on the banks of
the Ugie.  Rabbits are of late introduction, but they have mul-
tiplied to a prodigious extent in the Links, and do incalculable
damage to the crops in the neighbourhood.  Indeed, the increase
of the common hare is here found to be a serious evil to the
farmer.
   Birds.-Under this section the parish presents little that could
be peculiarly interesting to the naturalist.  Within these few
years, and in consequence, as is supposed, of the persecution to
which he was exposed iu his ancient domicile at Pitfour, the rook
(Corvus frugilegus) has sought and found an asylum in St Fergus.
He has paid a compliment to the trees at Lunderton, sufficiently
flattering to the gentleman who planted them, by the institution
of a rookery there, and, from this circumstance, has perhaps ex-
perienced greater forbearance than his intrusion was otherwise
entitled to.  If it be true, however, as has been often averred,
that what a cat is to a housewife, the rooks are to the farmer, by
destroying worms and insects, it may yet be problematical on
which side the balance of obligation lies.
   At Lunderton, also, may be seen, in a state of partial domesti-
cation, the water hen (Fulica chloropus.)  There are two, some-
times four or more, birds.  They frequent a marsh in the vicinity
during the season of incubation, but mingle at other times with
the common poultry in the court-yard, and partake of their fare.
   Fishes.-In the neighbouring ocean are to be found turbot
(Pleuronestes maximus) ; sole (Solea vulyaris).  There is reason


