

144                    DUMBARTONSHIRE.

the parish of Kirkintilloch, from which, by a decreet of the Lords
of Erection and Plantation of Kirks, it was disjoined in 1649, and
erected into a separate parish by the name of Easter Leinzie, or
Lenyie, as Kirkitilloch was of Wester Lenyie,-a word derived,
perhaps, from the ancient British Leveyn or Lleven, signifying
smooth. An account of this parish before the disjunction will
fall more properly under the Report of Kirkintilloch.
   An application to Parliament in 1621, for building a new church in
the middle of the parish, having failed, a decreet of the Commis-
sioners, as above noticed in 1649, ordered the parish of Leinzie
to be divided into two parishes, which was carried into effect short-
ly afterwards. The communion tokens bear, "Erected 1656,"
with the words, "Urit nec Perit," over the burning bush. The
settlement between the presbytery and the Earl of Wigton for
manse and glebe was in 1658. Mr Thomas Stewart, the first mi-
nister, was ejected in 1662 for nonconformity. He was succeeded
by Mr Gilbert Muschett, with whose induction, 11th May 1666,
the session record begins, "The session's book of Easter Leinzie
beginning in the year of God one thousand three score and six.
   "At the Easter Kirk of Leinzie, the eleventh day of May 1666,
The whilk day Mr Robert Bennet, minister of Kirkintilloch, maid
sermon, and thereafter did institute Mr Gilbert Muschett to be
minister of the said kirk, and did receive the oath de fideli," &c.
   With the exception of an anxiety often manifested by the mi-
nister and elders about strangers coming into the parish without
testimonials, nothing deserving notice occurs in the record till 5th
November 1676, when the session appoint all persons who go out
of the parish to get their children baptised at conventicles, to pay
4 libs. Scots, and be cited to the Presbytery; and several persons
are mentioned as liable for this fine.
   From this time, the minister from the pulpit often forbids the
people to attend conventicles, to reset rebels and fugitives: and
on 9th September 1683, he strictly warns then to take notice "that
none of the twelve persons declared fugitives be resett in none of
their quarters, viz. James, John, and George Russell in Gaubet-
hill," with nine others who are named.
   Subsequent to this, the parish church seems to have been all
but deserted. Almost every Sabbath the minister complains of the
people absenting themselves from the parish church, and going to
the conventicles, and threatening the elders with deposition from
their office; but all was ineffectual, for the record often bears that





