
			LANGHOLM.			    417

This has been attributed to the communication with the Atlantic
by the Solway Frith, from which, as being a much larger body of
water than the German sea, there naturally arises a much greater
degree of exhalation,--which the attraction of the surrounding hills
more readily condenses and discharges in rain. The most prevail-
ing winds and heaviest falls of rain are from the south-west, which
is exposed to the Solway Frith. Snow lies only for a short period
in the low lands.
	Hydrography.--In the western division, called Wauchopedale,
there are three medicinal springs, one sulphureous, and two chaly-
beate. Unfortunately, no analysis has been made of any of these
springs. Persons afflicted with scrofula and eruptions of the skin
are said to derive great benefit from drinking the waters of the sul-
phureous spring.
	The river Esk, which gives name to this pastoral district, rises
in the high country of Esk water, and has its course among moun-
tains to Broomholm, and passes through the parish of Langholm
in a south direction. It is joined by the streams of Black Esk,
Megget,Ewes,and Wauchope. Its length is 3O miles in the coun-
ty of Dumfries, and 38 to the Solway Frith, into which it flows.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--Greenstone occurs in beds of grey-
wacke and greywacke slate, according to Professor Jameson, in the
whole extensive range from Langholm to Wamphray, in the upper
district of Annandale. Floetz-trap extends from the bridge of Lang-
holm to Denbie, in the parish of Dalton. In the upper part of
the county, between Wamphray and Langholm, it is found on the
summit of transition mountains, and generally in the shape of moun-
tain caps. Greywacke slate is worked in the vicinity of Langholm,
and in the high parts of the valley of the Esk.
	Lead ore has been found on the farm of Westwater, the pro-
perty of the Duke of Buccleuch, and also on the estate of Broom-
holm, belonging to George Maxwell, Esq. This vein consists of a
considerable quantity of heavy spar, which often attends metallic
veins. It stretches across the Esk into the Duke's lands from
north-west, in a south-east direction. At Langholm low bridge
are several small spar veins running in the transition rock. Some-
time ago, a trial was made for lead there, and some of that ore
was found blended in the spar; and a quarter of a mile below
this, the primitive and secondary strata join. At Langholm
bridge, the coal formation begins, and continues through, the whole
of the lower part of the district to the Solway Frith. Between


