
                    BANCHORY-TERNAN.                   325

It is wooded and cultivated in nearly equal proportions. The
lower or eastern division contains the estate of Tilwhilly, with
part of the lands of Durris. The former is situated on the other
half of the fore-mentioned ridge, with its appendages and cultivated
slopes. It is bold, rocky extensively wooded, and abounds in
fine views of,the neighbourhood. The latter comprehends the
remaining low ground between Tilwhilly and Durris on the east,
and Kerloack on the south. It consist of several farms among
moorlands at the base of this latter hill, together with a marshy
and mossy tract recently improved, and a cultivated portion of the
sloping upper bank, and of the flat border of the Dee. A small rivu-
let flows into that river on the east of tbe Durris property and another
into the Feugh, on the west side of Tilwbilly both of which con-
vey the waters, and form the boundaries of this part of parish.
	The large tract on the north side, between the Dee and the
bill of Fare, is comparatively low ground, nowhere rising above
500 feet. Its chief features are several ridges or heights, suc-
ceeding one another along the course of the river, and forming in
some places a high upper bank, gently sloping, or agreeably brokes
and diversified, while the space between these and the hill, though
interrupted in some parts by diverging or parallel ridges, may be
described on the whole as a lengthened hollow, extending through
the breadth of the parish, from the loch of Drum in Drumoak on
the east, to the Bog-loch in Kincardine on the west, having the loch
of Leys nearly in the middle, and affording beds for several per-
manent streamlets, which effect an imperfect drainage of the dis-
trict: the Canny, rising at the west end of tbe hill of Fare, and
flowing south-east into the Dee, with a winding course, in some
parts the boundary of the parish: the burns of Cluny and Cor-
richie, from the southern face of the same hill, about a mile apart
uniting under the name of the Blackburn, and passing eastward
through a flat called the Mirebird into the locb of Dram, from
which the burn of Coie proceeds in a contrary direction into
the Dee; while, from the loch of Leys, the burn of Bennie falls
by, a short and nearly direct course into the same river.
	On the heights and levels which skirt the Dee on this north
side, lies first at the western extremity, the property of Trustach,
including Woodend, Cairnton, `nd Invercanny, belonging to the
estate of Leys, but detached a short distance from the rest.
It is a pine-wooded tract, having two villas in secluded spots on
the river, and several farms mear the mouth of the Canny, at its
lower end. Next along the Dee is the estate of Inchmarlo, a


