
                            STOW.                         399

and Knows, Laidlawstiel, and Trinlee-knows. Stretching south-
east, it includes Cadowlee, which is washed on the south by the
river Tweed. It here joins, on the east, a part of the parish of
Galashiels, and, turning a little northerly, takes an eastern direc-
tion, the public road from Galashiels to Peebles constituting here
the common boundary between the two parishes; so that the
beautiful estate of Torwoodlee is the southermost part of the pa-
rish of Stow on the banks of Gala.
   Extent.-The length of the parish from its northern limit in
Nettlingflat, along the new road on the east of Gala, till it passes
Bowland Bridge and meets with Holylee, is about 18 miles;
and, by avoiding the sinuosities and angles, about 16. The
part of Hangingshaw, in the parish of Heriot, which lies between
the streamlet on the north of the Inn and Nettlingflat, cuts off
that farm from the rest of Stow parish, which every where else is
continuously connected. Vaguely and generally it may be stated
as 16 miles long, and nearly 4 broad; but, on ascertaining the
actual contents of the parish, it is found to contain about 40,000
imperial acres, or 62 square miles. The lands of Hawtree are at
present considered the most northerly part of the parish on the
west of Gala; but in our ancient records I find Kilcouter joined
with Hawtree in paying stent or assessment.
   Boundaries.-The form of the parish bears more resemblance
to a triangle than any other figure. Proceeding round it from
the north by the east, we find it bounded by the parishes of Borth-
wick and Fala, in Midlothian, by Channelkirk and Lauder, in
Berwickshire; Melrose, in Roxburghshire,  Galashiels, in Sel-
kirkshire; by a part of the river Tweed, separating it from Yarrow;
and on the west, by Innerleithen, in Peebles-shire, and Heriot, in
Midlothian. A fourth part of the surface is in Selkirkshire, and
the rest in the county of Edinburgh.
   The parish of Stow includes the district of Galawater, from the
source of that stream, to within a mile and a half of the village of
Galashiels. It is a narrow and gently winding vale, of various
breadth, but at an average scarcely the eighth part of a mile.
From this stripe of haughland, the ground rises into softly sloping
hills, generally green, and many of them arable, and even culti-
vated to the top. In some places, as at the farm-house of Watber-
stone, the acclivity begins on either side at the water edge. The
hill on the Craigend side exhibits an interesting subject of inves-
tigation to the geologist.


