
       322                         PERTHSHIRE.

       whibh any historian can go for information, regarding the monu-
       ments, and transactions of that great commander, who came
       to subject the hardy tribes of Caledonia to the Roman sway.
       And certainly from that Life, we are as much entitled to fix upon
       Ardoch, and its neigbbourhood, as the scenes where Agricola
       abode and repulsed Galgacus, previous to the decisive battle apud
       Montem Grampium, as others are, to fix upon the neigbbour-
       hood of Loch Orr, in Fife, Blairgowrie, or Battle Dykes, north of
       Forfar, or Keithic, near Brechin.  We consider the camps at Ar-
       doch and the other places of that nature, connected with them,
       to have been the abodes of the Romans, in the year 82, when they
       came to invade the inhospitable regions of the north.
          The whole space which was occupied by the Romans in their
       encampment, at Ardoch, consists of four departments, viz. the sta-
       tion, the procestrium, the great camp, and the less.  The station
       is a permanent camp, situated upon an eminence close by the pub-
       lic road from Stirling to Crieff.  The position was happily chosen
       for defence; on all sides the camp was protected ; on the west,
       by a defence from the banks of the Knaik, rising fifty feet
       above the surface of the w`ter, and having two fossae between it
       and the banks ; on the south, by a deep morass that rose a con-
       siderable way eastward, with its. two fossae also; and on the east
       and north, by deep entrenchments of five ditches, and six ram-
       parts parallel to the station; all of which were very sufficient to
       guard those within, and to keep off besiegers.
         The area of the station within the intrenchments may still be
       seen, and is of an oblong form, 420 feet by 375, with its four sides
       nearly facing the cardinal points of the compass. The place of
       the Praetorium. or general's quarter is a regular square of 60 feet
       in the side, in the rear or part farthest distant from the enemy;
       but it is marked off rather irregularly,--for on inspection, it is
       not found to be exactly in the middle between the gates, nor paral-
       lel with those of the station.  It is, however, elevated above the
       general level of the ground, and appears to have been inclosed by
       a stone vall.  Within this, also, there are the foundations of a build-
       ing 30 feet by 27, which gives some probability to the conjecture,
       that there was a place of worship once there, which is still called
       the Chapel hill. *

       <FOOTNOTE>From one of the sides of the Pranorhum it is said that there was a hole, which
       went downwards in a sloping direction for many fathoms, in which it was generally
       believed treasures as well as Roman antiquities might be found. In order to ascer-
       tain this, a man, who had been condemned by the baron court of a neighbouring



