
	               ST ANDREWS.                            491

versity, comprehending the principals, professors, and students, by
four delegates of their number denominated intrants, who repre-
sent the four nations or bodies, viz. the Fifani, Albani, Lothiani,
and Angusiani, into which the members of the comitia are arrang-
ed, and who are supposed to form their decision in conformity to
the general sentiment entertained by their constituents. By the
existing regulations, the only individuals who are eligible to the of-
fice of rector are the principals of the two colleges, and the pro-
fessors of divinity and ecclesiastical history.
     From time to time, royal visitations of the university and its col-
leges, were found requisite to correct abuses, where they had been
introduced, to see that the rules of the several institutions were
properly observed, and to establish such alterations in the regula-
tions as might be deemed necessary for the advancement of lite-
rature, and for the welfare of the several corporations. This prac-
tice having been discontinued for more than a century, his Ma-
jesty George IV. in 1826, issued a commission to certain noble-
men and gentlemen to visit the several universities in Scotland,
to take a particular account of the existing state of these institu-
tions, to report their proceedings to his Majesty, and to suggest
such rules, ordinances, and improvements, as they might judge to
be expedient for their future regulation and prosperity. This ar-
duous task, the commissioners ably and faithfully performed; and
their report, which is voluminous and interesting, was presented to
his Majesty several years ago. But although several attempts have
been made to found upon it a legislative enactment, such a mea-
sure has hitherto been found to be attended with difficulties of no
ordinary magnitude, and none of the suggestions of the commis-
sioners have yet received the necessary sanction for establishing
their introduction and enforcement.
     The endowments of the colleges having been greatly curtailed
within the last half century, by the augmentations of the stipends
of those parishes, of the tithes of which they were titulars, their
revenues, after affording an inadequate salary to the several incum-
bents, and other necessary disbursements, were found to be total-
ly inadequate for the purpose of, preserving the college buildings
in a proper state of repair. They were in consequence, a few
years ago, in a very dilapidated state, and a considerable part of
them must have been allowed to fall into ruin. In consequence,
however, of the intervention of Lord Melville, the Chancellor of
the University, strengthened by the concurrence of the royal com-


