
                        KINGSBARNS.                       101

been L. 64, 10s. 9d., and upon the education of poor children
L. 6, Os. 9 3/4d. The collections have been L. 24, 19s. 3d., and lega-
cies and donations,L.20,3s.1 1/2d. annually. This last source of re-
venue has been, during that time, much higher than ordinary, from
bequests paid at the decease of three members of the noble family
of Kellie, proprietors of Cambo, and by donations made at the suc-
cession of the'present proprietor. There is a fund to the extent
of L. 350 deposited on bond in the hands of the principal heritor.
This sum, so far as can be traced, seem.3 to have originated in the
liberality of former generations, and to have been preserved by the
rigid management of successive kirk-sessions. An annual sum is
also derived from the rents of a portion of the seats allowed, by the
heritors, at the repairing of the church in 1811, to be erected by
the kirk-session, and of some other seats not required by them for
the accommodation of themselves and tenantry. This affords
L.9, 18s. 11 1/2d. per annum. During the above period of years,
two assessments in the form of contributions have been granted by
the heritors, amounting to L. 63, 11s. 5d. The small number of
resident heritors, the reluctance to make voluntary payments by
those non-resident, the depression of the value of all agricultural pro-
duce for many years past, and the diminished resources of the la-
bouring classes, have materially tended to reduce the usual means
for the support of the poor. The high and independent character
of the Scottish peasantry is certainly breaking down in this part of
the country. The other charges on the parochial funds for ses-
sion-clerk, precentor, kirk-treasurer, presbytery-clerk, beadle,
mortcloth keeper, and incidental expenses, are, on the average of
the above years, L. 16, 2s. 3d. So that the total income from all
sources during the above period has been L. 85, Os. 6 1/2d., and ex-
penditure, L. 85, 5s. 4d.
   Fairs.--Two annual fairs are held in the village in July and
October. In the olden time it was customary to lay in at the
latter a provision of butcher meat for the winter consumption,
which was called the Mart. At that time it was numerously at-
tended by drovers with sheep and black-cattle. Now fresh meat
may be had regularly once a-week in the village, and at all times
may be obtained from St Andrews and Crail. The fairs have con-
sequently dwindled down into the sale of a few household articles
of crockery, &c.
   Alehouses.--There are 5 licensed alehouses in the parish.
   Fuel.--The chief article of fuel is coal. The present distance


