
     Statistical Account

   Besides salmon and grilses, sea-trouts, finnacks, seds, and
herrings are sometimes taken in the mouth of the river by the
salmon fishers; but it cannot be their principal object to take
them; and indeed the quantities taken are inconsiderable.  The
seals are the greatest enemies of our salmon fishing.  They
watch the mouth of the river, pursue the salmon as they go up
with the flowing tide, and devour many of them.  Nay,
when the fishermen are hauling their nets ashore, they some-
times get in below the net, and sometimes leap over it, seize
their prey, and instantly make off with it; not without injur-
ing the net, if it obstructs their passage.  In summer 1791,
the fishermen, in order to destroy these enemies and rivals, fa-
bricated a strong net, of sufficient length to reach across the
river at high water, and deep enough to descend from the top
to the bottom of it, where it was firmly fastened with huge
stones, and other heavy materials.  When they saw that the
seal had got up the river, above the net, which was lowered
for the purpose, they went into their boats, with pikes and
firelocks, raised the net above the surface of the water, and
took their stations below it, to prevent the seal from leaping
over into the sea.  Several gentlemen, farmers, and others
watched his motions from the shore, and fired at him as often
as he ventured his head above the water.  As it fell into its
natural channel, by the ebbing of the tide, the seal was oftener
seen, and of course oftener fired at.  At length, he was sure
to receive a mortal wound, and tinged the river with his blood.
The incumbent saw three of them killed in this manner.  The
effect has been beneficial to the fishing; for more than twice
the quantity of salmon were taken the ensuing season.

<UNREADABLE>

   Dens and Rivulets.-It is only near the sea, on a high coast,
that dens exist.  They are very distinct from glens, which are
valleys between hills.  These you can easily survey, in all

</UNREADABLE>

     5


