
1194                         PERTHSHIRE.

for which they were intended.  We hope never more to witness
the dreadful devastations which an autumnal flood was wont to
cause, and the consequent anxiety and consternation with which
the farmer contemplated the rising of the waters.  We have
more than once seen the most fertile part of the parish com
pletely swept of its crops; the corns irrecoverably lost, or, if
recovered, rendered so worthless as not to repay, in many cases,
the labour of carrying them home, being scarcely fit even for ma-
nure, while the potatoes were left in the soil, not to enrich it
with their decaying tubers, but to poison and render it sterile.
Doubtless there was a fine vegetable deposit left on our haughs
by those inundations, but any fertility thereby communicated to
the soil vas a poor compensation for the destruction caused by the
floods.  There has been as yet scarcely time to discover the ef-
fects of these embankments on the channels of the rivers, and on
the floods with which they are visited.  It would seem that the
channel of the Isla is deepening, and that the water hemmed in
by the embankments is hurried on with an increased impetus to
the sea, rendering the flood of shorter duration, while, form the
same cause, it is kept from rising higher than it formerly did,
which was scarcely anticipated.  One thing is plain, that a vast
mass of silt, formerly left on the valley, is now carried down to
the estuary of the Tay, to increase the work of the dredging-ma-
chine, or to add to the delta of that river.
   The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
   The farm-buildings are generally in an excellent condition,
and after the most improved fashion.  There is a want of enclo-
sures on the properties forming the Grange of Aberbotbrie.
The hedge-rows on the Bendochy estate are not attended to, and
those on the Coupar-Grange property are mismanaged.  The
Coupar-Grange oats, once famous, are the common late oat of the
country, but presenting a finer, whiter, and weightier sample than
usual, from being grown, I suppose, in deep and cherishing soil.
The potato oat, the Hopetoun and other new varheties, are now
chiefly cultivated ; but the Coupar-Grange oat has many valuable
properties, and in certain soils, and under certain kinds of hus-
bandry, may be grown with the greatest advantage.
   There is no rotation of cropping generally adhered to.  A ro-
tation of seven Years is often adopted; thus, two years grass, then
oats, potatoes, wheat; turnip with bone dust, half of them oat off
with sheep; finally, barley sown down with grass, or a rotation of



