
			ORMISTON.                        135

trees; among which some fig trees upon a wall with a southern
exposure have long been celebrated for their excellent fruit. The
trees are supposed to have been planted by John Cockburn, the
proprietor, about the beginning of the last century, and the figs
are still reckoned superior to any that are produced in this country.
   There are two gardens in the village wbere vegetables and fruits
are reared for sale, a great part of which is carried to Edinburgh
market. In the strawberry season, about 200 or 300 pints of
strawberries are daily sent thither. *
   In the flower garden at Ormiston Hall, there is a remarkable
yew tree, which, before the garden was contracted, stood in the
middle, but, being now left without the wall, is more exposed to
view. This tree is without question the largest and finest of its
kind in Scotland. Its circumference at the ground when accurate-
ly measured in 1824, was found to be 12 feet 8 inches; at two
feet above the ground, 11 feet 9 inches; at four feet, 13 feet 10
inches: and at five feet above the ground, the bircumference is 17
feet. It spreads beautifully on all sides, the extremities of the
lowest branches bending down and touching the ground. It is 29
feet in height, and the surface of the ground covered by it is 59
feet in diameter. The late Earl of Hopetoun was at considerable
pains to prevent the rain from lodging among the branches, and
corrupting it; it is undoubtedly of very great age. + It is still in
great vigour; and comparing it, as it is at present, with what it
was forty years ago, it seems to grow something less than an inch
every year.
		     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There was lately found in the Register Office at Edinburgh,
an account of the parish of Ormiston, dated 1627, containing some
curious and interesting information.
   Historical Notices- The most ancient proprietor with whom his-
tory makes us acquainted was Orme. His descendants held Ormiston
during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. From them it passed to

<FOOTNOTE>The principal baker several years ago planted a vine, trained it upon his oven
and covered it with a glass frame. The experiment succeeded to his utmost expec-
tation, and he is now Supplied with grapes equal to those which are reared in our
hot-houses. Another baker tried the same experiment with a vine trained on his
oven without a glass frame, but the grapes did not arrive at perfection.
   + There was found some years ago, among the papers belonging to the Earl Of
Hopetoun, conveyed to him by the Cockburn family, a lease of a piece of ground in
the vicinity, granted by the head of the religious establishment at Ormiston, and
signed under the yew tree. It was beautifully written on a piece of parchment which
has fallen by,-the date of which, however, according to the recollection of the gentle-
men who saw it, was 1474.


