
	66                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

	deficiency of cross-roads. There is a daily post between Castle-
	town and Thurso; and a regular carrier to Wick.
	   Ecclesiastical State.-The present church, conveniently situated
	for the parish, seems to have been built in 1633, and though fre-
	quently repaired, has never had any addition made to it. It has
	never been divided, nor seated at the expense of the beritors. It
	affords accommodation for only 403 sitters, at 18 inches; and this
	being far below what the increasing population require of seat-
	room, the heritors have lately adopted a very handsome plan
	by Mr David Cousin, architect in Edinburgh, agreeable to which
	a new church is now building, which will afford the requisite ac-
	commodation, and be a great ornament to the village of Castle-
	town, at the east end of which it is situated. The manse was built,
	about fifty years ago, and along with the offices underwent consider-
	able repairs in 1825. There is a glebe attached to it of 8 Scotch
	acres, which may be valued at L.10. The amount of stipend is
	14 chalders, half barley and half oatmeal, with L.8, 6s. Sd. for
	communion elements. The number of communicants is 120.
	There is no Dissenting place of worship in the parish; the num-
	ber of Dissenters is under 100; and these belong to the Original
	Seceders, Independents, and Baptists, the great majority of whom
	readily signed a late petition to the Legislature in behalf of the ex-
	tension and endowment of the Established Church.
	   Education.-There are one parochial and four other schools in
	the parish. About one-eighth of the population may be comput-
	ed as attending school.
	   The salary of the parish teacher is the maximum. All the
	usual branches of a classical and commercial education are
	taught. The fees are moderate, in no case exceeding 7s. per
	quarter, whatsoever branches are taught. The other teachers
	are upon their own adventure. There is not a person in the pa-
	rish above five years of age but who can read, and, with few ex-
	ceptions, also write. The children of such as are in indigent
	circumstances are educated gratuitously. There is a Sabbath
	schools where the youth of both sexes are carefully instructed in
	the principles of the Christiad religion.
	   Library.-There is a parish library consisting of some hun-
	dred volumes of useful books, of a miscellaneous and religious
	character.
	   Friendly Societies.- Of these there are three in the parish, from


