
	                    AYR.				5

comparatively genial and salubrious, and the inhabitants in gene-
ral are healthy and long-lived. The place, indeed, has been re-
marked for longevity, and, as a proof that it is a consequence of
the weather, it exists to a greater extent among those individuals
who have remained stationary in the parish, several of whom are
betwixt ninety and a hundred years old. The quantity of rain which
falls is more than an average, but the open and porous sandy sub-
soil allows the surplus moisture to filter through quickly, which of
course leaves the surface at all times fit for labour and recreation
in the open air, in fair weather. The footpaths and promenades
near the town are generally dry and pleasant; and exercise in walk-
ing, to which the people are much addicted, combined with the
bracing influence of the sea-breeze, contributes much to their ge-
neral health and strength, and to promote exhilaration and equa-
nimity of spirits. The temperature of the atmosphere is pretty
uniform, the proximity of the sea serving to moderate its depres-
sion in winter, and its elevation in summer. The thermometer is
seldom below the freezing point, and never for any long continu-
ance. Snow rarely lies for any length of time on the ground, and
often, when it is very deep in the inland districts, it is found here
hardly to cover the surface. The equality of the temperature may
also depend in some degree on the flatness and dryness of the
land, its high state of cultivation, the almost universal draining to
which it is subjected, and the want of extensive wood to attract
and retain moisture. The prevailing winds are the south and west,
and those coming from the Atlantic are mild and moist, and never
so injurious to health as the dry bitter eastern and northern gales.
There are not any endemic diseases peculiar to the locality. The
most obnoxious are catarrhal and rheumatic complaints, owing to
the variableness of the climate in regard to moisture.  Fever pre-
vails among the destitute and poor, and sometimes to a very fatal
extent. Pulmonary or consumptive disease is not generally severe,
and is attended with symptoms that show it to be more owing to
hereditary taint than external causes. Diseases of the glands are
not unfrequent, but they are generally mild when judiciously treat-
ed. Asthma is often met with, but it is rarely fatal. It is com-
monly supposed that the climate here is unfavourable to it, and
also to consumptive complaints, but on inquiry, it does, not appear
that medical practitioners are disposed generally to favour this opi-
nion.
   Hydrography, Springs.--Ayr abounds in springs everywhere, and


