
412                        FIFESHIRE.

of revisino, the common translation of the Scriptures, and the me-
trical version of the Psalms. According to Spotswood, the speech
which he made on the occasion 11 bred not little admiration in the
whole assembly." 11 But'ravished as they were," says Dr MICrie,
and proud as the might be of having for a King so great a di-
y
vine and linguist and poet, the Assembly did not think fit to gra.
tify his Majesty by naming him on the committee; but recom-
mended the translation of the Bible to such of their own number
as were best acquainted with the original languages, and the cor-
rection of the psalmody to Pont."
The inhabitants of Burntisland were zealous Covenanters. In
1638, many of them signified their adherence to the National Co-
venant, as the kirk-session records testify, 11 with tearis of great
joy." The minister, 11 Mr Johne Mitebelsone," being of a dif-
ferent mind, was left for a time to preach to empty walls-" 13
May-20 May-27 May-3 Junii-10 Junii-no actionis, be-
cause the people goes from the kirke and will not heir the minis-
ter, seing he will (not) covenant with the people of God." In
February 1639, lie was deposed for CODtumacy witli regard to the
Covenant, and for disowning the proceedings Of the celebrated
Assembly that was held at Glasgow.
. It is said that the town capitulated to Cromwell on condition of
his repairing the streets and the harbour. The quays, as they at
present stand, were accordiDgly built by him; and tip to the date
of last Account, no repairs had been added to those which he ef-
fected on the streets. Some years ago,. the old pavement was
broken up, and the main street inacadamized
In 1715, the town was occupied by the Earl of Mar's troops,
who found the harbour very advantageous for the reception of
foreign stores.
.Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, Mrs Aytoun of Inch-
dairnie; the Carron Company; the Heirs of the late Alexander
Greenhill, Esq.; J. G. Drinkwater Bethune, Esq. of Orrock; James
Bogie, Esq.; The Earl of Mort9n; Messrs Young; the Heirs of
Captain Beatson ; and Mrs Pillans of Rossend.
E minent Characters- Mrs Somerville, whose works have raised
her to a very high place aniong modern writers in Natural Philo-
sophy, spent part'of her youth in this parish. Craigholm, towards
the east end of the links, is the Summer residence of the Rev. Dr
Chalmers:

<FOOTNOTE>Life of Melville, Vol. H. 173-175.


