
                           GOLSPIE.                            45

Commissioners and the county; about eighteen, partly at the
expense of the proprietors, and partly by an assessment on the te-
nantry; and ten miles at the sole expense of the proprietors. In
no county of Scotland was there ever, in so short a time, the same
length of road made, as there has been, within the last twenty
years, in the county of Sutherland. In former times, the inter-
nal communication was by mere paths or tracks, and many parts
of it were all but inaccessible. Now, several hundred miles of
good road intersect the county in every direction; and there is free
and easy access to every part of it. These roads were made chiefly at
the expense of the noble proprietors of this parish, and under the
able management of James Loch, Esq. M. P. their commissioner.
   In the months of July and August of last year, 1832, that aw-
ful scourge, the Asiatic cholera, by which so many millions of the
human race have been destroyed since 1817, visited this parish
also. Every possible precaution was adopted, and every known
preventive was used, to ward it off. A Board of Health was
established, large subscriptions and assessments of money were
made, all manner of cleanliness was enforced, the poor were fed
and clothed well, vagrants were kept away; and the result was,
that, although the fishermen of the village of Golspie brought
the infection from the fishing station of Helmsdale, and although
the disease made its appearance in the village, in its most malig-
nant form, quickly carrying off three individuals, the infection was,
by the mercy of Divine providence, arrested and destroyed, while
a very great proportion of the population of other villages, in the
adjacent county, and separated only by a few miles of sea, perished
miserably. Too much praise cannot be bestowed on the pro-
prietors and farmers of this county, for the heavy expense which
they incurred, and the great exertions which they made, on the peri-
lous occasion. It most fortunately happened, that the Duke and
Duchess of Sutherland with Lord and Lady Stafford and their
family, were at the time at Dunrobin, and it were great injustice
not to record here the most humane, liberal, and unwearied atten-
tion, which they paid to the safety of the population, and especially
to the health and comfort of the poor.

   March 1833. Revised September 1834.

                      f

