
     of Kilninver and Kilmelfort.

ably meliorated and enlarged.  But though the subdividing
of low arable land into small farms, or large crofts, may be
most beneficial, it is quite the reverse in hill and high pasture
land.  The greater the range for sheep and young black cattle
the better, and the expence of management the less.  It is an
unjust and ill founded allegation, that the planting our hills
and high pasture land with sheep has desolated our country,
and been the chief cause of emigration to America.  To elu-
cidate this position, it is to be observed, that formerly these
hills and high lands were grazed by stots, young cattle, or
dry cows to fatten for market; very often only by goats, roe,
and red deer.  The largest hill or glen planted with black
cattle required only one herd to tend them, as well as the
sheep do; so that both these methods of management, the
stocking with black cattle or with sheep, thus far make no
alteration in the population.  But when it is further consi-
dered, that the black cattle, pastured on the hills and high
lands in summer, could not be kept there in winter, without
great danger of perishing as they often did, it must be evi-
dent that a certain considerable track of low lying land, he-
hoved to be withdrawn from the plough, and appropriated
to the support of those cattle which had pastured on the hills
in summer.  Of this fact any person who travels through the
highlands of Scotland, and observes how much low arable
land is laid waste into winter inclosures for black cattle, must
be fully sensible.  So far then is the planting our hills and
high glens with sheep from depopulating our country, that
the very reverse appears manifestly to be the case, especially
in these and the neighbouring parishes.  And when to this
it is added, that the hills and higher lands yield better re-
turns from sheep than from any other stock, that the sheep
sweeten and enrich the land and grass, and that they soon
convert the dreary barren hill, and black heath into fine,


