
530                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

as the locality where calculus prevails.  It would be an interesting
subject of inquiry, whether or not the common origin of both dis-
eases might not be traced to some peculiar impregnation of the
water in the glen.  Still, on the whole, the quantity of disease is
small, unusually small, when the extreme variations of tempera-
ture, already referred to, and the insufficient protection that the
dwellings and clothing of the poorer classes too often afford against
the rigours of winter, are taken into account.  Many of the pa-
rishioners have from time to time reached an extreme old age.
About four years ago, one man died in the 103d year of his age.
When the present incumbent became minister of the parish, his
session consisted of six elders, the youngest of whom was about
70.  Not many years since, nine Forbeses, born within the sound
of the kirk bell, met at Bellabeg, whose united ages were 750
years.
   Hydrography.-In a parish possessing so much of mountainous
character there are, of course, innumerable springs, the mean
temperature of which has not been ascertained with sufficient ac-
curacy to warrant a statement being given.  With one or two ex-
ceptions, none of them merit particular notice.  In Corgarff there is
one remarkable for its copiousness.  During the whole year, it dis-
charges a volume of water sufficient to turn a mill wheel.  The
burn of Loinchcirie is entirely supplied by it.  Its size, according-
ly, is nearly the same at its source as when, after, its course through
its little glen, it joins the Don.  At Glenconry, there is a chaly-
beate spring, but, so far as is known, it has never been properly
analyzed.  There are several others that show impregnation with
iron, but in so slight a degree that particular notice is unnecessary.
   The Don, the second river in the county in point of magnitude,
takes its rise in this parish, on the very confines of the countie of
Banff and Aberdeen, and takes its course from west to east, di-
viding the parish into nearly two equal parts. *  It runs nearly two
miles through peat moss before it assumes the appearance of an
ordinary burn.  Then, augmented by the Vannich and other
mountain-streams, it continues its course about ten miles, without
attaining any considerable magnitude, till it receives the, tributa-
ries of the lower district.  The most considerable of these are the
Conry, the Ernan, the Carvy, the Nochty, the Deskry, the
Bucket at the intersection of Glenbucket already noticed, and

<FOOTNOTE>It is a singular fact, that the source of the Don has, lately been actually turned
in to the Avon, in order to turn the neighbouring farmer's mill wheel.
                                          3


