
160                  STIRLINGSHIRE.

and the community generally were operatives depending on the
great houses in Glasgow.
   Our tambourers are, upon the whole, in the most depressed con-
dition at present.
   At Upper Banton, in the East Barony, there is a small sickle-
work; a paper-mill at Townhead, Mr Lusk's; and a brick and
tile-work at Currymire; the two latter are of recent origin.
   We have no regular weekly market-day; nor are our two an-
nual fairs of any moment; * yet, almost at all seasons, good
butcher-meat can be obtained (with the exception of veal), al-
most as good as in Glasgow or Falkirk, and somewhat cheaper.
In this article there has been a very perceptible improvement,
during the last fifteen years.
   For several years past, there has been a Farmers' Association
in this and the neighbouring parishes; and a large cattle-show,
near the chief inn, takes place in the month of June, and is en-
couraged by the chief proprietor and his factor, James Maclaren,
Esq. and by other friends to agricultural improvement, when pre-
miums are awarded for the best specimens of horses, cows, &c.
This show has been attended with perceptible benefit.
  Forth and Clyde.--The canal is our principal mode of com-
munication with other parts of the country. We have also cheap
coaches, three times a-day to Stirling, in connection with the canal
barges. The mail-coach was removed from us about ten years
ago, and the intercourse with Glasgow and Falkirk is now car-
ried on by a post-gig, carrying one passenger.
  Ecclesiastical State.--The present parish church, erected in
1816, is elegant and well-finished. The site of the former church
was in the church-yard; but that of the present is at the west end
of the town, adjoining the old house of Kilsyth. It is by far too
small for the population, holding only 860. The younger part
of families are thus, in a manner, precluded from attending with
their parents, and remain at home, or roam through the fields;
and there is afforded too ready an apology to many, for neglecting
religious ordinances.
  Now, however, a very neat church has been erected at Banton, on
the ground of Ruchill, a little to the north of Kelvinhead, which will
accommodate upwards of 400, and when a gallery is needed, nearly
600. The means of erecting this church were obtained by subscrip-

<FOOTNOTE>This year the fair has been held on Friday the 9th April, and the change pro-
mises to be favourable, as it is a good time for selling milk cows.


