
384 	                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

having extensive plains between them, more or less open, some-
times inclined, and sometimes flat or undulating.
   1st Ridge, Ormondy Hill, or the Lady's Hill of Avoch, and
Castleton Hill, continued on the south side of Munlochy Bay,
by the hills of Craigiehow, Pitlundy, and the Ord of Kessock,
where the ridge is interrupted by the sea, but is prolonged on the
opposite shore by Craigphadrick and Dunain Hill, to the sides of
the primitive mountains on Loch Ness.
   The rocks throughout the course of this ridge are simply either
hard red sandstone, or coarse granitic conglomerate, composed of
fragments, more or less rounded, of primitive rocks, either imme-
diately cohering together, or united by a gritty cement, with no
alternating argillaceous or calcareous beds. The formation, there-
fore, may be decidedly pronounced as that of the old red sand-
stone.
   2d Ridge.  Hill from which the stones for the garrison of
Fort George were quarried, on the Bennetsfield estate, prolonged
from the southern shore of Munlochy Bay, by the ridge of Drum-
derfit and Knockbain, to Lettoch, Coul, and Redcastle, on Loch
Beauly.
   This ridge most probably is of the same formation as the first
or exterior one, its superior beds, however, passing into, and form-
ing part of the next, or
   3d Ridge. Proceeding at first in a direction rather transverse
to the former two, by Avoch House and Rosenhaugh, this ridge
afterwards assumes a course more parallel to tbem, as it proceeds
past Suddy, Allanbank, Allangrange, and Arperpheilly, to the                                                 rp
heights behind Redcastle, where it sinks rapidly, and on the
estate of Tarradale, is covered by tbe, gravelly accumulations of
Muir of Ord.
   4th Ridge.  The great central range of the ancient commonty
called Milbuy, which  overlooks all the other ridges, its ele-
vation being  500 feet above the sea, and whose sides, sloping
up to it as the  great back-bone of the district, are shortest and
steepest toward the nortb, but broader and more gentle in their
southern inclination.  Behind Belmaduthy House, this ridge at-
tains its greatest altitude, but it thence proceeds with no interrup-
tions or breaks in its outline, and generally of a pretty equal
height, both towards Cromarty on the east and by Tore, Kilcoy
Castle and the Ryefield on the west, to the valley which is watered
by the rivers Orrin and Conon, which seperate it from the sloping


