
354 				AYRSHIRE.

<TABLE>
        Mollusca.	Polynoe laevis		Comatula barbata
Loligo	media	        Sigalion Mathildae      Rhizostoma undalata
Octopus	octopodia	Cirrhatulus fuscescens	Cassiopca lunulata
Cavolina peregrina	Syllis fulgurans	         Zooaphyta.
Eolida pupurascens 	Phyllodoce laminosa	Halichondria panacea
PIeurobranchus plumula  Terebella Medusa        	suberica
	     Annelides. Actinia dianthus        Berenicea  coccinca
Neries iricolor                  viridis        Coryna squamata
Aphrodita aculeata      Holothuria pellucida  	glandulosa

	An eyry of the falcon or game hawk is found annually on the
Heads of Ayr. The motions of the birds over the cliffs are extreme-
ly beautiful, and they have been much prized for the purposes of
falconry. It is said that some birds, as the common goldfinch for
example, have become much less numerous, in consequence of the
increased cultivation of the country.
	The following shell-fish, important in an economical point of
view, are found upon the coast, but, with the exception of the first,
are very scarce: Mytilus edulis, Ostrea edulis, Cardium edule,
Pecten maximus.
	Botany.--The field for botanical research is extensive and di-
versified. Several miles of a rocky coast, an extensive tract of
light dry land, a hilly range of some miles in length, with marshes
and heaths on the surface, and a series of fresh water lochs and
meadows, afford a great variety of localities and a number of rare
plants. Mr James Smith of Monkwood, whose labours have en-
riched the catalogue of our Scottish species, has examined all
these localities, and I have been chiefly indebted to him for the
following list, several of which have been discovered and named
by himself. The list might have been greatly extended, but it
will be obvious that even it embraces many plants which cannot
be considered as rare. They are arranged according to the Lin-
nean system, and the localities are added.

Veronica anagallis, Auchendrane Mill.           Solanum nigrum, sand Denure shore
Utricularia minor, Millhill Moss.		Samolus valerandi, wet rocks do.
Fida agrigata, James Smith of Carrick-		Ligusticum Scoticum , Dunduff shore
	shore Bramerhill.			Oenanthe pimpinelloides, salt marsh on do
Festuca bromoides, Millhill.			Convolvulus Soldanella, sea shore.
Radiola Millegrana.    				Allium vineale, above Denure Castle.
Centunculuc minimus, near Monkwood.		Scilla verna, Denure.
Atropa Belladonna, Dunure Castle.		Acorus Calamus, Laigh Culzean Meadows.
Lithospermum maritimum, near do.    		Rumex Palustris, marshes sea shore.
Cynoglossum officinale, Castle Rock over 	Alisma natans, Millhill Moss.
	the Sea.				A. ranunculoides, do
Polemonium caeruleum, old road over  		Paris quadrifolia.
	Carrick-hill.				Pyrol` media, road near Pennyglen.
Lobelia Dortmanne, water on top of    		Chrysosplenium alternifolium, Brae.
	Carrick-hill.				Saxifraga alzoides, rock Dunduff shore.
Viola Lactea, Knockover.					granulata, High Smiston.
Verbascum Thapsus, Dunure shore.		Stellaria nemorum, Monkwood.


