
                            COLINTON.                           125

6s 8d. per pound of lordship. Nevertheless it was actively quar-
ried in 1825, and yielded for a season a considerable rent. It has
not been wrought for some time.  A third quarry, where the stone
resembled that found in Redhall quarry, was opened in Hailes
grounds, opposite to the house.  But, after being wrought. for a
short time, it was deserted.
    Mills.-The Water of Leith is a most serviceable drudge, and is
by no means spared. There are at present 16 mills driven by it
within the parish, and a seventeenth is in the course of building.
In ten of these, flour, meal, or barley are prepared for the market
in four, paper is made,-a manufacture which has been carried. on
in the parish for more than a century; and, three manufacture
snuff.  There was some years ago a fourth, which was employed
in grinding snuff, but it has not been used of late; the new mill,
which is in the course of being erected, is to be employed for that
purpose.  At one of the mills there is also machinery for grinding
magnesia, &c.; at another, for sawing wood;, and at a third, for
beating hemp and foreign lint.
   At Inglis Green, immediately below Slateford, there is an excel-
lent bleachfield, under the direction of Mr. M'Whirter.  But the
plan of bleaching all within doors prevails now so universally, that
the bleachfield does not yield the return which is necessary to re-
ward the industry and care for which it calls. The rents of the
mills as well as of the quarries add very considerably to, the value
of the parish. There is a small mill-wright business at Colinton
giving employment to three or four hands.  Spinning has almost
wholly disappeared.  Thus the old are cut off from the employ-
ment, within the power of age and suited, to its disposition, of
"drawing out a thread wi'little din;" which used to keep time
from being a burden, and to supply with the neccesities of life
There is but, one weaver in the parish, whose work, is not abun-
dant. The washing of clothes is carried on to  some extent, espe-
cially in the village of Swanston.
   With the view of stimulating to improvement in the cultivation of
vegetables, fruits, and flowers, a Gardener's Society, which awards
small prizes to the most successful cultivators, was instituted four
years ago. It consists, at Present of 13 memebers, and meets in
this parish once a fornight from April to November. The result
has been favourable.
                       V.- PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Edinburgh is the nearest market-town to the parish. There is a


