
                          PARISH OF GLASSARY.

                  PRESBYTERY OF INVERARY, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

                THE REV. DUGALD CAMPBELL, MINISTER. *

                I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
             Name.--GLASSARY has been said + to be "evidently derived from
Glastra," or rather Glas-srath, a greyish strath, as being "descrip-
tive of the low‚r end of the parish." It may be so; but Glas-
a\3ridh, or the Grey Pasturage or Shealinq, seems a less forced and
still more descriptive etymology, characteristic alike of the pasto-
ral habits of the past ages, and of the general appearance of the
whole parish, whose surface of rugged uplands rather than of lofty
mountains, renders it naturally more fitted for pasturage than for
tillage.
     Boundaries, &c.--It is bounded by Lochfyne on the south and
south-east; by Lochawe and part of the parish of Kilmartin on
the north-west and north; by the parishes of Inverary and Dala-
vich on the east and north-east; and by those of Kilmartin, North
Knapdale, and South Kiiapdale on the west and south-west. It
varies from 8 to 10 miles in breadth, and from 12 to 16 miles in
length. It is said ++ to consist of 150 square miles, or 75,000
Scotch acres; and it is divided into 225 1/4 merk lands. It stretches
along Lochfine for 16 miles, from the stream called Leachdan at
the Furnace, which divides it from the parish of Inverary, to the
stream south of and close to the village of Lochgilphead, which
separates it from South Knapdale on the one side; and on the
other it extends along the banks of Lochawe for 8 miles, from the
stream on the east side of the farm of Brabhealaich to the Ford.
On the west the valley of Glassary extends nearly from side to
side of the parish.  This valley varies in height from 200 to near
600 feet above the level of the sea; also in breadth and in ferti-
lity, having its acclivities on either side partially wooded, and a

<FOOTNOTE>Drawnup by the Rev. Colin Smith, Inverary.
          Vide Old Stat. Account.
          Smith's Agricultural Survey of Argyleshire.


