
46                           SHETLAND.

rish, were overtaken by a dreadful storm and buried in the sea,)
yet, with undaunted courage, they launch out in their small open
skiffs, to a distance of thirty or forty miles from the shore, and
appear to be more in their element when so employed, than in
any other occupation. Their boats are now built somewhat lar-
ger than they were in former days. They measure from 15 to 22
feet in length of keel, with six men in each, and they carry from
60 to 100 ground lines, each 42 fathoms in length, with hooks
fastened to them by a smaller line, of about 3 feet in length, and
at the distance of 5 fathoms from each other. The boats and lines
are either furnished by the fishermen, at their own expense, or
hired out to them, by the, land-owners, or others, who purchase
their fish in a green state, and cure them for the market. When
the fishing is successful, they may average from 80 to 100 cwt., for
which they receive, from 5s. to 6s., and sometimes as high as 7s.
per cwt.  Ling, cod, and tusk, and seath or coal fish, were long
the only fish which were considered marketable, and of these great
numbers were caught, salted and dried, and sent to Spain, Ireland,
and to Leith, and sold at from L. 12 to L. 22 per ton, for ling and
tusk; and from L.9. to L. 12 for cod and seatb. Immense shoals of
berrings, annually, visit the coasts of Zetland, and every summer
for a long series of years, the Dutch have fitted out a great number
of busses, which have appeared in swarms, in the harbours and
along the shores of Zetland, and remained in the undisturbed possession
of the herring fishery, to the great emolument of their
country. It never entered into the minds of the Zetlanders, that
t1ey might with the greatest ease come in for a share of their gains,
until within these few years, when some public- spirited gentlemen have
exerted themselves to rouse their countrymen to a sense of their
own interests, and to engage in that lucrative branch of industry.
The herring-fishery is now fairly begun, and promises to be
a source ofgreat additional wealth to the people. The land-owners,
in general, furnish nets, which they either hire out to the fishermen,
or advance to them, at prime cost, to be paid for from
the proceeds of the fish, within a time limited by agreement.
They also provide cash, and salt, and take upon themselves the
whole expense and risk of curing, and sending the herrings to
market.  The fishermen are paid so much per cran, and as there
is a good deal of competition, they are sure of the highest price
that can be afforded. The amount of fish cured and marked by
the fishery officer in the year 1831 was as under:


