
       54                         PERTHSHIRE.

       The Mercers of Aldie, proprietors of Meicklour,sprung from a
    burgess of Perth, of the name of John Mercer. "According to
    an old inventory of writs," says Mr Scott, the venerable author of
    the former Statistical Account of Perth, "a copy of which I received
    from Mr David Mercer of Aberdeen, a descendant of the family,
    there was and perhaps is still preserved, in the archives of the fa-
    mily of Aldie, 'an charter granted by Mauritius de Cromod in
    favors of John Mercer, burgess of Perth, of the lands of Meick-
    lour, which lands pertained before to Allan of Cambus, and were
    disponed by the said Allan to the said Mauritius, dated anno
    1106, on Wednesday in the afternoon of St Matthew's day,'" viz.
    September 21st. This charter was granted in the last year of the
    reign of King Edgar, and before the reign of his brother Alexander.
       The family have a burying vault in the Middle Church in the
    north aisle, which extends a considerable wav under the wall into
    the street. This was granted them by the King.  The grant must
    have been before the year 1126, because in or about that year the
    King bad given away to the Abbey of Dunfermline all right that
    he had to any part of the parish church. The present represen-
    tative of that family is Baroness Keith.*
       Mylne was a celebrated architect, under whose direction the
    bridge, that was destroyed 1621, was built. He was the descend-
    ant of the architect Mylne, a special favourite of James III. and
    was master-mason to James VI. A tomb-stone in the Grayfriars
    burying-ground was erected to his memory by Robert Mylne, one
    of his posterity, in the year 1774. Another of his descendants re-
    moved to Edinburgh, and built Mylne's Court, Mylne's Square,
    and some buildings near to the Abbey of Holyrood. Two celebrat-
    ed architects, of the same name, one at London, and the other at
    Edinburgh, were descended from him. One of them, Robert,
    got the highest prize in the first class of architecture in Rome.
    Blackfriars Bridge was built according to his plan, and under his
    direction. He was born at Edinburgh 1734, and died 1811.
       Patrick Adamson, Archbishop of St Andrews, was born in Perth

    <FOOTNOTE>9. "Summary of the Evidence on the Gowrie Conspiracy, with plans of Gowrie
    House, "printed in the 1st vol. of the Transactions of the Literary and Antiquarian
    Society of Perth, 1827.
              The aisle here referred to was in 1621 designated Mercer's Aisle.  In the kirk-
    session records of that year, February 21st, there is the following entry: "Andrew
    Conqueror, overseer, for the reparation and theiking of Mercer's Aisle, produced his
    account, whilk being read were found equitably given, and admitted, whilk amounted
    to eight score eight pounds, sixteen shillings, three pennies;"-the Session, as hospi-
    tal managers, being up to that year the administrators of the temporalia of the
    Church.
                                         4


