
42                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

fects of water, encircle the vale of Urquhart on all sides, of which
two are particularly distinct, (being elevated about 20 and 50 feet
respectively above the level of Loch Ness,) and which, from their
horizontal surface and smooth sloping sides, furnish fine banks for
young plantations, and picturesque sites for cottages.
   The soils in this parish, though light, are on the whole warm
and productive, and, from the prevalence of secondary rocks, rather
more clayish than is common in Highland districts. The subsoil
is (except where peat mosses have been reclaimed) universally
gravel, more or less porous, and with which every hill side and
every valley has been strewn over by ancidnt currents of water to
a considerable depth.
   There are no metalliferous mines in the district, and no beds of
lime quarried to any great extent,--the burnt lime of England, from
the want of coals here, being on the whole to be got nearly as
cheap as the local deposits could be wrought. Boulder, or loose
field stones, are much used in the construction of houses and en-
closures, and the only extensive quarry in the district is one which
was opened in the sandstone (inclining to quartz rock) of Ruisky
in front of Mealfaurvonie, and not much above the edge of Loch
Ness, for supplying with large stones the works of the Caledonian
Canal at Fort Augustus. It has not been used for some years,
except to furnish paving or rather causeway stones for the streets
of Inverness.
   Botany.--The banks of Loch Ness, and especially the portion
between the bay of Urquhart and Invermoriston, are distinguished
for the richness and variety of their vegetable productions. The
space jusi mentioned contains the old forest of Ruisky, the top of
which consists of native pine trees, with oaks, ashes, and hoary
hawthorns, stretching in detached stems and clumps along the pre-
Cipitous rocks, and which, descending below, mingle themselves with
the dense woods of birch which cover all the lower acclivities to
the water's edge. The sloe, holly, guelder-rose, trembling poplar,
alder, mountain-ash, or rowan-tree, with long trailing brambles, and
the largest sized white and red rose bushes, increase the variety and
beauty of the foliage, and when mixed with hazel and rasp bushes,
create an almost impassable copse. Here and there are seen some
enormous indigenous elms and gean trees; and throughout the dis-
triet the beautiful white flowering bird-cherry or hackberry, as it is
called, (Prunus padus), is most abundantly distributed, and attains
an uncommonly large size; while the gardens and pleasure-grounds


