
                          HUTTON AND CORRIE.                      541

and nearly all the stock-farms have been let just now from 5s. to
5s. 6d. per sheep.
	Live-Stock.--About 15,000 acres, or two-thirds of the parish,
are occupied as sheep-pasture in nine or ten regular breeding farms,
keeping about 10,000 sheep, wholly Cheviot, with the exception
of 600 or 700 of black-faced on the highest ground at the head of
Dryfe. The farms are all what is termed grassy or strong land,
and great attention having been paid to the improvement of the
breed, perhaps there is no parish in Scotland which, on the whole,
possesses a more valuable or productive stock of mountain sheep
The stock belong to Mr Graham of Shaw, and Mr Bell, te-
nant of Whitcastles, have in particular been considered as among
the first of their kind in the border counties. Within the last four
years, cross lambs from Leicester rams are bred on the lower situat-
ed sheep-farms, the ewe stock being kept up pure Cheviot. These
cross lambs selling from twenty to thirty per cent. above the Che-
viot, has greatly increased the annual returns from these farms;
but it requires a longer experience to prove that this system will
continue so profitable, there being considerable doubt whether the
ewe stocks can be kept up of proper quality, and whether the pre-
sent difference in the selling price of the lambs will continue.
	The other third of the, parish, in point of extent, is divided into
farms from 150 to 600 acres, chiefly occupied in the rearing and
grazing of black-cattle. Each of these has a portion of land in
cultivation; but from its elevation, and the coldness of the climate,
the farmers sell little corn, excepting in very favourable seasons.
The cattle are all of the Galloway breed. They are mostly kept
till two and three years old, and sold for the northfolk market. Great
attention has of late years been paid to, their improvement, by ob-
taining superior bulls from Galloway, and by giving premiums at
shows; but there is yet much room for better management, espe-
cially in the winter feeding. Ayrshire dairy cows have been in-
troduced, apparently with much success, upon some farms in the
neigbbouring parishes; and the farms of this parish, which have ge-
nerally tracts of strong rough pasturage, and abundance of meadow
hay, have been considered well adapted to them; while, on the
other hand, the small extent of green crop, and want of early and
kindly grass, have been stated as great objections to their profitable
management. It is probable, however, that before long the ex-
periment will be made.
	Husbandry.--A good deal has been done in surface-draining


