
	524                         FIFESHIRE.

    Antiquities.-There is a great variety of antiquities in this pa-
	rish. There are three very fine ruins. The ruins of Craighall
 	stand about half a mile south-east of Ceres, upon the north bank
	of a lovely den. The den is sequestered and deep, and of consi-
	derable extent, and well wooded. The ruins still have an ap-
	pearance of grandeur, and serve to indicate what had been the
	magnificence of the mansion. Craighall was formerly the seat of
	Sir Thomas Hope, King's Advocate, (from whom the principal fa-
	milies in Scotland of the Dame of Hope are descended,) and it con-
	tinued to be the residence of Sir Thomas's heirs till the beginning
	of the last century, when it was sold to another branch of the fa-
	mily, who succeeded to be Earls of Hopetoun. It is now the pro-
	perty of Sir Alexander Hope, brother to the late John, Earl of
	Hopetoun.
    There are also the ruins of Struthers, or, as it is called in some
	old papers, Auchter-uther-Struther. This was formerly the seat
	of the Earls of Crawford, and it stands about two miles south-west
	from the village of Ceres. Man has been less merciful to this
	place than time;" and there now exist very scanty remains of the
	once splendid house, and warlike towers and battlements. The
	park around the house, which is enclosed with a stone wall, contains
	about 200 acres of ground. The venerable beeches of a very large
	size, which are mentioned in the last Statistical Account, have died
	or been cut down.
    There is a fine tower of freestone, well hewn and nicely jointed.
	The tower is about 24 feet square, and about 50 or 60 feet high.
	It stands upon an eminence, command a fine prospect, and is seen
	at a great distance in different directions. It is formed by,one lofty
	vault on the top of another. Upon the top of the uppermost, which
	is surrounded with a battlement, there is an apartment covered with
	slate. It stands about a mile and a half west from the village of
	Ceres. It was the dwelling-place of the family in 1662, for in
         April  29 we find this notice, "The Lady Scotstaret, younger,
	married to the Laird of Erdlee, surnamed Preston. The marriage
	feast stood at Tarvet."
              Remarkable Events.-On Wednesday, the 5th day of October
	1785, Sig. Vincentius Lunardi, a Florentine, having ascended at
	Edinburgb, in an air balloon, at three o'clock afternoon, descended
	a mile to the eastward of Ceres at twenty minutes past four P.M.
	This was the first aerial voyage made in Scotland, and the daring
	adventurer, in performing it, passed over about twenty miles of sea,


