
62                            WIGTONSHIRE.

         "In the middle of the moor-land appears an an old tower or castle,
whose walls are very strong, and almost entire; and being nearly
surrounded by lakes, when viewed at a distance it has a most
curious and picturesque appearance, resembling much a large ship
at sea.
	"It is called the old Place of Mochrum; and formerly belonged
together with a considerable estate contiguous to it, to an ancient
family, of the name Dunbar, who resided in it, were created
Knights of Mochrum about a century ago, and still enjoy that
title. But the castle and the property have now, for about one
hundred years, been in possession of the Earl of Dumfries, now
Marquis of Bute." *
        Mansion-Houses.-The principal mansion-house in the parish
is that of Monreith, belonging to Sir William Maxwell. There
are five or six smaller mansions.
        Eminent Characters.-The Dunbars settled in Mochrum so
early as the year 1368, Thomas Dunbar, the first of Mochrum,
who was second son of Patrick, Earl of March, having got a grant
of the lands in question and others in that year. The Mochrum
branch of the Dunbars were long eminent, and cadets of this
house founded the families of Dunbar of Baldoon, (now represent-
ed by the Earl of Selkirk,) and Dunbar of Clugston. But the
most eminent person of this name was Gavin Dunbar, son of Sir
John Dunbar of Mochrum, and ultimately Archbishop of Glasgow,
and Lord Chancellor of Scotland. Gavin having studied at Glas-
gow, was appointed Prior of Whithorn about the year 1504, as
successor to James Beaton, whom he afterwards succeeded in the
see of Glasgow. Dunbar, being, says Keith, "a man of polite
letters," was appointed preceptor to the young King James V.; a
trust which he discharged so satisfactorily, that on the see of Glas-
gow becoming vacant in 1522, he was nominated to that dignity.
In 1526, he was appointed Lord Chancellor; and in 1536, when
the King went to France, on his marriage to Magdalene, daugh-
ter of Francis I. his Lordship was chosen one of the Lords of the
Regency. When Lord Maxell, in the year 1542, made a mo-
tion in Parliament to the effect that the Bible be allowed to be
read in our vernacular tongue, Archbishop Dunbar opposed it.
The motion was, however, carried, but he entered the dissent
against the debision in his own name, and in that of "all the pre-
lates of the realm." He died in 1547. The family of Moch-

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Old Statistical Account.
                           4


