
     Statistical Account

ved, would fully indemnify both the expense and trouble. 
There are a good number of calves reared, and some cattle 
also are fed for the market; but this practice is by no means
universal.  The market town is Dundee, where there is a
ready sale for grain of every sort, hay, milk, butter, cheefe,
poultry, etc.  And to those who have not the means of
subsistence within themselves, every article except potatoes
is as high as in Dundee, where the espense of living has
increased of late, with the industry and wealth  of the inha-
bitants.  It is a pleasure to say, that the principal farmers
are in general accommodated with good houses, but the
dwellings of the smaller tenants, and indeed of the great
bulk of the inhabitants, are as yet ill adapted either for
health or comfort*.

   Manufacturers.-This district, from several portions of it
being let in crofts or small possessions, is highly favourable
to the establishment and growth of manufactures.  Hence,
in every hamlet within its bounds, as Liff, Bervie, Den-
head, etc. the weaving of linen cloth has become the
principal employment.  But the quarter which is both the
most populous, and contains the greatest number of manu-
facturers, is that strip of land, which having on the south the
hill of Balgay, and forming with it a narrow valley, is com-
prehended under the names of Locheye and Milehouse.  The

<FOOTNOTE>

*They are kept however neat and clean, and this taste may soon lead
to substantial improvements.  The common wages of a a ploughman, from
L. & to L. 10 a year, either with his victuals in his masters's house, or 2
packs of oat-meal a-week, and proportional quantity of milk for subsis-
tence by himself.  The wages of women-servant, L. 3. including boun-
ties or presents, which however are stipulated for.  The hire of day-
labourer from 9 d to 1 e. with his victual; but for two years past, it has
risen beyond this, owing chiefly to the contract work done upon the new 
roads leading from Perthshire through this county.  


