
88			BUTESHIRE.

its having been connected with them, for whatever purpose. It is
situated at the foot of a ridge of rock, running from north to south,
50 feet high, and forming at each end a junction with an outer
wall, which marked, it is probable, the sacred precincts, and which
comprehends a space of some extent beyond any ruins that remain.
	The scene around is one of uncommon beauty. Towards the
north, an amphitheatre of lofty gray rocks secures the seclusion
of a spot, with whose time-worn relics it so well harmonizes. On
the right, the grove with its deep shade forms a grateful object for
the eye to repose on, while its mysterious associations carry the
mind back to events and ages long past. Before us lifts up its
dim form, all that remains of a pile, around which is gathered the
depth of interest which is sacred use, its great antiquity, and its
gracefulness, even in decay, are so well calculated to create. To
the south in the sea, opening up, in the approach to the Firth of
Clyde, a view of water and coast, not surpassed in beauty by any
similar scene in Scotland.
	The place of worship for the parish has long been removed to
a situation more central for the inhabitants, on a rising ground,
between the bays of Kilchatan and Stravanan. The present
church is an elegant modern structure. There is also a small
neat church within the grounds of Mountstuart, near Scoulag
Bay, still in good repair, that had been some time useed as the pa-
rish church.
	Mansion House.--The mansion-house of Mountstuart was built
by James, second Earl of Bute, in the year 1718. The grounds
around it were laid out about the same period in the style of the time.
The plantations are extensive, and contain many trees of remark-
able size. The flower garden is an object of great attraction. It
has been formed under the direction of the present accomplished
Marchioness of Bute, whose taste has adorned it with many rare
and beautiful plants. Such is the mildness of the climate, that
here are found, in a vigorous state, some exotics, which thrive in
few places in Britain.
	Together with Ascog House, built in the fashion of the seven-
teenth century, there are several ornamental villas, recently erected,
on the north-east coast of the parish.

<TABLE=Population>

			III.--POPULATION.

According to the former Statistical Account, the number of inhabitans in the
parish in                           March 1791, was     727
			By the census of  1801, it was  875
					  1811,         854



