
               416                    ARGYLESHIRE.

               great peculiarity in the tide. Within a mile and a-half of the
               promontory, there runs an eddy tide like a whirlpool, and much
               stronger than that which runs in the channel, as, when the tide
               runs to the westward, this eddy tide runs to the eastward, along
               shore.  Vessels have often been driven on shore from ignorance
               of this peculiarity in the tide.
                 Rivers.-The two most considerable streams are, Coniglen
               and Breckry,-the latter stream rising from Knockmoy and
               falling into the sea at Carskey bay. The Coniglen is the most
               considerable of the two, and is subject to sudden risings; its direc-
               tion is about south-east. It jnins the Frith of Clyde at Duna-
               verty bay.
                Geology and Mineralogy.-1. Dip and Direction of Strata.-
               The most general dip of the strata in this parish may be stated
               soutb and south-east. The general direction of the principal
               formation is north-east and south-west. The intrusion of trap
               aud porphyry causes several derangements in different localities,
               as on the shore below Machririoch, forming the western portion
               of Bailmhuilin bay, in connection with the Arran-Man's Barrels
               and the Otter More.
                 Here the strata of the new red sandstone and limestone are
               intercepted and altered in the dip, direction, and actual constitu-
               tion.  In fact, the whole of the Pennylanid seems to be caused by
               the rising of.the trap rock in almost every form and constitution
               through that secondary formation.  The general dip of this seeffis
               to coincide with the general dip of the strata of the district, though
               the angle of inclination is much lower.
                 In different parts of the ridge of the Pennyland, the variegated
               red marly limestone, passes into gritty limestone and sandstone.
               The basaltic mass at Dunhian, in passing through this marl and
               sandstone, has altered them into reddish basaltic tufa, containing
               nodules of basalt with the same general tinge.   In some places,
               the basalt assumes the columnar concretionary structure, and in
               the lower part of the dun, the altered marl or tufa shows the
               same tendency.  There is a very distinct basaltic vein intercepting
               the old red sandstone and conglomerate strata at the shore, near
               the burying-ground at Keil.  This does not appear to have al-
               tered or deranged the strata there.
                 The rocks comprising the mountain ranges, are not very nu-
               onerous. The western portion of the parish is almost entirely
               composed of mica-slate, a portion of the great mica-slate forma-


