
     Statistical Account

is used in general.  Farmers are not so fond of sowing
wheat as formerly.  The culture of turnips is judged of
more consequence, and keeps the land in good heart.  A
rotation of crops, as follows, has been adopted; fallow, tur-
nips, oats, pease, barley with grass seeds, hay, pasture for 2
years, oats, and then a fallow.  Upon lighter ground, 1st, crop
oats; 2dly, Turnips, pease, or potatoes; 3dly, Barley; 4thly,
Hay; then oats, etc. as before.  After this rotation, there
is no need of a fallow.-The distance from lime is 25 miles.
-There is a marl moss at the east end of the parish, and
another at the west.-The manure in both is of an excellent
quality.  Its effects are more discernible on grass, than on
land in tillage.  There are other two mosses in the neigh-
bourhood, at 4 miles distance, from which considerable
quantities of marl are brought.  The old maxim, "The
"fodder is best which carries corn on its top," is entirely
exploded.  Sir John Buchanan Riddell, proprietor of a great
part of the parish, and who proposes staying here, at least
occasionally, is rapidly carrying on improvements.  He has
marl on his estate, yet the expence must be considerable.  It
is not to be doubted but they will turn out to good account,
and his plantations add to the beauty of the place.  Swift
observes, "whoever could make two ears of corn, or two
"blades of grass to grows upon a spot of ground where only
one grew before, would deserve better of mankind, and
"do more essential service to his country, than the whole
"race of politicians put together*."  Oxen are not used in

<FOOTNOTE>

*In place of flowing matches, which sometimes are attended
with a considerable degree of confusion, and some disagreeable
consequences among the servants, might it not answer better, if,
for instance, the proprietors of ten ploughs were to collect 50 s?
the land to be marled before sowing, and the whole work during
the season reviewed; a premium of 1 L. 5 s. to the best upon the


