
492                           LANARKSHIRE.

	In the vault is still the case in which the heart of the good Sir
James was enclosed.
	On the same side of the aisle, to the east of this tomb, is that
of one of the Dukes of Touraine, the decorations of which are
still more elaborate and elegant, though likewise much broken
down and defaced. On the fragments appear the arms of the en-
tombed, quartered thus: 1st, Touraine; 2d, Douglas; 3d, Gal-
loway; 4th, Annandale;--with the following inscription: "Hic ja-
cet Archibaldus Douglas, Dux Toureniae, Comis de Douglas et
Loueville, Dominus Gallovidiae, Wigtoniae, et Annandiae, locum
tenens Regis Scotiae, obiit 26 die mensis Junii 1438." This was
the son of Archibald Douglas, surnamed Tineman, the first Duke
of Touraine, and Maud Lindesay, daughter of David Earl of Craw-
ford. In a niche on the south side of the aisle, commonly called
St Thomas's aisle, we find the following inscriptions upon a tomb
of particularly fine workmanship, surmounted by two recumbent
figures, exquisitely wrought, representing the Douglas and his
lady; and having ten figures in basso relievo beneath, in a stand-
ing attitude, representing their children: " Hic jacet magnus et
potens princeps, Dominus Jacobus de Douglas, Dux Touteniae et
Comes de Douglas, Dominus Annandiae, Gallovidiae, Liddaliae,
Jedburg Forestiae, et Dominus de Balveniae, magnus Wardanus
regni Scotiae versus Angliam, &c.; qui obiit 24 die mensis Mar-
tii, anno Domini 1443." This James was brother to the above-
mentioned Archibald, to whose estate and honours he succeeded
after the murder of Archibald's two sons in Edinburgh and Stir-
ling Castles. The inscription for his lady is: "Hic jacet Domina
Beatrix de Sinclair, (filia Domini Henrici Comitis Orcadum, Do-
mini de Sinclair, &c.) Comitissa de Douglas, et Aveniae, Domina
Gallovidiae." On the eastside of these is a stone with this inscrip-
tion: "Hae sunt proles inter praedictos Dominum et Dominam,
generatae. Imo, Dominus Wilhelmus, primogenitus et haeres
dicti Domini Jacobi, qui successit ad totam haereditatem praedic-
tam. Jacobus, 2do genitus, Magister de Douglas. Archibaldus,

		Syne toward Scotland held their way,
		And thar are cummnin in full great hy.
		And the banys honorabilly,
		In till the kirk of Douglas war,
		Erdyt, with dule and mekill car.
		Schyr Archebald his son gert syn
		Off alabastre baith fair and fyne,
		Ordane a tumbe sae richly,
		As it behowyt to swa wothy."


