
	              NORTH KNAPDALE.                        637

garded as the key of the districts of Knapdale and Glassary, and
as such it was deemed a position of the greatest importance. " In
the end of the thirteenth century, Knapdale appears in the posses-
sion of a certain Swenus de Ergadia, known in tradition as Swen
Ruadh, or Swen the red, Thane of Glassary and Knapdale, and
from him it is said the castle took its name; and there are strong
grounds for thinking that he was ancestor of the Macneills. John
his son took an active part with Baliol, and was forfeited by Bruce."
Swenus de Ergadia appears to have been a descendant of the house
of Lorn, which was intimately connected by marriage with the
Comyn and Baliol party, which not only strenuously opposed the
claims of Robert I. to the Scottish throne, but, on more than one
occasion, was the means of reducing him to great straits. When
the Bruce obtained possession of the crown, he found bimself threat-
ened bv the strength of the descendants of Somerled, as by that
of an enemy who had gradually grown up into the possession of a
power which frequently defied royal authority, and which had
more than once shaken the stability of the Crown under Somer-
led. He therefore determined to proceed in person into Argyle-
shire for the purpose of crushing the power of the Lord of Lorn,
which he soon effected. After the defeat of the Lord of Lorn at
Lochawe, King Robert besieged Alexander of the Isles in Cas-
tle Swen, his usual residence. Alexander, for some days de-
fended himself with the most determined bravery, but was obliged
to surrender himself to the King, who forthwith imprisoned him
in Dundonald Castle, where he died. " Bruce granted Knap-
dale to John de Menteth, recorder to the Earl of Menteth, from
whom it descended to his eldest son, Sir John Menteth, Lord of
Arran and Knapdale. Sir John disponed the greater part of
South Knapdale to the Earl of Argyle in 1353, and, on his death
in 1360, the rest of Knapdale fell to the Crown, by whom it was
granted, in 1372, to John Lord of the Isles, and remained in that
family until the forfeiture of the last Lord of the Isles in 1476,
when it again came to the Crown, and was granted in 1480, with
the keeping of Castle Swen, to the Earl of Argyle. Although
Swenus de Ergadia and his descendants were deprived of Knap-
dale, they seem to have retained actual though not feudal posses-
sion; for, in 1472, we find Hector Mactorquil Macneill in pos-
session of the greater part of North Knapdale, and heritable
keeper of Castle Swen. This passed, with an heiress, to Mac-


