
     Statistical Account

   During the feuds that raged in the leading families, and
particularly in that fatal contention that called forth the potent

<FOOTNOTE>

and surrounded with hedges and belts of wood, have suffered most severely.-
In the year I789, however, this vegetable disease occupied a larger sphere,
and diffused its baneful influence on fields which enjoy every advantage that
the fun and air of this climate can bestow.
   In seasons of scarcity this parish has always suffered.-The tales told of the
seven dear years, as they are emphatically termed, which concluded last cen-
tury, are indeed tales of woe.-Some of these seasons were not entirely un-
friendly to vegetation, if the farmer had been provided, which he was not,
with healthy seed to bestow on his fields.  The province of Murray, and some
of the best land along the east coast of Buchan and Formartine abounded with
seed and bread; but most of the inhabitants of this parish, reduced to misery,
had neither money to purchase, nor horses to carry these essential articles.  A
few facts will illustrate their extreme distress.  From the time that famine
was felt, to the time that plenty returned, oatmeal sold for L.16 Sc. per
boll, and all the victual stipend, due for 7 years by the heritors, was paid for,
with interest, at that rate.  One Thompson, wadsetter of Hairmoss, driven
from his home by want, was found dead, near the shore, with a piece of raw
flesh in his mouth.  Of 16 families that resided on the farm of Littertie, 13
were extinguished.  On the estate of Greens, which presently accommodates
169 individuals, 3 families (the proprietor's included) only survived.  The
extensive farms of Touchar, Greeness, Overhill, and Burnside of Idoch, now
containing more than 100 souls, together with some farms on the parish of
Turriff, being entirely desolated, were converted into a sheep-walk by the Er-
rol family, to whom they then belonged.  The inhabitants of the parish in
general were diminished by death to one half, or as some affirm, to one fourth
of the preceding number.  When the means of saving the living and of bury-
ing the dead began to fail, natural affection was in a great measure suspended.
A fellow, George Allan, having carried his deceased father upon his back,
half way from his home to the church-yard, threw down the corpse at the
door of a farmer, with these words: "I can carry my father no farther.  For
"God's sake bury his body: But if you chuse not to take that trouble, you
"may place it, if you please, on the dyke of your kail-yard, as a guard a-
"gainst the sheep!"
   Until the year 1709, many farms were waste.  About that time, the heri-
tors enticed some substantial men, by the gift of a yoke of oxen, and by


