
322                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the former Statistical Account was written, various im-
provements have taken place in the parish.  Excellent roads have
been opened-extensive plantations have been made-and a large
extent of land reclaimed.  Steam-boats ply regularly, and facili-
ties are afforded for the introduction of the comforts of civilized life.
But no permanent improvement has taken place in the circum-
stances of the people generally.  Population has increased from
1788 to 3000, and lands which were then possessed by labour-
ing tenants are now converted to sheep-farms. This has redu-
ced the people's means of support.  There are no manufactures,
and, as they depend on land exclusively for their subsistence, an
extent of poverty prevails among them now, to which formerly
they were strangers.  As yet, however, crime is unknown among
them.  A high degree of moral feeling has hitherto restrained
them; but it is to be feared that grinding poverty will break down
this check, and introduce crimes at Which they hitherto have shud-
dered.
December 1 840.

                  PARISH OF DUIRINISH.
           PRESBYTERY OF SKYE, SYNOD OF GLENELG.
            THE REV. ARCHIBALD CLERK, MINISTER.
        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-DUTRINISH, or more properly Durinish, is by some
resolved into two words of Scandinavian origin, signifying the pro-
montory of Deer; but more probably, the name is derived from
the Gaelic Dur, which, like the Latin Durus, signifies hard or
rocky, and Innis, a very common Celtic term, signifying indiffer-
ently promontory or island.  Dur-innis in the case before us, then,
signifies the rocky promontory; a designation which every one ac-
quainted with the parish will acknowledge to be a very appropriate
one,-as it forms a large promontory, singularly rocky and bold.
This parish is, both in conversation and in writing, sometimes
designated Kilmuir a corruption of Cill-Mhuire, i. e. a place con-


