
286                          PERTHSHIRE.

places, it becomes very micaceous, and schistose, in bands from one
to four inches thick, furnishing fit material by its flatness for fences
without lime. The strata seem generally to range 15&deg; to the north-
east, and to dip at an angle of 13&deg;.4'. Several trap dikes cross the
parish, almost directly east and west. Great isolated blocks seem
to have been thrown tip by some giant force, and lie piled upon
each other. The direction of these masses is to every point in the
compass, and dips with every inclination.  The rock of sandstone
at the side is highly indurated, very finely grained, bears evident
marks of having been under the action of fire, and appears to have
received, when in a state of fusion, much of the nature of the trap
rock into its composition. Limestone is to be found in the upper
part of the parish; but it is not wrought on account of the distance
from fuel.  Attempts have been made to find coal, but without
success.  Agate, calcedony, and jasper, may be got in great
abundance along the water,bourse at the base of the hill.
  Soil.-Boulders were of very frequent occurrence; but, by the
aid of gunpowder, and other means, they have been mostly forced
to quit the field, and take their place in the fence.  In the parish,
there is a great variety of soil. The eastern part is sandy, the lower
part inclines to clayey loam. The neighbourhood of the town ex-
hibits a fine specimen of rich black loam.
  Zoology.-Roe-deer are frequently to be seen. A red deer may
occasionally be observed crossing the parish, from the north, on its
way, it is said, to enjoy the benefit of the salt water. The fox
here finds a cover, and the otter a retreat. Wild ducks and some-
times a wild goose, woodcock, and kingfisher, are the rarer spe-
cies of our undomesticated animals. The horns of an " elk,"
found imbedded in the soil, render it probable that this species
once existed in the parish.
  In the ponds at Damside, out of which marl was taken, leeches
are to be found. During the greatest part of the year, they
are never seen, and are supposed to lie buried in the slime; but
during the heat of summer, they come up in numbers to the margins
of the different pools. They are of two kinds,-one which cannot
possibly be got to draw blood; another the genuine medical leech,
Hirudo medicinalis.  It is larger and more vigorous than those im-
ported into this country, which may be accounted for, by its being
taken directly from its native element, and not exhausted by con-
finement and long carriage. This kind is preferred, by the people
in the neighbourhood, to foreign leeches.


