                                     KIRKCOLM.                    107

curs, on the sides of a brook, a sandstone stratum of considerable
thickness, immediately under a stratum, about two feet thick, of a
clayey schistus.  The latter braks easily into rhomboidal fragments,
and both strata dip in a gentle slope to the west, cropping out to the
bay about a quarter of a mile from the greywacke strata, as seen at
Lady Bay.  The sandstone stratum splits into laminated fragments,
and has been used as a building stone; and might, perhaps, in some
situations be useful for paving stones.  These Strata evidently re-
pose in an unconformable position over the greywacke strata, and
seem to take the placd of the conglomerate, which terminates
abruptly at Sloughnagarry, where a small ravine divides it from
this laminated sandstone stratum.  The latter is evidently but of
limited extent.
     From the foregoing observations, it is obvious that the geologi-
ca] position to be assigned to Kirkcolm is that of tho greywacke
and old red sandstone formation.  It is in such formations that the
metalliferous veins, particularly those of copper ore, are generally
most prevalent.  From Corswall House to the southern extremi-
ty of the parish, the red sandstone conglomerate formation recedes
in its outcrop from the beach, which is low and flat, and strewed
with. shingle and boulder-stones of granite, sienite, greywacke,
greenstone, basaltic amygdaloid, chlorite slate, greywacke slate,
clay slate, &e. Several boulders of indurated chalk (the Irish
limestone) have also been found on this beach; but it seems pro-
bable that these have served for ballast to vessels.  Their surface
is curiously perforated, as if eaten by some insect, probably some
marine species preserving characteristics analogous to the pholas.
It was in this part of the parish that Sir Andrew Agnew, some
years ago, put down a bore in search of coal; but the undertaking
was abandoned.  The following were the strata passed:

<TABLE>
     Surface soil,                         3 feet.    0 inches
     Red sandstonee conglomerate,          19          0
     Red freestone,                        6          0
     White freestone,                      90          0
     Stone of clay,                        0         14
     Black freestone,                      0         10

     Upon the estate of Corswall a stratum of clay occurs very near
the surface, and very abundant.  It possesses the characters of
potter's clay; and, in the expectation that it might be found to
answer as a body clay, in lieu of the Derbyshire clay, it has been
tried by practical persons, who repnrt it to afford but little refuse,
and to work sweetly.  The ware, however, made from it, was dis-
coloured by the iron in the clay, in a way which was not approved



