
                                   REDGORTON.                          197

by the kirk-session for the accomplishment of this object have
been counteracted from other quarters.

                             GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.

 There are few parishes in Scotland that have undergone greater
improvement, since the date of last Statistical Abcount, than this,
whether we look merely at its external aspect, or regard it in an
agricultural, or in a mercantile point of view.  The woods which
were then but recently planted have grown ul), both for ornament
and for utility.  The marshes have been drained, and the waste
land improved; and a new and better--vstem of africulture in-
troduced.   It begins to be generally under-stood that the land
cannot stand a constant system of cropping, without intervals of
rest.  The sheep husbandry is, therefore, daily gaining ground;
and the breed of cattle has been improved both in size and earli-
ness of maturity.   In manufactures those anticipations of future
prosperity which were then indulged have been in a great mea-
sure realized, though nof exactly in the anticipated lines.    There
were then five hundred thousand yards of cloth bleached an-
nually in the parish, there are now from three to four millions.
 There were then about two hundred thousand yards of cloth print-
ed, there is now nearly double that quantity made.  The cotton-
works now about to be put in motion may be nearly equal to those
which were then in contemplation ;- besides which there are or
will be from twelve to thirteen hundred spindles, for spinning flax,
and the introduction of power looms has opened up an extensive-
branch of manufacture, which was then altogether unknown.
 In the midst of such exteDSiVe operations, it would be useless to
speculate upon the capabilities of the parish for future improve-
ment.   It is only to be wished that the agricultural and commer-
cial interests of the country may continue, or be increased; of which
itr local advantages, and the spirit of its people will always make
this parish a proportional participator.

April 1837.


