
84                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

not increased in proportion to the increase of population.  Divine
service at the Established chruch is well attended, and the average
number of communicants is about 400.
  The average yearly amount of church collections for the last
seven years is L. 16. As in many other parishes, there are here two
funds for the support or assistance of the poor, namely, the heri-
tors' fund, and the collections, with other monies belonging to the
kirk-session.  The session funds are appropriated chiefly to the
relief of incidental distress, and operate powerfully in keeping
paupers from the heritors' fund. *  The school-fees for a conside-
rable number of poor children are also paid from this fund; and
books are occasionally furnished from it for those whose parents
are not able to supply them.
   Education--Besides the parish school, there are two unendowed
schools, well taught.  Although the parish is not large, it is much
to be regretted that the heritors, when the schoolmasters' salaries
were recently augmented, did not, as in many parishes, allow an ad-
ditional chalder for the benefit of these unendowed schools.  They
have been long in existence, and are of great benefit to the inha-
bitants of those sections of the parish where they are situated.
Men who devote their time and talents to the instruction of youth
ought certainly to have a decent remuneration, which, however, in
many cases, cannot be obtained, even where the attendance is nu-
merous, in consequence of the low rate of fees.
  The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary.  Neither
the school-house nor dwelling-house are commodious, and he has
not the legal quantity of ground fnr a garden, but receives a com-
pensation for the deficiency.  The teaching apartment is not good,
and is by far too small to accommodate comfortably the very con-
siderable number of scholars who attend the school.  All the
baranches of education commonly taught in parish schools are taught
here successfully, by an able, experienced, and indefatigable teacher.
His fees may probably amount to L. 50 per annum.

<FOOTNOTE>A few years ago, several of the minor heritors, into whose hands the business of
the parish had fallen, in consequence of the non-attendance of many whose interest in
the parish is greater, endeavoured to avail themselves of that clause in the poors' act
which authorizes them to take from the kirk-session the half of all collections and
other monies.  This was not the resolution of any thing like a majority of he-
ritors; and the consequence was, that the collections in a short time dwindled down
to nothing,--insmuch, that collecting for several Sabbaths ceased altogether.  The
people would not contribute when they knew that the half of the collections was to
be diverted from their original object, and applied to assist the heritors in the mainte-
nance of the ordinary poor.  A return to the old system soon followed, by the reso-
lution of great mjaority of the heritors, and the  collections are now nearly as ample
as before.


