
632                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Church, to bemoal the danger threatened to religion by the, deal-
ing that was against the ministers and true professors." "What
dangers see you," said the King? "Under commuting," said
Bruce, "our best affected people, that tender religion, are dis-
charged the town; the Lady Huntly, a professed Papist, maintain-
ed at Court, and it is suspected that her husband is not far off."
The King, without answering, asked who they were that durst con-
vene against his proclamation ? Lord Lindsay, in a plassion, an-
swered, "That they durst do mare than that, and would. not suf-
fer religion to be overturned." Numbers of people how crowding
into the room, the King, without farther reply, withdrew to a lower
room, where the judges were sitting, and ordered the door to be
shut.*  When the petitioners returned to the multitude, the re-
sult oftheir ineffectual pleading caused a violent commotion. Some
called to arms; some to bring on t the wicked Haman; others,
cried "the sword of the Lord and Gideon, and, rushing out with
great violence and tumult, surrounded the Tolbooth. At last
the magistrates procured order. The King attempted to sooth
him people by promising to receive their petition when presented
in a properr manner, and was permitted to return peaceably to his
palace. That same evening another petition was prepared, but
the King's indignation was still so great that they durst not venture
yet to present it. Before next morning, the King with his court
withdrew to Linlithgow. The Courts of Session and of Justiciary
were ordered to leave the city, where it was no longer consistent,
with their freedom or dignity to remain, and the nobles and barons
were commanded to return to their own houses, and not to reas-
semble without the King's permission. The ministers determined
to stand firm ; and in order to strengthen their cause, wrote to
Lord Hamilton to come to Edinburgh and head them.
   His Lordship, instead of complying, went directly to Linlithgow
and showed their letter to the King.  James, still further provok-
ed by this circumstance, issued an order to the magistrates instant-
ly to seize and incarcerate the clergy, but they having received,
intimations of their danger fied into England.
   The citizens were also awed into submission. They sent a de-
putation of the most respectable burgesses to the King, and made
a most humble apology for their conduct. But the offended mo-
march long remained inexorable, and threatened even to rase the
city to its foundation. At last, through the interposition of: Queen.

<FOOTNOTE>Spottfiwood.


