
                          OLD MONKLAND.                      635

importance in Shotts.  It is admitted by competent judges, that
the soil is in general very good; why then should the benefits of
such ameliorations be withheld ? With regard to the reclaiming
of waste land, the experiment has been tried again and again, and
the result has invariably been, that the expense of such improve-
ment, when judiciously made, is repaid in a few years, and that
the land is ever after able to stand the regular routine of cropping.
   The industry of the working classes here is amply recompensed;
and were they more provident of their earnings, their happiness
and comfort would be much increased.
August 1839.

                   PARISH OF OLD OR WEST MONKLAND. *

           PRESBYTERY OF HAMILTON, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                  THE REV. WILLIAM THOMSON, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE ancient name of the Monklands is unknown; but
it appears from the Chartulary of the Monks of Newbottle, for
many years lost, but recovered by Patrick Modart, about 1462
and now in the Advocates' Library, that the present was the po-
pularyly received name of this district before 1323.  The etymo-
logy is not difficult.  The lands of Monkland, formerly constitut-
ing a third part of the domains of the Abbacy of Newbottle, were
for many ages the property of a company of Cistertian or Bernar-
dine monks belonging to that abbey, and hence the very obvious
appellation, the "Monklands," was given to all their ecclesiasti-
cal domains in this quarter of the country.  When this extensive
district was afterwards divided and erected into two parishes, one
of these parishes was called Old or West Monkland, and the other
New or East. Monkland, and they are now popularly known by
the names of the Old and New Monklands.
   Boundaries, Extent, &c.-The parish of Old Monkland is a re-
markably fine, extnsive, rather flat and low-lying district, extend-
ing along the eastern bank of the river Clyde for many miles, im-
scenery of Bothwell and Hamilton, and before it reaches the great.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. William Patrick, author of a Description of the Plants.
of Lanarkshire, &c.


