
780                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

opposite the Trinity House, called King James's Hospital, was
converted into a school-house. This institution with its funds
seems to have fallen to decay; for we find that, in 1805, a new
school-house, called the High School, was built by subscription,
and placed under the direction of trustees, consisting of the ma-
gistrates, the ministers, and the heads of the corporations, By a
clause of the Municipal Bill of 1827, it it enacted that it shall
and may be lawful to the commissioners "to pay the salaries of
schoolmasters in the high school of Leith, should the funds per-
taining to the said school, as applicable to the purposes of the
said school, be inadequate to such purposes." An application
having, in the year 1831, been made for a small salary in terms of
this clause, it was refused on the ground that there were no funds
which could be so appropriated. Subsequently, salaries have
ban obtained for two of the teachers from Dr Bell's trustees.
There are in this institution classes for English, the classics, writ-
ing and arithmetic, French and drawing. The number of pupils
has varied from 250 to 150. The fees are, per quarter, classics,
13s., English, 7s. 6d.; writing, 7s, 6d.; arithmetic, 7s. 6d.
   Ball's School-By a deed of Dr Andrew Bell of Madras exe-
cuted in the year 1831, the sums of L. 4896 three per cents., and
L. 4895 bank annuities, were left in trust to the corporation of ma-
gistrates and masters of Leith, for the erection and maintenance
of a school or schools on the Madras system in the burgh. Ac-
cordingly, a piece of ground was purchased, and a handsome and
commodious school-house was erected in Great Junction Street,
where about 700 pupils are educated according to the system of
the founder, and under the superintendence of a teacher appointed
by the trustees,
   The Poor.-The poor are under the management of the kirk-
sessions of North and South Leith. The funds for their relief
consist of an assessment of 1s. 1d. on the rentals of land and
houses, one-half payable by the landlords and one-half by the te-
nants of houses, together with the church collections and a few
other charitable funds. There are no work-houses, and their re-
lisf is all out-door. The allowances to families vary from 4s. to
3s. and 2s. per week. The children are boarded out at 2s. per
week.
   Charitable Intitutions.-There is a society for the Relief of the
Destitute Sick; the Humane Society, and Dispensary for the relief
of casual disease; a Female School of and Dispensary for the relief

			     3


