
80                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

was designed by Mr Gillespie Graham; and for accommodation,
comfort, and chaste elegance, it is not surpassed. The burgh, by
agreement, contributed one-fifth of the expense, and the heritors
the remainder, according to their respective valuations. The church
will long remain a proud monument of their liberality and attach-
ment to the established religion of the land. There are also new
Burgh schools. The Assembly Rooms built by subscription are
erected in a bad situation. Dunbar House, where the Earl of Lauder-
dale generally resides, is situated within the Old Castle park, and has
a very handsome front to the sea. Had it been placed near to the
ruins of the castle, it would have had the most picturesque situation
in the kinodom. Broxmouth Park is a modern mansion, sheltered
from every wind, surrounded with hills and dales, woods, and waters,
and every thing to render it a most desirable retreat. Lock end
House is an elegant mansion in the Anglo-Gothic style, and is
much admired for the chasteness of the building, and its commo-
dious arrangements within. Belton House stands in a beautiful
winding glen, embosomed among stately trees, and is finely shel-
teredl with its native stream gliding by. Heather wick House
stands on a gentle eminence, which is well wooded, and commands
views of the surrounding plain, the town of Dunbar, Belhaven bay,
and the, extensive grounds of Tynninghame.
                      III.-POPULATION.
   The ancient state of the population of the parish is involved in
the same obscurity as the early history of the country. The Cel-
tic British, according to Chalmers, are the first names on the map
of Lothian; the Saxon, the second; the Gaelic, the third; and the
English, the fourth,-corresponding to the several successions of
the colonizing people. It is probable that Dunbar, from its ad-
vantages, was one of the first selected settlements, and, from its
name, that it was peopled by the first of these tribes. While the Earls
of Dunbar were the sole proprietors of the parish, the population
would consist of their retainers and followers; and as the castle
rendered it the theatre of perpetual strife, the inhabitants must
have experienced greater changes than any other part of the Lo-
thian territory. While different people contended for the soil, lit-
tle attention was paid to cultivation, and the country was not po-
pulous.

<TABLE>
           In 1765, by Dr Webster's account, the population amounted to 3281
              1792 by last Statistical do.                              3700
                  1801, by census,                                      3951
                  1811,                                                 4114
              1821,                                                     5272
              1831,                                                     4735


