
800                           LANARKSHIRE.

ed for building a new church to the east of Holytown, on a site
which will comprehend within a radius of little more than two miles
a population of four thousand ; all of them upwards of four miles
distant from the parish church ; the majority of them between six
and seven miles. *
   A Relief meeting-house was erected at Bellshill, in the centre
of the parish, in 1763.  It is seated for about 1000 hearers.
The congregation is drawn from this and neighbouring parishes.
There is a good glebe and manse attached to the establishment;
also a pretty extensive burying ground.  The stipend is paid from
the seat-rents and collections.
   A place of meeting in connection with the United Secession
was built at Newarthill, in the north-east district of the parish, upwards
of twenty years ago.  It also has a manse attached to it.
The building will contain about 600, and the stipend is also paid
from the seat-rents and collections.
   The ecclesiastical statistics of the parish stand thus:-Establishment,
3811 ; Relief, 1607 ; Secession, 595 ; doubtful, 309 ;
Catholics, 118; of no denomination, 64; Old Light Burghers,
22; Episcopalians, 17; Unitarians, 17; Cameronians, 16; Bap-
tists, 5 ; total, 6581.
   In the village of Bothwell, and in the neighbourhood of the parish
church, there are few Dissenters.  They multiply around the
meeting houses for the sake of convenient access to the house of
God, rather than from disaffection to the Establishment.  Politics
have, perhaps, added to their numbers, and in some instances have
led to the neglect of religious duties altogether.  Divine service
is generally well attended in all the places of worship.
   The average number of communicants in the parish church is
650, of whom 248 are male heads of families.  The Duke of Hamilton
is patron of the parish.  The stipend was augmented, in
1804, froin 6 chalders, 1 boll meal, 1 chalder of bear, L. 46, 18s.
in money, to 12 chalders of victual, whereof 97 bolls of meal, and
95 bolls of barley, and L. 618, 12s. 2d. Scots money for stipend,
with L. 100 money foresaid, for furnishing communion elements;

<FOOTNOTE>The new church has been built, and contains 830 sittings, almost all of which
are let.  It is clear of debt, and in the most thriving condition, under the able and
efficient ministry of the Rev. Robert Gillan.  The stipend is paid from the seat-rents
and the collections at the church door.  The district allotted to the minister at Holytown,
quoad sacra, is named Holytown parish, and consist of that portion of the old
parish which lies to the east of the Wishaw and Coltness Railway.  It contains already
more than 4000 inhabitants, and the population is rapidly increasing.


