
                           EDINBURGH.                            733

that if the system of congregating the poor at night in large ward-
rooms could be adopted with safety, it would both facilitate their
superintendence and conduce to economy in expense. Accord-
ingly, it was resolved, after mature deliberation that the new
building should be so constructed as to have dormitories admitting
of from sixteen to twenty inmates in each, with one or more atten-
dants; and after full trial, this arrangement has been accompanied
with complete success. Not only have no accidents occurred
among the inmates so situate, but the beneficial effect on there
has been most decided. The presence of the attendants in the
same rooms with the inmates keeps up that moral restraint dur-
ing the night which is exercised with benefit during the day. A
more friendly and confidential relation is established between
them. There is less noise, and less risk of suicide in the case of
desponding patients, whose gloomy thoughts are apt to overpower
them in the stillness and solitariness of a cell; while ventilation
heating, and cleanliness, which are of so much importance, are
thereby better secured.
   This institution has now been greatly enlarged, and the lu-
natics from the city Bedlam transferred to it, in consequence of
an arrangement entered into by the town-council, who have now,
by act of Parliament, taken the management of the Poor's House
into their own hands.

<TABLE>

                                             Males. Females.   Total
     Number of inmates at the close of 1843   146     133       248
					      ___     ___       ___

    Admitted during 1844,                      83      79       162
    Discharged,                                59      64       123
      Of whom recovered,                       38      52        90
      Improved,                                21      12        33
    Died,                                      11       9        20
                                              ____     ___      ___
   Inmates at the close of 1844,              159     144       303

   Public Health.-The elevated situation of the city, and the in-
clined planes on which a considerable proportion of its streets are
built, are favourable to ventilation, and facilitate the effects
of running water in clearing away impurities through the drains
and public sewers, which are every where very complete. The
regular and rectilineal form of the streets in the new town, the
numerous open squares and public gardens interspersed, the ab-
sence of smoke from manufacturing chimneys, all render the air
singularly pure and healthful, considering the size of the city. In
the old town, the leading streets, which are sufficiently spacious,
contain numerous narrow lanes or closes where the high houses
   EDINBURGH.                              3 A


