
                          TOROSAY.                        295

are at present availing themselves of the exemption alluded to,
will soon take into consideration the good that might be effected
with the stent, which they are in the meantime paying to no ppr-
pose; and that they will of their own accord apply to the Legislature
for a revision of the Act with a view to its amendment.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid, within the district attached to the parish
church, calculated for the last six years, is 27.  The average sun
allotted to each is 12s. per annum.  The average amount of the
church collections, calculated for the same period, is L.17.  From
this statement, it is obvious that the paupers derive their chief
support from the source of private charity, which, to the credit of
the parish, pervades all ranks of people in it, not excepting even
those bordering upon pauperism themselves.  This benevolent
spirit has hitherto rendered unnecessary the adoption of a com-
pulsory mode of assessment.
   Fairs.-There are three annual fairs held on the farm of Fish-
inisb, which is about eleven miles from Auchenacraig Ferry.
Two of them are for black-cattle, viz. on Tuesday before the se-
cond last Wednesday of May, and on Tuesday before the second
last Wednesday of October, and one is for horses, viz. on the first
Friday after the 20th of August, or on the 20th if Friday.
   Inns.-There are four licensed public-houses.  Being situated
at equal but considerable distances from each other, their existence
is necessary as places of refreshment.  As few resort to them for
the mere purpose of drinking, they exercise no unfavourable in-
fluence on the morals of the people.
   Fuel.-The fuel chiefly used in the parish is peats, and, as
every family makes a sufficient quantity for their own use, peats are
not a saleable article.  Coals, before the late sudden rise in the
price of them, could be procured, from vessels passing through the
Sound of Mull, at 12s. per ton.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Since the former Statistical Account was written, a great change
has taken place in the parish with regard to farming utensils.  At
that time, there was not a cart in it; but now, there is not a craft
without one.  Then, the ploughs used were extremely rude in
their materials and construction ; but now, they are of the most
approved kinds.  At that time, the barrows bad only wooden
teeth; but now, they are all toothed with iron.  The consequence
is, that a much greater productivenes is effected on the same ex-


