

			LESWALT.			125

and sound constitution, and the labouring classes can perform a
very fair day's work at seventy years of age.
	Hydrography.--The only loch worthy of notice is Lochnaw,
which signifies "the loch with the ford." One of the knights, a
Sir James, drained this fine loch in order to have a meadow. The
late Sir Stair often said, that some of his successors would again
throw it into a lake, which prophecy has been fulfilled by Sir An-
dew Agnew, the present proprietor. The water covers above
thirty acres of land, and, at the end next Lochnaw Castle, is of
considerable depth. Nothing can exceed the beauty of the scenery
around this loch, and many strangers come to bdhold it. There
are no rivers in this parish, but two considerable burns, viz. Sole-
burn and Pooltanton. The former empties itself into Lochryan,
having an eastern course; the latter runs south, and empties itself
into the Bay of Luce, after a course of ten miles.
	Geology and Mineralogy.-- There are no mines in the parish,
The greywacke, called erroneously whinstone, is the common stone
found, and some quarries thereof are of a beautiful texture and ap-
pearance. The new addiction to Lochnaw, lately finished, has
been built of this stone. There are also quarries of red sand-
stone.
	Zoology.--This parish was famed, in former times, for goat-whey;
but it is now very rare to meet with one of these animals. Salmon
come up the two burns before-mentioned, during the first flood in
they return when the frost commences. The Bay of Lochryan is
famed for oysters, which, at low water, are gathered in abundance
along the shore.
	Plantations.--The only plantatios are about Lochnaw Castle;
some of the trees are very old, but none remarkable for size. The
fir, the ash, the sycamore, and beech, are all in a very thriving state.
The greater part have been planted, within these thirty years, by
Sir Andrew Agnew.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Leswalt belonged to the monks of Tongland in the reign of
James V. the vicarage was taxed L. 12, 13s. 4d., being a tenth
of the ertimated value. At the Reformation, the tax was L. 26,
13s. 4d. In 1587, the church was vested in the King, and re-
turned to the Bishops of Galloway, by agrant from the King in
1689. On the abolition of Episcopacy, it was vested in the Crown.


