
				KILMADOCK.			1229

	producing a fine effect.  The great gate stands in the north, and
	the iron gate with its bars still remains entire.  The north-west
	corner is said to have been the family residence.  There are se-
	veral cellars and prisons on the ground-floor, on each side of the
	entry, and after being introduced to the great area, the ascent to
	the tower and family mansion is by two inside stairs, standing 	over
	against each other.  The western stair leads up to a spaciouis lobby
	that divides the kitchen from the great hall, which, is 63 feet, by
	25. The fire-place in the kitchen occupies an entire side of the
	room, and is supported by a strong arch, which is still entire. The
	eastern stair leads up to the apartments in the tower.  One is a
	spacious room with an arched roof and a large fire-place, contain-
	ing a circular pillar.  From its south-east corner, a narrow stone
	stair descends by a subterraneous passage into a cell or dungeon.
	   The writer of the former account doubts the truth of the com-
	mon tradition as to the founder of this castle ; but there is every
	reason to think that Murdock must have built part of it, as the
	difference between the more and less ancient parts of it may still
	be traced.
	   Murdock was son of Robert, who was son of Robert II.  King
	of Scotland.  He was taken prisoner by the English at the battle
	of Homelden in 1401, and succeeded his father in the Government
	on the 3d of September 1420, but resigned it four years after-
	wards.  His resignation was followed by an accusation of high
	treason against him as well as his two sons and his father-in-law,
	who were seized and carried prisoners to Stirling.   Murdock was
	taken betwixt Doune and Dunblane, at a small rivulet, which was
	therefore called Murdock's ford, a name which it retains to this
	day.  Though the castle is roofless, the walls are still entire, hav-
	ing the appearance of great solidity and strength.  Doune castle
	is mentioned in the beautiful traditional ballad which relates the
	death of the " Bonnie Earl of Moray.
	   Interesting as it is on account of its other associations, "it
	is rendered still more interesting,"  says Dr, Graham  (Sketches
	of Perthshire), " by its having been for some time the residence of
	Mary Queen of Scots.  And though Sir W. Scott, in the observ-
	ance of Horatian rule--

			---ad eventum festinant at in media res-
			Non seous as notes auditorem rapit.

	it seems to be unquestionbale that the knight of Snowdon and his.


