
672                       FIRESHIRE.

     twenty-four falls for planting potatoes. Unmarried men receive
L.12 Sterling per annum, lodgings, potatoes for six or seven
months, with meal and milk as above. Female servants get from
L.5 to L.6, 10s. with board washing.
  Manufactures.-Local facilities for the establishment of all
those branches of productive industry which require the aid of ma-
chinery, are peculitar and numerous. The, most remote part of
the parish is but an  incomsiderable distance from the coast. It is
traversed by excellent roads in all directions, rendering communi-
cation with the great manufacturing town of Dundee, through, the
shipping ports of Newburgh, by Newport, on the one hand, and
with Edinburgh, by Kirkaldy and Pettcur on the other, neither
difficult, nor expensive. The water power supplied by two consi-
derable streams, the Leven and the Orr, is unlimited and inexhaust-
ible. Coals are abundant and cheap, and excellent stone for
building is found in all directions, and at a trifling depth below the
surface; while seven populous villages furnish an abundance of
hands for all those operations where manual labour is required. At			ges - furnisli an :abund           e of
the period of Dr Thomson's statistical return, there existed in the
parish no machinery save what was used in corn and flax muills, of
which there are at present in use of the former, I, and of the lat-
ter, 4. Since that time a class of public works has sprung up,
which have been greatly beneficial to the industrious classes. The
following statement is made up from the proprietors' returns, which
have been obligingly furnished.
  Paper-Mills.-Rothes Paper-Mill was erected in 1806 by Mr
William Keith, and worked as a two-vat mill. Some years after,
it became the property of Mr David Lindsay, who enlarged it con-
siderably, and latterly erected a paper machine. In 1836, it was
purchased by Messrs R. Tullis and Co. Brown and gray wrap-
ping-paper of flax waste, coarse to about 20 men and 10 women.
  Auchmuty Paper-Mill was erected by Robert Tullis and Co.
as a four vat mill, and began working in May 1810. The vats
are now all thrown aside, the paper being made by a Fourdrinier
machine, such as is generally used. Above a ton of fine rags is
consumed here daily in making cartridge, coloured, printing, and
writing papers. There are upwards of 50 women employed in
sorting and cutting the rags, who are paid at the rate of 10d. par


