
               ARIDCHATTAN.                                    491

   mand of a district in Ireland.  On retiring from active military
   duties, with the rank of Major-General, he sat in two successive
   Parliaments for the burghs of Inverary, Ayr, &c., and for twenty
   years represented the Presbytery of Lnrn as their Ruling-elder in
   the General Assembly.  The latter years of his life were passed
   by the General at Lochnell-house in this parish; and it can be
   stated with all the confidence of truth, that he and his lady prov-
   ed, pre-eminently, blessings to this part of the country.  Distin-
   guished for urbanity of manners, they were each equally distin-
   guished for Christian benevolence of heart, and their presence
   served to elevate the tone and character of society amoug us.
   They were the warm friends of education among their own people
   and elsewhere, and the munificent supporters of those institutions
   which have for their objects the amelioration of the moral and re-
   ligious condition of our race.  Esteemed and lamented, General
   Campbell died at Edinburgh A. D. 1837, in the 75th year of his
   age.*
   Thomas Babington Macaulay, M. P. for Edinburgh, will be
   deemed by Highlanders at least, who are said to trace blood re-
   lationships to sixteenth cousins, to be not very remotely connected
   with this parish.  His grandmother, the daughter of Mr Camp-
   bell of Inveresragan, in our close vicinity, married the Rev. John
   Macaulay, minister of Lismore and Appin, to which parish he
   was translated from South Uist in 1755.  From Lismore, Mr
   Macaulay was, in 1765, translated to Inverary, and afterwards,
   he left Inverary for the parish of Cardross.  The property of In-
   veresragan, which consists only of two farms, was afterwards dis-
   posed of to the proprietor of Ardchattan, otherwise it is believed
   the family of the Rev. Mr Macaulay being the nearest heirs would
   have succeeded to the inheritance.
     James, the last of the MacIntyres of Glenoe, who resided in

   <FOOTNOTES>

       * The military profession appears to have for ages possessed powerful attractions
     for our young gentlemen; and it is a singular fact, that there were, a few years
     ago, three general officers, each having a regiment, who were connected with the
     parish.  These were, General Alexander Campbell of Manzie and Inverawe, Cd-
     lonel of the 32d Foot; General Duncan Campbell of Locnell, Colonel of the 91st
     Foot; and Lieutenant-General Sir Colq,uhoun Grant, (the son of one of my prede-
     Cessors,) who succeeded His Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland, now King
     of Hanover, as colonel of the 15th Hussars, and who was by competent judges con-
     sidered one of our ablest and most gallant cavalry officers.  It may be mentioned
     also, that Lieutenant-General Sir Robert MacFarlane, Colonel of the 89th Foot,
     passed some of his youthful days here, when he resided with his uncle, the late Lr
     Campbell of Ardchattan.

