
                          INVERNESS.                             23

pying the area of Cromwell's fortress, employs about 110 men,
150 women, and 20 boys and girls, who work from ten to twelve
hours a day, and earn, the men, from 4s. to 10s.; the women, from
2s. to 39. 6d. and the children from 1s. 6d. to 2s. a-week. For-
merly, nearly double the number of persons just stated were em-
ployed. These work people are in general healthy; some of them
have been long lived, and, in point of morals, they, are not in the
least inferior to the rest of the population in the town and parish.
  The hemp employed in this factory is imported from the Bal-
tic, and is manufactured into cloth for bags, sacking, and tarpau-
lin, chiefly for the London market, and the East and West Indies.
  In the woollen manufactory, for the weaving of coarse clothing
and Highland plaids and tartan, there are employed from 20 to
25 persons, of different ages, from ten years and upwards, who
earn from 3s. to 15s. a-week. The proprietor of it has also a
carding-mill for the preparation and spinning of wool; and there
are also in the town and parish three tan-works, supporting a small
number of artisans.
    Navigation and Commerce.-Inverness in ancient times posses-
sed a large share of the scanty commerce of Scotland. Boethius,
who wrote full 300 years ago, states, that in ages long before " a
concourse of German merchants annually resorted to the town for
the purposes of trade;" bringing with them the manufactures of
their own nation, and taking away in return quantities of skins and
other products of the Highlands; but that, owing to the frequent
burnings and plunderings to which the town had been subjected,
its prosperity had been greatly impaired. Buchanan confirms, this
statement, and it would appear that, even for some years subse-
quent to the final union of Scotland with England, the merchants
of Inverness carried on their import trade with the ports of France
and Holland, transferring it to that of London, only as convenience
and the cheapness of British manufactures drew their attention to
that great mart of commerce. Wine and ale were formerly more
abundantly used in the Highlands than spirituous liquors; and,
until the general introduction of tea, the trade in maltin was a
considerable one in Inverness as in most of the northern burghs.
Some of the old and large malt kilns and granaries used for it are
still in existence. Weavers and glovers formed two of the incor-
porated trades in the old set of the burgh, and these were for-
merly numerous and rather influential bodies.
    In regard to trade, Inverness is now the centre of the Custom-


