
                          CRAIGNISH                57

The real rent, exclusive of kain servitudes, which are in some
instances still exacted, is, in Sterling Money, L.2646, 10s
     Manufactures- Kelp was, until lately, manufactured in the
parish. The free importation of barilla has, however, superseded
this commodity, and entailed a severe loss on the Highlands.. The
annual average loss sustained by the proprietors of this parish is
L.220. I The natiiies in neral experienced little or none, as the
bands employed in its manufacture were chiefly strangers from the
adjacent islands.
     Navigation.- One small vessel only belongs to the parish, and is
chiefly employed in ferrying cattle from Jura to the mainland, on
their way to the markets of Dumbarton, Doune, and Falkirk.
The average number ferried annually, (include with those of
Jura, some from Islay and Colonsav,) may be stated at 3000
sheep, and 1000 heads of black cattle.
    Vessels from Glasgow and -Greenock occasionally tmde to
Loch Craignish, bringing cargoes of coals and carrying off pota.
toes. In tbe spring, vessels from Ireland sometimes arrive for
supplies of seed potatoes.
           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY
There is no market-town, nor is there any considerable village
in the parish. Markets are frequently held in some villages in
the neigbbourhood, and particularly at Locbgilphead,-a place of
some importance, where the natives dispose of their raw produce,
and procure the few luxuries in which they have it in their power
to indulge.
    Means of Communication.-Lochgilpbead is the post-town, and
a post goes there and returns thrice a week. The road be I
tween Lochgilphead and Oban passes for two miles through the
parish. From this the parish road branches off to the south-west
and proceeds, for the most part, along the eastern shore to the
barbo'ur of Little Loch Craignish. Bridges have been erected
where necessary.
    The Crinan Canal affords the means of easy and frequent com-
munication with the. low country. Steam-boats plying through it
between Glasgow and Inverness Oass the southern extremity of
the parish every alternate day, and often land goods and pas-
sengers.
     Harbours.-There is a safe harbour in Little Loch Craignish,
whiter vessels frequently repair, either for shelter in tempestuous
weather, or for the purpose of awaiting a favourable state of the tidea


