
                               HUNTLY.                       1037

has its source it, the parish of Cabrach, fifteen miles above Huntly,
and after receiving the Bogie about a quarter of a mile below the
town, flows onwards north-east for twenty-one miles, where it falls
into the sea at Banff. In the great floods of 1829, the town was
entirely surrounded by water; and though the Huntly bridges es-
caped, the bridges above the town, both on the Bogie and De-
veron, were swept away. The ruins of several still remain.
      	The town of Huntly is embosomed in hills. Its climate,
though cold, is exceedingly healthful. The water of the Bogie
is pure, and fit for every purpose. It produces excellent trouts,
and the Deveron affords good fishing both in salmon and trout.
The soil of Kinoir is generally of a cold clayey description; but
in Dumbennan, there is more of a deep loamy soil. The rocks
are almost entirely of granite. Near the junction of the two ri-
vers, some traces have been found of plumbago or black lead,
(graphite, a compound of carbon and iron), but though of very
superior quality, it has not been found in sufficient quantity to
encourage the expenditure of any labour on it. Limestone also
has been found in small quantity, and susceptible of a very high
polish.  On the top of St Mungo's Hill, which is in the Kinoir
district, in the east of the parish, there are traces of volcanic ac-
tion in a large crater-like cavity, around which there have been
found fragments of lava and pumice-stone.

                           II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
      	There is a short account of this parish in one of the papers pub-
lished by the Spalding Club, and written, it is said, by Spalding
himself; but whether as useful as it is believed to be curious, the
writer of this, never having seen it, cannot take upon himself to
determine.
     	Battle-hill, Castle, &c.--The only historical events of importance
are connected with the Battle-hill in the Kinoir district, next to St
Mungo's, and the old Castle of Huntly. The former was the scene
of the battle of Sleoch, (the name of a neighbouring farm in the pa-
rish of Druinblade), of which an important notice will be found in
the account of Drumblade in this work. The castle, which is now
in ruins, evidently consists of two parts,--the remains of the ancient
castle of Strathbogie, and the comparatively modern Huntly Cas-
tle. All that remains of the former are a few vaults,forming apparent-
ly part of the enclosure of the court-yard, which, from the immense
thickness of the walls (now overgrown with ivy), and the coarse-
ness of the structure, must be of a very early date. It originally


