
  104                         BANFFSHIRE.

  after a course of about 5 miles farther northward, run into the Spey.
  Their whole course may be about 12 or 14 miles.
    Geology and Mineralogy.-Limestone of good quality is found
  in the whole district. On some of the hills, particularly on the
  Conval, there is great abundance of granite well suited for build-
  ing; and on others, abundance of coarse gray slate. On the burn
  of the Tullich on the Kininvie property, there is some appearance
  of alum and lead; and in one or two other places, there is a lami-
  nated rock, somewhat of the nature of asbestus. Antimony, in
  small quantities, is found imbedded in the lime rocks, while their
  fissures abound in calespar. Small garnets, too, are sometimes
  found imbedded in the gray slate near the farm of Parkbeg, on the
  east side of the Fiddich.
    The soil is generally loamy, pretty deep, and fertile.
     Zoology.-Here are plenty of foxes, weasles, hares, badgers and
  otters. In the Duke of Gordon's forests of Glenfiddich, the red.
  deer are very numerous; and at the head of it, there are convenient
  shooting quarters. Among birds, we have none more uncommon
  than the blackbird, thrush, goldfinch, bullfinch, linnet, and robin.
  We have also the migratory cuckoo, lapWiDg, and swallow; and in
  the heath, there are grouse in abundance, and a few ptarmigan
  and black-cock.

                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Shaw's History of the province of Moray contains, if not the
  most ancient, the best account of the civil history of this parish.
  Of historical events worthy of observation, the most memorable
  is that called the battle of Mortlacb, in which Malcolm II. ob-
  tained a complete victory over the Danes, in the year 1010. Mal-
  colm had suffered a signal defeat from the Danes the preceding
  year, and was compelled to leave them masters of the lands of
  Moray. Anxious, however, to expel these daring intruders, he
  returned, the year following, from the south with a powerful force,
  and the Danes having intelligence of his motions, came forward to
  give him battle. The armies having approached each other, in the
  neighbourhood, of the church of Mortlach, engaged a very little to
  the northward of it.  In the beginning of the attack, while push-
  ing on with too ardeut an impetuosity, Kenneth, Thane of the
  Isles, Dunbar, Thane of Laudian, and Graeme Thane of Strath-
  earn' were, unfortunately slain.  Pani4>-struck by the loss of three
  of their generals, the Scotch got iutQ confusion. Everything was
  now in a most doubtful state. The King, who had the character



