
			   PARISH OF OATHLAW OR FINAVON.

        	  PRESBYTERY OF FORFAR, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

	             	 THE REV. ANDREW CROMAR, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

        Name and Boundaries.-THIS parish appears to have been for-
merly known under the name of Finhaven. In the acts of the Par-
liament of Scotland, and in other old records, it is variously spel-
led, Fynnevin, Ffinheaven, and Phinheaven. The name is evi-
dently compounded of two Gaelic words, Fin, signifying white or
clear,and Avon or Aven, signifying a water or a river. At what time,
or for what reason, the change of designation from Finhaven to
Oathlaw took place, no very distinct trace can now be discovered.
From some circumstances, however, it would appear that there had
at one time been two churches within the parish. The founda-
tions of an old church, called the church of Aikenhauld, are still
visible on a beautiful point of land, a little below the Castle of Fin-
haven, at the junction of the Esk and the Lemno. From its situa-
tion in the immediate neighbourhood of the castle, this would ap-
pear to have been the original parish church; and the present church
of Oathlaw, which is two miles distant from it, may have been at
first, perhaps, a chapelry belonging to it. In the Retour of Service
granted in favour of Lord Kinnoull, 16th May 1635, among other
properties and rights belonging to the barony of Finhaven, there is
mention made of the "Villa de Oathlaw,"- "cum advocatione
ecclesae de Phinheaven vocatee Oathlaw." The probability, there-
fore, is, that when the old church near the castle fell into decay,
the church of Oathlaw became the parish church. In the Session
records, which commence only in the year 1716, the parish is cal-
led Oathlaw, and spelled "Outhlaw." It may be remarked, that
at present there is no particular hill in the parish bearing this name,
and, therefore, when it is considered that the barony of Finhaven con-
stitutes four-fifths of the parish, and that the Hill of Finhaven, with
its, celebrated vitrified fort, and the Castle of Finhaven, so conspi-


