
			    DYSART.                              l29

increased, the Small river Oar continues an easterly course for some
miles, till it joins the Leven in the parish of Markinch.
According to the same author, Lochty is a small stream rising
in the parish of Kinglassie, which after flowing in an easterly course
eight or nine miles, falls into the Oar, a short way above its june-
tion with the Leven, which falls into the Frith of Forth.
  Mineralogy.-The minerals of the parish consist of limestone,
sandstone, coal, and ironstone. For a long time, the limestone
was thought to be of inferior quality, and was not much used ex-
cept by those in the immediate neighbourhood of the quarry. Now,
however, it is in considerable demand. The sandstone, though not
so beautiful in appearance as that which is found in an adjacent pa-
rish, is allowed to be of very superior quality. The claystone is cer-
tainly inferior to that which is brought from Angus-shire; still it
is in great request, and is very generally used for pavement, hearths,
&c. The coal mines which are on the estate of the Earl of Ross-
lyn consist of fourteen beds, most of which, however, are thin, and
have been wrought out above the level of the sea. Three of the
thickest of these beds are now working. The uppermost is five feet
thick, the second eight feet, and the third five feet thick. At pre-
sent, these beds are working about sixty or seventy fathoms below
the surface. The metals cut through, in getting to the coal, are a
sort of brownish stone, a clayey substance called by the workmen
till; freestone; a hard bluish stone; and a hard coarse kind of coal
mixed with stone. Dysart coal was amongst the first wrought in
Scotland, operations having begun upwards of 350 years ago. It has
a strong beat, but being rather slow in kindling, and leaving much
ashes, is not so pleasant for rooms as some lighter coals. Like most
of the minerals on the sea coast of this parish, it dips to the South-
east one fathom in three Dear the shore; but is flatter as it goes
north. It has been repeatedly on fire, the effects of which may
still be traced by the caleiribd rocks from the harbour more than
a mile up the country.
  There are five beds of ironstone. They lie below the coal, and as
they dip in the same direction, are wrought to the west of it, where
they coviie nearer the surface. The ironstone when quarried is ge-
nerally shipped for Carron; and it is understood that a ton of it
yields about 12 cwt. of iron.
  At different periods, numerous petrifactions have been found in
this parish; -and it may be noticed, that, for many years there
were three petrified trees in the very heart of a rock, a little way
to the. westward of the town, the bark or skin of which resembled

  FIFE.


