
424                          ROXBURGHSHIRE.

geography, Latin, Greek, French, and the principles of the Christ-
ian religion.  The schoolmaster has a house and garden.  His
salary is the maximum; and the average yearly amount of school
fees, which are very moderate, is L. 36.
     There is no person in the parish between six and fifteen years of
age who cannot read, and none between nine and fifteen who can-
not write.  There are two persons, one of them a woman of twenty-
four, and the other a man of sixty, who cannot read; both of whom
came lately into the parish from distant parts of the country.  The
benefits of education are fully enjoyed and duly valued.  Mr John
Gibson Smith, the teacher, by conciliating the affection of his nu-
merous pupils, by adapting his instructions to their opening minds,
and keeping alive amongst them an intense interest in the business
of the school, succeeds in imparting to them as much knowledge
as can be acquired in the time allotted for the education of children
of the labouring classes.  Religious instruction, occupying, as it
ought to do, a prominent place in his plan of tuition, is conducted
by him in such a way as to lead the young to an accurate acquaint-
ance with Scripture history, and to clear views of the system of
Divine truth contained in the Shorter Catechism, and thus to pre-
pare them for being intelligent and profitable hearers of the word.
     The writer of this Account has been informed, that the deposits
in the Kelso Savings' Bank from this parish are from servants and
from minors, and amount to L. 19, 2s. 1d.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.--The heritors of this parish assess
themselves and their tenants half-yearly for the maintenance of
the poor.  The average number of persons on the poor's roll is
2I; and the rate of allowance is different in different cases, vary-
ing from L. 3, 10s. to L. 6, 6s. per annum.  Persons in desti-
tute circumstances, whether paupers or not, occasionally receive
assistance from the ordinary church collections, the average yearly
amount of which is rather more than L. 7.
     Alehouses.--There are three houses in which ale and spirits are
sold, a greater number certainly than is either necessary or de-
sirable.  At the same time, these-houses are frequented by not
many of the parishioners, but chiefly by travellers and persons
from the town of Kelso.
     Fuel.--The only kind of fuel in common use is coal, which is
procured at the rate of 7 1/2d per cwt. from Northumberland.

      July 1839



