
484                          FIFESHIRE.

viz. Sir Ralph Anstruther, of Baleaskie, Baronet; David Mony-
penny, Esq. of Pitmillie; and David Weinyss, Esq. of Denbrae,
to undertake the task of auditing their accounts.
   With this new seminary, the English and rammar school  of
the city are now incorporated, with the salaries attached to them;
and the nomination of the masters is vested in the trustees, after
a proper trial and examination of the candidates, the patrons hav-
ing a veto in the nomination. The trustees are directed also to
exact from the children educated in the said college, such fees
only, as it sball appear to them tfiat the parents of such children
are able to pay without much inconvenience; and that those chil-
dren whose parents are unable to pay any such fees sball be edu-
cated gratis. They are directed also to inspect and to examine
the said college every three months, that they may ascertain the
progress of the scholars; and to have a public examination of them
annually.
  The buildings devoted to the purposes of tuition in the Madras
College are now completed. They form a quadrangle, with a
court within, which is surrounded by a handsome corridor, from
which the class-rooms enter. The style of the building is that
which prevailed in England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
The plan, devised by William Burn, Esq. architect, Edinburgh,
is such as might have been expected from his taste and talents;
and the execution of the work is highly creditable to the skill of
our native artisans who were employed in the erection. Between
this'quadrangle and the street, there is an extensive area covered
with gravel, where the pupils of the institution enjoy air and exer-
cise; and close to the street, and as remote from each other as
the extent of the ground would admit, two commodious dwelling-
houses, harmonizing in their architecture with the principal build-
ing, have been erected for the use of the English and classical
masters, who are thus furnished with the means of receiving each
a considerable number of boarders.
  When the buildings were in a sufficidnt state of forwardness,
the, trustees proceeded, with the sanction of the patrons to model
the institution, so as most effectually in their apprehension, to
meet the object of the founder and the benefit of the community,
and to put the whole into operation.  It now (January 1838)
comprehends teachers of the following branches:- 1. Of English
and of English grammar, who is furnished with an assistant ; 2. of
Greek and Latin, who has also an assistant; 3. of arithmetic ;


