
                    BOLESKTNE AND ABERTARFF.                      53

exclusive of Loch Ness, which is 24 miles long, and averages 1 1/2 in
breadth.  The depth of Loch Ness in the middle is from 106 to
130 fathoms, and towards the sides from 65 to 75.  From its great
depth it never freezes.  On both sides of Loch Ness, the ground
rises to a considerable altitude, and is adorned with ash, oak, fir, and
birch.  The scenery of this and the other lakes, all of which pay tri-
bute to Loch Ness, is wild and romantic.- The rivers in this parish
are inconsiderable in point of number, extent, and magnitude; but
they are frequently much enlarged by the autumnal rains and the
thawing of the snow in spring.  They all fall into Loch Ness.
   Fall of Foyers.- There are two remarkable cascades in the pa-
rish formed by the same river within less than half a mile from one
another, and known by the name of the Fall of Foyers.  Directly
in front of the upper one, there is a bridge of one arch thrown across
the river, from which travellers can view it in perfect security.  A
little above the cascade, the river is very much contracted between
two rocks; and previous to the erection of the bridge, a log was
thrown over this chasm, reaching from one rock to the other, and
serving as a bridge to the more courageous foot-passengers. * Many
other views, all of them very interesting, may be had of this fall.
Ascending a narrow rugged path on the west side of the river, about
200 feet, to a level eminence, where there are a few dwarfish trees,
and looking thence southwards,-the visitor will see to advantage
the arch, the cascade, and the abyss below, where the current forces
its way over piles of stones and fragments of rocks; and about a quar-
ter of a mile to the south on the high road leading to Fort-Augus-
tus there is a charming view of the bridge seen through the branches
of the pendant trees.
   Advancing from the less to the greater fall, the prospect gradu-
ally increases in interest.  The large stones in the channel of the
river over which the waters roll and foam,-the weeping birch lin-
ing the precipitous banks at irregular distances-the projecting mis-
shapen rocks overhanging the tremendous gulf, and the impetuous
torrent below-form a scene that cannot be beheld without admira-
tion and awe.  There are different positions from which the prin-
cipal fall may be viewed to great advantage.  One of the best is
from the edge of the rock nearly opposite to it on the west side of
the river; but it is believed that strangers are seldom directed to

<FOOTNOTE>There is a tradition, that a person who resided in the heights of the country, while
in a state of intoxication, passed on horseback along the log bridge in a moonlight
night; and that, having gone afterwards to the place, he was so horror-struck at the
peril he escaped, that he returned home, went to bed, and soon after died.


