
454                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

have been followed by a corresponding advancement in the size
and quality of both horses and cattle.  The Aberdeenshire breed
of the latter at one time held nearly the exclusive possession of
all the grass in the parish ; but recently a valuable cross-breed,
betwixt the pure Aberdeenshire cow and Tees-water, or short-
horned bull, has been introduced by several farmers, and their
example promises to be very generally followed.  Now that feed-
ing for the London market has, in consequence of the facillty of
conveyance by steam-vessels, become common, the great object
is to select such breeds as promise, in the shortest time, both on
account of size and fat, to bring the highest remunerating price.
But the Aberdeenshire, after a certain age, is, in respect of qua-
lity, very generally allowed to be superior to all others; and the
different agricultural Associations throughout the country, while
they give due encouragement to such crosses as are likely to prove
profitable to the farmer, ought to pay particular attention to the
due preservation of the pure Aberdeenshire breed.
   The rotation of cropping which has been mentioned, clearly
shows that the farmer has much dependence upon his cattle.
For a considerable time past, owing to the generally low price of
grain, the profits arising from them have mainly contributed to-
wards the regular payment of his rent.  It is chiefly for the rear-
ing of young stock that cows are kept.  At the same time, the
returns from dairy produce and the poultry yards are very consi-
derable ; but any attempt to give an exact statement of their an-
nual amount, as confined to this parish, would only lead into
error.  A great proportion of the butter, cheese, and eggs, is
purchased by our only shopkeeper, Mr Wilson, at Waterside of
Forbes ; and he has stated the average of money paid by him on
this account, for some years past, at L. 650 per annum, notwith-
standing the scarcity of pasture last season.  But, on the one hand,
Mr Wilson deals with the surrounding parishes; and, on the other,
several of the inhabitants of Tullynessle and Forbes are in the
habit of selling to other merchants, who have regular appoint-
ments for this purpose with their customers at stated places, ge-
nerally once every fortnight.
   Leases.-The usual length of leases is nineteen years, and, in ge-
neral, a reasonable allowance is made for houses and fences.  The
common terms for the payment of rent are Whitsunday And Mar-
tinmas.  In the opinion of the writer, Candlemas and Lammas
would, in several respects, be more advantageous for the farmer.


