
366                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

different appearance from that which it now has. It was then a
poor district, very little of it ploughed, and that little ill cul-
tivated. Farming, was in a rude state, as well as other mechani-
cal arts. The roads were bad, and no attention was paid to the
art of road-making. The land was almost all uninclosed. In one
place, namely, in the lands of Broomage, that awkward mode of
farm management called runrig was in practice, that is to say, the
lands of Broomage belonged to three owners conjointly, and the
arable part was allotted by them, so that the first ridge was plough-
ed and cultivated by the joint owner A, the second ridge by the
joint owner B, the third by C, the fourth by A, and so on. This
was done with the intention that each owner might have an equal
share of the arable part of the ground, and also that the arable
part lying all together might be more conveniently protected from
cattle. In 1776, the three joint owners agreed to make a division
of these lands into three parts equal to each other in value, and
that each owner should have one of these thirds. This being ac-
complished under the superintendence of an arbiter, the system of
runrig cultivation ceased.
  As there were no inclosures, the cattle were kept from tres-
passing on the corn by a boy or girl as a cowherd. The
children at the age of seven or eight were sent out to this
occupation, and thus they began the world. It was certainly a
more healthful employment than that which falls to the lot of the
cotton factory children of the present day, who are condemned by
fate to make their first steps in this valley of tears, confined all day
in the unwholesome dusty air of a close room.
  An inhabitant of the parish in the old bygone times did his
work leisurely and at his ease, much in the same way as a gentle-
man works who takes care not to fatigue himself. But now-a-days,
the population of Great Britain is more crowded, and consequent-
ly men must work harder to earn their daily bread and to obtain
other necessaries of life. In compensation, the workman of the
present day has more of the conveniences of life; he is better lodg-
ed, better fed, and better clothed than the countryman of the for-
mer period.
  The parish is now all enclosed and cultivated, the roads good,
the population considerable in number, and many pieces of ground

<FOOTNOTE>The children were sent out to the herding, in the language of the parish. A
herd Scotch is equivalent to the English word a herdsman, hird in Anglo-saxon,
hirt, German, der gute hirt, the good shepherd in the gospels, hyrda, Icelandic, to pro-
tect.


