		             ISLAND OF ARRAN.

	    		   PARISH OF KILMORIE.*

		  PRESBYTERY OF KINTYRE, SYNOD OF ARGYLL.

		    THE REV. ANGUS MACMILLAN, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--Kilmorie, the name of the parish, is derived from Kill-
suhiure, i. e. St Mary's. Its most southern extremity is in lati-
tude 55&deg; 29' 30", and in longitude 4&deg; 17'. It extends from
Largybeg Point on the south, to Lochranza water on the north, a di-
rect distance of about tweuty-four miles. The ruggedness of the in-
terior renders travelling through it impracticable, and the consequent
circuitousness of the road, which winds along the shore, increases
the actual distance between the extremities of the parish to near-
ly thirty miles. Its average breadth is 6 miles, and its area about
60,000 Scots acres. Its figure is semi-elliptical; the greater axis
extending from the southern to the northern extremities, in a
straight line, passing through the centre nf the island, and divid-
ing this parish, through its whole lenght, from Kilbride parish;
from Largybeg Point to the Brown Head, by the Frith of Clyde,
separating it from that part of Ayrshire called Carrick, from which
it is about sixteem miles distant; and on the east, from the Brown
Head to Lochranza, by the Sound of Kilbrandon, separating it from
Kintyre, from which it is on an average six miles distant.
	The arable land is chiefly confined to the vicinity of the sea
coast. On the south, it lies on an elevated terrace about half-a-
mile broad, having a precipitous sea bank in front, and health-clad
hills in the back ground. On the east, the vale of Shiaken, the
most fertile and best cultivated part of the island, runs a considera-
ble distance into the interior, and contains above 1700 Scots acres
of arable land. From this to Lochranza, the soil is in general
sterile, and the ground steep and uneven. In the see bank, which

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. A. Macbride, Minister of the parish of North Buir.
					4


