
502                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

it will be withdrawn, so long as he is satisfied that the duties of
the offices are efficiently discharged.
   The female school was erected about twelve years ago by
Lady Lovat, who gives the mistress a salary of L.15 per annum.
The want of such a school as this was much felt, and it has been
productive of great good. The building is a very neat and taste-
ful structure, and, besides the school-room, includes ample accom-
modation for the teacher.
   Inns.-There are only two or three inns in the whole parish,
and even these are of an inferior description, and not much fre-
quented. Whisky is the principal liquor retailed; malt liquor
being seldom called for, and, indeed, not often to be had, if re-
quired.
   Fuel.-The fuel in general use is peat, and no charge whatever
is made by the land-owners for the privilege of cutting it, which
has been exercised, for time immemorial, by the tenantry and cot-
tars on the several properties. English coal is also used by those
who can afford to purchase it, and abundance of this mineral can
generally be got at Beauly, at prices varying from 1s. 8d. to 2s.
per barrel.

             MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
Generally, and in conclusion, I may remark that in Strathglass,
sheep-farming is carried on to a considerable extent, and that with
less risk than in most other Highland districts, owing to the excel-
lent shelter which is afforded to the flocks in winter, by the natu-
ral wood, with which the sheep-walks abound. The leases, for
the most part, are too short to induce the tenantry to incur the ex-
pense of planting, and the proprietors are only now becoming aware
of the immense importance of warmth and shelter to almost all kinds
of animals. Not half so much is lost by vermin now as formerly,
owing to the number of keepers employed to preserve the game;
and, from the same cause, that grouse and ptarmigan are rapidly
encreasing in number, few of the sheep or lambs are lost, and the
rents, as a necessary consequence, must soon improve and amply
repay the proprietors for the expense to which they may be put.
   It is matter of pride among the natives of the parish to have it
in their power to say that, among the resident heritors, there are
the honoured chieftains of two ancient and most respectable.High-
land clans.

   December 1841.


