
     of Walls and Sandness.

in several parts of the country for the support and cure of
the numerous persons affected with it.  The common belief
is, that it was produced in consequence of the people having
eated too great a quantity of fish, not properly prepared,
some wet seasons succeeding, which kept the peats (their
only fuel) from being fully dried.  The lepers were kept
in small huts, erected on purpose, apart from places inhabi-
ted.  Fuel and victuals were carried to the doors of their
miserable hovels, and the persons employed in this chari-
table office avoided all intercourse with them.  Thus left to
themselves, and poorly sheltered, it is to be presumed, that
many became victims to this shocking distemper.  Some
persons would, perhaps, be doomed to this solitary and 
wretched existence, upon being seized with cutaneous dis-
roders, which, with a little assistance, might have been easi-
ly removed; but which ignorance, and fear of infection
united, might have judged proper to be thus separated. Shut
out from society, sequestered from their friends, what a joy-
less life must they have dragged out?  Humanity, at the re-
collection of this, drops a tear.  Few instances of this trouble
have appeared within these last 50 years.  The session records
mention, that a day of public thanksgiving was observed in
the ministrym, in the year 1742, when this disease was almost
extinguished.  The small-pox have seldom visited these pa-
rishes, but at times have made terrible havock.  At the be-
ginning of this century, the mortal pock, as it is called, cau-
sed great devastation, carrying off whole families.  In the
island of Fowla, which contained a number of families, on-
ly a few persons were left, to perform the last office of hu-
manity to their brethren.  Being averse to inoculation, a
very great number of aged persons have never had the small-
pox.  The young people avoid infection, in the natural
way, as much as they can; and are not much inclined to
inoculation, lest they communicate the contagion to their


