
			CRAWFORDJOHN.                     503

deeds. Upon one occasion, some of the Annandale depredators
had lingered too long in his well-provided mansion; Jock came
home very unexpectedly, and while, with no sparing hand, he ad-
ministered chastisement to all around him, one pleaded his sacred
office as a title to mercy; but Jock was not disposed to admit
such a plea, and terminated at once his sacerdotal functions, and
marauding propensities, in a deep pool at the back of his dwelling,
--the appellation of the Priest's Pool still certifying the fact.
	The two concentric circles on the Black Hill, opposite Gilkers-
cleugh, are still discernible. The diameter of the inner one is
34 yards, and the outer one is distant from it about 12. As the
view from this place down Clyde is extensive, and as a great part
of the lands some miles up Duneaton can be seen from it, there
is a probability that it was either a small fort or military station,
or a receptacle for cattle and necessary stores, and connected with
other similar stations in the vicinity. Between Clyde and the
house of Mr J. Watson, Abington, there are visible traces of an-
other circular enclosure, 32 yards being its diameter. Nearly
opposite Coldchapel, upon the side of Clyde, there is the appear-
ance of a moat, which goes back from the river about 60 yards, and
encloses ground along the edge of it for about 64 yards in length;
within which, and towards one side, there is a mound between 20
and 30 feet higher than the surface of the water, and the circum-
ference of which measures 50 yards. A little higher up Clyde,
in the parish of Crawford, there is a mound of a similar descrip-
tion; and, for whatever purpose constructed, they seem to have
formed a continued chain, for several miles, along the banks of
the river.
	In the peat-hags, as they are here called, trunks and branches
of trees are often come upon; and in many of the peats brought
home for fuel, alder and hazel are distinguishable.  Several coins
have at times been picked up, but never in any great quantities.
Lately, a silver piece, almost the size of a sixpence, was found, hav-
ing on it Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus; and above
twenty others with Edward, Dublin, and Waterford on them.
	Upon Mr Irving's farm of Birkcleugh, and at the edge of Cra-
wick moss, there is an opening in the ground of about a foot in di-
ameter, into which the waters, from the adjacent hills run, after any
heavy rain; but, whether they are absorbed in the moss at some
distance from Holemerry (as the opening is called,) or are accumu-
lated under the moss, so as to be preparing a miniature exhibition


