
1092                        PERTHSHIRE.

keld, while a coach leaves Killin every morning for Lochlomond
to meet the steamer on that lake.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The site of the church is, on the whole,
very convenient, especially as there is a church at each extremity
of the parish, where ordained clergymen officiate every Sabbath.
The church was built in 1744, and repaired in 1832. It has 905
sittings. Of the population, 488 are attached to the missinn or
quoad sacra parish of Strathfillan, and 288 to the mission of Ar-
deonaig, leaving 926 to Killin. To this may be added 473 be-
longing to the adjacent parts of Weem and Kenmore, who attend
the church of Killin, receive ordinances there, and are under the
pastoral superintendence of the minister. Except about 45 per-
sons, the whole population belongs to the Established Church.
The Dissenters are Baptists and Independents, who worship in a
hired room in the village. They have no stated pastor. There are
no Episcopalians. The manse and offices are good, and the heri-.
tors evince every disposition to make the minister comfortable.
The stipend is 16 chalders, half meal and half barley, at the highest
fiars of the county, and L.10 for communion elements. There is
a considerable amount of free unexhausted teinds, and the last aug-
mentation was given in 1815. The glebe extends to about thirteen
acres, and may be worth about L.13. The solemn ordinance of
the Lord's Supper has since 1840 been administered twice a-year,
and the additional opportunity has been gratefully appreciated.
The number of communicants in the whole parish may be about
600. The present incumbent has, for the last eighteen months,
been in the habit of occasionally officiating on the Sabbath even-
ing in the remote districts of the parish, particularly at Ardnchyle,
where the school-house is always crowded.
   There are several Sabbath schools in active operation. The
minister of Strathfillan has L.60 per annum, arising from a sum
mortified by the pious lady Glenorchay, for the maintenance of a
chaplain in that district. He has also a manse and glebe, with a
valuable hill pasturage. The minister of Ardeonaig has also a
stipend of L.60, with manse and a glebe, consisting of 17 1/2 acres.
The half of his stipend is paid by Lord Breadalb`ne, and the
other half by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.
The noble family of Breadalbane have long been distinguished
church and school extensionists.
   Education.-The parish is well supplied with schools, viz. 1
parochial; 3 societies for Propagating Christian Knowledge; 2


