
24                             BUTESHIRE.

the fairy's mound,) in Glencloy, where it is understood that those
of Bruce's partisans, who arrived in Arran before himself, took
shelter, while the English held Brodick Castle in its neighbourhood.
Another is Dunfunn, or Fingal's fort, situated ona round emi-
nence of considerable elevation, near the point of Clachlands.
Headrick conjectures that this was one of those vitrified forts so
common in the north Highlands.  No traces of vitrification now
appear.  The site of the wall by which it was surrounded can still
be traced.
     In glancing at these faint vestiges of ancient times is would be
unpardonable to omit the case of St Molios, in the Holy Isle.
Molios (or, the name means in Gaelic, the shaved servant of
Jesus), was a disciple of St Columba, who, not considering the dis-
cipline of Iona sufficiently rigid, retired for greater seclusion from
the vices of the world, to this lonely isle, whence he diffused the
light of Christianity among the formerly Pagan inhabitans of
Arran.  The cave which formed his residence is merely an exca-
vation in the red sandstone, hollowed out by the sea, when its
level was higher that at present, with its mouth defended by a wall
of loose stones.  On the roof of the cave there is a Runic inscrip-
tion, stating the name and office of the saint, and a little raised
above its floor, a shelf of rock, said to have been his bed.  In the
neighbourhood of the cave, there is a large flat stone, called his
dining-table, and a spring of pure water (his bath) much resorted
to in the ages of superstition, and celebrated for the healing vir-
tues alleged to have been communicated to it by the prayers and
blessings of the saint.  Martin speaks of a curious stone bequeathed
by this saint, and long famed for its many miraculous properties;
more especially its power in curing diseases, and protecting in
battle the lives of its fortunate possessors.  This stone was so care-
fully transmitted as a valuable heir-loom from one generation to
another, that it was lost only within these few years, by being com-
mitted to the custody of a gentleman who partook too much of
the scepticism of the age to have any faith in its virtues.  It re-
tained, however, some share of its credit, till its final disappearnce.
Some, even of the present generation, have had recourse to it for
the cure both of man and beast.  this esteemed relic was a smooth
green globe, probably of jesper, about the size of a goose egg.
About a mile north from St Molie's cave, and near the house of
the present tenant of the Holy Isle, stood the monnstery spoken
of by Dean Monro.  Even in the time of the dean himself (1594).





