
     of Kilninver and Kilmelfort.

and principal heritor of Kilninver, and indeed proprietor of
more than one half of this pastoral charge.  The patrons
present per vices.  The present incumbent was settled upon a
presentation from the Earl of Breadalbane.  There are in
whole eight heritors, two of whom only at present reside in
those parishes.  The stipend, by decreet of the Court of Ses-
sion in 1763, is four chalders of meal, and 600 merks Scots
in money, making in whole, at the common conversion, 1200
merks Scots, or 66 L. 13 s. 4 d. Sterling, with 5 L. for com-
munion elements.  The glebe is set at 10 L. Sterling yearly.
There is no manse; but the present minister rents the small
farm of Kilninver from Lord Breadalbane, and has built a
good farm house upon it with some assistance from his Lord-
ship; he is allowed only 5 L. Sterling yearly in lieu of his
manse.  A neat little church has last year been built at Kil-
ninver.  The church at Kilmelfort has been rebuilt during
the present incumbency.  The number of poor upon the
poors roll for this present year is 29.  These are supported from
the Sunday collections, and fines for delinquencies, amounting
yearly to about 10 L. Sterling, and by begging from house to
house through the parish.  There are three schools in these
parishes; a parochial school, and two schools erected by the
Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, at which above
100 on boys and girls are taught*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The antiquities are confined to a few cairns or tumuli, and
some monumental stones of a huge size, erected perpendicular-
ly, where, tradition says, some chief or hero had finished his
course, and been interred in the customary manner with his ar-
mour.  There is also a watch tower or beacon, built upon a
promontory stretching out into the Sound of Mull: But the
time and occasion of those erections have been lost the mist
of antiquity, and tradition is totally silent upon those circum-
stances, which could alone render the inquiry either amusing
or useful.

     VOL. X. S s


