
           412                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

           of his sister, the Honourable Grizel Ross, wife of Sir James Lock-
           hart of Carstairs, whose second son, Colonel Sir James Ross, accord-
	   ingly succeeded. He enjoyed the estate of Balnagown till his death,
	   in December 1760, when, by the provisions of his uncle's will, Cap-
	   tain John Lockhart, his younger brother, obtained the property,
	   and thereupon took the name of Ross in addition to his own. Cap-
	   tain Lockhart Ross was the fifth son of Sir James Lockhart of
	   Carstairs, Bart. and was born at Lockhart Hall, in the county of
	   Lanark, on the 11th November 1721; and having manifested a
	   predominant inclination for the sea, he entered the naval service
	   in his fourteenth year. In 1756, he was posted, and advanced to
	   the command of the Tartar frigate of 24 guns, with which, in the
	   course of fifteen months, he captured, in the British channel, nine
	   of the enemy's ships of war, several of them being of superior force.
	   The last step of promotion he lived to attain in the navy was the
	   rank of Vice-Admiral of the Blue, to which he was advanced on
	   the 24th September 1787. By the death of his brother, Sir
	   George Lockhart, in July 1778, the baronetcy of the family de-
	   scended to, him, and the estate of Carstairs having been sold in
	   1762, be adopted the designation of Balnagown. As an instance
	   of his amiable character in private life, the following deserves
	   particular mention: There being a total failure of all means
	   of subsistence, in consequence of a severe frost in summer
	   1782, which was a fatal and distressing year to the peasantry
	   in Ross-shire, and especially to the inhabitants of this parish,
	   Sir John, with a liberality which does him the highest credit,
	   Understanding the lamentable situation of the poor people, sent
	   to be distributed to the sufferers on his own estates, a season-
	   able and bountiful supply of large quantities of pease, barley, flour,
	   and potatoes; to which noble beneficence many hundreds owed
	   their lives. He also ordered his factor to give to his Highland
	   tenants in Kincardine, who did not save as much as would sow
	   their crofts, seed from his farms in the low country, where the
	   failure was not nearly so great as in the high grounds and straths;
	   and upon his return home at the conclusion of the war, he dis-
	   counted one-third, of the arrears of rent over the whole of his es-
	   tates. Sir John Lockhart Ross, Bart. died at his seat of Balna-
	   gown 9th June 1790, in the sixty-ninth year of his age, after a lin-
	   gering and painful illness, which he bore with Christian fortitude
           and resignation. He was interred in the Ross aisle, forming the
           east end of the church of Fearn, (formerly the first abbacy in the


