
             36                         ELGINSHIRE.

             many marks of artificial construction, stand the ruins of the castle
             of Duffus, the ancient seat of the Lords of that name,-a branch
             of the noble house of Sutherland, which still bears the title (re-
             cently restored from attainder) though it now possesses no pro-
             perty in the district.  It was a square tower about 20 feet high,
             and 5 feet thick, with a parapet, ditch, drawbridge, and other ap-
             pendages of a fortified baronial residence, and its date of erection
             is fixed in the reign of David I. who (it is said, but on no good au-
             thority,) gave a grant of the ground to a family of the name of
             Cheyne, which built the castle in this defensive form, (because
             they had been guilty of some crime in France,) which exposed them
             to persecution.  The walls of the castle are still pretty entire on the
             west side, having been built with run lime; and it appears to have
             been a place of considerable strength as well as importance, hav-
             ing been partly surrounded by the lake bf Spynie, and no place
             within several miles having sufficient elevation to command it,-the
             surrounding country besides having been then marshy and diffi-
             cult of access. Its orchard and garden are still in preservation;
             but the castle itself has long ceased to be occupied.  An old woman
             was lately alive, whose mother recollected to have seen the cele-
             brated Claverhouse (Viscount Dundee) on a visit to the Lord Duf-
             fus of that day.
                Very indistinct remains of what is supposed to have been a Ro-
             man camp occur on a spot near the west end of the parish, with a
             paved road leading to it; but its outline and parts are so mvch ob-
             literated as to elude description, and no tradition exists to aid in-
             quiry nn the subject.
                Several tumuli or "cairns" are to be seen on the heights along
             the shore, marking, it may be presumed, the graves of distinguish-
             ed warriors, but none have been lately opened.  In trenching land
             on the estate of Inverugie, stone coffins have been occasionally dis-
             covered, containing, however, nothing remarkable.
                Some years ago there stood about the centre of this parish an
             obelisk, which was conjectured to have been erected by Malcolm II.
             in commemoration of a victory over the Danes under Camus, and
             near this monument there was a village called Kaim, which was
             supposed to be the village mentioned by Buchanan as retaining
             the memorable name of Camus.  This village is now removed; but
             the place retains the name of Kaim.
                But the most interesting relict of antiquity is the remains of for-
             tifications at Burghead, by some maintained to be Roman, and by


