
    				          MAUCHLINE.                   163

			        	IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The whole of this parish is arable except a small
moss of about six acres, and some declivities on the banks of the
Ayr, now covered with plantations. All the farms are inclosed and
subdivided. The total number of acres is 5732, of these 5400 are
cultivated or occasionally in tillage, leaving 332 under wood, either
natural or planted. The kind of trees generally planted, is fir, larch,
ash, oak, beech, plane. On marshy ground the alder, willow, pop-
lar, &c. are planted. The mountain-ash, hazel, birch, are indige-
nous. The proprietors of the woods are careful in having them pro-
perly thinned and pruned.
	Rent.--The average rent of arable land per acre is L. 1, 5s. The
average rent of grazing is at the rate of L. 3 per ox, or cow grazed,
and at the rate of 15s. per ewe, or full-grown sheep pastured for the
year, 15s. There is no stated rate of labour in the parish.
	Husbandry.--The principal improvement which has recently
been made in agriculture is that of furrow draining, and nothing
but the expense of this plan prevents it from being generally adopt-
ed. The few spirited individuals who have drained their land in
this, manner have been well repaid. In many instances, the value
of the land has been doubled, and in some places what was for-
merly barren has been rendered most fertile.
	The general duration of leases is nineteen years. Some land-
owners let their land for a shorter period, but this is unfavourable to
the occupier, as he is prevented from entering into any plan of im-
provement, lest at the expiration of his lease, his farm should be let
to another. Others let their farms from year to year, but this plan
is injurious both to the owner and the occupier, as the lands remain
unimproved, and the houses and fences are allowed to fall into
decay.
	The greastest obstacle to improvement arises from the high rents
paid for the land. Some proprietors imagine, that, by letting their
farms to the highest bidder, they will thus make more out of their,
estates, never reflecting that the tenant will very soon be unable to
pay them, or to carry any plan of improvement into execution,
through want of capital.
	The farm houses are in general large and commodious, particu-
larly on the estate of Ballochmyle, (which contains about two-fifths
of the whole parish.) The houses have almost all been lately built,
two storeys high, slate roofed, with convenient office-houses. The
farms are all inclosed and subdivided by thriving  thorn hedges.
	Quarries.--There is an excellent red freestone quarry near the


