
     Statistical Account

taking the depth of the chasm, which is here 22 feet, in the
middle 32 and at the mouth about 40.  When there is a surf,
a perpetual mitt issues from these apertures, accompanied with
a tremendous noise, which is occasioned by the roiling of large
stones, or fragments of the rock that have fallen in, and are
constantly kept in motion by the agitation of the water.  In
time of a westerly storm, being exposed to the great swells
from the Atlantic ocean, the sea ruffles in with such violence
as to discharge itself through these openings with a thunder-
ing noise, rising to an immense height, in the form of inter-
mitting jetts.  Hence its name Sloc'-an-Leim, or Squirting
Cave, literally Jumping Pit.  The mouth of this cave is only
to be seen at low water; and the channel leading to it ex-
tends more than 70 feet; so that the whole length is upwards
of 200 feet*.

   Cairns and Hills.-Within a few yards of Sloc-an-Leim
there is a rock, detached from the rest, 36 feet high, 46 long,
and 34 broad on the top; it was surrounded with a dry stone-
wall, and is called Carn Leim, from its vicinity to the charm
already mentioned.  The country people fay it was a beacon
for directing vessels into the harbour of Gigulum sound.  A-
bout the centre of the island is Dun Chisi, or Keefie's Hill,

<FOOTNOTE>

*North from this at a small distance is another subterraneous passage, called
Sloc-an-Tsobrannan (pronounced Slok-an-tranan), i. e. Snoring Pit, from the kind
of nolle it makes.  It is about 36 feet long, and the channel which leads to it
more than 40.  At the end there is a very small opening (not half an inch
wide), about which there is a quantity of water always lodged.  The condensed
air below is forced up by every swell through the small opening, and occasions
that bubbling noise in the water, which has occasioned the name.  At the mouth
of this charm, where the channel is 17 feet deep, there is a large piece of rock
lying across, which occasions a jett here, and the small pertoration at the end
squirts also in time of storm; so that it is in immature the same /u Sloc-an-Leim
To the east of thee charms there is an appearance of copper ore,


