
               PARISH OF GLADSMUIR.

	PRESBYTERY OF HADDINGTON, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                          TWEEDDALE.

          THE REV. JOHN RAMSAY, A.M. MINISTER.


           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

     Name, &c.-THE parish of Gladsmuir was erected, in 1692,
by annexations from the contiguous parishes of Haddington,
Tranent, and Aberlady, and took its name from the place where
the church is situate. That place was called Gladsmuir, long
before the parish was formed. In 1650, those portions of the
parish of Gladsmuir.which were taken from Haddington and Aber-
lady, were set apart with the view of forming a new parish. A
chapel was built, where divine rervice was performed; and the
place where it stood still goes by the name of the Old Kirk. A
manse was also built, a little to the east of Penston,-which still
bears the name of the Old Manse. But it was not till 1692, that
the portion of the parish which was taken from Tranent was added
to the other two portions formerly designed, and the whole erect-
ed into a separate parish. At that time, Gladstmuir was a rugged
uncultivated tract of land, lying on both sides of the great London
road, and probably was so named from its being frequented by
kites or gleds, as they were commonly called.
   Extent-Boundaries.-The parish extends from the Frith of
Forth on the north, to the Tyne on the south, a distance of fully 5
miles; and from Merryhatton on the east to Whinbush on the
west, a distance of 4 miles. It is bounded on the east, by the
parish of Haddington; on the west, by the parishes of Tranent
and Pencaitland; on the south, by the Tyne and Pencaitland; and
on the north, by the Frith of Forth and the parish of Aberlady.
On the east, it is intersected by a neck of land belonging to Had-
dington, separating the barony of Samuelston from the barony of
Trabroun, and running west nearly as far as Gladsmuir. Other-
wise, it is very compact, but of an irregular figure. It contains
about 10 square miles.
   HADDINGTON.                        M


