
	  		     PARISH OF DOUGLAS.

		PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		    THE REV. ALEXANDER STEWART, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE name of Douglas is associated in the mind of
every Scotchman with the most splendid periods in the history of
his country. Whether this parish derived its name from the fa-
mily so conspicuous in our ancient annals, or the family its name
from the place, has become lately a matter of dispute. The fa-
vourite tradition, as detailed by Hume of Godscroft, is, that in the
reign of Solvathius, King of Scotland, about the year 767, Do-
nald Bain (i. e. the fair,) took the field against the King. Victory
had nearly declared in favour of the rebel, when a person flew,
with his sons and followers, to the King's aid, and by his activity
and valour routed the forces of Donald, who was himself slain.
The King, thus rescued from imminent danger, inquired to whom
he owed his deliverance, when one of his officers, pointing to the
champion, said, Sholto Dou-glasse, "there is the dark man." In
gratitude for his services, the King gave him a large tract of land,
and the surname of Douglas, which was extended to his domain,
and to the river by which it is traversed.*
	Situation and Extent.--The parish of Douglas, comprehending
nearly the whole extent of Douglasdale, occupies the south-western
extremity of Lanarkshire, and is conterminous with the parishes
of Lesmahagow on the north and north-west; Carmichael and
Wiston on the east; Roberton and, Crawfordjohn on the south-east
and south; and Muirkirk, in Ayrshire, on the west. It extends

<FOOTNOTE>It appears to afford some confirmation of this tradition, that Sholto is still a kind
of hereditary praenomen among the various branches of the Douglas family. This
tradition is indignantly rejected by that laborious, able, but dogmatical antiquary,
George Chalmers, who betrays an unbecoming eagerness to detract from the hither-
to undisputed antiquity of the House of Douglas. The origin of the name he re-
fers to the river, tracing it to the Celtic words Du-glas, " the dark blue stream." As
a distinctive appellation, this is not particularly applicable to the Douglas water.
Yet we mean not to quarrel with the etymology, which may perhaps be better war-
ranted by the appearance of the other streams, both in Scotland and England, which
have the same name.


