
     of Urray.

would come much more readily, if to these considerations
were added the prospect of living more comfortably by their
industry.  The only local obstacle to an establishment of this
kind, is the scarcity of fuel.  Here one cannot help again
execrating the partial (and it may even be added, iniquitous)
tax on coals imported to the north; which operates as a
dead weight on every attempt towards improvement.  It is
hoped, however, that this grievance will be soon alleviated,
by the extensive plantations of firs laid out within there last
30 years, and every year enlarged.-It has been already ob-
served, that the mode of farming amongst the common peo-
ple is far from being improved; and it may be farther re-
marked, that there seem to be local obstacles to improvement,
which manufactures only can remove, by introducing riches.
The tenants alledge, that they cannot afford the expence of
inclosing their lands, or of paying interest for inclosing them;
and, even if they were inclosed, they say, they cannot lie out
of their ordinary crops so long as would be necessary to put
their farms in the modern rotation.-Again, foreign manure
cannot be had for improvement, at such a price as the tenant
can afford.  Gentlemen who use lime for building, and ma-
nure, find it cheaper to bring it from Sunderland, than from
any part of Scotland; yet it costs them from 10 d. to 1 s.
per boll, at the ship's side.  Neither is there any marl within
reach.-Thirlage* is also complained of as a bar to improve-

<FOOTNOTE>

*THIRLAGE is an obligation over the possessors of lands, to
manufacture all their corns at a certain mill; and seems to have
originated with the great barons, with a view of exacting, for
their own use, a stipulated portion of the produce of the soil,
whether it was possessed by their own immediate, tenants, or
given away in seu to their vassals.  The exaction is called mul-
ture, and is a real rent, reserved to himself by the superior.
This rent, on some estates, amounts to the 12th, on others to
the 16th, 20th, or 24th part of the unground corn; besides
     VOL. VII. K k


