
     of Aberdeen.

wash-stills are at least 100,000 gallons in contents, ought to
fertilize 1000 acres per annum.
   Throwing away the bottoms, as they are called, is a great
public loss.-Suppose a house to brew daily 100 quarters,
this would produce about 10,000 gallons of worts or wash,
or 100 gallons from a quarter*.  When the fermentation
ceases, the wash is fit for distillation; about one-tenth, or
1000 gallons, of which will be a thick sediment or bottom,
which in England is frequently thrown into the river, in
the presence of the officers of execise, thereby saving the
duty of 9 d. per gallon, and avoiding the danger of burning
the still.  In Scotland it is thrown away to avoid the burn-
ing only.  It could easily be proved how much corn is thus
totally lost annually; it is probable full 50,0000 quarters.
This must he the case until the Legislature make it the in-
terest of the corn-distiller to extract all the spirit in and
from the corn, without running the risk of burning the
still.
   In this distillery, half barley and half bear are made use
of; unquestionably there is more farina, or saccharine mat-
ter, in barley than in bear, and it is that only which produ-
ces spirit.  Potatoes are less fit for distillation than barley;
the spirit produced is much fouler; and it is not believed
that they would answer upon a large scale.  Rye may
be used to advantage with malt and barley, but it must
be in a small proportion.  All barley used by distil-
lers would be malted if there were no duty upon malt, be-

<FOOTNOTE>

*To prevent throwing away the bottoms,-two methods only appear
eligible: Distillers to be allowed a still of suitable or proportionate gal-
lons, under proper regulations, for extracting the spirit from the bottoms,
without being obliged, as now, either to throw them away, or mix and distil
them with the wash.  Or, to be allowed a proper number of hours to
work their still off, less rapidly than they are now obliged to do.  The
first appears by far the most eligible.


