
		ROSEMARKIE.                        357

   Ecclesiastical State.-We have already stated the traditional ac-
count of the origin of the parish church in the ancient town of
Rosemarkie, as having been founded by St Boniface. On the
same site where the church had stood for centuries, was erected
eighteen years ago a handsome modern edifice. It is large and
commodious, having been built for at least 800 sitters, affording
ample church accommodation for the parishioners; in which respect,
not many parishes are so well provided. With few exceptions the,
bulk of the more remote parishioners in the country part, may be
said to be within three miles of the church.
   The present manse was built in 1833, in the same situation as,
the former, near to the line of road leading from Rosemarkie to
Fortrose, and at a convenient distance from the church. It com-
mands a fine extensive prospect of the Moray Fritb, and the ad-
jacent country. The office-houses were also rebuilt some years
previous; and both these and the manse are finished in a substan-
tial manner, and afford every necessary comfort and convenience.
   The glebe consists of about four Scots acres. The stipend is
16 chalders, half meal and half barley, payable according to the
highest fiars in the county; with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
ments. The last augmentation was granted in 1816.
   Besides the parish church, the only other place of public wor-
ship is an Episcopal chapel, some time since erected in Fortrose,
standing a mile distant from Rosemarkie. It is a modern, conve-
nient, and handsome structure of Gothic architecture, and can ac-
commodate, as presently fitted up, about 300 sitters. The con-
gregation now assembling there is very limited, there being but few
families or individuals of the Episcopal persuasion in the place or
neighbourhood.
   The number of families connected with the Established Church
is 337; of Dissenting or Seceding families, 21,-in several of
which, however, only the heads of the families are Dissenters,
while the remaining members attend the Established Church.
   It may be proper here to notice, that it is in contemplation to
elect, so soon as sufficient funds can be procured by Public sub-
scription, a church, quoad sacra, in Fortrose. With the concur-
rence of the presbytery of the bounds, a constitution for the same
has been prepared, and submitted to the Church Courts, and has
received the sanction of the General Assembly.
   The salary or stipend for the support of the minister is intend-
ed to be paid out of the annual produce of a fund mortified by a


