
                             CLATT.		           857

mountainous district of the Grampians, the line of road by Aber-
deen is generally preferred by travellers
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is centrically situated,
at a distance of not more than three miles from the most remote
parts of the parish.  The fabric of the church is co-existent with
Roman Catholic worship, and several Popish relies have been dis-
covered in the progress of repairing the church.  In 1828, the
church was substantially repaired and reseated.  It affords accom-
modation for 290 persons, or more than one-half of the whole po-
pulation, besides 52 additional sittings in a gallery erected by the
kirk-session for the benefit of the poor.  The manse was built in
1725, and in 1820 it underwent considerable repair, and received
additional accommodation.  In 1828, the offices wer erebuilt on
an enlarged plan, and in the same year, the church-yard was en-
closed with a substantial stone and lime wall.  The glebe and
garden consist of nearly 5 Scotch acres, without the statutory ac-
companiment of a grass glebe.  The teinds were valued and
exhausted in 1812, and the stipend is the legal minimum, besides
the usual allowance for communion elements.  There are 20 Dis-
senters in the parish, and the average number of communicants at
the Established Church is about 230.  Church collections are an-
nually made for the Aberdeen Infirmary, and occasionally for the
Presbyterial Lunatic Fund ; and, during the last seven years, there
has existed a parochial association for Christian purposes, embra-
cing especially the General Assembly's Shemes,-the funds of the
association amounting from L.10 to L.13 per annum.
   Education.-A very handsome and commodious school-room,
fully adequate to the educational wants of the parish, has been erected
this season.  No other school exists, or is required.  The branches of
education usually taught are, English reading, writing, arithmetic,
and Latin, and book-keeping, and the higher branches of mathe-
matics when required.  The salary of the schoolmaster is L.25,
13s. 4d., with the legal accommodation; and the amount of the
school-fees, including the interest of L.40, minus legacy duty,
mortified by the Rev. Robert Findlay, for the education of child-
ren of poor householders, may be stated at from L.12 to L.18 per
annum.  The teacher also shares in the Dick Bequest.  The rate
of school-fees per quarter, after deduction for harvest vacation, is
as follows: English reading, 2s.; reading and writing, 3s.; arith-
metic, 4s.; mensuration, 5s.; Latin, 5s.; and book-keeping, 10s.
6d. per set.  From the facilities of education there are few or none


