
                            PETERHEAD.                        385

ment of the labour of the teachers, and it was again prove advan-
tageous, if adopted.
   The number of scholars attending the different schools through-
out the year may probably exceed 700.
   Although the people in this parish are generally alive to the be-
nefits of education, yet there can be no doubt that some of them
are brought up without receiving an adequate education, and that
ample room remains for the endowment of a charity school, where
the poorest children might be educated at very reduced fees.
   The extreme distance from the parish school is four miles, that
is, to the south and west of the parish.  The children in these
districts attend either the school at Boddam or the school at
Miekle Cocklaw; and it is a question worthy of consideration,
when the proper time arrives, whether these schools should not be
erected into parochial schools.
   Sabbath Schools.-There are several Sabbath school, both in
connection with the Established Churchb, and with other denomi-
nations.  These schools are numerously attended, particularly by
females; and they appear to have effected much good.  The school
under the superintendence of the church-session has lately been
much extended, and is now taught within the church.  There is
also a numerous Sabbath school taught in the East or quoad sacra
Parish Church.
   Literature.-There is no library connected with the parish
church; but it is understood that there are several small libraries
belonging to the religious congregations in the town. *
   Connected with the quoad sacra parish church, more particularly,
there is a library supported by congregational subscription, consist-
ing of 240 volumes.  There is also another library, consisting of
106 volumes, belonging to a religious instruction  class, which is
taught by the pastor, and meets every Monday evening.
   The principal library in the town is that belonging to the Read-
ing Society, instituted in 1808.  This Society is manages by a
committee of its own members elected annually.  The members
pay a yearly subscription of a guinea, and none but members are
entitled to the use of the books.  The library consists of about
1500 volumes of standard works, embracing the Bridgewater Trea-
tises; the seventh edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica, now pub-
lishing; the Edinburgh, Quarterly, and, London and Westminster
Reviews; Statistical Account of Scotland, now, publish-

<FOOTNOTE>There is now a library in connection with the parish church.
   ABERDEEN.                                       B b


