
                CRIEFF.                              517

of the parish in the interval the suppression of Episeo-
pacy in 1690, and the readmission of a Preabyterian ministerian
1699."  * One of the arches-the farthest south-was broken
down by the Highlanders in the year 1715, to arrest the progress
of the Royalist force.  Ht was afterwards rebuilt; but the frame
that was used, musr have been one which had been employed in
constructing some other bridge,-for the new arch is somewhat
higher, and not quite in keeping with the remaining arches of the
Crieff Bridge.
  There is neither a canal nor a rail-road in the parish, but sur-
veys have been made for both. In the year 1806, a survey was
made by the late Sir John Rennie, at the expense of the late
Marquis of Breadalbane, for a canal between Perth and Lochearn.
It was supposed that twenty-six locks would be required; and of
these there were to be only six below the town of Crieff. Another
survey was made last year, at the expense of some private indi-
viduals, by the Messrs Stevenson, for a railway between Perth and
Crieff. The line selected by both surveyors were nearly the
same; and though a canal be now out of the question, there is
reason to hope that the railway may be laid out at no very distant
period. It would be difficult to find a more level country; and,
while the want of minerals is the only drawbacj, the advantages
that would result from a railway to the whole community, but es-
pecially to the landed interests, are very great.
  A gas manufactory for Crieff was projected last year; and some
steps were taken with a view to obtain a site, and open subscrip-
tions; but the matter has bddn allowed to drop.
  Ecclediastical State.-"John Drummond was minister of Crieff
from 1699 to 1755. In hid time none separated from the church
who had been previously of the Establishment; but a number still
adhered to the Episcopal mode of worship, whose forefathers, in
the preceding century, had, in conformity to the wishes of the
Court, embraced Episcopacy. During the incumbency of Thomas
Stewart, his immediate successor, about the year 1763, the se-
ceders of the class of Antiburghers formed there a congregation.
Next in succession was" Mr. Robert Stirling," admitted in 1770.
In his time arose the sect called Bereans, whose founder had been
a private tutor in the parish, and formed some of his relations and
connexions there into a party. The sect of Relief also was in-
troduced there about the year 1785, though a ferment excited by

<FOOTNOTE>Old Statistical Account, p. 585.


