
668                         FORFARSHIRE.

                      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Villages.--There hs no place in the parish that deserves the
name of a village, except Inchbare, which consists of about a
dozen of scattered houses; and there are a smith, carpenter,
a tailor, two shoemakers, a grocer's shop, and two public-houses,
which are happily little frequented except by passing travellers.
	Means of Communication.--Both the old and new turnpike roads
between Aberdeen and Perth traverse the parish for about two
miles. Along the latter, the Defiance coach passes and repasses
every lawful day. There is also a carrier to Brechin twice, and to
Montrose once, a-week. The commutation roads are amply suf-
ficient for the accommodation of the population, intersecting the
parish in all directions. Some years ago, they were in a most mi-
serable state. Latterly, they have been brought into excellent
order, having been placed under the management of five of the
principal rate-payers.
	Ecclesiastical State.--There are two glebes attached to the liv-
ing; that of Dunlappie, which contains nearly three acres; and
of Stracathro, about seven and a half arable acres; and two occu-
pied by houses, shrubs, and plantations. The amount of stipend
averages about L.170 ; the annual value of the glebes, L.12. The
whole population, with the exception of sixteen persons, are mem-
bers of the Established Church. Divine service is generally well
attdnded.
	The church was erected in 1799, and lately underwent a
thorough repair. It is in consequence extremely comfortable, and
is, in cold weather, heated by a stove in the adjoining vestry. It
is, conveniently situated, and affords ample accommodation; the
number of sittings being 360. The manse was built in 1831, is
a very commodious mansion, finely situated upon a sloping bank
at a short distance from the Cruik, and surrounded, and well shel-
tered by thriving plantations and shrubbery.
	Education.--At present, there are in the parish one parochial
school; two under the direction of the Session, supported by sub-
scription; one seminary for young ladies. The average attend-
once is about 11O; the total attendance throughout the year, 135;
but a number of the pupils belong to the adjoining parishes of Bre-
chin, Logie-Pert, and Menmuir. There are also two, Sabbath
evening schools, and two for farm-servants, each open, on every
alternate evening, from the term of Martinmas to the 1st of March.
The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the medium. The
				3


