
622                        ARGYLESHIRE.

money thus invested for the public accommodation and religious
benefit of the community, as well as for the advancement of the
interests of the parochial poor, should be forthcoming on any
emergency which might occur in course of Providence to render
its immediate application needful for the relief of existing pauper-
ism. The changes which had been occurring in the parochial
economy for some years prior to this period, had increased the
pauperism of the parish with certain of those changes having
their tendency to raise the demands of pauperism. The addition
to the church was accordingly built, needed church accommoda-
tion supplied to the extent of 278 sittings; and hitherto the
schemes has fully justified the expectations of those interested in
its success. From fifty to sixty pounds, the proceeds of letting
those seats, go annually to replace the capital, besides paying the
interest of the investment; and the collections for behoof of
the poor, meanwhile, have so increased, as beyond doubt to
exceed any amount of interest which could be safely realized front
tbe fund by any other mode of investment. As a landward parish,
the whole sittings allocated to the heritors are free, and occupied
by the landward population. The sudden rise of the village has
created, however, a class of parishioners who have no claim on
heritors for such accommodation; and the heritors whose allo-
cations of sittings more than supply the occupiers of their own
lands, are in the habit of letting the surplus sittings at a rea-
sonable rate, the proceeds being generally applied by them to re-
ligious and charitable uses. Further accommodation to the.
amount of sixty sittings, has been more recently still provided, by
an alteration in one of the galleries so that the accommodation
provided is now about 838 sittings.
  The present church of Kilmun was built in 1841. It pro-
vide ample accommodation, being seated for 450, and capable
of admitting galleries should they yet be required. The manse
and offices of the united parish, situated near the village of
Dunoon, were erected in 18O3. They underwent a thorough
repair, and an addition, was made to the manse, in 1883. The
glebe extends to about twelve imperial acres, with an addi-
tional small pendicle situated in the village, where the manse,
offices, and garden formerly stood before the erection of the
present. The glebe has been valued at L. 18 annual rental
The pendicle of glebe land in the village, with the old manse, and
a servitude on the Castle Hill, lot at. L.2, 2s., make an addition


