
                                  WHITHORN.                         55

able veneration in which the very name and memory of St NInian
were held. Even royalty itself paid honours to his memory; for
in the summer of 1473, Margaret, Queen of James III, made a
pilgrimage to Whithorn, and James IV., during his reign, made
not only one but several pilgrimages to the sepulchre of St Ninian.
There were belonging to this place two famous priors, the one
called Gavin Dunbar, afterwards Archbishop of GlasLgow, the other
James Beton, Archbishop of Glasgow, next of St Andrews and
Chancellor of Scotland.(For more minute information, consult

Murray's lit Hist of Galloway.)
	Antiquities.--In this parish, there are the remains of a Roman
camp about half a mile to the west of the town of Whithorn, on
the lands of Stair H. Stewart, Esq. There are likewise several
forts or castles upon the shore, all looking towards the Isle of
Man,--which had possibly been erected to protect the Country
against the inroads of the Scandinavians, who made that island the
place of their rendezvous. One of the old arches in the church-
yard, purely of the Saxon order, and almost entire is much ad-
mired, as the most perfect of its kind that exists in the country.
There is also in the churchyard a large vault, and others have
lately been discovered apparently of great extent, and which there
is no doubt were attached to the priory.  Roman Coins also are
not unfrequently found in the grounds adjioning the site of the
priory. At the Isle of Whithorn, a marine village, about three
miles south of the burgh, there are the remains of the walls of an
old church of very small dimensions, which is reported (not with-
out probability) to have been the first place of Christian worship
built in North Britain.
	Land-owners.--The chief land-owners in the parish are, the
Earl of Galloway; Hugh Hathorn, Esq. of Castlewigg; Stair H.
Stewart, Esq. of Physgill and Glasserton; Alexander Murray, esq.
of Broughton; Hugh D. Stewart, Esq. of Tonderghie; sir Andrew
Agnew of Lochnaw, Bart; and two or three small crofters. Two
of the principal heritors reside in the parish, namely Hugh Ha-
thorn, Esq. of Castlewigg, and Hugh D. Stewart, Esq. of Ton-
derghie.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest parochial register, containing,
births, baptisms, marriages, poor-roll, and funds, goes no farther
back than 1796. The register of births and baptisms has been
very irregularly kept, owing to the negligence of parents.


