
40                      FIFESHIRE.

of announcing that church patronage had been abolished. He
was also one of the most active instruments of bringing about the
Revolution of 1688. In later times, this parish was the residence
of Sir John Hope, afterwards Lord Niddry and Earl of Hopetoun,
who acted so distinguished a part in the peninsular war.
  Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, the Earl of Leven
and Melville; General the Hon. Sir Alexander Hope of Ran-
keilour, G. C. B.; Francis Balfour, Esq. of Fernie, (nearest heir-
male to the attainted title of Burleigh;) George Paterson, Esq. of
Cunoquhie; and Thomas Webster, Esq. of Balgarvie.
  Parochial Registers.-The parish registers commence in the
year 1626. They are in general pretty well kept; but several
portions have been lost. Some of the entries show that the for-
mer state of the country was very different from the present. Thus,
from the treasurer's accounts, we learn, that, besides maintaining
the poor, and assisting in educating young men for the ministry,
the collections made at church were applied to the repairing of
roads, bridges, and harbours.
  Antiquities.- Of antiquities the number is but small. An old tower
yet stands, which is said to have been built by Cardinal Bethune or
Beaton, whi resided here in 1562. It seems to have formed an addi-
tion to a building which had previously been one of the country resi-
dences of the Archbishops of St Andrews. There are several dis-
tinct heads of the Cardinal in his cap, in relievo upon the walls. The
arms of the family of Bethune are also entire. The house of Fer-
nie is believed to have been one of Macduff's castles; it is very old,
and has evidently been a place of strength. In taking down the
old church, a stone coffin was found in the wall, formed of a single
stone, with a cavity cut of the shape of the body. Another stone
formed the cover. Some remnants of what seemed to have been
gold lace were found among the mouldering bones and dust; but
who was the person thus immured, could not be ascertained. About
a mile from the site of the old church, there is a strong spring of
very pure water, which is known by-the name of Cardan's well; so
called from a celebrated physician, who is said with this water to
have cured Hamilton Archbishop of St Andrews, of dropsy. A
belief long prevailed, that this spring was possessed of peculiar me-
dicinal properties, and within the last fifty years many persons used
to frequent it; but now its very name and situation are almost for-
gotten. lt reputation perhaps arose from a cunning device of the
physician, who praised its virtues, that he might induce a lazy eccele-


