
436                         PERTHSHIRE.

tion, as the place of those who have left it is more than supplied
by new settlers.  A great increase has taken place since the tak-
ing of the last census in 1831, so that at present the population
exceeds 4000, and about 2600 live in villages; that of Stanley
alone is 1455.

<TABLE>
        The yearly average of births for the last seven years,      56
                           of deaths for the last five years,       48
                           of marriages for the last seven years,   28

   During the last three years, there have been in Stanley * 9 ille-
gitimate births; and 5 in the other districts of the parish.
   No register of deaths was kept in the parish till the beginning
of 1833, when one was begun by the present minister.  The only
families of independent fortune residing in the parish ard those of
James Wylie, Esq. of Airlywight; and of George Buchanan, Esq.
of Stanley.  There is nothing peculiar in the strength, size, com-
plexion, or any other of the personal qualities of the people.  Many
of them are the descendants of those who inhabited the same places
in the parish several generations ago; and the intermarriages which
have taken place among them have formed them into an extend-
ed, community of blood-relations.  The most prevalent surnames
are Paton, Crichton, Duff, Chalmers and Dow; and, on the
whole, the inhabitants of the landward part of the parish afford
very favourable specimens of the Scottish peasantry. There are
at present three insane, four fatuous, and two blind persons in it.
There are four families in the western districts which claim both
the English and the Gaelic as their native language.  As they say
themselves, they speak the former when they go to the south, and the
latter when they go to the north.  Many native Highlanders have,
within the last twenty years, taken up their residence in the pa-
rish, and, of course, speak their native language when they meet
together.  The Scottish dialect, however, is the universal lan-
guage spoken, and equally well by all. Old Handsel Monday is
kept as a holiday by young and old of the working-classes, when
they put on their best attire, and visit their friends and neighbours.
In general, the people are shrewd, sober, industrious, moral, and
ligous. Smuggling is now unknown, and poaching, though some-
times-practised, is far from being common. Theft is a rare vice.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY
   Agriculture.-It. has been already stated that this parish, in its
full extent hill and dale,  woodland and pastures moor and

<FOOTNOTE>The discipline of Stanley is quite distinct from the Auchtergaven.


