
     Statistical Account

   Eminent Men.-This parish has produced a few eminent
men, whose names ought to be recorded.
   "Sir William Livingstone of Kilsyth, was a man of much

<FOOTNOTE>

11 o'clock, A.M. a gleaming, but gloomy darkness overspread the sky.  The
sun was shorn of his beams, and put on a dismal dark copper colour.
   The cloud that overcast the sky, arose in the south west.  At first it appeared
very small: but as it approached, it became darker and larger, and
gleamed with lightning.  And as the darkness increased, the flashes became
more vived.
   About one o'clock, this cloud reached our hills.  The lightenings flashed
incessant: the thunder roared tremendous, and the mountains seemed to
shake.  At first, a few dropping fragments of broken ice of great size fell.
This was a happy warning to all who were in the fields to fly for shelter.  Had
they remained without, they must have been greatly hurt, for some of the hail
measured 3 inches in circumference; some say a great deal larger.  And it fell
in such quantities, as to cover the surface some inches deep, It was noon
next day before it melted away.
   The damage done by the hail was very considerable; and by the flood from
the hills still more so.  The barley which was beginning to shoot, the flax, which
was then in the bloom, and the pease and beans, which had begun to blossom,
were almost irrecoverably lost, being cut and dashed to the ground, by the hail.
The corns in the vallies were greatly injured by the rapidity of the flood,
though it was only of a few hours duration.  As if a water spout had fallen,
and some suppose this was the case,the face of the hills, which an hour before
were patched, was covered with numberless torrents, so as to have the ap-
pearance of a great collection of cataracts.  Every rill became a river, sweep-
ing houses, bridges, corn, and cattle, all before it, with irresistible fury.  The
consequences of this flood were felt for years, and the devastation it occasioned
may yet partly be seen.  Several acres in the vallies, were overlaid with stones
of all sizes, from stones of 20 tons, to the smallest gravel.  In some places this
layer was 4 or 6 feet deep; and a part of them still remain.  At a moderate
calculation, the damage done in this parish, though fortunately it extended
only to this, was upwards of L. 1000 sterling.  See beginning of Mr Robe's
narrative.
   Happily no lives were lost, though many narrowly escaped.  A woman


