
                            MONZIE.                     271

Fowlis Wester, were taken from these parishes, and annexed to
Monzie.  This is found to be a more convenient arrangement,
and is denominated Monzie parish quoad sacra ; while those lands
within the old boundary are called the parish of Monzie quoad ci-
vilia. The former build and repair the church : the latter build
and repair the manse and school, and pay the minister's stipend
and the schoolmaster's salary.
   Chief Land-owners.-Thd chief land-owners are, Alexander
Campbell, Esq. of Monzie and Inverawe ; James M. Patton,
Esq. of Glenalmond, Anthony Maxtone, Esq. of Cultoquhey;
James Moray, Esq. Abercairney; Mrs Williamson of Lawers; Tho-
mas Patton, Esq. of Glenalmond; and Sir Patrick Murray of
Ochtertyre, Bart.
   P`rochial Registers.- The parochial registers are comprised in
eight folio volumes.  The minutes of the kirk-session commence
in 1691, and are brought down to the present period; but there
is a chasm of five years between 1706 and 1711. The register of
baptisms begins 24th November 1720, and is continued for six
months.  It is then discontined till 17th May 1724, during Which
year and the whole of 1725, there are only three entries.  No
names occur in 1726, and in 1727 the register recommences, and
is continued down till 1836.  The register of marriages or marriage
contracts, or proclamations, commences in 1728, and is continued
to the year 1831, without interruption.  There is no register of
deaths.  In addition to the above records, there is a cash-book
regularly kept for the funds appropriated to the poor.
   The following is a list of all the ministers of Monzie since the
establishment of Presbyterianism in 1691 : Mr Chalmer, Mr
Bowie, Mr Monroe, Mr Lundie, Mr Walker, who had three as-
sistants, viz., Messrs Davidson, M'Leish, and M'Aulie, Mr
Bartie, Mr Erskine, Mr Taylor, Mr Cameron, Mr Omond.
   Antiquities.-This parish possesses some claim to the notice, of
the antiquary.  Indeed there are few localities in Scotland more
rich in Celtic and Roman remains than this and several of the
adjoining parishes.  Within the range of a few miles the travel-
ler may visit the Roman camps at Ardoch, Comrie, and Stra-
geth,-the first allowed to be the most entire specimen of Ro-
man castrametation in Britain,-besides many small forts and frag-
ments of military roads, some of the latter several miles in length.
   Draid Monuments and Subterranean Building.-But to return
to,the parish of Monzie.  There are, first, its Druidic monuments


