
                           TONGLAND.                         81

or the upper part of the stream. It is said the number that thus
escape is, in general, equal to those which are captured. This
also is an illegal mode of fishing; but, until last year, it was prac-
tised in the Dee with great success,--three hundred salmon hav-
ing been often taken from a single pool in a few hours.
   The shoulder-net and the manner of using it cannot be describ-
ed more correctly than in the words of Mr Robb: " A net is fixed
to a semicircular bow of wood, and this is attached to a pole
twenty feet in length. The fisherman ties a piece of bended wood
with a groove in it on his right shoulder, for the pole of the net to
slide in. Taking his station, in the night, upon a rock by the side of
a pool frequented by the salmon, he throws his net Wore him into
the water, and draws it towards him along the bottom, the pole
sliding in the wooden groove. When near him, he gives the net a
sudden turn, and brings out the salmon. Another man is by to
kill the fish, and bring them to a place of safety." By far the
greatest number of salmon are taken by this method. It requires
a man of great bodily strenght, and of long experience as to the
haunts of the fish. Two years ago, 35 salmon were brought out
at a single throw. Several people were fortunately present to as-
sist the fisherman, otherwise he could not have secured his prey.
In July 1836, the same man took 315 grilses with the shoulder-
net in the course of an afternoon.
   The drag-net is constructed in the same manner as the preced-
ing, but upon a much larger scale, and is worked at night by two
men in a boat. It is used only in the Linn-pool,--the largest and
deepest in the Dee. The greatest weight of fish I have known
taken in this manner, in one night, was 800 lbs.
   The draught-net is too well known to need description. The
only pool in which it admits of being used is happily situated and
formed for that purpose,--being the highest into which the tide
flows, and the only one, as its name, the sand bed, imports, which
has a sandy bottom. It can always be drawn four times a day,--
twice at flood and twice at ebb-tide, and seldom fails to yield a
return of fish, which, although less abundant perhaps, is much
more regular than that arising from some of the other modes,
   The gaff is seldom employed, except in spring, and even then
only when the river is low and salmon are scarce. A large hook is
fastened to a slender piece of wood or wire, four or five feet in
length, which is attached to a salmon line. One man takes a fish-
ing-rod, and another approaching cautiously the place where a sal-
mon has been observed, slips the gaff slowly underneath, and, by

   KIRKCUDBRIGHT.


