
412                         FORFARSHIRE.

eye of those who frepudnt the Glesterlaw market, as the adjacent
waste belonging to the estate of West Braky. The enlargement
of farms still goes on. Bowbouse, which in old time was of con-
siderable extent, was finally annexed, along with the better part
of the muirside lands, to the farm of Bolshan, in 1824; and not
a stone now stands upon another, either of the dwelling-house or
steading. There are also, three cases of junction, comprehend-
ing in all eight farms, whose dwelling-houses and steading yet
exist more or less perfect. The number of bothies is increased;
and they are now provided for female workers also who come from
the northern counties in search of more advantageous employment
than can be found at home, in a country without manufactures.
The eighteen larger tenants of 1792 have now decreased to nine
or ten. But the fifty smaller ones have increased their number,
so that one of the principal objections against large farms is not
applicable here,--that, however faithful and industrious a servant
may be, he is doomed to a state of perpetual vassalage, inasmuch
as his savings can never enable him to lease a farm for himself,
in a country where there are no farms of small extent.
	But spinning-mills are the most striking feature of difference
between the present state of the parish and that of 1792. They
have not only lowered the pricer nf spinning, and utterly abolish-
ed it as a species of domestic employment and profit to females;
but they have furnished a work in which the young are of no small
consequence in the manual labour of mankind. While women
have necessarily betaken themselves in great numbers since 1820
to the loom, children are become of considerable value to the pa-
rent in a pecuniary point of view: and the means of giving them
a good education are greatly increased, while the opportunity is
diminished; and the years; that Are best fitted for instilling reli-
gious knowledge into the youthful mind, will pass away unimprov-
ed, unless teaching be provided at the mill, in the room of that
which they were wont to receive at the parochial school.

	Drawn up January 1838,
	Revised August 1842,


