
     of Tillicoultry.

prior to none in the Ochils, for producing excellent mutton
and fine wool.  The wood of these farms is much superior
to that of Bruich and the back hills, as the pasture is natur-
ally much finer.  The farms are commonly supplied from
Tweeddale with young sheep of the black-faced kind: the
farmers sometimes breed young sheep, which, on the whole,
they find better, stronger and more profitable, than those
from Tweeddale.  But as the hills are stormy, they cannot
keep the lambs in winter.  All the Mill Glen farm is good
pasture, but in the rest of the hills, there are near 400 acres
of little or no value, as they are covered with channel and
moss.  The very best white fleeces yield about 4 lib. of wool,
valued at 10 d. per pound; and the best smeared fleeces 6 lib.
at 5 d. or 6 d.  The average weight of a white fleece is about
2 1/2 lib. and of a smeared one, 4 lib.  The whole of what
was formerly a common++ is now the property of Mr BRUCE,
except Bruich, which belongs to Mr TAIT and as much as
will maintain 48 sheep.

   Hills and Minerals.-BENCLEUGH, the property of Mr
Johnston, is the highest in the Ochils, and is 2300 feet a-
bove the level of the Forth at Alloa.  The Ochils present a
considerable variety of strata.  The summits of the central
parts, particularly Bencleugh, are composed of granites, both
red and gray.  Many varieties of these are extremely beau-

     B b 2

<FOOTNOTE>

++When LORD COLVIL feued the estate, he gave his vassals a right of pas-
turing sheep and other cattle on the hills.  Some of them had a limited num-
ber of sheep assigned them, and others an unlimited number.  In the year
1769, Mr BARCLAY MAITLAND commenced a process against the feuers, for
a division of the common hill, which contained about 300 acres.  The pro-
cess was withdrawn from the Court of Session in 1774, and referred to ar-
biters, and all the feuers disposed of their property for low ground, or a di-
minution of their feu-duty.  The Mill-Glen was no part of the common hill.


