
174                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   Topographical Appearances.-From the Frith on the one side,
and the Tyne on the other, the land rises gently to a ridge, along
which the great London road passes; and on the highest point of
that ridge, the church is situate.
   The prevailing winds in this parish are west, north and south-
west. Our heavy rains are from the west. The rains from the
west, when not very abundant, being carried along the Pentlands,
are often afterwards attracted by the Larnmermuirs on the one
band, and the sea on the other; and thus the district between
Musselburgh and Dunbar receives perhaps less rain than any
other district of Scotland. There is snmetimes a good deal of rain
at Edinburgh and westward, when there is none in that tract.
The climate is naturally good, and it has been much improved by
the high state of cultivation to which the county has been brought.
   Hydrography-The Frith of Forth bounds the parish, on the
north, only to the extent of about a mile, the rest of the parish to the
north being cut off from the sea by intersections of the parishes of
Aberlady and Tranent. The shore is rocky, containing detached
masses of rock interspersed by the terminations of strata appearing
above the bed of the sea at low water. The Tyne, which forms
the southern boundary of the parish, to the extent of about a
mile and a-half, is here but a small stream, the water of which
is frequently carried off to supply the mills in its course. There
is abundance of excellent spring water, at the northern and South-
ern extremities of the parish; but in the middle tract, where the
land is high, and coal has been wrought, it is not so Plentiful, and
some of the wells are very deep. In the midst of the coal-field,
however, a little to the north of the village of Penston, in a line
from east to west, three springs rise to the surface in great abun-
dance, probably occasioned by a dike running through the coal-
field in that direction. At Chesterhall, on the property of St Ger-
mains, about half a century ago, there war a considerable marsh,
covering sixteen or seventeen acres; but, by ditching and drain-
ing, it is now, completely dried, and converted into excellent land.
There is not now a marsh in the parish-though, a century ago,
there appears to have been several. There are no streams or
runs of water, except such as are produced and fed by drains from
the adjacent, fields.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-This parish abounds with coal, par-
ticularly the barony of Penston. In the neighbourhood of that
village, it was wrought so far back as the fourteenth century,
			       4


