
272                           PERTHSHIRE.

consisting either of a single stone of large dimensions standing on
end, or of a whole group arranged in the form of a circle. Spe-
cimens of both may be seen in the park of Monzie.  Adjoining
these is a subterranean building of rude construction, having a few
steps of a stone stair within it.   The roof is gone, and the build-
ing itself is but partially laid opdn to the view.  When explored
a few years ago, there were found in it a sword and a stone hatchet,
both of which are now preserved in Monzie House.  A large
Druid stone, with rude carving upon it, lies on the side of the pub-
lic road, between the villages of Monzie and Keppoch.  This was
one of a circle, which Mr Monroe, the then minister of the pa-
rish, caused to be broken and dispersed ; the rest are now built
into the stone wall which surrounds the glebe.  At a place called
  "Clach-na-tiom-pan," in Wester Glenalmond, is an oblong cairn,
measuring about 60 paces in length; and immediately adjoining
are several Druidic stones.  The cairn appears, from openings that
have been made in it, to have been divided into chambers for the
reception of the dead.
   Ancient Chapels and Burying Grounds.-A little farther down
the glen, at Tormenbowie, formerly stood a small chapel; it is now
in ruins, but the burying ground remains, and even yet occasion-
ally affords within its narrow precincts a last home to the weary.
Near the nort-heast corner of the parish once stood " Stuck Cha-
pel," in which, tradition says, sixty men took the sacrament, on
the evening before the battle of Luncarty, in 976, and having gone
to the field only six returned.   The cemetery still exists, but not
a vestige of the chapel is to be seen.
   Forts.-On thd top of Dunmore, overlooking the Small Glen
and the Roman camp, are the ruins of a fort, believed to be Cel-
tic.  It consists of a stone wall, in some places double, surround-
ing probably half a rood of ground.  The stones upon the west
side are partially vitrified; and at Middle Lethendy hs another of
larger size.
   Camps- A few hundred yards above the village of Monzie, up-
on an eminence called " Knock Durroch" (the Oaken Knoll,) is
a small entrenchment, supposed to be Roman.  It is of an oval
form, measuring 120 paces in length, and 80 at its greatest
breadth.  It is surrounded by a double trench, which at one place
appears to the eye to be not less than 8 or 9 feet in depth.  At
Cultoquhey, the property of Anthony Maxtone, Esq. there is a
similar camp, but of much larger dimensions.


