
			HOLYWOOD.                           555

and the spear of those who respect neither the law nor the right
applicable to this species of property. The close season, instead
of commencing on the 25th of September, should extend to the
5th of October.
   The lands of Cowhill and Portract have a right to fishings in
the Nith, and Fourmerkland in the Cluden.
   The salmon caught are nearly all sold in Dumfries, at from 2s.
to 6d. per pound, according to the time of the season. Springs
are abundant, and the water is of the purest quality.
   Meteorology.--The climate is dry, and eminently healthy. The
correct habits of the people, and the fact, that they are all almost
employed in agriculture or rural pursuits, may be assigned as
the causes of the general good health which prevails. During
the last fifteen years, there have been only four cases of typhous
fever; and in this period, thirty-six persons have died of pulmonary
consumption. This season, when scarlet fever has been peculiarly
fatal in parishes around, out of sixty cases, in this parish, there
were only three deaths.
   Geology.--The upper part of the parish, in the hill portion of
it, contains greywacke. Near the centre, at Rue and Newhouse,
of Baltersan, there is hard red freestone, and also limestone. The
dip is to the south. These are not worked. On the lands here men-
tioned, within twenty-five years, portions of lead ore have been turned
up by the plough in considerable pieces; and, within twenty years,
on the west boundary of Cowhill estate, a fragment was dug up,
which weighed three pounds. At Cluden Bank, there is red free-
stone, but so coarse and soft as to be unfit for building.
   Boulders are numerous in some parts of the parish. They con-
sist chiefly of different varieties of large and small grained grey-
wacke, conglomerate, and trap,--together with several varieties of
granite and sienite, which, in general, are different from those of
Criffel. They are found from a stone weight to three tons.
   The soil of this parish is varied. The lands along the Nith,
and also for a considerable tract on the Cluden, are of a deep al-
luvial soil, and entirely free of stones. Advancing beyond these
tracts, the soil becomes lighter. It is dry, and lies for the most part
on coarse sand, though, in some places, the sand is so fine as to be
used for the purposes of building. There is another portion
receding from the former, which consists of a deep strong loam.
The subsoil is tilly, and abounds with small stones; yet, in suitable


