
510                         INVERNESS-SHIRE.

in such a manner as an eye-witness alone could describe it. He la-
ments the slaughter of the M'Donalds by M'Kay's musketry at
the commencement of the action; and speaks in terms of bitter
scorn of the cowardly expedient of blowing out heroes brains by
such wretched missiles as leaden balls. He mentions also, that it
was in the pursuit that Dundee was killed.
   Ian Lom's songs more powerfully influenced the minds of his
countrymen than all the legislation which was at that time employ-
ed for that purpose. Children were taught to lisp them. They
were sung in the family circle on long winter evenings, and at
weddings, lykewakes, raffles, fairs, and in every company. They
attributed to the Stewarts and their adherents the most exalted
virtues; and the opponents of that family they represented as in-
carnate fields.
   In the year 1745, the parish of Kilmonivaig, and that track of
ground lying between its eastern boundaries, and the west coast,
was called "the cradle of the rebellion." And this was the very
locality where the songs of Ian Lom and other Jacobite bards were
allowed to leaven the whole mass of society with Jacobite senti.-
ments.
   It may be stated here, that it was in this parish that the first
act of rebellion was perpetrated in 1745, by an attack of the
M'Donalds of Keppocb, on two companies of regular troops
which the rebels attacked, and took prisoners, after killing two of
their men, and wounding their commander, Captain Scott, after-
wards General Scott. After the Rebellion was suppressed,
Charles Edward found shelter for some time in the sequestered
glens of this parish, and some or the inhabitants experienced the
tender mercies of the Duke of Cumberland.
   Parochial Registers.-There is a register of births and marriages,
which commences in 1780. It was irregularly kept till the year
1820. The Roman Catholic population seldom use this record
for baptisms; but most of their marriages are entered in it. There
is also a minute-book kept by the kirk-session.
   Land-owners.-These are as follows:-
								Valuations.
The Honourable Lord Ward, proprietor of Glengarry,             L.863   7   5
Edward Ellice, Esq  of Glenquoicb,				 310  11   4
Honourable Robert Campbell Scarlett of Inverlochy,               804   4   2 1/4
John Walker, Esq. of Lochtreig,					 715  18   4 1/2
Andrew Belford, Esq. of Glenfintaig,				 166   4  10 3/4
J. E. Baillie, Esq. Kingussie, lands of Glenturret, &c.          247  18   8 1/2
A. M'Intosh, Esq. of M'Intosh, lands of Keppoch, &c.             700   0   0
Lieutenant-Colonel H. J. Cameron of Letterfinlay,              	 416  13   4


