
                         STRATHDON.                           557

dividual paupers on the permanent roll varies from 6s. to 8s. per
month, but this is only to totally helpless or bed-rid persons.
   The average amount of church collections in the above years,
exclusive of the special collections formerly mentioned, was L. 55,
1s. 8d.; other voluntary contributions, L. 18, 8s. 5d. ; mortloch
dues and interest from funds, L. 32, 16s. 8d.  The funds avail-
able for the relief of the poor are the interest of Newe's Legacy
of L. 500, less legacy duty, which is intrusted to the management
of the minister and kirk-session for charitable purposes, whether
to the relief of paupers or others; likewise L. 100, less legacy
duty, bequeathed to the poor by the late Miss Forbes of Bellabeg;
and other smaller sums, altogether amounting to L. 600, which
is lent on interest.
   At no distant period, a very strong, aversion existed to the re-
ception of parochial relief.  There are still not a few instances-to
be met with of that creditable spirit, but, it is to be feared, that
honest independence which rejected the aid of the kirk-box is fast
dying away, and but little feeling of degradation remains at re-
ceiving eleemosynary aid.
   The writer must not omit to notice here, that some of the he-
ritors annually, and others from time to time, give liberal dona-
tions in money, meal, or clothing to the poor on their estates.
   Fairs.-There are five fairs or markets held in the parish du-
ring the summer.  The principal one is John's Fair, for cattle,
sheep, and horses.  Three are small cattle markets, and the re-
maining one, Andermas Fair, at the end of harvest, for the sale
of meal, fodder, &c.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There is one inn in the parish, in which
very good accommodation can be had.  There are also five
houses licensed to retail spirits.  Five or six years ago, besides
the inn above-mentioned, there were no less than eleven tippling
houses.  The minister has resolutely refused every application
that has ever been made to him for a certificate to open a spirit-
shop, and, by the cordial co-operation of the heritors, seven have,
been shut up.  It is believed all the existing houses are as de-
cently and well conducted as places of the kind can be ; but a
still further reduction of their number would be of advantage to
the moral welfare of the comr'ounity.
   Fuel.-Peat, as may be conceived, is the common fuel of the
country.  Wood, as far as it can be obtained, is also used.
Amongst the better classes, coal only is burned in rooms.  English


