
     of Sanqubar.

<UNREADABLE>

   Rivers, and Fisheries.-The Nirth bisects the parish from
the upper to the lower extremity.  It runs about 18 or 20
miles before it reaches Sanqubar, takes various serpentine di-
rections, and at last empties itself into Solway firth.  It ap-
pears in dry summer weather only a small rivulet, but, when
rains fall abundantly, it swells into an object of grandeur and
terror, and by the rapidity of its current furiously tears up ies 
banks, and sweeps them away.  They who are situated near
this river often sustain great injury from it, when in its majes-
ty, and like an usurper, it never restores what it violently
takes away.  The Killo, Crawick, Yochin, Mennoch and
Wanlock are rivulets of considerable magnitude.  The Nith
abounds in salmon, though few of them reach so high as San-
qubar, owing to the many obstructions they meet with by the
way.  All the rivulets yield very fine trout in the season,
though not in great abundance, the Wanlock only excepted,
in which no fish can live by reason of the pernicious qualities,
of the lead ore, which is washed in it.  There are four bridges
in the parish, one over the Nith, two over Mennoch, and one
over Crawick.

</UNREADABLE>

     3 L 2

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

with the influx of  the improvement of land, and the introduction of
manufactures, a principle which seems founded in season and equity, and if
the influx of wealth depends in a great measure on the improvements of land
and the flourishing state of manufactures. there is here no just proportion be-
twixt the wages of servants, and these two sources of wealth; the former
having to an enormous pitch, while the latter are only in a state of in-
 Admitting the principle, however, on the ground of equity, that
servants wages ought to in proportion to the wealth of a county the
of men in the various departments of life.  This appears necessary to the very
existence and preservation of  society, that the various orders of  may
not one another, but keep them proper marks

</UNREADABLE>


