
			GLASGOW.                           237

princes, and the fearful devastations of the north-men. In the
beginning of the twelfth century, when the connection of the Scot-
tish sovereigns with the Saxon and Norman kings of England
gave stability to their authority and comparative tranquillity to their
dominions, the church was revived, and the Episcopate reinstated.
John Achaius, originally chaplain to David I., and afterwards High
Chancellor of the kingdom, was consecrated Bishop at Rome in
1115, and the restored revenue was speedily employed by him in
restoring the dilapidated fabric of the cathedral. His labours to
this end are said to have been completed, and the renovated pile
to have been consecrated in 1133. It is not certain whether that
edifice had been, as was generally the case, erected at first on a
partial and limited scale, or whether it was in one of the succeed-
ing reigns, as is inferred from a charter for its reconstruction, de-
stroyed hy fire, but it is clear that the greater and by far the more
splendid part of the fabric that still exists was built under the di-
rection of Joceline, who became bishop in 1174, and that the choir
was consecrated by him in 1197. During the same reign, (that of
William I. or the Lion,) a charter was granted, erecting Glasgow
into a royal burgh, in favour of the pious and holy Saints Kentigernus
and Jocelineus and their successors. And for many ages this burgh
existed under the auspices of the successive bishops. Innumerable
circumstances, indeed, mark its ecclesiastical origin. Bishop Turn-
bull, in 1451, founded the still existing university; and the growing
importance of the town was obviously owing to the assemblage of
ecclesiastics, many of them of great power and opulence, around
the archiepiscopal residence. To this rank the see was elevated
during the episcopacy of Bishop Blackadder, near the end of the
fifteenth century. Bishop Cameron in 1435 enjoined his prebends,
thirty-two in number, to erect houses for themselves in the vicinity
of the cathedral, and always to reside there. As the city extend-
ed, religious houses were multiplied. A collegiate church, to
which the original name of St Mary's has been lately restored, was
founded in the Trongate, and governed by a provost and eight pre-
bends. A convent of Black Friars was established on the east,
and one of Gray Friars on the west side of the High Street. The
church of the former, rebuilt in 1699, still exists as one of the city
churches, and their grounds are believed to have formed the ori-
ginal part of the college gardens. Many chapels crowded the city
and the suburbs, the names of most of which are now forgotten,
and their revenues have disappeared. The University, as has been


