
     of Urquhart.

   State of Property, Plantations, etc.-Four fifths of this
parish are the property of the Earl of FIFE*, whose planta-
tions are executed with uncommon taste and judgement,
and add much to the beauty and ornament of the country.
In some places, he has planted moors and hills of great ex-
tent, but what makes the most beautiful appearance, is a num-
ber of little rising grounds, all of which he has covered with
singular good taste, and so as to make their appearance with.
relation to each other extremely beautiful.  In all these plan-
tations, the Scotch fir at present predominates; but his Lord-
ship every year causes a great many of there to be cut down,
and the voids to be filled up with beech, oak and other de-
ciduous trees ^.  Besides these plantations, Lord FIFE has
planted hedges, and hedge rows in particular places along
the high ways, that shew much fancy, and will afford con-
siderable utility and warmth; the hedge rows, before they
were planted, were pollards of a considerable size, and are
thriving exceedingly well.  A small plantation, at the place
where the road to the house of Innes leaves the high road,
two miles cast of Elgin, from the beauty of its lines, must
strike every traveller, and the hedge rows are continued a
considerable length along the high road.  In mentioning the
high road, it is but justice to Lord FIFE to let it be known,

     VOL. XV. N

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 26 years ago, his Lordship purchased the estate of Innes; and
being at that time proprietor of considerable estates in the adjacent parishes;
the estate of Innes, and the lands of Urquhart, lately acquired by an exchange
with the family of Gordon, he became possessed of so large a tract of proper-
ty all contiguous, and comprehending a great variety of ground, that he has
been enabled to execute plantations of very large extent.

^ Previous to the year 1779, at which period about one halt of these
plantations were formed, there were always planted in each acre 3000 Scotch
firs:  Since that time the proportion has only been 1200 to each acre.


