
136                    SUTHERLANDSH1RE.

qurves in its course, amidst holms and haughs of the brightest
verdure, and occasionally through birch-covered plate, that partially
conceal some of the bends and reaches of the stream, until it enters,
the German Qcean, at the the riving fishing village of Holmsdale,-
which is situate in the parish of Loth. The highest,
mountains fare at the boundaries of the adjoining parishes, and
Ben Griam-more, one of these mountains, is nearly 2000, feet highw
All the other lofty hills are deeply indented by headlong torrents,
which often transversely cut the highest ranges of the hills al oat.
down to their bases, and, thus form many wild chasms, and great,
and abrupt inequalities of 'the surface.  A great proportion, how-
ever,. of the uplands is superior, and safe pasture ground, with occa-
sional large tracts of moss; and the soil of the haugbs, a10Dg the
lower parts of the river Helmsdale, is formed of deposits of mossy
earth, mixed with particles of decomposed conglomerate rock and,
sand. 
   Meteorology-Notwithstanding the inlandsituation and moun-
tainous character of this parish, the climate in the valley of Kil
donan does not vary much from that of the coast-lying parishes of.
Sutherland; but the extremes of cold and heat are perhaps greater
than along the sea coast. In winter, the high parts of Kildonan
are often visited with snow, when rain alone falls in the less inland
districts;'and when there is a general and great fall of snow, it is
heavier, and lies longer in the interior than on the coast. The
winter storms are also of. greater violeace on the exposed bigh
grounds, and are there' generally most tempestuous and severe.;
Frost appears early in autumn, even in the sheltered strath and
frequently, at that period-of the year, the dawn of day, which is
accompanied by, and discloses a slight boar frost, formed during
the night-time, is followed by a brilliant meridian sun,, which is op-
pressive by its beat.  The bast wind is the coldest, and with it
the heaviest falls of rain occur.  Of late years, the aurora borealis,
or the merry dancers," a& the meteor is called here, has been
unusual frequent, chiefly from the mouth of July to January.
It is often seen moving in upright luminous lines from west to
east, which, when they attain their-greatest brilliancy, suddenly
become dim, and, asif formed of revolving,columns, with alter-
nate bright and dark, sides, these shining lives again suddenly ap-
pear with an irregular glimmer, which increases in silvery bright-
ness, until it becomes a light of great splendour. This Alternate
fading and reappearing of these coruscations continues until what


