
106                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

    The predominating rock is red sandstone, a good building stone.
From the section of a quarry in the parish, it seems to rest upon a
bed of whitish sandstone of some thickness. This variety pos-
sesses considerable hardness, and is much impregnated with iron
pyrites, as it assumes a dingy yellow colour after a short exposure
to the atmosphere. There are several appearances of trap tuffa
in the parish. An attempt was made several years ago to find coal,
but without success.
    Zoology.-As there is nothing peculiar to the parish under this
head, it may be only remarked, that the fruit trees, which suffer
more or less every season, were last spring almost wholly stripped
of their foliage by the caterpillar (the Tortrix padella,) for the ra-
vages of which no practical remedy has hitherto been applied.
    The soil seems well adapted to all the ordinary kinds of forest
trees. On the estate of Ellieston, there are some of the finest
larch trees in the south of Scotland; none, however, of a very
uncommon size.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

    Land-owners.-The chief land-owners, in the order of the
rates of their valued rents, are, Robert Tulloch, Esq. of Ellies-
ton; Alexander Kay, Esq. of Charlesfield; Thomas W. Ramsay,
Esq. of Maxton; William Scott, Esq. of Raeburn; Captain Rid-
dell Carr, of Camieston; His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch;
Adam White, Esq. of Fens; and Sir David Erskine of Dryburgh
Abbey; and eight other proprietors, all having landed properties
of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards.
    Parochial Registers.-The earliest parochial register commences
in 1691; but the registers are neither voluminous, nor regularly
kept.
    Modern Buildings.-His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch has re-
cently erected a very handsome, hunting establishment to the north
of St Boswell's Green, which forms the only modern building of a
public nature (with the exception of the church) deserving to find
a place in this description.

			III.-POPULATION.

    There is every reason to believe that the population of this pa-
rish is at present greater than ever it was at only former period.
This opinion is fully borne out by the following statement:

	Population in 1755,	-	309
		      1791,	-	506
		      1801,	-	497
		      1831,	-	701


