
454.                       RENFREWSHIRE.

It may be the opinion of some, that, like most p . rejectors, the'
Shareholders in this railway are too sanguine in their expectations.
In a little while the truth of their predictions will be brought to
the test. - One thidg must be obvious-wbother the shareholders
Again or lose, the public at large must bene'fit by the scheme.
Every addition made to the means of communication is a boon
conferred on the districts to which it is -applicable. Paisley and
Greenock are the towns which will profit most by this spirited en-
terprise ; for, it can scarcely be d'oubted, that when the railway is
completed, Greenock will be the chief port of Paisley. - If the di-
minution of the foreign tr`de of Greenock, by the deepening of,
the river,' should be arrested by the completion of the railway, the
port of Glasgow has nothing to dread.from such a competition;
and its inhabitants generally will profit by an additional and more
rapid mode of conveyance to the towns and summer residences on
the banks of the river, and on the sea coast. Whdn the Edin-
burgh and Glasgow Railway sball be opened, the number of tra-
vellers will be still more augmented ;- the communication between
the east- and west coasts will be more frequent, and all the towns
on the whole line of railway will profit by this beautiful invention
ofmodern-timos.
  Ecclesiastical State.- The whole of the parish of Greenock, as
has been mentioned in the beginning of this account, was origi-
nally part of the neigbbouring parish of Inverkip. The lands of
Greenock, Finnart, and Spangok, were disjoined from that parish
about thirty years after the Reformation in Scotland at the in-
stance of Sir John Shaw, one of the ancestors of that family whose
enlightened liberality and patriotism we have had occasion to no-
tice repeatedly in this Account.  A copy of the Royal Charter,
authorizing this erection, will be found at the end of this Account.
It is an interesting document, as an illustration of the spirit of the
times. The "great river" referred to is the Kipp, a compara-
tively small stream, neat the village of Inverskip, but at that time
without a brodge, and doubtless frequently swollen by the heavy
rains, so as to be impassable. This charter bears date 18th No-
vember 1589. It was ratified by acts of Parliament in 1592 and
1594. In the year 1618, the lands of Easter Greenock and Craw-
firdsburn, were annexed to Greenock by decree of Court of High
Commision. In 1650, the Court of Teinds and Plantation of Kirks
disjoined the estate of Garvock from the parish of Houston, and
annexed the lands of Lees, Duras, Darnemes, and Fallow-hills,



