
     of Lecropt.

of Egypt, look down on an extensive tract of flat country,
where no other eminence intervenes*.  The tower of the
abbey of Cambuskenneth, in one of the sinks of the Forth,
where the ashes of the weak and unfortunate JAMES III. rest
in peace from the tumult of civil discord, and the constrict of
contending factions;-the stately bridge of Stirling, through
which the Forth holds his majestic course to the ocean; his
long circuitous links, through innumerable farms and thriv-
ing villages, and the sloops sailing along these links in all di-
rections, amidst trees and houses, feast the eye with the plea-
sant prospect, and delight the mind with the grateful idea
industry and of wealth.-The distant hills of Dundoff, on
the south-west, (still the property of the descendants of that
gallant hero who broke the Roman barrier), the hills of Fal-
kirk on the south, famous for the bloody rencounter between
Liberty and Despotism; the green Ochils on the east, piled on
one another; Ben-vor-lich+ on the north; Benledi^ and Ben-
lomond^ on the west, which raise their venerable heads to the

<FOOTNOTE>

*These masses, and all other detached rocks, and many of
our mountain rocks, in this part of the world, present a rugged
front uniformly to the west, and have a tail of earth in the oppo-
site direction.  The western coast of Britain, and most other
islands, present a bold shore of high rocks, while the land on
the east slopes generally by an inclined plane, and dips gradually
into the sea.  The British rivers, for the most part, flow east-
ward.  This is the case in many other countries, especially in
America.  Whether this phenomenon be owing to the current
of the general deluge, or to the direction in which the earth re-
volves round its axis, or to the eastern inclination of the coun-
try, is perhaps uncertain; but there appears to be no doubt,
that it is owing to some general cause; and there is as little
doubt, that a large stone, or a rock, in a river which is not very
rapid, gathers a tail on that side to which the current flows.

+The mountain of great flags.

^^For the etymology of these names, see the account of
CALLANDER, Vol. XI. No. L.


