
     Statistical Account

bolls, partly barely, partly meal.  On some farms, the rent
is paid in kind, and on some others the visual is converted
into money, from 10 s. 6 d to x3 s. 4 d. the boll.  The rent
of the land varies, according to the quality of the soil.  The
lands of the best quality are let at 2 bolls an acre.  And
what is most remarkable, the rent of a considerable part of
these lands has not been augmented for 200 years back,
and yet at present it is as high as the land can possibly bear.
There are 9 proprietors in the parish, none of whom reside
in it at present*.

   Population.-According to Dr Webster's report, the
number of souls was then 1261.  The population is rather
on the decrease, owing to the union of farms, and several
places where cottages once flood, being now inclosed and
planted.  At present, the examination rolls of the parish
contain 933 souls, in which are inserted all who are 6 years
of age and upwards.  From the average number of births,
those under 6 years of age, supposing them all to live, can-
not amount to 200 more.  The principal part of the inha-
bitants is employed in husbandry.  In this parish there are 4
blacksmiths, 8 wrights, 2 coopers, 7 millers, 12 weavers, 9
tailors, 12 shoemakers, 1 slax-dresser, and 31 fishermen.
This last class of men have for 6 years past, subsisted them-
selves and families chiefly by raising crops of potatoes, the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Labour.-The stated wages of day labourers, are from 6 d.
to 8 d. a day.  The amount of the wages of farm-servants, cannot be easily
ascertained; for though their fee is inconsiderable, yet they have great
deal of perquisites, which make the whole of what they receive to a-
mount to from 12 to 14 bolls of victual annually.  The servants being
generally married, and having families, prefer receiving their wages chief-
ly in victual.  A capital defect in the mode of farming practised in this
parish is, that they employ too many servants.  Maid servants receive of
wages from L. 1, 6 s. to L. 1, 12 s. annually.  All other tradesmen are
paid by the piece of work which they execute.


