
     Statistical Account

of evil company, do much more than counterbalance the pro-
fits of infant labour.  If such children live till they become
parents, what hopes do they afford respecting the next gene-
ration?  By the wise and humane exertions of some benevolent
individuals, these evils may be partially prevented or allevi-
ated; but a general care to guard against them is more than
can reasonably be expected.  To all which it may be added,
that the facility with which money is procured by the lower
ranks, tends to generate a spirit unsuited to their condition in
life, unfriendly to subordination, and menacing eventually
the order and peace of society.
   Now if we direct our view to such a state of society as takes
place at present in this parish, and in other places which have
reached the same degree of improvement, a variety of circum-
stances will appear which combine to promote the felicity of
human life.  The farms are not too extensive, and yet suffi-
ciently large to offer abundant scope to exertion.  A comfort-
able subsistence is within the reach of every person who is able,
and who chooses to labour.  Persevering industry and enter-
prise are crowned with liberal rewards.  Not a few of our
most respectable farmers were once servants, and are now e-
qual, perhaps superior in fortune, to the masters whom they
served.  One man might be mentioned, who began the world
with nothing, and, by farming only, reared a numerous fa-
mily, and lately purchased an estate in the parish for which he
paid 1500 guineas.  The trades people in the villages live
more comfortably than those of the same rank in great towns.
Almost every family of this description has a kail-yard, and
keeps a cow; and those who are able to get a few acres of land
find this a great advantage.  Occasional attention to their land
forms an agreeable and useful relaxation from the sedentary
life of a handicraft, and supplies the family with meal and po-
tatoes, and winter provision for the cow.  Though our situa-


