
380                         BANFFSHIRE.

to apply for parochial aid, but from various causes it is gradually
wearing out.
  Inns, &c.-There are 4 licensed victualling houses or inns.
Perhaps this number is required on such a length of road, but then
the whole four are spirit-shops also, and by. far the greater part of
the business is the sale of spirits drunk on the premises. Hence
each of them is unquestionably a nuisance in neighbourbood,
the habitual resort of the profligate, and the seducing tempter of
the unwary. The best that can be said of them, if they are all
necessary, is that they are necessary evils. Were the regulations
of law enforced as to hours, &c. the evils might be somewhat abated;
but this cannot be expected in a district so remote from police.
  Fuel.-The general fuel is turf and peat, procured easily in the
lower part of the parish from an extensive moss, but with great
difficulty in the middle and tipper parts, from mosses on the hills
almost exhausted. Where, however, turf is scarce, wood is abundant
and cheap. Coals are used by the resident proprietors, and
partially by the more substantial tenants. They are brought from
Port-Gordon, on the Banffshire coast, at a medium distance of
twelve miles, or from Garmach, at the mouth of the Spey, at a
medium distance of fourteen miles. The price of the imperial
barrel at the shore is about 1s. 4d. and the cartage of a barrel 6d.
but a large proportion is brought up by the returning carts, which
have carried down grain for exportation. Where easiest procured,
the cart load of peats of the size generally taken on the farmer's
carts, is about 1s., exclusive of carriage. In use, this is equal to a
barrel of coals, but the carriage is more expensive when there is
otherwise full employment for the horses. Where turf is more difficult
to be procured, and of worse quality, the inhabitants would
in fact pay much less for coals and wood, and be more comfortable
with these, but the turf ashes are prized for manure, and the
expense, which consists in labour alone, is not sufficiently estimated.
  Drawn up in 1834.
                        ADDENDA.
  The following addenda bring the foregoing report up to the
present date.
  1. By the census of 1841, the population of the parish was
found to have considerable diminished since 1831, being now only
1261, or 124 less. The causes of this are, an enlargement of
farms on the Seafield property, the pressure of a series of late


