
			   CARMUNNOCK.                       603

adding the districts annexed quoad sacra, the present population
may be nearly 1000. It is deserving of notice, that, in taking up
the Government census in 1831, the proportion of males and fe-
males was exactly equal, there being of each sex 346.

<TABLE>
  Yearly average of births for the last seven years,         22
			  deaths,	                                             20
			  marriages,                     	                     14
	Number of illegitimate births in the parish during the last three years,      4

	Proprietors of Land.--There are six proprietors of land of the
yearly value of L. 50 and upwards.
	Character of the People.--The people in general are decent in
their morals; sober, honest, and industrious; and there is no in-
stance of any individual from the parish having been tried for
capital crime. In bearing this general testimony, it is not to be
expected that we are free from the injurious influence of public-
houses, the fruitful source of vice and misery throughout Scotland.
I may add, however, that in few parishes is there a more general
regard paid to divine ordinances, or a greater proportion of serious
and devout individuals. The beneficial effects of what is usually
called the "Cambuslang Work," 1742, no doubt partially extend-
ed to this and other neighbouring parishes, and it is a place that,
for nearly 150 years, has never wanted a Gospel ministry. The
people have been much distinguished also for warm affection and
respectful kindness towards their pastors. It is said that the prac--
tice of family worship was at one time kept up in every household.
Though the good habit is still prevalent, I am sorry I cannot give
the parish so enviable a distinction at the present day.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The parish contains about 2810 acres Scotch.
Of those, 2400 are arable, and under a regular system of cultiva-
tion. 250 are under wood, almost all of which has been planted,
and about 106 are constantly in pasture. The remainder are oc-
cupied with roads, &c. During the time of the present, proprie-
tor of Cathkin, there were in one square on the hills above, 20 acres
of waste land; besides 6 or 7 acres of moss in such a state as to
render it dangerous to pass over them. The whole of these have
now been brought in, and the acres that were previously moss are
now considered the best ground belonging to the farm in which they
are situated. They require less manure than any other part of
the farm, and are particularly adapted for carrots, turnips, and
potatoes. There is no undivided common in the parish.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land is from


