
     of Aberdeen.

go out at the new election, and five remain, which five
shall invariably be of the number of those eight commis-
sioners who were elected two years before, and shall be
chosen to continue in office by the collective body of the
other commissioners, by figned lists to be given in by a ma-
jority of them to their preses or clerk, fourteen days pre-
vious to the then next general meeting for election, so as to
preserve as nearly as possible an equal rotation in duty.
These commissioners have full power to nominate and ap-
point treasurers, clerks, collectors, scavengers, lighters of
lamps, and other servants proper and necessary under them
in the execution of their office.  This office respects chiefly
the paving, lighting, and cleaning the streets, and supply-
ing the city with water.  The money necessary for de-
fraying the expence in executing these public matters is,
by the act, to be raised by an assessment upon the inhabi-
tants of the city of 1 s. Sterling in the pound yearly for
every dwelling-house, or shop, cellar, warehouse, or other
building within the city and royalty, actually occupied and
possessed at the time by any one person, which shall be esti-
mated at or above L. 1, 5 s. Sterling of yearly rent.  A
rent-roll of such houses, etc. is to be annually made up by
fifteen persons chosen for that purpose.  This assessment is
to be paid by the tenant or occupier of the house; and if
the money thus raised is found not to be sufficient for an-
swering the purposes of widening and improving the streets,
and answering the other purposes of the police for which
the act was obtained, the commissioners are; authorised and
empowered to raise and increase the said assessment of 1 s.
Sterling in the pound of house-rents yearly (for a certain
number of years then to be fixed by such general meeting
of the inhabitants) to any sum or rate not exceeding 1 s. 6 d.
Sterling in the pound annually of the house-rents aforesaid.
This police-act is to continue for the term of 21 years, and

     VOL. XIX. Y


