
                            ABERDEEN.                      97

paid by these coaches on an average of the last three years is
L. 5372.
   Banks.-A bank on a small scale was established in Aberdeen
in 1752, but it did not succeed, and was soon given up.  Soon
after, the Thistle Bank of Glasgow opened an agency here, and
received great support.  In 1767, another attempt was made to
establish a bank in this city, by the formation of the " Banking
Company in Aberdeen," with a capital of L. 72,000.  At first it
met with great opposition from the Glasgow agency, but ultimate-
ly it drove the Thistle Bank from the field, and since that time has
continued to experience a degree of prosperity unequalled by any
similar establishment, in so much that an original share of the stock,
for which L. 150 was paid, sells now for about L.3000.
   It may be worth notice here that this bank had adopted the plan
of using paper for their notes, bearing in watermark a waved line,
and the amount of the note expressed in words, along with the de-
signation of the company; but about forty years ago, a gentleman
connected with this part of the country brought this paper under
the notice of the Bank of England, in consequence of which they
adopted it, and procured an act of Parliament to be passed prohi-
biting the use of paper so marked by any provincial bank.
   In 1788, the " Commercial Bank of Aberdeen" was established,
which experienced on the whole considerable success, but was ulti-
mately given up in 1833 in favour of the National Bank of Scot-
land, whose agency here is doing a good deal of business.
   In 1826, the " Aberdeen Town and County Bank" was project-
ed with a paid up capital of above L. 100,000, and it is amply
proved that the increasing wants of the commercial community re-
quired such an addition to the banking establishment, by the fact
that the share for which L.75 was paid, now sells for L. 145.
   The " North of Scotland Banking Company" was instituted in
1836, with a paid up capital of L. 200,000.  The partners in this
concern are numerous, and it has experienced great success.
   All of these establishments appear to be conducted with great
propriety and liberality, and they have in a very material degree
benefited the city as well as the surrounding country, in various
parts of which they have established agencies.
   The Bank of Scotland, the Commercial Bank of Scotland, the
British Linen Company, and, as already noticed, the National Bank
of Scotland, have thriving branches in Aberdeen, some of them for
many years past.
ABERDEEN.                                      G


