
         380                          PERTHSHIRE.

         Carse of Gowrie, including the Braes, a pecuniary loss was thus
         sustained of not less than L. 96,000.
           Botany.-There are few rare plants found in this parish.  The
         only ones worth mentioning have been communicated to the writer
         by Mr Gorrie, Annat Garden.  They are the following: Pyrola
         rotundifolia, or round-leaved winter-green; Dianthus Armeria,
         or Deptford pink; Ranunculus hirsutus, or pale hairy Crowfoot;
         and Bidens tripartita, or trifid bur-marigold.
           There are no forests in the parish, and few plantations.  Of
         the latter, the chief are those which were planted upwards of
         fifty. years ago for the farther protection of the banks of the
         river against the action of the tide,-those which have been em-
         ployed for shelter and ornament around the pleastre-grounds of
         the principal proprietors,-and those which have been found to
         be the fittest occupants of some of the poorer parts of the soil.
         In the first of these situations, nothing but hard-wood has been
         employed; in the second, there is a large proporthon of larch,
         which, however, does appear to agree with the dampness of the
         soil; and in the third, it has been found expedient to admit a ma-
         jority of Scotch firs.  The species of tree to which the strong
         soils of the Carse are best adapted, is decidedly the oak.  Of this,
         some very noble specimens are to be seen, both in Errol Park
         and in some of the other properties.  There is one, a little to the
         east of the park-wall at Megginch, which measures 13 feet in cir-
         cumference, at the height of about 3 feet from the ground.  At
         Murie, there is a very aged Lammas pear-tree, which has a cir-
         cumference of 12 feet, at the height of 4 1/2 feet from the surface.
         Above that, it had divided itself into three main branches or arms,
         one of which has been torn off, at a distant date, by the violence
         of some tempest.  The tallest pear-trees, however, in the parish
         are to be found at Seaside, and on the contiguous property of Bog-
         mill.  In the orchard at the latter place, there is one which can-
         not be less than 50 feet high, and another which, though, not so
         lofty, is the oldest fruit tree in the Carse, its age being thought
         to be not less than 300 years.  At the former place, therd is ano-
         ther pear-tree, which presents a very singular appearance.  It also
         is of great antiquity.  The height of the trunk, before it divides
         into two principal branches, is fully 15 feet.  At 5 1/2 feet from the
         ground, the diameter of the trunk is not less than 3 feet 6 inches,
         and at twice that height it is still nearly 3 feet in diameter. But
         the interior the trunk is so completely decayed, that a person of
                                           4


