

   300                        BANFFSHIRE.

   rable improvement is now taking place in the breed of cattle,
   homes, and sheep.

	                   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
      Eminent Men.-Of military officers connected with the parish,
   may be mentioned Major-General William Alexander Gordon, C.
   B.of Inverlochy, (of the ancient and respectable Gordons of Croughly,)
   an officer of undaunted courage and intrepidity, who, at the
   memorable battle of the Nieve, at the head of the light infantry of
   General Hill's division, led the van in crossing the river, dislodged
   the enemy on the opposite bank, and turned the fortune of the day
   ifavotr of the British arms. The General still lives to enjoy his welI
   earned honours and the respect of his countrymen. He had three
   brothers officers in the army, one of whom, James Gordon, Esq. of
   Revack, in Strathspey, retired from the paymastership of the 92d
   Highlanders at the close of the Peninsular war, and now lives beloved
   and respected by his family, and a numerous circle of friends
   and acquaintances.-Another family, that of the late Mr Samuel
   Middleton of Inveroury, has been equally eminent in the military
   department. One of his sons, Lieutenant- Colonel William Middleton,
   an accomplished gentleman and officer, has lately retired from
   the command of the 42d, Highlanders, after an active service of
   more titan thirty years, principally abroad. Another of them,
   Lieutenant-Colonel. Charles Middleton, retired from the command
   of a cavalry regiment some years ago, and two more of his sons,
   John and Alexander, the one a captain, and the other a quartermaster,
   lost their lives in the service of their country. The promotion
   of this family rested solely on their own individual merit
   and bravery.-Another family, that of the late Captain Robert
   Macgregor of Delavorar, also furnished four meritorious officers
   for the King's service. The last of them, Captain Charles Macgregor,
   a worthy gentleman and magistrate, died at Delavorar some
   years ago.
      Land-owners,-The sole land-owners are the Duke of Richmond
   and the Earl of Seafield. The former owns about ninetenths,
   and the latter about one-tenth of the parish.
      Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers have been very
   imperfectly kept. There are no original records previous to the
   beginning of the resent century. At that period, there were some
   fragments of registers of. births and marriages extending as far back
   as the year 1725. These were collected and transcribed about the
   year 1800, but there are considerable blanks in the manuscript.


