
322                         KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

Cassencarrie, where they are in beds from four to ten feet of the finest
shells imaginable, without almost any mixture of sand. These shells
are generally sold by the agents of Mr M'Kenzie at 5d. per ton,
25 tons of which are sufficient for an acre of land, and prove a
cheap and excellent manure to this part of the country, and are
considered much preferable to either lime or mark. But the ad-
vantages of this valuable treasure of shells is not confined to this
part of the country alone, but extends round fifty or sixty miles of
a coast as far as the Mull of Galloway, where they are sold as
high as 3s. 6d. per ton. Many thousand tons of these shells are
carried off annually by a number of vessels from twenty to sixty
tons burthen, which are constantly employed, when the weather will
permit, in carrying them all round the coast, and sometimes even
to the Isle of Man. These shells have been used with great ad-
vantage for the improvement of barren heathy land, in so much
that many hundreds of acres in this parish originally not worth
more than 2s. per acre, have been made worth from 10s. to 15s.
per acre.
	These shell-banks, deemed at one time inexhaustible, have been
greatly reduced. There is still a considerable quantity remaining,
which might be profitably employed in reclaiming the waste land
of the parish. The farmers do not seem to appreciate this trea-
sure sufficiently, as shells are now but seldom used as a manure.
	Botany.--In this parish, there is much to interest the botanist.
Plants, indigenous to some of the highest xnotiiitains in Scotland,
to some of the richest glens, and also to the sea coast, are to be
found in considerable abundance. The maritime plants are prin-
cipally found on the south coast, and are such as the following:--
Scilla verna (two or three var.), Aster Tripolium, Senecio sarace-
nicus, Inula erithmoides, Iris Pseud-Acorus, Botrychium Lunaria
(very rare).
	Those found in sheltered glens or well-cultivated districts are,
Eupatorium cannabinum, Galanthus nivalis (in greatest abundance),
Ornithogalum lutsum, Convallaria majalis, C. multiflora.
	There is a high and steep bank, stretching from the village of
Creetown, a considerable way beyond the manse, literally studded
with plants of this description. In the month of April, this bank
is covered with one dense sheet of white, consisting of Anemone
nemorosa and Oxalis Acetosella, which give way to all the beauti-
ful varieties of Hyacinthus non-scriptus. At the bottom of this
bank, there is a very considerable number of the family Orchideae,


