
566                             EDINBURGHSHIRE.

tion derive their origin, but distinguished also by a royal alliance,
John Edmistoun having been married to Isabel, Countess of Dou-

<FOOTNOTE>the gentlemen heritors to agree with Mr Robt. privately anent his provisions for serv-
ing the cure, and thereafter to report their diligence to the presbyterie. Quhilk day
Janet Kellie, relict of umqubile Mr John Melville, lat minister at Natoune, did sup-
plicat for the brethr their concurrence for the anne due to the relict be the favour-
able custome of the kirk. The laid of Posso, (upon the desyre of the brethren,) un-
dertakes to doe his diligence for procuring unto her a precept out of the Checker for
lifting of hir anne out of the hands of the heritors. Mr D. Anderson and all the
remanent heritors undertake to answer her, according to the accustomed precept, their
pairts pro rata, exceptand Mr Jas. Reth and Sir Willm. Murray.
   "The kirk of Natoun being ruinous, motion made for repairing of the same.
The heritors appoint a stent roll, to be condescend it upon be the gentlemen heritors,
and the kirk to be repaired." Agreeably to the recommendation given above, Mr
Robert Carsane reported, (11th January,) "that he had transacted and agreed with
the parishioners of Natoun, and that there was a contract past betwixt him and thame
for securitie of his mantinance."-16th July. Mr Robt. Carsane did exhibit unto
the brethren the contract of agreement betwixt him and the heritors of Natoun, and
his trials were appointed in order to ordination. 30th July. "Supplicatioun given in
by J. Kellie, relict of umquhill Mr John Melville. Mr R. Carsane removed.
The brethren ordaine Mr R. Carsane to submitt quhat concerns the manse and
gleib and all things debatable betwixt him and the relict, and that befor his admis-
sioun. Mr B. Carsane continues his answer." 13th August. Anent the reference
as aforesaid, &c. submitted, to arbitrators, chosen from the brethren. 20th August.
"Mr Rob. Carsane, his submission with the relict this day was reported, the gentle-
men heritors being present, and not opposing, but consenting," 3d September. "Mr
Rot. Carsane returned his edict execut and endorsat. The parishonars and heri-
tors of Natour, called, compared, and to cutt short any more edicts, did testify before
the brethren their accepting of Mr R. Carsane for their minister, requyring with
expeditioun his admissione." Notwithstanding, his edict was served a second and a
third time, according to the practice in those days, "when being returned endorsed,
(17th September,) and the parichonars being called, compeired the gentlemen heri-
tors, supplicating a short day to be fixed for the admissions of Mr R. Carsane to
the ministrie at Natoun. Quhilk desyre the brethren thinking equitable, appoint
the day eight dayes for his admissioun. The clerk appointed to writt to the presby-
teries of Edinburgh and Haddingtoune for their concurrence be their commission-
ars." The ordination and admission accordingly took place on 24th September, ad-
mission to the cure only, and not to the benefice, on a "contract entered into betwixt
him and the parichoners for the securitie of his mantinatice." December 3. "Qu-
hilk day Mr Robt. Carsane reported he had given satisfaction to ye relict of tim-
quhyle Mr Johne Melvin for building of ye manse. The brether condescend that a let-
ter of repetition be drawen up in favours of ye said Mr Robert, quhilk they will gladlie
subscryve." 4th March 1641. "Quhilk day Mr Rob. Carsane presented to the
brethren ane writ for his securitie for repetition from the nixt intrant by his death, or
transport the five hundreth marks debursed be him to Mr John Melvitic, late minis-
ter at Natoun, his relict, for the building of the manse, quhilk secturitie the brethren
did all subscryve." A presentation to the benefice was at length obtained, the mi-
nute, in reference to which runs thus:-June 3, 1641. "Quhilk day Mr Rob.
Carsane produced the King's Majestie his presentations under the privie scale to the
kirk of Neatoune, and the brethren subscryvit to him ane collation, and ordained Mr
John Knox and Mr Hew Campell, to repair to the said kirk at Neatowne the 4th of
this instant, and to give him institutions in dew forme as effeirs." 10th June. Re-
ported that this had been done. The only other extract we shall make, is "The
condition of the kirk of Naton, made up in answer to a requisition, both by ecclesi-
astical and civil authority, when attempts were making to have the temporalities all
regulated by statute. lt is of date 2d November 1648. "This kirk was an pen-
dicle of Musselburgh, and was erected in a parish church in the yeir of God
The king was patron, but about seven yeirs since it was be him, with the superioritie
of the lordship of Musselbruch, disponed to the Earl of Latherdaill, who is now pa-
trone. The number of communicants about 4OO. The greatest part of the parish is
an mile and an half distant from the church, the rest within half an mile or thereby.
The stipend is 300 merks and two chalder of victuale, twa pairts oats, and third pairt


