
                         ROSLIN.                      337

the dwelling-house. The schoolmaster at Hawthornden has a
salary of L.5 per annum and a free school house.
  Libraries.-There is an excellent subscription library at Loan-
head, and there is another at Lasswade.
  Friendly Societies.-There are various societies of this descrip-
tion in the parish, which are of great public benefit.
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of paupers on the
roll is 75. Besides these, there is a considerable number of per-
sons who receive occasional assistance.
  The contributions for the relief of the poor are made from the
following sources, viz. collections at the church door; the interest
of a capital stock of L.333, 6s. 8d.; and an assessment.
  Last year, the sum given to the poor amounted to L.565, 6s. 1d.
  Rental of the Parish.-The following are the items of the pa-
rish rental:

<TABLE>

                Rental of land          L.12,974   2   3
                 Do.      houses,          4,349  18   9
                Feu-duties,                  606   8   0
                                         _______________
                                        L.17,930   9   0

  June 1843.

                           PARISH OF ROSLIN.

           PARISH OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDALE.

                     THE REV. DAVID BROWN, MINISTER.

       I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-THE name Roslin, which is now in common use, or
Rosslyn, as it is spelled in the title of the Earl of Rosslyn, or Ros-
ling, as it is generally found in the records of the Presbytery of
Dalkeith, seems to be compounded of two Celtic words, ross and
lynn, signifying promontory and waterfall; because Roslin Castle,
which was the original residence of the noble family to whom it
still belongs, is situated near to a place where the river North Esk
runs over a very rugged and sloping channel, emphatically called
to this day "The Lynn." It is probable that the name Roslin,
or rosslyn, or Rosling, never was applied to any large extent of
  EDINBURGH.                             Y





