
160                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

on the north-west corner, was intended to be a sleeping chamber
for the priest who officiated at her altar. Sir Robert also assigned
for his use, a house, garden, and croft of land, near the church of St
Ternan of Arbuthnott, along with an annual stipend of 14 1/2 merks.
	In the lower part of the aisle, in the burying ground, there is
an ancient full-length stone statue of Hugh de Arbuthnott (who
is distinguished in the old charters, from two predecessors of the
same name, by the surname of Blundus, or Le Blond,) in a reclin-
ing posture, with the face looking upwards, and the feet resting on
the figure of a dog. His own and his lady's arms, which are the
same with those of the once powerful family of the Morevilles, Con-
stables of Scotland, are cut on the stone on which the statue lies.
Hugh Le Blond died before the end of the twelfth century.
	Ancient Manuscripts.--The psalter and office used in the
chapel of the Virgin Mary, and the missal used in the Church of
St Ternan, are in the library of Arbuthnott House, in excellent
preservation. The penmanship in all of them is remarkably beau-
tiful and regular; and, in the Virgin's Service-Book, and the
Missal, the margins and the initial letters are in many places
splendidly illuminated.
	The psalter, written by James Sybbalde, chaplain of St Ter-
nan, at the desire of Sir Robert Arbuthnott, was finished 4th March
1482, and presented in 1506 to the chapel of the Virgin by the
same Sir Robert, its founder.
	The office of the Virgin, which, like the psalter, is a 4to, and
by the same pen, contains the following illuminated drawings.
	1. St Ternan in his robes. 2. The salutation by the Angel.
3 The Virgin and her child. 4. The rich man and Lazarus in
Hades 5. The Crucifixion. 6. The Sacrament of the Supper.
At the end there is an obituary of the Arbuthnotts from 1314 to
1507; followed by a notice of the death of James Sybbalde,
"vicarius de Arbuthnott, scriba publicus correctissimus testanti-
bus missalibus hujus ecclesiae sancti Terrenani, multisque aliis
voluminibus per eum scriptis." He died 11th September 1507.
	Thd Lissal, which was also written by him, is a folio of the
largest size, and Iikewise contains a drawing of St Ternan. It is
in, its original oaken boards, covered with leather, and fastened with
a brass clasp.
	On the farm Laes, earthen vases of coarse materials, and
rule workmanship, have been dug up occasionally from some gravel
billocks; and a few years ago, when a small was cairn was removed
				4


