
114			BUTSHIRE.

year, L.126, 6s. ld. 2. New Parish Association for Do. and other
religious puposes, L. 43. 3 North Bute Association for religious
purposes, L. 10. 4 Youth's Society for Missionary and religious
purposes; average receipt for the last five years, L. 44; one-
third of the funds goes to the suppnrt of a library. It pays for the
education of twenty poor children, and what remains is given to the
support of missionary objects. 5. Female Benevolent Society, in-
cluding L. 100, proceeds of a bazaar, L. 188, 10s. 2 1/2d. 6. Old man's
Friend Society, including L. 40, Proceeds of bazaar, L. 59, 11s.
10 1/2d. Ladies' Society for Promoting Female Education in India,
L. 30. The members of these associations almost entirely belong
to the Establisment Church.
   The church collection for religious and benevolent objects, in-
dependently of the regular collections for the poor, amounted last
year to the sum of L. 97, 17s 4d.
  Education-The numbers of school in the parish is 15, There
is one parochial school with three assistant teachers. The salary
is L. 38, 0s. 6d. per annum, with no garden. The Marquis of Bute
built three years ago a large aparment, at his own charge, in con-
nection with the parish school-house, for the encouragement of
education, and of the present distinguished teacher; no rent is
charged for it, so long as the teachers keeps able assistant, and
gives satisfaction to the public. Two of the schools are partially
endowed by the Marquis of Bute. Two have their school-rooms
free. One is a school of industry for females, and is supported
by subscription, and a penny a-week from each scholar. Three
are ladies' boarding schools of an excellent description, and admit
day-scholars also. The number of scholars attending these schools
in the spring of the present year was 921, or 1 out of every 6 1/2
of the population. The state of the schools generally, and the
style of education in them are excellent. There is scarely a
young person brought up in the parish who cannot read and write,
   As the rate of fees in the parish school very much regulates all
the rest of the school, we subjoin the following list of the pa-
rish school fees: Class I. 1. English reading, 3s. per quarter; 2.
writing or arithmetic, 4s.; 3. writing and arithmetic, 5s.; 4. read-
ing writing and arithmetics, 6s.; 5. English grammar or geography
6s.; 6. English grammar and geography, 7s.; 7. reading, writing,
arithmetic, geography, and grammar, 8s. Class II. Latin, 7s. per
quarter; Greek or French, 8s.; Latin and Greek, or French, 10s.


