
			DUNKLED AND DOWALLY.                   999

ally, as also the rearing of cattle. Many of the tenants keep a
few English and black-faced sheep.
	Harvest labour has undergone a great change of late. years,
shearing having now been nearly abolished, and the scythe gene.
rally used. The farming utensils are mostly of the newest pat-
tern. The smith and wright work are excellent. A few of the
farms have thrashing-mills. There is an agricultural association
in the district, which has been productive of great benefit.
	The waves of out and in-door servants are similar in amount to
those of the surrounding parishes.
	All the lands in the parish, excepting the barony of Dulcapon,
were thirled to the mill of Dowally, which does not now exist.
	Farmers some years ago were sadly pestered with tinkers and
sturdy beggars, who used to encamp in great numbers in the well-
sheltered Bog of Dowally, but they have disappeared since the in-
troduction of the county constabulary force.
	In 1700, there was no road through the parish. The military
road was cut in 1739. It was made in a straight line, just sufficiently
broad, but not conveniently formed for a horse to travel. There
were no bridges. The Duke of Atholl, in going from Dunkeld to
Blair, at that period, was carried in a sedan chair. The journey
was through the low grounds of the valley of Atholl, a distafte of
twenty-six miles, and took thirteen hours even with the aid of the
tenants. About 1760, when the roads were a little better improved
the Duke travelled the same journey in a carriage drawn with six
horses, which occupied twelve hours; the tenants assisting to get tbe
vehicle over holes and rivulets. The first bridges built in the parish
were those over the waters of Dowally and Oishnie, about seventy-
eight years ago. When the late Duke succeeded to the title, he
widened the military roads; and here and there he cut out a new
and more convenient line, and erected several bridges. There are
now twenty-seven bridges within the parish. He compelled the
farmers to follow a mode of rotation in cultivation, and brought the
locality, in little more than forty years, into its present improved
state. At the present day, there is a daily mail to and from In-
verness, with about twenty weekly carriers. In summer, there
are five stage-coaches, which pass through the parish, exclusive
of travelling carriages, &c. to the northern counties.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Ecclesiastical State.-- The parish church was erected in 1818,
nearly on the site of the old one. It is conveniently fitted up.


