
590                         AYRSHIRE.

lime or dung during each rotation. There are few sheep kept.
The pasture lands are occupied by milk cows of the best Ayrshire
breed. Their produce is disposed of partly in butter, but chiefly in
cheese, which may be considered as the staple article, from which
at least two-thirds of the rents are raised  great attention is there-
fore paid to the dairy. The cheese is considered equal to the best
Dunlop, and bears the highest price as such in the Glasgow mar-
ket. The tenants seldom carry their cheese to the Glasgow mar-
ket themselves. They dispose of it to a class of cheese-merchants
or middlemen, who purchase from the tenants, and attend the dis-
posal of it in the markets. Many of those cheese-merchants have
made considerable fortunes. Mr James Findlay, a well-known
dealer, has erected a large storehouse,at Easter Highgate in
which he has often 12,000 stones of cheese, and 1000 bolls of oat-
meal. He carries a very large quantity to the Glasgow market
yearly. The number of milk cows, pastured in the parish, may
amount to 900, besides young cattle and as the greater part of the
produce of the cows is made into cheese, it may be estimated to ave-
rage from 12 to 16 stone tron, being 18 or 24 stone English each
cow. A considerable quantity of milk is also carted into the ad-
joining villages, which is found a more profitable mode of disposing
of it, when the distance is great, than by making cheese or but-
ter. Rye-grass is extensively grown for sale, and in the town and
parish there are seed-merchants who make very considerable pur-
chases, and make large shipments to England. The fur drainage
has lately been carried on very extensively in the parish. It was
first attempted by Mr Cunninghame of Lainshaw, with stones. The
tile-drainage was then introduced by the Duke of Portland, who
carried it to a very great extent. There was at first a prejudice
against tiles in this neighbourhood, in which there is abundance of
stones, and the fur drains were for some time made exclusively with
stones. The prejudice has now given way, and two tile-works have
lately been erected in the parish, which have not hitherto been able
to supply the demand. On the drained lands, wheat and beans are
now partially reared, and the fur drainage has greatly improved the
quality of the pasturage. The stock of cattle has also much im-
proved; and the late Dr Patrick of Trearne, Mr Patrick of Rough-
wood, and Captain Patrick of Drumbowie, for many years have
given premiums, to their tenants for the best cattle kept and reared
by them, as shown at an anual exhibition. This has been produc-
tive of much benefit, and is an example worthy of immitation by


