
                           KILTARLITY.                      501

to 800 individuals, of whom, however, a large proportion belongs
to other parishes.
   There is a catechist in the parish, who is supported by volun-
tary contribution.
   The number of communicants belonging to the Establishment
is about 120. *
   Poor.-The average amount annually expendedon the poor is
about L. 25, of which sum there arises from church collections
about L. 16. The number of individuals deriving aid from the
poor's roll is 77.
   The people have the greatest repugnance to apply for parochial
aid, and there are many instances where they have submitted to
the most abject penury and distress, rather than incur the degra-
dation of becoming mendicants, or even soliciting such trifling as-
sistance as the parochial funds could afford to give them.
   Education.-The number of schools in this parish is seven, and
the branches generally taught in them are, reading, writing, and
arithmetic, though in one or two of them a boy occasionally may be
found studying the dead languages. The people appear to be alive
to the benefits of a plain common education. There are no parts of
the parish so distant as to prevent attendance at one or other of
the schools. The average number in each is as follows:
<TABLE>

Kiltarlity,  parish school,	                                          80
blauld,	         do.	                                                  40
Knockfin.	 do.	                                                  40
Fartellan, Assembly school,	                                          70
Bog, supported by individual subscription,                                40
Glenconvinth,    do             do.	                                  60
Female school at Kiltarlity, endowed by the Right Honourable Lady Lovat,  30

       Average number of children in the parish attending school,        360
   The salary of the teacher in the principal parish school, (which
is that of Kiltarlity,) is L. 25, 16s., and the fees may amount to
from L.15 to L.20 annually. The scale of fees is much the same
in the whole of these schools. The salary in each of the other
two parochial schools, which have only been recently established,
is L.12, 18s.; but The Chisholm has liberally made up their sa-
laries to L.25. The continuance of this boon, however, is quite
voluntary on the part of The Chisholm, though it is not likely that

<FOOTNOTE>Patron.-Lord Lovat had the patronage of this as well as many other parishes,
in his gift, until about four years ago, when he transferred this right of presentation
to Hercules Scott, Esq. Professor of Moral Philosophy at King's College Aber-
deen. It is supposed that this was done in order to do away with any objections
which might arise, in consequence of Lord Levat's exercising his right of presenta-
tion, he being of a different persuasion.


