
                   ISLAND OF SYKE-DUIRINISH.                    339

cept a broad rim of silver, chased and carved, around the edge. It
is said to have been the favourite drinking cup of Ruari Mor, i. e.
"Big Roderick," one of the Macleods already referred to: but
from its containing three ordinary bottles, that is upwards of five
English pints, it is probable that he did not often empty it. The
quaffing off its contents in claret is one of the ceremonies regu-
larly gone through at the inauguration of the chief of Macleod.
It is believed, however, that in modern days a piece of cork is on
these occasions fixed in the horn, much nearer the top than the
bottom.
   Bagpipe.-It is well known that the great bag-pipe, the in-
strument on which the national music of Scotland was chiefly
played for so long a time, and which has still so striking an
effect in rousing the martial spirit of the Highlanders, was cul-
tivated with greater success by the Macrimmons, the hereditary
pipers of the Macleods, than by any others in the Highlands.
The name of Macrimmon, whether on fanciful or on conclusive
ground we pretend not to say, has been derived from the fact of
the first musician who bore the name having studied his profes-
sion at Cremona in Italy.  Certain it is that, what rarely happens,
high musical talent as well as high moral principle and personal
bravery, descended from father to son during many generations in
the family of the Macrimmons.  They became so celebrated that
pupils were sent to them from all quarters of the Highlands, and
one of the best certificates that a piper could possess was his hav-
ing studied under the Macrimmons.  Finding the number of pu-
pils daily increasing, they at length opened a regular, school or
college for pipe music on the farm of Boreraig, opposite to Dun-
vegan Castle, but separated from it by Loch Follart.  Here, so
many years of study were prescribed, regular lessons were given
out, certain periods for receiving the instructions of the mas-
ter were fixed.  The whole tuition was carried, on as syste-
matically as in any of our modern academies; and the names
of some of the caves and knolls in the vicinity still point out
the spots where the scholars used to practise, respectively on the
chanter,the small pipe, and the Piob, mhor, or large bagpipe,
before exhibiting in presence of the master.  Macleod endowed
this school by granting the farm of Boreraig to it, and I it is no
longer ago than seventy years since the endowment was withdrawn.
It was owing to the following cause : The farm had been originally
given only during the pleasure of the proprietor.  For many ages


