
     Statistical Account

lation in 1755, was 1802.  The parish contains in all, at pre-
sent, 1778 souls.  Of these, 220 Episcopalians, a few Sece-
ders, a few Roman Catholics, and all the rest of the Esta-
blished Church.  Our marriages annually, at an average, a-
mount to 15; baptisms to 36; and burials to 25; excluding
those that are buried at other parishes; but, notwithstanding
that the number of deaths comes greatly short of the births;
yet, on account of the farms becoming larger, the lands be-
ing thrown into pasture, laid down with grass-seeds, the great
advancement on servants wages, and the increase of manu-
factures in towns, the inhabitants of the parish are gradually
decreasing.

   State of Farming, &c.-Improvements in farming are
making great progress.  The horse-hoeing husbandry has been
introduced with success.  Cabbages, in the field, have scarce-
ly been raised any where in the parish except by the mini-
ster; they are of the Scotch grey sort, and grow to a great
size.  They are chiefly applied for feeding the cows, and are
all horse-hoed*.  Turnip crops have been cultivated for many
years in the broad cast, and now a great part of the crop in
the drill.  The following year, these fields so cultivated are
laid down with grass-seeds.  The cattle are of the Scotch
breed; but are, of late, much improved in size by the cul-
ture of green crops.  These are consumed in rearing cattle,
which is found more profitable to the farmer, than in fatten-

<FOOTNOTE>

*About 20 years ago, cabbages were raised in the open fields of Cobairdy
by Sir Ernest Gordon, the outer blades of which exceeded 4 feet, and some-
times 4 1/2 feet diameter; these cabbages, after being stripped of their stem and
outer blades, generally weighed from 38 lib. to 48 lib. Dutch weight.  Also
in the same fields, turmp had been often raised from 16 lib. to 22 lib. Dutch
weight, including the top, or blades that grow above ground.  What a pity is
it that the cultivation of these cabbages is now so much neglected.


