
                           TEMPLE.                         55

   About 100 families in the parish belong to the Established
Church.
   There is a Dissenting chapel at Gorebridge belonging to the
United Secession, to which a minister was admitted in 1813. His
stipend, which may be L. 100, (besides a house and garden,) is
madd up from the contributions at the door of the chapel, seat-
rents, and other eleemosynary sources; and a meeting-house, for a
small society of Anabaptists, is situated in that part of Stobhill
which lies within the parish.
   Education.-There are 3 schools in the parish, 1 parochial, and
2 unendowed, at Gorebridge, supported by individual subscription.
The ordinary branches of instruction taught at the parochial school
are, Latin, first principles of Greek, English reading, grammar,
writing, arithmetic, mathematics, and geography. The subscrip-
tion schools are nearly similar, but the higher branches are not
there so much required. The salary of the parochial teacher is
the maximum, and he has all the advantages allowed by law.
His fees may amount to L. 30 per annum; and he has about
L. 6 per annum from other sources. The general expense of edu-
cation per quarter is, for Latin and Greek, 5s.; writing, arith-
metic, mathematics, and geography, 3s. 6d.; English reading, &c.,
3s. None between six and fifteen years, or above that age, are
without the knowledge of reading and writing. All are fully sen-
sible of the benefits of education, and do not fail to improve them.
   Gorebridge, where the greatest population is assembled, is too
far distant from the parochial school; but as there are two schools
within the village, no inconvenience is felt. Children in the tpper
part of the parish have an opportunity of attending the instructions
of a teacher at Tweeddale Burn, in the parish of Eddleston; and
occasionally, the farmer at Muirfoot has a teacher for his own fa-
mily,-whose instructions are also enjoyed by others in the vicinity.
No additional schools are required.
   Literature.-A subscription library was instituted at Gorebridge
14th December 1818; the number of subscribers is above 80,
and of volumes 600, in almost every department of modern
literature, adapted for the instruction and entertainment of general
readers.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-A Friendly Society has been
established for about ten years at Stobsmills; and vi Savings Bank
has been established in the parish, joined with that of Borthwick.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The annual expenditure for the


