
			PARISH OF CARSTAIRS.

		PRESBYTERY OF LANARK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		  THE REV. GEORGE MUNRO, A. M. MINISTER.

			I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name--THE etymology of the name of this parish is involved
in some uncertainty. In charters of the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries, the name appears in the form of Castleterres or Castle-
larres; and in documents subsequent to that date, in the form of
Carstaires, Carstares, and Carstairs. The prefix Car or Caer,
in the old British language, signified a fort, or walled place, or
castle, and is thus synonymous with the other prefix Castel; so
that both forms of the name have the same meaning. The affix
Stairs or Stair, anciently Staer or Ster, denoted an estate or pos-
session. Adopting this etymology, the meaning of the whole is,
" An estate, or possession where there is an enclosed, or fortified
place;" and local circumstances seem to sanction its correctness.
The notion that Stair is a term derived from the ridges on the
west side of the church, is evidently fanciful. Nothing can be
argued in favour of this etymology from the addition of the final s.
Such an addition to words which do not require it, is a thing quite
COmmon among the illiterate of our country; and the name ap-
pears of more ancient date than these ridges, which seem, like those
at Newlands and Strathaven, of an artificial character.
        Extent and Boundaries. In form the parish is an irregular ob-
long situated on the right bank of the Clyde, at the distance of
27 miles west froth Edinburgh, and 25 miles east from Glasgow.
It is bounded on the south by the River Clyde, which separates it
from Pettinain; on the west, by Lanark; on the north and north_
west, by Carluke and Cambusnethan; and on the eart, by Carn-
wath. The extreme length may be reckoned at 6 miles from
north to south, and the average breadth about 3 miles. It con-
tains about 18 1/2 square miles, or 11,840 imperial acres.
        Topographical Appearances. The aspect of the parish is vari-
ous. The surface is diversified to a considerable extent, with a


