
                    WHITTINGHAM.                       65

the Marquis of Tweeddale, the Earl of Haddington, Captain
Buchan Sydserff, of Ruchlaw, Andrew Houston, Esq. of May-
shiel, Mrs H. Nisbet Ferguson of Beil, and Miss Dalrymple of
Halles. The two last mentioned have each but a small possession
in the parish.
   James Balfour, Esq. the principal proprietor of this parish, has
built a splendid mansion upon the south bank of the Whittingham
water, of Grecian architecture, delightfully situated, and com-
manding a view of the country towards the sea. It is surrounded
by beautiful plantations tastefully laid out. Through the adjacent
grounds, a variety of beautiful walks are interspersed, and, what
seldom happens in other places, they have always a dry bot-
tom, both summer and winter, and are so planned and contriv-
ed, that on some of them, it is very easy at any season to find
shelter from the wind and the storm. Towards this elegant
edifice of Whittingham House, there are three magnificent ap-
proaches,-one from the east, one from the south, and one from
the west.
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry in the pa-
rish register is 1626. There have been some part of it lost; but
it has been kept pretty regularly for the last ninety years.
   Antiquities.-Upon the Marquis of Tweeddale's estate of Priest-
law, at the south-east extremity of the parish, there is the appear-
ance of a strong encampment, all the parts of which are still en-
tire, as described in the former Statistical Account of this parish.
This camp is of an oval form, with the broadest end, which is in-
accessible, toward the north. On one side are four ditches paral-
lel to each other, and the distance betwixt each is about twelve
yards. On the north side are three ditches, and the outer one is
carried round the whole. The circumference of this ancient mili-
tary Work measures about 670 yards.
   Part of the Castle of Whittingham is still in good repair, and
is inhabited. It bears evident marks of great antiquity. There
is another old building upon this estate called Stoneypath Tower,
which was occupied in the year 1414, by James Douglas, design-
ed of Roberton. who got it from his father James, Douglas, the
first Lord Dalkeith. It seems to have been strongly fortified both
by nature and by art. A considerable part of its lofty walls are Still
standing. These estates seem to have been united and in the pos-
session Of one owner prior to the period iri which Queen Mary be-

   HADDINGTON.                    E


