
     of Avoch.

   Springs etc.-There is great abundance of excellent
springs throughout all this parish.  Some of them have a
mineral tint; but have not become remarkable for the cure
of any diseases. A well, called Craiguck, issuing from a

<FOOTNOTE>

vides this parish from Fortrose and Kosemarky) to the east end of the Seatown
of Avoch, the coast is high and roky.  But few of those rocks extend into
the sea, so as to be dangerous for boats:  And there is for the most part a sine
soft beach at the foot of them.  From thence to Castletown Point, the shore
is sat and sandy.  There is good anchorage for shipping; and vessels of from
40 to 100 tons may lie to safely on the Seatown beach, to deliver and receive
cargoes, unless there be a strong gale from South or South-East.  From Cas-
tletown Point Westward to the mouth of Munlochy bay, the coast is bold
and rocky, and there is more depth of water.  Along the said bay to the
western boundary of this parish, it is generally high, and consists of sand and
gravel, with some large rocks interspersed.
   Even those rocks have turned out advantageous.  For in Munlochy bay
there is an excellent quarry of hard reddish freestone, accessible to boats on
the water-edge.  Out of this quarry almost the whole of the extensive works
of Fort George were built.  The late Mr Matheson of Bennetsfield, proprie-
tor of the grounds, let the quarry to Government or to the undertaker em-
ployed by Government, at the small rum of 10 L. a-year, while that fortifica-
tion was going on.  A cheap contract, indeed, if we consider the immense
quantity of material furnished?  For 20 or 30 boats, besides several sloops,
were constantly employed in conveying it.
   The quarry is now wrought chiefly for builders at Inverness, who,
though there be 5 or 6 miles of water-carriage, find this their easiest supply.
And two boats of 10 or 11 tons burden each, are almost daily engaged in the
business; which, with the quarrying work, yields, a pretty good subsistence
to eight or ten families in this parish, besides a rent, or profit of about 30 l.
Sterling yearly, to the proprietor.  A boat's cargo of the stone fetches at in-
verness, 16 s. or 17 s.
   The Moray Frith at Avoch, is about four miles broad.  And a finer ba-
ron is scarcely to be seen in the North.  To an observer on this shore it has
all the appearance of a beautiful lake.  For Chanonry point from the North,
and that of Ardersier from the South-East, appear like projected arms to
clasp each other, and to break off its connection with the sea, while the point
of Inverness, and the hills in that neighbourhood, seem to bound it in like
manner in art opposite direction.  The town of Inverness, at the one end and


