
626                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the Queen retiring to dinner, the mob demolished the image, and
scattered the procession, to the utter dismay of the priests and friars.
" Such a sudden fray, " says Knox., "came never among the genera-
tions of antichrist within this realm before."
    On the approach of the army of the Congregation from Perth
to Edinburgh, the magistrates sent out commissioners to entreat
the leaders to cause spare the churches and religious houses, that
these might be converted to the use of the reformed religion.
The gates of the city were also shut, except those of the Nether
Bow and West Port, which were guarded by twelve men each;
while a guard of sixty men was placed over St Giles. The army
entered and took possession of the city; and a short truce was
entered into with the Queen.  Soon after, however, the latter,
having been reinforced with French troops, took possession of Leith,
burned out the greater part of the inhabitants, and fortified the
place. This was, in the opinion of the Congregational leaders,
an infringement of the truce. They again assembled. At a
solemn meeting in the Tolbootb, they suspended the Queen from,
her regency; and next day they formally summoned the town of
Leith to surrender. No regard being paid to their summons, they
prepared to attack the fortifications, the town-council of Edin-
burgh having furnished 2000 merks towards promoting the enter-
prise. They attempted the attack by escalade, but were repul-
sed, chiefly owing to the shortness of the scaling ladders. In a se-
cond attack they were not more fortunate; and now, not deeming
themselves secure within the walls of Edinburgh, they retired to
Stirling, and there awaited a reinforcement from Queen Eliza-
beth. An army of 6000 men and a fleet of ships were dispatch-
ed from England to the assistance of the Congregation ; which,
arriving at Leith, soon compelled. the French troops to capitulate,
and leave the kingdom ; and thus the Lords of the Congregation
were left sole masters of the government. Immediately after, the
Parliament was assembled in Edinburgh. All the members who
were farourable, to the doctrines of the Reformation attended, as
well as several prelates and lords who still adhered to the Catho-
he veligion. This Parliament proceeded to abolisk the Papal ju-
risdiction; to rescind the whole acts made in favour of Popery;
to establish the Confession of Faith ; and to enact laws for the
Proper observance of religious ordinances.
  In accordance with these, the town-council of Edinburgh en-
acted that all idolaters, fornicators, and adulterers should be ba-


