
662                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

but the chapel has been allowed to remain in a ruinous state till
the present time.
   The ruin, as already stated, formed the nave of the original
church, and is 148 feet in length by 66 feet in breadth. The
style is of the middle period of Gothic architecture; and this
remaining portion affords sufficient, proof that, when entire, the
church must have been a magnificent structure. In the south-
east corner of the nave is the royal vault, where were buried
David II., James II., James V., and Henry Lord Darnley.
   On the demolition of the monasteries at the reformation, the
superiority of the Canongate, North Leith, part of the Pleasance,
and barony of Broughton, was vested in the Earl of Roxburgh.
In 1636, the town-council of Edinburgh purchased these superi-
orities from the Earl, and obtained a charter of confirmatiou of
the same from Charles I.
   The precincts of this abbey and the King's Park, first inclosed
by James V., still retain the ancient privilege of being a sanctuary
for insolvent debtors. The bailie of Holyrood is appointed by
commission from the Duke of Hamilton, and the protection of the
sanctuary is obtained by petition to this functionary, and the pay-
ment of L. 2, 2s. in name of fees. The average annual number
who availed themselves of this privilege for the ten years previous
to 1834, was 55. The boundaries comprise the King's Park,
Silisbury Crags, and the greater part of Arthur Seat.
Trinity College, Church.-This church was founded by Mary
of Gueldres, Queen of James II., in the year 1462, at the same
time that Trinity Hospital was endowed. The original plan was
never completed, only the choir, central tower, and cross having
been erected. It was a collegiate church, and its charter of foun-
dation provided for a provost, eight prebendaries, two choristers,
and a sacristan. The church is situated in the low ground a 1ittle
to the east of the North Bridge. The style is Gothic, with large
handsome windows on the north and south ends. These were
opened up and the church completely repaired in 1815. The an-
foundress lies buried in the north aisle of the church. This an-
cient, edifice being nearly in the line of the North British railway,
it is doubtful whether it may not be necessary to pull it down.
   Old and New Greffriars.-These churches and the surround-
ing cementery occupy ground which belonged to the Grey Friars.
The Old Greyfriars was founded in 1612, and was at that time
completely without the city. In 1718, the spire, which strangely
			      4


