
2                         FORFARSHIRE.

the united parishes of Liff and Benvie on the west; the united
parishes of Mains and Strathmartine on the north; and the parishes
of Murroes and Monifieth on the east.
	Climate.--All those places lying to the south of the line of great-
est elevation, (which runs nearly east and west,) possessing not
only a better exposure to the sun, but also his reflexion from the
river in summer, and the radiation from it in winter, enjoy a finer
climate than those situate on the northern aspect. And of all the
places in the parish, none is better sheltered than the town. But,
either on account of the exhalations arising from silt of which a
great extent is uncovered twice every day by the recess of the tide,
or from the original swampiness of the bottom on which a con-
siddr`ble part of the town stands, or from the impurity of the at-
mosphere arising from the smoke of steam-engines used in the ma-
nufactories, or from the denseness of the population in many dis-
tricts, or from the negligent habits of the people as to cleanliness,
or from a combination of several, or of all these causes, the town
must be regarded as still rather unhealthy.
	 Diseases.--Asthma, (which, however, seems scarcely to impair
the longevity of those who are affected with it,) typhus fever, and
even dysentery, though not to the same extent as formerly, are still
in some measure endemic.
	In 1819, typhus fever prevailed to an alarming extent, number-
ing, during seven months, 1264 seizures, and 95, deaths. And in
1832, malignant cholera made two eruptions, one in July, the other
in October, and prevailed more or less for the same length of time
as the typhus of 1819, (but at the opposite season,) carrying off
512 persons out of 808 seized. In 1833, this dreadful malady again
revisited the town, but though it was very fatal in certain quarters,
(Seagate and Black's Croft,) it did not become generally diffused,
and the number carried off by it was comparatively small. Cholera
has now (December 1833) been succeeded by small-pox.
	Hydrography.--Full tide in the estuary of the Tay, which, as
has been stated, washes the southern limits of the parish, is gene-
rally said to occur on the days of the new and full moons, at a quar-
ter past two o'clock, but it flows in the harbour of Dundee till about
half past two.  The average height of the spring tides, as measur-
ed by an index at the entrance to King William's Dock, is about
seventeen feet, while that of the neap tides is about eleven feet.
The water opposite the town, though saline, is not wholly oceanic,
being diluted to a considerable extent by the fresh water flowing


