
870                            PERTHSHIRE.

this parish.  The extensive distilleries, collieries, and salt-works,
which formerly employed many workmen, are totally extinct.  The
shipping, interest is also on the decline.   Formerly many vessels
were built here, and during the winter nearly 100 were to be seen
in the roadstead. In 1786, there were nine on the stocks at one
time; in 1842, there are only three.  The ship-owners buy or
build vessels of large tonnage elsewhere, and these are seldom seen
at this port, being chiefly employed in the East and West India
trade,-the Brazils, Mediterranean, and New South Wales.  The
tonnage of vessels belonging to Kincardine is about 9000 tons,
and allowing L. 12 to the ton, the capital invested in them will be
L.108,000.  There are two small manufactories, one for rope, and
the other for sailcloth.  Several girls are employed in tambouring.
There are a few plain cloth and damask weavers in the town,
and the other labourers are chiefly employed by the farmers in the
parish.
   Fisheries.-These were once numerous and successful in this
part of the river, but there are now only a few cruives or baskets
employed for this purpose, which catch a few small fish in autumn,
and a few salmon are taken with nets in July and August.  The
large quantity of moss floating down the river is supposed to
have injured the fishings.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     Ecclesiastical State.-There are three places of worship in the
parish, two connected with the Church of Scotland, and one be-
longing to the United Associate Synod.  Lady Keith is the pa-
troness of the parish, and her ladyship, in the exercise of her pa-
tronage, has always manifested a due respect to the wishes and
opinion of the people. The present parish church is an elegant
and substantial building, erected in 1833, at the cost of L.3400,
and contains accommodation for 1176 sitters.  The great majori-
ty of the population belongs to the Established Church, and their
number has been lately increased by the union of the Old Light
Seceders with the Church.  There are no Episcopal or Roman
Catholic familes in the parish.  The stipend enjoyed by the pa-
rish minister is about L.259.   The extent of the glebe is about
13 acres, and its annual value L.40. The present manse was
built in 1823. It is situated west of the town, and is a comfort-
able and commodious dwelling.
   Education.- There is a parish school, confessedly too small, with


