
78                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

lies between the Pentland range and the high lands that skirt the
Forth, this parish is particularly exposed to currents of wind from
the east and west. The east wind prevails chiefly during the spring
months, but is experienced at intervals throughout the year, bring-
ing along with it occasionally a thick haar, which is very pre-
judicial to the invalid. The west wind prevails more during the
summer and autumn. It is perhaps the most constant, certainly
the most violent wind we have, as appears from the fact, that the
branches of the trees invariably incline to the east. Our heavi-
est rains are from the south-east; our most frequent rains fall
when the wind is between the west and south, which brings the
clouds into contact with the Pentland ridge, whence they descend
in showers over the neighbouring parishes.
   The free circulation of air that the parish enjoys, is one cause
which undoubtedly operates strongly, in conjunction with the ele-
vation of a considerable portion of it, in producing a pure and heal-
thy temperature of the atmosphere. In proof of the natural
healthiness of the climate, it may be remarked, as a traditional no-
tice, that when the plague prevailed in Scotland, Ratho was ex-
empted from its ravages. And at a later period, when many of the
neighbouring parishes were visited with cholera, only one case, if
indeed it was one, occurred in this village. Some thirty years ago,
intermittent fevers were not uncommon; but, with the system of
draining, to which the land generally has been subjected, these
have totally disappeared; and there is now no indigenous disease
in the district; nor is it, so far as we are aware, peculiarly liable to
any epidemic. An intelligent medical practitioner in the parish,
informs us that, if there are any diseases of particular frequency,
they are of the glandular kind, and occur chiefly among the poorer
Classes; but the number of these, from the improved state of the
village, is on the decline.
   Hydrography.-There are few parishes so destitute of streams
as that of Ratho. There is only one, the Gogar Burn, and that of
small dimensions, which flows through it, forming a continuous
line demarcation between this and the parishes to the east.
There are, besides, few if any open springs; the inhabitants for the
most part being obliged to sink wells for their supply. Water,
however, is easily found by digging to the depth of ten or twelve feet;
and when discovered, commonly contains a quantity of lime in so-
lution. In Addiston grounds, there is one fountain of a slightly
petrifying quality. The Union Canal is the only body of water


