
144                EDINBURGHSHIRE.

  Amount of Raw Produce.-It is impossible to fix the average
in such a parish as this, as it varies so greatly from one year to
another, according to the extent of land that may be under pasture.
The following is the average of the arable produce.

<TABLE>
  Wheat,     per acre,  32 bushels imperial.   Turnips,      per acre,    20 tons.
  Barley,       do.     42       do.           Potatoes,       do.        6     do.
  Oats,         do.     48       do.           Artificial hay, do.11/2    1 1/2 do.
  Beans,        do.     28       do.

  Quarries.-There is a stone quarry on the farm of Humbie,
the property of the Earl of Hope town, which yields a beautiful
and durable stone.
         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
 There is no market-town in the parish; the nearest are Edin-
burgh and Linlithgow, distant eight miles, and Bathgate, distant
ten miles.
 The chief villages are Kirkliston and Winchburgh, in the county
of Linlithgow, and Newbridge, in the county of Edinburgh.
 Means of Communication.-There is a post-office in the village
of Kirkliston, and letters are despatched and received twice every
day. Three turnpike roads pass through the parish, viz. the road
from Edinburgh to Stirling, and to Glasgow by Falkirk, which lies
along the northern division of the parish, passing through the vil-
lages of Kirkliston and Winchburgh, and is in length about five
miles, nearly due east and west; the road from Edinburgh to
Glasgow by Bathgate, which lies through the southern division of
the parish, passing through the village of Newbridge, and in
length about three miles. On the first of these roads, there are
four daily public coaches, viz. the mail between Edinburgh and Stir-
ling, and three stage-coaches, one to and from Sterling; one to
and from Glasgow; one to and from Falkirk; on the second, there
are seven daily public coaches, viz. the mail between Edinburgh and
roads, there are also carriers' wagons.
  Bridges.-There are two over the river Almond, one on the
Sterling road, seven miles west from Edinburgh; the other, on the
middle Glasgow road, eight miles west from Edinburgh. They
are both in good condition, and are kept in excellent repair; the for
mer was lengthened and widened, three years ago, at considerable
expense.


