
               WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.              833

in good old Scottish fashion, a posy for the kirk, upon a sultry
Sabbath morn !
   Improvements.-Various improvements have of late been made,
or are still in progress, within the parish.  The arable land on the
farms of Cauldchapel, Littlegill, and Wandell-Mill, in the barony
of Wandell, has within these few years been, to a considerable ex-
tent, protected against the inroads of the sheep from the hills, by
excellent stone dikes dividing it, from the upland pasture.  The
farm-house and offices at Cauldchapel have been slated and put
into a very comfortable state.  We hope to see the same soon
take place at Littlegill, where all the buildings are wretched, and
little suited to a farm of its extent, at the present day.  The same
remark applies to the dwelling-house of Wandell-Mill, to which,
indeed, a small addition of one room was made last summer,
though put down without the least attention to good taste.  A
neat dwelling-house of one storey, and containing six apartments,
was built in 1828 on the farm of Hillhouse, upon a beautiful ris-
ing ground, a short distance to the south-east of the Kirk, and it
occupies one of the prettiest situations in the whole parish.
   Within the barony of Lammingtoune, improvements upon a
pretty extensive scale have been going on for the last four or five
years.  Ditches have been opened for carrying off the water from
the holm land, hedges have been planted in a variety of places,
particularly upon Mains and Langholme,-and a march dike put
up between Loanhead and Otterburns.  At Mains, Langholme,
and Otterburns, the offices have all been either rebuilt, or the old
ones greatly improved.  A new farm-house of one storey has been
built at Loanhead, but put down, very awkwardly, upon an almost
inaccessible brink of the high road,  Its offices have been partly

<FOOTNOTE>vout worshippers around it,-stretching in lengthened line over the grass-grown
abodes of the silent dead ;-and have eyed the hoary patriarch of fourscore, with head
uncovered, and attended by his aged spouse and companion of fifty years,-and fol-
lowed by the feeble lone widow in doleful black,-all wending their way " with tot-
tering steps and slow,"-amid the green hillocks and moss-clad stones, with well-worn
Psalm Book in one hand, and a sprig of their favourite and refreshing plant in the
other,-to seat themselves at that feast of love, spread before them in the wilderness,
for the spiritual refreshment of the " meek and contrite ones,"-their venerated pas-
tor of forty long years, having the while taken his station at the head of the holy
table,-his thin gray hairs floating in the gentle noontide breeze, and his pater-
nal eye affectionately surveying his congregated flock,-and his sainted soul prepared
to implore, in imitation of his Great Master, a blessing from on high, upon the spi-
ritual repast !-the whole multitude in expectation, standing up,-and a thousand
voices, at the moment, chanting the praises of the God and Saviour of all flesh, to the
plaintive yet soothing notes of their favourite and time-hallowed Coleshill,-saying in
the words of the sweet Singer of Israel; "We'll go into his tabernacles,-And at his
footstool bow !"


