
166                           KINCARDINESHIRE.

last mentioned by a narrow range of the Grampians. Of this the
arable part is dry, early soil, but of small extent. The rest is mere-
ly a sheep-walk, heath-clad, skirted with copse-wood, and a seclud-
ed glen.
	Climate.--The climate is very cold in winter, not so much from
elevation above the level of the sea, as from proximity to the hills
in the back ground, which are, soon after autumn, capped with snow,
and, excepting short intervals of softer temperature, remain so till
towards spring. However, from the inland situation of the parish,
the heights between intercepting the sea-breeze, the heat of sum-
mer is considerably greater than on the coast, or even on the flats of
the shore; hence  the crops of those districts, where the soil is not
naturally wet and cold, come to maturity ftlly as soon as those
which no frosts have benumbed in their seed-bed, nor blasts from
the mountain checked in their spring.
	Hydrography.--The Water of Bervie takes its rise in the hills
to the north-west of this parish, and after a bending course of
about three miles, leaves it at a point south-south-east from the
source. It runs on a gravelly channel, is rapid in its descent, and
has few tributary streams to swell it in its course. The water of
Cowie rises in the hills on the north side of the parish, and holds
on its current to the east, where it enters the parish of Fetteresso,
a gathering mountain stream. The water of Carron flows from the
hills of the brae of Glenbervie, passing eastward to the valley di-
viding Fetteresso from Dunnottar,--a water too diminutive to merit
that classic name.
			 II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The principal heritors are, James Mitchell Ni-
colson, Esq. of Glenbervie; and John Gordon, Esq. of Drumli-
thie. The rental of the parish is L.4300 Sterling. The valued
rent is L.3336 Scots.
			 III.--POPULATION.
	The population of this parish has varied little in amount for the
last fifty years. Nor is this to be wondered at, for as the chief
occupation of the inhabitants is husbandry, and that, as supposed,
requires but a limited number of hands, the rest must emigrate
yearly to other distribtr. In 1755, the number of inhabitants
was 958 in 1796, it amounted to 1307; in 1821, it was 1227;
and now in 1831, it is 1248. Of these, 350 reside in the village
of Drumlithie.
	The average number of marriages for the last seven years is


