
   1164                              PERTHSHIRE.

     stone is coarse in the grit, of a greyish colour; dip north-west, at
     an angle of about three degrees.  Beautiful pieces of agate are fre-
     quently found among the hills, and, in the hands of the lapidary,
     these become valuable articles in the shape of brooches and watch-
     seals.  There is a whinstone quarry wrought in the Den of Pit-
     rodie, the stones of which are used in building, in metalling roads,
     and in filling drains.
                              II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
       Antiquities.--On the summit of the Hill of Evelick are the re-
     mains of an ancient fortification.  It appears to have been formed
     bf two concentric circles or walls of stone, enclosing an area of
     about half an acre.  The vestiges of a fosse are still vishble.  A
     little to the south-east of the hill stands the Castle of Evelick,
     now in ruins, the ancient seat of the Lindsays, Knights of Eve-
     lick.  It was evidently originally built as a place of strength, and
     must have commanded the pass through that place from Strath-
     more to the Carse.  In digging near this place, some tumuli were
     lately discovered, which contained human bones.
       Mansion-Houses.--The only gentleman's seat in the parish is
     Fingask Castle, the residence of Sir P. Murray  Threipland, Bart.
     beautifully situated on the braes of the Carse, and commanding an
     extensive prospect over the rich and fertile vale below, which
     here opens in one vast amphitheatre, with the river Tay rolling
     through it for upwards of fourteen miles, till it is lost in the
     German Ocean a few miles below Dundee.  The grounds around it
     are tastefully laid out in flower-gardens, shrubberies, and extensive
     walks.  The Castle, which is built on the brink of a deep glen,
     amidst wooded eminences, bears in one part the venerable date of
     1194.  It is now, however, greatly enlarged and modernized by addi-
     tional buildings, but the castellated form is still preserved in its ex-
     ternal appearance.  This ancient mansion was formerly used as a
     Placed of strenfth, and, in 1642, stood a siege during the civil war
     in Oliver Cromwell's time.  Here the Chevalier St George, son of
     James II, slept, January 7th 1716, on his way from Glammis to
     Scone, where he was proclaimed king.  In 1746, the castle was
     completely ransacked by the Government troops, the fortalices
     demolished, and a great part of the building razed to the ground,
     in consequence of the attachment of the Threipland, family to the
     cause of the, unfortunate, House of Stuart.
             Land-owner.-The land-owners are,-


