
440                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

century; when King William the, Lion (who reigned over Scotland
from 1165 to 1214,) built a castle at Etherdover, Edirdona,
or Edirton, as a curb upon the turbulent inhabitants of Easter
Ross. The situation of this castle or " dune" was near the sea;
and commanded the ferry betwixt the counties of Ross and Sutherland.
There is mention made of it in the chronicle of Melrose,
Bower's Scotichronicon, and in Macpherson's Geographical Illustrations
of Scottish History.
   Abbey of Fearn.-The next event of importance in the history
of this parish, is the founding Of the Monastery or Abbey of Fearn,
which took place in the thirteenth century.  Ferqubard, Earl of
Ross, having, about the year 1227, accompanied his sovereign,
King Alexander II. to London, challenged a renowned French
champion, then at the English court, to single combat   l'outrance ;
and made a vow before entering the lists to found a monastery in his
own earldom, if he conquered his antagonist.  It was very common for
men in that dark and superstitious age to make similar vows, immediately
before engaging in battle or any other hazardous enterprize;
imagining, no doubt, thereby to interest the Almighty in their
safety. * The Earl of Ross, having vanquished and slain his opponent,
set about fulfilling his vow; and accordingly in travelling.
home, he brought from the Prior of Whitehorn, or Candida Casa,
in Galloway, Malcolm and his brother, two canons of the Candidus.
Ordo of the rule of St Augustine; and procuring some of St
Ninian's relics, founded and endowed an Abbey at Fearn, a place
situated near the western extremity of this parish, and in the earl-


<FOOTNOTE>
   Hector Boece, and Holinshed from him, places this combat in the year 1277,
and asserts that for this deed the King conferred the earldom of Ross on Ferquhard
or Farquhar Ross, who was before then a private gentleman ; but there are incontestible,
proofs that Ferquhard, Earl of Ross, died in 1251, and of there having been a
regular succession of earls of that surname from the period when the Parliament was
held at Forfar by King Malcolm III. (who reigned from 1057 to 1093) until the
death of William,' Earl of Rose, in 1371.
  This order was called Candidus Ordo, because their garb was entirely white ; they
were also called Praemonstratenses for their principal monastery Praermontr', (Prae.
monstratum), which was situated in the diocese of Lƒon in France.  They followed
the rule of St Augustine; and were founded about the year 1120, by St Norbert,
Archbishop of Magdeburg in Germany.  There were six monasteries of the order in
Scotland, situated at the following places:
  1. Souls-Seat-(Sedes animarum, or Monasterium viridis stagni.)
  2. Holy-Wood-(Monasteriurm sacri nemoris, and in the Papal bulls Abbacia de
Dorcongall)
  3. Whitehorn-(Candida Casa.)
  4. Tungland,-these four, which were all in Gallowway, were founded by Fergus,
Lord of Galloway, during the reign of King David I. (1124-1153.)
  5. Dryburgh, in Teviotdale, founded in the twelfth century by Hugh Moreville,
Constable of Scotland.
  6. Fearn, or Ferne. (Abbacia de Nova Farina or Fernia) in Ross, founded as
above, itr the thirteen t6 century, by Ferquhard, Earl of Ross.


