
508	                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

The rotation of crops adopted in this parish is a seven-shift.  1.
Turnips, with dung put in by double drilling.  2. Bear or oats, with
grass seeds, (red and white clover and rye-grass.) 3, 4, 5. Grass;
the first year of grass cut for soiling or hay.  6 and 7. Oats
This does not agree with the rigid rule, laid down by most writers
on agriculture, that two grain crops ought not to succeed each
other.  Into the question, whether the rotation might be improved,
we shall not enter, farther than to say, that the second crop of oats
is, on an average, nearly as productive and somewhat earlier than
the first, which is liable to be injured by the grub ; that, where
the dressing of the turnip crop is properly attended to, the land
does not got weedy ; that, by this rotation, the quantity of food
for the live-stock is so equally adjusted for summer and winter, as
not to drive the cultivators to the inconvenient and hazardous ex-
pedient of suddenly increasing or diminisbingtheir stock, at either
season ; that the crops of turnips, returning after considerable in-
tervals, are never infected with any disease; and that the whole soil
of the parish is, under the present system, obviously improving
from year to year.
   The practicability of introducing early varieties of oats, is a re-
suit of the increased fertility and cleanness of the land.  These
varieties would  have been exceedingly unproductive on the poor
and foul land of former times.  We have now varieties which
ripen three weeks earlier than the old common out; and this,
since it respects our most important, and, at the same time, latest
crop, may be pronounced an advantage equal to what might have
been obtained, if it had been possible to shift the parish several
degrees to a more indulgent climate.  The most favourite varieties
of oats are, the early Angus, the red oat, and the Scotch birley.
   At one period the potatoe-oat was extensively grown; and in
favourable, seasons it gave a much greater produce than any other;
but in late seasons it becomes even more late than the common
oat; and in the unfavourable years of 1816 and 1817, it failed so
much,more sensibly than every other variety whatever, that any
considerable extent of it, is not now hazarded.
   While on this subject, we may state the common weights, of
grain.  Bear weighs from 52 to 55 lbs. per imperial bushel, being
much superior to that which grows near the coast; and early An-
gus oats weigh from 41 toi 44 lbs. per imperial bushel.
   Black-cattle fonn so important a branch of the husbandry
that the management of them must be stated.  Respecting them,


