
                           ELLON.                             919

by the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland, and that,
under the auspices of a body which has already done so much to
promote the best interests of the country, an experimental esta-
blishment will be set on foot, calculated to carry into full opera-
tion the enlightened views which have been recently thrown out,
and thus to place agriculture on that elevated platform in the de-
partment of the sciences, to which, from its vital importance, it is
so justly entitled.
   The usual duration of leases is nineteen years.  There are still
two or three liferenters in the parish, and one of the old leases for
the long term of fifty-seven years, or three nineteens, as it is called,
was not yet expired.  No farm, however, is now let for a longer
period than nineteen years.
   The farm-steadings, with the exception of some of those on the
Ellon estates, are neat and substantial.  Many of the farmhouses
are slated, and those which have been recently erected are, gene-
rally speaking, large and commodious.  The steadings, where new-
ly built, are slated or tiled, most commonly slated.  Where they
are of longer standing, they are for the most part covered with
thatch or heather.  Thresbing-mills have been erected almost in
every instance in which the farm is of any considerable extent.
Indeed, it would now be scarcely possible to procure servants will-
ing to undertake what was wont to be denominated a heavy
threshing.
   Produce.-From the great extent of inferior land in the parish,
and from the enhanced expense of cultivation consequent both on
this inferiority of the soil and on the exertions that have been
made, of late years, to reclaim waste ground, the gross value of
raw produce annually raised on an average of years, exceeds in
a greater than ordinary ratio, the value of produce annually dis-
posable.  In forming an estimate, however, of what ought to be
the gross amount of the rental of an estate or parish, it is only
the value of the disposable part of the annual produce, which,
with propriety, can be taken into account.  Nor can even this
element be held to bear an invariable ratio to the gross amount
of rental, since, though, in calculating the proportion of raw pro-
duce which may be disposed of, a deduction is previously made
for the maintenance of the tenants' family, servants, horses, &c.,
and also for seed-corn, there still remains to be charged, on the
marketable part of the produce, the variable item of wages,
which will be greater or less according to the amount of labour


