
		  KIRKPATRICK-IRONGRAY.                    271

to this sort of stock, the breed is rapidly improving. Pigs are
a staple commodity in this quarter. They, are generally killed
when a year old, and sent for sale to the Dumfries market, where
there is a very extensive trade in pork during winter and spring.
	The average quantity of grain per acre may be, oats, 36 bushels;
barley, 85 do.; wheat, 26 do.; potatoes, 1O tons; turnips, from
15 to 25 do., according as they are. manured. Mangel wurzel
and beet root are not cultivated, the soil being too light for them.
		   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town, &c.--There is no market-town in the parish;
the nearest is Dumfries, whibh is within three miles of the lower
end. The roads are good. The only stone, bridges are those
across the Auld water, consisting of single arches and in good re-
pair. The fences are in tolerable condition.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated on the northern
side of the parish, close to the Cluden, within two miles of the
lower or eastern extremity, and consequently is distant from the
upper or western extremity about seven miles; a distance whicb is very
inconvenient, and cannot, it is to be feared, be easily remedied.
	It is in tile form of a parallelogram, with the pulpit in the west
end, and a small vestry behind. It was built in 1803, is in good
repair, and affords accommodation for nearly 400. The middle
area is free, and contains about 50 sittings.
	The most interesting benefaction on record, is that by; Jean
Biggar of Barbuie, in 1750, of 500 merks Scots for behoof of the
poor, which was laid out in purchasing froin Mr James Guthrie,
then minister of the parish, a small property adjoining the glebe,
called the Kirk-holm, which yields an annual rent of L.8, 5s.
The manse was built in 1801, and is a substantial and commodi-
ous house. The glebe consists of nine acres, the yearly value of
which may be estimated at L.25. The stipend is sixteen chal-
ders, half meal, half barley, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion ele-
ments.
	Divine service is in general well attended, and the Sabbath well
kept. There is an annual collection for one of the four religi-
ous institutions, sanctioned by the General Assemblly , which varies
in amount, and bears a fair proportion to the circumstances of the
people, who are almost exclusively farmers and cottars.
	Education.--Total number of schools, 2, both parochial.  The
schoolmasters have the maximum salary divided between them, or
L.25, 13s. 7d. each, are provided with dwelling-houses, and re-


