
				LINTON.                     157

    turnpike road now passes in its immediate vicinity, and a coach
    travels daily between Edinburgh and Dumfries close by the well,
    where an elegant inn, with the best accommodation, may be got
    by those resorting to it. Scientific analysis ascribes to it the qua-
    lities of Tunbridge.
	Botany.-The botanist will find, on the track of 2000 acres be-
    fore-mentioned, a beautiful variety of the Primula farinosa, which
    it is said is rarely to be found in this country.
	Although situated in the immediate vicinity of the Forest of
    Ettrick, there are no remains in the parish of the natural wood
    which at a remote period unquestionably covered it to a great
    extent, as appears from the remains of various kinds of timber
    which are still constantly dug up in the making of peats,-spe-
    cimens being found in a state almost approaching to petrifac-
    tion. The first attempt to supply the decay of the natural
    wood in this parish seems to have been made in compliance with
    the statutes of James II., III., and IV., which enacted, "that
    trees should be planted;" and there were lately, about the old
    farm-steadings, a few straggling ashes and elms, some of which
    are still to be seen, the result of these enactments. About a cen-
    tury ago, there still remained about Linton, according to tradition,
    a considerable deal of valuable timber about the yards and stead-
    ings, which a person, who bad acquired about that time extensive
    property there, cut down, and thereby greatly indemnified himself
    of the price which he had paid, but without putting in a single
    plant in compensation of the desolation which he had wrought about
    the village. It was not till about the beginning of the present
    century, that any plantations were made in the parish deserving
    to be noticed under the head of modern improvements, excepting
    some wood at Garvaldfoot, which had been planted about fifty years
    before in hedge-rows, and also in clumps, a good deal of which was
    cut down several years ago.
			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.-In the vicinity of Carlops, immediately opposite
    to Newhall house, on the southern bank of the Esk, there is a
    place called Harbour Craig, which is a freestone projecting rock
    over a deep hollow glen, formed by the precipitous banks of two
    streams which here empty themselves in the Esk. On this dreary
    and secluded spot, tradition states that the Covenanters sat down
    after their defeat at the battle of Pentland, and there found a tem-
    porary refuge in the fastness of this sequestered valley, which,
    perhaps, afterwards received the name which it still bears, from


