
     of Stirling.

tiplies the poor.  Increase the means of dependence, and the
the effect is unavoidably increased.  This is more especially
the case, if the funds are legally established, and, if a certain
age and description entitles to a participation of these funds.
It is more than presumable, that all charitable supply, ex-
cept in cases of absolute incapacity of labour, should be casu-
al, exactly proportioned to the deficiency of active power, and
dependent on the most accurate investigation of the present
circumstances of the pauper.  If this is not the case it uni-
formly cuts the nerves of industry, and is a nuisance to so-
ciety, rather than an advantage.  The indolent and the cla-
morous, looking forward with solicitude to that periods when
they shall undoubtedly be entitled to support by certain sta-
tute, remit every exertion, consume like drones any little
property that may remain to them, and fall at lengths with
eagerness, into the arms of provided and secured supports with
a haughty contempt to this sacred dictate of common sense,
"That he who will not work, should not eat."
   The managers of the established charitable funds in Stirling
are perhaps as accurate, attentive, and impartial, as any such
body of men can be; but they walk by statue, and are
often obliged to admit upon the funds, those who both can and
ought to labour for their bread.  This circumstances has an
influence extensively pernicious.  Indolence is contagious.
They who are capable of labour, being rendered indolent and
inactive, through dependence on secured support, gave a tinc-
ture to all their immediate connections.  They are ever found
among the sauntering and the idle, and consequently increase
the number of the poor.
   Nor can the ordinary managers of the poor's funds, how-
ever attentive, always exclude the undeserving.-They meet
too seldom.-They have too little time.-They cannot be at
the pains to give incidental aids, the most useful and neces-

     VOL. VIII. O o


