
                            BALFRON.                      301

Strange to say, however, there were those who looked upon the
small sum which they were called upon to pay in aid of the col-
lections, as a grievance. Murmurings were first heard, and they
were unheeded. Complaints of the expense of the poor were pa-
tiently listened to by the session At last, however, one heritor
actually refused to give his quota, till compelled by law, and this
was intimated to the session only when they had, as usual, met to
pay the monthly allowances. The paupers were assembled; the
session had no funds to meet their demands, and they had no al-
ternative but to resign their charge into the hands of the heritors.
They intimated to them accordingly, in the most respectful way
possible, their resolution to do so, expressing, at the same time,
their great reluctance and regret at being compelled, from circum-
stances, to take the step.
   The heritors accepted the resignation of the kirk-session, and
the result is what any one might have anticipated. From 1832,
when the kirk-session resigned their charge, up to the present
time, the expenses relative to the poor have been gradually going
on increasing. There are forty on the roll, and L.200 per annum
does not now defray all charges. This sum is at present raised by
an assessment on the whole inhabitants,-one-balf being upon the
heritors according to their real rental, and the other half upon
householders and other inhabitants, according to their supposed
means and substance. Every individual within the parish, whose
earnings are supposed to amount to 10s. per week, is now taxed
for the support of the poor. The springs of charity are dried up,
in consequence-the collections at the church door, are, we may
say, almost nothing, say 1s. per day,-tbere is a general displea-
sure among the inhabitants; and there is a feeling among the
poor and destitute, that they are neglected, and, perhaps, with
too much justice. In short, all the evil effects of a compulsory
assessment are experienced, and in this parish we have another
proof, if that was needful, of the truth of a remark, which cannot
be too frequently repeated, "that, of all the public funds in Eu-
rope, none is managed with so little expense to the fund itself, none
so frugally, none so impartially, and none is laid out more to the
purpose for which they were raised, than. the poor's funds under
the care of the kirk-sessions of Scotland.  And never, perhaps,
will Scotland find a more proper jury to determine the objects of
public charity, nor the quantum necessary for the supply."


