
434                         DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

and liberal policy which has characterized the management of
the Buccleuch property for ages. That family have invariably
let their extensive possessions to tenants on such terms as secure
their comfort and independence.

<TABLE=Industry.>
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
          	Agriculture and Rural Economy.--
	The number of acres arable, and of meadow land, may be computed at      1560
        		not in tillage, but affording excellent pasture,       25547
                        under wood and plantations,                              200
                        Bent 0 Land.-As the arable land in this parish
                        is uniformly let with the bill pasture, the rent per acre
                        cannot be accura

	Rent of Land.--As the arable land in this parish is uniformly
let with the hill pasture, the rent per acre cannot be accurately
ascertained. There are fifteen stock-farmers in the parish whose
farms would average nearly 1800 acres each, and who employ, as
shepherds and labourers in agriculture, 59 individuals. The graz-
ing of an ox or cow cost from L. 3, 10s. to L. 4; and that of a
full-grown sheep, 5s.
	Live Sock.--The only breed of cattle in this is the Gal-
loway. It is found well adapted for the pasturage, rises to a
good size, finds a ready market, and brings high price. The num-
ber of sheep grazed may be estimated at nearly 18,000, which are
all of the Cheviot breed,--to the improvement of which every at-
tentiom is paid.
	Raw Porduce.--The whole of the grain, &c. raised in this pa-
rish is consumed by the growers in maintaining their families and
servants. Wool and sheep are the staple commodities. The re-
claiming of waste land by draining and building stone dikes, is
carried to its utmost extent. Farm building stone dikes, is
obstacle to improvements arises, in this parish, either from want
of capital or of encouragement by the proprietors.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Langholm is the nearest market-town, distant about five miles.
it is also the post-town.
	The public roads are all good, and kept in excellent repair, and
afford ready communication in very direction. No mail or stage-
coach passes through the parish.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The manor of Westerker, with the ad-
vowson of the church, belonged to the family of Soulis, during the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries. Upon the forfeiture of John de
Soulis, Robert I. granted, in 1321, to the monks of Melrose the
half of the barony of Westerker, to be held in free forest, and also
the patronage. The monks retained the possession, till the Re-
formation. Before the Reformation, there was an established
chapel dedicated to St Martin, at Bogkin, in this parish, under


