
94                          FIFESHIRE.

sons more neat, their houses more cleanly, and their fore-grounds
and gardens more ornamented, is prevalent.  The vast expen-
diture of money during the late war in the country, and the
high price given for manufactures and labour, introduced a taste
for better living and greater accommodation.  The benefits of
this change, though for many years past the value of wages and
the return for all produce have greatly fallen, still continue.  Al-
most every family of the labouring classes keeps a sow; and its
flesh, along with potatoes, which in general are abundant and
cheap, and fish caught off the shore in summer, and herrings usu-
ally obtained in the same quarter, and salted in the neighbouring
towns, with occasionally meat from the butcher,-give an abun-
dance of wholesome and nourishing food.  Their habits are in ge-
neral quiet and orderly.  They are attentive to the education of
their children, and regular in attendance upon public worship.
               		IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-As the agricultural interest is by far the most im-
portant in this parish, the following details may be submitted:
   The number of acres within its bounds are 3057, 1 rood, 25 falls
Scots measure; of these there are under the plough 2898 acres, 2
roods; under wood 150 acres, 1 rood, 25 falls; and unarable 8 acres,
2 roods ; of the latter, two might be improved; and the remainder
consists of old quarries and rocky ground on the sea shore.  The
wood consists of forest trees with firs as rearers, and small portions
of shrubbery and evergreens round the mansions of the resident
heritors.
   The arable land is divided into 18 farms, and a few pendicle
acres at the village.  These farms, from the quality of the soil, may
be divided into two classes,-the first embracing 9 farms in the
lower part of the parish, and having more or less connection with
the sea shore, and having right to the ware, limestone, &c. upon it:
and the latter, consisting of 9 farms on the higher grounds, but
having, with the exception of one, no claim whatever to the ad-
vantages of the sea shore.  The former, with the small pendicle
acres, contains 1390 arable acres, and therefore average nearly 154 1/2
acres each, the largest farm containing 294 acres, and the smallest
40.  The latter contains L.508 acres, and averages are about 167 1/2
acres each; the largest being 386 acres, and the smallest 92.
   The quality of the soil in the first of these two classes of farms
is much superior to that in the second.  In order, therefore, to give


