
                                 EAGLESHAM.                      389

    in some climates the larger animals become the prey of insects.
    The prevailing trees are the remains of the birch, haze], and wil-
    low, and, occasionally, of the oak.  The roots and stumps are
    most zommon, and have the appearanceef yet remaining where
    they grew.
      Zoology.-The zoology of the district is of course much the
    same as in neighbouring places; but a few peculiarities maybe
    mentioned.  The Mustela ermina, or common ermine, often at-
    tains a great size in this parish and neighbourhood. I have seen
    a specimen from Balagich, where the body was upwards of twelve
    inches long. It had on it., winter clothing, and is of a pure white,
    except the tip of the tail, which is black. The Mustela putorius
    is also in some.places very destructive among poultry. The squir-
    rel, common enough in the neighbourhood, has not yet reached
    this locality.  The common hare (Lepus ti?riidus) is in this dis-
    trict a remarkably swift powerful -animal, and often puts the best
    bone and muscle of the Clydesdale Coursing-Club to the full
    stretch.  The parish of Eaglesham is a favourite coursing ground to
    the Earl of Eglinton, Lord of the Manor, the Marquis of D6uglas,
    and the other spirited and enterprising members of that far-famed
    club.  To those who take delight in these sports, the Eaglesharn
    hare is an object worthy of pursuit, in comparison of the more luxu
    riant and less powerful animals on the lower grounds, which are ge-
    nerally overtaken by the unerring flight of their too savage pursuers
    before they have measured half the distance.  The water-vole
    (Arvicola aquaticus), and the (Sorex fodiens), or water-shrew, are
    very common by the banks of the reservoirs.  There are abund-
    ance of grouse, (Lagopus Scoticus), in the higher parts   of the. pa-
    rish. I have seen very fine specimens of the peregrine falcon

    (Falco peregrinus), killed here, and on Mearns Moor.  The bob-
    by, the kestril, and the merlin, are also not uncommon. The
    Circus cyaneus, or hen barrier, is very destructive in some places
    to game and poultry, but the hawk kind are very much thinned by
    gamekeepers. Great flights of the red-wing and fieldfare occur
    in winter. They have been seen as late as the latter end of April.
    The Podiceps rubicollis, or red-necked grebe, and the P. auritus
    or eared grebe, have been both shot in this parish.  The teal and
    various species of aquatic birds are found on the reservoirs. Of
    reptiles, the Lacerta aqiuis, or nimble lizard, and the Vipera com-
    munis, are often seen in the moors.  The latter of these bit a
    Tointer dog on the tongue, which soon caused his death. In the


