
     of Auchindoir.

   Heritors, Stipend, School, Poor.-The number of heritors
is 6, none of whom reside in winter, and only 2 in summer.
The living is 40 L. 1 s. 6 d.; 19 bolls, 1 peck, 4/5 of a lippie,
meal, at 9 stone; and 6 bolls, 1 peck, 2 3/5 lippies, bear; with
3 L. 6 s. 8 d. of communion element money: the whole amount-
ing to scarcely 60 L.  The Earl of Fife is patron.  The manse
was built in 1765; but is in very bad repair.  The church
is in pretty good repair; but by much too small for the ac-
commodation of the parish*.-The school salary is very
small, being only 7 bolls, 3 firlots, 2 pecks, meal, at 9 stone;
all paid by the tenants, and collected with a great deal of
trouble.  The whole emoluments of the office do not exceed
9 L.-We have no stated funds for the support of the poor,
except the interest of 200 merks Scots, paid by the family of
Craig.  Altogether, they receive little more than 10 L. an-
nually: yet this sum, small as it is, seems to be sufficient for

     3 R 2

<FOOTNOTE>

a boar that infested the neighbouring country.  A stone with some rude figures
on it, marks the spot where this tragical event is said to have happened.  The
boar was slain by a young man of the name of Forbes, the lover of one of the
young women, and a stone with a boar's head cut on it, was set up to preserve
the rememberance of his gallantry and courage.  The stone was removed by
Lord Forbes to his house of Putachie; and it is from this circumstance that a
boar's head is quartered in the arms of that family.
*There are several dates on it, one as old as 1557.  It has undoubtedly been
a Popish church.  In the north-east corner, there is a very complete crucifix
cut in stone.  Below it, is a niche in the wall, with the following inscription
immediately over it, in very legible characters: "Hic E. corpus D. N. I. C.
V. M." i. e. Hic est corpus Domini nostri Iefu Christi.  Whether the last two
initials stand for vere mutatum, and allude to the doctrine of transubstantiation,
every one may judge for himself.  On the lower edge of the niche, but now
concealed by one of the seats, are these words: "Hic est fervatum corpus ex
virgine natum."  Last year, by a decreet of the Court of Teinds, the parishes
of Forbes and Kearn were disjoined; and the former annexed to Tullynessle,
the later to Auchindoir: but, as the annexation does not take place till there
is a vacancy at Forbes and Kearn, no account is taken of Kearn in this re-
port.


