
			BORTHWICK.				157

perfect a state as if it bad been exposed for a comparatively short
period to those wasting causes which are incessantly at work.
  The limestone and coal of the district are excellent, and much
sought for both by the inhabitants of Edinburgh, and by purchas-
ers from the more southern towns of Scotland-some seams of the-
latter, on the estates of Arniston and Vogue, being reckoned but
little inferior to the fitted caking coals of the English counties.
  Botany.-The oldest trees in the parish are-those in the
mediate neighbourhood of Arniston House-the venerable syca-
mores which surround part of the church-yard of Borthwick-and a
remarkable row of trees, amounting to twenty, which stand in the
middle of a field on the north side of the valley of Borthwick.
Strangers are apt to inquire why such a row of trees should pre.
sent themselves in the middle of a cultivated field. The fact is
that the road into the valley passed in former times along the up-
per side of these trees-and it is traditionally known, that the an-
cient custom of the parish was, that when the coach of the Dundas
family entered the western extremity of that row, on Sabbath days,
the church bell was expected to begin to toll. There are also
some fine old trees around the garden and ruinous house of Shank,
and on the estates of Vogue and Harvieston. A row of very aged
hollies stands near the western end of the manse-and in the glen
between Borthwick and Crichton,there are many large specimens of
the same tree (the holly), which seems to be native to the district,
The present manse of Borthwick was formerly enclosed on the
south by three large sycamores, but the former incumbent cut
down two of them, for the purpose of admitting more light into the
rooms. A row of large limes surrounds the old garden belonging to
the Castle, which formerly occupied the sloping bank descending.
on the south-west of the Castle, towards the small stream which
flows by the manse. The remarkable oak roots in Currie Wood
are the remains of a forest of great antiquity, which has frequently
been cut down, and from which at present but a few slender sap-
lings are observed to be springing.
  A great deal of excellent old wood has been cut down on almost
all the properties of the parish within the last twelve months; and
many of the glens and banks of the streams, which waved a few
years since with trees that had resisted the storm of centuries
are now almost without a stem which bears on it the marks of
age. However, young plantations have everywhere been forming
on an extensive scale; and there can be no doubt that the pro-


