
258                         FORFARSHIRE.

1. The post-office of Montrose. 2. The turnpike road to Ar-
broath, which passes through the parish about two and one-half
miles; and another recently opened to Forfar, which passes about
one mile through the parish. 3. The mail-coach from Inverness,
the New Times from Aberdeen, and the Highlander from Mon-
trose, pass daily to Edinburgh. A steam-boat from Aberdeen to
Leith touches at the village of Usan in the summer season (from
April to October) four times every week. 4. The small bridges
and fences within the parish are in a good state of repair. There
are harbours at Ferryden and Boddin sufficiently capacious for ad-
mitting small sloops with coal and lime; and since the opening of
a new road from Montrose to Forfar, which passes through the pa-
rish, there is the prospect of piers and warehouses being construct-
ed at the former village, for the more convenient shipping of agri-
cultural produce, and landing other cargoes; but the whole of the
shore-dues belong to the town of Montrose.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the parish church is quite
in the centre of the population. It is placed about two miles from
the eastern, and four from the western, extremity of the parish;
but the great proportion of the inhabitants reside within a circle
of a mile and a-half from the church. It was built in the year
1799, at the expense of the late Mrs Ross of Rossie, and present-
ed by her to the parish. It is a very handsome structure, with
a square tower 80 feet in height, and for a long period after its
erection, it was the only country church in the district possessed of
any architectural beauty. It is preserved in a complete state of
repair.
   The church is seated for 800 hearers. All the sittings are free,
that is, no rent is drawn from them by the heritors or kirk-session;
but there are occasional instances of entrants into the parish, such
as the men of the coast-guard, paying a trifling sum to any of the
farmers who have more seats than their servants and cottars require.
    The present manse was built in 1805, and is in good repair.
The glebe is six Scotch acres in extent, and would let at L. 20 or
L. 24 per annum, besides an acre-of ground around the manse.
    The stipend, which was previously small in proportion to the
extent and wealth of the parish, received a considerable augmen-
tation in the year 1830; and its average amount for the last three
years is L. 268, 7s. 11d. exclusive of L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion
elements.
    The whole population of the, parish attend the Established

                                  3


