
390                      FORFARSHIRE.

	Roads.--There are no toll roads in this parish, except near the
middle, where the Arbroath and Forfar one occurs for about two
miles and a-half. The road is a superior one, and is very conve-
nient for a considerable portion of the parish. Roads, however,
are numerous but not very gond: one of them connects Dundee
and Brechin, and another Forfar and Arbroath.
	Rail-roads.--A railway, which intersects the eastern division of
this parish, was lately opened between Forfar and Arbroath, a dis-
tance of fifteen miles. It communicates with another, which was
opened about the same time betwixt the last-mentioned town and
Dundee, and proceeds thence over the Sidlaw Hills and along
Strathmore to Glammis, within five miles of Forfar.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The form of the parish is not unlike that
of a pair of spectacles: and the church is placed in the least po-
pulous division, and within 100 yards of its boundary.
	The large and growing village of Friockheim is in the other di-
vision, and fully five miles distant. Under these circumstances,
the Presbytery, aided by the Church Extension Committee, erect-
ed a church about four years ago, for the convenience of the above
village and neighbourbood, and the General Assembly granted a
constitution, and provided that a section of the parish of Kirkden
be disjoined, quoad spiritualia, and assigned to the new church as
a parish ecclesiastical. The number of sittings in the church is
397,* eighteen inches each; but as the accommodation is not ade-
quate to the demand, it is to be hoped that means may soon be
taken to correct this. The sittings are let to parishioners, whth
the exception of ten set apart, rent free, for the poor of the dis-
trict. The prices at which they are let are as follows: 25 at 2s.;
240 at 1s. 6d., and 12.2 at 1s per annum.
	The total population of the district attached to the church
amounts to 1020: of these, by far the greater proportion resides
in the village, and none are farther removed than three miles.
	A manse has also been erected for the clergyman.
	The present parish church of Kirkden was built on the site of
the old one in 1825, shortly after the induction of the present in-
cumbent. It affords accommodation for 525 sitters, allowing each
eighteen inches. Thirty individual sittings are set apart for the
benefit of the poor. At the same date, the manse was renovated
and modernized, and commodious new offices were built; an ex-
cellent new garden was also made and surrounded with a high

<FOOTNOTE>The church has since been enlarged, so as to accommodate about 500 sitters.


