
LOGIE.                             427

sage across the German ocean. As in most parts of the eastern
coast of the lowlands of Scotland, less rain falls here. than on the
western coast. This seems to arise from the rainy clouds which
the southwest wind brings from the Atlantic ocean, being emptied
before they reach this side of the Island, and there being no land
sufficiently high to attract the clouds. The rainy point is, the
south-east.
Geology.-Tbe rock of which the hills are composed, is chiefly
what in common language is termed wbinstone. The highest hill,
however, is an insulated mass of porphyry of ayeddish yellow co-
lour, apparently resting upon a bed of whinstone. There are se-
veral other similar masses of the same species of rock, in the same
range of hills to the westward. In the low ground to the north
of this hill, there is a singular bank or table-land of sand, which
was formerIv surrounded by a marsh or lake ; but this is now con-
verted into arable land by draining. The top of this bank of sand
is a dead level of at least 60 acres. It is of a circular form; and
the sides, except on the east, are steep, and rise to a height of 70
or 80 feet. There are similar banks in the neighbourbood, but
none of them are so well defined as this. They have very much
the appearance of having been formed by water, and speculators
in geology suppose that the low ground here has been covered by
a lake of fresh water, in which these banks of sand were formed.
They conjecture that the shore of the sea was much farther east
than it is now, and as St Abbs Head, the Bell Rock, and the
Redhead near Arbroatb, are composed of the same species of red
sandstone, they are probably points in what was formerly the shore
of the German Ocean. Certain it is, that at St Andrews great
encroachments have been made by the sea upon the land in no
long period of time.
SoiL-The soil of a considerable portion of the parish is moor-
ish and thin, of a cold tilly quality. Upon the sides of the hills,
however, it is generally of a good fertile loam.
Botany.-Some rare plants are found here,-such as the Orni-
thogalum luteum or yellow star of Bethlehem; Empetrum nigmyn,
Sedum reflezuw, Hypnum dendroides, Menyanthes trifoliata, Par-
nassia palustris, Gymnadenia conopsea. A good deal of wood,
chiefly larch and Scotch fir, has of late years been planted on one
of the hills. But either the soil, or the climate, or both are not
favourable to the growth of these trees, for they soon become
Touch covered with lichen or moss.


