
			FORDOUN.                              89

by Mr Gillespie Graham, architect, at an expense, it is said, of
L. 30,000. Plantations were formed with much taste, skirting the
glens, and covering, the sides of the mountains, bogs drained, ap-
proacbes made, and porter-lodges erected ; walks, many miles in
extent, were carried through the plantations, and the greater part
of the estate substantially enclosed with stone fences and hedges.
A residence was thus formed of a peculiar character. The house
stands a few feet above the Luther, here a brawling stream, on a
small platform, scooped out of a steep, indeed nearly a perpendi-
cular hill, covered with wood. Below is a meadow extending along
and filling the whole bottom of the glen for a couple of miles. In
front, is Strath Finella Hill, (the base of which is clothed with
thriving plantations,) rising to the height of 700 or 800 feet above
the narrow valley. Behind the castle is a bank, which rises almost
perpendicularly, and is covered with copse and full-grown trees,
and beyond this, at a very little distance, are the Grampians, the
sides of which, as well as the different ravines, formed by the
mountain streams, are finely fringed with natural birch. The house
and ground are much visited by strangers, being, strictly speak-
ing, the only show place in the parish, and, excepting the " Burn,"
in the county. The estate now belongs to Mr Gammell, who is
seldom resident.
        Spinning-Mill.--There is only one spinning-mill in the parish,
viz. for flax, at Aucbinblae. This mill was erected about forty
years ago, by a much respected and public-spirited individual, the
late Mr Kinnear.
	The materials used for building are freestone, generally of a
reddish colour, with which the parish is plentifully supplied from
quarries in different parts of it. The freestone obtained is only
adapted for ruble work,--most of the stones for rybats, linters, &c.
being brought from Woodston or Laurieston, on the coast-side.
Drumtochty Castle is veneered or faced up, on the outside, with a
beautiful blue schist, found on Dallavaird, in Glenbervie parish
but there can be little doubt but the same vein runs, along the
base of the Grampians through this parish.

                               III.--POPULATION.
	A return of the population appears to have been made by Dr
Webster in 1755, another by Mr Garden, when constructing his
valuable map of the county in 1774, and another by the Rev.
Alexander Leslie, the former incumbent, in 1791.


