
	               INCHINNAN.                       133

nounced Popery; but having removed to the parish of Renfrew, is
now under the pastoral care of the Rev. Duncan M'Farlan, who
has distinguished himself as a defender of the Protestant faith.
   Education.-In addition to the parochial school there is a school
of industry.  The parochial school-house consists of a large well-
aired hall, together with five apartments for the accommodation of
the teacher; and attached to it are a cow-house and suitable of-
fices, besides a garden, measuring nearly half an acre, and play-
ground for the children,-the whole arrangements reflecting much
credit on the liberality of the heritors.  In addition to the ordinary
branches, Latin, practical mathematics, and architectural drawing,
&c. are taught.  The fees vary from 3s. to 6s. per quarter.  All
classes are anxious to secure for their children the benefits of a good
education.  There is no child above ten years of age unable to
read; and the greater number who have reached twelve years have
a good plain handwriting.  The children of the poor are educated
at the expense of the kirk-session.  The teacher has the maximum
salary, which, with the fees and a few casualties, give him an in-
come of L. 65.  During the winter months the attendance is good,
averaging 60; but from seed-time to harvest there are frequently
not above 30 scholars, and these of the younger children.  Such
a system of alternate toil and tuition is highly prejudicial to the in-
terests of education, and greatly more expensive than if the pupils
were allowed to complete the course with fewer and shorter inter-
ruptions.  The female who superintends the school of industry is
furnished by the kindness of the heritors with a school-room, house,
and garden.  Her income, which is very scanty, is derived from
fees alone.  There are two Sunday schools taught gratis.
   Library.-There is an excellent parish library, consisting of nu-
merous standard works on theology, general history, voyages and
travels, &c. ; and all the parishioners have access for merely a no-
minal sum,-6d. per quarter.
   Poor and Poors' Funds.-The number of persons, on the poors'
list is at present four; and the parish is also burdened with the
maintenance of two illegitimate children.  The ordinary wants of the
poor are supplied from the collections at the church door, amount-
ing, upon an average, to L. 30 sterling per annum.  Any deficiency
is made up by a voluntary contribution, which is required almost
every year for miscellaneous parish purposes.  The old Scottish
spirit of independence, inducing a reluctance to ask relief from the
parish, exists here, it is believed, in greater strength than in most
places similarly situated, it being now a general complaint that it
has nearly expired.  Two instances have occurred, in the writer's


