
               216                             ELGINSHIRE.

               derable extent of moor and marsh, of which 150 acres. were plant-
               ed last year by the proprietor, J. M. Grant, Esq. of Glenmorris-
               ton. There still remain at least 200 acres fit for the growth of
               timber, which are to be planted next season. A few years ago,
               Robert Grant, Esq. of Kincorth, planted a belt skirting the sand-
               bills, which is thriving admirably; and when the whole extent is
               covered with wood, it will prove a great shelter from the north,
               and conceal from the view a tract of groUDd, which at present has
               a very unsightly appearance.\f*
                 Meteorology.-This parish is not inferior in point of climate to
               any part of the county. There are no prevalent distempers aris-
               ing from local causes. Many cases occur of individuals attainillo,
               nearly to the age of a hundred years.
                 Hydrography.-The Moray frith bounds the parish to the
               north. The shore is low and sandy. The water is exceedingly
               shallow for a considerable distance from the shore. The parish is
               well supplied with perennial springs, none of which possess any me-
               dicinal properties. The river Findhorn forms the eastern boundary
               of the parish, separating it, except in two points, from the parishes
               of Forres and Kinloss. The volume of water is not generally great;
               but the river, from having its source in the mountains, and from other
               causes, is subject to high floods. In 1829 it rose to an unprece-
               dented height, and was comparatively wore flooded thaii any of the
               rivers which were influenced by the rains that fell at that parti-
               cular period. It carried down an immense quantity of sand, which
               it deposited in the bay of Findborp, lessening its depth, over a
               surface of three square miles, to the extent of eighteen inches,
               For several years the fishing was almost destroyed; hut it has beeu
               gradually improving, and is now nearly equal in value to what it
               was before the flood of 1829. After leaving its rocky bed below
               the suspension bridge, it is necessary to embank it, to prevent it
               from making encroachments on the cultivated round. These
               embankments have cost au enormous expense, and require cork.
               stant repair. When the, river is flooded, such is the strength and
               velocity of its Current, that it burster all its artificial barriers, and
               sweeps resistlessly every thing before it. Several small trouting

<FOOTNOTES>in the Hardmuir, to the north of the great post road a little knoll surmouuted
           by a clump of fir trees, is pointed out as the soene of the meeting between the
           rd siste;rs of Forros add the Thaue of Glainmis. The blasted heath is Pow cover.
           ed wth a thriving plantation. It is contended by some, thati in this instance, tra-
           dition is at variance with history. But were this proved to be the case, facts cannot
           now deprive the "Harmore scene" of the interest which tradition and poetry have
           thrown Around it,
                                                           3


