
                          TOUGH.                             615.

present before the Court of Session.  There are in the parish
1097 acres of planted wood, covering most of the eminences.
Some of the plantations are of only a few years growth, and are in
a thriving state; while others, which have attained to fifty or
sixty years of age, are now cut down as a market offers; and in a
good many situations, the ground they occupied is now trenched
and turned into corn land.  The Scotch fir, the larch, and spruce,
are the prevailing kinds of wood, but largely intermingled with
the other sorts of forest trees; all of which attain a large size, and
yield excellent timber.  In a picturesque dell, in the tnidst of the
finest of the woods, lies the garden of Tonley, a spot which nature
and art have combined to render singularly attractive.
   Rent of Land.-The rent of land varies exceedingly, from dif-
ferences of quality and other circumstances, some being let at 8s. 6d.
some at L.2.  The average of the parish, however, may be stated
at about 14s. the imperial, or 19s. the Scotch acre.
   Leases.-The duration of leases is, in almost every instance,
nineteen years, and they are, not clogged with unfavourable or op-
pressive terms.  The rents are payable half yearly, and are chief-
ly in money.  It would be of considerable benefit to the tenants,
if, instead of Martinmas and Whitsunday, the terms of payment
were changed to Candlemas and Lammas, as not hurrying them
into the markets with their crop.
   Husbandry.-The seven-shift husbandry is in almost universal
use, the land being allowed to remain for three years in grass, af-
ter which two crops of oats are taken in succession, then turnips, and
lastly, oats or bear with grass seeds; the ground being well clean-
ed and manured when in green crop.  The soil is very favour-
able to the growth of the turnip, and its culture is well under-
stood and much attended to.  Bone manure is a good deal used,
sometimes in combination with dung, and is found to answer well.
Potatoes are reared only for domestic use; and the field cultiva-
tion of cabbages, carrots, beets, &c. is unknown.  Oats and bear
are the only kinds of grain raised, and in the proportion probably
of ten acres of the former to one of the latter.  The rearing of
black-cattle is here a leading object with the farmer, and oat-
straw, and turnips furnish the best winter keep.  The cattle, are
in generate excellent, of the old Aberdeenshire	breed, crossed,
however, with the West Highland and various other sorts, and
of late years, in many instances with the Teeswater.  They are
usually brought to market at three years old.  The number of


