
                           EDDERTOUN.                      449

  There is another sculptured stone in the church-yard, with a
warrior on horseback in the lower compartment, and a large cross
engraved above it; on the other side there are a number of cu-
rious circles and hieroglyphics, arranged in an indescribable manner.
  In the old mansion-house of Meikle D......n, there is, above the
fire-place of the principal apartment, a yellow stone, 5 feet 4 inches
long, and 1 foot 7 inches broad, with three circles 16 inches in
diameter. Above the middle circle, and betwixt it and the others,
are the following initials, A. M. M. F. 1680; and below, the
motto, Soli Deo Gloria. There is in the middle circle a man in
what seems to be a Geneva hat, cloak, and band, with the long
peaked beard and mustachios of the seventeenth century, holding
an open book in his right hand, in which is written "Fear. God
in . hairt . as . ye . my . be . bsd." Surrounding this effigy, of
what is in all probability a clergyman, are the following motto and
initials, "Servire . Deum . est . regnare . M. H. M. E. R."
In the circle to the right are three lions rampant in an escutcheon,
surrounded by the motto, "Nobilis . Est . Ira . Leonis;" and
in the left circle an eagle, also in an escutcheon, and "Aquila .
non . captat . muscas."

                           III.-POPULATION.
     In 1755, the amount of population by return to Dr Webster was  780
	1791, when the Old Statistical Account was drawn up,	   1000
	1801, by census,	                                    899
	1811,                                                       846
	1821,                                                       915
	1831,                                                      1023
Number of families in the parish in 1831,                               216
	           chiefly employed in agriculture,                     137
                                trade, manufactures, or handicraft,      18
  Language._The language generally spoken is Gaelic;find
though the inhabitants speak English less or more perfectly, and are
desirous to give an English education to their children, the Gaelic
language has lost scarcely any ground within the last forty years.
  Character and Habits of the People.-The habits of the people
are cleanly, and their style and manner of dress conformable to
what prevails among people of the same rank,and in the same
circumstances, in the vicinity. With few exceptions, they retain
the characteristics of the Gael, being patient under adverse cir--
cumstances, and, though not disposed to endure constant toil, re-
solute in every effort to better their condition and maintain their
independence; they are, consequentlyl industrious and contented
under many privations and trials. They are also intelligent,


