
                              MELROSE.                         59

lihood, from the passage of a small brook flowing across the road
at the eastern of the village, and contrastinf with the
neighboring ford of larger dimensions in the Tweed.
  Of the ruins of Melrose Abbey, which have been so frequintly
and so well described, both in poetry and prose, it is unnecessary
to say much.  The ground plan, according to the general Ro-
mish practice, is in the form of a rectangular cross.  The nave,
which lies due east and west, is in length 258 feet, and in breadth
79 feet; and at the distance of 50 feet from the easteb extremity,
it is intersected at right angles by the trasept, which is in length
130 feet, and breadth 44.  To the west of the trasept there
are two magnificent rows of pillars ranged along the north and
south side of the nave, which form two passages leading into the
interior, where it is most spacious, the intersection of the transept
and nave.  The passage on the north side is bounded by a blind
wall; that on the south, which is broader and more magnificent,
opens into a long series of aisles, intended, perhaps, to serve as con-
fessionals, private chapels, baptistries, or queers, each highly or-
namented, and terminated by a splendid Gothic window.  Upon
the north side of the building, indications are observable on the
outer wall, of a large quadrangular cloister which, beginning at the
transept, had extended 150 feet west, and also of a spacious ar-
cade or piazza, with which it had been surronded.  The habita-
tions of the monks, as is said and confirmed by architectural indi-
cations and foundations which have been dug up, were ranged along
the east, west, and north walls of the cloister, completely secluded
from the outer world, and concealed behind their splendid southern
screen, the majestic pile of the abbey, which might have ex-
tended as far beyond the quadrangle in the west as it does in the
east.
  Such seems to have been the general outlines of this famous
building, so far as they can be traced in its present dismantled
state.  The architecture is the finest Gothic, belonging evidently
to an age when the art, in all its departments, and that style of
building in particular, had arrived at the higher perfection.  In
the magnitude of its proportions, Melrose Abbey is inferior to many
works of its kind,-the dimensions of York Minster being nearly
double; but it has seldom been surpassed, or even equalled, in the
fineness of the sculpture, the exquisite finishing of its most minute
embellishments, and the majestic beauty so suitable to a sacred
edifice, which appears in the whole.  How came so fine a building,


