
232                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Villages, Market-Towns, Means of Commnication.--There are
several villages in this parish ; but the most important are Eckford,
Cessford, and Caverton.  The nearest market-towns are Kelso and
Jedburgh, the former being about four miles and a half, and the
latter about five miles and a half, distant from the parish church.
About a mile and a half of the turnpike road between Hawick and
Kelso runs through the parish ; and along this, a coach passes between
these two places by the way of Jedburgh, every Tuesday and Fri-
day.  There is also a post which passes regularly along this line of
road twice every day.  In this parish, there are two stone bridges,
both of one arch,--the one over the Kale. near its junction with the
Teviot, and the other over that stream near Eckford mill.  The
former was built many years ago at the expense of the county, and
forms part of the great turnpike road which passes through the dis-
trict; the latter is reported to have been erected, towards the close
of the seventeenth century, out of the proceeds of the stipend
when there was no fixed pastor in the parish.  There is, besides,
an elegant chain bridge, which, a few years ago, was thrown over
the Teviot near its confluence with the Kale, at the expense of
the Late William Mein, Esq.  Ormiston, and which, independently
of the advantages resulting from it, forms a beautiful and interest-
ing object.  It was designed by Captain Samuel Brown of the
Royal Navy, a gentleman whose talents and genius are well known,
and the workmanship was executed in the most elegant and sub-
stantial manner by Mr William Mather, Kalemouth.  The bridge
is 180 feet in length, and 16 feet in breadth, and is intended for
carriages as well as foot-passengers.  There is a pontage upon it,
which is as follows: for a foot-passenger 1/2d., for a horse or cart
3d., for a gig 6d., and for a chaise 1s.
  Ecclesiastical State.--The church, which anciently belonged to
the Abbey of Jedburgh, is in the gift of the Crown.  It is beau-
fully situated on the southern banks of the Teviot, about a mile
from the northern extremity of the parish.  It was built in the year
1662, but since then it has undergone frequent repairs.  It is a neat
and an apparently substantial building, and contains about 300 sittings.
Close to the eastern door of the church, is appended an iron collar,
which is in a state of great preservation, and which is commonly known
by the name of the jugs.  In former times church offenders were some-
times sentenced by kirk-sessions, to stand with it fastened round
their neck, and clothed with sackcloth, for several Sabbaths, in pre-
					3


