
     Statistical Account

which Mr. Carnegie has enlarged into a tolerable harbour for
small vessels.  They are subject to the tax on water-born coal,
so much felt and complained of over a great part of Scotland,
but from which, we observe with pleasure, there is now a
near prospect of being relieved; seeing his Majesty's ministers
have recommended it to the consideration of the legislature,
and are themselves the promoters of its repeal.  Culm is
mostly used by Mr. Carnegie for the burning of his lime;
but the stone is so hard, and the demand at one season of the
year so great, that it will not answer without a mixture of
great coal.  The increasing expence of removing the super-
strata of earth and rock, and of pumping out the water, to-
gether with the rise on the rates of labour and wages, have
obliged him to raise the price of the boll of shells, by degrees,
from 18 d. to 22 d. per boll, during a period of 24 years.  The
boll contains 2 barrels, and the barrel 44 pints, Scotch mea-
suro.  It is the same with the wheat measure of this country,
a boll of which is 88 pints.  The quantity sold (communibus
annis) is 20,000 bolls.  It is almost entirely used in agricul-
ture; and the demand is greater than can be supplied.  It is
carried to the distance of 12 miles, by steep, rough roads,
over the Hill of Garvock, into the How of the Mearns, (part
of the valley of Strathmore); and is found to answer all the
expence a considerable way up the sides of the Grampians.
With the thin sharp soil of these barren heath-covered muirs
it agrees remarkably well; and it is pleasing to see some
parts of them annually converted into crops of corn and of
grass, by the operation of this valuable manure.  The carriage
to the greatest distance mentioned, is 1 s. per boll.  The cart-
load is from 3 1/2 to 4 bolls.
   The stone is of a blue colour, veined with white; and it is
supposed, that, if polished, it would be a beautiful grey
marble.  It is very hard, and takes a great quantity of gun-


