
     Statistical Account

wherever men have safe and permanent habitations, with
abundant supplies of the necessaries and conveniencies of
life, the population will incerease, in proportion as these ad-
vantages are enjoyed.-The highways in the parish are
in general very bad, owing to the depth and wetness of the
soil through whichf they pass.  An act of Parliament has
been lately obtained for making turnpike roads through the
county of Fife, one of which is to pass through the west,
and another through the east end of the parish.  These,
with the bridges to be built where necessary, in the line of
these roads, will be of great service to this neighbourhood*.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-Within these 30 years, more
than a half of the houses in the country part of the parish,
have been rebuilt, and in the village a good many new
ones erected; all of them, in point of neatness and conve-
nience of accommodation, far excellig the old ones.  A
great change has taken place is dress, within the period
above mentioned; the plaid is now almost wholly laid a-
side by the women, and the use of the cloak and bonnet
has become general.  Amont the men, the Scotch bon-
net has given place to the hat; the servant men are ge-
nerally clothed with English cloth, and many of them
have watches in their pockets.  The use of barley and
peace for making bread, is much on the decline's and the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The parish of Ceres cannot boast of any remarkable antiquities.
There are some tummuli or hillocks in the parish, in which, upon their
being dug into, stone coffins, composed of thin broad stones, set on edge,
for the sides and ends, and laid flat for the top and bottom, have been
discovered.  The bones found in them were reduced to ashes.  Some
urns have also been dug up, in which the ashes of human bones were
found.  In an urn, dug up near the boundaries of the parish of Ceres,
and Cults, a smaller urn was found inclosed, and it it, besides some
ashes of bones, a small brass instrument like the iron of a shoemaker's
awl, and a small black bead cut in a diamond form, were found.


