
                          SMALL ISLES.                    147

the first appearance of an enemy.  Soon afterwards a number of
boats were seen approaching the isle; wben the trembling inhabi-
tants retired in despair to this cave, their only refuge.  The Mac-
leods soon landed and traversed the whole island; but as they
could discover no human being, they concluded that the Mac-
donalds had made their escape to the mainland, or to some of the
adjacent islands.  Disappointed and enraged, they were about to
leave Eigg to return to Skye, when unfortunately one of the horde
observed the mark of footsteps on the snow; and thus they were
enabled to discover the cave where the wretched inhabitants had
taken refuge. Shrieks of despair were interrupted for a little by
a proposal of the Macleods, that, if the murderers were given up
to punishment, the other lives should be spared.  This was only a
cruel aggravation of their sufferings, as the Macleods were the ag-
gressors.  Connected, as the Macdonalds were, by the dearest
ties, they were determined to perish together rather than to give
up one of their number. The Macleods, with the most savage
barbarity, instantly kindled great fires at the mouth of the cave,
which soon suffocated the whole of the miserable inhabitants.
  "One often listens even to such a tale, as to the description of
a battle, without much interest; but the view of the scene never
fails to awaken a keener sympathy,-the circumstances are brought
nearer to the mind, and seem to be passing before us. We stood
on the very ground where this tragedy was acted, and felt our sen-
sibility increased by the sequestered and dreary place in which the
deed was done.  But even this interest was faint when compared
to that we felt when, after creeping a considerable way through a
low and narrow entrance, half-covered with brushwood, we found
ourselves at last within a large and gloomy cave, the extent and
height of which we could not distinguish, and perceived the gleams
of the lights we carried reflected from the bones and skulls of the
unhappy Macdonalds.  The force with which the truth and all
the circumstances of this dreadful tale struck at this moment upon
our minds, and the strange variety of sensations excited by an
event so extraordinary, it is not easy to find words to express.
  " The entrance of the cave is low and narrow for about 12
feet, the breadth 14 feet, and in length it extends inwards nearly
213 feet.  The air was damp and raw.  Our lights struck faintly
on the black sides of the caves, without dispelling that deep and
solemn gloom Which harmonized so well with its melancholy story.
The projecting masses of rock were dimly illuminated while the


