
                         DENNY.                       119

No lives were lost. The damage was speedily repaired and,
to prevent in future such accidents, a deep excavation in the
rock was made in front of the cottage, through to its east rocky
banks, sufficient to receive any future overflowings. It was arch-
ed over, and thereby easy access, as formerly, to the entrance
to the cottage was provided. The banks on each side of the
river, were planted; walks were made along their sloping sides, with
resting-places at proper stations, for enjoying the picturesque beau-
ties of the scene. A carriage way from the turnpike, from Denny
to Fintry, was formed down to the cottage. A bridge of plank,
close to the spout, was thrown over the fissure, which divides
Denny parish from St Ninians, to give access to the garden on
the other side. For a time, it was the resort of the curious, who
came even from a distance to see and enjoy the scenery of the
Cliffs of Carron, the name by which it was known. A mother's
fears for her offspring, atmidst so many perils, soon made the ami-
able and accomplished lady of the property, a stranger to its beau-
ties. The last interesting inhabitant of this once enchanting and
still beautifully wild place, was the widowed sister of the amiable
Graham, the Sabbatti poet. Since she left it, some dozen years
ago, it has gradually decayed, and has at present only the ruins of
its beatity remaining. It is now the property of Archibald Wish-
art, Esq. W.S. Deputy-Keeper of the Register of Sasines, Edin-
burgh.
   Rocks.--The rocks are whinstone and freestone. The dip in
a recently opened freestone quarry in the parochial ridge, already
mentioned, is from the north, cropping-out on the south. Its co-
lour is whitish. There are other freestone rocks, of yellowish and
greyish colour, as well as whitish.
   Soils.--On the lower banks of Carron and Bonny, the soil is,
loamy. In the upper parts, it is frequently marshy, and in the
central parts, gravelly.
   Mines.--The mines in the parish are of ironstone and coal. The
ironstone lies in Castlerankine division of the parish; the coal is
diffused over the upper part of the parochial surface, and more
especially in the southern quarter, called Banknock. The coal
on the northern side of the parochial ridge, though neares Denny
and the manufactories, is only occasionally worked, awing to the
want of a level for drawing off the water; and it is doubted Whe-
ther the quality of it be such as would indemnify the working it by
steam.


