
        PARISH OF LINLITHGOW. *

PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN & TWEEDDALE.

      THE REV. ANDREW BELL, D.D., MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE earliest form in which the name of the parish ap-
pears, is in the charter of David I. to Holyrood, where it is spelt
Linliteu. From the time of that prince, the orthography is very
various, changing with the fashions of different times, and the taste
of different writers; thus it appears as Linliscu, Lynlithkon, Lin-
liscoth, &c. till it assumes its present fortn, Linlithgow, popularly
contracted Lithgow. The etymology of the name is variously
given; some ascribe to it a British origin, its component parts be-
ing, traced to words in that language, which signify the lake of the
expansive hollow; others derive the word from the Gaelic, and
render it, the lake of the grey dog, supporting this opinion by
a reference to the armorial bearings on the common seal of the
burgh, which represent a dog tied to a tree,-referring, as is said,
to the old legend of such an animal being discovered bound to a
tree on the island which adorns the east end of the lake. An-
other, and perhaps the most probable etymology, is that which de-
rives the word frorn the Saxon, in which language, Linlithgow sig-
nifies the lake of the sheltered valley, an appellation descriptive
of the situation of that beautiful sheet of water, which, being the
most remarkable object in the scenery, would naturally determine
the name of the town and district.
Extent,&c.-The mean extent of the parish is, from east to west,
about 5 miles, and about 3 from north to south. Its boundaries are,
on the north, Borrowstownness, Carriden, and Abercorn; on the east,
Abercorn and Ecclesmachan; on the south, Uphall, Ecclesma-
chan, and Bathgate; and on the west, Torphichen and the river
Avon, which divides it from Muiravonside in Stirlingshire. The
surface of the parish is very unequal; towards the east and north-
east it is level, but it rises toward the south, where it is crossed

<FOOTNOTE>Obligingly furnished by the REV. W.S. Smart, Linlitgow.


