
                        YETHOLM.                          173

   Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as
follows:

<TABLE>
        Grain of all kinds,                        L. 5506  5 0
        Potatoes, turnips, &c.                        3051  0 0
        Hay,                                           687 10 0
        3000 acres of permanent pasture,              2760  0 0

                                                 L. 12,004 15 0
                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages and Markets.-The only villages in this parish are
Town Yetholm and Kirk Yetholm, in both of which there has
been usually a Baron Bailie; one appointed by the Marquis of
Tweeddale, the other by Mr Wauchope of Niddrie, the superiors
of the villages. In Town Yetholm there was formerly a weekly
market, which is now discontinued. Kelso, Coldstream, and Ber-
wick are the nearest weekly markets.
   Means of Communication.-No public conveyances, as coaches,
&c. pass through the parish. There is no post-office at present-
a disadvantage that might easily be remedied. There is a com-
munication by carriers between Kelso and Yetholm, five days in
the week, and more rarely with Coldstream and Berwick. The
length of turnpike-road in the parish is four miles, generally kept
in good repair, and managed by the trustees for the district of Kel-
so. There are two toll-houses on these roads, both of which are
let annually, by public sale, and at present for L. 180. The turn-
pike-roads communicate with Kelso, Coldstream, Berwick, Wooler,
Jedburgh, and with the coal and lime districts. The bye-roads,
kept in repair by the, statute-labour money, are about five miles in
length. A very neat bridge, erected last year across the Bowmont,
between the villages of Town and Kirk Yetholm, is one of the
greatest improvements that have taken place in the parish for many
years.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated in Kirk
Yetholm, and no part of the population is distant from it more
than two miles. It is a very wretched and insufficient building.
An addition, larger than the original church, was built to the west.
end of it in 1609. The age of the east end is unknown. It is
much too small for the population. Usually, it is most uncom-
fortably crowded, and still one-third nearly of the church-going
population are unable to find accommodation. It is but fair,
however, to state, that a considerable number of those who attend
the Established church are from the English border, the inha-
bitants of which are generally Scotch and Presbyterians. The


