
                                        KEITH.                         391

        parallel streets running due south and north, intersected by a narrow
	lane between each alternate feu.  The feus are fifteen yards
        front by sixty yards back, and pay from 10s. to L.1, 5s. feu-duty.
        There is a town-house and lock-up-house, and a large square or
        market-place, where there is a weekly market on Friday for the sale
        of all sorts of produce.  There are six annual markets for the sale
        of cattle, horses, and sheep.  At those of June and September a
        great deal of wool is still disposed of.  New Keith may still be
        considered the market-town 'of the dhstrict.  It was begun to be
        built about the year 1750.  There are branches of three banks,-
        the Aberdeen Bank, the Town and County Bank, and the North of
        Scotland Bank.  In it are all the principal merchants' shops, the
        residences of all the solicitors and doctors, while the inn, which is
        a commodious building, is the resort of all the commercial travellers,
        and the Mail and Defiance coaches stop at it daily.  Gas-light
	has been lately introduced.  There is likewise a Savings Bank
        in New Keith, which was instituted in 1827 by the parish minister.
	It is conducted by a secretary and thirty directors.  There
        is a subscription library containing upwards of 600 volumes of
        standard works, and several other libraries connected with several
	of the congregations of the place.  Fife Keith is a clean
        healthy village, and was begun to be built in 1817 by Lord Fife,
        on the north side of the Islay.  It has a fine building adapted for
        an inn.  The whole village, in a commercial view, has been a complete
	failure; for, except a few merchants' shops, and some three
        or four tradesmen, the population may be said to depend on their
        crofts of land. It has four markets for the sale of cattle annually.
        Newmill was begun as early as New Keith; but, being at a distance
	from public roads, it did not thrive,-the people depending
        entirely on their land.  It has one annual well frequented market
        for the sale of cattle, horses, and sheep, in the month of October.
          Ecclesiastical State. - The parish church is a substantial erection,
        built in the year 1816.  It is 100 feet long, and 60 wide, and is
        seated to contain 1800.  It has a square tower 120 felt hight in
        which are placed the clock and bell.  The Roman Catbolic chapel
	is a neat building, with a highly ornamented gable fronting the
        market place of New Keith.  It was erected in 1828, and is capable
	of containing 340.  The General Assembly's church contains
	sittings for 700.  The Independent chapel has seats, for 240.
        The Secession church has seats for 450.  The Episcopalian chapel
        is seated to contain 150, and has a fine organ.
          There are about 60 communicants connected with the Seces-


