


88                         FIFESHIRE.

cated. Here, however, as well as in other parts of the country
in these days, the want of a due attention to the spiritual interests
of the young on the part of the parents, was seen and lamented;
and to remedy as far as possible the evil resulting from such ne-
glect, several Sabbath evening schools have been instituted. These
schools are conducted by elders of the Established church, and
other benevolent individuals, who gratuitously give their time
and labour to the important purpose of instructing the young in
the truths of religion. In winter there are about 200 children at-
tending these schools. There is a library in connection with them,
composed of small religious books, which are kept in constant cir-
culation among the children. The funds for the support of this
library arise from collections made in the parish church, where an
evening sermon is occasionally preached for that purpose, and on

which occasions the children all attend with their teachers.
     Libraries.-A subscription library for the use of the parish was
instituted in 1829. Each subscriber pays 2s. of entry-money, and
thereafter 2s. annually, or 6d. quarterly, and on these easy terms
he enjovs the use of a valuable collection of religious and literary
productions.
     Savings Bank.__A savings bank has just been instituted (Janu-
ary 1836) in the village, but has not yet existed sufficiently long
to justify any expression of opinion as to its success.
 
                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     In taking a general view of the state of the parish, and contrast-
ing it with what appears to have been its condition at the time of
the last Statistical Account, little occurs as worthy of remark. It
has of course partaken, in common with other places, in the ge-
neral advancement and improvement in the affairs of human life.
Agriculture seems to have undergone considerable improvement,
and almost every part of the parish is now under cultivation, which
can be expected to repay the labour, There is nothing in which
we seem to be left so far behind, amid the improvements of the age,
as the state of the ferry passage, which has still to be effected in
every state of the weather by small sailing boats. Scarcely any
where else in the kingdom is this now the case on a passage of
pearly two miles. A steam boat is therefore much desiderated;
and it is hoped that, among the improvements so vigorously carry-
ing on under the new proprietorship of Scotscraig, this will not be
long wanting.
   March 1836.


