
	                         DOLLAR.			               115

<TABLE>

Turnips, 204 1/2 acres, at L. 12 per acre,       -      -      -      2448   0   0
Potatoes, 204 1/2 acres, at L. 13 per acre,       -      -      -     2672  19   0
Land formerly in a state of cultivation, now laid down as permanent
  pasture,     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -       95   0   0
Meadow hay,     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      93   0   0
                                                                      ____________
                                                 Total,          L. 15,219  18   6

   The above calculation has been made on the presumption, that
the land is cultivated in a regular rotation of crop, which it gene-
rally is. The fractional parts of acres, on the different estates
have not been taken into account, which, if done, would add some-
thing to the yearly amount. It will be seen from the above table,
that the oats, wheat, and barley are the principal grains cultivated.
Beans and peas have been found not so productive, and are seldom
sown. Bear was formerly in use, but has now given place to bar-
ley. Bone dust begins to be in use for the culture of turnip, when
the crop is usually eaten off with sheep, or if sold for that purpose,
the value of an acre is from L. 2 to L. 3, according to the quality
of the root.
   Manufactures.--The principal manufacture in the parish is
bleaching. It was begun by the late Mr Haig in the year 1787,
and since that period, the quantity of cloth bleached has been
yearly increasing. The field for the first two years consisted only
of four acres; at present the cloth covers about 30 acres. The use
of oxymuriatic acid in bleaching was early introduced here, and
Mr Haig obtained a premium from the Board of Trustees, for his
success in applying it. It is said, in the former Statistical Account,
that cotton goods, to a great extent, are bleached at this field, but
this is a mistake; for the field, at least at present, is exclusively
appropriated to the bleaching of linen goods. There are employ-
ed at the bleachfield 31 men, 26 women, and 5 boys, in all 62;
at the brick and tile-works, 14 men, 1 woman, and 4 boys and
girls. The woollen mill employs 2 men, 4 boys and girls. The
usual hours of labour are twelve, including the breakfast and din-
ner hours. The work people seem all contented; at least, we hear
of no murmurings about the smallness of wages.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Towns.-The nearest market-town is Alloa, about seven
miles distant from Dollar. A runner, paid by the General Post-
Office, arrives daily from Alloa about one o'clock F. M., and, after
going and returning from Muckhart, sets out again to Alloa, after
an interval of nearly six hours. The turnpike-road from Kinross
to Stirling passes through the parish, for about a mile and a quarter
and the turnpike-road to Dunfermline, for about a mile and a-half.
A public carriage or stage-coach began, a few years ago, to run


