
296                       LANARKSHIRE.

Galloway, shot by a party of dragoons on his way to Bothwell
Bridge, 22d, June 1679, aged 65; inscribed by his great-grand-
son, Sir John Gordon, Bart. 11th June 1772."
	Eminent Characters.--Mrs Isabella Graham was born in this
parish. Her father, Mr J. Marshall, was a small proprietor at a
place called Heads, from which he removed to the Abbey parish
of Paisley. The piety and excellence of Mrs Graham require no
comment here. A memoir of her was first published at New
York, and reprinted in London 1816. In 1766, she left her na-
tive country for America with her husband, and spent the greater
part of her remaining days in that foreign land. She died on the
27th July 1814.
	Mansion Houses.--The principal of these are, Muirburn, Cru-
therland, Avonholm, Westquarter House, Hallhill, Craigthornhill,
and Heads, &c.
	Mills.--There are two upon the Avon, one for oats, &c. and
another for flour, erected in 1833.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest is dated 1692, when the Rev.
Francis Borland was minister of the parish. They are rather
confused from the first, and have not been regularly attended to
for the last thirty-seven years.*

<FOOTNOTE>
	* The following account of the sufferings of the people in the parish of Glasford for
religion and non-conformity to Prelacy, about the year 1660, appears to have been
appointed by the kirk-session of l694, to be inserted in their records. As exemplifying
the persecutions of the time, it is thought not unworthy of being presented here at length.
	"Imprimis, Mr William Hamilton, minister in Glasford, Who had been ordained
minister of this parish about January 1644, and continued in the faithful and pa-
tient exercise of his ministry here, till after the restoration of King Charles II., was
in the year 1666 most injuriously silenced and thrust out of his charge by the then
Bishop of Glasgow; and when afterwards he was indulged to preach the Gospel at
Strathaven in the year 1669, he was there confined within the bounds of that parish.
	"Item, The parish of Glasford was injuriously fined in the sum of eleven hundred
merks Scots, which they were forced to pay, upon the account that the curate's house,
Mr Finlay, who was then incumbent of the said parish, was by robbers broken ups,
about the year 1660, although no person of the said parish was any ways guilty of the
fact, being done by strangers, who were afterwards apprehended and executed for the
robbery; at their death confessed the same, declaring that they had not done above
two dollars worth of damage to the said Mr Finlay, his house or goods.
	"Item, Robert Semple in Craigthorn, William Semple Whitcraig, William Mar-
shall in Four Pennyland, having been at the rising in Pentland Hills, were there either
killed, or received their death wounds, in their testifying against the corruption of
their times.
	"Item, John Hart, in Westquarter, who had been at the engagement at Pentland
Hills, after his return home, was apprehended, carried to Glasgow, and there exe-
cuted on the foresaid account.
	"Item, James Scouler and Gavin Semple, having gone toward Hamilton to hear
sermon, on the same day on which Bothwell Bridge skirmish fell out, were on their
way thither both cruelly killed.
	"Item, John Semple in Craigthorn, sometime after Bothwell Bridge, in the year
1684, was apprehended and cruelly used by soldiers, then laid up in Hamilton Tol-
booth; afterwards carried to foresaid tolbooth, where he was barbarously handled,
his fingers driven into the thummaking, and his legs driven into the bolts, and that


