                          
                        PARISH OF RHYND.

           PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

               THE REV. JAMES TRAQUAIR, MINISTER.
                                                    
             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     Extent, &c.-RHYND, a term which, we are informed, signifies in
  the Gaelic language, a point, is a small parish situated at the con-
  fluence of the Tay and Earn.  It is 4 miles in length, and about
  1 mile in breadth, resembling, in some respects, an acute-angled
  triangle.  It is bounded on the west, by the parishes of Dunbar-
  ney and Perth; on the north and east, by the parishes of Kinfauns
  and St Madoes, from which it is separated by the Tay; and on
  the south, by the parish of Abernethy, from which it is separated
  by the Earn.
    As might have been supposed from its situation, the land on the
  south-east part of the parish, and near the confluence of the rivers,
  is extremely flat and level, consisting chiefly of clay, intermixed, oc-
  casionally, with black loam of the finest quality.  In the north-west
  part of the parish, and behind Moncrieff-hill, it is considerably
  elevated, and slopes gradually towards the Tay, and is rather of a
  sharp or gravelly nature, but calculated, when properly cultivated,
  to repay abundantly the labours of the husbandman.
    From the low and flat situation of the greater part of the parish,
  the air is somewhat moist and hazy, but not unhealthy.  It is
  rather, as we know from experience, the reverse.  The wind, which
  blows from the west, sometimes with great violence, and the immense
  currents of fresh water, which are continually flowing along the
  two sides of it, tend to purify the atmosphere, and to purge it from
  the noxious qualities with which it might be apt to be impregnated.
  -Individuals of every rank and condition of life, often attain, here
  an extreme old age, eighty or ninety years being no uncommon
  or extraordinary occurrence.  To this parish, accordingly, we are
  informed, the inhabitants of Perth, in the days of old, resorted in
  great numbers, when the plague was raging, in that ill-fated city,
  and spreading, in all directions, its baleful and destructive influence.


