
396                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and the governors were incorporated by a parliamentary statute in
1827.
   The management is vested in certain individuals -nominated by
the founder, and in the Provost of the city, the Principal and
Professor of Humanity in the University, the Rector of the
High School, the ministers of Duddingston, Liberton, and
Newton, and the factor of the Marquess of Abercorn. The
institution, which is situated near the village of Wester Dudding-
ston, was opened on the 30th of November 1833. Twenty boys
are maintained in it. They are required, when admitted, to be
of the age of six, and under that of eight years, and are retained
for six years. According to the trust-settlement, they are in-
structed in the ordinary branches of education, and also in Latin,
Greek, French, and mathematics, and in the first principles of
natural philosophy, chemistry, and botany.
   The strictest care and attention are paid to the comfort and bap-
piness of the boys; and their progress in the various branches of
education has hitherto, in every respect, met with the approbation
of the directors.
   Saving Bank.-There is no saving bank in this parish; the
nearest is in Edinburgh.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The poor were supported by
voluntary contributions till the year 1832, when poor rates were
established, the heritors paying one-half, and the tenants the other.
The number of poor at present upon the roll is about 76, who,
according to their necessities, receive from 3s. to 6s. per month.
There are two lunatics who are supported by the kirk-session at
L, 20 each per per annum. The collections at the eburch-door
may average 10s. per week. The assessment last year was L.400.
Mr Kay, an architect in Edinburgh, left a few years ago the sum
of L. 100 to the poor of this parish, tinder the management of the
minister and kirk-session. Mortcloth dues 5s., and burying-ground
charged L. 10 go to the support of the poor. No public begging
is allowed, within the bounds of this parish. It cannot be doubted
that the disposition among the poor to refrain from seeking pa-
rochial relief is fast dying away, and parochial support is not now
considered so degrading to the feelings as it was forty years ago.
The poor, however, of this parish evince no unnecessary anxiety
to solicit parochial aid.
   Inns and Alehouses.-In Portobello there are two inns, one
tavern, and eight spirit-shops. In the village of Joppa and its

                                 3


