
840                            PERTHSHIRE.

tinct, till they entirely disappear, leaving a bed of pure clay or
loam.
     Geology and Mineralogy.-The old red sandstone, which fills
up so much of the Carse of Gowrie and Stratherne, was at one time
quarried at Innernethy, near the junction of the Eartie arid Tay,
and is visible in contact with the trap about 300 yards to the south
of the manse, as also about half a mile distant fOm the House of
Ayton, in the channel of the Farg.  Though concealed elsewherd
by a thick mass of alluvial matter, it most probably constitutes the
only rock in that part of the parish which lies between the Tay
and the first trap range of the Ochils. it declines towards the
north at an angle of from 15 to 20.  It occasionally inclines to
conglomerate.  In the Glenfarg quarry, near Ayton, have been
discovered fragments of scales of those extraordinary ichthyo-
lites, which have of late been found in abundance at Clash-
benny, in the Carse of Gowrie, and Duraden to the south-east
of Cupar, Fife.  The Ochil Hills, among which a consider-
able portion of the parish is situated, consist wholly of trap, and
in this quarter, of the varieties known by the names of clinkstone,
amygdaloid, porphyry, and elaystotoue.  A singular blood-red va-
riety of the last of these is found around Balvaird Castle. From
the Castle Law west towards Glenfarg, on the north face, of the
bill, trap tuffa, resembling Some of the gravel stones of Colone
Imrie, prevails.  The boulders which are scattered over the pa-
rish, and are especially prevalent on the tops of the bills, consist
chiefly of gneiss, primitive trap, and quartz rock.
     Quarries.- The only quarries worked in -the parish are from
the greenstone and clinkstone rocks in the Achil range.  They
are used generally for road-metal, but sometimes for coarse build-
ing.  The quarry in Glenfarg, immediately above Ayton and in
Lord Mansfield's grounds, exhibits the clinkstone arranged in
beautiful distinct concretions. The Zeolites of Glellfarg have
been long so celebrated, that they need not be  particullarly de-
scribed.  They are found on, the rocks stretching from Ayton
tor Balvaird Castle.  In the same locality and particularly on the
estates of Balvaird and Catochil, agates of various kinds, jaspers,
and calcareous spars, are in abundance.
     In the rinage hills near Auchtermuchty there are limestone
rock.
     Zoology.-The quadrupeds which abound are those coinmon to


