
138			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

also nearly parallel with each other, from S. E. to N. W. The lat-
ter rise from 500 or 600 feet to about 1000 feet above sea level.
Though some of the lower hills, and some also of the higher, ap-
proach to a conical from, yet they are chiefly tabular or ridge.
Most of the low lands are on the banks of the Annan; and though
there are some level tracts along it, yet they generally rise with a
gentle acclivity to the ranges which run parallel with it. There
are also some fine valleys more confined and secluded; especially
that on the Wamphray Water above the church, where there is a
number of extensive fields above its woody banks, both rich and
fertile as well as beautiful. Towards the S. E. of the parish,
where the hills are low and partly arable, at least yield excel-
lent pasture, the valleys interspered are perhaps of the deepest
soil in the parish, and produced excellent crops. The lowest point
in the parish is on the Annan, at the S. W. extremity, about 2000
feet above sea level. And the highest point is on the N. E. ex-
tremity, where the two mountain-ranges formerly mentioned meet,
and terminate at last in the same direction. It is called Lochfell.
Its elevation is fully 2500 feet above the sea.
	Meteology.--From observation taken by Fahrenheit's ther-
mometer at an elevation of 280 feet above sea level, and and nearly
20 feet from the ground, in the shade, with a north-eastern expo-
sure, it appears that the average temperature of the year 1830 was
46&deg;, and that of 1831 was 52&deg;. But as these observation were
not made at exactly similar periods, and as the seasons were also
of different temperatures, it may be stated that the mean tempe-
rature is 47&deg;. The greatest height to which the thermometer
was observed to rise last year was on the 31st July, when it stood
at noon at 78&deg;, and at two o'clock P. M. same day at 84&deg;. The
greatest depression in the same year at noon was on the 25th and
26th January, on both of which day it stood at 28&deg;. Its greatest
height in 1830 was on the 28th July, when at noon it stood at
81&deg;, and betwixt two and three o'clock, P. M. same day at 83&deg;,
and its greatest depression was on the 24th December, when at
noon it stood at 22&deg; or 10&deg; below freezing point in the shade. The
mean pressure of the atmosphere, as ascertained at the same place,
but about ten feet lower, by daily observation with the barometer
at noon during the last five months of 1831, gives 29.3&deg;. The
greatest variation took place in December, both the greatest and
least pressure being in that month; when, on the 7th, the mercury
stood at 28.5&deg;, and at 30.3&deg; for several days towards the end of the
				      4

