
                           SCOONIE.                            271

changed. Most of the cattle reared in the county are fattened at
home; and are either consumed by our own population, or sent to
the Edinburgh or Glasgow markets; and some of late have been sent
by the Dundee steam-vessels to London. Where the native breed
has been well selected and kept pure, it has been found best adapt-
ed for the soil and climate of this county. Unfortunately, how-
ever, many crosses with other breeds have been introduced; and:
almost every one of these crosses has tended rather to deteriorate
than to improve the original stock. This appears now to be ge-
nerally acknowledged, and a desire has arisen among our agricul-
turists to give up crossing  entirely, and to confine their attention
to the native breed of the county, as being the most profitable.
The celebrated ox of the Fife breed, " Charlie," was bred in this
parish, by Mr Wallace, tenant at Balgrummo. He was exhibited
by Mr Bruce of Kennet, at the Highland Society exhibition at
Stirling in 1833, and gained the premium given by that Society
for the best ox of any breed, competing against the Teeswater
and other breeds. In this parish, also, were reared by James B.
Fernie, Esq. of Kilmux, and exhibited by him at Stirling the same
year, the two oxen which gained the premium given by the High-
land Society for the best pair of cattle of the Fife breed.
  Husbandry.--The system of husbandry generally pursued in
this parish, is the rotation of alternate white and green crops; and
the soil adapted for grass is allowed to remain two or more years
in pasture. Since the last Statistical report was published, the an-
nual land rental has increased from L. 2000 to nearly L. 6500;
and many an acre, since that period, hus been brought from a
state of unprofitable barrenness to bear luxuriant crops of all kinds
of grain. Notwithstanding the depression under which the agri-
cultural interest has been labouring for several years, improve-
ments upon the soil are still carrying on with considerable spirit
and some of the occupiers of wet land are rendering the soil com-
paratively dry, by adopting the new mode of draining, called "the
frequent dntin system," and by using the skeleton trenching plough,
invented by Mr Smith of Deanston, and improved by Mr Henry
Thallan, blacksmith at Smiddy-green, in this parish. Major An-
derson of Monthrive, and Mr Fernie of Kilmux may be named as
improvers on this system.
  Leases.--The duration of leases is generally for a term of nine-
teen years; and there seems no reason to suppose that any change


