
258                         LANARKSHIRE.

Hamilton. The same bed also extends a great way northwards in the
direction of Glasgow, but owing to a slip in the coal metals between
the farms of Simpsonland and Carscallan, a little to the north of
Quarter, the coal is sunk nearly l00 fathoms below its usual level;
an accident which puts it almost beyond the reach of the inhabitants
of Hamilton, Blantyre, and part of Bothwell; the strata not rising
up again till near Cambuslang. The existence of this remarkable
fracture is indicated by the coal metals on the banks of the Avon,
and on other burns below the place where the break occurs, all
dipping to the south-west; whereas, above that particular spot,
they, and indeed the whole strata of the district, with this single
exception, dip to the north-east. The coal strata here resemble
those throughout the county. At Quarter, the first bed worth
working is the 10 feet or woman's coal, so called because it was
once wrought by females. This is a soft coal, which burns rapid-
ly; and although called the 10 feet coal, is in reality from 7 to
14 feet in thickness. Fifteen fathoms lower down, the ell coal oc-
curs, so called because it was at first found of that thickness: but
it is frequently from 4 to 6 feet thick. In the fire it cakes, or
runs into a mass, and is much esteemed by blacksmiths. Ten or
fifteen fathoms below the former, is the seam called the main-coal.
This at Quarter is 5 feet 6 inches thick, and consists of four dis-
tinct varieties of coal. 1st, The ground coal, undermost, 20
inches thick, gummy and sooty. 2d, Immediately above it the
yolk or jet coal, 6 inches thick, of a fine clear vitreous texture, like
cannel coal, affording abundance of light. 3d, Parrot coal, 1O inches.
4th, Splint coal, 30 inches. This is the coal now wrought both
by shanks and ingoing pits. The shanks at Quarter are about 30
fathoms. The mouths of the ingoing pits are on the banks of
the Avon two miles above Hamilton. These pits communicate with
each other; and at their farthest recesses, swarms of flies are of-
ten observed. They also abound with rats and mice. Below the
main coal, the lump, hard, soft, and sour-milk seams of coal occur,
each at the depth of about 15 fathoms, the one below the other.
Between and above these, there are many smaller seams. The
whole of the seams added together will give a thickness of from
20 to 24 feet. Coal is also wrought to the south at Plotcock and
Langfaugh, but on a smaller scale. Some trifling seams have been
found at Devonhill on the west side of the parish. The coal is
brought from Quarter by a milway alone the banks of the Avon,
and is laid down at Avon, bridge, half a mile from Hamilton at 3s.


