
434                    PERTHSHIRE.

of Dunfermline; and to this abbey, it is said, the proprietors of
Stanley grounds are still liable in the yearly tribute of a grilse.
At Strathhead, in Tullybeagles, is a shooting lodge; and on the
top of Craig- Gibbon, in the same property, is an obelisk, both built
by Colonel Mercer, grandfather of the present lady Keith.  The
lodge is now inhabited by a shepherd; and the obelisk was built,
that Colonel Mercer might distinguish his own hill in the range to
which it belongs from his house at Meikleour, twelve miles distant
from it, in the parish of Caputh.  There is the site of a mound
or a cairn at the Westertown of Kinglands, but its foundation has
not yet been examined.
  Modern Buildings.-Stanley House can scarcely be called a
modern building with propriety, for it was once a seat of the fa-
mily of Nairne, and is an old house, evidently built at stndry times.
But it has recently undergone a thorough repair, and received
some additions, and is doubtless one of the most comfortable and
delightful modern residences in this parish, or in any other.  By
whatever name the lands on which this house is situated may have
been called at a remote period, it does not appear, from any do-
cument or tradition known concerning it, that the place was nam-
ed Stanley till some years after 1683, when Margaret, Lady
Nairne, succeeded her father Robert, the first Lord.  This lady
was married to Lord William Murray, fourth son of the Marquis
of Atholl by Lady Amelia Sophia Stanley, daughter of James Stan-
ley, Earl of Derby.  Tradition says, that after the union of the
families of Atholl and Nairne, the mansion-house and grounds re-
ceived the name of Stanley, in honour of the Marchioness of
Atholl, that being her family name; and, as the place is always
spoken of as having been the dowager-house or residence of those
members of the family not in immediate possession of the family
honours, it is very probable that the above Lady Amelia, the
Marchioness, came to reside in it at the death of her lord in 1703,
when the name may have been first applied.  This house is de-
lightfully situated on the margin of the river Tay, amid magnifi-
cent and beautiful scenery, and surrounded with beeeb and nther
trees of the most stately growth, evidently of a great age.  Airly-
wight House, the residence of James Wylie, Esq. of that ilk, is a
large well-built edifice, erected within the last thirty years.  It is
situated on a rising ground, about a quarter of a mile from the
public road between Perth and Dunkeld, from which it is a con-
spicuous object.  The House of Tullybelton is the only other man-


