
   192                       BANFFSHIRE.

   old harbour is the only one at present used for shipping ; tholigh
   small it is very safe and convenient.
     Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church of Fordyce is centrally
   situated as respects the whole quoad eivilia parish, and also its own
   ecclesiastical one, now only connected with it. The distance from
   it to the boundaries varies from one and a-half to five miles. It
   was built in 1804, and is at present in a complete state of repair.
   It will accommodate about 1100 sitters. The sittings, divided
   amongst the several beritors, are all free. It is not known when
   the manse was built, but it underwent a thorough repair in 1832.
   The glebe is only two acres and a half, and its value about L. 5.
   But there is a croft of five acres called the vicar's croft, and which
   was mortified in 1595 for the use of the minister of Fordyce, which
   is still enjoyed by him. The stipend is sixteen ebalders, exclusive
   of the bequest by Mr Smith already-mentioned.
      The former cbapol of ease at Portsoy was erected in 1836 into
   a regular quoad sacra parish church. The new parish, compre-
   bending the town and a district of from one to two miles in cir-
   cuit, lies wholly within the old parish. The church accommo-
   dates nearly 700 sitters. The minister's stipend is paid from seat-
   rents, and an annual allowance of L. 40 by the Earl of Seafield.
   It is guaranteed to the amount of 100 guineas; and has bitherto,
   to the present incumbent, been made somewhat more. The pay-
   ment of seat-rents, however, even though they be comparatively low,
   is felt to bear heavily on the labouring classes. All that an ordinary
   day-labourer can earn, (hardly averaging L. 18 annually,) is quite
   inadequate to enable him to pay for church accommodation, and
   the necessary education of his children, in addition to what is in-
   dispensably requisite to their comfortable maintenance.
      There is an Episcopalian Chapel, and also a Roman Cathnlic
   one in Portsoy. The Roman Catholic Bishop resides at Pres-
   bome, in the quoad sacra parish of Enzie. The number of Epis-
   copalians in the whole parish is 95; of Rom`n Catholics, 112;
   of Dissenters, 23, leaving 3134 in connection with the Establish-
   ed Church, of whom 1450 are in the ecclesiastical parish of For-
   dyce, and 1684 in that of Portsoy. Divine service is well attend-
   ed at the two Established churches, unless in very unfavourable
   weather; and this is Also stated to be the case at the two chapels.
   The number of communicants in Fordyce and Portsoy, for the last
   few years, bas varied from 480 to 500 to each. There is a parochi-
   al association for religious purposes in both parishes, the object of


