
		            BUITTLE.                   209

black mould. John H. Maxwell of Munshes, the present pro-
prietor, has, by a judicious system of tile-draining, and other ex-
tensive improvements, greatly ameliorated this soil, and added
much to the beauty of the landscape. *
	About thirty-five years ago, the proprietors of the adjoinhng
estates expended L.500 in widening and deepening the drain
which forms the outlet of Kenmore loch, on the confines of Kel-
ton. This drain is upwards of a mile in length, and in some places
consisted chiefly of rock. About sixty acres of moss, li`ble to be
covered with water, were thereby converted into productive mea-

<FOOTNOTE>The following information was most obligingly communicated by Mr Traiu of
Castle Douglas, well known to the world as a zealous antiquary:--
  "A short time ago, some labourers, while draining a moss near Munshes," turned
up, at the distance of several feet from the surface, the horns of a urus. Only one of
these has been preserved. From its very large dimensions, however, some idea may
be formed of the corresponding size of the animal. It measures fifteen inches in
circumference round the but-end, and its present length is twenty-six inches, although
it might have been originally thirty inches. It weighs seven pounds ten ounces. It
is well known that the urus, which has now been ascertained by naturalists to be of
the same species with the bison, was, at an early period, an inhabitant of this coun-
try. A horn of the urus was found near Dunkeld, and is now in the possession of
the Duke of Athole. Two horns and a part of the head of the same animal were,
some years ago, discovered in the parish of Borgue, and are now at St Mary's Isle,
the seat of the Earl of Selkirk. But the only entire head and horns that seem to
have yet been discovered, were dug out of a marl-pit on the estate of Castlewig, in
Wigtonshire. This very interesting relic was presented by Mr Hawthorn, the pro-
prietor, to Mr Train of Castle Douglas, who again presented it to Sir Walter Scott,
and it may still be seen at Abbotsford. The interesting horn first alluded to is in the
possession of Mr Train.
	"In August 1843, there was discovered at the estuary of the river Urr, within
high water-mark, and adjoining the farm of Nethertown, the fossil head of a bison,

of the following dimensions:--

<TABLE>
	Length of the head,                              38 inches.
	Distance between the points of the horns,        32
	Circumference of horn at the but,                18
	Breadth of the head between the eyes,            11
	Sockets of the eyes,                              3

	"In 1841, there was found at Barlochan a Roman coin of Constantine the Great,
in a high state of preservation, which Mr Train has in his possession.
  "In the summer of 1838, an urn or kirtvean was turned up by the plough on the
farm of Breoch. This ancient repository of the ashes of the dead is made of baked
clay, coarsely ornamented. It is nine inches in diameter, six inches deep, and nearly
an inch thick. It contained a quantity of black ashes, and fragments of bones, which,
are carefully preserved by Mr Maxwell, the proprietor of Breoch. I have in my
possession the only remaining part of the urn; but, since its exposure to the air,
it has lost much of its calcined adhesiveness, as it crumbles on being removed, how-
ever slightly.
	"In the spring of the year 1839, a labourer employed in clearing away a bank of
earth on the margin of the water of Urr, near the site of the old castle of Buittle,
once the residence of Edward Baliol, laid bare with his spade a large block of red
sandstone, on which the figure of a regularly formed female countenance, surrounded'
by ornamental wreathes in bas-relief, is exquisitely carved. The peculiar quality of
this stone shows that it must have been brought from a distance of nearly twenty
miles to Buittle Castle, of which it evidently formed a part. It may now be seen in
the garden of Mr Marchbank at New Buittle.

<FOOTNOTE>At Greenhill, on the estate of Munshes, parish of Urr.
KIRKCUDBRIGHT.


