
494                          AYRSHIRE.

distinctly seen on the Girvan Water, a little above the Castle of
Cloncaird, and may be traced, exhibiting the same relative posi.
tion to the coal measures, from Glenside to the sea,--circumstan-
ces which plainly identify it with the old red sandstone formation.
  On the north of Spalander Burn, on the farm of Glenside, a
ridge of highly crystalline greenstone rises through the strata,
and the trap, in a similar way, may be observed at several points
in the course of the Girvan. On the same farm, a bed of lime-
stone is found, which has been quarried for agricultural purposes
by Mr Ritchie, the proprietor. No organic remains have been
noticed in it; and along with the great and valuable strata of lime-
stone found on the south side of the Girvan Water, on the pro-
perties of Sir David Hunter Blair and William Niven, Esq. of
Kirkbride, it is obviously, with the red sandstone, to be classed
among the members ofthe carboniferous series. Good clay for the
manufacture of tiles, is found near the lime-quarry at Glenside;
and by his liberal use of these two important substances, Mr
Ritchie has converted a naturally cold and barren tract into dry
and fruitful fields, which in many cases exhibit as smooth and ver-
dant a surface as the lower lands of the parish. In the wacke at
Guiltree-hill and Montgomerieston, veins of galena are found, of
sufficient importance to have been at one time worked; and they
are said to have yielded a high per centage of silver. The surface
of the land, and more particularly along Barclay-hill, on the Kirk-
michael estate, is covered with granite boulders,-some of which
are of great magnitude, and are raised and dressed for gate-pillars,
and as large blocks for the harbour of Ayr. The peculiar situation
of the boulders on the eastern declivities appears to indicate a
current from the south-east, which is exactly in the direction of
the mountains at Loch Doon, where granite is found in situ.
  Hydrography.--The River Girvan nearly divides the parish.
Rising on the hills of Barr and Straiton, it enters Kirkmichael be-
low Blairquhan, and flowing past the seat of Henry Ritchie, Esq-
beautifully situated on an eminence above, it reaches the village of
Crosshill when, after a winding course of two miles, it forms the
boundary between Dailly and Kirkoswald. From the Cloncaird
approach, it has a very striking appearance, with its broad channel,
and rapid stream, and banks embellished with wood rising precipi-
tously on both sides.
  The River Doon, whose "banks and braes" have been immor-
talized by the classic muse of Burns, touches this parish about two


