
804                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

mer, and the frosts of winter.  A very valuable and extensive
mussel and cockle-fishery exists on both sides of the river, near
the sea, beyond the bounds of this parish.
   Attracted by the abundance of food found in the river, and on
the mussel beds and adjoining sleeks, the Ythan is frequented by
a greater variety of sea-fowl than perhaps any other river in Scot-
land.  The following list of them has been furnished me by
Charles Gordon, Esq. of Auchleuchries, who has paid much at-
tention to ornithology, viz. the heron (Ardea major); wild swan
(Anas Cygnus ferus); wild goose (varieties); Solan goose (Pele-
canus Bassanus); moss-duck (Anas Boschas); teal-duck (A.
Crecca); shieldrake (A. Tadorna); golden-eyed duck (A. Clan-
gula); eider-duck (A. mollissima); goosander and merganser
(Mergus Merganser and M. minutus); oyster-catcher (Haemato-
pus ostralegus); redshank (Tringa erythropus); great northern
diver (Colymbus glacialis); red-throated and lesser divers; black
guillemot and foolish guillemot (Uria Grylle and Troile); little
grebe (Podiceps minor); land and water-rails (Rallus); gulls, five
or six species, as Larus ridibundus, L. canus, L. argentatus, &c.;
kittywake (L. tridactylus; cormorant or scrath (Pelecanus carbo);
greater and lesser terns or sea-swallows, &c. In the river the diver
and duck tribe are to be found chiefly in the winter season; and
others only occasionally.
   Salt-marsh club-rush, here called star-grass (Scirpus mariti-
mus), and common reed (Arundo phragmites), grow on both sides
of the Ythan for half a mile downwards, from the point where its
ordinary current is equal to the height of the tide at half flood.
They are cut and used for thatching corn-stacks.  Below this ve-
getation ceases, and the sleek commences.
   The stoat is found in this parish; rabbits and hedgehogs are
multiplying; foxes are decreasing; badgers almost extirpated.
   After emerging from the rocks before-mentioned, where its
breadth is about fifty yards, the Ythan gradually expands between
clay and loam banks, till it forms, at high-water mark, a splendid
bason upwards of 600 yards in breadth.  Opposite the church at
low water its breadth is about 60 yards, where a small boat is sta-
tioned for passengers, and a large boat for conveying the parish-
ioners to church from the north side of the river.  There a chain-
bridge * would be of great service.  A little below the church a

<FOOTNOTE>The need of this would be superseded by the erection or a lately projected stone
bridge of three arches about a furlong below the ferry, by which the turnpike road,
                                   3


