
                          NORTHMAVING.                    71

was ascertained to be only about 1500 feet. It is the highest
hill in Zetland; and from its summit, under a clear and serene
sky, which very seldom happens even in the finest summer weather,
a most extensive and beautiful prospect is presented to the view.
  The coast is very irregular, and intersected by a vast number
of voes or bays. The shores for the most part are high and pre-
cipitous, except where banks of sand or gravel are formed, and
composed of rocks of the hardest description. Other materials
would not long endure the fury of the winter's storm.
  Around the parish, there are many excellent bays or voes. The
principal, the most extensive, and beautiful, is St Magnus Bay,
from which many voes run into the interior of the land, where the
largest vessels may ride at anchor in the most tempestuous wea-
ther, in perfect safety. Upon the west side of the parish, there is
Mangaster Voe, Hammer's Voe, Gunister Voe, and Urafirth Voe;
but Hillswick is most frequented by vessels, as it is considered a
very safe harbour. Upon the south and east side, there is Sullom
Voe, which is said to be eight miles long, and Gluss Voe, and
Collafirth Voe, and others. Upon the north side of the parish,
there is Rona's Voe, and Hamnavoe; the former is said to be six
miles long, and is narrow; the latter is an excellent place for
vessels riding at anchor; but the entrance to it is very small.
  This parish is also surrounded by a great number of small
islands or holms, and pillars or rocks, situatuated near the shore, and
which are very picturesque objects, when viewed from a distance.
There are the Isle of Stenness, Gluss Isle, the Isle of Uyea and
Fetherland, and the Island of Lamma, and some others. None of
these are inhabited at present; and the pasture of most of them
is considered excellent, and is famed for producing the richest
beef and mutton. And upon the most of them, sheep and cattle
are kept in winter as well as summer, without shelter, or receiving
fodder of any kind, even in the most enclement seasons.
  Here, also, many curious rocks may be seen. The most re-
markable is one situated at the back of Hillswick Ness, and cal-
led the Drongs. This immense rock rises, almost quite perpen-
dicular, to the height of an hundred feet from the water, and at
a distance has the appearance of a vessel under sail. Near to
this are two very high pillars, of the same kind of rock with the
Drongs, and with the stupendous crags upon the shore. And it
is not improbable that these have all been at one time unit-


