
     of Tibbermuir.

has the peculiar disadvantage of adding nothing to the dung-
hill, which must undoubtedly be an important objection with
farmers who purchase dung in the town of Perth, at the rate
of 3 s. or 4 s. for the cart load, and afterwards carry it in
some instances five or six miles*.
   Since the late rapid introduction of fallow, wheat, clover,
etc. in this parish, there has not been sufficient time for any
particular rotation of crops obtaining such a decided prese-
rence, as to be universally adopted; but the following is the
rotation most likely to prevail:-1st, year, fallow;-2d, wheat,
with, the whole dung of the farm, and also lime occasionally;
-3d, pease, or clover and rye-grass, and perhaps a few tur-
nips, which are found to answer tolerably well without dung;
-4th, barley or bear;-5th, clover and rye-grass;-6th,
oats+.
   The implements of husbandry have been gradually improv-
ing for many years.  The old Scotch plough, indeed, long
maintained its ground in oppossition to a variety of others,
which were successively tried and abandoned; but an Eng-
lish plough, with a mould-board of cast metal, which was

<FOOTNOTE>

*Lime is the only other manure used in the parish, and is
procured at a reasonable rate, at the port of Perth.

+One objection, indeed, seems already to occur against this
mode of management, and may hereafter have influence.  Re-
peated fallows, that admit of no crop for the season, are not
perhaps absolutely necessary for the mere purpose of keeping the
land clean, provided that green crops, and particularly drill
crops, he judiciously introduced; and though it should even be
found impossible, upon some soils, to raise a good crop of wheat
without a previous fallow, it may admit of a question, we, ether
a crop of barley in place of the wheat, together with a green
crop in place of the fallow, might not be more valuable than
the crop of wheat that would be thereby superseded; and whe-
ther the land might not also remain in equally good, if not bet-
ter condition.


