
896                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

free, having been divided by the heritors among the tenants after
they had set apart 11 sittings to the minister, 5 to the schoolmas-
ter, 10 to the elders, 10 for the accommodation of persons attend-
ing baptisms, and 22 for poor people who have no land attached to
their dwelling-bouses.  It also contains ft small room in which the
religious department of the parish library is managed, and a very
comfortable vestry for the convenience of the minister.
   The manse is about half a mile distant from the parish church,
and was erected in 1836, from a design by Mr Smith, architect
in Aberdeen, and, with the offices which were furnished at the
same time, cost L.800.  It is a handsome and commodious build-
ing, pleasantly situated by the side of the river, on a barren
piece of ground in the centre of the glebe, containing about four
acres, which, although exceedingly worthless for any other purpose,
is well adapted for being laid out as pleasure ground, on account
of the beautifully diversified form of its surface.  In front is a ter-
raced garden, now almost finished, which contains, 1 rood, 28 falls,
14 perches.  To that little spot the present incumbent has carried
upwards of 2000 cart-loads of earth, collected from the banks of
the river and other waste places on the glebe; and the heritors, who
always study his comfort and convenience, have enclosed it, in the
most liberal manner, with a stone and lime wall, which cost L.105.
   When the church and manse were removed to their present si-
tuation in 1836, the old glebe (including a piece of ground which
had been given in mortmain by a laird of Culter to the minister
of Drumoak) was exchanged for the new one, which, according
to the land surveyor's report, contained, of arable land, 17 acres,
3 roods, 28 falls, and of pastures, &c. 10 acres, 1 rood, 6 falls;
total, 28 acres, 0 roods, 34 falls; and was valued at L.21, 16s. 8d.
   The teinds of the parish are exhausted, and the minister re-
ceives from the Exchequer L.59, 7s. 10d. to make up his stipend
to L.150, exclusive of L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   The only place of public worship is the parish church, at which
Divine service is well attended.  The number of families at pre-
sent belonging to the Establishment is 161, and of individuals,
76.  The average number of comrnunicants yearly for the last
three years is 412, inclusive of a few strangers from the neigh-
bourhood; and the average amount for the same period of collec-
tions made at the church for the General Assembly's four schemes,
the Presbtery's lunatic fund, and the Aberdeen Infirmary, is
L.15, 12s. 6 1/4d.  The number of Dissenting families in the pa-


