
                                   KELSO.                 347

    1. A compulsory assessment has existed since 1796. * This
    assessment is fixed by the heritors, kirk-session, and proprietors
    of houses, on the real rent of lands and houses,--one-half being
    leviable from the landlord, and the other half from the tenant.
    Two meetings are held yearly, at Whitsunday and Martinmas, for
    the purpose of fixing the rate, and also of revising the poors' roll,
    deciding upon the claims of applicants for relief, and auditing the
    accounts.  These last are kept, as well as the general business
    relating to pauperism conducted, by a stipendiary overseer, with                                              the assistance of two subordinate officers, a collector and distribu-
    tor; and, to dispose of urgent cases that may arise in the interval
    between the general meetings, a committee,including the parish
    minister and one or more of the elders is regularly appointed at
    the half-yearly meetings.  It should be added, that, besides the
    regular pensions, a considerable proportion of the funds is given
    in the shape of interim supply to paupers who are not on the re-
    gular roll, or who, though on the roll, require from temporary
    causes, additional relief;--a mode of administration which expe-
    rience proves to be attended with the double advantage of keep-
    ing down the numbers on the roll, and meeting necessitous cases
    without incurring the risk of making them permanently paupers.
    The average annual assessment 'for the last twenty years (during

<FOOTNOTE>A voluntary assessment has existed from 1737. The minutes bear,that, in order
    to obtemper an act of the Sheriff and Justices of the Peace, passed in the year 1737,
    for the regulation and maintenance of the poor, the heritors and kirk-session,in that
    year,appointed the others and to perambulate the parish, and bring in a "list
    of the poor aged, sick, lame, and impotent, all orphans, and other poor children
    within the parish ;"as also, two overseers to superintend the collection and ditribu-
    tion of the funds,and a collector to serve under them.  They likewise appointed the
    same persons to ascertain what persons would volunteer to give weekly for the sup-
    port of the poor, with certification, "that all. who were known to be able,and would
    not do it willingly, would be stented; "and, in addition they chose "three fencible
    men for carrying off and removing from the place all vagrant and stranger-poor that
    may infest it, or be found troublesome." In 1737, when this plan was commend,
    the whole sum necessary for the weekly support of the poor,including wages of the
    collector, was L.24, 8s.Soots; of which sum the landward heritors agreed to take
    upon them one-half, conform to their respective valuations; the other half being
    made up by the feurs and inhabitants of the town, who, however,were to have for
    their relief, as far as they would go, the collections at the kirk-door,and the annual
    rent of the money lent out by the session for the use of the poor.  Though this
    system continued with modifications on to 1796, it never seems to have work well.
    Though the collection was made weekly in sums, as appearsby the stant-rolls still
    presrved, not exceeding, in the majority of cases,one half-penny Sterling, large ar-
    rears were speedily accumulated,and the greatest difficulty encountered in keeping
    the funds up to the growing demands. The sum necessary for relief did not rise very
    rapidly, but it steadily advanced. By the year 1760 the number of pensioners on
    the roll was 60, and the sum disbursed among them L.110; in 1770 the sum
    was L.122, 10s. 4d.; and in 1792 it was L.276,13s.8d. It was this constant ad-
    vance of the rate,together with the increasing difficulty of collecting the contribu-
    tions of the town's-people,which induced the heritors to have recourse, in 1796, to
    the present compulsory system.


