
     Of Lyne and Megget.

ther, is so called, and being one of the largest that falls into
Tweed in this county, might obtain the name of Linn, or the
Water, by way of eminence; and the name might afterward
be transferred to the parish.  The lower part of the parish is,
in general, of a sharp gravelly soil, requiring frequent showers
in summer.  The upper part is hilly, and affords good pasture
for sheep, consisting of a proper mixture of heath and grass.
In the year 1782, the crop in this parish did not suffer so
much from the frost, as in several of the neighbouring ones.
The sharp nature of the soil, and the southern exposure of the
corn-lands, may account for this.  The whole parish is, at
present, divided into two farms; but about 60 years ago, it
was possessed by no fewer than 7 small tenants.  The quanti-
ty of grain raised in it is not great, as the number of acres
under tillage does not, at an average, exceed 160.  The rota-
tion of crops observed, is the old one of bear with dung, then
oats, then pease.  Potatoes are also raised for family use.  No
grass has hitherto been sown, nor turnips cultivated by the
farmers.  This is to be ascribed chiefly to the want of enclo-
sures, without which, these crops cannot be easily protected
from the sheep and cattle, during the winter and spring.

   Extent, Surface, etc. of Megget.-The parish of Megget is
situated in the southern extremity of the county.  It is be-
tween 6 and 7 miles in length, and near 6 in breadth.  The
surface is very hilly.  The tops of the hills are, in general,
covered with heath, and coarse grass, but the lower parts pro-
duce excellent pasture both sheep and cattle.  The climate
is not, upon the whole, unhealthy, though from the high si-
tuation of the country, it is damp and cold.  On this account

<FOOTNOTE>

bouring parishes, rather than to Lyne, which is so distant from it.  Perhaps the
smallness both of the stipends and cures might be the chief reason; besides, both
parishes at that period belonged wholly to one proprietor, Lord Hay of Yester,
and it is more than probable that he had considerable influence in procuring the
annexation.
 

