
     Of Kirkmichael.

   It may not perhaps be improper to observe, that a tradi-
tion prevails among the Highlanders, that together with these,
the Picts were acquainted with the art of extracting a deli-
cious beverage from heath, and of a intoxicating quality.
Except to make a yellow dye, the uses of this shrub at pre-
sent, are unknown.  But there is a probability, that in Au-
gust, when it carries a beautiful purple bloom, if it were
cropped in sufficient quantities, what is now considered as a
fiction, might, by proper skill, be realized; for, at that sea-
son, it emits fragrant and honied effluvia*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The writer of this statistical article is not so well acquainted with the
science of botany, as to be able to enumerate the various plants and herbs that
grow in this district.  He believes few uncommon ones are to be met with,
unless among the Grampian mountains, which might afford a rich field of ob-
servation to the naturalist.  The plant called an dubh-chosach, black footed, or
maiden hair, is frequently gathered among the woods and rocks, and used as a
tea in asthmatic complaints.  Another plant grows in several parts of the parish,
and rises on a stalk near 2 feet in height.  It spreads into small branches, with
sharp-pointed leaves of a pale green, and bears a pretty large berry, red at first,
but changing into a livid hue as it ripens.  Perhaps it may be the solanum
somniferum of the historian Buchanan, by the aid of which, infused in the
drink, and mixed with the meat presented by King Duncan to the Danes, he
and his generals gained a decisive victory over that barbarous people.  This
berry is full considered as poisonous by the country people, and they cautiously
abstain from it.
   Modern scepticism rejects the above passage of the history, and considers it as
fictitious; but in ancient times when the wants of the inhabitants were few,
gratified from the spontaneous productions of the field, or the beasts of the fo-
rest; as they lived almost constantly in the open air, climbing rugged moun-
tains, or plunging into woody dales; they must necessarily acquire a consider-
able knowledge of plants and herbs, together with their various and specific
qualities:  besides that agriculture being in a rude state, and many of the pre-
sent domesticated animals unknown, owing to these causes, the vegetable race
would arrive at a higher-degree of perfection, and their virtues would conse-
quently operate with more energy and effect.  In the list of plants, must be
reckoned the seamrog, or the wild tresoil, in great-estimation of old with the
Druids.  It is still considered as an anodyne in the diseases of cattle; from this


