

   Cromwell Park.-I shall begin at the West end, and pro-
ceed regularly towards the East.  The first object deserving

<FOOTNOTE>

sosse, which has been for some years gradually washing away by the over-
flowing of the Almond There have been dug up several earthen urns, fil-
led with human ashes; particularly a large one, about half an inch in thick-
ness, made of a very fine clay of a brown colour, plated on the inside with
brass, almost consumed, and covered with verdigreese, containing about ten
English gallons.  Another very curious one discovered, was smaller than the
former, the contents of which were, a few ashes of oak-wood, and part of a
lachrymatory, which was a small glass phial, the eighth of an inch in thick-
ness, containing about an English quart and a half; at the bottom of another
of these was found a plate of lead, weighing about two stone weight, with
Roman characters inscribed.
    The foundation of a wooden bridge thrown over the Tay at this place still
remains.  It consists of large oak planks, from six to eight inches in diameter,
fastened together by long skairs, but coarsely jointed, and surrounded with
clasps of iron, frequently twisted.  It would seem, that screwbolts, and fine
made joints, were then unknown.  I caused one of them to he raised some
years ago, at the request of the late Dr Hope, who assured me that the fa-
bric of the wood was not in the least decayed.  At the other end, beyond
this bridge, to the North East, there are some remains of the continuation of
the causeway, almost as far as Blairgowrie, beyond which there are no tra-
ces of this famous military road to be discovered.  This gives great credit
to the report of the battle betwixt Agricola and Galgacus being fought in
that neighbourhood.  Tacitus informs us, that his father-in-law Agricola
met with a heavy stroke in the death of his only son, an infant, which great-
ly afflicted him.  Afterwards he led his army to the foot of the Grampians,
where this battle was fought, and where Agricola, not without much blood-
shed, remained master of the field.  In this engagement, Aulius Atticus,
captain of a cohort, was killed.  He was esteemed by Agricola, and much la-
mented by him and the army.  It is not improbable, that the large ornament-
ed urn contained the ashes of Agricola's son, and that the smaller one with
the lachrymatory, the ashes of Atticus, who would be interred with military
honours.  The present course of the Almond, though near the military road
and station, is about half a mile to the northward from its junction with
the Tay in former times.  This river anciently had its course by Ruthven
Castle, now Huntingtower, where there is still a small rivulet, known by


