
	               ARDCHATTAN.                              503

spruce,ash, beach, elm, and sycamore, all of which are found to
thrive well.
	It is not easy to say exactly what is the average rent of arable
land per acre, because a portion of hill-pasture is usually rented
alone, with the arable land, and the whole is estimated, not so
much by the extent in acres, as by the number of cows, horses,
or sheep which the place can support. The maintenance of each
cow throughout the year may be said to range from L. 3 to L. 4;
and nf each sheep, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. The value of the larger
farms is often reckoned by the number of cows "with their fol-
lowers" which the farm will support, understanding by this last
expression all the calves of the fold till they are a year old, or
stirks, selling one-half of the males at that age, and retaining the
young cows, for keeping up the stock, till they are heifers of three
years old. The cows are disposed of to cattle-dealers, or sent to
market, generally when seven or eight years of age. With the
exception of some cows of the Ayrshire breed, kept for supplying
the dairy, the breed of cattle is the true native or Argyleshire,
justly admired for their symmetry, their aptitude to fatten, and the
quality of their beef, especially after they have been fed for a time
on the pastures of the south. Great attention is paid to rearing.
The calves are allowed to suckle their dams, and get, in most
cases, all the milk, and, for the first winter at least, are supplied
with the best bay the farm produces, care being taken also that
they are not stinted as to quantity. The small white Scotch sheep
have been completely superseded by the black-faced, which are
found to suit the country and the climate, and to remunerate bet-
ter than any other kind. The Cheviot breed has been introduced
only partially; and in regard to sheep `nd to cattle, the overstock-
ing of farms is now felt to have been a great, though it was a pre-
valent error. The breed of horses has been improved as respects
size, strength, and action, and hence fewer are required, while the
work is done sooner and better.
	Rate of Wages.-The usual rate of wages to farm-servants, say.
a good ploughman, is from L.10 to L.12 a-year, with their food;
or if a house and cow's grass are given to married men, there is a
proportionate deduction in the money wages. Maid-servants re.
ceive from L. 5 to L. 6, according to their qualifications. Shep-
herds were formerly allowed to keep a certain number of sheep,
with one or two cows on the sheep-walk; but that mode of paying
them is now being  given up, and they get from L.10 or L. 11 to


