
186                              DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

said with truth of the farmers of Applegarth, that thdy have not
discarded the good old habits of simple  and economical living.
The ordinary fare of the tenantry is certainly changed so far, that
none of them now breakfast but on tea and coffee, or dine without
animal food on their tables. Yet it is in strict moderation, and
suitable only to their means; and their meals, under ordinary
circumstances, are never followed by wine or ardent spirits. The
common food of the tradesmen and day-labourers is, of course, a
degree more economincal. In truth, to the man whose days' wages
do not exceed 2s. the meal-chest and the potatoe-bing must al-
ways be the great resource. Yet many of this class, while deep-
ly sensible of the value of such a resource, and thankful to Provi-
dence for its general abundance, are not without additional com-
forts of a substantial kind. Some of them are able to purchase a
sheep, or a portion of a fat cow, to be salted for their winter
store; and in a parish where almost every cottar keeps a pig,
and some a milch cow, anything like severe destitution can hardly
be supposed to exist. All classes of the people enjoy, there-
fore, in a reasonable degree, the comforts and advantages of that
kind of society to which they are inclined. The present depres-
sed state of agriculture bears bard on the tenants of Applegarth
as on others. They find, that, to make money by farming, is at
present out of the question; and the tenant who can pay his rent
without encroaching on his capital, if he has any, considers him-
self fortunate. In these circumstances, they can hardly be expect-
ed to be contented; but they may be resigned to an evil which it is
not in their power to remedy. The other classes,--tradesmen and
labourers,--are too intimately connected with the tenantry, not to
share with them in their feelings and deprivations.
	Poaching in game cannot be laid to the charge of the inhabit-
ants of this parish; `nd though the same cannot be said, with re-
gard to poaching in the salmon fisheries, it is certain that even that
is on the decline.

<TABLE=Industry>
			        IV.--INDUSTRY.

            Agriculture and Rural Economy.--

     Of the ll,500 imperial acres of which the parish consists, there are either cultivated
        or occasionally in tillage,                                                    7392
     Of lands waste, or in permanent pasture, a portion of which has been at one
        time in crop, but not within the last 50 years, and including 60 or 70
        acres of moss, there are,                                                      3777
             Of these 3777 acres, a few hundreds might, by a judicious application of ca-


