
notice is Cromwell Park.  This was lately enclosed with a
stone dyke, and may contain about one hundred and sixty

     VOL. XV. 3 Y

<FOOTNOTE>

the name of Old Almond.  At this place there was a Royal Fort, and a small
village called Bartha, which was carried down the river in the night time by
a very great inundation King William the first, surnamed the Lion, had
his youngest son, John, with his nurse, and fourteen of his domestic, carried
down the river and drowned.  This happened in the year one thousand,
two hundred and ten; so far Buchanan, and his predecessor Boe-
tius deserve credit, and their naration is confirmed by other historians, as
well as by the constant tradition But that the King, about two years af-
terwards, removed the remains to the present site of the town of Perth,
which he afterwards called Perth, or Perthai, is by no means deserving, of
equal credit.  That Perth has been overflowed by the waters of the Tay, is
certain, but, from the digging for the foundation of some houses lately
built, there have been discovered paved streets, from three to ten feet deep,
so that it has probably always stood on, or near to its present situation.  This
opinion is strengthened by this circumstance, that the charter granted by
King William is only a mova damus, or a renewal of a former charter.
   There are, in various parts, remains of Druidical places of worship, and
judgment, particularly at Uver Beuchil, where there are twelve large stones
set on end, and one larger in the middle.  At some small distance, there are
other two, the one with nine, and the other with seven, and what is peculiar
with these here and elsewhere, is, that the number is always an odd one.
   There are large heaps of stones near Pitcairn, called penance cairns, Which,
according to the tradition of the country, were collected by way of penance
in the time of popery.  They are in the neighbourhood of a popish chapel,
which is now in ruins.
   About a quarter of a mile below Stanley, where the river Tay is of consi-
siderable breadth, there is a natural ridge of rocks that runs across the river,
almost forming an arch, which, at the top, within these thirty years was only
eighteen feet wide: but the arches were thrown down of late, in order to
build a dam dyke for an inlet of the water to Luncarty Bleachfield.  Two si-
milar arches were formed over the river Almond, where they were but of
late widened for similar purposes.  The fabric of these is not inferior in point
of symmetry to the work of the most ingenious architect, but greatly surpass
the art of human hands in point of strength.
   I shall close this account of the antiquities of this parish, by observing,
that in a field, called to this day Cromwell Park, the report is, that the Pro-


