
			KIRKPATRICK-JUXTA.		127

riages, but not of deaths,--with a general view of the funds allotted
for the poor. A smaller book is also kept for inserting the col-
lections and distributions.
	Antiquities.--The ruins of the old castle of Achincass are very
ancient, and of considerable extent still, though much dilapidated.
It belonged to Randolph Earl of Murray, Regent of Scotland
in the minority of David Bruce, and was at another time the pro-
perty of the Douglases of Morton. The tower of Lochhouse be-
longed to the Johnstones of Corehead. There was lately one
vaulted ruin at Kinnelhead, and there is still another at Bore-
land. Several moats exist in this parish, as to which tradition is
silent. The vestiges of a camp, in the line of the old Roman
way, passing up Annandale towards Crawford, may still be traced
in some places.
	Modern Buildings.--These are constructed of stone and lime,
and most of them are covered with roof-slate,--very few being
now thatched with straw, or covered as formerly with freestone
flags. Mr Younger of Craigielands has built a comfortable house,
and cased the walls of it with Moffat blue whinstone The Duke
of Buccleuch has lately erected superior farm-buildings on his
lands in this parish, at an expense of from three to four years of
the respective rentals, and on a liberal and well-arranged plan.

<TABLE=Population>
			III.--POPULATION.
	In the year 1755, according to Dr Webster, the population was 794
		but this number is thought incorrect.
		1790,						617
		1811,						596
		1821,						821
		1831,						981
	In the villages the residenters amount to about 	 80
	And in the country to about				901

							Total,  981
	Number of blind,					  2
		of deaf and dumb,				  5
	The average number of births for 7 years is,    	 25
			   of marriages,			  8
The number of deaths has not been ascertained.
	The number of families in the parish is,		160
	Whereof are chiefly employed in agriculture,		 73
	In trade, manufactures, and handicraft,			 40
	And not included in any of these classes,		 56
		The average number of chidren in each family is   5 156

								    169
	Resident Landed Proprietors.-- Only one heritor, the late Mr


