
     Statistical Account

of the Clan-Donnachie, or Robertsons, built a strong house
and a garden, which gave the name of Port-an-eilein, or the
Fort of the Island, to that place.  Within less than half a mile
above Port-an-eilein, is Grenich, i.e. Grian-shaich, or Grian-
acha, the Field of the Sun.  Here are the remains of a very
extensive Druidical work :  A large circular wall, either a cas-
tle, or the foundation of a very large cairn, with small cairns
innumerable, on the barren ground above it, which were pro-
bably graves.  About a mile to the northward of these, is a
large cairn, that appears only to have been begun, the circum-
ference being laid of great stones, and a parcel of lesser ones
thrown within it.  It is probable, that it was stopped by the
progress Christianity then made.
   About two miles to the N. W. of this work, are, a number
of cairns, but of a different kind; being the cairns of the
Suaineart men, who came to plunder Atholl, about 200 years
ago, and were killed above Bohespie, to a man, after having
had their bard shot across the river, a mile above Blair, from
whom the ford is calted Ath-baird-suainidh, to this day.  It
would seem, that, of old, the erecting cairns, or heaps of
stones, over the graves of the dead, was one of the ways they
had, of securing them from the wolves.  The custom remained
till of late, not only of raising heaps, where one was buried,
but even where one died, though buried elsewhere  Into those
heaps, it was reckoned a duty on passengers, to throw a stone.
Hence the proverb, " Were I dead, you would not throw a
" stone into my cairn; " that is to say, You have not so much
friendship for me.
   On the south side of the hill, and north end of Lochgarry,
lies Dail-an-spideil, i.e. the Plain of the Hospital.  Here, in
all probability, there was formerly a house of entertainment,
to supply the place of an inn; and possibly too, supported by
knights, or some religious order.  There was another spideil,
at the foot of the Grampian mountains, on the Marr road.


