
280 		      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

had been used as an ornament for the wrist, while others thought
that it had been used as a fibula for fastening a garment
	Modern Buildings.--In the north-west part of the parish stands
the mansion-house of Springkell, which was erected in 1734, in
the Grecian style of architecture, about 200 or 300 yards to the
eastward of the place where the old family residence and village
of Kirkconnel stood. The present mansion-house, the seat of Sir
Patrick Maxwell, Bart. was greatly enlarged about sixteen years
ago, by the addition of a handsome wing to the east, and a corre-
sponding one to the west end. The building is remarkably elegant,
and the surrounding grounds are tastefully laid out.--A mile dis-
tant from Springkell, on the right bank of the Kirtle, is the tower
of Blackethouse in Middlebie, formerly possessed by a family
of the name of Bell.--About half a mile below this, on the left
bank, is situated the house of Alderbeck, which now belongs to the
proprietor of Springkell, and is occupied by a most respectable and
enterprising tenant. Langshaw, the seat of John Barker, Esq. is
situated about a mile from this, on the same side of the river, and
is a neat, and commodious house.--About half a mile from Lang-
shaw, Wyesbie, the residence of Mrs Mair, is delightfully situated
on the same side of the river.--At a short distance from Wyesbie
stands the ancient family seat of the Irvings of Bonshaw, on the
right side of the river in the parish of Annan. The old mansion-
house is built near the edge of a steep rock, which rises to a con-
siderable height above the bed of the Kirtle.--On the same side
of the river, Robgill-tower, belonging to James Smail, Esq., and
formerly possessed by the late Sir Emilius Irving, Bart., is situated
about half a mile from Bonshaw, on the northern confine of the
parish of Dornock. The scenery around Robgillhouse, of which
the old tower forms a part, is most picturesque and beautiful.--
Cove, the romantic seat of Francis Irving, Esq., built in 1724,
Broatshouse, the residence of William Batty, Esq. lying about
two miles south-west of Cove; and Newtownhouse, the residence of
Matthew Rea, Esq. standing about a quarter of a mile eastward of
Cove,--are substantial and comfortable buildings. At a short
distance from the church is Mossknow, the mansion-house of
Colonel Graham. The situation of the house, which is a hand-
some modern building, is enriched by fine plantations, and an ex-
cellent garden. An extensive and fertile holm, intersected by the
Kirtle, and beautified by straggling-trees of considerable size, opens
to the south.
                              3


