
     of Mid and South Yell.

   Population.-The population of these parishes, has, of late
years, considerably increased.  For this, two reasons may be
assigned;- 1.  The system, adopted by the landholders, of par-
celling out their lands into very small farms, for the purpose
of having as great a number of persons on their property, as
possible, who can be occasionally employed in fishing, from
the produce of which, their principal profit arises.-2.  The
amazing success, with which inoculation has been attended.
Formerly, the small-pox occasioned the most dreadful ravages,

<FOOTNOTE>

them, or to introduce them into the world.  One Saturday even-
ing, when I happened to be with him at Athelstaneford, he receiv-
ed a letter from one of his brethren, informing him, that being on
his way to pay Mr Hepburn a visit, and preach for him next day,
he had unfortunately fallen from his horse, and received a flight hurt,
in his shoulder.  At the same time, he desired him, if any preach-
ers were in the neighbourhood, to send one to officiate for him; up-
on which, I was dispatched away on Sunday morning, and had the
good fortune to be taken notice of, by my worthy and honourable
friend, Sir Hew Dalrymple, whose letter to Sir Laurence Dundas
procured me my present living.
Before my presentation came to hand, I received a letter from
Mr Hepburn, dated October 8th, 1776; a paragraph or two of
which, as far as it respects the present subject, I here send you.
"Dear Andrew, the last time I saw Sir Hew, he told me, he had
"spoke to Sir Laurence Dundas, who told him, "Sir Hew, your
"man shall get the first vacancy; and to shew you, that I am fixed in
"this matter, I will tell you, that the Princess Amelia desired the
"favour of me, to give my first kirk to a young man of her recom-
"mendation; I told her, I was sorry I was pre-engaged.  She ask-
"ed to whom? when I replied, to you, and she laid, it was well,
"for that it was for your man, she was applying."  This is the
"days of the renowned Don Quixotte, or even in those of mo-
"dern chivalry, might pass for enchantment, and I tell it you,

     VOL. II.  4C


