
210                       RENFREWSHIRE.

following, (for which the chartulary is our chief authority,) it is pre-
sumed, will be found more correct than the one referred to, al-
though on this subject we cannot pretend to complete accuracy. *
   Priors.-The monastery of Paisley was at first governed by a
Prior.
   1. Osbert is the first prior on record in the chartulary, in con-
firmation by Pope Alexander III. 8th April 1172. +  He was suc-
ceeded by
   2. Roger, who, by charter dated about 1180, grants to Robert
Croc and Henry de Nes, special friends of the convent, license to
build the two chapels already noticed. +  By a charter, referred to
the period between 1223 and 1233, he and the convent resign to
Walter, second of the name, son of Alan, the island near the town
of Renfrew, afterwards called King's Inch.
   Abbots.-About 1220, the monks received authority to elect an
abbot as superior of the convent.  The first abbot is,
   1. William. He is witness in an agreement dated l225, with Hugh,
son of Reginald, as to the lands of Achinchoss (Houston.) In 1235,
he is witness to an agreement dated at Blackhall, between the Earl
of Lennox and Gilbert the son of Samuel, as to the lands of
Monachkenneran.
   2. Stephen succeeded. A charter is granted by him in 1272, to
Thomas of Fulton, and Matilda, his wife, of their lands of Fulton.
Crawfurd states, that Andrew de Kelcou was the successor of Wil-
liam.  But this is incorrect.  The deed to which Crawfurd refers as
evidence, instead of being dated in 1318 is dated in 1328, and proves
that this Andrew was not abbot, but prior at the time, and acted
in the matter as procurator and attorney for the abbot and mo-
nastery. S
   3. Walter succeeded Stephen.  His name is to be found in the
Ragman Roll, as having come under submission to Edward in
1296.  He was succeeded by,
   4. Roger, in 1312, whose successor was,
   5. John, who is Abbot in 1327, when Andrew, Bishop of Ar-
gyle,grants to the monks the fruits belonging to the  rector in
the churches of Kilfinnan, Kilkerran, and Kilcolmanel.  In 1334,
Pope Benedict granted this abbot and his successors the liberty

<FOOTNOTE>"The rental book of Paisley furnishes information concerning several of the abbots,
with the assistance of which, it may be possible to give a complete and correct list of
them."  Chart. Pais. pref. p. 6.
          Printed Chart. p. 408.           Ib. 77, 78.
          Chart. Pais. p. 27


