
48			KlRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

base; the parish of Girthon, with a small portion of the river
Fleet, one of the bounding sides; and the parish of Twynholm,
with three miles of the estuary of the Dee, the other boundary
line,--the vertex of the triangle being inserted like a wedge be-
tween these parishes. The greatest length is 10 miles, the greatest
breadth 7. Its area may be computed at 25 square miles.
	Topographical Appearance.--Along the southern coast, this pa-
rish offers a frontier of hard, and in some places precipitous rocks,
to the waves of the Solway; which during the prevalence of the
south-west winds, beat against it with great violence. At the
Ross Hill and the Heads, called Borness and Muncraig, the cliffs
rise to so great a height, and are disposed in forms so irregular
and fantastic, as to be objects of much interest to the admirers of,
bold and picturesque scenery. The giddy heights over which you
look downwards to the surging tide; remoter cliffs peaked and
insulated, severed from the mainland; the restless flight and wild
outery of sea-fowl, scared from their perch; accompanied with
the impression that for countless generations these same battle-
ments on which you stand, have thus frowned defiance on the
angry waters of the Atlantic, and repelled their fierce assaults;
are fitted to awaken sentiments which at least border upon the
sublime.
	From the top of the Ross Hill, or from the island called Little
Ross, a prospect meets the view, combining a wide expanse of
sea, with a great variety of vale and mountain scenery. In parti-
cular, St Mary's Isle, clothed with wood of the finest foliage, and
partially screening the course of the Dee, and the picturesque
town of Kirkcudbright; the lofty mountain ranges of Cumberland,
on the east; the Isle of Man; and the coast of Wigtonshire, are
striking features in this lively prospect.
	The most level tracts in the parish, are those which have for-
merly served as the beds of fresh water lakes. Enclosed by hills
of every shape and form, these lakes were at one time very nume-
rous. The greater part have now been carried away by deep
drains, though enough still remain to furnish supplies of water to
all the farms, not only for the purposes of agriculture, but also to
give varieties of battlefield to the curlers, when the season comes
round for enjoying their exhilarating sport.
	Hydrography.--It may be mentioned, as the only circumstance
worthy of notice under this head, that the whole sea-coast bears
distinctmarks of the sea having retreated in a gradual manner
  			       4


