
			   PENPONT.                                 509

	Customs still prevail here, which in a great measure are discon-
tinued elsewhere. But, let it not be rashly spoken whether they
are more honoured in the breach or the observance. Upon occa-
sion of marriages, guests are frequently invited, greatly more nu-
merous than the happy couple could afford to entertain. To ob-
viate this inconvenience, a sum of money, varying according to cir-
cumstances, is levied from the gentlemen. A sum equal to 1s. 6d.
from each will furnish music for the dance, and refreshments to
exhilarate; and thus the wedding is celebrated by a numerous
party, and the festivities go off with eclat.
	The funerals in the parish are often accompanied with greatly
more expense than the relatives can afford, though considerable
improvement in this respect has of late been effected. The good
sense of the inhabitants is, of its own accord, gradually working
out a cure. Would it be believed, that individuals in circumstances
the reverse of affluent would incur expense, not only for things that
are necessary or suitable for such solemnities, but even for show,
to an extent which perhaps they may never be able to defray. Yet
such things have been known. If such inability were occasioned
by the unavoidable dispensations of Providence, and if such extra-
vagance were incurred from a sacred regard to the dead, or a mis-
taken desire to do honour to their remains, one would endeavour
to probe this wound with all tenderness and delicacy. But if it
proceed from a silly vanity,--from a desire to rival or excel others
in expense,--regardless alike of the claims of justice and the calls
of affection,--it can hardly be reprobated too severely.
	It would be altogether inexcusable to omit, under this head, the
prowess of the parish in the national game of curling. It might,
indeed, adopt the motto of the 2d Dragoons, better known by
the name of the Scots Greys; for every player must maintain that
the parish is "second to none." And that the immortal Cairnie,
in his elaborate treatise upon curling, should have omitted to do
her justice, is one of those capital errors which perhaps cannot be
satisfactorily explained.
	Character of the People.--The parish may be considered as en-
tirely of an agricultural character. There are no manufactories with-
in it, nor machinery,--except such as is employed for agricultural
purposes. It is true there is the ordinary variety of crafts in the
village; but such trades are called into being by the exigencies of
the farmer, and are dependent, upon him for their existence. There
are likewise retail shops in abundance,--no fewer than eight,


