
                              WICK.                              169

      hands of the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, cer-
      tain property, from which L. 21 were annually to be paid for en-
      dowing, with L.7 a-year, a school at Keiss; another at Noss;
      and a third at Ulbster.  The heritors are to build school-houses
      and uphold them, and the Presbyter of Caithness to judge of the
      qualifications of the teachers.  These schools were directed to be
      called " Hallawall's Schools," by which name, however, they do not
      seem ever to have been known in the parish. Each of the schools
      receives from Hallawall's mortification, L.7, 10s. annually, and
      the same sum from the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
      ledge, which makes up their endowment to L. 15. a-year.  A fe-
      male teacher at Ulbster is allowed L.6 a-year by this society.
      She teaches girls to read and sew.
        Besides these schools, there is one at Thrumster and another
      at Stirkoke on the General Assembly's scheme.  The proprietors
      of these estates have built houses, and allow so much land as an
      endowment, and the General Assembly grants L. 25 a-year.
        There are at present 18  unendowed schools in the parish, of
      which 14 are in the town, and 5 in the country.  Of these, there
      are two kept by school-mistresses within the quoad sacra parish
      of Keiss, one at Reiss, and another at Janetstown, both of which
      are kept by schoolmasters.  Between the school at Reiss, and the
      Society's school at Keiss, the Kirk-session divides, in equal sums
      L.3 a year, arising from a small mortification.
        Of the 14 unendowed schools in the town, seven are in Wick
      and Louisburgh, and seven in Pulteneytown. Of the seven in Wick,
      one is kept by a master, and six by schoolmistresses.  Of the seven
      in Pulteneytown, three are kept by schoolmistresses, and four by
      schoolmasters.
        Besides all these, there is in Pulteneytown the Academy, an ex-
      cellent building, raised at a cost of L.1700, by the British So-
      ciety for Promoting the Fisheries, who likewise contribute to the
      support of the two teachers.
        The following statement shows the average attendance of chil-
      dren in 1840:
      <TABLE>
                   Endowed schools.      Boys.        Girls.   Total
          Parish school,      .      .    60      .     31   .   91
          Keiss,       .      .      .    49      .     18   .   67
          Noss or Staxigoe,      .     .  45      .     40   .   85
          Ulbster.       .      .     .   40      .     20   .   00
          Thrumster,       .     .     .  36      .     80   .  116
          Stirkoke,      .       .     .  46      .     40   .   86
          Academy, Pulteneytown,       .  10      .     20   .   90


