
                       WESTRUTHER.                             75

has been allowed to fall entirely into disrepair, being never in-
habited by the family except for a few weeks in the shooting
season.
   There are 12 thrashing-mills, 2 corn-mills, and a saw-mill. The
corn and saw mills at Bruntiburn are driven by the same water.
                       III.-POPULATION.
   The population of the parish seems to have been anciently much
greater than it has ever been found to be since the census was taken
under the directions of Parliament,-the decrease being the conse-
quence, partly, of emigration, and partly of the junction of farms.
Some of the older inhabitants can enumerate more than thirty on-
steads, on each of which four or five families were grouped to-
gether, which are now entirely desolate, and have been converted
into a ploughed field. Since the census began to be taken, no
material alteration in the population has taken place.

<TABLE>
   Population of the village of Westruther in 1831,       167
                                Houndslow,                 90
              in the country,                             613

                                                          870
1. Number of families in the parish,                      165
          of families chiefly employed in agriculture,    104
                                       in trade, manufactures, and handicraft,  23
2. The number of persons in 1831 under 15 years of age was,                    335
                                 above 70,                                      30

   There are 3 bachelors, and 4 fatuous persons.
   Habits and Character of the People.-Formerly school-boys were
accustomed to amuse themselves with cock-fighting on Fasten's eve,
-each having a cock trained for the purpose, and the victor in the
contest had, besides the honour of conquest, the burden imposed on
him of paying for a foot-ball, which ended the sport of the day. This
barbarous amusement, with which Fasten's eve was ushered in, was
discontinued when the present schoolmaster came into office, who,
greatly to his credit, used all his influence to abolish it; and the other
more innocent game being so closely connected with it, was also gra-
dually relinquished; the matches often consisted of more than 100
persons on each side. Sometimes the whole parish turned out, but
generally the battle was pitched by the unmarried against the mar-
ried men. There used to be much sport and merriment also at the
celebration of penny-weddings, but these, on the interference of the
church courts, were prohibited, and since that period there have
been no stated amusements of a public kind among the people;-
the fairs, which occur at various times in the course of the sum-
mer, affording sufficient opportunity for the relaxation and diversion


