
                         INVERARY.                              21

tence of Parliament ; but there remains a small volume of the re-
cords of the kirk-session of the Highland charge, extending from
September 1677 to 1683, in the jottings of which, the minister
of that congregation is represented acting as moderator until
1679, when the business seems to have been transacted without
a moderator.
   During the period from 1661 to 1687, the parish, it is sup-
posed, was placed under a curate named John Lindsay, whose
presentation to be minister in the kirk of Inverary, signed
James R., and dated 29th October 1685, is among the papers of
the synod of Argyle.  After the Revolution, he conformed to
Presbyterianism, and became minister within the bounds of the
synod.
    In 1685, when the Earl of Argyle fell, like his father, a sacri-
fice to his love of his country, this parish became the head quar-
ters of soldiers, placed here by the order of the Marquis of Athole,
to whose protection this country was entrusted by his sovereign.
Among many acts of lawless violence committed during nearly
three years that they remained here plundering and oppressing,
they executed, without the form of a trial, seventeen gentlemen
of the name of Campbell.
   A small but simple and chaste monument of eblorite is erected
close to the church to commemorate their death.
   In 1687, the synod of Argyle availed itself of the Act of Tole-
ration passed in July of that year, and met at Kilmichael Glas-
sary.  The melancholy words with which the record begins, re-
late the state of the country during the prevalence of Episcopacy.
They are these: Sederunt," The small remnant of the Presby-
terian ministers yet extant after the public troubles, and residing
within the bounds of the synod of Argyle."  That remnant was
six, and three are mentioned as living in Glasgow.  The Rev.
Patrick Campbell, minister of the Highland congregation of In-
verary, was of the former number, and the Rev. Alexander Gor-
don, of the Lowland congregation, was of the latter.
   From the Revolution to the present time, the history of lhis
parish presents few incidents worthy of notice.  In the troubles of
1715 and 1745 the whole population manifested a spirit of loyal-
ty.  With these exceptions, the voice of war has not been heard,
and the parish has been gradually undergoing those changes which
peace, a paternal government, and a succession of proprietors who,
have been at all times the friends and patrons of their people


