
			   KILMANY.                         553

and five miles. Although the roads are excellent, it enjoys few
means of communication with the neighbouring towns and vil-
lages. There is no post nearer than Cupar or Newport, which
is found in many cases to be very inconvenient, and no carrier
passes this way to Dundee and Cupar. A great part of the ne-
cessaries of life must be sent for, to one or other of these places,
which entails upon the inhabitants additional labour and expense.
The parish is abundantly supplied with excellent bread, three or
four times a-week, by carts from Cupar, Newport, and Leuchars.
The length of the turnpike-road running through the valley is six
miles. Originally there was a considerable deal of posting upon
it, from Newport to Edinburgh, as this is the best and nearest
line of road betwixt these places. But all the public coaches go
round by Cupar, and since the starting of these conveyances, few
post-chaises are seen in this district. There are eleven small
bridges in the parish, eight of them are over the Motray, and all
of them in good order.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated upon the beautiful
rising ground, upon which the small village is placed. It com-
mands a fine view of the surrounding country. The Motray runs
below it, and washes the bank upon which it is built. It is not
particularly well situated for the accommodation of the parish; as
the most extensive and populous parts of it lie at a considerable
distance from the church. This cannot now be avoided. As the,
parish is not extensive, the people in good weather can easily attend
divine worship, from its most distant points. If they are unwilling
to come so far, there are other churches connected with the
Establishment nearer them, to which they can easily go. The great-.
est distance from the parish church, is about four and a-half miles.
It was built in 1768. It is of the plainest construction. The
original expense of it, was under L.150. From some repairs
which it lately received, it is far from being uncomfortable. It
can accommodate from 300 to 340 individuals. As the parish
has diminhshed in population since it was erected, it is more than
sufficiently large for the congregation. The greatest part of the
area is divided amongst the different heritors, and is occupied by
them, or by their tenants and servants; but the communion tables
and the east gallery are free sittinhs, as nothing has been charged
for them for many years. These were erected originally at the
expense of the kirk-session, and were let out for the benefit of
the poor.


