
                                   LOTH.                               205

	our sea coasts ; but from that date to the beginning of the present
	century, there was a period of fifty-four years of uninterrupted in-
	ternal peace and public security, favourable for the pursuit of most
	branches of industry, and which could not be materially affected
	by a distant war such as that with America, during which the
	fisheries were as completely neglected as ever ; and in this state,
	it is probable, they would have continued much longer, had not
	Government and patriotic individuals interfered.  Capital is sel-
	dom embarked in hazardous and doubtful speculations, unless there
	be a chance of extraordinary profits. The ultimate success of the
	herring fishery was by no means certain; great profits could not,
	with probability, be calculated upon ; and the Dutch, who, before
	the present century, supplied the continental markets, were, from
	their experience and perseverance, and more especially from their
	superior mode of curing, (then supposed to be known to them ex-
	clusively,) competitors of the most formidable description.  The
	herring-fishery was, therefore, generally looked upon as an import-
	ant national concern, in so far as it reared a hardy class of sea-
	men, but as possessing few attractions for individual speculators.
	Hence, the first efforts of Government to advance the fisheries
	were attended with partial success only ; and such is the difficulty
	of selecting the most efficient means, at a first trial, in some legis-
	lative measures, that the principle upon which the Government
	bounties for the encouragement of the herring fishery were grant-
	ed, has been subsequently found to be an erroneous one.  Busses
	of not less than sixty tons burden were the description of vessels
	encouraged ; and all such, when fitted out for sea in a particular
	manner, were entitled to a bounty of L. 3 per ton, whether fish
	were caught or not.  Consequently, it often followed that busses,
	after being passed for the deep sea fishery, skulked along shore,
	or lingered in safe retired creeks, among the Orkney and other
	islands,-only going to sea when the weather was inviting. The
	crews also, were exempted from impressment ; so that a number
	of lazy hands were thus obtained by the master, to man the bus-
	ses, at a trifling expense.  This system was directly the reverse
	of the active and vigorous mode of fishing now prosecuted.  The
	next measure, being a bounty of 4s. on the cran of fish, gutted,
	cured, and packed in an improved manner at stations on shore,
	was, however, a most important and serviceable enactment and may
	be considered as giving the first well-directed impulse which the pre-
	sent fishery system received.  The curer, at first, when the busi-


