
			      RUTHWELL.                       229

strength before the union of the crowns; is 60 feet square, and
90 feet high, with battlements and port-holes in the walls. The
walls are of sufficient thickness to admit of small apartments
within them, and the hall and larger rooms are still occupied, as
the roof is standing. * The castle of Comlongon was for many
ages the residence of the Murrays of Cockpool,--a family of great
eminence in Annandale, as some of them were wardens of the
western border; and Cuthbert Murray of Cockpool was nne of
the commanders of the Scottish army that defeated the Duke of
Albany and the Earl of Douglas when they invaded Scotland.
The remains of an old castle are also to be seen at Cockpool,
within half a mile of Comlongon, which was likewise a seat of the
family."
	Parochial Registers.--In the parish register of births, the first entry
was made in the year 1723. This public document does not appear
to have been very regularly kept at any time, and the irregularity was
increased at one period by the very impolitic tax which was imposed
on the registration, and at another, by the irritation among the lower
orders consequent on the extension of the militia service to Scot-
land,--the register having become unpopular by being employed
for the purpose of ascertaining the ages of the young men subject
to the ballot. The yearly average of the births may be 23 or 24,
though the parish register does not exhibit so high an average,
it being necessary to make some allowance for the negligence of
parents in obtaining registration for their children. 26 births were
registered in 1829, and 21 in 1830. No accurate account can be
given of deaths and marriages, from the want of parish registers of
these events.

<TABLE> III.--POPULATION.
	   By return to Dr Webster in the year 1755, the population was 599
	   By the census of 1801,                                       996
                      1811,                                      1184
                      1821,                                      1285
                      1831,                                      1216
	No cause of a local nature can be assigned for the increase up
to 1821; and it must be attributed almost solely to the general
improvement of agriculture, which has so materially added to the
amount of the common necessaries of life, and at the same time Im-
proved their quality. It is true, indeed, that, since Dr Webster's

<FOOTNOTE>The inside of the castle is now quite ruinous.


