
                              DUNBLANE.                            1041

	with a tower, both in the earliest style, was afterwards enlarged
	into the nave, and had the choir added at a subsequent period.
	Some of the prebend stalls, in curiously carved oak, are placed
	in the lobby of the parish church, and the original Popish roof is
	still over the choir.  The windows of the choir were renewed at
	considerable expense, in the ornamented Gothic style, in 1819,
	and the interior having been then repaired at the instance of the
	Earl of Kinnoul, the whole appearance of the parish church is
	striking and elegant.
	   The ruins of the bishop's palace are still to be seen to the South
	of the cathedral, both overhanging the Allan.
	   Kilbryde castle is the ancient seat of the Campbells of Abern-
	chill, a family once honourably distinguished for support of the
	Reformation and revolution settlements.  There is no mansion on
	Cromlix, the Episcopal heritage, now Lord Kinnoul's.  Keir and
	Kippendavie houses are substantial modern mansions.
	   Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers have been pre-
	served with considerable care.
	   The Presbytery records of Dunblane extend back as far as 1616.
	The record of the Episcopal synod of Dunblane, from 1662 to
	1688, is extant, comprehending the whole of Leighton's Episco-
	pate.  It might be interesting to some if published.

				III.--POPULATION.
	   So little encouragement having been given to public improve-
	ments, Dunblane has been as neglected a spot as any in Scotland.
	It contains 1800 inhabitants, a great number of whom are ex-
	tremely poor, and some in the lowest degradation and wretchedness.
	The population of the whole parish is 3367, including 631 in the
	portion assigned to the district of Ardoch quoad sacra.  A violent
	settlement of a parish minister, about a century ago, scattered the
	Established congregation, and it has never been well gathered
	since.
				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	   On the estates of Keir and Kippendavie, there has been every
	modern improvement in agriculture and buildings ; but in conse-
	quence of the tenure on which The Cromlix is held,
	there have not been many improvements on it.
	   There are three manufacturing establishments in the parith at
	Dunblanes, and mill of Keir and Kinbuck, together with a con-
	siderable number of private looms in the town.  At present there
	is a very great depression and want of employment.
	   PERTH 					3 u



