
            758                      PERTHSHIRE.

            places easily forded.  Its general velocity along Appin may be
            estimated at the rate of four miles an hour ; but after it passes
            Aberfeldy, its acceleration is increased by the greater declivity of
            the ground, and the roughness of its channel.  At Logierait it
            takes a south-east direction, and passing Dunkeld, receives the
            Airdle, the Isla, the Almond, and various minor streams.  Hav-
            ing passed Perth, it is joined by the Earn, its last great tributary,
            and forms a spacious estuary from two to three miles in breadth,
            which is partially contracted again at Dundee, but anon widens,
            and gradually expands into the bay of St Andrews and the Ger-
            man Ocean.
              The Lyon takes its rise from a loch of the same name in the
            parish of Fortingall, and, after having received great accessions on
            either side by innumerable streams and rivulets, enters this parish
            at Coshieville; when, after pouring in a south-easterly direction,
            and forming the march betwixt this parish and that of Weem on
            the south-west, it falls into the Tay at the east point of Drum-
            mond hill.  In this part of the Lyon, fresh water mussels are to be
            found, as there are also in the Tummel.  The Lyon mussels are
            highly prized for their pearls, some of which being as large as a
            common pea.
               The Quaich rises amongst the hills in the south of the parish
            of Kenmore.  About eight miles from its source, it spreads out
            into Loch Fraochy, already described.  On emerging thence it
            proceeds eastward to Amulree, where it turns towards the north-
            east, and assumes the name of the Bran.  There its velocity con-
            siderably increases, and, pursuing its brawling course for eight
            miles along Strathbran, to which it gives name, and forming seve-
            ral cascades, discharges itself in the Tay, a short way below the
            village of Inver, in the environs of Dunkeld.
               The Tummel issues from Loch Rannoch, in the parish of Fort-
            ingall.  The impetus of its waters is very variable.  At its entrance
            into this parish, a short distance west of Tummel Bridge Inn, its
            course is rather rapid; but ere it reaches Loch Tummel it be-
            comes almost stagnant, meandering amidst broad rich meadows,
            and forming many beautiful curves, in miniature intimately re-
            sembling the windings of the Forth below Stirling.  Upon issuing
            from the lake, it becomes rapid and furious, rolling and tumbling
            through a rocky, narrow, wooded channel, until it mingles its wa-
            ters with the Garry, when it becomes more gentle and steady;


