

930                       FIFESHIRE.

into the family of Murray of Lochmaben, afterwards Earl of An-
nandale, and was sold in 1658 by James Lord Annandale to John
Earl of Athole.  His successor, the Duke of Athole, sold it
to Skene of Hallyards, from whose family it passed to the late
Mr Bruce.  Mr Bruce, immediately after he acquired the pro-
perty, began to repair the palace.  He converted part of it into an
oblegant and commodious dwelling-house for the factor, and laid
out the adjoining grounds as an ornamental garden, greatly to the
embellishment of the ancient edifice.  The same taste and libe-
rality are exhibited in the preservation of this interesting ruin by
the present proprietors, O. Tyndall Bruce, Esq. and his lady.
  The only other building in the parish that deserves particular
mention is the new House of Falkland.  It is built after a design
by Mr Burn of Edinburgh in the Elizabethan style of architec-
ture.  It was begun in 1839 and completed in 1844, and is justly
regarded as one of the most beautiful and princely edifices in
Scotland.
  Antiquities.-Several coins have been found among the ruins of
the palace.  They are not very ancient, being principally coins of
Charles I. and II.
  There are several traces of ancient fortifications on the Lomond
hills, which the late Colonel Miller, in a paper on the battle of Mons
Grampius, has endeavoured to connect with the movements of the
Roman and Caledonian armies.  "The fortifications on the East
Lomond hill," he says, "have been perfected with great labour
and very considerable skill, although the works are irregular. On
the summit there are two works 150 yards in circumference.
There have been four defences on the north side, the lower ditch
of which is carried through the rock in one place.  On the west
side there is a ravelin which would not disgrace a modern en-
gineer; and on the south side there is a ditch about 100 yards
below the summit, and nearly 200 yards long, which has either
been filled in at the east end or never finished.  The remainder
it is about 6 feet deep, and the earth is thrown up in the in-
side to form a rampart, which is still in excellent preservation.
Between the East and West Lomonds, and about half-way below
their summits, the ground presents the appearance of a plain
sloping gently towards the east, although very much broken.
This I conceive to have been the position of the Caledonians pre-
vious to the battle."  Whether this opinion be well founded or

