
                           LOGIERAIT.                     695

weavers and slidemakers, 10s. per week ; tailor, Is, a-day with
board.
   Improvements.-Embanking and draining have been carried on
to a great extent in certain situations of late. There are on the
banks of the Tay and Tummel, about 6400 roods of embank-
ment. Waste land is in course of being reclaimed with great
activity and skill in almost every district of the parish. In this
parish some attention has been paid of late to the improvement
of lands under wood. The ground on which the experiments have
been made, was formerly planted, for the most part, with Scots
fir and oak. The results are said to be, in a considerable degree,
promising, and it is possible, that, as the value of coppice has been
declining from a variety of causes, there may be inducelents.
elsewhere to the adoption of a similar practice where the soil chan-
ces to be worthy of redemption.
   The method adopted is to contract in the month of August to
trench such a portion of waste and woodland as may be deter-
mined on. The trenching is performed to the depth of fourtedn
inches.  The operation is finished about December, so as to give
the benefit of the winter frost, to break the rough clods.  Early
in the ensuing spring, the land is thoroughly drained ; the large
stones blasted out; the drains are then filled with the small stones,
and the remainder removed to the boundaries of the field for
fencing.
   The land is subsequently twice ploughed, and then drilled for
turnips, which are dibbled in with bone-dust at the rate of sixteen
bushels per acre.  In ordinary seasons, the result is a fair crop of
turnips, which are eaten off the ground by a flock of Leicester
Sheep. The following year, the land is limed with twenty bushels
of the best lime per acre, and sown with potato oats and the finest
mixed perennial natural grass-seeds. The after-math is then pas-
turned with sheep, and the parks, subsequently depastured with that
stock, for at least three year before it is broken up for tillage.
By this mode of management, it has been found, in some cases,
that the capital expended on each field has been redeemed in five
years or crops.
   Obstacles to Improvement.-The only obstacles to the improved-
ment of agriculture that I am aware of in this parish are, first, the
provalence of small holdings, and, second, the consequent want of
capital to be expected on improvement by that class of agricultu,

rists. In many situations, the land is let in little patches, varying


