
               NEILSTON.                              345

pocket for a penny. He pointed out as afund, the bishops $ rents,
the surplus teind.-;, and the sinecure salaries of the chaplains and
deans of the Chapel-Royal. Not the half of these sums were con-
ceived to be necessary in order to build and endow all the churches
and parochial schools which might be tieeded. Let these be
taken and properly appropriated, and Dissenters, volu-ntaries, and,
enemies to the Cbureli of Scotland, will have no reason to corn-
plain, as not a farthino, of the fiinds required will come out of their
               tD
private purse.
The manse was built in 1766. It was deemed a splendid build-
ing, with one of the finest landscapes from it, hn the west sof Scot-
land. It has been frequently repaired. In 1809, the repairs on
it, which were the last, cost betwixt L. 600 and L. 700. The ex--
tent of the glebe is scarcely 8 acres, including house and gar-
den. Its value is not more than L. 20 a-year.
The amount of stipend is 16 ebalders, one-half meal and one-
half barley, according to the highest fiar prices of the county.
But the barley is paid not by the county, but by the Linlithgow
boll, which reduces that half of the stipend six and a-balf per cent.
below the county boll, a thing which is held unwarranted and
unwarrantable by the Act of Parliament, and in the doing of which
the Court of Session, as the writer conceives, became legislators,
and Dot the executors of the law. By this modifying of stipends,
ministers are . paid neither by the flars of their county nor Linlith-
gow. They get tliefiars of the one and the measure of the other,
which, in practice, is a grievous hardship to the clergy : making a
loss, in Renfrewsbire, of six and a-quarter per cent. even when the
fiars in both counties are the same; but it is -,till more grie . vous
when the Linlithgow fiars are equal to, or hi her than those in
9
Renfrewsliire. But still more:-The court, in modifying stipends
according to the Linlithgow firlot or boll, is conceived to be set-
ting at nought the act of Queen Anne, 1707,-ealled the Act of
UDiOn,- I which abrogates the Linlit gow firlot, and every other
measure for grain but the Winchester bushel. Its words are, chap.
xvii.-Il That from and after the Union, the same weights and
measures shall be used throughout the United Kingdom as are
now established in England," Sfc.
There is only one Seceding chapel in the parish, belonging to;
the United Associate Synod of the Secession Church. The mi-
nister is paid from the seat-rents and collections,-chiefly. Salary
about L. 150. There are neither Episcopalian nor Roman Ca-

