
290                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

tion. The parish of Prestonpans was disjoined from it in 1606, on
a new church being built by Mr John Davidson, a very eminent
person, then minister of the district: and Hamilton of Preston
provided the glebe. *
   The lands of Winton were also disjoined from the parish of
Tranent in 1649, but in 1681 they were reunited to Tranent, and
in 1715, after the forfeiture of the Winton family, they were final-
ly annexed to Pencaitland. +
   In 1695, the north-east part of the parish of Tranent was an-
nexed to the new parish of Gladsmuir, which was formed from por-
tions of the parishes of Aberlady, Haddington, and Tranent.
   Till the commencement of last century, the lands of this pa-
rish were almost entirely in the possession of one or two distin-
guished families.
   The most ancient family in this district seems to have been that
of Saytun or Seton, who obtained a charter of lands in East Lo-
thian from David I. who began his reign in 1124. In the reign
of William the Lion, who ascended the throne in 1165, they ob-
tained a charter of the lands of Seton, Winton, and Winchburgh.
   Another distinguished nobleman of this period was Robert de
Quincy,a Northamptonshire baron, who acquired the extensive
manor of Tranent from William the Lion, and was made his Jus-
ticiary. His large estates afterwards came into the possession of
his grand-daughters, three co-heiresses, and their husbands having
espoused the cause of Edward II., their lands were forfeited on the
success of Robert the Bruce, who conferred them on his nephew,
Alexander de Seton. This family became one of the most influen-
tial and opulent in Scotland, and were connected by marriage with
all the principal families in the country. The families of Gordon
and Eglinton were in fact Setons, the heiresses of these houses hav-
ing married younger sons of the Seton family. They became Lords
Seton in the reign of James I., and in 1600 were elevated to the
rank of Earls of Wintoun. They were always opposed to the Refor-
mation, and, after possessing property in the parish of Tranent for
600 years, they were deprived of it by forfeiture in 1715, from their
devoted attachment to the Stuart family. At this period, the Win-
ton estates, along with many of the other forfeited lands, were pur-
chased by the York-Buildings Company, and after their bankruptcy
were sold in 1779, when they were acquired by various individuals.

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers' Caledonia, ii. 525, and Thomson's Act. Parl. 18 Parl. Jas. VI.
   Ibid. ii. 529, and Thomson's Act. Parl.


