
442			FORFARSHIRE.

part of the largest limb, which may be cut up into planks. The
trunk is the most decayed part, it having been a very long period
since it was partially uncovered by the digging away of the peats,
during which it has been exposed to the alternate action of the
air and mnisture. The portion of the trunk yet remaining is 13
feet in length, and girths 25 feet at its top end, and 18 at the
other, which, from the direction of the fibres, appears to have
been the smallest part of the bole. The two limbs are each 20
feet in length,-the one girths 6, and the other 9 feet; exhibit-
ing in whole the skeleton of nearly 600 cubic feet of timber. But
from the rotten state of the trunk, it is obvious that it is now much
reduced in its girths; and, as is the case with such trees, the butt-
end, which is burned off, girths always considerably more than any
other part of them. Therefore, taking that portion of the bole still
remaining as not containing more than two-thirds of its original
quantity of timber, and making an allowance for the smaller limbs
proportioned to the average of such trees, which, although not
now to be seen, have evidently existed to some extent, and may
have been wasted away, or perhaps destroyed by the fire, or car-
ried off at its original discovery, it is not improbable that it may
have contained at one period fully 1000 cubic feet of timber,
Such a tree, like some of the kind still existing in a growing state
in England, may have been 1000 years old before it was burned
down, and may have been long previously rotten and hollow in the
heart near the ground, and have occasionally afforded shelter
to the hunter or wanderer, and at last been destroyed by their
fires kindled within it, as indicated by the charred portions being
up through its heart, and none on its exterior. But whether this,
and the other inferences as to its original size, be just or not, the
visible remains excite much interest; for although there have been
and still are various oaks much larger in England, yet the remains
of this show it to have been the largest oak tree hitherto general-
ly known to have grown in Scotland, and afford an additional
proof to a few others, of the gigantic size which the native oaks
had formerly attained amongst the Grampian glens,-in some of
the more eastern of which, as actually obtains in this particular glen,
not a shrub of them is now to be found in a growing state, the
whole of the existing species having been planted. *

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Blackadder, and Charles Lyall, Junior, Esq. of Kinordy, in order to as-
centain the number of years which this gigantic tree had been growing, proceeded
on the principal recommended by Decandolle; when Mr Blackadder stated, that
this was the largert oak tree known to have grown in Scotland. He bad previously
consulted London's recent publication of the Arboretum Britannicum.


