
256                         EDINBURGHSHIRE.

erected, and even at Musselburgh, among ourselves in Scotland,
a foundation of a Roman monument lately found (now utterlie
demolished,) bearing this inscription dedicatory, Apallini Granno"
&c.*
   A second discovery, not less striking, was made in 1783, during
the carrying forward of some garden improvements, in the imme-
diate, vicinity of Inveresk House.  In removing the soil to the depth
of three or four feet, the floors and foundations of various build-
ings were exposed; and Dr Carlyle, then the incumbent of the
parish,--a man admirably qualified from his classical zeal and at-
tainments,--took superintendence of the operations.  His account,
which is clear and succinct, is given in the former Statistical Ac-
count; and we have another equally accurate, satisfactory, and fully
more comprehensive, by James Wedderburne, Esq. of Inveresk,
in a letter to the well-known antiquary, Mr Adam Cardonnel, of
the Custom-House.
   A Roman bath of two rooms was then traced.  The smaller
was 9 feet by 4 1/2; the larger 15 by 9; and between these was an
earthen pipe for the conveyance of water.  The floors were co-
vered with tarras two inches thick, uniformly laid on; and beneath
this, were first coarse lime, then gravel, and, lastly, rough unhewn
flags.  The floor was supported on pillars two feet high, some of
which were of stone, and others of circular bricks.  It appeared,
that the floor of the smaller room bad been intended to bear a
greater heat,--a coarse tarras, ten inches in thickness, being laid
under the upper layer.  The degree of heat used seemed to have

<FOOTNOTE>Plaine Discoverie, &c. p. 210.  Edin. 1593, 4to.  Mr Gough, in his additions
to Camden, makes the following learned remarks on this curious, but,somewhat ob-
scure subject.
   In illustration of the inscription said to be found at Musselburgh, Azogoexouns of
the Greeks is an epithet given to Apollo by Horner, IL T. 39 Hyrm. in Apol. i.
134.  Macrob.i.17. He had long flowing locks, for which the Latin poets also ce-
lebrate him. But the Granni of the Gauls, which I cannot find in Isidore, were
curis at the end of those locks, such as Salmasius, Exercit.  Plin. 586-763, says the
Latins called crines concinnati,
            Capillos inficitis oculos fuligine relinctis,
            Levatis comulas, grannulatini fronte depictis.
                                                    Commodian. Instruct, 60.
   In favour of the derivation from granum it may be added, that in Judith x. 3, the
old Latin has it comam discriminavit, i. e. granum fecit, &c.
   Breval gives the following inscription in the Duke of Wertemberg's cabinet at
Stugard:
   In honorem D. D. Apollini Granico Julius Victorinus Prafectus seraii pro filio
suo Lepido. V. S. L. L. M.
   When amplified the Musselburgh inscription seems to be--
   Apollini Granico, Quintis Lucius Sabinianus, Proconsul Augusti, votum suscep-
tum solvit, lubens merito.
   Hermlas also wrote of Apollo under this name. Vide Stephan, art, Auzgous.
				     3


