
106			KINCARDINESHIRE.

The schoolmaster is besides session-clerk, the emoluments of which
office amount to about L. 8 yearly.
	The number of scholars educated at the different schools
amounted, in March 1834, to 312, of whom 184 were boys, and
128 girls. The schools are best attended from November to
May. During summer the attendance is not numerous. The
parish schoolmaster has also a Sunday evening school for six months
in the year; it is attended by about 70 scholars. The parish
school-house, as well as the schoolmaster's house, are large and com-
modious, and considerably exceed what is considered as the legal
accommodation.
	There are few, if any natives of the parish, and residing in it, who
have reached the age of fifteen, who cannot read. The greater
part who have reached that age have been taught to write.
	Literature.--A parish library was instituted in 1827. It now
consists of about 610 volumes, chiefly religious, but including also
books on history, biography, voyages, travels, &c. The number
of readers is considerable, and yearly increasing. They amount
in the winter season to about 200, who read gratis. The school-
master acts as librarian. Besides the parish library, there is also
a small Sunday school library.
	Although Fordoun cannot boast of any public reading-room,
or news-room, yet newspapers (often of doubtful principles) are
easily obtained and eagerly read; there is consequently no lack of
politicians sufficiently liberal in their principles, and irregular in
their practice.
	Charitable Institutions.--There are none; but there are two
Friendly Societies, viz. The Ploughman Society, consisting of
about 200 members, and the Weavers' Society of 70. The mem-
bers of both societies contribute 1s. per quarter. They give allow-
ance to sick, and to agdd and decayed members.
	Fordoun parish bank, instituted in May 1815, is limited to male
and female servants, crofters, labourers, tradesmen, including weav-
ers and mill-spinners. It is managed by twelve directors, a treasurer,
and a clerk. The minister acts as treasurer, and the schoolmas-
ter as clerk. Depositors are obliged to withdraw their money, and
place it in the British Linen Co. when the sum reaches L. 20.
Formerly it was limited to L. 10. The books and vouchers are
examined annually, and attested by an auditor chosen by the di-
rectors.


