
134                          FIFESHIRE.

respecting which two traditions have been handed dow. The one
is, that three brothers of the Sinclair family had encountered each
other there during the night; that, mistaking each other for robbers,
they fell by each others hands: that they were buried there; and that
the three trees were planted on their graves. The other is, that
all the ground about Dysart had been originally under wood, and
that when the wood was cleared away, these three trees were left
as a memorial of its former state. It is questionable, however,
whether the present trees are the same which tradition refers to.
It is more than probable that, having fallen into decay, three others
were planted in their room. The arms of the town of Dysart bear
one tree; and there has long been a proverb here, "as old as the
three trees of Dysart."
  About a mile north from the town, there is to be seen a large
stone in the middle of a field, said to be a memorial of the bat-
tle fought by the Danes to which we have alluded. About half a
mile north from this field, there is a farm called Carberry, where
the Romans are said to have had a station, and where it is report-
ed there was once a Roman camp, but no traces of it now remain.
  Towards the south or lower part of the town of Dysart, there
was anciently a small chapel, generally said to have been dedicat-
ed to St Dennis; it is still called St Dennis's Chapel: part of the
original wall is standing; but the building has long been used as a
smithy.
  Near to St Dennis's Chapel, stands the old church of Dysart. Its
remains bear all the signatures of its having been a splendid and vene-
rable building. On one of the windows, the date 1570 has been ob-
served. The steeple and porch, however, are evidently of more
ancient workmanship, and the heavy stone roof of the latter, and
two sculptured stones above the door, where the statue of some
saint was probably once placed, refer the time of their erection to
an earlier period than 1570. Nearly in the middle of the har-
bour, there is a high rock called the Fort. It is said to have been
fortified by Oliver Cromwell, but no remains of any work are dis-
cernible on it. A receipt of Cromwell's for money received was
lately found amongst the town's papers, and was in possession of the
treasurer; but, in consequence of being handed from one to and
other as a curiosity, it cannot now be found.
  In the middle of the town of Dysart, stands the town-house. It
was built in.1617, and contains the hall in which the magistrates
aind council assemble for conducting the ordinary affairs of the


