
          ISLAND OF SKYE-DUIRINISH.                        341

selves both in camp and council, especially in the former. Seve.
ral might be named, of whom some are still living, who, born and
reared in thatched cottages, have attaitied the rank of generals, and
the dignity of knighthood; and have held highly responsible offices
under the Government of the country; but we consider it foreign
to the object of such an account as this to particularize them all.
Land-owners.-Of the land-owners of the parish, Macleod of
Macleod, who possesses about one-half of the parish, is first to be
mentioned. Major Macdonald of Waternish ranks next to him in
extent of territory. Mr Macleod of Orbost; Mr Macleod of St
Kilda; Mr Maclenan of Lyndale; Mr Cumming of Griesher-
nish; Mrs Murray of Cushledder; Mr Nicolson of Husabost;
and Mr Macdonald of Skeabost, compose the remainder. Nine
in all.
  The only mansion-houses in the parish besides the Castle of
Dunvegan, are those of Orbost, of Grieshernish, and of Waternish.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers have been very
much neglected; there being none extending farther than thirty
years back; and session-records, it may be mentioned, were not
kept with any degree of ftilness before the commencement of the
year 1840.
              III.-POPULATION.
   The number of the inhabitants of the parish was given in 1811
at 3227; in 1821, at 4174; in 1831, at 4765; and now it is
closely bordering on 5000.
   We do not here see any remarkable increase of population;
but the number bears a vast disproportion to the resources of the
parish;  and is far greater than the soil can support. This has been
the case for many years back,-known and felt by every intelligent
person connected with the country; and thus it becomes interesting
to inquire why such a state of things has been permitted by those
who had it in their power to prevent it, and also bow the popula-
tion manage to subsist when the resources of the country are in-
sufficient for them, and they have so little means of paying for
imports from other countries.
   We answer the second question first, by stating that the people
generally live on the poorest and scantiest fare, and many of them
for a part of the year are supported mainly by sbell-fish; that, by
sending their families annually to the south to labour there, the
parents are, to a certain extent, upheld; and that, when every other


