
54                       WIGTONSHIRE.

edly made for coal, but hitherto without success. Upon, the estate
of Tonderigie, close by the shore, a mining company, belonging
to Wales, sunk a shaft to a considerable depth in quest of copper,
and succeeded in discovering a small scattered vein, and procured
a few very rich specimens of ore. The attempt was discontinued
at a time when every interest in the country was involved in ge-
neral distress.
                             II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Burgh.--Whithorn, which was constituted a royal burgh by
James IV. in 1511, is governed by a provost, two bailies, and fif-
teen councillors, and one of four that return a Member to Parlia-
ment. The burgh of Whithorn consists chiefly of one street,
running from north to south, which is very irregular, being inconve-
niently narrow at both extremities, and uselessly wide in the middle.
The town-house and gaol were removed about twenty years ago from
the middle of the street, where they formerly stood, and are now
erected upon the west side of the street, abo	about the centre of the
town, and ornamented with a steeple. The dwelling-houses have
been much improved since the termination of the war with France,
many old ones having been pulled down, and now ones erected on
the same site. This change seems rather to have been owing to
the reduction of interest than the demand for better dwellings, as
many who had money in the banks were of opinion that it could
be invested it houses to more advantage,--which experience seems
not to justify. The burgh has a small revenue, about L. 100 yearly
arising from harbour-dues and fees.
	Eminent Men.--St Ninian was born in this place or neighbour-
hood during the fourth century; and to that circumstance it seems
to have owed its celebrity as a religious establishment.  This emi-
nent individual went to Rome about the year 370, where he was
ordained Bishop of Britons. Upon his return to his native place,
he there founded a church, which he dedicated to his uncle, St
Martin of Tours in France, and within the walls of which he was
afterwards buried. This church has been so completely dilapi-
dated by the lapse of time and the ruthless hand of man, that only
a few old arches remain to tell of its original grandeur. There
was also erected here a famous priory of the Premonstratensian
order, by Fergus, Lord of Galloway, who flourished in the reign of
David I., in which some of the innumerable relics of St Ninian were
deposited. Hither pilgrims resorted from  distant places, not only
of Scotland but of England and Ireland, attracted by the remark-


