
                         FINTRAY.                         173

wife, who had practised the begging trade in Aberdeen before her
marriage he preferred the latter.  The average number of persons
receiving parochial relief, may vary from 20 to 25, receiving from
L.1 to L.3, 10s. per annum.  The annual amount of funds
under the management of the kirk-session may be reckoned from
L.60 to L.65 per annum, (burdened with the expense of the ses-
sion, precentor, beadle, &c. in all about L.5,) arising from week-
ly collections in the church, (L.40 to L.45,) interest of L.220;
donations from non-residing, heritors, pall-dues and other casual-
ties.  Besides the weekly collections for the ordinary poor, annual
collections, of very considerable amount, are made for the Infir-
mary and Lunatic Asylum at Aberdeen; and a collection was late-
ly made in aid of the Indian mission.
  The poor of this parish, owe a large debt of gratitude to Sir
John and the Honourable Lady Forbes of Craigievar, who, of late
years, have given several donation's; among which may be men-
tioned one of L.20, and another of L.10, for the immediate re-
lief of the poor, besides their very liberal collections in the church
on ordinary Sundays: and well-judged supplies of clothing, coal,
meal, and other things, to the more necessitous, during the incle-
ment season of the year.
   It is but justice to the poor of this parish, to say, that few ap-
ply for parochial aid, before they stand in actual need of it; and
in some cases, it has been necessary to press it urgently and repeat-
edly before it was accepted.  At the same time, it cannot be de-
nied, that some few have been found of a contrary disposition,
Subscriptions are sometimes successfully made for an individual,
or family, who have met with any misfortune.
   A blacksmith, who died in this parish some years ago, be-
queathed to the kirk-session, L.70 Sterling; the interest of L.40
to be applied to the education of poor children; and the interest
of L.30, towards the clothing of aged and indigent females belong-
ing to and residing in the parish.  These small funds are useful
at the present time.  And another blacksmith, in like manner, dis-
poned to the kirk-session, feu-duties to the annual value of L.19
13s. 6d., for charitable purposes in this parish; to take effect, un-
der the eye of the kirk-session, upon the death of certain persons
named in the disposition.  Poor rates are happily unknown and
unnecessary here.
   In this parish there are neither markets, saving banks nor cir-
culating libraries.


