                                 
                               FERRY-PORT-ON-CRAIG.          87
 
        The manse was built in 1796, and is a very substantial house,
     and in good repair. The grebe consists of about seven acres arable,
     and four acres of foggage or grass glebe, Scotch measure. The
     stipend is the minimum.
        Poor.-There is no assessment for the poor in this parish, that
     evil having hitherto been provided against by the liberality of the
     parishioners in their weekly collections at the church door, aided by
     the kind and judicious consideration of the proprietors of Scotscraig,
     who advance such sums from time to time as may he found neces-
     sary, along with the collections, to supply the regular disbursements.
     There are generally about 20 paupers on the roll, and they re-
     ceive from Is. to 2s. 6d. a week according to their circumstances.
     Extraordinary collections are made at the beginning of the year,
     and at the dispensation of the sacrament, on which occasions an
     extra allowance is made to the poor. The yearly amount of col-
     lections at the church may be L. 55: the proprietors' contributions
     L. 40. The laudable desire prevails to support themselves with-
     out parochial aid, as long as possible, and in some cases the kirk-
     session has found it expedient to offer aid to such as were known to
     be in need, before they had made any application for it. It is fre-
     quently found, too, that they who are backward in letting their
     wants be known, and manifest a  reluctance to accept of help, are
     far more needy as well -as far more deserving objects than they
     who are forward to seek relief.
        Education.-Besides the parish school, there are two private
     schools, one of which is taught by a female, and is chiefly attended
     by girls. The salary of the parish schoolmaster is L. 30, with
     house and garden. Besides the ordinary branches of education
     taught at the parish school, navigation, French, and Latin, are
     taught. The teacher's school fees amount to L. 22 per annum,
     and his yearly emoluments from other sources may be about L. 12.
     There are always five bursars or free scholars at the parish
     school, whose education is provided for by the investment of a
     sum of money by the late William Dalgleish, Esq. of Scotscraig,
     the interest of which is paid to the schoolmaster. The heritor
     and the minister of the parish have the power of appointing to
     the benefit, which is restricted to boys. Every child admitted to
     this privilege enjoys it for five years, and the preference is, al-
     ways given to poor children, the benefit being expressly de-
     signed for such. The schools are all well attended, the people
     generally manifesting a laudable desire to have -their children edu-


