
                   PARISH OF DALMELLINGTON,

          PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

              REV. ROBERT HOUSTON, A. M. MINISTER.

              I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

	Name.--This parish is called in the former Statistical Account,
Damelingtoun, and the name is still retained in this form by many
of the old inhabitants. The orthography, however, has not been
uniform, but has passed through various unimportant changes. In
its present shape, the etymology of the name can be easily traced
to a very appropriate Gaelic origin, Dail, signifying a plain, or
field, or valley, and Muileann, a mill, with the very common affix
ton; the name will therefore signify the town of a valley of thd
mill, or of the mill field. Dalmellington is a burgh of barony.
The date of its erection I have not been able to ascertain.
	Extent and Boundaries.--The parish, as nearly as can be es-
timated, is 10 miles long, and on an average fully 3 miles
broad. In the absence of any correct measurement of its surface,
it may with tolerable accuracy be assumed to be 30 square miles.
The boundaries of the parish are the Loch and River Doon on
the south and south-west, separating it from the parish of Strai-
ton in the district of Carrick; Dalrymple parish on the west;
Ochiltree on the north; and New Cumnock and Carsphairn, in the
stewartry of Kirkcudbright, on the east.
   	Topographical Appearances.--The figure of the parish is that of
an obtuse triangle, the longest side of which is the Loch and River
Doon. A perpendicular from this, about half. a mile above the
middle of the parish, where its breadth is the greatest, and passing
through the village, would measure about five miles, and termi-
nate nearly at the meeting Of Ochiltree and New Cumnock pa-
rishes.
	Surface.--The upper part of the parish is formed by the termi-
nation of three ranges of bills, which form ridges of varying though
but moderate elevation. Two of these run nearly parallel from the
march of Carsphairn, in a north and north-west direction, the one


