
			LESWALT.                            127

are very considerable tracts of land wholly in pasture, and very
little probability that these will ever reward the farmer by tillage.
	Rent of Land.--There are no grounds in undivided common in
the parish, but the whole is laid out in farms. Some of these rent
at L. 200 Sterling per annum, and upwards. The rent of some
parts of the parish per acre is as high as L. 3 per annum; and L. 2
per acre is common. Farms let on a lease of nineteen years may
average about L. 1 per acre. The common rate for grazing a cow
or ox for the year is about L. 3, 10s.; a ewe, 5s.
	Wages.--The common rate for farm-servant is L. 10 per an-
num vith victuals; a maid-servant L. 4, 4s.; meal per stone may
be said to average 2s. 6d. per stone, potatoes 10d. per bushel;
a mason or carpenter 2s. per day with victuals.
	Live-Stock.--The breed of cattle being Galloways, they are well
known and much sought after. Large droves are annally sent to
England, which bring fair prices. The sheep are various; the
Cheviot, the black-faced and various mixed breeds,--all of which
reward the farmer, perhaps, better than black-cattle.
	The general duratinn of leases is nineteen years, but there are
some life tacks. The farm-house are all good, and well adapted
for their respective purposes; and the fences have, of late years,
been greatly improved, and add very much to the beauty of the
country
	Produce.--There are raised in the parish about 4000 Gal-
loway bolls of oats, average value ablout L. 6000. Wheat has
been of late cultivated; but what the real amount is cannot
be ascertained; average price per bushel, 6s. There are rais-
ed about 2000 bolls of potatoes annually; average price about
13s. 4d.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--No market-town in the parish, but one in
Stranraer, wihich is in the neighbourhood. The post-office is in
Stranraer.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, bulit in 1828, stands
in a very convenient situation for the parishioners, and is about
eight miles from the farthest extremities of the parish, and affords
accommodation for 800 sitters. No free sittings.
	The manse was built in 1811. The glebe contains nearly 20
acres; value about L. 30 annually. The stipend is the minimum.
The only other place of worship in the parish is a parochial



