
                                   ADDENDA.	                  933

                              ADDENDA TO CADDER.

   Page 401, line l,--In place of " It is surrounded," read
" The extensive loch in the centre of the parish, before referred
to, is surrounded."
   Page 404,--Add as follows under the head of Natural His-
tory, in the account of Cadder, which was drawn up by the in-
cumbent, the Rev. Thomas Lockerby :--" The lakes and streams
contain pike, trout, perch, braze, and perhaps every variety of
eels.  Large fresh-water muscles are to be found in the canal.
Some of the proprietors were held bound to furnish salmon to the
superior.  There are none to be found now in the Bothland, Lug-
gie, or even the Kelvin ; nor are they such streams now as sal-
mon would naturally much frequent.  The streams and lochs, and
moors and mosses, and plantations, would furnish more specimens
for the naturalist than Mr Ure has enumerated in his Natural
History of Rutherglen and Kilbride.  Some of the animals to be
found in the parish are the following : Adders, badgers, roe-
bucks, marten, and polecats, foxes, hedgehogs, lizards, black,
brown, and water-rats, rabbits, squirrels, weasels.  Adders did
at one time very much abound.  Twelve have been killed by one
individual in one day.  When Gartloch moss was improved, the
labourers dug them out in great numbers.  Lizards abound near-
ly as much in some parts of the parish as they do in the deep
mosses at the foot of Benlomond.
   The following are some of the fowls: The moor and singing
blackbird, the balcule, bullfinch, buzzard, carrion-crow, curlew,
wild-duck, goldfinch, goatsucker, grouse, gull, water-hen, heron,
ring-tailed and common brown hawk, blue spur, and small martin,
jay-pyet, kingfisher, lark, lapwing, bright, green, and moss linnet,
magpie, moss-cheeper, nightingale, ox-eye, owl, gray plover, par-
tridge, pheasant, common rook, land and water-rail, chaffinch,
snipe, common and mountain thrush, teal, blue, water, and yellow
wagtail, widgeon, woodpecker.
   Sea-gulls frequent the west end of the parish some time of the
year in great numbers.  It is said by naturalists that the absence
of the nightingale in Northumberland and Scotland is too be at-
tributed to the greater coldness of those parts compared with the
milder air of southern England.  It is, nevertheless, said that this
songster has been both seen and heard in Cadder.

   Page 409, 4th line from the bottom, omit the sentence com-
mencing " It is said that some."
   LANARK.


