
778				AYRSHIRE.

even in day-light, without a guide. On the west, the only direction
from which it can be approached, a sentinel was always stationed
in times of danger, whence he could command an extensive view
of the whole country as far as Ailsa Craig and the hills of Arran,
and thus no body of troopers could reach the house, before the
inmates had time to escape into the morasses. A situation like
this was invaluable as a place of resort to the Covenanters, and it
was the point to which the utmost vigilance and attention of the
dragoons were naturally directed. Twelve times was the house
plundered, and as often did the people escape. On such occasions,
the money was removed and buried in the neighbouring morses.
It happened once, that. they were nearly taken by surprise, and
bad only time to conceal the coin, without being able to mark the
spot. In spite of all subsequent search, it remained in the moss
for more than a century, when the place was accidentally discovered.
After an extensive search, some scores of British and foreign coins
were discovered. These are preserved by the family as very in-
teresting relics. The Fenwick flag, which waved at Bothwell,
Kilsyth, and Drumclog, is also preserved. *
	In the churchyard of Fenwick there are two tombstones erect-
ed, to point out the resting-place of individuals who, in the sacred
cause of the covenant, sealed their faith with their blood. +

<FOOTNOTE>It is said that the late Edward Irving, who either was, or imagined himself to
be, in some way related to the family, beheld this relic of a pious but persecuted
people, with an interest almost amounting to devotion.
          The one of these stones bears the following inscription:-" Here lies the dust
of John Fergushill and George Woodburn, who were shot at Midland by Nisbet and
his party, 1685."
		" When bloody prelates, once these nations' pest,
		  Contrived that cursed self-contradicting test,
		  These men for Christ did suffer martyrdom,
		  And here their dust lies waiting till he come."
	The other is as follows:--"Here lies the body of James White, who was shot to
death at Little Blackwood, by Peter Inglis and his party, 1685."
		" This martyr was by Peter Inglis shot,
		  By birth a tyger rather than a Scot,
  		  Who that his monstrous extract might be seen,
		  Cut off his head and'kick't it o'er the green.
		  Thus was that head which was to wear a crown,
		  A football made by a frofane dragoon."
	  In a work popularly known by the name of the Fenwick Visions, the author of
which was John Howie of Lochgoin, there are some singular narratives of visions of
armies in battle array, &c. seen in this parish immediately before the Rebellion of
1745, and the late war with France.
	There is a tradition connected with a house in this parish which is worth record-
ing. King's Well has long been known as the principal inn between Glasgow and Kil-
marneck. It stands on one of the most elevated spots in the parish, and is flanked
on the west by a deep flow-moss, over which a road has been formed within the last
few years with extraordinary difficulty, the moss being in many parts so soft that a
dog could not have walked across it without sinking. At some distance from King's
Well, stood Pathelly Hall, a baronial residence of the Cochranes, at that time a place


