
50                            BUTESHIRE.

and though assured that any attempt to surprise or carry the
castle, or to raise the country, was desperate, and though dissuad-
ed, it is said, by their royal leader, and urged to return in silence
to their former retreat, they resolutely refused to quit the land of
their fathers, till they had either freed it, or fallen in its rescue.
                 " Answered fierce Edward, 'Hap what may,
                 In Carrick, Carrick's lord shall stay;
                 I would not minstrel told the tale,
	         Wildfire or meteor made us quail,
                 I will not credit that this land,
	         So famed for warlike heart and hand.
          	 The nurse of Wallace, and of Bruce,
		 Will long with tyrant hold a truce,'
	         'Prove we our fate, the brunt will bide,'
          	 So Boyd--so Haye--so Lennox cried,
          	 So said--so vowed the leaders all.
	         So Bruce resolved--`And in may hall,
	         Since the bold Southern make their home,
           	 The hour of judgment soon shall come,
	         When with a rough, and rugged host,
	         Clifford may reckon to his cost.'"--Ibid.
  The manner of Bruce's departure, as related by the accurate Lord
Hailes, in his Annals of Scotland, is circumstantially the same
with that handed down by tradition, with the single exception of
the task of exploring the country, being committed to a confiden-
tial messenger, instead of being undertaken by the King in per-
son.
   The sequel of the story, which forms one of the brightest pages
in the annals of Scotland, belongs not to this part of the work.
   At a subsequent, but more recent period, Arran supplied an
asylum to another, who like Bruce, was outlawed for his rebel-
lious adherence to the Royal cause of Scotland. After the dis-
comfiture of the rising of 1745, the Honourable Charles Boyd,
son of the unfortunate Lord Kilmarnock, who expiated the part
he took in it, on the Tower Hill of London, fled to this parish,
where he lay concealed in the farm of Aucheliffin, till he found an
opportunity of escaping to France. While living in this gloomy
and sequestered glen, he happened to fall on a chest of medical
books, and amused himself by the study of that science, which he
afterwards turned to benevolent accounts. After a residence of
twenty years in France, he returned to his ?? country, and fixed
his residence at Aberdeen. This is person whom Boswell
mentions as having received himself and Dr Johnson, when on
their tour to the Hebrides, at Slanes Casle, in absence of his bro-
ther the Earl of Errol.
  With the exception of the grants mentioned above, as made by
King Robert, the property of the island since the time of Alex-

                               4


