
     of Dunfermline.

   Minerals.-This parish abounds with valuable mines and
minerals.  In many places there are prodigious rocks of
freestone, extremely white, durable, and susceptible of a fine
polish.  Granite, or blue whin, is also found in great quan-
tities, and of an excellent quality for paying streets, making
roads, and other useful purposes.  Limestone is found in 
various parts of the parish, near the surface.  This valuable 
fossil has lately been wrought to a great extent.  Several 
seams are quarried, and manufactured in the lands of Craig-
luscar, belonging to Charles Dury, Esq; and also in the 
lands of South Fod, belonging to Mr John Stenhouse.  Be-
sides supplying the interior parts of the country in the im-
mediate neighbourhood, the lime is carried to a consider-
able distance for manure and building.  But the most ex-
tensive limeworks in this parish, or even in Britain, be
longing to any particular person, are those of the Earl of
Elgin, situated on the coast of the frith of Forth.  From
the vestiges of limekilns along the shore, the village of 
limekilns derives its name; and it appears from these 
ancient ruins, that the limeworks were carried on at
a very remote period. The seam of limestone is op-
posite to the Forth.  It is a mile long from E. to W. from 
20 to 50 feet thick, and dips to the E. and W. from about 
the centre. The late Earl, his Lordship's father, who was
no less distinguished for his intellectual than his moral qua-
lities, conceived the idea of extending his limeworks on a 
larger scale than had ever been attempted by any of his 
ancestors.  Accordingly, in the years 1777 and 1778, his
Lordship began to build nine large draw-kilns, a harbour,
waggon-ways, for drawing the stone from the quarry to the
kilnheads, and a village for accommodating his work people, 
which, after himself, was called Charlestown. As the    
works were great, the expense was proportionable; before
they were finished, the necessary utensils for quarrying pro-
cured,and the dufficulties inseparable from new and great


