
                          KILMALCOLM.				61

do so remarkably well. All seem alive,to the benefit and necessity
of education.
   Literature.-A circulating library was lately established in the
parish, which has been in active operation for more than a year.
Could a fair judgment be formed from the past, it is probable that
this infant institution may succeed; but country people, from many
causes, do not read much. There are no reading-rooms in the pa-
rish; but several newspapers circulate, upon all sides of politics.
   Charitable Institutions.-There are no charitable institutions,
with the exception of a Friendly Society, which a few individuals
have formed for mutual support.
   Poor.-There are at present 14 poor upon the roll, who re-
ceive according to their circumstances. Should they be able to
work a little, they get 1s. per week; and when unable to do any thing
they are allowed upon an average 2s. Each of them also receives
a quantity of coals at the new year, equal in value to 10s. When
sick, a small sum, is generally added to their weekly allowance, and
medical attendance and medicines are provided for them. It is a
subject of surprise how they manage to live, and make so few com-
plaints. They, however, do not look upon this kind of charity as
in any way degrading; and children, in good circumstances, have
been known to allow their parents to receive it.
   The funds from which the poor are supplied are derived from
collections at the church doors, fees of proclamations, and the pro-
fits arising from the letting out of a hearse and mortcloth. The
deficiency is made up by the heritors, according to their valuations.
   The average annual amount of church collections for the poor
is about L. 18.
   Fairs.-At present there are no fairs. Some time ago, an an-
nual fair was held here but the only memorial of it now is the
assembling together of a few people in the village, who spend an
hour or two in conversing upon the days that are gone by.
   Alehouses.-In this parish, there are seven alehouses. They are
not all, however, well attended, and it is rarely that the people go
to excess in drinking.
   Fuel.-Coal and peat are generally used as fuel. The coal is
at a considerable distance, and is expensive in the carriage.

	          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The moral condition of the people has of late been im-
proved. The general appearance of the parish is also changed
for the better. Green fields now appear where formerly stones


