
512                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

gathered from the surface, or dug from quarries.  The whole ex-
pense of a fencible stone wall is 8d. per yard on an average; and
at this rate the inclosing and subdividing a farm of loo acres,
possessing ordinary advantages of march fences, is L.150.  The
common arrangements regarding fences are these,-the plan of the
subdivisions must be approved of by the land-owner, and the ten-
ant then receives an obligation from him to be paid at the end of
his lease, for such fences as he may build in conformity with the
plan.  In some cases the land-owner has paid the expense of build-
ing and quarrying, the tenant carting the materials.
   About thirty years ago, many attempts were made, and much ex-
pense was incurred by the proprietors to raise thorn hedges; but the
result was so nearly an utter failure at the time, that the planting
of hedges was quite given up.  As it was observed that there are
several solitary thorn trees, of considerable age and great vigour,
dispersed over the parish, this furnished a proof, that neither the
soil nor climate are unadapted to the plant, and led to the infe-
rence, that there bad been some mismanagement which occasioned
the failure; and the consideration of several circumstances led at
the same time to the belief, that the errors had consisted, chiefly in
planting the thorns too thick, (the distance was six or eight inches)
and clipping them too early and closely.  Under these impres-
sions, in 1825, a hedge of 240 yards was planted, of three years'
old thorns, placed at 15 inches distance from each other, on land
of medium quality, well limed and dunged, and laid perfectly flat
across the Lime of the hedge, to receive the full effect of rain, as
the thorn tree is evidently impatient of drought.  The hedge was
kept clear of weeds; and the shears were no otherwise used than
to prevent the plants from rising higher than five feet and a half,             I
and more recently to cautiously reduce the sides to an even line
The success has, in this instance, been complete.  The hedge
was already fencible in the auttimn of 1829 against all but vicious
cattle; and has since greatly improved.  A desire to obtain thorn
hedges has now arisen among some of the tenants, and a cosider-
able extent of them has been planted within the last two years.
   Some Improvements suggested.-It is not pretended that, under
this head, we, could be entitled.  to discuss the merits of the gene-
ral plan of husbandry pursued by practical men, who have cau-
tiously examined so many improvements, and adopted those which
they have felt best prometed their interests; but there is one de-
fect, attending the present established rotation of crops, on some
                                    3


