

                        INVERESK.                            291

<TABLE>
      Annual value of corn                     L. 21,000 0 0
                      grass, green crop, &c.      16,000 0 0

                                        Total, L. 37,000 0 0

   Manufactures.--The manufactures, which until recent years had
been inconsiderable, have of late greatly increased. They consist
chiefly of sail-cloth, hair-cloth, fishing-nets, hats, and leather.
There are also two extensive works for the making of bricks and
tiles, a salt-work, and a pottery at which the coarser sorts of ware
are mostly manufactured. Dyeing, which was formerly one of the
principal trades carried on here, is now confined to one or two in-
dividuals.
   Sail-cloth.--A sail-cloth manufactory was first established on a
small scale in 1811, and has since progressively increased to a
considerable extent. The buildings for the spinning department
have recently been enlarged, and a steam-engine of 55 horse
power erected. The sail-cloth manufactured is for the home mar-
ket, and of superior quality, being principally made for the use
of the British navy.
   Hair-cloth.--A manufactory of hair-clof1h was introduced about
1820. It has been gradually increasing since that period, under
the active management of the proprietor, Mr Porteous, and at present
employs nearly 200 persons, men, women, and children. The prin-
cipal articles manufactured are satin and fancy figured hair-cloth,
curled hair, hair kiln-cloth, hair-lines, and all kinds of fishing hair,
girth-web, ropes, twines, &c. Horse-hair carpeting, used in the
House of Commons, on the recommendation of Dr D. B. Reid, is
also manufactured here. These goods are sent to London, and other
parts of England, Dublin, and the principal populous towns in Ireland,
and all parts of Scotland. A considerable trade at one time exist-
ed in the exportation of satin hair-cloth, and other articles con-
nected with the horse-hair manufacture, but this is now very limit-
ed, the different countries to which it was sent having for some
time made their own goods. Anotber manufactory of, the same
kind has recently been establisbed by a different individual, at
which, however, there is but a small number of hands, employed.
   Fishing-nets.--A manufactory of fishing-nets was established
in 1820, by the ingenious inventor of a loom for weaving them,
Mr Paterson, formerly of the commissariat. This invention, which
he completed after many years of laborious experiment, promises
to reward his ingenuity adn perseverance, by gradually super-
seding the tedious process of process of hand-knitting. He has now 18 looms


