
     Statistical Account

230 acres of enclosed lands in the parish; the rest is all
open.  Enclosing land in this parish becomes a very ex-
pensive and difficult bussiness, as thorn hedges cannot be
reared for sences, and stones are not to be got for building,
them.

   Church, Manse, Stipend, School, &c.- The church un-
derwent a complete repair in the year 1786, being then al-
most rebuilt.  It is, at present, in good repair, and a de-
cent place of worship.  The manse was built in 1770,
but in such superficial manner, that it has been under
the necessity of being repaired several times since it was
built, at a very considerable expense to the heritors; and,
after all, it is but an indifferent house: damp, by being
placed too near a bog; inconvenient, being near half a
mile from thew church.

   As the parish is small, so the stipend is equally small,
being no more than 44 L. 8 s. 10 1/3 d., with 50 merks Scots,
for communion elements.  The teinds seem to be exhaust-
ed. This is a stipend by far too small, as times now go,
for the support of any clergyman.  The glebe contains
about 8 acres, which may rent from 6 L. to 7 L. annually*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*I am sorry to see, that the clergy have lost their bill in Parliament,
I think interest have not behaved with all taht generosity thta
might have been expected, in first opposing and deseating the just claim 
of avery useful set of men.  I mean the poor oppressed and too much de-
spiced schoolmasters; and now opposing the clergy in a thing where, I ap-
prehead, their interest was not much to be affected.  By looking into the
acts of the General  Assembly, in the year 1750, I find tha amount of the
whole stipends in Scotland, to be only 50,26 L 15 a. 5 d. 10-12ths.; and
that the tithes, not affected by ministers stipends, may amount to near
60,0001.  Sterling :  So at that period, the clergy had not the one half of
the tithes. How far a new division of parishes, or, at least, the cutting off
some places from Large parishes, and annexing them to smaller, and, by  

</UNREADABLE>


