
464			  FIFESHIRE.

to December 1605. This is a highly interesting record, as it fur-
nishes many details relative to the proceedings of Andrew Melville
and his associates, that are not to be found in any printed work.
This volume does not appear to have been in the hands of the
presbytery clerks for more than a century. During the first six
years of the period which it embraces, the presbytery of St An-
drews comprehended also the parishes which now form the pres-
bytery of Cupar, the first erection of the latter presbytery not tak-
ing place until October 1592. This volume has not yet been put
into the hands of the presbytery clerk, but it is hoped that this
will ere long be effected ; and if this expectation should not be re-
alized, a transcript of it which has been made will be lodged with
the other records.
   Antiquities-The Chapeland Tower of St Regulus are understood
to be the most ancient relics of ecclesiastical architecture that ex-
ist at St Andrews. The date of their erection cannot be correct-
ly ascertained ; but the most ancient of our Scottish historians speak
of them as existing in their times, and, indeed, as having already ex-
isted for several centuries at the period when they wrote. Some
contend that they were erected as, early as the close of the fourth
century of the Christian era, by the Pictish king in whose terri-
tories they were situated, at the suggestion of St Regulus, by
whom he had been converted to the belief of Christianity. And
their appearance seems fully to warrant the conclusion, that they
must have been erected prior to the introduction of the Saxon or
Gothic architecture. The tower, whose sides form a square of
about 20 feet each, and which is 108 in elevation, appears to have
formed the centre of the erection. Its appendages were two
wings, one to the east and the other to the west, the correspond-
ing sides of the tower having at the bottom large doors or open-
ings, by which the three divisions might, according to choice, form
but one apartment. But even in this extended state, the dimen-
sions of the church or chapel must have been but small, as its
would length would not much exceed 70 feet, while its breadth
would vary from 14 to 20 feet. The walls of the apartment or
chapel on the east of the tower have been put in a good state of
repair; but the west wing has long been entirely destroyed. Yet
from the traces of the roof on the side of the tower, and from what
is understood to have been a representation of the fabric on the
seals of the ancient charters connected with the priory, many of
which still exist, the existence of the west wing at some former pe-
riod seems to be incontrovertibly established. The chapel and

