
     of Alloa.

Tullibody+, or what are called the Carse and Dryfield, con-
tain about 1,100 acres.  The tenants pay kains and cess, and
are obliged to carry their farm barley 6 miles, if required;

     VOL. VIII.   4 G

<FOOTNOTE>

troops on the coast of Fife, they were alarmed with the arrival of the English
fleet, and thought of nothing but a hasty retreat.  It was in the month of
January, and at the breaking up of a great storm.  William Kirkcaldy of
Grange, attentive to the circumstances in which the French were caught, took
advantage of this situation, and marched with great expedition towards Stirling,
and cut the bridge of Tullibody, which is over the Devon, to prevent their re-
treat.  The French, finding no other means of escape, took the roof off the
church, and laid it along the bridge where it was cut, and got safe to Stirling.
It is generally believed, that this church remained in the same dismantled state
till some years ago, that George Abercromby, Esq. of Tullibody, covered it
with a new roof, and erected within it a tomb for his family.  There is still a
large burying ground round this church; and on the north side of it, where
there had been formerly an entry, there is a stone coffin, with a niche for the
head, and two for the arms, covered with a thick hollowed lid, like a tureen.
The lid is a good deal broken; but a curious tradition is preserved of the coffin,
viz. "That a certain young lady of the neighbourhood had declared her af-
"fection for the minister, who, either from his station, or want of inclination,
"made no returns; that the lady sickened and died; but gave orders not to
"bury her in the ground, but to put her body in the stone coffin, and place it
"at the entry to the church." Thus was the poor vicar punished; and the
stone retains the name of the Maiden Stone.
+On the east end of the village and crofts, there was a large rugged piece of
ground, upwards of 140 acres, formerly let at 40 L. Scotch, or 3 L. 6 s. 8 d. Ster-
ling.  Between 60 and 70 years ago, it was inclosed, and planted with fire. 
When they were between 40 and 50 years of age, they were cut, and sold at
from 50 L. to 60 L. per acre; and the ground is now planted with oaks, which are
in a very thriving condition.-Immediately on the east of this wood, there
is a rising ground, in the upper barony of Alloa, called Lorn's Hill, probably
from its being the spot where the Marquis of Lorn encamped, when in pursuit
of the Marquis of Montrose in the civil wars.  Mr. Eriskine, about 14 years
ago, built a farm bouse and good offices on it.  It was formerly a dreary and
uncultivated waste, though the grounds were beautifully varied.  Mr. Erskine
has humoured the lying of the ground, in forming his inclosures and clumps, and
belts or strips of planting; so that it is at present a pleasant spot, and will, in a
few years, become a very agreeable ferme ornee.


