
     of Castletown.

   Castles.-Hermitage Castle stands upon the bank of the
river of that name.  It has been a very strong building,
near 100 feet square, defended by a strong rampart and
ditch+.  The walls are almost entire.  The inner part is

<FOOTNOTE>

Justice* exhibit a specimen of the transactions of those times.  Several
persons mentioned in it are the heroes in the old songs and ballads:
"At the Treeves, or Justiciary meeting of the Lords Wardens, to
hear all complaints, 1581.-West Marches against Liddisdale, Sir Simon
Musgrave, Knight, with Thorn of the Todhill and his neighbours, com-
plain upon Robin Elliot of the Park, Sim Elliot, Clemie Crosier,
Gawens Jock, and their complices, for 60 kine and oxen, a horse, and
the taking of Thom Routledge prisoner."
"June 1582.-Matthew Taylor, and the poor widow of Martin
Taylor, complain upon Old Laird of Whithaugh, Young Laird of Whit-
haugh, Sims Thom, and Jock of Copshawe for 140 kie and oxen, 100
sheep, 20 gaits, and all their insight, L. 200 Sterling."
"October 1582.-Sir Simon Musgrave, deputy of Bewcastle and te-
nants against Walter Scot, Laird of Buckleith, and his complices, for 200
kine and oxen, 300 gates and sheep."
"November 1582-Sir Simon Musgrave complains on the Laird of
Mangerton, Lairds Jock, Sims Thom, and their complices, for burning of
his barns, wheat, rye, oats, big, mad peas, worth L. 1000 Sterling."
"West of England against Liddisdale, L. 3230."
"Liddisdale against the West Marches, L. 8000."

*History of Cumberland.

+It is said to have been built by a Lord SOULES, then Warden of the
Border; but it does not appear, that there is any accurate account of its age.
Smollet mentions that Alexander II. built a castle in Liddisdale, which
gave such offence to Henry III. of England, that he made war upon the
king of Scotland, 1240.  This, in all probability, was the castle of Her-
mitage.  Among the remarkable places in the county of Liddisdale,
Hector Boece mentions "the Castle of Hermitage, now demolished."
A great part of the ancient castle appears to have been thrown down, and
the ancient part of the architecture is early distinguished from the more
modern.  Bishop Elphinston mentions, that Sir William Douglas, Earl

     VOL. XVI. L


