
                              DRYMEN.                            107

pist to say, if such changes in the state of society have been for
the better.
   The present population may be classified as follows, viz.

<TABLE>

    Number of families in the parish,                           312
                        employed in agriculture,                160
	               in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,   64
    Number of males,                                            863
            of females,                                         827
            of males above 20,                                  458
         of persons residing in the village,                    404
                    in the other parts of the parish,          1286
                    above, 70,                                   52

  There are only two persons above 90. In one family, there
are four persons, whose united ages make 317, viz.-83, 84,
80, 70.
  It is difficult to give a correct estimate of the number of births
and marriages,-the registration of births being much neglected,
especially by Dissenters; and the mere proclamation of banns
being no rule as to the number of marriages, as the solemnization
of the marriage often does not take place in the parish of the pro-
clamation. No regular record of the deaths has been kept. Some
legislative enactment is much wanted to regulate and enforce these
registrations.
  There is one deaf and dumb man. There are two fatuous;
none insane.
  Character ofthe People.-It may be said of the people generally,
that they are intelligent, industrious, and frugal, exemplary in their
habits, and, with few exceptions, attentive to the public ordinances
of religion. With respect to the enjoyment of the comforts of life,
they are not behind their neighbours. They are generally well-lodg-
ed and well-fed; and at marriages, burials, and in church on Sab-
bath,show,by theirstyle of decent dressing,that they are in comfort-
able circumstances. It cannot be concealed that the prevailing vice
is drunkenness-, encouraged greatly, without doubt, by the too fre-
quent sign-boards in the country, announcing " porter, ale, and Bri-
tish spirits." * About twenty-five years ago, smuggling was carried
on to a great extent in this parish. A seizure is now a very uncom-
mon occurrence. There is still occasionally some blazing in the
burns; as much, it is believed, for a winter-nighes amusement, as
for the spoil that is obtained. There is in this country great temp-
tation to poaching; the game being very plentiful, The proprie-
tors generally keep a strict look-out after delinquents. But, upon

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Macniell's Scotland's Skaith.


