
                      ARDNAMURCHAN.                        161

   Literature.-There are small collections of books, chiefly Gae-
lic, for the use of the people at the parish church, Arasaig, Ahar-
cle, and Strontian,-also libraries at the different Assembly schools,
provided by that venerable body.  The people, however, do not
as yet make as much use of them as might be expected of their
intelligence, and it is to be feared, until they enjoy more of the ease
and comfort of better circumstances, will not speedily acquire a
relish for the intellectual gratification of reading.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial relief, hitherto has been about 90, in the Ar-
gyleshire districts.  The average yearly allowance, 5s, 6d. from
the session, and a stone of oatmeal occasionally from the proprie-
tor.  In the Inverness-shire districts, there has not been as yet
any roll of paupers, the collections at church being a mere trifle
there; and in Ardnamurchan and Sunart, with the exception of the
amount specified, the poor have been entirely supported by private
charity, by far the greater portion of which is derived from their
humble neighbours and relatives; resident proprietors and other
respectable families, though charitably disposed, being few.  The
church collections for the poor in Ardnamurchan and Sunart average
about L.18 annually.  To these have been added occasionally finea
paid to he session, and small sums taken from the parochial funds.
No other public provision has hitherto been made for the ordinary
poor; but insane paupers requiring medical treatment in asylums,
and safe custody, have been provided for by a voluntary contribu-
tion among the heritors, paid according to their valued rent.  In
this way, during the last five years, L 57 has been expended, the
insane persons being sent to the Inverness Infirmary, or Glasgow
Lunatic Asylum.  In 1839, from the increase of pauperism, and
the increasing inability of the people to relieve it, it will be neces-
sary to make provision for the poor by a parochial assessment, un-
less the heritors, as there is little reason to doubt, will supply the
funds by a large voluntary contribution.  The only parochial fund,
strietly speaking, is a sum of L.21, the residue of L.25 for seveeal
generations in the hands of the session, the origin of which is not
known.  There are, however, bequests to particular districts, one
Of L.30 from the late Mr Cameron, Glenboradale, another of
L.50 from his brother, Mr Allan Cameron, both gentlemen tacks-
men, natives of Ardnamurchan, who left these sums to the poo of
Ardnamurchan and Sunart ; also sums amounting to L.56, left by
Mr and Miss MacDonald of Morar to the Inverness-shire districts
of the Parish, and neighbouring districts in the parish of Glenelg.


