
			GLASSERTON.			41

during which the curlers are entirely deprived of their favourite
sport for want of ice.
     	Hydrography.--There are no rivers in this parish nor lakes of
importance. The Loch of Dowalton, however is surrounded by
Kirkinner, Sorbie, and this parish. But it forms only a small part
of our boundary. This lake is perhaps a mile and a half in length,
and from half a mile to three quarters in breadth. There ano-
ther small lake near the House of Castlestewart; but there is no-
thing remarkable in the appearance or history of either of these
lakes. Pike, perech, trout, and eels, are found in them, but not in
great abundance. In Castlestewart Loch, there are leeches of a su-
perior sort, but not numerous.

 			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Mansion-Houses.--There are three mansion-houses in the pa-
rish; but only one residing heritor, Mr Stewart of Physgill, who
constantly resides at Glasserton. Physgill is tenanted by two la-
dies; and in Castlestewart no gentleman's family has resided for
upwards of forty years,--it is therefore getting fast into disrepair.
	Land-owners.--The parish belongs to five heritors.--Sir Wil-
liam Maxwell, Bart. of Monrieth ; Stair H. Stewart Esq. of
Physgill, the Earl of Galloway ; the Earl of Stair; and John
Pringle, Esq. of Craigdow. This latter gentleman resides occa-
sionally on his property here.
	Antiquities.--It is worthy of notice that the head of a Urus was
not long ago found in a marl-pit on the estate of Castlewig, in this
parish. It was sent by Mr Train of Castle-Douglas, to Sir Walter
Scott,--and, it is supposed, yet to be seen immediately over the
door at Abbotsford. It is of the following dimensions: From the
top of the head to the point of the nose, 28 inches; between the
sockets of the eyes, 13 inches; diameter of the sockets of the
eyes, 4 inches; round the flint of the horn 13 inches.
<TABLE=Population>
			III.--POPULATION.
                   Population in 1801,                  860
                                 1811,                 1047
                                 1821,                 1057
                                 1831,                 1194
	Number of families in the parish,				281
                           chiefly employed in agriculture,		124
                           in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,        28

			IV.--INDUSTRY.

	Agriculture.--The parish contains about 10,688 Scotch acres; of
which about 3000 are waste, and betwixt 200 and 300 planted. The
rental is about L. 8570. As many of the farms have thier rents re-


