
                           STOW.                        407

trict does not seem to be congenial. The oak may be mentioned
as found particularly thriving.
   Remarkable Trees.-Of older trees on the same property, the
following may be noticed: Circumference taken three feet from
the ground: Ash, branches extending 86 1/2 feet by 84, circumfe-
rence, 9 feet 10 inches; Scotch fir, 7 feet 4 inches; elm, 8 feet
6 inches; willow, 9 feet 5 inches; spruce, 7 feet 3 inches; oak,
8 feet; yew, clean stem, of 6 feet 2 inches; circumference at
ground, 6 feet, and at top, 4 feet 9 inches. The most remark-
able of all is a plane, or sycamore, at Old Tornwoodlee, which,
18 inches from the ground, gives a circumference of 14 feet 9
inches. In 1798, this tree is mentioned by Dr. Douglas* as then
measuring 13 feet 7 inches, and two clefts, one 9 feet 4 inches,
and the other 9 feet 1 inch. These clefts I found (August 1831)
had increased to 9 feet 9 and 9 feet 7 inches. There are five
horse chestnuts on the road side, immediately below the church,
whose size and beauty generally attract the attention of travellers.
   There is a hawthorn tree in the manse garden, which is un-
questionably the finest, though not the largest, I ever saw. The
clean stem to the first cleft is 7 1/2 feet; circumference at bottom,
4 feet 3 inches; at top, 3 feet 4 inches; whole height, 27 feet,
spreading over a circular space of which the diameter is equal
to the height.
   Ettrick Forest.-As a fourth part of the surface of the parish
of Stow lies in Selkirkshire, or Ettrick Forest, the following facts,
communicated by a friend, whose knowledge and accuracy are un-
questionable, may be found appropriate as well as interesting.
   Torwoodlee estate is wholly situate in what was anciently called
the "Lordship of Ettrick Forest," and formed part of that track
of country in which the Kings of Scotland followed the sports of,
the field. Belonging in property to the Crown, and thus deno-
minated a royal forest, it was appropriated by the successive mo-
narchs to their occasional visits for the enjoyment of the chase.
While, however, this was the chief object of retaining the district,
in forestry, and the royal visits being only occasional it does not
appear that a tract of country so considerable (being about twenty-
seven miles in length and sixteen in breadth) was allowed to re-
main altogether unproductive. The lands were lot out, accord-
ingly, on leases, at very moderate rents to the different adjoining

<FOOTNOTE>Agricultural Survey of Selkirkshire, p. 285.


