
	                  DUNBOG.                            209

of Collairney for many ages--it is presumed, for not less a pe-
riod than 500 years. We find in a list of the Lords of the Re-
galities within Fife in the reign of Charles II., that Barclay of
Collairney was heritable bailie of the regality of Lindores, while
the other jurisdictions were in the hands of the Marquis of
Tweeddale, Lords Balmerino and Anstruther, and Sir Tho-
mas Hope of Craighall. The possession of this office implied the
existence of great personal influence or high rank, while it con-
ferred civil authority of the most varied and extensive description.
This once powerful family is now extinct; their name is scarcely
known. About forty years ago, the estate was purchased from the
last of the Barclays, by the late Dr Francis Balfour of Fernie,
whose son inherits it at the present moment. The Castle of Col-
lairney is now in ruins, though enough remains to attest its origi-
nal magnitude. In the only tower that has survived the wreck of
time, and the despoiling hand of modern improvement, there are
two small rooms, the roofs of which are divided into numerous com-
partments, in which are painted in vivid colours the armorial bear-
ings of the old chivalry of Scotland. The mottos as well as the
devices of a few are yet distinctly legible. But it cannot be ex-
pected that they will remain long uneffaced, as no sufficient care
can be now taken to preserve them from perishing. In the ap-
pendix to Sibbald's history, there is a list of those natives of Fife
who had risen to distinction in literature or science. Among others
he mentions "the famous William Barclay, (father of John,) Pro
fessor of the Laws at Angiers, who derives his pedigree from Bar-
clay of Collairney in this shire."
   Estate of Dunbog.--The next place of consequence in the
parish is the estate and mansion-house of Dunbog. This pro-
perty formed in remote times a part of the extensive barony of
Balinbriech, which belonged to the family of Rothes. It subse-
quently passed into the hands of Lord Home. In the reign of
James IV., Alexander Lord Home sold it to David Bethune of
Criech, in whose family it remained till 1658, ivhen it was sold to
James Bethune of Balfour, an elder branch of the same house.
After passing through several other hands, it was purchased in
1694 by Major Henry Balfour of Starr, who forfeited in the Re-
bellion of 1715. It was restored, however, to his son, and finally
disposed of in 1766, to Sir Lawrence Dundas, to whose descend-
ant Lord Dundas it now belongs, and again forms a part of the
barony of Balinbriech. The vulgar tradition of the country as-
   FIFE.                  	O


