
   288                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   the English. The queen did not recover her liberty until eight
   years thereafter. *
      The second, though a less known circumstance in the history of
   our country, was of more importance in relation to our private
   concerns. There is related with great minuteness by Sir Robert
   Gordon, the history of an outrage by M'Niell, laird of Criech
   Sutherland, who having had a quarrel with Mowat, laird of Freswick
   in Caithness, by chance encountered and defeated him in the
   year 1427 or 1429, and pursuing him to the chapel of St Du-
   thus at Tain, there slew both him and his company, and burnt
   the sanctuary. The popular tradition here is less circumstantial,
   having preserved only an outline of the facts, the atrocity of which
   it has considerably lessened. It states merely that some robbers
   had fled hither from the reach of justice; and that their pursuers,
   to avoid a direct violation of the sanctuary, instead of forcibly
   dragging tbem from its covert, adopted the expedient of burning
   it over their heads. The tradition, at all events, accounts for what
   in the historical narrative appears a wanton act of impiety; while
   the classical reader may be reminded of the somewhat similar
   evasion of direct sacrilege, which attended the death of Pausanias.
   After this disaster, the parish appears to have remained without a
   permanent place of worship for a period of more than forty years;
   for St Duthus' Church dates from the year 1471. It is situated
   on the brink of the escarpment so often referred to, in the middle
   of the town; which it would seem, therefore, had already changed
   its site. It is a large handsome building, so strongly constructed,
   that though the roof and interior have undergone many repairs,
   the walls promise to endure far longer than many of the most mo-
   dern erections. The windows are Gothic; and there is placed
   outside above one of the doors, a figure of St Duthus sculptured
   on stone in bas-relief; an inscription in church-text borders it all
   round, but is so effaced as to be illegible.
      The third event we have mentioned, was a pilgrimage of King
   James V. to St Duthus' sanctuary, about the year 1527, and,
   therefore, a century after the burning of the chapel; (the former
   Statistical Account erroneously places it before it.) The royal
   visitant, it appears, travelled barefoot; and a rough footpath,
   leading across a moor in the upper part of the parish, and known
   by the name of King's Causeway,-while it remains a proof of

   <FOOTNOTE>Hailes' Annals of Scotland.



