
                   CLEISH                                     41

  Antiquities.-Traces of an ancient fort or camp are to be found
on the top of Dumglow, the highest bill in the parish. Some
urns have been found under large stones and cairns, containing
bones, ashes, and bits of charcoal.
The oldest buildings in the parish are tbose of Cleish and Dow-
hill. The house, usually called the Place of Cleish,,isizabout 85
feet high, the walls still almost entire. There are several old trees
round it. The finest of these are two silver firs in the middle of a
walk of yews, one of them being scarcely equalled in Scotland by
any tree of that kind. It is 15 feet in circumference at one yard
from the ground, which girth it maintains in a perfectly upright
trunk of 22 feet in height, when it shoots out several enormous
boughs, each of which might form a large tree. One of these is
about IO feet in circumference ; it continues in a horizontal position
for 12 feet, when it changes its direction, and runs directly parallel
with the main trunk to nearly the same height, that being about
120 feet. Exactly opposite to this branch three others strike off,
one above another, in the same manner, and on one of the other
sides, a single bough, of gigantic dimensions, throws itself in a
downward direction for IS feet, when it, like the others, assumes
the upright position. The effect of the whole is most imposing.
,rhe House of Dowbill. has been used as a quarry, and a good part
of it carried away. These buildings had very thick walls; the lower
stories were vaulted, and each of them had a small apartment with-
in the wall, called by the people the pit, and used, according to
tradition, not as a prison but as a place of concealment.
It was in this parish that Michael Bruce, the poet, taught a
school. The school-house stood in the centre of what is now the
farm-steading of Gairney Bridge, and it was in a public-bouse
which occupied the site of the stables, that the fathers of the Se-
cession -held their first meeting. About a quarter of a mile east
from the church, in a stone dike opposite Nivingstone House,
stands a large rock, which deserves notice. It is called The Leo.
ture Stane, and was used, it seems, before the Reformation at fu-
nerals, as a support for the coffin at the time that the buriaI 6er-
vice was read. There is a large bole in it, which was made many
years ago with the view of bursting it with powder. Thrice this
was tried, and as many times it failed,-which led to the belief
that it was charmed, and no similar attempt has since been made.
At the east end of the parish, the late Lord Chief-Commissioner
has inserted in a bridge a stone, with an inscription, to mark the


