
1028                      PERTHSHIRE.

intention of the benevolent donor, is annually expended in coal
for the boboof of the industrious poor of his native parish.  The
farmers drive the coal from Perth free of expense
February 1843.

                      PARISH OF TIBBERMORE

        PRESEYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                 THE REV.  WEIR TULLOCH, MINISTER.


                        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name which is commonly given to this parish by
strangers is Tibbermuir, and sometimes Tippermuir; but the pro-
per name is undoubtedly Tibbermore; for we find it written in a
charter granted by William the Lion, Tibbermoria; in Fordun's
History, Tybberrnore; and in a very ancient tombstone in the
wall of the church, Tibbermire.  This word signifies a great well
referring, in all probability, to a perennial spring that once issued
from behind the chtirch, and was long known by the name of "the
Lady Well," but which has lately been carried away by the drain-
ing of the adjacent field.
   Extent and Boundarie.-The parish is about six and a-half
miles in length, and from one to three in breadth.  It contains about
4700 Scots acres; and is bounded on the north by the Pow and
the Almond, which separate it from Methven and Redgorton; on
the east by the Tay and Perth ; on the south by Aberdalgie and
Forteviot; and on the west by Gask.
   Topographical Appearances.-This parish lies behind the high
ridge, which bounds the north of Strathearn, and falls with
at gradual declivity down to a level plain which is watered by
the Pow and the Almond.  The greater part of it, therefore, has
a northern exposure.  On the west there are several old planta-
tions of Scotch fir, the wood of which is said to be of excellent
quality.  There is a considerable extent of uncultivated moor, and
a peat-moss, from which the farmers on the barony of Cultmalun-
die have a night to cut turf for fuel.
    The eastern portion of the parish is studded with a number of
neat comfortable houses, the seats of resident proprietors, most of


