
                         KINGOLDRUM.                                619

6 1/2 bolls of oats, payable in kind, the collection of which is felt to
be a grievance by the teacher. This method of payment being,
in the opinion of eminent counsel, contrary to the statute, ought
to be abolished, and the value, as ascertained by the Exchequer,
added to the money salary.  The schoolmaster has lately been
provided with a comfortable house. He is not in possession of
the legal quantity of garden-ground. Generally the people are
alive to the benefits of education; though the real end and de-
sign thereof is often defeated by mistaken views of the method
of its attainment.  The district of Pearsie, where at present the
the greatest number of children are, is too distant from the parish
school. It is desirable that a teacher were permanently settled
there.
   Library.-There is a circulating library in the parish com-
posed of religious books.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
receiving parochial aid may be stated at from 3 to 4. In times
of distress, a few are temporarily relieved; by which means they
are prevented from falling as a regular and permanent burden on
the parish funds.  From 1s. to 6s. is given weekly to those re-
ceiving aid as regular pensioners. The average of the last seven
years' collections made in the church for behoof of the poor is
L.12, 13s.; interest arising from capital annually, L. 10; mort-
cloth dues, 15s. 8 1/2d.; total, L.23, 8s. 8 1/2d. Although the pa-
rish has never enjoyed any other method of obtaining funds for
support of the poor, save by collections in the church; yet it has
been enabled to provide for their wants by this method alone.
Besides accomplishing that object, a small capital has been accu-
mulated.  The disposition of independence, so long and so warmly
cherished by the Scottish peasantry, is on the decline.
   The parish being divided into large farms, the practice of
keeping bothies is almost universal. This may be advantageous
to the farmer, but is certainly most adverse to the morals of the
labouring population.
   Fuel.-Peat and wood constitute the principal fuel. Scotch
and English coals are, however, becoming every year more com-
mon.  The latter are obtained from the Newtyle, Glammis, and
Forfar railway depots.

                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In the last Statistical Account, the number of arable acres is
stated to have been between 3000 and 4000.  The number of acres


