
			  YESTER.                          157

points at the change and full moon; and (as in the case above-
mentioned) brings from ten to eighteen hours of continued rain.
The latitude being so high as 56 renders the climate, as might
be expected, very changeable.
		     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-The names of places, rivers, and habitations
in this parish and the neighbourhood, show that it was inhabited in
ancient times by the great tribe of British Ottadini.  Thus Gar-
vald or Garw-ald signifies, in the Cambro-British language, the
rough rivulet; Barra from Bar, a height, Ra'a fortlet ;- Yester or
Ystrad, a strath.  No traces of the Romans now exist in this pa-
rish, although it is well known that they subdued the Celtic in-
habitants of the district.  This appears from the remains of Ro-
man encampments discovered in the neighbourbood.  Many ves-
tiges of the Anglo-Saxons remain in the names of places, such as
Lea, Law, Hope, Lammermoor, &c.  This district was for a con-
siderable period under the dominion of the English; and in 1020
it was ceded by them to the Scottish king. *
   In the reign of David I., Hugh de Gifford, an English gentle-
man, settled in East Lothian, and obtained extensive estates there.
He was succeeded by a son of the same name, who rose to emi-
nence under William the Lion, and obtained from that monarch
the additional territory of Yester.  The celebrated castle of Yes-
ter,-celebrated on account of the Hobgoblin Hall, +-was at that
time, and long afterwards, the family residence.  Hugh de Gif-
ford was of sufficient importance to have his own sheriff, according
to the practice of feudal times.  One of his descendants, John
de Gifford, who lived in the time of Robert Bruce, obtained by
marriage the lands of Morham.  In 1418, the male heirs of this
ancient family having failed, the extensive domains of the Giffords,
were inherited by four daughters,-the eldest of whom, Johanna,
having obtained the estate of Yester, transferred it to her hus-
band, Sir William Hay of Loeberwart.  Thus arose the family of
Yester and Loclierwart, who obtained the title of Lord Hay of
Yester in 1488, that of Earl of Tweeddale in 1646, and that of
Marquis of Tweeddale in 1694.  In allusion to the circumstance
above-mentioned, that a great part of the fortune of this family

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers, in his Caledonia, p. 404, observes, "that the Celtic-British are the
earliest names on the map of Lothian; that the Saxon are the second; that the Gaelic
are the third; and the English are the fourth,-corresponding to the several succes-
sions of the colonizing people."
          Sir Walter Scott's Marmion, Note 3 on Canto iii.


