
     Statistical Account

case he would wish to give a call, or shelter himself from
rain or storm, there is but one habitable place called Brack-
loch, (close by the western end of the great fresh water
lake called Ca-um-loch* ), a distant pendicle of Ledbeg-farm.
Or, again, if the traveller sets out from Tilin-wintering by
Ed-ra-vine track+, he will find his way almost equally bad
for said Ledbeg, though in part opened up several years
past.  Here also is but one habitation, named Clo-ich-a-ry+,
situated in a contracted gloomy hollow, mostly surrounded
with rocks.  It lies to the north side of losty Su-il-vine.
This place is also a remote corner of Ledbeg farm, and oc-
cupied by a herd of Lieutenant Kenneth Mackenzie, the
tacksman.  But in preference to both the above tracks, if
the traveller sets off by Inver and Brackloch-Inver farms,
keeping along the north side of Inver river, he will find
his way more comfortable in every respect.  One hour's
walk or thereby will bring him to Little Assint^^, and he

<FOOTNOTE>

*Ca-um-loch, i. e. the crooked loch.  Some years past the Lord Bi-
shop of Derry, now Earl of Bristol, among other parts of the north that
his Lordship visited, made an excursion to this parish, and by reason of the
grand scene of this loch, its fine islands, beautified with natural trees,
birch also, surrounding losty hills, teen and reflected from the smooth
surface of Ga-um-loch, struck his Lordship with such pleasure and novelty,
that he caused his French valet draw a perspective view of the whole.

   +Ed-ra-vine, means, Betwixt two mountains, viz.  Sul-vine to the S.
and Ca-nisp to the N. of this track.  Some have perished here, and seve-
rals have been in great danger of the lake fate in time of winter storms.

   ++A-ry signifies a grazing, having booths for accommodation of milk-
maid and herds. Gio-ich, i. e. a stone, importing that it abounds with
such.

   ^^Opposite to it, on the south side of Inver river, is the little farm of
Poul a garvie.  On the N. W. of Little Assint, is the farm of Loch ban-
noch; and to the N. of Loch-bannoch lies Poul-la-kar-kan, a part of Tu-


