
                            CRIMOND.                          703

and west by the parish of Lonmay; on the south and south-east,
by that of St Fergus; and towards the north-east and east, by the
Loch Of Strathbeg and the German Ocean.
   Topographical Appearances, Coast, &c.-Along the shore, the
land rises to an elevation of perhaps 200 feet, gradually descend-
ing towards the interior, which is but la very little above the level
of the sea, and then gently ascending to the south and south-west
boundary of the parish, where it unites with the upper parts of
Lonmay and St Fergus.  The coast extends about two miles, and
presents a broad surface of flat beach and sand hills, except at one
particular point, where there is a long ridge of low-lying rocks,
called Rattray Head or Rattray Briggs, running at right angles to
the shore, and extending from one to two miles in an easterly di-
rection into the German Ocean.  The most formidable part of
this ridge is only visible at low water, which renders it peculiarly
dangerous to vessels running too near the shore; and many a
stately ship has been stranded there.  Of late years, however, the
number of wrecks on Rattray Head has very sensibly diminished,
owing partly, perhaps, to the greater accuracy of modern charts,
and partly to the erection of a lighthouse, on the one hand, at
Kinnaird's Head, near Fraserburgh, and on the other, at Bod-
dom, near Peterhead; and it is commonly observed, that, of the
few vessels that are now stranded, the majority of cases occurs
through carelessness or ignorance, or when the wind is off shore,
by standing too close in, either to catch the tides, or, during a
breeze, to obtain smooth water. *
   Climate, Diseases, &c.-From the circumstance of the district
in which Crimond is situated extending considerably into the Ger-
man Ocean, the temperature of the atmosphere is generally cold
and bracing.  The usual epidemics common to other district
make their appearances here.  But it has frequently been remark-
ed, that, while these have been raging virulently in the neighbour-
hood, Crimond has generally escaped, or been mercifully dealt
with.  To what this exemption may be owing it is difficult to say.
As an example of the longevity of the inhabitants, it may be men-
tioned, that, during the last few years, three old women have died
at the advanced age of one hundred, and many of both
sexes in the parish who have seen fourscore years.

<FOOTNOTE>It has also been remarked, that shipwrecks have occasionaly occurred on Rat-
may Head in so mysterious and unaccountable a manner, as to lead to the uncharit-
able conjecture that seamen consider it a very eligible spot for stranding a frail but
largely insured vessel.


