
                     DUNOON AND KILMUN.                        605

Argyle, after having received Dunoon Castle, and making it, at
least one, if not the principal residence occupied by them for the
time, showing preference of Kilmun as their place of family se-
pulture, and bestowing, more liberally on the ecclesiastical foun-
dation there. The place of interment was within the ancient
church; and the access to it continued to be through the body of
the parish church till the year 1793 or 1794, when the cemetery
now standing was erected. It is a simple square building, pavi-
lion roofed, without any architectural ornament, and the family of
Argyle still continue to use it as their place of sepulture.
  The hill of Benmore was long appropriated to the purposes of
a deer forest; and traditions are not wanting of the family of
Argyle having particularly prized it, as affording the exercise of
that sport, and their having and exercising certain servitudes over
places at a considerable distance, the holders of which were, by,
their tenure, bound to assist in the battue, when the members of
the family visited this forest. The remains of mounds erected for
the purpose of driving the deer into certain passes, are still visible
on this hill, and it continued to be preserved as a forest till near
the close of the last century. In this forest a cave is shown where
some of the charters and papers of the Marquis of Argyle lay con-
cealed, while be was under the ban of his persecutors of the day;
and the cave has since been designated and known by the title of
the Paper cave. An inhabitant of the parish, within the last
twenty years, had in his possession some staves of one of the casks
in which these papers were held in the cave. The introduction of
sheep-farming into the district soon banished the deer from this
forest, as it has done from the whole district of Cowal, and the
hill forms a part of the property of George R. Wilsone, Esq. of
Benmore.
  The last occurrence connected with political events which dis-
turbed the peace of this district, was the invasion of it, as well as
of those in its vicinity in Argylesbire, by ''the Athol men," upon
the execution of the Earl of Argyle, in 1685. The Marquis of
Athol, who had obtained the royal authority ''to protect'' Argyle-
shire, appears to have entrusted the exercise of his protectorate
to hirelings or vassals, who distinguished themselves and their
noble employer by the most lawless and cowardly treatment of
the inhabitants. The events characterizing this invasion, (for
by no other name can it be properly designed,) are still borne
in memory by the descendants of those who suffered at the time,


