
254                         ELGINSHIRE.

the northern extremity of the parish, and there is no coach or car-
ier on the other road.  There is a road in continuation of the
road to Craigmiln in Dollas, now carrying on beyond the bounds
of the parish, through Dollas and Knockando-a part of the con-
templated direct line from Perth-which promises to be of great
advantage, as opening an intercourse with the lower districts of the
Spey, even if not prosecuted farther than to its banks; whilst in
the accomplishment of the greater object, viz. its being carried
on to Perth, it would shorten the distance to that central point
fully forty miles, and make this the direct line of communication
between Morayshire and the capital.
  The bridges on the Rafford burn were all swept away by the flood
formerly referred to, and have not been rebuilt; those on the Al-
tyre burn are in a state of good repair, and highly ornamental to
the scenery, especially the one at Craigroy, than which, a more
picturesque object is scarcely to be met with.
  Ecclesiastical State.--The church is nearly centrical, and is dis-
tant not more than four miles from any part of the parish.  It was
built in 1826, is a handsome and commodious structure, in the Go-
thic style, from a plan furnished by Gillespie Graham, Esq., and
affords accommodation for 600 sitters.  The sittings are all free.
The manse, built in 1817, is a good substantial house, and every ne-
cessary repair has been given to it by the heritors, from time to time;
but, having been found to be inadequate for the accommodation of a
very large family, it was, about two years ago, very considerably enlarg-
ed by the preseatincumbent, at his own expense. The extent of the
glebe, exclusive of the ground occupied by the manse, garden, and
offices, is about four acres, and its yearly value L. S. The stipend
awarded by decreet of the Court of Teinds in 1822, is 14 chal-
ders, with L.10 for a grass glebe, and L.8, 6s. 8d. for communi-
on elements, unexhausted teinds, L. 111, 17s. 6d. The patron
of the parish is James Campbell Brodie, Esq. of Lethen. There
are no chapels of Ease, Government churches, Missionaries, Ca-
techists, Seceding or Dissenting chapels of any denomination with-
in the parish. Eight families, or their heads, attend  Dissenting
chapels in the neighbouring parish of Forres; one family alone at-
tends the Episcopal chapel there. The number of families there-
fore, attend the Established Church may be about, 190; the
number of persons of all ages, 500 to 600 ; the average number
of communicants is 140.



