
     Statistical Account

same proprietor, there are about 12 different divisions or
patches of better ground, containing about 50 acres enclosed,
and beautifully covered with larix, hard wood, and other va-
rieties of trees.  Upon the same property, along the water
sides, called the Burns of Forgue and Frendraught, there is
also a large quantity of natural growing alders, perhaps to
the extent of 25 acres.  From these woods, the people in the
parish, and others at a distance, have been supplied with tim-
ber annually.  And the thriving appearance of these planta-
tions, promises a long continuance of that useful article in
this corner.
   There are several spirited, industrious, judicious, and thriv-
ing farmers in the parish.  They have brought their fields
into high culture, many of them well fenced; being encou-
raged, in various respects, by their different proprietors.  The
leases are of a peculiar nature, and highly advantageous both
for the proprietor and tenant; particularly those of Mr. Mo-
rison, who has encouraged the tenants on his estate, to plant
trees in waste ground, convenient places in meadows, corners
of fields, or in hedge rows*.  When we consider the utility

<FOOTNOTE>

*Upon the following conditions, viz.  If the field or spot to be planted con-
tain 4 acres, the proprietor is at one half of the expense of enclosing, and pays
the other half to the tenant at the issue of the lease, if the fence be in repair.
When the trees grow up, the farmer is at liberty to weed or cut timber for any
purpose about, or necessary for the farm, still leaving an equal cover on the
ground.  But he is prohibited from selling or disposing of any trees, until the
issue of the lease, when the proprietor of the land has an option to take the
whole growing timber on the farm, and to pay the value thereof to the tenant,
as it shall be appreciated by 2 men mutually chosen for that purpose, or allow
the tenant 2 full years to cut down, sell, and dispose of the whole wood on the
farm, so agreed upon.  These are the general terms of encouragement for plant-
ing; but where the fields or corners to be planted contain more or less than 4
acres; the conditions vary according to that and other circumstances.  The
proprietor has also hitherto given a supply of young trees, gratis, to the plan-
ter, from his own nursery.


