
                                 EDDERACHILLS                    119.

         position, Kyloska separating it from Assynt on the south-west,
         and the Kyle of Laxford,* in the ancient division, on the north.
         east, although in modern times it extends to Gualim Hill.
            Boundaries.-It is bounded on the south, by Kylesku, Loch
         Gleincoul, parish of Assynt, and some of Creich; on the west, by
         the Atlantic ocean; on the south by the parish of Durness; and
         on the east, partly by Durness also, and partly by the parish of
         Lairg.
          Figure, General Appearance, and Natural Divisions,-Its figure                        6gure
         is irregular, intersected with arms of the sea  and from the top of
         one of the mountains, presenting a checquered appearance of lakes,
         glens, rivers, and ravines. To view it from sea, at the distance of
         some miles from the coast, it is allowed to be particularly like Nor-
         way, affording an unbounded field for contemplation to the admirers
         of nature, in consequende of its sublime scenery and striking Alpiner
         character.
                    " Stranger 1 if e'er tbine ardent steps have traced
                   The northern realms of ancient Caledon,
                   Where the proud queen of wilderness bath placed,
                   By lake and cataract,her lonely throne;
                   Sublime but sad delight thy soul bath known,
                   Gazing on pathless glen and mountain high,
                   Listing where from the cliffs the torrent thrown,
                   Mingle their echoes with the eagle's cry,
                   And with the sounding lake, an With the roatnihg sky,
                   'Tis known armid the pathless wastes of Reay."
           The parish is naturally divided by arms of the sea into the three
         following divisions, 1. Scourie division, situated between Loch
         Glendhu and Loch Laxford. 2. " Ceathramk-garbh" between
         Loch Laxford and Loch Inchard; and 3, Ashare.  The name
         of the first of those divisions cannot be traced to any particular
         origin, whilst that of the other two may be ascribed to, the natural-
         appearance of the localities,-"Ceathram-garbh," in Gaelic signi-
         fying a rough section of a country; A term applical)k io, reality,- to
         this division; and Asbare, or 11 Fas-thire," with thell F'-' silezit*,
         signifying arable land or land capable of Producing
                                                                 corn.
         <FOOTNOTE>Mountains.-The mountains demanding Partic6lar notice,ar4
         those. of Beinne-Leothaid, Beinne-Stae, Beiinne*Stroim, Arj
         and the south-west range of the Reay fbmt. i to      the        it 4
         Toinne-Bbeinne, Meal Horn, Sablial-milloir an&Mifle.Nni4k
         with part of Beinne-ShAb.  The':shapeotpooneiia.p*ip4
         Arkle rather level in the top4 with aglassy or

             qean' iig the salmon fiidi,-troia Lx, a'salmon and*rg, i'   j


