
   314                         BANFFSHIRE.

   and dale, wood, water, and highly cultivated fields, which is to be
   seen in the district. Along its shores, the rocks rise in precipitous
   grandeur, or are thrown tip in rugged deformity, to a very considerable
   height above the level of the sea. In some places, they
   are perpendicular, or nearly so; in others, they are disrupted, and
   jut out into the water in fragments.  Thence, the land rises by a
   gentle acclivity, on which the ancient barony of Ogilvie is situated,
   and which the Noble proprietors have been pleased to distinguish,
   by assuming its more modern name of Seafield, as their most honoured
   title.  Advancing to the south, the land rises more abruptly,
   then gradually descends to the extreme boundary of Cullen proper.
   Here and there, in a gentle undulating manner, it form, itself
   on the top into knolls or risings. From an elevated spot on
   Seafield farm the view is most extensive and delightful. To
   the north-west, are seen the most prominent buildings of the new
   town of Cullen, pleasantly situated on the western acclivity of the
   hill adjacent to the sea, the sandy bay of Cullen, and the bold
   and precipitous headland of Scarnose, forming the western extremity
   of the bay, and the most northern point of land on this side
   the Moray Frith.  In the back ground, the distant shores and
   dark blue mountains of Sutherland and Caithness, on the opposite
   side of the frith, are distinctly seen; while the wide intervening
   expanse of sea, bespangled with trading vessels and fishingboats,
   adds greatly to the landscape. To the southward, are seen
   the richly cultivated fields of Cullen proper, and part of the arable
   lands of the annexation, also in the highest state of luxuriance;
   the latter bounded by a dense and extensive forest, which imparts
   to the scene an aspect of the most picturesque beauty.  The view
   in another direction is not less interesting.  To the west and
   south-west, stands the Bin Hill, which is partly within the quoad
   sacra district of the parish, and forms the most conspicuous object
   in the district.  It has two tops, the one considerably highier than
   the other, and presents to the eye of the spectator looking from
   the north, very much of the form of the lion Couchant. Its elevation
   above the sea is 1076 feet, and it serves as an excellent
   land-mark to navigators. About seventy years ago, it was planted
   with trees, which have thriven well, excepting towards the summit
   where the severity of the exposure bids defiance to vegetation
   of any kind, save heath. In the same direction, is seen the stately
   mansion of Cullen House, with its superb pleasure grounds. In


