
502               RENFREWSHIRE.

in and over them, the houses were partly excavated from the, hill
and partly built above ground, and a level approach to the en-
trances was dug out of the slope.  The number discovered
amounted to forty-two, of which thirty-six formed the arc of a
lower and larger circle, and the remaining six, also circularly
ranged, stood a little higher up the hill.  The writer is informed
that the ruins of villages of a similar description have been disco-
vered in several parts of Scotland; and there is an account of one
very much the same as the above, recorded in the third volume of
the Transactions of the Antiquarian Society of Scotland.  About
twelve querns or small hand-mills were found near the site of these
houses, and a grave lined with stone containing a rude urn filled with
ashes.  These latter relics, however, may have belonged to a still
distant but less remote antiquity.  The old castle of Lee or Wil-
liamwood was erected near the place, and it is not improbable that,
in procuring materials for the building from the freestone, of which
the hill consists, the soil, which for so many centuries concealed
the remains of the village, was thrown down upon it: Several
years ago, the propridtor, in clearing away the old foundations of
the castle, which interfered with the rectilineal operations of the
plough, found within the square which they enclosed many hu-
man bones, which he avers were of almost superhuman magnitude.
If the natives of the village, described above, deserted their
homes hastily, as may be conjectured from the fact of the fuel re-
maining on their hearths, it may have been in terror of the Romans,
--onedivision of whose invading army must have passed not far from
the place.  In a direct north-east line from this hill, without any
intervening eminence, and at the distance of about two miles, there
are still very distinct traces of a small Roman encampment on the
summit of a hill, the name of which, from the circumstance, is
Camp Hill.  It must have been the station of some small subdi-
vision of the Roman army placed there, at once to keep the na-
tives in check, and to perform the duty of sentinels.  For these
purposes the site was admirably clhosen, as it commands an exten-
sive view, not only of the country for many miles round, but also
of the counties of Argyle and Dumbarton, over which the power of
ancient Rome never triumphed.  May not our villagers of Overlee,
in their yearning after liberty, have made some movement to excite
the special hostility of this garrison, and to occasion their being
compelled to a hasty flight from their homes by the well-disci-
plined and experienced troops of the Imperial army.  The camp
is circular with a diameter of about lOO yards.  The vallum, which


