

                 112                        ELGINSHIRE.

                 of the parish; and not distant much more than three miles from
                 any of the habitations.  The roads leading to it are for the most
                 part very good; and during the greater part of the year, it is well
                 attended.
                   The outward means of spiritual improvement to which the people
                 have access are,-besides the opportunity of public worship on the
                 Lord's day,-two Sabbath evening schools in different parts of the
                 parish,-the yearly celebration of the Lord's supper in the month
                 of July,-week days occasionally set apart for public worship,-
                 annual public catechisings in twelve districts,-monthly prayer
                 meetings in the church, commonly on the first Wednesday of the
                 month,-two classes, one of young men, another of young women,
                 about twenty in each class, during the winter months, at the manse
                 in the evening, once a fortnight,-and visiting by the minister and
                 elders in cases of sickness.
                   It cannot be affirmed that there are not instances of drunkenness
                 and other immoralities; but these are comparatively few.  Nor can
                 it be denied that many shew little evidence of vital Christianity, who
                 are yet punctual and even zealous in observing the outward forms.
                 Still, it may be said that the Christian character is always the stand-
                 ard, and that the example of practical godliness exhibited by the few
                 who come nearest to that standard, restrains some from evil, and in-
                 cites others to a higher measure of what is good, than they would of
                 themselves have sought Daily worship is kept up in a consider-
                 able number of families, though not to the same extent as at for-
                 mer periods.  The average yearly number of young communicants
                 (that is communicants for the first time,) is 5. The communi-
                 cants in all are about 110, of whom 38 are on the roll as male
                 heads of families, according to the last General Assembly's Act
                 on Calls.
                   During the last seven years, there have been contributed within
                 the parish, partly for charities in the neighbourhood, and partly for
                 the General Assembly's Schools and missionary objects, in whole
                 about L. 112; making as the yearly t1yerage of such contributions
                 about L. 16.
                   There are only four or five families of Dissenters in the parish;
                 they are connected with the Dissenting congregations in Elgin.  In
                 one family, two of the members are Papists.
                   Education.-The school-house is close by the church, and con-
                 sists of two flats, the under containing school-room, 28 feet by 14,
                 and kitchen; the upper containing three small rooms and a closet.
                 The accommodation is more than the act of Parliament requires;


