
56                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

mers' Club in this parish, in the year 1796; and in 1807 be en-
riched it by his bequest of L.500 Sterling. Eleven parishes are
entitled to the benefit of it, viz. Gargunnock, Stirling, St Ninians,
Kippen, Fintry, Balfron, Killearn, Drymen, Port, Kincardine,
and Kilmadock.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Market-Town.--The nearest market-town is Stirling, which is
about six miles distant from the church and village.
   Village.--There is only one village in the parish, very near the
church, and situated on the eastern declivity of a small hill. The
view from the top of the village, near the schoolmaster's house, is
one of the richest and most beautiful of the Strath of Monteath.
Almost the whole parish is seen from this commanding spot. The
prospect is bounded on the south by the Lennox hills; on the west,
by Ben-Lomond; on the north, by Ben,-Ledi and the Grampian
mountains; and on the east, by the Ochil hills and Stirling Castle.
The whole strath, from Gartmore to Stirling, stretches out before
the eye like a beautiful map, adorned with many gentlemen's
seats, enriched with a vast variety of corn-fields, and rendered pic-
turesque and interesting in a high degree by the windings of the
Forth, and the delightful scenery of the low and rising grounds.
The village is situated in the barony of Gargunnock. The lower
part of it was feued, between eighty and ninety years ago, at the
rate of L.1 an acre; the upper part was feued at a later period,
at the rate of L.2 per acre. Each feu has half an acre of ground
attached to it, which is a great benefit to the inhabitants.
   Means of Communication.--There is no post-office in the vil-
lage; but a postman passes through the parish about ten o'clock
in the forenoon, on his way to Kippen, and returns about three
o'clock in the afternoon, which is a great accommodation to the
parishioners. The great road betwixt Stirling and Dumbarton
passes through the breadth of the parish, for the distance of four
miles. A new line of road was made, some time ago, through the
carse grounds, about half a mile frnm the church and village. No
stage-coaches travel on this turnpike road, except the stage-
coach from Kippen to Stirling, every Friday, which returns on the
same day, for the accommodatiot of people going to, and return-
ing from, the Stirling market. The bridges and fences of the pa-
rish are kept in good repair.
   Ecclesiatical State.--The parish church is conveniently situated
for the greater part of the population. It is distant from the eastern


