
306                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

ground, there may not be above 100 acres now remaining, that,
with any profitable application of capital, could be added to the
cultivated land.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of land may be stated at L.1
an acre.  For one description and another, it may be said to
range from 5s. to L.2, and some smaller portions. upwards.
Some few possessions might, perhaps, be pointed out as decidedly
too high, while others, again, may be somewhat under a fair ave-
rage rent.  The difference between value and actual rent that
may occasionally occur, is attributed by some to surveyors from a
distance being employed asthe valuators, as often as farms come
into the market, unassisted by practical farmers personally ac-
quainted with the district.  Such instances, however, cannot be
by any means many-but the evil that operates most extensively
in causing at any time a high rent is, that when a possession va-
cates, a competition arises among offerers themselves, occurring
more particularly in the case of crofts and smaller possessions,
which, from this cause, are almost invariably dearer than large.
   Under the valuation system now commonly introduced, it can-
not be said, unless in very peculiar circumstances, that lands here
have often changed hands.
   The valued rent of the parish is only L.3066, 13s. 4d. Scots,
while there at rent must be about L.5000 Sterling.
   Wages, &c.-The rate of labour for an ordinary farm-servant
may average about L.12 for the year, exclusive of board; expense
including both may, therefore be L.20 and upwards.  They are
seldom engaged for more than half a year at a time, and as they
do not in general renew their engagements except in a feeing-mar-
ket,-a system by no means favourable to morals,-there is hence a
great deal of shifting about among them at every term.  Besides
the direct temptations to which they are exposed in these markets,
when they appear there, it follows that they are not so dependent on
character for a new engagement as, on an improved system, they would
and ought to be.  The wages of out-door female servants, of whom
there are not a few, vary from L.2, l0s. to L.3 for the summer
half year, and from L.1, 7s. to L.1, 15s. in winter.  A Mason will
ordinarily earn, from 16s. to 18s. a-week; a wright, 16s. It is very
common for young people from ten to sixteen years of age to be
employed in herding, for which they earn for themselves or parents
from L.2 to L.3, and maintenance during the summer months.
This system, though a considerable help for a poor man's family,


