
348                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

which the amount has not very greatly varied) has been about
L. 850,-the lowest (in 1826) being about L. 700, the highest
(1836) rather more than L. 1000. The average number of pen-
sioners on the roll for the same period of years is 130. The
average number of persons recieving interim supply, including
those on rolls, 73. The average allowance of each person, man,
woman, and child, on the roll, (including interim supply,) 1s. 8d.
weekly; the average allowance to each individual not on the roll,
in the shape of interim supply, L. 2 annually.
     2. The church collections, including in them a proportion of
the fees for proclamations, &c. and the trifling rent of L. 1, paid
y the coventry for being allowed provide and hire out the
mortchloths, amount at present, after deducting the allowances
made to precentor, session-clerk, church-officers, &c. to L. 85.
Prior to 1796, one-half of these collections was paid over to the
heritors, to be applied by them and the session conjointly to the
relief of the poor. But since the establishment of a compulsory
rate, the whole collection has been wisely left at the diposal of
the session, who apply it to the relief of such cases of urgent and
temporary distress as cannot well be met by the slower and more
formal process of an application to the heritors of their committee.
The distribution is made weekly, the intimate knowledge of the
people, can have a regard to the moral character as well as the
physical necessities of applicants. And there is no coubt that the
largeness of he collections-for they are large compared with the
average collections in assessed parishes,-is due in no small de-
gree to the well-founded persunsion among the congregation, that
the fund is wisely and kindly administered.
     3. The mortified money applicable to the relief of the poor,
consists of five bequets made at different periods by individuals
connnected with the parish. Three of these, Jamieson's Sloan's,
and Dickson's, which are under the administration of the heritors

<FOOTNOTE>It is believed that, in giving to proprietors of houses a co-ordinate power with
heritors and elders in imposing the assessment, and also in taking the real rent as the
basis of assessment, the usgae of this parish is somewhat peculiar, if not of doubtful
competence. The power conceded to proprietors of houses, however, is found to
operate most beneficially in keeping down the assessment; as three individuals, from
their residence among the people, and knowledge of their wants, posses the certain
means of sifting all applications, and detecting imposture. The other practice allud-
ed to-that of taking the "real rent," rather than "means and substance," as the
basis of the assessment, is not so unexceptionable. It process very unequally, inasmuch
as it subjects the farmers, who pays a large rent for his farm, to a burdeen uterly dis-
proportionate to that to which the rich manufacturer or capitalist is liable, who is
assessed only to the value of the house he occupies.


