
80                        BANFFSHIRE.

ed with scales of mica-slate, water-worn boulders, and fragments
of various other disintegrated rocks, nowhere to be found in situ
in that neighbourhood,-among which there was laid bare a few
years ago, by some workmen belonging to Colonel Gordon of Park,
in casting a ditch through a part of the moss, partially laid bare
by casting peat, turf, &c. a large block of sandstone, reckoned of
several tons weight, and which must have been transported thither a
considerable distance. That boulder, although partially imbedded
in the clay, was surrounded towards its surface entirely by moss;
before the removal of which it must at one time have been deeply
imbedded; and it may be remarked that there is no sandstone in
situ nearer that spot than Quarrywood in Elginshire, a distance of
more than thirty miles. A few miles to the westward, however in
the ipeighbouring parish of Deskford, rolled blocks of sandstone, of
the same colour and texture, were at a former period rather nurne-
rous on the surface, so much so, that the architect, when erecting
the urianse a few years ago, found abundance of them for supplying
him with materials for erecting the chimney-tops, for window
rybats, soles, linters, &c.
  Rolled blocks of whin and trap rocks are common throughout the
parish, with occasional blocks of granite, containing beautiful crys-
tals of seborl, also boulders of gneiss intermixed with mica-slate,
the prevailing rock of that district. Rude garnets and tourma-
line are also common, imbedded within the whin. blocks and mica-
slate, some of them very large.
   On the western side of the parish, the direction of the strata can
be more distinctly traced, as they do not dip so far under the sur-
face. In particular, the serpentine rock at Portsoy, so often no-
ticed by geologists, can be distinctly traced from that place in a
south-westerly direction, across the eastern base of the Knockbill,
where and along the whole line blocks or outlayers of that mine-
ral can readily be picked up, and of which I have seen various spe-
eimens beautifully polished, and specimens of asbestos and rock-
cork, both common in that mineral. Near the same spot, a few
years ago, a large block of plumbago was discovered, along with
several smaller pieces, on the outside regularly crystallized and
very pure,-although soft specimens of plumbago, have, also, been
discovered on the same line, in the neighbouring parish of Grange.
   The top of the Knockhill, like many other of the adjacent moun.
tains, is covered with a bed of moss, which appears distinctly stra.
tified, and which in many places appears to, be from 15 to 20 feet


