
		     CORSTORPHINE.                           213

   William Baillie, succeeded to his estates and titles. He died
in 1684, and was succeeded by his son, William, the fourth
Lord Forrester; but Corstorphine was so burdened that they
probably never drew any part of the rents, although the family
continued to reside in the castle till about 1698. On 19th
December 1679, Hugh Wallace, of Ingliston, W. S. who had
accumulated in his person the whole debts burdening the es-
tate, obtained a charter, under the Great Seal, of the Barony of
Corstorphine, and his title was ratified by Lord Forrester in No-
vember 1698.  On 26th July 1701, he sold the estate to Sir Ro-
bert Dickson of Sornebeg, whose title was also ratified by William
Lord Forrester and the Master of Forrester on 2d January 1703.
Sir Robert Dickson of Inveresk succeeded to his father in May
1712, and in the beginning of 1713, sold the estate to Sir James
Dick of Prestonfield, in whose family it still remains. As this fa-
mily bad another mansion-house at Prestonfield, where they lived,
there was no resident proprietor of Corstorphine after 1713; and
in 1720, we find Sir Francis Grant, one of the Senators of the
College of Justice, had taken a lease of the castle for a series of
years, and resided there during the vacations of the Court.
   The estate of Gogar was given by King Robert Bruce to his com-
panion in arms, Alexander Seton, but how long, be or his successors
retained it does not appear. In 1409, Walter de Haliburton of Dir-
leton disponed the lands and miln of Gogar to his brother, George
de Haliburton, and his title was confirmed by a charter of Robert
Duke of Albany on 11th May 1411. In 1516, the lands of Go-
gar were held by Robert Logan of Restalrig, and they are since
described as part of the barony of Restalrig. The Logans continued
proprietors of part of the lands until the beginning oftbe seventeenth
century, when Robert Logan of Restalrig, who was implicated in the
Gowry conspiracy, sold them to Adam Cowper, one of the clerks
Of Session, whose title to them was ratified by Parliament on 17th
February 1601, Sixteen oxgangs of the lands of Gogar belonged
formerly to a family of the name of Balfour, and were by them sold
in 1555 to a wealthy churchman, Robert Richardson, vicar of Eck-,
ford in Roxburghsbire, and afterwards Lord High Treasurer of
Scotland, and Master of the Mint; at his death, in 1571 his son,
Sir James Richardson of Smeaton, succeeded to his part of Go-
gar, and it was afterwards sold by his son, James Richardson,
to Adam Cowper, on 19th June 1604, who by this purchase ac-
quired the whole barony of Gogar. The next proprietor was


