
88                    PEEBLES-SHIRE.

in Glasgow, and the price enabled him to pay at least a year's
rent of his farm.  An ancient candlestick, and some other articles
of no great value, were disinterred near the ruins of the circular
camp, called Macbeth's Castle.  Stone hammers and axes, arrow
heads of flint, whorls of stone for old women,s distaffs, adder or
elfstones, tobacco-pipes, called cutties, and other production of
primitive art, are frequently brought up to view by the plough or
the spade.
  Modern Buildings.--The more modern buildings are those of
Rachan, Mossfennan, and Quarter, which, with some recent addi-
tions and improvements, are delightful residences.  They are all
embosomed in wood, and can bid defiance equally to the winter's
blast and the summer's ray.  Many of the farm-houses vie with those
of the gentry in outward appearance and internal accomodation.
Broughton Place, however, is, perhaps, the best finished house in
this vicinity.  It occupies a commanding station, amid full-grown
woods, near the middle of an avenue of old trees half a-mile in
length.

<TABLE=III.--POPULATION. *> III POPULATION
                                                            Half of
The population, according to     Broughton.    Glenbolm.   Killbucho.+   Total.
  Dr Webster, was in 1755,      -    367          392          139        899

<FOOTNOTE>That the population of these parishes was greater in former times than at
present is evident from a document giving an account of a weapon-shawing on the
Borrowmuir, or King's muir of Peebles, in presence of James Nasmyth of Posso,
Sheriff-depute of the Sheriffdom of Peebles, the 15th day of June 1627, when, among
others, compeared the Laird of Stenhope, absent hhmself, seven of his men present
horsed, all with lances and swords, in the parish of Brougthon.--The Laird of Haldom
absent himself--John Waldon, his bailie present, in his name, accompanied with ten
horsemen and twelve footmen, with lances and swords and lances, in the parish of Broughton.--
The Laird of Langlawhill, present, well-horsed with jack and steel bonner, lance and
sword, with thirteen horseman with swords and lances, in the parish of Broughton.--
John Paterson, portioner of Broughton-shield, present, well-horsed with lance and
sword parish of Broughton.--John Chisholm, Glenholm, for my Lord Earl of Wig-
ton, well-horsed himself, accompanied with seven horsemen with lances and swords,
dwelling on the said Noble Earl, his lands lying in the parish of Glenholm.--The
Laird of Glenkirk, absent himself, four of his men present well-horsed with lances
and swords, within the parish of Glenholm.--James Geddes of Rachan, present him-
self, well-horsed, with jack, steel-bonnet, sword and pistol, with five present him-
lances and sword, within the parish of Glenholm.--Adam Gillies, portioner of Whits-
laid, present, well-horsed, with a lance and sword, in the parish of Glenholm.--Wil-
liam Brown of Logan, present, well-horsed, with lance and sword, and a horseman
with nothing, parish of Glenholm.--William Tweedie, younger of Wrac, present,
horsed with one horseman, both with lance and sword, parish of Glenholm.--Sir Ar-
chilbald Murray of Darnhall, well-horsed, with a collet, accompanied with forty-two
horseman with lances and swords, then jacks and steel bonnets, within the parish of
Kilbucho and Eddlestone.--The Laird of Hartree, absent himself, ten of his men
present, horsed, with lances and swords, parish of Kilbucho.--The two last mention-
ed can hardly be said to have belonged to this parish, as the great proportion of their
property lay without its bounds.
     The half of Kilbucho is here assumed as the proportion of the southern division--
but it is incorrect.  The southern half, as it is called, is larger in extent and greater in


