
             BOLESKINE AND ABERTARFF.                         51

receiving parochial aid amounts to 60, among whom is divided in
different proportions from L. 25 to L. 30, arising from the collec-
tions made in the churches on Sundays, and the interest of L. 160
of mortifications.
   Inns.-At Drumnadrochit and Invermoriston are two excellent
inns; and at Ruisky is a public-house where travellers can bait
their horses, and, if required, get a boat across Loch Ness to see
the Fall of Foyers, or the wild but beautiful scenery at. Inverfar-
rikaig.
   April 1835.

                          UNITED PARISHES OF

                     BOLESKINE AND ABERTARFF.

          PRESBYTERY OF ABERTARFF SYNOD OF GLENELG.

              THE REV. WILLIAM FRASER, MINISTER.

      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   THE period is not very far distant when these two parishes were
united; but the writer cannot at present ascertain the exact date
of their union. Abertarff and Glenmoriston had been previously
joined together  The junction of the former with Boleskine has
been injudicious,-there being a hill seven miles long interven-
ing between the inhabited districts of the two parishes, and the
greater part of the intervening space being, from its height, fre-
quently impassable in winter.
   Names.-In Abertarff, there are two rivers or rivulets which fall
into Loch Ness within a very few yards of each other, called the
Oich and the Tarff,-the former a considerable stream arising from
two pretty large lakes,-the latter, except when swollen by occa-
sional mountain torrents, or the dissolution of the winter snow, only
a brook, though it gives name to the district of Abertarff.
   "The parish of Boleskine is so termed," says the writer of the
former Account, " from a farm contiguous to the Fall of Foyers
called Bail-os-cionn, which signifies in Gaelic, the town hanging
above the loch," (Loch Ness.) The name appears rather to be
compounded of these three words, " Boile-eas-ceann," "cern"
signifying height, summit," eas" a cataract, and "boile" fury enge,


