

1106                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

that of Tonley, passes through a deep and well-wooded dell, and
forms a picturesque little waterfall. It is called the Linn of Lyn-
turk, and has the reputation of being haunted by the apparition
of a lady in green or white; but the oldest living inhabitant not
having had ocular demonstration, the colour of the dress remains
doubtful.*
         Geology.-The rocks are almost exclusively granite. Towards
the west and north sides of the parish, its colour is gray, and on
the south side of Corse it inclines to red. Where it is met with
at or near the surface, it is generally in a state of decomposition.
Boulders are by no means frequent; and waste land, when re-
claimed either by the plough or by trenching, yields but a small
quantity of stones, and these so diminutive, as to be mostly unfit
for fences. There is, consequently, a great dearth of stones both
for dikes and houses, and they must often be brought from a con-
siderable distance for the latter purpose. The soil, in general,
has a strong, admixture of clay; in some places it is a rich loam;
and at the bnttoms of the valleys, and along the courses of the
rivulets, occasional plots of an alluvial nature are found. The
subsoil is commonly a retentive clay.
         Zoology.-In the parish are found the fox, badger, polecat, wild-
cat, weasel, stoat, hedgehog, common hare, mountain hare, rabbit,
roe-deer, rat, water-rat, mouse, water-mouse, shrew-mouse, earth-
mouse, mole, and otter; the blackcock and gray-hen, moorfowl or
grouse, partridge, golden-plover, gray-plover, green-plover, com-
mon pigeon, wood-pigeon, woodcock, heron, wild-duck, teal-duck,
pigeon, water-ousel, mire-snipe, jack-snipe, curlew, land-rail, wa-
ter-rail, water-hen, water-crow, raven or corbie, black carrion
crow, gray-hooded crow, rook, magpie, barn-owl, horned-owl, spar-
row-bawk, pigeon-hawk, falcon or game-hawk, goshawk, ring,
tailed hawk, moorland hawk, cuckoo, titlin, jackdaw, common
swallow, fork-tailed swallow, black-martin swallow, corn-bunting,
blackbird, mavis or thrush, lark, rose-linnet, green-linnet, whin-
linnet, heather-linnet, goldfinch, bulfinch, chaffinch, common

<FOOTNOTE>The last instance of her appearance, which tradition has handed down, is the
following. The Laird of Kincraigie had dined with his neighbour, the Laird of
Tulloch, and as he returned home late at night, mounted on a spirited horse, and
attended by a faithful dog, he was passing along the brink of the dell above the linn,
when suddenly the apparition seized the bridle of his horse, and exclaimed, "Kin-
craigie Leslie, I've sought you long, but I've found you now." The dog, however,
fiercely attacking the spectre, it quitted the bridle for a moment, and the horse dashed
off at the to of his speed while his terrified master could see the spectre and the
dog tumbling down in mortal struggle to the very bottom of the dell. Kincraigie
was thus saved, and his generous canine friend returned next day, showing evident
marks of the perilous strife in which be had been engaged.


