
426                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

there is within a garden belonging to a family of the name of
Henderson, higher up on the same side, a well dedicated to the
Virgin Mary.  The ruins of a chapel or bath at St Ninian's well
have been already noticed.  A more minute description of the
numerous remains of antiquity in the form of ruins and buildings,
still traceable here, must be left to the professed antiquary.
   There are no obelisks or crosses, or traces of ancient camps in any
part of the parish.  The ancient market cross of Stirling stood in
the centre of Broad Street, opposite to the Town-House.  It was
removed in 1792. Traces of the great Roman military road have
been found at a late period.  And the remains of the stone piers,
on which the famous bridge of Kildean rested, are still observable
under the water of the river.  A small sword was dug up lately in
the King's Park, and is in the possession of Mr Tennant, the present
lessee of the Constabulary farm.  It appears to have been a couteau
de chasse, of about the end of the fifteenth century. A curious box,
of the size of a snuff-box, was found in Spring Garden some time
ago.  It is of copper, gilt in the inside, and plated with silver on
the outside, and probably contained some articles buried along with
the individual, to the remains of whose coffin it was found attached,
in these ancient grounds of the Dominican convent.  It is in the
possession of Mr John Dow of the Stirling gas-work.  Other anti-
quities, such as coins, &c. are in the possession of James Lucas, Esq.
Provost Gillies, and James Chrystal, Esq, and probably of other
individuals residing here.  There is in the session-house, in good
preservation, and occasionally in use, the pulpit from which it is
understood John Knox sometimes preached in the East Church.
There is, also, in the Chapel Royal in the Castle, the wreck of
one, occupied by him in that place of worship.
   Modern Buildings.--The Athenaeum, at the head of King Street,
a handsome structure, highly ornamental to the neighbouring
streets, having a lofty spire with a bell, and containing a reading-
room and public library, the ground-floor being occupied as a shop,
was opened on the 7th of January 1817.  The Commercial Bank
in Spittal Street, the Bank of Scotland in King Street, and the
National Bank in Baker Street; all erected within these few
years, are beautiful buildings.  A large Corn Exchange, for the
accommodation of those who attend the grain market on Fridays,
has been lately erected; and, besides being used, for the special
purpose of its erection, is occasionally occupied by such public
meetings and festive entertainments as require, a large space.


