
               CAMPBELTON.                                455

gradually worn its wav into many places, and has formed a great
number of caves, many of which are highly interesting. Commu-
nications have been formed between some of them, so that the ex-
plorer comes out at a different place from whence he entered.
There is a remarkable cave about four miles from Campbelton, by
Kilkerran and Devar, situated on the shore of Achanatonn, (the
field of the waves.) Here, where the waters keep an everlasting
murmur to the crags and precipices that overhang them, is a wild
and dreary cavern, hollowed from the rock.
 The coast may be reckoned at twenty miles in extent. The
shore, towards the north, is chiefly rocky ; on the west, almost
entirely sandy ; and the south-east it presents a bold and rocky
appearance. The beach, on both sides of the Bay of Campbelton,
is sand intermixed in many places with pebbles, chiefly formed of
quartz.
 Bay.-The Bay of Campbelton is land-locked, beautifully si-
tuated, and sheltered on the north and south by lofty hills, and
on the south-east by the Island of Devar, which is joined to the
south side by a bar of sand nearly half a mile long, and visible at
low water, which has the effect of intercepting the violence of the
waves, tnd thereby rendering the anchorage peculiarly safe.
The entrance to the bay is from the north, by a deep and nar-.
row channel. The bay is nearly two miles in length, by one in
breadth, with a depth of from three to fifteen fathoms water.
There is a small bay at Ardnacross, distant six miles north-east
from Campbelton, where vessels may occasionally anchor. The
only other bay is that of Machirhanish, lying about four miles
nor-thwest of Campbelton, on the Atlantic Ocean. There are
few bays in the united kingdom that can compare with this, ex-
tending, as it does, in a beautiful curve for nearly six miles, while
the beach is composed of a fine white sand, of great breadth, and
so firm, that it affords a most delightful ride. Each extremity of
the bay is composed of a huge headland, which projects its dark
and sable rocks into the sea, over which the waves dash conti-
nually, even in the calmest weather; but, when a westerly wind
prevails, the Atlantic Ocean then rolls in its mighty billows to
the shore, breaking upon the beach with a loud and stunning noise,
which is said occasionally to be heard upon the Ayrshire coast,
a distance of thirty miles. The islands of Islay, Jura, and Gigba
are distinctly visible from this, and add to the beauty and gran-


