
242                           ELGINSHIRE.

the fessil remains of a former world, and exhibiting them to the
senses and mind in their primitive forms and colours,"
  Of the two quarries mentioned in the fornaer Account, one, that
of freestone, which is of a coarse gritty texture, is still wrought,
and furnishes materials for common ruble, work; the other,
that of gray slate, though not exhausted, is now not used,-the
coarse slate which it furnished, and which was at that time very
commonly used in roofing, being now superseded by the imported
Easdale or Ballachulish blue state.  The writer is not aware that
any attempts have been made to ascertain the existence of marl in
the bottom of those mosses which were formerly under water; but,
if he were to conclude from corresponding indications witnessed
elsewhere, he would say that it was by no means improbable, that
the experiment might be followed with success.   A small sum ex-
pended in boring might put within reach a manure admirably
adapted to the prevailing soil of the district.
 The soils are various, consisting of a deep rich clay, a light
sand, a black loam on rock, moss, and the more common brown
shallow mould lying on what is called " Moray coast," which is a
compact stratum of upheaved attrite gravel.  Of the moss land,
considerable tracis have been recovered, within these thirty years.
Some of these have well repaid the improvement.  The writer has,
had, on a portion of moss thus recovered, wheat weighing 63 lbs.
per bushel; and, although those moss lands are by no means
equally productive, yet there be no doubt that their recovery
from water and waste tend much to the value of property, inas-
much as the draining necesmry to them has served to carry off the
superfiuous water of the higher lands.  In these mosses, large logs
of oak and fir are everywhere to be found, evidently indicating that
they had grown from the original soil before the moss began to be
formed,-the remains of the Sylva Caledonia of Tacitus, and the
retreat of wolves and other wild beasts  before men ventured
to contest the possession with  them.  We must not omit,
in speaking of soils, a peculiarity more marked in this parish
than in any place round, although not confined to it.  It is
that, Contrary to the usual case of the, heights feeding the
Valleys below, the deeper soils are to be met with in the lands
placed at the highest elevation.  This is to be seen at the Castles
of Bargie and Blervie, the lands of Cluny, belonging to Lord
Moray, and of Phorp, on the estate of Altyre; in each of which


