
134                                 AYRSHIRE.

virtue of an obsolete act, took possession of, and which, amid the
severe struggle made during the latter part of his reign by the
Presbyterians for their privileges, was provided with a garrison and
a governor for the purpose of overawing them. *
	Parochial Registers.--The parish registers commence in
1692, when Mr Mungo Lindsay was ordained minister of the pa-
rish, and have since been regularly kept. The register of bap-
tisms, is not by any means complete, as parents belonging to diffe-
rent dissenting bodies frequently neglect the registration of their
children. Care, however, is taken to enforce this duty on parents
belonging to the Establishment. There is no record of deaths,
although the minister, in the course of his visitations, is in the ha-
bit of taking an exact account of them.
	Eminent Men.--The only person of eminence to whom this pa-
rish gave birth was Mr Alexander Peden,--a name familiar to the
people of Scotland, and particularly so to the people of this district.
The place of his birth, which happened in 1626, has been disput-
ed,--some maintaining that it was at the farm of Auchencloigh,
others that it was in one of the small cottages, which, in the re-
membrance of persons now living, stood not far from Sorn Castle.
Mr Peden having received at the University the education which
was necessary to qualify him for the office of the holy ministry, was
for some time parish schoolmaster, precentor, and session-clerk at
Tarbolton, and, according to Wodrow, precentor also at Fenwick.
In 1663 he was settled minister of New Luce, in Galloway; but in
about three years afterwards, he was, like other eminent servants
of God in those troublous and persecuting times, forced to aban-
don a flock most ardently and devotedly attached to him. From
the time of his being thrust out of New Luce, he wandered about
from place to place, sometimes in Scotland, and sometimes in Ire-
land, till June 1673, when he was seized in Carrick, and conveyed
from thence to Edinburgh. After undergoing a series of hard-

<FOOTNOTE>A great extent of judicial power seems to have been vested in these governors,
as appears from a document now in the possession of Robert Campbell, Esq. of
Auchmannoch, of which the following is a copy.
	              " God save the King.
"I, Lewis Lauder, Governour of Sorn Castle, dow heirby certifie and declare, vis.
--Kirkwood, servitor to Arthour Campbell of Auchmannoch, in the parish of
Sorne, did compeir before me, on solemn oath before Almightie God, did abjure and
renounce the late tratours appollogeticall declavation, in so far as it declare war
against his Mattie, (Majesty,) and asserts tha it is lawful to kill all such as serve his
Mattie in church, state, armie, or contrie, conform to his Majesde's late proclama-
tion of the 30 daye of Poor. last.
	"Given at Sorne, the aught day of February 1685 ziers.
                                                               " LEWIS LAUDER."


