
                              BENDOCHY.                                1181

     which, above their junction, the Isla for miles is altogether des-
     titute.  After rains, the Ericht rises and subsides much more ra-
     pidly than the Isla.  The Ericht is composed of the united
     streams of the Blackwater and Ardle, which, as h`s been men-
     tioned, bound on two sides one division of the Highland district
     of the parish.  The Monk Mire may be about a mile in circum-
     ference.  Its size was diminished by a drain taken from it to the
     Ericht, for the purpose of facilitating the removal of the marl
     which it contained.  The marl is supposed now to be exhausted.
     There are several chalybeate springs in the parish, particularly a
     very fine one in Persie hill, the healing virtue of whose waters it
     is said drew at one time pilgrims to it from afar.
       Geology and Mineralogy.-This parish includes in its geology
     rocks of the primitive, transition, and secondary series.  In the
     lower part of the parish, we have the sandstone of that gray co-
     lour which is supposed to be of an earlier formation than the red
     sandstone.  It is wrought at the hill of Couttie and Coupar-
     Grange, and in the quarries there no vegetable or animal im-
     pressions have been noticed.  At Pictfield the sandstone is red,
     and a little farther up, at the hill of St Phink, it passes into con-
     glomerate.  Below the house of St Phink, a dike of trap appears
     in juxtaposition with red sandstone.  At Drimmie, the bed of
     transition clay-slate which crosses the island makes its appearance,
     and was at one time partially wrought.  In the same neighbour-
     hood, a seam of Fuller's earth is to be found, and has been used
     for cleansing purposes.  The rocks at Persie belong to the pri-
     mitive class.  Erratic blocks of gneiss, mica-slate, granite, &c.
     are found throughout the parish, and are gradually undergoing a
     second transportation to dikes and cottage walls.  Limestone is
     not found in the parish, but in its vicinity near Persie and Tully-
     fergus.
       The low haughs on the estates of Bendochy, Coupar-Grange,
     and the Grange are evidently transported soils, being the alluvial
     deposit of a former era.  In many places they are of a clayey na-
     ture, but in them all at a certain depth, there is a substratum of
     sand keeping them dry, and rendering them capable of imbibing
     with impunity more moisture tban much shallower soils.  The as-
     cending fields rest on a basis of red clay (mortar), keeping them
     wet, when not thoroughly drained,-and in some parts on gravel,
     and in the latter case, when there is sufficient depth of soil, the
     ground is extremely early and fertile.  The lands of the Grange


