
                          WESTRUTHER.                           79

proved. Those which pasture on the soil which rests on a freestone
bottom are generally better and fatter than those which pasture on
a whinstone soil. The cattle are improved by the Trees water bulls.
The sheep are of three kinds, Cheviot and Leicester, and black-
faced. The hogs here are rather of a coarse description, and those
which have been brought from England, such as the Cleveland
breed, have been found to degenerate. About seventy years ago,
there were few or no pigs in the parish, as there were then no tur-
nips nor potatoes for them to feed upon. The first pigs reared in
the parish were at Bruntiburn, as kain to the Laird of Spottis-
woode.
   The number of live-stock in the parish may be estimated as
follows:-220 horses; 816 black cattle; 6220 sheep. The num-
ber of cattle of all kinds is greatly increased since the last Ac-
count was published. The increase arises from various causes.
In respect of horses, it proceeds chiefly from there being a large
coach-proprietor in the parish, whose stud is seldom less than 40.
In respect of other kinds of stock, it proceeds from the present
high state of cultivation of the arable and pasture lands, and from
the care taken from time to time to change and improve the breed.
It may be mentioned as one instance of the rich pastures about
Spottiswoode, that there was an ox reared there in 1802, which
was publicly exhibited in all parts of the kingdom, weighing 320
stones 14 lb. to the stone, and sold for 200 guineas.
   Husbandry.-The general character of the husbandry pursued
is the four years' rotation. This has been considered fatiguing to a
light soil, particularly injurious to oats, by bringing on grub, and to
turnips, by producing fingers-and-toes. In some farms, according-
ly, the tenant is bound to the five years' rotation, that is, to keep
the field in pasture every fifth year. *
   With regard to the implements of husbandry, there are no pe-
culiarities to be mentioned save that the old Scotch plough con-
tinued to be used here till a comparatively recent period. It was
drawn by two horses in front, and two oxen behind; sometimes

<FOOTNOTE>Turnips were first introduced here in 1765; clover a little before that. The
field in Wedderlie, where it was first sown, still goes by the name of the Clover park.
Before the introduction of turnips, the farmers had little occupation for their horses
during summer; so that after the barley seed was over, they took off the shoes of
their horses, and set them out to graze till hay time. But few carts were used for-
merly here; corn and every thing being carried on horses' backs. In this way the
farmers drove their grain to Dalkeith market, and when there were several horses,
the leading one had a bell attached to his neck, to warn the rest of the track through
the moor.


