
                        PETTIE.                               411

ray, with additions and notes. From access to family documents,
and intercourse in early life with many whose oral narrations could
furnish materials for interesting local history of the former half of
the last century, and from the singular retentiveness of his memory,
he was peculiarly qualified for this undertaking. A copy of Shaw's
work, full of his marginal notes and corrections, which it is said
had been borrowed for the assistance of agents in an important le-
gal process, it has been found impossible to recover.
   The writer of the present account became assistant to Mr
Smith in 1832, and his successor in 1834. It was during the lat-
ter part of Mr Smith's time, that the change from small to large
farms, and the introduction of lowland tenantry, took place. Till
this change was effected, it was, only occasionally, necessary to preachh
in English. English has, for several years, been scarcely less ne-
cessary than a Gaelic service, every Sabbath.
   The church is by no means conveniently situated for the
greater part of the people, even of the parish of Pettie. The
inhabitants of the parish of Bracholy are nearer to Ardersier,
or Croy, or Cawdor, and, at the extreme east, to Nairn, than to
their parish church. Hence comparatively few from Bracholy at-
tend at all. Nearly the entire parish of Bracholy should be appor-
tioned to Ardersier and Croy, as it virtually is quoad sacra, since all
the people have ever been in the habit of attending in these
churches. The church is about seven miles from the extreme
eastern point, and not fully two from the western boundary, which
is only four from Inverness. It contains 596 sittings. On ordi-
nary occasions, a less number would suffice, as, both from the
inconvenient situation of the church, and the existence of the two
languages, the church-going population are only in part, and never
at the same time in church.
   We give the several outlays upon the parochial buildings of
this parish, as we find them noticed in tbe records of Presbytery,
from the beginning of the last century to the present day. In
1720, on the manse, L. 968, 1s. 4d. Scots, and on the same,
L. 1026, 2s. Scots in the year 1747. The church was built in
1767, without any decreet of Presbytery, so that the expense is
not mentioned. It could not have been great, for the west gable
of the preceding church, part of which continues in the present
church, was left standing, and the bare walls and roof with the
pulpit were all that the heritors erected. The walls were never
plastered nor the roof ceiled, and each farmer on the separate


