
264                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

duty. "The Earl is reported to have here added," sure you are
a set of very honest fellows. "The request of adopting" Ho-
nesty" as the motto of the burgh is said', then to have been made,
and it is retained to this day.  Be this as it may, the Earl of Mar
granted or obtained for the magistrates of Musselburgh the first
charter, which conferred upon them a variety of local privileges, in
1340.

   Excepting some ecclesiastical fragments, to be given under the
head of Antiquities, we have little or nothing of the civil history of
the district until 1544, when the English army, under the Earl of
Hertford, burned down a great part of the town, together with the
town-house, and destroyed the celebrated " Chapelle of Lauret."
  Three years after this event, Musselburgh became the muster-
ing place for the Scottish forces. News had arrived of the ap-
proach of the Duke of Somerset to Newcastle, at the head of an
army of 14,000 men, including 2000 horse.  To oppose this well-
appointed force, "the fiery cross" had been sent through the
country, and, in an incredibly short time, not less than 36,000
men bad assembled within two miles of Inveresk, at Edmonston-
Edge.  The English army were at length drawn up on Falside
Brae,-tbeir right extending over the grounds of Walliford and
Drummore towards the sea; and, on reconnoitring the position of
the Scotch, the Protector found it very strong, the steep banks of
the Esk, then densely wooded, defending them in front; the mo-
rass of the Shirehaugh on the left; and on the right, the village
of Inveresk, the mounds in the churchyard, and the bridge, all of
which were defended with cannon.
   On the morning of Friday the 9th of September, Lord Hume,
with 1500 light horse, appeared on Edge-bucklin Brae, immediately
beneath them, and rushed forward with such impetuosity that So-
merset, on perceiving their numbers, suspected that they were sup-
ported by some much larger force, and gave strict orders to the
men to preserve their ranks.  Impatient of such provocation how-
ever, Lord Grey extorted leave to oppose them, and when within
a stone's cast of the Scots, he charged them at full speed with 1000
men-at-arms.  The onset was terrible, but the demi-lances and
barbed steeds of their opponents were more than a match for the
slight hackneys of the borderers; and after a terrible conflict of
three hours, the greater part of them were cut to pieces, 1300 men


