
		    INVERESK.                          273

linen, which latter was consecrated to promote their safe and easy
recovery.* The celebrity of the place was upheld by the residence
of a hermit, who inhabited a cell adjoining the chapel, and by the
pretended performance of miracles. So well for a time did the
jugglery succeed, that at the commencement of the sixteenth cen-
tury, it was one of the most noted shrines in Scotland ; and we
learn from Lesley, (442,) that in August 1530, James V. perform-
ed a pilgrimage from Stirling to it, on foot, before setting sail for
France, to woo and win a partner for his throne.  Time, however,
brought out, that the fervour of religious zeal was here often al-
loyed by the admixture of baser feelings, and the satiric lash of
    		 "Sir David Lyndsay of the Mount,
		  Lord Lion King at Arms,"
was directed with his usual pith and power, against the profana-
tions, which it is to be feared often took place here, from the un-
restrained meetings of the young of both sexes.+
   In 1544, the English army under the Earl of Hertford, which
bad come down by sea to Leith, returned home by land; and the
account of the late expedition given by a trends of Hys" ++ con-
cludes by adding the names of the chiefe borrowghes, castelles,
and tounes, brente and desolated by ye King's army, beynge late
in Scotlande, besydes a great numbre of villages, pyles, and stedes,
which I cannot name." The fifth entry in this precious list is as
follows. " Parte of Musskelborowe towne, we the chapel of our Lady
of Lauret." In this conflagration the council hall and jail of the
burgh were laid in ruins, and the ancient charters of David I. and
Pope Gregory IX. were destroyed.  The spire alone seems to
have escaped, the dial-plate of its ancient and primitive clock still
bearing the inscription of 1496.???

<FOOTNOTE>Gough's Camden's Britannia, fol. Vol. iii.  P. 310.
          That the Hermit of Loretto was a notable man in his day is evident from the
circumstance of his having a satire addressed to him by Alexander, Earl of Glencairn,
exposing the hypocrisy of the Roman Catholic clergy. It is entitled, - Ane Epislill
direct fra the halk Hermeil of Alareit, to his Brethren, the Gray Friars," and thus be-
gins,
			"I, Thomas Herimeit in Lareit,
			Sanct Francis Ordour do hairtilie greit," &c.
   See as quoted in Knox's History of Reformation, fol. 24-25, Edin. 1732.
     Vide Dalyell's Fragments of Scottish History, p,L 11.
     We are enabled to form some idea of the devastation committed by this army on
its march to England, from the following extract from Hayne's State Papers, p. 43;
" Towns, towers, stedes, barnekyns, parshe-churches, bastel-houses, cast down, or
burnt, 192; Scots slain, 403; prisoners taken, 816 ; nolt, 10,386;  sheep, 12,492;
nags and geldings, 1296; goats, 200; bolls of corn, 850 insight gear, i. c. house-
hold furniture, not reckored."
     The clock is said to have been a present to the town from the States of Holland,
on account of the extent of trade transacted with that country.  A brass plate, noti-
  EDINBURGH.                                         S


