
106                     SUTHERLAND.

ance. It is a lofty ridge, extending southwards from Unapool to
Loch Assynt, where it terminates in a minute peak. On the west
it is lofty, precipitous, and inaccessible. On the east it is more
gradual.
   Suilvhen, or Sugar-loaf, as it is called by sea-faring people, on
account of its resemblance to that article, is southward of Lochin-
ver, and near the boundary of Coigach, in the county of Cromarty.
   These mountains are often covered with snow, Game is found
in these and in other districts of the parish, but by no means in
such abundance as before the introduction of sheep-farming.
   The other hills, which are extremely numerous, are of less
note, being diminutive in comparison of those we have mention-
ed.  Most of these abound in springs, and the quality of water is
exellent. The lower part of the parish, particularly the Store
district is not so well supplied with this essential of life.
   Caves-There are several caves, and some natural arches, to be
found, chiefly along the coast, and some in the interior. There
are two which are often visited by the tourist, within two miles of
the parish church, and on the Stronchrubie form. Into one of
these, if you enter, you must proceed in a creeping posture for
several yards, through a rugged and dark passage, when you find
yourself suddenly introduced into a well-lighted and somewhat
spacious apartment, There is another cave of large dimensions
near the point of Store.
   The extent of the coast from the water of Inverkirkig, round
the point of Store, to Ardvar, is about twenty miles.
   The shore, in generate is bold, rocky, and dangerous; though
in some places there is a fine sandy bottom, and safe landing.
   There are many islands, most of tbem, however, so small as to be
utterly insignificant ; some of these are merely bare rocks, af.
fording neither pasture nor shelter. The largest and most va-
luable is the island of Oldney ; its length probably a mile, its
greatest breadth a quarter of a mile. It is attached to the sheep
farm of that name, and is valuable as a grazing. Its insular situa-
tion renders heroine and fences unnecessary.
   Crona,a little flat island adjoining Oldney.
   Soya and Klett, two small islands on the south side of Rhu-
store attached to the adjoining farm of the Filin.
   Metereology.- There has been no record of observations kept.
The climate is extremely wet, and the high winds prevail. From
what has already been said regarding the mountainous nature of


