
			  CORSTORPHINE.               243

kept by the session-clerk, and from time to time examined by the
clergyman and elders, in which was deposited all the contributions
of the parish, whether collected at the church door or by the dea-
cons.  The money contained in this box was primarily intended
for the poor, but it was also applied to such ecclesiastical purposes
as the session might approve of.  In the beginning of 1646, for
instance, about L. 200 Scots was applied in repairing the church,
and taking down the old parish church; and afterwards the damage
done by Cromwell and his soldiers to the church seats and place
of public repentance was remedied from this source.  The amount
contained in the box in November 1646, was L. 208 Scots.
   A large additional parochial fund was afterwards obtained in
the following manner: Marion Corstorphine, a foundling, who
belonged to, and had been bred up from infancy in the parish,
was servant to a gentleman of extensive property in the vicinity
of Edinburgh.  Her master, in July 1753, had, after having tied
her hands and feet, beat her with a horse whip in a most bar-
barous manner, to the great effusion of her blood, and be then
placed her, stripped of clothing, in a dark cellar, where she wag
detained during the whole night, and no one allowed to come near
her. On escaping from this savage treatment, she applied to Mr
George Fordyce, the minister of Corstorphine, for protection and
redress. He at once took up the case, and having threatened a
criminal prosecution, the matter was speedily compromised by the
master, who agreed to pay immediately L. 100 Sterling, which
Mr Fordyce apportioned as follows, viz. L. 50 to Marion, L. 25
to the poor of Corstorphine Parish, L. 10 to the poor of another
parish where the outrage had been committed, and L. 15 to the
Infirmary of Edinburgh; and afterwards to pay Marion L. 1O Ster-
ling, yearly, until her marriage, and upon that occasion an addi-
tional sum of L. 100 Sterling.
   This foundling, in return for the interest taken in her by the
minister of Corstorphine, left her whole means to the poor of the
parish, and, accordingly, on 14th December,1768, we find that
the poor's funds amounted in value to L. 579, 8s 4d. Sterling.
   The funds belonging to the poor at present are as follows, viz.
1. Sum in bond to road trustees, L. 250; 2. Legacy from the late
A. Keith, Esq. L. 100; 3. Do. from the late Captain Charles
Hope Watson, L. 100; total, L. 450.
  The number of the poor in 1709 was only 5, and the amount
paid for their maintenance monthly by the session was L. 4, 9s, 6d.


