
262                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

that where Lord Haddo, eldest son of the Earl of Aberdeen, mar-
ried Miss Christian Baird of New Byth, the eagles returned to the
rocks, and remained until the estate passed into the hands of the
Honourable William Gordon, when they again fled, and have never
since been seen in the country.  These facts, marvellous as they
may appear, are attested by a cloud of living witnesses.  What is
called the Aberdeenshire or Buchan breed is almost the only spe-
cies of cattle reared in this district.  Some attempts have been
made to introduce the short-horn or Teeswater breed, but to cat-
tle of this description neither farmers nor graziers appear to be at
all partial.
   The Moray Frith abounds with a vast variety of fish of the best
quality.  Those taken by the fishermen of Pennan, according to
their own statement, are the following:  Haddocks, cod-fish, ling,
tusk, skate, mackerel, whiting, cole-fish, turbot, halibut, sole, grey
flounders, spotted flounders, herrings, dog-fish, cat-fisb, horse-
mackerel, hake, thornback, guard-fish, black brim, lump-fisb, sea-
sow, gurnet, Blind Harry, miller's thumb, sharks, kettock, lobsters,
crabs, conger-eels, &c.  A few salmon are sometimes seen at the
mouth of the fresh-water streams which run into the sea, but, owing
to the scantiness of their number, and the rocky nature of the
coast, there never has been, and in all probability never will be,
any regular salmon-fishing.  The produce would not defray the ex-
pense.  There are countless myriads of cockles, limpets, &c. which
the fishermen catch, not so much as an article of food, as for bait
to their hooks.  For some years back, in the months of July, Au-
gust, and September, the herring-fishery has been prosecuted to
great extent along the shores of the Moray Frith, to the im-
poverishment and demoralization of the fishers, and with but little
advantage to the curers.
   The caterpillar, green fly, and that insect, whatever its name
may be, which causes the disease in fruit trees, called American
blight, are the great scourges of the gardens, and the tory, or grub-
worm, of the corn fields.
   Botany.-The dens of Auchmedden, the property of Sir Charles
Forbes, Bart, are perhaps the richest field for botany in the united
kingdom.  Here, in the summer months, Flora pours forth all her
treasures.  Besides the plants common to almost every part of
Aberdeenshire, here are to be found, within the compass of a mile
or two, many of the rarest species.  The following are a few spe-
eimens, in the order of the sexual system laid down by Linnaeus:


