
72			AYRSHIRE.

the Academy, at all of which the numbers taught yearly may
amount to betwixt 600 and 700. The teachers of all of these,
with the exception of Smith's Institution, depend entirely on
school fees for their emolument, and chiefly the common branches
of education are taught in them. There are also two private
schools for the country part of the parish; and none of the inha-
bitants are so far distant from school as to be excluded from the
benefit of education. There are few, if any, of the native popu-
lation who cannot read; and parents are attentive enough to have
their children educated, with the exception, perhaps, as we have
said, of some of the poorer class of Irish labourers, who have not
been educated themselves, and who are in a very degraded state
as to civilization. With the numbers, then, attending the Aca-
demy and the other schools in the town, taken collectively, we have
thus an average amount of upwards of 1100 in the course of re-
ceiving education from year to year, making a proportion of betwixt
a sixth and a seventh part of the population, and, we presume, there
are but few other parishes now in Scotland that can boast of a
greater proportion.
        Libraries.-There are two circulating libraries in the town,
one of which is conducted on rather an extensive and liberal scale,
as there are admitted into it, not only novels, but also the more
popular and fashionable productions of the day besides the stan-
dard periodical works. We have also a pretty extensive town li-
brary, containing a very good selection of books of standard merit,
amounting to 3000 volumes. The terms of admission, however,
are too high to render it so generally useful as it might have been
to the inhabitants. Until of late, the fixed entry money was L. 5.
It is now reduced to L. 3, which is still too high a rate for laying
it open to the public. The consequence has been, that the num-
ber of its members, viz. 108, has remained nearly the same at this
day as when it received its charter from the town in 1808. It was
intended originally as a library for a select society of gentlemen,
who commenced it so far back as 1762, and it has continued
pretty much so ever since. We do not find fault with this, but
with the bad policy of the system, 'and its having been so
long shut up from more general access. Had the admission
money been L. 1, in all probability it would have contained
five or six times the amount of books that it does at present,
besides being, to an equal extent, a greater public benefit,
It would be eas to establish this by the history of other public
				3


