
			DOUGLAS.                        491

las. The glebe is extensive and valuable. The stipend is 16
chalders, in equal proportions of barley and oatmeal; with L. 10
for communion elements.
	Monuments.-- The former church was of great antiquity. It ap-
pears to have been of considerable extent; and if we may judge from
what still remains, it must have presented no mean specimen of Go-
thic architecture. A small spire, and the aisle that served as the
burying place of the Douglas family, are still religiously preserved.
The monuments in this aisle, though much defaced, are still much
admired for their sculpture and chisel-work. Mr Edward Blore,
than whom there is no more competent judge, reckoned them among
the most interesting sepulchral antiquities in Scotland; and Sir
Walter Scott was of opinion that, in their original state, they must
have been not inferior in any respect to the best of the same pe-
riod in Westminster Abbey. These monuments are said to have
been defaced and mutilated by a detachment of Cromwell's troops,
who profaned this sacred edifice by making it a stable for their hor-
ses. But we have unfortunately a less remote cause to which we
may trace much of the mischief; for, during the many years when
Douglas Castle was deserted by the late Lord Douglas as a resi-
dence, the aisle was left open and unprotected; and the boys of
the place, with the destructive propensity, characteristic of the
Scots, made it a favourite amusement to aim with stones at the
figures and chisel-work.
	First in importance (although there is one of which the plainer
and ruder workmanship seems to indicate a remoter antiquity,) is
the monument of the good Sir James Douglas, the most valued and
efficient associate of Robert the Bruce, in his efforts to vindicate
the independence of his country and his own claim to its throne.
The figure is of dark-stone, recumbent as on a couch, and cross
legged, to mark his character as a crusader; for he had not only, in
compliance with the dying request of his royal friend, undertaken
a pilgrimage to the holy sepulchre for the purpose of depositing Ro-
bert's heart in that sacred place, but had fallen in actual conflict
with the infidels of Spain. The bones of this hero were conveyed
home by his sorrowful comrades, and interred in the church of Dou-
glas; and the erection of his tomb is expressly ascribed by Barbour,
and other historians nearest that period, to his son Archibald Dou-
glas. *

<FOOTNOTE>The banys hame with them tane,
          And syne are to their schippis gane;


