
50                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

35 bolls ditto.  Kain fowls: I dozen of hens, 2 dozen of poultry
or chickens.  The rent is doubled for one year at every singular
succession of the family of Kinloch of Gilmerton.
   On the barony of Drem are the remains of a Pictish town, si-
tuated on the top of a low hill, of a conical form, which is almost
level on the summit, and which contains about two acres of land.
The houses, the foundations of which are still obvious, had been
built round the sides of the summit in regular rows, and the greater
part in a conical form.  In the centre are the foundations of ob-
long houses of larger dimensions.  The conical houses are gene-
rally twelve feet in diameter within the walls.  The town had been
strongly fortified,-first by a deep circumnvallation, and higher up
the sides of the hill by three ramparts quite perpendicular; from
the top of the one rampart to the bottom of the higher there is
a level space of eighteen feet, from whence the inhabitants could
defend themselves with great advantage from their assailants.  On
the west side of the hill, looking towards Edinburgh, are three deep
trenches in succession, before coming to the first circumvallation.
These out-works appear to have been raised on account of a small
Roman station in that direction, about half a-mile from the Pictish
town; for several Roman implements have been found there, and
two years ago a large urn of superior workmanship, containing cal-
cined bones, was found in the same spot.  The name of the farm-
stead is commonly called Captain-Head, which is evidently a cor-
ruption for Camptown Head.  The urn is in the possession of Mr
David Skirving, farmer, of Camptown Head. The lands belong
to the Earl of Hopetoun.

             <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
   The population of this parish amounted at last census to 931;
at present it amounts to 951. Of these, twelve are Dissenters,
but during the last thirty years the number of Dissenters have sel-
dom exceeded one for every hundred of the inhabitants.  The na-
tive inhabitants of the parish are sober, industrious and well be-
haved: The strangers amongst us are less so, with some excep-
tions.
The number of families in the parish is     .      .      .     212
              chiefly employed in Agriculture,     .            132
                      in  trade, manufacture, or handicrafts,    46
   There is but one family of independent fortune resident in this
parish, and the whole lands belong to the following persons of dis-
tinction.  Sir David Kinloch, Bart. 18 ploughgates; Earl of Hope-
toun, 13 ditto; Earl of Wemyss, 7 ditto; Sir Francis W. Drummond,


