
634                          AYRSHIRE.

occasioned in the Established Church by the death of Mr Ban-
natyne was filled up by the appointment of Dr James Richmond,
who closed his ministry in 1801. During his incumbency, and in
the year 1782, Mr White, the second minister of the Relief church,
was ordained to that office, and in 1783 he was deposed for error
in doctrine and for contumacy.
	His errors were adopted under the influence of a Mrs Buchan.
It appears from the autograph letters of this woman, and from
the correspondence of some of her followers which we have seen,
that, by herself and by them, she was considered as being the spi-
rit of God dwelling in flesh,--as being, in short, the incarnation of
the Holy Spirit. From the terms of the libel against Mr White,
we learn that by him, and as we infer by her, it was held first,
that sits does not adhere to the believer; secondly, that Christ tast-
ed death for all men; and thirdly, that, whilst the bodies of Saints
under the New Testament are the temples of the Holy Ghost,
the Saints under the Old Testament were not favoured with this
distinction.
	To the honour of the inhabitants generally, and more especially
of the Relief congregation, her doctrines and pretensions excited
feelings of abhorrence. Petitions were presented to the Ma-
gistrates, in which, by Dissenters as well as Churchmen, the ma-
gistrates were called upon to apprehend her, and proceed against
her as a blasphemer. They did not do this: but they pro-
ceeded to dismiss her from Irvine. "To protect the woman
from insult," as we learn from the Statistical Account, by Dr
Richmond, "the magistrates accompanied her about a mile
out of town; but, notwithstanding all their efforts, she was
grossly insulted by the mob, thrown into ditches and other-
wise ill-used by the way. She took up her residence, that
night, with some of her followers, in the neighbourhood of Kil-
maurs; and, being joined by Mr White and others in the morning,
the whole company, about forty in number, proceeded on their way
to Mauchline, and from thence to Cumnock and to Closeburn, in
Dumfries-shire, singing as the went, and saying that they were go-
ing to the New Jerusalem."  Mrs Buchan, by one of her adhe-
rents, is stated to be. "The very woman prophesied of in the 12th
Revelations as the great wonder in Heaven." It appears the de-
lusion was not confined to Irvine, as in one of the letters mention
is made ot the Rev. Francis Kelly at Northampton having "con-
fessed her" (Mrs Buchan) "in the fullest manner to be of God."
				 6


