
     of Nielston.

   At present, it may be observed, that the burden of main-
taining 34 poor people falls upon the residing inhabitants in
this parish; and, that the collecting, taking care of, and dis-
tributing among them the scanty pittance they receive, lies,
(with the inspection, and concurrence of the minister) upon
six elders; a class of men, who, in the different parishes of
Scotland, have, for these two centuries past, saved the land-
ed interest a sum, which may, perhaps, seem, small, is com-
pared with what has been expended, in maintaining an equal
number of poor in a neighbouring kingdom, but which would
have been considerably felt, had it been exacted; and, if a
trisling salary of L. 1 or L. 2 sterling to a treasurer, which is
only the case in some parishes, be excepted, the whole is mana-
ged without a farthing of expence; an instance of frugality in
an extensive and public management, it is presumed, not paral-
lelled in Europe, and exhibiting at once, in these days of ve-
nality, a striking and singular example of public spirit, and
Christian charity.  But this useful body of men appear to be
on the decline, as to number, at least in the west of Scotland.
Few people chuse to accept an office, which not only has not
the smallest emolument annexed to it, but, as far as connec-
ted with the management of the poor, is a thankless and trou-
blesome business.  The respective sessiors (vestries), in this 
part of Scotland, are also in general very ill accommodated,
and destitute even of common convenience for managing the
public business; few country parishes have a session-house;
and the elder, when collecting the offering, in many places, has
not so much as a shade, to screen him from the severest tempest.
Their attachment also to the Established Church has, in many
places, been greatly weakened by causes well known, and now
long experienced in the western districts, where with a spirit
of commerce, a high sense both of civil and religious liberty
now prevails.  What the result of this may be, time will dif-

     VOL. II. X
   

