
32                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

by granting a new Royal charter to the burgh, confirming in the
most ample mander all their ancient rights, privileges, and immu-
nities.  In the latter part of this troubled reign, the citizens of
Aberdeen seem to have become more generally favourable to the
cause of the Covenanters, the consequence of which was, that they
had now to endure the exactions of its enemies, as they had for-
merly suffered from the hostile attacks of its adherents.  Yet it
may be doubted whether many of them were not influenced rather
by the success which attended the Covenanters, than by any well-
grounded persuasion of the goodness of their cause.  On the acess-
sion of Charles II., and there-establishment of Episcopacy, "the
Synod of Aberdeen distinguished itself by an humble address to
his Majesty's High Commission and the High Court of Parliament,
in favour of Episcopacy, dated at King's College, 18th April 1661,
in which they strongly reprobate their own former conduct;" * and
this seems to have been the beginning of a course of time-serving
compliance, by which they contrived in a great measure to escape
from the exactions and persecutions to which the Presbyterians
were exposed during that and the subsequent reign.  At length
the Revolution brought these persecutions to a close, and led to
the establishment of Presbyterianism, as at present existing in the
country; but while the people of Aberdeen gave way to those who
had power to enforce their commands, considerable numbers of
them continued attached to the Episcopal forms, and the Pres-
byterians of Aberdeen were by no means remarkable for their zeal
in maintaining the doctrines of the Confession of Faith.  The Ar-
minianism which, during the last century, infested the church of
Scotland to so lamentable a degree may be said to have had one
of its strongholds in Aberdeen; and about the middle of the cen-
tury, Mr John Bisset, minister of the West Church, who continu-
ed faithfully to preach the doctrines of the church to which he
belonged, was excluded from his own pulpit by the provost, who
locked the church door against him.
   It was not until about the beginning of the present century
that a better spirit began to manifest itself in the pulpits of Aber-
deen.
   Since that time, a brighter day has dawned on the Church of
Scotland in general.  The churches in Aberdeen have partaken
of its light, and the doctrines of the Confession of Faith have now

<FOOTNOTE>Thom's History of Aberdeen, Vol. i. p. 346.
                           4


