
200                       BERWICKSHIRE.

account for this circumstance: for as the Lammermoor and Che-
viot ranges towards their eastern extremities are equally distant
from Coldstream on the north and south, but converge and unite
towards the west, the clouds, attracted by these several mountains,
frequently separate, and either discharge their moisture on them, or
follow their respective ranges, leaving the intervening districts dry.
Accordingly, when the barometer in this district falls, indicating
the presence or approach of rainy weather, the result often is, not
showers of long continuance, but floods in the rivers, which flow
from the adjoining hills.
   Although this parish is not very subject to thunder storms, yet
on several occasions the peculiar phenomenon of ascending light-
ning has been observed. *  The prevailing winds are the south-wes-
terry; but that which is generally accompanied by bad weather
blows from Lamberton-hill, or from the north-easterly direction.
From the lowness of its level, Coldstream is in a considerable de-
gree exempt from rain and cold, while its distance from the coast is
so great, that it does not suffer much from the scourging influence
of the easterly blast; and hence the climate is milder than that of
most other parishes.
   Climate.-The, improvements in agriculture, particularly the
very extensive and efficient-system of draining that has been car-
ried on, have done much to ameliorate the climate, so that ague,
which at one time was very prevalent, is now unknown in the parish,
except at the farm of Hatchednize, which is in the vicinity of Lith-
tillum Loch, and where there is a dirty, stagnant pool, the level of
which is above that of the neighbouring cottages.
   Hydrography the exception of a lake almost entirely
artificial in the grounds of Hirsel, there is no sheet of water deserv-
ing the name,-several which are referred to in the titles of the
Snook Barony having entirely disappeared. The temperature of
springs in the month of October is about 481/2 Fahrenheit.
   The only streams which take their rise in the parish are Gra-
den-burn and the Shiells-burn, which join the Tweed near the
eastern extremity. The Leet, another tributary of the same river,
flows in a southerly direction for more than half its course through
the parish, while the Tweed forms its southern boundary. From
its liability to great and sudden floods, the Tweed seldom remains
<FOOTNOTE>See an account published in the Philosophical Transactions of London, of a re-
inmarkable thunder storm which occurred in 1785; and in which a man driving his
cart in this parish was killed by lightning rising from the ground.


