                           WEST CALDER.                        307

sion-house of Baads is a very small house of two storeys, occupied
by the person who farms the land surrounding it. The farm-houses
in general throughout the parish are of an inferior kind. The
manse was rebuilt in a large and commodious form, with back-
kitchen and two small rooms above, separated by a staircase from
the other building, and finished in 1837. The offices were built in
1822, and are also good. The village has been much improved of
late in appearance, by old houses being taken down, and several
neat, small cottages built.

                    <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
   There have been 13 illegitimate births in the parish within the
three years, 1838, 1839, 1840.

                In 1801, the population amounted to 1185
                   1811,                            1435
                   1821,                            1458
                   1831,                            1617
                   1841,                            1666

                       IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Produce.--The general process of agriculture
in this parish consists in spreading lime and other sorts of manure
on lea, and then taking two or three crops of oats. After this, the
field lies three or four years in grass. The farmers have dis-
covered that lime acts as a powerful solvent on all kinds of mossy
earth, and they have applied the discovery with great success. In
some places, the soil, which is in general very wet, has been much
improved by draining. It is generally believed, that, if a regular
system of draining were introduced, the soil would not only be much
more productive, but the harvest two or three weeks earlier than it
is at present. Some of the proprietors have improved the soil and
the appearance of their estates, by enclosing their fields with
double rows of hedges and ditches, and filling up the vacancy
with, in general, fir trees adapted to the climate. They have
also succeeded in producing a regular rotation of crops, according
to the most approved modes of agriculture. Wheat, barley, flax,
pease and beans, turnips and potatoes are raised in this parish;
but the grain most generally produced, is oats, the average pro-
duce of which may be about from 6 to 8 bolls an acre. When the
ground is laid down with grass seeds, the prevailing crop is rye-grass.
Clover is little sown. A greater quantity of rye-grass seed is pre-
served than what is necessary for next year, so that in good years,
from, 150 to 250 bolls are sold out of the parish.
   There are considerably more horses reared than are required to


