
   130                           ORKNEY.

   The only semblance to a village in this parish is Picrowall, con-
   sisting of ten or twelve houses situated along the sea shore.
      Means of Communication.-The means of communication en-
   joyed by the parish are very defective, by reason of there being
   as yet no stated or regular conveyance between this and the post-
   town. There are as yet no highways in the parish ; and no har-
   bours, though one is much wanted at the bay of Tookquoy.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The two churches in Westray are tole-
   rably well situate for the different populations of the island, south
   and north.   The church in the south part of the parish was built
   about sixty-five years ago.    When the north church was erected,
   is not known; but both of them are in tolerable repair.   The
   church in Papay is also convenient enough for the population,
   but only in an imperfect state of repair.
      Except Mr Balfour's annual donation to the poor of the north
   parish of Westray, there is no other benefaction on record.
      The church in the north parish of Westray may bold about 900
   persons; that in the east between 600 and 700.  The church in
   Papay may accommodate about 220.  There are no free sittings
   in any of the churches; and there is rather a want of accommodation
   upon a full attendance of the parishioners.
      The manse and offices were rebuilt in the summer of 1813, and
   completed early in the spring of 1814.  The extent of the grebe
   may be computed at 28 or 30 Scotch acres, arable and unarable,
   and the rent, if let to a tenant, might be about L. 10 or L. 12;
   but is of double that value to the possessor.  The amount of sti-
   pend is L. 193, 16s., with allowance for communion elements.
   The teinds are exhausted, except a trifle on one small property,
   notjudicially valued when those of other properties in the parish were.
      There are two Dissenting chapels, an Anabaptist and Secession.
   The Secession minister's stipend is L. 80, paid partly from seat
   rents, partly from Sabbath days' collection, especially by the
   members of his congregation.  The Anabaptist minister has no
   fixed salary, except L. 20 from Mr Haldane, for itinerating as a
   missionary among the different islands.
      The number of persons in the two islands in attendance upon
   the Established church may amount to about 750.  The number
   in attendance on the two Dissenting meetings, 600.
      Public worship is, upon the whole, well attended, both in the
   churches belonging to the Establishment, and in the Dissenting
   chapels.


