
                           DUNBARNY.                     811

Earn, and probably received the designation of black from the
deep overshadowing gloom of the trees. It was four miles in
length and three in breadth, and was signalized by the adventures
of Sir William Wallace, and especially by a sanguinary conflict
which be there maintitined with the English.
  This forest has been long cut down, but large masses of black
oak, which are supposed to be the remains of it, are found im-
bedded in the soil, along various parts of the territory over which
it once stretched. A large tree of this black oak was dug up on
the south bank of the Earn, having been found when an excava-
tion was made for the foundation of the new bridge. The lintels
of one of the houses in the Bridge of Earn were made out of it.
Four hundred yards further down the river, the Earl of Mansfield,
some years ago, employed a number of men nearly twelve days
cutting an oak found there. Large pieces of the same valuable
timber may be seen near the banks of the Earn, in the parish of
Abernethy.
  Old Bridge of Earn.-The old bridge over the Earn was proba-
bly built about 500 years ago. There is extant, among the records
belonging to the abbacy of Scoone, an order from King Robert
the Bruce to the abbot and monks connected with it, to allow the
lagistrates of Perth the liberty of digging stones out of the quar-
ries of Kincarochie and Balcormac for building the bridge of Tay
and the bridge of Earn. The tenour of it is as follows: "Ro-
bertus Dei gratia Rex Scotorum, religiosis Abbati et conventui
de Scona, delectis et fidelibus suis, salutem, nos rogamus qua-
tenus, ad instantiam nostram concedere velitis licentiam capiendi
lapicediorum de Kynkarochi et Balcormac, pro edificatione eccle-
siae de Perth et Eryn, ita quod dicta, licentia non cedat vobis in
damnum aut praejudicium. Datum apud Glascua quarto die Julii
anno regni nostri vigesimo tertio." The above was granted A. D.
1329. The bridge over the Earn was upheld till the Reforma-
tion by the liberality of churchmen, who supplied stones for its
repair as they had done for its original construction. It was com-
posed of five arches, as an additional arch was reared about eighty
years ago, in consequence of the inroads the water was making on
the northern bank of the river. This constituted the fifth or last
arch.
  When the new bridge was built, a fragment of the old one was
left, comprehending two arches. This dilapidated ruin is begin-


