
                               PERTH.                          61

taken from Robert Ferguson, son to Donald Ferguson, by Adam
Gordon, chirurgeon, before Mr William Hay, parson of Perth,
and some other witnesses, was ordered to be preserved in the hos-
pital box, the poore boy being cured att the expense of the session
and hospital." The calculus is of the mulberry kind, enveloped
by the fusible calculus. It is an inch and three-quarters by an
inch and a quarter. The fusible calculus is three eighths of an inch
in thickness.
   The register books of the presbytery of Perth are extant from
the year 1618, and the register books of the synod of Perth and
Stirling are extant from the year 1638.
   Antiquities, &c.-In the locality of tbe city, there are manifestations
of antiquity, which carry us back to times of which no record gives
us any account. The soil of the plain on which it stands is of al-
luvial origin. At the upper and the lower extremities of it, the ap-
pearance distinctly indicates that at one time it vas insulated,-
that on each side of it there was a water course; and recent dis
coveries seem to make that almost if not altogether certain. When
St Paul's Church, which is on the west side of the town, was built
in 1806-7, the workmen, in digging for a foundation, came at about
ten feet deep to a piece of well-built ashler masonry, stretching
from north to south, in which there were iron staples and rings,
such as are met with on piers. (The level of the street here is about
23 feet above the channel of the river at the water engine.) At
some distance from this place, in a northerly direction, (Stor-
mont Street,) a well was lately dug. At the depth of about
20 feet, there were found two willow trees, sixteen inches dis-
meter in the bole, standing in their natural growing position, but
with branches broken down. The soil around and above them was
clay. The surface here is somewhat higher than the site  of St
Paul's. Almost due north from this spot, another well was dug in
the house built (1826) by the late Mrs Young of Belwood, in Bar,
rossa Place. And there one tree of the same kind was found at about
eight feet below the surface, also in its natural growing position,
having round it such alluvial matter as decayed nut-shells leaves,
&c. From these facts, taken in connection with the appearance of
the upper and lower extremities of the plain, and its immemorial
name, it is scarcely possible not to conclude, that a stream of water
must have run at one time in the direction of these places, and
that thus the plain had been at some remote period an Inch or la-


