
			BUITTLE.                             205

	Proprietors.--There are 15 proprietors of land belonging to
the parish whose properties are of the yearly value of L. 50 and
upwards, of which 7 reside in it, and 8 are non-resident.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--Though farm produce has not for several years
past yielded a remunerating price, yet both landlords and tenants
have adopted and prosecuted every plan of modern improvement
with a degree of eagerness, perseverance, and success, not sur-
passed in any other part of the country. The turnip husbandry
is greatly extended beyond what it was a few years ago. Feeding
of sheep, for the last five or six years, has, with the exception of
1834, been profitable to the farmer; and the facility with which
they are conveyed to the Liverpool market, by means of steam
vessels, has contributed to produce this result. The kinds of
grain raised in this parish consist of oats, barley, and wheat.
The cultivation of wheat is chiefly confined to the clay soil, on
the banks of the Urr and Bay of Orchardton. On the dry and
lighter soils, adapted to turnip husbandry, barley is extensively
cultivated. The chevalier barley was introduced about three
years ago, and bids fair to exclude the common sort, which was
formerly, and still is cultivated. It is considered to be a finer
grain, more productive, and of greater weight per bushel. The
rotation of crops most approved of on land under tillage is a white
and green crop alternately, though in some instances the practice
of taking two white crops in succession is followed. Besides the
manure which the farm affords, lime and bone-dust are employed
to stimulate and fertilize the soil.
	The breeding and rearing of cattle is an object of great import-
ance to the farmers, as they generally calculate on realizing a con-
siderable part of their profhts from this source. Our well-known
breed of Galloway cattle bears a higher character, in almost every
point, than any other. It yields beef, which, when well fed, is of
the first-rate quality, and is said to bring, in the Slithfield mar-
ket, a higher price, bx at least 1s. per stone, than the best beef
of England. The carcase weighs, on an average, from 50 to 60
stones, and, in some instances, 100 stones and upwards. Few
Galloway bullocks are fed in this parish. They are generally sold
to the cattle-dealers at two or three years old, and driven to Eng-
land, where they are fed for the English markets. On three farms
in this parish, the Ayrshire dairy system has been partially adopt-
ed with success.


