
     of Tibbermuir.

in this Statistical Report*.  The castle itself is more parti-
cularly distinguished, as the place where King James VI.
was for some time confined by the Earl of Gowrie, and
others, who had entered into a combination for taking the
young King out of the hands of his two early favourites, the
lately created Duke of Lennox and Earl of Arran.  'James,
'after having resided for some time in Athol, where he en-
'joyed his favourite amusement of hunting, was now return-
'ing towards Edinburgh, with a small train.  He was invit-
'ed to Ruthven Castle, which lay in his way; and, as he sus-
'pected no danger, he went thither in hopes of farther sport.
'The multitude of strangers whom he found there gave him
'some uneasiness; and as those who were in the secret ar-
'rived every moment from different parts, the appearance
'of so many new faces increased his fears.  He conceated
'his uneasiness, however, with the utmost care; and next
'morning prepared for the field, expecting to find there
'some opportunity of making his escape; but just as he was
'ready to depart, the nobles entered his bed-chamber in a

<FOOTNOTE>

*The tradition of the country upon this subject is preserved
in a paper written by the late Mr Alexander Duff minister of
this parish, and presented by him to the Antiquarian Society of
Perth.  And it may here susfice to observe farther, respecting
this family whose general history is incorporated with that of
the nation that, from their ancient proper names, as these are
found in charters of early date, they appear to have been of
Danish extraction.  In a charter, (formerly quoted) granted to
the monastery of Scone by Walter the Lord of Ruthven, in the
reign of William the Lion, he is denominated the son of Alan,
grandson ot Suane, and great grandson of Thore; and it is al-
so perhaps worthy of notice, in this view, that the sord of a ri-
vulet, which runs through the ancient manor of this family, and
has now scarce any distinguishing name, is, in the same charters,
denominated the Ford of Lochlin, which is known to be an an-
cient name for Denmark.  The family is now represented by
Lord Ruthven of Freeland.


