
                       TURRIFF.                               999

understood, and the good effects of a moderate application suffi-
ciently evident. Of late, bone-dust has been much used, and va-
riously and successfuly applied; sometimes by itself, and some-
times along with a proportion of farm-yard dung or sulphuric acid.
Splendid crops of turnips have been raised, followed by a good
green crop, and a rich and close crop of grass; and as hence a
greater number of cattle can be maintained, there is at the far-
mer's command a much larger portion of sure enriching matter.
Guano, which is so highly recommended, is being introduced.
   Breeds of Cattle.-Great attention has been lately paid to the
improvement of the breeds of cattle. Several of the proprietors
and farmers have, at a very considerable expense, procured ani-
mals of the first quality, and of well known and acknowledged pe-
digree. The far-famed Aberdeenshire dodded breed, originally
from Fifeshire, generally prevail, and are carefully preserved by
many of the tenantry in all their purity. Within the last few
years, the Teeswater or short-horned have been introduced, and
a cross betwixt the Aberdeenshire cow and short-horned bull
highly prized. In consequence of the conveyance by steam, and
the triumph of science over time and space, feeding for the Lon-
don market has become common; and as the great object of the
farmer must naturally be to select such breeds as promise in the
shortest time to bring the highest remunerating price, this system
of crossing, which brings cattle in three years to a greater weight
and a higher price than those of the native breed can reach in
four years, prevail over this parish and district to a considerable
extent. But many intelligent agriculturists, doubting the propriety
of persevering in this system, and being apprehensive of such a
degeneracy in the stock as might ultimately destroy the purity of
both breeds, are at pains to keep them quite distinct, and will no
doubt be guided ultimately by the result of their experiments.
   Oxen are now rarely yoked in the ploug, though about the
end of last century, it was not only the general practice, but an
indication that the owner was a person of substance when he had
ten of these in a plough, and, besides the plotighman, had a gades-
man whistling by their side.
   Horses.-The improvement in the breed of horses has kept pace
with that of black-cattle, and no trouble or expense has been spared
to raise their character to a level with those of Clydesdale. The
Highland Society of Scotland and district associations have, for a
good many years, been giving premiums for the best horses; and


