
			KILTARLITY.                                489

morack side, is that generally used by travellers and is confessedly
one of the most romantic drives in the Highlands. On a con-
spicuous mountain on the south side, are the remains of a vitrified
structure, called Dunfion. Near this, the river enters a chasm
between high precipitous cliffs, and cuts a narrow passage through
masses of red sandstone and conglomerate,-so narrow, indeed, in
some places, that a man in dry seasons can almost leap across.
A little onwards, the foaming torrent rushes tumultuously over a
ledge of rock, forming what is called the Upper Fall of Kilmorack.
It is about 10 or 12 feet in height, and is received into a capaci-
ous basin of hard rock; in the sides of which, fantastic caves and boil-
ing caldrons have been formed by the action of the turbulent fluid.
The summits of the rocks on either side of this deep ravine are
hardly stone-cast distance asunder, and are ornamented with the
light airy foliage of the birch and wild cherry ; while a little lower
down, many weatherworn stunted trees of different kinds, growing out
of fissures in the face of the almost perpendicular rock, rear up
their gnarled and fantastic forms in defiance of the impetuosity of
the wind. For a considerable way up from the stream, there is no
vegetation of any kind to cover the barren nakedness of the rocks,
with the exception of a thin sprinkling of marsh mallows and wild
geraniums. In some sheltered nooks, however, luxuriant festoons
of ivy and honeysuckle give evidence that these plants have been
nurtured in a congenial soil. At a little distance below the up-
per fall, the river, emancipated from its confinement, glides on
smoothly and majestically in a broad stream over a large surface
of rock, inequalities in which soon cause it to diverge into several
different channels. The rock here comes to an abrupt termination
across the whole expanse of the river, which is very broad at this
part; and these different streams, falling from off the rock upon a
bed of large rough stones, form what are called the Lower Falls of
Kilmorack. These are only about 8 or 10 feet in height.
   It is a very interesting sight to witness the persevering efforts of
salmon to spring over these falls. Many succeed in the attempt,
but it is not thought worth the expense to fish the river with nets
beyond the falls. The former Lovats were in the habit of amus-
ing their guests with a very novel spectacle, viz. salmon leaping, of
their own accord, into a kettleful of boiling water, where they were
speedily cooked for the purpose of satiating the appetites as well
as the curiosity of the beholders. Marvellous though it may ap-
pear, this extraordinary exhibition was easily effected. It was ob-
   INVERNESS.


