
338                       LANARKSHIRE.

enjoyed the privilege of having a post-office for many years, and
has at present a daily post.
	Means of Communication.--The turnpike roads are in the best
state of repair. A new and elegant stone bridge was built at
Newton in 1824; and by the liberality of a few of the proprie-
tors, a chain bridge was thrown over the Clyde at Crawford in
1831, the span of which is upwards of 75 feet. This bridge affords
great accommodation; the children are thereby enabled to attend
school regularly, and the inhabitants the church.
	Ecclesiastical State.--In the present state of the parish, the
church, though not in the centre of the parish, is perhaps in
the most advantageous situation. It is an old building, but in a
state of good repair, having been new seated about twenty years
ago. It affords accommodation for about 260 sitters, and it will
soon be made to contain 50 more. There are at present no free
sittings, except the communion tables. The manse was built about
25 years ago, and has since been repaired. The extent of the
glebe is about 12 acres. There are 4 acres of arable ground
and 8 acres of what is called a grass glebe, and the whole may
be valued at L. 15. The stipend is 15 chalders of victual, the one-
half barley, and the other oat-meal; L. 8, 6s. 8d. are allowed for
communion elements. The stipend may thus be stated at L. 220.
	There is a chapel or preaching station at leadhills. In 1736,
the Earl of Hopetoun obtained the sanction of the General As-
sembly, to employ a chaplain or preacher for the benefit of the
miners, at the same time retaining the power either to employ one,
or not, as his Lordship should deem expedient. The salary is paid
by Lord Hopetoun and the Mining Company, and amounts to about
L. 70, with a house. There is not a dissenting meeting-house in the
parish, nor more than twelve or fifteen persons connected with dis-
senting houses of any kind. The number of communicants con-
nected with the Established Church may be about 480.
	Education.--There are three schools in the parish. The school
at Leadhills is the only one beside, the parochial school, that en-
joys the benefit of an endowment. The salary attached to the
leadhills school is about L. 30 and a house. The common
branches of education only are taught in these schools. The pa-
rochial schoolmaster enjoys a salary of about L. 34, with legal ac-
commodation. The school fees may amount to about L. 15 more,
Such is the value that the people in general set on education that
all the farmers who have young families employ a teacher, espe-

				1


