
                             KINGSBARNS.                           97

     amount of produce from the parish may be given: Under the plough
     are 2898 acres; of these each year are sown 1619 acres.  The
     amount of bolls produced is 11,070 1/2.  Deducting seed, &c. there
     are brought to market 7324 bolls of grain.  Of potatoes 2200 bolls
     are sold.  Of cattle 125 head, at 35 stone each, are fattened for the
     butcher, and 48 sold for the grass, from the straw-yard annually.
     The grain is computed in the old measure, and the cattle in
     Dutch weight.
       Seventy-four ploughmen hired by the year, and eleven boys are
     employed on those eighteen farms.  Much of the wheat and beans
     on the low lands are sown in drills, which, along with the potato
     and turnip, give a vast deal of employment to young women in
     hoeing.  About 113 are so occupied.  In fact, from the time of
     planting potatoes, which usually begins at the end of April, until
     harvest be completed, they are seldom off the fields.  Their pay-
     ment when so employed is 8d. per day, without meat; and when
     lifting potatoes, 1s. with their dinner.  A good Tabourer with the
     spade obtains from 1s. 4d. to 1s. 6d. per day in summer, and from
     1s. to 1s. 2d. in winter.  The harvest wages are, for men, L. 2,
     with some potato and lint ground, and supper meal, and for women,
     L. 1, 13s. with the above bounties.  Draining is usually contracted
     for by the rood of six yards at 9d. when three feet deep, and more or
     less of course according to depth.  Mechanics, such as masons,
     smiths, and wrights, get 2s. to 2s. 6d. per day.  The smitb generally
     contracts with the farmer to do the work by the pair of horses, at
     the cost of from L. 2, 5s. to L. 3, including their shoeing, the keep-
     ing up of the plough and harrows, forks, grapes, &e. and every thing
     pertaining to the working but the cart.
       The breed of cattle usually preferred is the Fife.  The Tees-
     water were introduced into the parish by the late Thomas Earl of
     Kellie.  His successor is returning to the old Fife breed.  Though
     the former can be fed off at three years old at a much greater size,
     still, as they must be high fed from birth, and require very fine
     grass, the farmers find it more profitable to retain the country
     breed.
       The steadings are almost all good in themselves and ample in
     accommodation.  The nobleman mentioned above was in this re-
     spect most liberal to his tenantry, and set an example which was
     generally followed in the neighbourhood.  Of the eighteen farm-
     steadings in the parish three only can be considered as materially
     detective.
       FIFE.                                 G


