
            KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN.                       37

4s. to 10s. in the Year- There is no fund,,except L.20 left by the
late Mrs Gair of Nigg. The heritors have of late been induced
to give L. 30 a-year to the poor. There seems no indisposition
on the part of the poor to take. The kirk-session does not take
any concern in the division of what is called the poor's money-
   Fair.-The only fair in the parish is Hugh's Fair, held in No-
vember, for general purposes. It is dying away very fast.
   Inns.-There are 3 small inns, which are in many cases an ac-
commodation to travellers; but otherwise they are no blessing.
   Fuel,-Coals from Newcastle are the principal fuel for the More
opulent and the farm-servants. But whins and broom, and such
other fire-wood as can be found, constitute the fuel of the greater
part of the population. Coals cost about 1s. per imperial barrel,
and their quality is seldom good.

          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   1st, The tenants do not now, as they did (not many years since)
occupy the greater part of the summer in cutting and carrying home
peats and turf from the mosses of the parish of Loggie. 2d,
There has been a great improvement on the comfort of the houses,
and in the dress and habits of the people. 3d, A great many
strangers have taken up their abode here, while many former resi-
denters have vanished. 4th, The farms are now on a different plan
from that on which they formerly were, am4 the system of farming
has been quite changed.
   Revised Septmber 1836.



                   UNITED PARISH OF

             KIRKMICHAEL AND CULLICUDDEN.

         PRESBYTERY OF CHANONRY, SYNOD OF ROSS.

            THE REV. DONALD SAGE, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-OF this united parish the eastern division is Kirk-
Michael. Its Gaelic name is "Kill a' Michail," or the Cell of
St Michael; but this name is by the Inhabitants usually given
only to the church and burying-ground. The district which the
ancient parish of Kickmichael compreheaded is called "Sgire'a'
Michail." or the parish of St Michael. Cullicudden forms the
vestern district of the united parish. Its Celtie same is Coul a


