
                        OYNE.                               645

The stipend was modified in 1809, when all the teinds then valu-
ed were decerned, being in money L.99, Is. 11 2/12d.; in meal, at
10 stone or 140 lb. per boll, 68 bolls, 1 firlot, 1/5 lippie; in bear,
Aberdeen measure, or four-fifths of a quarter, 15 bolls, 1 peck, 1
lippie.  The victual is payable in kind, and, at the average of 16s.
per boll of meal, and L.1 per boll of bear, would make a stipend
of L. 170, including communion element money.  The unexhaust-
ed teinds, if legally valued, are inconsiderable.  There are no
chapels of ease, Government churches, missionaries, or catechists
in the parish, nor any Dissenting meeting-house near to it, the
whole number of Dissenters of all sects being under 20.  The
average number of the congregation is about 350.
   Education.-There is one parochial school, in which, besides
the ordinary branches of education, Latin and mathematics are
taught when required; the teacher being a graduate of King's
College, Aberdeen, and a preacher of the Gospel,--as the great
majority of the parochial schoolmasters in this Presbytery are.
His salary is about L.30, session-clerk's fees, L.3, with an enclos-
ed garden, and a house containing three small apartments.  Being
conveniently Situated, the school is full during the winter months;
but the accommodation is too limited for the present population,
and would not contain above one-twelfth of the whole.  Two fe-
males teach about thirty young girls to sew, and to read very im-
perfectly.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The poor's funds consist of L.90
of lent money, with the weekly collections in the church, averag-
ing 5s., and those at the communion, amounting to L.3, 15s.
There are of extraordinary collections one yearly for the Aber-
deen Infirmary; one for the Presbytery's Lunatic fund; and col-
lections for the General Assembly's Schemes, amounting in whole
to above L.7 annually.  Besides the parochial collections, there
are frequent subscriptions made from house to house in behalf of
poor persons, who, from accidents or sickness, are brought into
great distress; and a very considerable amount of alms, in meal,
meat, drink, and money, is daily bestowed on wandering beggars,
who are most numerous and importunate, coming chiefly from the
manufacturing cities, towns, and villages.
   The average number of poor on the roll is 12; and the amount
distributed annually, L.30, 10s., in sums from 8s. to 15s, divided
five times in the year, according to their several necessities.  The
amount of church collections annually, including those at the


