
KENNOWAY.                                          385

matters,-has lately sunk a pit to a depth of more than 54 fa-
thoms, where coal, marked VIL and VIII. in the journal,'is found
to the thickness of 5 feet 2 inches, with an interjacent bed of grey-
stone 9 inches thick. To draw the water from this pit, an engine
of forty-seven horse power has been erected. The coal, which
has now been wrought for several months, is found to be of good
quality, and it is believed that the field is extensive. There are
at present between 40 and 50 colliers employed.
Raw Produce. -The average gross amount of raw produce rais-

ed in the parish may be stated as under:

Produce of grain of all kinds, for f;jod of man and beast,	L. 9000	0	0
potatoes and turnips,	1000	0	0
bay cultivated,	700	0	0
land in pasture,	1200	0	0
mines and quarries, hiefly coal,	2500	0	0

Total yearly value of raw produce, L. 14,400 0 0
Manufactures.-Besides two grinding-mills for oats and barley
in the parish, there is also a lint-mill for scotching flax, a plash-
mill for washing yarn, and a spinning-mill for spinning tow. The
three last-mentioned are on a very small scale, employing together
not more than IS or 20 hands. All the mills are driven by water.
At the time when the former Statistical Account was written,
it is remarked, that there was then, 11 a considerable quantity of
coarse linen made in the parish, which was sold brown; and some
also of a better quality, which was bleached and sold at the sum-
iner markets in the neighbourbood." This species of goods was
commonly known by the name of Silesias, and there were, not -a
few individuals in this place who, in a small way, were engaged in
the manufacture of them. The trade was for a long time brisk
and profitable, but it entirely failed on the introduction of mill-
spinning, through the consequent great reduction on the price of
manufactured goods.
There are still a great many weavers in the parish, not fewer
than 300 male and female, connected with whom, at least 150
hands more, find employment as winders. But the business now
is all transacted by agencies, on account of wealthy manufacture
Ing companies or individuals in the surrounding district. Theri
are none in this parish
The species of goods 'now manufactured are dowlas sheetings
(f various widths, from three yards and under, Tweels, and a few
diapers and Darlingtons. The quality varies from 700to 1000
dowla's. The number of spindles, woven in a ear m' be stated
y         ay
PIPE.                                         B b


