
    18			ROXBURGHSHIRE.

    Berwick, Lauder, and Dunbar, in sending a member to Parliament.
    The revenues of the borough amount at present to L. 573 per an-
    num, being chiefly derived from the rent of the mills. It enjoys
    one-third of the customs of St James' Fair, in the vicinity of Kelso,
    at which its magistrates preside; a reward gained in ancient times
    by the valour of the inhabitants. The town is charmingly situate
    in the romantic valley of the Jed, environed with sylvan banks,
    and embosomed in venerable orchards. The streets are wide and
    clean, and the houses are well built. Around the town are seve-
    ral beautiftl villas. It contains numerous handsome shops, in
    which all the necessaries, and most of the luxuries, of life can be
    readily procured. It is celebrated for the production of excellent
    bread, which is exported in great quantities to the north of Eng-
    land, as well as to the surrounding villages of the county. It is
    entitled to hold two markets every week, on Tuesday and Satur-
    day. The Tuesday's market is well attended, when grain is sold
    by samples to a considerable extent. There are two banks in
    Jedburgh, branches of the British Linen Company, and of the
    National Bank. The population residing within the boundaries
    fixed by the Reform Bill amounted, in 1831, to 3709.
	Villages. -The villages are Bonjedward, Ulston, and Lanton.
    The last contains 220 inhabitants.
	Means of Communication. -There is one post-office, and the
    length of turnpike roads in the parish is 18 miles. There are
    daily coaches to Edinburgh and Newcastle, and there is a coach
    twice a-week to Hawick and Kelso. There are at present five
    carriers, who travel every week betwixt Jedburgh and Edinburgh
    and one of them twice a-week. Three travel betwixt Newcastle
    and Jedburgh, and two betwixt it and Berwick.
	There are ten stone bridges across the Jed; nine of which are
   in this parish, and eight within the space of four miles.
   Ecclesiastical State. -The parish church is conveniently situate
   for the inhabitants of the lower part of the parish; but its dis-
   tance being, four miles from the nearest, and ten from the remotest
   boundaries of the.upper district, the aged and infirm, and, during
   the inclemency of winter, even the robust who reside in that quar-
   ter, are prevented from attending public worship. The distance
   from any other church is also great. The church consists of the
   western half of the nave of the Abbey, fitted up for modern wor-
   ship. It affords accommodations only for about 900 persons, thus
   excluding a great majority of the inhabitants; and, what is more
   to be regretted, a considerable number who would willingly join
   the Established church. The manse was built in 1808. The


