
                          MORVERN.                                  171

as also in the erection of the very conspicuous, and, it is hoped, very
useful lighthouse, built on the southernmost point of Lismore.
   Zoology.-There are no animals found in this parish but such
as are common to the whole district; nor does it appear that any,
formerly existing, have become extinct, unless, indeed, we except
squirrels, with which the woods are said at one time to have
abounded.  Red deer pay only occasional visits; and the blue or
mountain hare, though not extinct, is rarely seen.  The parish is
not remarkable for breeding any particular species of stock, but,
in common with the adjoning districts, produces strong and en-
during ponie, and the very best description of the short-legged,
straight-backed, and round-bodied West Highland cattle.  The
old and indigenous breed of sheep, small hardy animals, has been
superseded by the black-faced or Linton breed; and these, of
late years, have been, in some instances crossed by Cheviots.
Goats, a profitless, and (since increased attention has been paid
to the growing of timber,) a destructive stock, are rarely tolerated,
though a few still wander in the more inaccessible mountains.
    The parish is much infested by all kinds of ground vermin, from
the cunning fox down to the nimble weasel; which circumstance,
along with the general introduction of sheep, in some degree ac-
counts for the yearly increasing scarcity of game, just in pro-
tion to the yearly increasing rigour with which the moors are pro-
tected.  From the rugged character of the country, and its proxi-
mity to the forests of Lochiel, it abounds throughout with foxes,
insomuch that the parish fox-hunter, whose usefulness, like that of
more important functionairies, is not a little impaired by the extent
and character of the territory assigned them, succeeds in killing
nearly at the rate of thirty annually.  They are of the black-leg-
ged kind, the swiftest and most destructive of the species.  The
fox, however, is not worse than he is called, and is, no doubt,
guiltless of many crimes laid to his charge; for, just as in the
household, every missing tea-cup is charged against that mysteri-
ous personage "Nobody," every missing lamb is charged against,
the fox, while there is no mention of the carelessness of the shep-
herd.  And there are other depredators.  The eagle does not
always soar in midway sky.  The prowling cat and the active
martin tire of game and poultry, and, like other refined epicures,
make every effort to procure the other delicacies of the season.
The former will steal forth with wary tread in the still May morn-
ing, and, without shaking a dew-drop from the heather, or inter-


