
                                ISLAND OF SKYE-SLEAT.                  317

      that country; and, to convince them of his good intentions, as well
      as to prove the sincerity of his advice, he has himself sent thither
      three of his sons within the last two years, and, if spared for a few
      months longer, he proposes to send a fourth.

        April 1840.

                                   PARISH OF SLEAT.

                        PRESBYTERY OF SKYE, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                         THE REV. ALEXANDER M'IVOR, MINISTER.

                 I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Extent, Boundaries, &c.--SLEAT forms the south-eastern part
      of the Island of Skye.  The parish commences to the north
      at Kyle-rhea,--a narrow ferry which separates Skye from the
      mainland of Glenelg, and it extends to the south-west along the
      sea.  To the north, it is bounded by the parish of Strath, from
      which it is divided by a high ridge of hill from Kyle-rhea to
      Loch-in-daal.  Opposite to Loch-in-daal, another branch of the
      sea, called Loch-Eishart, comes in from the westward, and is se-
      parated from Loch-in-daal by a narrow isthmus, about half a mile in
      breadth.  The parish from Loch-in-daal forms a peninsula, ex-
      tending westward to the point of Sleat.  The population is locat-
      ed on both sides of this peninsula.  The length of the parish is
      about 25 miles, and its average breadth 5.
         Topographical Appearances.--The appearance of the parish is
      in many places interesting.  The plantations around Armadale
      Castle, and towards the manse, give it an aspect of high cultiva-
      tion, not expected in such a remote district; and the extent of
      land in culture is considerable.  Above the plantations and the
      cultivated land, the low and bleak moorland forms a contrast to
      the bold character of the Strath hills seen over it, and more es-
      pecially to the precipitous and serrated outline of the Cuillin
      hills, which are at no great, distance.  The climate is humid, and
      the people are, in consequence, subject to severe rheumatic com-
      plaints.
         Hydrography.--There are no lakes of any extent in the parish;
      but there are a few moorland lochs, containing trout, that some-


