
78                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

containing nearly seventy volumes, which are eagerly read, and found
to be of great use to the rising generation.  There is also a library
connected with the General Assembly's school at Inverness.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of paupers
in the parish is 60,-who receive aid from the funds according to
their several necessities, from 2s. 6d. to L.1 per annum.  The amount
realized annually for church collections may be about L.27.  The
funds derived from the fines of delinquents are very variable.
These sources of relief, along with common begging, are the only
ones known here; assessment for the support of the poor has never
yet been resorted to in this country.  In regard to the disposition
manifested by those dependent upon parochial aid, it must be stated,
that they are rather anxious to procure it than otherwise, and that
the degradation seems to be fully compensated in their eyes, by
the accession to their comforts which it confers.  It ought, how-
ever, to be remarked, that none but those who are really needful
obtain any assistance.
   Prisons.-In 1806, a house was erected in the village of Kin-
gussie, consisting of a neat court room, for holding the meetings of
the district, and two cells for the confinement of offenders, where
they are detained only till they can be conveyed to the county
prison. These cells by a late repair have been rendered very se-
cure; they are kept by a jailor, who is accountable to the authori-
ties of the district. We are not aware that there has been a single
prisoner during the last year.
   Fairs.-There are commonly five or six markets in the parish
throughout the year; the principal one of which is held in June
for selling wool, lambs, &c.  Another is held in November for set-
tling accounts, and engaging servants; and a third in February.
Other three are held for buying and selling cattle, at different
times, so as to suit dealers passing from the southern and northern
markets.
   Inns and Alehouses.-The parish contains two inns, and ten or
eleven alehouses,-the effects of which, especially of the ale-
houses, upon the morals of the people, are certainly of a perni-
cious tendency.
   Fuel.-The common fuel used here is peat, procured, at a very
great expense, from mosses in some places four and five miles dis-
tant.


