
			MAYBOLE.	             361

speaks with enthuriasm and eloquence of Bargany, "bot now, to
speak of the nobill youthe, how gallantly he behaiffit him selff, my
penne can nocht writt the same; for being bot this way accom-
panyitt with thir fywe menne, thair was against him the number of
30 horsemenne, quha all geiff the charge and straikis to thir fywe.
Yet quhan that thair wes of thame twa unhorssitt and ane slayne,
sa that their wes nane with him bot ane, yitt he wald nocht stay
his curradge, hot raid through me Lordis menne, hard to me
Lord, and cryit, "quhair is me Lord him selff! Lett him now
keep promise and brek ane trie!'" This challenge was unheed-
ed, he was pressed from all sides, and at length was basely struck
from behind, while he was gallantly defending himself against his
assailants. The weapon went "through the craig and through the
thropill," and thus, mortally wounded, he was conveyed to May-
bole, where my Lord, as "Judge Ordinar" of the country, deter-
mined to put him to death if he showed any symptoms of recovery.
He was, however, carried from thence to Ayr, and died in twenty-
three hours. He appears to have been a person of great promise,
and to have been held in high estimation, and his character is thus
depicted by the old historian: "He was the brawest manne that
was to be gotten in ony land; of hiche stataur, and weill maid;
his hair blak, bott of ane cumlie feace; the brawest horsemanne,
and the best at all pastymis. For he was feerse and feirry, and
wonder nembill. He was about the age of 25 yieris quhane he
was slayne, bot of his aige the maist wyise be mycht be; for gif be
had tyme to had experianse to his witt, he had been by his mar-
rawis."
	The details of this murderous deed are not more characteristic
of the times than the impunity with which it was passed over. It
was, indeed, of too flagrant a nature to be left unnoticed, even in
tile "Judge Ordinar;" but my Lady of Cassilis, who had friends
at court, rode to Edinburgh, and obtained his Majesty's favour to
her husband, who "gott this mukill grantit, that my Lord suld
cum hemself, and deall with the thesaurer for his escheitt;"--" and
by reason," as the historian farther informs us, " of ten thousand
markis" given to that important functionary, "there, was obtenit to
me Lord ane act of counsall, makand all that me Lord had done
gude service to the King!"
	It must, however, be remarked, that our author is on all occa-
sions partial to Auchendrane, who had married the daughter of
old Bargany, the father,of the youth who thus fell; and it will be


