
              528                             PERTHSHIRE.

              the parish of Dull, the respective parish churches being six miles
              distant; on the north-east, by that of Blair-Athole, parish churches
              twenty-one miles distant; on the north, by the paris of Laggan, In-
              verness-shire, churches being forty-one miles distant; on the north-
              west,by the parish of Kihmnivaig the churches beiag seventy miles
              distant; on the west, by the parish of Appin, Argyllshire, churches
              seventy four miles distant; on the south-west, by the parish of Glen-
              orchy, church distant forty-four miles; on the south by the parish-
              es of Kenmore and Killin, the parish churches being distant six and
              sixteen miles respectively; and also by a detached portion of the pa-
              rish of Weem. The parish thus occupies a very considerable por-
              tion of the north-west corner of the county of Perth, and south-west
              angle of the great Caledonian Forest, as already mentioned. Fol-
              lowing the boundary line in all its indentations and  projections, it
              is no less than 130 miles in circumference.
                It may be necessary here to premise that the parish is naturally di-
              vided into three comprehensive districts, viz. Fortingal (properly so
              called), Rannoch, and Glenlyon: besides the detached district of
              Bolfracks on the south side of the Tay, distant by the high road
              about ten miles;-all separated from each other by high hills, river,
              and other impediments.
               Mountains.-The mountains and hills connected with the  pa-
              rish are almost  innumerable. Both on the north and south sides
              it is bordered by high mountains. There is also a high chain of
              mountains, which may be said to belong exclusively to the parish,
              extending its whole length from east to west, and dividing it into
              two grand division, and almost into two equal parts, having the dis-
              tricts of Rannoch to the north, and Glenlyon and Fortirngal to the
              south. This ridge rests upon a base of about seven miles broad;
              and many of its mountains considerably exceed 3000 feet above
              the level of the sea. A little detached from this ridge, in the dis-
              trict of Rannoch, is the mountain Sith-chaillinn, conpicuous as
              you enter the country by its towering and commanding summit,-a
              as the scene of observations by Dr Mashylne, Astronomer Royal,
              in 1777. " Sith," by the old Highlanders' interpretation, means
              any kill on mountain disjoined or apart from others,- " Sithain," a
              little round hill, is the diminutive of the term;- which hill was in-
              variable haunted, as was  supposed by the " Sitch-chean" or " da-
              oine-sith." " men of peace,"- whence the name, " Sith-ckailline,"
              given to this hill from its being the  supposed place of rresort of the


