
946                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

phorum vaginatum, Lysimachia nemorum, Peplis Portula, Pru-
nus spinosa, Geum rivale, Teucrium scorodonia, Sanicula Euro.
paea, Melampyrum pratense, Hypericum humifusum, Gymnadenia
conopsea, Habenaria bifolia, Sparganium simplex, and Myrica
gale.
   On Lord Forbes's estates in Keig, there are 2200 imperial acres
of wood, of which 378 are natural; on the estate of Balgowan 75.
The natural wood is of the trees above-mentioned; the planted is
as follows: British and sessile fruited oak, ash, white and black
poplar, aspen, birch, weeping-birch, service, beech, copper beech,
laburnum, elm, lime, plane, cork, horse-chestnut, maple, silver fir,
Weymouth pine, spruce, larch, and Scotch fir; six-tenths of the
whole being Scotch fir, and three-tenths larch, from ten to forty
years old, the former thriving, best on the lower ground, where to-
lerably dry, and the latter on the hills.
   It may be deemed worthy of remark, that the very common
plants, corn-marigold, corn-poppy, and corncockle, are not to be
found in Keig or its neighbourhood, and that ragwort, rare here
some years ago, has now become a serious evil in grass lands.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, Lord Forbes; the Hon.
the Master of Forbes; Sir Andrew Leith Hay of Rannes; the
Roman Catholic Church in Scotland; and P. Farquharson, Esq.
of Whitehouse.
   Parochial Registers.-All the early records were accidentally
burned, excepting a part commencing in 1740, and ending in
1743, preserved and copied into the present books.  The first
regular entry is dated May 20, 1753; the registers of baptisms
and marriages appear to have been correctly kept, but no notice has
been taken of deaths.
   Antiquities.-There are many Druidical circles in the neigh-
bourhood, and two in the parish.  One of them, in a wood on the
Cothiemuir hill, within the grounds, and about half a mile north of
Castle Forbes, seems originally to have consisted of eleven upright
stones, mostly about seven feet high, and except two on the south
side placed 15 feet apart, forming a circle of 25 yards in diame-
ter.  The two towards the south are somewhat pyramidal, about
9 1/2 feet high, 3 feet wide, and 20 inches thick at the base, and
only 15 feet asunder, the space between them being occupied by
a horizontal subcylindrical mass of stone upwards of 5 feet in dia-


