
                               PERTH.                                   63

inhabitants would be to abandon those places of accommodation,
whether for themselves or their cattle, which had been submerged.
  From many enactments and remarks that occur in the town re-
cords, it appears that the principal fuel of the inhabitants was peat
or moss turf. Peat stacks were numerous both within the town and
on the North Inch, as were " heather stacks," laid up for winter fuel.
  The refuse and ashes of these appear to have been accumulated
occasionally on the streets, so much so, as to require the order of
the magistrates to have them removed. When the inundation took
place, they, in part, would be carridd into the places now mention-
ed, and, with the addition of other such refuse materials, thrown in
by the inhabitants, would soon give the mass a consistency. This
seems to be the most natural way of accounting for the character of
the earth, which is purely vegetable, and for the singular blackness of
its colour, and the complete preservation of various perishable ar-
ticles found in it-water impregnated with moss being a powerful
antiseptic and preserver of vegetable and animal substances from
corruption.
  When Mr James Ballingall, upholsterer, erected these buildings
on the south of the church, in which are his wareroom and the
Central Bank, there was found in the excavation made for the foun-
dation, similar black earth, and imbedded in it a boat clinker-built,
about ten feet long, resting on its keel. There was lying under it
a caulking iron, and the soles of shoes. I infer, therefore, from this
circumstance, and from there being found in other similar places,
various pieces of cow-house furniture, that the overwhelming inun-
dation was unexpected, and prevented the people from removing
what they would not otherwise have allowed themselves to be de-
prived of; and this is rendered highly probable, by the narrative
given of the inundation of 1621. " In the night, unlooked for, the
water increased, so that all those that dwelt outwith the castle,ga-
vel Port in low houses, behoved to go to high houses for preserva-
tion of their lives, &c."
  With the lowness of the level of the street corresponded that, of
the channel of the river. It was so low in 1600, that the most
deeply ladened foreign vessels that tr`ded with Perth did not
break bulk till they reached the north shore, i. e. to where the
council-house is, while such vessels now come no farther up the
river than to the lime shore.
Adamson, in his poetic history, of the town, written in the year


