
                        PITTENWEEM.                     985

sack, Rhenish wine, Tent, white, and claret wines.  A discharge
of "thirty-six cannon, all shot at once," announced the departure
of the royal guest.
   One of the vessels belonging to the Spanish Armada was
driven to this coast in great distress, and put intothe harbour of
Anstruther Easter, where the people were hospitably treated.
   In 1779, the inhabitants of the burgh were alarmed byt the pa-
pearance of the celebrated Paul Jones, whose small squadron lay
off the harbour, for several hours, about half a mile from the shore.
A pilot who went off, on the supposition that the ships were Bri-
tish, was detained, and treated very uncivilly, nor was he set at
liberty till after the engagement which Paul Jones had with the
Bristish fleet.
   The Priory of Pittenweemwas founded for canons-regular, who
were first introduced into Scotland about the year 1114.  It be-
longed to the Priory os St Andrews, and had considerable landed
property, the Isle of May belonging to it, besides the churches
of Anstruther Wester, Rhynd, and other.  John Rowle,
prior of Pittenweem, was one of the Lords of Session.  His
names first appears in the Sederunt Book, 5th November
1544.  In March 1542, he had been one of the Lords of
the Lords of the ARticles. In 1550 he accompanied the Regent
Murrays to France and died in 1553.  In 1583, William Stewart
of Darnley, obtained a charter of the priory and lands of Pitten-
weem, and was afterwards styled Commendator of the same.
In 1806, the landsand baronies belonging to the priory were
erected tinto a temporal lordship in favour of Frederick Stewart,
his son, who had farther charters in 1609 and 1618.  He died, as
is supposed a without issue, and the title has never since been claim-
ed.  Previous to his death e disponed the lordship to Thomas
Earl of Kellie, who, with consent of his son, Alexander Lord
Fenton, surrendered the superiority of the same into the hands of
the King.  A considerable portion of the buildings of the priory
is still standing and inhabited.  The prior's house is now the pro-
perty and the residence of the Rigth Rev. David Low, LL. D.,
Bishop of the Scottish Episcopal United Diocese of Ross and
Argyle.  The walls of the precinct are still entire, and withthe
other buildings serve to indicate the original extent of the priory
and its domains.
  FIFE                                  3R


