
56			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

easily stand without jostling one another. There are also some
large and stately trees on the estate of Carnsalloch. Two noble
files of beeches, planted by the late Alexander Johnston, Esq.
and which were among the first hedge-rows in this part of the
country, form, when they are in leaf, a fine berceau-canopy over
the head of the traveller on the public road, and afford him a plea-
sant vista on his way to or from Dumfries. Near the mansion-
house of Carnsalloch there is a Spanish or sweet chestnut, very
remarkable for its size and beauty. At the head of the huge
trunk, it branches out into four large arms nearly equal in size,
one of which was broken in February 1827 by a high wind, but
the other three are almost entire. In August 1826, this tree
contained 528 cubic feet of timber. The trunk now (Jan. 8, 1834,)
is 28 feet, each of the three remaining branches 11 feet in cir-
cumference, and the average diameter of the ground over-canopied
by its grandly spreading houghs is 18 paces!  Not far from Carn-
salloch gate,. on the cast side of the road, stands a venerable oak,
which contains 282 cubic feet of wood. The trunk itself contains
117 feet of solid timber, and is 9 feet 7 inches high, and 25 paces
are the average ground which this gnarled dignitary overhangs
with his giant arms. It is not yet twenty years since this tree was
seriously believed by some otherwise sensible persons to be haunted
by a spirit.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Historical Notices.--Four large estates, which in former times
were much more extensive than they are now, constituted the
principal part of this parish; and a short notice of these will, in
some degree, illustrate this head of its statistics.
	1. Dalswinton, or the Dale of Swinton. We find this estate
first in the possession of the Cumins, and afterwards in that of the
Stewarts. "In 1250, Sir John Cumin possessed the manor of
Dalswinton, and Duncol, or Duncow, and in that year he gave the
monks of Melrose a free passage through the lands of these ma-
nors to their granges in Nithsdale," (Dunscore ?); but, on the ac-
cession of Bruce, Dalswinton was granted to Walter Stewart, third
son of Sir John Stewart of Jedworth, and it remained in the pos-
session of the Galloway family till 1680, when, with some speci-
fied exceptions, the barony of Dalswinton was disponed to the
Duke of Queensberry. This estate became afterwards the pro-
perty of the Maxwells, and about fifty years ago, it was sold by
			      4


