
                	NEW CUMNOCK.                                    515

generally composed of a clay soil, incumbent upon the freestone
of the coal formation.
	The bottom of this valley through which the Nith runs, has
evidently, at an early period, consisted of several lakes both in the
upper part of the parish, as at Dalgig, and in the lower, as at and
below New Cumnock. There are still three small lakes above New
Curnnock, the highest of which discharges one half of its waters
into the Nith, and the other runs towards Old Cumnock and Ayr.
These lakes, in course of time, have been filled up by the debris of
the hills being washed down, and the growth of moss, and the lower-
ing of the channel of the river. They are now flat meadow lands,
having generally a fine alluvial soil, from one foot to ten feet deep,
reposing upon peat moss. These meadows are very much ne-
glected and covered with stagnant water, the greatest part of the
year; and consequently the hay produced is of the coarsest quality,
From the extensive exhalation from these swamps, fogs and frost
are produced which must be hurtful to the health of the people,
and injurious to the climate and the crops.
	Improving of Meadows.--Great improvements have been made
upon the meadow land of Mansfield by Sir Charles G. S. Men-
teath of Closeburn. The plan adopted in hmproving these mea-
dows, and for the purpose of irrigation so applicable in this dis-
trict, has been, after taking two white crops, to throw the ground
into beds or ridges with the spade, forty-five feet wide, and one and
a half raised from side to centre, the most pointed attention being
paid to the level: a drain or furrow, fifteen or eighteen inches
deep, is cut between every ridge, which serves all the purpose of
drains. In order to apply the water, large feeders, from three to
six feet wide, are cut round the head-ridge; and small feeders are
cut on the top of each ridge to communicate with the large or
main feeders, about eighteen inches wide at the upper, and dimi-
nisbing towards the lower end of the ridges, to cause the water to
overflow of itself, and fall into the furrow. These meadows are
sown out with the most approved permanent grasses, generally a
great portion of Timothy and Yorkshire fog, with a little rye-grass.
In this parish, great extent of meadow land is still in a state of na-
ture without a single drain to carry off the superabundant water.
This is by no means a remarkable circumstances as little attention
is paid to the improvement of meadow land in any part of Scotland.
Upwards of 150 acres are finished in this way, and a considerably
greater extent is in operation. This is the only effectual way of


