
     Statistical Account

their point; so that by the spring in the handles, they open
to receive the muscle, hold it fast, and pull it up to the sur-
face of the water.  He has a pouch or bag of net work hang-
ing by his side, to carry the muscles till he come ashore, where
they are opened.  The operation is much easier in shallow water.

   Trees.-The oak is the most numerous and the most valu-
able of our trees.  Our oak woods bring, at an average, about
15,000 L., at every cutting, to the different proprietors, once
in 24 or 25 years.  The oak bark is generally sold to the
tanners, on the Frith of Forth. at from 1 s. 2 d. to 1 s. 6 d. per
stone.  Our oak woods have lately been peeled to the ground,
and no visible bad consequence has followed that practice;
whereas formerly, they were only peeled to the ax or place
where the tree is cut.  The alder and the ash abound here.
We have bird cherry, willows of various kinds, and mountain
ash.  The bark of the two last is used in tanning leather, a-
long with oak bark.  The bark of the latter is a powerful
astringent, and is said not to be much inferior to the Peruvian
bark.  Our most numerous and extensive plantations are of
Scotch fir, or pine.  Although there are whole forests of this
species, which grow naturally in the north of Scotland, yet,
on the south side of the Tay, few or none are to be found
planted by the hand of nature.  Larch thrives exceedingly well,
and grows much taller than any other timber we have.  Spruce
firs, silver firs, New-England pines, elms, beaches, walnuts,
sweet chesnuts, horse chesnuts, white poplars, balsam poplars;
aspens, laburnums and hollies, have been planted here, and thrive
well. The laurel (laurus nobilis) bears well the severity of
the winters, and flowers every year.  The shrubs and under-
wood of this parish are much the same with those around it.

   Grain.-In this parish two kinds of oats are cultivated;
early oats, which yield less meal; and the late, or old Scotch

     6


