
     of Glentratben, or Lintrathen.

at present may be computed at nearly 9oo.  Of these about
50 are denominated farmers, who occupy certain propor-
tions of land, out of which they tear a scanty subsistence.
Few improvements have been made there in agriculture.
The old system prevails.  Some plots of turnip, flax, and 
sown grass appear; but oats and barley are the principal
productions of the ill cultivated soil.  Of these a sufficient
quantity is raised to supply the nececcities of the natives;
but there is no proper encouragement to industry. How-
ever sacred the promise of a seudal lord may be held, little
exertion will be made or can be expected, where no leases
are granted, and where heavy servitudes are imposed;
while a tenant subsists at the pleasure of the propietor,
and is bound to perform twelve carriages to the distance of
20 miles, even in seed-time or harvest, he will not display
that vigour and enterprise, by which his brethren in other
parts of the country have arrived at ease and opulence.
This is a disgraceful remain of a system humiliating to man,
and hostile to all improvement;  a system which, about 50 
years ago, prevailed in all its rigour throughout the nor-
thern part of Scotland, but which every enlightened land-
lord, desirous of the prosperity of his country, and of his 
own interest, has now abandoned.  There are no enclosures
nor plantations of trees, and scarcely one fifth of the parish
is arable.  The whole, perhaps, ought to be converted into
grass farms, the coldness of the climate, and poverty of the
soil, being inimical to cultivation.  No marl has been
found in this parish; and fuel for the purpose of burning
lime cannot be obtained.  With difficulty the inhabitants
procure peats, turf, and heath for domestick use.  These are
dug out of Newton moss, or torn from the surface of the 
mountains; and the preparing and carrying home of that
fuel consumes a great part of summer.- There is no trade 
nor manufactures in this corner, but such as is necessary
to the accommodation of the natives, and their wants are


