
      168                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

      but their benevolent exertions were counteracted by the culpable
      opposition of the heritors.  These Christian men, however, though
      discouraged, were not in despair.  They persevered, and in 1706
      Wick and Thurso were legally provided with schools.  In the
      course of the next twenty years, the legal accommodations had
      been obtained for Canisbay, Dunnet, Wattin, and Bower.  The
      remaining parishes were not provided for a long time afterwards;
      and even so late as 1772, Reay was without a statutory school.
      The Presbytery, while they continued to urge upon the heritors
      the fulfilment of their duty, did not rest satisfied with shuffling and
      idle excuses, but did what in them lay to secure for their people
      the blessings of education, by inviting into their parishes qualified
      teachers, and affording them every encouragement, by bestowing ou
      them the office and emoluments of session-clerk, and by constant-
      ly urging on the people the necessity of contributing to their sup-
      port: nor did they desist till they had procured from the heritors
      a legal salary and accommodation for all the schoolmasters within
      their bounds.  In 1759, the parish school of Wick had an income
      of 20 bolls of meal.  It has now the maximum endowment.
        But those enlightened and indefatigable Christians were not
      content with securing for each parish a statutory school; in ex-
      tensive parishes, they planted charity schools.  Several were es-
      tablished in the parish of Wick as early as 1728.  In April 12th
      1763, there is presented to the kirk-session, a list of several heads
      of families in Ulbster, who, for the purpose of obtaining a school
      oblige themselves to keep a certain number of scholars at it; to
      pay regularly their quarterly fees, and what meal they bind them-
      selves for;, whereupon the session declare their willingness ta give
      what assistance they can to a proper schoolmaster in that place,
      namely, L. 1, 5s.  Sterling a-year, to make up for those scholars
      whose parents are unable to pay the quarterly fees.  In 1792, five
      charity schools were in operation in the parish, but they have long
      ago been altogether discontinued.
        In 1765, the Rev. William Hallawall, who, for several years had
      been employed as an itinerant minister in Caithness, by the So-
      ciety for Propagating Christian Knowledge, but had latterly been
      chaplain to the Charity Workhouse of Edinburgh, and overseer
      of the children's education for more than twenty years, having " a
      peculiar regard for the inhabitants of that large and populous pa-
      rish of Wick, where I spent," says he, " a good part of my time
      in my younger years, with great satisfaction,"  mortified, in the


