
                  ATHELSTANEFORD.                           49

Marquis of Tweeddale, and brought with her a large accession of
property.  The present proprietor of the estate of East Forton, Sir
Francis Walker Drummond of Hawthornden, Bart., being a lineal
descendant of the noble house of Tweeddale, has the blood of Sir
Simon Frazer flowing in his veins.
   Antiquities.-When the road-man was opening a new quarry
three years ago for metal to the toads, in the spot where Athel-
stan is said to have been buried, he and his men being engaged re-
moving the stratum of earth which covered the rock found a stone
coffin containing the remains of a human body in a very decayed
state.  Part of the Cranium was not decomposed; a considerable
part of the under jaw remained, and the enamel on the teeth was
surprisingly white, considering the length of time the body had been
buried. The coffin was but two and a-half feet below the surface.
It was formed of five handsome freestones,-one at each side of the
body, one at the head, another at the feet, placed at right angles,
and one for a covering.  The stones forming the coffin had been
cemented together, with a fine paste made apparently of clay, to
prevent the admission of the external air.  A cavity had been cut
in the surface of the hard rock, six feet two inches in length, thirty
inches in breadth, and four in depth, in which the body had been
laid, and where it was found. The stones that formed the coffin
rested on the sides of the cavity on a bed of fine clay. Nothing
was found in, the coffin but what has been stated. An intelligent
mason examined, the stones, and was of the opinion that no free-
stone of the same quality as that which formed the coffin has hitherto
been found nearer to Athelstaneford than at the distance of eight
miles.  The under jaw and coffin of the warrior are in the posse's-
sion of Sir David Kinloch, the proprietor of the estate of Athel-
staneford.
   History records that the lands on which the battle of Athelstane-
ford was fought and won, were given by the King of the Scots to
the Culdee Priory of St Andrews, as an acknowledgment of gra-
titude to Heaven for the victory obtained.  At the Reformation,
when monkish institutions were abolished in Scotland, these lands
were conferred on the Chapel Royal of Holyroodhouse with
which they are still connected and form a considerable part of the
income drawn by the present dean or deans of that venerable fane.
The late Sir David Kinloch, Bart. of Gilmerton, obtained from the
Crown a perpetual lease of these lands at the following rent:-
wheat, 46 bolls, Linlithgow measure; barley, 51 bolls ditto; oats,
HADDINGTON,                         D


