
80                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

it from the parish of Kingarth. It appears that the formation of
this parish was mainly or rather wholly owing to the laird of Ar-
dincaple, who generously built the church at his own expense, be-
sides gaiving land for it and for the glebe. Whether the situation
of the church was ever a convenient one for the inhabitants is
more than questionable, from its position on the western skirts 6f
the parish, and its being twelve miles from its northern termination.
Now, however, that the burgh of Helensburgh and its immediate
neighbour have a population of about 1600, and those at the
distance of between two and three miles from the church, there
an be no doubt as to its present inconvenient locality. The
present church was built in 1763, and an addition made to it in
1827. There are nearly 700 sittings, the larger portion of which
are common. The present manse was built in 1829. The glebe
contains about 10 acres, and is worth L.20 per annum. The
amount of stipend is 98 bolls of meal, and L.55, including com-
munion elements. Its average for the last six years has been
L.136, 5s. 11d.
  Last summer a church in Connection with the Establishment
was built at Gareloch-head, about six miles from the parish church.
It must, however, continue for some time merely a preaching sta-
tion, in consequence of a want of an endowment, and the difficulty
of obtaining a bond for the stipend of an ordained minister. It is,
however, an essential blessing to that district of the parish, and is
a gratifying memorial of the liberality of many of the generous
fouars in the parish, by whose large subscriptions it was chiefly
built.
  There is one place of worship in Helensburgh in connection
with the Old Light Burghers, and another in connection with the
Independents. The stipend of both of the ministers arises from
the seat-rents and collections on Sabbaths. That of the first
amounts to L. 100, and of the second to L. 70.  The number of
communicants in the Established Church amounts to 600; that
of the Old Light Burghers from this and the neighbouring parishes
of Cardross and Roseneath, amounts to 115; those of the Inde-
pendents to 32.
  Education.--There are at present 8 schools in the parish.  Of
these, one is the parochial school, situated near the church of Row.
The salary of the teacher amounts to L. 36; and the school fees
average about L. 30.  Two of the remaining ones are endowed
each with L.10 annually, arising from a piece of land in Glen-


