
                                   ADERNYTE.                       221


                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
           Land-Owners.-There are seven heritors, but none resident ex-
        cept one.  James Miller, Esq. of Milton, and R. A. Bannerman,
        Esq. of Abernyte, are the principal heritors in point of valuation.
        Lord Kinnaird, too, is a non-resident heritor, whose ancestors in
        very ancient times resided in their beautiful domain of Kinnaird,
        in this neighbourhood, whence they derived their name.
          Parochial Register.-The parochial register commenced in the
        year 1664.    The first entry is in these words:
          "December 4, 1664.  The whilk day Mr Androw Shippert
        was admitted minister of Aberneit, by Mr Robert White, minister
        at lnstur, being authorized by my Lord Bishop of Dunkelden to
        that effect."  "Collected that day 7 shillings two pennies." (Scots.)
        At the first meeting of session, the new minister found, that there
        was no session record, nothing in the poor's box, no money lent
        out, and no mortification for behoof of the poor.  He preached
        his first sermon on Romans 8th ch. ii.; and on every succeeding
        Sabbath for a long time, the entry in the session book is, "the
        minister preached both sermons upon his ordinar."     There is
        something intererting about church discipline, which was frequent
        and severe.   But the register is not very regularly kept.
          Antiquities-" Upon the top of a hill called Glenny law, are
        two cairns," said the Rev.  James Adamson "and a few years ago
        there was another on the grdbe, under which a few bones were found.
        These ca 'irns were said to have been raised in consequence of a
        battle between two powerful families, the Grays of Fowlis, and the
        Boyds of Pitkindie, in this parish, in which the latter, Were victo-
        rious.  On the same hill, is one of those circles called Druidical,
        consisting now of only seven stones.  And in Stockmuir, about a
        mile from this one, there is another of nine stones; both consisted
        of more; three or four have been taken from the first not long ago.
        In a few years there will be no vestige of either.  Upon the top of
        King's Seat there is the ruin of a circular enclosure, similar to Mac-
        beth's Castle, but much smaller.  This commanded a more exten-
        sive prospec t than the castle itself; probably a watch-tower or out-
        post."
        I The "Long Man's Grave" is a noted spot at the road side,
        northeast from the classic ground of Dunsinnan hill.  There
        is a tradition that a traveller had committed suicide there. Hence
        perhaps, he was buried there.  Others say he was murder-
        ed. North from Ballairdie, in the planting, are some remains  of


