
		          UNITED PARISHES OF

			FOSSOWAY AND TULLIEBOLE.

	PRESBYTERY OF AUOHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH & STIRLING.

                    THE REV. PETER BRYDIE, MINISTER.

		   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	   Name.-THE name ir found written variously; formerly it was
	Fossowhey, Fossoquhey, and sometimes Fossoquich; at present it
	is often Fossaway;-but the more correct spelling is supposed to be
	Fossoway. The first of these modes of spelling favours the conjecture,
	that it is composed of two Gaelic words signifying the
	"desert of the deer." Tulliebole is also thought to be of Gaelic
	origin, and to signify "the Poet's hill."
	   Extent and Boundaries.-The figure of the parish is very irregular.
	The river Devon forms one of its boundaries to the extent of about
	nine miles.  The course which that river here follows is not unlike
	the form of a shepherd's crook, having the long end in the low ground
	pointing westward in the direction of Stirling, and the other in the
	Ochil Hills, on the north, pointing nearly due west.  The bend
	which the river thus makes is called the "Crook of Devon."  The
	lands within its curve, are, as respects the southern and greater
	portion of them, in the parish of Muckart, and the remainder in
	that of Glendovan.  Fossoway is wholly on the outside of the
	curve, and stretches from it to the opposite boundary on the north,
        east, and south, to an extent varying from about two to five miles.
	Its greatest length from east to west is about II miles, and its
	greatest breadth about 10. Besides adjoining the two p`rishes
	already mentioned, it adjoins Dunning on the north; Orwell and
	Kinross on the east; Cleish and Saline on the south ; and Clackmannan
	and Dollar on the west.  It extends to within a few hundred
	yards of the Church of Cleish on the south-east, and to with-in
	about half a mile of that of Glendovan in the opposite direction.
	  Topoqraphical Appearances.-Fossoway and Tuiliebole, originally
	two separate parishes, were, it is supposed, united about the
	year 1614. The former consists of two extensive districts; the


