
26                     RENFREWSHIRE.

sometimes brought from the Highlands.  At other times potatoes,
&c. are shipped here.  A commodious quay was built last year, at
an expense of about, L. 800, and the harbour is still susceptible
of important improvements.  As the quay runs chiefly along the
canal, it might, at comparatively small expense, have also the ad-
vantage of a wet dock.  Let the canal be widened and the quay
extended, and a flood-gate thrown across the mouth of the for-
mer, and vessels might be discharged without the agitation of even
a steamer's surke.  And from the width and openness of the river
below this, sailing vessels would be generally able to come up with-
out the aid of any dragger.

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Trade and Means of Communication.-Renfrew, though a coun-
ty town, has no regular market, except fairs, which are chiefly for
cattle ; the principal market-towns in the neighbourhood being
Glasgow and Paisley.  The former of these is little more than four
miles from the nearest extremity of the parish, and the latter
scarcely a mile and a-half.  The means of communication with other
parts of the country are very abundant.  As the Clyde passes through
the parish, we have the advantage of nearly all the steamers to and
from Glasgow.  During five days of the week, we have a daily
coach to Glasgow; and during summer, another goes to Paisley
six or seven times a-day.  In addition to these, we have three car-
riers to Glasgow, and two, foot-runners, to Paisley.  Those who live
on the north side of the river have not so many opportunities, yet
they also have considerable means of intercourse.  Our post-office
is a sub-office to Paisley, and we have two arrivals from Paisley,
and one by the Dumbarton post, on the north side of the river.  Few
parishes are so much intersected with roads and rivers. Two public
roads run parallel to each other on the two sides of the Clyde,-the
one, the old Glasgow and Greenock road, and the other, the Glas-
gow and Dumbarton road.  The former runs about a mile and a-half
in the parish, and the other about two and a-half.  These are chiefly
from east to west.  Another public road runs from Paisley north-
wards, crossing the former of these in Renfrew, proceeding to the
ferry, and thence to the Dumbarton road; extending to about
two miles within the parish.  Another proceeds north and north-
east from the Dumbarton road to the north-west extremity of the
parish, and extending perhaps to about a mile and a-half.  A fifth,
of about the same extent, runs from inchinan Bridge southwards
towards Paisley; and a sixth crosses the south-west extremity,
running about half a-mile within the parish.  A railway has also


