
250                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

parish, and the inhabitants are supplied chiefly from wells. The
Supply thence derived, however, is abundant, and the quality
wholesome. A brook or burn, indeed, rises in the higher grounds,
and running in a north-west direction nearly through the centre
of the parish, falls into Gosford bay, but it is at no time consider-
able, and is dry, or nearly so, every summer. Another small stream
forms the south-west boundary of the parish, and pursues a similar
course, but its channel is also empty during the summer's drought.
The principal stream, though still very inconsiderable, connected
with the parish is the Peffer, which after a sluggish course of about
five miles over a bed of clay, enters Aberlady bay from the east,
at Luffness point. It is distinguishable, however, at low water
about a mile further west, and near this point is the harbour or
rather anchorage ground of Aberlady. At spring-tides vessels of
sixty or seventy tons burden can ascend the bed of the Peffer
thus far, and lie tolerably secure; but they cannot easily get out
to sea again when the wind is westerly. This harbour or anchor-
age ground is, in virtue of a royal grant, confirmed by the Scot is
Parliament in 1633, the Port of Haddington; but the grant is
unproductive, as the trade is trifling.- Throughout the whole of
this parish, the coast is low, and the tide retires from it in some
points to a great distance. Still, however, the water seems to be
gaining, though very slowly, on the land, partly, perhaps, from the
operation of general causes, and partly from the habit of quarrying
and carting away the natural bulwarks against the encroachments
of the sea.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-It is not supposed that, with the ex-
ception of some rocks a little to the west of the ancliorage-ground
already spoken of, any part of this parish has attracted much at-
tention from the geological inquirer, nor is it believed that it will
yield on the whole any considerable harvest to the cultivators of
that important and interesting science. Everywhere along the
shore, there are manifest proofs that the sea stood at a higher level
at some remote era than it does now, or has done within the
period of historical record; and it is not to be questioned that much
of that which is now well cultivated and productive land was once
swampy and worthless. The soil of the parish is of various quality.
Near the sea it is light and sandy; the sand having been evi-
dently blown from the beach, and in some places covering, to the
depth of a foot or more, land bearing indubitable traces of former
cultivation. A little further inland, there is a considerable breadth
                                    4


