
                            PARISH OF GOVAN.

             PRESBYTERY OF GLASGOW, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                      THE REV. M. LEISHMAN, MINISTER.


                     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-ACCORDING to Lesly, the parish of Govan obtained
its name from the excellence of its ale, which, in his days, was fam-
ed over the whole of Scotland.  This beverage, (???, *
barley-wine,) he tells us, was made without hops, and after being
kept for about seven years, was found, in its taste and colour, to
be so like Malvoisie ( Malveticum vinum,) as to be mistaken fre-
quently for this wine. +  Lesly supposed, therefore, it would appear,
though he does not say this, that the name of the parish was com-
pounded of the two Saxon words god win, (good wine). ++
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish, quoad civilia, is about six
miles long. and near the centre, where it is widest, about three
miles broad.  It is bounded by Renfrew on the west; New Kil-
patrick, Barony, and Glasgow on the north; Barony, Gorbals, and
Ruthlerglen on the east; and by Cathcart, Eastwood, and the
Abbey parish of Paisley on the south.  It lies chiefly in Lanark-
shire, and contains about ten square miles.  The lands of Haggs,
Titwood, and Shields, belonging to Sir John Maxwell, are situat-
ed in the county of Renfrew.  Hamilton of Wishaw says, S that
these lands were disjoined from the sheriffdom of Lanark, and an-

<FOOTNOTE>Herod, lib. ii. cap. 77.  Boethius, when describing "the maneris and leiffing
of our auld faderis," says of them, "the common drink that thay usit was ayll."
(Hist. Scot. Introd. Desc. Cap. xvi. Bellenden's translation.) "Come hostess,"
says Piscator, "give us some of your best barley wine, the good liquor that our ho-
nest forefathers did use to drink of."  Isaac Walton's Complete Angler, Part ]. Chap.
v., first published in 1653.
          Region, et Insul, Scotia Descriptio, Ioanne Leslao, Episcopo Rossensi, pp. 4,
10. Roman 1578.  Reprinted, 1675.
          This etymology, whatever may be thought of it in other respects, is at least as
good as another which has been hazarded, and which we are afraid the Trustees
on the river Clyde will be greatly shocked.   As this river intersects the parish, it has
been imagined, that the name Govan may have been derived from gamhan, which in
Gaelie is pronounced, we are informed, gavan, and signifies a ditch.  Chalmers's Ca-
ledonia,  Vol iii. p. 674.
          Description of the Sherifdom of Lanark and Renfrew, p. 29.  Printed by the
Maitland Club, 1831.


