
     of St Andrews.

New College.  In 1747, on a petition from the masters of
the 2 colleges of St Salvator's, and St Leonard's the Par-
liament united these 2 colleges into one Society, under the
designation of the United College.  These colleges are in-
dependent of each other in their revenues and discipline.
The Senatus Academicus, or University meeting, consists of
the principals and professors of both colleges, which have a
common interest in the library.  The preses of this meet-
ing is the Rector or his depute.  The higher academical
degrees are granted by the University.  The Rector con-
fers the degree of Master of Arts, on the recommendation of
the Faculty of Arts in the United College.  The Dean and
Faculty confer the degree of Bachelor of Arts.  The Rec-
tor is chosen annually, on the first Monday of March, by
the Comitia of the University, consisting of the Rector,
Principals and Professors of both colleges, with the stu-
dents of divinity, of moral and of natural philosophy;
all these masters and students are divided, according to the
place of their birth, into 4 nations, Fifans, Angusians, Lo-
thians, and Albans, which last class comprehends all who
belong to none of the first 3.  Each nation chooses an In-
trant, and the 4 Intrants name the Rector.  If the votes
of the Intrants, are equally divided, the last Rector, who
is preses of the Comitia, has the casting voice.  The only
persons eligible into the office of rectorate, are the princi-
pals and the professors of divinity, who are disigned Viri
majoris dignitatis ac nominis, or Viri Rectorales.  The Rec-
tor immediately after his instalment, (which is performed
by his putting on the gown of office*, being a purple robe

     VOL. XIII. B b

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Principals and professors, in session time, wear black gowns, like
those used by the clergy in Scotland  The students in the United College
wear gowns of red or scarlet freeze, without sleeves.  The students of divi-
nity have no disinguishing garb or dress.


