
		            CARLUKE.     		  583

cupies a commanding situation on the high ground which over-
hangs the vale of Clyde, and is a commodious and handsome struc-
ture.
        Parochial Registers.-The parish registers are preserved in five
volumes, two of which (the oldest) are much tattered, the others
in good preservation. The first entry of session proceedings bears
date 6th August 1645. The minutes are regularly kept from
that time till March 1646, whence there is an omission till 1650.
Another omission occurs extending from 1662 to 1694. From
the latter year until 1813, an exact account of session matters has
been preserved. From 1813, however, no regular entry of mi-
nutes had been made till 1832. A list of births, &c. has been
kept from 1735 to the present time, but it is, of course, very li-
limited. *
        Ecclesiastical History.-As stated in a former part of this account,
the church of Carluke, with its teinds, and all its rights and per-
tinents, was granted by Robert I. to the monks of Kelso. They,
accordingly, continued to enjoy its revenues, performing the duties
of the parish, through meaus of a curate, until the year 1586.+
At that period the Earl of Bothwell, commendator of the abbacy
of Kelso, granted to Sir James Maxwell of Calderwood, a lease
of the teinds of Carluke, for a lifetime, and nineteen years after-
wards, at a rent of 110 merks yearly. In 1617, this lease was ex-
tended to two additional lifetimes and two nineteens. In 1607,
about twenty years after the grant to Sir James Maxwell, the ab-
bacy of Kelso being erected into a temporal lordship in favour of
Robert, Lord Roxburgh, the teinds of Carluke passed into the
possession of that nobleman, reserving, however, the rights of the
Calderwood family during the continuance of their tack. In 1637,
Maxwell of Calderwood sold, to the several heritors, the right to
their respective teinds during the remainder of his long lease. The
landholders of the parish having, accordingly, for nearly two cen-
turies, been required to pay only that portion of their teinds which

<FOOTNOTE>From an entry in one of the session books, Mr John Scott, when translated to
Glasgow appears to have carried off with him a volume of parish records of a date
between 1662 and 1694 Mr Scott's heirs would be doing no more than an act of
justice, were they to examine his papers, and return the book (if it is still extant)
to the proper owners. An entry in the session-book, bearing date 27th February
1656, refers to an act of session, recorded in the books of date " Maii 1636." This
is also lost.
	+ James Cunningham of Glencairn appears to have obtained a grant of Canluke
teinds, prior even to that date. In his account of this matter, Chalmers does not dis-
play his supposed accuracy.


