
     Statistical Account

for the support of the poor.  The public funds are ample,
and fully adequate to that purpose.  The number upon the
poor's roll is from 12 to 15, who are regularly supplied every
quarter.  Besides those upon the roll, there are others who
receive occasional supply in coals, in the payment of their
house rents, and are assisted in educating their children.  The
common people, in general, are ashamed to receive public
charity.  In order to preserve this sense of shame, which is
one of the best guardians of virtue, the kirk-session give a
power to the farmers to give such of their dependents as are
in want, corn and other necessaries which they may judge
proper, for which they are paid out of the public funds.
At other times, some of them that are in distress, are reliev-
ed by giving them money in the way of loan, which they are

<FOOTNOTE>

that high department in the law with much honour to himself,
and advantage to his country, is a native of this place.  His
father was minister of this parish, a gentleman eminent for his
learning and piety.  He possessed considerable poetical talents,
and was author of a small poem, entitled, The Grave, much
admired for its elegance and poetical merit.  The first modern
tragedy in the English language was written by the celebrated
author of it when minister of this parish.  When this is said, it
is almost unnecessary to add, that the Tragedy of Douglas,
written by Mr John Home, is here meant; for it is universally
allowed, that the tragic muse never wears her "Weeds of
"Woe" so gracefully, or with such happy effect, as in the
character of Lady Randolph.  Mr Home was 10 years minister
of this parish; and, during his incumbency, was not less ad-
mired as a preacher, than he has been since as a poet.  Upon
demitting his charge, he built an elegant villa in the parish, and
laid out the ground about it with great taste.  It adds much
to the beauty of this place.  Painting, too, the sister art of po-
etry, has been cultivated here with taste and advantage.  The
son of a respectable farmer in this parish, from his earliest years
discovered a remarkable genius for drawing and painting.  As
he advanced in life, he applied chiefly to miniatures, in which
he excelled, For these several years past, he has been in Italy;
and there is good reason to believe that he ranks among the
first artists in that country.


