
424                     ARGYLESHIRE.

thos who claimed to represent the Lords of the Isles, and grant-
ed them, de novo, charters holding of the Crownd; but the descend-
ants of John of Antrim claimed Kintyre, and their vassals still
adhering to the representative of their ancient Lords, James V.
found it necessary, in 1536, to make an expedition to Kintyre to
subdue the Macdonalds; he built the castle of Kilkerran, and
placed a garrison in it, but James Macdonal, then chieftain of
the clan, destroyed the garrison, and demolished the walls.  His
son Angus, and M'Lean of Duart, carried on a savage feud of ex-
termination against each other, and being prevailed on in 1591,
to go to court for the purpose of having their differences reconcil-
ed, they were both committed prisoners to the Castle of Edin-
burgh, but were afterwards released on payment of a small fine.
Angus, however, continued to display his innate cruelty in acts
of the most cold-blooded murder.  He resided chiefly at the
Castle of Lochhead (now Campheltown).  He put the forti-
fication of Dunaverty, in this parish, in a state of repair, as
it was the principal channel of communication between him
and Antrim.  He repeatedly resisted and defied the Govern-
ment, and being complained of by his Protestant neighbours, the
Earl of Argyle, who was in arms after having suppressed an in-
surrection among the clans in the north, was ordered to march
against him.  On his approach, Angus and his son James, with
their followers, fled to Ireland, when Argyle Obtained quiet pos-
session of Kintyre.  The lands of Macdonald were then forfeited
to the Crown, and gifted by King James VI. to the Earl of Ar-
gyle.  In the course of a few years thereafter, Angus was par-
doned for all his crimes, and a pension was bestowed on his son,
who was knighted, but the lands were never restored.  Sir James
died without issue, when Kintyre was claimed by Coll Macdo-
nald, commonly called Coll Kittoch, from his being left-handed.
Some writers say he was a natural son of the Earl of Antrim, and
a late author of the History of the Highlands and of the High-
land Clans, calls him a native of Iona; but the traditions in this
parish is, that he was the nearest and lawful heir of Sir James
Macdonald.  Coll Macdonald, who was noted for his strength
and prowess, left no means untried to harass Argyle, and recover
possession of the lost territories of his family.  He, with the aid
of his partizans, took violent possession of the Island of Collonsay,
and, aided by his clansmen in Islay, frequently invaded Kintyre
for the purpose of plunder.  His son, Alexander, commanded the


