
                      DUMBARTON.                          7

M'Aulay of Ardineaple, and left several sons and daughters.
His youngest son, Archibald Smollett, was the father of the
celebrated Dr Tobias Smollett, the author of "Roderick Ran-
dom." Dr Smollett was not born in the parish of Dumbar-
too: his birth-place being in the neighbouring parish of Car-
dross; but it was at the school of Dumbarton, then taught by
Mr John Love, that he received his first lessons in classical
learning. His biographer, Dr Anderson, thus speaks of him
at that period : "The first blossoms of his poetical genius appear-
ed at this early period of his life : They were chiefly satirical
verses on his school-fellows, whose character and conduct disgust-
ed him ; and were remembered, as they evinced, when a boy, the
sensibility of his temper, and his disposition to chastise insolence
and expose rudeness." * When he had received the ordinary
course of school education, he went to the University of Glasgow
but does not appear after that to have bad any connection with
the parish.
  Mr John Love, the master of the school of Dumbarton, was a
native of the parish of Dumbarton, and born in the year 1695.
He received his education at the University of Glasgow, and he
was elected about the year 1720, master of the school of Dumbar-
ton. This school had been for a long time prior, a celebrated one
for classical education; it is said that George Buchanan the histo-
rian, received part of his education here;+ this, however, is uncer-
tain. Mr Love, after labouring for fifteen years in Dumbarton,
was promoted to the High School of Edinburgh. He continued
there about four years, when he was removed to the school of Dal-
keith in 1739. Mr Love, along with Mr Robert Hunter, A. M.
Professor of Greek in the University of Edinburgh, published
an edition of Buchanan's Translation of the Psalms. The book
was printed by the Ruddimans, and was published in 1737.
This edition of that beautiful translation is the best which has yet
been published. Love was a very great admirer of the writings of
George Buchanan, and became engaged in a sharp controversy
with one Mr William Lauder, who endeavoured to prove that
Johnston's version of the Psalms was superior to that of Buchanan.
In 1740, Love wrote a pamphlet entitled Buchanan's, and John-
ston's paraphrase of the Psalms compared;$ and in 1749, he pub-

<FOOTNOTE>Anderson's Life of Dr Smollett.
  Mackenzie's Lives of Scots Writers, Vol. iii. page 156.
  Edinburgh, 1737, 8vo.                 Do. 1740, 8vo.


