
392                              AYRSHIRE.

now about L. 1200. There is not so much grain raised now as
formerly on some of the best land in the parish, a great part of it
having been laid down in pasture, with large plantations inter-
spersed. It is perhaps in consequence of this altered style of cul-
tivation that the village contiguous to the church contains now 550
instead of 170 inhabitants, as formerly. Several parts of the pa-
rish, which were known as separate farms of considerable extent,
are at present without a single dwelling upon them. Notwith-
standing the increase of the population, and the larger mass that
is assembled in one place, the number of ale-houses or spirit-
shops is diminished by more than a half. There were formerly
eighteen, there are now only eight. The number was restricted
lately from a conviction of the injurious effects which the facility of
obtaining ardent spirits must produce on the morals of the people.
The only other observation which it seems necessary to make re-
spects the incre`sed means of education. Formerly several fa-
milies in the remote parts of the parish united together to engage
a private teacher, for two or three months, for the benefit of their
children. That system is now unnecessary; and the poorest cbil-
dren, by attending at the Sunday schools, have an excellent op-
portunity both of being instructed in the truths of religion, and of
keeping Up any little education which they have received. There
are six schools of that description in the parish. *
	September 1837.

<FOOTNOTE>A very remarkable instance recently occurred of the tenacity of human life, or
the length of time that existence may be continued without any apparent means of
support. At the end of twenty-three days, a man, who had been enclosed in a coal-
pit, was taken out alive.
	On October 8, 1835, about five in the morning, part of the Kilgrammie coal-pit,
on the estate of Bargany, fell in. The crush continued for two days, so as to render
it extremely dangerous to enter the pit. All the colliers escaped except John Brown,
an unmarried man, above sixty, who either did not hear the noise of the fall, or disre-
garded it, till he found himself enclosed in the ruins. Attempts were made to ex-
tricate him at different times; but the foul air which had collected in the pit, and
other circumstances, prevented their success. The idea of his being alive after a fort-
night was scarcely entertained by any one. But the place where Brown had been
at work, all continued anxious to reach. Great progress was made in clearing a
passage to it on October 30th. Some of the colliers, in the belief that groans had
been heard, returned to the work in the course of the night, and after three hours'
labour, they found him lying on the ground, still living, and able to recognize them,
but so feeble, that the utmost he could say was the first syllable of one of their names.
The aperture by which they had entered was so low and small, for a considerable
way, that it was only by laying him on a board, and shoving it along, that he could
be taken out. A considerable time also had to pass before he could be raised to the
pit head, as at three or four in the morning, none were astir but the men who were with
him. During the interval, they stripped themselves of their own clothes, to cover
him from the air. One had the mains of a piece of bread and butter which he had
carried with him to the pit, and with the butter he rubbed the poor man's lips, which
were excessively dry and parched. Another ran to a distance by the level, and raised
                   			 3


