
                                  PARISH OF WEEM.

                  PRESBYTERY OF WEEM, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                      THE REV.  ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, MINISTER.

                        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name.-- THE name of this parish must undoubtedly have been
       derived from the Gaelic word, vamk or vamha, signifying a cave.
       But of the cave, which was the origin of the name, and is said to
       have afforded frequent shelter to the lawless and oppressed, no
       trace whatever is now to be found.
          Extent, &c.--It would be difficult to give any thing like an ac-
       curate account of the extent of this parish, from the manner in
       which it is disjoined and intersected by others.  The following
       remarks on the separate parts may, however, be suitably in-
       troduced.
          Glenlochay.--Several extensive farms of this parish are in this
       glens, which runs north-west of the village of Killin, and is thinly
       inhabited for an extent of eight miles; and even these farms are
       disjoined and intermixed with other parishes.  There is here a
       considerable quantity of good arable land, but the whole district
       is chiefly pastoral.  The grazings are excellent; and some of the
       stocks of sheep reared, in it are said to be seldom equalled, and
       scarcely surpassed, in the prices which they bring in the markets of
       the south.  The intersecting and bounding parishes are those of
       Kenmore and Killin.
         Achmore.--This district, of which the eastern boundary is
       nearly in a straight line south from the parish church of Killin,
       extends more than two miles eastward, first for a short way on the
       south bank of the river Dochart, and then of Lochtay.  It also is
       chiefly pastoral.  A considerablel part is wooded, and the greater
       part is in the posession of the proprietor.  The parishes which
       bound it are the preceding.
         Crannich.--This district extends about two miles on the north
       side of Lochtay, somewhat nearer the west end of it, and is bound-
				   3


