
156                        FIFESHIRE.

and weeds had gained full possession of the soil, that one would
imagine that nothing but the most imperative necessity or the worst
motives should induce a farmer to depart from it. In the immedi-
ate vicinity of the town, summer fallow is now little practised, and
potatos generally come instead, /f*-a crop which always meets with
a constant and ready demand. Turnips, too, are very frequently
substituted for beans,-after which, uniformly follows a crop of bar-
ley. Throughout the whole of this parish, agricultural operations are
carried on with spirit and assiduity, and nowhere during the last
forty years has the face of the country undergone a greater change.
The farmers are, generally speaking, men of capital and skill, and
there is no tried improvement in modern farming which has not
been adopted and pursued with success. The situation of the
parish is favourable for agricultural improvement and enterprise.
The populous community of Kirkaldy, with its weekly markets, makes
a ready demand for all kinds of farm produce, and there is no part
of the parish distant from coal and lime. To those near the towns,
the stables and streets afford a regular supply of dung at a mode-
rate expense; and sea-weed is occasionally to be had for the trouble
of collecting and driving. But if the farmers in this parish are thus
favoured in regard to situation, they are no less so in regard to their
respective landlords, who are men of liberality and discernment, and
afford every encouragement to honest and persevering industry.
The farms are all of that size which is favourable to improvement,
and the leases are uniformly of nineteen years duration. + The
dwelling-houses and offices are likewise good, and for the most part
new, and the fields are all well enclosed and subdivided with stone
walls or hedges.
    There are no sheep bred in this parish, and none to be seen in
it except a few scores kept in the enclosures about Raith, and be-
longing to Mr Ferguson. They are of the Cheviot breed, and
seem to thrive well on the fine pasture on which they are fed.
There are also but few black-cattle reared in this parish,-the land
being too valuable to be kept long in pasture. Those preferred
are of the Fife breed, which, in their sure state, are known by their
black colour, length and fineness of their horns, shortness of their

<FOOTNOTE>The profit arising in the neighbourhood of the town is very great;-L. 12, L. 16,
L.,'20, and sometimes even L. 24 per acre have been received for potatos, before they
have been dug up.
     To this, the fields in the neighbourhood of the town form an exception-which
are frequently parcelled out for the convenience of persons residing in the town . who
wish to cultivate only a few acres, and are generally let from year to year without
any lease or written agreement.


