
500                         ARGYLESHIRE.

consequently can be less distinctly traced.  A little to the west of
the farm-house of Achnacreebeg, there are two small stone circles
of unequal diameter; and there are not wanting grounds for sup-
posing that these were enclosed within a larger circle, the stones
of which have been removed. On the top of the stones composing
the smaller circles, large slabs of granite were laid ; and the cause
of wonder is, how masses so large could, without the aid of machinery,
be conveyed to the places where they now are, and raised up so
as to be laid over the stones which form the circles. They pro-
bably present the remains of Druidical superstition. There are
also a number of cairns, or artificial collections of stones of various
sizes, throughout the parish. The largest perhaps in the country
is in the moss of Achnacree. It was enclosed, more than twenty
years ago, by General Campbell, and trees have been planted
around it. Beside it, and within the enclosure, there seem to have
been two or more Druidical circles, composed of very large stones.
Stone coffins, as they have been called, are still occasionally found,
and in situations where no one would expect to meet with them.
On the farm of Kiel, near Locbnell House, a coffin of this kind
was lately discovered, some feet below the surface of gravel which
formed the subsoil of a moss at least four feet in depth. It con-
tained a rude urn, in which were human bones, and which, though
they probably lay there for more than a thousand years, were won-
derfully entire, and resisted the influence of the atmosphere when
exposed to it. Similar urns have been found in tumuli in other
places of the same district, one in particular, near to the Loch-
nell school-house.  Among the calcined bones in this urn, some-
thing was observed of a lighter colour than the other subst`nces
enclosed. This turned out to be a flint arrow-head, with which,
probably, the individual whose remains were deposited in the urn
had been transfixed. The arrow-head is now in the possession of
Professor Pillans of Edinburgh. Ancient coins have likewise been
found where few would think of searching for them. In the year
1829, a party were digging a grave in the burial-ground at Bal-
maddan, it being, no uncommon thing here, when such parties
come from a distance, that the grave is not prepared till they come
with the interment.  When the diggers had reached a depth of
more than four feet below the surface, they observed several shin-
ing substances at their feet, which some said were shells, and
others maintained to be old buttons, but which turned out to be
mail silver coins of the reian of Edward, and presenting on the


