
538                            FIFESHIRE.

remains which were some years age ploughed up in Hill-Cairnie
Myre. One skeleton of the deer species was found with immense
horns, both in point of height and breadth. It is now in the pos-
session of Professor Fleming of Aberdeen. This must either have
been a distinct species from any which we now meet with; or the
roe-deer, enjoying perfect liberty, abundance of meat, and extent
of country, and, freed from the presence and persecution of man,
must then have reached a size of which, in the present day, we
have no conception. The badger is seldom seen; and I was not
aware that the otter was ever seen here, until last year.
   Woods.-Along with the writer of the last Statistical Account,
we have to lament the want of woods and plantations. With these
judiciously scattered through the parish, and on the hill-tops, Kil-
many would present a scene which the man of taste would delight
to contemplate. But, by most of the ors, little has been one
to make it one of the most beautiful parishes in Scotland. From
this censure, David Gillespie, Esq., and John A. Thomson,  Esq.
and Captain Pearson, are excepted. Mountquhanie, under the
fostering, hands of Mr Gillespie, has become a spleadid residence.
The woods planted by him, on the neighbouring hills, to the north-
west and south, are yearly adding to the charms of his estate. The
state of Kilmany in this respect, was equally improved by the cor-
rert taste If the late Mr Thomson. The hills which separate
Kilmany from the Tay were planted by him, and are now clothed
with trees. Walks were cut through them, from which the Tay,
the Carse of Gowrie, and the Angus hills are seen. Myre-Cair.
nie-hill, and the top of the ridge, which runs from it towards the
east, are completely covered with wood, affording a striking object
to the eye, and shelter, and climate to the soil. Whilst on these
properties, the plantations have been, increased,-on other estate,
they -have been considerably diminished. The beautiful hill of
Rathillet, which was covered with fine dark fir trees, is nom bare
almost to its summit.  A part of it has been again planted with
larch, but many years must elapse befor it regains its late splen-
did and romantic appearance. The plantations on the top of East
Kinnear are now being cut. However much their removal will
add to the arable acres of the farm, it does not improve its external
apperance. It has given to this estate, when viewed from the
south, a cold and bleak aspect, which it did not formerly possess.
The old wood of the parish is about the mansion houses of Mount-
quhanie. Lochmalonie, and Rathillet, &c ; and some fine trees


