
                         CAERLAVEROCK.                  361

Account. The management of the fund has not become easier--
but, on the contrary, as may easily be supposed, is the source of
much annoyance to the minister and session. Still it is pleasant to
contemplate the good that may be done by adopting a system of
judicious rigour. Those whose poverty has been the result, of
early proligacy must not be starved into crime; but they must of
not be put on an equal footing with the temperate and industrious,
whose poverty has been caused by old age, sickness, or misfortune.
The trustees are furnished with ample and unquestionable powers
to observe this distinction. They are left to the uncontrolled
exercise of their conscience in selecting the objects of charity, and
the increasing revenue will enable them to bestow a bounty upon
vhrtue and industry, when overtaken by poverty.
	Fuel, &c.--Peat is the fuel most commonly used, but such far-
mers as live at a greater distance from the moss than a mile, would
perhaps employ their men and horses more profitably in summer-
fallowing their land than in leading peats. A cart-load of coals
may be had at the shore for 7s. Lime is occasionally brought from
Cumberland in sloops, but is more frequently carted from Kellhead,
a distance of ten miles.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	Having already adverted to the "Weir" at Bankend mill, it is
right to state, that surveys have lately been made with the view of

bestow, make up to them the want of that tender assiduity, which proves the cordial
of age and poverty, and which natural affection alone can administer. The farmer
with still greater reason complains, that the idea of a plentiful fund established for
their support fills the parish in spite of every effort to prevent it, with the idle, in-
firm, and indolent; and renders it difficult for him to obtain day labourers. In fine, the
poor themselves are far from being contented with the respective proportions of the funds;
which are notwithstanding distributed with great impartiality. They are accustomed to
lean too much to them, and to depend too little upon their own exertions. Nay, it
is said, that a querulous habit is acquired, and even infirmity feigned, in order to ex-
cite compassion and to obtain a more liberal share of charity. In the opposite scale
of good, these effects of the funds are to be thrown: first, the support of convenient
schools; second, that no distress arising from poverty occurs, which obtains not a
prompt relief, without any expense to the inhabitants of the parish. But, though
none of the poor of Caerlaverock are under the necessity of begging from house to
house, the parish is as much as any other in this quarter, annoyed with vagrants,
and as liberal to them. From these acts and observations, then, it may be inferred,
 "That distress and poverty multiply in proportion to those funds that are created to
relieve them ; for `where the carease is, there the eagles will be gathered together;'
that the measures of charity ought to remain invisible, till the moment when it is ne-
cessary that they should be distributed; that in the country parishes of Scotland,
in general, small, occasional, voluntary collections are sufficient; that the Legis-
lature has no occasiona to interfere to augment that stream which is already copious
enough, though not always derived from its proper source or confined to its proper
channel; in fine, that the establishment of a poore-rate wopld be not only unne-
cessary but hurtful, as it would tend to oppress the landholder without bringing relidf
to the poor."
        DUMFRIES.                         A a


