
                        HAWICK.                        411

Robert Cunnynghame, 1624; John Scott, 1659; Alexander Kin-
near, 1664; John Langlands, 1669; Alexander Orrock, 1689;
Robert Cunningham, 1712; Charles Telfer, 1724; William Som-
merville, 1732; James Lawrie, 1757; Thomas Sharp, 1784.
Robert Gillan, 1790; James Arkle, 1800; John Cochrane, 1823;
J. A. Wallace, 1833.
  Scripture Reader.-The office of Scripture reader has been kept
up in this parish from time immemorial, though unattended with
the abuses which fell under the cognizance and condemnation of
the General Assembly about the middle, of the sixteenth century.
The office is generally conferred on the parish schoolmaster, who
receives a small salary from the funds of the kirk-session;  and the
duty consists simply in reading portions of the sacred Scriptures
in the parish church on the Lord's-day, before the commencement
of the morning service, and during the interval of public worship.
  Caerlaurig Chapel.-Connected with the Establishment there
is no other place of worship in this parish.  There is however, a
small chapel at the distance of about nine miles from the town,
which, though situated in the parish of Cavers, is accessible to
such of the population as are beyond reach of the parish church.
This chapel or preaching station was built for the accommodation
of a district, partly belonging to the parish of Hawick, end partly
to the parish of Cavers. It was seated by subscription, and is ca-
pable of containing about 200.  None of the seats are let: the
subscribers have the right of occupation. The chapel has no con-
stitution, and the preachers who officiates there regularly is not or-
dained. The ministers of Hawick and Cavers dispense the sacra-
ment of the Lord's supper alternately, and celebrate marriages and
baptisms in the district as often as required.  A manse was built
recently at the expense chiefly of the Duke of Buccleuch, but the
stipend which is strictly of a voluntary description, is very inade-
quate.
  Dissenting Chapels.-Besides a chapel belonging to the Society
of Friends, but frequented only by two families from this parish,
and a small, congregation of Independents, whose members amount
to 18, and whose ordinary place of meeting is a school-room, there
are two places of worship in connection with the United Associates
Synod, and a Relief meeting-house.  With regard to the three
last, we have extracted the following details from Report of
the Royal Commissioners lately appointed to inquire into the
means and opportunities of religious worship in Scotland.  It is


