
			ESKDALEMUIR.                          415

shepherds, therefore, stelled their sheep, in that expectation,--
sheltering them from the south-west wind. The rain became al-
ways heavier, till betwixt one and two o'clock in the morning of Sa-
turday the 25th. This filled the sykes with melted snow. At four
o'clock, the air was perfecty calm, and the sky starry. But in half
an hour, the wind changed to the north-northeast, and then the
snow and drift began; it freezing at the same time very hard, when
the drift became ver great, which it did about five o'clock; it drove
the sheep into the sykes, and the intensity of the frost confined them
there till they were drowned. Those which escaped the sykes
were driven into hollow places and covered with snow. Many were
struck dead on the dry ground, and found afterwards lying on their
backs. The drift was excessive till about eight o'clock, when it slack-
ed a little, and continued so till three in the afternoon, when it be-
came as dreadful as ever, and continued till past midnight. Next
morning, Sabbath the 26th, was perfectly calm and clear, and the,
whole day pleasant, but very frosty. It was painful to see cart loads
of half-dead sheep carrying to the farmhouses to be taken care of.
This kind of frosty weather continued till Wednesday 29th, when
a heavy fall of snow began about one o'clock, and continued till late.
Thursday 30th, was clear. On Friday 31st at mid-day a thaw came,
and in twenty-four hours almost all the snow disappeared. Every
shepherd in the parish was in jeopardy on the 25th, but fortunate-
ly no lives were lost. The total number of sheep destroyed in
Eskdalemuir on the 25th January was 4006, and 7 black cattle.
This was the loss as taken immediately after the storm; but there
is every reason to think that it was considerably greater, as many
went down the burns when the thaw came." *

<FOOTNOTE>See M S. for farther particulars of the effects of this storm, also for a narrative
of the story of Gilpin Horner, which occupies a prominent part in Sir Walter Scott's
Lay of the Last Minstrel.


