
   16                                SHETLAND.

   and last year, there were about seventy of the parishioners who en-
   gaged in it.  Eight or ten men commonly are partners in a sloop;
   but sometimes boys are hired to make tip their complement, whose
   wages may be L.2, and Is. 6d. per ton of fish.  These sloops
   may. get in a season from four to ten tons.
      The herring-fishery commences at the conclusion of the former,
   in the month of August, The same persons mostly engage in
   this as the two former, and the boats used for the ling fishing are
   employed by them, along with some of a larger size, by others who
   leave prepared them for the purpose.   The ordinary kind of boats
   must be provided with nets, the expense of which is about L.22.
   Some, however, make their outlay only L. 6 or L. 7. They need
   only to go on this fishing, two or four miles from land.  Last year,
   the Bressay boats alone got 1528 crans, the average being seventy
   six to each boat.  The Quarff boats got 390 crams.  The Burra
   men had not yet engaged in this fishiDg.
      The curing of herring in Bressay employs about thirty women
   and children in the season.
      The manufacture of kelp in Bressay employs twenty or thirty
   boys and girls, who receive 9s. or more in the month, and have to
   work at least three hours every tide, by day or night.  An over-
   seer is employed, who receives at the rate of L. 2 per ton for his
   own wages and payment of the workers.
      The manufacture of Shetland. hosiery is carried on by the in-
   dustrious, although it has not so much encouragement as in the
   days of Provost Coulter.
      The manufacture of herring- nets now enoages attention, and pro-
   mises to be a useful employment.
                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The Bressay church is situated convenient-
   ly, and so'is the Government church in Quarff. Not so the Bur-
   ra church.  Situated near, the south extremity of the West Isle, it
   caused intolerable hardships to the minister and half of the pa-
   rishioners ; and still gives needless travel to the Government minis:-
   ter in Quarff.  Bressay church was built in 1815; is in good repair
   accommodates 370; has no free sittings.  The Government church
   in Quarf was 6nished in 1829; is a beautiful and commodious
   building, built to contain 320 ; has 106 free sittings.  Burra church
   was Wilt about twenty-tix years ago - accommodates 210; has no
   free sittings - and is seldom in any tolerable state of repair.
      The manse at Bressay was rebuilt in 1819. The glebe,was ex-
   changed twelve years ago, for one to which it was thought equal in


