
48                          FORFARSHIRE.

tended by about 400 subscribers, its terms being L. 1, 5s. a-year.
A reading-room has been provided by Messrs J. and W. Brown,
for the work-people in their spinning-mills.
   Newspapers, &c.-Two newspapers are published weekly in the
town,-tbe Advertiser and Constitutional,-the former on Friday,
and the latter on Tuesday. There is also at present a monthly pub-
lication called the Presbyterian Magazine.
   Infirmary.-In 1782, the late Dr Small and Mr Stewart, sur-
geon, established a Dispensary. The success of this, and the in-
creasing wants of the population, led to the erection of the pre-
sent infirmary. Subscriptions and collections for this purpose were
obtained in Dundee and the neighbouring parishes. The founda-
tion stone was laid in 1794, and the house opened for the recep-
tion of patients in 1798. In this good work, great exertions were
made by the late Mr David Jobson of Haugh-head. The infir-
mary receives at present thirty patients, besidds those in fever; the
patients being of all country parishes which make an annual collec-
tion for its support; and many of the poor in Dundee receive me-
dical attendance and medicines in their houses. The expenses of
the house are upwards of L. 1000 a-year, and are made up by sub-
scriptions, collections, and occasional legacies.
   Lunatic Asylum.-The success of the infirmary gave rise to the
lunatic asylum. Several benevolent individuals began by solicit-
ing subscriptions,-the first name on the list being that of Lord
Panmure, the then member for the county. The foundation stone
was laid in 1812, in an airy and commanding situation to the north-
east of the town. The house was opened for the reception of pa-
tients in 1820, and upwards of 120 are at present confined within
its walls. In the erection and management of this asylum, the ex-
ertions of Mr David Blair of Cookstone deserve to be recorded.
As a tribute to his services, a subscription was raised in 1830, and
a full length portrait of him obtained, painted by Mr Colvin Smith,
and now placed in the house.
   The propriety or safety of affording religious instruction to the
inmates of the asylum was for some time a matter of doubt and
discussion. The experiment, however, was made, (as it has been
in other places,) and with complete success. The members of
the Presbxtdry officiated at first in rotation. The service was hail-
ed by the desolate worshippers as giving them at once pleasure and
peace; the prayers, and especially the praise, seemed to renew in
some of them a tie long snapped, which connected them again
				4


