
			FETTERCAIRN.                         127

The average annual collections for their support amount to about
L.70. From mortcloth dues, occasional donations, interest of so
much of the above enumerated benefactions as still remain available,
and other incidental means, arise about L. 50 more-making, in
all, for behoof of the poor, (with clerks' and officers' fees, and
casual expenses), L. 120 per annum.
	Many are very reluctant, and others very anxious, to be put
upon the poor's roll. The majority, however, struggle long with
poverty, before they can bring themselves to submit to accept of
public charity.
	Inns.--There are 3 inns in the parish, 2 of which are in the
village.
	FueL.--ln the higher situ`thons, the fuel is principally peat and
turf, the expense and trouble of procuring which are considerable.
In the lower situations, it is partly peat, and partly wood, but
chiefly English coals, brought from Montrose. These, at the
ship, cost from 1s. 1d. to 1s. 3d. per barrel of 11 stones 9 pounds
imperial; and the expense of carriage to the village, when charged,
is from 6d. to 7d. more.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	From the foregoing statement, it must be evident that the im-
provements in this parish, either begun or completed, since the
last Statistical Account was published, have been of great extent.
Much waste ground has been reclaimed, and converted into pro-
ductive arable land. Extensive plantations of wood have been
formed, which are now, generally, in a thriving state, and adding
to the shelter of the fields, the beauty of the landscape, the re-
sources of the proprietors, and the benefit of the neighbourbood.
Better accommodations in the dwelling houses, farm-steadings,
and enclosures, have been provided. By means of extensive and
judicious draining, the salubrity of the atmosphere, has been im-
proved, the state of disease has been altered, and the health of
the people promoted. By the introduction of thrashing-mills, and
other useful inventions, agricultural labour has been greatly di-
minished.  By the fnrlation of so many commutation roads, in-
ternal communication and access to markets have been very
much facilitated. Enlarged means of intellectual, moral, and re-
ligious improvement have been called into operation; and, it is
to be hoped, the habits, manners, and enjoyments of the people
have, in some measure, kept pace with the increase of these ad-
vantages.


