
560                       FORFARSHIRE.

	The Chapel of Keillor on the weast, and Templeton on the
east, are small villages in the parish,-the names seemingly im-
plying that, in former times, places of worship had been there.
	The Hill of Kilpurnie is of considerable altitude, and the highest
in the parish. It is the most northerly of the Sidlaw (or Southlaw)
Hills ranging from the south,-is detached from the southern
range, which are of bleak and sterile aspect, whereas it is green,
and grass-bearing to its summit, belonging evidently to the class
of Sidlaws ranging east and west, as the southern boundary of
Strathmore. This hill commands from its top a most extensive
and delightful prospect in every direction far as eye can reach;
-to the north, east, and west, the long, wide, and beautiful valley,
with its background of the Grampian mountains towering in lofty
grandeur one above another;-to the south, east, and west,-the
Tay in its course,-the rich vale of the Carse,-the estuary of
the Tay,-the Bell-rock Lighthouse in the German Ocean,-St
Andrews with its venerable towers, &c.
	Kilpurnie or Kilpurney appears to have been anciently a sta-
tion for signal fires, and well adapted in every respect for such
purpose. An observatory was built and fitted up on the top of
the hill, in the course of last century, by the then proprietor, the
Lord Privy-Seal of the day, and a keeper's residence built near
to it. The dwelling-house has long ago disappeared, and the
walls only of the observatory now remain. The hill and turret
form, it is said, a useful land-mark for vessels at sea.
  Parochial Records, &c.-The oldest record is of date 27th
March 1648, closing in 1711; next volume commences 28th
April 1717, and ends 29th October 1721. These records have
not been preserved as they should have bden. The oldest vo-
lume is in a very mutilated state. The registers of marriages,
births, and deaths, seem to have been irregularly kept; the other
records appear to have been made out in a regular and orderly
manner. In the oldest volume there is a nota, 8th May 1698, stating,
"which day, 8th of May instant, the prisbitry violently entered
the church by breaking up the doors thereof; so that from the
8th day of May foresaid, the pariochoners did conveen to the
Haltoun, where they are to have sermon maintained by the Bishop
Aberdeen and others in his name during his abode in the pa-
rioch." The Bishop, then residing in Hatton Castle, continued to
do duty in the parish, as the record shows, nota, 20th June 1708,
stating, "Since Master James Laing, his entry as presentor in


