
                      INVERCHAOLAIN.                       109

no disease that may be said to be peculiarly prevalent in the parish.
Typhus and other epidemics occur occasionally, brought from the
low country, but are[p of short continuance.  The snow rarely ever
lies more than two days, on the low grounds near the shore.  Wes-
terly winds prevail, which bring frequent showers upon us from
the Atlantic, but our heaviest rains are with southerly winds; and
when the lofty hills of Arran are enveloped with clouds, we are sure
to have a fall.  The people are generally healthy, and many live to a
great age.  The soil nearest the sea is generally light and sandy,
with a mixture of moss in some parts, but there is a considerable
variety, from its great extent: a large portion of it is of a very red
colour.
   Hydrography.-The parish is intersected by an arm of the sea
called Loch Striven, signifying the loch of noses or points.  It
is upwards of nine miles long, and about two miles broad at the
mouth, getting narrower as it enters the country.  It varies in
depth from 20 to 55 fathoms in the centre, generally shelving
gradually from the shore without any rocks or shoals; in one or two
parts the depth is so sudden that you might step on the land from
a line of battle ship.  There are several beautiful sandy beaches
for bathing.  The water is clear and very salt, except when there
are great floods of rain swelling the mountain torrents, which dis-
charge themselves into it.  The luminous phosphoric appearance
of the water at night is very marked, particularly during the autum-
nal months, sometimes giving the loch the appearance of being
on fire: the waters of the East Kyles of Bute and Loch Riddan
are much of the same character.  There is in all, a sea shore of
between thirty and forty miles.
   There is little current in Loch Striven, except what is occasion-
ed by the rise and fall of the tide The tide is much more rapid
in the Kyles of Bute, particularly about the burnt islands near
the entrance to Loch Riddan, and the flood tide coming from
the fifth of Clyde, (between Bogany point in Bute and To-
ward Point in Cowall,) meets the flood tide coming in the West
Kyles at a point about half-a mile west of Southhall, and from
this point the ebb tide returns in the same way as it flowed.
There is, no stream in the parish deserving the name of ariver.
It abounds in springs of the finest water.  The only ones deserv-
ing of notice are two that discharge themselves frolh the opposite
sides of a large hill about the same level, with a rushing noise, ne-
ver seeming to vary in quantity, and not freezing.  There are


