
                    KILCONQUHAR.                        319

Geology.-The great independent coal formation characterizes,
throughout, the length -and breadth of this parish. Our space,
however, will permit us to give only a very general description of a
district, which, both in a scientific and economical pointof view, pre'-
sents a field of inquiry of the most interesting and important character.
If a line be drawn from Kincraig Hill on the S. W. to Brunt-
shields on the N. W., and another from Balbuthie quarry on the S.
E. to Lingo Hill in the parish of Carnbee, about a mile and a-half
beyond the N. F. extremities of. this parish, a space of nearly 32
square miles will be included, 6very spot of which is occupied with
some member of the coal formation, and a considerable portion of the
whole included area, with the useful mineral itself. Three well
marked divisions, at different levels and elevations, occur in the
line of this course, which comprise separate and distinct coal
fields, geographically as well as physically-distinguished from each
other. The first of these embraces the Grange or Earlsferry coal
field, which lies alODg the, shore, and inclines towards the sea; the
second includes the Reres and Balcarres coal district, inland about
four miles, and elevated above the former upwards of 400 feet.
Lathallan, Largoward, and Falfield coals, occupy the high table-
land toward the northern limit of the parish, the last attaining an
elevation of about 700 feet above the level of the sea. These se-
parations, and elevation-,, of the once continuous beds of the
coal measures, have obviously been occasioned by the interposition
of the trap rocks, which occur so abundantly among them; this
principal ofwhich are Kineraig Hill, Balearres Craig, Kilbracbmont-
Knock, Reres Craig, and Dunikier-Law. Dislocations, and shift-
ings, and upb4 savings, in every possible form and variety, are exhi-
bited in each of the coal fields; but, as may be naturally expected,
these curious phenomena abound most in the upper or last division.
   Kincraig Hill, on the S. W. extremity of the parish, springs
immediately from the beach, to the height of nearly 200 feet
above the level of the sea. The southern aspect is' nearly ver-
Presenting to the gurf a bold rugged front of precipitous
roek. Here M'Duffs cave affords an object of attention to all
the lovers of the picturesque, while the student of geology, if
he has courage  to pursue his journey to the westward, will
be amply rewarded for his exertions.  In a line of section of
little more than half a mile, nearly every member of the trap fa-
mily bf rocks may be met with, basalt, greenstone, clinkstone,


