
     Statistical Account

bitterness of contending sects is greatly subsiding:  This
partly proceeds from the novelty being over; partly from the
great variety of sects which have taken place; and partly, it
is hoped, from more enlightened views of true religion.  As
to holidays for recreation or merry-making, the people have 
only one in the year, called Handsel-Monday; and even the
manner in which this is employed shews the sober minded-
ness of the people.  Instead of meeting in large assemblies for
diversions, each family collects its own kindred from the dif-
ferent part of the district, provides a feast, and spends the
time in eating, drinking, and conversation.  The holidays,
besides Sabbaths, for religious services, in the Establishment,
are three days in the year; among the Seceders fix.  The 
people have scarcely any sports after they are grown up.
Among the infinite advantages of the Reformation, this seems
to have been one disadvantage attending it, that, owing to
the gloomy rigour of some of the leading actors, mirth,
sport, and chearfulness, were decried among a people already
by nature rather phlegmatic.  Since that, mirth and vice
have, in their apprehension, been confounded together.  Some
of the sectaries punish attendance on penny weddings, and
public dancing, with a reproof from the pulpit, in the pre-
sence of the congregation:  So that the people must either
dance by themselves, or let it alone.  This censure, in seve-
ral congregations, is falling into disuse.  There are a few per-
sons, called tinkers, and horners, half-resident, and half-itine-
rant, who are feared and suspected by the community.  Two
of them were banished with these six years.  Strangers
complain of the pronunciation in this district being drawling,
and that it impresses them with a belief that the person speak-
ing is four and ill tempered.  The inhabitants are improving
in their mode of living and dress.  Intemperance from spiri-
tous liquors is by no means frequent among them: but, un-


