
                       KIRKNEWTON.                           447

   While, in consequence of the union of the two parishes, a new
place of worship was built, the original churchyards, belonging
to them respectively, still remain. The present church has no
burying-ground attached to it, and is thus destitute, of that most
fitting and instructive arrangement by which it is provided, that,
as we approach the place where are published and explained the
great truths, bearing on preparation for death and judgment to
come, our pathway winds among monuments, reminding us, in
every most affecting form, of these events, and by which also our
dust, waiting in the hope of a blessed resurrection, finds its ap-
propriate resting-place near the sacred edifice in which we were
wont to listen to the glad tidings of life and immortality brought
to light in the Gospel. The Kirknewton, burying-ground is close
by the village of that name, and, in the middle of it, the site of
its former church is marked by some scanty remains of the fa-
bric, now converted into enclosures for sepulture. In the church-
yard of East Calder, adjacent to the village so called, stands, in
like manner, the ruin of its ancient place of worship, with one of
its gables richly mantled over with ivy, and the whole still in such
a condition as to, indicate at once the original character and pur-
pose of the structure. Here, too, the, interior has been formed
into burying enclosures, affording additional security against far-
ther dilapidation. In connection with the present subject, it may
be worthy of notice, that a change very much for the better has
been gradually making its way in the mode of conducting funerals.
Formerly, there was upon these occasions a formal and protracted
service of refreshments. These, in great variety, were handed
round separately and in succession. Besides other objections,
the expense incurred was a serious evil, coming at a time when,
in very many instances, it could ill be borne, and yet being of a
kind in which any shortcoming was felt to be at once a kind of
disrespect to the dead and discourtesy to the living. The good
sense of the people has applied the corrective, and with right and
delicate feeling, the lead is taken by those whose known means
and liberality, leaving no room for suspicion as to their motives,
fit them to set the example in such a course. That most seemly
and appropriate part of the service, however, which consists in
improving the solemn dispensation, in a prayer offered up by the
minister or some pious patriarch of the parish, is continued, and
this, it is to be hoped, will never be given up.
   When the union of the two parishes took place, and a new
church was built, there naturally followed a corresponding change


