
450                     PERTHSHIRE.


of the peace have of late very properly set their face against in-
creasing their number,
  fuel.-English coals from the dep"ts in Perth, at the rate of
L. 1 a ton, form the staple article of fuel.  They are hawked through
the villages occasionally by carters from Perth.  They are also re-
tailed at Stanley Company's store; and they are kept by one ge-
neral merchant in Bankfoot for the same purpose.  The Duke of
Atholl's tenants and the minister of the parish have the right of cast-
ing peats in Craigleith moss, situated in the moor of Thorn, which
occupies a part of this parish, as well as of those of Little Dunkeld
and Kinclaven.  The inhabitants of Obney, Tullybeagles, and
Kinglands find peats in the Grampians, at the foot of which they
have their habitations.  The poor have also permission to cast a
few loads of peats each in the Craigleith moss.  Peeled coppice
Oak, slaps from saw-mills, in the parish of Little Dunkeld, and
branches fallen in the Woods are all used as fuel.   Many of the
farmers in summer drive coals from the coral fields of Fife and
Clackmannan.

              MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  In the old Statistical account of this parish, after a statement
of its extent, it is added,-" But a great proportion of this con-
sists of hills and muirs, or waste uncultivated ground." And cer-
tainly, so long `s the road from Perth to Dunkeld passed through
the Moor of Thorn, the aspect of the parish to the traveller must
have been bleak and dreary in the extreme; and consequently in
Gazetteers, it is described as a " hilly moorish parish," and dismis-
sed as unworthy of farther notice.  And about forty years ago,
when tbe " runrig" system of farming prevailed, it must have
yielded a very limited quantity of produce in proportion to what
now, under an improved system, it is made to yield.  The hills
stand, and must continue to stand, the north-western boundary of
the parish, and a most, striking feature in the landscape as far as the
eye can reach.  But now scarcely a vestige of moor ground
can be seen from the turnpike read, and what still remains of it
is on the outskirts of the parish, and every year in the way of
being reduced in quantity.  Draining, planting, enclosing, im-
proved tillage, and judicious cropping have completely ehanged
the face of the country; so that this parish is entitled to rank with
the best cultivated districts in the vide county of which it forms
apart.  The landlords have encouraged the improvement of their
property, and have been seconded by their tenants.


