
840                       FIFESHIRE.

of the limestone rock inasmuch as it contains a bed Of trap, inter-
stratified with two beds of limestone.  The trap, however, is not
pure, but has a mixture of lime in it, in consequence of which it
is commonly named Bastard Whin.  It is soft and of no durability,
and hence is of little value.  It is used in kiln buildings, and as
metal on country roads, but soon needs to be replaced.  It was
probably thrown up over the lower bed of limestone, and at some
subsequent period the upper bed was deposited upon it.
   No metallic deposites, which are so abundant in the correspond-
ing limestones of England, have been discovered in the limestones
of this parish.
   Trap Rocks.-There are several quarries of these in the parish.
The principal one is at Woodhill, on Knockhouse farm, belonging
to Captain Sir John Halket, Bart., Pitferrane.  This rock appears
to have been produced after the deposition of the coal formation.
It is rather an exception to the general appearance of such rocks.
It cannot be said to be exactly stratified, but there are regular
overflows, or beds of trap, as in volcanic mountains; and different
from one another in compactness or degrees of hardness.  The co-
lumnar structure is not very distinct, but seems to be separated oc-
casionally by fissures containing quartz and carbonate of lime.
There is one of these of considerable length and width.  They
may not have been original cracks, but occasioned by subsequent
convulsions, and filled by siliceous, and calcareous materials.  The
rock presents in different places, when newly broken, beautiful
veins of quartz, and of jasper, approaching to cornelian.  There
are strewed around the quarry, various balls or masses of decom-
posed greenstone, of a roundish form, with concentrate coatings or
layers, which, it is well known, form an excellent soil.  The rock 
73 
is within a few inches of the surface, in which respect it differs
greatly from the sandstone quarries in the immediate neigbbour-
bood, which have an alluvial covering of from IO to 20 feet thick.
   There is another of these trap-rock quarries at Redcraigs toll,
three miles north from the town of Dunfermline, and anotber a
mile and a half still fartber north, near the Outh farm-house, both
on the Crieff road, and seen from it.  This last quarry has a very
curious and interesting appearance, resembling the general aspect
of the basaltic pillars at the Giant's Causeway in the north of Ire-
land.  It is not large, is of a semicircular form, and has rather a
narrow entrance.  At the nortb-west corner the stones are colum-
nar, and of a pentagonal figure.  They lie in a horizontal posi-

