
     Statistical Account

   State of the Schools.-The parochial school-house is at
present a bad one.  But after the church is finished, there
is little doubt of its being rebuilt on a plan equally com-
fortable and convenient for master and scholars.  The
schoolmaster's salary is inadequate to the importance of his
station. It is bolls 9; 3: 3: 2 1/2 lippies of meal, and L. 2,
1 s. 9 1/9 d. of money.  His other emoluments are L. 2, for
officiating as precentor and session-clerk; for publishing
banns of marriage, 1 s.; for registering a baptism, 6 d.;
writing a certificate, 6 d.; teaching Latin, 2 s.; arithme-
tic, 2 s.; and English and writing, 1 s. 6 d. quarterly.  As
the number of scholars of late has not been great, his in-
come may be from L. 15 to L. 20*.

<FOOTNOTE>

through the church, with a view to build a chapel, and procure accom-
modations to the missionary.  With part of it, a chapel has been built,
and some acres of ground purchased for a glebe.  And it is to be hoped,
that the Royal Bounty will be continued, till the fund, which is under
the managementof a committee appointed by the General Assembly,
accumulate toga sum fully adequate to the comfortable support of a cler-
gyman, who has, in the district of the parish most contiguous to the cha-
pel, exclusive of the most adjacent part of Belly, 300 Presbyterians, 72
Episcopalians, and 630 Roman Catholics.
   There are other two clergymen in the parish, Mr Reid and Mr Shand.
Mr Reid besides at Presshome, where he has lately built a neat and well
finished chapel, for the accommodation of the Roman Catholics in the pa-
rish Mr Shand lives at Arradoul, and has one chapel in his neighbour-
hood for the Episcopalians of this parish, and another at Fochabers,
where he officiates once a fortnight in summer, and once in 3 weeks du-
ring the winter season.  Both these gentlemen conduct themselves with
the greatest propriety.  As they are much respected by their hearers
and acquaintance, they are comfortably lodged, and decently supported.
Each of them has a small farm, which, by skillful management, yields
pleasure and convenience .

   *The present schoolmaster has been upwards of 40 years a teacher;
and from age and infirmities, must soon be reduced to a state that will
incapacitate him for teaching.  It is a pity that no scheme has hitherto


