
			   FORDOUN.                          99

for protecting the fields from the gales that blow from the Gram-
pians, and from the sharp easterly sea-breezes.
	As the whole of Fordoun parish is tolerably well watered,--tbe
soil well adapted for grazing, there cannot be a doubt that its
productive qualities would be greatly increased by enclosing and
planting in a judicious manner. To do this, however, on a great
scale, the combined efforts of landlords and tenants are requisite,
and the stone-dike, the thorn, and whin hedge should be resorted
to as circumstances required.  On a lease of nineteen years, the
enclosing and planting ought to be done at the landlords' expense,
the tenant paying a certain rate of idterest. If the lease is ex-
tended to twenty-seven or thirty years, the tenant might contribute
his share of the expense. If the fence is of stone, the tenant
might perform the carriage,--if of thorns with ditch and dike, he
ought, at least, to clean, prune, and partly to protect, and if an
earthen dike, with whins on the summit, the tenant undoubtedly
should take charge of the fence after the landlord has completed it.
	There being a scarcity of stones for draining, tiles might be
advantageously used. The proprietor should pay the prime cost
of the tiles, the tenant paying the interest, besides cutting the
drain, carrying and laying the tiles, and covering in the surface.
	In general, farm-buildings are erected at the landlord's expense,
the tenant contributing as his share only the carriage of materials,
on the expense thereof; but on one or two estates, a good deal
more than this is left to be done by the tenant, a practice which
cannot be too much reprobated, as withdrawing a part of the te-
nant's capital from its more legitimate purpose,--the improve-
ment of his land.
	There are several quarries of freestone in the parish, which are
fully adequate to supply materials for its architectural purposes,
particularly for ruble work. It is difficult to say what the yearly
produce of these quarries may amount to, as they are in the hands
of the proprietors, who only dispose of the surplus produce after
supplying the necessary demands of their estates; perhaps the
whole amount obtained for stones actually sold does not exceed
L. 120 or L. 140 yearly.
	There are no fisheries in the parish, the rivers being only of
value in so far as they serve for spawning-ground for the salmon.
	Produce.--The average gross amount of raw produce may be
as under:


