
134                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


half miles, aud seven-eighths of the people will be less than two
miles, from the parish church.
   It has been already stated that the present church was built
about twenty-four years since, and that it is seated to accommodate
1250,persons. The soil under and around the church being very
strong clay, and very retentive of moisture, the church was felt
during the winter months to be exceedingly cold and damp. But
in the summer of 1839, the heritors and people were induced to
subscribe for the erection of one of the heating and ventilating ap-
paratus of the Messrs Haden, Wiltshire. The experiment hav-
ing proved a most successful one, the church of Clackmannan is
now, even in the most trying weather, perfectly comfortable. After
the erection of the church, the sittings were apportioned to indivi-
duals, and those under them, according to the existing law on the
subject. But, although, in consequence, there has not been any
adequate provision made for not a few individuals, yet the practice
of taking seat-rents has never been introduced.
   The manse is comparatively large, and has been judiciously
planned. It is situated to the south of the town, and towards the
summit of the rising ground on which Clackmannan stands. The
views from it, and from the walks about it, are very beautiful and
extensive. From the immediate neighbourhood, when the atmo-
sphere is clear, both Ben Lomond and the Pentland Hills are
within the range of one's vision.
   There are about four Scotch acres of glebe, wbose annual value
may be estimated at L.16. The stipend is 18 chalders, one-half
barley, and the other half oatmeal, convertible into money at the
highest fiar-prices of the county. There is besides an allowance
of L.10 for communion elements, and also L.1, 13s. 10d. of
"grass-mail."
  The only other place of worship in the parish, besides the pa-
rochial church is a Relief meeting-house. It was erected towards.
the close of the last century, and its first minister died about seven
years since. His successor having resigned his charge several
months ago, without obtaining any other appointment, the congre-
gation, which is small, is at present without any minister. To
the last incumbent they paid L.75 of-stipend.
   A great majority of tbe inhabitants of tbe parish are in connection
with the Established Church. But, owing to a variety of causes,
which the writer deems it unnecessary to mention here, there is not
that regard shown to the sanctity of the Sabbath, or to the ordi-


