
     Statistical Account

can go abroad at all seasons, when it is fair.  To those who
are fond of the healthful and manly diversion of the golf, there
is adjoining, one of the finest pieces of links, of its sizes, in
Scotland.  A great part of it is like velvet, with all the variety
of hazards, necessary to employ the different clubs, used by
the nicest players.  A golfing club was instituted lately, by
the gentlemen of the town and neighbourhood.
   Burnisland was constituted a royal burgh, by King James
VI.  The government of it vested in 21 persons, of whom
14 are termed Guild-counsellors, consisting of merchants
tradesmen, skippers, seamen, and land labourers; of whom
3 are chosen yearly at Michaelmas, by the old and new count-
cil, to be bailies; the other 7 are trades-counsellors, being one
of each trade.  There is also a provost chosen yearly at Mi-
chaelmas.  If he is a nobleman, he is a supernumerary; but
is a burgher, he is included in the above number.
   It appears, at some former period to have been sortified.
On the south-east side at the harbour, part of the walls of a
sort is still standing entire.  And on the top of a small hill,
immediately to the north of the town, there are to be seen,
the remains of a trench.  It is also said, that when Cromwell
had an army in this courtry, it held out against him, till the
he was obliged to enter into a compromise, with the inhabi-
tants, on certain conditions : part of which were, that he
should repair the street and the harbour.  In consequence of
this, the quays, as they presently stand, were built him,
and the streets have never been mended since, which their
present state too clearly proves.  There is, however, every rea-
son to hope, that they will soon be put into better condition, as
the gentlemen of the county have lately proposed, to make the
public ferry from Burntisland to Leith, or rather to Newha-
ven, where it is intended, to build a pier, in order to secure
a passage for travellers, at any time of tide.


