

                            KILMARONOCK.                   219


  The amount of yearly collections for the poor averages about
L.26, and about L. 7, 10s. for religious and charitable objects.
  Education.--There are three schools, one parochial School, no
endowed schools, except the parochial one, and two unendowed
schools. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is L. 31 per year,
and the school-fees amount to about L. 25. The amount of school-
fees to each of the other two teachers may be somewhere between
L. 10 and L. 15.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are 10 paupers constantly
on the roll, who receive the average sum of 16s. each per quarter,
or L. 3, 4s. per year; and besides these, there are several fami-
lies who, though not upon the roll, receive occasional relief. The
collections in the church, as formerly stated, amount to L,26
yearly, and the mortcloth and proclamation dues to L. 4 ; which,
together with the interest at four per cent. arising from the sum
of L. 300, lent on bill from the poor's fund, and the interest from
L. 40, deposited in bank, amount to about L. 43. No disposition
to consider it degrading to seek parochial relief is shown, expect
in rare cases. In this parish, as in most others in Scotland, that
spirit seems to be fast wearing out.
   Library.--A parish library, got up by means of subscriptions
and donations of books from heritors and others, was instituted in
this parish in June 1838, and is kept in the parish school, the
schoolmaster being librarian. It is under the management of the
kirk-session, and now contains 160 volumes.
   Fairs.--There are two fairs hold within the parish, one for
horses at Craftammie, on the second Tuesday of February ; and
another, chiefly for milk cows, at the farm of Ardoch, on the last
Thursday of April.
   Alehouses.--There are eight taverns or alehouses, whose iniju-
ous effects on the morals of the people appear in some instances,
though not to any considerable extent.
   Fuel.--Fuel consists chiefly of peats and coals. Peats are cut
from some mosses within the parish, and sold at the rate of 3s for
an ordinary cart. Coals are carted from Garscube, Kilpatrick, or
certain places on the river Leven, and the price has varied for
some years between 9d. and 1s. per cwt, including cartage and all
other expenses.

  July 1839.



