
                           LEUCHARS.                          227

cattle were annually fed within the premises. It yielded constant
employment to about 100 workmen, who received ample wages.
The advantages of such an establishment to the farmers in the
neighbourhood have been fully appreciated; as a ready market
was afforded them for the disposal of grain.
   A saw-mill, barley, lint, and two oatmeal-mills are in the parish.

                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY

   Market-Towns.--The market-towns of Cupar, St Andrews, and
Dundee, situated at seven, six, and eight miles distance respec-
tively, with daily communication by post and carriers, afford eve
advantage to the parish for buying and selling.
   Villages.--The two villages,--Leuchars, with 614 inhabitants,
and Balmullo, a straggling village on the Dundee public road, with
250 inhabitants,--are dry, well-aired, well-watered, and healthy vil-
lages, with excellent turnpikes through them.
   Means of Communication.--The soil being dry, the roads
throughout the parish are kept without difficulty in the best repair.
There are fourteen miles of turnpike, and nearly ten of statute la-
bour roads. Three four-horse coaches have continued to pass
through the parish daily from Edinburgh, to Aberdeen for many
years, but their number is now reduced to two. Coaches run twice
a-week by way of Leuchars between Dundee and St Andrews,
Besides the Guard-bridge pier already mentioned, there is another
at Seggie, which is chiefly for the convenience of the distillery.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, situate in the village
of Leuchars, is distant from the east end of the parish about four
miles, and from the western extremity nearly six miles. A more
centrical position for the bulk of the population would be about
a mile farther to the westward. It is a commodious, well-light-
ed, and comfortable building, accommodating 850 sitters. There
are not more than a dozen free sittings in the church; 1s. 3d.
only is the average of each seat per annum. A deep gallery,
holding 150 persons, erected out of the poor's funds, accommo-
dates the householders at prices graduating from 2s. 6d. to 6d. each.
As many more are also supplied with seats, at a small rent, by the
principal heritors, after the tenants and their cottars are provided.
   The manse was built in 1806, and is still considered a respect-
able and well-finished house, and pleasantly situated. The
glebe, together with the garden, contains about 9 Scots acres of
such land as would rent at about L.4 per acre. The stipend al-
located, in 1820 amounts to 16 chalders, which, for the last four


