
986                     PERTHSHIRE

liated.  He ravaged the bishop's diocese, burned the town of
Elgin, its hospital, and its magnificent cathedral. For this sacri-
legious misdemeanour he was compelled by his father to appear,
barefoot and in sackcloth, at the door of the Black Friars at Perth,
`nd afterwards to appear at the High Altar, where he promised
before his father and the nobles there assembled to make indem-
nificaiion to the Bishop of Moray. Dr MacCulloch facetiously re.
marks, if the Wolf "claims that Dunkeld shall canopy his bones
till doomsday, it is probable that he obtained the privilege by dis-
gorging to Bishop Moneymusk some of the good things of which
he had robbed their fraternity in the north."
	In the centre of the vestibule is a very neat and affectionate tri-
bute of respect to the memory of the Rev. John Robb, minister of
Dunkeld, who perished in the wreck of the Forfarshire steam-
ship, at the Fearn Islands, in 1838.
	In the north wall of the choir is a plain stone, bearing an in-
scription commemorative of Thomas Bisset, late commissary of
Dunkeld. It is a well-expressed eulogy on the strict integrity and
blameless manners of the man, and is one of the few instances
where a tombstone is made to speak nothing but the truth.
	In the south aisle of the cathedral is the monument of Bishop
Cardney, lying in a recess of the wall, under a canopy adorned
with crockets. The figure of the bishop is represented in pontifi-
calibus, wearing his mitre. The inscription on the stone-plate is
very much defaced. It runs thus: "Hic jacet Dns. Robertus de
Cardony, Eppis.Dunkeldenni qui."--Three words are here defaced,
and the inscription on the plate to the back is partly broken off.
What remains is, ad incarnationem Dne M.CCC.XX. This monu-
ment was brought from St Ninian's chapel, and placed in the ca-
thedral subsequent to 1464. (Ancient Chapels.)  In the cast
aisle stands the decapitated statue of Bishop Sinclair. Around
the outer walls of the choir and cathedral are to be seen the arms
of the different bishops who erected the edifice. The portion
erected by each bears the arms of his family.
	Among the tombstones within the cathedral, there are two
which, mark the resting-place of two dignitaries of the church,--
the, Dean of Dunkeld, 1476, and the Rector of Moneidie, in 1548-
	In the chapter-house there is a marble statue of John, fourth
Duke of Atholl, attired in his Parliamentary robes. It is a very faith-
ful likeness, and was erected by his Duchess, in 1833. To the back
of it is a tribute to the Memory of their son, Lord Charles Mur-
ray, who died in Greece, And close to that tablet is avery taste-


