
76                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

taining light, and the want of success in the fishery, several ves-
sels having repeatedly come home clean, the trade has been, in a
great measure, given up, and there are only two vessels at present
engaged in it from this port.
   Salmon-Fishing.-This branch of trade has been long carried
on with considerable spirit, and generally with good success, at
Aberdeen, and the rents of the fishings in the river Dee form an
important item in the revenue of the town, and of several private
proprietors.  Of late, too, the, fishing has been carried on to a
considerable extent by stake-nets on the beach.
   At present, the number of men employed in salmon-fishing here
may be about 200, and the annual amount of wages paid about
L. 3000.  In an average season, the quantity of fish caught may
be reckoned at 20,000 salmon, averaging ten lbs. each, and 40,000
grilses of four pounds each, of which by far the greater part is pack-
ed in ice, and shipped for the London market, a very small part only
being put into tin cases for exportation.  It is now about thirty
years since the mode of using ice for preserving the salmon fresh
was introduced in Aberdeen.  Previous to that time, the fishers
were under the necessity of boiling it and preserving it with vine-
gar, but this mode is now almost altogether disused.  The average
price obtained for the salmon and grilses sent to London is about
8d. per lb.
   Herring-Fishing.-Until within the last few years, this branch
of industry was not prosecuted to any extent in Aberdeen.  The
late Provost Blaikie used his endeavours to establish it, and, to a
certain degree, these endeavours were successful.  The number of
boats employed in it has been annually increasing; and last year
there were about 60 thus engaged during the season, and their
success has hitherto been such as leaves no room for doubting, that
this fishery will continue to be prosecuted, probably to a greater
extent than it has hitherto been.
   Supply of Water.-After two ineffectual attempts in the course
of the seventh century, measures were at last taken in 1706 for
introducing a supply of spring water into the town, and at first a
single well was supplied in Castle Street ; but soon after, others
were added in differrent parts of the town.  The supply having be-
come inadequate from the increased population, additional springs
were taken in, and a cistern, capable of holding 3l,OOO gallons, erect-
ed in Broad Street in 1766.  The water from these springs was of
excellent quality, though that from the lower springs next the town


