
 		          AYR.                            81

is another Female Friendly Society in the town, of the manage-
ment of which several respectable ladies take a charge, who endea-
vour to render it as safe and useful as possible: it is conducted
in a mode similar to the above.
	Charitable Bequests.--We have already said that Ayr abounds,
above most other places, in posthumous benefactions to the poor,
and this, the following list of charities of this description will am-
ply testify. 1st, The first in point of importance as well as extent
we have noticed under another head, namely, the sum of fully
L.2000 bequeathed by Captain Smith, for the education of poor
children, and which is applied to the support of Smith's school.
2d, The late Mr Paterson of Ayr, who made a large fortune in
the West Indies, left the sum of L.500 to Glasgow Infirmary,
and, in virtue of this bequest, conferred upon Ayr kirk-session the
important privilege of having four patients belonging to the parish
constantly on the lists of that useful establishment. 3d, A Mr Smith,
alderman of Londonderry in 1692, bequeathed to the poor of the town
of Ayr, his native place, L.100, to be placed under the management
of the magistrates and kirk-session, and this sum having been vested
in land in the vicinity of the burgh, has come to be of great value in
feus, and yields a revenue yearly of L.55, which is divided about
New-Year's day, apart from the poor's funds of the parish. 4th,
A Mr James Dick of this place, a few years ago, left L.300, the
interest of which to be distributed by the same managers in a mode
exactly similar to that of Alderman Smith's charity, and the two are
generally divided simultaneously. 5th, Sir Robert Blackwood, mer-
chant in Edinburgh, but a native of Ayr, in the year 1711, left
the farm of Rodingrood, now called Sessionfield, consisting of up-
wards of l00 acres, to the guardianship of the ministers and
kirk-session of this parish, for behoof of the poor, and the annual
rent to be distributed every year to poor householders, in the same
way as the two former bequests. 6th, In 1811, Lady John Camp-
bell bequeathed, by will, the sum of L.1200, the interest of which
to be given to poor childless widows belonging to the parishes of
Ayr and Monkton, under the charge of their respective sessions,
and, by a subsequent deed, two-thirds of the proceeds are to be ap-
portioned to Ayr. This bequest does not come into operation till
after the death of a lady who now enjoys it in liferent. 7th, The
same is the case with respect to another bequest of L.1000, made
a few years ago, by Mrs Crawford of Ardmillan, in favour of re-
duced females who had seen better days, and whose delicacy would
   AYR.                             F


