398                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

queathed by the late incumbent, the Rev. James Smith, in 1830.
A donation of L.50 was made on the 20th June 1835, by Sir
James W. Mackenzie of Scatwell, Bart., on which day his son
arrived at majority; and in November 1838, a handsome dona-
tion was made by James J. R. Mackenzie, Esq. younger of Scat-
well, on his marriage with the Right Honourable Lady Anne
Wentworth Fitzwilliam. In addition to all this, the principal
heritor, Sir James Mackenzie of Scatwell, Bart., makes a present
to the poor of the parish of six bolls of meal, on the 20th June-
the birth-day of his son; and the same quantity in Februarx to
the poor on Rosehaugh estate. On the 14th February 1839, a
conriderable quantity of coals was distributed among the poor by
Alexander Mackenzie, Esq. of Avoch, on his arriving at ma-
jority.
  Inns.-There are six inns in the village, yet such is the tem-
perate and peaceable deportment of the people, that rarely, in-
deed, are irregularities or excesses heard of. The proprietors,
with a real regard for the morals of their tenantry, do not grant
license even for a single inn or alehouse in the landward part of
the parish.
  FueL-This parish is amply supplied with coals from Newcastle,
which at present are selling at 10d. per cwt. They are delivered
at the pier of Avoch, which is a most substantial and commodious
errection, and is not only of essential benefit to the fishermen, but
to the district at large, as it facilitates the exportation of grain
and wood, and the importation of coal, salt, lime, and bone dust.
The district is indebted for this incalculable advantage to the
patriotic exertions of the late Sir Alexander Mackenzie of Avoch.
From the poverty of the inhabitants, however, the fuel principally
used in the landward district of the parish is turf, and in the vil-
lage brushwood, which is carried in bundles by the fishermen's
wives and daughters almost daily from plantations in the neigh-
bourhood.

  February. 1840.


