                            LESLIE.                                1021

found in a fissure about 2 1/2 feet from the surface, several pieces of
petrified wood.
	Zoology.--The domestic cattle are of the Aberdeenshire breed.
Greater care than formerly is now taken in the selection of breed-
ing stock, but very much remains to be done in this respect. Some
attempts have been made at "crossing" with the short-horned
breed. There are very few sheep, and these are generally a cross
between the Leicester and Cheviot. Pigs are not much raised in
the parish; but the farmers are beginning to pay attention to this
department of husbandry.
	Botany.--Wild mustard (Sinapis arvensis), dock (Rumex cris-
pus), ragveed (Senecio Jacobaea), bishopweed (AEgopodium poda-
grariu), bur-thistle (Cnicus lanceolatus), knot-grass (Holcus avena-
ceus), couch grass (Triticum repens), are the most common weeds.
The farmers are now becoming careful in rooting them out;
but still a good deal remains to be done.
	Among the rarer plants may be mentioned, Arenaria verna
(serpentine tract, mentioned above), Senecio saracenicus, Sambu-
cus ebulus. Statice armeria may also be mentioned as a rather
rare plant in districts not maritime. It grows on the serpentine
tract, along with Arenaria verna above alluded to.
	There is one small plantation in the parish, but not in a very
thriving condition.

                            II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--There are only two proprietors, viz. Sir Andrew
Leith Hay of Rannes and Leith Hall, &c. M. P.; and Colonel F.
Leith of Whitehaugh. The former has about two-thirds, and the
latter about one-third of the parish.
	Parochial Register.--The session records begin in the year
1699, when Mr William Watson was minister. A register of
marriages and baptisms, and minutes of session have been gene-
rally kept from that time, but they are incomplete. No register
of deaths has been kept. The following is a list of the incum-
bents at Leslie since 1698, viz.  Mr William Watson, admitted in
1698, died about the beginning of 1699. Mr Forbes, admitted
in May 1701, removed to Tarves in September 1706. Mr Thain,
admitted December 30, 1707, removed to Auchindoir in June
1719. Mr Robert Abercrombie, (grand-uncle of the present Dr
Abercrombie of Edinburgh), admitted 24th August 1720, died in
July 1751. Mr Alexander Stewart, translated from Grange 3d
June 1752, date of his death not ascertained exactly, but it was in


