
208                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

There are also two trap or blue whinstone quarries in the parish, one
at West Craigs, which is used occasionally for building farm-stead-
ings, but principally for road metal, and the other at Clermiston.

                       II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.--During the residence of the family of For-
rester of Corstorphine this parish was not unfrequently the scene
of war and devastation. In 1446, the lands of Corstorphine were
overrun by the Chancellor Crichton and his military vassals, and
the house levelled with the ground, in retaliation for a similar out-
rage committed by Sir John Forrester and William, Earl of Doug-
las, on the estate and castle of Brankstoun, which then belonged
to the Chancellor. In 1572, the house and college of Corstor-
phine were garrisoned by the Earl of Mar, then Regent of the
kingdom, along with all the other strengths round Edinburgh, to
prevent supplies from reaching the castle, which was then in pos-
session of William Kirkcaldy of Grange. In 1650, there was a
more serious and long-continued occupation of the parish, first by
General Leslie and his army, and afterwards by Oliver Cromwell
and his soldiers. Leslie's army was posted in the meadow on the
east of Corstorphine, when Cromwell, who was encamped on the
Pentland Hills, marched northwards with the object of interpos-
ing his army between Leslie and Linlithgow, and thus forcing an
engagement. Leslie, however, so maneouvred as to defeat this ob-
ject, for he marched westward about two miles, and then entrench-
ed himself in an impregnable position on Gogar-field, from whence
Cromwell attempted to dislodge him, but the ground was so boggy
between the armies that he was obliged to desist, and to content
himself with a brisk fire of artillery, which was returned with spirit
by Leslie, who brought into play, for the first time, upon that oc-
casion, several kinds of field-pieces invented by Colonel Wemyss,
his General of Artillery.* The field on which this fight took place
(on which the villas of Gogar-burn and Hanley now stand) is still
known among the old inhabitants by the name of "The Flashes;"
a name which it is said to have received from fire-arms being used in
the fight of greater power and variety than was usual at that time.
This skirmish continued from the afternoon till late in the evening of
Tuesday the 27th August 1650, and operated as such a check on
Cromwell's designs, that he immediately retreated to his camp at
Musselburgh, and afterwards towards England: Leslie following
in his rear and harassing his march, till he reached Dunbar, where,
owing to the impetuosity and want of discipline of the Scottish

<FOOTNOTE>Thomson's Acts, Vol. vii. page 46, and page 17 of Appendix.


