
                             APPLECROSS.                      99

                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     In concluding this short Account of the parish, I must take
leave to say, that either the Parliamentary Commissioners for
Highland roads, or those whose duty is was to make application to
them, were very remiss in overlooking this parish.  When other
parishes received large grants for conducting public roads through
their whole length and breath, this parish, though the public mails
pass twice through it every week, from Dingwall to Stornoway,
wass completely neglected.  It is almost unnecessary to add that,
without public roads, no regular improvement can be carried on in
any part of the Highlands.  The first great improvement requiered
in this way, is a public road from the east end of Lochmaree, along
its banks to the harbour of Poolewe,--and throwing  an arch across
the river Ewe, near its confluence with the sea; a spot which
seems formed by nature for the purpose.  The population is by
much too dense for the means of support which they enjoy.  A
Government grant to convey one-third of the people to upper Ca-
nada would be most desirable; and, in order to promote the moral
and religious improvement of the people, two missionaries, and from
six to eight schools, on a proper footing, are absolutely necessary
and loudly called for.
  September 1836.


                    PARISH OF APPLECROSS.

         PRESBYTERY OF LOCHCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

            THE REV. RODERICK M'RAE, MINISTER.

             I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     THE parish of applecross, in Gaelic called Comaraich, is divid-
ed into three large districts; 1.  Applecross, strictly   so called;
2.  Lochs, consisting of Torridon, Shieldag, &c.; 3.  Kishorn.
This parish formed a part of the parish of Lochcarron, till 1726,
when it was erected into a seperate charge.  The Applecross dis-
trict was formely occupied by a body of Roman Catholic priest,
whose residence afforded an asylum to such as, from motive of
piety, or to escape from punishement for criminal actions, sought
such a place of protection.  Hence the name Comaraich, a place
of safety.






