
                      TIREE AND COLL.                   215

fishing is carried on during the year : the fishing commences
towards the end of spring, and ends about mid-summer.  Neither
kind is prosecuted in Coll.  The herring-fishing has never been
practised here.  Though shoals of them unquestionably frequent
the coast at certain seasons, there are no bays or lochs to afford
them shelter, and the deep sea-fishing is quite unknown.
   During the last twelve or fifteen years this island has been re-
gularly frequented by fishermen from Aberdeenshire, who come
to prosecute the ling-fishing.  They commence their operations,
weather permitting, about the beginning of April, and finish about
the middle of June.  The superiority of these enterprizing strangers
to the native fishers was soon apparent.  They have powerful
boats of 18 tons burden, able to encounter any ordinary weather,
each accompanied by a small one, and carrying a compliment of
six men.  They choose their fishing ground on the, north-west
side of the island, * and set their lines at a distance of fifteen
iniles from the land.  Each boat cures and carries to market
about ten tons, which is sold at from L.16 to L.20 per ton.
Taking the average price at L. 18, we have L.180 for each boat,
-no bad remuneration for little more than a couple of months
employment.
   The native fishing-boats are but slight cockle-shells compared.
to these, and take tip their fishing-station on the east and south-
east side, as being less exposed to the turbulence of the Atlantic,
and more convenient to places of shelter.  Five men are common-
ly concerned about each boat.  Their tackling of all kinds may
be reckoned far inferior ; for few or none of them have means
at command to purchase good boats, or to fit them out pro-
perly.  In addition to these disadvantages, it is doubtful whe-
ther they possess the dexterity and perseverance of their Aber-
d eenshire competitors : they might, at all events, take an useful
lesson from them.
   Each of the country fishing-boats cures from 1 1/2 to 2 tons ling,
in the season; which is commonly sold at home at prices varying
from L.14 to L.16 per ton.
   It may not be improper to notice, that shoals of small whales
sometimes frequent our bays; and the people have become very
expert at driving them ashore with boats.  If one is wounded,

<FOOTNOTE>It is generally admitted that the fish of almost every kind caught on the western
coast of these islands is much superior in quality to that taken on the opposite on
eastern side.


