
                           MARNOCH.		            385

   to terminate, and that of a blue limestone seems to commence,
   about the burn of Kinardy.

                       II.- CIVIL HISTORY.
      Land-owners.--The land-owners in the parish are, William
   Aitken, Esq. of Auchintoul; Mrs Rose Innes of Netherdale;
   Earl of Seafield, Crombie, and Crana; Earl of Fife's Trustees,
   Kinardy; Mrs Chalmers of Cluny; The Right Honourable Ed.
   Ellice of Ardmellie; Arthur Abercrombie, Esq. of Auchinderran;
   William Duff, Esq. of Tillydown; Robert Ogilvie, Esq. of Culvie;
   William Grant, Esq. of Barry; and John, Benton, Esq. of Thorax.
     Mansion-houses, &c.--Near the centre of the parish stands the
   mansion-house of Auchintoul, now the property of William Ait-
   en, Esq., the largest proprietor in the parish. This was once
   the residence and propeAy of General Alexander Gordon, who
   entered the service of Russia as a cadet, under Peter the Great,
   and rose to high favour and command in his army. After he re-
   tired to his native country, be took a rominent part in the rebel-
   lion of 1715, commanded the Highland clans at Sheriffinuir, and
   conducted their retreat with great skill.  He was after this attaint-
   ed for treason, but escaped by a misnomer, and thus saved his life
   and property, but was obliged to remain concealed for several years in
   France, whence he returned in 172C He wrote in two volumes the
   history of bis "Great" master and friend, was much respected and
   died aged eighty-two years: be was buried in the church-yard
   here, but no memorial marks the spot. His second wife was a
   daughter of Sir T. Moncrieff of Moncrieff. The house on this pro-
   perty is a large plain building, forming three sides of a square,--
   one side was built by General Gordon. It has been much im-
   proved by the present proprietor; the situation is commanding.
   The gardens are beautifully walled with dressed granite, and well
   kept. The hot houses and. conservatory are extensive, and there
   is a very handsome squard of most commodious offices. The
   woods and belts are of considerable extent, and thriving on this
   property; and within half a mile of the house stands the village of
   Aberchirder, consisting of three streets, regularly, laid out,running
   parallel to each other, having a large square in the middle, and
   many excellent substantial houses recently built.
      On the east, stands the mansion-house of Cluny, the property
   of Mrs Chalmers. It is a modern structures beautifully built of
   dressed granite in the cottage style. The housewas built, and
   the whole place laid out by the late Mr Chalmers, with great
   judgment and taste. The whole is in a most complete state,


