
270                       STIRLINGSHIRE.


   A distillery in the parish pays of duty to government, L.17,000
yearly.
                     V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Towns.--The nearest market-town is Stirling, which
is about ten miles distant. There are two villages in the parish,--
Kippen and Buchlyvie, the former of which contains 600, and the
latter 400 inhabitants. They are five miles distant from each other.
   Means of Communication.--There is a daily post to Kippen, and
one six days in the week to Buchlyvie. The road from Stirling
to Dunbarton runs about seven miles through the parish, and now
passes along the level plain immediately below the village. A good
turnpike road from Kippen to Glasgow runs more than three miles
through the parish in a southwest direction. There are two
bridges over the Forth, on the boundary of this parish; one at
Frew and another near Cardross, both in good repair; along the
last of which, the road from Callander to Glasgow passes, and runs
across the  centre of this parish.
   Ecclesiastical Estate.--The parish church is not inconveniently
situated, in respect of the bulk of the population now connected
with it. It was built in 1825, and is in a good state of repair.
It affords accommodation for 800 sitters. There are only four or
five free sittings in the church. The seats are divided among the
heritors, according to their respective valuations, who, after reserv-
ing family seats for themselves, have appropriated the remainder
to their tenants. The manse was built in 1706, and was com-
pletely repaired, and received a large addition in 1814; and, it is
now a commodious dwelling.
  The grebe is four acres Scots in extent, and may be worth about
L. 12.
   The stipend consists of sixteen ebalders,--half meal and half
barley,--paid according to the rate of the highest flar prices of
the counties of Stirling and Perth, with L. 10 for communion ele-
ments.
  In 1835, a new church was built at Buchlyvie, in connection with
the Church of Scotland, which contains 350 sitters. It is intend-
ed to accommodate those of the-parishioners of Kippen and Dry-
men, who are at a distance from the parish churches. And ac-
cordingly, a district of this parish, containing 700 inhabitants, and
a district of Drymen parish, containing 400, have been assigned to
it, and it is now ecclesiastically erected into the parish of Buchly-
vie; the minister of which is paid from the seat rents and the col-
                                 4


