
                              SCONE.                            1051

      sick on her passage, and, landing on one of the Orkney Islands,
      died there about the end of September 1290, in her eighth year,
      This event, as is well known, was most disastrous for Scotland,
      but it is not necessary to do more than refer to the competition
      for the Crown that then took place;-to the claims of Edward
      to be Lord Paramount of Scotland ;-and to the final decision pro-
      nounced by him on the 17th November 1292, in the great hall
      of the Castle of Berwick, "that John Baliol should have seisine
      of the kingdom of Scotland." On the 19th, "the Great Seal,
      that had been used by the Regency, was broken into four parts,
      and the pieces deposited in the Treasury of England, in testimony
      as it was said, to future ages, of England's right of superiority
      over Scotland.   The next day, Baliol swore fealty to Edward at
      Norham.  On the 30th (St Andrew's day) he was solemnly
      crowned at Scone." Two years afterwards, that is, towards the
      latter end of 1294, we find a Parliament assembled at Scone.
      Even the degraded Baliol had been now somewhat roused against
      the unrelenting tyranny of Edward, and the nobles also became
      convinced that it was necessary to make some effort to cast off
      the yoke.   This Parliament directed, "that all Englishmen
      maintained at the Court should be dismissed, and then appointed
      a council of four bishops, four earls, and four barons, without
      whose advice, the King was restricted from performing any public
      act." The suspicions of Edward having been awakened by such
      proceedings, he made demands, that certain towns to the south
      of Scotland should be delivered up, and, advancing into the king-
      dom at the head of a powerful army, reduced Baliol to a state of
      the most abject submission.  Edward penetrated to the north as
      far as Eigin. "It was on his return from this triumphal progress,
      that he ordered the famous stone, on which the Scottish Kings
      had been wont to be crowned, to be removed from the Abbey of
      Scone, and conveyed to Westminster, in testimony, says Heming-
      ford, an English contemporary chronicler, of the conquest  and
      surrender of the kingdom.  He appears to have been at St John-
      stone's, or Pertb, on Wednesday the 8th of August 1296." A
      few years afterwards, A. D. 1300, in an account of the wardrobe.
      of Edward, there is a particular account of the sum expended on
      this stone, in having it fixed in a new chair, &c.  Although not
      mentioned in the Treaty of Northampton, (A.  D. 1328), it was then,
      as we shall see, stipulated that the stone should be restored.
      This, however, like the other conditions of that treaty, were never




