
			HOUSTON AND KILLALLAN.			   49

   M. Fleming, Esq. the present proprietor of Barochan, and which
will be found in his possession.*

   Parochial Registers.--There are three volumes of parochial
registers; the earliest entry is 25th October 1696.  The two
oldest volumes have not been regularly kept ; they are not even
authenticated by the subscription of any clerk; and there are con-
siderable gaps in them.  Indeed, there never was any Parochial
schoolmaster or regular session-clerk in the parish of Killallan
while disjoined from Houston; and no register, except one gratui-
tously kept by the late Rev. Mr Monteath, previous to 1799.  The
date of births was enthrely omitted, and baptisms only inserted,
--such perhaps might be the common practice at that time.  But
when this omission was discovered by the present minister, he con-
sidered it his, duty to the public, to insist that births should be
strictly and uniformly registered; and he had some difficulty in per-
suading the session-clerk that this was absolutely necessary, for ex-
actly ascertaining the ages of the parishioners.  Since that year,
the register has been regularly kept.

				III.--POPULATION.
   In the year 1760, when these parishes were united, there were
only about 300 examinable persons in each of them.  The whole
population in 1831 of the united parishes was 2745.  The cause of
this remarkable increase is evidently the introduction of public works.

	Number of persons in villages,				2140
			     the country,			 605
	Yearly average of births for the last seven years,   	53 1/2
			  marriages, do.			 234
	Number of persons under 15 years of age,		1216
			  betwixt 15 and 30,			 681
			          30 and 50,			 485
				  50 and 70,			 295
			  upwards of 70,			  68
	Number of families in the parish,			 520
			   chiefly employed in agriculture,	 100
	Average number of children in each family,		   2 1/8
        Insane and fatuous personr,				   4

   	William M. Fleming , Esq. of Barochan, is the only resident heri-
tor, possesing a considerable landed estate; but there are several

   <FOOTNOTE>There was a plan of Houston parish, made at the desire of a furmar proprietor
of the barony of Houston, which compreheads the whole of that parish, and part of
Killallan ; but the plan is now lost.  The present minister of these parishes has a
faint recollection of having seen, a great many years ago, but cannot remember in
whose custody it was, a fine and apparently minute plan of Houston and the adjacent
country, specifying the names of the farms ; it was said to have been made under the
influence of the French government, with a view to the invension of this part, of the
country.
   RENFREW.				D


