
                         ABERDEEN.                             25

exertions of the magistrates were required in order to prevent fa.
mine.  But though the prices were very high, * and much distress
was suffered in consequence, no serious disturbance took place.
   In 1802, the celebration of the anniversary of the - King's birth-
day terminated in a melancholy and fatal manner, in consequence-
of some of the officers of the Ross and Cromarty Rangers, at that
time quartered in the barracks, having become intoxicated while
drinking the King's health in the town-house.  On their appearing,
in this state in the street, they were pelted by some idle boys, on
which they immediately ordered out the regiment, and fired on the
crowd assembled in the Castle Street, four of whom were killed and
a good many wounded.  It was found necessary, in order to avert
further evil, to remove the regiment from the town next morning.
The officers and some of the soldiers who were most immediately
implicated were apprehended, and soon after ordered to be sent to
Edinburgh for trial, but about two months after, the Lord Advocate
declined to prosecute any of them.  The citizens, much dissatisfied
at this raised a subscription for the purpose of prosecuting them at
the instance of those whose relatives had been killed, and three
officers and two sergeants were brought to trial, but after a trial of
two days, two of the officers were found not guilty, and the verdict
was not proven as regarded the two sergeants; the other officer did
not stand his trial, and was outlawed.
   One of the most melancholy shipwrecks that have ever occurred
on the coast took place on the 1st April 1813.  The Oscar whale
ship left the port that morning along with four others, the weather,
being fine; but appearances of a gale coming on, the Oscar and
another weighed anchor, in order to stand out to sea.  The Oscar
was detained by one of her boats having been sent for some of the
crew who had not come on board, and the gale coming on from the
north-east, she was driven ashore about 11 A.M., in the Greyhope,
immediately behind the breakwater at the south side of the har-
bour, where she quickly went to pieces, and out of a crew of forty-
four only the first mate ana one seaman were saved.  The same
place proved fatal in 1815 to the Caledonia and the Thames, which
were both wrecked in one day, and the crews of both, perished.
   In 1817, it was found that the expenses into which the magis-
trates had been led in the execution of various improvemments in the
town, the harbour, and the roads leading to the city, had so drained
the treasury, that is became necessary to declare the town insol-
vent.  The amount of debt for which the security of the town was

<FOOTNOTE>The price per boll was, for oatmeal, L.2, 5s.; bear, L.2, 4s.; potatoes, L.2, 2s.


