
34                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

A good deal of lime and sea-ware are used as manure. Multitudes
of fishers and others are much occupied from the middle of April
till the middle of May, in providing sea-ware and planting potatoes.
In the beginning of June, they cab, them, and two or three weeks
afterwards they take away the weeds. Then they hoe them twice,
and in the month of October raise them. The people pay from L. 3
to L. 4 per acre, besides manure and labour to the tenants for po-
tato land. A few years ago, they were induced to raise potatoes
in great quantities, in order to feed swine for the market. But now
the price of pigs is so low, that comparatively few are reared. Tur-
nips of all kinds are quite common, and bone manure is partially
used, for them with much success. The horses are generally of a
superior breed, and well fed. Draining, trenching, and em-
banking have been carried on to a considerable extent. About
eighteen years ago, a large embankment was formed at the side
of the sands on the Bayfield estate, and 120 acres of land re-
claimed. But the embankment was not properly constructed at
first, though the expense was great; and consequently it is now fast
giving way. There are many drains, and some of a large size, but
many more are required. The leases are commonly for nineteen
years. The farms vary in size from 30 to 400 acres. One far-
mer has three farms containing in all about 1000 acres. There are
other five farms of 200 acres each, and two farms of 100 each.
The most of the rest are on a smaller scale. The farm-buildings
are in general good, particularly at Nigg, where there is an excel-
lent square of offices, built by the late proprietor. There are four
thrashing-mills driven by water, -one at Nigg, one at Bayfield, one
at, Culiss, and one at Pitcalnie.  There are three meal-mills. But
they seldom have water in summer or harvest, and the multure
payable is so  high, that they are avoided as much as possible by
those, who are not thirled to them.
   The principal obstacles to agricultural improvement are the fol-
lowing, viz.
   1st, The two largest estates are strictly entailed under rather pe-
culiar conditions, and consequently the encouragement given to im-
proving tenants is on too limited a scale. Getting as much rent
with as little outlay as possible, is the principle that guides the ma-
management.
   2d, Some of the estates have been for many years under judicial
factors, who are restricted to the letter of instructional arbitrarily
and perhaps injudiciously given.
   3d, Some of the farmers made, and saved money in very favour-


