
                   GARGUNNOCK.                              51

the river. The time when the salmon go up to the higher streams
to spawn, is in the end of October and the beginnin of Novem-
ber; and they return about the beginning of January. There is
abundance of fine trout in the burns of Boquhan, Leckie, and
Gargunnock; and likewise in the burns which form the bound-
aries. of this parish, on the south side of the Lennox hills.
                II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
We are informed by tradition, that, in the year 1745, Prince
Charles the Pretender passed the Forth at the ford of Frew,
breakfasted at Boquban, and slept at Leckie.
   Land-owners, --The chief land-owners are, Charles Alex-
ander Moir, Esq. of Leckie, who is the first heritor of the pa.-
rish, The barony of Lekie extends through the length of the
parish, from the south side of the Lennox hills to the river
Forth. It therefore contains moor, dry-field, and carse lands.
The next heritor, in point of valuation, is Henry Fletcher Camp-
bell, Esq, of Boquhan. The barony of Boquban runs parallel
with the barony of Leckie on the west, and has the same kind of
soils. The third heritor is John Stirling, Esq. of Gargunnock,
who is a minor. The barony of Gargunnock runs parallel with
the barony of Leckie on the east. The fourth heritor is David
Graham, Esq. of Meiklewood. The fifth is Henry Seton Stewart,
Esq. of Touch. The sixth is Mr Young of Easter Colmore.
And the seventh is, Mr Kerr of Mosshead.
   Parochial Registers.--The earliest entry in the parish registers
is dated 1615. The registers are voluminous; and, upon the whole,
they have been regularly kept; but,owing to accident or careless
ness, the registers of the last forty years of the seventeenth cen-
tury have been lost. Since that time, many marriages, births, bap-
tisms, and burials have been omitted to be recorded : and in con-
sequence, several valuable legacies have been lost to the nearest
heir.
   Antiquities.--The Keir-hill was a fortified place, in the end
of the thirteenth century. It is considerably elevated, and is of
an oval figure, and has been surrounded by a rampart; it is
near the confluence of two rivulets which unite at the east end
of the village; and there must have been a ditch to the south,
The circumference of the summit is about 140 yards.  At
the summer sacraments the tent is placed at the bottom of the
Keir-hill, and the people sit on its gently sloping side, and form
an interest ing sight, The Peel of Gargunnoc has been a much


