
                      AVOCH.                                389

son, the author of Geographical Distribution of British Planes.
to whom the credit of examining and determining it to be a species
new to Britain, must be awarded.,
   Mr Watson communicated his opinion along with: the specimen
to Dr Graham, who also recognized the plant as P. alpina, and
was,the first to communicate to Mr Gordon the discovery which
he had been the means of making to the British' Flora. Dr.
Graham afterwards described the plant, and got it figured in the
Botanical Magazine, from live specimens furnished by Mr Gordon.
   This new plant, P.alpina, is confined to thd Rosehaugh estate,
the property of Sir James Weymss Mackenzie of Scatwell, Bart.
Lord Lieutenant of the county of Ross; and it is a curious circum-
stance, that since its discovery, P. lusitanica, which it was at first
confounded with, has been found by Mr Smith in great abundance,
on a Highland estate, Kinlochluichart, in the centre of Ross-
shire, belonging to the same proprietor.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
Eminent Characters -The celebrated Scots historian priest
and Lord of Session, Chambers of Ormond, was born in this pa-
rish about the year 1530. He was proprietor of Castleton and
Ormond Hill, which gave title to Douglas, Earl of Ormond.
Sir George Mackenzie of Rosehaugh resided in this parish, and
had very extensive possessions in it and its vicinity. These are
now principally the property of the families of Seatwell,'and Avoch-
and Bennetsfield.
   The Chief Land-owners.-There are three land-owners: First
Sir James W. Mackenzie of Scatwell, Baronet, Lord Lieutenant
of the county. His seat of Rosehaugh House stands on a beau-
tiful bank about a mile and a-half from the sea, an elegant modern
edifice, substantial and commodious. It is surrounded by rich fields
in  high cultivation, well  fenced, and skirted with woods of dif-
ferent kinds. He served for some time as Paymaster of the 5th
Regiment, in the West Indies. Subsequently, he represented
the county of Ross in Parliament for three successive Parlia-
ments, a period of nine years, without opposition. He married
Henrietta Wharton Mackenzie, sister of the late General John
Mackenzie of Suddie, who met a death of glory on the field of
Talavera. An elegant monument is erected in St Paul's, com-
memortive of his bravery as a soldier, and his high accomplish-
ments as a gentlemen. The second land-owner is Alexander
Mackenzi, Esq. of Avoch. He is at present qualifying for the


