
                  PARISH OF JURA.

       PRESBYTERY OF ISLAY AND JURA, SYNOD OF ARGYLE.

      THE REV. ALEXANDER KENNEDY, MINISTER.


        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--THE, original designation of the parish was Kilearna-
dale and Kilchattan, names of burying-grounds in Jura and Co-
lonsay.  It comprehends seven inhabited islands, viz. Jura, Co-
lonsay, Oronsay, Scarba, Lunga, Belnahua, Garvelloeh, or Holy
Islands.  The islands of Gigha and Cara were disjoined from his
parish about 100 years ago, and the disjunction of Colonsay and
Oronsay was at the same time in contemplation; a committee of
the presbytery of Kintyre, including several gentlemen acquainted
with the localities, having been appointed to give in a report to the
presbytery.  This was done, but no ulterior steps were taken to-
wards the disjunction of these islands from the parish of Jura.
Jura signifies the island of Red Deer, from Deera, a red deer, and
I, an island.  It still retains its ancient character, its deer being
inferior in point of size and other qualities to none; in Scotland.
The number at present on the island is from 400 to 500.
  Extent.--The island of Jura from Freughilein below Jura House,
to Breacan's Cave in Kenuachdrach, is 36 miles in length; its
mean breadth is 7 miles. A sound, 1 3/4 miles in breadth called the
Gulf of Corryvrecan, separates it from the island of Scaiba, which
lies to the north of Jura.  Scarba is 3 miles in length, and nearly
the same in breadth, containing a surface of about 6 miles square.
The island of Lunga, separated from Scarba by an estuary named
"Bealach a Chumhainn Ghlais," contains a surface of about three
miles square.  The Garvelloch,or Holy Islands, are remarkable
for having been once the residence of the monks of Iona. The
remains of what appears to, have been a dwelling-house and cha-
pel with a, cemetery or burying-ground attached are still extant.
Here also is marble quarry, which had been wrought at some
distant period: a specimen of the quality of the marble may be
seen at Inverary Castle.  These islands are now valuable solely


