
456                        LANARKSHIRE.

3s. to 3s. 6d.; in winter 2s, 6d. to 3s.; carpenters from 2s. 6d. to 3s.;
smiths charge 2s. 8d. to 3s. for shoeing a horse; other work is at 4d.
and 8d. per lb.; journeymen smiths get from 8s. to 10s. per week
with victuals; shoemakers 2s. to 2s. 6d.; tailors 2s. 6d. to 3s.;
weavers' wages the same as given in the account of Hamilton. There
is a small foundery for spades, shovels, &c. kept by Mr Donald, who
is famed for these articles.
	Live-Stock.--Few sheep are reared here. The cows are chiefly
of tbe Ayrshire breed, and the farmers pay considerable attention
to the management of their dairy stock, often sending to that county
for a supply. The horses are of a mixed breed, and consequently
few are reared. The farmers now find that they can supply them-
selves at a cheaper rate at the Lanark, Glasgow, or Rutherglen
markets.
	Husbandry.--The mode of cropping on the light land is, 1st, oats;
2d, green drilled crops; 3d, wheat; 4th, bay. On the clay soils, some
take two white crops, then wheat after summer fallow, next hay,
after which two or three years pasture. Some take, 1st, oats; 2d,
beans and peas; 3d, oats; 4th, wheat after fallow; 5th, hay;
then pasture seven or eight years, and others take, 1st, beans and
peas broadcast, with manure 2d, oats; 3d, hay; 4th, two years
pasture. The latter rotation has been more extensively adopted,
since wheat became so low priced.
	The soil is very capable of farther improvement, and stands
much in need of furrow-draining, very little having yet been done
here in that way.
	The length of leases is generally nineteen years, which is con-
sidered a suitable period. If tenants at the end of their leases,
were repaid a part of the expense of permanent improvements, and
for the manure of which they have not reaped the benefit, it would
operate as a means of keeping the land always in good condition,
which would prove beneficial both to landlord and tenant.
	The farm-steadings are in general old, but are pretty convenient,
and are kept in tolerable order. There is a large one on the Dal-
ziel farm, built about twelve years-ago, with very extensive accom-
modation for farming operations, which cost L.3000. The fences
on some of the farms have rather been neglected of late, as, owing
to the markets being so low, the tenants have been unable to hire
labourers to keep them in good order. A number of the farmers
have thrashing-mills.
	The only improvements recently made, were effected by the late
Archibald Hamilton, Esq. of Dalziel. He embanked the river

				3


