
 	      INVERESK.                         261
   From the Chartulary of Dunfermline, we find that David I.--
the founder of Melrose, Dryburgh, and Holyrood--granted to the
monks of that abbacy a baronial jurisdiction over the manor of In-
veresk, the lands of Carbarrin (Carberry,) and Smithton (Smea-
ton.) In this manorship of Inveresk were comprehended the town
of Musselburgh, and its port of Fisherrow; and it is worthy of re-
mark, that the jurisdiction over these is termed the lordship and
regality.
   The collieries and quarries of Inveresk were worked perhaps as
early as the reign of William the Lion;* and it is ascertained that
the monks of Newbottle raised coal at Prestongrange, in the im-
mediate neighbourhood, even before the accession of Alexander II.
A charter is still extant, granted by Seyer D'Quincey, Lord of
the Manor of Tranent, to these monks, for the working of coal
and stone, carbonarium et quararium, on their lands of Preston,
westward to the rivulet of Pinkie, consequently considerably with-
in the boundaries of the present parish of Inveresk.  This char-
ter must have been signed between 1202 and 1218, as in the lat-
ter year the granter set sail for the Holy Land, where he died in
1219, as we learn from Dugdale.  Before the discovery of coal in
the district, we fihd, from the Chartulary of Kelso, that Herbert,
the abbot there, wielded to Reginald D'Bosco, for the yearly pay-
ment of ten marks of silver, his whole land of Ester-Dodinestun,
which is the western boundary of the parish of Inveresk, "cum
medietate petarie de Camerun"--that is to say, the right of dig-
ging peats on the lands last mentioned.
   During the eleventh century a charter of Malcolm Canmore
and his Queen Margaret, gifted the manor of Little Inveresk
(that is Inveresk Proper) to the monks of Dunfermline; and this
was confirmed by another of David I., who added to it the manor
of great Inveresk, that is Musselburghshire,) comprehending the
town, with its harbour, mills, fishings, and other pertinents.+

<FOOTNOTE>Chartulary of Newbottle, 72.
          Among other items is mentioned,"omnes rectitudines de omnibus navibus, que
in portu de Inveresk applicuerint."--MS. Chart.
  Burgum et portum de Musselburgh cum omnibus libertatibus suis; et Inveresk.
Ibid.  Monast. Scot. Vide also Chalmers's Caledonia, Vol. ii.  P. 749.
  "The Abbacy of Dunfarmline," says Mathew of Westminster," could lodge three
sovereign princes with all their retinue," (Flor. Historian. p. 441, Ed. 1570.) Its
riches must have been enormous. It was founded and endowed by Margaret, Queen
of Malcolm Canmore, and there Turgot affirms were "non panea et solido et puro
auro vass, (Vita Margarit. Regin.  Scot. Sect. 5.) David I. granted to it "a sixth of
all the gold found in Fife and Fothriffe." (Chart. de Dunfermline) It was a place
of royal sepulture, and its ruins show its original vast extent.--Dayell's Frag. In-
troduc.



