
624                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ration. A proclamation was issued, orderin all the males capable
of bearing arms immediately to appear in Military array, and put
themselves under the command of the provost. Every fourth man
was selected as a night guard; and five hundred pounds, Scottish
money, were raised for ammunition and. for the fortification of the
city. It was at this period that a Militia was embodied for the
permanent security of the town, under the name of the Town Guard;
which venerable body existed until the organization of a regular
police in the year 1817.
According to the description of a French traveller, the Duke de
Roban, in the year 1600, Edinburgh was reckoned the principal
town in Scotland, and formed the chief residence of the king and
nobility. He describes it as about one thousand paces in length
and four or five hundred in breadth; adding that it presented no-
thing remarkable but the great street in the centre, which was very
long and broad, extending from one end of the town to the other;
that the houses were not sumptuous, being almost all built of wood;
but, to make amends, it was so full of inhabitants that probably
there is no town elsewhere of its dimensions so populous. A cen-
tury, before this, the whole of the Borough Moor or myre, to the
south of the city, was covered with wood; and, in order to dispose
of this to the best advantage, an order of Council enacted that
tho, se citizens who would purchase as much of the wood as was suf-
ficient to make a new front to their houses, were at liberty to extend
the same.seven feet farther into the street. This offer appears to
bavebeen eagerly accepted; and the consequence was the clear-
ing of the wooded moor, and the narrowing of the principal street
by wooden projections something in the style of the Old Lucken
Booths.
During the minority of James V., the nobles were extremely tur-,
bulent. The leaders of the two opposite parties were the Earl of
Arkan:and Earl of Angus. A fray between these two parties took
pl Ace in 1515 on the High Street of Edinburgh, near the Nether
Bow; in which upwards of 250 people were slain. Some years
after this, so high had party animosities grown, that the then Re-
gets, the Duke of Albany, sent forth an edict prohibiting any of
the name of Douglas or Hamilton to be chosen provost of Edior
burgh. Notwithstanding  this order,and in opposition to the sen-
timents of the citizens who were adverse to the Earl of Arran, that
ford  though proper to  interfere in the election of provost. The
eifirens shut their gates against him; a scuffle ensuedl one of the
                                   4


