
24                         LANARKSHIRE.

pletely surrounded by steep and beautifully wooded hills. It owes
its existence to David Dale, who built the first mill in 1784. It has
always been and still continues a remarkably thriving manufactory.
   There are, besides, three considerable hamlets,--Cartland in the
north-west, Nemphlar in the west, and Hyndford Bridge-end in the
south-east quarter of the parish.
   Means of Communication.--The parish enjoys the most ample
means of communication. There is a post-office; fifteen miles of
turnpike road traverse the parish in different directions. In the fine
season, a stage-coach goes to and from Edinburgh every lawful
day; in winter, three times a-week. There is also a stage coach
to Glasgow, in summer twice, and in winter once a-day,--besides a
number of carriers.
	There are two bridges over the Clyde. The old bridge, about
a mile below the town, is of a very indifferent description. It was
built about the middle of the seventeenth century, at an expense
of L. 56, 11s, 7d., which was raised by private contributions and
parochial collections. *
	   The New or Hyndford Bridge, a little more than two miles from
the town, is remarkable for its elegance. Over the Mouss, there
are no fewer than five bridges, at Cleghorn, at Lockhartford, at
Cartlane Craigs, and two at Mouss Mill. The Cartlane bridge
was built in 1822, from a design of Mr Telford, engineer, and is
one of the most beautiful in the country. The height from the
bed of the river to the parapet is 125 feet, and to the spring of the
arch 84. It has three arches of 52 feet span each.
	One of the bridges at Mouss Mill is very ancient and curious;
it has a semicircular arch. When the new one was built, this was
condemned to be demolished, but, being an object of considerable
beauty, it was purchased for L. 50, and preserved by Michael Lin-
ning, Esq. and is a great ornament to his beautiful little property
in the vicinity.
	Ecclesiastical State--Patronage of the Parish.--The patronage

<FOOTNOTE>The following extract from the presbytery records connected with this bridge is
curious.  "Mach 29th 1649.--It is ordained the act of Parliament which is granted
in favour of the town of Lanark for building a bridge at Clydesholm,--a work of
great necessity and public concernment, be presented to the synod that we may have
the help and advice of the synod for the furtherance of the work. April 19th 1649.
--The brethren, after their return from the synod, report to the baillies of Lanark
being then present, law willing, all the brethren of the synod were to further the work
of building a bridge at Clydesholm by a contribution of their several parishes,--and
desires the baillies not to neglect speedily to go on with the work, which the presby-
tery will further all they can."


