
                        INVERCHAOLAIN.                       111

coal-fish, rock-fish or sea-perch, salmon, and trout.  Sometimes
there are great takes of herring, which are a blessing to the peo-
ple.  The most of them keep nets, to embrace every favourable
opportunity of catching them.  The conger eel are numerous and
of a large size, and though they are very troublesome to the
herring-fishers, (from running along their nets and picking out
the herrings,) yet they are fished in great quantities for the
Liverpool marko.  Shoals of grey mullet occasionally come into
our loch, but few of them are caught; sole are not abundant;
turbot and ballibut have sometimes been taken; also that much
prized fish, the John Doree; the ink or cuttle-fish are to be found;
the kethick or ground-shark are often thrown on our shores by
the storms; the Portheagle shark and dog-fish are common; the
porpoise or pelloch and whale follow the herrings; seals are fre-
quently seen; lobsters, crabs, and shrimps are also prevalent;
there are a variety of shell-fish on our shores; oysters and muscles
were at one time very plentiful, but are now scarce; par and sal-
mon-trout were abundant in our streams, but are yearly becoming
less numerous.

                      II.-Civil History.
   Heritors.-There are seven in the parish: John Campbell,
Esq. of Southhall; Alexander Lamont, Esq. of Knockdow; Alex-
ander Finlay, Esq. of Castletoward; Sir John Fife of Gortan;
John Campbell, Esq. of Dunoon; Archibald Campbell, Esq. of
Glendarnel; and Mrs Harkness of Garrachoren.
   Resident Heritors.-These are, John Campbell, Esq. of South-
hall, whose place is beautifully situated near the entrance to the East
Kyles of Bute, commanding a prospect of the Firth of Clyde, as
described in the former Statistical Account of this parish; Alex-
ander Lamont, Esq. of Knockdow; and Sir John Fife, a gentleman
from the north of England, who has purchased property on both
sides of Loch Striven within the last twenty years.  He has built a
most commedious cottage, delightfully situated on the east side of
the locb, commanding a view of Rothsay Bay, with Ayrshire and
Arran in the distance.  He has planted nearly 100 acres about
his place, and done much to ornament and improve the low
grounds and hill-pasture.  Also, Mrs Harkness, heretrix of Gar-
rachoren.
   Antiquities.-The only thing particularly worthy of being noticed
under this head, is the ruins of the old Castle of Ellandheirrig, on a
small island in Loch Riddah, about a hundred yards from the main


