

274                 KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

which last stream is the separating boundary between Carsphairn
and Dalry for about ten miles. This last, after leaving Cars-
phairm, passes through a beautiful and richly wooded country,
forms that splendid sheet of water Loch Ken, and afterwards gives
up its name to the Dee. The only loch in the parish is that of
Loch Doon, which forms a considerable part of its western boun-
dary.
	Mountains.--The highest mountain in the parish is Cairnsmuir,
which rises to an elevation of about 2696 feet above the level of
the sea. It was chosen by Captain Colby as one of his stations
for the trigonometrical survey in this part of Scotland, about 1814.
From the summit of this mountain, when thd atmosphere is clear,
a most extensive view is obtained in every direction, except where
it is intercepted by a mountain called Carline's Cairn on the
soutb-west side of the parish, which is nearly of an equal height.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The carse or plain on which the
church of Carsphairn is situate, has been entirely formed by water.
The churchyard may be said to be a sand-bank formed by the water.
From the rapidity and force with which the Deugh rushes from the
mountains, it is not wonderful that it should have frequently
changed its course, and traversed, as it evidently has done, the
whole of the plain. But, though this small portion of the parish
be continually undergoing changes, the greater part is of a very
unchangeable nature, and, from the number and elevation of its
mountains, may be supposed to afford much scope for the investi-
gations of the mineralogist.
	As there are no indications of either lime or coal through-
out the whole of the parish, and as there are plenty of stones
upon the surface for the purpose of fences or of houses, there
has not, till lately, been any attempt made to penetrate into
the bowels of the earth.
	Much, indeed,is reported of the rich freight with which some
of the small streams in the neighbourhood of Cairnsmoor were
loaded in former times,--when a Mr Dodds, celebrated fnr his
chemical skill, collected the golden grains, converting them into
some foreign coin; but, after his lucrative retirement was dis-
turbed by some of the officers of the Crown sent to apprehend
him he threw his dies for coining, into what is commonly called
by the inhabitants the green well of Scotland, or well of Lagwine.
	A discovery has been made on the estate of the Honourable
Colonel M. Cathcart, of a vein of lead, which promises to be


