
     of Bedrule.

together, and attending divine service with the Dissenters,
whose houses of worship, though built by contribution, are
decent, convenient, and comfortable; and choose rather to
do this, though accompanied with expence, than attend the
Established Clergy in those churches where their health is in
danger.  Strangers will naturally wish to be informed from
whence the neglect proceeds.  Candour, however painful,
obliges us plainly to state the answer.  By the law and prac-
tice of Scotland, different from what obtains in some other
countries, the burden of building and repairing the churches
established by law, particularly in landward or country pa-
rishes, is not raised by assessment on all possessors of lands and
houses, whether tenant or proprietor, indiscriminately, nor
raised by briefs, but is raised from lands only; and, there-
fore, by the same right, according to the Constitution and
present existing law of Scotland, by which our heritors or
landholders in the act called parishioners* possess their estates,
     4 E 2

<FOOTNOTE>

rest and comfort of the modest and deserving poor, by so much breaking off
their connection with the wealthy, and, in most cases, even preventing them
being known to them; by which means, the modest and shameless, the indus-
trious and slothful, the deserving and worthless, are unavoidably placed on
the same footing, and classed indiscriminately on the same common roll, which,
though in an assessment of that nature, can scarcely be avoided, is obviously
the occasion of many and great evils, besides increasing the poor-rates.

*Parishioners, i. e. heritors.  This expression is equally agreeable to the
law and practice of Scotland: "For, (in the words of a great lawyer++ on
that head) all who have lands in a parish, are considered parishioners, with-
out respect to their residence, as to all parochial burdens, which are propor-
tioned to the valuation of every heritor's lands in the parish, and not to
quality or his lands in other parishes."  Act 54. Parl. 3. Ja. 6. 1572.  "And
(in the words of the same great man) the church yard is fenced with dykes,
partly for ornament, and partly as a preservative to the dead bodies, from

++Forbes on Teinds, pages 209 and 218.


