
226                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

chaplains are mentioned as witnesses, the names being as follows,
viz. Nicol Bannachtyne, provost; Alexander Story, John Cra-
mound, Hector Story, James de Hales, Andrew Gawmok, William
Forrester, David Swintoun, and Malcolm Chepman, chaplains.*
 In the foundation charter, the annual value of the church of Ra-
tho is said not to exceed L. 50 Sterling, according to common esti-
mation.   The four prebends instituted in conseqence of the
union of this church with the college, were Haltoun, Dalmaboy,
Boningtotin, and Piet, and as the vicarage of Ratho had been
formerly in the gift of the Bishop of St Andrews, when the union
took place, he and his successors obtained a right to present alter-
nately, per vices, with the family of Forrester, to these four pre-
bends, while the Forresters continued to enjoy the sole patronage
of all the other livings on the establishment.
 In December 1475, Hugh Bar, a burgess of Edinburgh, found-
ed an additional chaplainry, at the altar of the Holy Trinity, in the
Collegiate Church.  This chaplain, in addition to the perform-
ances of daily masses for the souls of the King and Queen, the
Lords of the Manor, and the founder's own mother and wife, and of
all the faithful dead, was specially directed, at the commencement
of each season of Lent, to exhort the people to gay one pater nos-
ter, and the salutation of the angel to the Virgin Mary for the souls
of the same persons.  This chaplainry was also in the gift of the
Forresters after the death of the founder.+
 Besides the above possessions, the parish kirk of Corstorphine,
with its chaplainries, was afterwards united to the Collegiate Church,
but the period when this happened is not known.
 Possessing such revenues as we have enumerated, this Collegiate
Church  must have been regarded as an establishment of consider-
able importance, and, accordingly, we find among its provosts men
of eminence and influence.  Some of those whose names have been
handed down to posterity we shall briefly notice.
 The first provost was Nicol Bannatyne, who presided over the
establishment from the year 1429 down to his death, which hap-
pened after 1473.   He was buried within the church, as appears
from a Latin inscription, which is afterwards inserted.
Among the after provosts, the most noted were Robert Cairn-
cross, about 1520, and James Scott in 1554.
 Robert Cairncross was descended from an ancient family in For-
farshire. Having passed through the usual classes at one of the

<FOOTNOTE>MSS Reg, Mag. Sigil.            Ibid.


