
420                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

nantly, informed, the circle, that, however this unknown person
might flatter his vanity, he must in candour tell them, that he had
the honour, of which he should ever be proud, to be the son of
an honest baker and freeman of the ancient burgh of Stirling.  He
then ordered the abashed impostor out of his sight.  He would not
visit in Stirling, unless his father and mother were invited. The Earl
of Marr, son to the Regent, and himself Lord High Treasurer of
the Kingdom, asked him to dine or sup.  Edmond agreed on the
fore-mentioned condition; and, thus happily escorted by the aged
pair, did the gallant Colonel wait upon his illustrious entertainer.
   The excellent Christian soldier, Lieutenant-Colonel John
Blackadder, son of a faithful minister, who, during the time of
persecution, after the restoration of Charles II., suffered long for
his adherence to Presbytery, and endured a distressing imprison-
ment on the Bass Rock, falls here to be mentioned.  He was not
more distinguished for his personal bravery and military accom-
plishments, than for his private worth and devoted piety.  After
serving many years on the continent, under the Duke of Marlbo-
rough, in command of the celebrated Cameronian Regiment of
Infantry, he was appointed Deputy-Governor of the castle, where
he closed his life in August 1729, at the age of 65.
   The Rev. Ebenezer Erskine, whose name is associated with a
deeply interesting event in the history of Scotland, the rise of the
Secession from the Established Church, somewhat more than a
century ago, was for several years minister of the third charge of
Stirling.  His grandfather, Ralph Erskine, descended from the
family of Marr, had thirty-three children; of whom Henry, Eben-
ezer's father, was the youngest, and was born at Dryburgh on
the Tweed, in the parish of Merton, in Berwickshire.  Henry
Erskine was one of the most eminently pious and deeply expe-
rienced ministers of his day; and passed through a long course of
remarkable vicissitudes and heavy trials, which render his bio-
graphy highly instructive, as well as full of extraordinary in-
terest.  He was minister at Cornhill in North Durham; whence
he was ejected in 1662.  After various changes of place and cir-
cumstances, he became, under King James's toleration, on the
call of a number of Presbyterians at or near Whitsome, a few
miles from Dunse, in his native county, pastor of a congregation,
which assembled at Rivelaw, in that parish; where he continued
till the Revolution, when he became minister of Chirnside, in the
same district:  Here he died in 1696 aged 72.  His second son,


