
			CADDER.                              409

aud dumb, one furious and confined; five deaf and dumb, and four
of them in one family.

			      IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The rental of the parish is about L. 14,000, in-
cluding every burden the farmer bears,--without taking into account
the feus paid to the different superiors. There are about 110 far-
mers in the parish. Of these, two pay above L. 500 ofrent, two above
L. 400, one above L. 300, sixteen above L. 200, thirty-nine above
L. 100, nineteen above L. 50. The largest farmers employ about six
men and four women, all in the house: the rest in proportion,--but
fewer or sometimes none, if their families are numerous and grown.
--There are almost no cottars under the farmers. The cottars
Saturday or even Sabbath night will soon not be known in Scot-
land. We have comparatively very few labourers. Our farmers
dwell alone, quite detached. We have, of course, a number of
feuars in our villages. None of them are beyond sixty years stand-
ing. The destruction of the old townships originated and in-
creased the feuars. The erection of the chapel at Chryston in
1779, gave occasion to feus in that village. Several of the feuars
are bound, in their titles, to pay cess and teind, and other public
and parochial burdens; and they are classed among and rank as
heritors. Neither superiors nor feuars had, so far as we can learn,
any object in view when they so designed them, but that they
might so far free the superior. They are not rated in the cess-
books, nor have they hitherto paid any teind. It was only ascer-
tained in 1816 that they were heritors and patrons of the parish.
	There are about 8700 acres in cultivation. There are more
than 300 acres of deep moss. There may be about an acre on which
the whinstone rises at least twenty feet perpendicular on both sides;
and about three acres on which the freestone rises to the surface.
The rest is covered with planting, fences, streams, and roads, and
lakes. The commonties are all done away. But there are still
about three acres at Muirhead near Chryston, on which the old feu-
ars at Chryston have a servitude for feal and divot, to keep their
houses in repair. They can take only the surface while heath,
rushes, or grass continue to cover it.
	Live-Stock.--Our cows are all of the Ayrshire breed, and it is al-
leged that we have surpassed the original. It is said that some of the
farmers' wives have boasted that they realized fourteen pounds of but-
ter from each cow. We can raise grain on some parts of the parish
equal to any or to most in Scotland; but the butter milk and butter


