
                              STOBO.                            125

for farm-labourers, or labourers at the high roads, is 10s.; and in
the winter, per week, 9s., they finding their own victuals. Carpen-
ters are paid at the rate of 1s. 6d. per day, summer and winter,
with their victuals. Tailors are paid at the same rate. Masons
are paid 2s. 6d. per day, but maintain themselves.
   Husbandry.-All the farms in the parish are stocked with the
Cheviot breed of sheep, except two, which are stocked with the
black-faced. In some farms the breeds of cattle have been of late
improved by crossing them with the Tees-Water and Ayrshire
breeds. The state of farm-buildings in the parish is generally good:
and the greater part of the arable ground, which is Generally plough-
ed, is enclosed with stone dikes. The duration of leases is nine-
teen years.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, is as follows:
Produce of grain of all kind, whether cultivated for food of man or the domestic
   animals, 3600 bolls.

<TABLE>

37 acres potatoes, at L. 6 per acre.	-	-     L. 222 0 0
138 acres, turnips, at L. 3, 10s. per acre,  -           483 0 0
5590 stones of hay, at 4d. per stone,	-	-         93 3 4

                                                      L. 798 3 4
As to the produce of land in pasture, there are 1330 acres in that
      state. It may be rated at L. 2, 10s. per cow or full-grown
      ox, grazed, or that may be grazed for the season; at 10s. per
      ewe or full-grown sheep, pastared or that may be pastured
      for the year.
Annual thinning and periodical felling of wood, plantations, and copse,    60  0  0
Quarries,                                                                   60 0  0
   The real rental of the parish is L.2847.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL, ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-There is a communication between
Peebles and Stobo weekly, by a carrier, who passes through the
parish; and between Edinburgh and Stobo weekly by the same
means. There is no post-office nearer than Peebles or Rachan
Mill. There are two turnpike roads in the parish, one of which
extends towards the west about four miles nearly along the side of
the river Tweed; the other upwards of three miles, till it joins
Kirkurd parish on the north-west, and Newlands on the north-east.
   Over Lyne water there are three bridges at a short distance
from each other; and on Biggar water, the boundary between
Stobo and Broughton parishes, there is a bridge,-all of which
are kept in good repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is a Gothic structure of great
antiquity, and has been evidently erected in times of Popery. For
a long time the building afforded insufficient and uncomfortable
accommodation; but these defects have now been completely re.


