
				PAISLEY.                            159

<TABLE>

Colliers and miners and other workmen employed at Haugh coal-pit,	         144
Lime-blowers and other workers of lime there,                               29
Miners of aluminous schistus there,	                                        10
Workmen employed manufacturing alum and Copperas at Hurlet and Nitahill,    81
Workmen employed at ironstone pits and mines at Hurlet.                    116
                                                                          ----
                                                                    Total, 380

   The wages of the above workmen are, miners from 3s. 4d. to
4s. per day, with houses, fires, and gardens, free of rent or other
charge; labourers and others are paid from 1s. 10d. to 2s. 3d. per
day, and are not allowed houses and fires free.
   There are in the employment of the company upwards of forty
horses engaged at the works, or in conveying the minerals and other
produce to Glasgow and Paisley.
   The operatives employed at the other works at Hurlet and Nits-
bill, conducted by Mr Mackintosh, may amount to about 200 more,
and they reside principally in the immediate neighbourbood.  From
the nature and extent of these works both above and below ground,
the men are exposed frequently.  to fatal accidents.  To provide
against distress arising from such contigencies, a friendly society
was established in 1811, which has done and promises to do much
good.  In a population of nearly 1000 souls within the boundaries
of these works, 100 pupils are reported to be attending school
where the elements of reading, writing, and arithmetic are taught
and where the teacher, encouraged by the friends of education and
of youth, devotes himself on week-days and on Sabbath-days, to
the moral and religious training of his charge.
   There is still too much ground for the remark of the learned
author of Caledonia.  " Ironstone seems to be universally found
within every division of Renfrewshire: * But we hear nothin of any
iron work.  It is, however, more than probable, that in a shire
which abounds with water for driving machinery, and has plenty
of coal, iron works of every kind.  will be established, and will be of
importance, in proportion to the capital that may be employed; so
as to furnish employment more steadily to an industrious people." *
We have much pleasure in closing this account with the following
remarks from Mr Wilson's excellent Agricultural Survey of Ren-
fewshire: " In many places where this division of Renfrewshire is
intersected by the rivers White Cart and Gryfe, and the rivulets

<FOOTNOTE>In the lands of Blackhall the property of Sir M. S. Stewart, M. P., Valuable
beds of iron ore have been within these few weeks discovered; and Sir W. Milli-
ken Napier, Bart. of Milliken (Kilbarchan parish,) has lately made a similar dis-
covery on his estate.
    Caledonia, Vol. iii. P. 767.


