
                   PARISH OF TULLIALLAN.

       PRESBYTERY OF DUNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

        THE REV. GEORGE HOPE MONILAWS, MINISTER.


                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Situation and Extent.- THIS parish is situated in the southwest
extremity of the county of Perth, on a beautiful hill, gently de-
clining to the south and west, and sloping to the north and north-
east; and this local peculiarity, in all probability, gave to the pa-
rish the name of Tulliallan,-tbe beautiful hill.  It consisted ori-
ginally of the barony of Tulliallan only ; but in 1673, the barony
of Kincardine, lands of Lurg, Sands, and Kellywood were dis-
joined from the parish of Culross at the instance of the Earl of
Kincardine, " with concourse of the King's advocate and solicitor,
and the recommendation of the presbytery." * The extreme length
of this parish is about 2 3/4 miles, and its breadth nearly 2 1/2 miles.
It contains about 3850 imperial acres.
  Soil, Climate.-The soil is various, consisting of coarse clay,
loam, moor, peat, and rich alluvial soil recently reclaimed from
the sea. Sheltered on the north and east by rising ground and
extensive plantations, and exposed on the south-west to a free cur-
rent of air, this parish is noted for a mild and temperate climate,
the healthiness of its inhabitants, and the absence of those dis-
eases and fevers which prevail in many neighbouring parishes.
Agues, formerly prevalent, have not appeared for many years, and
the recent improvements in agriculture have undoubtedly proved
beneficial to the general health of the people.
  Coast, Ferry.-The situation of Kincardine is one of the best
on the Forth for trade and shipping.  There is water on the road-
stead to the depth of 21 feet, where 100 vessels may ride in safety.
The ferry across the river here is decidedly the best on the Forth,
It is under excellent management. The ferry is three-quarters of

<FOOTNOTE>Connell on the Law of Parishes, p. 49.  Edin. 1818.


