
     108                         BANFFSHIRE.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Village, &c.-In Dufftown, the only village in the parish, there is
   no regular weekly market; but grain is brought there for the con-
   venience of dealers, who from time to time resort to the village.
        There are five cattle markets annually, which are well frequented.
   The nearest market-town, properly so called, is Keith, distant ele-
   ven miles. At Dufftown, there is a daily post which branches off
   from Craigellacbie. The turnpike roads from Mortlach to Elgin,
   Keith and Fochabers extend six miles through the parish; but,
   since the great flood of 1829, both the roads and the bridges over
   the Dullen and Fiddich have been entirely neglected.
        Ecclesiastical State- The minister's stipend is 15 chalders, one-
   half barley and the other half meal, converted into money at the
   fiars prices of the county, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   The glebe, worn away at different periods by the inroads of the Dul-
   len, is, at the present period, about 5 acres in extent. An addi-
   tion was made to the very old manse in 1807.
        The church, which is indeed venerable, may accommodate 1500
   sitters. It was a little modernized by an addition made to it seven
   years ago. Its walls are most probably as old as the beginning of
   the eleventh century and so strong, that they may stand for many
   years to come.  Its situation is convenient for the most populous dis-
   trict of the parish. At the head of the parish, in Glenrinnes, there
   is a missionary chapel.  The present incumbent, the Rev.  Alex-
   ander Falconer, is paid L. 60 out of the Royal bounty. He has,
   besides, a free house and garden, with three acres of land. He
   preaches regularly, and catechises. Near the church, as before-
   mentioned, stands a handsome Catholic chapel.  Of late years, in
   consequence of several families of that persuasion having taken feus
   and settled in the village, their numbers have increased, and amount
   at present to 170. From 40 to 50 of these are from neighbouring
   parishes. Divine service is regularly attended at the parish church,
   and the number of communicants never less than 700. There are
   no dissenting meeting-houses, nor any society for religious purposes,
   in the parish.
        Education.-Besides the parochial school, the average number
   of scholars at which is about 90, there is a school in Glenrinnes,
   supported by the Committee of the General Assembly, the num-
   ber of scholars attending which is about 80 in winter, and 30 in sum-
   mer; also one  in the village, supported solely by school fees, and
   two in Auehindown, the teachers of which receive annually L. 4 from
                                             4


