
                    BIRSE.                                 791

volutionary war.  George Rose, Esq. formerly of the Treasury, was
grandson of Donald Rose, Esq. of Wester Clune.  Captain David
Ochterlouny, who fell at Quebec with General Wolfe, was one of
the Ochterlounies of Tillyfrusky. And another branch of the same
family was the late Sir David Ochterlouny, who died in the East
Indies a few years ago.  To these may be added Bishop Skinner
grandfather of the present Bishop Skinner of Aberdeen, who was
a native of Balfour, and who distinguished himself by various pub-
lications, and some celebrated Scottish ballads.
  Land-owners.-The proprietors of the parish are, 1. Archibald
Farquharson, Esq. of Finzean.  The family of whom the present
proprietor is representative, came originally from Braermar, but
they have held property in this parish for several centuries.  The
second heritor is the Marquis of Huntly.  The third heritor is
Lewis Farquharson Innes, Esq. of Ballogie.  The family to which
he belongs were formerly Farquharsons of Inverey, in Crathie
and Braemar; but upon their succession to the property of Bal-
logie, by the extinction of the family of Innes of Balnacraig and
Ballogie, they have added the name of Innes to the former family
one.  The fourth heritor of the parish is John Mair Gerard, Esq.
of Midstrath.  The oldest son of this family, and the proprietor
then in possession, fell at Waterloo. *
   Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest register is 1699,
from which year, for a period of eight years, during the ministry of
Mr John Howe, it is kept with great exactness.  From 1707, the
year of Mr Howe's death, to 1726, the registers are either lost
or have never been kept.  From 1726 to 1744, they are kept
regularly.  From 1744 to 1765, they are again lost.  From the
year 1765, they are kept regularly up to the present day.  In
Mr Howe's Register, many interesting circumstances, connected

<FOOTNOTE>Since the present Statistical Account was compiled, some years ago, two small
properties, called Balfour and Kinminity, have, in consequence-of the bankruptcy
of the Marquis of Huntly, been sold.  They have been purchased by Francis J.
Cochran, Esq., Advocate in Aberdeen.
   The estate of Ballogie has also, by the death of Lewis Innes, Esq. in 1840, come
into the possession of his four sisters, the Misses Farquharson, resijing at Ballogie,
and Mrs Lynch, who resides in London.
   The estate of Finzean, consisting of nearly the half of the parish, has, by the death
of Archibald Farquharson, Esq. come into the possession of his uncle, John Farqu-
harson Esq., presently residing in London.  Perhaps few things can more strikingly
illustrate the mutability of human affairs than the fact, that, since the period that
the present Statistical Account was begun to be written, about three years ago,
more than two-thirds of the property of it, most unexpectedly, have come into pos-
session of other parties than those who then held it, and that only one estate out of
the four into which the parish was then divided, is now enjoyed by the same proprie-
tor it then was.  (1842).


