
                         CARNWATH.                           91

by means of pews at each end of the church, and joining them to
the original communion table.  We have thus reduced our num-
ber of tables to ten.
   The amount of collections in the church has fallen off very
much within the last seven years,--in consequence, chiefly, of the
increase of assessments laid on the parish for the support of the
poor.  This falling of has been from L.80 a-year to no more than
L.40.  The heritors have now to provide from L.144 to L.180
of assessment.
   Education.--There are at present eight schools in the parish;
seven besides the parochial school, which, like the church, is most
inconveniently situated for the general population of the parish.
The parochial teacher has the maximum salary, and is otherwise
well provided with an excellent school and dwelling-house; but the
others have no salary, and in some cases have even to provide a
school-house for themselves.  The parochial teacher receives yearly
from school fees about L.37; and his other emoluments amount
to L.14.
   The people are in general anxious to obtain education for their
children, and the heritors laudably pay for the families of paupers;
perhaps there are no persons in the parish who are unable to read.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are 46 regularly enrolled
poor, and 16 occasional.  The average sum allotted to each is
from L.2, 10s. to L.3 per annum.
   Library.--There is a subscription library in the village of Carn-
wath.
   Fairs, &c.--There are five fairs in this village in the year, and
a weekly market, which is devoted solely to the sale of meal and
barley.  One of these fairs, which is held in July, is chiefly for
hiring shearers, and for the sale of cows and young horses.  In
another, about the middle of August, lambs form the staple com-
modity, though there are a great number of young horses also;
and on the day after the fair a foot race is run, which deserves
mention, as it is one of the tenures b which the property of
Carnwath is held by the Lockhart family.  The prize is a pair
of red hose, which are regularly contended for, and the old people
in the village tell me, that, fifty years ago, the laird used to have a
messenger ready, whenever the race was finished, to communicate
the intelligence to the Lord Advocate of Scotland.  This prompt
information is now, I suppose, dispensed with; but I can testify
that the race has been regularly run for the last twenty-five years.


