
                        LINLITHGOW.                     183

the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway for payment of the ordinary
dues on goods carried by the Company across the Avon and through
the burgh; and though the claim bas been resisted, the council
are prosecuting it with a reasonable prospect of success. Should it
be successful, it will add immensely to the revenue, placing very
ample funds at the disposal of the council for burgh purposes.
At one time, the town had an exclusive right of trade from the
water of Cramond to the mouth of the Avon; and when North
Queensferry was created a royal burgh, the design was resisted by
Linlithgow, on the ground of its infringing the privileges of the
latter. The matter, however, was compromised by the Ferry,
among other articles, paying ten merks Scotch annually, which
sum is still exacted. Linlithgow ranks as the sixth in order of
the Scottish burghs. By act of Parliament, it had the charge of
the standard for lot measure; but since the introduction of the im-
perial measures, the Linlithgow for lot is only a matter of antiqua-
rian curiosity. The town house was built in 1668, and contains
the jail, Sheriff-Court-house, and town-ball. The county build-
ings in the rear of the townhouse are plain in their exterior.
The hall is a fine apartment, adorned with fine portraits of John
Earl of Hopetoun by Raeburn, and of Sir Alexander Hope by
Watson Gordon. The town enjoys the benefit of a branch of the
Commercial Bank.
   Means of Communication.-There is one post-office in the pa-
rish, that of Linlithgow. The district enjoys the advantage of ex-
cellent roads. There are, in the parish, about seven miles of turn-
pike road, under the management of two separate trusts. These
roads are in good order, and the funds of the trusts are in a better
state than most, having but a small amount of debt. The, parish
roads extend to about thirty miles, and are in a good state of repair.
They have been sixteen years under the management of one indi-
vidual. The Union Canal and the Edinburgh and Glasgow Rail-
way both pass through the parish. There is a railway station
at Linlithgow, where all the regular trains call, and from which
omnibuses run to Bathgate and Bo'ness.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, which, being situated in the
town, is near the mass of the population, is a very-fine building, of
great antiquity, and one of the most perfect existing specimens of
the early ecclesiastical architecture of Scotland. It is supposed to
have been founded by David I., that "sair saunt for the crown."


