
28                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

good fortune to escape. To these were frequently added the chil-
ling haars from the German Ocean.
	The appearance, which these aqueous meteors put on, is
sometimes pleasing and even subline. Grand majestic banks of
fog, particularly in harvest, a little before sunrise, appear moving
slowly along the Hill of Garvock, or passing it from the east, are
seen stretching in a vast and beautiful level plain, from Garvock
all the wav to the Grampians, completely concealing from the
view the whole Howe of the Mearns, while the tops of the moun-
tains alone are visible, and appear like numerous islands scattered
over a smooth and silvery sea. But the first rays of the sun have
scarcely touched this delusive ocean, when, as if charmed by the
magician's wand, the whole scene suddenly disappears, and a new
and no less splendid vision occupies its place,--the rich and luxu-
riant valley of the Mearns!
	But the dark, cold, wet, and dreary days, which were formerly
almost the constant portion of Garvock, have now in a good mea-
sure passed away. Its climate, indeed, is still often cold and moist,
but within the last forty, nay, within the last twenty, years, it has
been wonderfully meliorated, by draining and the reclaiming of
waste land.
	Hydrography.--There are many perennhal springs in this parish
of excellent, cool, and transparent water, generally springing from
sandstone rocks. Several of these spring not from the bottom, but
drip from the face of the rock, particularly an excellent one close
by the manse, called St James' well, which supplies the family with
plenty of pure and excellent water, both summer and winter. There
is a spring near the bottom of the hill of Garvock, on the north-
west side, possessed of mineral qualities, and which has of late years
been taken notice of by several persons in the neighbourhood, as
beneficial to those affected with scorbutic and gravel complaints.
It has never yet been chemically examined; but, as it seems to be
pretty strongly impregnated with some mineral substance, it may
eventually turn out to be valuable.
	The only river connected with this parish is Bervie Water,
which forms part of the north-east boundary. It rises in the pa-
rish of Glenbervie; and after a winding course of about sixteen
miles, passing the mansions of Glenbervie, Whiteriggs, Arbuth-
nott, and Allardice, it falls into the sea at Bervie. It is an excel-
lent trouting stream, and has a small salmon-fishing at its mouth.
	Geology.--Rocks of regularly stratified red and gray coloured


