
                           KEMBACK.                          725

    At Blebo mills, there is also a meal-mill, a barley-mill, and a
flax scutching-mill.
    At Kemback mill, on the same stream, but further down, and
also tenanted by Mr Yool, a wheel of sixteen horse power impels
a meal-mill, a saw-mill, and a bone-mill, by which from 500 to
600 tons of bones are ground annually, and about 150 tons of
rape-cake.
                      V.-PAROCHAL, ECONOMY.
   Stipend and Glebe.-The stipend is, wheat, 4 bolls, I firlot, 2
pecks, I lippy; meal, 3 bolls, 3 pecks; bear, 21 bolls, I firlot,
3 lippies ; oats, 29 bolls, ; 1 firlot, 3 lippies; and money, L.109,
8s. 9d. The glebe extends to about 5 Scotch acres.
   In the year 1446, Robertus de Ferny and Mariota Olifert, his
wife, lady of Kemback, granted to Gilbert de Galbrath, rector of
the church of Kemback, and to his successors, four acres of the
lands of Kemback with three cows' grass, and one horse's grass for
ever, to be held on condition of the rector being always bound to
say two masses weekly in the said church, for them, their parents,
and benefactors, " purgatorii poenas demollire, et fidelium ani-
mas in paradisi gaudiis collocare." The deed and confirmation
by the Bishop of St Andrews is witnessed by James, abbot of the
monastery of Lundoris ; John, archdeacon of St Andrews; Hugo
Kennedy, chaplain of St Andrews; John Beatoun, rector of Dalry;
and rector of the University of St Andrews; John de Balfour, vicar
of Lynlytholk; James Treyle de Malgaske; Thomas de Wemyss
de Myrtyn ; James Butellere de Rumgally; Alexander de Forsith
de Nydy, and others.
   Patronage, &c.-The teinds and right of patronage belonged to
the archbishopric of St Andrews. By the original charter of 1458;
founding the old college of St Salvador's, they were appropriated
by Bishop Kennedy, the founder, to the licentiatus or second
master of that college, who was appointed ex officio rector, or par-
son of the parish, with a pension of L.10 Scots for a viear to be
presented by the rector. In 1579, the University was reserved to
by James VI., when the office of licentiatus was suppressed; but
the right to the teinds and patronage of Kemback was reserved to
the college; and as the second master had the right of presenting
the vicar the college, which came in place of the second master,
continued to present. Since the union of the Colleges of St Sal-
vador's and St Leonard's, in 1747, the Principal and Professors, of


