
     Of Kirkmichael.

   No complaint seems to be more universal over the High-
lands, nor in this country in particular, than the increasing
inclemency of the seasons.  Modern philosophers attribute
this phenomenon to the vast shoals of ice accumulating in the
northern seas.  But whatever be the cause, the opinion of
the effect prevails among the people.  Since the year 1768,
they observe, that the summers are colder, and productive of
greater quantities of rain, than was remembered in the same
space of time, during any preceding period.  The assertion,
though conjectural, appears to be founded upon probability.
Even within these 20 last years, the beds of brooks and ri-
vers are considerably enlarged, and much of the contiguous
grounds destroyed by the floods.  The trouts, that formerly
swarmed in lakes and rivers, are exceedingly decreased.  The
few migratory birds that visit the country, are later in their
arrival, and sooner take their departure:  The hum of the
mountain bee is not so frequently heard:  even the insect tribes
that fluttered in the air of a warm summer, are less prolifick
than usual.  In Glenavon, of this parish, are mosses, near
3000 feet above the level of the sea, full of the fir root;
where no wood at present, owing to the cold, could grow.
Some of the highest hills in the Grampian desert, are deno-
minated from the wood which formerly grew upon them,
such as beinn a chaorin, the mountain of the service tree.
Are these then appearances then result of a temporary cessa-
tion, or has nature become more languid in her energies?
Such, however, are the assertions of the old people, the never-

     VOL. XII. 3 O

<FOOTNOTE>

the moss or bog had overgrown the whole timber, which they added, was oc-
casioned by the moisture which came down from the high hills, and stagnated
upon the plain; and that nobody could yet pass over it, which, however, his
lordship was so incautious as to attempt, and flipt up to the arm-pit.  Before
the year 1699, that whole piece of ground was become a solid moss, where the
peasants dug turf or peat, which, however, was not yet of the best sort.


