

                        KINNOULL.                               941

such is the improvement of late years in its culture and manage-
ment, that very few spots remain in which the best systems of hus-
bandry are not parctised.  The latest improvement introduced is
that of tile-draining.

        Number of imperial acres in the parish,                 3700
        of which, arable and pasture lands,                 3100
        Under wood,                                          580
        Undivided commom,                                     20
                                                            ----3700
   Rent of Land.--The average rent of land may be stated to be
from L.2,5s. to L.2, 10r. per acre ; but in the central part of the
parish, i. e. in the immediate neighbourhood of Perth, from L.5
to L.10 per acre is readily paid ; and along the bank of th river,
grounds for villas have of late years been sold at no less a rate
than L.1000 per acre.
   Rental of the Parish.--The old valued rent of the parish is
L. 4775, 18s. 6d.
   The real rental, as made up in 1823, and by which the assess-
ment for buildig a new church was regulated, was declared to be
L.12,303 ; but the rents both of lands and houses having since
considerably fallen, perhaps, L.10,000 should be now substituted.
In this sum, the rent of the salmon-fishing in the parish is in-
cluded.
   Nurseries.--So far back as the year 1767, a nursery was form-
ed here, on the  east bank of the Tay, by  Mr. Dickson of Hassen-
deanburn, in Rosburghshire.  He was soon thereafter succeeded
by his brother, Mr. William Dickson, who, for the long period of
sixty-three years, continued to conduct this extensive estblish-
ment in a spirit of enterprize and improvement, and with a good
taste, which not only made his professional name well known
throughout the island, but insure him a wide field of demand
for those endless varieties of nature's productions which he was so
successful in rearing.  Since his death in 1835, its various de-
partments have been conducted in the same spririt, and even on a
more enlarge scale, under the direction of his nephew, who had
for many years taken an active part i its management.  These
grounds now extend to not less than 60 acres : and from their lie,
their natural and artificial shelter, and the variety of soils which
they contain, it is difficult to conceive a situation more adapted,
whether by nature or art, for every possible purpose to which such
establishments are sought to be approprited.  Its giving employ-
ment to between 70 and 80 individuals, may be mentioned as not




