
106                               WIGTONSHIRE

most black ; Algae and Testacea adhere to them very sparingly,
while on the conglomerate rock at Corswall, these substances are
found covering it everywhere in the greatest profusion. The ef-
fect produced by the sea upon the colour of rocjr is curious.
Greywacke becomes from the action of the water of an uniform
black, while the boulders of greenstone found on the shores of
Loch Ryan assume an appearance exactly resembling the sur-
face of some of the more massive corallines, of a paler colour than
the fracture of the stone, and of regular figures and shades. On
a close inspection of the surface of such rocks, no incipient process
of vegetation, or of chemical decomposition, can be detected. In
the greywacke strata are numerous thin veins of quartz : thin veins
of carbonate of lime, and carbonate of barytes also occurs in them ;
and throughout these in most places a regular system of cleavage
prevails, which causes vents to ascend through them at an angle
of about 45&deg; from the surface of the ocean. Extending from the
beach near Corswall House, to Slougnagarry, a distance of about
two miles, there is what miners would term the outcrop of a con-
glomerate rock, which evidently lies in an unconformable position
over the greywacke strata, and like the conglomerate of Oban, si-
milarly situated, it seems composed chiefly of fragments of those
rocks, varying in size from a circumference of several feet to the
fifth and sixth part of an inch. Some of these fragments are
water-worn, but the greater part of them retain a sharp fracture,
and are but little abraded. The smallest fragments are generally
the finest grained, and the whole are cemented by a friable sub-
stance, resembling old red sandstone. This conglomerate is tra-
versed in veins, strata, and masses, by the old red sandstone, and
covered by a coating of sandy light soil, mixed with gravel, form-
ed chiefly of fragments of water-worn chlorite slate, quartz rock,
and granite. On this soil, some of the most thriving plantations
of forest trees on the Corswall estate are situated. The extent
of this deposit is not accurately ascertained. It seems identical
with the conglomerate of Oban and Kerrera, ddrcribed by geo-
logists. It ought not to escape the attention of the geologist,
how rapidly the old red sandstone, wherever it occurs in strata
in this deposit, is decomposed, and floated off by the action
of the sea, nor how rapidly the chasms thus left are filled by
such influx of the tide, with sand and shingle of a different
composition, which seems destined to consolidate in place of
the sandstone strata. In a small ravine near Lady Bay, there oc-


