
              ISLAND OF SKYE-SNIZORT.                        293

   through the intervention of kind friends and neighbours, are now
   brought for decision before courts of justice. For the truth of
   this statement, the great number of cases brought before the local
   courts is a sufficient proof. This decline of morals is chiefly to
   be attributed to their poverty. In consequence of the crowded
   state of the population, the tenants have sunk to the rank of lot-
   ters, having but a small portion of the land which they occupied
   when there were but few to cultivate the soil. Want is driving
   many to seek in the wilds of America for the comforts denied
   them in their native land.
      The ordinary food of the peasantry consists of oat-bread, fish,
   and potatoes, the last of which constitutes the principal part of it.

     			     IV.-INDUSTRY.
      Agriculture.-From the physical quality of its surface, a great
   part of this parish must remain an uncultivated waste. Pas-
   turage forms the principal employment of a great part of the in-
   habitants. Like the Germans of Tacitus, "their pride consists
   in the number of their flocks and herds: these are their only riches,
   and in these they place their chief delight." Their cows are
   more celebrated for their fine symmetry, than for the quantity of
   milk which they yield. On the large farms, agriculture is now
   conducted on scientific principles. Carts, ploughs, and other im-
   proved implements of husbandry have been introduced, and then
   system of cropping in rotation is practised to a considerable extent.
   But on the small lots, the mode of tillage pursued is tedious and
   extremely defective. Crooked ridges, stretching in every direction,
   and separated by broad useless spaces, from which the soil has
   been scraped to enrich the arable portion, meet the eye. The
   soil is broken up by the c\a5schr•m, and when sown is harrowed by
   women, who are also employed in carrying out the manure in
   creels to the field, and other drudgeries of the same nature. It
   cannot but give pain to every benevolent mind to see not only
   young women whose delicate frame should exempt them from
   such hard labours, but even mothers employed as beasts of bur-
   den.
     Fisheries.-Tbere is a fishing-station at the head of Loch Sni-
   zort, where salmon are caught. Several tons of cod and ling are
   annually sent to Glasgow and Liverpool. The herring-fisbing at
   one time, besides affording a plentiful supply of provisions to the
   people, formed a very lucrative article of commerce. Herrings
   were, some years ago, caught in such abundance in the yares or
   cairidhs, (large circular mounds erected at the bead of the bays


