

                       LINLITHGOW.                           185

The members of all the religious bodies, contribute to the support
of the religious and benevolent objects of the respective denomina-
tions; in some cases liberally. There were various religious In-
situtions in the town, but for some time past they have been in
abeyance. It is hoped, that they will soon revive into more than
former activity.
   Education.-There are nine schools in the parish. Of these
one is the burgh school, under the patronage of the town-coun-
cil, and the rector of which receives a salary of L. 30 per annum;
another is a charity school for girls, founded by Mrs Douglas,
sister of the late Dr Dobie, minister of the parish; the rest are
private unendowed schools. The burgh school had formerly
two teachers; but since the election of the present rector, there has
been no assistant. In former times, it would appear from some
old minutes of council that there had been a music school, under
the patronage of the council, though no information can now be
given regarding it. In 1834, there were 547 children attending
all the schools in the parish, and since then the number has not
decreased.
   Literature.-Dr Henry the historian left his valuable library to
the parish. For a series of years, it continued to prosper, but for
a considerable period, it has been completely neglected, the books
being left to decay on the shelves, without one single reader. It
is difficult to say what is the reason of this singular fate of a be-
quest which, in most circumstances, would have fared very diffe-
rently. The cause commonly assigned is the terms of the bequest.
The presbyters and town-council were to enjoy the benefit of the
library upon paying 5s. per annum, the members of the former
body having the first reading of all new works. Other readers
were to pay 10s. annually, and to wait for the new productions
often till they had become old. Such a constitution could
scarcely be expected to insure prosperity. Various efforts have
been made to revive the library; but, until some alteration is ef-
fected in the terms of admission, it is to be feared they will be all
hopeless.
   There is a subscription library at Linlithgow Bridge, and one
in connection with the First United Secession Church, which,
upon payment of a small annual sum, is open to all who choose
to read.
   There is a news-room in the town, and a society for the purchase


