
				SKENE.                        1097

ritor in the parish has planted to a greater or less extent on his
property. There are some fine old trees around the house of
Skene, particularly a chestnut tree on the lawn, and some silver-
firs in the line of the west approach to the house.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
         Land-owners.-There are fourteen heritors in the parish.
Their lands are, Skene, Easterskene, Kirkville, Leddach, Black-
hills, Kinmundy, Concraig, Auchenclech, Newton, Fiddie, Easter
Ord, Weste Ord, Easter Carnie, and Garlogie Mills. The ori-
ginal charter of the lands of Skene, granted by King Robert Bruce,*
is still preserved. But the family and name of Skene, as lairds
of Skene, after long possessing the lands in the, direct line, be-
came extinct in 1827. The lands are now in the management
of trustees. The Earl of Fife is heir of entail.
         Parochial Registers.-The oldest session record begins in the
year 1676, and continues to 1696; the second, from 1709 to
1714; the third, from 1720 to 1744; after which year they have
been regularly kept to the present time. The register of bap-
tisms begins in 1726, and has been carried on to the present time.
The register of marriages begins in 1756, and is continued to
1793; then there is a blank of twenty years; and from 1813, it
has been regularly kept. A cash-book of the distribution of the
poor's finds has been kept from the year 1744; and minutes of
the meetings of heritors, for the last ten years, have been regu-
larly kept.
         Mansion-Houses.-The House of Skene consists ot two
ings united. The oldest h`s evidently stood for several centuries,
from the style of building and strength of the walls. The date is
not know. The other part of the house is comparatively mo-
dern,-the interior having been completed only a few years ago.
There are some fine old paintings in the house, and an extensive
library of books, upwards of 6000 volumes in ancient and modern
literature, well arranged, and carefully kept.
	The House of Easterskene, built by than present proprietor,
William M'Combie, Esq., is a spacious modern building of the
Tudor (or Elizabethan) style, surrounded by thriving young plan-
tations and belts of wood, and commanding an, extensive prospect,
having the Loch of Skene and the, lower range of the Grampians
in the front view.

<FOOTNOTE>The expression in the charter is "confirmasse," seeming to imply that the king
had renewed the grant of the lands, as formerly held.


