
                      DALSERF.                               743

Raploch mains, and have been sold at from L. 2 to L. 3 per ton,
or at the rate of from L. 30 to L. 40 per acre.  Rye is sometimes
sowed in orchards and other places shaded by trees, from its not
being liable to be eaten by birds.  It must be added, that neither
is it at all savoury, in this part of the country, as an article of hu-
man food.  Hay yields from one to two tons per acre.  There is
a little flax raised for domestic use; but the farmers do not think
it a sure crop on stiff clay.
   The management of the dairy, in making butter and cheese,
and fattening calves, is well understood-and the farmers' wives
can, in this respect, vie with any of their neighbours in the
surrounding parishes.  The cows are mostly of the Ayrshire
breed.  On some farms, however, a mixed breed is kept, ra-
ther coarser and wider in the horn than the former, and which
is supposed to yield a larger quantity of milk.  In 1791, there
were 300 milch cows in the parish, and about 60 young were an-
nually reared. At present there are 500 milch cows, 350 young
cattle, and about 100 are reared every year.  The number of pigs
is about 450.  Very few sheep are kept.  The produce of the
dairy is made into full milk cheese-or churned, and the milk and
butter sold among the villagers of the parish, or in the town of Ha-
milton.  Many of the villagers themselves, however, have a taste
for keeping cows.  There are upwards of 40 in the village of Lark-
hall alone.  The horses employed in husbandry are all of the
Clydesdale breed, and of the best kind.  The farmers in general
are most attentive to the rearing of the best sorts of cattle, and
have often obtained premiums at competitions for stock.  In par-
ticular, Mr James Frame, tenant of the farms of Broomfield and
Overton, on the Hamilton estate, is well known as having often
obtained prizes at the exhibitions before the Highland and Agri-
cultural Society of Scotland, and county and parochial associations
of a similar kind.
   Plantations, &c.-The number of acres under wood, whether
natural or planted, is not great, and would require to be much in-
creased.  The plantations and coppices are, from year to year,
carefully pruned and thinned.  In regard to trees, it is the or-
chard of fruit trees that is of most interest an importance, in this
part of the country.  Fruit cultivation is of great antiquity in the
district.  The fruit district of Clydesdale may be said to extend
from near lanark on the one hand, to the extremity of the parish
of Bothwell towards Glasgow on the other, comprising a distance-
of about twenty miles.  The banks of the Clyde at Dalserf are


