
     of Langholm

ducted by an overfeer, who has no other interest than to 
receive his stipulated salary, seldom or never succeed*.

   Population, etc.- From the many vestiges of old houses,
it is evident, that in the landward part of the parish, po-
pulation has decreased considerably during the present cen-
tury.  This may  be owing, in a great measure, to the u-
nion of farms, many of the present tenants holding, in one 
farm, what was formerly about the beginning of this cen-
tury, divided among 7 or 8.  Waving the discussion of  
the advantages or disadvantages resulting from a monopo-
ly of farms, it appears that the lands now occupied by 14
tenants, about the beginning of the current century, were
divided among no fewer than 80 families, most of whom,
people now alive, or lately deceased, remembered.  This 
decrease, however, is more than supplied by the increased
population of the town, which did not then perhaps con-
tain above 150 or 200 souls, and which now exceeds 1500.
In the beggining of October 1793, the population of Lang-
holm and Halfmorton consisted as follows.

<TABLE>

Of males, from infancy to 10 years of age   359
Females, ditto                              366
Married persons                             746
Widows                                       68
Widowers                                     93
                                           ----     
                              Carry over,  1632  

</TABLE>

     VOL. XIII.  4H

<FOOTNOTE>

*Quarc.  Would it not be an eligible plan for one or two of our 
country gentlemen, or respectable farmers, to send some of their sons to
Huddersfield, Halifax, or to some of the great woolen manufactories in
Yorkshire, as apprentice to each of the respective branches of the pro-
cess.  The idea does not appear either chimerical or irrational.  A re-
spectable manufacture is, of all professions, the most useful member
of society; and every profession is honourable in proportion, as it contri-
butes to the welfare of the community.


