
                             DUNDOG.                      213

the absorption of the small farms. There is now only one farm
where formerly there were three or four. That the depopulating
system has been carried much too far is now painfully evident
to every one connected with agriculture. The farmers not only
experience a difficulty in procuring labourers to work the green
crop, but they find it impossible to get them at any price, and must
have recourse to some unusual means of obtaining an adequate sup-
ply. The average number of births since my induction does not
exceed 8 per annum ; of marriages not more than 4 ; of deaths about
the same number.
<TABLE>
    Number of persons under 15 years of age,   .       67
                       between 15 and 30,    .    .    25
                               30 and 50,    .     .   55
                               50 and 70,        .   . 12
                       upwards of 70,             .    11
                                                      ___
                                                      170

   There are no heritors or families of independent fortune resident
in the parish. There are 42 families altogether.
   There are 42 inhabited houses, besides 4 bothies.
   Habits and Character of the People.--The farmers are an en-
lightened, active, and enterprising body of men, who embrace every
opportunity of extending their knowledge of the important subjects
connected with the cultivation of the soil, and eagerly adopt every
suggestion that may conduce to the improvement of the rapidly ad-
vancing science of husbandry. Perhaps no class of men is more free
from prejudices, --more unaffectedly kind,--more sound and steady
in their principles,--and full of solid and useful information, than
that of the farmers of Fifeshire. Besides these, the only othor class
of people belonging to this parish is that of their dependents or
ploughmen. Speaking generally, we would say of the married
Ploughmen, that they are a quiet, sober, and industrious race.
Their lot is one of incessant toil, alleviated by few advantages.
Their ordinary food consists of oatmeal and sweet milk, with po-
tatoes and occasionally pork. While young they enjoy uninter-
rupted health, and exhibit in their form all the appearances of ro-
bust and sinewy vigour. But long before old age has arrived,
most of them, from perpetual exposure tn the weather, are
crippled with violent rheumatism. But no class of men, we are
persuaded, labours under more blighting evils than does that of our
Ploughmen. Their education, both religious and intellectual, is
exceedingly neglected from their earliest youth. There may be



