
     Statistical Account

called TOM-MA-CHESSAIG, the HILL OF ST. KESSAIG; and,
according to tradition, was used for butts, where the people,
upon Sabbath evenings, exercised themselves with their bows
and arrows, according to an ancient Scotch law for that pur-
pose*.  There is another hill, larger than Tom-ma-chessaig, at
Little Leney, where Norie's Chapel stood, which is still used
as a cemetery by those of the name of Buchanan+.
   Near the village of Callander, there is a bank, inclosing a-
bout 4 acres of ground, the river forming one side, which is
called the Roman Camp; but notwithstanding the name which
this place has obtained, (only indeed of late), there is nothing
about it which resembles such a work of the Romans.  The
Roman camps were drawn with straight lines and right angles:

<FOOTNOTE>

the site of a bonfire, in 1784, by the gentlemen of this country, and the tenants
on this part of the estate of Perth, to testify their joy when the property was
restored to that family, who have shown themselves, not only so worthy of having
got the estate, but likewise of soon getting the honours of that ancient family
restored.

*About many old churches we see the remains of yew trees, of which the
bows were made.  Out of respect to the tutehar saint of this place, who certain-
ly, would be supposed to witness the exercise, the different candidates would ex-
ert themselves to the utmost, to carry the palm of victory.

+Our fathers had an uncommon predeliction for building their churches,
and having their burying ground in places surrounded with waters, and often in-
accessible by reason of the stoods.  Yet we ought not to judge rashly of their
conduct; for mankind, in general, seem, at every period, to have reasoned with
the same degree of accuracy, and exerted the same penetration, concerning
their own situation, independent of the use of letters.  In the earlier stages of
society, man had a host of foes to contend against; and the tribes of carnivorous
beasts, which might be afraid to attack him when alive, would often, when sti-
mulated by the cravings of a voracious appetite, attack the mansions of the
dead, and disturb the repose of man even in the lonely grave.  And if mankind
found it necessary to have these places of security, to protect their bones from
the ravages of wolves, boars, and other beasts of prey, they would naturally,
be led to consecrate a place, for the worship of the Deity, near to their burying
ground.


