
                         EAST KILBRIDE.                        881

   Geology and Mineralogy. *-The parish of East Kilbride forms
part of that vast accumulation of coal, limestone, and iron, inter-
mingled with irrupted igneous rocks of the trap series, which cross
the island in a belt from the coast of Ayrshire, opposite the Isle
of Arran in the west, to the mouth of the Frith of Forth in the
east.  The great coal beds in the parishes of Hamilton, Bothwell,
and the Monklands, to the east and north, geologically speaking,
lie higher in the series and above the lime beds of Kilbride.  The
coals which lie above the limestone are, therefore, too high up in
the series to be found in this parish, and the coals which lie at the
bottom of the limestone formations, as at Ponfeich in Carmichael,
are too far down to be reached here: the parish of Kilbride, there-
fore, does not abound in coal of the best quality.  At Blacklaw,
or Mount Cameron, there are two seams of coal.  The first seam
is about three feet thick, and between it and the lower seam
which is two feet thick, there are six fathoms of freestone.  The
dip is south.  In other places coal also has been found; but it is
only of the inferior sort which occurs in the middle limestone se-
ries, and is used chiefly for burning lime.  Coal for culinary and
household purposes is chiefly brought from neighbouring parishes,
where it is found above the lime.
   Limestone + rocks of various sorts abound in this parish, and, as
in other places in the west of Scotland, occur chiefly in plies or
beds of from 3 to 7 or 10 feet in thickness.  At Shields, limestone is
wrought within a gunshot of a whinstone quarry, and all along the
western borders of, and towards the boundaries of the parish with Ren-
frewshire and Ayrshire, limestone with greenstone are much inter-

<FOOTNOTE>This part of the Account has been furnished by the Rev. William Patrick.
          In the Account of the parish of Blantyre, which borders on this parish to the north
and east, a fuller and more detailed description of the geology of this district will be
found.  In connection with the geology of both parishes the following facts deserve no-
tice: At Mauchlane Hole the river Calder winds along the base of a precipice, in which
at least ten distinct beds of ironstone may be traced for a considerable distance.  These
several beds, of an average thickness of 5 or 6 inches, are separated by beds of
schist, containing nodules of ironstone, along with many fossil and vegetable impres-
sions, with the productus and euomphalus in great abundance.  The upper portion of
this escarpment is formed of freestone, and also of coal-sandstone, with vegetable im-
pressions.  In this same formation coal has been wrought at the same height near
Mauchline Hole.  The bed of the Calder here is a deep water-worn passage exca-
vated through thick plies of calcareous rocks, and from many trials made they seem
to be at least 6 feet thick.  If we connect these appearances with some of the anvit,
hall sections on the Calder, near Calder wood, it results that the coal alternates with
the beds of limestone containing numerous fossils of the transition period.  The same
phenomena reproduced, according to M. Dufrenoy, near Alston-Moor, in Cumber-
land, would lead to the conclusion, that the Glasgow coal-field belongs to the very
lowest of the carboniferous strata.  From its connection also with the old red sand-
stone at Lanark, and the Leadhills greywacke, this is perfectly obvious.


