
                        NEW KILPATRICK.                    57

ing rooms above. On the lands of the Duke of Montrose, and on
several of the farms on the Garscube and Dugalstone estates,
there are good two-storied houses, with other ample buildings.
   Size of Farms, Inclosures, &c.--The extent of the arable farms
varies from 30 to 300 Scots acres--the most common size be-
ing about 80 acres. The whole of the arable part of the parish is
inclosed and subdivided into fields, varying from one to fifteen acres
in extent. The hill-pastures are likewise inclosed with ring fences.
Thorn-hedges are in most common use; but dry stone dikes are
frequent. More attention has been paid of late than formerly to
the management of quick fences ; but still many of them are far
from being in good condition.
   Obstacles to Improvement. The chief obstacles to further im-
provement arise from the want of capital, and the high rate of
rents compared with prices. Most of those tenants who had re-
alized some money in the war-times have now lost it; and many
have been obliged to quit their farms. There is no waint of en-
terprise among them, and were the landlords disposed to be at the
expense of furrow-draining their lands, we doubt not that the
tenants would willingly pay a fair per centage on the cost. A
great part of the largest estate in the parish is, or was till very
recently, held in liferent by Dowagers, on whose lives the leases
are contingent. On these lands no expensive improvements can
be undertaken ; and even the ordinary outlay necessary to keep
the ground in heart cannot be made without risk, and in fact is
not made.
   Freestone Quarry.--At Netherton of Garscube there is a valu-
able freestone quarry of considerable celebrity. The stone is of
a warm cream colour, easily chiselled as it comes from the quarry,
but hardening by exposure. Roseneath House, Blythswood House,
the Custom-House at Greenock, and Garscube House, present
favourable specimens of this stone. At one time it was largely
exported to Ireland and the West lndies, and proved a source of
great wealth to the tacksman. The average out-put of rock is
about 20,000 cubic yards per annum, and it gives employment to
68 persons.
   Produce.--The average gross amount and value of raw produce
raised in the parish, may be estimated as follow:

<TABLE>

2488 imiperial quarters of wheat, at L. 2, 10s. 1 Od. per quarter, L.6323  13   4
5675     do.              oats, at 19s. 7d.   -         do.     -    5556  15   5
315      do.              barley, at L. 1,10s. 6d.      do,     -     480   7   6
110      do.              beans, at L. 1,    12s. 5d.   do.     -     178   5  10



