
                           GOVAN.                     711

of Glasgow and Ayr. 15. Dr John Pollock, who was ordained
to his pastoral charge on the 21st of July 1791, and died on the
7th of May 1820.  The education of the young, to which he just-
ly attached great importance, occupied a large share of the atten-
tion of Dr Pollock.  Nor was he less distinguished for his judi-
cious and humane management of the affairs of the poor.  The
present incumbent received ordination as minister of this parish
on the 1st of March 1821.
   The parish church, which is beautifully situated at the west end
of the village of Govan, and within 300 feet of the river Clyde,
was built in 1826, according to a plan furnished by Mr Smith of
Jordanhill. Its distance from Glasgow is about three miles. It is a
simple Gothic structure, with lancet windows and battlements, and
is capable of containing nearly 1100 persons.  The design of
the tower and the spire rising from it was taken from the church
of Stratford-upon-Avon.  The churchyard, in which " the hallow-
ed fane" is placed, and which is raised several feet above the ad-
jacent ground, is surrounded by a double " row of reverend elms,
-long lashed by the rude winds." *  The manse is placed, as it
ought to be, near the church.  There was a considerable addition
made to it a few years ago, so that there is now ample accommo-
dation for a minister's family.  The glebe, which consists of seven
acres, has been supposed to be worth L. 25 annually.  The sti-
pend is 10 ebalders of meal, and 10 chalders of barley.  It was
augmented in the year 1818.  It must have been very inconvenient
for the inhabitants of Gorbals to attend the parish church of Go-
van.  But no attempt appears to have been made to erect a place
of worship in that quarter, till after the beginning of the last cen-
tury.  On the 30th of May 1728, the heritors of Govan unani-

<FOOTNOTE>449, that it was a case " upon the principle of the Act 1690, or where the patron
waived his right of presenting in favour of the heritors, dlders, and heads of families,"
whereas it was the college who presented. He was likewise led to believe that " the
patrons offered a leet of two young men, after having indulged the parish with a
hearing of four." It was not the patrons, however, but the presbytery, without any
communication with the patrons, who allowed the parish to have a hearing of the four
probationers.  And what the patrons offered to a deputation from the heritors and
elders on the 5th of May, was, that " they would indulge them with a leet of two out
of the four who had preached before them, provided that, upon the twenty sixth of
May instant, they came instructed to declare, that the majority of heritors and elders
would choose one of these two so named by the University." This proposal wis de-
clined.  The college, therefore, on the 26th of May, resolved by a majority, to pre-
sent Mr Thom, Professor Anderson, desiring " to have it marked that he did not vote
for presenting Mr Thom, in regard he had reason to think that he would not be agree-
able to the majority of the legal callers of that parish." Minutes of Rector's Meet-
ings.  See also Presb. Rec. 26th March 1746.
          Blairs Grave.


