
         			SORBIE.                       35

write. The people are in general alive to the benefits of educa-
tion, and manifest a strong desire to have their children well taught.
We do not think that any additional schools are required in Sor-
bie. The increased facilities of education have certainly effected
a corresponding increase in the knowledge and refinement, of the
people, but the state, of morality is much, the same as it has be
for many years. Among some of the lower classes, indeed, the
native virtues, of our character have been invaded by the contami-
nating influence of the lower Irish, whose poverty and degradation,
in no instance, contribute to elevate the standard of morality.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is about 30, and the average sum allotted
to each per year is about L. 2. The annual amount of contribu-
tions for their support is about L. 60. Of this sum L. 30 are cal-
lected in the church, and about L. 30 received as donations from
the proprietors. There is no other regular mode of procuring
funds for the poor, but the inhabitants of the parish are in the
habit of giving them additional charity in meal, and other articles
of food, two or three times a-year; and the relief afforded in this
way is more than equal to that obtained by the annual contribu-
tions. There is a disposition among the poor to refrain from seek-
ing parochial aid; but this feeling is by no means so marked as it
once was, and its deterioration we ascribe partly to the hurtful ex-
ample of the lower Irish, and partly to the ready relief afforded to
the poor, in times of unusual scarcity and distress.
	Fuel.--The fuel used in Sorbie consists of peat and coal. The
peat is procured chiefly from the neigbbouring parish of Kirkinner,
at 2s. 6d. per cart-load; and the coal is obtained from Whitehaven,
Workington, or Maryport, at 16s. per ton.
			    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Since the date of the last Statistical Account, agriculture has
undergone a very marked improvement. Green crops are now
generally raised, and are found to be advantageous, both for the
profits which they yield, and for the improvement which they ope-
rate upon the land. Turnips, especially when eaten off by sheep,
are followed by superior crops of grain. The general rule of farm-
ing is still what it formerly was; that is, to have one-third of the
land in tillage, and two-thirds in pasture. The average rent of
land per acre is now more than double of what it was forty years
ago, and almost all the arable land has been under cultivation.
Upon the  whole, the system of husbandry pursued in this parish



