
152                            FIFESHIRE.


still unwearied in the pursuit of knowledge, made his way into Spain.
where, at the University of Toledo, he had the best opportunity of
cultivating the occult sciences, under the patronage of the Emperor
Frederick the Second. Having perfected himself in the study of
alchemy, he turned his thoughts to the study of medicine, and for
this purpose went into Germany, where he resided for several years
previous to his return to his native country. He arrived in Scotland
just at that critical juncture when the nation was plunged into grief
by the death of Alexander the Third; and, along with Sir David
Wemyss was appointed to proceed to Norway to bring home the young
Queen,-the result of which expedition is well known. This is the
last occasion in which the name of Sir Michael Scott appears to
be mentioned. Of his death nothing is recorded; but he must have
died soon after his return from Norway, and in extreme old age. It is
a curious fact, that in his native parish, there are fewer stories current
amongst the people about this extraordinary character, and his name
is less frequently mentioned than in most other parts of Scotland.
	" Fama   - - - - - - - - -
	Mobilitate viget, viresque acquirit euxido."

   From the time of Michael Scott, there does not appear to have
been any character of note connected with Abbotshall, till the
year 1538, when we find Thomas Scott,/f+ a Lord of Session, un-
der the title of Lord Abbotshall. In the year 1671, we find Sir
Andrew Ramsay mentioned as a Lord of Session, under the same
title. Sir Andrew continued to hold the office of a Judge till 1674,
during which time he was twice Provost of Edinburgh. It was
while he filled the civic chair in the year 1667, that Charles the
Second (by whom he was probably knighted) ordered that the Pro-
vost of Edinburgh should take the same precedency as the Mayor
of London, and that no other Provost should assume the title of
" My Lord." Sir Andrew died, and was buried at Abbotshall in
1686./f+ In the year 1690, we find George Melville of Raith

<FOOTNOTE>Sir Walter Scott tells us, in a note to the Lay of the Last Minstrel, in which ro-
tic poem the name of the magician is embalmed, that amongst the peasantry in the
south of Scotland, anywork of great labour of antiquity is ascribed either to the agency
Of. Auld Michael, of Sir William Wallace, or the Devil.
    This Scott was doubtless a descendant of Sir Michael Scott. Abbotsball, Sib-
bald mentions as " anciently the possession of the Scotts of Balwearie."  Both Bal-
wearie and Abbotshall have long since formed part of the Raith estate, and are now
of course the property of Robert Ferguson, Esq. of Raith.
    Sir Andrew  Ramsay seems to have purchased Abbotshall from the Scotts. Mr
Andrew Ramsay, father, of Sir Andrew, and one of the ministers of Edinburgh, is
noticed as having died at his son's house at Abbotshall in the year 1659; thus inti-
mating, as it were, that Sir Andrew Ramsay was the first of the name to whom Ab-
botshall belonged. -Sir Andrew was succeeded in Abbotshall, according to Sibbald, by
his " nevoy Mr Andrew Ramsay, and a grandson of the Laird of Whitstoun in the
Mearns."


