
                        ARNGASK.                         885

petual alms, to God, the blessed Mary, and the Predicant Friars
of Perth, ten shillings Sterling out of his lands of Arngask, to be
paid in equal proportions at two terms of the year, viz. five at the
feast of Pentecost, and other five at the feast of the blessed Mar-
tin in winter, for the sustenance of one burning lamp in the choir
of the foresaid friars, from year to year for ever," &c. (29th charter
in the chartulary of the Blackfriars of Perth.) The Barclays con-
tinued in possession of the baronies of Kippo, Arngask, &c., till
the reign of James IV., when James Barclay of Kippo died with-
out male issue, and was succeeded by his daughter, Margaret, as
his sole heiress. This lady was married, about 1491, to Sir An-
drew Murray, second son of Sir W. Murray of Tullibardine, and,
on the 24th January 1507, she resigned, in the hands of King
James, her whole estate for new infeftment to herself and her hus-
band, Sir A. Murray of Balvaird, in liferent, and the fee to their
offspring. The said lady, with consent of her husband, and Sir
David Murray, their son and heir, founded a chaplainry in the pa-
rish church  of ArDgask, and endowed it with an annuity of 14
merks and two acres of land, lying contiguous to the church, for
the prosperity of their sovereign James V., and for the health and
welfare of themselves, their heirs, and successors, " et omnium
fidelium defunctorum." The deed of mortification is dated at the
Castle of Balvaird in 1527, and the name of one of the witnesses
is John Bullerwale, curate of the said church of Arngosk.
   By an act of Parliament, in 1606, the abbacy of Cambusken-
neth, with which Arngask, and many other kirks had been con-
nected for several centuries, was erected into a temporal lordship
in favour of John Erskine, Earl of Mar. These churches were
hereby disunited and dissolved from the said Abbacy, and the
Kirklands were comprehended within the newly created lordship
of Cardrois, or lordship of Cambuskenneth, as it is styled in char-
ters held by proprietors of church lands within this parish. The
act provides that the foresaid parsonages and vicarages ' shall be
provydit and plantit with qualefeit, godlie, and learnit persons, apt
and hable to instruct the parohineris thairof, in the knawin veritie
For which purpose the advocation, donation, and full right and
titill of all sundrie the foresaid kirks are given, granted, and dis-
poned to the foresaid Lord John, Earl of Mar," &c. This im-
portant act re-enacts and declares the parish church of Arngask
and the others named with it, to be, in all time coming, the legal


