
348                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

L. 70; of which about L. 44 are raised by the ordinary church col-
lections, and the remainder chiefly consists of the interest of lega-
cies or mortified money, but partly also of the fees levied for pro-
clamation of the banns of marriage, &c. But out of this fund the
salaries of the session-clerk and treasurer, the precentor and church
officer are all paid, besides support to the poor. Of late years, the
number of poor has rather been on the increase-yet a disposition
to refrain from seeking parochial relief still pervades many among
the poorer classer. And the great majority of those who receive
aid are the aged, infirm, and sick. Occasionally, however, hea-
vier burdens than usual, such as the support of natural children,
fall upon the funds; but there has never been occasion for any
kind of assessment.
	Inns.--At present there are two inns in this parish, both at the
village of Cottack, one of which is necessary for the accommodation
of travellers, but one of them might also be well dispensed with;
yet, with a few exceptions, sobriety and industry prevail among the
peasantry.
	The fuel most generally used is peat, which is got within the pa-
rish, as already observed. Sea-borne coal is procured at Dumfries,
and Scotch coal is driven from Sanquhar, a distance of twenty miles,
but it is always to be had at Mr Whigham's depot at Allanton,
within the parish. This gentleman rents the Duke of Buccleuch's
collieries at Sanquhar; and, to the great convenience of the neigh-
bourhood, keeps a constant supply on hand, by means of his coal
waggons, which are constantly plying on the road; and he always
distributes a quantity to the poor in winter. The better sort of
families use a great deal of coal in addition to peat.

			 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	Since the last Statistical account was drawn up, the population
has increased by 575, being more than one-third of the whole num-
ber of souls. The inhabited houses have increased by thirty-six,
while the greater part of the former houses have also been renewed
and much enlarged and otherwise improved. There is also a new
manse, a new church, and two new school-houses built. The teach-
ers have received an addition of L. 17 of salary each, and are
much superior to their predecessors in respect of qualifications,--at
least generally speaking; for it must be allowed, that, under all the
disadvantages of the old system, the schools were occasionally filled
with able teachers.--The old Scottish plough has been almost uni-
versally supplanted by the improved iron one, and the number of


