
8                          FIFESHIRE.

hundred years ago; and, having long served as the family seat of the
Clephanes, has now passed by purchase into the hands of the Rev.
Mr Laing, who resides at his living in Northumberland. The
latter, according to Sibbald, was newly built in the beginning of
last century, and has been lately enlarged by the present proprie-
tor, James Wemyss, Esq. of Winthank. The famous iron hand
of the Clephanes is said to be still in preservation, and in the pos-
session of the heirs of the family. There is said, also, to be a
charter, granted to the family by Malcolm Canmore, in the posses-
sion of the heirs of the family.
     The modern mansion-house of Kilmaron, the country seat of
James Cheyne, Esq. Edinburgh, built in the castellated form,
according to a plan by Gillespie, is the only house that lays claim
to any degree of magnificence. The other houses are plain, and
suited to the modest and unpretending requirements of the pro-
prietors. They are, the house of Tarvit, the property and fa-
mily residence of James Home Rigg, Esq. of Downfield; Spring-
field, that of Colonel Don, E. I. C. S.; Dalyell, that of John Dal-
yell, Esq. of Lingo; Hilton, that of William Tod, Esq.; Cairnie
Lodge, that of General Foulis, C. B., E. I. C. S.; Pitblado, that
of George Russell, Esq.; Prestonhall, that of R. Swan, Esq; Mid-
dlefield, that of John Russell, Esq.; Foxton, that of Andrew
West, Esq.; Balas, that of Alexander Bogie, Esq.; Ferrybank,
that of Colonel Craigie, E. I. C. S.; Bellfield, that of Captain
Moncrieff of Balcurvie; Blalowne, that of John Govan, Esq. W. S.;
and Westfield, that of Mr Walker of Pittencrieff.

                      III.-POPULATION.
     When the parishes of Cupar and St Michael were united in
1617, the population of the two did not much exceed 1000. Since
that period it has continued to increase gradually and progres-
sively.

<TABLE>
                 Population in 1801,	    4463
                               1811,	    4758
                               1821,	    5892
                               1831,	    6473

     One mode of accounting for this gradual increase is the disposi-
tion, engendered in some measure by necessity, on the part of the la-
bouring classes, to repair to towns when old age and infirmity ren-
der them unfit for the labours of the field. Another mode of ac-
counting for it is, the increase of trade and manufactures of all
kinds in the town, and the facility that exists of obtaining all the
comports and conveniences of life at a cheap and easy rate. It is


