
76                           BANFFSHIRE.

which may vary from 5O to 90 or l00. In the cold and short days,
it does not even amount to the smaller number. These schools
are uniformly taught gratis, and it is only religious instruction which
is communicated. There are none in the parish between the age
of six and fifteen who cannot read, or are not learning to do so.
There, are, however, about 226 above the age of six unable to write,
and 126 of these are below the age of twenty. The people are
in general alive to the benefits of education, and there is no part
of the parish so distant from the above schools, as to prevent at-
tendance. * Since the institution of Sabbath schools, that hallow-
ed, day, as was to be expected, has been more reverently observed
and very considerable improvement has been made by the youth
in religious knowledge, and it is hoped also in religious principle
and practice.
  Library.-There is no other public library than the Sabbath
school one; but it is of great use to parents, and the other friends
and connexions of the young who attend school. The Scottish
Christian Herald, which has lately been begun to be published,
enjoys also a pretty large circulation in the parish, and is likely,
by the blessing of God, to be of much use.
  Charitable and other Institutions.-There is no hospital in the
parish. But the people, as already stated, in consequence of their
annual collection for the Aberdeen Infirmary, are entitled to ad-
mission there, when any case occurs which requires it-which is
indeed very seldom, as the practitioners in the country are in ge-
neral well educated and expert. There is likewise, as has been
stated, an annual collection for a pauper lunatic fund, the object
of which is, to provide the means of admission to the poor who
labour under that most dreadful malady, into the lunatic asylum
at Aberdeen, or to procure for them such other aid as their la-
mentable case requires.
  There is no savings bank in the parish. But there is one in the
adjoining parish of Cullen, the accommodation of which is open to
the people of Deskford, and to all the surrounding neigbbourhood.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 37, and the average sum allotted to each
anually is under 16s., some receiving considerably more th an

<FOOTNOTE>It may be observed, that, besides the above schools, there are in the remoter parts
6f the parish, little schools saught by aged women, partly out of love to the occupation,
and partly to take out a slander maintenance, where, small children in the immediate
neighbourhood to the number of from 6 to 10 attend, and learn to read the Shorter
Catechism, the Proverbs, and New Testament.


