
                            PAISLEY.                         219

the tomb within it, and the brick-work which closes up the beau-
tiful window, have diminished the echo:  which we are informed is
liable to be considerably affected by even the filling of an adjoin-
ing building, used as a hay-loft, it being then less perceptible than
when that loft is empty:-a singular fact, in acountics, proving
that not only the form of a building itself, but also the buildings
with which it is connected, should be taken into account, when
quantity of sound is a desideratum.
   The late Dr Boog wrote an account of " Queen Bleary's Temb,"
which is published in Vol. ii. part 2 of " the Transactions of
the Society of the Antiquaries of Scotland."  He seems to conjec-
ture, from the figures in the east end of the aile being so differ-
ent from any other work about the church, that they must be re-
furred to a period prior to that of the building of the present fabric ;
and he adds, " it is certain, from the foundation charter, that a
church existed at Paisley before that time."  In his account of
the tomb, while he considers the basement as forming part of the
monument, he puts no "faith in the Paisley tradition of its being that
of Marjory Brute. *  This chapel, however, is generally consider-
ed as having been built in 1499 by James Crawford of Kilwinnet,
burgess of Paisley, and Elizabeth Galbraith, his wife, " who found-
ed, constituted, and ordained a chapel, with its chaplain, in the
church of the parish of Paisley, on the south side thereof, to the
altar of St Mirin and Columba." For its support, the founders
granted the lands and tenements of Seedhill and Wellmeadow in
perpetual alms.  " The charter bears to have been sealed with
the seals of the Lord Archbishop of Glasgow and chapter ; of the
granters; of the abbot and convent of Paisley; of the burgh of Pais-
ley, and others, to be obtained by grantees, or in their names.  At
Paisley, 15th July 1499." + Six seals have been appended, of which
five still remain.
   Within what formed the choir, and it the neighbouring grave-
yards, as well as within the church, are many monumental stones,
with inscriptions, interesting to the antiquary.  Beautiful spe-
cimens of these are to be seen engraved in the first volume
printed for the Maitland Club of Glasgow.  Elizabeth More, and
Eupheme Ross, censorts of Robert II., Robert III., with Walter

<FOOTNOTE>See Antiq. Trans. Vol. ii. Part 2. pp. 456, 461.  On this subject, some curious
conjectural information may be found in appendix 3d, to the volume of the Maitland
Club for 1631.
          Charter in the charter-chest of the town of Paisley.


