
714                      ARGYLESHIRE.

and which, when killed, are considered to be of superior flavour.
The black-faced sheep are found to suit best. In summer they
climb to the top of the highest mountains, and are remarkably
durable in weathering the storms of the tedious winter. Repeated
experiments have been made with the view of introducing the Che-
viots, whose fleeces are still more valuable; but they were found not
to answer, partly on account of the roughness of the surface,
partly on account of the severity of the springs, and more still, it
is believed,. on account of the wetness of the climate. Assiduous
attention is paid to the improvement of the breed, chidfly by the
frequent introduction of a fresh supply of rams. It was long the
practice also to import young sheep, hogs, as they are called, from
favourite stocks ; but the breeds are now so much improved, that
this practice has been discontinued. All the sheep are smeared
in the beginning of winter, which, between the wages of the hands
employed, and the cost of the materials, is a very expensive
process, 5d. a-head being considered a moderate estimate. But
this trouble and outlay are more than repaid, by the beneficial
effects of smearing in killing vermin, in preventing scab, in
fortifying the animal against the effects of cold, and in pro-
moting the growth and weight of the wool. Archangel tar
and Irish butter are the materials held in best repute for
this process. No effectual remedy has yet been found for the
deadly disease called braxy, which seizes principally upon sheep
of a year old, and generally upon the fattest and best of
them. Sudden changes of weather, especially to hoar frost, in-
crease the number of deaths. Its movements are often very ca-
pricious, sometimes one side of a hill being affected by it, and
sometimes another. It is evidently inflammatory, and is consider-
ed by the graziers to be incurable; and, accordingly,,as soon as a
sheep is observed to be seized with it, it is bled, not with the hope
of effecting a recovery, but for the purpose of improving the car-
case. The flesh is considered by the, people to be quite wholesome,
and if the sheep die in the beginning of winter, before it becomes
lean, half the price of regularly killed,mutton can be got for it.
It is also a happy circumstance that, as the sheep get lean, their
liability to the disease diminishes. To obviate this calamity, ex-
tensive graziers are in the practice of sending off their young sheep
to lower grounds, often at a considerable distance from their own
farms, in the beginning of winter, and bringing them back in spring.
By this means they generally escape with but a very few deaths.
                                1


