
     of Logie and Pert.

parish of Pert, and enters the parish of Strickathrow, where
it is likewise wrought to some extent.  There are several
veins, under one another, at different depths from the
surface.  One principal vein is at the depth of about 6
feet, and nearly 12 feet thick.  To use the style of the
workmen, it is covered with a strong scourdy stone, mixed
with lime, and the pavement or bed is a thick body of red-
dish freestone, in which are several thin seams of limestone.
The vein now mining, which is supposed to be rather of
superior quality to the rest, is at the depth of more than 40
feet.  The several quarries are said to have produced this
year, upwards of 16,000 bolls of shells; each boll of shells
yielding about 3 bolls of lime of exceeding fine powder.
The lime is reckoned remarkably good, and is very fit ei-
ther for building or manure.  It is sold by wheat measure
at 1 s. 9 d. per boll ready money, and 1 s. 10 d. credit.
There are a good many hands employed in this work, espe-
cially in spring and summer, perhaps from 20 to 30 or up-
wards.  Good hands are allowed 1 s. 2 d. a-day, and
when engaged by the quantity, at the rate of 6 d. the boll.
About L. 2 being allowed for powder for 1600 or 1700
bolls.  The limestone is burned with what is called Coom
Coals, (the same the blacksmiths use,) brought from Inver-
keithing and other parts of the frith of Forth to the port
of Montrose, and from thence carried in carts to the lime-
work.  This coal is generally purchased on the spot, at
3 s. 6 d. the boll, the freight to Montrose, exclusive of cu-
stom dues, is about 1 s. 5 d; the cartage from Montrose to
the quarries, (about 7 miles distance,) 2 s. the boll or 72
stone.  In consequence of the above advantage of lime,
improvements are fast advancing in this neighbourhood, and
the value of land is every year rising.  One proprietor is
said to have let some of his farms at quadruple rent, after
having fallowed, limed, drained, and inclosed the ground.


