
                         STENTON.                         57

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Principal Land-owmers.-Mrs H. N. Ferguson of Dirleton and
Belhaven is patron and proprietor of about nine-tenths of the pa-
rish; J. B. Sydserff, Esq. of Ruchlaw, William Hay, Esq. of
Hopes, and Sir J. Suttie, Bart. are also heritors.
   The Beil estate came into the Pirleton family by intermar-
riage. Hence the Nisbets prefixed Hamilton to their name. Soon
after the death of the late Mr Nisbet, Sir J. Nisbet of Dean re-
signed all claim to the estate of Dirleton, and the two properties
are therefore now united,
   The late Mr Nisbet, after the death of his mother Mrs Ha-
milton, added greatly to the mansion-bouse at Beil, from a plan
by Atkinson; and extended the range along the face of the bank
on which the building stands to about 500 feet. In a series of
about seven years, nearly L.40,000 were expended. The addi-
tion harmonizes well with the ancient structure. There are three
tiers of flower terraces to the south, which are always kept in the
best style, and greatly admired, at the base of which flows a beau-
fiful stream. In the interior there is a fine variety of marbles fit-
ted up, as side tables, &c.; also a few good pictures by the best
masters. Altogether the mansion is one of the most splendid to
be seen in any country. It is unique from the terraces; and the
correct taste of the late proprietors, Mr and Mrs H. Nisbet, every
where discovers itself.
   As the old church was very incommodious, Mrs H. N. Ferguson
with a liberality peculiar to herself, proposed to to the other heri-
tors to asses them at the rate only of L. 900 for a new church,-
she giving a much larger sum if they would allow her to adopt that
Plan which she might prefer. This was readily agreed to. The
design was by Burn, modern Gothic, with a magnificient tower; no
galleries; the pulpit in the centre, and the family seat opposite,
There is accornmodat for 400, about 70 more than the law re-
quires. It cost above L.2000; and was opened by Dr Chalmers,
October 4, 1829.
   Parochial Registers.-These begin in 1669. and have been pret-
ty regularly kept.

<TABLE=POPULATION>

                          III.-POPULATION.

   The population has varied very little from time immimorial.

            According to Dr Webster        -         -    631
                         the former Statistical Account,  624

And what is very remarkable, a unit makes up difference of the three last census.




