
			LAURENCEKIRK.                           135

indicate, that the population towards the beginning of last century
was not under--probably above--what Dr Webster made it in
1755, 757 souls,

<TABLE>

	         Population in 1801,   -    l215
		 	       1811,   -    1309
			       1821,   -    1515
		               1831,   -    1886
According to a census taken by the minister in the beginning of
1835, the population amounted to 1938, of whom 1391 were
within the limits of the burgh. The following numbers, according
to that census, will show the description of persons of whom the po-
pulation of the parish chiefly consists. Of hand-loom weavers there
are 68; day-labourers, 46; married farm-servants, 39; shoemakers
or cobblers, 16; wrights or carpenters, 8; masons, 8; tailors, 7; all
of whom are heads of families. Of weavers there are also 44 unmar-
ried men and boys; 35 unmarried females, including widows, be-
sides a few married women. Along with these may be mentioned
7 men and 25 women employed at the spinning-mill of Blackie-
muir.
	It will be observed that there has been a continued diminution
in the number of inhabitants in the rural portion of the parish.
There can be no hesitation in ascribing this diminution, in great
part, to the altered mode of letting farms, by which several are
united under one tenant. The tenants, partly from this cause,
and partly from others, now employ unmarried servants more fre-
quently than those that are married,--a system which contributes
to send into the villages a large proportion of the married agricul-
tural labourers,--a valuable part of our population, but not likely
to be improved in such a situation. This system tends further to
destroy, in a great degree, the connection between master and ser-
vants,--the unmarried class being more changeable, and more in-
dependent of their masters. The character of this connection is
greatly injured, also, by the universal practice of engaging the un,
married servants only at the term-day market, when previous good
conduct will be of less avail to the servant for procuring another
engagement, than a plausible exterior. The increase in the
village population, arising in part from the circumstances just
adverted to, is mainly owing, in this parish, to the establish-
ment of the agencies of several weaving companies. The general
effect of such, establishments has been, to draw to the towns and
villages all who are engaged in manufacturing employment. At
a former period, not yet beyond the recollection of persons alive,
there was carried on, in this quarter, an extensive domestic manu-


