
348                       KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

with pike and perch, which are caught, at certain seasons, in con-
siderable numbers.
	River.--The parish of Urr extends to near the mouth of the
river Urr, which flows into the Solway Frith, and which, in gene-
ral, bounds the parish on the west for the space of about ten miles.
Salmon and sundry species of fresh water fish are caught in this
river. The salmon, however, are much destroyed by night-poach-
ing, and, with a few exceptioin, the proprietors are culpable in
not using means to prevent such an illegal and pernicious practice.
	Soil.--Except a moorish portion of the upper part of the pa-
rish, and intersections of granite rocks, and a portion of moss at
the under part of it, the soil of Urr is in general light and kindly,
and the arable land in the parish is perhaps in proportion to that
which cannot be ploughed as 12 to 1.
	The plantations in the parish cover about 800 acres.
			  II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	It would appear that, in the upper part of the parish, there was,
in former times, a place of worship, probably Popish, and on the
site of the building (which is on the property of Meikle Kirkland,)
there were found, several years ago, some human bones and a
quantity of melted lead. It is supposed that tbe building was con-
sumed by fire, soon after the Reformation from Popery in Scotland,
	Mr John Hepburn, whose memory is held in, great veneration
in this country, and in the parish of Urr in particular, was the
first Presbyterian minister of this parish, after the Revolution of
1688. Three several calls to this parish, the last in 1689, he
accepted. Before this time, be had received Presbyterian or-
dination at London, though, on account of the persecution
against Presbyterians, his ordination was rather of a private
nature. He preached also in the parish of Kirkgunzeon,
which was then vacant. Besides his usual labours in this
district, he preached sometimes in several other parishes in
the west a Scotland, to many hearers, who, like himself,
were displeased with some of the proceedings, both of the,
Church and State, about and after the Revolution of 1688.
These adherents of Mr Hepburn published, in the year 1713,
a book which they called Humble Pleadings for the Good Old
Way, in which they state their principles, with thirty-four griev-
ances, and the treatment Which they and Mr Hepburn received
from the office-bearers, both of Church and State. In the year
1695, he was suspended by the General Assembly from the ex-


