
      226             ADDITION TO THE ACCOUNT OF

      Head of Roseness and the opposite point of Burray, where there
      are neither rocks nor sboals.  The light-house, too, recently
      erected on the north-west extremity of Dunnet Head, for prevent-
      ing vessels mistaking the bay of Dunnet Head for the Pentland Frith,
      formerly a cause of shipwreck, is of equal importance as a guide
      for vessels making for or departing from the western entrance of
      Holme Sound by Stromness and Hoymouth, which is but fourteen
      miles of a straight course farther north than the western entrance
      of the Frith.  Here, too, the navigation is safe.  During last war,
      large convoys of merchant vessels bound for the Baltic, after ren-
      dezvouzing in Long Hope of Waas, commonly preferred the course
      eastward by Holme Sound to that by the fritb, and were occasionally
      seen passing along the Sound to the number sometimes of from for-
      ty to sixty sail. Skeldaquoy Point, stretching out to the length of
      a quarter of a mile from the shore forms the west side of what is cal-
      led Holme Sound Bay, where vessels of 200 tons may conveniently
      anchor.  It is from this part of the shore that the post and tra-
      vellers are ferried over the Burray.  The ferry is about four miles
      and a-balf broad, and with a good boat and crew is attended with
      no danger.
           There has been, for some time past, a daily post from Edinburgh,
      which, during the summer, generally reaches Kirkwall within the
      third day.  The mail is dispatched from Kirkwall by a foot-post
      to the ferry of Holme, where a boat with four men crosses over
      to Burray. He then proceeds across Burray to the small ferry
      of Water Sound, by which he crosses over in a boat with two men
      to the village of St Margaret's Hope, in South Ronaldsay, where
      there is a sub-post-office. From that, he proceeds tbrough South
      Ronaldsay, a distance of about eight miles to Burwick, on the
      Pentland Frith,-from which the mail is conveyed in a boat with
      four men, across the Frith, a breadth of twelve miles, to Huna in
      Caithness; from which a gig post takes it to Wick, a distance
      of eighteen or twenty miles.
           Ecclesiastical State.-This is ene of the few parishes in Orkney
      in which there has always been but one Church.  According to tra-
      dition, it was-dedicated to St Nicolas.  It is situated in the east-
      most district of the parish,  called Paplay. Of this name for the
      site of church and manse, there are instances in other Orkney pa-
      rishes. The Paplays are always the most fertile spots of a pariash,
      and are supposed to have been so named from their being allotted
      for the residence of the papae or priests in tbe times of propery.  The
					3

