
                      HAMILTON.                                  271

and adorned with plants. It cannot be less than eight or nine hun-
dred years old, as no erections of the kind have been in use since
the reign of Malcolm Canmore.--Near the moat-hill is an ancient
stone cross, about 4 feet high, bearing no inscription. It is said
to have been the cross of the Netherton.
	In the south side of the parish a remarkable stone, about 6 feet
high, but leaning considerably to one side, gives the name "Crook-
ed Stone" to the district. It is of freestone, and evidently very an-
cient. Mr Chalmers notices these bended stones as crowlechs, of
Druidical origin. A neighbouring farmer lately set it upright; leav-
ing posterity to wonder why it vas called "crooked stone."
	Among the antiquities of this place may be recorded the
gardens at Barncluith. There are here three dwelling-houses
and three gardens, namely, an orchard, a kitchen, and flower.
garden. The flower garden is cut out of a steep bank on the
Avon, two or three hundred feet higb, and is divided in to five terraces.
These are flanked by terrace walls, covered with espaliers of va-
rious descriptions. The borders of the walks are crowded with a
variety of evergreens cut into fantastic forms. In the centre of the
great valk is a handsome pavilion, fitted up with rustic chairs, and
other curious pieces of furniture. Here a pair of house-martins
have constructed a nest on the skeleton of a dolphin's head, which
is nailed to the wall above the fire-place. These gardens and
buildings were probably constructed by, John Hamilton of Barn-
cluith, commissary of Hamilton and Campsie, about 1583. This
individual was son of Quintin Hamilton, who was killed fighting in
the Queen's cause at the battle of Langside. Tradition says he
was deeply skilled in mathematics.
	Palace.--Hamilton Palace was originally a square tower, about
20 feet long, and 16 feet wide. The old part of the house, as it
now stands, was erected about 1591; and it was afterwards almost
entirely rebuilt about 130 years ago. The front (now the back).
facing the south, was ornamented with pillars of the Corinthian
order; and two deep wings were added, in the form of a Roman
H, much in 11the style of Greenwich Hospital. In 1822, additions,
on an extensive scale, were begun under the present Duke by Mr
Hamilton, as architect, and Mr Connel, (builder of Burns' Monu-
ment at Ayr,) as builder, which promise to render the Palace of
Hamilton one of the largest and most magnifimnt structures of
the kind in Britain. The modem part consists of a new front,
facing the north, 264 feet 8 inches in lenght, and three stories


