
80                      BERWICKSHIRE.

without horses, and with as many as six or even eight oxen. This
is now entirely superseded by the improved form of Small's plough,
and two horses is the common strength applied to it in all parts of
the parish. Deep-trenching has been tried with success on land
just reclaimed from a state of waste. Of the manures, besides the
common farm-yard dung, lime is in the greatest use, and, not-
withstanding the distance from which it must be brought, which is
twenty miles, the farmers find their advantage in the abundant ap-
plication of this excellent and powerful manure. It is laid down
on the field in dry heaps, and afterwards spread. This has been
most successfully used on parts of the parish, where formerly the
only attempt at improvement consisted in burning the heather.
The fields where this manure is laid for the first time bear two
successive crops of grain. Bone-dust has also been used.
   The pasture lands about Westruther, as in most other places
of Berwickshire, anciently lay in a state of undivided common.
But more than seventy years ago this promiscuous pasturage
ceased, and the lands were appropriated and fences raised. Al-
though in those times, when the pasture was enjoyed in common,
there were certain regulations in force by which the tenants fed
their flocks in various proportions, yet it cannot be doubted that
the division of the pasture lands has conduced as well to order, and
to the comfort of the occupiers, as it has done to the improvement
of the pasture itself, and the consequent better breeding of the
cattle. Such an appropriation, however, of what had for time im-
memorial been regarded as common, was a work of no small diffi-
culty; and when at last it was, after much and lengthened agita-
tion, brought to a termination, the scholars attending the school
were brought out to be witnesses of the several boundaries agreed
on, as those who in the course of nature would live to attest the
distribution of the land long after the original promoters of the
scheme were removed. It was at this time, and from this circum-
stance, that the feuars of Westruther arose; the small pieces of
land which they occupy, and which till very lately were very nu-
merous, being held of one or other of the large proprietors of the
parish.
   Plantations.-Westruther was formerly overrun with forests of
natural wood, which have been greatly diminished within the memory
of many persons who are still alive, and the only remnant that is now
to be found of them is the diminutive and straggling wood at Flass.
In the boggier parts of the valley, on the north side of the parish,


