
986                     FIFESHIRE.

     A little below the priory, in the direction of the sea beach, is a
large cave with two apartments, in the inner of which is a well of
excellent water.  Where the two apartments join, there is a stone
stair, which led up to a subterranean passage that communicated
with the priory by another stair.  The two stairs still are to be
seen, but the passage, which must have been about fifty yards in
length, has been obliterated by the falling down of the superin-
cumbent earth.
     The burgh is nows governed by a chief magistrate, three bailies,
nineteen councillors, a treasurer, and clerk; the latter acting
as assessor to the magistrates.  The have the usual legal juris-
diction of other burghs, but few cases come before them.  There
is no guildry or incorporated trades.  The property of the burgh
consists of lands, mills, slaughter-houses, and byres; ship-build-
ing yard, cellar, and shed; shares in a granary, washing-house,
and bleaching-green; seats in parish church; harbour, petty cus-
toms, shore, boom, and crane dues; ironstone on the sea shore,
sea-ware; stances for curing herrings, feu-duties, and ground an-
nuals.  The income is variable: for the year ending October
1839, it was L.466, as.s 2d. Sterling, besides considerable arrears
owing to the town and money in bank.  The debt owing by the
town was at the same period L.1200 Sterling, but the expenditure
is considerably within the income.  The harbour is much expos-
ed to south-east winds, but much attention is paid to its improve-
ment by the magistrates.
     Dr Douglas, Bishop of Salisbury, was born and received the
rudiments of his education in this burgh, where his father was a
resident merchant.

<TABLE=POPULATION>

                        III.-POPULATION.

     The population in 1755 was            939
                        1801,   -          1072
                        1831,   -          1317
                        1841,   -          1349

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
     In former times a considerable trade was carried on here.  In
1639 the ships belonging to the port consisted of thirteen sail of
large vessels, besides fishing boats.  Many of these were, however,
lost or taken by the enemy, and the trade afterwards declined.
kelps was at one time manufactured on the shores, but that busi-
ness has been also given up.
    At presenta considerable trade is carried on in herring fishing
and curing, and white fishing.  A few sloops and schooners be-

 


