
152                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

forded a favourable position for defending it: and this eminence
is generally believed to have been artificial. A hollow in the
neighbourhood is still shown, whence the soil which forms it was
conveyed.
   In a field on the farm of Frogden, five or six upright stones, form-
ing a circle, were designated the "tryst,"-from their being a ren-
dezvous where predatory hordes projecting an incursion into Nor-
thumberland were wont to meet.
   The whole of the district abounds with memorials of ancient
border warfare. From its contiguity to the fortresses of Werk and
Roxburgh, it must occasionally have been the scene of the more
important struggles between the two kingdoms. Accordingly, on
the summits of the small hills, there are remains of circular en-
campments; and from the surface of the ground arise numerous small
tumuli, which, when excavated, are found to contain human bones
inclosed in circular earthen urns, of various dimensions. Some of
these are obviously of Roman construction. In one place, these
tumuli are so numerous as almost to resemble a burying-ground,
or at least they render it probable that the ground which they oc-
cupy had been once a field of battle. Most of these bones, as
well as the urns containing them, when exposed to the air, dissolve
into dust. About fifty years ago, during the repairing of the church,
a large grave was discovered, in which were fifty skulls; all were
equally decayed, and many of them bore marks of violence. It is
conjectured that they belonged to individuals who had fallen at
Flodden Field; the remains of many of whom, as is well known,
were consigned to a common grave in the cemeteries of the nearest
border parishes. A few years ago, a brazen Roman spear was
found in a mossy soil, three feet below the surface, near the mouth
of a well, and is now in the possession of Mr Pringle of Clifton,
M. P.
    A chapel belonging to the Established church appears to have
been formerly at Hoselaw, for the benefit of the inhabitants of the
eastern district, which was then, as at present, at an inconvenient
distance from the parish church. The remains of this chapel and
of a small burying-ground attached to it were visible till lately,
when, by the operations of the plough, they were wholly effaced.
   Land-owners.-Robert Pringle, Esq. of Clifton and Haining,
Member of Parliament for Selkirkshire, is the principal proprietor
and the patron of the church; nearly two-thirds of the lands be-
long to him. This gentleman maintains the same high reputation
for public spirit, generosity, and interest in the welfare of his


