
74			BUTESHIRE.

known principles of the Roman Catholics, which led them to leave
no inhabited place without a religious establishment, and also from
the certain existence of tradition concerning it; and the tradition
receives additional confirmation from the following circumstance,
which lately occurred.
	In the year 1823, some labourers, in removing the surface of
the ground, for the purpose of opening up a quarry, found a large
stone of rather a singular appearance; it was upwards of 8 feet
in length, by 2 1/2 in breadth, and 1 1/2 in thickness. Its form was
somewhat similar to a coffin, but not so deep; with a ridge cros-
sing the whole breadth of the bottom; inside rising nearly half as
high as the ledges, and dividing the whole length into two un,
equal parts, the one 3, and the other 5 feet, and having no cover.
At the broadest, or head-end of this stone, there stood erect a
stone cross, which seemed originally to have been of very fine
workmanship. This cross stood close to the former stone, its or-
namental side facing it, its foot sunk about 2 feet into the earth,
and its head rising above the stone about 1 1/2 feet. The hill from
whence these stones were dug, and in which they had been buried
to the depth of 5 or 6 feet, was only an accumulation of sand
drifted from the sea, heaped up upon what had once been the
surface of the ground, and upon which these stones had been for-
merly laid. All this accumulation of sand has been since remov-
ed. The larger stone was immediately broken into pieces of more
convenient size for the purposes of building; the cross also was
broken into two pieces, from the same economical purposes, but
the head-piece was afterwards recovered, and is at present, (1840,)
in the possession of the minister of the parish.
	Land-owners.--The whole island now belongs to the Earl of Glas-
gow and to the Marquis of Bute. Lord Glasgow, who is also patron
of the parish, possesses two-thirds, and Lord Bute one-third of the
parish. It was formerly divided into a number of small baronies,
the names of some of which are still remembered, such as the
Kames, which gives name to one of the finest bays in the island,
close to what is now called the New Town: on this property,
the small village of Kames once stood, some ruins of which may
still be traced; the family name was Hunter. The Hill, on which
property the whole of the new town now stands; the family name
was also Hunter, some whose descendants are still in the island.
Craigengon, the family name of which was also Hunter. The
Corans, and the Troughewan, on which property part of the village


