
     of Kinross.

   Ecclesiastical State, School, and Poor.-This parish has had
its own share of divisions ever since the year 1732.  The num-
ber of souls that belong to the Established Church are about
700: the rest belong to three different denominations of Seces-
sion, viz. the Burghers in this town, the Antiburghers, and
a small meeting, who call themselves of the Reformed Pres-
bytery, in the parish of Orwel.-The living consists of
L. 536: 8: 4 Scotch, including 50 merks for communion ele-
ments, 68 bolls oat-meat, and 15 bolls bear.  George Graham,
Esq. of Kinross, is patron.
   The school is, at present, in a very flourishing state.  The
number of scholars, during last winter, was about 140; and,
at a medium for 18 years past, it has been above 100 yearly.
Some of these come from other parishes besides a number of

     Y 2.

<FOOTNOTE>

an ornamented stone, that a few years ago, when the walls were standing, pro-
jected a little at the N. E. corner of the kitchen.  The whole circuit of the
rampart is 585 feet.-It is generally understood that the roof was taken off
the castle about a century ago.  Some part of it, particularly the roof of the
round tower, is said to have been repaired by Sir William Bruce.  Some per-
sons remember to have heard an old man say, that, in his time, there were
52 beds, or perhaps only bed-steads, in the castle.
   The island is ornamented with a number of trees and affords pasture for 2
cows.  In autumn 1775 or 1776, the area or court within the castle, was stor-
ed with well cultivated beds of onions, and the ground without, with tur-
nips.
   Alexander III is said to have lived some time at Kinross, undoubtedly in the
castle of Lochleven, after returning from an interview with his father-in-law,
Henry III. of England, at Werk castle.-In this castle Queen Mary Stuart was
imprisoned, on the 16th June 1567; resigned the crown with reluctance in fa-
vours of her son, James VI. on the 24th July, same year; and escaped from
her confinement there, on the 2 d of May 1568, by means of George Douglas,
youngest son of Sir Robert Douglas of Lochleven.-The Earl of Northum-
berland was imprisoned in Lochleven castle, from 1569 to about the end of
1572.


