
                             CRIEFF.                           491

market and a well, which still bear his name. This principal rives
is the Earn, which flovs from Loch Earn," passes through the
whole strath,--and joins the Tay above Newburgh, after a course
of more than thirty miles. It is joined Cieff by the Tarvet, and
is the southern boundary of the parish for nearly these miles. It
has very obviously changed its channel frequently below Crhdff;
and trasition says that it has rauged the whole of the level plain
between Tom-a-chaistail and Counrie above Crieff--that it once
passed close to Ochtertyre House, -and much weamr to Crieff
been formed when its swollen current was impeded by ice or some
other obstruction.
  Geoloqy and Mineralogy.--" The Grampian mountains, which
constitute the Highlands of Perthshire, on the north and west of
Crieff, extending many.miles in breadth, and running from the east
coast of, Scotland, south of Aberdeen, till, they terminate at the
extremity Of the Mull of Cantyre, near Ireland, consist chiefly of
mica slate rocks, with occasional beds of quartz and hornblende
slate and some patchers of granite. All the high mountains near
Crieff, such as Benlawers, Benvorlich, Benichonie, &c. are com-
posed of mica slate. But, on the slate, edge of the Grampians,
there is a narrow tract of clay slate, which may be traced from
Stonehaven, in Kincardineshire, to the Gareloch in Dumbarton-
shire, without interruption.,   This strip of clay Estate approsches
within about a couple of miles Of Crieff. It may  be seen as we
descend from Loch Turret to the low country. But its breath
in that place scarcely exceeds half a-mile. There is a patch of
granite between Benichonie and Lochearn. It is bounded on the
south by Glen Lednick, and extends from west to easr about four
miles. At the foot of the clay-slate rocks there is a narrew valley,
which may be traced for many miles running parallel to the Gram-
pians. To the east of this valley there rise a number of isolated
hills;--Cnoc.mary, Turhorn, Lochlin, Tom-a-chaistaid, Laggas,
Cnoc of Crieff, Glowero'erhim, &cc. are well known hills in the
neigborhood of Crieff. Many of these are covered with wood
and, varying much in their shape and apperrance, it is to thers
chiefly that the beautiful landscape to the south west of Crieff,
scarcely equalled in any other part of Great Britain, is owligs.
There hills are composed of greywacke, varying much in its appear-

<FOOTNOTE> "Loch Earn is 309 foot above the level of the use.
           "See Blackwood's magasine, Vol I. No. 51. September 1977


