
4                           STIRLINGSHIRE.

  There are several other small rivulets or burns which find their
way to the Carron. The only one of these worth noticing, is the
Light-water-burn, near to the village of Camelon. This streamlet
flows in the centre of what, to all appearance, must at some remote
period, have formed the bed of a considerable river. The regular
banks on each side, with the different windings, distinctly show
this, and in the vicinity the face of the country has every appear-
ance of a sea coast. Bays, headlands, and otber similar indications
may be easily traced. Close by, is the site of the ancient city
of Camelon, which tradition represents to have been a sea-port,
and where fragments of anchors and ancient boats have been found
imbedded in the soil. The sea is now four or five miles distant.
   There are three small lochs in the upper parts of the parish,
but in regard to them nothing remarkable can be stated.

                  II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-Situated on the boundary betwixt the Ro-
man possessions on the south, and those of Caledonia on the
north, many sanguinary encounters took place in ancient times in
this parish. Among these, there was one in the year 415, in which
Robert Graham, a commander under King Fergus II., fell, while
repelling the Roman forces; and from this event the Wall of An-
toninus, originally formed in A. D. 140, is supposed to have re-
ceived the appellation, which it bears to this day, of Graham's Dyke.
From the inscription upon a slab of marble found at taking down
the old church in 1810, it appears that Graham was buried in the
adjoining church-yard.
   On the north of the town,and near to where the village of Grahams-
ton now stands, a battle was fought on 22d July 1298, between
the forces of Edward I. of England, and the Scots, led on by the
patriotic and undaunted William Wallace. The attack on each
side was violent, but, overpowered by superior numbers, the Scots
retreated, and, crossing the river Carron, marched northward. In
this battle Sir John Graham of Dundaff and Sir John Stewart of
Bonkill, commanders in the Scottish army, were slain, and were
both interred in the church-yard, where their grave-stones are still
to be seen.
   In the reign of James III. the town was for some time occupied
by the army of the discontented Lords, who had risen in rebellion
against that monarch. His Majesty intended to have attacked them
there. They, however, anticipated his purpose, and met him at


