
                          ABERDEEN.                          81

out of 281 prisoners, only 71 were punished in any way,-a small
proportion, considering the character and dispositions of the in-
mates.
   Every prisoner who can read is supplied with a Bible, and all
are visited at least once a week by the chaplain, who exhorts,
catechises, and prays, with each separately.  Those who conduct
themselves well are allowed to read the Scottish Christian Herald,
Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, and the volumes of the Kildare:
Street Library.
   The teacher attends for three hours and a-half daily to give in-
structions in reading, writing, and arithmetic, to the prisoners who
require them, each in his own cell, and the governor examines,
and reports their progress monthly to the commissioners.
   The surgeon attends daily, but there is very little sickness in
the establishment.  Only four prisoners have died in the house
since it was opened.  Of these two were ill when committed, and
lived only a few days; one was liable to epilepsy, and was found
dead in his cell in the morning; and the fourth was a woman
about ninety years of age, who had passed the greater part of the,
last twenty years of her life in prison.  The expenses of the es-
tablishment are defrayed by an assessment on the heritors of the
city and county, half being borne by each.  The amount collect-
ed has been for some years L.900; of which about L.600 are
required for the annual expenses, the remainder being applied to
the reduction of the debt, whose present amount is L.4300.
   In consequence of the majority of the prisoners being confined
for short periods, little permanent improvement of their morals
can be expected; for that system of discipline must indeed be ad-
mirable, which could in thirty or sixty days eradicate bad habits
and implant good ones; nevertheless, there can be no doubt, that
the discipline of Bridewell has had a salutary effect on many of
those who have been committed, in the first instance for long pe-
riods, as only a small proportion of these have returned a second
time, and some of them are known to be now engaged in honest
employment
   It is not possible to say to what extent the fear of this prison
has operated on the criminal population of the district; but it is
worthy of remark that, although the general population is rapidly
increasing, the number of criminals is apparently rather decreasing
than otherwise, as will be seen by the following table of commit-
ments for the last seven years;
   ABERDEEN.			           F


