
                        NEWLANDS.                           137

Jamaica, governor of that island; to whom may be added the late
Lord Chief Baron Montgomery, who was one of the first sherrifs
of royal nomination, after the abolition of the heritable jurisdic-
tions, and the first Scotchman who attained to the dignity of Lord
Chief Baron. *
    Land-owners.-The proprietors, reckoning from the easter end
of the parish, are Sir James Montgomery of Stanhope, proprietor of
Whim, non-resident, but whose house, with some parks, is occupied
by his brother Archibald Montgomery, Esq.; William F. Macken-
zie, Esq. of Portmore, proprietor of Easter and Wester Deaus-
houses, non-resident; James M'Intosh, Esq. proprietor of La-
mancha, resident; the Rev. Mr Berrisford of Magbiehill, occasion-
ally resident; Henry Veitch, Esq. of Elliock, proprietor of Bogend,
non-resident; the family of the late William Gordon, Esq. of Hall-
myre, non-resident; Adam Kennedy, Esq. of Romanno, resident;
the Earl of Wemyss, proprietor of Whiteside, Fingland, Fleming-
ton-mill, and Drochil, non-resident; Sir John Hay of Hayston,
proprietor of Stevenson, non-resident; William Aitchison, Esq. of
Drummore, proprietor of Boreland, non-resident, but occasionally
visiting his farm; Sir Thomas Carmichael of Skirling, proprietor
of Scotston, non-resident; James Aitken, Esq. of Callends, resi-
dent. There is none of these proprietors whose rental is not more
than L. 100 a-year.
    Antiquities.-As to the vestiges of antiquity remaining in the
parish, there are circular circumvallations called rings on the tops
of several hills, as on Callends hill, Whiteside hill, Boreland hill,
and Penria hill.
    Drochil Castle, situated in a commanding situation, in the angle
made by the junction of Terth with Lyne water, is not very much
dilapidated. Tradition ascribes the building to Regent Morton:
it in relief.
    Parochial Registers.-The old session record, beginning with a
mutilated leaf of a minute in 1650, might probably be ranked
among the antiquities of the parish. From that record it appears
that an yearly sum was paid by the adjoining parishes to the Peebles
magistrates for watching witches in Peebles prison,-to enforce
confession, probably by the torture of preventing them from sleep-
ing. From the record great alarm seems to have prevailed at the
approach of Cromwell's army, (designed the Sectarian Army.) fast-

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Account of Stobo.


