
                       	LANGHOLM.                             425

                  V.--PAROCHIAl ECONOMY.
	Fairs.--A weekly market is held at Langholm for purchasing
the ordinary necessaries of life; and there are four annual fairs,
one of which is the greatest in the south of Scotland, for lambs,
and is held generallx on the 26th of July, the other three for hiring
farm-servants, and the sale of stock which is not required to be
kept over winter.
	Means of Communication.--In this district, the roads and bridges
are all kept in the best order. The great, road from Edinburgh to
Carlisle passes through the town of Langholm, affording a ready
communication from the capitals of both kingdoms, as the mail runs
by this road daily. There is also an excellent road which leads west
to Annan. There are two country roads, one of which crosses the
Esk at Langholm, and leads up into Eskdale north-west, and the
other south-east by a good bridge over the Tarras into Canobie.
These roads are kept in repair from the assessment which is le-
vied in lieu of Statute Labour. Another road is made up Wauch-
opedale, which opens a ready communication from Langholm to
Lockerbie, Lochmahen, and Dumfries. A coach now runs upon
this road, alternately, from Dumfries to Langholm. There was a
bridge built across the Esk, in 1780, by subscription, conristing of
three arches; it connects the old and new towns of Langholm. A
little farther to the north, there is another bridge of two arches,
upon the post road, over the Ewes. These bridges stand nearly
parallel, and are situated within sixty yards of each other. About
half a-mile south of Langholm, there is another of three arches,--
besides three others, which claim no particular notice.
	Ecclesiastical State.--Langholm parish comprehends the ancient
parishes of Staplegorton, Wauchope, and the half of Morton. Wil-
liam de Cunigburc, who possessed the manor of Staplegorton in
the twelfth century, granted to the monks of Kelso, the church of
Staplegorton with all the lands belonging to it. This grant was
confirmed by William the Lion, and also by Walter, the Bishop of
Glasgow, in 1232. In the fourteenth century, when the monks of
Kelso made an estimate of their property, they held the rectory of
this church, which was valued at L. 13, 6s. 8d. They had also, with-
in this manor, a carrucate of land at Duglyn, which brought them
yearly five merks. The monks held this rectory till the Reforma-
tion, when not only Staplegorton, but several other of the churches
of the monks of Kelso, were transferred to the Earl of Roxburghe.
Some time after this, the King bought the advowson and the ththes
         DUMFRIES.                 E e


