
                          ST FERGUS.                          199

upon divine ordinances, and many of them give evidence of sin-
cere piety.  It is to be regretted that, in several families, there is
reason to believe that the duties of domestic instruction and de-
votion are either neglected or very carlessly discharged, and that
some households, exhibit the unseemly aspect of two distinct com-
munities living under the same roof, and having no religious in-
tercourse with each others-wall of entire separation in this re-
spect being reared between the master and his servants.  To this
as the prime cause-to the early period of life at which the child-
ren of the peasantry, engage in service-and to the mode of fee-
ing half-yearly in markets, and the migratory habits,generated by
this system, is to be traced the moral deterioration which has be-
come so visible in the class of farm-servants.  The evil, is, indeed
as yet, less apparent here than in more populous parishes.  Many
of the servants in this parish are remarkably intelligent, fond of
reading, and moral and religious in their deportment; but they
belong almost entirely to that section which are stationary in the
parish, and not to that floating portion of the class who change
their parochial residence every half-year, and upon whom pastoral
inspection, and other salutary and controlling influences can rarely
be brought to bear.  In adverting to the character of the popula-
tion, I should he guilty of an unpardonable omission, if I did not
state, what is well known to be the fact, that they are very temperate
in the use  of spirituous liquors.  The vice of drunkenness is con-
fined to a very few individuals, who are not in communion with the
church.  How long this may continue to be said with truth of the
parishioners of St Fergus is rendered very problematical by the
strong temptations to which they are exposed in four shops, now
opened amongst them, for the retail of spirituous liquors.  This is
an evil, the fearful increase of which here and in other places,
deserves and demands the serious attention of all who possess the
means of mitigating or repressing it.  Smuggling is entirely dis-
continued and from the vigilant and vigorous measures taken by
the principal proprietor for the protection of the game, poaching does
not Prevail to any noticeable extent.  For several years there have
been no, Complaints lodged against persons for poaching for salmon
in the river; and it is believed that the misdeameanour, once very
common, is now seldom if ever committed.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.

<TABLE>
No. of males eployed in agriculture, as farmers, cottars, and farm-servants, 258
       males employed in retail trade and handicrafts as masters and workmen, 45


