
240                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

elders and a deacon for that district, till the number was filled up.
The names were then intimated from the pulpit, when all the congre-
gation were required to state any objections they might have to any
of the persons chosen. After 1692 elders were chosen in the form
now in general use. In 1656, the session consisted of nine elders
and seven deacons. In 1709, the parish was divided into twelve
districts, and an elder appointed to each.
  Gogar.  -According to Mr Wood, Gogar is a Celtic word, signify-
ing light; it was originally written Goger.  There was a church or
rectory at Gogar, which is noticed in the MS.  Taxationes Eccle-
siasticarum in Episcopatu St Andreae et Decanatu de Linlithgow in
the year 1167, as Ecclesia de Gogar.  This church was acquired
by the canons of Holyrood in 1240.  It seems to have been sepa-
rated from Holyrood in 1296, when the kirk lands belonging to it
were given to Andrew, then parson of Gogar.  In the taxt roll of
the archbishoprick of St Andrews, in 1547, it is enterid as Rec-
toria de Gogar, and it is included in Keitb's, list of the parsonages
at the Reformation.  It was at one time annexed to the Trinity
College of Edinburgh.*
   Although it is called a parish church, it does not appear that any
well-defined parish was ever assigned to it.  It comprehended, pro-
bably, the villages of Nether Gogar and Gogar Stone, and the
whole of the lands now known by the name of Gogar.  At the Re-
formation the superintendent of Lothian placed John Coise, reader
in the kirk of Gogar, who seems to have been a ver illiterate
man.  He was ordered by the presbytery in 1586 "to desist from
public preaehing, and to content himself with simple reading of God's
word;" and at a second visitation in 1598 lie was directed "to
read prayers and chapters, and catechise the people after the form
of examination, and to learn thame to reheirs ye articles of ye be-
leif, ye commands, and ye Lord's, Prayer."
    The parishioners of Gogar made many efforts to have their
kirk planted, but they were too few in number and too poor to
raise a sufficient provision for that purpose.  With this view they
applied to the Synod and Presbytery in 1599, offering to give
Mr Williarn Arthur, who was then serving the cure of Corstor-
phine, L. 100 per annum and their kirkland, if he would become
their regular clergyman.  This, however, was considered an in-
adequate provision, and therefore the Presbytery  "thocht good,
for the Present, to unite Gogar and Corstorphine."

<FOOTNOTE>See Spottiswood's Acoount of Religious Houses, p.529.

                		  3


