
138                         SHETLAND

extra stock of cows and horses, I have sometimes;advertised and
superintended a sale at Whitsunday and Martinmas, which is the
only re semblance to a fair ever held.    At both these seasons, a
number of persons, from the neighbouring parishes, attend, espe-
cially from the parish of Tingwall.
I Ale-Aouses.-There are two ale-houses,-one in Sandsting, and
the other in Aithsting; but no bad effects are.apparent from them.
There is no propensity in the people, generally, to indulge to ex-
cess in spirituous liquors.
Fuel.-Peats are the only fuel used in the parish ; and they are
abundknt.   In digging for peats there is abundant evidence that
mountain-ash or rowan-tree, birch, hazel, and willow or saugh,
have, at one time, flourished over a great portion of the country.

                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
Neither rye-grass nor clover are cultivated, nor can be raised with
any,degree of success till dikes are built, capable of defending from
the encroachments of man and beast.  Both these plants spring up
naturally in many places,- the former called acre-a-bunA, and the
latter amorra.  There is a considerable quantity of bog-meadow
ground, the grass of which is cut yearly about Lammas, and dried
for bay.  In general, it.is much wasted before it is stacked ; from
the idea, that if the juices are not, in some measure, washed out
beforre it is put together for the winter, it will take heat and rot.
The scythe in use does not exceed fifteen inches, and some are
not more than twelve inebes in length.  It has a straight haft,
with one handle, and the mower stands nearly upright. - The
upper part of the haft rests on the bend of the arm ; the left
band holds the handle, and the right hand grasps the haft.  Some
mowers wield the little instrument very dexterously, and cut down
more grass than could be imagined, with such a diminutive too].
'The sickle is of very small dimensions.  I have seen the reaper
make from thirty-five to forty cuts with it, before the hand was fil-
led with corn.  Both scythe and sickle are made in the parish.
. Cottayes.-The cottages are of rather a rude description; and
in, wet weather, somewhat difficult of access, if there be any de-
oire to keep the feet dry and clean.  They are usually built of
stone with dry mortar, and over the couples and rafters is laid a
covering of pones or divots, and sometimes of flaws.  Over these
is laid a -covering of straw, which is secured by ropes. of the same
material, or of heather, -called simmins." The dunghill occu-


