
538                          AYRSHIRE.

him. The seams, which are of the finest quality, vary in thickness
from 2 1/2 to 5 feet; and strata of both fire and blind coal have been
wrought to considerable advantage for nearly a century. From
the depth at which the respective seams are placed, varying from
20 to 60 fathoms, shafts are invariably sunk. The vast quantity
of clay found above the coal metals keeps them in general dry.
Nearly 90,000 tons are raised annually, of which about 25,000
are used in the parish, and between 60,000 and 70,000 export-
ed. The average price per ton when laid down in the town is 7s,
From the judicious management under which the pits are placed,
very few accidents occur. Almost no choke-damp is met with.
About 300 men are connected with the works, and it is but just to
say, that they are a sober, well behaved, industrious people, seldom
removing from the locality.
	Zoology.--The superiority of the Ayrshire cow is generally ad-
mitted, and it appears to maintain its high character at among agri-
culturists of all countries. Not only is it esteemed among the
dairy districts of Scotland, but it is eigerly sought for to improve
English and foreign stock. Of late, great numbers have been pur-
chased for exportation to Prussia and Australia, and a high price
has been obtained. In milking, the Ayrsbire breed is superior,
and the quality ofthe milk very rich. When full-grown, the cow
stands about 4 feet 1 or 2 inches high at the shoulder; the neck
and head are small, the muzzle tapered, the horns from 6 to 8
inches long, small at the points, and curved a little upwards. It
is straight along the back, the limbs are slender, the udder well-
shaped, of an oblong form, and full towards the front, the tail
small and tapering, the countenance peculiarly mild and pleasing.
When ordinarily fat, the carcase weighs from 28 to 36 stories
(14lb. English to the stone.) The prevailing colour is brown,
or brown with a few small white spots. Swine rearing is some-
what attended to by farmers in general, and the animal is fed to
a great size. There is a considerable importation of pigs from
Ireland, but they are not equal to those home-bred, and sell at a
lower price.

                         II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Characters connected with the Parish.--1. Sir William
Mure of Rowallan, a pious and learned gentleman, the author of
several poetical works, and particularly a metrical version of the
Psalms, of David. Principal Baillie who attended the Westmin-
ster Assembly, as a Commissioner from the Church of Scotland,


