
                  PARISH OF NEWBURN.

         PRESBYTIERY OF ST ANDREWS, SYNOD OF FIFE.

          THE REV. THOMAS LAURIE. D.D., MINISTER.

                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Extent, Boundaries.-This parish is about 3 1/2 English miles
long, and nearly 2 broad; bounded on the east by Kilconquhar;
on the west by Largo; by part of both these parishes on the north;
and on the south by the sea.
  Name.-Its ancient name was Drumeldry. At a period less re-
mote, that of Newburn was assigned to it; probably from the cir-
cumstance of a small rivulet, which runs through a considerable
part of the parish, having changed its course. Etymology, how-
over, is often fanciful and fabulous.
   Topographical Appearances.-The soil in general is fertile, and
produces crops which might arrest the attention of the traveller
who has visited more fortunate climes. His attention might also
be attracted by the variegated scenery and extensive view. The
landscape, consisting of rocks and woods and waters, and hills and
dales, is such as a writer of romance would have delighted to fancy.
The land is all in pasture along the whole extent of a flat sandy shore.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

  Parochial Registers.-The parochial register commences in
1628, and has been kept pretty regularly.
   Land-owners.-The chief landowners are, Charles Halket
Craigie, Esq. of Dunbarnie, patron of the parish, who has greatly
embellished his lands of Hall Hill; John Anstruther Thomson, Esq.
of Charleton; James Wyld, Esq. of Gilston, an enterprising and
spirited proprietor, who on his estate of Lathallan in this parish,
has carried on the most judicious improvements. General Durham
of Largo; Matthew Wilkie, Esq. of East Newburn; the heir of the
late Sir John Leslie of Coates (Professor of Natural Philosophy in
the University of Edinburgh, deservedly celebrated as a man of
science. through the civilized world) and James Buchan, Esq. of
Balchrystie.
                                  3


