
                                ALLOA.                      31

   The improvement as to the execution of work done upon these
several kinds of railroads is as follows,-
   Previous to the introduction of the first railroad in this parish,
a horse brought from the coal-hills to the town or barbour one cart
of coals weighing six cwt.
   By the first railway a horse brought down a chalder waggon,
containing 30 cwt., that is five times more than formerly.
   The second, third, and fourth improvements gave a more sub-
stantia and lasting road, but no better execution of work than by
the first plan.
   By the fifth improvement a man and a horse brougbt down at
a time three waggons of coals, or 90 cwt., which was thrice the
quantity performed by a man and a horse upon the former plans
of railroads.
   By the sixth improvement, waggons containing only One ton or
20 cwt. were adopted, and one man and one horse brought down
eight tons at a time or 160 cwts., which was nearly double of the
former improvement.
   The seventh improvement produces no more effect or execution
than the former at present; but this fact is undoubted, that,if ne-
cessary, ten tons will be as easily drawn along the malleable iron
railway as eight tons along the wavy surface of the last iron rail-
way. If, therefore, the improvement in railways is viewed, and
compared with the work of a horse in a cart before the railroads
in tbis parish were made, a man and a horse actually do the work
of what would have required 27 men and 27 horses formerly. The
hire of a man and horse for drawing coals along the, present rail-
way from the coal-hills to the Alloa harbour, a distance of two
miles and a half, is 31/2d. each ton, the waggons being furnished
and upheld to him.
   As to the output of coals in this parish annually, it has been
greatly reduced, although as a coal-sbipping port the annual quan-
tity is increased. This arose from the circumstance, that John
Francis Earl of Mar, in the year 1806, took in lease New Sauchy
collier, in the parish of Clackmannan, which he wrought very
extensively by colliers and their families taken from Alloa parish
to reside in the parish of Clackmannan. Previous to tbis arrange-
ment, the quantity of coal raised, annually, in the parish, may be
taken at from 44,000 to 50,000 tons. At present the annual
quantity raiged is about from 76,000 to 80,000 tons.
   Wages.-The price paid the collier for working the coal, and


