
                           INSCH.                             751

Leith Hay, of Rannes, who is possessed of the lands of Insch and
Netherboddom, and the superiority of the burgh of Insch.  Be-
sides the properties above referred to, there are in the parish the
lands of Boddom, Cairneston, and Johnsleys, which are at present
in the market, having fallen to be disposed of by the executors of
the late Mr Gordon, Newton.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, including kirk-
session records, and registers of baptisms and marriages, extend
as far back as to the year 1683, but are not altogether complete.
   Antiquities.-There are a good many remains of Druidical tem-
ples, all in elevated situations.  There are also several rude obe-
lisks, or stone pillars, in the parish; one called the Picardy Stone,
standing about 7 1/2 feet in height above ground, with some carving,
apparently emblematical, on the south face of it, and another, to
wards the centre of the parish, called the Earl of Mar's Stone.
   Near the village of Insch is a mound, or rising ground, called
the Gallow Hill, the road leading past which has always been
known by the name of the Gallow Road; and there is a tradition,
deriving some probability from this, that Insch, though but a
burgh of barony, had had the power of pot and gallows.
   A fragment of a brass sword, or Roman gladius, was found
some years ago on the farm of Mr A. Beattie, Dunnideer, and is
still iii the possession of that gentleman, who has also some frag-
ments of what would appear to have been a gold chain, of very
rude workmanship, which were found on the farm of Wantinwells,
on the clearing away of the foundation of some old houses.  When
the vacant ground on the north side of the church was levelled
out some years ago, a tombstone was laid bare, very near the wall,
with the words RANDOLPHVS SACERDOS inscribed on it lengthwise,
and, after these, some date, which is illegible.  The stone is
about 6 feet in length, and 20 inches in breadth.
   By far the most interesting objects, however, which the pa-
rish holds out to antiquarians, are the ruined fort and tower
on the top of the hill of Dunnideer, the former being a fine speci-
men of what are called vitrified forts, the latter the remnant of a
square tower or castle built within the fort, and partly of fragments
of it, covering from 13 to 14 square yards of ground, including
the walls, 7 feet in thickness; only one wall, however, standing
entire, and it being from 50 to 60 feet in height.
   As to the fort or enclosure, the subjoined remarks from Mac-


