
24                     AYRSHIRE.

contain an elegant spacious news-room, and various other apart-
ments for town's meetings, &c. all of which are constructed in such
a manner, as to be capable of being thrown into one suit of rooms
for public dinners, balls, and assemblies, on great occasions. The
spire is 226 feet in height, said to be about the highest in Scot
land, and has a bell weighing 22 cwt., of a rich deep-toned sound,
which can be heard at a great distance in calm weather.  The
spire is reckoned very handsome, and in good taste as to archi-
tectural decorations and proportions.  Its appearance has a fine
effect, and is a great ornament to the town.  During the winter
of 1835, it was struck by lightning, more than midway from the
ground, in a frightful thunder storm, which happened in the dead
of night, occasioning great alarm to the inhabitants.  The bolt
wrenched in an instant two of the large massy stones frome their
places, on one side of the building, driving on of them to a con-
siderable distance, without, however, doing any material injury.
The damage was repaired last summer, at a considerable expense,
incurred chiefly by the difficult and complex construction of scaf-
folding for the purpose.
  There is another ornament of a similar kind, also of late erec-
tion, and from a design by the same architect.  This is called
Wallace Tower, for what reason does not appear. It has been built
near the middle of the east side of the High Street, on the site of
an old building of the same name, of many years standing, which
was pulled down to make room for it.  It appears to give great sa-
tisfaction to the inhabitants of the east end of the town, as by its
means they enjoy the benefit of a town's clock, and a bell for an-
nouncing public worship. The tower is a handsome building, and
is also very ornamental to Ayr, particularly as seen from a distance,
its height beeing about 115 feet.  The architect, in his design, ap-
pears to have wished to erec something after the fashion of the
Gothic-like structures of the days of Wallace.  There is a statue
of Wallace in front of the tower, in a niche towards the main street;
but the artist, Thom, does not appear to have been very happy in
his conception of the hero, either in point of costume or expres-
sion of character.  So far, however, as mere workmanship is con
cerned, it shows every indication of being well executed.
  Old and New Church.- The old church was erected about the
middle of the seventeenth century, during the protectorate of
Cromwell, to supply the place of the ancient church of St John,
which he had appropriated to another purpose, in the new fort he





