
38 	                 	AYRSHIRE.

	Alloway Kirkh.--This "auld haunted biggin'," the scene of the
most talented of the poems of Burns, is an exceedingly plain old
ruin, and not deserving of notice but for the celebrity which "Tam
o'Shanter" has attached to it. It consists of two bare walls, one
storey in height, with triangular gable ends; in one of which, the
old Kirk Bell still remains suspended. The date of its erection is
uncertain, but the old walls are still entire, and in a state of good
preservation; so much so, that it might still have been used as a
place of worship. At the time of the junction of the parish with
Ayr, the stipend was so small as to be, incapable of supporting a
minister, amounting only to 600 merks Scots, and without any means
of augmentation, the teinds having been all exhausted. The above
sum is divided equally betwixt the two Ayr ministers; and the
glebe, which is of no more than the legal extent, was given to the
minister of the second charge. This glebe, however, upwards of
seventy years ago, was sold to the magistrates of the burgh, with
the sanction of the Presbytery, for L. 3, 6s. 8d. annually, which
was then considered a fair equivalent. It now yields between
L. 4 and L. 5 per acre, and is attached at present to the estate
Of Doonholm, so much has the value of land risen since that time.
The minister of Alloway appears to have had also a manse, but no
traces of it now remain. As to the old ruin of the kirk, there
is little to be said in the way of description. One who had never
seen it, in reading the vivid painting of scenery in connection with
it by the poet, is apt to figure it in his imagination as some ex-
tremely picturesque old sacred edifice, surrounded with trees, co-
vering, with their dense gloomy shade, the comical yet frightful
orgies that were a carrying on within its walls. It perhaps actu-
ally did partake more of this chatacter, in the days of Burns, than
it does at present, as the road from Ayr appears then to have run
along the top of of the bank of the river from the west, through the
tall thick spreading plantation that grows in that direction. This
is evident from the following lines;--

          	"When glimmering through the groaning trees
      		Kirk Alloway seeme'd in a bleeze,
                        *        *         *
       		A winnock bunker in the east
   		There sat Auld Nick in shape o' beast"

Now the "winnock bunker" here mentioned is still to be seen
in the eastern gable from the west, but it is totally out of view from
the present road, where not a single tree intervenes in approach-
ing the kirk from Ayr. And, besides the cairn and Mungo's well,
referred to in the poem, are both of them to the west of the kirk.


