
132                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

<TABLE>

The number of families in the parisb is      -        -        -              200
           of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                       110
                                        in trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 18
   In the village of Roxburgh and Hieton the population amounts
to about 400, and in the country to 562. With regard to the yearly
average of births, deaths, and marriages, for the last seven years,
no accurate information can be given, in as much as registration in
the parish registers has not been made compulsory by law.
   There is only one family of independent fortune which resides
occasionally in the parish. There are nine proprietors of land of
the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards. For several years bygone,
there have been exactly 200 families, and 196 inhabited houses,
and 15 uninhabited.
   Character of the People.-The general character of the people
is intellectual, moral, and religious. In proof of this, it may be
stated, that hardly anything of the nature of crime occurs, and the
people are almost all in communion with the Established church
or the Secession.
   The temptation of poaching is very considerable, because of the
abundance of game; and, in consequence, this offence has occa-
sionally occurred.
   During the last three years, there may have been 8 or 10 ille-
gitimate births in the parish.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-There are 5617 imperial acres cultivated or oc-
casionally in tillage; 1735 acres in pasture; 221 under wood.
   Rent of Land.-The average value of cultivated land is L. 1, 9s.
per acre. Average rent for ox or cow, L. 2, 10s.; and 9s. for ewe
or full-grown sheep. The real rent of the parish is about L. 9000.
   Husbandry.-The husbandry pursued is commonly denominated
the turnip system of husbandry; by which is to be understood, that
a fourth or fifth part of a farm cultivated in this way is yearly made
to grow turnips, of which about one-half is eaten on the ground
by sheep; the other half is carted to the farm-steading for the
horned cattle. In this way, the ground is manured by the sheep
for subsequent crops, and the straw which is the produce of the
farm is broken down in the curtains or yards by cattle, and is thus
converted into manure for another crop of turnips. The order of
cropping is, after turnips, wheat or barley, with an under crop of
grass, which comes to maturity the following year, and is generally
eaten with sheep. The ground remains frequently one year only,
sometimes two, in grass, and is then ploughed up and sown with
                                  3


