
<APPENDIX>

xxxv

   It may be proper to add, that many important facts and observations
may occur to those to whom this paper is addressed, not hinted at in the
queries, which it would be particularly obliging in any gentleman to add
to any answer which he may take the trouble of drawing up.

   EDINBURGH,
   May 25,1790.

<APPENDIX>

C

<UNREADABLE>

   Second printed Circular Letter to the Clergy, with a Specimen of Foun
   Parishes.

</UNREADABLE>

   SIR,

   IT is with infinite pleasure I have the honour of acquainting you, that by
the zeal and patriotism of the clergy of Scotland, I have already in my
possession materials for drawing up a Statistical Account of a considerable part
of the whole kingdom; and that in the course of the ensuing spring, (which
is the season when the ministers generally take a clerical survey of their
respective parishes,) I have reason to expect returns from above a half of
Scotland.  Of the nature and importance of the reports which have been
received, you will be able to judge from the specimen I inclose.  It is part
of a volume, now in the press, which will be ready for publication by the
next meeting of the General Assembly.
   You will easily perceive the many important advantages which the pub-
lic must necessarily derive, were reports equally accurate with those inclo-
ed, sent from every other district in the kingdom, though some years were
even employed in bringing this great political survey to a conclusion.  But
I am anxious that the Clergy of Scotland should not only do it well, but
quickly; so that the state of the whole country should be known, if possible,
at nearly the same period of time.  I therefore hope, Sir, that, for the ho-
nour of our national church, you will make every exertion in your power
to send me as full, and as accurate an account, as possible of your parish,
and of any neighbouring district, that by any accidental circumstance, may
require your assistance.  As a Scotchman, and as a friend to the Kirk of
Scotland, I should feel a very peculiar pride in being able to assert, that, on
the 25th of May 1790, I began to circulate my statistical queries among the
Clergy; and that before a twelvemonth had elapsed, I had received more
full and satisfactory information respecting the state of this country, than
had ever been collected concerning any other kingdom.


