
734                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

Lines of entrenchment are also still visible on the east side of the
hill and camp to protect it on that quarter; and, about two and a-
half miles north of this Bristish camp is the Roman camp at Glen-
meallin, enclosing about 120 English acres.  The Romans, in
their march northward, had a camp at Devana, on the north side
of the Dee, in the parish of Peterculter.  They must have had
also a fort or camp on the eastmost top of Benochee, about twelve
miles from Devana.  This is evident from the remains still visible
upon the top, and the existence of a paved Roman road, 14 feet
wide, which, though long covered with heath, has been traced for
upwards of a mile to the north-east.  This road points upon a small
fortified post opposite to Pitcaple, placed apparently for the pro-
tection of the Benochee camp, and there is another larger work on
the summit of the Barra hill, near old Meldrum, to protect it from
any attack from the east, and which, in all probability, as a cas-
tellam, served also to protect the castra aetiva at Glenmeallin.
   What was the exact direction of the route of the Romans from
Devana to Benochee may admit of a dispute.  Some think they
marched on the right of Achlae, Fiddy, and Kinmundy, and from
thence in a north-west direction, till they reached Kintore
at Don, and thence by the strath of the river to the ford of Don
at Inverury, which is very near Benochee.  Be this as it may, it is
certain that they has a station on the eastern summit of Benochee.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
                   Amount of population in 1801,    .     730
                                           1811,    .     754
                                           1821,    .     836
                                           1831,    .    1136

                        IV.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The far greater part of the inhabitants
regularly attend the parochial church,-only a few families at-
tending a missionary meeting-house on the farm of Pulquhite.
There are also a few Seceders and Episcopalians, but these have
no chapel in the parish.
   The stipend is 124 bolls, 3 firlots, 3 1/5 lippies of victual, one
third of which in bear by the Linlithgow measure.  The meal
eight stones per boll. L.60, 19s. has since been added by Govern-
ment to make the stipend up to L.150.  Glebe about ten acres.
   Education.-The schoolmaster's salary is the minimum, but he
enjoys the benefit of the bequest of the late Mr Dick.
   Poor.-The poor are provided for from the weekly collectious,
and rents, and free.  Besides this, the late Rev. Mr. Findlays,


