
 			CROSSMICHAEL                           195

bourhood, cows of the Ayrshire breed only are kept. each Of which
is expected to yield about seven pounds a year from milk, butter,
and cheese.
	The farmers in Galloway, now raise a large number of swine,
which they kill in the winter and spring, and sell at Dumfries, where
there is generally a quick demand, and always ready money. A
considerable part of the rent of small farms is made in this way.
	Sheep are every year increasing in numbers, from the great use
now made of bone-dust as a manure. They in general, pay well.
        Plantation-Plantations of larch ard becoming common, and
they thrive well; giving to some parts a great degree of richness
and beauty, which otherwise would have been uninteresting, and
useless.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	In Symson's description of Galloway, there are some important
particulars regarding this parish stated; and a few things con-
nected with it way be found in Hay's MS., in Keith, in the In-
quisit. Speciales; but by far the fullest and best history of Gallo-
way is to be found in Chalmers' Caledonia. The former Statisti-
cal Account was written by the late Mr Johnstone, formerly minis-
ter of the parish; and is marked by those clear and correct state-
ments which characterized the speeches and writings of that able
and eloquent individual. The only map ever drawn of this parish,
as far as I know, is that of Mr William M'Artenay, of which only
two copies existed: it is dated in the year 1771.
        Land-owners.-There are 28 heritors in the parish, of whom 16
hold land above L.50 in value yearly. Of these two are resident,
and some of the others visit their estates for a short period.
	Antiquities.-There formerly existed ten tumuli in this neigh-
bourhood, in some of which human homes of a large size were found,
and there are some remains of ancient and later fortifications.
The foundation of a large convent was long ago discovered, of
which nothing is known. Roman urns and warlike instruments
have been found in ploughing and digging the land.
	The following has been communicated by Joseph Train, Esq.,
Castle-Douglas:-
	" There are in no other part of stewartry of Kirkcudbright
so many vestiges of remote antiquity to be seen in the same space,
as in the parish of Crossmichael. Between the rivers Dee and
Urr, within a circuit of two miles, are six most, some of which
are very large, conspicious, and entire. That on the farm of Ger-


