
     of Bressay, Burra, and Quarff.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The people are very hospitable
and obliging; they are regular in their attendance upon the
ordinances of religion.  None of them have for many years
been charged with any crime, which could lay them open
to the cognizance of the laws of their country, one woman
belonging to Bressay excepted, who, about 3 years ago, was
convicted of coining and uttering Danish money, imprison-
ed and set on the pillory.  They are nor much disposed to
industry; but the reason is obvious; they have no object to
call forth their exertions.  Convince them that it is their in-
terest to labour, and they will approve themselves good and
faithful workmen.  They are immoderately fond of tea and
snuff.  For the take of there superfluities, they will deny
themselves many of the necessaries of life.  They are rather
expensive for their circumstances, particularly in the manage-
ment of their marriages and funerals; and by these means
they often contract debts which they can never discharge.
   These united parishes enjoy very considerable advantages.
Almost all the inhabitants of Lerwick are supplied with peats
from the hills of Bressay, and almost the whole people of
Sherland with slates from its excellent quarries.  They have
a good market for every article of provision.  The fishing on
the coast of Burra is carried on at a small expence.  The
fishermen set their lines in the evening, and draw them in the
morning.  Their winter fishings have bee sometimes known

<FOOTNOTE>

We have great numbers of plovers, snipes, linnets, starlings,
and crows, but no muirsowl, hares, or partridges.  There are
many rabbits in the stands of Noss and Burra.  The migratory
birds are the chalder, which resembles a lapwing; they appear
in March, and disappear in September.  Kittyweaks come here
in great numbers in the spring, hatch their young in the clifts
of the rocks, and go away, as it is supposed, to the coast of
Jutland in autumn; We have also sea-parrots and cormorants,

     VOL. X. C c


