
			KILBIRNIE                        723

exceed 240. The minister is paid from the seat-rent and from
collections--the amount of the stipend being L. 80; besides which
be has a comfortable dwelling-house and a good garden.
	The number of families belonging to the Establishment may be
stated at 231; communicants, 300; families belonging to the Re-
formed Presbytery, 60; communicants, 130. The church and
chapel are in general well attended. Of the floating population or
incomers connected with the factories, there are a few families of
Roman Catholics, and several others of no visible religious profes-
sion whatsoever.
	Education.--The parish school, at which there is an average
attendance of 60 pupils, is situated in the village. Here are
taught, besides the ordinary branches of education, peactical ma-
thematic, book-keeping, Latin, and Greek. The fees are per
annum--English, 10.; English, with writing, 12s.; these with
arithmetic 14s.; and for Latin and Greek, 20s. Besides, his fees,
which may average L. 30, the teacher has more than the legal ac-
commodation, but the salary is the minimum, being L. 25, 15s. 4d.
There are in the village likewise, three private or unendowed
schools, at which the total average of number of scholars is about 70;
but at all of which, the branches of learning taught are confined to
English, writing, and arithmetic. Nor in this enumeration of the
sources of instruction, should a Sunday-school, under the super-
intendence of the Rev. James Ferguson, be unmentioned. It is
well attended, and has been the means of disseminating much re-
ligious knowledge among the youth of both sexes.
	None of the young between six and fifteen years of age, who
have been brougbt up in this parish, are unable to read, and it is
believed that, with the exception of a few females, there is not a
native above the age of fifteen, who cannot write, or who is ignorant
of the first rules of arithmetic. These facts require no com-
ment; at least, they illustrate satisfactorily, that the people here
are full alive to the benefits of education, and that the present
race of parents have little to reproach themselves with in this re-
spect, in not fulfilling their duties.
	Libraries.--A subscription library, established here in 1820,
consists now of upwards of 500 volumes. The books have been
judiciously chosen, and are chiefly historical works, voyages and
travels. The entry and annual subscriptional money are each 2s. 6d.
There is likewise a small select congregational library connected
with the Reformed Presbytery, composed of moral and religious


