
                         DALKEITH.                       513

is an old Gothic building dedicated to St Nicholas,* and seems
to have undergone frequent alterations. The present place of
worship is 78 feet long by 53 wide; it is divided by two rows of
pillars connected by Gothic arches supporting the roof; the height
of the centre part of the church is 35 feet, and of the side divi-
sions 24 feet. The height of the steeple is 85 feet.
   Though it is highly probable that a place of worship existed in Dal-
keith at a very early period, we have not been able, by documentary
evidence, to ascertain the date of any such erection prior to the time
of Sir James Douglas, in 1368.+ At that date a grant of land was
made for the support of a chaplain in the chapel of Dalkeith. Vari-
ous other grants were subsequently given.+ In a charter granted in
1384, for the foundation of a chapel in the Castle of Dalkeith,
it is provided that, in the event of the castle being destroyed,
Divine service shall be performed in the Chapel of St Nicholas of
Dalkeith, till the castle be rebuilt. In 1406, James Douglas hav-
ing built and renewed the chapel of St Nicholas in Dalkeith, "dotes
it" with sufficient salaries for six chaplains. This chapel was formed
into a collegiate church by James, third Earl of Morton, in the
reign of James V. (1513-42).
   The parsonage of Dalkeith formed a part of the deanery of
Restalrig, and was within the diocese of St Andrews. The dis-
solution of this deanery took place in the year 1592, and "Mr
George Ramsay, the dean for the time being, was, enjoined to
pay that part of the parsonage of Dalkeith, which belonged to
the deanery of Restalrig, to Mr Archibald Symson, minister of
Dalkeith. And the said parsonage of Dalkeith was erected into a
several and distinct parsonage, to remain, with the said Mr Archi
bald and his successors, ministers of Dalkeith, in all time coming."
By this statement we are probably to understand that Dalkeith was,
at that time, constituted into a distinct parish, on the same footing
as other parishes, and subject to the ordinary rules of the Church.

<FOOTNOTE>The coincidence between the name of the saint and the name of Sir Nicholas
de Graham, might warrant us to presume that this church existed In the time of
the Grahams.
    Freebairn's MS., Ad. Lib.
    The rent of the Provostry of Dalkeith, as stated in the collection books for
1652-3, was L. 26, l3s. 4d., or xxvi, lib. xiijs, iiijd.-Keith History of the Affairs
of the Church, &c., Appendix. p. 257. (Folio, 1734.)
    Spottiswood's Religious Houses.
    Acts of Parl. of Scotland, vol. iii. p. 551, act 23, anent the dissolution of Res-
talrig.
    See infra, page 524.

   EDINBURGH.


