
50                     SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

generally till the beginning of November, and seldom or never ex-
tends beyond the middle of that month.    Salmon begin to spawn
fourteen days later, and before the middle of December; that
process being finished, they return to the sea.  Salmon enter the
Fleet in the end of May.   They are found, and were taken, till a
recent act of Parliament prohibited, at the mouth of the Brora, as
early as the end of January; but they are not seen in the upper
part of that river,-the part belonging to this parisli,-till the
commencement of summer.

                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Land-owners.-The Duke and Duchess of Sutherland are pro-
prietors of nearly the whole parish of Rogart. The other proprie-
tors of land in it are, George Dempster, Esq. of Skibo, and Hugh
Rose Ross Esq. of Glastullich and Cromarty, who have each a
small patch in it unconnected with their principal estates.
  Antiquities.-At a place called Corrie, where there are indica-
tions of the existence in former times of oak trees, imperfect re-
mains of a Druidical circle are to be seen. The inhabitants, quite
unconscious of the sacrilege, finding the stones composing it suit-
able, carried them away for the purposes of building, so that but
few of them are now to be seen.
   Tradition accords with the rude but certain monurnents of battles,
in showing that Rogart was in past times the scene of violent con-
tests, and of much bloodshed.  A ridge of hills crossing the eastern
extrernity of the parish from north to south, and extending from
Strathbrora to Strathfleet, is covered with tumuli, which appear
to have been thrown over the slain where they fell.  One of these
was opened lately by dikers erecting a fence around the glebe,
having no idea that they invaded the resting place of a warrior,
probably of an ancestor.   They found in the centre of it a stone
coffin, containing mouldered bones, and the blade of a dirk, or
short dagger, which seemed to have been wielded by the hand
of I some leader, being of a more costly description than the com-
mon dirk, coated with gold, and marked with lines, crossing one
another at acute angles, and terminating in the point. It is likely
that this bloody instrument was broken, and covered, in the wound
it inflicted, and was thus retained in the body of its victim.
   The Earl of Montrose on his return from Orkney passed un-
molested through Strathfleet, where be and his followers halted
for a night at a place called Rhin.  The stillness and beauty of


