
    184                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

    used, unless when the water at the ford was greatly swollen. Our
    means of communication are very abundant. The market-towns
    of Jedburgh and Kelso are close in the neighbourbood, -the for-
    mer at a distance of three and a-half miles, and the latter of six.
    And twice every week a stage-coach from Hawick to Kelso passes
    through the village. A post-gig passes and returns daily from
    Kelso to Jedburgh, by which all persons who choose to enter into
    an arrangement with the post-offices of these towns get their let-
    ters brought to them. We have, besides, a weekly carrier to and
    from Edinburgh.
	Ecclesiastical State. -The church is a very plain building in the
    exterior, but comfortable enough within. * It was built nearly
    eighty years ago, and is situated on the Crailing side of the parish,
    on a small eminence about a quarter of a mile north from the vil-
    lage. Forty new sittings have been added to it within these
    few years, and it may contain with ease 300 persons. Divine ser-
    vice is on the whole well attended. None of the parishioners are
    above three miles distant; and the only inconvenience experienced
    is from the Tiviot intersecting the parish. This is somewhat
    remedied by the establishment of a ferry-boat, upheld by the
    heritors, in which a free passage is secured to church. On
    week days a penny is exacted as fare from each passenger. It
    happens, however, that at times the water comes down in so large
    a flood as to cover the baugb lands on Crailing-side, in which case
    it is quite impassable. The nearest bridge is that at Ormistoun,
    in Eckford parish, about two miles and a-half farther down.
	Nisbet being formerly a separate parish, bad its church and
    burying-ground. Of the church scarce any trace remains, but the
    churchyard is still used as a place of interment by the inhabitants
    on that side of the river. For a long time after the union of the
    parishes it appears that divine service was performed in the church
    at Nisbet,-I suppose on alternate Sabbaths. The last notice to
    this effect, which I find in the parish registers, bears date 1713.
	This church, of which not a relic is now preserved, was centuries
    ago the scene of important debate among the ecclesiastics of that
    age. The tithes of Nisbet, as well as of Crailing, bad been grant-
    ed by David I. to the canons of the monastery founded at Jedburgh.
    It seems that the monastery lay within the bounds of the diocese

<FOOTNOTE>There are still the ruins of the old church of Crailing; it stood close to Crail-
    ing House. After the removal of the church to its present site, and the enclosure of
    a new burying-ground, many of the parishioners insisted on laying their dead where
    rested the dust of their fathers.


