
   104                       ELGINSHIRE.

   pied, it is said, by three brothers, named Dunbar, among whom the
   discordia fratrum seems to have prevailed to an unusual degree.
      Present Land-owners.-The greater part of the land within the
   parish is still held by the descendants of the ancient families, whose
   rights were granted or confirmed by Royal authority.  There are six
   land-owners, viz. the Earl of Moray; the Trustees of the late James
   Earl of Fife; Henry Joseph Brodie Dunn, Esq. married to the beir-
   ess of Milton Brodie; James Campbell Brodie, Esq. of Lethen and
   Coulmony; Major L. Cumming Bruce of Rose Isle and Kinnaird;
   and Alexander Forteath, Esq. of Newton.  The proprietors of Mil-
   ton Brodie and of Newton usually reside in the parish.  None of
   the others have a residence in it. The good understanding, bowever,
   which has for the most part subsisted between landlord and tenant
   is evident from this circumstance, viz. that not a few of the farms
   have been rented by several generations of the same families; ad-
   ditions being made to the original farm at each new lease. There
   is one tenant now occupying a large farm on the Earl of Moray's
   estate, who is of the ninth generation on the same ground; there
   is another tenant on the same estate whose fathers had occupied the
   same farm upwards of 400 years. Among their discharges of rent
   was found one signed by Thomas Randolf Earl of Moray. This,
   as a curious relic, was given up to the Earl of Moray's factor; and
   a renewal of the lease was granted on the most indulgent terms.
   It has followed, that from the residence of the same families for so
   long a time, on the same spot, and from the consequent intermar-
   riages which have taken place among them, -many of the present
   generation are more or less nearly related to one another. Hence,
   too, arises a strong attachment to the neighbourhood itself,-so
   that if a livelihood can be obtained in it, they have not hitherto
   been willing to remove.
      Changes in the Mode of Possession. - The rent of farms has
   from time to time been greatly increased. The rental of the pa-
   rish, about forty years ago, is said to have been not more than
   L. 3000. It is now about L. 6000. - Among the changes that
   have taken place during that period, one is-the letting of land
   in large farms, instead of the small crofts into which it was former-
   ly divided; another is- the paying of rent in money, and not in
   grain, wedders, fowls, &c. in which a great part of the rent of some
   farms used formerly to be paid. Both of these changes have no
   doubt operated towards improving the cultivation of the soil; more
   capital is employed, and every part of the work is better done.


