
     Statistical Account

anciently the occasional residence of the Noble Family of Ar-
gyll: a family which, for ages, has been eminently distin-

<FOOTNOTE>

it on the Coast, there is a green hill, which still goes by the name of Gloom-
Hill, the property of Mr John Moir, writer to the signet.
   And now that we have mentioned tradition, we shall present the reader
with an anecdote concerning this place, from the same source, which, perhaps,
may be more curious than true.  In going down from the castle, towards the
point of the rock which overhangs the glens, there is a passage cut down
through the rock to the side of the burn, in the bottom of the glen.  This
passage is said to be from top to bottom more than 100 feet deep, and six feet
wide.  The design of it was to get water conveyed, or brought up from the
burn or rivulet below, in the time of a siege.  This seems the more likely, as
it appears to have been cut out with steps, which are now mostly filled up
with earth.  This passage, partly from the trees, and partly from the fright-
ful rocks overhanging it, is now become so dark and gloomy, that a person
can see but a very little way down into it: and indeed, to look into it, would
be sufficient to make a person of weak nerves shudder.  It is called KEMP'S
SCORE or CUTT, from its having been made by one of that name; who is said
to have been a man of gigantic stature and strength, and at the same time of
a very bold and resolute temper.  It is reported, that he had committed many
depreciations, and at last was so daring as to enter the palace at Dunfermline,
and carry off the King's dinner; but that a young nobleman, who happened
to be in disgrace for improper behaviour towards the King's daughter, hear-
ing of it, pursued the said Kemp, and having cut off his head, threw the body
into the water of Dovan, a little above the back mill, and, as his name was
WILLIAM, so the place where this happened, is called WILLIES POOL, to
this day.  But on his carrying the head with him to Court, he obained his
pardon, and was received into favour again.
   But to return to the castle, that ancient feat of the Argyll Family: The
name was, by an act of the Scotch Parltament, in, or before the year 1493,
changed to that of the Castle of Campbell, by which name it has ever since been
denominated.  It is reported, that this was amongst the first of those places
in Scotland, where the sacrament of the Lord's Supper was dispensed, after
the Reformation.  And it is certain, from his own history, that the famous
JOHN KNOX, the Scotch reformer, did preach here.  For he tells us, that, up-
on his being called over by the English Congregation at Geneva, who had
chosen him for their pastor; he sent over his family before him, but he him-


