
     Statistical Account

portation of lime, and especially of coal, is a great obstruction
to the improvement of this part of the country.  The mosses
being almost exhausted, fuel is extremely scarce, the nearest
coals being at the distance of 20 miles, which renders this
necessary article of domestic oconomy very expensive.  Some
spirited exertions, however, are now making by one of the
proprietors, to discover this useful mineral, and, from ap-
pearances, success may be hoped for.

     CASTLEMILK.

   There is only one gentleman's seat in this parish worthy
of notice.  Castlemilk stands on a most beautiful sloping
hill, in the middle of a fine valley, through which the river
Milk glides gently along.  Oliver Cromwell invested this
Castle; and though his entrenchments (still distinctly visible)
had greatly the command of it, it flood out for a considerable
time*.  The Castle was demolished in the year 1707, and
converted into a dwelling house, which has since been much
improved.  It is now one of the most delightful and romantic
situations which can well be conceived, having fine pleasure
grounds surrounding it, and a beautiful country in its neigh-
bourhood.  The present proprietor is ROBERTSON LIDDER-
DALE, Esq.+

<FOOTNOTE>

*From the tumuli in OLIVER'S camp, and immediately under the Castle
which was opened some years ago, it is evident, that the loss of lives, in this
siege, must have been very great.
+CASTLEMILK was formerly a seat of the ancient lords of Annandale, and
came from the BRUCES to the STEWARTS by WALTER, High Steward of Scot-
land, marrying the daughter of King ROBERT BRUCE; and so descended to
ROBERT, High Steward of Scotland, their son, the first of the Stewarts that
name to the Crown, in 1371.  It afterwards belonged to the Maxwells and the
Douglasses.-It was besieged by the Duke of Somerset, Protector in the
Minority of EDWARD VI.; whose station is still extant, thc balls being found
in 1771, when planting that spot, which is still called "the Cannon Holes."-
Sir JOHN STEWART of Castlemilk, near Glasgow, takes his designation from
his place.

