
                    DUDDINGSTON.                      391

   Live-stock.-Almost no stock is reared in this parish. The
farmers merel keep a cow or two of shire or Teeswater breed
for the use of their families.
   Horses.-The horses used for farm labour are of a large size,
and very powerful, in general of the Clydesdale breed, and will
average in price from L.35 to L40 Sterling each.
   Husbandry.-There is no parish in Scotland where the land is
better cultivated, or yields greater returns from the various crops sown
or planted. The farmers are men of independence; on that ac-
count no obstacles to improvement arise from the want of capital
or the liberality of the proprietors. The duration of leases ex-
tends from fifteen to nineteen years; and the farms vary in size
from 130 to 250 acres. The state of farm-buildings and of en-
closures is as good as can possibly be desired.
   We may here state, that the lands of Prestonfield were the first
in the parish that were improved, or, probably, in the county.
The proprietor of that estate was Lord Provost of Edinburgh
about the time of the Revolution in 1688. At that Period, the
manure from the streets was so little valued, that, instead of bring-
ing any revenue to the city a very considerable sum was paid to
the farmers in the neighbourhood to carry it away. The Lord
Provost availed himself of the general anxiety to have the filth re-_
moved, and undertook to clean the streets, which he did for a very
considerable time, and had the whole carried off on horses' backs
to his estate of Prestonfield. He, at the same time, laid down his
fields in a high state of condition, and began to enclose, subdivide,
and drain them; and, in the course of a few years, his estate be-
came one of the best and richest in the county; and to this day,
the grass parks of Prestonfield are deemed, superior to any around
the city, or even in Scotland, and since that time, have never been
ploughed.
   Produce.-The average amount of raw produce yearly raised in
the parish may be stated as follows:

<TABLE>
	   Grain of all kinds,          L.5440 0 0
	   Green crop,                    1920 0 0
	   Bay,                           1200 0 0
	   Pasture,                       1162 0 0
	   Gardens and orchards,           450 0 0
                                        __________

                                      L.10,252 0 0

   Manufactures.-Formerly, as stated above, a coarse kind of
cloth, made from flax, and known by the name of Duddingston
hardings, was manufactured to a considerable extent, but was given
up many years ago. The several branches of manufacture carried


