
     of Kirkpatrick-Fleeming.

of the parish, varying exceedingly, the mean breadth will
not exceed 3 miles, containing in all about 9000 Scots
acres.  Its form is nearly an oblong square, but very irre-
gular, particularly towards the W. and S. corners, where
it is bounded by Dornock and Gretna.  The origin of the
name Kirkpatrick is obvious; being a cell or church,
dedicated to St Patrick, who, though a native of Scotland,
became the tutelary saint of Ireland, and whose memory,
the piety and reverence of his countrymen, seem to have
honoured with the consecration of several churches*.
   The appearance of the country in this district, which
gently rises from the S. towards the N. by a gradual suc-
cession of waving swells, presents at the same time no un-
pleasing variety, and a most striking contrast.  In several
parts, the lands are in a high state of cultivation, enclosed
and sheltered with natural woods and plantations; while
here and there large tracts of uncultivated ground, still re-
taining its original heath, meet the eye.  Excepting the
mosses, however, of which there are several tracts of very
considerable extent in the parish, few parts are so exceed-
ingly coarse and wild, as in the course of the present in-
creasing spirit of improvement, not to afford the pleasing
hopes of gradually disappearing to a certain degree.-Of 
woods and plantations, there may be, at an average, 290
or 300 acres.  One natural wood, belonging to Mr Irving

     VOL. XIII. I i

<FOOTNOTE>

*Kirkconnell, in like manner, seems to have taken its name from
Connell, a Scots saint, who flourished in the beginning of the 7th cen-
tury, to whom doubtless the church was originally dedicated; or by
whom, there is some reason to think, it might have been settled and con-
secrated.  The origin of Fleeming and Irving is likewise evident; these
being the names of two very ancient and respectable families, who in
former times enjoyed large and considerable possessions in this part of the
country, and whose consequence seems, for the sake of distinction, to
have given name each to its respective parish.


