
152                     BERWICKSHIRE.

rish.  He is said to have been of the family of the Foremans *
of Hutton in the Merse.  The uncommon political talents, and
the acute understanding which distinguished this prelate, gained
for him most powerful patronage.  He was a favourite of two suc-
cessive Scottish monarchs, James III. and IV., two successive
popes, Julius II and Leo X., and of Louis XII. of France.  By
those high personages he was loaded with honours and bene-
fices.  Though opposed by powerful competitors, he was elevated
to the first See in Scotland.  He was likewise employed as an am-
bassador from the court of Scotland to that of France.  Histo-
rians have given opposite portraits of his character, of the real
features of which it is difficult to form an opinion.  Of the family
of this distinguished individual, the only trace that is left is a small
field, which, as if in mockery of mortal ambition, still retains the
name of "Foreman's Land."
   The late Mr Philip Redpath, minister of this parish, was edi-
tor of the Border History, which was chiefly written by his bro-
ther Mr George Redpatb, minister of Stitchell.  The work is
creditable to his talents and industry, and is generally considered
as extremely accurate with regard to facts, and valuable as a book
of reference.  Mr Philip Redpath was also the author of an
English translation of Boethius' Consolations of Philosophy, which
met with a favourable reception from the public.
   The late George Home, Esq. of Wedderburn, resided for
many years in this parish at his seat of Paxton.  He was a gentle-
man of extensive information, refined taste, and considerable lite-
rary attainments,-having been a member of that distinguished
club of literati who adorned Edinburgh at the period when the
Mirror and Lounger were given to the public.  Several of his pa-
pers in these periodical works remain as monuments of his taste
and talents.  He was an intimate friend of the late Mr Henry
Mackenzie, author of the Man of Feeling, of the late Lord Craig,
and of other learned and talented individuals of the same school.
These eminent characters frequently visited him during the sum-
mer recess at his elegant retreat on the banks of the Tweed.  Mr
Home was also distinguished by his practical knowledge of busi-
ness, and took a leading part in the management of the public af-
fairs of the county.  +

<FOOTNOTE>Dr Henry's History.
          The late Mr Bookless, schoolmaster of this parish, When alive, attracted much
attention for the extreme height of his stature, which was of a gigantic order, afid is
not yet forgotten by those who knew him.  He was 7 feet 4 inches high.  He was
a man of mild and amiable dispositions, and fond of social intercourse, but his deli-


