
     1168                         PERTHSHIRE.

     along the banks of the river, it is a wet mortary clay, which
     produces strong crops; inclining as you rise in elevation to a rock
     marl, which is cold and unproductive.  The level grounds on the
     top of the ridge are partly loamy and partly moorish.  Towards
     the foot of the hills, the soil is a light dry gravel.
        Rivers, Woods, Hills.-- The river Tay forms the west and north-
     west boundary of this parish, and abounds with salmon, trout, and
     pike. Near the west end of the parish, this river forms what is called
     the Linn of Campsey, by falling over a rugged basaltic dike,
     which Crosses the water at this place, and is found to extend in a
     right line man miles to the east and west of the Tay.  At the dis-
     tance of twenty miles westward, Drummond castle stands on a simi-
     lar rock, which is supposed to be a continuation of the same range.
     The most romantic and magnificent views on the Tay are in this
     parish.*  About half a mile above the village of Cargill, the river
     Isla runs into the Tay. The fisheries of this parish are of consi-
     derable value, those on the Tay especially, being considered se-
     cond to none in the kingdom for rod-fishing.
        Minerals.--Several quarries of freestone of an excellent qua-
     lity, and good colour, have been wrought to a considerable extent.
     Limestone also is to be found, and might, it is said, be wrought
     to great advantage.  Rock marl of a reddish colour is round here
     in great abundance.  Little use has hitherto been made of it as a
     manure; but it is thought that it would be of service to the light
     moorish grounds in the upper part of the parish.
                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
       Land-orwners.--These, with their respective valuations are as
     follows:
           Mungo Murray, Esq. of Lintrose,              L.166   13   4
           James Wight of Lawton,                          315   0   0
           Lady Willoughby D'Eresby                       4432   0   0
           William Edmund Collins Wood, Esq' of Keithick,  150   0   0
           James M. D. Nairne, Esq. of Dunsinane,          576  14   0
                                                         --------------
                                                         L. 5640 7   4

       Antiquities--There are several tumuli in this parish, in some
    of which,when opened, human bones has been found, and near
    them the remains of some military weapons. Druidical temples also
    have been discovered indifferent places.  Near the confluence of the
    Tay and Isla and exact opposite to the ancient castle of Kin-
    claven on the other side of the river, are discovered plain vestiges

<FOOTNOTE>About fifty year ago an attempt was to find coal; but after much labour,
and not a little expense the project was abandoned from want of the necessary funds.
                                          4

