
                   PARISH OF ST ANDREWS LHANBRYD.

                PRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                 THE REV. W. LESLIE, MINISTER.-

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-LHANBRYD signifies in Gaelic the Church of St Brid.
   get. It was united to that of St Andrews in 1782.
   Climate- This district is subject, in the spring season, to a suc-
   cession of storms called, in the common language of the country,
   the borrowing days, the Toocket's storm, the Gouk's storm, (the
   equinoxial,) and the gab of May. The most unpleasant weather
   comes on about the last of these, a withering gale blowing cold
   from the thawing snow on the mountains of Norway and Denmark,
   and continuing steadily from the east, till near the summer sol-
   stice, equally injurious to vegetation and to animal life. The far,-
   mer suffers every summer by drought; it being computed that
   Moray and Nairn have forty dry days in the  year more than any
   other county in the kingdom. It has the rain-gage been ascer-
   tained that the quantity falling in the year, is from 25 to 30 inches.
      Hydrography and Geology.- The drainage of the Loch of Spyo.
   nie, at the cost of nearly L. 10,000, is still imperfect; the outfall
   at first on a level, with the ebb in the port of Lossiemouth, was of
   late injudiciously made fartber up the river, and without the least
   advantage, nearly a foot above that of the first level.
      Upon its southern banks, the boundary of the parish for a mile,
   the late greatly esteemed John Brander, on the hypothesis, that
   Abe coal of Brora, at the distance of 100, miles directly opposite
   on the other side of the frith, might be found about  the same
   depth on, his estate here, bored 97 feet through bed of sandstone
   uniformity continuous, with the exception of a very thin layers of
   limestone at two or three different depths. This perforation is kept
   open and clearly indicated by a weighty stone put over it.
      The Lnssie  having now by courtesy the title of river, through but
   a brook in its ordinary state, being in this parish the drain about

   <FOOTNOTE>
             * Drawn up from notes finished by Mr Leslie.


