
                         GARGUNNOCK.                              49

side of the Lennox hills; one of theme attracts particular attention
in this neighbourhood; it is about one mile from the manse, and
in time of heavy rains, it has a grand appearance, and is heard at
a considerable distance.
   Geology.--The rocks of the Lennox hills are composed chiefly of
trap or whinstone. In the gently sloping lands, between the hills and
the carse, strata of red and white sandstone are found everywhere,
under the soil and subsoil. Under the strata of white sandstone,
there is abundance of limestone of different depths. It is the
opinion of some men of experience, that there is plenty of coal on
the estate of Gargunnock; of which there are several indications,
although no steps have been taken to ascertain the fact. There
are also some veins of spar near the hills. There is great abun-
dance of peat on the level parts of the Lennox hills; and trees
have been dug out of the moss; which, is an evidence that the hills,
in ancient times, must have been covered with wood-to their very
summits.
   The lands of the parish consist of various kinds of soil, which
are denominated moor, dryfield, and carse. The moor consists
of wet gravelly, and clayey soil; none of it is ploughed except a
few acres near the sheep farm of Burnfoot, on the estate of Bo.
quhan. The most part of the moor affords sound healthy pasture for
sheep and black-cattle, in the summer months. The term dryfield
is not descriptive of the nature of the soil, but is used merely to
distinguish it from the moor and carse lands. The soil of the
dryfield is, in general, sandy and clayey; but some of it is rich
loam, where it joins the carse. The average depth of the soil of
the dryfield is six or seven inches; it rests on a subsoil of gravel
or till, and under this subsoil are found strata of red and white
sandstone. The soil of the carse lands.consists of three or four
feet of mixed clay of excellent quality, which lies on a subsoil of
yellow or blue clay; but the blue clay prevails. And below this
blue clay, a bed if sea shells is deposited about ten feet from the
surface. This bed of shells, it is said, is found everywhere in
the rich and beautiful Strath of Monteath, which is twenty miles
long, and in some places betwixt three and four miles broad. In
some places along the banks, where the carse joins the dryfield,
the ground has the appearance of having been washed at one time
by a river, or by the waves of the sea. These facts prove almost
to demonstration, that the whole of this picturesque and beautiful
strath has,at a remote period, been covered with the sea; and after
   STIRLING.                            D


