
228			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

on a bank or ridge circling along the edge of the river; and with
its burrow-roods comprises a space of nearly a mile in length,
and half a mile in breadth.
	The houses in the old part of Maxwelltown are built without any
regard whatever to elegance, and run in streets awkwardly crook-
ed and narrow. A more correct style of building has been adopted
in the new part of the town. Many of the houses are neat and
convenient, and the streets run in straight lines, and are of a suf-
ficient breadth. The public road from London to Portpatrick, and
from London to Glasgow and Edinburgh, by Thornhill and El-
vanfoot, runs through Maxwelltown. By the former, the mail-
coach to Portpatrick passes daily; by the latter, a private coach
runs every day to Glasgow, and a private coach runs to Edinburgh
three times a-week.
	Maxwelltown has a court-house of sufficient dimensions for ac-
commodating the meetings of the Magistrates and Justices of the
Peace nf the district, and the courts of the Sheriff when be officiates
in this quarter. Below the court-house is a jail, wherein delin-
quents apprehended within the burgh can be lodged till arrange-
ments are made for removing them to Kirkctdbrigbt, a distance of
twenty-seven miles, whence they are to be sent back to stand their
trial at Dumfries;--an inconvenience that might easily be remedied,
by incorporating Maxwelltown with Dumfries in all matters of po-
lice. As Maxwelltown has no police act, its streets are ill lighted
at night, there being asyet only a few lamps in it, which have been
erected and are still supported solely by the voluntary contributions
of some of its wealthier inhabitants.
	Two founderies have lately been established at Maxwelltown,
both of which have a great run of employment. It has long had
a waulk-mill; a die-house; two roperies; a brew-house; two tan-
neries; four nurseries, two of which have hot-houses, in which
grapes and some of the other rarer fruits are reared in great per-
fection; and a damask manufactory, celebrated for the beauty and
elegance of the fabrics. The water-mills belonging to Dumfries
stand on the Maxwelltown side of the river; which, by the supe-
rior style in which they are fitted up and worked, gave great satis-
faction to the community. An observatory, which was formerly
a windmill, stands on the top of the Corbelly hill, forming a strik-
ing object over an extensive range of district. The butcher-mar-
ket of Maxwelltown has, for snme time past, taken the lead of
that of Dumfries, and affords a daily supply of excellent beef and


