
              OATHLAW OR FINAVON.                        305

ed under the encouragement of the principal proprietor. The.
state of farm-buildings and enclosures is now very good. The en-
closures chiefly' consist of thorn hedges, which are calculated to
be of not less than 75 miles in extent upon the estate of Fin-
haven; and Major Wilkie, on his property of Newbarns, pays
equal attention to this kind of ornamental enclosures. During
the time that the estate of Finhaven was in the possession of Mr
Ford, it underwent very considerable improvement both on the
arable and the waste lands. Many ornamental belts of wood were
then made on waste lands, and the present proprietor, the Earl of
Aboyne, has followed up these improvements, of draining and
planting, under the personal superintendence of Mr Hillocks, for
many years his Lordship's factor,-he having planted upwards of
80,000 trees, so that now there are upwards of 750 acres of plan-
tations on the estate.
	The principal obstacle to improvement in the parish is the great
distance from lime and manure;-Montrose, the nearest sea port
town, being 16 miles distant. Every encouragement to improve-
ment has been offered by the Earl of Aboyne, by giving both lime
and manure to many of his tenants during the first six or seven
years of their leases,-by binding himself to open up drains where
necessary,-and by enclosing with paling those fields where the
hedges do not form a sufficient fencd. And, it may be remarked,
that he has built excellent houses and steadings for the comfort
and  advantage of his tenantry,-the tenants in such cases being
only required to make good the carriages.
  Quarries.-Another circumstance which has contributed to the
improvement of the parish has been the opening up of that quar-
ry of freestone which has been already alluded to. Until this was
discovered, the parish was but ill supplied with building stone,-
the nearest quarries at that time being at Forfar and Kirriemuir.
This has greatly tended to make the houses and steadings, in the
parish more substantial, comfortable, and neat in their appearance
than they formerly were.
  Fisheries.-There are no fisheries in the parish. The Esk for-
merly abounded with salmon in this part; but, as is stated in the
old Statistical Account, there are now few to be found. A very
few are now and then killed with the rod.
  Spinning-MiIl-Within the last few years a spinning-mill has
been erected in the parish, which employs about 60 hands. In




