
                       ARTICLE GLASGOW.                     909

close of the year 1836, has been a period of signal beneficence
and of unusual exertion for increasing the ebireli accommodation
of our city, yet it is a striking and no less deeply affecting, fact,
that, with the combined efforts of our Society and the Dissenters
of all denominations, we have not been able to provide church ac-
commodation for one-half of the increase of the population, since
our Society commenced their labours in 1834.  From the 1st of
January 1834, to the 2d of January 1837, it is supposed that the
population of Glasgow and suburbs have increased 24,000 souls.
For these, 14,400 sittings would have been required, and yet the
whole additional churches which have been opened during that pe-
riod, connected both with the Establishment and Dissenters, con-
tain only 6562 sittings, leaving a deficiency of church accommo-
dation for the mere increase of the population of no fewer than
7838 sittings.  Thus, though 6562 of the increase of the popula-
tion have, during that period, been provided for, 7838 of that in-
crease have been left unprovided for, and this with the efforts of
the Establishment and Dissenters combined.  And thus, great as
was the spiritual destitution of our city before we commenced our
labours, the close of every year finds it greater than before."
   The Religious Instruction Commissioners, describing the condi-
tion of a population only of 213,000, record at page 32 of their
report on Glasgow as the result of their investigations, "that a
very large number of persons, upwards of 66,000, exclusive of
children under ten years of age, are not in the habit of attending
public worship;" and again, "after making allowance for old and
infirm persons, and those who may be necessarily absent, that
number cannot be stated at less than 55,000.  Such is a brief
outline of the religious destitution of Glasgow, and what can, be
conceived more appalling.  The moral results are just of such a cha-
racter as every believer in the efficacy of Christian instruction would
anticipate.  Intemperance and Sabbath profanation are fearfully
prevalent.  Pauperism is steadily increasing, and disease and mor-
tality are following in their train.  Within the last twenty years,
population of Glasgow has almost doubled; but crime, instead
of merely doubling, has, as is proved from the records of the Court
of Justiciary, increased nearly eight times.  And while during ten of
these years, the whole addition which was only made to the church accom-
modation of the community was only about 1000 sitings, in the
meantime, the population increased 64,000; a number which is
itself equal to the population of a large town, not to speak of seve-


