
			RUTHERGLEN.                            383

	Antiquities.--At Gallowflat there are the remains of a tumulus of
earth. This mound was anciently surrounded with a ditch, the
traces of which were visible so late as the year 1773. At that pe-
riod the proprietor, Mr Patrick Robertson, formed the ditch into
a fish pond. During the operation a paved passage, six feet broad,
was discovered leading up to the top of the mound. Near to this
passage, two brass or copper vessels were found shaped like por-
ringers, with broad handles about nine inches long, on which the
word Congallus was cut.
	In a tumulus at Hamilton Farm, a stone coffin was found in
1768; since that period, it has been levelled with the ground.
The tumulus at Drumlaw has long since been removed.
	The cross erected on the top of Cross-hill was made of a hard
stone, ten feet high and three and a-half broad, ornamented with
various figures. The most remarkable was that of our Saviour
riding upon an ass. This religious monument fell a sacrifice to
the fury of a mob during the civil wars in Charles I.'s time. In Ure's
History, from which this account of antiquities is taken, there are
several others, though of less importance.
	Ancient Customs.--The inhabitants of Rutherglen seem to have
been very tenacious of ancient customs, some of which are still
kept up.
	Perambulating the Marches.--On a particular day, the magi-
strates, accompanied by a great proportion of the inhabitants, per-
ambulated the burgh marches, with drums beating and colours
flying. When the procession was over, a mock engagement with
broom besoms took place, which ended in a jollyfication. This
custom was given up in 1830.
	Sour Cakes.--Rutherglen has long been famous for sour cakes.
About eight or ten days before St Luke's fair, in October, a cer-
tain quantity of oat meal is made into dough with warm water,
and laid up in a vessel to ferment. Being brought to a proper
degree of fermentation and consistency, it is rolled up into balls,
proportionably to the intended largeness of the cakes. With the
dough is commonly mixed a small quantity of sugar, and a little
anise-seed or cinnamon. The baking is executed by women only,

	4th, The decay of trade is such that a great number and many of the best of the
houses are waste, yes, that there are near 500 houses standing waste, and that those
inhabited are fallen nearly on third of the rent, and that the best and worst will be
betwixt 100 pounds, (whereof they have not eight inhabited by burghers) and 4 lib.
Scots yearly, except some large taverns.


