
     Of Kilfinan.

   Manufacture and Fisheries.-There is a small quan-
tity of kelp made yearly in the S. end of the parish,
upon the estate, and near the seat of the family of La-
mont of Lamont, for which the proprietor gets a year-
ly rent.  Few hands are employed to make so small a
quantity.  The herring-fishing takes up a great part of
the time, and employs almost all the young men, and
many of the married men, in this parish, during the sea-
son of it; which commonly begins in July and ends
about Christmas.  There are 21 open boats belonging
to the parish, each manned with 4 hands, and constant-
ly employed in catching herrings, in Lochfine, on the
E. coast of Kintyre, or the coast of Arran, in Clyde,
Lochlong, or wherever else they may appear upon the
coast; and for several seasons past have been pretty suc-
cessful.  Their common haunt is the E. coast of Kin-
tyre and Lochfine, but they are to be found occasionally in
the other lochs mentioned.  They generally make in a
season from 50 L. to 100 L. each boat; and some of the most
successful ones, perhaps, above  120 L.; so that they have

<FOOTNOTE>

Wages and Price of Labour.-Servants wages are high.  A man servant
gets from 2 L. 10 s. to 4 L. 4 s. in the half year, with victuals and shoes.
A maid servant from 1 L. 1 s. to 2 L. 2 s, with victuals, shoes, and some
other perquisites, the half year.  A day-labourer gets from 6 d, to 8 d.,
with victuals, the day; from 1 s. to 14 d., without victuals.  A woman
working by the day gets from 4 d. to 6 d. and victuals, and from 6 d.
to 8 d. without victuals.  A tailor gets 8 d. the day, with victuals; a
shoemaker 8 d. for the pair shoes, and victuals; a wright 1 s. and vic-
tuals; a carpenter and a sawer the same.  Weavers, as in all other places,
are paid by the yard, and according to the fineness of the cloth.  Besides
wages being so high, labourers are remarkably scarce, especially in har-
vest; and this is owing to the herring-fishing, which is at that season at
its height, and which the people here always prefer to any other kind
of work, being less toil, and more gain-Services are not abolished
in the parish by any of the residing heritors.  They are seldom, how-
ever, exacted with such rigour as to do material injury to the tenants.


