
     Statistical Account

One ingenious mechanick, indeed, we must not omit to 
mention.  At the village of Ford, which lies on the eastern 
extremity of this parish lives James Small, the best plough-
maker in Scotland.  In this particular department, indeed,
he is perhaps second to none in the island.  He makes 300, 
400, and sometimes 500 ploughs in a year, and by his ac-
knowledged and decided superiority, such is the demand,
that had he sufficient stock, and chose to attend merely to
his personal interest, he might make his own terms, and in-
crease the sale of his ploughs to an incridible extent.  His
chain plough is now in general use, and well known.  The 
man who holds, at the same time, with dexterity and ease,
drives two horses, which if stout, are perpectly able to draw
the plough in almost any soil.  The same trademan some 
time ago suggested cast metal in slead of wooden sheath 
and mould-boards, which, upon trial, is found to be a most
important improvement.  He too has lately invented, for 
tilling steep or hilly ground, a plough, which has been in-
spected, proved, and recommended in strong terms by a most
respectable Committee of the Dalkeith Farmer Society.
This instrument has double coulters and mould-boards, and
on such simple construction, that the ploughman shifts them 
with ease while he is turning the horses.  By this device,
in going along any declivity where it is necessary to plough 
always down-hill, instead of returning empty, as is com-
mon, a surrow is taken both ways, only it must be thrown
from the left as well as from the right hand, which saves
nearly one half of the time, and by a little practice, can 
be done with equal ease for man and horses.
   At Dalkeith there is every Thursday the greatest corn-
market in Scotland, which is exceedingly convenient for 
dealers in grain.  In this parish there is one bleachfield,
one lint and two corn mills, at which last meal is made for 
the neighbourhood, but chiefly for the Edinburgh market.


