
     of Campsie.

   Water, Wood, and Mountains.-This parish may be said to
be uncommonly well watered:  In the greatest drought, the
number of springs from the hills afford such quantities of
water, that the machinery at the different print-fields have a
constant supply.  There is properly speaking but one river in
the parish; and even this one is on a small scale; it is formed
by three steams, uniting below the kirk of Campsie: it then
receives the name of Glazert, which is said to signify in G‘-
lic, the water of the gray, or green promontory, alluding
perhaps to the greenness of the hills from whence the streams
slow.  The Glazert, allowing for all its windings, runs a-
bout five English miles, before it joins the Kelvin opposite to
Kirkintilloch.  It runs with considerable rapidity; the fall
from the kirk of Campsie to the Goyle-bridge being somewhat

<FOOTNOTE>

the climate should be wetter and colder, than upon well-rested rich land.  As
far, however, as we can pronounce any thing certain, relative to the climate,
it may be said that we have scarcely any permanent frost, till after Christ-
mas: we have seldom wind from the North and East, except in the time of
a storm of frost and snow, and usually for a few days about the beginning of
May, when in general it is accompanied with an Eastland chart, very destruc-
tive to blossoms of fruit trees.  Our rain in general is from the South West;
and we scarcely ever fail to have our Lammas floods, and our Equinoctial
storm, the first calculated to lodge our corn, before they are ripe, and the last
to rot them in the stuke.  Summer 1781 was remarkable for a cold drought,
which continued several weeks withering the grass, and introducing a black
fly upon the corns, which prevented the grain from being so plump as usual.
1782 was remarkable for being a backward season, so that some of our corns
were buried below the snow on the 31 ft of October.  Summer 1783 was re-
markable for a thick sog, whereby the sun was scarcely visible for three
weeks; we felt that summer a slight shock of an earthquake.  Our sum-
mers, upon the whole, for these six years by gone, have been rather cold; our
winters, on the other hand, have been open and fresh, as it is termed.  So
wet have our summers been, as almost to countenance the fanciful opinion of
old people, that the climate was altogether changed.  Summer 1794 has been
remarkably warm.


