
378                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

evening schools in the parish, and the number of scholars at each
is 335.
  Of this number forty-two come from the adjoining parishes,
and about seven or eight go from this parish to the neighbouring
schools; so that the number of scholars that have been for some
months under a course of instruction in the parish during this year
may be fairly estimated at 300, which is more than the fifth of
the population. One of the female schools is supported partly by
subscription; but all the rest, excepting the parish school, are on
the teacher's own adventure. The children in all those schools
are instructed in the common branches of education; and in the
female schools they are also taught needle-work and knitting.
 In addition to the common branches, the parish schoolmaster
teaches Latin, Greek, French, practical mathematics, algebra,
mechanics, also ancient and modern geography, and church mu-
sic; and for the last receives the sum of L.11,2s. 21/2d. per annum,
arising from money mortified on the lands of the barony of Calder,
by a person of the name of Moodie, who was a cadger or carrier
of eggs and poultry to Edinburgh, during the time of the plague.
Having escaped the infebtion, he amassed a considerable fortune,
and left a sum of money for the support of our parish school, be-
sides other property. The patrons and managers of this morti-
fication were, "Lord Torphichen, Sir Alexander Maxwell of
Saughtonhall, afterwards of Calderwood, with one or two of the
ministers of Edinburgh, at the time, who have a right to present
a person fit to teach the four parts of grammar, and art of music, or,
at least, should be obliged to keep a doctor, for teaching the music
art," as the said deed of mortification more fully bears. This deed
also bears, that he is to enjoy and uplift every other casualty and
privilege, as also to possess the dwelling-house there built for the
use of the schoolmaster, he always teaching in manner as before
stated. When any vacancy in the office of schoolmaster occurs,
the successor requires to be presented to the situation by the pa-
trons above-mentioned in due form. The maximum salary pay-
able to the schoolmaster, therefore, is L.34, 4s. 41/2d., which, with
L.1, 6s. 8d. for deficiency of garden-ground, makes L.35, 11s. 01/2d;
add the 4000 merks for teaching music, L.11, 2s. 21/2d.; registra-
tion fees, and proclamation of banns, calculated at L.8, 8s.; al-
lowance for presenting and distributing poor's funds, at L.5 each,
L.10; fees for session-clerk, L.3, 8s., and for heritor's clerk,
L. 2, 2s.; the average school-fees for the last four years,
                           3


