
376                           FORFARSHIRE.

adequate relief for the time, and to prevent a permanent burden
on the parochial funds.
	It is much to be regretted that the virtuous aversion to depen-
dence upon parish charity, so common in former times, is now but
seldom met with in this quarter, and that there is, generally speak-
ing, but little disposition among the poor to refrain from seeking pa-
rochial relief.
	Fairs.--There is an annual market, chiefly for cattle, held in
the parish about the end of April.*
	Inns.--There are three public-houses in the parish; two of them
are on the principal roads that intersect the parish, and one in the
neighbourhood of the quarries. Though some such houses of re-
freshment may be necessary in this as in other parishes, for the
accommodation of the public, yet I should not like to see their
number increased in this quarter.
	Before sea-borne coals came into, use in this quarter, the te-
pantry on Lord Panmure's lands are said to have procured their
fuel from the moss already mentioned; and though it be now much
diminished in extent, it still affords many of the poorer classes in
its neighbourhood their principal supply of that article. But Eng-
lish coals are now in general use, which are procured partly at
Arbroath, but chiefly at the East and West Hae'ns, (Havens,) small
villages on the coast, about 6 miles distant, where coal and lime
vessels are moored in the summer season in some creeks among
the rocks. The common price of English coals is from 1s. to 1s.
2d. per imperial barrel, and of Scots coals from 8s. 3d. to Ss. 6d.
per cart load, or boll of 72 stones Dutch.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The present state of the parish is, in many respects, very differ-
ent from that whibh existed at the time when the last Statistical Ac-
count was drawn up. The more striking variations may be stat-
ed as consisting in its increased population and rental, and in its
extended and improved cultivation.
	The population, their stated, at 700 is now 1153. The yearly
rental, then about L. 1000, is now upwards of L. 3000. A much
greater number of the people are employed in weaving. The quar-

<FOOTNOTE>The custom of this market was given to the kirk-session by Lord Pannure in
1709, for the benefit of the poor of the parish, as appears in a minute in the session
book of that date. It was then a considerable sum, but, from the failing ofF of the
market, and especially of the kinds of merchandise from which the custom was ex-
igible, the amount has now dwindled into a sum little more than sufficient to defray
he expense of collecting it.


