
		ON THE COUNTY OF BERWICK.                        369

ing has been carried.  From the nature of the soil, and its tendency
to humidity, no county required this improvement more than Ber-
wickshire, and though much yet remains to be done, nowhere has
it been more successfully or more extensive pursued. Dains are
now laid out in a more scientific style than formerly, and, as a na-
tural consequence, their operation on the soil is far more efficient
and salutary.  As an instance of the extent to which draining has
been carried, it may be mentioned, that, upon an extensive farm in
the united parish of Bunkle and Preston, drains have been made,
the measurement of which amounts to twenty-four miles. The
practice of cutting sheep drains has also been pursued in the pas-
toral and upland districts of the county, and the result has proved
highly beneficial, by improving the herbage, and carrying off the
superabundant moisture.
   At the end of last century, the local connection of this county
with the English borders directed the attention of some consider-
able landed proprietors to effect an improvement on the breeds of
cattle and sheep. The late Mr Robertson of Ladykirk merits par-
ticularly to be mentioned as having taken the leading part in this
branch of improvement, to which he was sedulously devoted. His
liberal fortune and rich and extensive old pasture land on the de-
mesne of Ladykirk, afforded him means and opportunities which
few enjoyed, of carrying this department of rural economy to great-
er perfection than perhaps any other individual in Scotland.  His
efforts were crowned with success, and his breeds of sheep and
cattle still continue to be highly prized by connoisseurs and adepts
in these matters.  The tenantry also followed his example on a
more limited scale.  The old breeds of cattle and sheep were gra-
dually displaced, and kinds were introduced of more productive
value, better adapted to the soil and climate, more kindly feeders,
and sooner prepared for the butcher.  To this department consi-
derable attention is still paid in this county: and as its agriculture
is of a mixed description, combining the raising of corn with the
breeding, rearing, and feeding of stock, it is naturally to the far-
mer an object of no small importance, and his success very much
depends on it.  By the gradual extension of the turnip husban-
dry, which has gained for Berwickshire the appellation of the Nor-
folk of Scotland, and to which, by the application of the modern
improvement of bone manure, a greater breadth of land can now be
devoted, means are afforded of feeding for the market a much larger
   BERWICK.                      A a


