

			MUIRAVONSIDE.                     211

ed to a convent of Cistertian nuns, founded by Malcolm IV. in
1156, consecrated to the Virgin; yet the name seems to indi-
cate a prior settlement by the Culdees, to whom the name Ema-
nuel was dear. Its revenues were increased by succeeding sove-
reigns, and in 1292, the prioress, Christiana, and in 1296, her suc-
cessor, Alice, swore fealty to Edward I. at Linlithgow.
   The history of the Castle of Almond is more obscure. It was
anciently known by the name of Haining, or more rarely Manuel,
and seems to have owed itsorigin to the Crawfurds of Haining, a
family of note in the reign of James III., one of whom was Abbot
of Holyrood, and Treasurer of Scotland, under that sovereign.
The stag's head and antlers, which formed the crest of their ar-
morial bearings, show their descent from that Crawfurd who res-
cued King David from the deer, on the spot where Holyrood
now stands. This much is certain, from the retour of Agnes
Crawfurd, whose marriage in 1540 transferred the castle to the
family of Livingstone, that it was then a manorial residence of
note. In that family it continued till, in 1633, the name of Al-
mond was given to it, and Sir James Livingstone, second son of
the first Earl of Linlithgow, was created a baron by that title.
However, although it became the ground of this title, and appears
very frequently as held for the Crown by the Earls of Linlithgow,
the Castle of Almond was possessed, for about two centuries, by the
descendants of Thomas Livingstone of Haining, a cadet of that
noble family, with which the Learmonths of Parkhall and Craig-
end, in the neighbourhood, are doubly connected by marriage.
About the middle of last century, it ceased to be inhabited; and
still remains a fine specimen of of the strength and durability of the
materials and masonry of ancient times.
   Of more recent date is Linlithgow Bridge, built by Alexander
Earl of Linlithgow, about the year 1650, as appears by a grant
of its customs to Earl George, by Charles II., in 1677. Con-
trasting with these, are two of the finest bridges reared in modern
times, one bearing the Union Canal, and the otber the Edinburgh
and Glasgow Railway, over the river and valley of the Avon.
The first is of twelve arches, some which look down one hundred
feet upon the stream,--and so covered are the banks with foliage,
that the mighty fairy-like work seems resting on green leaves. The
second, for the railway, consists of more than twenty arches, all of
fair proportion, and substantial masonry.


