
               			BEATH.                        175


   At present there are three coll¡ries in operation in the parish.
The rocks in the hills and plains are, so far as known, of whin and
free or sandstones. Some years ago, a lime rock was discovered
in the west end of the parish, and partially wrought. The soils, all
untransported, are brown earth upon whinstone, till, and moss.

                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-There are thirteen land-owners connected with
the parish, all of whom, except one, possess property in it above
L. 50 a-year. The principal proprietors are, the Earl of Moray,
patron; Mr Dewar; and the Lord Chief-Commissioner Adam.
Several others have lands of considerable extent and value. Only
five of the heritors are at present resident.
  Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, consisting of mi-
nutes of session, records of marriages, births and burials, have been
pretty regularly kept. The earliest entries were in 1642, and were
prefaced with a very curious and interesting account of the causes
which led to the rebuilding of the church,-which it is thought
proper here to subjoin.

  <FOOTNOTE>"A short and fine Naration concerning the Kirk of Baith, 1640.-The kirk of Baith,
a most fitt and convenient place for the situatione of a kirk, being upone the roade way,
and in the just midis betwixt Kinross and Innerkethine. Sua it is to rememberit
that tho' it be amongst the smallest, yit the name of it is amongst the antientest par-
roches in Scotland. Wherefore, a most reverend and worthie brother, Mr William
Scott, sometime minister at Couper, reported that the first place of meeting that ever
the Protestant Lords of Scotland had for the covenants and Reformatione at the
kirk of Baith. This kirk in some sorte myght be compared to Gideon's fleece, which
was dry, when all the earth was watered.
   " When all the congregationes of Fyfe were planted, this poore kirk was neglected
and overlooked, and lay desolate then fourteene yeeres, after the Reformatione eighty
yeeres. The poore parochiners being always lyke wandering sheep without a sheep-
hard, and whairas they should have conveened to hear a pastoure preiche, the princi-
pal cause of the people's meetinge, wes to heere a pyper play upone the Lord's daye,
which was the daye of thair profaine mirth, not being in the workes of thair calling.
Which was the caus that Sathane had a most faire name amongst them, stirring
many of them up to dancing, playing at foot-ball, and excessive drinking, falling out
and wounding one another, which wes the exercise of the younger sort, and the older
sort played at gems and the workes of their calling without any distinction of the
weeke daye from the dave of the Lord, and thus they continued, as said is, the space
of eighty yeeres: this poore kirk being always neglected, became a sheepe hous in the
night.
   " And becaus some of the poore people desyred to have yr poore little ones (being
young maydes for the most pairt) brought up at school, what abominatione was com-
mitted by the profaine Mr, I will not expresse: let it suffice the world to know, that
the poore criminall, after his flight, was overtaken and brought to justice, for such ane
vile and hard misdemaner; this which hath been wreatten, way be sufficient to make
any hart melt for the most abominable estate of this poore kirk. In end, recourse
wes hadd to the Yerle of Moray, lord and patrone of the lands of the parroch, to try
if it might pleis Lo. to kotribute any thing to the building of that poore kirk, or
iff he would pittye the poore people, and such a long soul murther that hadd been
amongst them. The Countess of Home, his mother-in-law, was also dealt with to
the samine purpose, but both refuissed. Sun when that poore people hadd been so
long excluded from all hopes to gett their kirk builded, ir any pastoure to speake a
word of comfort to the parrochiner's souls, it pleised the Lord to put it in the hart


