
                                   REAY.                       15

    There is another mineral spring issuing at the foot of a rock at
    Craigtown in Dunreay, on the sea shore, of superior quality.  The
    mineral springs in general are seemingly chalybeate.  In Brawlbin
    there are perennial springs, remarkable for the purity and light-
    ness of their waters, which are rather of a whitish colour.  But as
    these waters are seldom applied to the cure of diseases, they do
    not engage the attention of the public.
       Of the lakes, which are numerous but small, the principal are,
    Loch Shurery, Loch Cailm, Loch Scye, Loch Sleitill,-the last
    of which in particular abounds with superior red trout, some of
    which measure from two to three feet long.  The scenery is
    varied, and in general not uninteresting.  The Halladale river
    takes its rise near Knock-na-BA-Reibhich, in the boundary between
    the parishes of Kildonan and Reay, and in its course runs in a di-
    rection almost due north, through a strath of the same name, un-
    til it discharges itself into the bay of Bighouse.  Its length is up-
    wards of twenty miles and average breadth twenty yards.  Again,
    the Forss river, which originates from a small lake south of Ben-na-
    Bad passes near Loch Cailm, and through Loch Shurery, and af-
    ter various windings falls into the bay of Crosskirk, dividing this
    parish on the east from the parish of Thurso.
       Geology and Mineralogy.-Mountain Rock Formations.- There
    are numerous interesting displays of the sandstones and sandstone
    slates so prevalent in the county; and of the primitive formations
    there are granite, syenite, hornblende rocks, gneiss and quartz rock.
       Limestones and Ores.-In 1802, there was discovered upon
    the estate of Sandside, the property of William Innes, Esq. a little
    to the west of his house, a bed of limestone apparently ten feet,
    thick ; the bed dips to the north.  A little to the west of
    that, another limestone bed occurs, four feet thick, of which the
    dip is north-west; and still fartber west, red granite comes boldly
    down to the sea, interspersed with several veins of granite, and
    large veins of felspar.   On the east side of this ridge of granite
    occur the strata, which are general on the coast, of a bluish slate,
    Near Lake-na-Clachan Geal, was found oxyde of manganese of
    considerable purity, imbedded in decomposed red granite.  There
    has been opened at a place named Ary-Leive the property of the
    same gentleman, a fine limestone quarry, in which the strata dip
    north-east.  It is at present wrought on a large scale, and the lime
    is much used in the cultivation of new lands. Large quarries of


