
     of Unst, in Sherland

and running backwards under the hills.  The greater part
of these are too low and narrow to admit a boat, but are
not accessible by any other means.  One only is visited
once a year, and plundered of the seals by which it is fre-
quented.  Eastward from the bay of Burra-firth, under an
arm of the hill of Saxaforth, there is a grand natural arch,
wide enough to admit a boat to row through it, 300 feet in
length, and of considerable height.  A short way eastward
from this, there is another, but of a less magnificient appear-
ance.  This island has not yet been discovered to afford any
mineral springs.  The waters of a copiouspring, called Ycla-
burn, or Hiclaburn, (the burn of health*), although pure
from all mixture, are esteemed, in the neighbourhood, to be
highly beneficial to health.

   Fossils.-Unst abounds in iron stone, which, however, has
not yet been applied to any useful purpose.  It affords
large veins of jasfer, some pieces of which are beutifully
variegated with black and green shades and spots.  Rock
crystal, remarkable for its purity and hardness, has likewise
been found here.  A beautiful piece of garnets, having
twelve equal parallelogramic rules, was lately picked
from a rock.  Through the sparry rocks, cubical bits of
sulphur, of a bright gold colour, are often found.  A species of
rough stone, of a long grain, a greyish colour, in appearance
somewhat similar to decayed wood, fit for building, and ve-
ry suitable for lintels, is found at Muness and Norwick.  At
Litlagarth there is a vein of dark brownish freestone, of a
very durable nature.  A soft stone, commonly named Clemel,
     Vol. V. A a

<FOOTNOTE>

*A custom formerly prevailed, for persons to throw three stones, as a
tribute to the source of these salubrious waters, when they first approach
it.  A considerable pile has thus been raised.  But the reputation of the
spring begins to decline, and the superstitious offering is now no longer
so religiously paid.
$The size is represented in the plate.


