
                       LAGGAN.                                419

were introduced to invade its territories. This range is as lofty
as the Monadlia, and far more picturesque in appearance.
The scenery around and in the vicinity of Lochlaggan, is real-
ly splendid. To the traveller, in approaching it, the view is
very imposing. The hills to the south of the lake rise in sharp
precipitous peaks, one above another, as if they had been torn
asunder and thrown into their present position by some violent
convulsion of nature. To the spectator, as he moves along, they
seem to change their general outline, and also their relative posi-
tion, like a moving panorama, every five minutes, and thus present
a succession of landscapes always pleasing.
   Hydrography.--We have thousands of springs among the hills
and also in the valleys, but none of them claiming any particular
notice. The principal river is the Spey. It rises in a small lake
of the same name in the western part of the parish, and follows
an easterly course, until it enters the parish of Kingussie, below
Loch Uvie. The Pataig is a small stream that runs westward to
Lochlaggan. We have several other smaller ones, such as the
burns of Markie, of Gorgask, of Cluny, of Meshie, of Breakachy,
and the Bronach. The whole of these in dry weather are very
low, but a few hours of heavy rain swell them at times into roar-
ing and destructive torrents. One occurrence to which we shall
advert sbews the violence and impetuosity which these mountain
streams are, at times, capable of assuming. On the 22nd of May
1831, a memorable day in Laggan, a dark cloud was seen sailing
slowly from the north across the Monadlia. About three o'clock
in the afternoon, it burst over the centre of the parish, discharging
in the most terrific manner, a storm of thunder, lightning, and rain.
The thunder and lightning were such, that a gentleman who resid-
ed eighteen years in Jamaica declared, he never witnessed, even
there, such a war of the elements. The rain fell on the hills, in
such profusion, as to give them the appearance of being shrouded
in tinfoil. Every buru and streamlet within the range of the cloud
swelled in an instant, carrying banks, stones, and everything be-
fore them. At Sherrobeg, a small stream almost dry in summer,
came down with such violence, that, "at one fell swoop," it car-
ried away a bridge of stone and lime that had stood there, since
the days of General Wade. The burn of Bronnoch, which passes
within a few yards of the clergyman's house, contains in summer
hardly any water: on this occasion, it beat against the walls of the
house, and, entering, covered in a moment the ground floor of all


