
				ANWOTH. 		      375

edly. This sudden inundation proceeds, as said is, from the mists
and vapours on Cairnsmore; hence the common people say, when
that Cairnsmore hath a hat, Palnure (a small river on the opposite
side of that mountain) and Skyreburn may laugh at that."--(Large
Description of Galloway.) Salmon, cod, noud, skate, and flounders,
are caught in the Fleet; but the fishery is on a small scale, and
scarcely repays the expense of labour. There is a harbour in the
parish called Boat Green; but as it lies in the immediate neigh-
bourhood of Gatehouse of Fleet, in the parish of Girthon, there
is an account of it in connection with that parish. A similar re-
mark applies to the canal recently constructed by Mr Murray of
Broughton, M.P. for the Stewartry, in order to facilitate the naviga-
tion to Gatehouse, and to reclaim land from the sea; the quantity of
land so reclaimed, lying chiefly in the parish of Girthon, being 170
acres. But it may here be mentioned, that the canal was made
chiefly by means of persons brought by Mr Murray from his estates
in Ireland (county of Donegal,) who were either tenants in arrear
of rent, or representatives of such tenant; the total number brought
over being about 200. They were brought over and taken back
at Mr Kurray's expense; and while he fed them comfortably dur-
ing the progress of the work, the surplus of their wages was allowed
as payment of rent.
	Botany.--There is nothing peculiar in the botany of the parish.
The number of acres under wood, according tothe assessment for
the property tax, is 616, of which not above two acres (on the
estate of Rusco) consist of natural timber. The whole of the
plantations consist of copsewood, except a few acres of old wood
around the mansion-houses of Cardoness and Ardwal), and a few
acres of young timber around those of Kirkclauch and Rusco.

			  II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--The land-owners are, Sir David Maxwell of
Cardoness, Bart.; Alexander Murray of Broughton, M.P.; Ro-
bert Hannay of Rusco; James M'Dowall of Logan; James Mur-
ray M'Culloch of Ardwall; David Anderson of St Germains;
Walter M,Culloch of Kirkclaucb; and Miss Hannay of Kirkdale.
The seats of Mr Murray and Miss Hannay respectively are in the
two adjoining parishes; the former in Girthon, the latter in
Kirkmabreck. All the other land-owners reside in the parish,
except Mr M'Dowall of Logan, and Mr Anderson of St Ger-
mains. The whole land of the parish, except what belongs to Mr
Anderson and Mr Walter M'Culloch, is under strict entail; and


