
                           OLD DEER.                             139

Keiths with the heiress of that house, about the middle of the four-
teenth century.  The parish is of an irregular shape, and in many
places without any distinct or natural boundary, bearing some re-
semblance to the usual form of a cross tree, a sort of yoke that em-
braces the neck, and stretches over the shoulders,-from the ends
of which, persons, for the sake of ease and convenience, often sus-
pend and carry water buckets or such like burdens.  The space
corresponding with the cavity that receives the neck is on the east
side, and belongs to the parish of Longside; and the site of the
parish church is in the line of that encroachment, little more than
a mile from the junction of the two parishes, and about 10 1/2 miles
by the public road from the nearest sea-port, at the parliamentary
burgh and market-town of Peterhead.
   Topographical Appearances.-The surface is undulating, present-
ing to the eye of a spectator, placed on an elevated situation, a
group of eminences of various sizes and forms, separated from one
another, and in some instances altogether surrounded by rivulets or
rills.  Many of these eminences, the highest of which it is probable,
though no exact measurement of their altitude has been taken,
does not exceed between 200 and 300 feet above thd level of the
sea, are cultivated to the top; and most of the interjacent, valleys
are now brought under tillage, to which great encouragement has
been given by several proprietors, particularly of late, in cleaning
and straighting water-courses, so as to facilitate the means of
drainage, and prevent flooding.
   The peninsular situation of Buchan, at least the distance it
stretches into the sea, and its general want of shelter from hills or
woods, render the climate upon the whole rather humid and chil-
ly, although it is no doubt undergoing an improvement by the re-
moval of stagnant water and marshes, and the increase of plan-
tations and quickset hedges. *  Yet the number of individuals
of both sexes that reach a very advanced period of life, and the
rareness of epidemics or any prevailing ailment, would warrant
an inference, that the locality is rather salubrious than other-
wise.  Of late, however, to whatever cause it may be owing, the
stone and urinary complaints seem to be on the increase.  In-
stances, too, of natural small-pox, owing most probably to the omis-
sion or improper application of vaccine matter, have become much

<FOOTNOTE>In the beginning of the year 1837, when this amount was drawn up, there
were living in the parish no fewer than five persons, each above ninety-five years of
age, and one of them jurt approaching the end of a century.


