
                          PETERHEAD.                            355

ends were rounded, and had two projecting knobs to facilitate their
carriage.  The bark of the trees of which they had been formed
remained on them, and was in the most perfect state of preserva-
tion.  No vestige of bones was found in either of them.  They
had been covered over with slabs of wood, and lay east and west,
which indicated they bad been used as coffins; but the absence of
bones or other human remains is difficult to be accounted for.  In
the parish of Cruden, in a little hill, about four feet below its apex,
a stone crypt or sarcophagus was discovered, containing a consi-
derable portion of two human skeletons; the one that of an adult,
the other of a young person, perhaps of twelve or thirteen years of
age; and also part of the skeleton 6f a dog; two clay urns, (a
larger and a lesser one,) rudely ornamented with bars or hoops
scratched around the outside of them; seven flint arrow points;
two flint knives, (one of them considerably worn); a polished stone
about four and one-fourth inches in length, neatly drilled through
its four corners, and slightly concave on the one side, and convex
on the other.  It is probable the polished stone had been applied
to the centre of the bow, to secure a more accurate discharge of
the arrow.  A neck chain and battle-axe were dug out of a tumu-
lus near to the place in the parish of Cruden, where it is supposed
that Malcolm II. and Canute fought a severe battle, and where
many tumuli were formerly to be seen.  The neck chain is form-
ed of Jet and amber.  The jet beads retain their original polish.
The lower bead measures about four inches, the others from two
and a half inches to one inch.  These beads were separated from
one another by little formless masses of amber, covered with a
brown crust; but otherwise the amber was unchanged, unless that
it may have been more brittle.  The battle-axe is formed of
black flint.  It is about seven inches long, and is less heavy than
those generally found; most of which are formed of granulated
stones, and are larger and weightier than the one above alluded to.
The necklace hold no doubt adorned the person of some Scan-
dinavian chief.
   A pewter flagon, of no inelegant shape, and capable, of holding
nearly a Scotch pint, was discovered in cutting a deep water course
through a peat bog.  The metal was considerably oxidized.  From
the form of the flagon antiquaries suppose it to have been in use
about the time of James IV. or V. of Scotland.  A small shot of
malleable iron was dug out near the base of Ravenscrag Castle.
It is one inch and three-quarters in diameter, and is the second


