
46                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

expense. It contains upwards of 20,000 spindles, and employ's
constantly 260 hands. The mill people of Fintry are quiet, so-
ber, and industrious.
   In the village, a distellery was erected by Messrs Cowan and Com-
pany in 1816, and is now in active operation. It distils annually
70,000 gallons of whisky, entirely from malt. This whisky is chief-
ly carried to Glasgow, where it commands a ready market, having
long maintained a high character. There is, also, a small wool
factory in the parish; but since the wool has risen to so exorbi-
tant a price, it has scarcely been in operation.
           		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   For several years, a public coach ran from Kippen, through Fin-
try, thrice a week to Glasgow; but, for want of encouragement,
it is now withdrawn. There is no post-office in the parish, nor
any nearer than Campsie, Balfron, or Kippen, the nearest of
which places is distant from Fintry six miles. But we have car-
riers of various descriptions to Glasgow, every alternate day.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church is a very neat, plain building,
with a tower on the west end. It was built in 1823, and contains
500 sittings. It is three-quarters of a mile from the village, but
quite in the centre of the parish. Indeed, with the exception of
eight families, all are within a mile and a half of the church. it
is an oblong square, with a gallery in one end, and the pulpit in
the other. It is now sufficiently large ; but if the population
should be increased, it might easily be enlarged. The average
number of communicants is about 380. There is no other pub-
lic place of worship in the parish. The few Dissenters that are
in it, go to one or other of the meeting-houses in Balfron. *
The manse is a new building, and promises to be a very conve-
nient and good house. The old manse has been converted into
offices. It was built in 1732. The glebe contains nine Scotch
acres, all now arable and can be let at L. 3 per acre. The
stipend is 44 bolls meal, 5 bolls, 3 1/2 pecks barley, and L.24, 10s.
money. L.91, 17s. 6d. is drawn from the Exchequer.
   Education.--There is one parish school. The salary is the
maximum, with a dwelling-house, and ground for a garden to the
teacher. There is also a Sunday school in the village well at-
tended; and under the superintendence of the minister. A free

     <FOOTNOTE>There are about thirty Dissenters in the parish, including two Bereans and
four Roman Catholics. A few of them belong to the Relief; but the greater part
to the United Associate Synod.
               			4


