
                                DRAINIE.                              151

By the policy of Malcolm; the address of Gregory, tbe superstition
of Queen Margaret, and cunning of her -confessor, Turgot, the
Murriffs were deprived of their real estates.  The bishops, into
whose hands the real estates came, might well be satisfied.  It
laid the foundation of their future power and more ample revenue.
The lands of Kinnedder were held by these church dignitaries,
from the time of Queen Margaret, in uninterrupted succession, till
the time of Patrick Hepburn, uncle to Earl Bothwell, who alien-
ated them to the Earl of Moray, bastard brother to Queen Mary;
his heirs assigned them to Brodie of Brodie, and Brodie's to Mr
Brander, whose heir enjoys them.   Gordonston, about the same
unhappy period, fell to the Marquis of Huntly, as his portion of
church plunder.
    Antiquities.-- Adjoining to the churchyard, in the centre of
which the foundation of the ancient church of Kinnedder may
still be traced, stood the once stronghold of Kinnedder, called
the Castle, and now, by way of dignifying it, called the Bishop's
palace.  Archibald, tenth Bishop of Moray, is the only bishop of
whom it is recorded that he made the Castle of Kinnedder his
place of constant residence. Before the cathedral was fixed at
Spynie, the bishops lived sometimes at Birnie, sometimes at
Spynie, and sometimes at Kinnedder.  They, got the credit,, to
which they were not entitled, of building these strongholds.  They
   Might have repaired them; but they were built by the Celtic or
Pictish barons, who lived many centuries before a bishop was
heard of. The great tower of Kinnedder was defended by two
walls, about fifty paces from each other, each wall having its ditch
in front, and, what was more uncommon, an earthen rampart, from
eight to ten feet wide, and as many feet high, behind each wall.
The space enclosed comprehended about two acres, the form ap-
proaching to a hexagon; the outer wall was defended at each
angle by a small tower. These small towers were square, solid,
and projecting six feet beyond the wall. They were distant from
each other about two casts of a javelin, and the ascent to them
was from the rampart by a strong but rough stone stair.   The
storehouses and barracks stood directly east of the great tower;
they were vaulted and grated; the walls four feet thick at bottom;
and the tradition is that they were fire-proof. What remain-
ed of the doors and windows, and the hewn stones found among
the rubbish, shows that the work was of the Gothic order, and
highly ornamented in its day.  This part of the fortress, having


