

878	                 FIFESHIRE.

furnished houses, dress respectably, educate their children, and
can afford to have the same wbolesome and nourishing diet, as is
usual in a similar class in other parts of Scotand.
     Many of the weavers and operatives of all descriptions, are very
intelligent and skilful at their employments, and have information
farsuperior to their rank in life.
     The inhabitants generally are a churchgoing people, as indi-
cated by the attendance on the places of worship, and the crowds
of persons who are seen going to and from these on the Sabbath.
Many of the respectable middling classes are well informed on re-
ligious subjects; and although there is a great diversity of sects,
and an occasional keenndss in the discussion of controversial to-
pics, there are considerable freedom and harmony of private in-
tercourse.
     It is to be acknowledged and lamented, however, that, as in all
populous and manufacturing places, there are many exceptions to
this favourable statement, both in respect of prosperity and cha-
racter. A young weaver, from being soon able to earn a.journey-
man's wages, often contracts too early a marriage, which, espe-
cially if followed by irregular employment, and reduction of wages
in consequence of depression of trade, as has of late years too
frequently occurred, and much more by his own improvidence or
dissipation, necessarily entails poverty and wretchedness. Accord-
ingly, there are not a few journeymen weavers and their families,
from one or more of these causes, living in great straits and dis-
comfort, which ttiev have little prospect of overcoming. As a na-
tural result of this, there is discontent among a certain portion of
the weaving class, as also other mechanics, accompanied by a keen
interference in civil and ecclesiastical politics, and an anxious at-
tempt to find remedies for their wants in the removal of real or
imagined public evils, ratlier than in the amendment of their own
habits as individuals and members of society. The cases of ex-
treme indigence and misery arising mainly from intemperance
with its concomitant evils, idleness, profligacy, carelessness of per-
sons and dwellings, neglect of education of children and of divine
ordinances, are often very aplpalling and heart-rending.
     As to the collier population, it is well known. that anciently the
coal-bewers were serfs to their employers, or "adscriptae glebae,"
the law. repealing which practice having, been passed only in 1775,
and made effectual by another only in 1799.
     In consequence of disputes at some of the collieries in this quar-
		                    6

