

			KIRKPATRICK-JUXTA.		131

last duty the millers ought to be relieved; and then a fortieth of
the oatmeal would compensate for grinding oats, and a fixed price
might be given for wheat and berley. But all cases the dust and
offals should belong to the farmer, who should also see his grain
dried first and next ground, so as to know the precise outcome, and
of course the true value.


		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets, &c.--Moffat, at the distance of three miles from the
centre of this parish, possesses a post-office and weekly market;
and also March and October fairs, with a cattle and sheep show
and sale in September. The only regular village is Craigielands,
built by Mr Younger some years ago, to accommodate the people
on his lands, consisting of neat small buildings, on a regular plan,
for 12 families,--the rent being only interest on the outlay.
	Means of Communication.--There is one turnpike road from
Glasgow to Carlisle, and another intersecting it at Beattock Inn,
from Dumfries to Edinburgh, with mail-coaches daily on both
lines. The parish roads are mostly in a decent state of repair.
An excellent inn was erected near Beattock, on the lands of
the Duke of Buccleuch, which was paid for as public accommoda-
tion by the Treasury, and is kept in a superior and most satisfac-
tory manner by a respecteble family, who came to it from Eng-
land. The lenght of the turnpike lines in this parish is about 20
miles; but no railways or steam-carriages have yet been introdu-
ced, nor nay canal, though all these have been spoken of. The
bridges are kept in a safe and decent condition. The fences are
good, so far as they consist of regular walls, built of good stone,
and to the due height of at least five feet; but where the soil is
light and gravelly, it does not bear them so well as beech hedges,
in either of which it has been found that gaps may be filled by
cuttings of elder or bower-tree.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is conveniently situated,
was built in 1799, and thoroughly repaired in 1824, accommodat-
ing frnm 500 to 600 persons; and the communion table not being
appropriated, affords at least 50 free sittings The manse is about
40 years old, was never very sufficient, but has been at different times
repaired. The teinds were surrendered in lieu of stipend in 1805,
and, including meal, lambs, and wool, payable in kind, they come
generally to about L. 220 of stipend, exclusive of L.8, 6s. 8d.
contributed for element,money by voluntary agreement. The



