
318                        LANARKSHIRE.


the under bed of limestone, which is four feet thick There are
a great many petrifactions in the blaes, of which hundreds may
be picked up. In the waste beside the mines where the blaes
lies mouldering away under the influence of the sun and air, they
occur in myriads, and are carried away in great numbers by the
curious. These organic forms belong principally to the Coral-
loides, such as Astroitae, Millepores, Escharae; Cornu Ammonis,
&c. also occur. Entrochi are also in abundance, and are here
termed limestone beads. When joined together, so as to as-
sume a lengthened circular form, they are called Entrochi; when
found separately, as they generally are, they are called Trochitae.
Associated with the above beds, there are about twelve inches
of a dark-coloured ferruginous stone containing just so much lime
as to make it valuable for Roman cement. It was analyzed some
time ago, and the result proved so satisfactory as to induce a scien-
tific gentleman in the neighbourbood to commence the manufac-
ture of this cement, which is said to be superior to any produced
in England. This stone, when submitted to the fire, falls down
like gray ill-burned limestone. Not far from Calderside, a great
curiosity is to be seen in the shape of part of a tree rising out of
the bed of the river completely silicified. The tree inclines to the
bank which the Calder has laid bare. Part of the stem only re-
mains in an upright growing position, from which proceed two
root-shoots dipping into the bed of the stream, each from 13 to
14 inches in diameter. The tree does not belong to the palm
family, as is often the case in such instances, but appears to have
been an elm or ash. From a specimen carefully detached, it seems
to be formed of a close-grained whitish sandstone, containing small
specks of mica, and pretty closely dotted with minute spots of
oxide of iron, about the size of needle points. Some fields adjacent
to the church are of a fine rich loam. From the church to the Clyde,
towards the north-east, the soil is in general a strong deep clay; and
when, properly cultivated is exceedingly fertile. At the northern
extremity, which is surrounded by the Clyde, and where the banks
become low, there is a flat which consists chiefly of a sandy soil.
From the church, towards the south end of the parish, the soil is
clay, but more light and free than in the lower part, and is in ge-
neral of a very poor quality. In advancing farther from the church,
towards the southern extremity, which is the highest land in the
parish, the soil becomes gradually more of a mossy nature, and at
last terminates in a deep peat moss.


