
98			   WIGTONSHIRE.

ment of any extensive manufactures in the parish. There are a
number of individuals engaged in weaving, in the employment of
Glasgow houses. The wages allowed  are extremely low and total-
ly insufficient to support a family in a comfortable manner.
        Navigation.-There are thirty-eight vessels at present belong-
ing to this port. Tonnage of 37 vessels in the year 1835, 1789.
A pier was built about twenty years ago, at which tolerably large
vessels may lay; but they can only approach at high water.
        Public Associations.-There is an agricultural Society, and a So-
ciety for the encouragement of fishermen; but they have been so
lately established, that any beneficial influence they may have
cannot yet be judged of.
                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Ecclesiastical State.-At present, the only place of worship in
the parish to accommodate the population attached to the Esta-
blishment is a wooden building erected about three years ago at
the expense of the clergyman, at the risk of getting the seats let,-
the burgh being entirely without public funds. The old church
was condemned by the presbytery in 1833, as ruinous and irrepara-
ble. It was built in the year 1766, and was calculated to contain
about 700 sitters. There were no free sittings in the Old Church,
but the sittings were so low as to be within the power of the poor-
est in the community.
        Manse.-The minister has no manse; but, by an act of Parlia-
ment of George IV., he has L. 30 in lieu thereof. Strictly speak-
ing he has no glebe, but about one hundred years ago, one of his
predecessors in office, Mr Laurie of Reid Castle, a man of fortune,
in order to encourage his successors in office in all time coming,
mortified to them about thirty acres of land in the adjoining pa-
rish of Leswalt, in order to supply the want of a glebe. As by
the act of Parliament above alluded to, every clergymen whose
living is under L. 200 per annum, and has no glebe, is allowed
L. 20 in lieu thereof, immediately after the passing of that act, I
made application to be ranked in the list of those who have not
legal glebes; for it appeared to me, as well as to others whom I
consulted, that it could not be the intention of the Legislature to
consider any private benefacation to a living, (and particularly that
of a clergyman to his successors in office,) as part of that living.
The Officers of State, however, opposed my claim, and the Court
of Session, by a majority, decided against me, on the plea, that,
though the mortified lands do not legally constitute a glebe, they


