
     Of Markinch.

more justice to his grounds.  The use of lime too, as a ma-
nure, is becoming very general.  One tenant lately laid up-
on his farm, upwards of 1500 bolls of shells, or unslacked
lime, in one season.  The Scots plough is still used by many,
but its construction has been much improved, by which
means it is rendered easier for the horses, and makes better
work, than formerly.  However, the English plough, with
the curved mould board, of cast metal, is coming fast into use.
Where the land is dry and clean, a couple of horses are only
yoked into the plough, and the man who holds the plough,
drives the horses: but in wet, deep, and strong land, cattle
are still used along with the horses.  This method is certain-
ly very proper, for such a soil; as the steady, deliberate step
of the cattle gives a due check to the hurry and impatient
ardour, natural to horses, in wet deep ground*.

   Produce.-Oats, and barley, or blanded bear, are the pre-
vailing crops.  Blanded bear, or rammel, as the country peo-
ple here call it, is the produce of barley and common bear
sown in a mixed state.  These are distinguished chiefly by the
form or structure of the ear; the barley having ony two
rows of grain, and the common bear fix.  Barley is a strong-
er and larger grain than the bear.  It lies longer in the ground
before it springs, and is later in ripening.  And the same dif-
     3 X 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Though improvements in agriculture are making considerable advances,
yet there is one bar, which, unless removed, must greatly retard their progress,
and prevent their ever coming to perfection; I mean the disinclination of the
proprietors to give leases of a sufficient length of time.  To enclose, and sub-
divide, and clean, and manure to purpose, a farm of any considerable extent,
would require from 500 L. to 1000 L.  But there are few farmers who would
risk such an expense upon a lease of 19 years.  To accelerate the improvement
of land, and to bring it to its highest state of cultivation, the proprietors must
either encourage the exertions of the farmer, by granting longer leases, or take
the trouble and expenses upon themselves.


