
                          ARROCHAR.                               101

tion which was indicated by his own significant expression, "Pro-
vidence is large, and I'll no come upon the poor's box,"--he
lived and died without receiving a farthing from the session, and he
had safely husbanded, for many a long day, a guinea to pay for his
coffin. It is to be feared that the feeling so remarkably exhibited
by him is gradually, if not rapidly, diminishing.
  Inns, &c.--There are two inns, one at Tarbet, which is too well
known to require any favourable notice; another at Arrochar,
which has been lately built and opened, and is also under excel-
lent management. These are necessary for the accommodation
of travellers, who come from all quarters to visit the splendid and
beautiful scenery of Inverary, Glencroe, Loch Long, Lochlomond,
and Loch Kettwrin. There are five other public-houses, which,
from the facilities they present, have a most pernicious influence,
inducing and maintaining habits of intemperance. It were well for
the interests of the community that these were instantly and for
ever put down.
   Fuel.--Coal is the common fuel,--which is usually shipped at
the Broomielaw. The average price, at present, may be stated at
8s. 6d. the 12 cwt., carriage included.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
    Within the last twenty years, the population has considerably
increased; and if the system of feuing is continued, there is every
probability that a few years only will elapse, when Arrochar will
become much more extended as a watering-place than it is at pre-
sent. The character of the people, during the same period, has
also considerably improved. A better conducted system of edu-
cation, based upon Scriptural principles, has been introduced: and
the establishment of a Sabbath school, which has been in existence
for upwards of twenty years, and the regular church-going habits
of the people, have, it is hoped, been attended with the most bene-
ficial consquences.

March 1839.


