
                         LOTH.                            203

pear at all times in becoming and respectable apparel. The na-
tive language of the country people is Gaelic, but almost all of
them speak or understand English, and it may be said that all
young persons, male and female, are able to read and write. The
baneful but often alluring vices of poaching and smuggling have
long ago ceased within the parish, in consequence, chiefly, of the
superior and comfortable condition in which almost all the heads
of families in it are placed, as tenants holding directly, at very mo-
derate rents, under their landlord, independent of intermediate dic-
tation over their time and industry; and which healthy position pre-
cludes all desire to engage in the ruinous practice of illegal of-
fences. The general character of the population is that of a decid-
edly moral, religious, and industrious people; and nowhere are the
safety and security of individuals, and the rights of property, more
respected and upheld, and less interfered with, than in the parish
of Loth.
                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-The arable lands may conveniently be classed in-
to large farms, and the allotments possessed by small tenants.
There are seven large farms in the parish, which, besides valuable
ranges of low-lying and hill pastures, have among them 1182 acres
of arable land, equal in fertility to any others in the county.
These farms are held under leases of ninteen years endurance,
and are laboured under the five years shift of husbandry, having
annually one-fifth part in fallow, turnips, potatoes, or other green
crop; one-fifth part in grass one year old; one-fifth part in grass
two years old; and not more than two-fifth parts in corn crop.
All the farms are conveniently subdivided, and enclosed with sub-
stantial stone dikes, and the farm buildings are modern and suitable.
  The lands held by the small tenants are also laboured with con-
siderable skill and industry; and each tenants raises annually bar-
ley or bear, oats, and potatoes, besides small patches of turnips and
sown grasses, and maintains one or more cows, and often rears his
young cattle, and possesses one of the small hardy horses of the
country, and a few of the small native sheep, besides swine and
poultry in abundance. Their cottages, formerly very rude and
mean, have been wisely removed by themselves, in situations where
they were placed on improvable land, to more sterile parts of their
lots, in order to convert all that can be rendered arable into corn
land; and hence, the comfortable stone cottages, of improved con-
struction, which they now occupy, are generally placed on the 



