
            468                            PERTHSHIRE.

           when the writer was minister of that place, there were found, well
           up towards the ridge of a lofty hill at the head of Glenbriarchan,
           nearly two dozen of the same sort of coins; of which two or three
           were of Alexander, and the rest of Edward. Of these the writer
           has half a dozen; and the singularity regarding those of Edward
           is, that while the obverse of all presents the head of the king, the
           reverse of one bears the inscription " Civitas Cantor;" of another,
           " Civitas London;" of another " Civitas Eborac;" and of a fourth
           " Civitas Dunelm;" thus indicating, as it were, the different stages
           of the progress of that rapacious Monarch towards his destined
           prey. But it would seem that coins of even greater antiquity have
           been long imbedded in our soil. There is the following state-
           ment in a manuscript at Taymout. " In the year 1755, in making
           a road across the hill from Taymouth to Glenquaich, there were
           found, near the crest of the hill, twelve Roman coins, about three
           inches under the surface of the ground, in what seemed like a bed
           of charcoal. They appear to be of silver, of the circumference
           of a sixpenny piece, but much thicker. The dies and inscrip-
           tions of most of them are distinct and legible. They are of the
           Antonines, and their Empresses. They are at Taymouth." There
           is also at Taymouth, as is mentioned in the same manuscript, "an
           urn or vase" (a tripod) of a mixed metal, somethings like a coffee-
           pot, with a handle and spout. It was found, about the year 1733,
           in the praetorium of a Roman camp in Fortingall."
              Modern Buildings.-The modern buildings of any consequence
           are few. Improvement in that respect, though slowly, is never-
           theless gradually taking place. The houses of the tenantry are
           in progress to become more comfortable in accommodation, as
           they are made neater in appearance, being built, where a new
           erection is put up, of stone and lime, and covered with slates. The
           school-houses, too, are constructed in a style, better adapted than
           heretofore to the purposes of these edifices. The only man-
           sion-house, understanding by that term the residence of a proprietor,
           besides the Castle of Taymouth, is the house of Shian, situated
           on the north bank of the Quich, in the glen which draws its name
           from that water, and about a mile above its entrance into Loch-
           fraochie. The castle of Taymouth, formerly Balloch, is truly a
           splendid mansion, and is placed in a truly splendid situation. It
           is only within these few years that it has been finished, if indeed
 	   it can yet be said to be so; for to the right of the great quadrangle
	   there is still allowed to stand a remmant of the old castle of Balloch,


