
                                    BARRAY.                    205

        quher it enters into the sea ther is ane myle braid of sands.
        quhilk ebbs ane myle, callit the Fraymore of Kilbaray, that is, the
        grate sandes of Barray. This ile is full of grate cokills, and al-
        ledgit by the ancient countrymen that the same cokills comes, down
        out of the foresaid hill through the said strype, in the first small
        forme that we have spoken of, and after ther coming down to the
        sandes growis grate cokills always. Ther is na fairer and more
        profitable sands for cokills in all the warld. This ile pertaines to
        MacNeil of Barray."  Nothing can show the credulity of the
        Dean more than this account of the cockles being formed in em
        bryo on the top of a hill, in a fresh water spring, and thereafter car,
        ried down to the sea where they grow large. There certainly is
        such a spring yet to be seen, but no visible appearance of any
        thing like cockles forming there.  Martin, who wrote about 160
        years later than the Dean, repeats the same incredible story of the
        cockles.
           This parish wassurveyed in 1820-21, and plans drawn, when
        the superficial contents were found to be about 22,000 imperial
        acres, including the several islands connected with it.  Colonel
        Macneil is the only owner; but the property is now under seques-
        tration and in the hands of creditors.
           Family of Macneil.-The family of the Macneils have
        held possession of Barray for time immemorial. Martin says
        that when he visited this place in 1703, the Highland chro-
        niclers alleged that the Macneil then in possession was the
        thirty-fourth lineal descendant from the first who obtained it.
        Whether this account be correct or not to the full extent, it is cer-
        tain that the Macneils possessed these islands for a great length of
        time. In the Register Office a charter way be seen by Alexander
        Lord of the Isles and Earl of Ross, giving to Gilleownan, the son
        of Rodrick, the son of Murdoch Macneil, not only all the lands,
        of Barray, b6t also Boisdale in South Uist, on condition of as-
        sisting the Lord of the Isles, as well in peace as in war, against
        all enemies whatsomever, men and women, by sea and land.  This
        charter was given at Finlagan in Islay, in 1427; and was con-
        firmed by King James IV. at Stirling in 1495, after the power of
        the Lords of the Isles had been broken down.  The Macneils
        were of old a great terror to their neighbours, as, being expert sea-
        men, they carried 'their depredations to every creek in the West-

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, the whole estate of Barry has been purchased by
        Colonel Goldon of Cluny.


