
     of Bedrule.

both these gentlemen were removed from their churches, for
their attachment to Episcopacy.  Mr Henry Ellot was the
     4 F

<FOOTNOTE>

sures of the Church were followed up by civil penalties++ "At Jedburgh the
last day of February 1644 (Inter alia) The quilk day Mr Walter Makgill
acquainted the brethrin by his letter, that having summoned John Young and
Thomas Young in Falscastle, before his Session, for not subseryving the Cove-
nant, the said persons told the kirk officer, that they would ken (know or ac-
knowledge) no session not minister, but follow the command of their master, my
Lord Traquoir; and for refusal, he caused summon them before this presbyte-
ry against this day, who not compearing, wad ordeaned to be summoned pra
2 d. with certification."  Hence the danger of imposing indiscriminately the
same oath on all persons of every description, as well as the pernicious conse-
quence of multiplying oaths, and rendering an appeal to God, that last and
most sacred pledge of security to society, too frequent and familiar to the peo-
ple.  Mr Macgill was minister of Cavers, and, as appears from the same re-
cord, preached before the presbytery of Jedburgh, which met there 30th July
1645, for the visitation of his kirk, at the advanced age of 101.  Fastcastle,
which was then the property of the Earl of Traquair, is a curious mound of
earth, whether natural or artificial, is uncertain, on which, till of late, there
were several houses, and, though in the parish of Cavers, is situated so near
the site of the Castle of Bedrule, as gives ground to some to suppose it to have
been raised in ancient times, as an outwork to that fortress.

<UNREADABLE>

++However, at the same time, in justice to the memory of the Covenanters, we
nearly admit, that the baneful spirit of intolerance cannot with truth be
of'-robed to them- than to most of the other in Europe at that time.  For all who
are acquainted with the history of that period, well know, that the spirit of intolerance,
from bad policy and in shaken was unhappily the marked characteristic of most
of the great considering parties of those times, according they became possessed of
than when which as nothing is obviously more to the peace of foresty and
the and possess of individuals, so in the, of nations nothing
more carefully to be guarded against.  For though we see, by the same melan-
choly the Catholic and Protestant, the Episcopalian and Presbyterian,
while the cruel effects of that hateful spirit', alike keenly inweighing against it,
yet, we find them, when possessed of power, perfecting in their turn: A as I in
this is recpect, all evidently shewing themselves equally forgetful of their own com-
plaints and sufferings, as of the laws, precepts, and pattern of the meek and low-
ly Tesus, whom, as they writed in confessing the common Author of their Faith, they,
(all the sincere) doubtless considered as their only perfect example, lawgives and
judge.

</UNREADABLE>


