
                               CRIMOND.                        713

<TABLE>
          Grazing,     .          .               L.2150  0  0
          Gardens and fruit,     .                    60  0  0
          Butter, eggs, cheese, milk, poultry, 	 .  1500  0  0
                                                  ------------
                                                L.15,624  0  0

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-The nearest market-town is Peterhead, nine
miles distant, where a weekly market is held on Fridays.
   Post-Office.-The most convenient post-office for Crimond is
also at Peterhead, although Mintlaw is somewhat nearer.  A foot-
post, or runner, on his own adventure, goes to Peterhead daily in
summer, and  three or four times a-week in winter.
   Means of Communication.-Various attempts have been made,
for the last ten years, to run a stage-coach between Peterhead
and, Fraserburgh, passing through Crimond; but, from bad ma-
nagement, and the very small traffic upon the road in, they have
never succeeded.  The lenght turnpike roads in the parish is
about two miles.  There are seven or eight bridges, all in good
repair, but none of them merit special notice.  Most of the side-
roads admit of great improvement, although much has been done
in this respect within the last twenty years.  Indeed, the manage-
ment of the roads throughout the district generally is grossly de-
fective.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The present parish church was built in
the yeur 1812.  As the farthest extremity of the parish is not
four-miles distant from it, it may be said to be conveniently,
situated for the whole population.  It is in excellent repair,
afford's good accommodation for 500, and is divided amongst
the  heritors according to their respective valuations and again
amongst their tenants, according to the size of their farms.  Al-
though no free sittings are specially set apart for the poor, yet
there is no want of accommodation for them, if inclined to attend.
Unlike most country churches, the church of Crimond has a
steeple, bell, and clock; the last of superior workmanship, and
presented by one of the heritors, the late James Laing, Esq. of
Haddo, in this county, and of Streatham Hill, Surrey, a native
of the parish, and one who in invariably manifested a deep interest
in its welfare.
   A part of the south wall of the old church, built in 1576, still
remains in the churchyard.  The present patron of the church
and parish is the Right Honourable the Earl of Fife, the patron-
age having been purchased from the Earl of Errol about the year
1880.


