
     Statistical Account

great part of the West Highlands.  Her residence was said
to be on the highest mountains; that she could step with
ease, and in a moment, from one district to another; when
offended, that she caused a flood to come from the moun-
tains, which destroyed the corns, and laid the low grounds
under water; that one of these floods was the origin of
Lochow, in Lorn, of Locheck, in this parish, and of many
other lakes; that the people paid her a superstitious vene-
ration, and were under dreadful apprehensions of her anger.
It would be amusing to record the many marvellous tradi-
tions that prevail in the Highlands, which have an allego-
rical meaning, especially where the allegory can be easily
traced.  In the instance of Cailleacb-vear, it is very obvious,
Be'ir is the Gaelic for a thunderbolt.  In the oblique cases,
it is pronounced Ve'ir; as Bein-ve'ir, the name of a very
high mountain in the parish of Appin, which signifies the
Mountain of Thunder.  Every thing said of Cailleacb-vear,
literally applies to the effects of thunder, which is doubly
awful in the neighbourhood of high mountains; nor is it
surprising that it should be personified and superstitiously
dreaded in ages of ignorance.  The mountains of Sierra
Leona in Africa, which divide Nigritia from Guinea, were
styled by the ancients, the mountains of God, on account of
their being subject to thunder and lightning.  The situa-
tion of Cailleacb-vear, in Stralachlan, is much exposed to
every storm.  When a storm was accompanied with thun-
der, it may be easily supposed, that such as were tending
herds of flocks around that stone, would be much alarmed,
would run off, and leave their charge to the mercy of the
person who was supposed to produce the storm.  If any of
the cattle were amissing, Cailleach-vear was accused of ha-
ving seized upon them, and no further search was made.
   On the same ridge of hills, about 8 miles to the eastward
of Cailleacb-vear a small conical hill rises considerably above


