
192			     KINCARDINESHIRE.

	Persons holding crofts from the larger tenantr or middle-men
have greatly decreased in number; and the farms are now lar-
ger or hold of the landlord. The holdings are still, however,
small, rarely exceeding what four horses can labour.
	From what was said at the commencement of this account res-
pecting the nature of the soil, &c. it is obvious that the thorough
improving of waste ground here must be attended with much la-
bour and expense. Agricultural improvements, however, have
been carried on with great vigour and success, and continue to be
so, particularly on the estate of Kingcausie, (partly in this parish
and partly in the adjoining one of the Nether Banchory,) through the
ably directed and perserving exertions of its proprietor, Mr Bos-
well, * who not unfrequently brings the waste ground above describ-
ed from the annual value of 1s. to L.2 Sterling.
	A farm (Swellhead) on the estate of Kingcausie, is at present
undergoing a change of this sort, viz. from useless bogs and swamps,
to dry valuable ground. Draining, coating over with clay the
peat moss, enclosing, and manuring, chiefly with dung from Aber-
deen, have effected an increase of value in the farm that is alto-
gether surprising; and, from being capable of producing only 40
or 50 quarters of grain, it will shortly yield from 450 to 500 quar-
ters per annum. A large court of offices and water thrashing,mhll
instead of a few dry stone hovels, give that part of the parish a
cultivated appearance. Mr Boswell puts in the Deanston, or
"small frequent" drain, of many miles extent, every year; but they
are not as yet much adopted in this part pf the country.
	For many years, turnips have been raised universally or rather
form a part of the usual rotation. Bone dust is used to an im-
mense extent in this parish, even by the smallest tenants. No
wheat is raised in this parish.
	Rent.--The rents are from 15s. to L.1 15s. per imperial acre.
The average rent of grazing full-grown oxen, say of 50 stone
imperial, on moor ground, may be about L.1 10s., in pasture
fields from L.2 to L.2, 10s.
	Wages.--The day's wages of a common labourer are, at present,
from 1s. 6d. per day of ten hours to 1s. 8d., best men; of house-
carpenters from 2s. to 2s. 4d. Male servants from L.2 to L.5
and upwards per annum.+

<FOOTNOTE>This gentlemen has kindly furnished a great deal of information for this Account.
       Those were the parish wages in 1833: contractors' wages are generally higher.
					 3

