
256                        LANARKSHIRE.

from 80 to 100 yards. Its average velocity is from 2 to 8 or 10
miles an hour. In some places it is 10 or 12 feet deep, and at
some fords and streams it is scarcely 1. Its temperature in July,
when the thermometer was 65&deg; in the shade, was 60&deg;.
	The springs are all from the surface, and are formed by the in-
tervention of clay and sand strata, the former holding water, and
the latter permitting its free passage. The process of filtration is
also promoted by the fissures in the metals, and the looser and more
porous materials with which they are filled up. In well-digging,
it is looked upon as a maxim, that there is no water till clay is
reached, and penetrated quite through. Many of our best wells,
however, are in the solid rock, and few of them more than 20 feet
in depth. Their average temperature in July, when the thermo-
meter was 65&deg;, was 50&deg;. In the beginning of November, when
the thermometer was 45, the temperature of the springs was nearly
the same as in July. Many of the wells in Hamilton hold a cal-
careous substance (the carbonate and sulphate of lime) in solution,
equal to a 1500th part of their volume. The carbonate of lime
is a substance equally innocuous as common salt, and although
the springs in which it occurs always produce a hard sort of water,
which is not fit for washing or bleaching, yet for culinary purposes
it is quite unexceptionable. There are several chalybeate springs
in the parish, but none of these are in high repute.
	Geology.--In forming an accurate and comprehensive view of the
geology of this district, if we take the granite rocks of Galloway
as the base, we have superincumbent upon them, 1. the greywacke
of Leadhills and Wanlockhead; 2. the red sandstone over which
the Clyde is precipitated at Lanark; and 3. the coal formation of
the middle and lower wards, consisting of bituminous shale, coal,
gray limestone, gray sandstone, and clay ironstone; thus afford-
ing a beautiful illustration of the transition and Carboniferous
epochs. The sandstone rocks are, for the most part, in great
masses, repeatedly broken by horizontal and perpendicular fissures.
They vary from a few inches or feet, to 50 or 200 or 300 feet in
thickness. The strata, with few exceptions, dip in a N. E. di-
rection towards the Clyde. The dip varies from three to twelve
degrees, or from one to four feet in twenty. In many places the
dip is one in six. There is a small stratum of whin or trap in the
S. W. of the parish, which attains its greatest altitude at High-
cross-Knoll.


