
          1180                          PERTHSHIRE.

          inland position.  We observe them filling the opposite valleys in
          the Sidlaw range, and pausing there as if their corn mission went no
          farther.   Nature, however, confers her boons with no indiscrimi-
          nate hand, and it must be mentioned, what might be expected,
          that the hoar frosts are at once more frequent and copious here
          than in the more elevated parts of the parish.  This, however, is
          the only meteorological advantage enjoyed by the Highland part
          of the parish, and forms a poor compensation for a longer winter,
          a colder spring, and a later harvert. Indeed, the northern parts
          of the parish are only a little removed from that truly Highland
          region, where scattered patches of potatoes and bear in the midst
          of surrounding barrenness, too plainly mark that man is strug-
          gling with a sterile soil, and a deteriorated climate.
            There are no diseases peculiar to the climate.
            Hydrography.-The Isla bounding the lower part of the parish
          on the south, runs with an insensible fall, and the stranger who sees
          it meandering gently and harmlessly "at its own sweet will,"
          through the vale in summer weather.
                                     In many a winding bout,
                            Of linked sweetness long drawn out,
          can scarcely imagine the altered form it assumes when autumnal
          rains or the melting snows of winter have roused the genius of
          the stream.  At high floods, it rises thirteen or fourteen feet above
          its summer level.  In 1774, it rose to within six inches of the top
          of the lowest arch at the bridge of Couttie, and on one occasion I
          saw it oozing over the top of the churbh-yard dike into the bury-
          ing ground.  Below the church it is seventy-five yards broad, and
          at the ford there by which there is a right of road to Coupar-An-
          gus,) is, in summer, three feet in depth.  The Isla takes its rise
          in the Grampians, and runs south-east with a rapid current, un-
          til it is joined by the Dean from the Loch of Forfar, about seven
          miles to the east of this, after which its direction is south-west to
          the Tay, into which it falls at Kinclaven.  The river Ericht, bi-
          secting the lowland part of the parish debouches fiercely from the
          Grampians, and runs in a rapid and straight forward course until
          it reaches the middle of the great strath, where it falls into the
          Isla about one and a-half mile east of the church.  It well merits
          its old name, " ireful Ericht," and although it loses its name the
          instant it joins the Isla, it nevertheless communicates to that river
          something of its own character, turning the torpid Isla into a brisk
          streams, and imbedding its channel for some way with gravels, of
					4



