
     Statistical Account

cies, and metals, (many of them round), found, stuck
and cemented in the face of the rocks, as if placed by art.
Dr. HERVEY, the Bishop of Derry, and some other naturalists,
who were on a tour through this country a few years ago,
asserted, that these appearances were certainly volcanic.  They
evidently hear the traces of having been in an igneous state at
some distant period.

   Echoes and Caves.-There is a very remarkable echo, a lit-
tle to the N. W. of the old Castle of Dunstaffnage, lying
near Conil Ferry, 2 English miles to the N. W. of it.  It
comes from an old chapel, where some of the ancient kings
of Scotland are said to have been buried.  It is near a rock,
on the S. side of it, one point of which stretches towards the
chapel.  If a man is placed on the one side of the point, and
speaks, reads, or cries aloud, the sound of his voice is heard
on the other side, so distinctly reverberated from the chapel,
as to make him imagine it comes from a person within the
chapel*.-There have been many caves, but most of them
are filled up by time.  Urns have been found in several of
them.  There is a very remarkable one, in the face of a rock
in the neighbourhood of Oban, narrow at the mouth, and ex-
tending to an unknown length backwards.  A collection of
human bones and skulls still remain in it+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is affirmed, that at some former period, a man contracted an illness,
which terminated in death, by hearing a sermon on mortality read to him by
an alarming voice, in the dusk of the evening, from the opposite side of the
point, by a person who concealed himself.  He believed the address came
from one of the dead in the chapel.  It warned him to prepare for death.

+The account given of this collection is this, as related to the author of this
article, by an old person still living in the neighbourhood:  About 100 years
ago, a relation of this person, having taken some umbrage at his grandfather,
left his house, with the purpose of revenge.  He went to Ireland, and, some


