
126                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

been built by King Robert Bruce. From the-style of the building
indeed (for there is no date upon it,) it appears to have been erect-
ed about this time; and from several names of places, we may
conclude tbat it actually was the residence of some of the kings--
as the following names seem to indicate " King's Seat Hill,"
"King's Meadow Park," and others of a similar nature, in the
vicinity of the tower. * The greatest height of this tower is 79 feet.
It contains a variety of apartments, and has been surrounded by a
moat, with a draw-bridge. Adjoining the tower stood the old man-
sion, the residence of the family, till the direct line became extinct."
To the top of the tower, the tourist may ascend by a spiral stair.
In going round its summit, the views vary at every step, and, whe-
ther contemplated separately or in conjunction, are truly grand.
There is another old tower situated on the banks of the Devon,
belonging to the Earl of Mansfield. This tower and the estate of
Sauchie, with which it is connected, were long in the possession of
the family of Lord Cathcart. The Sauchie tower is still more en-
tire than that of Clackmannan. There was also one of the same kind
at a place called Hart Shaw, which belonged originally to the
Stewarts of Rosyth. It was probably the hunting-seat of that
family, as the name appears to denote.
   Modern Buildinqs.--The present parish church was erected about
twenty-four years since. It is a handsome structure, with a tower
of considerable height, and, occupying as it does, an elevated and
commanding position, is seen from a great distance; it contains
1250 sittings. An extension church is being erected in the north-
west division of the parish; it will contain 620 sittings. The site
of it is an exceedingly eligible one, being perfectly centrical in re-
ference to the district for whose population it is intended, and al-
so adjacent to fine woodland scenery, whose general aspect will be
rendered more interesting by the handsome tower of the new
church. At the cross in the town of Clackmannan, there remains
a gable and tower, which were formerly connected with the Coun-
ty Hall, prison, &c. The present County Hall, which is of mo-
dern erection, is situated immediately to the north of the town.
   There are several mansion-houses in the parish. On the es-
tate of Sauchie, in the north-west division of the parish, the vene-
rable mansion of Schaw Park, one of the seats of the Earl of
Mansfield, is situated. It is an old and very large buildings, and

<FOOTNOTE>See accounts of the Chamberlain of Scotland in the year 1329,1330, and 1331,
from the originals in the Exchequer, published by Mr John Davidson in 1771.


