
                    DINGWALL.                              215

called Dryine, is nearly as powerful, and contains the same ingre-
dients, as the celebrated Strathpeffer spa. There is also within
the town a strong chalybeate spring, which has lately attracted some
attention as a powerful tonic. It rises from a depth of about 20
feet below the surface, and was discovered by sinking a pump-well
through the clay strata upon which the town is built.
     There are no lakes, properly speaking, within this parish, but a
small isolated and now uninhabited district of it is situated on the
border of a lake called Ousic, about two miles to the south-west
of the town. It is nearly a square mile in extent, studded all over
with richly wooded islets, which, with the bold outline of the blue
hills around, give it rather an interesting appearance. It is, in
other respects, only remarkable as the haunt of various aquatic
birds, which resort to it for the purpose of breeding.
     The river Conan, which bounds this parish to the south, is a
considerable stream. It has been estimated to discharge 70,000
cubic feet per minute. Its course, which is from west to east, is
about thirty-five miles, from its source in one of about a dozen
mountain likes which feed it, to its debouchement into the Cro-
inarty Frith. The Conan has few peculiarities. It is one of the
Scotch rivers which furnish pearls. They are obtained in consi-
derable quantity, and often of remarkable beauty, from the river-
mussel (Mya Margaritifera, Lin.) Itproducesabundaticeof salmon,
trout, &c. and derives its name from the number of otters that for-
merly infested it, but which have now become comparatively rare.
     Geology.-The prevailing rock in this parish is sandstone, in-
termixed with conglomerate, being a part of the mass of old
red sandstone and conglomerate which traverses this county
from the Sutherland coast in a south-westerly direction,  till it
reaches the borders of Inverness-shire. This rock, which is stra-
tified, dipping towards the south, and apparently resting conforma.
bly on the gneiss and mica-slate of Ben Wyvis, passes occasionally,
particularly in this and the neighbouring parish of Fodderty, into
a dark-coloured calcareous schist, foliated and impregnated with bi-
tuminous matter, producing the sulpbureous mineral springs men-
tioned. As it approaches its junction with this latter rock, the
sandstone loses its characteristic colour, and becomes of a pale
bluish gray, and, being of a smooth friable texture, is well adapted
for the purposes of masonry. Over this, there is generally a pretty
thick deposit of a species of coarse, gravelly, light-coloured clay,
Containing boulders of granite, slenite and gneiss, occasionally


