
     of Campbelton.

to aid that monarch, in resisting the pretensions of Henry VI.
and Margaret of Anjou*.  The king of Scotland, offended
at this daring and independent conduct of the Earl, sent an
army under the command of the Earl of Athole, to reduce
him to obedience+.  But a reconciliation having, in the
mean time, taken place between James and Edward, the Earl
of Ross submitted without resistance.  He was afterwards at-
tainted by a parliament held at Edinburgh in the mouth of
November 1475, but restored the year following to the pos-
session of Kintyre, Knapdale, Morven, and the lordship of the
Isles, "et omnes alias insulas, quae sibi JOANNI ante dict. foris-
"facturam hereditarie pertinuerunt, ob propinquitatem sanguinis
"in qua ipse JOANNES nobis attingit, et ob instantiam carissimae
"consortis nostrae MARGARIT’ Reginae Scotiae, et venerendo-
"rum in CHRISTO Patrum, et regni nostri procerum," as is-
expressed in the charter of Restoration.  Here we leave the
Lords of the Isles, and shall only add, that that powerful fami-
ly came afterwards to be represented by the descendants of
Hugh of Slate in the isle of Sky, brother to the last Earl of
Ross, and ancestor to the present LORD MACDONALD.
   In regard to the second branch of the MACDONALDS, it is
to be observed, that in the year 1493 James IV. held a par-
liament in Kintyre, where he emancipated part of the vassals
of the Macdonalds in Argyll, and granted them, de novo,
charters holding of the Crown; and, in 1536, to curb the
license, and to subdue the haughty spirit of the chieftains and
their vassals James V. found it necessary to make a voyage
to the isles.  During this expedition, the King built, or ra-

<FOOTNOTE>

*See Rymer's Foedera in 1461, where the indenture may be
found at length.  Boteler bishop of Winchester, and the Lord
Wenlock, were the King of England's commissioner's.
   +On Athole's taking leave, the king told him to "make
"haste back, and FILL THE FETTERS;" an expression which has
ever since been adopted as the motto of the Athole family.


