
274                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

to the excess and poverty of the population, and the high price of
wool, the natives, notwithstanding their exertions and industry, are
generally but scantily supplied with bedclothes and wearing ap-
parel. The females, for the most part, weave the country cloths
of all kinds, and are very expert in dyeing all colours to much per-
fection The country people tan their own leather, sometimes
with the bark of the birch tree, but for the most part with the
roots of the Tormentilla rulgaris. They generally make their
own shoes or brogues, wbich they finish very neatly with no sort
of hempen thread, but with a thong cut from the dressed hide of
a calf.
  Superstitions.-The age of superstition may be said to be now
gone, as the vestiges which remain of it are but comparatively
few, and have but little influence over the minds of the greater
portion of the natives. At one period, however, the case was
otherwise, when the existence of second-sight, and of other super-
natural phenomena, was as firmly believed in the Hebrides, as the
writings of the Apostle Paul. On this subject there have been
many arguments, and keen discussions among the learned, and
much has been written on both sides of the question.
  The person who had the misfortune to be gifted with the second-
sight was called Taibhsear, or seer. He was considered by him-
self and others to be unhappily gifted, and on that account no one
envied him for his unnatural attainments, The visions were ge-
nerally about shrouds, funerals, corpses, the appearance of friends
or others, who were at the time in distant countries,-the arrival
of strangers, swamping of boats, drowning at sea, dropping sud-
denly dead, and numberless other subjects.
   The faculty which a taibbsear was said to possess bad a strik-
ing resemblance to the clairvoyance of the animal magnetists.
Many astonishing cases might be mentioned of taibhsearachd, or
second-sigbt, wherein it would appear impossible that either fraud
or deception could exist. It may, however, be naturally asked,
if the gift was at one time so common, and if so many were, with
so much certainty, possessed of it, why it has wholly disappeared
from those very localities in which it was once so prevalent? Martni,
in, his book on the Hebrides, alludes to many even in this parish
who were, according to him, undoubted taibbsears; but although
we have now four individuals in the place, for every one individual
in his day,we would look in vain among the whole population for
a single taibhsear.



