
                                BOWDEN.                       41

broken up to any great extent, may be stated at about 2531 acres.
Taking into consideration the coldness of the climate and other
local impediments, it is a matter of doubt, whether the extent of
land kept under arable culture could be increased with advantage.
Two or three hundred acres may, however, be advantageously
taken out of grass, cleaned and cultivated, and then laid down
again in an improved state for permanent pasture; and a conside-
rable quantity more might be improved by draining and top-dres-
sing without breaking up.
    The feuars of Bowden and Midlem have thirty acres of undivid-
ed common grass land, the parturage of which is let annually for
a small sum by the feuars, while all the inhabitants of the villages
have the privilege of cutting turfs, peats, and divots on it.  The
commons are partly overrun with whins, and being surrounded by
arable fields, present rather an unseemly appearance.
    Wood.-Around the residences of several of the proprietors,
there are some fine old trees, and in the Duke of Roxburghe's
ancient park at Holydean, there is a natural wood about forty
acres in extent, chiefly old birch trees.  Around the church-yard
of Bowden there are several remarkably large sycamore and ash
trees ; the latter, indeed, are considered the oldest and largest of
the kind in this district.  There are also in the parish a consider-
able number of plantations of more recent growth, chiefly planted
within the last forty years.  The most extensive and conspicuous
of these is on the southern side of the Eildon Hills.  The others
consist principally of sheltering and ornamental belts of various
sizes and shapes.  Taken altogether, the land under wood may ex-
tend to somewhat above 260 acres.  Although  much has been
done of late in the way of planting there is still great room for
improvement.  This remark is particularly applicable to the west
and north-west sides of the parish, where there is, comparatively, but
little wood, and where the greatest advantage, both as to orna-
ment and shelter, would be obtained by planting on a large scale,
In other parts of the parish, where shelter is  not so much requir-
ed, various pieces of waste land, which cannot be profitably culti-
vated, and several of which are to be found in patches within cul-
tivated fields, might, be beneficially planted. It may further be
observed, that when shelter is the principal object, plantations are
frequently made too narrow to be effective.  By increasing their
width, additional shelter would not only be obtained, but the growth


