
316                    RENFREWSHIRE.

     Chalmers, Esq. who himself carries on the worj, and who has a
long lease of it.
Streams and rivulets abound in the parish ; but the chief of
them are the Levern, Kirkton-burn, the Brock, and Cawpla Rill.
     The loebs are three '-the Long-Loeb, Locti-Libo, and Caw-
pla-Locti. The extent of the first is about a mile in length and
half a mile in breadth, with an average depth of from 16 to 18 feet.
Loeb- Libo, in figure nearly an oval, contains about 16 acres in length
and 14 in breadth. Its depth is unknown; but it is verv consider-
able in the centre. It is the source of Lugton-water, which runs
west, and, after beautifying the country and extensive pleasure-
grotirids of Eglintoii, it falls into the Garnock, a little way below
Kilwitining. The Cawpla-Loch is tolerably large in winter, but
si,nall in summer. Neither about it nor the Long-Loch is there
any sceiiery; but Loch-Libo presents a scene of unparalleled beau-
ty. Its loftv hills, on both sides, are wooded with fine old trees to
the water's edge. Its oblong or oval figure pleases the eye, while
its smooth and glassy surface, disturbed only bv the heron, wild
and teal-duck, swimming and fishing upon it, give it animation.
Standing at the turn of the road, as you ascend northward, above
the Sbillford toll-bar, and looking west, when the sun, in a fine
summer evening, is pouring his rays upon it, its effect is enchanting.
Besides these loclis, there are other large artificial collectiODS
of water called reservoirs. The Hairlaw reservoir covers 72 acres
of flow-moss, and is 16 feet deep. Comore reservoir covers 16
acres, and is about 24 feet in depth. The reservoir to the north
of the Pad covers 14 acres, and is 16 feet deep. To these we add
the Kirkton and WaltOD dams, each of which contains a consi-
derable body of water.
The,source or feeder of Hairlaw and Comore is the Long-Loch
thesourceofthePadisasmalistreamtothewestofit. TlieKirkton-
dam rises to the south of the Pad, and is fed by the streamlets that
descend from that hill, and the moors to the south-west. The
WaltOD-d`m has its origin from a small rill that takes its rise be-
tween the Snvpes farm and Upper W-alton.
The chiefstream, however, is the LIEVERN, which has its source
in the LODg-Loch, and which divides the paiish for neatly four
miles into two parts. Its direction is first to the north, then to
the north-east, and, finally, from Crofthead to the east, till it enters
theAbbeyparisb,,westoftbeHurlet. ItpassesNeilstoiiandBarr-
head on the Dorth, the Hurlet on the south, and falls into the White


