
	1006                          PERTHSHIRE.

	over a deep chasm, under which the river precipitates itself with
	great violence among the rocks. Farther down is sittuated the
	Hermitage, as it ir called, on the north bank of the river, encircled
	in wood, the property of the Duke of Atholl.  Here is another
        cascade, and the place is one of great resort in the summer montbs
        to strangers.  There are guides appointed to conduct through the
	grounds, who receive payment from the visitors. It is to be regretted
	that these walks have been long open to visitors on the
        Lord's day.  Considerable desecration of the Sabbath is the consequence,
        as these Sunday pleasure-parties not only absent themselves
	from the house of prayer, but set a bad example to the in.
	habitants of the district.  Application was made some years ago
	to the proper authorities to have the nuisance put a stop to, by
	shutting the walks on the Lord's day.  The concession granted
	was, that the gates should be shut "during divine service."
		Woods.-In the districts of Murthly and the Bishoprick, there is
	a considerable extent of woods.  The planted trees are, oak, ash,
	Scotch fir, larch, and plane.  The indigenous are birch and hazel.
	The oak and fir are of most extent, and also the most profitable.
	The former is divided into coppices, which are successively cut
	down once in twenty years, and affords a good return for land in
	other respects of little value.  It fetches a good price for the sake
	of the bark; and, in the summer season, gives employment to a
	good many people. A considerable quantity of Scotch fir and
	larch, of large dimensions, has been cut of late, and sent to England
	for ship-building. The birch, which gives to much beauty
	to Highland scenery, is nearly extirpated in this parish, and the
	oak is taking its place. At Inver there is a powerful saw-mill,
	driven by water, which gives employment to a good many hands.
	Here there is a very large quantity of timber prepared and exported
	to England for railroads and other purposes.
		Geology.-Near Murthly, in the eastern district of the parish,
	there is a quarry of freestone, of a fine grain, and light ash colour.
	The eathedral of Dunkeld was build of this stone, and also the fine
	bridge which crosses the Tay at Dunkeld. In Birnam bill, there
	is a slate quarry, which furnishes abundance of excellent slate, of
	a deep blue colour, resembling violet.
		Soil.-There is a considerable variety of soil in the parish.
	The best seems to be in the eastern district, consisting generally
	of black loam. In the other districts, the soil is composed partly
	of black mould, and partly of sand and gravel.


