
     of Kilrmaurs.

in Sterling to the valued rent in Scots money, the real rent
may be estimated at nearly L. 5000, the valued rent being
L. 5305.  Suppose the real rent to be L. 5000, that divi-
ded by an average rent the acre of 23 s. will produce

<FOOTNOTE>

formerly it was called the Mote.  There is a tumulus still remaining,
near the Carmel-bank, which is certainly that Mote; whether it ser-
ved in days of old as a sanctuary, an observatory for communicating
alarm, or was a place where courts of justice were held, no intelligence
can now be had.  The fosse, by which it had been surrounded, is still di-
stinguishable, but no vestiges of building appear.  Mr Cuninghame's lands
of Mote or Carmel-bank are in excellent order, and discover the true
spirit of agriculture in the proprietor.  The friends of improvements have
reason to wish that his territorial subject were more extensive.  Besides
the example he affords of good management, he is likewise very useful
to society, by preventing law-suits among the peasantry, to whom he rea-
dily communicates his best advice; and which they receive with confi-
dence, because he for some years made law his study.
   Busby-castle stands a little beyond the last mentioned place, is now un-
roofed and falling into ruins.  A family of Barklays possessed it long.  The late
Lord Glencairn sold it, with the lands belonging to it, to Miss Scott.
Coal was wrought in these lands, and may still be had at no great ex-
pense.  Concerning the Barklays of Busby, it is said, they had somehow
incumbered the estate so much that they were obliged to wadset a great
part of it.  One of them, among the last heirs, being in such a straitened
condition that he could not find as much money as would buy a new
coat made offer to renew a wadset which was about to expire, and
which had every appearance of giving the person to whom the former
one had been granted, all possible chance of becoming the real proprietor,
if he would furnish.-Barklay with money to buy a coat.  But the
man imagined, that since the laird was become so poor, there was no rea-
son to believe that he could prevent the term of redemption from expiring.
He was grievously mistaken, for Mr Barklay not only found from another
quarter a new coat, but also as much money as redeemed the wadset.
   Mr William Ralston, factor to the Earl of Eglinton, lives in this parish,
and possesses a large farm.  His attention to, and dispatch in business, is
superior to that of most men.  The interest of an employer was never
better served than Lord Eglinton's is by him; and with such ease does he
manage his own affairs, that one would imagine he has none to manage;
yet it is this gentleman who subsets at L. 5 the acre, the arable land of his


