
306                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

and of these our high grounds have an abundant share ; but from
their position, as forming the eastern extremity of the range of the
Lennox hills, they are equally exposed to the winds and rains from
the east ; and it is believed that tHere are few places in Scotland,
in which more rain falls than in the moorlands of this parish.
   Climate.-In general, the inhabitants of the parish are healthy,
and many of them live to a great age. Within these few years,
one person died in the 101st year of his age. Several deaths
have taken place between 95 and 100; and we have still a few
persons, above 90, and a goodly number upwards of 80, In
former times, agues were common in the carses, and rheumatism is
still prevalent, particularly in the moorlands. Marshes and stag-
nant water having been completely removed by thorough draining,
agues are now not known in the carses; but no such remedy for
rheumatism has been found. There is frequently very consider-
able mortality among children from measles, scarlet-fever, and
other diseases peculiar to childhood. Though almost every va-
riety of disease peculiar to this country is to be found in the pa-
rish, yet no disease so frequent and uniform in its character occurs
as to entitle it to the appellation of endemic. The common con-
linued fever, often terminating in typhus, is frequent among the
adult population of every age and sex. It does not appear that
there is any material difference between the diseases of those that
reside in villages, and those that live in the country; yet it is be-
lieved that the greatest number of aged persons, in proportion to
the population, will be found among those residing in the countrv
Nor is this to be ascribed to the superior purity of the air they
breathe; it may with greater propriety be imputed to their more
simple and regular habits of life.
   Hydrography.--The Forth, the Bodotria of the Romans, when
it comes into contact with this parish, is not attractive either for
its beauty or the volume of its waters ; but during its course of six-
teen miles, in which it forms our northern boundary, it receives
such accessions' from the Teitb, the Allan, the Devon, on the
north, and from the Bannock, and other, small streams, on the
south, that it not only becomes a magnificent river, but speedily
swells out into an arm of the sea. It is navigable as far as Stir-
ling, and the tide is perceptible for a mile above the town. The
banks of the river are in general very low; and in several places, ar-
tificial mounds are necessary to prevent its overflowings. Lime and
coal are shipped at Fallin ; brick and tile at Throsk. These are our


