
                       PARISH OF KINTAIL.

          PRESBYTERY OF LOCHCARRON, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                THE REV. JAMES MORISON, MINISTER.


              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Situation, &c.- THE parish of Kintail is situate on the
west coast of the county of Ross, and chiefly along the north shore
of Lochduich. The name is evidently of Gaelic derivation, and
signifies (Cean da shaill) head of two seas. An arm of the At-
lantic at Kyle-akin extends eastwardly for about eight miles, until it
meets the first point of land in Kintail, at the island of Donnan.
At this island, the sea divides itself in such a manner, that about
two-thirds take a south-east direction for six miles, terminating in
what is properly called Lochduich, one of the most beautiful and
romantic sheets of water in the West Highlands. The other divi-
sion, called Lochlong, extends in a north-north-east direction for
about 4 miles. In no part, is Lochlong more than a quarter of a
mile broad. Its tides are always rapid, and at times almost irre-
stistible. Lochlong separates this district of Kintail from the pa-
rish of Loebalsh ; but there is a well regulated ferry, affording an
easv and safe access from the one parish to the other, Between
the north-east end of Lochlong and the southeast end of Loch-
duicb, is included the inhabited portion of the parish.
 Extent, Sfc.-It is impossible to say exactly what the extent of
the parish may be, as it never was accurately measured; but, ac-
cording to the opinions of those best acquainted with the grounds,
it cannot be more than from IS to 20 miles from east to west,-
and of this extent 10 miles only are inhabited; the rest, con-
sisting of hill-grazings, is admirably Rated for the pasturing 'of all
kinds of stock. The parish is from 5 to 6 miles broad; but all the
hamlets and cultivated land are, with few exceptions, along the sea
shore. The northern district of the parish, called Glenelebaig, is
separated from the southern and western division along Lochdtiieh
and Lochlong, 15y high and rugged mountains; and is by no means
of easy access.
                              4

