
                 KILMORE AND KILBRIDE.                 525

   Dunolly, Gylen.-- Neither history nor tradition say when
the Castle of Dunolly was built.  Somerled, Thane or Prince
of Herigadiel, who flourished in the beginning of the twelfth
century, divided his great territories betwixt his sons Dugal and
Reginald.  Dugal he placed over those on the mainland, then
erected into a principality, and named Argadia, or Ergadia, with
the chief's seat at Dunolia, now Dunolly. Dugal's successors as-
sumed and are known by the patronymic appellation of McDougall.
Allaster McDougall, or, as he is called in the writings of the times,
Allaster de Argadia, married the third daughter of John, called the
Red Comyn, who was slain by Bruce.  Hence Allaster became the
mortal enemy of that prince, and defeated him in battle at Dalree
near Tyndrum.  The vanquished prince retreated, leaving his brooch
and plaid, as memorials of victory, in the hands of his conqueror.
When Bruce obtained an ascendancy in Scotland, he amply re-
venged his defeat at Dalree, at the pass of Awe in Argylesbire,
where the M'Dougalls under John, son of Allaster, were routed
with great slaughter, Bruce thereupon laid waste Argyle, and
laid siege to, and took the Castle of Dunstaffnage. From this
period, the representatives of Somerled are no longer styled de
Argadia.  Their title thereafter is Lords of Lorn, and the Castle
of Dunolly, with its dependencies, was the principal part of what
remained to them.  These they continued to enjoy until the year
1715, when the representative incurred the penalty of forfeiture
for big accession to the insurrection of that period:-" thus," as
Sir Walter Scott says, "losing the remains of their inheritance,
to replace upon the throne the descendants of those princes whose
accession their ancestors bad opposed at the expense of their feu-
dal grandeur."
   The estate was afterwards restored to Alexander, grandfather
of the present proprietor, John McDougall of McDougall, Cap-
tain in Her Majesty's navy.
   A better picture of the site of the house of Lorn cannot be
presented than that drawn by the pen of the great bard himself,
who visited the ruins of Dunolly in 1814.  "Nothing," says Sir
Walter, "can be more wildly beautiful than the situation of Dun-
olly.  The ruins are situated upon a bold and precipitous promon-
tory, overhanging Loch Etive, and distant about a mile from the
village and port of Oban.  The principal part which remains is
the donjon or keep ; but fragments of other buildings, overgrown
with ivy, attest that it had been once a place of importance,


