
     Statistical Account

   Stipend, School, Poor.-Logie-Coldstone is a vice-patronage;
the Crown and Invercauld present alternately.  The annual
stipend modified in 1793 is L. 45: 2: 1, and 111 bolls of
victual, 32 of which are bear, and 2 glebes.  The church
was rebuilt in 1780, the manse and kitchen in 1783; the
office-houses are in a ruinous state.-There is only one school.
The salary is 100 merks; the number of scholars in winter
is from 50 to 80, owing to the school being contiguous to a
great part of the parish of Tullich, which lies within Cro-
mar, and that of Migvie, where there is no school but that
of Coldstone adjacent to either.  The school is kept in the
old manse where the schoolmaster lives; in summer the
number of scholars seldom exceeds 10 or 12.-The number
of poor on the parish-roll is usually from 28 to 35.  The
only fund for their support, which amounted to L. 35 Ster-
ling, was in the hands of a gentleman, who failed in cir-
cumstances and is since dead.  All that was recovered of the
money was L. 6; so that the poor have nothing now but
that and the weekly collections to depend upon.  Inver-
cauld has been in the regular practice of sending money to
divide among them annually since the 1783; the sum is
usually L. 11 Sterling.

<FOOTNOTE>

NOTE.

Letter from Mr Farquharson to Sir John Sinclair.

"There is a very uncommon and particular circumstance in my case,
which I shall mention to you, (knowing you to be a friend to mankind).
I have for a long time been distressed with a disorder in my stomach; a-
bout 5 years ago, I was advised to take (when much pained) 25 drops
of laudanum once a day, and to increase the quantity gradually.  My
distress was such, that it made me attend regularly to the prescription, as
it gave me a momentary relief, so that at the end of 4 years I came on
to 12 and often 14 tea-spoonfuls the day; the effects of which, along with
my complaint, reduced me to mere skin and bone, and made me as yellow
as an orange.  I consulted Dr Cullen when I began to take the lauda-
num, who did not disapprove of it; but on finding it breaking in fast
on my constitution, (which was originally good), I applied to Dr Monro


