
374                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

the commercial world. During the war, a considerable part of the
iron cannon used by Government, was made at Carroni and the
excellence of the guns was so uniform, that the officers of the dif-
ferent branches of the service gave a decided preference to Car.
ron, over all the other founderies which were employed from time
to time.
  We can attest, from personal inspection, that the guns of Duke
Wellington's battering train were all from Carron. This is not
an occasion to discuss the comparative merits of brass and iron
ordnamce; but so conclusive has been the disquisition to the mind
of the French Government, that, in the year 1835, a committee
of French artillery officers was permitted by the Carron Company
to superintend the construction of some trial guns, which had been
ordered by the French, with the sanction of our Government.
This liberal conduct need not awaken national jealousy, as, with
regard to the mixture of ores and the composition of the metal,
which is the only secret worth knowing, the Frenchmen went
just as wise as they came. The iron-work has been for ten years
under the management of Mr Joseph Dawson, nephew of the late
Joseph Stainton. who has greatly improved the works. Nearly
8000 tons of pig-iron are smelted from the ironstone annually, and
manufactured into every description of article, from an ounce
weight to a boiler of several tons. 1200 men are employed about
the work, exclusive of a very large farming establishment, and a
marine comprising six large smacks trading to London, three to
Liverpool, and numerous sloops used in carrying lime and iron-
stone. A substantial double rail-road connects the foundery with
the collieries of Kinnaird and, Carronhall. Another railway forms
a communication between the works and the shipping wbarf on
the Forth and Clyde Canal at Bainsford.
  For many years, there have been five blast-furnaces; two of
those have been lately pulled down and rebuilt on a new construc-
tion, adapted to the application of the hot-blast. The engine
employed for the blast is of very large dimensions, having a steam
cylinder of 66 inches diameter, and making on an average sixteen
to eighteen strokes per minute.
  The Carron Iron-works were, for many years, the largest in Scot-
land; but recently some of the blast-furnace establishments near
Glasgow have been increased, so as to surpass the number of
blast-furnaces at Carron.
  Some of the English works, also, are larger. Messrs Craw-


