
                           JURA                                     535

on account of the excellence of their pasture, and the shelter they
afford for sheep and black-cattle. They yield an annual rent of
L.150 Sterling to Mr Campbell of Jura.
   Belnahua, about one mile in circumference, is almost a barren
rock, valuable on account of its slate quarry. It contains a popu-
lation of 150 souls, and is the property of Mr John Stevenson,
Oban.
   Topographical Appearances.--The island of Jura presents to
the eye a rough and rugged appearance: its conical mountains,
called, tbe Paps of Jura, are seen from a great distance, and form
conspicuous land-marks to mariners. These mountains are three
in number; their names are "Beinn a Chaolais, Beinn an Oir,
and Beinn Shianta;" their difference in height above the level of
the sea is trifling. Beinn an Oir, considered to be the highest,
is about 2700 feet high. The whole population, with but few
exceptions, reside on the east side of the island, where consider-
able agricultural improvements have lately been made, the west
side presenting in its whole length a bold, rocky, and rugged as-
pect. Upon this side of the island, there are at least fifty of the
most magnificent caves which can be met with in any part of
Scotland, the least of them capable of furnishing comfortable and
dry lodging to the traveller.
   The largest of these, Uaghlamaich, is, at its opening facing the
Atlantic Ocean, 33 feet in height, and contains an area of 1312
square yards; its beautifully arched roof scarcely admits a drop of
water. Its floor is level and dry; amid the raging of the highest
tempest, scarcely a breath of wind stirs within it. The opening of
this splendid cave is about 38 feet about the level of the sea.
There are other caves spacious in their dimensions, and comfort-
able in their accommodation: two of them are called corpachs, i.e.
places where the inhabitants of Jura and other countries, on their
way to Oransay and Iona to bury their dead, were in the habit
of depositing the corpses of their friends, until a favourable oppor-
tunity of prosecuting their voyage to Iona and Oransay occurred.
One of these corpachs is in Rhuintalen, opposite to Colonsay: the
other, called the corpach of I Columkill, is several miles to the
north-east, along the coast.
   The island of Jura has ever been proverbial for the longevity of
its inhabitants. Instances are on record of many who attained the
advanced age of 100 years, in the full possession of their faculties
until the last.


