
				ALYTH.                          1127

	by the want of proper clothing.   The sacrament is administered
	twice a-year.  On the last occasion about 800 communicated, but,
	as a considerable number attend only once a-year, the whole num-
	ber of communicants may be stated at 1000.  Both the attend-
	ance at the parish church and the number of communicants have
	been affected to some extent by the late disturbances in the Church
	of Scotland.  Four out of eleven elders, and a considerable sec-
	tion of the people, probably equal in number to the other dissen-
	ters collectively, are understood to adhere to the seceding cler-
	gymen.
	   A parochial association for religious purpose was established in
	1836.  The annual contributions have varied from L. 23 to L. 30.
	   Education.-The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the
	maximum of L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d., with a good house and an allowanoe
	for garden ground.  A new school-room was erected in 1835, with
	accommodation for 150 pupils.  The number attending this school
	at the last examination was 98.    The fees of the parish school
	are, for reading alone, 2s. per quarter ; reading and writing, 2s.
	6d. ; reading, writing, and arithmetic, 4s. ; Latin, with the com-
	mon branches of education, 7s. 6d. ; mathematics, 10s..6d. One
	of the General Assembly's schools is situated at Drumfork, in the
	Blacklunans.  It is very efficiently taught, and was attended last
	spring by 101 children.    There is also a school at Gauldswell,
	supported by Sir James Ramsay, and nine unendowed schools, all,
	with one exception, in the village.   The total number of children
	attending the dhfferent schools in February last was 547. The
	people are in general attentive to the instruction of their children,
	and few or none are allowed to grow tip destitute of the benefit of
	education.
	   Sabbath Schools, conducted by the elders and others, have been
	in a flourishing state for many years.   They are at present attend-
	ed by about 350 children.  A class for young men and women is
	taught by the minister during part of the year, and is generally at-
	tended by about 50.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Tbe number of persons who re-
	ceived regular parochial aid during the last year was 107, and 79
	(including 55 of those on the permanent roll) received occasional
	relief from the poor's box.  The total amount raised for the relief
	of the poor was L. 511, Os. 9 1/2d., of which L. 445, 3s. 6d. was
	raised by assessment, and L. 65, 17s. 3 1/2d. from collections and
	other sources, including about L. 14 from mortifications, mortcloth


