
           	           CARNWATH.                          77

part of the parish within the last forty years. *  No distemper,
indeed, seems to prevail more than another, or can be attributed
to the influence of the climate.
   Hydrography.--There are several mineral springs in different
parts of the parish, but I am not aware that any of them have
been analyzed, or have attracted particular notice.-The only loch
worthy of notice is what is called the White Loch, immediately
west of the village of Carnwath.  It covers about 30 acres, is of
considerable depth in some places, and finely wooded on the south
and west sides.  It is more than a mile in circumference.  A small
kind of perch is the only fish found in it, and it is chiefly remark-
able as the great rendezvous of the curlers of the district around.
Besides eight or nine rinks, as they are called, each rink consist-
ing of eight individuals, whom the parish supplies, and who are
to be seen contending with each other in generous rivalship, the
curlers from other parishes also frequently meet here to decide
the contest, and sometimes upwards of 200 combatants have been
arrayed against each other on the slippery bosom of the loch. +
   Mineralogy.-On the north side of Dippool, coal, iron, and lime-
stone are all to be found.  The ridge of ground immediately north
of its banks is chiefly filled with limestone, which is wrought exten-
sively, and is the great depot from which this useful manure is sup-
plied to the surrounding country for many miles.  It rises gradually
from the moss on the north bank of the above rivulet, and which
is generally improved to the extent of half a mile; and the whole
of the south acclivity from Westshiel to Eastsidewood has been par-
tially wrought.  The metals on this side are disposed as under:
After a tirring, as it is called, of from 20 to 27 feet, comes the lime-
stone, generally about 6 feet in thickness,-and under it, again, is
found a seam of coal of 18 1/2 inches, which is generally sufficient for
burning the limestone.  All these dip towards the north or top of
the ridge, while on the opposite, or north side, from the top of the

<FOOTNOTE>I have observed more cases of cancer in the lip than of any other disease; but
these are not to be ascribed to any thing peculiar to the climate, but to the smoking
of tobacco, and, especially, to the manner which I have seen that done.  I once went
into a house where a men was in the last stage of a disease of the kind.  He was
still able to take his pipe, and, to my horror, I saw him hand it, when done, to one of
his friends, who again handed it to another; and both seemed to enjoy it as much
as if it had never come in contact with such a disease.
          In the end of the year 1832, a curling club was founded in the parish, un-
der the auspices of Alexander Macdonald Locukhart, Esq.  It consists of sixteen
members, all resident, or born within the barony of Carnwath.  The club can, by
means of its members, have two games going on at once, each member playing two
stones.  This is not the common way of playing the game in this country, where
each player appears upon the ice with only one stone.  Sixteen people are thus
brought into close contact; but the noise and confusion thus created are far from
adding to the beauty or interest of the game.


