
68                              PREBLES-SHIRE.

        About fifty years ago draining commercial in this parish on a
large scale, and at a rough calculation not less than 80,000 roods
have undergone that process. Catching of moles, buildings of stells
or shelters for the sheep in stormy nights, and crecting march
dikes or fence between different farms, are great improvements.
and much has been done is preferred as a fence for sheep. The unce-
mented or Galloway dike is preferred as a fence for sheep. The
durations of leases for such farms as this parish containing is extreme-
ly various, being 4,6,8, 14 to 19 years. The farm-houses are
all slated and built of stone and lime, and most of them are two
stories high. Several of the shepherds' houses are built of stone
and lime, and covered with slate.
        The greatest obstacle to improvement is the distance of lime
and extent of land carriage for all kinds of materials. A single
cart of lime when every thing is hired costs 13s. or 14s.
        Produce.--The average value of raw produce yearly raised in
the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:


        <TABLE>

        Oats at 14s. 6d. per boll, barley at 22s. per boll, and pease at 20s.
         per boll, the only grains cultivated in the parish,     L. 303 14  0
        Potatoes at 5s. per boll,          -     -      -           143 15  0
        Turnips at 50s. per acre,            -     -      -          80  0  0
        Meadow hay at 4d. per stone,           -     -      -       241 17  6
        Cultivated do. at 6d. per stone,         -     -      -      61 15  0
        Wool at the present prices, not less than 18s. per stone,  2400  0  0
                                                                    ---------
                                                                 L.3231   1 6


                                V. PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

        Market-Town.-- The nearest market-town is Biggar, which is
twelve miles from the Crook Inn. In the parish there is no village
of any description.
        Means of Communication.--There are post-chaises and horses
at Crook, where is also our post-office. The great road from Edin-
burgh to Dumfries by Moffat runs ten miles through the parish;
and, as the mail-coach passes along it daily, it is of course kept in
a state of excellent repair.
        Ecclesiastical State.--The church is scarcely two miles from the
lower extremity of the parish, and, consequently, some of the pa-
rishioners have to travel eight miles in order to reach it. It was
built in 1648, and is at present in good repair. It accommodates
160 individuals, and about 30 free sittings are afforded by the
communion seats, which, however, have lately been removed to
make way for a stove during the severer months in winter; but in
summer, when required for the greater attendance at that time,
they are replaced.

        

