
                              MUTHILL.                              329

         About sixty of its inhabitants are employed in weaving cotton,
      which is sent to them from Glasgow.
         Few villages, we think, can be compared with Muthill, as to the
      beauty of its locality, its cleanliness, and the simple and artless
      manners of its people.  All its poor are well supplied, and none of
      them are allowed to beg; whilst, on the other band, hone of its
      inhabitants are so rich as to keep their hands from working.  But
      what strikes the visitor of Muthill most, is, the amphitheatre of
      hills around it; and then, its stately church, unequalled, it is
      said, by any country church in the land.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is well situated for the
      convenience of the major part of the people; and, with the excep-
      tion of 50 in the district of Blair-in-roan, all have it in their power
      to attend, and do attend the church regularly.  Those in Blair-
      in-roan attend at sacramental times, but in general go to Comrie,
      because they are two or three miles nearer that place.
         The parish Church is of a recent date. The old building was
      condemned in 1825, having stood four centuries.  Spottiswood
      says, that "Bishop Ochiltree succeeded, a wealthy prelate, and
      well esteemed; and so purchased to his see a great part of the
      forfeited lands of Strathearn, adorned the cathedral of Dun-
      blane, built the bridge of Kn`hk and Machant, with the church of
      Muthill; and did in his time divers other good works." The
      ruins of this ancient fabric serve to suggest the thoughts of other
      days, and other men, who, although dead, yet live in dear recollec-
      tion.  Beside the ruins, a monument, erected by the people, in me-
      mory of their late beloved pastor, Mr Russell, may be noticed; and
      another erected with some taste, beside the grave of Mr Erskine,
      son of an Episcopal clergyman, who lived and died here.
        The foundation stone of the new church was laid in March
      14th 1826, and the building was finished in August 1828; ex-
      pense of the whole, L.6900; it is of the Gothic style, and is
      seated for 1600 people.  The sittings are all free, and are divided
      amongst the heritors, in the proportion, in which they paid for the
      building of the church.
         The manse stands on the north side of the village with the
      grebe around it. It was built in 1720, rebuilt, or nearly so,in
      1782, and since that time, it has been constantly receiving addi-
      tions and repairs, as every old house must do.
         The glebe, inclusive of the site of the manse, and of the gar-
      den, consists of 9 acres of excellent land, and the stipend is 16


