
	  TINGWALL, WHITENESS, AND WEESDALE.		   	   69

Wadbrister Voe, and Catfrith Voe. To the west, Weesdale Voe,
Binnaness Voe, and Whiteness Voe. To the south, Scalloway
Voe, and Cliffsound. And to the west of Scalloway, there is a
cluster of islands belonging to this parish, within all of which there
is fine anchorage.
   Ecclesiastical State.-There are at present two churches,-one
at Tingwall, built in 1788, after a long litigation before the Court
of Session,-and one at Whiteness for the united parishes of
Whiteness and Weesdale, at which there is a missionary on the
Royal Bounty. It stands by the loch of Strom, near to the an-
cient fortification already noticed, part of which was taken down to
help to build the former church. The present church is a new
one. The old church was dedicated to St Ola. Near to this,
lived Sinclair of Strom, famous for his bravery in defending the
rights of the udallers against the Government in 1530. In this
contest, the Earl of Caithness was slain. There was formerly a
church at Weesdale dedicated to "Our Lady." It was much
(sometimes still is) frequented by people from every corner of
Shetland, who, by casting in an offering of money at the shrine of
"Our Lady," believed they would be delivered from any trouble
they laboured under. There is a tradition regarding the building
of it, still firmly believed by the superstitious of the islanders. Two
wealthy ladies, sisters, having encountered a storm off the coast of
Shetland, vowed to "Our Lady," that, if she would bring them
safe to land, they would erect a church to her on the first spot
they reached. They landed at Weesdale, and immediately com-
menced building the church. And each morning, when the masons
came to work, they found as many stones ready quarried as they
required during the day. One of the elders of the church, who
lately lived in that neighbourhood, used regularly to gather up
the offerings, which he put into the poor's box. A church is
building at Scalloway, for the village and its neighbourhood, the
walls of which will be finished in a few months.
   Stipend.-Tingwall is celebrated for its process of augmenta-
tion. The Court of Session declaring that they had no power to
augment the stipends of the clergy, the incumbent, the Rev. Wil-
liam Mitchell, appealed to the House of Lords, who gave a deci-
sion favourable to the clergy. The Court of Session then aug-
mented it to L.578, 13s. Scots, and 108 lispunds of butter, with
L.40 for communion elements. It at present amounts to L.254,


