
354	                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

improve generally the climate. Out of 246 occupiers of land, 171,
who pay only L.20 and under of rent, and more than 100 of whom
look to other means besides the cultivation of their possessions for
their support, seem a large proportion of that class of tenants who
have neither capital nor labour to bestow on the soil, and who can-
not be expected to develope or augment its productive powers.
Besides other evils, it subjects the landlord to a heavy expense for
unnecessary buildings, and proves in a great many instances a pro-
fitless and detrimental concern to the tenants themselves. The
machinery of agricultural production might in several cases here
do more work, and do it better at less cost; but a change in the
size and number of farms, and consequently in the class of occu-
piers, obviously involves many considerable difficulties, and much
time. It is admitted on all bands, that a rotation of cropping
which breaks up the land frequently, is unsuitable to the soil here,
of itself too friable and easily exhausted. It is thought, therefore,
that the general adoption of the six year shift would be a desira-
ble improvement; that by this syrtem greater returns might be
expected with less labour and expense, and that the soil would be
kept "in better heart." As the rearing of cattle must always form
a prominent feature in the agriculture of the district, it seems also
desirable that their breeding and management, together with a
systematic care of dairy produce, should receive still farther at-
tention and improvement, of which, it is believed, they are greatly
susceptible. The annual average value of a cow's produce here,
exclusive of the calf, is scarcely L.4, while in some other districts
it is L.8 or L10, and in the neighbourhood of Aberdeen, L.13.
	The economy and neatness of cottages are beginning to attract
attention. It is the opinion of some practical gardeners, that orchards
would form a profitable addition to them on this part of Dee-side.
Several situations in the parish are admirably adapted for villas, and
will, no doubt, be thus occupied in the course of a few years. The
increasing accommodation required for strangers who come from a
distance to lodge a few weeks in summer, and the diminishing
number of cottars  in the surrounding parts of the country, will
probably very soon increase greatly the size of the village; but it
is questionable whether this will prove a permanents benefit. A
great improvement, which would tend to stimulate most others,
would be a cheap and speedy mode of conveyance to and
from Aberdeen. At present, the carriage of coals or lime costs
from 2s. to 3s. per boll, and the greater part of two days are con-
sumed in going and returning this distance of eighteen miles. A


