
			WEST KILBRIDE.			     245

with natural coppice, in which the oak, ash, hazel, and hawthorn,
are thickly interwoven; upwards, the glossy ivy is widely spread,
whilst gray lichens intermixed with large patches of a bright gold-
en-colour succeed, lining the bold front to its outmost verge,
Viewed from the plain below, the effect is highly impressive and
sublime; whilst to approach its terrific summit, the vivid descrip-
tion by Shakspeare of the cliff Dover is fully realized. The
general mass of these stupendous rocks consists of dark-red sandstone,
lying horizontally; but for a considerable space where highest, the
sandstone about midway up is surmounted by a beautiful brown por-
phyry. This portion, dividing itself into three distinct and deeply
separated cliffs of equal height and uniform appearance, has imme-
morially obtained the poetical cognomen of the Three Sister, other-
wise Three Jeans, perhaps Nuns? and truly it were not difficult in their
stately and solemn austerity to conceive a fanciful resemblance to the
veiled sisterhood of supertitious observance. * On the south side
of this promontory lies Ardneill bay, a beautiful sandy crescent,
which affords an agreeable promenade and easy access for bathing
to those in search of health or recreation; others similar, though of
less extent, succeed in the same direction, and terminate the shore
southward.
	Climate and Diseases.--The prevailing character of the climate
in this quarter is moist and cloudy, with south and westerly winds.
Generally, however, it is mild and salubrious, and the tempera-
ture for the most part pretty equable. This state of the weather
may constitute fully one-half of the season; and under it the in-
habitants are, perhaps, not less healthful than during the lot and
arid periods, which not unfrequently occur in the summer and har-
vest months, the transition being often to a considerable degree
sudden and excessive. There does not appear to be any very
marked peculiarity of disease here. Rheumatism occsionally ap-
pears, though certainly not to any great extent; but peripneumony
not unfrequently closes the scene with the aged. Fever has not
often been marked by any peculiar severity; diseases of the phthi-
sical class are, perhaps, here, as in most parts of the country, great-

<FOOTNOTE>According to tradition, diamonds were contained in this part of the precipice;
and which, it is said, have been see by fishermen on the sea night shining like stars
in the face of the rock. Symson relates a similar tale of the Mull of Galloway, in
his Account of that district. "Such (says he) as sail by it in a dark night have ob-
served a great light, which hath occasioned some to say, that there is a rock of dia-
monds there." The tradition of the diamond, indeed, is common in many similar
inaccessible places in other quarters.


