
                          EDINBURGH.                            707

purchase of a picture, the price of which must not be less than the
amount of the prize.
   Theatre-Royal.-The earliest dramatic performances were a
sort of religious mysteries introduced into Scotland from Italy.
These were performed on festival days in the churches. There
were also dramatic pageants in the time of James VI.; and on
the entrance of Charles I. into Edinburgh in 1663, a very mag-
nificent spectacle was represented in the open air, without the
gates of the city, and near to Heriot's Hospital. After the restora-
tion, and while the Duke of York had his residence in Holyrood,
he retained a party of English actors in the palace; but from this
period till after the Rebellion of 1715, we do not hear of any re-
presentation of the kind having been attempted. About this
period, itinerant performers occasionally exhibited in Merchant
Tailors' Hall; the receipts of a full house amounting to from L. 40
to L. 45. This place was soon found to be too small, and in 1746
a theatre was built in the Canongate, capable of holding a greater
number of persons. It was in this theatre, then under the ma-
nagement of Mr Diggs, that Home's Tragedy of Douglas was first
brought out. In 1767 a Royal patent was obtained; and in
1769, the present theatre, situated at the north-east corner of the
North Bridge, was built by subscription. In 1809, Mr H. Sid-
dons became manager with a new patent, and on the terms that,
by a payment of L. 2000 yearly rent for twenty-one years, the
theatre was at the expiry of this period to become his property. In
1830 the patent was again renewed in favour of Mrs H Siddons,
and her brother, Mr Murray, the present manager.
   The Adelphi Theatre in Broughton Street, formerly used as a
minor theatre, is now held in lease by the manager of the Theatre-
Royal, and is occupied as a summer theatre.

           VI.-MAGISTRACY, LAW COURTS, &c.
   The Town-Council consists of 33 members. According to the
ancient set of the borough, the magistrates were elected from a
corporation of the merchants, or higher class of citizens, called
the Guildry. In the reign of James III. an act of Parliament
admitted a delegate from each of the incorporated crafts or trades
to have a voice in the election of city functionaries; and a new con-
stitution was given to the city by James VI., which remained in
force till the Reform Bill of 1833 gave a uniform mode of elec-
tion for the whole boroughs of Scotland.


