
346                                   AYRSHIRE.

nual cost ranges from L.2 to L.7, the average being L.3, 2s.
Among them are two children, of whom one, who is in the
Edinburgh Blind Asylum, is supported chiefly from a separate
fund. The poor cost nearly L.80 yearly, on an average, of which
L.37 is raised from collections, L.8 from other sessional sources,
and L.35 by a voluntary contribution among the heritors. Though
contributions from the heritors were first paid in the year 1819,
sums equal to them in amount had been taken, for seven years pre-
vious, from the stock. The habit of parishioners leaving legacies
to the poor ceased entirely in 1814, and was the cause of contri-
butions from the heritors being required. Coals are annually dis-
tributed to the poor, both by Lady Hunter Blair, and by the kirk-
session, and many poor householders receive aid from Blairquhan.
Taking into account private charity as well as the session disburse-
ments, and also what relations give, the paupers seem to have
nearly an equal amount of aliment with a married labourer who
has a large family. Many of them e`rn a little by their own in-
dustry. In so far as the writer can judge, the poor are likely to
require more for the future than the past, chiefly from the standard
of living always becoming higher among the working classes. This
both renders, thehr support more expensive, and diminishes the
power of sons and daughters to assist their aged parents. In judg-
ing of the cost of the poor in different parishes, it is usual to look
only to the existing population; but this method is quite erroneous.
The new families, in a rapidly increasing population, being young,
are never burdensome. The true criterion is the population
twenty or thirty years ago. By this test, the apparent anomalies
of certain parishes in Ayrshire may be explained; for the number
and cost of paupers will be found to be in proportion throughout
almost all, to their respective populations, thirty years ago. It
may also be observed that, in an extensive rural parish like Straiton,
a large amount is contributed towards the support of the poor of the
manufacturing parishes in alms to vagrants. Begging has never been
so prevalent since the measures employed for its suppression in the
year 1832, yet, by a moderate calculation, the sum given to va-
grants in this parish is estimated at L.160; fully more than our own
poor receive from all sources whatever. There are two or three
persons residing in Straiton parish that sometimes seek alms over
the country; and a number of the paupers, go among the farm-
houses twice a-year, in summer for wool, and in winter for butcher
meat. All the paupers except one are of Scottish origin, and the


