
90				BUTESHIRE.

	Language, &c.--The English language is that spoken in gene-
ral by the inbabitants. Persons who have come to maturity un-
derstand commonly the Gaelic language also; but its use has much
decreased within the last forty years, and is now chiefly confined
to the aged, among the natives of the parish. The people are
cultivated in their habits. They are, for the most part, remark-
able for cleanliness both in their persons add their dwellings,
Their dress is plain and decent. The food  of the peasantry
equals, in plenty and quality, that of any of their degree in the coun-
try. All clases enjoy a full ordinary share of the comforts and ad-
vantages belonging to their situation in life, and appear to be cor-
respondingly contented and happy. In there intellectual, moral,
and religious character, they afford a fair,specimen of their coun-
trymen. Smuggling is wholly unknown, among them; and in no
similar district, probably, is there less of poaching.

<TABLE=Industry>
				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	The parish contains--
 Of land occasionally under tillage, imperial measure, 3936 acres, 3 roods, 39 poles.
 Moor and pasture land,	                               3071	   0	    21
 Land that might, with a profitable application of ca-
   pital, be brought into cultivation,	                377	   0	    21
            {natural coppice, 34 A. 2 R. 10 F.	       {940        0         1
 Under wood.{plantations,     905    I     31          {
                             total extent,            8325 acres, l rood,    2 poles.

	The plantations consist of spruce, larch, and Scotch fir, with the
usual propotion of oak, and other hard-wood; and are carefully
thinned, and otherwise well managed. The average rent of ara-
ble land is l9s. an acre.
	Wages.--Men-servants receive from L. 7, 10s. to L. 8 of wages
for the half-year; maid-servants from L. 3, 1Os. to L. 4; country
artisans are paid from ls. 8d. to 2s. a day; and day-labourers, ls.
6d.a day during winter, and ls. l0d. in summer.
	Live-Stokck.--Great attentions has,of late, been paid to the rear-
ing of cattle; of which the breeds and mode of management are,
with little variation, the same as in Ayshire. Agriculuture has
made rapid advances, especially within the last twelve years. A
complete system of draining has been introduced; the most ap-
approved rotation in crops is observed; the use of the subsoil plough
is beginning to prevail; and an enterprising tenantry are ready to
import the most recent discoveries in husbandry. The duration of
leases is nineteen years; a period generally acknowledge to be
advantageous both to landlord and tenant. The farm-houses and
offices, for the most part, have been recently built, and are remark-


