
     Statistical Account

rock near the shore of Bennetsfield is resorted to in the month
of May, by whimsical or superstitious persons, who, after
drinking, commonly leave some threads or rags tied to a bush
in the neighbourhood.  But if they derive benefit from this,
it would seem to be more owing to their own credulity, than
to any effect of the water, which differs nothing in taste or
appearance from common.
   In the southern vale, there is a fine rivulet, called the burn
of Avoch; perhaps the largest stream in Ardmeanach; which
rises mostly in this parish, drives three corn-mills, and emp-
ties itself into the sea near the church.  It produces the com-
mon trout and eel.  Its mouth makes a safe harbour or re-
treat for the fishing boats in time of storm:  And here a

<FOOTNOTE>

Fortrose and Fort George at the other, add much to the landscape.  From a
boat in the middle of the Frith, opposite to Culloden-house and the bay of
Avoch, the view i is still grander and more embellished.
   Since the important aera of 1746, the trade of Inverness, and of the other
towns on this Frith, has been gradually increasing and flourishing.  It em-
ploys now more than six times the former number of vessels:  some of which
may be seen here passing and repassing almost every day.
   But the chief benefit of the Firth to this parish, is that of the Fisheries.
Here are caught herrings during their season; whitings, flounders, sprats, a
few oysters and crabbs, with abundance of muscles, quilks, and small fry for
bait.  There might be a stell-fishing for salmon, near Castletown point:  But
as the shore is not altogether convenient for drawing the net, it has not been
much tried.  Some small whales, purpoises, and snipe fish, come up now and
then.  About 50 years ago, haddocks were frequently caught within a mile
of Avoch.  But they have since quite disappeared.  They seem to have re-
treated Eastward to the wider parts of the Frith, towards Tarbat point and
the coasts of Moray and Cartness.  Nor have they been got there for seve-
ral years past in such plenty as before, until this summer, (1793) when the
fishermen have had good success and found them again about the mouth of
marty Bay.
   There is some quantity of sea weed on different parts of the shore.  A.
little of it has at times been burnt into kelp.  The neighbouring farmers chief-
ly use it as a manure for barley.  It is very beneficial for this purpose, whe-
ther laid on green, or rotted in the dunghill.


