
                              LEWIS-STORNOWAY.                131

per yard of four feet.  Blankets per pair from 10S. 6d. to L.1, 1s.
Hides 3d. per lb.; tallow 6d. per lb.  Carpenters, joiners, and ma-
sons get from 2s. 6d. to 3s, 6d. per day.
   Live-stock.-There are a few black-faced sheep in the parish.
The black-cattle are small in general, but of the true Highland
stamp, though the breed is low at present.  There are 18 Ayrshire
cows in the parish.  Number of cattle, 8000.
   Husbandry-There are a dozen good farms in the parish.  On
these, the south country implements of husbandry may be seen, as
iron ploughs and harrows; but small tenants and cottars generally
till the ground by the Chinese plough, of one stilt or handle, and
the cas-chrom, a clumsy instrument like a large club, sHod with
iron at the point, and a pin at the ancle for the labourer's foot.  It
is a disgrace to see women working with it.  This antediluvian im-
plement will soon be superseded by the spade, which has now come
into almost general use in this parish.
   The most common mode of turning the ground is by teeming,
forming a kind of lazy-beds. At this work two persons are employed,
one on each side the ridge, which is seldom in a straight line, col-
lecting the earth; and the earth borrowed in this way makes a proper
bed for the seed.  Hence the scarcity of manure is not so much
felt; and this kind of tillage is found to be more productive than
any other.  The ground being prepared, as soon as the season per-
mits, the seed is sprinkled from the hand in small quantities; the
plots of ground being so small, narrow, and crooked, should the seed
be cast as in large long fields, much of it would be lost.  After sow-
ing the seed, a harrow with a heather brush at the tail of it is used,
which men and women drag after them, by means of a rope across
their breast and shoulders.  The women are miserable slaves; they
do the work of brutes, carry the manure in creels on their backs
from the byre to the field, and use their fingers as a five-pronged
grape to fill them.
  In harvest, when the crop is ripe, no sickle is used for the bar-
ley, among the small tenants.  The stalk is plucked, the ground is
left bare, and consequently the soil is injured.  When no stubble is
left, the earth loses its winter clothing, and one-third of the manure.
When the sheaves are thoroughly dry, the whole is conveyed
to the barn-yard.  The sickle is then used to purpose.  The sheaf
is seized by the left hand, the right foot is placed on the black
roots of the culm, and the sickle in the right hand is applied to
within six inches of the grain or barley ear.  After this guillotine
operation, all the heads are formed into a little stack, covered with


