
			DUMFRIES.                               9

earth; and, finally, when all the pits had been closed, a fresh
stratum of about a foot thick was laid over the whole.
	Owing to the absence of some, and the actual sickness, or
fear of others, public worship was for some time very scantily at-
tended; but weekly prayer meetings were held in the establish-
ed churches, and in the different dissenting chapels, both for
some time previous to the breaking out of the disease, and dur-
ing its prevalence. Many private meetings for a similar purpose
were likewise constituted at this time, and one or two are still con-
tinued,--a proof, we trust, that the awful dispensation has produced
at least some permanent good effect.
	From an early period of the disease, by order of the Board of
Health, pots of pitch and tar were kept continually burning in the
streets and closes, which were profusely strewed with lime, in the
hope of purifying the atmosphere; but all apparently without any
good effect. It is worthy of remark, that, up to this date, Dum-
fries, whether as viewed from within, or looked down upon from any
of the surrounding heights, appeared enveloped in a thick and im-
pervious cloud, altogether distinct and different from the smoke,
and which retained its station in spite of wind and rain. The in-
habitants experienced a raw damp mist, and an atmosphere of a
peculiarly depressing nature.
	In this state matters continued till Thursday the 4th of Oc-
tober, which had been appointed by the kirk-session to be kept as
a day of humiliation and prayer. That night, a thunder-storm
burst over the town, the peals being uncommonly long and loud,
and the lightning vivid. The weather had previously been by no
means such as to warrant the anticipation of a storm, yet awful and
unexpected as it was, the most timorous hailed it with as a joy, as a
means of dispelling the poison with which the atmosphere was con-
taminated. From this date the number of cases continued to
decrease, till, through the mercy of God, the disease entirely dis-
appeared.
	The total number of cases officially reported, is 837; of deaths,
422; and of recoveries, 415. It is certain, however, that many
cases were not reported. The last which occurred terminated fa-
tally on the 27th of November.
	It is remarkable that the proportion of females who were seized
much exceeded that of males; and that the greater number, at the
period of attack, were either menstruating, pregnant, or nursing.


