
     Statistical Account

every age and denomination*.  Of the present inhabitants of
this parish, there are 1118, that reside in the town, and 650
that dwell in the country, and in a village called the Bridge-
town, about 2 miles N. E. from Kinghorn.  Of these, there
are 1237 that adhere to the Established Church, the remain-
ing 531, are Seceders of different denominations, but mostly
Burghers.  Of the whole body of the people, both in the
town and country, there are, under 10 years of age, 401;
between 10 and 20, 321; between 20 and 50, 778; between
50 and 70, 240: and between 70 and 100, 28.  The number
of married people amounts to 610; of bachelors, to 295; of
unmarried women from the age of 15 and upwards, to 323;
of widows, to 102; and of widowers, to 33.  The number
of marriages for the last 10 years, amounts, at an average,
to 13; and that of births, to 30 annually.  To account for
the seeming disproportion between the marriages and births,
and the population of this parish, we may observe, that there
are annually, several irregular marriages, and several bap-
tisms (particularly among the Seceders) that are not entered
in the parish register.  The inhabitants of the town, and of
the village called Bridgetown, are mostly sailors, weavers,

<FOOTNOTE>

*As we do not find, that by the return given in to Dr. Webster, above men-
tioned, a distinction was made between the population of the town, and of the
country, it is impossible for us now to discover with certainty, where the de-
ficiency lies; whether in the one, or in the other; or supposing it in both, in
what proportion it has taken place.  We are disposed to think that it is prin-
cipally in the latter; and that it may be accounted for, from the following
causes-1st, From the diminution of landed proprietors residing in the parish;
several small estates having been swallowed up by the larger.  2dly, From the
union of farm.  3dly, And principally from the expulsion of cottages, and
from the employing of hired servants in their stead, for carrying on the opera-
tions of husbandry.  What the town may have lost in respect of population, from
the decay of its trade, we consider as compensated by the growth of manufac-
tures, as will afterward appear under the article of commerce.


