
106                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

the residenters in Moffat, there are very few instances of ague.
Typhus has often prevailed in Glasgow, Edinburgh, Carlisle, and
other cities, when there was no such distemper in Moffat. Pro-
vidence averted even the cholera, though severe in Glasgow, and
especially in Dumfries, with which there was daily intercourse,-
only two or three doubtful cases having occurred, and among
strangers affected before they reached Moffat.  If the climate be
the cause of any local distempers, the writer has never heard of it,
nor the medical friends he has consulted on the point.
  The prevailing winds are from the west, and these are also the
most powerful.  The north wind is dry, and so also, for the most part,
is the east wind.  The south wind is warm, and inclines to moisture.
About 40 shepherds reside in the parish, all observant enough of
the prognostics of weather from so many mountain summits,--
store-masters and farmers being also generally provided with barome-
ters.  The dreadful snow fall and blast of the 24th January 1794 was
indicated by an uncommon fall in the barometer.  A wet season
is not so much dreaded here, because the soil of the mountains
and the vales is mostly dry, and the sheep are not liable to the
distemper called the rot, so fatal in some of the most fertile parts
of England.  The dry summer of 0826 threatened famine to the
flocks and folds, and suffering to the poor; but the wheat crop
of that year was very superior.  One of the most alarming conse-
quences of the droughts in 1826 and in 1832 was the failure of
springs and of the smaller burns, which in some places occasioned
a want of good water; and, on the whole, in such a soil as the
mountains  and vales of Moffat consist of, the frequent recurrence of
showers is beneficial.
  Hydroqrphy--Moffat Well and Harytfell Spa.-- As to common
springs, they are numerous and pure, arising out of the gravelly soil.
But with respect to medicinal springs, there are two, which have long
been well known, and have attained great celebrity; one of which is
called Moffat Well, and is of a sulphureous character; the other, a
chalybeate, rising at the distance of four miles from the village, and
known by the name of the Hartfell Spa.  This chalybeate spring
issues out of a deep ravine on the west side of the mountain, whose
name it bears, about four miles N. W. from the village of Moffat.
The ground all around having been deeply exposed, masses of con-
glomerate appear, containing rounded stones cemented by ferrugi-
nous and aluminous earths, of the properties of both which the
spring partakes.  John Williamson, who discovered this water,


