
             OBSERVATIONS ON THE COUNTY OF SUTHERLAND.                 213

         subsequently found to have been false.  The windings of the pre-
         sent march at this part of the interior, are of considerable length;
         but the distance in a straight line from the source of the Oykill,
         to the east end of Loch Veyatie, where water again separates the
         counties, is only about 8 or 9 miles.  Loch Veyatie, Fewn Loch,
         and the river and bay of Kirkaig, all within Sutherland, complete
         the boundary to the West Sea.  The western boundary of Su-
         therland is the West Sea or Atlantic Ocean; and its northern
         boundary, from Cape Wrath to the confines of Caithness, is the
         North Sea.  There are several islands along both these coasts,
         which form parts of the county.  The county of Caithness forms
         the eastern boundary of Sutherland; the two counties being se-
         parated by the summit of a high range of hills,-well defined,-
         from Fea-Drum-Hallastain at the North Sea, to the Ord of
         Caithness at the southern extremity.
           Physical Appearances.-The interior of the county is mark-
         ed by a lofty range of mountains, which separate the west and
         north coasts of the county from its southern districts.  This range
         commencing with Suilven in Assynt, and ending with the two
         Bea-Griams, near Caithness, contains the highest mountains in the
         county, many of them rising to hdigbts of from 2500 feet to 3230
         feet, and presenting varied and very remarkable outlines.                         The
         alpine character of this extended range is also preserved in the
         magnhtude of many lakes at the base of the mountains, in the
         depth of the openings and passes, in the expansion of widely spread
         mountain sides, and in a variety of romantic valleys, and rugged
         glens and hollows.  Many parts of the interior also form exten-
         sive table-lands, chiefly of moss, and unbroken by any marked fea-
         tures.  The western and northern districts of the county, sepa-
         rated by the interior mountains from the southern parts, are quite
         dissimilar to them in appearance and character. Thus, the
         district of Assynt and Edderachillis, along the west coast is one
         of the rest remarkable in, Scotland, for the general ruggedness

<FOOTNOTE>In a royal charter defining the bounds of the county of Sutherland,  in the year
         1631, the following is the description given: "Beginning upon the north at the
         strype called Faehallodaill, which divides Strathnaver from Caithness, and fra that
         south-east by the top of the bills to the Ord upon the sea coste, including the boill
         bounds of the Ord, and thair fra sautk-west till the mouth of the water of Tayne, alias
         Portnacutar; and fra that west to the water of Oikill, comprehending therein the
         haill lands and country of Fairincostar, alias Sleischeillis; and fra  that west till Loch-
         brome and Coygathe, so far as the diocese of Caithness extends, comprehending thairin
         the said lands and country of Assynt into the west sea, and fra these north up the
         sea coste till the northmost point Of the land called Ardurines; and fra thence east to
         the river and water of Hallodaill; and fra that east to the said strype called Faehallo-
         daill."


