
              118                     CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

              and formed of flinty sand.  Towards the southern side, it is com-
              posed of comminuted shells.  The coast now becomes bold and
              rocky till it reaches the Nosg, or, as it is usually, but tauto-
              logically, styled, Noss-Head.  From Noss to Staxigoe it is
              composed of lofty, black, and rugged rocks, which are continued
              with more or less,of the same savage character to Proudfoot, the
              northern side of the entrance to the Bay of Wick.  At the Head
              of Wick, opposite to Prouffoot, the same kind of rugged, rocky
              coast recommences, and continues, with but trifling interruptions,
              till it passes beyond the southern boundary of the parish. On the
              coast of the parish of Wick, there are numerous goes,* or small
              inlets of the sea, with steep and rocky sides.  Commencing at
              the south side of Keiss Bay the principal of these, between it
              and Noss-Head, are Braidgoe; Caldersgoe; Sclatygoe; Ruthigoe;
              Girpigoe, crowned with the hideous ruins of Castle Sinclair and
              Girnigoe, the principal ancient baronial stronghold of the Sinclairs,
              Earls of Caithness; Manigoe, supposed to be properly Moneygoe,
              because it is reported, and the fact, that in it several parcels of base
              copper coins have at different times been found, corroborates the
              tradition, that Earl George the Wicked entertained in it one
              Smith, a coiner of bad money; Sandygoe; and Mursligoe, the
              cove frequented by seals.  An entrance from this goe leads under
              a small rock, by a dry passage into an immense cavern under
              Noss-Head. Between this headland and Broad Haven, are
              Staxigge, so, called from some Stacks, or detached rocks, which
              rise above the sea at its entrance ; and Eltrigoe.  Papigoe lies in
              the Bay of Wick.  A passage is said to lead a considerable way
              from the sea, to a small knoll called the Pap, whence the name
              of Papigoe.
                 On the shore to the south of Wick Bay, lies a black and frightful
              chasm, on which stands the dismantled tower of Auld Wick.  At
              sea, this ruin forms an excellent landmark, and is by sailors called
              the Aul' Man o' Wick.  Southward from Auld Wick is the Burgh
              of Hempriggs, so called from its having been in very ancient times
              the site of a bruch or fort, the traces of which ore still visible.
              It forms a small fishing, haven.  In the mouth of it stand, the
              Stacks of Hempringgs. The principal of these is an immense
              outstanding rock, perforated from side to side, and from top to
              bottom; the resort, in the breeding season, of innumerable sea-

              <TABLE>   This ancient relic of Norwegian colonial is pronounced in one syllable,
               with the 5 hard, as if written gyocs.


