
                       JEDBURGH.               9

230 feet.  The choir is much dilapidated, bearing marks of great
antiquity.  The two lower stories consist of massive pillars and se-
micircular arches, with the diagonal or zigzag mouldings of Saxon
architecture, whilst the upper windows, and some other parts are
Gothic, evidently added at a more recent period.  The north
transept is entire, presenting traceried Gothic windows, especially
one of great size and beauty.  The south transept has disappeared.
Above the intersection of the transepts with the nave and choir, a
large square tower rises on four pillars to the height of 100 feet,
surmounted by a projecting battlement, and crowned with turrets
and pinnacles.  The nave, measuring 130 feet long, presents on
each side three tiers of arches; the first, opening into the aisle,
consists of pointed arches deeply recessed, and richly moulded,
supported by clustered columns with sculptured capitals; the se-
cond, which opened into the galleries, consists of beautifully mould-
ed semicircular arches, with two pointed arches inserted in each;
and third of elegant pointed windows.  The lofty western gable
possesses a Norman door of uncommon beauty, the archway exhi-
biting a profusion of ornamented mouldings, supported by slender
pillars to the depth of 7 1/2 feet.  Above it is a large window with
a semicircular arch, flanked by small blank pointed arches on long
slender shafts, and this is surmounted by a beautiful St Catherine's
wheel.  On the south side of the choir there is a chapel, which
was once appropriated to the use of the grammar-school, and in
which the poet Thomson received his education.  But the chief
object of architectural interest in this abbey is the Norman door,
which formed the southern entrance to the church from the clois-
ters.  This, for the elegance of its workmanships, and the symmetry
of its proportions, is unrivalled in Scotland.  Its sculptured mould-
ings springing from slender shafts, with capitals richly wreathed,
exhibit the representations of flowers, men, and various animals,
executed with surprising minuteness and delicacy.
  " This venerable pile," says the late Archibald Elliot, architect,
in his report to the heritors respecting some of its projected re-
pairs, "in my opinion, is the most perfect and beautiful example
of the Saxon and early Gothic in Scotland."  Its grand appear-
ance is imposing, and admirably accords with the scenery of the
romantic valley in which ht is situate.  There is a discrepance in
the accounts of historiaps relative to the time of its foundation as
an abbey.  Some refer is to A. D. 1118, and others to A. D. 1147.
The probability is, considering the antique remains of the choir,
and that St Kennoch is said to have been A lot Jedburgh as


