
632			FIFESHIRE.

tivated. The soil of the former is a thin sharp gravelly loam,
that of the latter is deeper, and is in- some places moss, in others
clay, but in general a black loam.
   Small streams run through the intervening valleys, and, uniting
near to the village of Luthrie, form the Motray, a rivulet which,
continuing its course through the parishes of Kilmany and Leu-
Chars, falls into the Eden at the inner bridge.
   From the summit of the Black Craig, and also from that of the
Green Craig, both of which hills are near to the ruins of the old
church, may be had one of the most extensive and delighful views
in Scotland, comprehending the estuary of the Tay, the Carse
Of Gowrie, so famed for its richness and beauty, and the Sidlaw
and Grampian mountains on the north; the town of Dundee, and
the fertile country onwards to the neighbourhood of Arbroath on
the north-east; and on the west, part of Strathearn, the finely va-
ried bills about Perth, with Benledi, Benlawers, &c. in the distance.
   Climate.-The climate is dry and healthful. In the lower parts
of the parish, it is mild and pleasant, but on the higher grounds, it
is rather cold and bracing. As a proof of its salubxity, there are many
instances of longevity among the inhabitants. The late minister,
Dr Greenlaw, who bad almost completed the sixtieth year of his in-
cumbency when he died, lived to the age of ninety-four, and he con-
tinned so vigorous as to visit his parish during the last year of his
life. His wife attained nearly the same advanced age.
   Geolology.-I am indebted to my friend, Dr Fleming of King's
College, Aberdeen, for the following account of the geology, of
the parish. The rocks of this parish may be considered as con-
stituting a portion of the trap formation of the Ochils, a hilly
ridge extending. from the neighbourhood of Stirling to Ferry-
port-on-Craig, at the mouth of the Tay. The parish may be
viewed on the great scale, as consisting of a bed of amygdaloid,
which stretches in an easterly direction, dipping towards the south
at an angle seldom exceeding twenty degrees. The basis of the
amygdaloid is in general a claystone, sometimes a compact felspar,
and a few instances greenstone. It contains, in its cells,cal-
careous spar, quartz, chlorite and agate ; the last mineral, under
the name of pebble, is collected for sale by several individuals of
the, parish, and specimens of great size and  beauty have frequent-
ly been obtained. Subordinate to the amygdaloid occur lengthen-
ed masses of other rocks, some which may be regarded as ra-
ther uncommon; in particular, there is a bed of clinkstone tra-



