
184                           ORKNEY.

receiving manure, either sea-weed, the cleanings of the dwellings
of domestic animals, or a cold inactive composition of these with
earth, there being no lime in the place, while the latter is sown
without any fertilizing substance, and left to wear out the transient
effects of bat raised the preceding crop. Green crop is almost
unknown. Turnip, bay, Pease, or beans, are hardly thought of.
And potatoes, which, if properly managed, might tend to clean-
the ground, are either confined to the drier parts, or planted in so
small quantities, that before a whole field can be taken in rota-
tion, the good effects are lost upon what was first treated in this
manner. The mode of ploughing is in keeping with the system
of cropping. The ridges are seldom drawn straight. They are
so much raised towards the middle, that there is not soil left in
the furrow sufficient to cause almost any vegetation; and their
different parts are often of unequal breadths, which occasions a
great waste of time and labour in ploughing. Little attention is
paid to the reclaiming of waste land. Indeed, no regular plan is
ever pursued for thus improving the district. The chief way in
which any portion of it is reduced to cultivation is, when a person
from inability to stock a farm, or other adverse circumstances, re-
treats to the common, rears a cottage, and partially subdues the
surrounding spot. But in bringing one acre into a profitable
state, the surface of several ' acres is skinned and destroyed; and
at best, this practice, instead of substantially improving, only studs
the common with half-cultivated patches. Within appropriated
bounds again, it seems an established, if not a sacred maxim, that
what has once been ploughed shall never be allowed for a year to
rest, and what has never been turned up, must be allowed for ever
to remain. So far, indeed, is this principle carried, that insigni-
ficant spots of ploughed land are not unfrequently seen in the
midst of pasture fields, where, independently of the expense of
labour, the crop from depredations of cattle and other causes,
seems hardly sufficient to supply seed for the succeeding season.
And deformed shreds of grass may be observed stretching into,
or surrounded by corn-fields, as if it were- sacrilege 11 curve arafro
laedere."
Trencheshave sometimes been cut, to draw off water. But to
the improvement- of covered drains, the exatriple has yet to be
set. Irrigation and embanking are both unnecessary and im rae-
ticable.
 Lease were formerly granted for three years, or for one, two,


