
462			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

and smell. The only loch of any consequence lies on the border
of the parish, between Blackwood and Halliday hills. It is fast
filling up. A part of it now yields an abundant crop of meadow
hay, and it might all be drained, and the land highly improved,
were it not for a servitude held over it by Allanton mill for sup-
plying it with water: the burn which drives the mill flowing through
it. Another to the north-west, now nearly filled up, seems to be the
loch alluded to in the Macfarlane MSS. "Here is a deep loch,
called the Loch of Kilbread, in a place pertaining to the Laird of
Lag, but the water is not reputed medicinal." Keir hill giver
birth to a great number of burns which intersect the table land of
the parish. None of them have formed any deep ravine, except the
Barndennoch burn below Barjarg. This ravine is covered with fine
trees: pleasure walks have been cut through it; and it possesses a
great attraction in a singularly beautiful waterfall. The hill of
Blackwood is the great barrier which seems at some remote period
to have pent up the waters of the Nith, so as to form a lake of
great dimensions in the basin above. A considerable extent of
alluvial land, nearly at the same level, about thirty feet above the
present holms in the parishes of Keir, Penpont, and Closeburn,
bear testimony to its existence.
	Geology, &c--The parish of Keir, as is the case with most of the
upper part of Damfries-shire, is chiefly composed of greywacke,
which exhibits considerable variety in its characters, the component
parts being in many cases very large, while in others they are so
minute that the mass has a very homogeneous aspect, and bears a
considerable resemblance to a trap rock.
	In some parts, however, newer rocks occur, and those are prin-
cipallx limestone and sandstone.
	The limestone is generally of a reddish colour, owing to a con-
siderable admixture of iron, and contains numerous small cavities
filled with crystals of calcareous spar. A few petrifactions are oc-
casionally met with.
	The principal localities of the limestone are at Barjarg and
Porterstown, and in both of these places it is regularly quarried.
The Barjarg limestone has been found by analysis to contain about
fifty-four per cent. of carbonate of lime, and thirty-six per cent. of
carbonate of magnesia. The limestone of Porterstown has not as
yet been regularly analyzed, but appears to be much the same as
the other, though it probably contains a larger portion of foreign
matters.


