
     Statistical Account

walls of the old castle at Achaistal still remains entire*, and
human bones are occasionally found in the ruins.-There are
also the remains of many pictish castles to be found interspers-
ed throughout this parish, and likewise several artificial
cairns, some of a square form, others circular.  They are now
covered with grass or heath.  Some of them are so high

<FOOTNOTE>

exact distance between them is 9 feet 5 inches.  Tradition also
mentions his height to have been above 9 feet.  He went with
Lord Caithness, etc. to the Orkneys, where he, as well as the
Earl and his son, were killed.  This happened in the year 1530.
The cause of the said rebellion was this:-In the year 1530,
King James V. granted the islands of Orkney to his natural
brother James Earl of Murray, and his heirs-male.  The inha-
bitants took umbrage that an over-lord should be interposed
between them and the sovereign, and rose in arms under the
command of Sir James Sinclair of Sandy.  Lord Sinclair Ba-
ron of Roslin, and- Sinclair Earl of Caithness, were sent
with a party of men to quell the rebels; but the Islanders de-
feated them, and the Earl with his son, and William More Su-
therland, who accompanied them, were killed.  The Caithness
men who survived, carried back the Earl of Caithness's head, to
be interred in his Lordships burial place in Caithness.

*The old castle at Achaistal was built and possessed by John
Beg, third son to the Earl of Sutherland.  In those times
parties of robbers or freebooters used to infest this county.  A
party of these came to John Beg's house, and insisted that he
should pay a certain sum in name of tribute to them, other-
wise they would plunder his house, and carry away his cattle.
John Beg seemed very passive to them, and entertained them
very sumptuously, until he got them all intoxicated, by strong
ale mixed with the juice of nightshade, when he ordered them
to be conveyed to the upper apartments of his castle.  He then
removed his family and furniture, and put them on board a
vessel at the water mouth of Berrydale; and having collected
a great quantity of straw and brush wood into the lower part
of his house, he let fire to it, which soon destroyed the robbers,
and consumed all the castle, excepting a part of the walls.
John Beg returned, with his family, to Sutherland.  Tradition
gives no account of the time in which there transactions hap-
pened.


