
     of Stevenston.

   Ship Building.-The spirited and successful exertions in the
coal branch which have been described, the circulation of
Irish gold, and the animating example of Mr Cunningham,
gave a new spur to the industry and improvement of the
parish.  Other circumstances concurred; such as the Ame-
rican war.  The Saltcoats people, finding an increasing de-
mand for ships, which they could not build in America, nor
buy at that time in Britain but at a high price, were natu-
rally led to attempt to build them themselves, their harbour
being remarkably convenient for launching them.  Accor-
dingly, they began to import ship timber from South Wales;
and in a place where scarcely a boat had been built before,
three carpenters yards were set up one after another, which
have gone on successfully ever since.  In these yards there
have been built, from the year 1775 to the 1790,

<TABLE>

        No. of Vessels.                          Tons.

       6 ships, from 160 to 220 tons             1155
      37 brigs, from 55 to 180 tons              4630
      18 sloops, from 20 to 85 tons              1085
       3 small vessels at present on the Rocks    225
     ---                                         ----
Total 64 vessels.                                7095

</TABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

Demellington, Sanquhar, Muirkirk, Lismahagoe.  It cannot be
traced farther, from the accounts of the miners.  It ends, pro-
bably, near North-Berwick.  More light will be thrown upon
the subject, from the Statistical Reports of the different parishes
when they are completed.  The coal country in the north of
England, from Whitehaven to Newcastle, is probably of a
greater breadth than the Scottish, and seems to run across the
island in a similar direction.  There is also coal in the south-
west of England, from Somersetshire to North Wales; but it is
probably insulated, or in patches; at least, this is the case with
two great beds of it, one in Colbrook-vale, at the Iron-bridge,
in the north of Shropshire, and another in the south of Staf-
fordshire, which have no connection with one another, or with
the rest of the mines.  It would be well worth while to trace
the extent of this valuable mineral throughout the whole island.


