
                        SOUTH KNAPDALE.                      265

decked, and larger than the old ones, cost L.120 Sterling before
they are fully equipped with masts, sails, anchors, nets, and cord-
age.  In favourable fishing seasons, they make at an average
L. 70 Sterling; but, from their improvident habits, and occasional
failures in the fishings, and expense of keeping their boats and
tackling in repair, the fishermen are generally very, poor.  In
many instances, they are very indolent; and when the fishing fails
they are quite unfit and disinclined to engage in any other kind
of labour.
   Rent.-The average rent of land per-acre may be stated at 1s.
The average rate of grazing a cow per year may be estimated at
L. 2, and of a sheep, 4s. on the hill pasture.  The average rent
per acre may be thought very low, but it will be recollected that
the proportion of moor pasture in this parish is much greater than
in an of the surrounding parishes; at the low, rate of 1s. per acre,
the parish would yield a rental of L. 5371 Sterling or thereby.
   Dwelling-houses of Tenants.-On some of the larger properties,
the houses of the tenantry have been much improved, and sub-
stantial farm-steadings erected for them.  At Lochhead, the
property of Mr Campbell of Shirvain, there is an excellent dwel-
ling-house, with a new and complete set of slated offices, and a
thrashing-mill, worked by water (the only one in the parishes).  At
Ballyheamhragan, the property of Mr Campbell of Ormsary,
there is a slated dwelling-house and offices, built by the proprietor.
He and Mr Campbell of Kintarbert have built several comfortable
cottages, which have separate sleeping apartments; an accommo-
dation which the old cot houses do not afford.  It is a vast im-
provement, and conduces to the health, comfort, delicacy, and
morals of the people.  It is hoped that this example will be fol-
lowed.

                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Crinan Canal. *-The Crinan Canal was undertaken and com.
menced under the auspices of John Duke of Argyle, (in which, I
think, Breadalbane acquiesced,) who obtained reports, surveys, and
estimates from the late Sir John Rennie, civil-engineer, favour-
able to the execution of the work, in connection with neutical re-
ports from Captain Joseph Huddart; the result of which was the
formation of a Company under an Act passed in 1793, authoriz-
ing the formation of the canal, and which accordingly was com-
menced that year.

<FOOTNOTE>This part of the Account furnished by William Thomson, Esq, Ardrissaig.


