
16                               BANIFFSHIRE.

cluded part of Inchdrewer and some adjoining lands,) belonged,
at one time, to the Barclays of Towie.  Walter Barclay, of this
family, was sheriff of Banff in 1304.  Another part of Inchdrewer
(probably comprehended in the lands of Strathalva) belonged, in
1414, to Alexander Lindsay,' Earl of Crawford, from whom it
passed to the Ogilvies of.  Auchterhouse.  Margaret Ogilvie (of
this family), inheriting the lands of Strathalva and Doune, married
James Stewart, Earl of Buchan, brother of James II.; and these
lands were then formed into a new thanedom, called Glendowa-
chie, orthe Glen. of Dow; * Banff Castle being at the same time
made the messuage of the earldom of Buchan, and thanedom of
Glendowachie.

The town lands included all that is now called the liberties of
the.burgh, or burgh roods, that is, a. tract extending along the
whole sea coast boundary of the parish, and from half a mile to
two, miles inland, but excepting outof this the immediate demesnes
of the castle (which was a constabulary) and the church lands.
The town also possessed the river fishings for au extent of some
miles, except two nets nearest the river mouth, one of which, with
the sea fishing to the east, belonged to the Earl of Buchan, as
holding the thanedom of Glendowachie, the other to the thane
of Boyne.  To the-town belonged the sea fishing opposite to-and
west of, the river mouth as far as the western boundary,of the parish.
Priortotheyearl470,thetown'slandsandfishingsseemtohave
been all enjoyed in a state of common.  In that year, in order to de-
fray certain public expenses,t the fisbings were let out to individual
burgesses on leases of nineteen years.  In 1595, the salmon fish-
ings and the greater part of the lands were (by virtue of - a royal

41 'This is the Gaelic word signifying black.  DowerAne or Doveran is back water
Still the'name of the river at its source.  Doune or Dowan, the name of the estate
on which Maeduffis situated, and Dow, or Da*haugh, on which Duff House stands,
are probably from the same root. 
For the infeftino and fundanation makkin of a Perpetuale cbapiniary to sing
ih'Z peel heif of the said burgh (the old churchyard) fir oure Sovereigne Lorde
the King and the Queen,  their; processors and successors, the founders, for all
Cristione saullis. for the theicking of the kirk with sclate, and the bigging of the tol-
buthe, and for quhat the burgh has not substances James Ogilvie of Deskford, for
three new of the water was to pay L.;6. ancl 11 bound to de&nd'the burgh' in their
guid and honest quarrelies and fkeedonx of the water, and. if masterly vaXit, to bring
Aie fth back 116 ae vakars."
Oman oamsion of reading. theAshiniti that oeeurre& in 1531 -- a nett of the King's
water and an aughten Part of Urack I-ame of 8, particular fishing in the river) were
Aiven to Elixabeth Ord to' b resezved' to Marjm7 %Grantully, his_gaddame, -6eand
jdq*. f- h-life, and tboo proftoof the aa*tew pan to -Ulixabeth her edimation
and nourishing in less age, and this for curtasde as, herAnther at Pinkie and was
dlaiv,and 4h.Gmhepwft to  Jesus to Marry a burges reaiding.'Who "was the
burgem tht was eventuallyVessed with this well endowid helpmaote, does not, appear.


