                
                        ALVES.                                111         

   ed on the following conditions, viz. the cottar builds the house
   and encloses a small piece of ground for garden; be pays yearly
   a small rent of 10s., at the rate of L. 4 per acre, for the ground oc-
   cupied. He is not allowed to subset the house, nor to sell spiritu-
   ous liquors without express permission from the factor; he may
   be called on, within twelve months' notice, to resign possession of
   house and ground, in which case the proprietor pays him for such
   meliorations of the house as may be ascertained by men mutually
   chosen. Such a power to eject is not likely to be exercised op-
   pressively, while it preserves a very salutary control to the land-
   lord. who is interested in the moral condition of the neighbourhood.
   It is perhaps to be regretted that similar arrangements are not
   more frequent in country districts, and also that, when they are
   made, too little ground is allotted along -with each house.
      Ecclesiastical State.-The glebe contains about four acres of
   good soil, close by the church.  The manse is newly built, about
   a hundred yards west from the church, on a different part of the
   glebe from the former manse. It is a very commodious and well-
   finished house, of three storeys, with garden and office-bouses very
   conveniently situated.  The stipend, as fixed by the last augmen-
   tation in the year 1822, is 14 chalders of victual, half meal, half
   barley, payable in money, according to the fiars of the county an-
   nually, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. Sterling for communion elements.  Includ-
   ed in the stipend is the sum of 6s. Id. yearly in lieu of the manse
   and croft of the Chantor of Moray, an office in the old cathedral
   at Elgin, which had been counted in former times as annexed to
   the parsonage of Alves. Taking the average of several years past,
   the stipend may be stated at L. 200.
      The church was built in tbe year 1769, and, as was usual at that
   time in country churches, it is long and narrow-75 feet by 25-
   not the most desirable structure either for speaker or hearers. It
   is substantially built, and well seated; and having been built when
   the population of the parish was much greater than at present, it
   affords fully more accommodation than the law requires. This is
   owing entirely to the diminution of the number of parishioners, al-
   ready noticed. There are sittings for about 590 persons. Each
   farmer has a certain number of seats, rent free, assigned to him by his
   landlord. These he occupies with his family. servants, and cottars.
   The sittings in the area of the church were fitted up from the kirk -
   session funds many years ago, and are let at from 6d. to Is. 2d eacb,
     -by which means about L. 3 are added yearly to the poors' fund.
    The church is conveniently situated, being not far from the centre


