                             FYVIE.                             317

Population, it will be seen that a fair proportion of the people have
attained to an advanced age.  Cases of fever occasionally break
out, which the imprudent, though well meant attentions of neigh-
bours to each other, often tend not a little to propagate.
   Hydrography.-The small river Ythan, which rises eleven miles
westward in the parish of Forgue, and, after a farther easterly
course of about twenty miles, falls into the sea at Newburgh, a village
in the parish of Foveran,-divides this parish nearly into two equal
parts.  It possesses some statistical interest from the circumstance
of pearls being frequently found in it.  In the years 1762-63,
some were found of considerable value.  There are two salmon-
fishings on this river, one at the mouth of it, the other at the
village of Ellon, about three miles from the coast.  The Ythan is
very slow and smooth in its course; from the extensive system of
drainage that now prevails, it rises more rapidly, and overflows its
banks to a greater extent than formerly.  From the point of its
entering this parish, it runs through a long extent of flat grounds
and, previous to certain recent improvements, the haughs on each
side were rendered in a great measure useless by it; but, by form-
ing a new channel, much valuable land has been reclaimed, partly
above, through, and below the private grounds of Fyvie Castle,
and for the farther accomplishment of this object extensive works
are now in progress.  The parish abounds with copious and salu-
brious springs.  Several of the wells still retain the names of those
saints to whom they were dedicated in Popish times.  On the
south side of the hill of Eastertown, there is St Paul's well, which
was long much resorted to by the people of this and the surround-
ing parishes, and the favour of the saint sought in the usual man-
ner, by casting a small offering into the well, and a subsequent free
use of the waters.  In a field upon a farm on the estate of Min-
nonie, which still retains the name of St John's Well, there are
other two sainted springs, one dedicated to St John, the other to
St Catharine; and a little northward of where the parish church
stands, there is St Peter's Well.  None of these springs possess
strong mineral qualities, and are remarkable only for the purity
and sweetness of their waters.
   Mineralogy.-There is abundance of whinstone in the parish
well adapted for building.  Upon the farm of Cammaloun, on the
estate of Fyvie, there has also been found sandstone of the same
quality and appearance as that obtained in the extensive qearry at
Delgaty, in the adjoining parish of Turriff.  A few years ago, a


