
	302                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	Meteorology.-The prevailing winds are the south and south-
	west, which generally prognosticate rain. North and east winds,
	on the contrary, are in summer the harbingers of fine weather,-
	but in winter of sleet, frost, and snow.  The climate is cold, damp,
	and changeable; and the complaints over which it may be said to
	exercise any influence, are, as may be supposed, acute rheumatism,
	pleuritic affections, consumption, and other pulmonary ailments.
	From the purity of the atmosphere, however, as well as from the
	refreshing nature of the sea air, the climate must be acknowledged
	upon the whole to be salubrious.
	  Hydrography.-The parish presents an irregular figure, being
	much intersected by arms of the sea, all of which afford safe and
	commodious anchorage for ships of any burden.  Fresh water
	springs are both numerous and copious.  Many of them are
	strongly impregnated with iron.  It also abounds with lakes, which,
	though of inconsiderable extent, are well stocked with trout, and
	some of them with salmon.
	  Geology.-The mountains chiefly consist of trap and syenite;
	the lower grounds and valleys of limestone.  A bed of marl of
	the finest quality extends across the parish from the farm of Tor-
	ran on Loch Slappen, to Skinidean On the Sound of Scalpay.
	  In some localities, the calcareous strata are to be found alter-
	nating with brown calcareous sandstone, and with shale, contain-
	ing thb organic remains of fish and shell-fish.  In the Island of
	Pabbay, on the eastern shore of the parish, petrified fish, princi-
	pally eels, from six to eighteen inches long, have been found in a
	high state of preservation.  A variety of other kinds of fish, and
	also oysters, mussels, welks, and limpets, are frequently met with
	in the same state.
	  From the head of Loch Slappen, a considerable alluvial deposit
	may be traced through the valley of Strathmore to Loch Eynort.
	Near Kyleakin, a deposition of greater importance occurs, occu-
	pying a space of abnut a mile along the shore.  Dr MacCulloch
	regarded this as the remains of a plain formerly much more ex-
	tensive.  He says that it exhibits the appearances which charac-
	terize the alluvial valleys through which active rivers have cut
	their way; and that the supposition of this being the result of the

<FOOTNOTE>
 	pid water, about four or five yards broad. This pool, surrounded by the most fanciful
	mouldings in a substance resembling white marble, and distinguished by the depth
	and parity of its waters, might have been the bathing grotto of a Naiad."-Note V.
	Canto III. of the Lord of the Isles.


