
596                            FIFESHIRE.

Fleasg, signifying in the Irish language wet or moist,-adescrip-
tion applicable to the former state of the soil.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish, situated on the southern
bank of the Tay, some miles below. Newburgh, stretches along
the margin of the river, which is here nearly a straight line, 4 1/2
miles; but its average length is not more than 4 miles. Its breadth
varies considerably. For fully more than a mile commencing at the
eastern extremity, it does not exceed half a mile in breadth; then
suddenly widening, it is for 2 miles about three-quarters of a mile
broad; and at the eastern extremity, it extends to 1 3/4  mile from the
river,-presenting a surface of 3 1/2 or 4 square miles. Its general fi-
gure may be easily conceived from the preceding account of its
extent, the straight, margin of the river being considered as the
line on which the successive oblong of which it may be conceived
to east by Balmerino; on the south by Creich, a detached part
of Abdie and Dundog; and on the west by Dundog.
   Topographical Appearances.-Along the river, the ground for
about a quarter of a mile, in breadth is nearly level, or has but a
gentle ascent; then it rises rapidly, and to a considerable height,
forming part of that hilly range which runs along the south side of
the Tay, including within the limits of the parish, Lyndemus (about
750 feet in height, and properly constituting the first rise on Nor-
man's Law,) Logie Law, and Glenduckie, Hill. To the south of
Glenduckie Hill, it sinks again into a valley; and; it is there, it
stretches to the distance of 1 3/4 mile from the river.
   At each extremity of the parish, the bank of the Tay is mark-
ed by a rapid slope of about 100 feet, and chiefly covered with na-
tural grass. The slope of the central portion is more gradual,
and on it cultivation is carried to the, edge of the river.
   Meteorology. The winds, probably guided by the bills, fro-
quently take the direction of the river, and sometimes drive along
with furious violence. Those from the north and east are often
piercing; but the air is pure and salubrious, and a good share of
health seems enjoyed by the inhabitants. Formerly, when the
lower grounds were marshy, ague prevailed in the spring; but now
that the soil is comparatively dry, the disease has disappeared.
   Hydrogrphy.-The Tay, as already noticed, flows so as to form
the northern boundary of the parish. At the western extremity
of the parish, and nearly three miles below Newburgh, this noble
river, at high-water, according to R. and A. Stevenson's survey in



