
828                         FIFESHIRE.

   Heavy gales of wind from the west often raise the tides 1 1/2 feet
above the usual calculation.
   The average depth of water in the centre of the Fritb, between
a point opposite Rosyth castle, and a point opposite Borrowstoun-
ness, is about 55 feet.  The greatest depth in this range is on the
south side of the small Bimar Island, where it is 192 feet.  Be-
tween that island and Long Craig Island, it is 162 feet.  The
depth between North Battery Pier and the north-west of Inch-
garvie Island, is 210 feet, nearer to that point it is 222 feet,-the
greatest depth of water in the whole Fritb, and even in many parts
of the North Sea.
   A stone-beacon was lately erected by the commissioners for the
northern light-houses on Bimar Island, 27 feet in height, and 13
in diameter, as a protection to vessels at high water, when the
island is covered
   Long Craig Island, Du-Craig, and Bimar, are all rocky and of
small extent.  Their sizes are in the order now named.
   South of the east end of Long Craigs, and midway between it
and a parallel line from Bimar, is Fair-way sunk rock, flattish,
stretching south-west and north-east, about the size of the deck
of a vessel of 200 tons.  It is covered at lowest stream ebb by 5 1/2
or 6 feet water.  A sloop drawing 8 1/2 feet water grounded on it
on the 2d November 1826, and remained till the tide had flowed
an hour.  Since that period, vessels with any draught of water
always take the south side of Bimar rock.
   The smallest breadth of the Fritb, viz. from the extremity of
the Signal-House Pier to that of the South Queensferry Pier, at
lowest water of spring tides, is 1 1/4 miles, and to Newhalls Pier,
about 50 yards more.  The greatest breadth, viz. from LimekiIns
to the opposite shore, west of Blackness Castle, is from two to
three miles.
   Springs.-There is a small mineral spring near the iron mill,
in the vicinity of Charleston.
   The springs from which the town of Dunfermline is supplied
with water are situated at Cairncubie, in the town-moor, about a
mile and half north-east of the town.  The water was first brought
from them into the town about 1797, and is conveyed in pipes
partly wooden and partly cast-iron, and also, during a portion of
its progress, in conduits built of stone and lime.
   Lakes or Lochs.-There are several of these in the northern

