
                         EDINBURGH.                          713

ing, or writers to the signet of ten years; but instances of ap-
pointments from the latter have always been rare, and now never
occur. The number of Judges is now reduced to thirteen. Pre-
vious to the year 1808, the whole Judges sat in one court, with
the exception of one Lord Ordinary, who sat in the outer-hall, to
hear and forward cases through certain initiatory steps, till they
at last were ripe for, decision in the Inner-House. The act of
1808 constituted the former court into two divisions. In the first
division of seven, the Lord President presided, and in the second
division of six, the Lord Justice-Clerk was president. A Judge
from each division sat in the Outer-House as Lord Ordinary. Each
of these divisions had the same powers and privileges which were
possessed by the single court of fifteen. Four judges constituted
a quorum; and in the event of an equality of votes, the senior
Lord Ordinary is called on to give a casting vote.
   By various subsequent acts, founded on the report of a Parlia-
mentary commission in 1823, further changes and regulations were
made. By these the seven junior ordinary Judges were appointed
to act as Lords Ordinary for hearing causes in the Outer-House;
and of consequence the number of Judges in the two inner divi-
sions was reduced. The new enactments also limited the power
which the judges formerly possessed of reviewing their interlocu-
tory judgments, and enacted regulations by which the parties,
before getting a decision, fix the grounds upon which they rest
their cause in statements, under the title of Condescendence and
Answers, which the parties are entitled to revise and amend. When
all the pleas are put in, and documents produced, the record is
authenticated bv the mutual subscription of the counsel; and the
Lord Ordinary, after hearing counsel on the merits, gives his de-
cision. The party aggrieved by this has an appeal to the Inner-
House by a note, printing along with it the record, the cases
prepared by the advocates, and founding upon the preliminary
papers and pleas given in to the ordinary. And the decision of the
Inner-House, in place of being, as formerly, subject to repeated
review, upon allegations afterwards made, is now final, unless the
parties avail themselves of an appeal to the House of Lords.
When the parties differ as to facts which require to be ascer-
tained by jury trial, the Lord Ordinary has it in his power either
to remit the whole cause to the Jury Court, or a particular issue
or issues, to have such matter of fact ascertained. When the
Judges of either division are equally divided in opinion, the cause
may be judged by the Inner-House Judges of both divisions, or by


