
342                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

nerally from long-continued sickenss.  When, this or other domes-
tic calamity occurs to a poor family, it is due to state the kindly
spirit in which it is uniformly met in the neighbourhood.  A lo-
cal subscription is set on foot.  In aid of this a small sum is ge-
nerally given by the kirk-session, and the individual members of
it.  I have known three or four such subscriptions in course of a
season, and sums realized at each of them of from L.6 to L.11.
lt is thought no degradation to receive aid in this way.  Several
have done so, who on no account would accept the regular bounty
of the parish.  There is still a good deal of the true feeling of in-
dependence here in regard to coming upon the poor's funds; but
I have observed that the desire of parties once admitted is to get
all they can. *  The annual amount of disbursement to the poor
for the last five years has been about L.120.  Except in two cases
where there is mental incapacity, and one in which there is another
peculiarity, the highest allowance to any upon the roll, and this
only to such as are bed-ridden, is L.2, 16s. per annum.  The
greater proportion of those upon it is at the rate of from L.1 to
L.1, 10s. per annum, and some are under L.1.
   Collections, &c.-The subjoined table shows the annual amount
of the ordinary collections made in the parish church for the sup-
port of the poor during, the several years to which it refers.  It is
drawn up at intervals of twenty and ten years for the last half
century:

<TABLE>
       1783           1803           1823            1833
     L.16 11 3 1/4  L.37 12 4	   L.63 3 6	   L.74 18 9 1/4

And within the last two years the annual amount of the ordinary
collections has been upwards of L.80 Sterling.  In aid of the fund
thus raised, there are mortified monies to the amount of L.400
Sterling, left by benevolent individuals connected with the parish,
under the management of the kirk-session, the interest of which
only they may apply, and L.100 more at their full disposal.  Oc-
cassionally a legacy of a few pounds is left.  Mortcloth dues, &c.
go into the same fund, and a small annual donation has of late years
been given by the three principal heritors.  The collections at the
church of Millbrex are also liberal averaging L.25 per annum.

<FOOTNOTE>Upon first visiting the parish after my induction about nine years ago, and be-
fore I was acquainted with the local habitation of the parties composing the formi-
dable poor's roll, I remember entering a cottage, where from the appearance of po-
verty and general want of comfort that presented itself, I asked the old woman who
inhabited it, whether she received aid from the poor's funds?  "Na, Sir Guid be
thankit I was never burden to Kirk nor King," was the characteristic reply.  I have
since known many honourable examples of humble but independent poverty.


