
358            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

fered severely from the turbulence and lawless ambition of its
nobles. In 1650, it was the theatre of the defeat and slaughter
of the Scotch army by Oliver Cromwell; and again in 1745, its
soil was polluted with blood by the infatuated politicians of that
unhappy period. But fortunately, since that time, it has enjoyed
uninterrupted tranquillity, when every circumstance connected
with its domestic and rural economy have been in a state of stea-
dily progressive improvement.
   Topographical Appearances.-East Lothian presents a finely di-
versified landscape when viewed from the adjoining hills of Lammer-
muir.  From the Garletnn-hills, near its centre, the prospect is likewise
interesting and beautiful. From that position the inequalities of
the surface are more discernible; and it is seen that, although the
country rises from the sea shore to its southern boundary, yet that
the ascent is not uniform, but generally by ridges of gently swell-
ing, undulations, and almost entirely stretching in an east and
westerly direction. The first of these ridges from the sea com-
in ences with Gulane-hill, in the parish of Dirleton, and, stretching
eastward through the parishes of North Berwick and Whitekirk,
embraces the entire northern angle of the county. The second
distinctly marked ridge has the Garleton-hills for its centre, and
extends west into Mid-Lothian, and east into the parish of Pres-
tonkirk, where it terminates near the sea. All the rest of the
county has a pretty regular and gentle ascent to the south, but
generally composed of easy swells of the surface, and stretching
from east to west with hardly a single exception.  North Berwick
Law and Traprain Law are conspicuous objects in the topography
of the' district. They `re seven miles distant from each other,
and rise singly in the open plain, the former a beautifully shaped
conical hill to the height of 800 feet, and the other to 700 feet
above the level of the sea.
   Hydrography,-There is nothing particularly deserving of no-
tice in the hydrographyl of the county, as, from its geographical
position, and limited extent, all its streams are necessarily of a
ery, short course, and trifling dimensions. The Peffer is a small
sluggish burn or stream, that runs through a tract of flat alluvial
soil, and discharges its waters into the sea, the one-half by the
west at Aberlady, the other half by the east in the parish of White-
kirk. Its course altogether is about ten miles, and it drains the
valley stretching along the southern border of the three parishes
that constitute the northern angle of the district. From appear
				8


