
                             KELSO.                    335

     via Newcastle,to London. Stage-coaches run daily between Kelso
     and Edinburgh; three times a-week between Kelso and Berwick;
     and between Kelso and Hawick,taking Jedburgh on the way,twice
     a-week: There is also direct access daily to Newcastle and the
     south by a coach, which runs between Edinburgh and Newecastle.
     The means of conveying heavy goods,&c. by carriers and wag-
     goners are ample; there being 45 of these who come and go from
     Kelso weekly. The bridges are numerous, and constructed on the
     most approved principles of the art; those across the Tweed and
     the Teviot, in,particular, may vie with any similar works in the
     kingdom. The Kelso and Berwick railroad, from which such
     extensive benefits were long anticipated to Tweedside and Teviot-
     dale,has existed for the last twenty years in an act of Parliament,
     and in the pages of The Travellers' Guide : Why it does not yet
     exist in any more tangible and useful shape,and seems never likely
     to do so, is best known to the shareholders, who, judged from
     their past proceedings, appear to have been icorporated for the
     purpose of defeating, not of carrying into effect, the provisions of
     an act of Parliament.
          Ecclesiastical State.--Parish Church.--The present church was
     erected in 1773, and is a commodious and conveniently situated,
     though somewhat inelegant building. In external shape,it is a
     regular octagon, flanked by two ample porcbes, which abut from
     the north and south sides; and it is surmounted by an immense
     roof of blue slate, tapering to a point somewhat after the fashion
     of a marquee, and supported by a circle of eight pillars within the
     building. Its internal figure was also octagonal tip to 1823, when,
     with the view of improving it as a place of bearing, an alteration
     was made, which at once deranged its internal symmetry and di-
     minisbed its area to the extent of 1153 feet. The loss of ac-
     commodation thus incurred was in a good measure compensat-
     ed in 1833 by seating a passage which ran round the lower area
     of the church. But it is to be lamented that, instead of thus con-
     tenting themselves with a limited repair, the heritors had not, in
     1823, adopted a plan of improving  the church, furnished by Mr
     Gillespie Graham, which would have augmented instead of cur-
     tailing the accommodation, and cost only from L.1100 to 1200
     more than the alterations actually executed. The two principal
     heritors, on whom conjointly would have fallen nearly two-thirds
     of the whole expense, were in favour of the rejected plan,and
     were willing, besides, to contribute their proportion towards build-


