
                        ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                            267

	     There was an old chapel in the parish called Pein-na-cille, where
	there were two erect stones, at which the Druids are said to have
	worshipped. These stones were evidently part of a Druidical cir-
	cle, but were taken down some time ago, and human bones were
	discovered around them. Old men remark that there were an-
	ciently many Druidical circles and places of worship, the remnants
	of which have been destroyed by the progress of agriculture and
	other causes. There are vestiges of cairns and circles near the
	farm-house of Lonfern, at a place still called Totagan nan Druid-
	hean. i. e. the little knolls of the Druids. Of old there were many
	erect stones in the place, as also cairns piled up in the form of a
	cone, with flat stones on their top, on which, it is said, sacrificing
	fires were kindled; but most of these relics have been destroyed.
	     When the lake of Colum-cille was drained, in or about the year
	1763, there was an oaken boat discovered deeply imbedded in the
	bottom of the lake. It would seem, from its situation, that it must
	have been there for many ages. This boat, although not large in
	size, is said to have been much stronger, and far more firmly built
	than any of modern date. The iron rings which were fastened in
	the ends of it, were of almost incredible thickness, so much so,
	that they were converted into sockets for instruments used in the
	parish for tilling the ground.
	     Parochial Registers.-Kilmuir has not the advantage of a pa-
	rochial register, of a later date than 1822. If there were any pre-
	vious to that date, they were either lost or destroyed. There are
	several excellent maps and surveys of the parish in the proprie-
	tor's possession, and in particular -6 nicely executed plan by Mr
	Matthew Stobie, in the year 1766.
             The Presbyterian ministers in the parish have been, MT Kenneth
	Bethune, officiating in Kilmuir and in part of Snizort; Mr Do-
	nald Macqueen ; Mr Donald Martin, late of Abernethy, in Strath-
	spey; Mr Donald Ross, presently minister of Loth, in Suther-
	landshire; and the present incumbent. These, with the exception'
	of some missionaries, are supposed to have been the only Presbyterian.
	ministers who were settled in the parish. Messrs Donald and Alex-

	<FOOTNOTE>Togaibh bhur siuil, tairnibb bhur raimh,
		Grad ruithibh gu traigh, is buatidh leibh."-ULLIN.

		" But what light is this in Innis-fail,
		From the gathering beam of terror?
		Unfurl your sails,-ply your oars,
		Make haste to the beach, and may victory be yours."


