
				TAIN.				291

	the flock. And ever since the death or displacement of the last
	Episcopalian minister, the church here has been filled by a suc-
	cession of pious clergymen, whose names and characters are
	still held in the affiectionate remembrance of many of the peo-
	ple; the consequence of which has been a zealous attachment
	on their part to the Church of Scotland, and (in no slight
	degree, perhaps, from the same cause) a disinclination to revolu-
	tionary or republican sentiments. At the time of the Rebellion,
	we find they suffered a little from their loyalty. The burgh records
	inform us, that the inhabitants were greatly distressed by a large
 	body of "the rebel army," (so it is boldly worded. at the very
	times,) quartering for several weeks in the town, and exacting
	money and necessaries under all pretence; and the town-council
	were forced, under pain of military extortions at a day's warning, to
	muster L. 60 (about half their gross revenue) for the supply of
	their guests.
	  As far as can be traced, there have never been many resident
	large proprietors in the parish, since much of the land belonged to
	the burgh itself, and much to gentlemen possessed of additional pro-
	perty in other parts of the country. Most of the land-owners, and
	in truth most of the people, bore the name of Ross: or, to speak
	more correctly, almost every body possessed two surnames, by
	one of which (in general a patronymic beginning with Mac) he
	was universally known in conversation, though he deemed himself
	called upon to change it to Ross, or sometimes to Munro, wh On-
	ever he acquired any status in society, or became able to write his
	name. (Easter Ross, it maybe observed, was of old divided between
	these two clans; and their two chiefs are among the names of the
	jurors we have above quoted as present at the inquest in 1437.)
	From this circumstance of each individual's being furnished with
	two appellations, seems party have arisen the remark, which
	has found its way into Encyelopedias, that Tain, is famous for nick-
	names; but, partly, the remark was once true; for, when the by-
	names of those who had risen in society were forgotten, it became
	absolutely necessary to invent others, (and those often of the odd-
	est description,) to distinguish the multitudes of Rosses and Mun-
	roes.
	  Modern Buildings.-The material now employed in every con-
	struction above that of a hut, is the fine white sandstone from the hill.
	The Royal Academy, which was built about twenty-five  years ago,
	is one of the handsomest, and chastest, erection in the north of


