
180			 KINCARDlNESHIRE.

hausted, by being carried off for fuel, no marl has been found,
and the subsoil is, in general, extremely worthless. Abundance
of blue granite is to be found in the hilly parts of the parish; but
it is of so hard a quality, that it is not quarried to any extent, and
is chiefly formed into causeway stones, for home consumpt, or for
the London market.
	Zoology.--We have all the common wild animals, both such as
are indigenous, and such as are migratory, and sometimes a stray
bird or two of rarer species, but none deserving of particular no-
tice.
	The gooseberry caterpillar is here and all over the country very
prevalent. About forty years ago, my busher were annually strip-
ped of their leaves, and the crop destroyed. By careful observa-
tion, I found the worms deposited in the chrysalis-state, at the
depth of from one and a half to two inches below the surface of
ground, under the bushes. This cover, provided by nature
for their protection, I removed, scattering it over the adjacent
ground, and thus exposed the nymphae to the winter frosts. This
operation I repeated three successive seasons, since which time I
have never lost a crop of gooseberries by caterpillars.
	Salmon.--The natural history of fishes is a difficult subject, and
consequently theory in place of well established facts has been
adopted; and in the case of salmon, it has even been made the
foundation of legislative enactments. That salmon spawn in all
rivers I presume there is no doubt; but that an infinitely greater,
number deporit their spawn on sand banks in the sea, I hold to be
more than probable, and the statement has never been disproved.
The winter of 1830 was rather a severe one;--the ice in our river
attained a considerable thickness, and when it broke up, it was
remarked, that a great deal salmon spawn was thrown out upon
the banks by the floating ice, and destroyed. From this circum-
stance it was predicted, that in the season of 1831 there would be
very few grilses of young fish. Now the very reverse of this took
place; the number of grilses bore a much greater proportion than
usual to that of the old fish.
	Botany.--Under this head, I know not if it be worthy of notice
that in this parish we have a considerable variety of indigenous
plants of great beauty, such as the Menyanthes or bogbean, the
Trientalis Europaea, the Hyperician pulchrum, the Anthericum os-
sifragum, the Pyrola rotundifolia, the Drosera rotundifolia, or
sundew, and many others, more beautiful then some which are


