
                        CRAIL.                  961

when Anstruther wa erected into a royal burgh, we find in the
proceedings of Parliament that James Geddy, burgess of Carrail,
appeared before the king and three estates, and in name and be-
half of the same burgh solemnly protested "that the erection,
creation, and confirmation of the burgh of Anstruther in one free
burgh royal suld on nawys be hurtfull or prejudiciall ot the said
burgh of Carrail anent the richtis, liberties, andprivileges of the
same."  About the same year, the bailies and council of Crail are
understood ot have let in feu-farm the customs, anchorages, &c.
of Elie to Thomas Dischinton of Ardross, through whom they
have been transmitted to the family of Anstruther; but the feu-
duty has not been paid for many years.  The towns of Pittenween
and Anstruther appear also to have complained of the jurisdiction
of Crail as a grievance,and threatened to resist payment; but the
dispute wa settled by arbitration, and both towns continue ot pay a
trifling sum yearly in name of reddendo, in consequence of which a
free trade isestablished.  A similar contract seems to have been
made with the late Thomas Earl of Kellie, about 1810, for the
customs, anchorages, &c. of Fifeness, Old Haiks and Kingsbarns,
and thus the ancient jurisdiction of the burgh has been much
curtailed.  Still the town has a revenue of nearly three hundred
pounds a-year, which answers all the purposes of the corporation.
The ends of the streets, leading out of the town still retain the name
of prots, which would lead one to infer that at some period they
had been actually shut up with gates; and that they wer so, is
evident not only formthe fact, that an act of Partliament was passed
in 1503, wherein it is statute and ordained, that all towns, and
ports on the sea side, sik as Leith, Inverkeithing, Kingborn, Dysart,
Crale, and others, ware their common gudes on the walls of the
town to the sea side, with ports of lime and stane;" but many
people are alive who recollect of the prots being taken down.  The
burgh had also the liberty of holding a free market upon Sunday,
which, by an act passed in Parliament in 1587, was changed from
Sunday to Saturday, and all markets between the waters of Leven
and PUttekin forbidden on any other day.  In proof of this we
may mention that the following entry is in the session record of St
Andrews:-"April 18, 1582.  A great number of drapers, fleshers,
and merchants, accused of keeping the market of Crail on the Sab-
bath; prohibited from repeating the offence under pain of exclu-
sion, and dearring of themselves, their wives, bairns and servants
FIFE                            3F


