
     Of Glenmuick, Tulloch, and Glengairn.

again laid aside till harvest begins.  I speak this in general;
there are a few excepted who pay more attention, and whose
farms make them very grateful returns.  Their farms, or ra-
ther crofts, are by far too small, few of them exceed 12, and,
in general, they are from 5 to 8 acres.  It occurs to me, that
the best means for improving the country, and exciting a spi-
rit of industry among the people, would be to annex 2 or 3
farms together, and to have none under 20 or 30 acres, to
grant leases of 19 years at least, to give the tenant encourage-
ment of enclose, and trench balks, etc. and even to give him
for some time a small premium for the acre of good turnips,
or hay raised after turnips.  This would have a tendency to
raise a spirit of emulation, which would turn to the advantage
both of the proprietor and tenant.  By managing their ground
in this way, the face of the country would be improved, a
sufficiency of grain raised, and the flocks better supported in
storm than they are at present.  For one acre of hay or tur-
nips would go farther in that way, than all the sodder that
grows upon some of their small farms by the present manage-
ment.  I am aware of one objection against reducing the num-
ber of farms, and that is, that it would reduce the number
of inhabitants also.  This, no doubt, in some degree, might
be the case: but if every tenant should be allowed 3 or 4 sub-
tenants, who might be usefully employed about the farm, or in
looking after the flocks, the decrease of population would be
very little, if any at all.  But I leave it to those who are
more interested to determine, whether it be better to allow
the country to remain in its present unimproved state, and to
foster the indolence of the people, or to lead them on by in-
dustry to improve the country, and their own circumstan-
ce.
   Mr. Gordon of Abergeldie's farm of Birkhall is an instance
of what the ground in this country is capable of producing,
     VOL. XII. E e


