
     of Dalry.

is like Gothic arched work, supported with massy columns and
butresses.  Its width varies in different places from 5 to 10
feet; its height from 5 to 12 feet; and its length, so far as
is accessible, is about 183 feet.  About the middle of it is a

     O 2

<FOOTNOTE>

cover the remains of ancient forests.  Trees of different species and dimensions
are often found, some of them very large, particularly oak anal elm, which are
the prevailing kinds, and usually broken off near the roots, and lie along in
direction from S. W. to N. E.  The roots all stand in a perpendicular posture,
and as close as the roots of trees in a forest.  All the limestone quarries abound
with marine petrifactions of numerous varieties, and incumbent on some such,
quarries, is a bed of stone marl from 3 to 5 feet depth.  It has been analyzed
and found to contain from 30 to 50 parts of calcareous earth, and falls soon to
powder when exposed to sun and weather.  No proper trial of it as a manure
has been made.

Miscellaneous Observations-It is thought by many, that the Clyde and sea
at Irvine or Saltcoats might be connected with a Canal, and that from the level
nature of the intervening strath, and plentiful supply of water to be got from
the lochs of Lochwinnoch and Kilbirny; and as coal much abounds in many
parts of that strath, it might be conveyed to those towns near to which the
Canal might go, perhaps on much easier terms, than otherwise they can be pro-
vided, with many other articles that would be conveyed through such a long
and fertile part of the country.-From the small number of sheep in the parish,
little attention has yet been paid to the improvement of the breed, or wool.  In
the sheep farms no attention has been paid.  In the low part of the parish,
many farmers keep from 2 to half a-dozen of sheep, that feed with their much
cows, these are generally of a mixed breed between Scotch and English, of a
larger size (from 12 to 14 lib. a quarter) and the wool of a much finer quality,
than what is got from the small moor sheep, and will bring one-third more when
sold.  I have known 10 or 12 English pounds, and sometimes more, got from
them.  The number of such in the parish, may be about 100.-Lately died in
the parish, a couple who had been married 52 years, both were above 80 years
old, 16 hours only intervened between their deaths, and both were buried in
one grave.  Died in the parish, in 1789, a woman about 60 years of age.  She
had been thrice married.  By her first husband she became pregnant, and her
pains came severely upon her, about the ordinary time; but she was not de-
livered.  She continued ever after to have the appearance of pregnancy.  Her
first husband dying, she was again married to a farmer, who also died in a few


