
     Of St. Vigeans.

tains about 1000 people, but now not half sufficient for the
accommodation of the greatly increased number of parishion-
ers+.  The glebe, of about 6 acres, is one of the worst in
the county; the manse was built in 1663, has been several

<FOOTNOTE>

minister of St. Vigeans in 1614, was deposed by the Assembly in 1638, and is
said to have died at Newcastle in 1644.  It may be proper to mention, as per-
haps a singular case, that a part of the stipend, amounting to 36 bolls of victual
of different kinds, out of an estate in the parish, is mentioned in the reddendo of
the proprietor's charter from the Crown, as payable by him to the minister of
St. Vigeans.
+Patronage of the Parish-The patronage of the church belongs to the
Crown, and is one of 34 that were in the gift of the Abbacy of Arbroath, All
these devolved to the Crown at the Reformation, and, it is said, were afterward
gifted to the family of Dysait, and were bought from that family in the last cen-
tury by Patrick first Earl of Panmuir, and forseited to the Crown, along with
the estate, in 1715, by James Earl of Panmuir; the estate was sold by the Crown
in 1717, to the York building Company, but the Crown retained the patronages.
In the times of Popery, public worship was generally performed in the church
of St. Vigeans, by a Monk sent out from the Abbey, who was allowed the vi-
carage tithes, which were then paid ipsa corpora, for his salary.  The abbots
reserved to themselves the parsonage-tithos; and this custom, it is said, prevailed
in all the churches belonging to the Abbacy.  Tradition relates, that the last
Monk who officiated here, was one of the name of Turnbull; and in the year
1754, part of the floors of 2 rooms in the steeple, said to be possessed by him, re- 
mained.  He is said to have been frightened from his chambers by the devil
appearing to him in the shape of a rat; and no Monk after him would be per-
suaded to reside in the steeple.  Such was the ignorance that prevailed in these
times.  But this foolish conduct of the Monk will not, perhaps, appear in such a
contemptible light, when the following more recent instance of ignorance, cre-
dulity and superstition, is attended to.  From the year 1699 to 1736, the Sacra-
ment of the Lord's Supper had never been dispensed in this church.  A tradi-
tion had long prevailed here, that the water-kelpy (what Mr. Hume, in his tra-
gedy of Douglas, calls "the angry spirit of the water") carried the stones for
building the church; that the foundation of it was supported upon large bars of
iron; and that under the fabric there was a lake of great depth.  As the admi-
nistration of the sacrament had been so long delayed, the people had brought
themselves to believe, that the first time that ordinance should be dispended, the 
church would sink, and the whole people would be carried down and drowned
 

