
                            WALSTON.                            847

quently the highest, at the north-eastern extremity, 675 feet above
the same level.  From this latter point, where the March burn, which
for nearly three-quarters of a mile separates this parish from Dol-
phinton, falls into the, Medwin, the land rises at first almost im-
perceptibly for about a quarter of a mile, forming part of a very
level and extensive vale, belonging partly to Dunsyre, partly to
Dolphinton, and in a still greater proportion to Walston,-through
the middle of which the Medwin glides silently along.  The com-
mon boundary rises more abruptly as it runs southward, ascending
the sides of the Black or Walston Mount, and about its middle
point, where it crosses the top of this mountain, gains an eleva-
tion of not less than 1600 feet above the level of the sea.  It then
descends the sloping sides of the mount, and at its lowest point
in a narrow valley, where the road from Edinburgh to Dumfries
crosses that from Carnwath to Peebles, is still 833 feet above the
sea level, as determined by actual survey; thence it again ascends
for about a quarter of a mile, and forms an acute angle with the
southern boundary line at the top of the Broomylaw, a bill of con-
siderable elevation, where the parishes of Dolphinton, Kirkurd,
Skirling, Biggar, and Walston meet in a single point.  The
southern boundary is considerably depressed towards the centre,
reaching nearly 750 feet above the sea level, and at the western
extremity gains an elevation of about 800 feet above the same
level.
   It thus appears that the base of this parish inclines considerably
to the north-westward.  The ridge of the Black Mount descend-
ing westward in repeated undulations, till from 1600 feet of eleva-
tion it reaches towards 800 feet, divides the parish into nearly
equal portions, looking to the north-west and south-west.  To the
westward, the ridge and sloping extremities of the mountain fill
up nearly the whole breadth of the parish, leaving on the Med-
win at the north-west corner a mere patch of level ground; to-
wards the centre of the parish, the sides of the mount ascend more
abruptly, leaving on the north the vale of the Medwin, already
mentioned, and on the south the valley of Elsrickle, at first nar-
row, but gradually widening in its progress eastward.
   Hydrography.-The manifold springs on the northern side of
the Black Mount have already been alluded to.  Many of them
are copious, and the water of excellent quality. *  These find their

<FOOTNOTE>The temparature of Walston well, and of the Siller wells, where they issue from
the ground, is 44&deg; of Fahrenheit, which would indicate an altitude of about 1000
feet for these Wells;-pretty near the truth.


