
96                    EDINBURGNSHIRE.

   Farm Buildings.-The farm buildings and enclosures through-
out the parish are good, with the exception of the servants' houses,
which generally, with a stinted economy, neither favourable to com-
fort or delicate feeling, have only a single apartment for the accom-
modation of a family.  Most of the farm steadings are built of
whinstone And edged with freestone.  In two instances steam-
engines have been erected for thrashing out the grain.  These
may be considered as an improvement in as much as, while they
save the horses, they afford the farmer the use of a constant and
unwearied power.  Were the adoption of these becoming general,
however, they would give to the country all the appearance of a
manufacturing district, with its red chimney stalks and smoky at-
mosphere.  As lovers of the country, and as desirous that it may
long retain its distinctive properties, we deprecate their farther in-
troduction.
   Improvements.-Since the period of the last Statistical Account
a very great improvement has taken place upon the surface of the
parish.  A considerable quantity of land, comprehending chiefly
Ratho and Gogar moors, which were then in a state of nature, have
been reclaimed and brought under the plough.  Much has been
done, too, in the way of draining on several properties, in some cases
by the owner, in others by the tenant.  The facility with which
manure is now procured from Edinburgh by the Canal has contri-
butes in no small degree to the fertility of the soil.  One of the
consequences resulting from this facility is, that three times the
amount of green crop is now raised, compared with what was for-
merly.
   There is here a distillery connected with the Ratho Hall pro-
perty, and rented at present by the Messrs Buchan.  It employs
in superentendence and work eleven individuals.  The quantity of
whisky distilled is from 800 to 1000 gallons in the period, or about
42,000 gallons in the year.  The spirit made here is much esteem-
ed by competent judges.
   Quarries.-Of these there are four of which and one of sandstone.
One of the former only is regularly wrought.  On an average it
keeps ten persons employed throughout the year.
   Produce.-The average produce of wheat per Scoths acre is con-
sidered to be 7 1/2 bolls, or 30 bushels at 6s. 6d. per bushels, barley
6 1/2 bolls, or 39 bushels at 3s. 4d.; cats 8 bolls, or 48 bushels at
2s. 10d.; potatoes, 30 bolls, equal to 6 tons, at L.2, 5s. per ton;

<FOOTNOTE>The writter is indebted for his Information on the subject of Agriculture to Mr
John Melvin, an extensive and most successful farmer in the parish.


