
			SORBIE.                              27

the title-page of his Elegies, he stylee A. M." Mr Ellie,
in his Specimens of the early English Poets, has remarked, that he
appears to have served in a military capacity, under Sir Andrew
Gray, a Colonel, of foot, and General of Artillery to the King of Bo-
hemia. One of his publications bears the following title, "Two
Elegies on the Death of our late Sovereign Queene Anne, with
Epithaphes, written by Patrick Hanay, Master of Arts," Another
is entitled "A Happy Husband; or Directions for a Maid to chuse
her Mate together with a Wive's Behaviour, after Marriage. By
Patrick Hannay, Gent." Lond. 1619. 8vo. This compositon is
appended, with a separate thtle-page" to Brathwyte's, Dercription
of a Good Wife. It was afterwards, inserted in a collection of
Hannay's Poems, published in the year 1622, and containing
"Philomela, the Nightingale, Theretine, and Mariana Elegies,
Songs, and Sonnets." We,have been informed that, within these
three years, a copy of his poetical works was sold in London for
L.42, 10s. 6d., and that there was prefixed to it, a portrait of the
author, which was regarded as a valuable illustration of the state
of the arts at the period when it was taken.
	Land-owners.--The chief proprietors of Sorbie, are, the Earl of
Galloway (to, whom the greater part of the parish belongs); Sir
Andrew Agnew of Lochnaw, Bart.; the Earl of Stair; and Mr Ha-
thorn of CAstlewigg.
	Parodchial Registers.--The parochial registers are not volumi-
nous. The date of their earliest entry is 1700. They were, pro-
perly attended to for some time at first, but afterwards not so, care-
fully conducted. Of late, however, they have been reguarly kept.
	Ancient Ecclesiastical State.--We have already stated that, the
present parish of Sorbie includes the three old parishes. Of Sorbie,
Kirkmadrine, and Cruggleton;  but we are told by Chalmers, *
that in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, Sorbie itself formed
two divisions; Great Sourby, and Little Sourby, each of which
had its own church. The union of these two churches vas after-
wards authorized by Gilbert, the Bishop of Candida, and took
place betwixt the years 1235 and 1253. The cure of Sorbie, thus
united, was served by a vicar, and belonged to the monks, Dry-
burgh, till the Reformation, at which period it was let for L.20 a
year.+ Of the ancient churches of Great and Little Sourby no
vestige is now remaining, but the sites of two churches are still

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonia, Vol. iii. p. 427.       Ibid. p. 428.


