
     The Statistical Account.

and a regular influx of novices, who have neither abilities
nor inclination to discharge aright the functions of the of-
fice which they undertake.  A third effect is, that such teach-
ers as are really qualified for their duty, soon lose all incen-
tive to exertion, become low-spirited, careless, irregular, and,
from their dependance on the petty patronage of parents, of-
ten partial and unequal in their attention.  Dignity of cha-
racter, and consistency of conduct, are likewise wanting; than
which no qualities are more essential to an instructor of youth,
or more conducive to the efficacy of his labours.  The general
result appears to be, what clergymen frequently observe and
lament, though they seem to have overlooked this leading
cause of it, a great decay of information and of piety among
the young, who are too much immersed in ignorance and
dissipation.
   Few, as I before observed, who acknowledge the justice of
the foregoing representation, will hesitate in admitting the
propriety, nay, even the necessity of a speedy interference;
     R r 2

<FOOTNOTE>

be very favourable to the interests of virtue, that the aged should be admonish-
ed and exhorted by those, who have been accustomed to instruct and discipline
the young.  It would also tend much to the comfort of the teachers of know-
ledge and morality, to have wherewithall to prosecute their juvenile studies,
and, as a reward for their meritorious exertions, to enjoy the otium cum dignitute
in their declining years. Such a union, however, ought to be formed on equal
terms; and both parties should be mutually subservient to their common interest.
But the care is different.  The schools at present are degraded into mere nurseries
for the church, and are taught by students in divinity, who, being nominated
for the most part by the interest of the minister, perform just as much of the
duty as entitles them to the emoluments.  This situation occasions an undue
dependance on the clergy, and is not propitious, on either side, to the strict dis-
charge of duty.  Now, were there to be a preponderance of advantages to ei-
ther party, the sense of mankind would perhaps give it in favour of the teach-
ers, as most important and essential to virtue.  It might then be regulated that
the church should be solely supplied by schoolmasters, to succeed according to
seniority in office; and to have no other opportunity of relinquishing their pro-
fession.


