
 66                      BERWICKSHIRE.

tribute to swell the Tweed. The only river is the Blackadder, one
of the tributaries of the latter, which takes its rise at Wedderlie.
Flowing in a south easterly direction, it separates Westruther from
Greenlaw, and during its whole course through this parish, which
including its windings, cannot exceed three miles, it is inconsider-
able both in breadth and quantity of water. It increases in magni-
tude, however, as it descends along the skirt of Harelaw moor, where
it meanders through a fine rich meadow, the sloping sides of which
want only a little plantation to render it one of the most beautiful
and romantic solitudes in the whole of Lammermoor.
   Geology.-The parish abounds chiefly with greywacke, the beds
of which are interspersed with perpendicular beds of imperfect
slate. There is no covering over greywacke but the natural soil.
A stone quarry occurs at Houndslow, from which excellent stones
of a pink colour are procured for building, of which several houses
in that village, and the external part of the new mansion at Spot-
tiswoode, are composed. Over the whole of the stone in this south-
ern district, which consists of sandstone (freestone,) there is a cover-
ing by a red dent. A red sandstone is found to the north-west of the
village of Westruther, and a quarry at Flass, of a coarse grain. There
is a little mica in this stone. About twenty-eight years ago, a slate
quarry was wrought at Bruntiburn, in which, many roods of pave-
ment for soles of drains were found, but this slate was found not to
be of a durable quality. There is little or no marl, although shell
marl was found in a pit at Whiteburn, to the depth of seven feet,
and rock marl appears in a quarry which is now in the course of
being wrought at Wedderlie, in a vein about two inches thick.
Sand is found in great abundance in various parts of the parish.
   Fossil organic remains have been discovered at different times, but
neither in such number, nor such a state, as to enable us to give a
satisfactory account of them. It may be mentioned, however, that the
antlers of a deer were found near Whiteburn, and several horns have
been dug out of the mosses, said to have been of much greater dimen-
sions, than those of any living animal; some of thern exceeding a foot
in circumference. All these, however, soon crumbled into powder,
after exposure to the action of the air. Eight or ten feet below the
surface of the moss, in Jordanlaw, there is a bed of wood, consist-
ing wholly of 'hard wood, out of which bed oaks have been dug of a
very great size, measuring in one instance twelve feet in periphery. *
   Soil.-The general quality of the soil is light, with a rocky and

<FOOTNOTE>From the same moss was dug a small bronze urn, supposed to have been a Ro-
man camp-kettle.


