
         			BRECHIN				 131

sand, reposing on a gray sandstone. In the northern part of
the parish there are several quarries in operation, which exhibit a
fine section of the gray sandstone. This rock is well adapted for
building, being susceptible of a high polish, and being of great du-
rability, as the tower and spire attached to the cathedral (which have
stood for 800 years without decomposition or decay,) abundantly
prove. The position of the sandstone is nearly horizontal. No
metals have been discovered in any part of the parish, so far as is
known.
	Botany.--There are no native plants peculiar to this parish.
The Linnea borealis, which is very rare, is found in the woods of
Kinnaird, lying partly in this and the neighbouring parish of Far-
nell. The insects which are most injurious to fruit trees are the
white American bugs imported from the London nurseries about
thirty years ago, and now very prevalent in gardens around the town.
They attack only apples. The various means for destroying them
are washing with the refuse of gas-works, with black soap, vhale
oil, and with scalding-water, especially if potatoes have been boiled
with it.

                       II.-CIVIL HIISTORY.
	A map of the town and suburbs was published by Mr John
Wood a few years ago, which seems sufficiently accurate and de-
scriptive.
	Breckin Castle was, before the invention of artillery, a place of
considerable strength, being romantically situated on the top of a
precipice. A ravine of considerable depth separates it on the east
and north from the town; while the South Esk, here formed into a
fine sheet of water, washes its southern base. Access to the for-
tress was attained only through the gate in a wall, which was built to
defend it on the western quarter. The brave Sir Thomas Maule,
proprietor of this stronghold, in the time of King Edward III. defied
the forces of that prince sent to reduce it. Nor did it fall until
a stone thrown by an engine slew the valiant defender, when the
castle surrendered at discretion to the terms of the English inva-
der. The proprietors of this place of renown, and of the extensive
estates connected with it, have since that period boasted of the
name of Maule. They were afterwards elevated to the peerage
by the title of Earls of Panmure. They lost this title in conse-
quence of the Rebellion in 1715; but his present Majesty was
pleased at his coronation to grant the title of Baron of Panmure


