
324                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

say also for his writings), and so successful in begetting a regard
for religion, that his name and remains were long after held in
great veneration by the people. Many churches were dedicated
to him throughout the country; and, among others, the original
place of worship here. An annual fair and a fountain in this pa-
rish still retain his name.
	In some charters and other writings immediately subsequent to
the Reformation, the parish is denominated Banchory-Trinity;
but this distinctive is not now in use. It is familiarly known by
the name of Upper Banchory.
  Boundaries and Extent.-It is bounded on the north by the pa-
rishes of Echt and Midmar; on the east, by Drumoak and Dur-
ris; on the south, by Durris and Strachan; and on the west, by
Strachan and Kincardine o'Neil. Its figure is irregular; the ex-
treme breadth, east to west, 9 miles, and the extreme length, north
to south, about the same. Its area contains 21307 imperial acres;
only 5090 nf which and, on the south side of the Dee, the rest
lie on the north, and, with a small portion of Drumoak, form
the only part of the county of Kincardine which passes that river.
  Topographical Appearances.-The surface, as seen in a general
view from any of the neighbouring heights, appears a portion of
the valley of the Dee, lying between the long insulated Hill of
Fare on the north (1793 feet), and Kerloack on the south (1890
feet), one of the Grampian range, which stretches from, the west
to the sea at Aberdeen. Between this latter hill and the river
(which is here about 165 feet above the sea-level), a lower ridge
intervenes, whose greatest height may be about 1000 feet. It has a
steep northern aspect of a crescent form, and is parted in the mid-
dle so as to allow free communication with the nearly parallel val.
ley of Strachan, and to permit its waters collected in the Feugh
to discharge themselves over a rocky ledge into the Dee. Being
planted with larch and pine, it presents the appearance of a semi-
circular woody screen, through an opening in which the ridge of
Kerloack and the singular summit of Cloch-na-ben are seen with
considerable effect; while the river winding along the curvature
of its base gives animation to a prospect beautiful and picturesque.
	That part of the parish which lies on the south of the Dee hs

divided by the Feugh. The upper and smaller division consists
of the sloping flank of Scolty. the western half of the woody cres-
cent ridge already mentioned, and embraces a small part of the
estate of Blackhall, with the properties of Auchattie and luvery-


