
     Of Markinch.

   Character of the People.-It would be sacrificing truth to
complaisance, to say that there are no worthless or excep-
tionable characters in this parish.  The number of such, how- 
ever, is comparatively small.  The great body of the people 
are sober, peaceable, and industrious.  Their attendance on 
the public ordinances of religion is punctual and exemplary, 
and their moral conduct correspondent to their prosession.  It 
is worthy of notice, that the colliers of Markinch possess a re-
spectability in point of character, to which few other colliers 
in the kingdom can pretend.  In them you fee nothing of 
that gross ignorance, that roughness and barbarity of manners, 
that extravagance and disorderly behavior, but too generally 
characteristical of this description of men.  On the contrary, 
with a very few exceptions, they are remarkably intelligent, 
attentive to the duties of religion, civil and obliging in their 
manners, sober, frugal and diligent; in consequence of which, 
they and their families live comfortably, and make a decent 
appearance.  It deserves also to be mentioned, to the honour 
of this parish, that during the late ferment, when designing, 
factious, and turbulent men were endeavouring to disturb the 
public tranquillity, and to alienate the affections of the people 
from the mild and equal government under which they live, 
their loyalty to their King, and attachment to the Constitution 
remained uncorrupted.  They joined no discontented associ-
ations; they imbibed no seditious principles; but every man 
attended to the duties of his station, and left the modelling 
and mending of constitutions to others, as a business beyond 
their sphere, and above their abilities. 

     VOL. XII. 4 A
 
<FOOTNOTE>

hood. In several other parts of the parish, coffins of the same kind have, at dif-
ferent times, been discovered.  One, in particular, was found about 7 years ago 
on the Headlaw, between Markinch and Balgonie.  It was of a square form, 
made of four unhewn stabs of freestone, set edge-ways, and covered with a broad 
stone of the same kind, upon which was laid a large unformed mass of stone, and 
above all, a heap or cairn of small stones.  The bones enclosed in it were calcined.  


