
                     TARBAT. 				  465

county, seeing the good effects of the new system, got a grieve
from East Lothian, and commenced farming on the same princi-
ple. About the same time, Mr Mackay purchased the lands of
Little Tarrel, now Rockfield, and commenced extensive and judi-
ciously conducted improvements in a very spirited manner. On
the farm of Wester Geanies, the property of Aldie, a great deal
was also done.
   The example was followed by several other farmers, and soon
became general in the country, and the war prices giving encou-
ragement to the exertions of agriculturists, the spirit of improve-
ment went on with unabated vigour.
   At the close of the war, Captain Rose returned to the farm of
Bindhill, in which he succeeded his father, and, converting his
sword into a plougbshare, cornmenced.farming on the new system
with great spirit and success, which he has continued to the pre-
sent date; and has now the satisfaction of seeing the subject of his
labours and improvements confirmed in the bands of his son-in-
law, Mr Chisholm, by a new lease of nineteen years granted at
this term; who, it is confidently hoped, will upbold that benevolent
and highly respectable character which the House of Bindal has
hitherto maintained.
   The improvements which thus, in all quarters, made such rapid
progress in regard to the soil, were kept pace with by those which
respected the external features of the farms. Taking a view of
the parish at the Present period, we see the tenantry all live, in
comfortable well-furnished houses, with excellent, accommodations
for their corn and cattle; and on, all the larger farms, tbrasbing-
mills, one impelled by wind, another by steam, and others by from
four to six horses. In short, the parish of Tarbat is as well farmed
as any part in the north, and the.farmers are highly respectable
intelligent, and hospitable.
   The largest farms in the parish run from 150 tO 350 acres and
the rents from L.1, 15s. to L.2 per acre.
   The system pursued here is the five and six course ; the 1ouir
has been tried, and, on the farm of Mickle Tarrel, long practised
with success.
   The country not being pastoral, the farmers here do not rear many
cattle, or sheep.  They keep what is called a flying stock which
after being well wintered on turnips, are sold at the early markets.
   Mr Archibald Dudgeon, at one time had a stock of excellent
Highland cows, which he' selected from the purest breed in the


