
572			         LANARKSHIRE.

tion already formed is by no means contemptible, as may be con-
ceived, when we say that a simple catalogue would exceed our pre-
scribed limit.
	In the remark to be made on this branch we shall keep by
the order of the previous part, beginning with the first coal in the
Carluke basin.
	Our coal-field is rich both in fossil plants and animals.
        Plants.-The roof of the Castlebill first coal, in an old work-
ing, presents a picture which words cannot adequately describe:
The shale abounds with, nay, seems to consist of a tissue of beauti-
ful vegetable stems and imprints of the genera Lepidodendron, Si-
gillaria, Calamites, Sphenopteres, and many others; the Stigmaria
along with some of the above, and what we conceive to be cones
of the Lepidodendron, are got from the shale of the Castlehill se-
cond coal;-and from the lower seams some of the Equisetum
tribe, and leaves of aborescent ferns are procured. A magnificent
specimen of the Sigillaria pachyaderma, in a perpendicular position,
was found in clearing out the foundation for the furnaces at Castle-
hill, measuring 3 feet in circumference, but it was totally destroy-
ed. A fine flattened specimen of the same kind is preserved, each
rib of the fluting of which measures 2 1/4 inches, giving for the en-
tire plant a great circumference. From the small collection al-
ready made from these coal seams alone, twenty-five species have
been selected, many of them of great beauty.
	Animals.--Fishes are found entire, and vast quantities of bones,
teeth, vertebrae, scales, and other exuviae are procured from the
bituminous shale of the Castlehill second coal. Among these are
identified good specimens of jaws of the Megalichthys, Plesiosaurus,
and Teleosaurus, &c.; and teeth of the two first mentioned from
1 1/2 inch in length downwards; bones of the Pterodactylus; feet
and bones of the hat tribe; dorsal spines of the Hybodus and some
others, one measuring 9 inches in length; scales of the turtle, &c.
Some of the remains found in this shale (particularly one jaw) are
not figured by any writer we have consulted. A circle of bone
too, supposed to be that which sorrounded the lucid cornea of
some reptile monster, found of varied dimensions, from an inch
and three-quarters to half an inch diameter, is unique so far as we
know. Shells of four species have been got in the shales and iron-
stone balls of the Castlehill coal seams.
	The freestones also abound in vegetable remains; and without

        			     6


