
178                           WIGTONSHIRE.

great length of a time it must have remained in the moss. After
having communicated these particulars to Mr Chalmers, he re-
plied, "I have seen only one celt discovered in Ireland, but there
have been several discovered in Britain. From this and other
circumstances, I am inclined to infer that the settlement of Ire-
land is much later than that of Britain, whatever General Vallency
way say." I sent this stone celt also to Sir Walter Scott. I
think he alludes to it in his Border Antiquities.
	The Celtic people of very early times left other remains, which
lay open to us some of their modes Of life. Canoes resembling
those used by the savages of America have been found in the
Carlinwark Take and in Loch Doon. In the moss of Barnkirk,
in the immediate neighbourhood of Newtonstewart, a canoe was
found about the year 1814 made of a single log. Mr M'Millan,
writer in Newtonstewart, being then the occupant of Barnkirk,
caused this singular remnant of antiquity to be made into the lintel
of the door of a caart-shed on the farm of Barnkirk, where it may
yet be seen. Part of the sides are cut away, but the hold of the
canoe is yet about ten inches deep and nineteen inches in breadth.
When entire it appears to have been four or five inches broader
at the top. The length of the hold is seven feet six inches; the
bow and stern seem to have been a little rounded, and the mark
of the axe or chissel, by which the log was hollowed, is seen, parti-
cularly at each end, where the grain of the wood is cut across.
	"I saw a ball of fat, or bannock of tallow, weighing 27 lbs., that
was found in the moss of Barnkirk immediately over the canoe,
at least six feet from the surface by people casting peats there.
	"It is a remarkable fact, that, in the small valley of Barnair, there
are 49 cairns placed in regular order. That in the centre is 30
feet in diameter. The others are only 25 feet in diameter each.
That a great battle, was fought there, may be reasonably suppos-
ed; but at what period, and by whon, is now wholly unknown."
	Modern Buildings.--The present church of Penninghame was
built in 1777. It is in a very insufficient state, and it is very in-
adequate to the accommodation of the people; a great part of the
village of Newtonstewart having risen since the church was built.
A contract has been entered, into by the heritors for a new church,
suitable to the present amount of the population, on an elegant
plan furnished by William Burn, Esq. architect, Edinburgh,--ex-
pense about L. 5000. The church now standing is a very plain
                             4

