
     of Sorn.

   The proper and intended name* of the parish is Dal-
gain; but the Castle of Sorn, an ancient seat of the family
of Loudon, happening to stand contiguous to the church, has
insensibly communicated its own name to the whole parish;
insomuch, that the former name is now but little known or
regarded.  Both these names are originally Gaelic +.  The
former signifies Sandfield, being compounded of dail, a
field, and gain, sand; a name exactly descriptive of the
ground about the gentleman's house from whose estate the
glebe and church-yard were detached; and a name, too,
which that estate, now the property of Mr Stevenson, still
bears.  To ascertain the precise meaning of the word Sorn,
is, it seems, a matter of greater difficulty.  By those who
are skilled in the Gaelic language, I am informed, that,
among other meanings, Sorn signifies a rising-ground of a
frowning or unpleasant aspect.  According to this etymo-
logy, the name may have taken its rise either from the rock
on which the castle is sounded, and which, at a considerable
height, overhangs the river of Ayr; or rather, perhaps,
from the general aspect of the rising grounds in the neigh-
bourhood, which, at no very remote period, must have been
extremely bleak and dreary.

   Extent, Form, and General Appearance.-Cutting off a tri-
angular point of land, which runs beyond the general line of

<FOOTNOTE>

*By a strange typographical error in the Statistical Account of Muirkirk,
this parish is called Lorn, which is well known to be a district of Argyle-
shire, far remote from this part of the country.
+As indeed are most of the names of places in this parish.  Some of these
I shall here mention, with the explanation, which I have received from a
friend in the Highlands.  Glen-shamroch, clover vale; Dal-charmach, the
field of carins; Dal-darch, oak field, Dal-diling, a field liable to be over-
flowed; Car-leith, a winding torrent; Auchin-cloich, stone field; Barboith,
comely grove; Blair-kip, the field of archers; Auchmonnach, hill-field.


