
                     CATHCART.                            509

fore, enjoyed by the inhabitants of choosing their market in that
great city, accounts for the fact that butchers!-meat has never been
sold in the parish, and baking only attempted on a very small
scale. An omnibus starts every morning from Clarkstone toll,
the most distant point, for Glasgow and returns in the evening.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The old parish church, a miserable build-
ing, erected in 1707, and capable of containing, with comfort, not
more than 150 sitters, was taken down in 1831, and a new one
built of very elegant structure at a cost to the heritors  L. 2500,'
and seated to accommodate with ease about 1000 persons, which
is very nearly the legal allowance of seat-room for the whole popu-
lation. The sittings are allocated to the heritors according to
their several valuations; but no seat-rent is charged from those
who occupy them. A. new and most commodious manse was built
in 1818, and is in good repair, together with the offices, which
were repaired and enlarged a few years ago. The garden ground
around the manse amounts to about one acre and a-half, and the
grebe, which is let at a rent of L. 16, 10s., consists of three acres
and a rood. A very fair average of the annual value of the living
is given in the report of the Parliamentary Commissioners, who
state it to be L. 276, consisting partly of surrendered teind, and
partly of oatmeal and barley, payable in money at the highest fiar
price. There is no Dhssenting meetinghouse in the parish, but
a considerable number of Dissenters, who have no difficulty in find-
ing accommodation for public worship in the chapels of Pollok-
shaws, Mearns, Rutherglen, and Glasgow. A majority of the
inhabitants are connected with the L, stablished Cbiirch. The
average number of the congregation, which varies very considered
ably at different seasons of the year, may be about 500; and the
number of communicants on the roll is about 100 less. About
thirty youijg persons have, for some years past, been admitted
annually to the communion-table for the first time.
   Education.-There is an admirably-bonducted school near
Clarkstone, but, from its situation, it is of more benefit to the
populous village of Busby in Mearns than to this parish. There
is also one- in the new  village of Cathcart, well taught and well
attended; and till of late, there was one in Crossmyloof, but, the
teacher's merits having procured him promotion, it is now closed.
These three schools were each on the masters' own adventure.
It may be worth while to mention that some years ago, when the
regular teacher in the last-mentioned village fell into a decline,


