
     72                          PERTHSHIRE.

     bear three mill rhynds. *  Mills driven by a water power were in
     these days a rare and valuable property, and possessed only by
     persons of influence and affluence.  If these mills were his, as tra-
     dition informs us they were, that may account for the three rhynds
     in the family arms, and go far to establirh the antiquity of the
     aqueduct, for nowhere else could water be procured for them.
        But it appears from a feu-charter granted by Robert II. in
     the fourth year of his reign, i. e. 1375, that they were then,
     and bad for some time previously been, the property of the Crown,
     for in that year he made a gift of them to the aldermen, burges-
     ses, and community of Perth.  We must therefore believe that
     the Aldie family had for some consideration given them up to
     the Sovereign.  And this may account for the family possessing,
     by an express royal grant, a burying vault in the Middle Church,
     which grant must have been prior to 1126, for it was in or about
     that year that King David I. gave over to the Abbey of Dunferm-
     line his right to dispose of any part of the parish church.
        The estimation in which this Low's Wark and the aqueduct or
     mill-lade were held in the fifteenth century, appears from an inden-
     ture entered in the city record, 4th November 1494, made by the
     then Lord Ruthven and his son to the burgh, and John Eviot of
     Balhousie, anent the mill-lade, water passage and course of the mills
     of the said burgh, and anent the reparations and upholding of that

     <FOOTNOTE>In Nesbit's Heraldry it is said, "John Mercer in Perth purchased the lands o
     Meiklour from Mauritius de Cromod in the reign of King David II., which were
     confirmed by that King in the thirty-third year of his reign, and afterwards took the
     designation of AIdie.  In the same  work, Mr Mercer is said to carry Or on a fess
     between three cross Patees in chief Gules, and a star in base azure, "&c.  But the fol-
     lowing old verses "on the Arms of Aldie," which Mr Scott many years ago received
     from Mr Mercer, already referred to, are entitled to attention.

                           "Behold the arms of the Mercers are,
           Three mill rhynds, three gold balls with glittering star.
           To let the world know that their ancient race
           Possessed three mills for many ages space,
           In pleasant Perth, near situate by Tay,
           Which mills Perth keeps unto this present day.
           Three balls next show them potent in each thing,
           Therefore they gift these mills unto the King,
           Who for their golden gift and loyal mind,
           With arched tomb in church did them propine,
           With lands rent, arms, of privilege and fame,
           kept now by Aldie's lands, chief of the name.
           Lastly, the star, clear, shining as a gem,
           Proves their descent out of Moravian stem.
           Likewise their will and virtue do presage,
           In name and fame to last with shining age.
           Therefore, men may avow with justest breath,
           Mercer's are yea older than old Perth.
        These Iast lines, as Mr Scott remarks, refer to the fabulous story of Hector Boece,
     that Bextha was prior to Perth.


