
			BEITH.                            571

nience of the people. The parish contains 11,060 acres Scots
measure, of which 500 are in Renfrewshire. It is bounded on the
north, by the parish of Lochwinnoch; on the east, by Neilston and
Dunlop; on the south, by Kilwinning and Dalry; and on the west,
by Kilbirnie Loch.
	Topograhical Appearance.--The surface is slightly undulated
throughout, and consequently does not present the varied features
of hill and dale, nor any of the picturesque beauties generally to
be met with in districts of a more broken and diversified aspect.
The highest land is in the north-east quarter of the parish, from
which it gently slopes to the west and south-west, and the least
elevated portion of it is that bounded by Kilbirnie Loch. The
parish may be said to occupy the eastern summit of the land
bounding the valley, which extends between the River Clyde and
the coast of Ayrshire. Along this strath a stream runs from Kil-
birnie Loch northward, through Lochwinnoch to the Clyde, and
the Garnock, after approaching within half a mild of Kilbirnie
Loch, turns to the south and falls into the sea at Irvine. It is
through this valley that the Ardrossan Canal was to have been
formed; and, as Kilbirnie Loch was its summit level, and being
only about ninety feet, above the sea, the line presented great faci-
lities for such an undertaking. In 1805, an act of Parliament was
passed, authorizing the canal to be made; but this undertaking
having proved far more expensive than bad been anticipated, was
completed only between Glasgow and Johnstone. In 1825, an
act was passed to form a railway in its stead; but tb is was not done
and, in 1837, an act was passed for forming a great line of railway
through the same valley, from Glasgow by Paisley and Irvine to
Ary with a branch to Kilmarnock,--Which undertaking has recently
been commenced. It has been proposed to form a line of railway
from Kilmarnock, by Cumnock, Dumfries, and Carlisle, to Join
the Liverpool railway at Preston, which, if carried into effect would
make this the great line of communication from London to Glas-
gow and the west coast. As already stated, the lowest elevation
of the parish is about 90 feet; its highest is on Cuff Hill, which
is 652 feet.  From this hill, which will be more particularly no-
ticed afterwards, and from, several of the adjoining uplands the
prospect is unrivalled in the district for extent, variety, and mag-
nificence. To the south and west are visible the mountain ranges
of Galloway and Carrick, the spacious estuary of the Clyde, the
Craig Ailsa, and the lofty peaks of Arran; while, northward the


