
   194                             BANFFSHIRE.

   school is needed; but it were most desirable that the grammar-
   school in Portsoy were raised to the full status of a parochial one.
   By thepxtension of week-day schools, in conjunction with the Sab-
   bath schools, the latter of which are tinder the immediate charge
   of the ministers of the Established Church, and are regularly at-
   tended bv upwards of 400 children, a marked and gratifying im-
   provement has been wrought, more especially upon the rising ge-
   neration.
     Literature.-There, are two subscription libraries in Portsoy,
   besides a Sabbath school one there, and another at Fordxce, the
   books of which are given gratuitously to the children. There is
   also a small select library, consisting chiefly of religious works, be-
   longing to the Episcopalian congregation. These have done
   much good, by diffusing a taste for reading among the parishioners.
     Savings Bank.-A receiving branch of the Banff Central Sa-
   vings Bank was established at Portsoy in 1837. Though it has
   Dot yet prospered to the extent that could be wished, it may be
   stated as a proof of its making progress, that within the last
   twelve months L.145 have been deposited, while not more than
   L. 20 have been drawn. The depositors are chiefly of the work-
   ing classes; and the whole amount of the deposits is Dow above
   L.300.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are two distinct manage-
   ments of the poor's funds,-one by the session of Fordyce, and the
   other by that of Portsoy; each session maintaining the poor con-
   nected with its own district of the parish.

<TABLE>

       Average number of persons receiving parochial aid in Fordyce,       50
                                                            Portsoy,       70
	 Average allowance to each annually in Fordyce	-         L. 1   1    0
                                            Portsoy.           1   0    0
  Average amount of church collections in Fordyce,            34   0    0
  Interest of money and bequests,                             19   0    0
  Average amount of church collections in Portsoy,            59   0    0
  Interest of money and bequests,                             14   0    0

     Besides the above means of support to the poor, there are about
   40 bolls of meal annually distributed amongst the more indigent;
   and there is a ferhale benevolent society in Portsoy, which some-
   times expends in coel, clothing, &c. to the amount of L.30. In
   both congregations, an, extraordinary collection is made every year
   for the Aberdeen Infirmary, and for a pauper lunatic fund, esta-
   blished for the benefit of the different parishes in the presbytery,
   and under its immediat  management. We regret to say, that, in-
   stead of their being, as formerly, a reluctance on the part of the


