
162                       FIFESHIRE.

and submitting to their admonitions. In 1831 the old house
belonging to this congregation was razed to the ground, and a com-
modious new one built near the same spot. The minister's sa-
lary is L.125 per annum, besides a good house and garden. His
salary is paid from the seat rents, &c. Till lately, there ex-
isted a remnant of that old sect of Christians, the Cameronians
or Mountaineers as they were sometimes termed. The house or
rather barn in which they assembled is now occupied by a hand-
ful of individuals, who call themselves Christians; but what their
particular tenets are, the writer of this account has not been able
to learn. They have no stated pastor, and are irregularly supplied
with sermon by itinerant preachers of various descriptions. There
are some Baptists and Independents, and also a few Episcopalians
who have their places of worship at Kirkaldy. A very few indi-
viduals attend a Relief meeting at Dysart, and it is believed there
are. two or three individuals of the Roman Catholic persuasion, na-
tives of the sister isle.
   The only general parochial society for religious purposes is what
is designated " The Abbotshall Bible Society," the sole object of
which is the raising of a fund for the circulation of the Scriptures.
It is managed by a committee chosen from amongst various classes
of Christians, who adopt whatever measures they consider best cal-
culated to promote the object of the society. An annual sermon is
preached for the benefit of its funds, alternately in the parish church
and dissenting meeting-house, which, together with the other stated
contributions, may bring about L. 10 or L. 15 per annum.
   Poor and Parochial Funds-The number of poor in this parish
is very considerable. Abbotshall proceeds upon the good old plan
of supporting the poor, so far as is practicable in so populous a pa-
rish, and exhibits a proof of the excellency of the system. The
funds are made up of the collections at the church doors,--rents
of a few pews in the church belonging, to the session.--and a
small annual contribution made by the heritors. The whole dis-
bursements to the poor do not, on an average, exceed L. 130 per
annum. There are at present 12 ordinary poor on the Session roll,
and 7 extraordinary,-all of whom are supplied weekly according
to their several necessities. In addition to each of these weekly
allowances, each of the poor on the session roll receives twice in
the year, a certain sum to assist in paying house rent, and provid-
ing coals. Several others who have not as yet been admitted on the
roll, receive occasional assistance. Many more are prevented from


