
     Statistical Account

<FOOTNOTE>

land, as a breach of the Solemn League.  The Parliament made an act
to the contrary.  The ministers were very much embarrassed, but such as
obeyed the Assembly were safest.
   The Parliament sent their army into England, under the command of
the Duke of Hamilton.  They were defeated at Preston, Aug. 17. by
Cromwell.  This was called the unlawful engagement, and all who did
engage in this war were obliged, by act of Assembly next year, to make
public satisfaction for their offence.  These offenders performed their pe-
nance without repentance; so that, by this piece of discipline, neither
the interest of religion nor of the church was much advanced.
   Anno 1649. Jan. 30. King Charles was basely murdered by Cromwell
and the sectarian party.  This execrable fact was detested and abhorred
by all the Presbyterian party, who by no means acceded to it, though
it be salsely and miciously imputed to them by some.  They lost a fine
army, fighting for the King when a prisoner; and before he was brought
to this trial, they, by their Commissioners at London, gave in their prote-
stations against his trial; and, upon the melancholy event of his death called
home his son, and set the crown on his head.  The General Assembly, in
their letter to King Charles II, dated Aug. 6, 1649, have these words:
"We do from our hearts abominate and detest that horrid fact of the
"Sectaries against and earnest dessire of our fouls, that the ancient monar-
"chical government of these kingdoms amy be established and flourish in
" your Majesty's person all the days of your life, and may be continued
" in your Royal family."  Cromwell defeated our army at Dunbar and
Hamilton, and in the year 1653 raised the General Assembly, and sup-
pressed that court during his administration, but allowed Presbyteries and
Synods to meet.  The Church's loyalty to the King and Royal Family
was very shocking to the Usurper.  They had brough home the King
and crowned him at Scoon, Jan. 1, 1651, having settled with him their
cliam of right, or the terms of his government.  But the Usurper prevail-
ed, and drove the King out of the island, and forced the whole kingdom
into a subjection to this most aribtraty government.  The Church stood
firm and untaken in their loyalty to their exiled King and the monarchy,
praying for him by name in the face of the English soldiers, and exerted
themselves to the utmost for his restoration, and when the oath of the Ten-
der was urged, abjuring the King and Royal Family, all of them, as it
said, Mr Sharpe excepted, refused it.


