
        490                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	served that the fish, in their attempts to clear the Upper Fall, were
	frequently driven back by the force of the current, and thrown
	upon a particular rock near the foot, whence they dropped into
	their native element. Advantage was taken of this well-known
	fact, and the fish so falling were secured by laying branches of
	trees on the rock, in such a way as to prevent their sliding back
	into the river; and the idea of lighting a fire upon the rock and
	suspending a kettle over it was afterwards suggested to some fer-
	tile fancy. No recognized means are now resorted to for taking
	fish at this place, though poachers may sometimes be observed
	standing on the brink of the fall, and holding in their hands long
	poles with books or cliques attached to their ends, wherewith they
	often succeed in seizing the salmon in their attempts to spring
	over the cascades. There is a cruive on one of the lower falls,
	whereby a number of fish are intercepted in their progress to the
	spawning grounds. There is also another cruive about a mile fur-
	ther down the river, extending from side to side.
	    On the point of a rock on the south side, and overlooking the
	falls, there has been erected, at the expense of the Right Honour-
	able Lady Lovat, an elegant seat surmounted by a small dome,
	with miniature turrets, and having its floor causewayed with small
	stones of various colours, to represent different figures. A pleasant
	shady walk, ornamented not only by numerous birches, but with
	rhododendrons and evergreens planted by Lord Lovat, serves to
	facilitate the approach of the tourist to this romantic spot, and con-
	ducts him along the Dream to the island of Aigas. In some parts
	of it, the spectator is apt to feel dizzy while contemplating the
	foaming water struggling through the deep abyss; while, far be-
	low, he sees the daw, the ring-dove, and the kestril harmoniously
	dwelling together, and, undisturbed by the overpowering din of the
	cataract, busily engaged in constructing their nests in the holes
	and clefts of the rock. The garden belonging to the minister of
	Kilmorack is picturesquely situated on a rock overhanging the
	north side, on a crag, at the utmost verge of which, there is a fine
	summer-house, also fitted up by Lady Lovat, in a style correspond-
	ing with the cupola already alluded to, on the opposite side.
	    Hydrography.-The number of lakes in the parish is very great.
	The largest and most remarkable for their surrounding scenery
	are Loch Affaris, Lochnaluire, and Lochbeinnemhian. The ro-
	mantic grandeur of this section of the parish will bear comparison
	with that of any part of the Highlands of Scotland. The hills
	and mountains on either side are ornamented by the presence of


