
498			FIFESHIRE.

of the Franks, who afterwards retired from that court to a forest
in the Limousin, where he constructed an oratory, and acquired
high celebrity as a preacher. His fame is said to have been
greatly increased by the miraculous endowments he exhibited, and
by the sanctity of his life. After his death he was canonized, and
many religious edifices were dedicated to him, not in France only-
but also in Britain. He died soon after the middle of the sixth
century of the Christian era.
     It is uncertain at what period the territory which at present
constitutes the parish of St Leonards was originally erected into
a parish. From the erection of St Leonard's College in 1512,
its parochial status can be distinctly traced, but prior to that pe-
riod, it is not so decidedly fixed. There are circumstances which
seem to render it probable that it is not of a more ancient date.
When, according to tradition, the Greek monk Regulus and his as-
sociates who had sailed from Greece, carrying along with them
certain of the bones or relics of the apostle Andrew. were wreck-
ed at the spot where the city of St Andrews now stands, they were
successful in prevailing upon the monarch of the country and the
bulk of his subjects, to abandon their idolatrous notions and prac-
tices, and to embrace Christianity. The precious relics, which
had been preserved at the period of the shipwreck, were carefully
kept, and in the superstitious times which followed, multitudes
flocked, not only from the various districts of the kingdom, but
also from foreign lands, to inspect and admire them, and to expe-
rience the influence of their supposed miraculous powers. The
multitude of these devotees was, at certain periods, so great, that
they could not be conveniently accommodated, in the buildings
which had been erected for the use of the existing religious insti-
tutions of the place, and they were often in consequence subject-
ed to very considerable inconvenience. To remedy this evil, it
was judged to be expedient, that a house should be erected of suf-
ficient dimensions for their accommodation, in the vicinity of the
apartment where the relics were deposited. And as many of the
devotees were in indigent circumstances, and the idea, in these
ages, was very generally prevalent, that such pilgrimages we re
highly meritorious, and ought to meet with all due encouragement
from the ecclesiastical bodies, ample funds were set apart for their
maintenance, for such a period as might be deemed proper for
them to remain in the place. This house of entertainment for
poor pilgrims was denominated an hospital, and it was dedicated


