
958                             FIFESHIRE.

ploughman, bad to start at cock-crowitig to prepare the daily straw
for his cattle; pow the sound of the flail is seldom beard, as every
farmer has his thrashing-mill. The first two-horse plough in the
parish was used upon Pittowie in 1783-4, and conducted by one
who still lives and enjoys a good old age. The first thrashing-
mill was erected in 1801.
   The greater number of farms have been furrow drained; and
with the exception of the quantity already mentioned as being
under wood, and about sixty acres, chiefly sea braes and links used
as pasture, the whole land in the parish is under tillage.
Near the coast, sea-weed is much used as a mantire which an-
swers well, so that some pieces of ground which seldom get a
change, produce as good crops as any lauds adjoining. Lime and
stable dung are of course universal; bone-dust, guano, soda, &c.
are also more or less employed.
   The rotation of crops differ according to the soil and situation,
but the generality follow the four or six rotation. In the fornier
case, the crops are, 1st, potatoes or turnips; 2d, wheat or barley;
Sd, beans or grass; 4th, wheat or oats. In the latter, 1st, fallow;
2d, wheat; 3d, beans; 4th, barley; btli, grass; 6th, oats; and
then recommence with fallow, potatoes, or turnips. In conse-
quence, it will be seen that very little land lies fallow, not above
then acre out of twenty; while potatoes and grass may be reckoned
each one in six;. turnips and beans each one in twelve; the re-
mainder in wheat, barley and oats. Bere or bigg is very seldom
grown.
   In a parish containing such a variety of soil, and One acre in
one locality producing more than two in another, it is almost iin-
possible to ascertain the actual amount of produce; but the fol-
lowing may berregarded as an average per Scotch acre. Potatoes,
35 bolls; turnips, 20 tons; beans, 4 quarters; wheat, 4 1/2 quarters;
barley, 6 quarters; oats, 6 1/2 quarters; grass, 175 stones.
   Stock.-There are not many cattle bred in this parish, but such
as are, consist chiefly of the Fife and sbort-horned breed. A
gnod many calves are purchased and brought from other places;
from a number of two and three year old beasts are bought at the
public markets, partly for the purpose of eating the straw and tur-
nips to make manure, and partly to fatten for the, butcher; and
from the great attention paid, they generally bring very highprices.
Great attention is paid to the quality and keeping of hores, as
well as to their harnes  &c. Only one or two farmers keep any


