
     Statistical Account

is built in the form of a cathedral, 60 feet long by 54 over
walls, on a small mount, the top of which is about 40 feet
above the level of the circumajacent ground.  The summit of
the mount is of an elliptical form; the greatest diameter go-
ing from S. to N., and the length of the church being from
E. to W., there are only about 8 feet at each corner more
than is sufficient to contain the foundation of the fabric.  The
ascent of the W. N. and E. sides of the mount, is exceeding-
ly steep*.

   Extent, Surface, Produce, Rent, etc.-Formerly the ex-
tent of this parish was considerably larger than it is at pre-
sent.  The town and abbey of Arbroath belonged to it, till
about the year 1560, when Arbroath became a distinct pa-
rish.  But as no legal division was ever made, the boundaries
of the 2 parishes cannot be exactly alcertatined +.  The boun-
daries of what is now reckoned the parish, may be described

<FOOTNOTE>

ground round the vestiges of the chapel, with a stone sence, and planted it.
Within a few yards of the chapel, there is 1 of the most copious springs, of ex-
cellent water, in this country, called to this day St. Vigean's well.
*The mount seems to be partly natural and partly artificial; for, on the S.
side, when graves digged, rock appears about 3 feet below the surface; but
on the N. side, there is fine mould for several feet deep.  There is not, perphaps,
in Scotland, a church so remarkably situated.  The small river Brothock, from
which the neighbouring burgh has its name, runs within a few feet of the E.
side of the church-yard, and is said to signify the "muddy stream," as it runs a
great part of its course on a muddy and clay bottom.  The church is an English
mile distant from Arbroath northward.
+Perhaps it may be proper to observe, as an uncommon thing, that the S.
side of the church of Arbroath, for about 10 feet at the E end, and a few feet
on the W., stands in this parish, and not many years ago, the minister and
schoolmaster of Arbroath resided in it. The estate of Guynd, in the parish of
Carmylie, about 5 miles from St. Vigeans, belonged also to this parish, as ap-
pears from writings belonging to that family, but which it was disjoined, is not
now known.


