
                          MONZIE.                             275

like a mantle over the world, are fast hastening to decay, it would
be matter of lasting and extreme regret should all such interesting
fragments nnt be collected and preserved with scrupulous and
jealous care.  To the imaginative mind it might seem like the ga-
thering up of laurels which have fallen from the conqueror's brow,
for here it was that a power mightier by far than that of Rome pro-
claimed, 11 hitherto shalt thou come, but no farther."
   Besides the antiquities already enumerated, which may be term-
ed native to the parish, the House of Monzie contains a splendid
collection of paintings, ancient armour, and many articles of virtu.
Some part of these are wrecks of the feudal times, which have sur-
vived the period of their usefulness; but here also may be seen re-
mains of Roman and even Babylonian antiquity, brought together
like converging rays of light, into one common focus, thus com-
bining with the present, ages and countries, the most remote, and
shedding a lustre over the pages of their written history.
   Modern Buildings.-Tbe chief modern buildings, besides the
church, are the mansion-honses of Monzie and Cultoquhey.
                    III.-POPULATION.
The first account taken of the population of this parish, so far
as is known, was at the request of Dr Webster in 1755, when it
amounted to 1192.  Another account was taken in 1792, by the
Rev. George Erskine, then minister of Monzie, which amounted
to 1136, exhibiting a diminution of 56, in a period of thirty-seven
years, or about 11/8 in the year at an average. And by a third enu-
meration in 1836, made expressly for this work, we find the popu-
lation to be 940, being a decrease of 196 in forty-four years, or
about 5 in the year at an average.

<TABLE>

   The present population ir distributed as follows:-

Monzie village,                                            118-in 1792,112
Cuilt,                                                      25
Keppoch,                                                    13
Estate of Monzie, exclusive of these three villages,       134
Gilmerton,                                                 292
Estate of Cultoquhey, exclusive of Gilmerton,               87
Callander,                                                  62
The other districts not included in the above enumeration, 269
                                                           ____
                                                           940

As the village of Gilmerton has sprung into   existence within
these few years, and Monzie has remained nearly stationary since
1792, the decrease has taken place in the population distributed
among the farms, and is to be accounted for by these being let out
to fewer handsthan formerly.


