
           KILNINIAN ANV KILMORE.					341

fibrous, and sometimes appears passing to ebalecdon. The soil                  
is commonly of a light-reddish earth, or a miiture of moss with
little depth and, in some places, much tinder water.
Zoology.-There are five lakes in the parish, all of them
abounding with excelldnt trout and pike.. The streams likewise
furnish trout, and, at the mouth of them, salmon. The game
consists of grouse, blackcock, snipe, and plover. Rabbits and
hares are abundant; and deer are to be found. The salt water
fish, shellfish, and sea-fowl, &c- are particularized under the
guvad sacra Ulva parish.
             II.-CIVIL HISTOP.Y.
,There are eleven landed proprietors, whose names and valued
rents in Sterling money are as under:

	Ilugli Maclean, Esq. of Coll,	L.82 14 11
	Mrs Clephane Nlaaean of Torloisk,	5944
	Francis William Clark, Esq. of Ulva,	4953
	Hugh MacAskill, Esq of Calgarry,	4042

F.W. Caldwell, Esq. of Tobermory, and John Stewart, Esq. of

	Achadashenaig, for Mishnish,	33	16	11
	John Stewart, Esq. of Achadashenaig,	6	16	10
	Lachlan ,,quarie, Esq. of Glenforsa,	27	15	2
        British Sli.',        10      2       4
	Misses Macdonald,	13	16	8
        John Forman, Esq. W. S. of Stafrm      2       9       2
	Kenneth Campbell, Esq. of Ardow,	2	17	3

	Total valued rent,	L.329	3	0

Before the Reformation, there were no less than eight places
of worship in this parish, the ruins of which are still to be seen,
although, after the Reformation, and down to the year 1827, only
one clergyman was left to serve the cure ; a lamentable want of
spiritual instruction therefore, necessarily existed, as, from thd
great extent of the parish, and its numerous islands, it became im-
possible for the parishioners to attend, with anything like regulgl-
rity, the parish church; and to any one clergyman, however zea-
lous, serving the cure of a charge so extensive and divided, the
duty became more than physical strength could perform. In thei
year 1 27, the Parliamentary Commissioners, acting under the exe.
cution of the Act 4 and 5 George IV., erected two parishes quoad
$acra in this parish, and planted a church in each. A part of the
,4nited parish was I ikewise cutoff, and added to the new Government
!harge of the parish of Salen. Government, by these wie;a:rrange.
rilenti;, have conferred a lasting and truly valuable boon on the
numerous inhabitants of this populous district; and if to each Go-
ierntneni church be added, as is in contemplation, a school, tlh-e
boon will become a double blessing.


