
368                        AILOYLESHIRE.

.ors, imitating his example, will soon commeiice and encourage Si.
milar improvements on their several estates. To have improve.
ments carried on, it is necessary that each farm be let to one re.
spectable tenant only, and that for a period of nineteen years, in.
stead of the old' system, still generally followed, of letting a farm
to two or three tenants jointly for a period of seven or nine years.
It is necessary that suitable farm-btiildings be erected instead of
the old black huts which are now on the farms ;-and that due en.
coura ement and assistance be given' by the proprietors to their
tenants in draining and enclosing the arable land. The sheep
reared in this part of the cnuntry are mostly the black-faced breed;
and they are in general of a' small size, owing to the pasture on
the hills not being of the best description. Of late years, sheep
drains have been introduced on 'Some farms for the purpose of im-
proving pasture, and Considerable attention has also been paid to
the means of improving both sheep and cattle stock.
Fi.qheries.-The principal fishery- connected with the parish is
the herring-fishing in Locbfine, which TLirnisbes employment to
the greater part of the people during the summer, and is the chief
employment on which they depend for subsistedee. There are
III fishing-boats belon-ing to the parish, each of them requiring
three men to manage it. The original cost of each boat or wherry
is about L.40 or L '50, and the full quantity of nets costs nearly
as much, so that it requires a capital of L. I 00 to furnish a boat
properly for this fishing, A considerable annual outlay is also ne-
cessary to keep, the boats and 'nets in repair, in 'Consequence of the
tear and wear to which they are exposed. For upwards of twenty
years, with the exceptinn 'of an occasional year, tbe'fishidg has not
been -so abundant, and consequently not so productive as it for-
m6rly was, so that the greater number of those 'depending on it
have been reduced to poverty. The average produce of each
boat during the above' period 'May be estimated at from L. 50 to
I- 60 per annum, which, being divided into three shares, affordr,
but a s'mail:sum for the maintenance of 'a family, and for providing
an outfit for another'season. And with regard to many boatsi the
sum to be divided- is much 'smaller thav what has been stated above.
In th6 lower end of the parish, in the JKyles of Bute, salmon-
fishing with'bag-'nets; has been tried for some years past, and with
considerable success. Those caught are usually of good size and
quality. This fishing has been under the management of one


