
     Statistical Account

   Improvements by Proprietors.-In the Sinclair estate, there
was originally an extensive moor, burdened with seal, divot,
turf, etc to the burgh of Dysart.  Servitudes of this kind
are a great bar to improvements:  and, in estates where coal
is an object, the attention paid to it, too often prevents the
cultivation of the surface.  When the inhabitants of Dysart
came to give up the use of turf, either for burning, or other
purposes, their privileges on the moor could not be of great
importance.  An agreement concerning them seemed evident-
ly for the advantage of all concerned.  This was accomplish-
ed at different periods.  As a compensation to the town, a-
bove 100 acres were conveyed to them in property: and the
family of St. Clair were at liberty to cultivate what remain-
ed.  In the beginning of this century, a few years after the
first transaction with the town, Lord St. Clair began to plant
and enclose near the Orr.  His example was followed by his
successors: and what still retains the name of Dysart moor,
now consists of good enclosures, chiefly in pasture, surround-
ed with belts of plantation.  Within these 50 years, between
300 and 400 acres have been planted and improved, no more
remaining in its original state, than what is necessary for such
of the feuars as use divot for a covering to their houses.  The
whole estate, a few acres excepted, is enclosed with stone
and lime, or ditch and hedge.  The last is preferred as a
cheaper, warmer, and more beautiful fence.  The estate is
still capable of improvement.
   The proprietor of W. Strathorr, while he is busied in car-
rying on an extensive manufacture in a neighbouring parish,
dedicates his leisure hours to the improvement of his estate
in this.  The ground has been cleared of stones, which al-
most covered the surface:  the fields have been enclosed, drain-
ed, and manured:  belts have been planted to screen it; it
assumes a very different appearance from what it did a few

     6


