
676			AYRSHIRE.

piece of land in grant from the heirs of Eglinton, on condition of
keeping the ruin from further decay, we must say that the terms
of the tenure are not very strictly complied with. The building,
two entire storeys of which still hang together, roofed in by a rude
arch of ruble work, is in the form of an oblong square, and entirely
without ornament. It is chiefly built of greenstone from the ad-
joining rock, with corners and port-holes, &c. of freestone, not
superior, as when the former Statistical Account was written,
to any found in the parish. But, as it is only of late years
that the freestone quarries in the parish have been wrought,
it must have been brought from a considerable distance. The
length of the building without the walls is 113 feet. The
breadth 40 feet. At the south end, is the keep or prison, consist-
ing of two or three miserable looking arched cells nearly filled up
with rubbish, which apparently form a distinct compartment, but
are in reality a part of the original building. On the western wall,
the arms of the Stewarts, with those of some of the more powerful
barons, are carved in alto relievo, but are so obliterated by time as
to be almost undistinguishable. Parts of the  wall, both of the
outer and inner courts, are still standing, and appearances of a
mound or fortification running round the whole, and of at moat at
the bottom of the hill, are distinctly to be traced. Previous to
the Reformation, the castle contained a chapel dedicated to St
Ninian, with an endowment annexed, the patronage being vested
in the prince; but no remains of it are now to be discovered. We
shall leave these dry bones of once proud and living architecture,
with the quotation of a popular rhyme regarding them, which lays
claim to a high antiquity. The verse is certainly descriptive enough
of the castle as it stands; but if it is as ancient as is supposed, it
must to have reference to a still older fortlet, which is generally be-
lieved to have occupied the same site.
		"There is castle in the wast,
		   They ca'it Donald's din;
                  "There's no a nail in it ava,
                     Nor yet a timmer pin!"
	In 1240, the family of Fullarton erected and endowed a convent
of Carmelites on the site now occupied by the town of Fullarton.
The convent, which was dedicated to the Virgin Mary, continued
to flourish till the time of the Reformation. (See Aiton's Sur-
vey.) The last prior, Robert Barn, foreseeing the approaching
storm, alienated the lands, which went under the name of Friar's
Croft, to Fallarton of Dreghorn. No trace of the edifice or of


