
174                  PEEBLES-SHIRE.

committed to memory; and means are employed for giving the
children a juster notion of the meaning, of words, that the treasures
contained in books may be more profitable to them. The teacher
has the legal accommodations, excepting the garden, which is not
of the required extent; but this is compensated by an annual sum
of L. 2, paid by the heritors. The school in Megget, oil account
of the state of the roads,-the numerous streams which intersect
them,-and the usual severity of the weather, is not kept during
the winter. A teacher is engaged, who begins his labours about
Whitsunday, and continues them till Martinmas following. The
heritors have allowed L. 7 yearly for the support of the school.
The parents of the scholars furnish the teacher in succession with
board and lodging. The instruction given is the same in every
particular as that which is afforded in the school of Lyne. There
is probably not all individual in the whole parish ten years of age,
certainly none fifteen years old, who is unable to read, and few, if
any, who are not able both to read and to write.
   There is neither circulating library, nor friendly society, nor
saving bank, in the parish; but individuals avail themselves of those
that exist in other places. Generally, the more permanent ser-
vants in the parish, remote from the dissipation of towns, and cha-
racterized by frugality and diligence, amass sums, which they de-
posit in the common banks of the country.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-For a long period of time, there
have been no poor who were permanently supported by the parish,
but individuals and families in protracted affliction have often re-
ceived temporary aid, and for such occasional assistance, the col-
lections in the church have as yet been sufficient, though, as tile
parish is small and divided, and without any resident heritor, these
are necessarily of small amount. The average yearly amount of
church collections is L. 2, 6s. There is a general disposition to
avoid, if possible, dependence on parochial aid: and for several
years there have been no poor in the parish.
   Inns, &c.-There is neither inn nor alehouse, nor place of any
description where ardent spirits are sold.
   Fuel.-As the distance from other kinds of fuel is great, peat
alone is used in Megget. It is mostly obtained on the hills, and
it requires a considerable expense of time and labour. Coal is
solely employed in Lyne. It is brought from Mid-Lothian and
the northern limits of the parish of Newlands. Its costs about
17s. per ton, with a little more or less, according to the difference
of quality or distance.
  June 1834.


