
612                           PERTSHIRE.

stone formation. In that portion of it comprised in this parish,
and its immediate vicinity, this formation has been brought dis-
tinctly into view. In the low and level parts of the carse district,
the superincumbent mass of alluvium is so immensely thick, that
only in one single locality has the sandstone been reached. It is
in the higher parts of it that opportunity has been afforded for
fully examhning the geological character of the strata. By a par-
tial up-heaving of the strata, that slightly elevated ridge, lying be-
tween the Tay and the braes of the Carse, and running nearly
west and east, from almost the western boundary of this parish to
ndarly a mile beyond the village of Errol, has been raised. In
various localities in this ridge, the red sandstone has been brought
so near the surface as to be opened for quarries, and thus made
subject to investigation. In particular, two quarries have been
opened, (one in this parish, called the Cot-town quarry of St
Madoes, the property of Sir John Stuart Richardson, of Pitfour,
Bart.; and another in the parish of Errol, the property of John
Lee Allen, Esq. of Errol, about half a mile to the east of the
former;) both on the summit of the afore-mentioned ridge, where
the character of the formation is very obviously exhibited, and
other most interesting circumstances connected with it, have been
developed. Clashbennie, the latter of these quarries, are well known;
this, though it is not within the limits of St Madoes' parish, may be
regarded as geolofically connected with it; and I do not, there-
fore, hesitate to interfere a little with the geology of Clashbennie.
     The sandstone lies in beds, varying in thickness from one foot
to three feet, with thin layers of clay between them. These beds
exhibit very much the same appearance, with this exception, that
now and then a bed of a breeciated aspect presents itself. Evi-
dences of the action of water in their formation are very ob-
vious, the different layers or laminae, (if vd may apply the term,)
of which they are made up, being easily traced by the observer.
These most generally lie parallel to the plane Of stratification, and
are sometimes straight, implying traiiquillity,___and sometimes more
or less undulated, indicating a corresponding commotion, at the
period of deposition. Beds are also to be seen, whose layers are
oblique, forming angles of various degrees, with the plane of stra-
tification. Such, however, are rare; and considering that they
present their layers of deposition straight as well as undulated,
there is difficulty in accounting for the peculiar from they have as-
sumed. It is but seldom that pebbles of any kind are found im-


