
140                     BERWICKSHIRE.

as the baptisms are dispensed in three different congregations, and
no means have been employed to enforce regular parochial registra-
tions. There are not at present more than five or six families of
independent fortune residing in the parish. All the proprietors,
except one, hold lands above the yearly value of L. 50.

<Table>

Number of families in the parish, including Ayton Common,                  352
       of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                        100
                   chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 200

   There are six boats' crews of fishermen in the parish, consisting
each of six men; and one boat's crew of the Preventive Service,
consisting of one officer and six men.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-This parish contains nearly
6000 English acres of arable land, 800 in plantations, and between
200 and 300 in pasture. There are no lands waste; all are in the
highest state of cultivation.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is somewhat
under L. 2. Horses and cows may be grazed for L. 5.
   Rate of Wages.-Labourers' wages are 1s. 6d. per day, artisans'
2s. and 2s. 6d. Farm-servants called hinds have L. 4 per annum,
with a cow's grass, 10 bolls of oats, 3 bolls of barley, a boll of
pease or beans, with a proportional quantity of potatoe land, and a
house and garden,-for which last two articles they supply a reaper
in harvest to their masters.
   Husbandry.-Every branch of husbandry is here conducted on
the best principles. The turnip husbandry for many years has
been a very important branch, and by the introduction of bone-dust,
now in universal use, is brought to the greatest perfection. The
general duration of leases is for nineteen or twenty-one years, a pe-
riod equally agreeable to both landlord and tenant. Farm-buildings
and enclosures are no where more complete than they are here in
general. Iron ploughs and harrows have been long in common
use. Nothing has contributed more to agricultural improvements
than the complete system of draining which has now prevailed for
many years. In this respect there is really little or nothing more
left to be done. Grass fields are here sometimes irrigated. Of
agricultural produce, some idea may be formed from the fact, that
an acre of land in the parish will yield four bolls and a-half of wheat,
or six bolls of barley.
   Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as
follows:
                                  4


