
                            TIBBERMORE.                       1035

Ruthven printfield occupies the next waterfall on the Leed,
About sixty years ago, this waterfall was employed in turning an
oil-mill, when Messrs Ross, Barland, Meliss, and Co. obtained a
lease of the premises from the late Duke of Atholl, and erected
upon it a bleachfield, which they carried on  for a considerable
time.  They sold their lease to Messrs Young, Ross, Rich-
ardson, and Co., who soon afterwards became proprietors of
the place, and converted it into a printfield. This business was
carried on by them for many years with great success, and to a
very great extent. From 1000 to 1200 people were constantly
employed at it, who printed  goods to the value of nearly half a
million Sterling annually. At length this company resolved to
wind up their extensive and very prosperous business, and to sell
the whole of their premises; but, as it was some time before they
could meet with a purchaser, the work lay dormant till 1830,
when it was sold to the Messrs Duncan from Glasgow, the pre-
sent proprietors. These gentlemen have revived the work, and
are now carrying it on with great spirit. Nearly 2,000,000
of yards are printed by them, in every variety of style, for the
home and foreign market. At no other field has the printing of
mousselines de laine been carried on with greater success, or to a
greater extent, than at Ruthven. About two-thirds of the whole
are performed by blocking-printing, and the remainddr by machine-
printing. There are employed at this work 188 men, 67 women,
and 113 children; among whom there are 5 drawers, 8 engravers,
19 cutters, and 123 printers. The average wages of the drawers
are from L.1 to L.2, 10s.; of the engravers, from 15s to L.1 10s.;
of the cutters, from L.1 to L.1 10s. ; of the printer, from L.1 to
L.1. 15s per week. This is, of course, when they are constantly
employed, which unfortunely has not been the case for these
some years past; although it is generally allowed by the men
themselves, that employment has been more regular at Ruthven
field than at any other field in Scotland

                         V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY

Villages.-The villages of this parish are now nearly all swepth
away.  At one time, there was a large village of cottars and
pendiclers at Wester Cultmalundie, who used to send to the
moor with their herd, no less than eighty cows, Of this village,
four small cottages are all that now remain.  There was once a
considerable village around the church, with its malt-barn and
public-house; but this also is gone, with the exceptions of one house,


