
366                       RENFBEWSHIRE.

government of this church. He concurred in ordaining some Pres-
byterian ministers, in conjunction with several ministers of that
-COInMUD10D, saying, I He thought his old Age prolonged for ]it'
tle other purpose, but doing such good offices for the propagation
of the gospel."' From the Right Reverend Andrew Bisho of Ra-
pboe are descended Viscount Nortbland, recently created a Brit-
tish Peer, by the title of Baron Ranfurly; as also the Honourable
and Right Reverend Dr Knox, present Bishop of Limerick , whose
primary charge, in as far as an opinion can be fo-rmed from the ex-
tracts given in a literary journal, would, in doctrinal statement and
;fervent piety, seem not unworthy a descendant of the Scottish family of Knox.
The ruins now visible, after so long a period of dilapidation,
1 684 is the latest date traceable in the family burying ground are
neither extensive nor strhking. At a short distance is a tumulus
about thirty 3ards in length by seven in height, composed of earth
an I d small stones; whence several similar ones are seen upon elevated
sites, used not improbably for conveying signals in those days ofvio-
lence in which every man of higher condition was forced to make his
house his castle. Not far from the castle stood a Romish chapel.
The contiguous farm of Priestoun has brought down the name, pro-
bably, of the residence of the officiating priest. Another chapel, in
a more central position, has been noticed already, in the account of
some localities connected with Kil barchan village; with the allotment
of funds from the adjoining lands of Pennel and Weitlands, towards
endowing the Old College'of Castlesemple. A third chapel, more
accessible to the inhabitants on the west and soutb, was that of
St Bride's, in the village of Kenmuir; a village and chapel of
which - every trace has long eluded the keenest observation.
A solitary tree on the road-side from Castlesemple East Gate, to
Cloehoderick (noticed often,) imrnediately north of the entry to
St Bride's Mill, marks the place once graced with a house of
prayeri for accommodating a population comparatively inconsi
derablt,-. Yet it was ofimpoetance enough to find a place in the
map, of Renfrewshire, published in 16.54 by Blaeu, Amsterdam.
ln adition to the fascination of a form of worshi so much
addregoodL to  the SenSea and the fancy, it: nnot be denied, that
in,and age. When the,shortest line was always open,.in the ab-
Hence of enelopares: and fences of every sort, no less than
unlaces of worshiv were easily within reach St Bride's and
phapels being each less than two miles distant from the


