
                           MORVERN.                       173

of Mull, though caught in great abundance in the Linnhe Loch
and Loch Sunart.
   The herring fishing has of late years failed in Loch Sunart as
elsewhere, though it is believed a greater degree of expertness in
deep sea fishing would enable the people in that neighbourhood to
secure a larger supply.  The only regular salmon fishing is that
of Lochalin, which is neither valuable nor productive, being let,
with reservation of the rod-fishing, at the annual rent of L. 16
Sterling.
   Attempts have been made, but hitherto with little success, to
establish salmon-fishings along the sea coasts.  At the estuaries of
the different streams, sea trout and other fish are caught, and along
the shores the usual variety of shell-fish is found.  The coasts,
and more especially the lochs, are frequented by seals, and their
more interesting and less demure looking associates, otters.  The
latter, on descending from the mountain lochs, journey along
the sea coasts, calling at the accustomed places of resort, (which,
at stated intervals, are ranged along, with almost as much regula-
rity as the stages of a turnpike-road,) and may be seen regaling
themselves at one time on the scaly salmon, at another partaking
of a less palatable repast in the slimy entwinings of a conger-
eel.
   Birds.-Sea-fowls of the migratory and other kinds are not
wanting; and while in the woods, the thrush and the linnet strive
to charm us into a forgetfulness of the ills of life, their allied tribes
of the deep are seen busily engaged in their own avocations.  In
the calm summer day, the watchful curlew is seen wading in the
shallows; the drowsy heron, as if lost in vague contemplation,
stands perched on the projecting cliff; the sportive diver appears and
disappears, as if undecided in his choice of elements; while others
congregate with shrill triumph in the wake of the tumbling por-
poise, darting now and again with steady piercing aim on their
scaly prey underneath.  In winter, too, the " herdsman of the
deep" sends forth in hollow accents the forebodings of tem-
pest; the sombre "scare" flaps his wings, as if rejoicing at the an-
nouncement; while the more arial tribes soar on high with grace-
ful evolutions, as if preparing to herald the approaching storm.
   Attempts have occasionally been made to tame and domesticate
some of the wild animals of the country.  The martin, the most
social of them all, has frequently taken his place with great coom-
posure at the fireside.  But he seldom attains to advanced age.


