
	324		ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	by tradition. A singularly wild story of this kind, which was just
	on the eve of being entirely forgotten, has been preserved by Mr
	Miller in his " Scenes apd Legends of the North of Scotland."
	(Pages 216, 222.)
	                IV.-INDUSTRY.
           The number of acres in the parish, which are either cultivated
	or occasionally in tillage, may be estimated at about 3000. The
	extent under natural pasture is unknown. It is believed that very
	little more could, with any prospect of profit, be added to what is
	already cultivated; and indeed, much of what is now in cultivation
	would turn to more advantage, if kept in pasture. There is an
	undivided common between the properties of Fowlis and Inch-
	coulter, containing about 600 acres. A very considerable portion
	of the parish was about the middle of last century planted with
	firs, larch, asb, elm, oak, and other trees, suited to the climate.
	Malny of these trees, particularly the fir plantations, were cut down
	a few years ago on the Fowlis property, and proved a source of
	much profit to the proprietor. Some of the hard-wood had at-
	tained to such a growth as to be fit for the purposes. of ship-build-
	ing, and two-ships were built and launched on the property. In
	other parts of the parish, there are some thriving plantations, which
	have not yet attained their full growth.
	   Bent of Land.-The rent of arable land varies, according to
	the quality, from L. I to L. 2, 5s. per acre. The average charge
	for summering cattle, one, two, three, and four years old, may be
	stated at 15s., L. 1, L. 1, los., and L.2; and wintering, from L. I
	to L. 1, 10s.; but this must of course greatly depend on the feeding.
	The charge for grazing a full-growti sheep is from 2s. to 3s. a year.
 	   Wages.-The following are the wages usually given to farm la-
	bourers and country artisans : A ploughman for yearly wages
	gets a house, L. 6 in money, 6 1/2 imperial bolls of meal, 6 bolls of
	potatoes, 10 barrels of coals, and a pint of milk for one-half of the
	year-in all about L. 18. Maid servants are paid from L. 3 to
	L.4 a year.  A mason gets about 2s. 6d., and a Cartwright Is. 6d.
	day. A sawyer gets Is. 8d. for the hundred feet; and a slater
	14s. the rood for laying on slates. An iron plough costs L. 3,
	and a coup-cart from L. 8 to L. I.O.
	   Live-stock.-The common breed of sheep in the parish is the
	black-faced or aboriginal sheep of the country, or sometimes crosses
	from them. In various parts, other kinds from the south, particu-
	lat]y Cheviots, have been introduced; but on the hill grazings, the
					3

