
		AUCHINLECK.		329

<TABLE>

	Woods,	   		              	   L. 75
         Coals and lime,                                  2990
   						  -------
     Total yearly value of raw produce raised, L. 16,035

    Manufactures.--Weaving by the hand-loom has long been car-
ried on. The webs are chiefly supplied from Glasgow, and the
most common fabrics are light silks and muslins. The number of
weavers probably varies from 60 to 70 ; the wages of those em-
ployed in the manufacture of silks are from 10s. to 12s., and of
the others, from 7s. 6d. to 8s. weekly.
	A number of women, both older and younger, throughout the
parish, are engaged in flowering muslin. This is not confined to
those residing in the village, but many of the farmers' daughters
and others find it a profitable employment. The cloth is sent out
by Glasgow houses, to their several agents in the country, who
take the charge of getting it flowered and returning it. The whole
of the work is done by the needle, and is therefore very tedious,
but so expert have those occupied in it become, that Ayrshire work
is considered superior, and brings a higher price in the market.
The wages earned in this way are from 5s. to 8s. weekly, and
sometimes even considerably more.
	Box-making is likewise a common employment. This species of
work was originally confined to Laurencekirk. From thence it
reached Cumnock, through the ingenuity of an individual connect-
ed with that parish, who, having been employed by a gentleman,
who was visiting in the neighbourhood, to mend a Laurencekirk
box, gained so much insight into the nature of the work, that from
imitating, he soon began to rival its inventors. The nearness of
Auchinleck to Cumnock accounts for its introduction into this
parish. The most considerable manufacture of this kind is at
Mauchline. Those engaged in this business do not confine them-
selves to the manufacture of snuff-boxes ; but cases for calling
cards and needles, and ornamental boxes of various descriptions are
occasionally made. The wood used is plane-tree. When the box
is made, it is generally painted and varnished. Indeed, a great
many coats of varnish are necessary to preserve the painting.
Many of these paintings are transferred from prints, others are re-
gularly done with the brush; but the most common device at pre-
sent in vogue is an imitation of tartan, and other checks, which is
done by a small machine. There is, however, a variety of ways of
finishing them. The quality of the Cumnock boxes, it is said, is
fully equal to that of those made at Laurencekirk, though they are


