
         	TINWALD AND TRAILFLAT.                            49

included; it is all arable, and if let might bring yearly rent from
L. 30 to  L. 35.
	The stipend is composed of L. 114, 4s. 5 /I 5d. money; 265 stones
imperial of oatmeal; 77.676 imperial bushels of barley; and
L. 8, 12s. 10d. of Government allowance,--communion elements
included.  The amount of the stipend in money is L. 150.
	The parish church is the only place of public worhsip in the
parish; though occasionally the dissenters make use of a barn as a
sort of chapel. There are 22 families, consisting of 87 individuals,
who do  not attend the Established church. Of these, two families
consisting of 9 individuals, are Roman Catholics, and one, con-
sisting of 8 individuals, ranks among the Independents. The rest
are dissenters and seceders. The Established church, however,
has always been well attended; and the people in general have a
proper sense of the importance of the public ordinances of religion.
The Sacrament is dispensed once in the year, and usually to about
400 communicants.
	Collections in the church average about L. 30 yearly; and once
in the three years or thereabouts a collection, amounting to L. 12
or L. 15, is made for some religious or charitable purpose, in which
the parish is not immediately interested.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish, both parochial,
at which all the ordinary branches of education are taught. The
principal schoolmaster has two chalders of oatmeal, and the in-
terest of L. 114 of mortified money, for a salary, amounting in
whole to L. 37, 12s. 9d. The other has a chalder, and the in-
terest of L. 77,--in money, L. 19, 8s 4 1/2d. Both have the legal
accommodation;--the former a great deal more.
	The wages paid in the parish school may be stated upon an
average to amount to L. 30 per annum. Children are commonly
sent to school about four and five years of age, and no persons above
six years old are unable to read. The people are fully alive to the
advantages of instruction, and would much rather deprive themselves
of many of the comforts of life than withhold from thier children
the benefits of a liberal education.
	Savings Bank.--Some years ago there was a savings bank in the
parish, which at first, while the thing was new, and the per centage
high, succeeded pretty well. But as soon as the novelty was over,
and the rate of interest reduced, it gradually went backwards, and
was at last given up as no longer beneficial,--the people generally
preferring to go to the larger banks, where they can deposit their
	DUMFRIES.			D


