
550                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

abandoned, and the honest labours of agriculture substituted.  It
is a subject of just congratulation, to contemplate the industrious
spirit, the healthy tone of moral feeling, and the fixed religious
principle that are gradually, under the blessing of God, acquiring
more and more strength over their minds.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres cultivated and waste can-
not be stated with precision, as several of the properties have not
been surveyed.  The most accurate approximation the writer has
been able to arrive at is as follows, viz.

<TABLE>
         Arable land in round numbers,   .      4,500 Scotch acres.
         Wood,           .         .            3,000   do.
         Waste and pasture prohibit upwards of 60,000   do.
   Rent of Land.-The gross rental of the parish, (including the
portion of Tarland * formerly mentioned,) is, as nearly as can be
ascertained, about L.5000.  The valued rent, exclusive of Tarland,
is L.3039, 1s. 6d. Scots.  The average rent of arable land may be
stated at L. 1, 5s. per Scotch acre; the right of common pasture
in the hills included.  The grazing of a full-sized ox may cost L.2.
A sheep pastured on the hill for a year, 2s. 6d. ; grazed in an
inclosed field, 5s. 6d.
   Wages, &c.- A farm-servant's wages with victuals, or two pecks of
meal per week and a Scotch pint of milk per day, are from L.10 to
L. 14 per annum; a woman servant's vary from L. 4 to L. 5, 10s.
according to the kind of work required.  The scythe is now al-
most entirely employed in cutting down the crop.  The farmers
engage bands for the harvest about Lammas.  A cutter gets about
L.2, 10s.; a bandster from L. 2 to L. 2. 5s.; women from L. 1,
10s. to L. 1, 15s.  Formerly, thravers were engaged for harvest
at 3d. per thrave without victuals, but the scythe has now super-
seded every other method.  It is more expeditious, the crop sea-
sons sooner, and more straw is obtained.  One scythe cuts down
an acre and a-quarter per day, with a woman to gather the swathe
into sheaves, and -a bandster to bind and stook.  A day labourer's
wage is from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 9d. in summer, and 1s. to 1s. 4d. in
winter.  The prices of articles of country manufacture for rural
purposes are, a full-mounted iron plough, L. 3, 10s.; do. of wood,
L. 2 15s. to L. 3; harrows of hard-wood, L. 1, 3s.; do. of larch,
which is found to answer well, 16s.; a double close cart, L. 10 to

<FOOTNOTE>This portion of Tarland is so intermixed with Strathdon, that the writer has
not been able to separate it in attempting to ascertain the real rent.  As it is not
mentioned in thbe Tarland Account, it was thought right to include it here.


