
                       EDINBURGH.                          691

are in a flourishing state; and it has a library of upwards of 200
volumes.
   Royal Botanic Garden.-Sir Andrew Balfour and Sir Robert
Sibbald, two zealous naturalists, were the founders of a Botanic
garden in Edinburgh.  The former returned from, abroad, and
settled in his native city in the year 1670.  He immediately be-
gan the formation of a garden for his own private amusement; but
a few years afterwards, his friend Mr Patrick Murray of Living-
stone dying, and leaving a collection of 1000 species of plants, a
piece of ground about forty feet square, in the north yards of the
Abbey, was procured, and the plants were removed to that spot.
The collection still increasing, a new piece of ground was obtained
from the magistrates adjoining the grounds of Trinity Hospital,
which still bears the name of "the Old Physic Garden."  Here,
under the care of the original founders, who had numerous cor-
respondents abroad who sent home rare plants, and from the zeal
of a young botanist of the name of Sutherland, who was appointed
superintendent, the garden became a valuable collection of plants,
a catalogue of which was printed by Sutherland in 1683.
   In 1767, a new garden was formed on the west side of the road
to Leith, on a more extensive plan than the old one, and in a
better situation.  The ground included about five acres, and con-
tained two hot-houses, a large green-house and dry stove, with a
good collection of exotic plants, especially those used in medicine.
Dr Hope, the then professor of botany introduced many rare
plants into this garden, in the construction of which he had taken
an active interest.
   In consequence of the extension of the city towards Leith, and
encroachments on the garden grounds, another change was
projected and carried into effect about the year 1823-4.  At that
time twelve acres of ground were purchased on the Inverleith pro-
perty.  This area was surrounded by a wall, and the interior was
laid out as a garden, on a much more extensive, plan than before.
A range of hot-houses and green-houses was built on the most ap-
proved modern plan; also at large and commodious lecture room, and
a handsome cottage for the superintendent.  Since that time, addi-
tional hot-houses have been erected for the large palms and other
exotics.  The garden is laid out with great taste, and `t the same
time with scientific precision, under the able superintendence of Mr
M'Nab.  Besides the hot and green-house departments, there is
a large sheltered wall, with warm borders, where many shrubs and
plants of tropical climates have been trained to bear the open, air.


