
     Of Eskdalemuir.

   Population, &c.-According to Dr. Webster, the number
of souls in 1755, was 675.  The population is considerably
decreased in the memory of the present inhabitants.  The
reason assigned, is the common one of converting several of
the smaller farms into a large one.  From a list taken by the

     4 H 2

<FOOTNOTE>

a green colour, and about an inch long.  They appeared about the end of May,
and continued till she beginning of August; when they were destroyed by great
flocks of crows and heavy rains.  After the rains, great quantities were found
on the sides, and at the joinings of the rivulets.  They were not confined to this
parish, but extended to Liddisdale, Tiviotdale, and Annandale.  In 1772, more
than one-third of the sheep died by a severe storm of frost and snow.  In 1773,
owing to the great demand from Roxburgh and the Forrest, which places had
suffered more than this parish, long ewes and lambs sold here for 12 s. 6 d. and
13 s.; long ewe lambs sold at 6 s.; long hogs at 7 s. 6 d. and 8 s.; long wool at
7 s. and 7 s. 6 d.; and short wool at 3 s. 6 d. In 1774, the winter was very se-
vere, but the farmers retired with their sheep into Annandale, and by that
means sustained little loss.  In 1782, the market with America being in a great
measure shut, short wool fell very low, Some of the largest parcels were sold
here for 20 d. a-stone.  The long wool, however, suffered no change, because of
the ready market it always found in England.  Some loss was sustained this year
from mock thaws*, but not considerable; for the farmers retired again into An-
nandale.  In 1785, there was one continued storm from the 26th of November
till the end of March, but no loss was felt, for the high winds always cleared
ground sufficient for the sheep.  Sheep sold very dear this year, owing to the
general demand, occasioned by the losses of 1782 and 1783, in other parts.  Long
hogs sold then for 10 s. and 10 s. 6 d.; short ones at the same, and dinmonts for
12 s. and 13 s.; long wool was from 9 s. to 10 s.; and short ditto from 3 s. to 4 s.
From 1785 till 1791, seasons were excellent, and fully compensated those who
were not ruined by the former ones, for all their losses.  But last year they be-
gan to turn worse; and this year stocks have suffered very much.  The general
opinion is, that the rent of the parish, which is far from being inconsiderable,
would not make up the present deficiency of stock.  From the foregoing state-
ment of facts, we have a full confirmation of a former remark, that the great-
est calamity to which this parish is subject, is occasioned by the wetness of the
seasons and the softness of the grounds.  How far this may be remedied, comes
to be considered afterward.

*That is, defective thaws, when the ground is again covered with snow, be-
fore the thaw is completed.


