
     of Eccles.

COWPAR says, in his book, anno dom. 1155, conventus monca-
lium secundo, venit ad Eccles*.

   Extent and Situation.-The extent of this parish is very
considerable, being no less than 8 miles from E. to W., and
nearly 6 from N. to S.  It lies adjacent to the county of
Roxburgh, on the W; and contains above 11,000 acres of
ground, scarcely one acre of which is waste or useless.

   Soil and Improvement.-The soil is in general good, and
consists of various kinds; loam, gravel, and deep clay.  The
clay soil is most prevalent; and as there is a considerable
mixture of sand in it, when it is properly cultivated, and
proper manure applied, it bears very luxuriant crops of every
kind.  It is the opinion of some writers, that lime is not
fitted to improve a clay soil.  The reverse of this, however,
has been found in this parish.  Without lime, we can neither
have wheat nor grass; but with it, the most abundant crops
of both.  Indeed it requires a greater proportion of lime
than soils of a lighter texture+.  Towards the S. it is more
inclined to gravel; and in several farms there is found a very
rich loam, capable of producing almost any crop.  Our crops,
in general, when not hurt by a wet spring, or excessive

<FOOTNOTE>

*It was founded by Corspatrick Earl of March, father to Earl Waldave,
and consecrated to the Virgin Mary.  Ada de Fraser was prioress of Eccles,
in the year 1296.  There is in the public records, lib. 21. No. 537, a charter,
whereby Marieta Hamilton, prioress of Eccles, dispones to Alexander Hamilton
of Innerwick, the village and lands of Eccles, in the year 1569; which charter
was confirmed by Queen Mary, at Edinburgh, the 11th of May the same year.
This place was enacted into a temporal lordship, in favour of George Hume,
afterwards Earl of Dunbar.

+The late Mr. Trotter of Belchester lald on no less than 90 bolls of shells
to the English acre; and though the soil was a deep clay, it produced as rich
grass as any in Berwickshire.

     4


