
276                         PERTHSHIRE.

The yearly average number of recorded births for the last seven
years is 12 1/7 : and the number of illegitimate births during the
last three years appears from the session records to have been 10.
   Families of independent fortune and Proprietors of land.- There
are three f`milies of independent fortune who reside within the pa-
rish, and six proprietors of land above the yearly value of L. 50.
   Language spoken.-The Gaelic is spoken in western Glenal-
mond, while the Scottish dialect, with a strong Highland accent,
prevails in the rest of the parish.  The fact, however, that few in-
dividuals in the southern districts even understand the Gaelic, is
evidence sufficient that that ancient tongue is fast falling into disuse.
   Games and amusements.-During winter, the national game of
curling is a favourite out-of-door amusement.  The practice of as-
sembling in large numbers at weddings bas been long upon the
decline.  Handsel Monday, old style, is spent in paying and re-
ceiving visits, exchanging congratulations and feasting; and where
the requisites of music and a commodious apartment, or barn, are
to befound, the young people conclude their festivities with a
dance.  Cards and draughts are also to be found among their
amusements, and in summer the game of quoits is a favourite pas-
time.
   Dress, Ordinary Food, &c.-The habits of the people in re-
spect of dress may be considered as cleanly, to which the gene-
ral introduction of cottons has materially contributed.  The ap-
pearance of the rural population on Sundays indicates a pleasing
degree of self-respect and comfort.  Like the majority of their
countrymen, they are more solicitous about making a decent per-
sonal appearance in public than enjoying the luxuries of good eat-
ing.  Potatoes, pork, and the produce of the dairy, constitute a
very considerable proportion of their ordinary food.  Their bread
is commonly of oat or barley meal, but the occasional use of tea
and wheaten bread is becoming common.  In estimating "whether
the people on the whole enjoy, in a reasonable degree, the com-
forts and advantages of society, and are contented with their situa-
tion and circumstances," regard must be had to some standard of
comparison.  Those accustomed to the modes of living, and to the
usages of manufacturing towns, would perhaps pronounce the people
of this parish poor, and in want of the luxuries and even many of
the necessarites of civilized life.  And, although in this there might
be no exaggeration, yet the people may be described as more con-
tented with their situation, than those who thus affect to compass-
sionate them.  Not-it will be admitted-because poverty is of
                              4


