
330                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

arches is thrown over its stream, just below thd fall; and few spots
in the parish exhibit a more striking view than the alpine scenery
of this place, especially when the Feugh, swollen by rain, fills the
whole channel, and with a thundering noise, and foaming waters,
sweeps through the arches into the whirlpool below.
        Geology, &c,-The hills of Fare and Kerloack consist of nearly
the same variety of red compact granite. Sulphate of barytes
occurs in a vein traversing the granite, not far from Corrichie.  In
approaching towards the Dee, on each side, the granite again makes
its appearance on the intermediate heights; but it is of a lighter
colour, and contains a bed or vein of limestone, which is seen first
on the north side of the river at Glassel; and, after forming the
heights of Inchmario and Arbeadie, may be traced south-eastward
for, several miles. It seems to run in a direction parallel to the
vein of red porphyry at the bridge of Potarch. It is seem cros-
sing the Dee in several places, and where it passes the Feugh, it
appears to be about 500 yards broad. At its junction with the
granite in this latter place, the appearance of both rocks is consi.
derably chanced. They become stratified, and put on a structure
like gneiss or mica-slate, which rocks are not themselves distinctly
observed in the district, though numerous fragments of them abound
on all parts of the surface.  The limestone, though in some parts
coarse and impure, is generally compact, and highly crystallized.
It contains tremolite, and is evidently primitive. At the quarries of
Tilwhilly, it is manufactured for the purposes of agriculture. A
ton of the stone yields six bolls of lime, which, owing chiefly to
the great expense of fuel, costs 2s. 3d. per boll; while English
shells, considered by the farmer of nearly double efficiency, can
be had for 2s. 6d.; they, therefore, are generally preferred.
There exists, also, on Tilwhilly, a limestone gravel, which is
merely the decomposed surface, or withered portions of the above
rock. It was formerly used in its native state as a top-dressing,
but is now little beard of.
	The alluvium is, for the most part, a light-coloured scanty clay,
mized, especially towards the river, with a large proportion of
sand and gravel, and containing rolled pebbles and large boulders.
In the neighbourhood of the Dee, but far above, its present level,
and in some parts of the hollow along the base of the bill of Fare,
it has accumutated to a considerable depth; but the average
thickness of the, soil does not exceed sixteen inches. The peb-
bles, in various parts, are as smooth as those of the sea beach,


