
688                          PERTHSHIRE.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   This parish does not appear to have been the scene of any
event of historical importance.  The people, however, seem to
have taken much interest, and commonly to have taken a part
in transactions which have made Athole, as a province, so cele-
brated in Scottish historx.  The names of Stewart, Robertson,
and Murray, are very frequent, and speak to the part which the
natives must be supposed to have acted in times of commotion, and
more particularly in the Jacobite wars.  There were 600 prisoners
sent hither from the battle of Gladsmuir by Lord George Mur-
ray.  Stewart of Ballechin, chamberlain to the Marquis of Athole,
took possession of the Castle of Blair-Athole at the beginning of
Viscount Dundee's insurrection, and fortified it for King James.
He rendered completely abortive a mission of the Marquis's eldest
son to his father's tenants, for the purpose of securing their neu-
trality, and refusing the young nobleman admission to his own fa-
ther's house.  In the battle of Killiecrankie, a son or nephew of
this person, who is said to have been a clergyman, distinguished
imself by prodigies of strength.  He cut down (as tradition says)
Brigadier Balfour with an enormous two-handed sword, which he
used with such vigour and application throughout the day that, it
is said, his hand could only be extricated from the basket-hilt by
cutting away the net-work.
   Court of Regality at Logierait.-The jurisdictions of the House
Of Athole were very extensive down to late times.  They were ad-
ministered by a commissary and other officers. Logierait was the
seat of court. And there are scattered around the neighbourhood
a variety of memorials of the formidable power exercised under
their authority, in the names of Bal-na- Maoir, "the town of the
rogue-takers;" Tom-na-Croich, "the gallows-hill," &c. There
are, I am sorry to understand, no records extant of the procedure
of the Court, although there is a record, in good preservation, of
the juridiction of the same family in their barony of Hunting-
-tower. Justice-such justice as was then current-seems to
have been dispensed with much energy by the Lords of Athole
within their Regality Court of Logierait, down to the farthest
date at which such could be exercised with any safety, and
that at least, if there be truth in the following anecdote : -Some-
where about the year 1745, Lord President Forbes happening to
be on a visit at Blair Castle, was told by the Duke of an applica-
tion, strongly backed, for mercy to a poor fellow whom his Com-


