
                  UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.        1145

   The present second Regent is Mr Hercules Scott, A. M., Pro-
fessor of Moral Philosophy.  His salary, including his share of
College croft, was, in 1836, about L.195, and the class-fees in that
year amounted to L.180, including the fees for graduation in Arts.
To this regent belongs a house in the College, where he alone of
all the members now resides, and a garden.
   The Humanist or Professor of Humanity is not one of the Re-
gents, and his course was formerly not included in the curriculum
of Arts, Latin being in those days more or less completely taught
at school, and Greek being left for college study.  For a long time
past, however, Latin has formed an essential part of the curricu-
lum.  The Humanist is the Grammarian of the original founda-
tion, and this office has been held by many men of great learning,
The first was John Vaus, and among his successors was Andrew
Cant.  Of late years, Mr Thomas Gordon and Mr William Ogil-
vy have held this chair with great credit.  The present Professor
is Dr Patrick Forbes, one of the ministers of the parish of Old
Machar.
   The salary of this chair, in 1836, amounted to about L.210, and
the class-fees to nearly L.240.  The Professor has a house and
garden.
   It ought here to be mentioned, that Dr Forbes for a long pe
riod officiated as Lecturer on Chemistry and Natural History, in
addition to his other duties, and that attendance on these lectures
was rendered imperative, as it now continues, on candidates for
the degree of A.M.; a circumstance without a parallel in any
other British universit.  The class of chemistry has been found
to excite considerable interest among the students, and must be
considered as a most important and valuable addition to the cur-
riculum in arts.  At the commencement of the session of 1840-
41, Dr Forbes relinquished this part of his duties, some additions
being at the same time made to the amount of Latin in the cur-
riculum; and since that time chemistry has been taught by the
present Professor of Medicine.
   The original foundation contained a Canonist or Professor of
the Canon Law, and a Civilist or Professor of the Civil Law.
The former office was abolished at the Reformation, but the lat-
ter continues to exist.  Among the holders of the former office
must be mentioned John Lesley, afterwards Bishop of Ross, so
celebrated for his fidelity to Queen Mary.  A portrait of this
prelate adorns the common ball of the university.  Among the


