
280                         BANFFSHIRE.

it, and the number of hands employed and maintained at the work.
A variety of kinds of fish are caught on this coast, such as ling,
cod, haddocks, whiting, turbot,skate, &c., yielding a supply to the
interior, for a considerable number of miles, of wholesome and
comparatively cheap food ; leaving also a large surplus to be
either pickled or dried, and carried to the friths of Forth, Clyde,
and Tay for sale.
   Shell-Fish.-The rocky coast about Gamrie abounds in shell-
fish. Those used as an article of food are crabs (provincially
partons) and lobsters. The former are plentifully used in the
neighbourhood, particularly the claws. The lobster, however, is
the favourite shell-fish, and besides those used in the neighbour-
ing destrict, towns, and villages, they have been taken to the Lon-
don market of late years, by snacks, which come round for them
periodically. They are sold at home at 6d. 8d. or 1s. each, and
very large ones at 1s. 6d.
   Botany.-The great variety of soil and situation occurring in
the parish ; the precipitous cliffs on the coast ; and, above all,
the deep ravines cut in the sandstone and conglomerate, and the
kindly soil afforded by the decomposition of the slate, clays, and
conglomerates,-indicate an extensive and peculiar flora; and, had
the parish possessed a careful resident observer, there cannot be
a doubt that his results would do more than verify these anticipa-
tions.
   We bave received the following account from a gentleman
(John Sheir, Esq. Professor of Agriculture, Marisebal. College,
Aberdeen), well acquainted with the botany of the north of Scot-
land, and who has paid frequent visits to this locality during the
last fifteen years: "No satisfactory account of the botany of a
parish can be given, except by a resident observer. I have care-
fully examined the notes I took, and the specimens preserved du-
ring my frequent excursions to your very interesting locality; and
though the following may not afford you all the information you
require, I trust the principal points have not been overlooked.
   Ist, Plants usually found inland, and at a considerable elevation
in mountainous districts, but occurring in Gamrie, on the coast,
and but a few yards above the sea level.  Saxifraga oppositifolia,
+Saxifraqa hypnoides, *Rhodiola rosea. 2d, Hitherto held peculiar
to the west coast, found abundantly in Orkney and Caithness,
and very rarely in four localities in the egst coast, but occurring
abundantly in this parish, along the tops of the cliffs, Scilla verna.


