

                         COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                        155

       be questioned; for the geographical position, and many excellent
       barbours of this country, rendered it a favourite resort of the he-
       roic sea-kings; and there are yet extant in Faroe many sagas
       and poems (in some of which Shetland is mentioned). Those
       two groups of islands were for a long period united under one go-
       vernment and bishoprick; but Faroe was fortunately not scourged,
       as was Shetland, by royal favourites and greedy adventurers, tak-
       ing advantage of the unsuspecting and defenceless Udallers, un-
       protected as they were by the Government of Scotland, to which
       they had been conditionally consigned, and ignorant of its language
       and its laws.
          Population.-The population, under the Norwegian rule, may
       fairly be supposed to have fully equalled, in amount, what it now is.
       There exists, indeed, no documentary proof of this; butit is a reason-
       able inference, from what we know of the contemporary state of Nor-
       way and its other dependencies, all under the same government and
       state of society, and in habited by the same race of people. This argu-
       ment, which I have elsewhere put forth, might be amply illustrated,
       did our limits permit. A considerable population may also be
       inferred from the warlike achievements and great political influ-
       ence of the Earls of Orkney, of which country Shetland formed
       an integral part;--the conclusion drawn by some of a great popu-
       lation, from the remains of numerous churches, appears to be un-
       tenable, for these churches were small; and it was the habit (as
       it still is in Norway), for the clergyman to have several places of
       worship in a parish instead of one; an arrangement apparently
       wisely adapted to the religious instruction of the people, though
       demanding a little more activity on the part of the pastor.
          A few years ago, the population was 31,000. Since then, it
       has been, I think, decreasing; the seasons, latterly, have been dis-
       astrous; and many of the young and able-bodied men have left
       the country. In many parishes, the women are in proportion to the
       other sex, as two to one. Under judicious management, however,
       the islands could probably maintain three times the present num-
       ber of inhabitants.
          To no quarter of the kingdom is emigration less applicable;
       there is ample employment at home for the people, and their ha-

       <FOOTNOTE>It is an interesting circumstance, that, according to ancient Norse authority,
       the celebrated Faeroese hero, Sigmund Bresterson, the confidential ffiend and com-
       panion in arms ofthe Norwegian Cromwell, Hakon Yarl, and of his successful rival.
       King Olaf Tryggneson, first introduced Christiany into Shetland and his native
       islands, near the beginning of the eleventh century.


