
                             DRON.                          863

   Rivers, Springs, Minerals.-Though there are no rivers which
run through this parish, yet it is plentifully supplied with water,
by springs and little currents which descend from the hills.  The
only river which borders on the parish, and divides it from Aber-
nethy is the Farg.  It rises in the Ochil hills, about five or six
miles above, and runs through a deep and narrow and wooded
glen, of romantic beauty, (through which the Great North Road
passes,) for a considerable way, before it issues into the plain ;
and after a short course directly north it bends to the east, and
loses itself in the river Earn, at a place, which derives its name
from it, called Culfargie.  This river abounds with fine trout.
  There is some freestone in the parish, but seldom wrought, ex-
cept on a particular demand.  The appearances of coal are so
great, that many attempts have been made to discover it, by dig-
ging, boring, &c. but hitherto without success.  Many differen
trials have been made within this parish since the year 1758, and
sanguine liopes have been entertained, but as often disappointed.
The nearest coal mines are at Keltie and Loch Gellie, at the dis-
tance of eighteen and twenty miles south, from whence they are
usually brought in carts during summer, for the supply of all the
country south of Perth.  There is no moss nearer than eight or
nine miles. This scarcity of fuel is severely felt by the lower
classes of the people.
  Tile soil in the lower division of the parish, though various, ac-
cording `s it approaches to the bottom of the hills, or the level of
the Strath, is in general strong and fertile, consisting partly of
clay, till, and loam, producing pleritiful crops of potatoes and tur-
nips, wheat, beans, pease, barley, clover, oats, which is the usual
rotation observed here. The soil of those farms which lie on the
hills is of a lighter kind, shallow and interspersed with rock, lying
at the bottom of the furrow, and frequently jutting out above the
surface.  But in the flats and hollows the soil is good, and produces
very tolerable crops, chiefly of barley and oats, turnips and potatoes,
pease Only in small quantities.  Wheat has been also cultivated
with success, and grass. Large tracts, however, in these farms are
unfit for cultivation, and only afford an extensive range of indiffe-
rent pasture for cattle and sheep.  From the elevated situation of
these farms, they are much exposed to suffer from high winds and
late harvests.
                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Parchial Registersr.-There is a register of baptisms, marriages,


