
           90                        FORFARSHIRE.

           the ordinary expenditure, without including the interest payable
           on the debt, may be stated at L. 2200.
             Prior to the union of the kingdoms, Arbroath sent a represen-
           tative to the Scottish Parliament. Afterwards, it was joined with
           Montrose, Brechin, Bervie, and Aberdeen in returning a member
           to the Parliament of the United Kingdom. Under the provisions
           of the Reform. Bill, Forfar has been substituted for Aberdeen.
           The number of voters within the new boundaries marked off for
           Arbroath is 472, amongst a population of 11,446. In the burgh
           proper, or that part of the town under the jurisdiction of the ma-
           gistrates, containing a population of 5804, the number of dwelling-
           houses valued at L. 10 of yearly rent and upwards, is 135; viz.
           1 at L. 80; 2 at L. 30; 4 at L. 35; 15 at L. 20; 20 at L. 18;
           13 at L. 15; 13 at L. 14; 19 at L. 12; and 48 at L. 10;--in all,
           135, valued together at the yearly rent of L. 1985. We believe
           the number of dwelling-houses valued at L. 10 and upwards of
           yearly rent, in that part of the town which is not within the ju-
           risdiction of the magistrates, does not exceed twenty; so that,
           had dwelling-houses merely been taken into account, as the
           qualification for voting for a Member of Parliament, the consti-
           tuency of Arbroath would have consisted of 155, instead of 472
           persons.
              In Arbroath, besides the guildry, there are seven incorporated
           trades; viz. smiths, glovers, tailors, weavers, shoemakers, wrights,
           and bakers. There are three masonic lodges in the town, and so-
           cieties of gardeners, &c.
              There is no police establishment in the town, with the excep-
           tion of the three town-officers, aided, on extraordinary occasions,
           by special constables. The only seasons, in general, when an
           active and powerful body of police appears to be necessary, are
           the Saturday evenings, when quarrels, the consequence of in-
           toxication, often take place in low public houses, or in the streets.
           Otherwise, the town is, for the most part, very quiet. Street
           robberies are unknown; and it is seldom that women of loose cha-
           racter are seen parading at unseasonable hours. Persons of this
           description are, doubtless, to be found amongst the population.
           But, keeping out of view the suburbs in the parish of St Vigeans,
           it is not known that there is more than one house within the burgh
           which way be accounted professedly a brothel. If there is no
           regular police establishment in the town, the inhabitants are saved
           the expense of the usual tax for upholding one. Neither is there


