
     of Bendothy.

small space of each other.  They have all a parallelism to
one another, and decline eastward.  The rills between them

<FOOTNOTE>

tural ascent of the ground in the neighbourhood.  Indeed, drums occur
over all this part of Strathmore.  On the S. side of the Isla, their length is
N. E. and S. W. parallel to Strathmore.  It is evident, that they have not
been produced by rills, since their length is not parallel to the line of de-
scent of the mountain, on the side of which they stand, but generally per-
pendicular to it.  Besides, frequently, though not always, the water runs
from the dale at both ends.  And in level ground, in many cases, the
drum raises its back high above all grounds adjacent.  Whatever cause
may have produced the mountains themselves, and the great vale of Strath-
more between them, these drums in Strathmore appear plainly to have been
produced by the tides of the ocean, of which Strathmore was then a chan-
nel, and to have been formed (like banks in channels of the sea) by the tide
of flood, coming by Forfar from the E. end of Strathmore, and searching
partly westward along the strath, and partly searching diagonally up among
the Grampians, and again by the tide of ebb returning the same way by
which the tide of flood went up.  Agreeably to this, not only the rills and
burns, or brooks, are all parallel to the drums, but the rivers Tay, Eroch,
and Isla, as they come out from the Grampians into the strath, all point
eastward, and even their bendings among the mountains are towards the E.;
notwithstanding, that afterwards, in the middle of Strathmore, they run in
one body south-westward: In coming out from the mountains, the rivers
run in the direction of the tide of ebb, and after becoming considerable
bodies in the middle of the Strath, they run in the direction of the tide of
flood; circumstances which can be easily apprehended.  That the drums
and courses of brooks and river, have been formed in this manner, is an
opinion which I have weighed maturely, which has pressed upon my mind
for several years, and which I have seen a good many parts of Scotland to
ascertain the truth of; which, being an hilly country, full of straths, is
better for determining a point of this nature, than a champain country, like
most of England.  It is an opinion which I have put to the test of experi-
ment, by judging before hand, as the higher grounds of a province opened
to view what must be the position of the drums between; and where the
premisses were right, there was no error in the conclusion.  To enlarge
upon this point would be foreign to the subject of this paper.  Suffice it to,
say, that drums are parallel to the straths in which they lie, And where
there are no straths, they are parallel to the base of the adjacent mountains.
The drums and rivers are commonly parallel to each other.  In this case,


