
                        PARISH OF TWEEDSMUIR.

        PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                THE REV. GEORGE BURNS, D.D. MINISTER.


                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

     Name, Boundaries, &c.-This parish having originally been at-
attached to that of Drummelzier, appears to have been formerly cal-
led Over-Drummelzier.  As to the origin of its present name, which
it has had at least since the year 1643, when it was erected into a
new parish, it is only necessary to state, that the Tweed has its
rise in this parish, and that a considerable proportion of the
country, particularly beside the source of the river, is in a re-
markable degree distinguished by the bleakness and moorishness
of its aspect.  The mean length and breadth of the parish are
nearly equal, and are not less than eight miles.  It is thirty miles
in circumference, and has been calculated to contain sixty-four square
miles, or about 33,380 Scotch acres.  But if allowance be made for
the vast inequalities of ground, the extent may be fairly estimated
as at least two-thirds more.
     The parish is bounded on the south by Moffat; on the east by
Megget; on the west by Crawford; and on the north by Drum-
melzier.  It is situated in the midst of that vast range of mountains
which stretches into Scotland from Northumberland, advances to
the head of Lanarkshire, passing through Selkirkshire and the
northern boundary of Dumfries-shire, and terminates in the coun-
ty of Ayr, thus forming a chain of connection between the east and
west counties of the south of Scotland.
     Topographical Appearances.-The highest hills in the parish
are Broadlaw on the north, and that part of Hartfell or Hartfield
on the southm which comprehends its highest point of elevation.
By an accurate calculations, made by order of Government, Broad-
law wad found to be 2741 feet above the sea level at low water, and
Hartfell 2635, the former being the highest hill south of the Forth.
From the summit of Broadlaw a prospect opens extensive and mag-
nificient in the highest degree; for, while the eye passes over

