
			MOULIN.					665

   Libraries.- An attempt was made some years ago, to established
a circulating, library in Moulin, but did not succeed.
   Friendly Societies.-There are none in the parish, but many of
the parishioners are connected with the  Atholl Wrights,Brothely
Society, instituted at Logierait, 1st January 1812, and conformed in
1835 to the Friendly Society Acts of 10 Geo.  IV. ch.56, and 4 and
5 Will.  IV. ch. 40.  During the twenty-three years,of its existence
prior to 1835, it is stated in the preamble of the rules and, regu-
lations of the society, th`t it had been of incalculable benefit to
many individuals and families who had, th misfortune to require
its resonable and effectual aid.  In proof of the magnitude of the
society's operations, and the extent of its utility,  it is mentioned,
that it has already expended the sum of L. 2221,  Os. 9 1/2d. in re-
lieving the sick and distressed belonging to it, and that in 1835,
its net stock was L. 1073, 12s. 4 1/2d.  The largest allowance to
which a sick member is entitled is 4s. per week.  If he continue
unwell and unable to work, the sum is gradually, reduced, and
should he remain in that state for the period of a whole year, be is then
put on a superannuation allowance of Is. 6d. a-week.  The advan-
tages of this society are great and obvious.  Many, who, had they
neglected to join it when in the possession of good health, would,
on being overtaken by sickness or distress. be compelled to apply
for parish aid.  This last resource, so, painfully degrading to, an
independent mind, is, however, happily avoided by being a mem-
ber of this brotherly society.
   Savings Bank.-A branch of the National Security -Savings
Bank of Edinburgh was established in Pitlochry in December
1836. Its business is conducted, gratuitously by Mr Alexander
M'Naughton,agent of th Commercial Bank. The following is
a statement of the first and second ye`r of its operation; 1st year,
invested, L. 76, 3s. withdrawn, L. 31, 15s. ; 2d year, invested,
L. 117, 2s.;' withdrawn, L. 50, 10s. The classes by which the
investments are generally made are workmen and servants.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of poor at present
on the roll 39; of these 21 are ordinary, and 18 occational poor,
The sum generally allotted to each regular pauper, is L. 2, 8s, a-
year. The allowance, however, depends entirely on the natave
of each individual's case. The session clerk and presentor's, the
synod and presbytery clerk's, and the church officers dues, amount
to L. 5, 19s, a-year. Our funds consist of L. 400, which yield 4


