
                          UNST.                            45

receives from 2s. 6d. to 3s. a day; inferior workmen, 2s.; and
day labourers, 1s. a day. A house-carpenter can earn 2s. 6d.;
a boat's carpenter, as much; a tailor, 2s.; and a shoemaker, 1s. 6d.
a day. The rates at Lerwick may be somewhat different, and in
some cases higher.
  Live-stock.-The breed of sheep, black-cattle, and horses, with
a few exceptions, which cannot be mentioned as improvements, is
much the same as it has been for time immemorial. The native
breed is most suitable for the country and climate, and under pro-
per management, would be by far the most valuable. The cows,
for their size, are excellent milkers, and their milk is of the very
richest quality. The sheep, when attended to properly, carry re-
markably fine wool, and their mutton is highly prized for its deli-
cacy and flavour. But, what is the concern of a great number is
the concern of nobody, and as the cattle go at large and feed pro-
miscuously on the commons, no attention is paid to their breed,
and, the consequence is, they are degenerating fast. This is re-
markably the case with the fine, lively, sagacious, and active breed
of native ponies. They are now much smaller in size than they
were thirty years ago, entirely owing to the fact, that all the best
and stoutest are exported, and stallions of the most puny size are
allowed to go at large.
   Quarries and Mines.-Chromate of iron, discovered on this
island by Professor Jameson, and afterwards found in large quan-
tities by Dr Hibbert, in the course of his mineralogical survey, has
been raised and carried to market in its crude state in considerable
quantity, for which a very fair price was at first realized; but of late,
it has been discovered in Norway and in other places, and the free
importation of it being allowed, the price now offered is very low.
There are also limestone quarries at Cliff and in the neighbour-
hood of Balliasta. The tenants of those districts are allowed to
work the quarries, and to manufacture the stone into lime on their
own account. The lime is usually sold at the rate of one shilling
per barrel, and becomes a source of considerable emolument to
those who engage in the work.
   Fisheries.-Tbis is the most important branch of industry in
Zetland, and which the men prosecute with much spirit and skill;
and although often exposed to the most imminent danger, on a
rough and boisterous sea, and although many valuable lives are
often lost in this hazardous pursuit, (as was the case in 1832, when
seventeen boats with their crews, five of them belonging to this pa-


