
                         LEWIS-BARVAS.                             143

	into which they fall. They are five in number, the Arnal, Glen,
	Torra, Shadir, and Borve, all which flow with uninterrupted
	smoothness, without cascade or cataract, to the ocean.
	     Geology.-Along the whole arable ground, the most striking
	feature in the surface, as well as the composition of the soil, is the
	multitude of stones with which it is overrun, rendering it equally
	injurious to vegetation as unfavourable for culture. The soil is of
	various kinds; but as the cultivated portion is no more than a nar-
	row fringe, which outskirts the moor, the greatest proportion is
	mossy, varying from 2 to 12 feet deep, and resting on a hard stra-
	tum of clay. The inhabited portion consists either of black earth,
	gravel, or sand; of the latter, there are banks between the manse and
	the shore, near 20 feet high, which are making gradual encroachments
	into the interior, from the constant action of the westerly winds, to
	which they lie exposed. The bank retains its depth as it advances,
	while it leaves behind a level expanse of sand, probably of greater
	depth than itself, and having its surface overspread with a vast vari-
	ety of whelks, limpets, and the remains of shell-fish similar to those
	commonly found at present on the sea shore.
	     Zoology.-The more numerous species of animals in this pa-
	rish, are the most common throughout Scotland, and to all appear-
	ance have undergone no change through the lapse of ages in in-
	crease or diminution. In the moors, are considerable flocks of red
	mountain deer (Cervus elaphus:) otters (Lutra mustela,) in the
	rivers: and hares (L. timidus,) and rats (M. decumanus,) in the
	meadows.
	     Birds.-The land fowl are hawks (Falco,) ravens (C. corax) and
	carrion crows (C. corone,) with the numerous smaller birds which
	abound in the western islands, such as the lark (Alauda arvensis,)
	land-rail (Rallus crex,) lapwing (Tringa vanellus,) plover (Cha-
	radrius,) pigeon (Columba Anas,) moorfowl (Tetrao Scoticus,)
	snipe (Scolopaz gallinago,) curlew (S. arquata,) thrush (Tur-
	dus musicus,) starling (Sturnus vulg.) ; robin-red-breast (Motaril-.
	la rubecula wren (M. Troglodytes,) wagtail. (M. alba.) ; sparrow
	(Fringilla domestica,) swallow (Hirundo,) sand martin (H. ripa-
	ria.) The waterfowl are the swan (Anas cyqnus,) gray goose (A.
	anser,) teal (A. crecca,) duck (A. boschas,) raingoose, cormo-
	rant (Pelecanus carbo,) soland-goose (P. Bassanus,) gull (Larus
	canus, and marinus,) crane (Ardea grus.),
	     The domestic animals reared are, horses, black-cattle, and sheep,
	all of a very diminutive breed. The horses are well-shaped, hardy


