
     Statistical Account

   Stipend, School, Poor.-The stipend is L. 760 Scots, in-
cluding L. 60 Scots for communion-elements, and 5 chal-
ders of victual, two thirds of which are payable in meal,
and the other third in bear, amounting, communibus annis,
to about L. 120 Sterling.  The glebe is but small, and
lies at the distance of more than two miles from the church,
which renders it less valuable to the minister.  In the 1789
and 1790, the church and offices were all new built, and
the manse repaired at a considerable expense.  Lord Mans-
field is patron.-There is in the parish one schollmaster
only, who has a salary of 100 merks Scots.  This, and the
school wages, including an house and garden, may amount
to about L. 20 Sterling annually.  The school-house, and
the house in which the schoolmaster resides, were both
built not many years ago, and are at present in excellent

     3

<FOOTNOTE>

male servant from L. 4 to L. 6 yearly, and sometimes for the spring and
harvest quarters, a stout young man will get from L. 3, 10 s to L. 4, l0 s.
especially in the autumn.  It is believed that the wages of labouring ser-
vants are nearly the same in this district.  From Candlemas to Martin-
mas the wages of a day-labourer are 1 s. 2 d. without victuals, and 8 d.
with them, and in the winter quarter, they are 1 s without victuals, and
6 d. with them.  Men and women have only 8 d a-day for reaping, when
their provisions are furnished them, and 1 s. 2 d. when they furnish their
own provisions.  Tradesmen, such as masons and joiners, have 1 s. 8 d. a-
day without, and 1 s. 2 d. with meat, bricklayers and slaters, 2 s. 6 d.
tailors 8 d. with, and 1 s. 2 d. without their victuals.  But all these ge-
nerally work by the piece.  With these wages, the industrious tradesman
and labourer support their families in a pretty decent and comfortable
manner, if sickness, bad weather, &c. prevent them not from following
their respective employments.

<TABLE>

A labourer's annual earnings may be as follows:
7 s. a week for the summer and harvest quarters,       L.  9   2  0
6 s. a-week for the winter and spring quarters,            7  16  0
                                                       ------------                               -----------------     
                              Total annual earnings.   L. 16  18  0

</TABLE>


