
374                         LANARKSHIRE.

decline. In 1692, as is elsewhere shown, it had neither foreign nor
home trade, while Glasgow had a part of both. It is remarkable
that two places so similarly situated, both on the banks of the Clyde,
and within two miles of each other, should, in the process of time,
become so very different. In 1831, the population of Rutherglen
was only 5503, while that of Glasgow had increased to 202,426. At
that period the former had no shipping,--whereas, the latter had
ships trading to all parts of the world, besides sixty-seven steam ves-
sels Of Dearly 10,000 tons burthen, carpenter's measurement,
	In the early part of its history, the town of Rutherglen contained
a castle which appears to have been a place of great strength, and
ranked among the ancient fortresses of Scotland. In 1306, when
Edward King of England was appointed arbiter in the dispute be-
tween Bruce and Baliol, respecting the succession to the throne of
Scotland, the castle of Rutherglen fell into his hands. Bruce, sen-
sible of the great importance of this fortress, besieged it, and this
coming to the knowledge of Edward, he sent his nephew, the
young Earl of Glocester, to raise the siege. After various con-
flicts, this castle seems to have been taken from the English in the
year 1313 by Bruce.
	The castle, which stood near the east end of the back row, was
kept in good repair, till a short time after the battle of Langside,
when it was burned by order of the Regent, out of revenge on the
noble house of Hamilton, in whose custody it then was. The prin-
cipal towers, however, were soon repaired, and, being enlarged by
some modern improvements, became the seat of the Hamiltons of
Elistoun, lairds of Shawfield, &c. At length, on the decline of that
family, it was more than a century ago left to fall into ruins, and
by frequent dilapidations was levelled to the ground. The walls
of this ancient tower were very thick. Each corner rested upon
a foundation stone 5 feet in length, and 4 feet in breadth and
thickness. These corner stones being very massy, were allowed to
remain till about seventy years ago, when they were quarried out, as
being cumbersome to a kitchen garden, into which the site of the
fortress of Rutherglen is now converted. Some carved stones be-
longing to the castle are built in the adjoining dikes.
	About 150 yards to the south of the main street there is a kind of
lane known by the name of Dins-Dikes. A circumstance which be-

1226, Alexander II. granted a charter to Walter Bishop of Glasgow, relieving his
town from certain servitudes formerly due to Rutherglen.--Municipal corporation
Report, 1835, Part II. p. 371.


