
748                           FIFESHIRE.

Moral Sentiments; but comparatively little of his well-merited
and widely extended fame has arisen from this treatise. He was
born here in 1723. After he left school, he was absent from the
town for many years, following his literary pursuits, and dis-
charging his professional duties in the chair of Moral Philosophy,
which he for a time occupied in the University of Glasgow. But
he returned again to Kirkcaldy, and resided here while he was
composing his celebrated work. He died in 1789. It seems
strange that no monument to his memory has ever been erected in
Kirkcaldy. This want appears to indicate a prevailing insensibility
to the high honour conferred on the town, by its being the birth-
place and long the residence of a man of such universal celebrity.
   Land-owners.-James Townsend Oswald, Esq. of Dunnikier,
is proprietor of seven-eighths of the landward part of the parish.
The other eighth is much subdivided.
   Parochial Registers.-Five classes of registers are preserved,
viz. minutes of session, registers of proclamations and marriages,
of births and baptisms, of deaths and burials, and accounts of the
collections and disbursements for the poor. The first and the
last of these are nearly entire, and in a good state of preserva-
tion; the other three are much mutilated. The oldest volume of
the session records commences with January 1614, and the same
volume contains, besides the minutes of session, a register of bap-
tisms and marriages, commencing with the same date. The mi-
nutes of session from 1645 to 1663 are wanting. In consequence
of leaves being torn away at the beginning of a volume, the mi-
nutes for the year 1632 are lost. With these exceptions, the
minutes from 1614 are complete and well kept. There are du-
plicates for considerable periods, the scroll copy of the minutes
having been preserved.
   Antiquities.-Various relics, such as sculptured arms and in-
scriptions, furnish grounds for supposing that a religious house
must at one time have stood on the north side of the High Street.
Sepulchral remains also have been found in this locality. Stone
coffins, and large quantities of human bones have been discovered
in different places, by workmen digging for foundations. This
town, like many others in ancient times, had gates. They were
called the east and west ports. The places where they stood
still retain the names. These ports or gates, and the cross
which stood at the market-place, were taken down early in the
last century, of which notice is taken in the minutes of the town-
council. Nothing like a ruin is found in the parish.


