
104 				BUTESHIRE.

and a building erected by King Robert II. projecting betwixt two of
them on the north-east side; the whole surrounded by a wer ditch.
It was burnt during the civil wars in 1686, till which time it had
beem the residence of the Bute family, who were its herritable keep-
ers. 2. Kames Castle, a single tower, built probably in the four-
teenth century; long the residece of the Bannatynes of Kames.
It was formely surrounded by a ditch, which was filled up, and a
modern house added to the tower by the late Lord Bannatyne.
It now belongs to james Hamilton, Esq. of kames. 3. Wester
Kames Castle, formerly the sent of the Spences of Wester kames,
was a small tower of no great antiquity, and is now in ruins. 4.
Kilmorie Castle, which consisted of several towers and buildings,
was the residence of the Jamiesons of Kilmorie, crowners or co-
roners of Bute, and is now in ruins. the original town-house of
Rothesay was situated in Watergate; and when it became ruin-
ous, another was erected in 1614 in Castle Street, and this has
lately been replaced by a handsome building in the castle style.
covering the sites of both the former ones, and erected at the ex-
pense of the burgh and county.
	The island of Inchmarnock, which lies about two miles west of
St Ninian's Point, may be regarded as a natoral appendage of this
parish, although it is really extra-parochial, and pays no teind to
teh minister. This island belonged to the monastery of Sadell in
Kintyne. And the monateries were not subject to the jurisdic-
tion of parish ministers, nor even always to the bishops. Inch-
marnock was given to the monastery of Sadell by Rodericus do
Kintyre, probably about the year 1220, before the parish of Rothe-
say was erected, and it continued under the charge of the monks
down to the period of the Reformation.
	There is a large manuscirpts history of this parish in the possession
of Mr Archibald M'Lea, writer, Rothesay, written by the late Mr
Blame, sheriff-substitute of Bute. there is also a pointed account
of the Castle of Rothesay, by John Mackinlay Esq. collector of
her Majesty's customes, who, it is understood, in at present en-
gaged is writing a history of Bute, and whose acquaintance with
this subject is remarkably accurate and extensive. There is a
map of the county of Bute by the same gentleman, showing the
bounds of teh different parishes. Several surveys of the parish by
celebrated engineers, have been executed at the instance and ex-
pense of the marquis of Bute, and are in his possession. Many
documents illustrative of the history and antiquities of the parish
are also among his Lordship's archieves.


