
38               ROSS AND CROMARTY.

Chuddinn or Chuddegin, signifying the Cuddie Creek,-that spe-
cies of fish being formerly, though not now, caught in great abund-
ance in a small creek on the shore of Cullicudden, and a little to
the west of the old church. It is probable, however, that St Martin's,
or Kirk Martin, and not Cullicudden, was the name originally of
this small but ancient parish. It is still called by the natives
Sgire' a' Mhartinn, or the parish of St Martin's; and at the place
of St Martin's, a small farm near its western extremity, the founda-
tion of a church, surrounded by a burying-ground not now occu-
pied, may still be seen. The probabilhty is, therefore, that the
parish church, dedicated to St Martin of Tours, was originally at
the place of St Martin's; butthe church being afterwards removed to
the more centrical place of Cullicudden, the parish from this circum-
stance came to be so called. The union of the parishes of Kirkmichael
and Cullicudden must have taken place subsequent to the esta-
blishment of Presbyterianism in Scotland in 1688; for, about the
middle or rather towards the beginning of the seventeenth cen-
tury, and during the sway of Scottish Episcopacy; the three ad-
jacent cures or parishes of Cullicudden, Kirkmichael, and Cro-
marty were served by three Episcopal clergymen, viz. Mr Robert
Williamson, curate of Cullicudden; Mr Charles Pope, curate of
Kirkmichael; and Mr Gilbert Anderson, curate of Cromarty;
each of these curacies being in the gift of the Urquharts of Cro-
marty as patrons. The united parish of Kirkmichael and Culli-
cudden, though still so called in old deeds and in the records of
presbytery, is better known by its more modern name of Resolis,
(Ri-sboluis, i. e. the field or ridge of light,) and the united parish
got this name from the circumstance, that the manse first, and a
few years afterwards the church, was built,-and the grebe desig-
nated by excambion at the place of Resolis, as the most centrical
for the convenience of the parishioners about the year 1667. Pre-
vious to that period, the minister had his residence at Cullicud-
den, while be preached every Sabbath alternately at the churches
of Kirkmichael and Cullicudden. After the present church was
built, the two old churches were suffered to fall, into decay. The
gables of both are still standing. That of Kirkmichael contains
the old bell, which is occasionally tolled at funerals.
   Situation, Extent, &c.-The united parish lies partly, in the
county of Ross, and partly in the county of Cromarty, within
the district called an Oilean Dubh, or the Black Isle, on the
south side of the Cromarty Frith. It extends in length, from east
to west, about 8 miles, and between 3 and 4  miles in breadth. It

