
     Statistical Account

horses, is almost universally employed.  The farmers, who
persist in the use of this instrument, seem disposed to think)
that where the ridges are properly levelled, the two horse-
plough is, in all respects, preferable.  It is found most expe-
dient to have the ridges gently rounded, and of a moderate
breadth*.  The farmers in the lower part of the parish fre-
quently adopt the following rotation of crops, and mode of
culture: 1st year, oats, -lime on the sward; 2 d, pease, or
beans; 3 d, oats; 4th, summer fallow and wheat; dung laid
on the land in fallow; 5th, pease, or beans; 6th, oats or bar-
ley, laid down with grass-feeds.  The ground then lies in grass
for 5 or 6 years.  The following rotation and mode of cul-
ture have been lately introduced by an English improver: 1st
year, oats; 2 d, fallow and wheat.  The dung and lime are
wholly applied to this crop: the lime is put on hot in pow-
der; after which there are two ploughings, then the dung is
put on; the dung is ploughed down, the lime up; 3 d, pease,
or beans; 4th, barley and grass-feeds.

   Rents.-Good land rents from 20 s. to 30 s. the acre.  The
valued rent of the whole parish is 5400 L. 10 s. Scotch.  The
real rent is moderately calculated at 3300 L. Sterling, ex-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The scarcity in the year 1782, led Mr. Rankin of Glasgow, who was mi-
nister of the parish at that time, to calculate the annual produce of grain on an
average, when it appeared that there was a produce of 11, 520 bolls, of which
it was supposed 2080 might be for exportation.  As the farmers, in this parish,
many of them `against their interest, depend on the plough for payment of their
rent; they must have suffered considerably on that occasion.  The usual surplus
above mentioned, and 17600 bolls flour and white pease imported, show a total
deficiency in crop 1782, of 3840 bolls.  The white pease, from England, gay?
great relief to the poor, as they were sold at 1 s. a peck, which is the average
price of oat-meal.
+The lime is brought from a spot in the parish of Carluke 7 or 8 miles
distant.


