
                          KINROSS.                           9

originally intended for the residence of James, Duke of York,
afterwards James VII. of Scotland, in the event of his being pre-
vented by the Exclusion Bill from succeeding to his brother.
  It must be added, that Dr John Thomson, the present distin-
guished Professor of General Pathology in the University of Edin-
burgh, is a native of this parish.
  Ministers of the Parish.- Clergymen within and without the Es-
tablishment who were born or carried on their ministerial labours in
this parish, were respected and esteemed in their day, and have left
behind them memorials, shewing that, for their contemporaries and
posterity,they did not live in vain.  The Rev. Robert Stark, although
his settlement in 1732, was nearly coeval with the rise of the Seces-
sion Church, and was the occasion of much division and strife, was a
superior preacher, and, in particular, the author of an essay on the
Ethiopian of the Acts of the Apostles, which has been much admired
both by Churchmen and Dissenters.  The Rev. John Swanston, or-
dained minister of the Associate congregation of Kinross, 23d
January 1748, was appointed to the office of Professor of Divinity in
May 1764.  This office, along with that of Minister of the Gospel, he
held at Kinross, until his death at Perth on the 12th of June 1767.
His biographer, Mr Fraser, minister at Kennoway, speaks of him
as equally distinguished by the eminence of his piety and the depth
of his theological attainments.  A volume of his discourses, rich in
the grace and truth of the gospel, has been long in the bands of
the Christian public.  The incumbent of Kinross parish imme-
diately preceding the present, preached before the Synod of Glas-
gow and Ayr a sermon, afterwards published, on the subject and
manner of apostolical preaching.
  The ministers of Kinross parish since the Reformation, as far as
the writer can ascertain, are as follows:-James Dolby, or Dobie,
or Dowie, first-mentioned, A. D. 1567 ;-had under his superintend-
ence the kirks of Orwell and Ballingry, while Mr Walter Balfour
and Mr Alexander Waedlaw were readers and exhorters ; Robert
Rait, 1590; John Colden, 1607,-conformed to presbytery in
1638, and died in 1640; Mr George Coldein, probably a son of
the former, admitted 1641, and died in 1665.  Of George Col-
den it is reported that he died at St Andrews, whither he had gone
to have an interview with Archbishop Sharp on some of the rights
and interests of his benefice, but where he met with no redress or
satisfaction.  Such was the attachment borne to this minister, that
a number of his people went to St Andrews, and bore his mortal
remains to Kinross as his place of interment.  Mr James Fomyth

