
                                     ST MADOES                         635

      ber of scholars throughout the year be nearly 50.  It   appears
      from one of the old session-records that, upwards of 100 years ago
      the then Laird of Pitfour sdt apart two acres of land for the be-
      nefit of the schoolmaster in all time coming; but somehow or an-
      other they have since been swallowed up, and even tradition does
      not very clearly mark their locality.
        There is a Sabbath school taught by the minister and school-
      marter, which is pretty numerously attended not only by children
      belonging to the parish, but also by those of the parents from
      neighbouring parishes who attend the church of St Madoes, and
      even by some children of Dissenting parents.  It numbers at pre-
      sent 51.
        Literature.-There is a religious library which was instituted
      in 1836, by the liberality of Lady Richardson, to which all the
      people who are in the habit of attending the church, as well as the
      parishioners of St Madoes, have access for the small sum of 4 1/2d.
      per quarter.  It now consists of 200 volumes.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
      for the last ten years, who have received parochial aid in one form
      or another, is ten.  Of these four have been regularly on the
      poor's roll, three of whom received from 6s. to 7s. a month each,
      besides a free house and two bolls of coals.  The fourth is a fatu-
      ous person, who is boarded at the expense of the parish, and whord
      maintenance and clothing amount to between L. 16 and L. 17 a-
      year.  The annual amount of collections in church averages about
      L. 30; and from other sources, as money lent on: hand, morthcloth
      dues, &c. there is an additional sum of L. 23, available for the be-
      nefit of the poor.  It ought to be mentioned here, that, besides the
      allowance of two bolls of coals by the kirk-session, to each pauper
      annually, Sir John and Lady Richardson are in the habit of send-
      ing them firewood add coals.  There yet remains among the poor
      a good deal of that spirit which recoils at the idea of parochial re-
      lief ; and although: they will readily enough receive what is offer-
      ed as private charity, they are not only reluctant to apply for, but
      unwilling to take aid from the session funds.
         Inns and Ale-houses.-There is but one in the parish, situated
      on yhe pier.  It is a necessary convenience not only  those who
      may have transact business in shipping their farm producd, but
      to the traveller who has to cross the ferry, which is here establish-
      ed between this part of the Carse of Gowrie district and the op-
      posite districts of Fife and Strathearn.  Being well conducted, it



