
     of Inverness.

a few years ago, near the town, due east from it, on the
upper plain of the parish, several Druidical temples.  At
present there is only one temple entire.  They were blast-
ed for the purpose of building farm houses and offices.
Stones are scarce, and at a great distance, and the temples
stood on cultivated and fertile fields.  In this, (under the
Druidical oeconomy,) sacred portion of the parish, there
are several places in the parish, called in English, Drakies,
as Easter Drakies, Wester Drakies, Mid Drakies, and in
Gaelic, Dregge, both evidently corruptions of Druidhe,
the plural of Drui, a Druid.  Many places in Britain,
France and Ireland, still bear the name of the Druids, as
Dreux in France, the place of their annual general assem-
bly.-There is, at some distance from the mouth of the
river Ness, a considerable way within flood mark, a large
cairn of stones, the origin of which is of very remote an-
tiquity.  It is called Cairnairc, that is, the cairn of the sea.
There is a beacon erected on Cairnairc, to apprize vessels
coming into the river, of danger from it.  In the Beauly
frith, due west from this cairn, there are three cairns at
considerable distances, one from the other.  The largest is
in the middle of the frith, a huge heap of stones.  This
cairn is accessible at low water.  It appears to have been
a burying place, by the urns which were discovered in it.

<FOOTNOTE>

church and the chapel were demolished, and the single visible remain of
all the buildings, is the shaft of one of the columns which supported the
roof of the church.  The pedestal, and it is believed, a great part of the
shaftare concealed with earth and rubbish.  The monastery yard is become
the glebe of one of the ministers, and the site of the church, a small bury-
ing place.  The chapel yard is the principal burying ground, an inclosure
of about 6 acres.  This spacious yard, the old walls having failed in
many places, was inclosed a few years ago with high walls coped with
freestones.  The gate of the inclosure is handsome.  The old gate was
arched, and the arch crowned with ornaments of the various kinds of ver-
tical dials bore this inscription, 'Concordia parv‘ res crescunt.'


