
460                            FORFARSHIRE.

of his Majesty King George the Third's fleet, born 14th July
1731, and died 4th August 1804." His Lordship married Hen-
rietta, daughter of the Lord President Dundas, by whom he had a
large family, and his estates and honours are inherited by his son,
Robert, the present Earl of Camperdown, who, as already men-
tioned, is almost sole proprietor of the parish, under whose judi-
cious management it is rapidly increasing in value and beauty.
	In a handsome mausoleum adjoining the church are also inter-
red Sir William Duncan, Bart, M. D., a cadet of the Lundie fa-
mily, and Lady Mary Tufton, daughter of Sackville, Earl of
Thanet, his wife. Sir William was bred a physician, and prac-
tised for some time in London, where he captivated the affections
of the lady who afterwards became his wife. Soon after their
marriage, they went to the East Indies, where Sir William realiz-
ed a large fortune, with which he returned to London and lived in
great splendour, and enjoyed the honorary distinction of Physician
to the King. On his death, which occurred in 1789, Lady
M`ry caused the mausoleum to be built for him here, and left
orders for her own remains being laid beside her husband, she
survived him several years, but they left no family.

                        FOWLIS-COUNTY OF PERTH.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	The parish of Fowlis, sometimes called Fowlis Easter, to distin-
guish it from Fewlis Wester, in the neigbourhood of Crieff and in
the same county, lies south from Lundie, commencing at the summit
of the Braes of the Carse of Gowrie, and sloping gently downwards
till it terminates at Benvie, in the level of the Carse. It is bounded
on the north, by Lundie on the east, by Liff; on the south, by Ben-
vie united to Liff; and on the west, by Benvie and Longforgan.
Its length may average 3 miles, and its breadth 1 1/2 mile. The
land is generally of the best quality; the exposure, as men-
tioned, to the south, and the slope gentle. It commands a beauti-
ful view of the Carse of Gowrie, near the eastern extremity of
which it lies,-of the Frith of Tay, and of the opposite shores
of Fife, and thus, in point of situation, of soil, of natural beauty
and of command of rich and varied scenery in every direction,
few places can excel it. It was long of the family residence of
the noble family of Gray, afterwards of the Murrays of Fowlis,
now of Ochtertyre. But it har been forsaken for the latter place,


