
     Statistical Account

dressing flax.  The price of beef and mutton is generally
about 4d. and 4 1/2 per lib.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The chief disadvantages consists
in being at a distance from coal, there being none nearer than
Balbirnie and Balgony, 6 miles off; but were the proprietors
of these mines to erect a coal yard here, they would find their
account in so doing.  Another is, the want of a proper school-
master and school-house; and without an augmentation of sa-
lary, which at present is only L. 5: 11 s. it can never be ex-
pected that a man of merit will devote his time and talents for
such a trisle.  It is worthy of remark that the youth in this
place have been, and now are, ruined with bad schoolmasters;
and to this may be attributed in a great degree the narrow and
uncharitable dispositions of the inhabitants, and that bigotry
and party spirit which manifests itself in all the actions of
those who are given to divisive courses.-The rent of trades-
men's houses is from 20 s. to 50 s.  The valued rent of the pa-
rish is L. 5782 Scots, and the land rent of L. 4000 sterling.
The lands immediately around the town let from L. 2: to
L. 3: 10 s. per acre though it must be acknowledged that those
who pay such rents have other means of subsisting themselves
and families than from the produce*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Several places take their names from some remarkable circumstances,
which had happened at or near them.  Daneshalt is supposed to signify the
shelter of the Danes, as it is said that formerly the Danes having made an inva-
sion into te country, were repulsed in Fall land muir, sted, and concealed
themselves in the lower part of the parish of Auchtermuchty.  Daneshalt is
half a mitchsant from Auchtermuchty; and the road to Falkland, Kirkaldy,
and Kingcorn lies directly through this village, which is the property of F-
benez; Marshall, Esq. of Hill Canny, who is doing every thing to encrease-
the number of its inhabitants, by seuing out ground for building, etc.  The
great M'Duff is supposed to have lived once in Auchtermuchty, in a house


