
     Statistical Account

ces*, are nearly of the same size, strength, and vigour of bo-
dy and mind, and, from similar causes, are liable to the same
diseases, as mentioned in one or other of these accounts:
That the same animals, fowls, and migratory birds, roam in
the field, and fly in the air, indifferently over this and the
neighbouring parishes; That the rivers abound with nearly
the same kinds of fish, in the same seasons of the year, of the
same quality, flavour, and shape, and in general also nearly

<FOOTNOTE>

*it may be proper here only to remark, in general, that the people in
this country seem not now so strongly attached to their lands or masters as
formerly; and that the predilection of many to their native soil, and a cer-
tain unfortunate family, is greatly diminished; the former being much weak-
ened, the latter almost every where worn out.  Indeed, they seem now, in
general, more anxious how they live, than where; how they are governed,
than by whom; what the laws are, than who are their makers; and how
just and equal soever they be, are apt to consider themselves protected there-
by, only so far as they have it in their power to render them efficient.  These
changes, we believe, may be easily accounted for.  In this country, former-
ly, the greatest respect was generally paid to family; for then almost every
person considered himself of some family, and was thereby led to think
he had an interest therein.  And his interest, in this real or supposed
connection, was, for the most part, not merely ideal.  For, then, it was the
pride of the laird or master, to have his tenants, retainers, and even domestics,
of his own surname, many of them his near relations, and he commonly
treated them as such.  By this means, his will was usually as law to them;
his honour their honour; his interest their interest.  And, we are assured,
where this is still the case, the same is still the effect.  But where the causes
are changed, it will not seem strange, that the consequences are also different.
And however this change, in the minds of the people, may affect individuals,
it is certainly, at present, not easy to say, what, in the long run, its effects
may be on society; but, it is evidently much altering the state of mens
minds, as well as that of the country; and we earnestly pray, it may, in the
issue, be equally beneficial and improving to both.  With regard to their re-
ligious sentiments, though the people be not less divided, we are happy to ob-
serve, they seem, in general, less prejudiced against one another than former-
ly; which proceeds, we believe, much, if not entirely, from the liberty of
opinion, our excellent Contribution so happily affords to every well inten-
tioned and reasonable man.


