
82                                AYRSHIRE.

not permit them to let their wants be publicly known. The ma-
gistrates and council are appointed joint trustees with the session,
but the latter are to have the disbursement of it. 8th, In 1831,
Captain Robert Tennant, a residenter in Ayr, left L.300, un-
der the guardianship of the ministers and session, the interest
of which to be applied for behoof of the Poor's House. 9th,
Miss Ballantine, of Castlehill, bequeathed, at her death, a short
time ago, the sum of L.1000, or the interest of such a sum as shall
yield L.5 a-year to ten poor females of the parish, appointing the
magistrates, ministers, the Sheriff-substitute of the county, and the
rector of the academy, to be the trustees and patrons. 10th, and
finally, John Fergusson, Esq. of Doonholm, already mentioned, not
only bequeathed L.1000 for the benefit of the ministers, and an-
other for that of the teachers; he also left L.1000 for behoof of the
poor of Ayr, the interest of which is paid yearly to the treasurer of
the Poor's House. Besides the above, the interests of several smaller
bequests of from L.300 to L.100 each, are at present held dur-
ing life by poor female householders of the place, under the direc-
torships generally, of the magistrates and ministers, each vacancy.
being filled up as it occurs by the death of the former holder. We
may add to all this, that about 300 of the poor or upwards are sup-
plied every winter with a cart of coals each, provided by a collec-
tion at the two churches, the proceeds of which, by use and wont,
and the steady benevolence of the community, may be counted on
as regularly as those of any of the bequests above-mentioned.
Further, the elder of every district of the town has a discretionary
power to advance small sums of money, by orders on the treasurer,
in cases of temporary exigency that may occur, such orders being
submitted to the directors at each quarterly meeting, and these in
the course of each year amount to betwixt L.40 and L.50, in ad-
dition to the stated weekly aliment of the paupers. And over and
above, the directors themselves, at their stated meetings, award
small temporary grants, in the way of money, shoes, clothes, rent,
&c. to an amount, perhaps, nearly as large, to ward off craved addi-
tion to aliment already fixed, or prevent applicants from being put
for the first time upon the poor's roll. Now, when all the above state-
ments are considered, and viewed in connexion with the annual pa-
rochial provision for the poor by regular aliment, amounting to up-
wards of L. 1000, it surely cannot fail to be admitted that charity
is dispensed in Ayr with no niggardly hand.


