
                      OLD KILPATRICK.                       33

accommodation, that families belonging to the Establishment in
the village of Yoker, amounting in all to about 28 souls, attend
in Renfrew church; the number of whose sittings may be about
12; that families in Milton and the neighbourhood belonging to
the Establishment, amounting in all to about 80 souls, and fami-
lies belonging to Dissenters, amounting to about 120 souls, attend
in Dumbarton; the sittings taken by both may be about 85.
   The sittings taken by all the Dissenters residing in the parish,
although this has not been so accurately ascertained as could be
wished, yet cannot amount to more at the utmost than 900. This,
however, does not give a full view of the congregations of the
Dissenters, as each of them have members from other parishes.
   The amount of the church-going population will then appear as
follows: sittings in the parish church, counting them all occupied,
750; attending at preaching station, 200 ; sittings at Renfrew
about 12; sittings in Dumbarton parish church about 34; sittings
taken by Dissenters both in the parish and at Dumbarton, about 900;
say that, of the Roman Catholics there is a church attendance on the
average of 150, which is a large allowance; total of sittings, 2046.
   If we double the above, this gives, according to the usual mode
of calculation, the number of souls belonging to the families who
attend a place of worship, which is 4092; and this leaves 2031 as
the total number of souls belonging to families who attend no
place of worship. This is a fearful state of things in a country
parish. If we consider the manner in which the Sabbath is spent
by men in general, who do not attend a place of worship, and also
the amount of the influence of their example on those who do, in
leading them, even on a Sabbath day, to conduct themselves in a
way inconsistent with the services in which they have been engaged,
it is impossible to enumerate all the evils of such a state of things,
both for time and for eternity, both for the body and for the soul.
   On this subject one remark is obvious. If it had not been for
the exertions of Dissenters in such a parish as this, in supplying
the lack of the Establishment, matters would have been much
worse. For all that they have done in stemming the torrent of
heathenism, they deserve the approbation of every man who is a
lover of the Lord Jesus Christ.
   Education--Schools.--The parish school is at Old Kilpatrick
village. The endowed salary is L. 34, 4s. 4d., and the wages for
reading are 2s per quarter, and for reading, writing, and arith-
metic, 2s. 6d. The wages may amount to L. 15 per annum, and
the emoluments of the teacher, as session-clerk and treasurer to the
  DUMBARTON.			            C


