
     of Small Isles.

particularly from the eagle: While the wood throve, the
deer also throve; now that the wood is totally destroyed,
the deer are extirpated.  Before the use of fire arms, their
method of killing deer was as follows: On each side of a
glen, formed by two mountains, stone dykes were begun
pretty high in the mountains, and carried to the lower part
of the valley, always drawing nearer, till within 3 or 4 feet
of each other.  From this narrow pass, a circular space was
inclosed by a stone wall, of a height sufficient to confine the
deer; to this place they were pursued and destroyed.  The
vestige of one of these inclosures is still to be seen in Rum.
In Canna, there are some wild rabbits of a greyish colour.
In this parish rats abound; lately a remarkable one, purely
white, has been killed in Eigg.  It was the only rat of this
appearance ever seen in the place.  The amphibious animals
are seals and otters; the blubber of the one is made into oil,
and the skin of the other is sold for fur, at a price propor-
tionate to its size; some of them have been sold for above
12 s. Sterling.  Though the grown up seals seed at sea, they
suckle their young on shore.  There are two distinct species
of seals, a smaller and a larger; the smaller brings forth its
young about the middle of summer, and the larger about the
middle of harvest.  It is said the young are fully fat, and
often killed, before they bring them into the sea.  The prin-
cipal kinds of fish caught upon these coasts are herrings, cod,
and ling.  The herrings are some years caught in Loch Sere-
sort in Rum, during the month of August; but the inhabi-
tants being ill provided in fishing materials, seldom catch a
competency for their own families.  The cod and ling are
caught mostly on the coasts of Canna and Isle Muck, the
fishing ground being most convenient to the harbours in
these islands.  They are exported to the Clyde market, and
the ling sold from 3 L. to 3 L. 10 s. per 120 ling.  The Cear-


