
                       METHLICK.                          963

Tarves on the south ; by New Deer on the north ; by Fyvie and
Monquhitter on the west; and by Ellon on the east.
   A pendicle of Methlick, which lies to the extreme east, is dis-
joined altogether from the main part of the parish by a tongue of
land belonging to Tarves.  This pendicle is called Little Drum-
quhindle, or Inverebrie, from its being situate at the junction of
the brook Ebrie with the Ythan, and the Six Ploughs, from its
extent as measured in olden times by so many ploughs.
   The length of the parish from north to south is about 8 miles,
and its breadth from west to east, exclusive of the insulated part
above-mentioned, about 5 miles.  It is of an irregular form, and
becomes narrower toward both extremities, especially northward.
It is traversed from west to east by the river Ythan, the banks of
which are mostly clothed with wood, the greater part of it having
been planted, between thirty and forty years ago, by the present
proprietor.  The south-east division of Methlick is wholly occu-
pied by the policies of Haddo House, remarkable for their extent
and beauty.  Every advantage has been taken of the undulating
nature of the ground, which is tastefully interspersed with wood,
and lawn, and water.  In a northerly direction, there is a consider-
able tract of barren land,-the hills of Balquhindachy, Belnagoak,
and Skilmoney, being to a great extent covered with heath.
   If one may judge from the hale old age which not a few reach
in this parish, the climate may be said to be salubrious.
   Hydrography.-The Ythan is not navigable here; but it af-
fords salmon, and abundance of trout of various kinds.  At one
time, it was more famous for its pearl fishery than it is at present,
although there is still no want of shells in the river.  It is a fa-
vourite amusement of the schoolboys to fish for pearls when the
water is low, especially during summer; and occasionally they
succeed, although there are hundreds of blanks for one prize.  The
instrument used for griping the shell is very simple, consisting
of along stick, with two small pieces of plate steel at one end.
   A rivulet called the water of Gight, or the black water, or the
little water, separates the parish of Methlick on the west from
Fyvie and Monquhitter and New Deer.  Within the short space
of a mile and a half on this brook, are to be found two points,
at which three different parishes meet ; at that nearest to the
Ythan, Fyvie, Monquhitter, and Methlick,-and at the other,
New Deer, Monquhitter, and Methlick.  The Ebrie, above-men-
tioned, divides Methlick on the east from the parish of Ellon.


