
                        CAMPSIE.                                   247

son of the Woodhead family. The three families of Woodhead,
Kincaid, and Antermony, are now all of them represented, as
these estates are possessed by John L. Kincaid Lennox, Esq. the
first in right of his mother, the second in right of his father, the
third in right of his uncle.
   The claim of this family to the Lennox peerage has been
brought down to her own time, by Margaret Lennox, late of
Woodhead; from which case, it appears that Askill, a powerful
Northumbrian baron of the age of William the Conqueror, hav-
ing found it necessary, with many other northern barons, to flee
into Scotland, was kindly received by Malcolm III.; and his son,
Alwyne, was, by Malcolm VI. created Earl of Lennox; the name
being derived from the river Leven, and the estate extending over
Dumbartonshire, great part of Stirlingshire, and parts of the coun-
ties of Perth and Renfrew. The earldom continued in this family
down to the time of Earl Duncan, who, with the Duke of Albany
and his two sons, was executed at Stirling, May 1425. After this,
Isabella, his eldest daughter, enjoyed it many years, and she hav-
ing died without issue on 1459, the earldom, without any for-
feiture having taken place, but by reason of the feudal incident of
non-entry, fell into the hands of the sovereign as superior.
   Donald, son of Earl Duncan, by a second marriage, was the
ancestor of the Lennoxes of Ballcorach. John, the sixth of Ball-
corach, came into possession of the lands of Woodhead about 1520.
   Parochial Registers.--These are very meagre. One volume
commencing 29th October 1689, Mr John Govan, moderator,
records the proceedings of the kirk-session down to June 6, 1717.
Another volume commences May 27, 1787, and is continued with
great irregularity till November 1810. Some few of the matters
recorded in the older volume are not without interest. The mi
nutes of the kirk-session are continued from the date last men-
tioned to the present time. The register of baptisms extends from
the year 1696 downwards; that of deaths appears not to have
been kept previously to 1790.
        	      III.--POPULATION.
In the year 1783, the population of Campsie amounted to 1627.
If the registers of baptisms and marriages may be depended on,
the number of the inhabitants must have diminished between the
period of the Revolution and the above-mentioned year. Between
A. D. 1783 and 1793, the population was augmented from 1627-
to 2517. This wonderful increase of inhabitants was occasioned


