
                              KILLIN                     1081

   traordinary scenery in Scotland, unlike every thing else in the
   country, and, perhaps, on earth, and a perfect picture-gallery in
   itself, since you cannot move three yards without meeting a new
   landscape.  A busy artist might here draw a month and not
   exhaust it.  Fir-trees, rocks, torrents, mills, bridgees, houses,-
   these produce the great bulk of the middle landscape, under end-
   less combinations, while the distance more constantly are found
   in the sorrounding hills, in their varied woods, in the bright ex-
   panse of the lake, and the minute ornaments of the distant valley,
   - in the rocky and bold summit of Craig Cailliach, and in the
   lofty vision of Ben-lawers, which towers like a huge giant to the
   clouds, the monarch of the scene".
     Geology.-The predominating rock is mica slate in the greatest
   variety of mineral chasracter.  The talcose, chloritic, and horn-
   blends rocks are of fresquent occurence, and of considerable thick-
   ness.  Limestone, of a highly crystalline character and greyish co-
   lour, is abundant.  Trap veins are also to be met with, and por-
   phyry and syenitic greenstone.  Lead-ore is abundant.  The
   Tyndrum mines have been re-opened and carried on with spirit
   for some years past, under the direction of experienced German
   miners.  Cobalt is found, and is so rich as to yield sixty ounces
   of silver in the ton.  In Craig-Chailliach, near Killin, there is a
   rich  vein of sulphuret of iron. It has been examined with the
   view of working kit for the manufacture of sulphur.  Specimens of
   rock-crystal, amethystine quartz, smoke quartz, and imbedded
   garnets, are to be met with.  A large crushing-mill has been
   erected at Tyndrum, and rails laid for conveying the ore down
   the steep descent to the mill.
     The country is rich in metallic veins, though the great distance
   from coals and from the market may render them less valuable.
   The working of them would be highly beneficial to the people;
   and this is the object chiefly in view in the researches of the noble
   proprietor.
     Pearls.-In the Dachart the pearl-muscle is found, from which
   beautiful and valuable pearls are extracted.
     Soils.-The soil is generally on limestone, and is light and dry.
   A considerable part of the arable land is wet and marshy, particu-
   larly in Glendochart and Strathfillan, and the crops are often en-
   dangered or swept away by the overflowing of the river; so that
   an autumnal flood, converting our valldys into lakes of many isles,



