
166                         RENFREWSHIRE.

The second book is wholly occupied with a description of the island
thus discovered; and the third, fourth, and fifth books contain what
is properly the " chronicle," and it is a valuable remnant of the
olden time.  One Walter Bower or Bowmaker, as he is sometimes
called, who became Abbot, not of St Columba, as has been sup-
posed, but of Inchcolm, in 1418, continued the work of Fordun to
the death of James L., 1436.  The work was held in such esteem
that various MS. copies of it were made by the inmates of diffe-
rent monasteries in Scotland, and these generall took their names
from the places where they were executed.  Hence we have " the
Black Book of Scone;" a monk of Scone having been, along with
Bower, one of the minor continuators of Fordun.  Of this MS.
Sir James Balfour made an abstract, from which it appears to have
been truly a copy of the original Scotichronicon.  Then, we have
the Black Book of Paisley, Maqnus etniger liber Pasleti,-an extract
or copy made it is said, first at Holyroodhouse, and afterwards pos-
sessed by the monks at Paisley, who held it in great esteem.  Then
we have the " Liber Carthusiensis" of Perth; and the famous book
of the Pluscardine Priory near Elgin. Of MS. copies of the " Sco-
tichronicon," with its continuations, there are extant at least six; a
noble one in the College Library of Edinburgh, the gift of Princi-
pal Colvil about the middle of the seventeenth century; one in the
University Library of St Andrews; one in the possession of the
Representatives of Lord Viscount Tarbat; one in the Cotton Li-
brary at Oxford, containing only Fordun's portion, however; one
in,Bennett College, Cambridge; and one in the King's Library,
now deposited in the British Museum.  This is the genuine
"Black Book" of Paisley, of which we have just received the
following notice in a letter from Joseph Stevenson, Esq. one of
the Librarians of the British Museum.  " The volume you men-
tion is amongst the MSS. presented by George II. to the museum
at its fotndation, and is now marked 13 E. X. It is a fine folio
volume upon velluin, written in the fifteenth century, and contains
a good copy of Fordun's Scotichronicon.  It was carried away
from Scotland - by General Fairfax, a great collector of MSS.,
and was afterwards purchased by Charles II. for L. 100, and by
him placed in the Library of St. James's.  Hearne collated it for his
edition of Fordun, printed at Oxford in 1722, in the preface to
which work you will: find a larger account of it."   We have ex-
amined the editions of the work by Hearne, by Gale, and by
Goodall; and, while we could dispense with the fabulous parts of


