
426                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

of this parish from the Earl, and transferred them in 1637 to the
Bishop of Glasgow.
	Langholm was erected into a parish in the year 1703, and be-
came the seat of a presbytery in 1743, by disjoining the five pa-
rishes of Eskdale from Middlebie, and adding to them the parish
of Castleton, which was formerly in the presbytery of Jedburgh.
The church was originally built in 1703, and since that time has
been rebuilt twice, viz. in 1747 and 1779. The present church
is convenient enough for the greater part of the parish, with the
exception of Half Morton. It is not, however, in good repair,
being both damp and uncomfortable. It is situated upon a rising
ground on the north of the town, which renders it extremely cold
in winter; and when frost sets in, it is by no means easy of access
to the infirm. It may contain about 800 sitters.
	The manse was rebuilt in 1793, and at present is in good re-
pair. The glebe consists of fifty acres, twenty of which are
arable. The amount of stipend is 16 chalders, half meal, half
barley; payable in money, according to the highest fiar prices of
the county, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements. Two
augmentations have been granted, since 1792.
	There are two Dissenting meeting-houses in the parish,--one
belonging to the United Associate Synod, and the other to the
Relief. The chapel of the United Associate congregation was
originally built in 1788, and rebuilt in 1822, and may contain about
500 sitters. The preacher has an allowance of L. 120, and finds
a house for himself. The Relief meeting-house, a small building,
was founded in 1807. The congregation allows the preacher  L. 80,
out of which he provides himself with a dwelling-house. The
number of Dissenters in the parish who attend these meeting-houses
may amount to 400, but their congregations are considerably en-
larged from the neighbouring parishes. There are only one Roman
Catholic, and two Episcopalians in the parish.
	The number of communicants at the last celebration of the
Lord's Supper in tbe Established Church amounted to 400.
There are two Sabbath schools, one of which. taught by the Burgher
clergyman, with assistants, is attended by more than 300 children;
the other is conducted by the Relief clergyman. They are sup-
ported by collections made in the chapels.
	Education.--There are two endowed schools in this parish,--one
situated in New Langholm, having the maximum salary, and the
legal accommodations; the other at Broomholm, endowed by a
                              3


