
     Statistical Account

otherwise, many grievances would be redressed, and many
disputes settled, without going before the sheriff-court.-
There is an old practice, which still prevails in some places,
and which is very detrimental to husbandry.  It is common-
ly termed rig and rennet.  A number of tenants have their
houses perhaps close to one another.  Instead of every one
having his land in one place, it is scattered here and there,
several tenants having different shares in one field, or a rig a
piece alternately.  Besides stopping the progress of improve-
ment, wrangling and strife among neighbours, in sowing and
reaping, are often the consequences.  If some manufactures
were established on this extensive and populous coast, they
would be of great consequence to the inhabitants.  If they
drunk more beer, and less whisky, it would contribute great-
ly to their happiness and comfort.  These, and some other
disadvantages, under which the inhabitants labour, will no
doubt be remedied in due time*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*As the boundaries between Caithness and Sutherland lie
in this parish, it may not be improper to give the following ac-
count of them, as inserted in M'Farlane's Geographical Collec-
tions, (A. M. S. in the Advocates Library) vol. 1 p. 198, where
there is a description of the parish of Latheron.
"The hill of the Ord is that which divides Sutherland and
" Caithness.  The march is a small rivulet, called the Burn of the
"Ord, which takes its rise from some springs near the top of
"the hill.  The south side of the hill is very sheep, sloping all
"along to the top of a rock, which is many fathoms high.
"Crofs the south fide of this hill is the common passage to and
"from this country.  The road hath not been so very dange-
"rous as at first view it would appear to the traveller, for the
"whole face of the hill to the top of the rock has been covered
"with heath, so that though a person's foot might slip, he was
"not in great danger; but whether through moor burning, or
"some other accident, it hath happened some few years ago,
"that the heath was all burnt, and now it looks more frightful
"than formerly, but the road, by the pains of Sir James Sin-
"clair of Dunbeath, is made so broad that 3 horses can conve-


