
     Statistical Account

Carn-Ban or White Cairn*.  It is also circular, and measures
50 feet in diameter.  From the situation of the place, the
convenience of landing, and its vicinity to Carn-na-faire, it is
likely that there was an engagement near it, and that the bo-
dies of the slain were buried under the cairn.  South west of
Carn Ban, at a narrow part of the island, called Tarbat, there
is a large stone on end, known by the name of Carr-an-Tar-
bart, or the Pillar of Tarbat.  It is near 8 feet high, and,
from its inclined position, cannot be less than 3 feet under
ground to prevent its falling.  It was probably let up to mark
the grave of some warrior.  The common burying place in
the island, is called Gill Ghattan, pronounced Kill Xattay) i. e.
Cattan's grave, or burying ground.  Here are the ruins of
an old chapel, 33 feet long, 14 1/2 broad.  At the east end,
there is a long narrow window, in the role of which lies a
stone font, neatly cut in an octagonal shape, and perforated in

<FOOTNOTE>

Three years ago several stone coffins were discovered there, by dyke-buil-
ders.  On opening them they found some urns, one of which is in Mr. Mac-
neill of Gigha's possession, and measures (on the outride) 5 1/4 inches in diameter
at top, 2 at the bottom, and 5 1/4 in height, made of clay, hard burnt, and in co-
Tour blackish.  The coffins, of which there are 4 in the middle of the cairn, are
made up of 4 large flags, forming the bottom, fides and cover of each, with a
small flag at each end.  They he south and north, and measure about 5 feet m
length, 2 1/2 in breadth, and 1 1/2 in depth.  Two of theft coffins are covered, in
one of which are human bones.  Besides the large coffin, there were several
small ones, of which there is only one left entire.  It is 3 feet long, 1 1/2 broad,
and 1 deep.
+Any neck of land or isthmus, where boats can be drawn over from one
side to the other, is called Tarbat, from the two Gaelic words tarruin, to draw,
and Bat, a boat.  It is commonly pronounced in Gaelic with an r in the last
syllable as well as in the first, (i. e.) Tarbart.  Near the farm houses of Tarbat
there is an old burying place, where there is across, with one of the arms and
part of the top broken.  It is neatly cut, and measures 6 feet in length, 10
inches in breadth, and 5 inches in thickness.  The place is called Righ Charbeal,
i. e. the Kings Chapel, or Tomb.


