
84                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

ten years. (Vide account of Dr Sommervile in Dr Stevens's his-
tory, also prefixed to the volume of his published discourses.)
   Dr Somerville was succeeded in the charge by the Rev. James
Rhind, who was admitted minister of Whitburn in 1790. His
successor was the Rev. James Watson, who was translated from
the presbytery of Orkney.
   The Rev. Archibald Bruce, minister of the Associate Congre-
gation, and teacher of the theological class at Whitburn under the
inspection of the (late) General Associate Synod, was a man of
such eminent attainments in theology and literature, that his name
deserves to be here recorded. In the year 1780, he published
"Free Thoughts on the Toleration of Popery;" a work of most
elaborate research, which has furnished subsequent writers upon
the subject with a rich store of materials, and which procured Mr
Bruce the friendship of Lord George Gordon, upon whom Mr
Bruce waited when in London in the year 1782, and who, a year
or two later, visited Mr Bruce at Whitburn. The following works,
among many others, issued from his pen: "Introductory and Oc-
casional Lectures," delivered in the Theological Academy at
Whitburn; "A Dissertation on the Supremacy of Civil Powers
in Matters of Religion;" translation from the French of "Dis-
courses on the True and False Religion, by Pictet." Vide sketch
of Mr Bruce in the Life of Dr M'Crie.
   Education.-There are five schools; two are endowed from a
sum of L.4250 left to the schools of this and Cambusnethan pa-
rishes. The salaries of the teachers of these two schools, inde-
pendently of the school-fees, at present amount to less than L. 30,
besides free house and garden. The parish schoolmaster's salary is
the maximum, L.34, 4s. 4'd. He has also a glebe of about ten
acres, Scotch measure. He has the legal accommodation. The
amount of school-fees may be about L.20 per annum.
   Libraries.-There are two libraries in the parish, one in the
village and the other at Longridge.

   April 1843.


