
560                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

found, Most probably there are a succession of valuable seams
at a still greater depth, but as the expense of working would be
too great to admit of their being turned to account, the riches of
the field have not been farther explored.
   The depths above given apply to the field about the centre of
it. In the Edmonstone engine-pit, which is the farthest working
to the dip of the jewel coal, its depth is 84 fathoms; and the
splint, which is the nearest to the surface, the four-foot or cubical
coal not being found there, is at the depth of 50 fathoms.
   In general the flat seams in this parish are found extending in
regular order: there are, however, what are technically termed
nips and dikes, which, where they occur, occasion interruptions
and dislocations, which have the effect of rendering mining oper
rations often very troublesome and very uncertain in their results.
In the eastern part of the parish there is a dike, whose course is
in general from south-east to north-west, which, has the effect of
throwing the above seams down to the east from ten to fifteen feet.
About 800 yards west of the place where this dike was first disco-
vered in the Edmonstone coal-field, there is another in the jewel
coal seam, which may more properly be called a nip, the coal be-
ing found nearly on the same level after the interruption thereby
occasioned. It runs about northeast two degrees, in a direction
to meet the one already mentioned, which in reality it is found to
do. There are also two dikes in the Sheriffhall coal-field. The
first occurs in the eastern part of it, where the diamond coal ter-
minates, and runs generally north twenty degrees west. The other
is near the hamlet of Sheriffhall, at the extremity of the parish,
with a direction nearly north-west. This is called a revolution
dike, because, to the west of it in the parish of Liberton, the na-
ture and qualities of the seams are changed, and are decidedly in-
ferior to those lying on the east, being the seams already described.
With regard to the edge-seams, there is one found intersecting
them a little to the north of the village of Edmonstone, which has
the effect of shifting them some distance out of their previous
course. All these dikes are of whinstone.
   As to the surface, there is a considerable variety of soils in the
parish. Towards the south-east corner the soil is light and sandy,
which is succeeded by stiff clay. About the centre it is a rich
loam, which deteriorates as we ascend the ridge the northern ex-
posure of which is indifferent, while there is at the foot of it, in


