
     of Eskdalemuir.

one year with another, than 20 s. a-head.  There are at pre-
sent in the parish; about 445 black cattle.  The number of
horses will be about 75, besides the young ones that are as
yet unfit for husbandry.
   But the principal production of this parish is sheep; which
are coming daily nitre into request.  At the head of the pa-
rish, they are all of the short kind; but lower down they are;
for the most part of the Cheviot breed.  Some attempts were
made to introduce them on the higher grounds, but without
success.  The general opinion of the farmers is, that the
grounds are too wet and stormy; that the sudden changes
hurt them more than the short sheep; and that the death a-
mong the lambs is greater.  The number of sheep at pre-
sent is about 25,440.  The farmers here are particularly at-
tentive to the treatment of their stocks.  They generally stock
light, that they may preserve grass for the winter and spring.
They have laid aside, in a great measure, the custom of milk-
ing, being of opinion that it weakens the ewes, and makes
them less able to endure the winter.  The wool of both kinds
is of good quality; and meets with a ready market.  It is
generally smeared with tar and butter; but some of them are
beginning to use the African grease* instead of the latter.
Mr. Gideon Curll in Yetbyre; smeared, some years ago, the
one side of a sheep with tar and butter, and the other with
tar and African grease, and found them run equally well.
The only difference was, that the wool smeared with the tar
and grease was yellower than the other, but became equally
white after being washed.  The success of this experiment
made him smear all his short sheep in 1791, with the grease
instead of butter, and the consequence was, that he never had

     VOL. XII. 4 H

<FOOTNOTE>

*The African grease is coming much into repute.  It is 6 d. a-stone cheaper
this year than butter; has about a choppin more of oil in the stone when melt-
ed; runs equally well on the sheep, and produces better wool.


