
	20                             ORKNEY.

	3 smiths, and 1 cooper. Most of the artisans have small farms, but
	not sufficient to maintain their families.  Almost all the young
	women have, for many years, been employed in winter in plaiting
	straw for bonnets.
	   The habits of the people are gradually improving. There is,
	however, a propensity among the young of both sexes to extrava-
	gance in dress.  Umbrellas are in general use.  English cloths,
	prints, and merinos are common.
	   While kelp was in demand, and brought a high price, a consi-
	derable number of men and young women was employed in the
	manufacture of it; but now little is done in this way.
	   The young people are usually prudent enough in entering into
	matrimony, and seldom take this step, until they have a tolerable
	prospect of the means of subsistence.  An unfortunate habit,
	however, has long prevailed among some of the young men,
	of going in the winter evenings to tippling-houses. This, doubt-
	less, operates unfavourably in various ways, and deprives the in-
	dividuals of that respectability of character to which they would
	be entitled, from their industry and economy in other respects.
	Resolutions were issued by the county gentlemen a few years ago,
	to put a stop to such practices, by diminishing the number of licens-
	ed ale-houses. Their resolutions, however, have not yet produced
	the salutary effect intended.
	   A Sunday school was commenced some time ago, which, it is
	hoped, will have a very beneficial influence.

		                IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture and Rural Economy.-The greater part of the farms
	are from six to eight Scots acres in extent, and at a rent of from 10s.
	to 15s. per acre, according to the quality of the soil.  The common
	rotation is oats and bear, with a few potatoes : of these, seldom
	more are raised than what the family requires.  Some also raise a
	few turnips for family use.  There are three large farms, paying a
	rent of from L.50 to L.80 each. On these, there is a rotation of
	rye-grass and clover, which are n6t broken up for two or three
	years: then oats, next potatoes or turnips, and then bear, with
	vhich the grass and clover are sown.  The greater part of the
	first year's crop of sown grass is, cut for hay, and the field is after-
	wards used for pasture.  Wheat has been tried, but with indiffer-
	ent success.  In some cases, it grew luxuriantly, but was never well
	filled or fully ripened.  In ordinary seasons, it is common to see


