
964                         PERTHSHIRE.

among the walls. Two floors of this noble edifice are nearly fi-
nished, as well as a gallery 96 feet long, besides an elegant pri-
vate chapel, a spacious staircase, and several noble Gothic win-
dows, which were to have been emblazoned with all the family
shields and quarterings, carved in stone.  The walls have been
temporarily covered for protection.
   In this neighbourhood, it is a singular coincidence, that the twin
houses of Dunkeld and Murthley have both lost their founders,
and have remained ever since unfinished.
   Climate.--Dunkeld and Dowally are, generally speaking, very
healthy, but more particularly the town of Dunkeld.  Fever is
comparatively very rare, though it is not uncommon in neigbbour-
ing towns of the same population. It has been supposed, from
the abundance of wood about the town and its neigbbourbood, that
Dunkeld would, in all probability, become more liable to disease,
and to fever in particular.  This supposition has not hitherto been
borne out, for since the late Duke of Atholl extended his immense
plantations, both here and in other parts of his estates, disease has
become notoriously less frequent. In proof of the situation of
Dunkeld and its neighbourhood being healthful, it may be men-
tioned, that it is often recommended by physicians as a suitable
summer residence for invalids.  Many instances of longevity might
be mentioned. About half a century ago, a friendly company  oc-
cassionally met, which was called the Eighty-four Club, where no
member was admitted till he had attained that age. The meetings
are raid to have been characterized with fun and good humour.
   Geology and Mineralogy. *--The geological character of Dun-
keld and Dowally is extremely simple. The limits are confined
to about ten miles of the northern side of the valley of the Tay.
Of these, the rocks in situ are exclusively of the transition clay slate,
nearly devoid of simple minerals, and only remarkable for the sin-
gular contortions into which the strata, or rather laminae have been
twisted, previous to their becoming indurated, which has given the
blocks of stone much the appearance of knotted timber.
   The soils naturally arising, from the decomposition of this slate
are in general, cold and poor, and seem better suited to the
growth of timber than for agricultural purposes. The most pro-
ductive parts of Dunkeld and Dowally consist of those great
platforms and rounded knolls of water-worn and stratified sand

<FOOTNOTE>By George Fairholme, Esq. author of several works on Geology.


