
164                       KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	The value rent of the parish is L.3598; its real rent is
L.7972; but, as assessed for the poor, where house property is
included, it is about L.11,000.
        Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre is
L. 1, 3s. The average rent of grazing is at the rate of L. 6 per
cow; L. 2, 10s. per head for black-cattle; and L. 1 per owe or
full-grown, sheep pastured for the year.
	The lands are let on leases of fifteen and nineteen years dura-
tion. The farm-houses are all slated, comfortable, and commo-
dious, generally containing, besides a kitchen and accommodation
for, servants, a dining-room parlour, and two or more bed-rooms.
The lands are all enclosed, ehther by substantial stone-dikes, or
by thorn hedges, planted, in a manner, peculiar to Galloway. It is
this.-A wall is built against a bank of earth, and when it has at-
tained the height of the soil, a row of thorns is inserted, bent for-
wards, and covered with a little mould, when the building proceeds
to the proper height. The thorns soon take root, creep up the
face of the wall, and, by proper attention, combine with the dike
to form  a fence impervious to all kinds of cattle. Sometimes two
rows of thorns are inserted, one at the base of the wall, and an-
other at a small distance above. This hides altogether the de-
formity of the naked dike; and, whilst the thorns keep the stones
in their proper, places, the wall gives a stability to the hedge
which bids defiance to the most violent storms. This mode of
fencing is said to have been introduced by the late Lord Daer,
with the view of turning the Galloway cattle, which are sure to
trespass upon every field into which they are able to poke their
heads,-and it fully answered the purpose. The hedges are care-
fully, scutched, and give a great appearance of neatness to the
country. It is little more than a century since lands begun to be
enclosed tn Galloway. In a letter to W. M. Herries, Esq. of
Spottes, dated February, 1811, and published in the Appendix to
the Report of the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright Agricultural So-
ciety for the year 1810, the late John Maxwell, Esq. of
Munshes, gives the following somewhat ludicrous account of
the famous rising of the Levelers, occasioned by the pro-
prietors enclosing their grounds. "That same year (1723,
for this fine old old gentlement was born in 1720,) many of
the proprietors inclosed their grounds to stock them with black-
cattle, and by that means turned out a vast number of the
tenants, at the term of Whitsunday 1723, whereby number of


