
	290	                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	suppose that, for security's sake, the sanctuary may have been chos-
	en as the fittest place for the preservation of those documents,
	and that with it they may have perished. The high rank of the
	jurors sufficiently manifests the importance then attached by the
	country round to the full authentication of the burghal rights.
	  Parochial Registers.-There are no trustworthy parochial regis-
	ters now, extant, of a date beyond 1765; at which period we find
	it recorded that general discontent bad been raised by the total
	want of any registration for nine years before; since that time (ex-
	cept that, there is no record of deaths) they have been tolerably
	well kept. The burgh records commence in 1734.
	  Antiquities.-Almost the only antiquity worthy of note in the
	parish, besides the chapel and church of St Duthus above-men-
	tioned, is the beautifully carved oaken pulpit of the latter, which
	was gifted by "the good regent" Murray, to the inhabitants of
	Tain, for their zeal in the cause of the Reformation. In what
	this zeal was displayed, we know not; we have learned only the
	gratifying fact; and we know that it did not, as in other parts of
	Scotland, lead to the demolition or even to the defacement of
	the ancient church; on which several Roman Catholic figures are
	still to be seen. We regret to state, however, that after St Du-
	thus' church was vacated, between twenty and thirty years ago, it
	was for a considerable time left in such an exposed state, that boys
	were able to enter, and wantonly to break down the wood-work of
	the interior; and thus, ere it was observed, the pulpit itself, the
	memorial of our ancestors' piety, received more injury from their
	descendants negligence, than did the edifice which contains it,
	from the disturbances and shocks of a religious revolution. Expe-
	rience has now taught us better to guard this fine relic, mutilated
	as it is.
	  Modern condition.-Of the more modern history of the parish,
	scarcely fact worthy of commemoration has been preserved. Of
	its ancient loyalty, and more lately of its Protestantism, proof has
	been given; both feelings appear to have kept ground. At the
	period of tbe Restoration, the minister of Tain was one of a noble
	bond of four in the synod of Ross, who preferred suffering depo-
	sition and imprisoment to maintaining place with a polluted con-
	science. The example of the shepherd cannot have been lost, upon

        <FOOTNOTE>applying to the title to M'Neill and his followers, who, we know, were actually pro-
	claimed rebels. Beside, James before his accession to the English throne, had no
	subjects in Ireland; nor, if he had, Is it conceivable how Tain should have become
	the most of their ravages.
                                          4


