                                  
                                   DUNFERMLINE.
 
     just noticed, of that monarch and his second queen soon after-their
     marriage. The date II 00, too, may have been put upon it, as
     the then reputed age of the older part of the palace, which in that
     case would be built by King Edgar, son of Malcolm III., whose
     reign was rather peaceful.
         This opinion of the antiquity of this part of the edifice, as well
     as of the addition made to it by James IV., was expressed also by
     the heritors of the parish, and magistrates and council of the
     town, in a memorial -presented in 1836 to the Commissioners of
     Woods and Forests.
        But as no ancient and authoritative historical or other document
     is known to exist, fixing the age of the palace, it must still, it is
     to be feared, remain in some obscurity.
        Subterraneous Passage.-Near the north-west corner in the
     north wall there is an aperture, which was originally about 4 feet
     high by 2 1/2 wide, but from the accumulation of the earth on the
     floor of the cellar, the height is now only 2 1/2 feet. This is the
     entrance to a long dark subterraneous passage, with various off-
     shoots, and having a total length of about 100 feet. Not satisfied
     with some of the accounts and conjectures current concerning it,
     I resolved to make a personal exploration, which, with the aid of
     competent persons, was done early in January 1843.
        Queen's House.-This building was adjacent to the palace, on
     the north-east, and communicated with it by a gallery. It stood
     in the centre of the street to the north of the present arched or
     pended gateway, and reached near to the great west door of the
     church. It was so named as having been erected, or at least re-
     stored by Queen Anne of Denmark, and having been her perso-
     nal property during life, and not a mere jointure house to which
     she had a title on the demise of her husband.
        Immediately to the north of the Queen's House stood the Con-
     stabulary House, or residence of the Constable of the Royal, Edi-
     fices, and near to it the Bailie House, or residence of the Deputy
     Bailie of Regality.
        Frater-hall. - Immediately to the South of the old Abbey
     Church are the ruins of the, Frater-hall or Refectory,-tbe din'
     ing-room of the brethren or -ecclesiastics. There remain of it only
     the south-front wall and the west gable, in the former, of which
     there are nine tall handsome windows.
        In the west gable there is a large Gothic window, much ad-


