
               ST ANDREWS.                                    481

glebe, and L. 8, 6s., 8d. were assigned to him annually for com-
munion elements.
   No ebapel of ease nor Government church exists at present in
the parish, and no missionary nor catechist was employed within its
precincts until 1834, when an experienced licentiate of the Church
of Scotland was engaged to act as a preacher, to conduct public
worship at one or other of the villages of Strathkinness, Boarhills,
or Kineaple, on the Sundays, and also to act as a catechist, in the
city and villages, both on Sundays and ordinary week days. His
salary of L. 52, 12s. a-year, was afforded him the first year by the
first minister; and since that period, the latter has contributed the
half only of the salary, and certain of the heritors and parishioners
the remainder.
   There are four Dissenting chapels in the parish, three of which
are in the city, and one at the village of Strathkinness, one of the
former being Episcopalian. The ministers of these chapels de-
rive their incomes from the seat rents, and from the collections
which are made at their doors, when the several congregations as-
semble for public worship. It is understood that they vary in
amount from L. 70 to L. 100 Sterling a year. Between'an eighth
and a ninth part of the population of the parish are dissenters from
the Established Church of Scotland, and have connected their-
sides in the parish; with these chapels. The remaining part of the populations
the few excepted who have no religious profession, adbere to the
Established Church. One family of Roman Catholics only re-
sides in the parish; the father is in the preventive service, and was
stationed here only about a year and a half ago. There are two
other individuals of that persuasion in the parish, and the whole
are natives of Ireland. Divine service both in the parish church
and in the chapels, is generally well attended. The average num-
ber of communicants at the dispensation of the sacrament of the
Lord's Supper in the parish church for the last ten or twelve years
is about 2030. But from an investigation which took place in,
1836, it appeared that there were 2490 individuals in the parish
who were in communion with the establishment, although, in con-
sequence of age and infirmities, the great distance of many of them
from the church, and the necessity of having a proper person to
watch over many of the families on the communion Sabbath, near-
ly a fifth of the whole were absent when that service was perform-
ed.  It was at tbe same time ascertained, that the number of the
parishioners who were in communion with the various denomina-
FIFE.                             H h


