
     of Killearnan.

tical establishments.  As a striking instance of this the fol-
lowing circumstance is mentioned: The late incumbent was
settled minister of this parish in May 1758; he, 8 months
thereafter, publicly intimated, after sermon, his intention of
catechising the inhabitants of a particular district on the fol-
lowing Tuesday; but, on going to the house which he had fixed
on as the place of meeting, not above three miles from the
church, he found a convention of only a few old women.
Having never before seen their minister they appeared much
agitated, telling him, however, that he might have saved
himself the trouble of coming to their town as they had no
whisky.  They retired, one by one, and alarmed the neigh-
bourhood, by saying, that a strange Exciseman had just come
to such a house.  Since that period the change is striking;
the assiduity of the minister, in the discharge of his parochial
duties, was attended with much success; his exertions were,
as he has often gratefully acknowledged, powerfully aided by
the introduction of a* school, (supported by the Society for
Propagating Christian Knowledge), at which from 60 to 90
children have been taught gratis.  The house of God is now
attended with regularity and devotion; they have learned,
not indeed the chearless refinements of modern Philosophy,
but in the perusal of the gospel of peace, to find a healing
balm to sooth and to comfort them under the pressure of all
the calamities of life.
   May they increase in those virtues which are pure, peace-
able, gentle, of good report, and easy to be intreated!

<FOOTNOTE>

*The very inadequate salary payable to the parochial
schoolmaster is much against the parish; it is only 8 L.  6 s.  8 d.
The office of schoolmaster has been vacant since Martinmas, be-
cause no qualified person can be got to accept of it.  What a
pity is it that the pecuniary reward of a description of men,
among the most useful in society, should exceed only, in a mere
trifle, the wages of a common hireling.

