
                                       ALVES.                            113

          but the house being built close to the churchyards, and the ground
          rising on the back wall to the height of,eight or ten feet, cause a
          considerable dampness.  The salary is the maximum, L. 34, 4s.
          4 1/2d., to which is added a share of the Dick bequest, (probably
          L. 25 or L. 30 per annum.) School fees and session clerk's fees,
          L. 20;-allowance for garden, L. 2, 2s. 9d.-Average number of
          scholars for several years past 50;-hours, of teaching six ;-va-
          cation time in winter, ten or twelve days; in harvest about six
          weeks ;-branches taught, reading, writing, arithmetic, book-keep-
          ing.  Some are taught English Grammar and geography; occa-
          sionally a few are taught Latin, Greek, and the elements of ma-
          thematics, preparatory to their attendance at Aberdeen colleges.
          The Scriptures are read once a-day by the whole school, not as a
          lesson in reading, but as a means of acquiring, the knowledge of
          the truth.
             The heritors give a house and small salary to a female teacher,
          who gives instruction in sewing, knitting, &c. to about twenty girls.
          There is also a subscription school at the west end of the parish
          for the accommodation of several districts in this and adjoining pa-
          rishes not conveniently situated for the attendance of young chil-
          dren at the parish schools.  There are always at the Alves school
          seven boys as bursars,-their education being paid for out of the
          interest of money bequeathed by two individuals, and affording
          about L. 1, 10s. to each.  Besides the school fees being paid, there
          is a small surplus for clothing, which is given to their parents for
          that purpose.  The bursars are nominated by the kirk-session out
          of those families who seem most to require such aid.
             The schoolmaster takes charge of a parish library, consisting of
          nearly 200 volumes.  The readers pay 6d. per quarter.  There
          is a juvenile library for the children, of about 80 volume  There
          is also one of the itinerating libraries, of 50 Volumes, lent at Id.
          per volume, to be returned in two weeks.    This last is in consi-
          derable demand among the farm -servants and work-people during
          the winter months; and indeed that may be said to be tbe read-
          ing time with an agricultural population, their hands being at other
          seasons of the year so full of employment that little, leisure time
          is left to most of them. Not a few of the farmers theselves,
          however, receive the newspapers regularly, sometimes three orfour
          taking a share of an Edinburgh or London paper.  They are ge-
          nerally intelligent and shrewd in all matters relating to agriculture,
          more from experience and observation than from reading.  Books

            ELGIN.                                              11


