
                         GLASSARY.                         687

of attainment. It was thatched within the memory of man, and,
when I first knew it, the corner stone of the oldest part, project-
ing considerably from the wall, had a hollow in the top for grind-
ing or pounding barley in. This I was unwillingly obliged to
blast away, as it projected considerably into the new addition.
Peter Campbell, Esq., the late proprietor, added to it in 1816 or
1820.  Since 1828, when I came into the possession of it, fur-
ther additions have been from time to time made to it, and the
old part is incorporated, so as not to be distinguished from the
new.
  " The principal feature of the house is a large octagon tower
of blue stone ashler, which forms the south-west angle, contain-
ing a dining-room 15 feet high, and an octagon drawing-room,
21 feet high, and having, besides three windows at the usual
height, a window in each of the eight sides. These rooms
are 29 feet in diameter. An anteroom, about 12 feet square,
connects the octagon with another, the Chinese drawing-room,
which is 57 feet long by 27 wide, and 16 high. This room ex-
tends over the entrance-hall and the kitchen, between which is an
archway or covered entrance, 40 feet long by 15 wide, which ad-
mits a carriage and four to drive into it. It is closed by sliding
gates at either side, and is a perfect protection in this stormy cli-
mate. The principal staircase, which is much admired, is circu-
lar, with the steps all alike, while the walls are octagon, and it is
lighted by a circular sky-light. A great portion of the house is
flat roofed, covered with lead, and surmounted by a flagstaff 48
feet high. Most of the house is built of the blue flag found on
the property, either rough or hewn; but most of the chimney cor-
nices and copes are freestone, from the Garscube and other quar-
ries. The floors in the public rooms are of polished oak, as are
also the doors, and in some cases the wainscoting.  The furni-
ture of these rooms is all antique, and a good deal of it was taken
from the Palace of Belew, in Portugal. The damask coverings
and the paper-hangings were manufactured expressly for us in
China.
  " The view from the tower is most picturesque, extending from
Ben-ghoil, in Arran, to the mountains of Mull, and commanding
a great part of Lochfyne, with the opposite hills of Cowal."
                      III.--POPULATION.
  The oldest account which we have of the population of this
parish is dated in 1755, when the number of souls in it was


