
     Statistical Account.

considerable advantage.  Some parts of them, however, are 
more clayey, and yield pretty good crops:  Other parts, which 
have a gravelly bottom, are dry and light; and though they 
do not give very plentiful returns, are more to be depended 
on than the wet lands.  But the greater part of the arable 
ground, which lies towards the river, is of a dry and good 
soil.  Near the village it is a rich loam, inclining, in some 
places, to clay.  Towards the N. E., it becomes light and 
sandy.  In the weft end of the parish, it is partly sandy, and
partly clayey; and, in the Clowburn lands, it is, in some 
places, gravelly and sharp, in others, soft and mixed with 
clay or moss.  The bottom of these arable grounds is vari-
ous; sand, clayey till, or gravel.  By proper management 
they may all made to produce good crops.  The soil of 
the haughs or holms is a mud which the river has brought 
down from the highest parts of the country.  In general, it 
appears to have considerable proportion of clay in its com-
position, from its adhesive quality when it is moistened by 
rain or the overflowing of the river.  The depth of this mud 
is various, from 2 to 7 or 8 feet.  Below it, there is gene-
rally found such a stratum of gravel and small stones, as lies 
in the fords.  This stratum may, perhaps, serve the purpose 
of a drain to the haughs, which are generally dry.  A sin-
gular fact seems to support this conjecture.  A large haugh, 
towards the west end of the parish, is not so dry as the other 
grounds of this kind, nor do the crops ripen so soon upon it 
as upon them.  The soil of that haugh is not deposited upon 
a stratum of gravel, but of moss, which probably imbibes 
the water of the river, and communicates an uncommon de- 
gree of moisture to the superincumbent mud. 

   The mode of farming is not very different from what it
was 20 or 30 years ago.  Men are naturally attached to old 
customs; and it requires some time, and repeated observa-


