
782                	     ABERDEENSHIRE.

defrayed, the one-half by public subscriptions, and the other half
by a grant from the Parliamentary Commissioners for Highland
Roads and Bridges.  In 1834, a neat substantial wooden bridge,
of four arches, was erected on the site of the stone bridge, of five
arches, destroyed by the flood in August 1829 ; and the expense
of this third one, amounting to upwards of L.2000, was defrayed,
the one-half by public subscriptions, and the other half by a grant
from the Parliamentary Commissioners for Highland Roads and
Bridges.
   Near the manse, there is a stone bridge, of one arch, across the
Water of Muick, in the line of the road on the south side of Dee.
There is also another stone bridge, of one arch, across the Water
of Gairn, in the line of the road on the north side of Dee; and
both these are of great public utility, and are at present in a sub-
stantial condition.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands on the north
side of Dee, and in the middle of a large open square in the vil-
lage of Ballater.  It is as central for the three parishes as possi-
ble; yet, the extremities being too distant, it is not convenient for
a great part of the population.  It was built in 1798, has a neat
spire, is in a good state of repair, and accommodates about 800
persons, who have all free sittings.  On most occasions, it is roomy
enough, except on the communion Sabbath,-then it is by far too
crowded; and the reason of this is; that a distant part of the pa-
rishioners, who attend a missionary chapel at Rinloan, assemble
with others at the parish church on that day, in order to commu-
nicate.
   The manse stands on the south side of Dee, and on the north
side of Muick, on a narrow strip of ground, about 200 yards from
the point of their junction; and, following the windings of the road,
it is nearly a mile south-west from the church.  A part of it was
built about forty years ago; and a larger and older part appears,
from a date upon it, to have been built in 1725.  This older part
has been repeatedly and recently repaired; but it never can be
made comfortable, because the walls of it have been built with clay
instead of lime, and that too in a very insufficient manner.
   The extent of the glebe, in lieu of 3, should be 6 1/2 Scotch
acres, and its value about L.10 per annum ; but, since the flood in
1829, an acre of it has been carried away by the Dee.  It has been
lately embanked by the heritors at a considerable expense,-up-


