
     Statistical Account

and fit for moulds, is also among those which this island af-
fords.  Great plenty of white spar, or perhaps quartz,
rounded by the action of the waves, is thrown up upon the
sea beach.  Some specimens of a grayish flate have
been tried; but no quarries of it are wrought.  Limestone
abounds at Cliff, from which the vein proceeds in a south-
westerly direction to Saxaberness, the south-weft extremity
of the island.  The whole island abounds in clay of a very
tough quality, and apparently very fit for bricks or potte-
ry.  A whitish substance, which seems to be an inferior
species of marl, is found at Uya-sound.  Substances which
seem to be ochreous, or bituminous, are also to be seen here
and there; and matter of a naphthalic appearance has been
observed upon the edges of some wells*.

   Produce.-Black oats, bear, potatoes, cabbages, and va-
rious garden roots, and greens which grow in great per-
fection, are the most common vegetables in this island.
Artichokes, too, of a delicate taste, are produced here, with
some small fruit, and most of the garden flowers that grow
in the north of Scotland.  There is little or no sown grass, 
but the meadows are rich in red and white clover, and in
the seasons of vegetation, are enamelled with a beautiful
profusion of wild flowers.  The pasture grounds, in the

<FOOTNOTE>

*No mines of any kind have hitherto been wrought in this island.
But Mr Crichton of the Anglesea mining company, (who are now working
for copper in the southern parts of Shetland,) declared immediately upon
landing at Belmont, that the whole shore gave indications of its contain-
ing great abundance of coal near the surface.  A variety of beautiful
shells are scattered upon the these shores, among which are the John o'Groat's
buckie, and the Unicorn's born.  The sponge, called Mermaid's glove, is
often taken up, upon this ceast, by the fishermen's books.  A great va-
riety of corals, branching out in irregular forms, is likewise found here.
The sea apple is also plenteous.  The alga marina, with different other
sea-weeds, are driven on shore by high furges.


