
	               DYKE AND MOY.                              225

	and floored over with slab deals in the same way as a room, with
	this difference only, that wooden pegs are used in place of nails.
	The foot of earth, which was previously taken out, is now replaced
	upon the floor. The seed-beds are formed three feet wide, with
	a foot between them. The seed is then sown and covered with
	two inches of earth, which is trodden down firmly with the foot,
	to prevent mice from destroying the acorns. The beds remain
	in this state till the plants make their appearance, when the
	earth is gently loosened with a dung fork, to give relief to the
	plants, and to allow them to throw out their fibres more freely.
	When they are fit for transplanting, a spade is run along from end
	to end of the beds with its mouth kept close to the floor, and the
	plants are picked up by the band, as the spade turns them up.
	They are then carried to the forest, and planted in the same way
	as seedling firs. One advantage obviously resulting from this plan, is
        the great saving of expense in planting; and another is, that, during
	the whole process, every fibre of the root, though as fine as a hair,
	escapes injury ; and, when planted, the young oaks take root and
	grow at once, whereas by the old method the roots are all cut, and
	it is generally the third year before they recover from the check,
	and a great many of them die.
	   There are regular sales of timber, fit for boat and ship build-
	ing, and general carpenter-work, in the Darnaway forest and the
	other plantations.
	   The Scotch acre is planted by Mr Grigor of the Forres nur-
	series with 4500 Scotch firs and larches for 13s.
	   Fishings.-There is a salmon fishing, of considerable value up-
	on the Findhorn. The sea-shore yields an inexhaustible supply
	of excellent cockles, which not only afford a wholesome addition
	to the meals of the common people, but give employment and sub-
	sistence to a number of women, who sell them through the coun-
	try and the neighbouring towns. It is calculated that the pro-
	duce of this bed exceeds L. 100 per annum, besides what is ga-
	thered for home consumption by the cottagers.
	   Produce.-The average gross value of raw produce yearly rais-
	ed in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows;

		Wheat,		-	-	L.5976	0	0
		Barlev,		-	-	  4717	0	0
    Oats,     - -   3263  0 0
    Hay,      - -    674  0 0
		Pasture,	-	-	  2084	0	0
    Turnips,  - -   2285  0 0

	   ELGIN.				      P


