
370                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

mercantile interests of the district. The harbour is small, and not
of the best description. The principal bridges in the parish are,
the handsome granite one, of five arches, erected some years ago
near the influx of the Farrar into the Glass; and the Lovat
Bridge, built in 1810, across the Beauly. This latter bridge was
built at an expense of nearly L.10,000.
   Ecelesiastical State.-Theparish church stands a few miles from
the eastern extremity of the parish, in a very convenient situation
for the greater part of the population. The village of Beauly, and
the space of four or five miles round about it, comprise nearly two-
thirds of the population of the parish, that is a population of about
1800. Of these, upwards of 100 are Roman Catholics, and about
50 Epicopalians. The accommodation afforded by the church
falls far short of what is required, as there are not sittings for one-
third of the population. A few years ago, it underwent a thorough
repair; and now, as far as it goes, the accommodation is very com-
fortable. The attendance on worship is generally good. The popu-
lation of the upper district of the parish is chiefly Roman Catholic.
The Committee of the General Assembly for the management
of the Royal Bounty has, for many years, supported a Missionary
to this and the neighbouring parish of Kiltarlity.  He officiates
for three successive Sabbaths at Cannich school, and the fonrth at
Glenstrathfarrar.
The late Chisholm of Chisholm two years ago, built a very neat
church on his own property, which affords accommodation to 300
individuals. Though built in the parish of Kiltarlity, it is acces-
sible to the inhabitants of Kilmorack. A fixed stipend of L.70
per annum, with other perquisites, which amount to L.30, is to be
granted by the present proprietor; and it is expected, that, in a
very short time, a minister will be ordained to the vacant charge.
Worship has been performed in it, since it was opened, by the aid
of the neighbouring clergy.
In this district, also, two Roman Catholic priests officiate. They
have two places of worship, capable of affording accommodation
to upwards of 500. The one is situated at Wester Eskadale, on
the south side of the Beauly; the other lies at no great distance
from the house of Fasnakyle.
The manse is an old building, situated close by the parish
church, on a rising eminence, whence a commanding view of
the exquisite scenery around it may be obtaided. The glebe
u very small, and worth only L.5 per annum. The amount
4

