                                                        
                           DUNBAR.                              91

educated at a free school, which corrupts the parent and degrades
the child. They ought rather to be stirred up to a sense of their
duty, and prompted to place themselves and their children on an
equality with their neighbours. The heritors and kirk-session pro-
vide for the education of all orphan children.
   Library.-There is a Subscription Library, containing many
hundred volumes; and a reading-room. The mechanics also have
a library of several hundred volumes.
   Banks.-In the town there is a branch of the British Line
Company, and also one of the Commercial Bank of Scotland.
Friendly Societies.-Many of these have, from time to time, ex-
isted in Dunbar; but, being established on erroneous principles,
most of them were of short duration. The only one which has
weathered the storm is the Sailors Society. It was established,
beyond the memory of man, for the benefit of superannuated seamen
and their widows. Its funds were originally derived from a duty
of eight pennies on the pound Scots out of all wages paid to
masters, mates, and sailors frequenting the port. This society
must have been well managed, for now it has both lands and money.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The management of the poor is
committed to the kirk-session, who regularly account to the heri-
tors. The number of the poor and their allowances are perpetual-
ly changing. While, in other places, poor rates have increased,-
here,by a stedfast adherence to the spirit of poor laws, they have
been greatly diminished. The annual expenditure is at present,
about L. 450 Sterling,-which sum is raised, 1. by the interest of
Binning's mortmain of L. 75 Sterling, paid by the burgh; 2. by
incidents at marriages and funerals; 3. by collections at the church,
door; 4. by a regular assessment.
   A committee of three heritors and three magistrates, with the
assistance of the kirk-session, appointed to investigate the subject,
lately ascertained that the total number of paupers in the burgh,
and the landward parts of the parish, was 103. Of these, 86 have a
settlement in the burgh; in the landward district, 17. It was fur-
ther ascertained that, of these 103 paupers, 50 were born and
brought up in the burgh; in the landward district, 10; emigrated
from other parishes, 43.
   In 1724, it was agreed between the heritors, and the town, that
for the year ensuing allenarly, the town shold pay one-sixth of the
money raised in the parish for the maintenance of the poor,-but
with a special clause, that this should not become a precedent
for the future. The other'five-sixths were paid by the heri-


