
1280                      PERTHSHIRE.

bours, and thus, when the moss was removed, the same
people, with the exception of those who had sold, remained
in possession of the lands, and the extraordinary influx of
that class of population diminished so gradually, as to prevent
the evil of a number being suddenly thrown upon other re-
sources.  The farms where the moss used to be, are, by the
wise system of the proprietor, made as small as the benefit of
all parties would admit, and thus provision is made for continuing
on these lands as many as possible of the original cultivators.
   Quarries.-The sandstone of this parish is used for the pur-
pose of building houses and dikes, and making roads.  In some
places it is too soft for such purposes, but in others it is hard and
durable.
   Fisheries.-There is a cruive dike extending across the Teith
at Doune Castle, containing boxes for catching salmon.  The
right of fishing, which is of little value belongs to the Earl of
Moray, who pays yearly to the proprietor of Blair Drummond, in
terms of an old decree-arbitral, 24 3/4 merks Scots, being L.1, 7s.
9d. Sterling, for resting the dike on the south bank of the river.
From this dike to the commencement of the town of Stirling's
fishing near the junction of the Teith and Forth, the exclusive
right of salmon-fishing is attached to the estate of Blair Drum-
mond, but it is now much reduced in value, the only portion let
producing a rent of nn more than L.6 Sterling a year.
   Produce-The valued rent of this parish is L.4784 Scotch.  It
is difficult to give accurately the amount in money of the aggre-
gate value of its raw produce; but the real rental has for many
years greatly increased. In the last Statistical Account this rent-
al was stated to be L-3500 Sterling, but it is now more than dou-
ble this sum, not only in: consequence of the great agricultural im-
provements here, but especially by the addition of about 1700
acres of good clay land, which have by the proprietors been re-
claimed from moss since the last Statistical Account was written.
   Associations.-A horticultural society has existed for some years
in this parisht which has excited much competition in the cultiva-
tion of shrubs flowers, and plants and of all kinds of vegetables
which are necessary for domestic use. It has been productive of
much improvement in the appearance of the cottages and a their
flower plots and gardens. Many of the cottages here are models
of neatness and cleanliness.


