
84                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

of Locbbroom, away at sea, at the Caithness and deep-sea fish-
ings, and at south-country labouring of various kinds, must have
been omitted in their own, and returned from other parishes.
  The population returns of 1831 are as follows: viz. males, 2214,
females,2401, total, 4615.  Males above twenty years of age, 1065;
families, 938; inhabited houses, 917; houses building, 6; housesun-
inhabited, 5; occupiers of land, 572; employed in retail and trade, 96.
Average of baptisms for the last seven years, 119; of marriages, 24 4/7.
  The real population of the parish of Lochbroom, as correctly
ascertained in November 1834, is 5206; of which 2546 are males,
and 2660 are females.
  Character and Habits ofthe People.-There is nothing very re-
markable in the appearance, character, or habits of the people.
The language generally spoken is Gaelic; but it is evidently los-
ing ground. The people are in general sober and quiet; but when
an opportunity occurs, as at a wedding, or even a funeral, it can-
not be denied that some of them occasionally exceed the bounds
of perfect moderation.  They are in general very poor.  Their or-
dinary food consists chiefly of potatoes and fish ; and it must be
admitted that the strength of body, and daring spirit for which the
Highlanders were once justly celebrated, are greatly on the decline.
They cannot be entirely acquitted of poaching in game or salmon;
nor is the country entirely free from the degrading and demoraliz-
ing practice of smuggling whisky.  But this is greatly owing to the
proprietors or their factors.

			  IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Ariculture.-Tbe number of acres in the parish, cultivated or
uncultivated, has never been ascertained.  The black-cattle rear-
ed in the parish are small, but hardy.  The original small sheep
of the country were, about forty years ago, supplanted by the black-
faced, and these are how fast vielding to the white-faced or Cheviot
breeds.  There is truly littfe to be said in commendation of the
farm-buildings and enclosures of the parish ; but the labouring
implements have certainly been much improved.  When the present
incumbent entered on his charge in the year 1808, there were only
two coup-carts in the whole parish, and perhaps not one low coun-
try made plough.  But now, where there is arable land to culti-
vate, both are universally used.
  The principal improvements which have been made in the pa-
rish were executed by the late Kenneth M'Kenzie, Esq. of Dun-
donnell.  This gentleman, brother-in-law to the writer, had been


