
752                     FIFESHIRE.

under this head. The land near the town, from its superior qua-
lity, from facilities for obtaining manure, and from the ready mar-
ket found for produce, especially in the early part of the season,
brings a rent varying from L.4, 10s. to L.6, 6s. per acre. The land
becomes less valuable in the remoter part of the parish, not only
from locality, but also from inferiority of soil, and its rent is from
L.2 to L.3 per acre. The average rent per acre of the whole pa-
rish may be stated at L.3, 10s.
   Mines.-One coal-pit is at present in operation. Forty (pick-
men) colliers are employed in it, besides labourers, and young per-
sons to draw the coals below ground.
   Manufactures.-The capital of the burgesses seems at one time
to have been chiefly employed in shipping. This interest receiv-
ed a shock, during the civil war in the reign of Charles I., which
affected the prosperity of the town for a century and a half. After the
shipping interests declined, and were destroyed, manufactures were
introduced. With the increase and prosperity of manufactures were
the shipping of the port has been revived, and the town, from the
union of the shipping and manufacturing interests, now numbers
among its inhabitants not a few, who are entitled to the honourable
appellation of British merchants, and occupy no mean place among
them, whether we regard the capital they employ, the spirit of en-
terprise they manifest, or the extent of their business.
   The principal trade of the town is the manufacture of various
descriptions of linen, with the collateral branches of flax-spinning,
bleaching, and machine-making. This trade was probably intro-
duced from Holland and Flanders about the time of the Revolu-
tion, or early in the last century. It was long very limited. It
made little progress till after the middle of the last century, as the
following facts demonstrate. In 1733, no more than 177,740 yards
of linen were manufactured in this district, including Abbotshall,
Dysart, Leslie, &c. It had increased in 1743 to 316,550 yards,
the value of which was L. 11,000, The infancy of the trade, the
want of facilities for extending it, and the advancement it made
during these ten years, may be seen in the anxiety and care
manifested by the authorities to afford it all possible encourage-
ment. In 1739, "the town-council, considering the great benefit
the town may receive by an annual market for linen-cloth and
other goods, they appoint the same to be held on the first Wed-
nesday of July, and to be custom-free for three years." In the
same year, "the council, considering how much it will be for the
                            3

