
                      DELTING.				    57

   Mansion-Houses.-The mansion-houses in the parish are those
of Busta, Garth, Ullhouse, and Mossbank.
   Antiquities.-Of antiquities the parish has little to boast. Of
the Pictish castles mentioned in the old Account there are no
remains, except that of Brough, at Yell Sound side, which is much
dilapidated. The others, at Burraness in Firthsvoe, and Burra-
voe in Bustavoe, have been entirely demolished, and levelled with
the ground,-the foundations being occupied for booths or store-
houses and stations for curing fish. But there are two relics of
antiquity not mentioned in the old Account. One of these is
the remains of a wet-dock or harbour at Burravoe, which, from its
proximity to the Pictish castle that stood there, must have been
built as a place of security for such small craft as belonged to it.
The other is a stone, (a block of granite 10 1/2 feet high, circumfe-
rence near the top 18 feet, at the base 16 feet,) commonly called
the standing-stone of Busta. It has evidently been set up by the
hands of man.
   In the rocky banks of Culsterness, there is a cave of some ex-
tent, and moderate height, containing an outer and inner apart-
ment, and of very difficult access, said to have been in former
times a hiding-place. There is another cave at the side of the
loch of Trotidavoe, of less extent, which appears to have been
made by art, for what purpose cannot now be ascertained; but it
is supposed to have been a place, which, in times long past, was
used by sheep-stealers, in wbich to deposit their stolen sheep.

                  <TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
   In this parish there are neither towns nor villages.
                 The Population amounted in 1811, to  1624
                                            1821,     1818
                                            1831,     2070
                                            1841,     2087

   During the last three years, there was only one illegitimate birth.

                            IV.-INDUSTRY.

   The land is not estimated by acres, but by merk-land, an old
Norwegian or Danish denomination, the quantity designated by.
which is not now understood; but, generally speaking, this measure
may be estimated as containing about two-thirds of a Scotch acre.
Upon this reckoning, the parish may contain about 1000 acres
under cultivation; and the pasture ground enclosed and attached.
to these 1000 acres, may be as much more.
   There is no wood of any description in the parish.
   Rent.-The rent may be pretty fairly taken, on an average,


                PARISH OF DELTING.

        PRESBYTERY OF BURRAVOE SYNOD OF SHETLAND.

          THE REV. JOHN PATON, MINISTER.

          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Situation, and Extent.-THE name seems to be of Danish
or Norwegian origin. The parish is bounded on the west by North-
maving, from which it is divided by a long narrow voe, called Sulom
Voe; on the east, by Nesting and Lunnasting; on the north, by
Yell Sound, which separates it from Yell; and on the South, by
Weesdale and Sandsting. It is difficult to state, with any degree
of precision, the length or breadth of this parish, as it is much inter-
sected by narrow voes, and no part of it is above two miles from
tbe sea. The appearance of the county is hilly, bleak, and barren.
   The air is moist, but not unhealthy.
   There are some small lakes or lochs in the parish, but nothing
deserving the name of river.
   Geology.-The prevailing rocks in this parish are gneiss and
syenite: subordinate are beds of limestone and of hornblende rocks.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers.-There is a register of births and mar-
riages, and a record of the acts of the kirk-session. The latter
commences in 1709, and was regularly kept till 1719,-from which
time till 1751 there is a blank. From 1751, this record was again
regularly kept till 1781. Since 1821 the entries have been quite
regular. The register of marriages and births commences in l751,
but was not properly kept till within the last twenty years.
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners at present are, Earl
of Shetland; Arthur Gifford of Busta; Captain C. Mowat of
Garth; Mrs William Mowat; Miss Hunter of Lunna; Repre-
sentatives of R. Hoseason; and William Angus of Toft. No
valuation ever existed in Shetland. Public charges are paid ac-
cording to an arbitrary arrangement of old standing, and peculiar
to this county.

<FOOTNOTE>From notes furnished by the schoolmaster at Brie, Delting.


