
     Statistical Account

walls of an immense thickness, part of which, with two of
the towers, are still preserved, and incorporated with a new
and elegant structure, built on the scite of the old castle, by the
present proprietor.  The greatest part of the estate is beauti-
fully situated, between Den Fenel and the Den of Laurieston.
It was for 400 years in the family of Straton, of which
there were many who signalized themselves by their valour
in turbulent times* The last lineal representative of this fa-
mily sold the estate, early in this century, to Falconer of Monk-
ton, and died without issue.  JOSEPH STRATON, Esq. is de-
scended from this ancient family, and his ancestors have been
more than 300 years Lairds of Kirkside, of which he is the
present proprietor.  From the heirs of Mr. FALCONER, the
estate of Laurieston was lately purchased by JOHN BRAND,
Esq.; who is laying out the grounds near the house, in an ex-
ceeding good taste.  He has thrown a light bridge of one arch
over the den, which leads to delightful walks, through trees
and shrubs, and is naturally very romantic, though before
inaccessible.

   Castle of Morphy, etc.-On the S. side of the Den of Mor-
phy stood another ancient castle, the seat of the family of
Graham, in whose possession the estate of Morphy has been
for several centuries. It was once a place of considerable
strength, and secured from the attacks of an enemy by a

<FOOTNOTE>

the English, who placed a garrison in it, and strengthened it with fortifications.
Before that year was expired, the Scotch, under the command of Sir ANDREW
MURRAY, forced it to surrender.

*ALEXANDER STRATON, who, with several of his sons, fell in the unfor-
tunate battle of Haslaw, in the year 1411, was one of the Lairds of Laurieston.
The STRATONS were a race of men remarkable for size and strength, down to,
a very late period.  Their attachment to this LAURIESTON, in St. Cyrus, which
is the original one, was so great, that they changed the name of every other
place in Scotland, where any of them settled, into LAURIESTON.


