
			  FORDOUN.                       87

Pitsligo, Bart. who erected a splendid mansion in the old English
style, on that part of the estate situate in Fettercairn parish, in the
Statistical Account of which parish it naturally falls to be noticed.
	Phesdo.--This estate, with that of Pitnamoon, in this parish,
and Thornton, in the parish of Marykirk, was purchased, about
thirty years ago, by the late public spirited proprietor, Alexander
Crombie, Esq. Advocate in Aberdeen, who employed his occasion-
al intervals of relaxation from the puirsuit of a lucrative and labo-
rious profession, in improving and embellishing it in every way that
wealth, guided by taste, could direct. Possessed of a sound judg-
ment, a retentive memory, invariable sweetness of temper, and un-
wearied application to business, few have led a more useful and
honourable life, or died more respected and lamented than Mr
Crombie. The friend of the rich and powerful, who confided in
his judgment and integrity, and were directed by his counsel,
he was no less the friend of the poor and afficted. To him the
humble always bad access, were invariably received with kindness,
obtained assistance, advice and protection. None ever were known
in anger to leave him, and few but retired happier than when they
entered his presence. Hours were daily employed by him in set-
tling differences, adjusting disputes, and in transacting gratuitously
the business of those, who could not pay a fee to others for doing
it. Upon completing his purchase, Mr Crombie found the only
shelter to his old and ruinous mansion was a few old firs, and about
a dozen of beech trees, at a considerable distance from the house.
Marshes covered with rushes, and an undivided common approach-
ed within a few yards of his door. To drain, to plant, and build was
his delight for the last thirty years nf his life, and under his hand,
not only the mansion-house and grounds around it, but the whole
estate assumed a different aspect, and Phesdo is now not only one
of the most elegant houses, but the grounds are among the most
ornamented and best sheltered in the county. The house erect-
ed by Mr Crombie, at great expense, is a most substantial fabric.
It is built of granite, brought from Aberdeen, (a distance of thirty
miles,) and is a plain Grecian building, with a fluted Doric portico,
It stands on a small knoll, at the base of Strathfinella Hill, sur-
rounded by plantations, tastefully disposed, commanding a fine prom-
pect of the Grampians on the right, and a rich and extensive view
of Strathmore in front. The approach, garden, and offices are
judiciously laid out, and complete in every respect. In addition
to this, the whole of the waste land on the estate has been reclaim-


