
     of Kilmaurs.

knowledge is better cultivated, and whose observation is
more accurate and extensive than their own; of these last it
is hoped there are not a few in the parish of Kilmaurs.  Indu-
stry in any undertaking is, for the most part, abundantly re-
warded: "The hand of the diligent maketh rich;" and in-
dustry, recommended by those whose rank sets them above
the common level of life, cannot fail of gaining attention,
which is the first step towards a conformity of action.  Such
examples are in the eye of the farmers of Kilmaurs.  Se-
veral gentlemen occupy their own estates, or at least in
part, on which they practise the most approved methods of
husbandry, and add to them the discoveries of their own ex-
periments*.  The contents of the parish in acres, and the

<FOOTNOTE>

*Captain Cuninghame of Thornton, who, though still a young man,
and when still much younger, was bred up to a military life, in which,
the less that is thought of mother earth the better, has, in the course of a
few years, by unwearied application, attained a very uncommon degree  of
knowledge, both in the theory and practice of agriculture, as is evident
from the present state of his lands, compared with that in which he found
them, and the ease and affluence of his present circumstances, which, in
great measure, is owing to his own careful management.  Such an ex-
ample of industry followed by success, affords an excellent lesson, and it
would be injustice to the publice to with-hold it.-Mr John Morrice,
who having followed a seafaring life, in which, by knowing when to lay
hold of the opportunities that Providence puts in every man's power one
time or other, of bettering his condition, made an handsome fortune, with
which he retired, and purchased the estate of Craig in this parish.  His
first operation there was that of repairing the mansion-house and offices;
but before those were finished, the house, either by accident or design,
was set on fire and consumed.  Report says, that a servant, in absence of
his master, having found access to the cellar, or place where the liquors
were kept, embezzled them so much, that becoming afraid of a detection
at his master's return, took this hor d method of concealing his crime.
Be this true or false, the very surmise should make all servants beware of
indulging any one evil, however trivial it may appear; because one
wicked deed leads on to another, till at last all s nce of character is lost,
and life itself falls in the issue a victim to depraved appetites.  On the


