
  		       	 WEMYSS.				 401

in number, are distinguished for their zeal, and efficiency, and di-
ligence and success, and all, except one, belong to the Established
Church.
   Under this head, we have to remark that the late Mr Archibald
Cook, Kirkcaldy, who died in the beginning of 1832, and who
was a native of this parish, left property to a very considerable
amount. His widow is liferented in the whole of it, which, after
her decease, comes to this parish, and is to be applied solely to
educational purposes. During the lifetime of Mrs Cook, the
ministers of Dysart, Kirkcaldy, Abbotshall, Leslie, and Wemyss,
act as trustees, and have already entered on their office. After
her death, the trust devolves on the presbytery of Kirkcaldy.
   Libraries.-A subscription library was instituted in East Wemyss
in 1817, and contains upwards of 300 volumes, consisting of di-
vinity, history, voyages, travels, &c. exclusive of reviews and ma-
gazines. There are, besides, three other libraries in the parish.
There is one in Buckhaven, one in West Wemyss, and a trades-
man's library was lately instituted in East Wemyss.
   Sabbath Schools.-There are Sabbath evening schools in all the
villages, and the young people  attending them are accommodated
with books, chiefly religious, according to their age and capacity.
   Inns.- There is no want of inns or alehouses in the parish.
Their increase has kept pace with the increase of the population.
Men cannot be compelled to be religious; but such a tax can
and ought to be put on strong liquor, as would necessarily oblige
them to be sober and temperate.
   Friendly Societies.-There is in this parish the Generous So-
ciety, which was instituted in 1793 for sick and aged members.
Each member pays 3s. of entry money, and 1s. a quarter, and is
not entitled to receive any benefit till he has been six years a
member, and paid his quarterly accounts for that period. A mem-
ber when sick or unable to work at his lawful employment, receives
4s. a week for a limited time. Those on the superannuated list
receive 2s. a week for life. This Society has been the means of
doing much good to the members, and of preventing pauperism.
There is an  annual procession of its members. It is modelled or
based upon the plan recommended by the Highland Society of
Scotland. Its funds are in a flourishing condition, which is a
strong evidence of the correctness of the principles on which it is
founded.
   Savings Banks.-A savings bank was established in East Wemyss
about thirty years ago. The yearly investment may be about L.210,
   FIFE.


