
			KILBIRNIE.                               703

on a sped," "draiglit in dirt, vhylis wat evin to the skin;" regret-
ting his absence from his correspondent, who, with his friends, was
"birling at the wyne" and "pouing Bacchus luggis."----The
Barclays sold Ladyland about 1620. The estate was acquired by
Hamilton of Ardoch, previously to 1669; but this family did not
long retain it, for in 1710, it belonged to a Henry Moncrieff, who
granted several charters to the vassals of the barony. It was, shortly
after the above date, purchased by Alexander, ninth Earl of Eg-
linton, who sold it in 1718, to William Cochran of Edge, by
whose descendants it is now possessed.
	Parochial Registers.--The register of baptisms and marriages
commences in the year 1688. A blank occurs between the 9th
July 1724, and the 5th December 1725, "in consequence," as is
stated on the record, "of there being no schoolmaster during that
period;" and another from the same cause, between the 10th Ja-
nuary 1731, and the 16th March 1732. Again, the register Of
marriages, from the 3d July 1729, to the 15th June 1738, has
been lost; but from this date to the present time, there are appa-
rently no omissions. The registry of deaths begins in 1753, and
is preserved entire. Minutes of the kirk-session commence also
in 1688, but there is an unregretted gap in these impure records,
expecting some illegible scraps, extending from 1725 to 1791.
Money accounts in reference to the poor are likewise preserved
from 1688 to the present time, and minutes of meetings of heritors
since 1823.
	Antiquities.--Various tumuli have, at different times, been acci-
dentally explored in this parish, and in some of which urns filled
with calcined; bones have been found, and in others stone coffins
containing human remains. Early in the century, three stone-
coffins, but without the addition, of any mound over them, were
discovered on the right bank of the Garnock, about a quarter of
a mile below Kilbirnie Bridge; one of them contained a large urn
filled with burnt bones; but in neither of the other two, nor in one
opened about the same time on the opposite bank of the river,
near to Nether-Mill, and close to the base of a large barrow or
mound, were found an relics whatsoever. About thirty years ago,
the late Mr Cochran, in the course of his agricaltural improve-
ments, had occasion to remove, a slightly elevated tumulus, situat-
ed on the lands of Ladyland, in the centre of which a small urn
was found containing ashes. The urn, until lately, was to be seen
in the Museum of Glasgow College, to which it was presented by


