

496                           FIFESHIRE.

coals directly from the pit; but where it is requisite to pay hire
and tolls, a family can be nearly as cheaply supplied by sea-borne
coal.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   Since the publication of the Statistical Account of the parish,
by the late Dr Adamson, in 1794, considerable alterations and im-
provements have taken place. Portions of the waste and unculti-
vated lands have been brought into a state of tillage. The mode
of farming has been also materially altered foi the better; a much
greater quantity of grain being now raised, than tinder the former
system of agriculture. But the expense attendant on farming ope-
rations, and the rent of land, have also materially increased, though
for a number of years the latter has been on the decline; so that
the farmer of the present day does not derive from his skill and
capital so high a remuneration as he then enjoyed. Tracts of
soil, too, whose culture would not have afforded a remuneration for
the expense attendant upon it, have been planted by the proprie-
tors; and the young plantations, while, in process of time, they
will prove a source of revenue, will tend also materially to the em-
bellishment of the country. Strathkihness, which then consisted
of but a few straggling houses, now forms a village with a popu-
lation little short of 500 inhabitants. Within the city, great im-
provements are also visible. The pavement of the streets and lanes,
which was then in a very bad condition, has been everywhere.
amended, though there is still a great deficiency of smooth pave-
ment at the sides. Until within these twenty years the streets
were not lighted during the winter, but this defect has since been
supplied; first, by oil, and ultimately, by gas: a joint stock com-
pany having, during the course of the season, 1835, established
the manufacture of that commodity for the supply of the city.
Many of the houses which were old and ruinous have been pulled
down, and have been replaced by others of a more commodious
and ornamental description; and a number of the blank spaces
which presented themselves in the streets and lanes have been
filled up with appropriate buildings. Regarded as a bathing-
station, city has been furnished with a handsome erection in
the immediate vicinity of the castle, and overhanging the sea, con-
taining suitable accommodation for hot and cold baths, which may
be otained at a moderate expenses. The sea-beach, in the vicini-
ty of the city, is well-adapted for bathing, but it is still destitute
of what many would regard as a very appropriate convenience,


