
510 			PERTHSHIRE.

followed with such a rotation of crops as may be deemed expedient
for the space of six years.  On the expiry of this term, the next
stratum, or bed of earth, is ploughed up other six inches, making
a furrow of tvelve inches deep, and the ground undergoes the same
process as before (with the exception of the liming) during the next
six years. At the end of the twelve years, the last stratum, or bed
of earth, is to be taken up and treated in the same manner, for
the third period of six years.  And, at the conclusion of the eigh-
teen years, it will probably be expedient. to give a half-liming for
the nineteenth year, and so on ; but this time must try.  A con-
venient portion of land should be let out in perpetual grass, after-
it, has gone through the routine above specified, with a view to be-
nefit the tenant, who is prevented, by the present system, from
having the use of the grass for, more than two or three years, and
thus from having the advantage which arises from grass paiks."
By the foregoing mode of procedure, Inchbrakie has converted
what was once comparatively an unproductive place into a perfect
garden; and it is only a specimen of what might be still morecom
common than it is, if trench-ploughing were better understood, and
more generally practised, by all those farmers who are likely to de-
rive benefit from its introduction.
  Leases, &c.-The duration of leases is-nineteen years.  The farm
buildings are almost all good, and generally covered with slate.
The enclosures are also well kept, and fences of every description
`re maintained in proper repair.
  The superior state of the roads ought not to be passed over with-
out a special commendation.  The praise of this is certainly due
to the late Sir Patrick Murray, BarL of Ochtertyre, to whose pub-
lic spirt, Strathearn chiefly owes this, as well as many other pri-
vileges.  Still, the great expense at which coal and lime are pro-
is certainly a bar both to agricultural and commercial ad-
vancement.
  Quarries, &c.-There are five freestone quarries, which are or
have been worked by the proprietors, and soid, to the public. They
are composed of a gritty kind of sandstones which varies consider-
ably both in hardness and durability. The stones that have hi-
therto been taken out, are not of first rate quality; but there is
no doubt that the Crieff quarries  contain as good mitterials as any
in the neigbhourhood, and that stones and flags, admitting of a re-
markably fine polish, might be obtained if the veins were worked
to a sufficient depth.
				4


