
     Statistical Account

assisted by More and Bowman *.  They themselves had been converted
by Mr Whitefield; and were ever ready to describe the manner in which
they had been affected, to those who were disposed to listen to them.
   That this preparation gave rise to the work at Cambuslang, they assert-
ed, was manifest; because the persons convicted and converted there,
were affected in the same manner, and expressed themselves in the same
words, with those who were convicted and converted in New England.
A fact which can no otherwise be accounted for, than by supposing, that
the manner and language of the latter were perfectly familiar to the for-
mer.  When this work was once begun, they maintained, that the effects
of sympathy and example sufficiently explain its future progress.  Every
day's  experience, shows, that we are disposed to imitate the actions of o-
thers, and that we are naturally and as it were mechanically moved by
seeing them, either in the depth  of distress, or in the height of exulta-
tion.  The operation of these principle was visible almost in every in-
stance.  Whenever any one was affected, many others were affected in
a similar manner.  Whenever any one cried aloud, either through ex-
cessive grief or joy, but especially the formerr, many others cried aloud
likewise, using the same words, or words of the same meaning.  When
all these concurring circumstances were taken into consideration, they
thought it by no means surprising, that there should be some hundreds of
converts among the many thousands who attended at Cambuslang, during
the course of seven or eight months.

<FOOTNOTE>

* The following fact, related by the one party, and not contradicted by 
the other, is thought to place the character of More and Bowman in a
very suspicious light.  When any person was affected in time of sermon,
they were always at band to give their assistance.  One day, when a wo-
man, who had fainted, began to revive, Bowman says to her, "Christ is
"just a-coming; He is on the way; He will not tarry:" and a little
after More added, 'Do you hear the sound of his chariot wheels?"
Upon which the woman got up, in a transport of joy, crying, "He is
"come! I have got him, and will not let him go!"


