
118                 STIRLINGSHIRE.

ron, near Denny Bridge. It takes part in contributing to the
manufactured products of the parish. About a mile from Denny,
there was once a lint-mill driven by its waters. Next, about five
years ago, a small printfield was set down, instead of the lint-
mill. The printfield having not succeeded, was relinquished;
and Messrs John Gray & Son have now, within these twelve
months, in consequence of extending their dyewood madufactory,
become proprietors of it. Lower down the rivulet, there are che-
mical works, for making pyrolignous acid and its compounds, in
which its waters are useful for keeping the metal conduits cool.
But both these manufactories will be more particularly noticed
afterwards.
   Cascades.-In the division called Temple Denny, and within a
mile of the new bridge over Carron, on the road to Fintry, about
five miles west from Denny, there is a cascade called Auchinlilly-
lin-spout. In the first year of the present century, the wild
natural beauties of the spot were transformed into a sort of fairy-
land, by the genius of Robert Hill, Esq. W.S. Edinburgh, who
had purchased the lands of Forrest Hill, of which it is a part. A
rustic cottage of whinstone, with the angular points facing one
in all directions, was built on the very margin of a deep fissure,
through which the waters of Carron flow, to be tossed over the
rock of Auchinlilly, within perhaps six yards of the heath-covered
cottage. There were a kitchen, a cellar, and other apartments;
and also a stable was dug chiefly out of the rock, below the level of
the floor of the cottage. On that floor, were a handsome dining-
room, drawidg-roorn, and two small bed-rooms. A spacious win-
dow in the dining-room, fronted, westward, the rushing waters as
they fell over the rock into the fissure, in their course to the spout.
The river was seen, for some way up its channel, diffused in com-
parative largeness of expansion, and studded with tiny rocks, which
might be reached when the waters were low. At other times, the
river, swollen by the rains around the Muckle Bin, from which it
takes its rise, and by the various feeders of the Carron between
the Bin and Auchinlilly, rushing forward in roaring majesty, pre-
sented a magnificent spectacle from the dining-room window. On
one occasion, the stream, having suddenly risen much above its
usual elevation, struck the dining-room window with its surges,
and, increasing in strength, burst through the window, and,
rushing into the kitchen and cellar, made a new cataract
over the rock adjoining the spout, into the channel of the river.


