
			DUNNICHEN.                            143

foot of the southern slope of Dunnichen Hill, is the most northern
house of the parish, and was ascertained to be 400 feet abnvd the
sea, and distant from the sea, at Arbroath, about ten miles. The
medium elevation of the whole parish may be about 360 feet above
the sea level. The lands of Dunnichen consist of gentle undula-
tions or ridges running from west to east, their greatest and most
rapid descent being towards Vinney Water on the south. The
lands of Tulloes have a very gentle rise from Vinney Water to
the summit of the ridge which separates them from Carmyllie on
the south; and this ridge may be about 600 feet above the sea.
The lands of Dunbarrow rise in all directions towards the hill,
their steepest acclivity being towards the north-west.
	Meteorology.--In general, the climate is very similar to that
which prevails over a great part of the east of Scotland. The
trees, where fully exposed, lean somewhat towards the north-east,
showing the prevailing winds to be from the south-west. During
spring, and sometimes even in summer, chilling blasts from the
cast and north-east prevail, with their usual injurious effects: and
they are often accompanied by hazy mist, here nained easteru
hoar.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--Excepting where they have been
laid open by quarries, and a few juttings of whinstone rocks, the
strata are uniformly covered by a considerable depth of soil           '
Sandstone, or freestone, contitutes the great body of our solid
strata. These are sometimes seen to alternate with beds of indu-
rated clay, which consist of thin plates of a whitish gray, reddish,
or bluish colour, here known by the name of cam-stone, because
they are used for writing on slates, and, when pounded, are used
for whitening hearths, stairs, &c. These clay strata are some-
times penetrated by the roots of plants, of a blackish colour, and
sometimes impressions of plants, and of their leaves, are seen
upon the surfaces of their plates. Numerous fragments of what
appears to have been rushes, of a bluish-green colour, appear in
some of these indurated clay strata. Some of the freestone beds
are subdivisible into plates of various thickness, the surfaces of
which exhibit woody fibres, and have a striking resemblance to
polished boards of wainscot. Although our sandstone beds be in-
tersected by numerous fissures, which subdivide them into masses
which more or less affect a parallelopiped form having two opposite
angles acute, and the other two obtuse; they are nowhere seen
to be intersected by veins of trap or whinstone, or of any other


