
                               CAMPBELTON.                             459

      his allegiance, and was married to a daughter of Robert II. King of
      Scotland. Of this marriage there were four sons; Donald, Lord of
      the Isles, John of Antrim, Alexander and Allan. Donald, in right
      of his wife, succeeded to the earldom of Ross. A century after-
      wards, James IV. held a Parliament in Kintyre, where be eman-
      cipated part of the vassals of the M'Donalds, and granted them
      de novo charters, holding off the Crown ; and, in 1536, to curb
      the license, and subdue the haughty spirit of the chieftains and
      their vassals, James V. found it necessary to make a vnyage to
      the Isles. During this expedition, the King repaired the fortalice
      of Kilkerran, and left in it a garrison to overawe M'Donald of
      Kintyre; but the bold chieftain and his followers were not to be
      thus intimidated. Before the King had got clear of the harbour,
      they added insult to rebellion, took possession of the fortalice,
      and hung the governor from the walls as a signal of their conquest.
         The policy of a weak government was then adopted,-that of
      comissioning one tribe to subdue and chastise the other. With
      this view, the lordship of Kintyre, then in the possession of Sir
      Jaimes M'Donald, was granted to the family of Argyle. Before
      we conclude this subject, we may observe that the place in which
      the castle of the M'Donalds stood is now occupied as a church,
      in which the ministers of Campbelton enjoy the satisfaction of
      preaching that gospel which speaks peace on earth, and good will
      to the sons of men, on the saine spot where the Lords of the Isles
      issued their stern and arbitrary mandates; and it was from this
      castle that the unfortunate Earl of Argyle issued his declaration
      of hostilities, in 1685, against James II.
         From the close connection subsisting between this country and
      Ireland, it is probable that the light of Christianity shone in the
      fifth century on these lands, long before St Ciran in 536 became
      the Apostle of Kintyre.  He took up his humble residence in a
      cave, situated four miles from Campbelton, which still retains his
      name. In the centre of the cave, is a small circular basin, which
      is always full of fine water, supplied by the continual dropping
      from the roof of the cave. There is also a rudely sculptured
      cross, on a stone, upon which the saint is said to have sat and
      prayed. This St Kiaran was hiahly esteemed by his contempo-
      rary, St Columba, who vrote a sacred ode upon his death, in
      which he celebrates his virtues. This ode is still extant: it com-
      mences,_ " Quantum Christe!  Apostolum Mundo Misisti Ho-
      ruinem.  Lucerna hujus insulae," &c.  The Church of Kilkerran,

