
24                    LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

the castle destroyed. Buchanan speaks of it as "semidiruta arx"
in his time. It was never rebuilt. The estate was conferred by
the Crown on Claud Hamilton, the first Viscount Paisley, third,
son to the Earl of Arran. Forfeited for his adherence to the for-
tunes of May, it was restored to his son by James Vi, created
in 1606 Earl of Abercorn. From this family it passed successively
to the Mures, Lindsays of the Byres, and Setons, and was sold
by Sir Walter Seton in 1678 to John Hope, father to the first
Earl of Hopetoun. The estate had dwindled at that time to a
few acres, but had the sheriffship of the county attached to it,
until the abolition of heritable jurisdictions.
   Eminent Men.-Thomas Dalyell of Binns, a General in the
army, and for some years at the head of the force in Scotland,
was born in this parish in 1615. His private eccentricities fur-
nished scope for the sarcastic pen of Swift in the Memoirs of Cap-
tain Creighton, while the public history of General Dalyell forms
an important element in the narrative of the troubles of the Kirk
of Scotland. Undaunted courage, and blind devoted fidelity to
his sovereighn, form almost the sole redeeming points in a life re-
dolent of cruelty. He died at Edinburgh in 1685. The family vault,
erected in 1623, is attached to the church, but of his place of sepul-
ture there is no record. His portrait, well executed, is preserved at
Binns House. John Dundas of Philpstoun, advocate, procurator
for the Church, and the author of the Abridgement of the Acts of
Assembly, published in 1721, was a native of Abercorn, and a pro-
prietor and elder within its bounds. John, fourth Earl of Hope-
toun, whose character conferred a lustre of its own on the rank he
hels, was born at Hopetoun House in 1765. His reputation as a
soldier belongs to the history of the last war, with whose details
his military career as General Sir John Hope is amply interwoven,
The Corunna dispatch, written when he assumed the command
mingled grief and glory, is well-known, and needs no comment.
He was, however, not less remarkable for business talents of a high
order, and all the milder graces of private life, than for courage
and capability in the field. Created for his services Baron Nid-
dry in 1814, he succeeded his brother James, third Earl of Hope-
toun, in 1816. On his retirement from military life, he devoted
himself, among other avocations, to the public business of the
county over which he presided as Lord-Lieutenant, and by his
assiduous and punctual attention to all the minutia of county mat-
                                    4


