
780                    LANARKSHIRE.

humanely issued orders to stop the effusion of blood; but Claver-
house, burning to avenge his defeat at Drumclog, and the death
of his kinsman, made great slaughter among, the fugitives.  Four
hundred were slain, and twelve hundred made prisoners.  These
events are thus described in Clyde, a poem by Wilson, reprinted
in Scottish Descriptive Poems, edited by the late Dr Leyden.  Edin-
burgh, 1803.

           Where Bothwell's Bridge connects the margin steep,
           And Clyde below runs silent, strong and deep,
           The hardy peasant by oppression driven
           To battle, deem'd his cause the cause of Heaven.
           Unskilled in arms, with useless courage stood,
           While gentle Monmouth grieved to shed his blood;
           But fierce Dundee, inflamed with deadly hate,
           In vengeance for the great Montrose's fate,
           Let loose the sword, and to the hero's shade
           A barbarous hecatomb of victims paid.

   There is an original painting of this battle in Hamilton Palace,
said to have been sketched by an artist on the spot.  According
to a tradition in the village of Bothwell, when the Royal army was
lying near the bridge, a child having wandered into the camp, was
found by its parents, after a long search, sitting on the Duke of
Monmouth's knee, who was caressing it with great tenderness.
   Owen's Experiment.-As connected with the civil history of this
parish it may be proper to notice, that, in the year 1825, an es-
tablishment was formed at Orbiston, near Billshill, on the prin-
ciples of the co-operative system, or Mr Robert Owen's " new
view of society."  The avowed object of the founders was to fur-
nish in this institution a model for others of a similar nature
throughout the country, which, as they boasted, " were to re-
moralize the lower orders, to reduce the poor-rates, gradually
to abolish pauperism, with all its degrading consequences, and to
relieve the country from its (present) distress."  The first step to-
wards the attainment of'these most desirable objects was the
erection of a building in the form of a parallelogram-a form es-
sential to the new system.  Such a building was accordingly com-
menced, to contain when completed 1200 persons.  The following
is a schedule of the estimated expense of the whole establishment:

<TABLE>
1200 acres of land, at L.30 per acre,     .       .         L.36,000  0  0
Apartments for 1200 persons.         .       .       .        17,000  0  0
Three public buildings within the square,      .       .      11,000  0	 0
Manufactory, slaughter-house, and washing-house,   .     .     8,000  0  0
Furnishing 300 lodging-rooms, at L.8 each.      .       .      2,400  0	 0
Furnishing kitchen, schools, and dormitories,      .       .   3,000  0  0
Two farming establishments, with corn-mill, malting, and brewing up-
   pendages,      .                .                .          5,000  0  0


