
      180                 INVERNESS-SHIRE.

      tholics.  The people have very little money circulating amongst
      them, and in consequence the contributions for religious purposes
      are very limited.  The collections for charitable objects are
      of small amount.  To make up for this deficiency, the people
      are remarkably attentive and charitable to tbe poor; and the pro-
      prietor allows L. 60, from the multure,of the mills, to the most
      destitute.  This private charity is almost the sole resource, from
      which the poor, and destitute are supported.
        Education.-There are nine schools of various descriptions
      in the parish:-One parochial, with a salary of L. 34, 4s. 41/2d.,
      and about L. 16 annually of school fees, of which only L. 5 is
      paid in cash; the rest in produce.  Two schools, supported by the
      General Assembly's Education Committee, of which one is in
      the Mission district, and the other within the bounds of the
      Government church.  Each of these has a salary of L. 25, and the
      school fees may amount to. L. 5, the greater part of which is paid
      not in cash, but in produce.  One school supported by the Glas-
      gow Auxiliary Gaelic School Society; one at Carinish, supported
      by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge; two other
      schools by that Society; and four by the Gaelic School Society.
        Besides the above, there are two schools for females ; and pri-
      vate tutors, are kept by some families.  The people are most
      anxious to confer the blessings of instruction on their children.
      But six additional permanent schools are still required.  The only
      inlets to general knowledge are the libraries attached to the Ge.
      neral Assembly schools.
        Fairs.-There are only two fairs held annually in this parish.
      One about the middle of July, the other the beginning of Sep-
      tember,-both for the sale of black-cattle mind horses.
        Inns.-The inns in the parish are four.  One at the packet
      station at Lochmaddy, another at Carinish, the opposite extre-
      mity of the island, and the other two at proper intermediate dis-
      tances along the road.
        Fuel.-The fuel universally used is peats, which in quality are
      far superior to any in the Highlands.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERATIONS.
        We add a few observations on wbat appears best calculated at
      present to promote the industry, and advance the temporal com-
      fort,of the inhabitants.
        First, it is necessary to find some proper outlet for the excess of
      the populations by emigration, and thus to increase the quantity of


