
268                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

Number of families in the parish,                                  360
       of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                141
	   chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft, 112
	other families,                 			   107
	There are no resident nobility in the parish but several very ex-
tensive farmers. Of these one pays L.1000 per annum, and many
about L.500.
	A curious mode of killing salmon once was practised by the in-
habitants of this parish. Bands of horsemen, armed with long
spears, assailed the finny race. One man in particular, called
Graham, arrived at such an amazing degree of dexterity in the
sport, as tn be able at full gallop to transfhx the prey, and call forth
the wonder of his associates. Sir Walter Scott in his tale of Red-
gauntlet has recorded such a scene.

				IV.-INDUSTRY.
Land cultivated or occasionally in tillage,                     10,000 imp. acres.
Never cultivated, about                                            300
Capable of being cultivated with profit,                           l00
Under wood, whether natural or planted with fir, ash, or cak trees, 60
	Rent of Land.--Average rent per acre 2ls. There real rent of the
parish is L.9000.  The usual rate of grazing is L.3, 10s. per ox
or cow, and 15s. per ewe for the year.
	Rate of Wages.--Men-servants' wages half-yearly, L.6, 6s.; maid
do. L.2, 15s.; day labourers, 1s. 6d.; masons, 3s.; joiners, 2s. 6d.
	Prices.--Wheat sells at the average rate of 7s. 6d. per imperial
bushel; barley, 4s. oats, 3s.; meal, 1s. 10d. per imperial stone;
beef, 5d. per lb.; mutton, 5d.; pork, 41 d.; butter, 10d.; cheese, 5d.
	Husbandry and Produce.--A rotation of five years, viz. oats, green
crop or fallow, wheat or barley, grass and pasture, is the com-
monly adopted method of husbandry. The general duration of
leases is fifteen years,--a term which seems very favourable both
for tenants and proprietors.
	During the late war very considerable alterations took place in
regard to the size of the farms and the state of enclosures. Where
l00 farmers occupied land, not more, now, than half the number
fill their places; by which means certainly, the general aspect and
fertility of the district have been much improved; but the system
has had the necessary effects of forcing many families into cot-
tages, to seek employment in manufactures, or to find their usual
occupations in a foreign land.
	Produce.--The average gross amount and value of raw produce,
raised yearly in the parish, is nearly as follows:




