
                   WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.               845

the great distance from any large or populous market-town.  It
has been already mentioned, that the estate of Lammingtoune has,
for a century past, gone into various families, owing to its being
entailed upon females as well as males; and it may not be gene-
rally known that the present Marquess of Anglesea, is the lineal
descendant, and male representative of the, ancient family of Lam-
mingtoune,-his grandfather, Sir Nicholas Bayley or Baillie, having
in 1737, married the Honourable Caroline Paget, in right of whom
her son, Sir Henry, succeeded to the honours and estates of Paget
in 1769, and in the year following assumed the sirname of Paget,
and in 1784 was created Earl of Uxbridge.
   Wheat of good quality has been raised in this parish,
though ever since the severe winter of 1836, I believe it has
been mostly given up.  I tried winter wheat for several years upon
the glebe, and the return was from ten to twelve bushels from one
bushel of seed.  The weight of one bushel thus raised was exact-
ly the same as that of the grain sown, which was bought in the
Edinburgh market, But such a result can only be looked for in
good seasons.
   Every dwelling-house within the parish, with only two excep-
tions (Keygill and Birnock) may be seen from the public road.
   The following, is a list of the several incumbents of Wandell and
Lammingtoune, since they became united in 1608, upon the deposi-
tion of Mr Charles Jardine, the last "person" of thd old parish of Wan-
dell:-Mr James Baillie,-died 1643; Mr John Crawfurd, ejected
about 1662, and died 1674; Mr William Baillie,-; Mr James
Baillie, 1689; Mr William Baillie, (who appears to have been mini-
ster for only one year, but whether he was translated, or died at that
time, does not appear): parish vacant from 1690 for several years;
Mr Robert Baillie, translated to Inverness about the year 1700;
another vacancy till 1708, when the ordination took place of Mr
David Blinshall, who died upwards of 100, in 1765; Mr James
Reid, transported to the parish of Kinglassie in 1773; Mr Thomas
Mitchell, died 12th March 1816.  After another long vacancy
of-five-years, the present incumbent was ordained the 3d of May
1821, on a presentation from the late Lord Douglas, whose right
as alternate patron of the benefice,  along with Mr Baillie Lam-
mingtoune, was decided that year by the Court of Session.

   May 1840.


