
     Statistical Account

   River, Lake, and Mineral Waters.-The river Ythan di-
vides this parish from Foveran, and a part of Logie-Buchan.
Ships frequently come in at the foot of it, and it is very
convenient for exporting what meal, bear, oats and pease,
the farmers can spare, to Aberdeen and Peterhead.  The
river abounds with salmon, flounders, mussels, and cockles;
small pearls, and some years ago, even large ones,
were found in it.  There is a very large lake, called the
Loch of Slains, in extent about 54 acres, and about 25 feet
deep, in general, and in one place about 50; it abounds
with pike,  perch, and eel, and is encompassed with plea-
sant green banks, which, if planted, would make a truly
picturesque appearance.  There are several good mineral
springs.  They are mostly chalybeate.  Some of them
have been useful to persons afflicted with gravelish and bi-
lious complaints.

   Sea-coast and Fish.-The extent of sea-coast is be-
tween 5 and 6 English miles; two-thirds of which are
rocky*, the other sandy +.  The rocks on this coast are

<FOOTNOTE>

*The remains of the old castle of Slains, anciently the seat of the
Errol family, is situated in a strong penintulated rock, the foot of which
is washed by the sea.  It was demilished in 1594, by James VI. on the
rebellion of the Earl of Huntly.  There is another piece of antiquity on
the estate of Captain Gordon, viz. the ruins of a very ancient Roman
Catholic Chapel, called St Adamamnan's Chapel; it has once arched Go-
thic window entire, and must be of very great antiquity, as St Adamam-
nan was a follower of St Columba, whose life he wrote, and who was born
in Ireland in the year 559, and died 1st November 615; so that if this
chapel was not founded during his life, it is highly probable it was built
not long after.  It is situated in a hallow at the side of a small rivulet.
The proprietor intends making a small plantation around it, which will
add both to its beauty and preservation.

+No kelp has been made here for upwards of 20 years, there being
now no wave.  This cannot well be accounted for, but by supposing it


