
                                    STEWARTON.         733

John Wylie of Mosside
James Wilson of Spott, &c. N.
Robert Duncan of Auchintiber, N.
Right Hon. Lady Mary Montgomery,
 of Lochmill, N.
John Ferguson of Auchintiber
John Skeoch of Corsehill-mill, &c.
James Miller of Gallowayford, N.
John Dickie of Whitelee
Messrs Pollock and Gilmour of Hair-
    shaw , N.
Rev. W. Sheriff, Heirs of, Cutstraw, N.
Robert Lindsay of Little Cutstraw, N.
Margaret and isabel King, of Cutstraw
Charles Skeoch of Kirkford, R. N.
Robert Stewart of Gabrochhill
John Gilmour of Bogside, &c.
Mrs Dr John Ritchie, of Castlesalt, N.
Robert Brown, Esq. of Standalane, N.
                   N. B.--The letter N denotes non-residence.

James Young of Cutstraw, Heirs of
John Cuthbertson of Strandhead
Agnes Creighton and Sisters, of Holm
John Caskie of Bridgend
John Dunlop of Watermeetings
Robert Miller, Esq. of Brashead
John Bicker of Kirkford
Robert Raeburn of do.
John Kerr, of do.
Thomas Brown, Standhead, Portioner
James and David Logan of Corsehillmill
Henry Dunlop, Portioner
Hugh Montgomery, do
Mrs John Sheddan, do. N.
William Dunlop, Portioner
Janet and Mary Wylie, do.
Mrs Sanderson, do.
Mrs Robert Logan, do.


 	Parochial Registers.--The registers of baptism and marriages
have been preserved since 1693, though the first were not re-
gularly kept till 1747, nor the second till 1794. The burials-
have been regularly recorded since May 1745. There is no dis-
tinction of the sexes of children under twelve years. The minutes
of session from 1757 to 1776, and from 1810 to the present time,
are in good preservation. The minutes of heritors have been regu-
larly kept since February 1714. Very few of the Dissenters re-
gister; and great are the inconveniences often felt from this omis-
sion.
 	Historical Notices.--Godfridus de Ross, Miles, son and heir
of Sir Godfrede de Ross, Knight, confirms the land in Stewarton,
which the abbacy of Pasley got from Sir James Ross in 1281.
The representative of the family of Ross, now the Earl of Glas-
gow, has, inter alia, the title of Lord Boyle of Stewarton, and at
this date, January 1842, has now only about twelve acres in the
parish, formerly called Crivochmill, but now commonly called
Scrogmill, where was, till lately, a meal-mill, now converted to a
wool-spinning-mill.
	The ruins, nearly levelled by the hand of time, of the Castle of
Robertland, formerly the stronghold of the Cuninhhames, Baronets
of Robertland, are situated behind the modern mansion of Alexan-
der Kerr, Esq. of Robertland. This stronghold, it is said, was de
stroyed by fire, in a feud between, the Montgomeries of Eglinton
and the Cuninghames; in revenge for which, one of the Cuning-
hames shot the chief of the Eglintons, while riding home, near to
Bridgend, at the east end of the town of Sterwarton, where a path
is still shown, called the "Weeping Path", along which he rode,


