
                            NEWTON.                          557

amount of assessment for the ensuing year, which is held on 31st
December. The only officer for collecting and distributing the
poor's funds is the schoolmaster, who for the former duty receives
an allowance of L. 5 per cent., levied along with, and over and
above the sum assessed, and for the latter duty, L. 6 per annum,
paid out of the general funds. It may be added, that in the year
to which the preceding data refer, the sum of L. 3, 13s. 6d. was
expended for the medical relief of paupers, and that this assistance
is always given when required.
   Besides the sources mentioned above, the poor's funds are in-
creased by the collections made at the church doors, which amount-
ed to L. 36, 15s. 10 1/2 d., together with L. 15 intrusted to the minis-
ter by private individuals, for the temporary aid of industrious work-
men, who might be overtaken by disease, and distributed at his
discretion.
   There is no saving bank in the parish, but there are several de-
positors in the Edinburgh Savings Banks.
   Two Friendly Societies have existed for some time. One of
them has recently been dissolved, and the funds divided among
the members. It was but of short duration, and never could boast of
more than sixty supporters. The other and the principal one,
which is very flourishing, was established in 1785, and has 200
members. Its affairs are regulated, and books audited at the yearly
fair, which takes place in July.

   March 1845.


                 PARISH OF NEWTON.

PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

          THE REV. JOHN ADAMSON, MINISTER.


          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, &c.-ACCORDING to Chalmers in his Caledonia, pro-
vious to the Reformation, there were two parishes,-Newton and
Wymet, which now form the parish of Newton. "The name of
Newton" (in former times, the spelling was Neaton or Naton), as
he there remarks, "is obvious, and seems to show that there was
   EDINBURGH.                                N n


