
166                        FORFARSHIRE.

Kinloch, Esq. of Kilry, who has kindly communicated to me a list
of birds and quadrupeds, most of which have been seen by himself.
It ought to be mentioned, that a collection of wild animals and birds
of the rarer sort was made by the late Mr John Bell, in conjunc-
tion with Mr Kinloch, which was presented to the University of St
Andrews. I content myself with mentioning a few of the most re-
markable birds. The golden eagle (Falco Chrysa‰tos)--builds in
Clova, but is often seen in Glenprosen. The hen-harrier or blue
hawk (F. cyaneus); the female is called ring-tail (F. pygargus), and
is often mistaken for a different species. The merlin (F. AEsalon),
the least of the genus Falco, and very rare. The horned or long-
eared owl often seen in the forest muir, and at Balnaboth; the
nther species are common. Lanius excubitor, the great butcher-bird;
this bird is rare. The raven (Corvus cornix); the carrion crow (C.
corone); the hooded crow (C. corax); and the rook (C. frugilegus);
all common: the crows from the rookeries in the neighbour-
hood, from Cortachy, from Inverquharity, from Dunnichen, from
Glammis, and from the Bakie, have been long observed to assemble
every day during the month of February within a mile of the town
of Kirriemuir. The jackdaw (C. monedula); the magpie (C. pica);
and the jay (C. glandarius): this last species seen in the forest
moor. The starling (Sturnus vulgaris); this species used formely
to build at Logie, but has not been seen for several years: I
caught one on the hill of Kirriemuir. The missel-thrush (Tur-
dus viscivorus) breeds at Logie; the field-fare (T. pilaris); the
redwing (T. iliacus); both migratory, but visiting us every winter,
frequenting those places where wild berries are most abundant.
The ring or rock-ouzel, (T. torquatus), though it breeds among
the cairns of the Grampians, is sometimes to be seen in the gar-
dens of the low country in autumn. The snow-bunting,(Emberiza
nivalis) makes its appearance in severe winters, lighting always
on the ground, and never on trees. The goldfinch (Frinqilla
carduelis) breeds in the gardens of Kinnordy and Logie. The
mount`in-finch (F. montiftingilla); this beautiful little bird visits
Logie in severe winters to feed on beech-mast, its favourite food.
The wood-lark (Alauda arborea) very rare. The long-tailed tit-
mouse (Parus caudatus); Mr Kinloch has seen this species at
Logie, and in the forest moor, but it is not common. The sedge
bird (Motacilla phragmitis) frequenting flags and reeds and sedges,
and often heard, but seldom seen. The wood-wren (M. sibilatrix)


