
364			 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

spect of the Douglas's succession, they prevailed on Sir James
Sandilands to make renunciation of his birth-right, which came to
be vested in George Douglas, Earl of Augus, who, according to
Mr Riddell, a most accurate antiquarian, was the illegitimate son
of Margaret, Countess of Marr and Angus.  This formal renun-
ciation was sanctioned by the interposition of the King, on the 9th
November 1398; and a charter of confirmation was passed to that
effect.*
   But what elevated this noble family, and raised them to the
peerage, was the acquisition of the great estates of the Knights
Hospitallers of St John of Jerusalem by a younger son, to whom
they succeeded as his heirs-at-law, he having left no issue to the
principal stem.  To perceive the steps by which they rose to this
eminence, it will be necessary to take a short survey of the two
distinguished orders of religious knighthood. Sir James Sandi-
lands, one of the ancestors of this noble family, was the last Grand
Master of the Knights Hospitallers, or Knights of St John of
Jerusalem, afterwards of Rhodes and of Malta. They were also
called Friars Hospitallers, or simply Hospitallers.  Besides these,
there was anot her order of knighthood, the Knights Templars, or
Knights of the Holy Sepulchre.
   From MSS. in the Torphichen charter-chest, it appears that
the order of the Knights Hospitallers was instituted in 1099.
Their dress was a black mantle, with a white cross on the left
breast. The order of the Templars was instituted about 1119.
This order, to distinguish them from the other, adopted a white
mantle as their dress, as an emblem of innocence, with a red cross
on the breast, as a symbol of willing martyrdom.  From being
milites togati, both orders thus became milites armati, and vowed
to defend with their swords that religion which they had formerly
guarded by their prayers.  At first they, became glorious in arms,
and then rich in revenues.  The Templats, according to the book
of Cupar, and also the, annals of Scotland, were seated in this
country as early as the time of David L, 1153, when they formed
a settlement on the South Esk, in Mid-Lothian; but the chief
residence of the Hospitallers was at Torphichen, in Linlith-
gowshire, and the time of their first settlement is uncertain.
Although at first the Templars consisted only of nine indivi-
duals, they afterwards increased, both in wealth and in num-

<FOOTNOTE>See Riddell's remarks on the Scotch Peerage Law, p.161, MS, also his Tracts,
Legal and Historical, p.223.


