
                   BORROWSTOWNNESS.                         145

church and churchyard wall, the Duke of Hamilton being charge-
able with one-sixth. After deducting the expense of repairs on
the church, and of the management of the funds, the free, surplus
is payable to the minister. This destination of the surplus funds
was determined by a decision of the House of Lords in the year
1806. The church-funds are under the management of the re-
presentatives, who are chosen annually on the first Wednesday of
January by the heritors, portioners, householders, and heads of fami-
lies in the town, in conjunction with the minister and kirk-session.
   The management of the church funds, in which the Dissenters
take a part, is conducted in a manner most creditable to the com-
munity, without regard to party views or private interest.
   The average sum of surplus paid to the minister, is about L. 195
per annum.
   The stipend payable as from the parish of Kinneil is six chal-
ders victual, the greatest part oats and barley; L. 5 are allowed
for communion elements; and coals are furnished to the minister
by the family of Hamilton, conform to use and wont.
   The sacrament of the Supper is dispensed in the parish church
twice in the year. Number on the general roll 6f communicants,
644; number of male heads of families, communicants, 182; ave-
rage number of actual communicants, 450.
   There it but one Dissenting congregation in the parish, which
is connected with the United Secession Church. Their place of
worship will accommodate about 400, and is well attended.
   Contributions for Religious and Charitable Purposes.-The peo-
ple of this parish are very liberal in their contributions for religious
and charitable purposes. Last year the sum of L. 24, 12s. was
raised by a parochial association in aid of the General Assembly's
schemes.
   There is also a Bible and Education Society, in the support and
management of which Churchmen and Dissenters unite. By the
annual contributions to this society, about 25 poor children re-
ceive a plain education and the Scriptures, the Shorter Catechism,
and school-books are supplied to the poor gratitously, or at re-
duced prices.
   There is an Association of Ladies for the purpose of supplying
the poor with clothes meal, and coals in winter. The farmers
nerously aid this work of benevolence by carting the coals gratui-
tously. The contributions obtained by the ladies, and the value
of the services of the farmers, may amount in some years to L. 90.
   LINLITHGOW.                                  K


