
828                             AYRSHIRE.

	The average rent per acre of arable land is L.1, 15s. The
average rent of grazing a cow or ox is L.4, 10s.; a ewe and
lamb, L.1.
	The farm servants are of two descriptions,--those who live and
board in the family of their master, whose wages average L.16
per annum,--and those who are married, and live on, or in the
neighbourhood of, the farm on which they are employed. The
latter have a house and garden provided for them, receive bolls
of oatmeal, 4 1/2 bolls of potatoes, their coals driven, and L.14 in
money, amounting in all to L.25 or L.30 per annum. They are
generally well treated, and very comfortable, though few in num-
ber. Female servants engaged for the dairy generally get in ad-
dition to their board, L.10 yearly. When men are employed for
a short period only, they are paid 9s. a week in winter, and 12s.
in summer. Masons, carpenters, and other artisans usually re-
ceive 15s. weekly.
	Live-Stock.--There are not many sheep kept in the parish.
The common breed is the black-faced, but there are also a few
of the Leicester and Southdown kinds. The cattle, almost uni-
versally, are of the Ayrshire Dunlop kind. The horses are of
the Clydesdale breed. Much attention has been paid to the im-
provement of the sheep and horses, with considerable success.
But the cattle, though better kept than they were twenty years
ago, have become inferior to what they then were.
	The general course of husbandry pursued, especially in the
poorer soils, is to take two white crops and six years' pasture.
White in richer land, they only graze for the space of four, three,
or two years, when the soil will admit of it. This was the plan
universally followed, and the land was never cleaned, until, seve-
ral years ago, green-cropping was introduced, and on the richer
soils the tenants now observe a four years rotation, viz. oats, green
crop, wheat, and grass. A great part of the parish, from being
an extremely tenacious, wet, and unproductive clay, is unsuitable
for this method of cultivation. It is all capable, however, of vast
improvement by draining, liming, and manuring, and much is doing
in this way. Indeed, the whole of this district, at the present rate,
will be tile-drained in ten years. There are the greatest facilities
for improvement, as there are lime and tile-works in the parish,
and the leases generally are for the term of nineteen years. The
inclosures are in good order, as the tenant is bound to keep them


