
276     ROXBURGSHIRE.

  Husbandry and Produce.--The quantity of land under cultivation
in this parish must at one time have been very great, as traces of the
plough are still visible upon hills now covered with heath.  That
any extent of this land could be reclaimed to yield a profit is very
doubtful, from the great distance and consequent very high price
of lime.  Draining has been carried to a considerable extent, and
might be yet farther extended with advantage.  The average re-
turn of white crops in the parish may be stated from 4 to 5 bolls
per English acre; cultivated hay, 150 stones of 22 lb. per acre;
turnips L. 4 per acre; and potatoes L. 8.  The land in the parish
is in general very well farmed, both the four anf five shift rotation
being in practice.
  The lenght of leases may be stated from nine to fifteen years;
very few nineteen.

                  V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY
  Means of Communication.--There is no market or post-office in
the parish,the distance from Selkirk being five, and from Hawick six
miles.  There are a few houses at Ashkirk, but nothing that de-
serves the name of a village.  There are two stone and one wooden
bridge acrossthe Ale within the limits of the parish, all of which
are in good repair, with the exception of the one on the Edinburgh
road, which is a great deal too narrow.  The parochial roads are but
indefferently kept, though the expense to both landlord and tenant
is very considerable.
  Ecclesiastical State.--The present church was built in 1791, is
in good repair, and is seated for 202 persons, allowing 18 inches
to each person.  The seats are all free.  The church is conveni-
ently situated, being nearly in the centre of the parish.  The pre-
sent manse was built in 1784.  Some additions have since been
made, and it is at present comfortable and commodious.  It stands
on an eminence, fronting the south, and commands a fine view of
a beautiful opening of the valley, through which the river Ale runs.
The glebe consists of nearly 14 acres, worth about L. 1, 10s. per
acre.  The glebe has been greatly improved by the present in-
cumbent, being judiciously subdivided by hedges, with small plots
of trees, at the corners of each field.  The stipend is 14 chalders,
consisting of meal and barley, the average of which in money
for the last seven years in L. 216, 6s.; allowance for communion
elements, L. 8, 6s. 8d.  It deserves to be here mentioned, that the
heritors of the parish, with a generosity which does them great ho-
nour, allow the assistant clergyman L. 30 per annum, and have


