
			BEITH.				597

he was translated to St Quivox, when Mr Robert Cameron was
appointed to Beith. In his time the minister, with consent of the
presbytery, and heritors, entered into a contract of excambion with
Alexander Earl of Eglinton, by which his Lordship gave the farm
of Mainshill for the old glebe. This farm contains about 45 acres,
and has added considerably to the value of the living. Mr. Ca-
meron died in 1735, and was succeeded bv Mr William Leechman,
who was translated to Glasgow, where be was first admitted Pro-
fessor of Divinity, and afterwards chosen Principal of the University.
He was succeeded in Beith by Mr John Witherspoon, a man of
strong natural talents and decision of character, which he probably
inherited from our Reformer, John Knox, of whom he was a lineal
descendant. He was a native of Yester, in East Lothian, of which
parish his father was minister. Soon after his ordination at Beith,
the Rebellion broke out, and he was active in seconding the wishes
of his parishioners, who raised a company of militia "in defence
of our only rightful and lawful Sovereign, King George, against
his enemies engaged in the present Rebellion." At the head of
this patriotic band, Mr Witherspoon marched to Glasgow to join
the King's army against the Pretender. When they arrived there,
they received orders to return, and with this the company com-
plied; but the reverend commander went forward, was At the Battle
of Falkirk, where the rebels were victorious, and where he was
taken prisoner. He was carried to Doune Castle, and kept for
some time. Along with hire was the Rev. Andrew M'Vey, after-
wards minister of Dreghorn, who got out of the state, prison in the
disguise of a female carrying a tea-kettle.  Several parishes in
this district sent out parties of volunteers in aid of the Government,
and to this they were encouraged by a resolution of the Presbytery
of Irvine, 7th January 1746, Mir Witherspoon married Elizabeth
daughter of Robert Montgomery of Craighouse, in thick parish
He was translated to Paisley, and went afterwards to America,
where he was appointed President of the College of Princeton in
New Jersey. He introduced into the system of education, and
the improvements of this country, and the cause of education, and
science in America was greatly promoted by his exertions. He
was repeatedly sent to Congress and was one of the subscriber
to the declaration of American Independence. His political cond-
duct showed that he considered it his duty to be a faithful subject
to the Government under which he lived, whatever the form of
that government might be. Immediately after the peace of 1768.


