
			HAMILTON.                               279

or orchards attached to them; and when the fruit sold better than
at present, these sometimes brought considerable sums. Pears thrive
better than apples. The jargonelle, when on the wall, arrives here at
great perfection. Some very large crops have been gathered of late.
Currants, gooseberries, and other small fruit are also cultivated in
large quantities, and mostly disposed of at Glasgow. The goose-
berries, however, have been greatly deteriorated of late in quality,
by the injudicious practice of introducing new sorts from England,
which is naturally not so good a climate for gooseberries as Scot-
land.
	Husbandry.-The crops sown here are, wheat, oats, pease, beans,
barley, hay, some flax, and great quantities of potatoes. Wheat
is raised on all the lands on the Blyde, and also on some of the
farms in the higher part of the parish. It is either sown on fallow
or after potatoes, but seldom after oats or pease and beans. The
time of sowing is from the end of August to the 1st of November.
The quantity sown is from 7 to 12 pecks, Linlithgow measure,
per Scots acre; the produce from 8 to 16 bolls of the same mea-
sure. Oats is the principal spring corn. From two-thirds to three-
fourths of the land tilled is sown with this seed. Late seed is sown
on the lower and earlier grounds, and early seed on the higher and
later grounds. Tweeddale and Blainsley oats have long been known.
The Polish, Essex, Friesland, or great Dutch and red oats have
also been tried. But of the new sorts the potato oat is the best.
From 12 to 18 pecks, county measure, are sown on the acre; and
the produce varies from 4 to 18 bolls. Pease and beans are chiefly
raised on the lower grounds. These are, for the most part, or-
dinary horse-beans, and a kind of late gray pease, usually accom-
panying them. From 14 to 18 pecks, wheat measure, are sown
on an acre, and they sometimes yield as much as 18 bolls of the
same measure. Formerly a considerable quantity of barley of an
excellent quality was produced hero, particularly in the lower parts
of the parish; but the backward springs, and cold inconstant
summers, which began to prevail towards the end of last ben-
tury, have almost banished it from this quarter of the country. It
is now seldom sown, except for the purpose of cleaning and pre-
paring land for the reception of artificial grasses. Red, white, and
yellow clover, rye-grass, &c. are cultivated for hay and pasture,
and no person now lays down land to rest without sowing the seeds
of these plants upon it. The produce of hay is from one to three
tons per acre, besides an after-growth, which is generally pastured


