
                         EDDLESTONE.                            149
<TABLE>

4. The number of persons at present under 15 years of age,           311
                                    upwards of 70,                    22
   There are no nobility or persons of independent fortune resid-
ing in the parish. There are 9 proprietors of land of the yearly
value of L. 50 and upwards, all of whom are non-resident.
  Number of inhabited houses, 144. Of houses now building, 3.
  Language, Habits, &c. of the People.-The language generally
spoken is a corrupt Scotch, with a barbarous admixture of English.
A few only of the oldest of the people speak the Scottish dialect
in its purity. These, however, are rapidly disappearing, and in a
few years more in all probability there will not be one person alive
who could have held converse with his grandfather without the aid
of a dictionary.
   Those who are in the prime of life, and in full employment, ge-
nerally kill a sheep about Martinmas, and a pig of their own rear-
ing. This is all the butcher-meat that is consumed in the family
of a married ploughman, or respectable labourer, during the year;
and with this frugal fare they are contented and happy, and enjoy
good health. In several families tea is substituted for porridge
and milk at breakfast, and it is to be regretted that this pernicious
habit is gradually gaining grounds. Wherever it is habitually in-
dulged in a peasant's family, poverty and wretchedness are its in-
variable attendants, and the necessaries of life cannot be procured
in sufficient abundance to support the general health. It is a lux-
ury above the means of a labouring man, and it is doubtful whe-
ther it be not a more productive source of poverty, misery, and
vice than the unrestrained use of ardent spirits. Our legislators
would do well to consider this; and as they cannot change the habits
of the people, to lower the duty on tea and sugar, so as to bring
them within the compass of every industrious peasant's means.
   Poaching in game and the salmon fisheries prevails to such an
extent, that the game is in danger of being extirpated; and of the
salmon that conic into the river to spawn few are permitted to re-
turn again to the sea.
   There has been no smuggling in the parish since the change in
the distillery laws; and pawnbroking was never known in it.
   During the last three years, there have been four illegitimate
births in the parish.

                          IV.-INDUSTRY.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>

Agriculture and Rural Economy.
Number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish,                  21,250
           acres which are either cultivated, or occaionally in tillage,     4,370
                 which never have been cultivated, and which remain con-
 stantly in waste or in pasture,                                            15,830


