
     Of Pettinain.

that when these lands in Lanarkshire were alienated, the same 
name was bestowed upon a part of the estate in Annandale, 
in order to keep up the memory of this event.  The present 
Sir James Johnston of Westerhall is a descendant of this fa- 
mily.  There have been several other old houses of some note 
in the parish, of which some are in ruins, and others entirely 
demolished.  One of these was at Clowburn, in which the first 
tea used in this country is said to have been drunk towards 
the end of last century.  It had been brought from Holland, 
according to the tradition, by Sir Andrew Kennedy, who was 
then proprietor of that part of the parish; and who, being 
Lord Conservator of the Scots Privileges at Campvere, had 
received it as a present from the Dutch East India Company. 

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The custom of thirlage to mills
still prevails in this part of the country: but there is some-
thing singular in the state of this parish in that respect.  A 
few only of the farms are thirled (or bound to grind corn) at 
the mill within the parish; the great part are thirled to that 
of Carmichael.  It is but a little more distant than the other, 
and the multure is only one half.-A considerable quantity of 
meal, as well as of butter and cheese, is usually sent to mar-
ket from this parish.  Formerly it was the practice to send 
the meal to Carluke, or farther, in its way to Glasgow.  Of 
late a great part of it has been sold at Lanark, where the de-
mand was much increased since the erection of Mr. Dale's 
cotton-works.-The moorish and high grounds in the parish 
might be rendered of greater value, and the country much 
beautified, by large clumps and belts of plantations.  The great 
rise in the price of wood is another motive to this improve-
ment.  Within the lasf 40 years, the price of hard wood has 
been doubled, and that of sir quadrupled.  The large size, and 
thriving state of the larches at Westraw, seen to recommend 

     Vol. XII. F


