
                     TORPHICHEN.                            45

House had been long the patrimonial residence of the family, it
continued to be that of the Lords Torphichen, in consequence
of which, the preceptory and its appurtenances were comparatively
neglected, and allowed to fall into decay. Some portions of the
original barony, however, came into the possession of cadets of the
family, of which perhaps the most noted was Sandilands of Hil-
derston.
   During the stormy period of the Covenanters, the family of
Sandilands adhered to the principles of their ancestors; and both
struggled in defence of, and suffered with, the persecuted Church
of Scotland. William Sandilands, brother of the fourth Lord
Torphichen, and tutor to his nephew, the fifth Lord, was laird of
Hilderston. He married the second daughter of Cunningham of
Cunninghamhead, in Ayrshire, a gentleman distinguished, even in
that period, for his sincere piety. Hilderston and his lady were
both remarkable for their attachment to the Presbyterian princi-
ples of the Scottish Church; and their mansion-house at Hilder-
ston was often the hospitable resort of the persecuted Covenan-
ters. There Mr Blackadder and others often held what were
termed conventicles, and heavy fines were on that account imposed
upon the family, Walter Sandilands, his son, married the heiress
of Westport, near Linlithgow, and assumed the name and arms of
Hamilton of Westport. He retained the same attachment to
Protestant and Presbyterian principles which had characterized
the family, from the days of their illustrious ancestor, Sir James
Sandilands, the last preceptor, and the personal friend of John
Knox. (See Wodrow, Vol. iii. p. 441.) This branch of the San-
dilands family is now represented by Colonel John Ferrier Ha-
milton of Westport and Cathlaw.
   It may be mentioned, that in the same troublous times, the rega-
lity of Torphichen is among those stated to have fallen into the
hands of his Majesty, in consequence of their possessors refusing
to take the test; and Lord Livingstone is recommend as the
person to whom it should be given, probably on account of his
want of principle and subserviency to that corrupt and tyrannous
court, which had hanoured Lord Torphichen by its dislike and
its feeble enmity. The then minister of Torpichen was also
ejected from his charge for refusing to take same test; as ap-
pears by a report of the Committee for public affairs, offering it
as their opinion that missives should be sent to the patrons of pa-
rishes vacant by the ministers' refusal of the test, of which mis-


