
                          RATHO.                                  79

of any magnitude. Its course through the parish is about three
miles in length. It cannot be said, however, that it adds at all
to the ' beauty of the landscape; nor with its muddy waters is it very
suitable for domestic purposes.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-The ridge of high land which we
have already described as traversing the west of the parish, as also
the Dalmalioy and Kaimes Hills, abound in trap (whin) rock
of the common formation. The stone of the former is of a tough
adhesive nature, capable of being cut out in blocks nf any size, and
wrougbt into any form ; that of the latter is much more brittle,
and consequently unfit, except for the common purpose of road-
making. The trap of the Platt and Norton hills, formal one ex-
tensive horizontal cnmpact bed that of the other eminences ap-
proaches moch nearer to the columnar structure.
  A bed of sandstone dips under the trap formation of the Dal-
mahoy hill at an angle of about 25&deg;. One of clay, or, as it is po-
pulafly called, of calmstone, has been wrought upon the Ratho
Hall property, but owing to its position, and its distance from thd
place where the trap formation is discoverable,' it is difficult to say
which of them is uppermost, or, indeed, if they are at all connect-
ed. We are not aware that any minerals or deposits, have hither-
to been discovered in any of the rocks of which mention has been
made.
  Coal, according to the report of some of the older people, was
discovered long ago at Bonnington head; but the pit falling in
shortly after the discovery, the existing proprietor was unable to
prosecute the experiment, and the mining operations have not
been resumed by any subsequent landholder. Experiments were
also made at a remote period in the DaIrnahoy grounds for the
discovery of this precious mineral, but these, probably frouiwant,
of perseverance, proved unsuccessful. In the Earl of Morton's
deer park, several stories are still to be seen standing with the in-
scription: " Bored for coal, 18 fathoms, and none found."
  Soil.-There is a variety of soil in the parish. A portion of
it is clay loam upon a retentive bottom, which produces i food grain
of all descriptions, and is particularly adapted for wheat. A few
patches here and there of the very lowest land consist of black mow.
The greatest proportion of the land, however, is a rich dry soft loam,
resting in the more, elevated situations upon whin or claystone, and
in the less elevated places upon gravel or sand. The whole of
this land is well calculated for the production of potatoes and tur-



