
			CARMYLIE                             367

ferior to that of the most improved district, in consequence of
which, and of the introduction of the earlier kinds of grain, our
harvest is considered as, in ordinary years, about eight or, ten days
earlier than formerly.
	In the earlier stages of improvement, the application of marl
was much practised; but lime is nnw generally applied, which is
procured from the Frith of Forth, and partly from Sunderland.
Bone dust has been lately introduced in small quantities, for raising
turnips, and with good effect. Owing to the nature of the sub-
soil, the throwing down of the old ridges has not, in all cases,
been an improvement More draining is required, and much of the
old soil is buried out of reach of the plough, and some fields, in con-
sequence, have scarcely recovered their former fertility. Great at-
tention is paid, to lay the ridges so as not to retain the surface
water, and to cut furrows in the hollows to carry it off. A regu-
lar rotation of cropping is observed, so far as soil and season will
permit. The usual rotation is as follows: 1. oats from ley; 2.
turnips and potatoes, and sometimes part fallow, with lime or dung
or compost applied; 3. barley or oats, with grass seeds, and wheat
on the fallow where the soil answers, with grass seeds harrowed or
rolled in in the spring; 4. grass, part made into hay, and part in pas-
ture; 5. pasture. Oats form the most prevailing crop in the pa-
rish. Formerly a species called shiocks, or black-oats, was much
sown, and more lately what is called common oats; but now the po-
tato oat has supplanted every kind. About 1 1/4 boll is sown into
the acre, and, in ordinary years, the boll yields about 16 pecks of
meal.
	Considerable quantities of bear, here called Chester, and of the
coarser kinds of barley called branded and white barley, were for-
merly sown; and from their ripening earlier, and thriving on the
poorer soils, they seem better suited to the parish than the English
barley, now generally sown, which never attains the weight of the
barley raised in the more fertile districts, seldom exceeding 52 lb.
imperial per bushel. About a boll is sown into the acre. Though
the soil in several quarters appears to be well adapted for the culture
of wheat, yet there is not much sown in the parish, as it seldom
comes to great perfection.
	The average annual produce of the grain sown in the parish, is
about 5 1/2 boll per acre; but the average quality is so inferior,
that, in ordinary years, the price obtained for a boll of Carmylie
wheat fills under the fiar price, about 3s.; for a boll of barley about


