
                           PETERHEAD.                            383

Sums varying from 2s. to 6s. are charged and paid for each sitting.
The sacrament of the Lord's supper, since 1822, has been dis-
pensed twice a year, previous to which period the number of com-
municants was as high as 1900, and there has without doubt been
an increase since that time.  The number of communicants in
both the Established Churches at each celebration now varies
from 1200 to 1500, and as the seafaring part of the population is
for the most part absent at the summer sacrament, and many of
those in the country part of the parish cannot conveniently attend
in winter, the number of those belonging to the Established
Church, who communicate at least once a year, cannot be less
than 2000.
   Education.-The parish school has for upwards of forty years
been taught in a room in the town-house, which is vested in the
community of feuars, and for which the landward heritors pay a
small sum of yearly rent.  Of late the room has been found to be
inconvenient, in consequence of the noise arising from apartments
immediately below it, these apartments being used as market-places,
and from the market stance being immediately in front of the
town-house.  The present schoolmaster, in consequence of these
circumstances, has applied to have a school and school-house
erected in terms of the statute; and this has led to an inquiry
whether the landward heritors are bound to erect such a parish
school as is required for the town and parish of Peterhead; or
whether the erection of a parish school and school-house is not a
parochial burden, to be borne, the same as the erection of the pa-
rish church, by both the heritors of the parish, and the feuars of
the town according io their real rents.  In order to avoid the ad-
judication of this point in a court of law, the principal heritors
lately agreed to assess themselves in the sum of L.400, if the feu-
ars and inhabitants would raise L.300 by voluntary contribution,
and the Governors of the Maiden Hospital, with their usual liberali-
ty, agreed to give a site for the school and schoolhouse, gratis, to
the extent of a quarter of an acre.  A near prospect was thus af-
forded of having such a parish school and school-house as the ex-
tent of the parish of Peterbead seemed to require.  But in the
meantime, a delay has taken place in consequence of one or two
of the smaller heritors having refused to contribute their share
the L.400, and in consequence of some individuals wishing to su-
persede the parish school, by the establishment of an academy on,
a larger scale, to be conducted, as has been held out by some of


