
			ABBOTSHALL.                            163

becoming burdens on the parish, by the liberality of the Raith fa-
mily, to whom the poor of this parish are under Many obligations.
The distributions are managed by the kirk-session without any ex-
pense to the fund, except a small pittance to the session-clerk. The
minister has always acted as treasurer, without fee or reward. The
whole disbursements are examined, every year, at a meeting com-
posed jointly of heritors and ministers practice which is satis-
factory to all parties, and by which any subject which seems to be of
importance to the interests of the parish can be considered with ad-
vantage and effect. There are only two or three poor belonging to
the parish that beg within its bounds. These are supplied with
badges by a society, which was formed about a year ago, for the
purpose of preventing vagrant begging, which the inhabitants of this
parish formerly felt as a great nuisance. Were a society of this na-
ture formed in every parish, and none allowed to beg but those poor
belonging to it; the real objects of charity would be much better
provided for than they generally are, and much idleness and wor-
thlessness prevented.
   Education.-The total number of schools in the parish is 6,
-which may be attended, at an average, by 500 children. The
parochial school has generally attending it from 150 to 200, and
sometimes upwards.The branches therein taught are Latin,
French, mathematics,arithmetic, navigation, English reading and
writing. The schoolmaster's salary is the maximum, and he has
L. 5. more for teaching a limited number of poor children. This
sum is the interest of L. 100 which was bequeathed for the pur-
pose by a Mrs Dundas, who once resided at Raith. At the other
schools, the more common branches of education are almost solely
taught, and the fees for these branches are perhaps a little less than
at the parish school. At one of the schools, which is entirely a
charity school, the branches taught are specified by the will of the
donor. The number of the childre n (100,) as well as their ages
(from six to fifteen,)  are also prescribed. Sunday schools have

<FOOTNOTE>This charity was bequeathed by the late Robert Philp, Esq. of Edenshead, who
left his whole fortune, equal to not less than L. 70,000 or L. 80,000 Sterling, for the
purpose of educating a certain number of children in the parishes of Kirkaldy, Dy-
sart, Abbotshall, and Kinghorn. The schools in each district are under the manage-
ment of a committee appointed by the inhabitants from amongst themselves, and the
whole are subject to the control and direction of a set of governors in Kirkaldy, some
of whom are chosen for life, and others, like the local managers, chosen biennially. Be-
sides the education which the children at these different school receive, which  is
simply English reading , writing and arithmetic, they are furnished from the funds
with books, papaer, pen, ink, and slates for that purpose.  They are moreover provid-
ed with clothing their continuance at school; and on leaving school they re-


