
362                         LANARKSHIRE.

yard--all these were coeval with the church, and in equally good
preservation, but were taken down about forty years ago, and the ma-
terials sold for seven pounds to assist in paying some parochial expen-
ses. About the same time, the organ gallery was removed, and the
richly carved and gilt oaken ceiling of the chancel taken down, and
replaced with another of lath and plaster. It seems the ceilings of
the other aisles were of this description, and a taste for uniformity
proved fatal to one of the chief ornaments of this ancient building.
In Bagimont's roll, the rectory of Biggar in the deanery of Lanark
was taxed L. 6, 13s. 4d. At the Reformation the benefice of the
parsonage and vicarage of Biggar was reported at L. 100 yearly.
In the scarcity of ministers after the Reformation, Walter Hal-
dane, the minister of Biggar, also served in 1586 the three neigh-
bouring parishes of Culter, Symington, and Lamington.
	Parochial Registers.--There is a register of births from 1730
to the present date. There is no register either of marriages or
deaths. Parents are remiss in registering the births of their clil-
dren. There are minutes of the kirk-session from 1730 to 1735,
and from 1757 to 1759. From the last date to the presents there
is no record whatever of their proceedings, if we except the mi-
nutes of annual meetings held to examine the state of the poors'
funds.
	Antiquities.--There is a large moat at the west end of the town,
120 paces round at the base, 54 at top, and 36 feet high.
The laws may have been administered from this artificial hill, but
it seems also to have served as a beacon-tower, and to have been
one of a chain extending between the vales of Clyde and Tweed,
and intended to give warning of any hostile incursion. On Dreva,
Craig-end, Burnetland, and Castlehill in Symington, there are re-
mains of works which were probably used for the same purpose;
and these, with the moats at Bomphlet, Biggar, Woolfe-Clyde, and
Roberton, complete the communication. About half a mile south-
west from Biggar are the remains of a camp, 60 paces in diameter,
with a deep ditch and double rampart. The ditch is 3 paces wide,
and the rampart in some places from 6 to 8 feet high. There is
also a camp on a height near Candybank, with double ditches
and ramparts. It is of an oval form, 42 paces by 30 within the in-
ner rampart, the distance, between this and the outer being 9 pa-
ces. A camp of a similar form, 54 paces long, and 42 broad, is
still visible on Bizzyberry. Fortifications of some sort may also be


