
     of Kincardine.

low country, are pastured on them, for about 4 months, at
the rate of 18 d. per head; but they are beginning to rise in
their value, sheep farmers, from the boarders, having taken
possessions in the neighbourhood, and inviting their acquain-
tance, by the success they have had, and the promising ap-
pearance of the country, to follow their example.

   Population.-The number of the inhabitants is at present
far short of what it was 16 years ago, when the present in-
cumbent was settled.  It was then upwards of 2000, above
7 years of age, whereas there are not now above 1600 examin-
able persons.  There appears, however, to be but little de-
crease upon the whole within these 40 years, the number re-
turned to Dr Webster, in 1755, being 1743.  The chief
cause of the late great decrease is, that in 1782, many were
reduced to poverty by the loss of their cattle, and the almost
total failure of the crop of that year, which occasioned such
accumulated distress, that they were obliged to remove with
their families, and settle in the low country, as day labourers,
or domestic servants*.

   As sheep farming has begun, and is likely to have a great
and rapid progress, and several small farms are turned into

<FOOTNOTE>

*Having mentioned the distress incurred in the year 1782,
the author considers himself called on to record an action of
the late gallant Sir John Lockhart Ross, which does him the
highest credit.  Understanding the distress of the poor people
on his estate, he sent a seasonable and bountiful supply of large
quantities of pease, barley, flour, and potatoes, to which God-
like beneficence many hundreds owed their lives.  Let it be
added, that he ordered his factor or steward to give his High
land tenants, who did not save as much as would sow their
grounds, seed from his farms in the low country, where the
failure was, not so great as in the Highlands:  And at the con-
clusion of the war, upon his return to his native country, he dis-
counted one third of the arrears of rent, over the whole of his
estate.


