
                       ELGIN.                                  13

in the plantations, but not to the exclusion of hard timber.   All
the plantations are pruned and thinned with great care and regu-
larity, and the thinnings sold for paling, roofing, and other pur-
poses of husbandry.
   Rent of Land.-In 1828, the rental of land in the parish was
L. 8520, and if the foregoing estimate of what is arable be correct,
it will make the average annual rent L.1, 4s. per imperial acre, or
about L. 1, 10s. per Scotch acre.   The best haugh land is let from
L. 1, 12s. to L. 2, and the light lands in the vicinity of the town,
from L. 2, Ss. to L.2, 16s. per imperial acre.
   Rate of Wages.-Farm-servants generally live in the farmers'
houses, and the males receive annually from L. 9 to L. 10, and
the females from L. 4 to L. 5, of wages besides food.    Male la-
bourers engaged by the day get from 9s. to 9s. 6d. perweek, and
women for field labour from 3s. to 4s. per week.  Male labourers
prefer piece-work when practicable, and if they earn more in this
way it is by longer and harder toil.  A carpenter's wages per day
are from 2s. to 2s. 4d. and a mason's from 2s. to 2s. 6d.; with the ut-
most diligence weavers can hardly reach 9s. per week.
   Husbandry.-Thirty-five years ago the breeds of horses and cat-
tle in the parish and district was of a very inferior description, but
since that time much attention has been paid to their improvement.
The best breeds of horses from the southern counties have been
introduced; and it may now be asserted that more compact, active,
strong, horses are seldom to be met with than those in the posses-
sion of the Morayshire farmer.   The most prevalent breed of cat-
tle is a black-coloured horned breed, resembling the Aberdeen-
shire, though not so large, and, with much care and expense by
the breeder, it has attained great symmetry and beauty as well as
size.  Some enterprising farmers have begun to cross this breed
with the short-horned; but the experiment, has not been made f6r
a length of time sufficient to determine whether the plan ought to
be generally pursued.  The few sheep fed with the farmers cattle
do not require to be noticed, but pigs of every variety of breed are
very abundant in every farm-yard, and there are few of the poorest
cottagers without one.  On most of the farms in the parish at the ro-
tation of crops consists of a five-shift course, in which white and
green crops, including two years' grass, alternately succeed each
other; and the agricultural implements are the most approved
construction.   In the cultivation of green crops, there has been a
wonderful alteration within a few years, from the application of


