
           386                            PERTHSHIRE.

           at Westown, the ruins of a small Gothic church, of plain but very
           excellent workmanship, which, in one of the ancient charters of
           the estate, is called the church of the Blessed Virgin of Inchtmartin.
           The ministers of Errol used to preach in it, half the day, once in
           every fortnight; but after the parish church was enlarged and the
           roads were improved, this practice was discontinued.  It is not
           above fifty years, however, since the building was dismantled, nor
           nearly so long since interments have taken place in the burying-
           ground around it.  Its situation is one of the most beautiful and
           picturesque that is to be seen in the whole district.  The oldest
           entire building now in the parish is Megginch Castle.  It bears
           the following inscription:-" Petrus Hay, adificium extruxit,
           A. D. 1575."
              Within the park at Murie there is an artificial mound, of a cir-
           cular form, 40 yards in diameter at the base, and abott 30 feet
           diameter at the top; the height from the base being about 20 feet.
           The platform at the top is surrounded by a low turf wall, with a
           walk outside of it, and the whole is enclosed with a turf wall at the
           base, in the form of an equilateral triangle.  This mound is called
           the Law-knoll.  Its sides are planted with trees, and it stands at
           the head of an old avenue of loft oaks, which leads in a straight
           line towards a place, at the distance of two miles, which is now
           called Gallowflat, but which tradition reports to have been the
           Gollow-knoll,-under the idea that the one knoll was the place
           where the. law was administered, and the other where it was exe-
           puted on criminals.  The Law-knoll is, in respect of height, with -
           in a few feet of the highest position in the parish.
              Modern Buildings.-The only modern building worth mentioning
           is the parish church, which was erected in 1831.  The former one
           had stood only sixty-five years, and had all the appearance of being
           as substantial as it was capacious.  When greatly crowded, however,
           in the evening of the communion Sabbath, June 1830, a panic
           arose as to the safety of the gallery, which had nearly been attended
           with fatal consequences.  This led to an inspection of the building,
           from which it appeared that, though there was no weakness in the
           gallery itself but what might have been easily remedied, the roof
           and the walls cotld no longer be depended on.  The new church
           is a very chaste and perfecr specimens of the plain Saxon architec-
           ture, after a plan furnished by James Gillespie Graham, Esq.
           It is in the form of a cross, intersecting a square, and has a hand-
           some square tower with pinnacles at the angles, which rise to the


