
10			KINCARDINESHIRE.

and beside it a small spinning-mill. There is, on the upper side
of the bridge, a spinning-mill of three stories, which was the
first that was established in Scotland for the spinning of yarn and
thread. This mill is at present undergoing a thorough repair, and
considerable additions are making to it, and, when completed, it will
employ a good many more additional hands. All the machinery
at these mills is moved by water.

			     III.--POPULATION.
	This parish was originally a part of that of Kinneff. It was se-
parated from it about the time of the Rdformation, when the Lords
of the Congregation were deeply interesting themselves in the
plantation of kirks, and in securing the Protestant worship through-
out Scotland, after Presbyterian church government had been es-
tablished by an act of Legislature. The early state of the popu-
lation cannot be distinctly traced. By the Government census
taken at different times, it would appear that there has been for
some time past a gradual increase. This may be accounted for
in a great measure by the introduction of spinning-mills, and the
encouragement given to weavers in the establishment of different
manufactures, employing a good many hands at the loom for va-
rious fabrics, such as linen, canvass, weaving, &c.

<TABLE>
	Number of persons in the burgh, (by census 1831,)    757
                               village of Gourdon, by do.    238
                               country, by do.               140
	It is understood that the population of the parish is at present
on the increase.

<TABLE>
The average number of births yearly for the last seven years,       25
No register of deaths is kept in the parish.
The yearly average of marriages has been                            10
The number of unmarried men, bachelors, upwards of 50 years of age,  5
		widowers,                      do.          do.     15
                unlarried women upwards of 45,                      20
                inhabited house                                    212

	Illegitimate births in the course of the last three years, 7.
	Character of the People.--The inhabitants of this parish are of
cleanly habits in general, and always study to appear in good
clothes. They seem to be comfortable and contented, with very
few exceptions. The station in which they are placed under Pro-
vidence does not admit of their devoting much time to the im-
provement of intellect, or advances in science, but they are, ge-
nerally speaking, a moral and religious people, who pay a becom-
ing regard to the sanctity of the Sabbath, and to gospel ordi-
nances; and but very few among them have ever been found guilty
of grossly transgressing the laws of the land, established for the
                                    3


