174                       FORFARSHIRE.

   Eminent Persons - Family of Ogilvy of Airly. - The noble family
of Airly is descended from Gilbert, a near relation of Gilchrist, Earl
of Angus, a gentleman of high distinction in the reign of William the
Lion, who succeeded to the crown of Scotland in 1165. He ob-
tained from than prince a charter to the land of Powrie, Ogilvy,
and Lintrathen; and he took the name, Ogilvy, from his barony, as
was customary in these days. Sir James Ogilvy was so highly es-
teemed by King James IV. and his court, that he was created
a peer by the title of Lord Ogilvy of Airly, and sat in his Parlia-
ment in 1491. The eighth Lord Ogilvy, from his great merit and
eminent services done to King Charles I., and for the great loyalty
and fidelity of his ancestors, was farther dignified with the title of
Earl of Airly in 1639. David. the then Earl of Arily, had two sons,
James and John; of whom James, the eldest son, Lord Ogilvy,
having engaged in the rebellion of 1715, was attainted of high trea-
son; but his estate was saved by being in his father's person, who
was then alive. He was afterwards pardoned; but died without
issue. He was succeeded by his brother John, the fourth Earl of
Airly. His son, Lord Ogilvy, having engaged in the rebellion of
1745, was attainted of high treason, and escaped into France,
where he had the command of a Scotch regiment called Ogilvy's
Regiment. The title was for some time in abeyance; but was re-
strored in 1826 to David, the present Earl, to the satisfaction of
the whole county, and the enthusiastic joy of Kirriemuir and its
neighbourhood.
This family has produced many individuals, no less eminent for
their patriotism than for their loyalty to their sovereigns; of these
none were so distinguished as the first Earl and his two gallant
sons. It was against this noble family that the Marquis of Ar-
gyle had orders to proceed; and 5000 men were levied for that
purpose. Airly, in possession of Lord Ogilvy, and Forthar, their
two principal seats, were destroyed, and the tenantry ingloriously
plundered of their corn and cattle. Though the Marquis was ap-
parently only the instrument, he was the secret mover of theis se-
vere measure, - a feud between the family of Campbell and Ogilvy
having subsisted for several centuries. It was in commemoration
of this event that the popular song of the "Bonny House of Air-
lie" is said to have been written; Argyle himself, according to the

<FOOTNOTE>
comic event, called the "Battle of Cloisterbank," in 1782, will be found in the ori-
ginal MS.
</FOOTNOTE>

