
                    WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.                843

there for a few years afterwards.  The loss of this school still con-
tinues a matter of deep regret to the present inhabitants of Wan-
dell.  Attached to this humble seminary, there is a bursary at the
High School and University of Glasgow, endowed by the last
Countess of Forfar, in 1737 ; and the last bursar who enjoyed the
benefit of it was the Rev. Alexander Telfer, minister at John-
stone in Renfrewshire.  The bequest is in favour of any boy no-
minated by the kirk-session, " being born of honest parents, edu-
cate and taught in the school of said barony and lands of Wandell."
And accordingly, on this account, the original school having, as
stated, been allowed to fall into decay, the only other school in the
united parish was, in 1836, removed from the village of Lam-
mingtoune, and a handsome and commodious new school-room was
then built in its stead within the bounds of Wandell, near to the
high road, and but a short distance from the kirk, and intended to,
accommodate the whole parish.  The building cost L.164 and
upwards.  A small plot of ground was at the same time set off be-
tween the school and the road for the use of the children at their
amusements.  The old school and school-house of Lammingtoune
were, in the same year, thrown into one, as a dwelling-house for
the teacher.  The whole was remodelled and completely repair-
ed at an expense of L.240.  The old, play ground front, now
no longer required for that purpose, yet being public property,
would seem to fall naturally, to the schoolmaster of the united pa-
rish, and if inclosed, might go to compensate him for the garden
belonging to the old school of Wandell, to which, as schoolmaster
of both parishes, he is in strict justice clearly entitled.  The sa-
lary is the maximum.  The wages are, 2s. per quarter for English,
and the other branches taught are charge in proportion. The pre-
sent teacher is also postmaster, for which he has L. 5 per annum.
When there is a full complement of scholars, the  fees may
amount to L.24 per annum.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The  number of families upon the
roll, receiving regular parochial aid, is  at present 7.  Some of
these are merely lone and aged women,  who receive on their own
account, and others receive partly on account of destitute children
under their care.  The allowance to each varies from 5s. to 10s.
monthly.  Besides the regular paupers, there are several others
who receive occasional assistance, from the proceeds arising from
the interest of a bond of L.105 and some odds, over the estate of
Lammingtoune, and of L.70, bequeathed by the late Dr Blinshall


