
1026                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

writer has been able to discover, been kept in the parish. It
would appear, however, that both the temperature and salubrity
of the atmosphere have greatly improved since the date of the for-
mer Statistical Account. For this we are mainly indebted to the
very extensive improvements in draining and cultivating marshy
land which have been made in the parish of late years. There is
an observable difference between the climate of the upper and
that of the lower parts of the parish, the climate of the former be-
ing colder than that of the latter--owing partly to the difference
of elevation, and partly to the difference of soil. The north-west
wind is perhaps the most prevalent.
       	Hydrography.--Copious springs are to be found in many parts
of the parish. In the former Statistical Account, four mineral
springs are named, one in particular as having been much used at
that period, and found beneficial in scorbutic complaints.  Now,
they are seldom if at all spoken of, and certainly not used for me-
dicinal purposes.
       	Lochs.--There are two lochs in the south-east end of the pa-
rish, the one remarkable for the rugged nature of the district
around, and the other for its having been the scene of the resi-
dence of the Bishops of Aberdeen before the chantry was erected.
Of this residence, which was situated on a small island within the
loch, mention is made in a "View of the Diocese of Aberdeen,"
MS. Advocates' Library, supposed to be written by Sir Samuel
Forbes of Foveran, about 1720. "It looks liker a hermit's cell,"
observes the writer of the MS.," than a Bishop's Palace, and yet
a great man lived and died there,--I mean Bishop Benham." The
site of the palace may still be traced, as also part of a ditch con-
nected with the drawbridge. The loch itself, now known by the
name of the Bishop's Loch, (anciently Loch Goul), is beautifully
situated, well-wooded, and of considerable extent.
       	Rivers.--The Don, as has already been mentioned, forms one
of the boundaries of the parish. It flows along the southern ex-
tremity, in the direction of south-east, for the distance of about
two miles, and then enters the parish of Old Machar, five miles
above where it falls into the sea.
      	The only other stream worthy of notice is a considerable rivu-
let, which, rising about a mile above the north end of the parish,
runs through it southward, and, after supplying in its course seve-
ral corn-mills with water, falls into the Don, a little above the
bridge of Dyce.


