
     of Kinclaven.

coarse linens for the Perth market.  Several looms are em-
ployed by manufacturers in Perth, who furnish the yarn,
and pay a certain price for the yard weaving.  some of
these small farmers or passers are at times employed with
their horses and carts at the roads, etc.  By this frugal
system, many numerous families are trained up in habits of
industry and economy, though not with that elegance and
luxury, which, of late have become the characteristic marks,
of the stile of living, adopted by extensive farmers.
   These tradesmen, or farmers, or by whatever name they
may be called, are their own matters, and, of consequence,
possess an independent spirit, which is very seldom to be
found amongst the menial hinds and other servants of great
farmers.  They pay a rent for their land greater in propor-
tion, perhaps, than could be got by the landlord, were their
small possessions thrown into large farms; and many of
them are improving their lands with considerable skill and
activity. - More than the half of the parish, however, is
not inclosed, a circumstance not much to the credit or pro-
fit either of the proprietors or tenants.  Many acres of
moor or waste land yet remain to be improved.  These
neglected spots abound at present with heath, whins, bent,
broom, etc. that affor1d but a coarse and scanty pasture for
cattle.  the soil in most parts of the parish, seems to be
naturally well adapted for the growth of broom; in some
places that plant rises to the height of seven or eight feet,
and makes a kind of shelter as well as fence to corn-fields.
Arntully moor is the most extensive piece of waste land in
the parish.  It is chiefly occupied as a common for pastu-
ring cattle belonging to the neighbouring farmers.  A Great
part of the common of Arntully was about 20 years ago
subdivided, (glebed, according to the provincial language),
and convenient farm-houses and offices built on the subdi-
visions.  the soil, in general, will admit of considerable im-

     VOL. XIX. T t


