
                       FETTERCAIRN.                         125

pend is 16 chalders, half barley, half ineal, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for
communion elements. There is no chapel of ease nor any dis-
senting place of public worship in the parish. But  there are 52
individuals who are not of the communion of the Established
Church, viz. Independents, 14; Episcopalians, 13; Bereans 14;
of the United Associate Synod, 6; Anabaptists, 2; of the Relief
Synod, 2; and 1 Roman Catholic. This list does not include the
members of the two proprietors families formerly mentioned as rd-

siding in the parish only occasionally, they being at present non-re-
sident therein. The number of families which attend the Establish-
ed Church cannot be exactly known, as some families are divided
between it and the above denominations of worshippers; but it
may be stated at about 377, and the individuals of all ages who
generally attend public worship, may be about l300, making thus
an allowance of about 330 for children, infirm, and aged persons,
and those now mentioned as not in communion with it. Di-
vine service is well attended by all ranks. The average number
of communicants is about 850, including those who attend from
the adjoining parishes of Fordoun and Marykirk, for the sake of
convenience. The average amount of collections annually in the
church, for religious and charitable purposes, may be about L. 85,
including collections for infirmaries and the parish library. The
collections which were formerly made in behalf of the Bible So-
ciety, the Highland Schools, and the India Mission, are not includ-
ed in this sum. For promoting the interests of these institutions,
a parochial association, on Dr Duff's plan, was last year formed,
and raised L. 16, to be divided between them and the Church Ex-
tension scheme. Its operations are not this year yet completed, but
are expected to be as successful as last year's were.
	Education.--There are five schools in the parish, which supply
daily instruction to about 19O children, viz. the parochial school, which
is supported by the maximum legal salary, a mortification in land
yielding L. 2, 15s. per annum, and the school fees of about 68 scho-
lars, which may amount to L. 30 per annum. His other emolu-
ments, including session-clerk's fees, amount to about L. 15 per
annum. The languages and all other branches of parochial edu-
cation are taught in the parish school.--A private school at Dal-
ladies, supported by the school fees of about 36 scholars, paying
from 3s. 6d, to 6s, per quarter, school-room and schoolmaster's
house rent free. All branches taught in the parochial school are
taught in it. A private school at Inch of Arnhall, supported by the
fees of about 30 scholars, paying from 3s. to 4s. per quarter, school-


