
			    TURRIFF.                         1009

ceived an academical education, is well qualified to instruct those
placed under his charge in all the branches usually taught at the
endowed schools of the country. This school is attended by about
70 scholars, who are annually examined by the minister of the pa-
rish, in presence of their parents or guardians. On the eastern
extremity of the parish, on the estate of Fintray, and at a point
where the parishes of Turriff and King-Edward meet, a school
was established some years ago, which has been found exceedingly
useful; and on the estates of Hatton and Gask, there are schools
for the more elementary branches. We have also a well-conducted
female school under the charge of an accomplished instructress,
with several dame-schools for children of both sexes.
	There prevails on the part of the parents an anxious desire to
afford their children the advantages of education.  About 400, or
an eighth part of the entire population, are at present enjoying
this blessing. It is believed there are none between five and fif-
teen who cannot read, and very few above fifteen who cannot write.
The education of the young commences at a much earlier age than
formerly, and it is a gratifying circumstance to know, that the dif-
ferent teachers pay due regard to the religious instruction of their
pupils, and make religion the basis on which rests every other spe-
cies of education. The yearly salary of the parochial schoolmas-
ter is L. 34, 4s. 5 1/2 Id., and the Probable amount of fees L. 44.  He
also enjoys the benefit of Mr Dick's noble bequest, and the emo-
luments of sesion-clerk, which may be about L. 7, with a mortifi-
cation, elsewhere noticed, of L. 8, 6s. 8d., and one acre and a-half
of land.  To his assistant be allows an annual salary of L. 28.
The school-room and schoolmaster's house, which are distinct
buildings, were built about fifteen years ago, and do great credit
to the liberality and public spirit of the heritors, who, by the su-
perior and airy accommodation provided, have contributed much
to the comfort and health of master and scholars.
	There are three Sabbath schools in the town, and two in the
landward part of the parish, which are well attended.  Of the be-
neficial effects of these institutions in leading the young to a more
intimate acquaintance with Gospel truth, the writer is duly sensi-
ble, when, in the months of May, June, and July, he catechises
the parishioners, and when, during these months, those who pre-
sent themselves for admission to the communion far the first time,
attend his classes.
	The Episcopal clergyman meets with the young of his congre-


