
48	                 INVERNESS-SHIRE.

still very great; and we have no doubt, that, were occasion to re-
quire it, the families of Grant of Grant and Glenmoriston could
easily muster on their own estates, as they did during the last con-
tinental war, a numerous and most active and intrepid body- of Sol-
diers, willing to follow wherever their superiors would lead.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-In the district of Urquhart farming is carried on
according to the most approved system of the south, and it would
be useless to recapitulate here the particular features of it. The
lands are now well limed, and produce crops of wheat, sown grasses
barley, oats, potatoes, and turnips; besides a considerable quan-
tity of meadow hay obtained from the natural wet pastures. - Al-
most all the wheat raised, with a considerable portion of the oats,
is in general sent to market to Inverness, but is occasionally ship-
ped at Temple direct for London; and for some years past a con-
siderable quantity of potatoes has been exported for the London
market. *
   Besides the cattle kept in the low grounds, there are betwixt
20,000 and 21,000 sheep supported on the hills of this parish.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Hamlets.-There are no towns in this district, but in Glen Ur-
quhart there are several hamlets of labourers, with a few trades-
men, most of whom,, besides working in the fields as hired ser-
vants to the neighbouring farmers, have small crofts or gardens of
their own. The principal hamlet, called Milntown, contains about
36 cottages and 150 inhabitants, including women and children.
The other small scattered hamlets may, in all contain about 115
inhabitants.
   Means of Communication.-Till towards the close of last cen-
tury, the roads in the Highlands generally were exceedingly bad,
and those in this parish were no better than bridle tracks. Soon
after the year 1760, a better sort of road (but in many places
wanting drains and parapets) was commenced. between Inverness
add Drumnadrochit by Loch Ness side, and, by dint of persever-
ing exertions in applying the proceeds of the local statute labour
money, and private subscriptions, aided by grants from the county
of Inverness, it was, at length completed, and even prolonged over
the shoulder of Mealfaurvonie to Glenmoriston, where it ceased
till the commaunication with the West coast was opened up through

<FOOTNOTE>The writer regrets that he has not been able to obtain an accurate account of the
agricultural produce of the parish.


