236                    KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

turies, are converted by some into field rollers, and even into tables
and ornamental furniture of various descriptions.
	Mineralogy.--The rocks consist of granite, limestone, and a
species of very coarse sandstone. The whole of the Criffell range
is composed of white granite and syenite, with veins of porphyry
and strata of slate. The limestone occurs on the shore, and in
the more level portion of the parish, where it is a member of the
coal formation as it reposes on the rocks of the Criffell. A lime
kiln was lately erected at Saturness. The lime is not of the best
quality, though masons allow it to be very well adapted for build-
ing,--being of a coarse, sandy nature, it requires very little sand
to render it fit for their use. Coal has been dug, for, and indica-
tions of it have been observed, but not so promising as to encou-
rage farther outlay.  On the coast at Arbigland such fossil re-
mains occur as are frequently met with in the Carboniferous lime-
stone formation.
	The rocks there all dip towards the sea, and at various angles,
from nearly horizontal to vertical. Upon these are to be found
vast rolled masses of granite, for whose appearance, lying as they
do upon lime and sandstone, and totally detached from granite
fields, it is very difficult satisfactorily to account.
	Soil.--The soil is various, and is, generally, very productive.
The steep cultivated fields lying upon granite, require more ma-
nure, and are not reckoned so rich and fertile as those that are
more level, and rest upon limestone. After along processor of ma-
nuring, however, they may be reckoned equal, if not superior.
Much has been done, and much is still doing in the way of drain-
ino, the low-lying farm, which is greatly improving their appear-
atice, and adding to their value; and a considerable tract of land,
called merse, has been protected from the inroads of the sea by a
very strong and costly embankment, raised by the late Mr R. A.
Oswald for that purpose, whose spirit and skill as an agriculturist
are not to be surpassed. The same process might be most ad-
vantageously resorted to in the Bay of Drum, at the northern ex-
tremity of the parish.
	Zoology.--The principal fishes are, cod, flounder, salmon, and
skate. Herrings are very rarely got, and baddocks never; though,
in the deep sea off this coast, not only these fishes, but soles, tur-
bot, &c., might no doubt be caught, were the demand such as to
call forth enterprise. The salmon go up the river to spawn in the
month of October, and return in April and March.

