
                    WHITSOME AND HILTON.                        175

present tenants and their immediate predecessors for the skilful ma-
nagement and persevering zeal with which they have prosecuted the
work of a melioration. And it ought not to pass unnoticed, that the
most remarkable results have ensued, when the leases, the general
duration of which is nineteen or twenty-one years, have been framed
on liberal principles. But nothing can more clearly demonstrate
the rapid advance of agriculture in the parish of Whitsome, than
a comparison of the gross rental at two given periods. At the date
of the former Statistical Account, it amounted to L. 3080, whereas
at present it is L. 7526, exclusive of about L. 80, the valued rental
of feued houses in the village, and of the sums realized by 180.,
acres of wood.
   Improvements.-To illustrate the progress of cultivation by an
example, and to prove the expediency of accommodating the seve-
ral grades of capitalists, it may be mentioned, that South Laws,
the property of Professor Low, from being a continuous moor, not
worth 2s. 6d. an acre, is now a flourishing tract, yielding a rent of
18s. per acre. The whole, containing only eighty acres is divided
into three portions; and these, in the hands of the same number
of tenants, present, with their numerous hedge-rows and thriving
plantations, a garden-like aspect.-During the current season,
George Taitt, Esq. of Longridge, has tried an experiment alto-
gether new in this part of the country; on the more extensive
adoption and ultimate success of which may depend important con-
sequences both to proprietors and to the labouring classes. By
trenching a small field, at a cost of L. 4, 10s. an acre, and then
sowing it in barley, instead of leaving it fallow, as it must have been,
according to the usual rotation, above an average crop of good qua-
lity was the produce.
   The farm-houses are neat and commodious, and many of them
finished in a superior style.-The cottages, more recently erected,
are convenient and comfortable; while the rest are cold, damp, and
in a miserable state of repair. This may be ascribed to two causes,
the non-residence of landlords, and the mode in which an in
coming tenant takes all the buildings off his predecessor's hand,
who is merely tinder the obligation to leave the cottages habitable,
a term which needs, no comment. As suitable plans have been
submitted to the Highland Society, it is to be hoped that the hum-
ble dwellings of our rural population will ere long bet constructed
on a somewhat uniform principle, and with such a regard to inter-
nal comfort, if not to outward ornament, as to place them more


