
           378                      BANFFSHIRE.

           sidiary schools remedy, in some degree, in their respective dis-
           tricts, the evil of remoteness from the parish school; but they stand
           greatly in need of better endowments, while there is one district,
           containing seventeen families, so situated as to have no benefit at
           least for its younger children from any of the schools, and it is
           unable to maintain a school within its own bounds.
             Literature.-There is one parochial library, managed by a com-
           mittee of subscribers, containing a tolerable collection of useful
           and interesting books, and likely to prosper.
             Institutions.-There is a parish saving bank, which was insti-
           tuted in the year 1821, under the management of the minister as
           cashier, the schoolmaster as accountant, and two or three respect-
           able parishioners as trustees or directors. At first the deposits,
           considering the small population and general poverty of the dis-
           trict, were large, till they amounted at length to the sum of
           L.1200. The diminution of the rate of interest some years ago
           considerably checked the spirit of depositing, and still operates
           against accumulation; but the capital still amounts to L.1000,
           having, for the last three or four years, been neither increased nor
           diminished, the amount of deposits and accumulating interests on
           the one hand just balancing drafts and uppayments on the other,
           each being about L.200 per annum. When an account rises to
           L.25 it is paid up; and there are instances of the same individual
           having been twice paid up in this way. The depositors are chiefly
           farm servants, unmarried aged females, and parents for small pro-
           visions to their children. The institution has been and still is
           most beneficial both to the temporal interests and the moral wel-
           fare of the people. The proprietors could not lay out money to
           better account, for their own eventual benefit, as well as for the
           good of their tenantry, than by giving a little to foster savings
           banks in connection with their estates, by enabling their managers
           to pay a more tempting rate of interest than can be done without
           such aid.
             Poor.-The average number of poor on the regular roll is 21,
           of whom an average of two being bedrid or infirm, receive the value
           of a peck of meal, and 1s. 3d., in all about 2s. 6d. per week and the
           remaining nineteen receive about 5s. each, at each of four distribu-
           tions in the year, besides occasional supplies when necessary. Be-
           sides this, there is what is called the occasional roll, containing on
           an average the names of 12 poor people, who receive, as the
           money may be spared among them, about 10s. each yearly. Fune-


