
     of Monzie.

which repeats distinctly every word.  There are many caves
here, but the most remarkable one is at the back of Glentur-
ret, which is sufficient to hold 60 men under arms.  It is si-
tuated in a rock, named Eagle's Rock, inaccessible on all sides
except one narrow path.  It is said to be the cave into which
GARA sled, after burning FINGAL'S house.  Near this cave
there is a high PINE TREE*, which is remarkable, because
there is not another tree at present to be found in all that
part.  This hill country is much exposed to tempests, and
especially to the whirlwind.  It unroofs the houses, over-
turns the stacks, tears up the heath and broom, and even
sweeps large stones before it.  A most remarkable thing in
this wind is, a noise it makes, so like thunder that strangers
cannot but believe it is so.  It makes this noise in a certain
hollow part of the glen surrounded by rocks on all sides.

   Natural Phenomena.ll-There is a great curiosity, called
The-Kirk-of-the-Wood, not far from the Eagle's Rock.  It is
composed of large stones, divided into several apartments,
with arches and trances, and each stone resting so on ano-
ther, that one would imagine it were the work of art.  Near

<FOOTNOTE>

*Tradition says, if any person cut a branch from this tree be dies, and
that it lives!!!

llIn the year 1756, a water spout broke in the hills above Monzie; it
took its course down the river Shaggie, and raised it 20 feet perpendicular at
the bridge; it swept entirely away a bank near Monzie, which cost 500 L.
Sterling, and it cast out upon the sides such quantities of fish, that the inha-
bitants carried them home in baskets; the river subsiding so quickly, that
they were left behind.  In the year 1785, during a heavy rain in the hills, the
water collected on the top of the brae near Monzie, and carried down such
a quantity of the earth into the Shaggie, as left a den 200 feet long, above.
100 feet broad, from edge to edge, and 70 feet deep.  For several years past
some shocks of an Earthquake were felt here, and in the neighbouring parish;
their direction was from E. to W.


