
                          FRASERBURGH.                      251

the interior of the country, and snow, when it does fall, soon
dissolves.  Hence it is, perhaps, that we are seldom visited with
any epidemic distemper, and escaped the cholera, when it was,
prevailing elsewhere.  Upon the south side of the parish flows
the water of Philorth, which takes its rise in the upper district,
and, increased in its course by a few tributary streams discharges
itself into the sea.  The bay, to which we have already adverted,
is the most interesting natural object at Fraserburgh.  It is about
approaches the town from the south, and exhibits to him a beau-
tiful abd delightful scene in a fine summer day, when there is
clear sunshine and a profound calm, and many vessels are there
riding at anchor.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiques.-There are in this parish the ruins of two chapels,
one of which was probably a seminary of considerable repute, as
it is called the College, at which some of the monks of the Abbey
of Deer resided.  Rear this is a well, where the superstitious
practice of leaving some trifle, after drinking of its waters, obtain-
ed for a considerable time; but which - now seems to be given up.
   At the west, end of the town is an old quadrangular tower of
three stories, which formed part of a large building originally in-
tended for a college by Sir Alexander Fraser of Philorth, who, in
1592, obtained a charter from the Crown, in which powers were
given to erect and endow a college and university,-to appoint a
rector, a principal, a sub-principal, and all the professors,for teach-
ing the different sciences they should think proper and necessary,
-and to make laws for the preservation of good order, with autho-
rity to enforce them.  Every immunity and privilege of an univer-
sity was granted for it, as appears from the following words of the
charter:-" In amplissima forma, et modo debito, in omnibus
respectibus, ut conceditur et daiur cuicunque collegio et univer-
sitati intra regnum nostrum erecto seu erigendo."  In 1597, the
General Assembly recommended Mr Charles Frame, at that time
minister here, to be principal; but owing to some cause, which has
not been sufficiently explained, most probably to the want of funds,
the matter here stopped, for nothing farther was done in it.
   On Kinnaird's Head another old tower remains, called the Wine
Tower, most probably so called because it was the wine-cellar of
those who at one time resided in the adjoining house which is now
the light-house.  Under this tower is a cave, penetrating into the
rock more than 100 feet.


