
92                     BERWICKSHIRE.

of a child's education for a year is about 12s. If there be any who
cannot read and write, the number must be very small. The people
seem generally to appreciate the benefits of education.
   Library.-About forty years ago a parochial library was esta-
blished; it still continues and prospers. The number of books,
most of them well chosen, is considerable.
   Friendly Society.-There is also a friendly society, the members
of which, by contributing a small sum annually, are entitled to a
weekly allowance when unable to work. It has existed thirty-one
years, and seems to promote a desire of independence.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons re-
ceiving parochial aid is about 16; one shilling is nearly the average
sum allowed to each weekly. The annual expense thus brought on
the parish may be L. 50, raised with the exception of a portion of
the church collections, by an assessment on the heritors and farmers.
The church collections amount to about L. 7 a-year. Parochial
relief does not seem to be considered generally so degrading, or to
be resorted to with so much reluctance, as might be desired or ex-
pected.
   Inns.-We have five inns or alehouses, which seem hurtful to
morality.
   Fuel.-The fuel formerly in general use was peat, which is not
so much employed now, because coals can be got at as little ex-
pense, being at the distance of only ten miles, and the road to them
excellent. Peat is, however, very plentiful, and of the best kind,
but the labour of digging and drying is considerable.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The present state of this parish differs from that which existed
at the time of the last Statistical Account, chiefly because the land
is generally better cultivated and enclosed; the plantations made
then or since have also given a more sheltered and fertile appear-
ance to the district, and the roads have been greatly improved.
   What this parish chiefly wants to promote improvement, to en-
courage industry, and to contribute to the comfort of the labour-
ing-classes, is the residence of land-owners. Almost all the land
belongs to absentees, who seldom or never see their property here,
and, consequently, never think of making any alterations either for
ornamenting or improving it.

   June  1834.


