
			PETTIE.                         407

  Mr Fraser's long incumbency extended over the most troubled
times of Scottish ecclesiastical history. Judging of his character
by all that is known of him, we would regard him not as a mere
temporizer, but as a man of a gentle and Catholic spirit, anxious
to fulGI the ends of liis ministry inbis own parish, and who, for
the sake of peace, would approve of Leighton's 11 Modest De-
fence of a Moderate Episcopacy." The synod records show
that he incurred some censure during the period of Presbyterian
ascendancy; but if he was considered by the Presbyterians as de-
ficient in zeal in proceeding against Papists, compliers, and malig-
nants, he showed equal inaction in the times of Episcopacy, in
compelling conformity by attendance at the Lord's table. The

Lord's day in drunkenness and biding from church, were sharply reproved, and or-
dained to stand at the pillar the next day,  .  .  .  under the pain of banishment.
  " August 1647. - - rebuked for his disobedience to his father and mother,
and exhorted to crave of God mercy and grace to behave himself towards the said old
persons as dutiful children ought.
  " August 20, 1648. That day there was ane fast intimated to be celebrated for these
reasons: That God would1-nove the King's heart to peace and unity with his sub-
jects-that it would please God to remove the extraordinary rain which threatened
universal famine. That day there read from the pulpit an act of the General
Assembly, against the acts of approbation of the unlawful engagement.
  " December 14, 1648. That day the solemn acknowledgment of the sins of the
land about the breach of the League and Covenant was read and explained out of the
pulpit.
  " December 23, 1649. That day the minister made premonitions to the parishioners
that no days be kept for feasting or abstaining fom work. (To abolish Christmas.)
  " 1651, July 27. All and every of the elders and deacons, and heads of families
are ordered to search out how many had withdrawn and absented themselves from the
Lord's table, that they may be censured as recusants.
  August 10, 1651. Many said to be of the baser sort and ignorant, from Fleming-
ton, were asked, every one apart, what was the cause they did not communicate.
Their excuses were found frivolous. They were ordained to do public repentance
the next Lord's day for their high contempt.
  August 17. All recusants stood in public, confessed their contempt and ignorance,
and promised never to do the like again.
  Feb. 2,1662. That day the minister did report to the session that there came ane
order from Parliament, inhibiting all church meetings till further orders.
  May 26, 1662. This day the minister did intimate to the people that Wednesday
next be set apart for public thanksgiving for the late deliverance, and that all beseech
God to bring our King safely to his throne.
  From 2d February till 7th July, every Sunday, the entry is, that day no session,
for the cause aforesaid.
  On the 7th July, it was intimated that there was ane order from the estates, sanc-
tioning church meetings.
  May 25, 1661. A thanksgiving for the King's restoration to his three kingdoms
is intimated for Wednesday after, and people ordained to meet frequently that day,
From 1658, scarcely a week passes the whole year round without catechising.
  September 16, 1660. That day Dougall Macandrew, being found ignorant in the
grounds of religion, and being sharply rebuked therefor, he inacted himself conjoint-
ly with Donald Macoill, his cousin, that be shall, through the Lord's strength be well
grounded within a month, and that under the failure of ten pounds.
  February 1665. Mr James Fraser, (could this be Dr Fraser of Chelsea, the minis-
ter's son,)is elected schoolmaster by the session, and 12 bolls of good and sufficient
victuals promised to be paid him out of the parish, and 10s. out of every chalder of
free rent victual, with all the casualties of baptisms and marriages, as likewise L.20
Scotch money for being clerk to session and precentor in the church.


