
970                               PERTSHIRE.

was constructed of wattles, the only materials then generally used
in the country. Building with stone and mortar was the work of
an after and more intelligent age. In 729, the monastery was
rebuilt of stone, but not founded as a new institution, as stated by
Dean Mill. This institution, however, is neither noticed by Keith
nor by Spottiswood among the religious houses of Scotland.
   In 834, Brudus, the king of the Picts, summoned all his sub-
jects who were able to bear arms to meet on a certain day in Ne-
ther CaIidon with a suitable supply of provisions. * They mustered
there in a great body. Hollingshed says, that this army passed
over the Tay, and marched into the castle of Calidon, previnus to
engaging Alpinus, the King of Scots, at Angus. From this it may
be inferred that, at that time, the dwellings erected near to this
castle were so considerable as to have afforded, along with the
castle, the requisite accommodation for so great a body of men.
The various attempts of the Danes to plunder Dunkeld, also fa-
vour the view that the place was not only extensive, but its monas-
tery was reputed important and wealthy. About 845, the Danes,
under their celebrated sea-king, Regner Lodbrog, on their advance to
plunder Dunkeld, were successfully engaged and defeated between
Cluny and Dunkeld by Kenneth MacAlpin, who united the Scots
and Picts into one kingdom. + About 905, the Danes advanced
a second time, when they successfully plundered the town.
The extent of their booty is nowhere recorded. Under the reign
of Kenneth III. they meditated a third attack for a similar pur-
pose, but they were met at Luncarty by Kenneth, where he
fought a famous battle and routed them.
   In 848, Kenneth MacAlpin built a church at Dunkeld, from
respect to the memory of St Columba, wherein he deposited the
relics of that saint, ++ which had become unsafe at Iona from the
rapacity of the Danes. The site of this sacred depository has not

<FOOTNOTE>Chron. of Scotland, Vol. i. p. 60. Hollingshed, Vol. i. p. 246.
   Chron. No. 3 in Inner's App. Langbeck's Scriptores, Dan. Vol. ii. p. 2, et seq.
   Dean Mill, MS. Hist. in reference to the bones of St Columba, and the pestilence
which broke out in Scotland in 1500, says, "What follows is surprising, and yet I
think it must not be passed over. The Bishop had marked out and consecrated bur-
rying ground for his people, being much afraid of the pestilence. In the meantime,
he visited some of the church tenants of Caputh, who had been bad of that disease,
and gave them such consecrated things as might be of use to them. Next day he
caused dip the bones of St Columba in consecrated water, and sent it to them to
drink by the chancellor. Many did drink and were cured. But there was one for-
ward fellow among them, who said to the chancellor, 'for what does the Bishop send
us water to drink? I wish he had sent us some of his best ale.' But he and the rest,
to the number of thirty, who refused to drink of the water, died of the plague, and
were buried in one grave a little below ther ordinary burying-ground."

					3


