
	48                          ARGYLESHIRE.

	nan, the larger portion runs through the Dorus mor, spreads as it
	advances, swells the waters of Little Loch Craignish and Loch Mel-
	fort, and ultimately loses itself on either side of the fertile island of
        Luing. The other flows between Jura and Reisa-an-tsruth, and
rolls its waters, between the northern extremity of Jura and Scarba,
        into the Gulf of Coirebhrecan. The latter current is fully three-
        quarters of an hour later than the former. During spring-tides
	the current in the Dorus mor runs at the rate of from four to
        five miles an hour. Its rapidity, however, is considerably affected
        by winds. When the tide is rising, several dangerous whirlpools
	are formed off the east point of the southern extremity of the
	parish ; and when it ebbs, whirlpools of equal danger appear on
	the north side of the islet which lies on the south of this strait.
	The danger of the navigation along this current is materially aug-
	mented when a strong breeze of wind opposes its progress.  A
	short cross sea then rises, in which an open boat can scarcely live.
	Small boats and steam-vessels, which now frequently ply through
	this strait, generally avail themselves of the eddy tide, on the
	north side of the current, and thus effect a safe and expeditious
	passage, even when it rages with greatest violence.
	   It is high water at the Dorus mor at full and change at a quarter
        before six o'clock A. M. The flux and reflux of the tide begin here
	an hour before there is any sensible change on the waters of Loch
        Craignish. The tides in Loch Crinan and Loch Craignish borre-
        spond. It is high water in Loch Craignish four hours and a
	quarter later than in Loch Gilp.
	   A very violent sea rises about a gunshot to the west of the west-
	ern part of the southern extremity of the parish.  It is occasioned
	by the confluence of the ebb tide which flows between Cor-reisa
	and Reisa-an-tsruth, (islets whose situation is described above,)
	and of that which runs tbrouab the Dorus m6r.  It is confined to
	one spot, and is known to the native boatmen by the name of
	Muinnachoinnich.
	   On the coast of the islets, south and west of the parish, there
	are several dangerous sunk rocks.  One of these lies about two
	gunshots off the west side of Garbbreisa, the first islet to the
	south, and is called Skeir-na-maoil.  Another, named Skeir-
	nodba, lies about one quarter of a mile south of Cor-reisa.  Fully
	the same distance west of Reisa-mbic-faidean, is a rock called
	Diarg-skeir; and there are two rocks of peculiar danger east-
	north-east of that islet.


