
		                  BAFFORD.				255

	  There are no Societies for religious purposes established in the
	parish, but collections are annually made for the various schemes of
	the General Assembly.  The average annual amount of church
	collections for all purposes, religious and charitable, is L.50.  Be-
	sides these, cases frequently occur of a public and private nature,
	for which subscriptions are raised, and to which the people con-
	tribute liberally.
           Education, &c.-There are four schools in the parish, one paro-
	chial and endowed, and three unendowed, and supported entirely
	by the fees of the pupils. The salary of the parochial  schoolmas-
	ter is the maximum, with an allowance for a garden.  He likewise
	enjoys the benefit of the bequest under the management of the
	Dick Trustees.  Fees about L.16 per aunum.  He is also session-
	clerk.  The parochial school-house affords the legal accommoda-
	tion; but is in  such a state as to demand inquiry whether it be
	adequate to sustain the growing reputation of the school, or in
	good keeping with the increased comforts of every dwelling
	around. No additional schools are consequently required.
	   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
	receiving parochial aid is 36, and the average sum allotted to each,
	15s. There, is a capital stock of L.100; and the annual amount
	of contributions strictly for their relief, including other sessional
	disbursements, is about L.40. No recourse has been had as yet to
	assessments, nor do we desire to see that day. The poor people still
	retain a good deal of that, perhaps, peculiarly Scottish feeling,
	which inclines them to make parochial relief their very last resource.
	In truth, the destitution is in many cases great, before that is re-
	sorted to.
	   Fairs.-Two fairs annually are held within the parish, one in
	the beginning of April, the other in the beginning of November.
	Both are cattle markets.
	   Inns.-There is but one public-house, a convenience which
	could not well be dispensed with, and which is under such con-
	trol as to prevent its being productive of any evil effects. In this
	respect, never was a parish more indebted to the care of heritors.
	In several instances in which attempts were made to open ad-
	ditional public-houses, they were resisted by the heritors, who de-
	ferred to the opinion of the minister whether they were required
	or not.
	   Fuel.-Three descriptions of fuel are used,-peat, wood, and
	coal. Of the first, there is now a scarcity, owing to the improve-


