
     Statistical Account

   Crops, Seed-time, and Harvest.-These united parishes produce
oats, barley, pease, flax, and potatoes.  Turnips, white and red
clover and rye grass, are seldom sown, except in the vicinity of
Corrachy, which lies on the southern extremity of the parish.
The time of sowing oats generally commences about the 24th
of March, and ends about the 24th of April.  Barley sow-
ing begins about the 8th of May, and ends about the 24th.
Harvest is generally begun about the middle of September,
and concluded by the first of November.  There is little
grain exported from this parish even in that most fruitful
seasons.  The crops are seldom sufficient to support the in-
habitants; and often the farmers, in the upper districts, are
under the necessity of buying seed corn.  Here the principal
dependence of the farmer is on his sheep and cattle*.

   Wood, Fuel, and Minerals.-The only natural wood in the
parish is allar, birch, hazel, and willow, which are to be found,
in a few places, small clumps along the banks of the Esk.
There is only one fir plantation, diserving notice, lying near

<FOOTNOTE>

per day, receives from 8 d. to 10 d. with victuals; and if hired
during the harvest season, he earns from 20 s. to 25 s.  A ma-
son, per day, gets from 18 d. to 20 d. and maintains himself.
A taylor receives 8 d. with his maintainance; a maid servant,
3 l. per annum; and a carpenter, including victuals, 1 s. per day.
*The value of grain and provisions is very much regulated
by the prices given in Kirriemuir, the nearest market town to
this united parish.  Their value also is according to their plen-
ty or scarcity; but, on average, the following may be con-
sidered as the prices of grain and provisions in this parish.  Hay
brings from 5 d. to 7 d. per stone, barley from 15 s. to 16 s. per
boll, and oats from 13 s. to 15 s.  A stone of flax gives from
10 s. to 13 s.; pease, from 13 s. to 14 s. per boll; potatoes,
from 5 s. to 6 s.  The average price of beef and mutton is 3 d.
per lib. cheese 4 d. butter 9 d.; the last two articles have 27
ounces to the pound weights.  A hen is sold at 10 d. a chicken
at 3 d. and a duck at 7 d.


