
                  PETERCULTER.                              111

eight horse power. About three hundred weight of snuff are
ground per week. The services of only one man are required.
    2d. Several hundred yards, farther up the burn-side is situated
the large paper manufactory of Messrs Arbuthnott and, M'Combie,
who purchased it about two years ago. This establishment was
the first of the kind in the north, being begun in 1751 on
comparatively a small scale, and has ever since been in ac-
tive operation. The present proprietors entered with it in
1821. They have very materially enlarged the work, and ad-
ded the new improvements in their branch nf manufacture, so
that, in proportion to its extent, which is not exceeded in many
instances in Scotland, it is not inferior, to any for the same pur-
poses. It consists of a large chaste pile of the necessary build-
ings, in excellen repair; its internal machinery is of the most
approved modern description. The necessary movements in the
machinery are produced by two large powerful water-wheels-the
one placed a little above the other--and both turned by the same
stream, brought from an artificial reservoir by a wooden aqueduct.
The papers made at this work are browns, cartridges, and all
sorts of wrapping papers, &c. It yields a large revenue to Go-
vernment, and gives employment to upwards of 60 people, whose
comforts are in every respect attended to, and in general they ap-
pear sensible of this. This mill is beautifully situated on a flat
haugh of several acres, surrounded on the west, north-west, and
north, by a very steep hill, the front of which seems to consist of
the segments of different circles; the steep appears almost per-
pendicular; it is in some places nearly 400 feet high, and is co-
vered with young wood. On the east and south the ground is
not so high. There are, large projecting rocks or crags on each
side of the burn, both above and below the flat where the mill
stands, at both of which places there is a bridge throw across
between the opposite rocks-the one on the old, the other on the
new line of road to Aberdeen.
    The reservoir contains one of the largest artificially collected
bodies of water any where to be met with. It is confined in the
den above the bridge by a large dike at its mouth, between its
opposing rocky sides. When full, it is nearly 20 feet deep, and
extends in length nearly half a mile. Above the surface of the
water the braes are steep and inaccesible, (except by artificial
walks,) and are covered with wood. When the burn is flooded,
and the water rans over the top of dike, the cascade down its
front is beautiful. The aqueduct from this reservoir to the mill


