
                           FORFAR.                               693

la-castrensis not found any where else in Britain. In the lake of
Forfar are found the Typha latifolia, Stratiotes aloides, Lemna
trisulca. In loch Fithie is to be found the Isoetes lacustris, gene-
rally supposed to be found only in alpine lakes, At the east end
of the lake of Forfar, in small pools, is to be found, Utricularia
vulgaris and minor, both beautiful plants and of rare occurrence.
The Chara hispida grows in pools in the moss of Restennet. The
beautiful plant Dianthus deltoides grows on the north bank of
the loch of Forfar, as also on dry ground near the west corner of
the lake."
	In Loch Fithie, no marl has been found. The Loch of Res-
tennet was drained at considerable expense, principally for the
purpose of obtaining the marl which it furnished. The Loch of
Forfar was for a long time dragged for the samp purpose; and,
from these sources, the proprietors derived a largo annual revenue.
But the use of marl, as a manure, is very much discontinued,
lime being substituted. The marl found in these lochs is what is
denominated shell marl, and is formed from the exuvise of several
kinds of shell-fish, with which these lakes abound. The marl has
been dug to the depth of fifty feet. The Loch of Forhar is fed by
powerful springs emptying from its bottom and from its eastern ex-
tremity; that of Restennet, by powerful springs at its western extre-
mity. Formerly, the Loch of Restennet was, and now the springs
conducted by the drain through the moss constitute the head
source of Lunan Water, which discharges itself into the sea at
Lunan Bay.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	The town of Forfar has been from time immemorial the head
burgh of the county, and it was also the sole seat of the sheriff-
court until within the last few years when a, sheriff-substitute
was appointed for Dundee and its, immediate neighbourhood,
        In the earliest notices that exist relative to Forfar, its castle is
described as a royal residence; and in the accounts of the Cham-
berlain of the Royal Household in the reign of Alexander III,
and of some preceding monarchs, a charge is entered for the King's
gardeners at Forfar. It is probable that the castle, the occasional
residence of the monarchs, and the residence of the sheriff of the
county, gave rise to the fame of Forfar, and undoubtedly those
circumstances secured to it its privileges as a royal burgh. No-
thing is known, of the date of its original charter.
Antiquities.--In the vicinity of Forfar, there are remains of two


