
696                     FIFESHIRE.

man, and disposed chiefly in rows, still remain. They consist
principally of oak, plane, ash, and beech.  One of the beeches,
which grows near the village, is worthy of notice, both for its size,
being 11 feet 10 inches in circumference at the ground, and 11
feet 3 inches at seven feet from the ground; and especially for its
long, pendulous, and limber branches, which, when the tree is in
full flourish, give it an appearance of singular beauty.  Upwards
of a hundred acres of this estate lying together were planted nearly
forty years ago, besides patches of considerable extent at different
periods since.
   On the lands of Blair, the plantations cover about 120 acres;
some of them upwards of seventy, and others of them thirty, and
fifteen years old.  They are all in a thriving state, and profitable.
Those which are near the mansion-house are tastefully disposed
and ornamental.  The southern part of the parish, comprehend-
ing Whinny hill, and the Pitdinnies, shews also several belts of
planting judiciously placed, and these, together with an extensive
plantation on the immediately neighbouring grounds, skirting along
the whole eastern boundary of the above named farms, and lying
partly within the parish, give this district also the appearance of
being well wooded.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    The principal notices regarding this parish are to be found in
its session records, and in the records of the Presbytery of Dun-
fermline.  From these, it appears to have been formerly of much
smaller extent than it is at present:--comprehending only the
barony of Carnock, which included the present estate of Carnock,
together with the lands of Blair, and Easter and Wester Camps.
   The Pitdinnies, the lands of Luscar, and those of Clune, origin-
ally belonged to the parish of Dunfermline, and were disjoined
from it, and annexed to Carnock in the commencement of the year
1650.  The following entry is found in the Presbytery record,
August 19, 1649. "The Presbytery having considered the re-
port of Mr John Dunn and James Sibbald, appointed to peram-
bulate and consider the distance of Pittdinnies, Easter and Wes-
ter Luskar and the Clune, from the kirk of Dunfermline and the
kirk of Carnock, they find it necessary that the said landis be dis-
joined from the kirk of Dunfermline, and annexed to the kirk of
Carnock; and recommend the same to the commissions for the
plantation-of kirks, to be ratified by their authorities."  And from
a subsequent entry, it appears that this recommendation was car-


