
16                        RENFREWSHIRE.

   Burgh.-This burgh was first regal, as possessed by the ancient
Kings of Scotland.  On its passing into the hands of the Stewarts,
it became a burgh of barony.  But Robert III, to whom it belong-
ed as part of his patrimonial inheritance, granted a charter to the
"burgesses and community," making over his right, and consti-
tuting it a royal burgh.  This charter was granted in 1396, and
contains a full grant of the burgh itself, of the fishing on the river,
of the customs levied within the burgh and throughout the barony,
and of whatever other privileges might be enjoyed by any other
burgh in Scotland; the reddendum being eight merks and payment
of a hundred shillings to support a chaplain in the parish church.
Two confirmatory charters were granted in the reign of James VI.
The former of these bears date 1575, and conveys an additional
grant of all the religious houses and altarages, &c. connected with
the burgh.  This latter is dated in 1614, and ratifies the two for-
mer, explaining, if not making, additional grants, especially in con-
nection with privileges belonging to the burgh as the principal port
on the Clyde.  These are numerous, and particularly secured.
After enumerating a long list of properties and privileges vested in
the burgh, the following statement is set forth as containing the spe-
cial ends to be served by these: " Pro meliore sustentatione pau-
perum et scholae grammaticae in dicto burgo, pro educations adolescen-
tium ejusdem in virtute et literis prout Praeposito et Ballivis dicti
burgi expediens videretur :" i.e. for the better maintenance of the
poor, and of a grammar-school in the said burgh, for the education
of the young in virtue and learning; and under the direction of the
provost and bailies.  In an after part of the same charter, certain
ecclesiastical property is also specially set apart for the mainte-
nance of a grammar school.  In 1703 another confirmatory char-
ter was granted by Queen Anne, ratifying those which preceded,
both generally and specially; and it may be added, that she also
speaks of herself as coming in the room of the ancient Stewarts,
from whom, moreover, the Royal family still derive one of their
titles,-Baron of Renfrew.  The arms of the burgh consist of a ves-
sel constructed after an ancient and simple form, having a figure of
the sun over the prow, and of the moon over the stern, with two
creases, one fore and another aft.  Two escutcheons are hung from
the yard, one bearing a lion rampant, and the other the arms of the
Stewarts,-Or, a fess checquie, azure and argent.  In the colours
flying at the mast-head is a St Andrew's cross.  And the whole is
surmounted with the motto " Deus gubernat navem."


