
		              DAILLY.                        391

bers, and promises to do well. It is now managed entirely by the
members.
	Savings Bank.--A savings bank has existed in this parish since
1817. The total amount of the deposits at present is nearly L.700.
The payments made by the bank have for several years past ex-
ceeded the deposits. Formerly the case was greatly the reverse.
The deposits have varied from L. 100 to L. 130 yearly, but are
now considerably below L. 100. In 1830, the sum withdrawn
was rather more than L. 167. In 1831, it was about L. 140. In
1833, about L. 200. In 1834, about L. 190. Since then very
little business has been done. The depositors are of various de-
scriptions. There are some old people whn have lodged in the
savings bank the little surplus that remains to them of their for-
mer earnings. There are farm-servants, labourers, colliers, fe-
males who live by their needle, children in whose names their pa-
rents have entered small sums as a security for their having some-
thing wherewith to educate them, or send them out into the world.
The treasurers of the friendly societies also lodge their spare cash
in the savings bank.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 45, and the average sum allotted to each
is L. 2, 7s. yearly.
	The funds for the poor, which the benevolence or economy of
former times had accumulated, were all expended about fourteen
years ago. An annual contribution, of from L. 80 to L. 100, is
now made by the heritors, to eke out the provision which is raised
for the poor from the church collections and other sources. The
collections used to amount to about L. 50 annually, but have lat-
terly fallen much short of that sum, principally on account of he-
ritors residing less in the parish than they did. Other funds des-
tined for the relief of the poor, arising from dues on proclamations
of marriages, &c. average about L. 15.
	The cases are few in which reluctance is shewn to apply for pa-
rochial relief, or in which the idea of its being degrading to do so
is entertained.

        		  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	The general appearance of the parish is very much improved
within the last twelve years, and, consequently, still more so since
the last Statistical Account was drawn up. The sale at the coal-
works then was about 9000 tons. It is now about 20,000. The
produce of the woods wag estimated then at L. 200 yearly. It is


