
			   MERTON.                             31

very productive, and, consequently, the rent derived from them is
but trifling. The fishers follow the practices of their forefathers, in
angling, setting small nets in cairns when the river is in flood, and
killing the salmon with listers when the river is small and the even-
ing serene: an this they call burning the water, because they are
obliged to carry a lighted torch in the boat. Long nets, such as are
used near Berwick, and upon the Tay and Tummel in the north,
might certainly be employed in many places with great safety and
advantage.
   There is a large orchard belonging to Sir David Erskine at Dry-
burgh, which yields from L. 100 to L. 150 per annum.

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-There are three small villages in the
parish. The means of communication are very scanty, and not a
little inconveniently placed. We Have no turnpike roads, no coaches
nor carriers. In the village of Lessudden there is a daily post; and
though in a direct line it is not above two miles distant; yet the
Tweed intervening, it is at all times inconvenient, and sometimes
impracticable of access, unless we go nearly double the distance,
by Dryburgh, where there is a Suspension Bridge.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the church is extremely
beautiful, being placed in the midst of a grove close to the patron's
house and policy; it is, however, extremely inconveniently placed
both for the minister and people, being about a mile from the
manse, and about the same distance from the centre of the parish.
It was built in the year 1658, and repaired in the year 1820. It
is remarkably well fitted up, and in the most complete repair; all
the sittings are free, every tenant has a pew assigned to him, and
there is a gallery appropriated in common to cottagers and farm-
servants.-The manse was built in the year 1767, and has under-
gone various repairs.-The glebe is 14 acres, and may be worth
L. 14 per annum-The stipend is 16 chalders with L. 10 for
communion elements.-There are no chapels of ease nor dissenting
meeting-houses in the parish. The average number of communi-
cants may be about 240. The collections in the church are from
L. 16 to L. 18 per annum. The church will accommodate about
380; and is generally well attended. It is difficult to estimate the,
number of dissenting families in the parish,-as they are chiefly
those of married servants, whose residences fluctuate.
   Education.-The only seminary in the parish is the parochial
school, at which the average number of scholars may be from thirty


