
                          FRASERBURGH.                        255

east, a northern pier, of about 300 yards in length, was begun to
be built in 1807, and was completed in 1812.  It was soon found,
bowever, that the sea here, though repelled, found its way into
the harbour in a way no less detrimental to the shipping, by a cir-
cuitous run into it at the extreme point, which, passing along the
interior, produced an agitation to the vessels, against which no
mooring could afford proper security.  There was, therefore, much
dissatisfaction with it and complaint; and in order to remedy that
evil, and for enlarging and improving the harbour, an application
was made for an act of Parliament, which was obtained in 1818.  A
south pier was accordingly built, of corresponding extent to the north
one; and since then, a middle pier has been erected, broader and
even superior to the other two, within which vessels lie in perfect
safety during the most violent storms.  The expenditure upon the
whole, since 1807, has been about L.30,000 Sterling, and when the
contemplated improvements are completed, it will be the best tides.
harbour on the east coast of Scotland, between it and Burntisland,
according to the report of an eminent engineer, Robert Steven-
son, Esq. of Edinburgh.  The area enclosed as a harbour is up-
wards of six Scotch acres, nearly one-half of which has been exca-
vated along the piers and jetties as birthing-places.  The harbour
is of easy access, having a depth of about six feet water at the
piers' head at low water, and of twenty feet at high spring tides.
Being situated at the immediate entrance to the Moray Frith,
and at the northern extremity of a deep and extensive, bay,
which affords excellent anchorage for ships of every size, it is of
great importance to the shipping interest in general.  There are
eight vessels from 45 to 155 tons, burthen belonging to the port,
and 220 boats engaged in the herring fishery.  The exportations
for 1835 of grain, nemely of wheat, barley, oats, pease and beans,
were 12,000 quarters; of potatoes 6000 bolls ; of fish, dried and
pickled cod, to the value of L.2000 Sterling, and of herrings
about 16,000 barrels; the herring-fishery giving employment to
1600 people.  The articles imported are chiefly timber, coals, lime,
tiles, brick, salt, and goods for shopkeepers, of whom there are 30;
and, including innkeepers, there are 28 who have spirit licenses.
The harbour dues were originally only L.65 per annum, but they
now amount to L.1100 Storling per annum.  Coals are now import-
ed here at the rate of 4s. 4d. per imperial boll, from Newcastle and
Sunderland; but though this be a high price for them, as they are
considered to afford to those who reside in the town as cheap fuel


