
                                   KINCARDINE.                           413

           country), which has been the burying-place of all the respectable
           families of the name of Ross for several centuries. By his spouse,
           Miss Elizabeth Baillie of Lammingtoune, eldest daughter of Ro-
           bert Dundas of Arniston, Lord President of the Court of Session,
           (1760-1788), to whom he was married on the 6th September
           1762, he left a family of five sons and three daughters; and was
           succeeded in his title and estates by his eldest son, Sir Charles
           Ross, who for many years represented his native county in Parlia-
           ment, and died a Lieutenant-General in the army, and Colonel of
           the 86th Regment of Foot. * Sir Charles Ross married, first,
           Matilda-Theresa, a Countess of the Holy Roman Empire, being
           daughter and heir of General Count James Lockhart of Carnwath,
           by whom he had a son, who died in childhood; and a daughter,
           Matilda, who married, in 1812, Sir Thomas John Cochrane, Cap-
           tain R. N., and brother of Archibald ninth Earl of Dundonald;
           she died in 1819, leaving two sons and two daughters. Sir Charles
           married, secondly, 15th April 1799, Lady Mary Fitzgerald, eldest
           daughter of William Robert, second Duke of Leinster, and left,
           with five daughters, an only son, born in January 1812, the pre-
           sent Baronet. Bonninton House, the beautiful residence of his
           amiable widow, Lady Mary Ross, and the home of all hospitable
           kindnesses, is situated in Lanarkshire.
              Janet Macleod, the Fasting Woman.-A remarkable instance of
           abstinence occurred, about the middle of last century, in this pa-
           rish. Janet Macleod, the person alluded to, was born about the
           year 1727 at Croick, in the heights of the parish of Kincardine,
           where her father, Donald Macleod, possessed a small farm. She
           continued health till she was fifteen years of age, when she had
           a severe epileptic fit; after this she had an interval of health for
           four years, and then another fit, which continued a whole day and
           a night. A few days after, she was seized with a fever, which con-
           tinued with violence for several weeks, and from which she did not
           recover for some months. At this time she lost the use of her
           eyelids, so that she was under the necessity of keeping them open

           <FOOTNOTE>The following notice of his character and death is engrossed in the session-re.
           cords of the parish:- "General Sir Charles Ross of Balnagown, Baronet, principal
           heritor in this parish, died on Tuesday, the 8th day of February 1814, suddenly,
           and at Balnagown Castle,-a loss irreparable to the country at large, and to this pa-
           rish in particular. His many virtues as a husband, a parent, a master, a landlord, a
           patriot, and a friend, endeared him to all who had the honour of his acquaintance,
           and will embalm his memory on their hearts to the latest recollection. May the
           Almighty grant consolation to his afflicted lady, and spare his amiable daughters, and
           his infant son to emulate his virtues."


