
     Statistical Account

time afford good encouragement for the labours of the teach-
er*.  The emolument, on the whole, may be from 30 L. to
35 L. Sterling per annum.
   As this parish abounds with coal, anti, in the higher parts,
also, with peat and turf, it is more burdened with poor than
some others.  Upon an average, there are no less than 30 con-
stantly upon the poors list; and the amount of the annual
distribution, is, I believe, about 80 L. Sterling.  This sum is
raised, partly from the interest of money mortified for that
purpose, and partly from collections at the kirk, But what
further may be required, to satisfy the necessary annual de-
mand, is, according to act of parliament, appointed by the
heritors to belevied from the heritors and householders;
each of there classes being burdened with one half of it.  Such
heritors, however, as reside within the parish, besides paying
as heritors, pay also as householders, as they occupy houses
and farms, which otherwise being rented to tenants, would
have borne their proportion of the householders half in the
assessment.  But, in order to assess properly, and to be judge
of the necessary demand for the time, the heritors meet, ac-
cording to act of parliament, on the first Tuesdays in Febru-
ary and August, to determine on these matters+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The schoolmaster's foes, per quarters are as follows:

<TABLE>

English,                       L. 0   1   6
Common rules of arithmetics,      0   2   0
Higher parts of arithmetic,       0   2   6
Latin,                            0   2   6
For English, from the poor,       0   1   0

</TABLE>

+See Lord Kames's Abridgement.  If a female, who is able to spin, but is
lazy, is, after giving an inventory and disposition, put upon the poor 5 list, the
heritors give her only in proportion to what she earns; a fourth, a third, or half
perhaps, according as she appears to need.  Before, however, she can receive
this, the must produce the yarn merchant's attestation of what she sins.


