
250                    PERTHSHIRE.

enclosures, enchanting slopes, and sinuous ravines, formed by
streams descending from the mountains, when swollen by the rains,
in noisy and impetuous torrents, to the plains below.     '       -
   In no part of the parish is the inequality of its surface so striking,
as at Cultoquhey, its western boundary. Mounds composed of gra-
vel are piled together there, in great numbers, and arranged in such a
singular variety of grotesque sizes and figures, that they suggest the
idea of a lusus naturae. They appear as if they had been formed
by the course of a river, probably the Shaggy, which is said to
have run formerly in this direction. Some of them are covered
with luxuriant wood; and the village, of Gilmerton is situated at
their extremity on the west.
   A mile to the east of this,is the gate to Abercairney, which
opens to an approach on the margin of a copious mountain stream,
meandring in a deep murky ravine, densely crowded with trees
and shrubs, which, in its serpentine course, is sometimes invisible,
and heard murmuring around projections of rocks. This narrow
shady avenue, which is a fine specimen of romantic scenery, leads
to a magnificent park, embellished with the enchanting art of imi-
tating nature, in which extensive lawns salute the eye, the antique
alley, venerable oaks, clumps and trees scattered in a lavish style
of sylvan beauty, whose dark shades serve as foils to set off the
lovelier mantle of the verdant surface. No bold features of moun-
tains, and rocks, and cascades, no wild misshapen forms, no gro-
tesque shapes constitute the beauties of this landscape. Nature is
here arrayed, in gentle attire, in the softer charms of beauty unit-
ed with utility; rich meadows pleasing acclivities, gardens ena-
melled with flowers, artificial islands and lakes, enlivened with
swans and cygnets; and every hortulane and rural decoration, es-
sential to an elegant and commodious residence.
   To the north-east of Abercairney, on a rocky protuberance, is
Laterbannochy, once the site of a mansion-house, the residence of
a family of Murrays, ancestors of Lord Stormont; from which
there is a delightful view of the admirable scenery of Drummond
Castle; and all the intermediate objects are embraced, at once, by
the eye, as in a fine landscape painting. This splendid prospect
was probably the cause of fixing on this position for the house, as
it is different from the site of the other ancient mansion-houses in
the parish. They were generally erected on the brink of those
fissures and streams which are so numerous in the braes. Near
one of them the manse stands, to the east of Laterbannochy, and


