
594                           LANARKSHIRE.

	The following is believed to be a correct list of the parishioners
belonging to the various religious sects: Establishment, 2306;
Relief, 874; Associate Synod, 369; United Secession, 162; Ro-
man Catholic, 58; Unitarians, 41; Methodists 11; Reformed Pres-
bytery, 11; Baptists, 10; Episcopalians, 2.
        Education.-Besides the parochial school, there are in the pa-
rish six others, all unendowed. The branches of instruction are
those usually taught at country schools, reading, writing, geogra-
phy, and arithmetic, with now and then a little Latin. The peo-
ple have been so far alive to the benefits of education, that there
is no native parishioner above fifteen years of age unable to read
and write. The income of the parish schoolmaster arises from
L. 34 of salary: his fees as session-clerk, and the school fees, which,
with 110 scholars at an average yearly charge of 10s. each,
amount to L. 55 per annum. Both the school and schoolmaster's
house are upon a scale altogether inadequate to the parish,--tbe
school so much so, indeed, as seriously to affect the health of the
numerous children attending it.
	The Countess of Forfar, in 1787, bequeathed L.500 to form a
bursary for the education in Glasgow grammar-school and college
of a boy from each of the parishes of Carluke, Lanark, Laming-
ton, Shotts, and Bothwell.
        Literature.-A parochial library was established in the town of
Carluke in 1827, and contains at present 600 volumes. The en-
trance money is 5s. and yearly contribution 2s. There is a libra-
ry of 400 volumes at Yieldshields, and one at Braidwood of 200
volumes. A Useful Knowledge Society, in which are delivered
weekly lectures on subjects of general science, was instituted in
1836, and, at present, numbers 44 members, some of whom dis-
play much interest in scientific discussions. Connected with this
institution, is a small museum of fossils, antiquarian remains, &c.
with a limited collection of books on suitable subjects.
        Frindly Societies.-A parish Friendly Society was instituted in
1792, connected with which are 35 members, each paying 2s. 6d.
of entry money, and a penny a week of subscription. Its present
funds, are L.50. The allowance granted to the sick is 3s. 6d. a
week continued during twelve months. Another Friendly Society,
upon the same principles, has been recently commenced by the
workmen connected with the Castlehill iron-works.
        Savings Bank.-A savings bank has been in operation in this pa-


