
                         ABERCROMBIE.                          347

led half-deal men, from the limited proportion they receive of the
profits, which is reasonably so limited, because, while they furnish
their own nets, they have no property in the boatr-. The follow-
ing may be taken as a tolerably accurate statement of the cost of
fitting out one of our principal boats for sea. Boat, with all her
tackling and appurtenances, I.. 85; 20 nets at L. 4 each, L. 80;
provisions, L. 30. Every net is about 50 yards long, and fifteen
score meshes wide, 32 meshes in the yard, the mesh I J of an inch.
The engagement which our people enter into with the fish-dealers
is for six weeks; but the bargain is understood to have been im-
plemented by the fishers of any one boat whenthey have caught
250 barrels, in howsoever short a time.
Cod-fishing for export is carried on to a considerable extent here.
The packing furnishes employment and maintenance to many fe-
males. This fishing, however, is of very limited duration. When
the herring disappear in the end of winter, it ceases of course, as
it is with herring-bait that the cod are taken.
The cod, when cured, are sent to the London and Liverpool
markets. Haddocks, turbot, cod, &c. are, in their several seasons,
sent in great quantities to the Edinburgh market, and also supply
our own adjacent country by means of cadgers and fisli-women.
Besides 26 boats of about 15 tons, there are perhaps 14 yawls
of 71- tons.
Manufactures.-We have only four weavers in the parish, and
these have sometimes other occupations.
The working of nets is a very general occupation among the
young. They will make at the rate of 9d a day. Kelp has long
ago ceased to be a profitable concern, nor has there been any made
these many years. We have in St Monan's- a very extensive malt-
ing and brewing concern.
Navigation.-There are two trading vessels belonging to the
port; a schooner seventy-eight tons old register; & sloop be-
longing to the same owners, forty tons old register. These vessels
are chiefly employed in the coasting-trade. It is very seldom that
we are visited by foreign vessels.
V.-PAROCIRIAL Ecoiqomy.
St Monan's can hardly be called a market-town, in the proper
sense of the word. It is a burgh of barony holding of Newark.
It has three bailies, a treasurer, and fifteen councillors. The feu-
ars choose the bailies, and the bailies the councillors. There are
twelve constables annually chosen.


