
     Statistical Account

ever, must allow, that these improvements have commenced
in this parish, and that some of the tenants have done more
in the way of farming to purpose, than many of their neigh-
bours in several places around.  Several have upon their pos-
session a small limekiln; they purchase the limestone at some
of the quarries in the parish, and burn it with peat, mixed
often with wood, or even with some coals from Aberdeen.
The lime they lay upon the grounds has much effect.  Some
however aver, that to lime their ground is to no purpose,
as, say they, it has no effect, because the ground is on lime-
stone:  Whether this be a just remark, or only an excuse
for indolence, is left to the skilful farmer to decide; where
a sufficient quantity of lime is allowed, it cannot fail to en-
sure a crop.  Seventy bolls of Midstrath lime slacked, and
each boll containing three corn firlots, will be sufficient for
the worst outfield in the parish.  When bought at Mid-
strath, each boll costs 1 s. 4 d. which indeed is very high
but even at that price little can be burned for sale, as fuel
is at so great a distance.  The limestone is inexhaustible,
and the lime of an excellent quality.  Some are cleaning
their ground, by fallowing, by a little green cropping, and
by laying it down with artificial grasses, others are going
on in taking 2 or 3 successive crops of oats, and 1 of bear,
(when they give the ground a little dung), without allow-
ing some portions of their ground any rest in a century.
Indeed when the poorer sort of it is completely exhausted
by successive crops, they mutt let it rest; but for years it is
almost useless.  Some are going on with spirit, inclosing
and clearing their ground of stones.  Others are throwing
every impediment in the way of the improver, by tramp-
ling down the fences, and by not only neglecting to remove
the stones from their fields, but even by alleging, that the
stones are beneficial to the soil, and tend to nourish the
crop.  In the east end of the parish, where liming is chief-


