
     Of Linlithgow.

often objected to Linlithgow, and certainly took place
here in 1662, on the anniversary of the Restoration.  It
may be considered rather as a wanton expression of zeal,
to which the many were impelled by a few, than an act
authorised by the magistrates, or approved by the judi-
cious part of the community.  The persons who distin-
guished themselves on this occasion, were Mr. Mylne, one
of the bailies, and Mr. Ramsay, then minister of the pa-
rish.  The conduct of the latter is the more remarkable,
as he had not only taken the covenant himself, but pressed
it upon others with extreme rigour.  Changing his prin-
ciples with the times, he was first made Dean of Glasgow,
then Bishop of Dumblane, and afterwards raised to the
see of Ross.
   The magistrates and council of Linlithgow gave a sump-
tuous entertainment to the Duke of York, when in Scot-
land, before his accession to the throne.  The town is
said to have long felt the pressure of the debt incurred by
that magnificent display*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Singular persons formerly connected with the Parish.-Binnoch.
During the struggle between Edward I. and the Scotch patriots, the gar-
rison stationed here by that prince were dispossessed of it by a curious
device of one Binnoch.  He supplied the castle with hay, and being well
known, had free access at all times.  He proposed to Bruce to conceal
some men in his cart.  Being introduced without suspicion, and complete-
ly armed, they easily made themselves masters of it.  This story, which
is generally believed, reminds one of the stratagem ascribed to Ulysses in
the Trojan war.  Binnoch was rewarded for that service with some lands
in the S. of the parish, which still bear that name, a little softened.  The
Binnings of Wallyford were said to be descended from him: and, in allu-
tion to that transaction, had for their arms, a hay wain, with this motto,
Virtute dologue.
   Ninian Winzet.  About the time of the Reformation, one of that name
was rector of this school, and is said to have been employed as preceptor
to some of the royal family during their residence here.  He published a


