
			CORTACHY AND CLOVA.                      453

of church collections annually for religious and charitable purposes
may be L. 12.
        Education.-There are four schools in the parish at the present
time; the parochial, and three unendowed schools. The num-
ber of scholars attending them is 120. There are, besides, about
20 girls, who attend a female school, which, although not in the
parish, is in its immediate neighbourhood. The unendowed schools
are kept only during the winter season, one of them is placed
beside the mission house in Clova, and is taught by a young man,
who is engaged and directed in his mode of teaching by the mi-
nister. The number of scholars is 48, and the branches taught
are, reading, writing, and arithmetic; the other two unendowed
schools in Cortachy are supported by the parents, or other rela-
tives of the young persons who attend them. The teachers re-
ceive a certain allowance in money for the time they are engaged,
besides board and lodging. The number of scholars at these
schools is 46; they are taught the ordinary branches of instruc-
tion. The parochial school, which is situated near to the scuth-
ern extremity of the parish, is attended by 38 scholars. The
branches generally taught are, reading, writing, arithmetic, Eng-
lish grammar, book-keeping, geography, and Latin. The salary
is the maximum,-L.34, 4s. 4d. The annual amount of school
fees is about L. 10.
        Library.-There is one parochial library, which contains up-
wards of 200 volumes. With the exception of some volumes of
history, geography, and travels, the books consist chiefly,of reli-
gious publications. The library has been in a great measure sup-
ported by donations of books, and of money with which to pur-
chase books, from the Noble family of Airlie. Several of the
books were selected and given by the late Countess of Airlie, who
took a great interest in promoting the temporal and spiritual good
of the young and rising generation in this parish and neighbour-
hood.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving regular parochial aid is, 11 in Cortachy and 2 in Clova;
the sum allotted to each varies from 3s. to 12s, per month. The
collections made at the church of Clova are sufficient for the re-
lief of the poor in that portion of the united parish. The annual
expenditure for the poor in Cortachy is about L.42. The an-
nual amount of the poor's funds, on an average of the last five
years, is L.50, 16s., arising as follows: from church collections


