
684                             LANARKSHIRE.

After a short but brilliant career, Binning died of consumption in
September 1653, before he had completed his twenty-seventh year.
A marble tablet, with an inscription in classical Latin, was erected
to his memory by his friend Mr Patrick Gillespie, who was then
Principal of the University of Glasgow.  It has been placed in
the vestibule of the present parish church.  Binning was styled
by his contemporaries the Scots Cicero.  The whole of his work
are posthumous publications. *
   Land-owners.-The lands and barony of Gorbals, which con-
sist of 515 acres, belong to the patrons of Hutcheson's Hospital,
the corpor`tion of Glasgow, and the incorporated trades of that
city.  They were bought from Sir Robert Douglas of Blaickerton
in 1650, and were held in cumulo till the year 1789, when they
were divided by the three corporations who now possess them, ac-
cording to their respective interests.  The valued rent of Hutche-
son's Hospital is L.500 Scots; that of the corporation of Glas-
gow and of the incorporated trades is L.250 Scots each. +  The
other principal landed proprietors are, Miss Oswald of Scotstown;
Sir John Maxwell of Pollok, Bart; Alexander Speirs, Esq. of
Elderslie, M. P.; James Smith, Esq. of Jordanhill; Alexander
Johnstone, Esq. of Shieldball; Moses Steven, Esq. of Bellahous-

<FOOTNOTE>in the church, so they expected we would be willing to give them a reason when they
craved it in private.  We showed our willingness to give a reason either for these three,
or what else was excepted against in any of our sermons.  The time appointed for this
was this day at two o'clock at Cromwell's lodgings; but this morning he sent us word
it would be to-morrow, and at that same time and place he would attend us."   (MSS.
Letters, Vol. iii. pp. 286-288, in Bib. Coll. Glasg.) In another letter, addressed to Mr
Andrew Ker, dated Friday, May 2,1651, Baillie says, " How our conference with
Cromwell was contrived, or for what ends, I may well guess, but can affirm nothing.
It w`s put on us that we could not decline it.  You will see the sum of it drawn up
by Mr James Guthrie and Mr Patrick Gillespie, the main speakers.  We had no
disadvantage in the thing."  (Id. p. 290.)  Two volumes of Principal Baillie's
Letters were published in 1775, at the suggestion of Dr Robertson, the historian, and
Mr David Hume.  When a new edition is presented to the public, which has been
long called for, it will contain, it is to be hoped, the entire collection.  Many other
letters, besides those which have been quoted, which are not found in the two printed
volumes, are full of interest.  In 1648, when Cromwell first came to Edinburgh, he
had likewise a conference there with some of the Scots clergy on religious topics.  Mr
Robert Blair, who was chaplain to Charles I. was one of those who were appointed
by the Commision of the Assembly to meet with him.  As usual, Cromwell shed
abundance of tears.  On leaving the house, however, Blair said somewhat roughly to
Mr David Dickson and Mr James Guthrie, his two associates, who had been impossed
upon by Cromwell's professions," If ye knew him as well as I do, ye would not be-
lieve a word he says.  He is an egrogious dissembler, and a great liar."  Life of Blair,
p. 108.
          Messrs. A. Fullerton & Co. of Glasgow have now in the press an edition of the
works of Hugh Binning, with notes and a preliminary commentarx by the writer of
this account.  Another edition, at present publishing by Messrs William Whyte
& Co. Edinburgh, is intended to form part of their " Select Library of Scottish
Divines."
          Hist. of Hutcheson's Hospital, pp. 48-57.


