
168                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

of licenses, and the facility with which they are granted, have
proved very injurious to the economical and moral habits of many
of the population.
   Fuel.-The fuel used in this parish is almost entirely coal. The
use of peat has, almost universally given place to that of coal.
The price of the latter varies from 8d. to lod. a-load. Many of
the parishioners, however, get coal, not from any of the pits in the
parish, but from Sir Williain Baillie's coal-work at Benhar, parish
of Whitburn, which yields the best coal in this part of the country.
               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Very great changes have taken place in this parirh since the
former Account was published. The middle road between Edin-
burgh and Glasgow, which is by much the most frequented line
between these two cities, and which passes through the town of
Bathgate, was not at that time even contemplated. No direct
road to the east and west existed, except parish roads,	the lines.,
levels, and keeping of which, were all extremely bad. Increased
facility of communication has been of material service in helping
forward the other improvements, to which the gradual progress of
the country has been leading. Considerably more than double
the number of acres is now regularly under the plough; and, from
draining, better modes of culture, &c, the produce is even more
than proportionally augmented. Dairy-farming is now followed
to a much greater extent than formerly, and has in considerable
measure taken the place of the feeding of cattle. A very large
quantity of milk and butter is sent to Edinburgh and Airdrie every
week.
   The greatest chance, however, has been effected by the intro-
duction of the cotton manufacture into the town. The increase of
the population previous to the publication of the former Statistical
Account, was ascribed mainly to the increase of the coal-works.
The coal-works then were situated close by the town, and the
colliers were chiefly resident in it. The working of coal is pro-
bably as extensive nov as it was then. But the old works having
been abandoned, the collier population is now more numerous in
the country than in the town. Yet the whole increase of popula-
tion in the rural part is but 100, while the town population has
very nearly doubled. One-half of the whole inhabitants of the pa-
rish are now, in one way or other, dependent on manufactures.
We share, of course, in both the good and the evil of such occu-
pations.

   April 1843.


