
                                TAIN.                                   295

	proprietor of those farther up the frith purchases the burgh's right
	to those opposite the town, at an annual rent of L. 10. The mus-
	sel-scalp is a more profitable source of income, although the pro-
	per mode of management is  by no means well understood. It is
	resorted to, yearly, by great numbers of fishermen from the coast
	of Morayshire, who pay to the burgh at the rate of L. 2 per boat
	for the liberty of removing a cargo of the fish. The revenue hence
	derived is rather unequal, but averages about L.150.
	  Manufactures.-The only manufactories, properly called, in
	the parish, are an iron-foundry, in which the various descriptions
	of cast-iron ware used in the country round are produced; and a
	brewery, which supplies the most of the neighbourbood with excel,
	lent ale. The burn of Morangie, beside which it is placed, has
	been remarked by strangers, for the economy of power shewn in the
	various uses to which it is applied. After irrigating the field above-
	mentioned, it is employed to give motion separately to a sawing, a
	carding, a grinding, and a dyeing-mill, besides affording water to
	the brewery; and all within the space of a few hundred yards.
	  Navigation.-There is no navigation carried on in the parish,
	except by ships hired for the purpose of carrying coal and lime, for
	the supply of the inhabitants; by these, fir wood is frequently ex-
	ported to serve for coal-pit props. All other goods are for the
	most part shipped and landed at Cromarty or Invergordon, so that
	we are exposed to the disadvantage of a land carriage of eleven
	miles.

				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   Burgh.-The burgh of Tain serves as a market-town, not only
	for this parish, but for the whole surrounding district, and for a con-
	siderable part of Sutherlandshire; and to this it seems to owe: its ex-
	istence and prosperity,-little trade being carried on, save for, the
	purposes of home consumption. Among the irregularly built
	towns of the north of Scotland, it used to be remarked for irregu-
	larity; for every man seems to have placed his house, just as hap-
	pened to suit his private convenience. The same cbaracter still
	attaches to it, though  in a less degree. The strees have been gra-
	dually straightened, and many of the more unsightly edifices pul-
	led downm though a principle of order is by no means even yet pre-
	dominant in the construction of new ones.  The town is neither
	lighted, nor supplied with water; for, though its gross revenue ave-
	rages L.500, the other claims of expenditure in general exhaust
	the whole.


