
112                          WIGTONSHIRE.

Ryan, commanding a view of the loch and of the adjoining coun-
try, and surrounded by thriving young plantations.
     Corswall Lighthouse. The building in this parish which chiefly
claims a detailed notice, is Corswall Lighthouse. *-It is hardly pos-
sible to alludd to any of the maritime establishments in the Frith of
Clyde, without alluding also to the noble estuary itself, which is per-
haps connected with fewer dangers to the mariner than any other
navigable tract of similar extent in the united kingdom.  If, for exam-
ple, we look at the Thames and the Mersey, which lead to London
and Liverpool, we find them encumbered to a perilous extent with
sand-banks, while they are wholly unconnected with harbours of
refuge; whereas in the Clyde, from Greenock to its entrance be-
tween Ireland and the opposite shores of Scotland, a distance of
about 100 miles, there is every where an ample depth of water,
with scarcely a snare to be met with; while it is connected with
the spacious natural harbours of Campbelltown and Lamlash on
the north; and of Loch Ryan on the south, at the entrance of
which Corswall Lighthouse is situated.  The erection of this very
useful lighthouse was first brought under the notice of the Commis-
sioners of the Northern Lighthouses by the late Mr Quintin Leitch,
chief magistrate of Greenock; a gentleman who, in early life, was
distinguished as a mariner, and took much interest in every im-
provement of the navigation of the Clyde.  The first stone of the
lighthouse was laid by Mr Leitch, on the 17th of June 1815, and
the light was exhibited for the first time on the 15th of Septem-
ber 1816.  The building is situated on a projecting rocky part of
Corswall point.  It consists of a tower of masonry 86 feet in
height, on the top of which the lantern is placed.  The dwelling-
house for the light-keepers is built apart from the tower, and con-
sists of two floors, with cellars for the oil and other stores below.
At some distance on either side of the lighthouse, there is a boat-
creek, with roads leading from thence to the lighthouse, one of
which also joins the parish road at some distance.  The steps
of the stair, and the other sandstone materials were brought from
quarries in Ayrshire and the Isld of Arran; but the rubble walls
are built of the whinstone rock of the neighbourhood.  As this
description of stone does not readily adhere to mortar, much trou-
ble was experienced in making the walls perfectly water-tight.

<FOOTNOTE>For the account of Corswell Lighthouse, the compiler begs leave to make his
grateful acknowledgements to Robert Stevenson, Esq. Engineer to the Northern Light-
houses.


