
					CUMMERTREES                                  249

Vast quantities Of arms were lately found in a field on the farm of
Corrieknows, in this parish, near the burgh of Annan, but at
what period a battle was fought on this spot it is impossible to de-
termind. The farmer who found the arms, considering them of
no value to the public, had them all, but a brass battle-axe con-
verted into husbandry utensils. He says that the swords were
about two feet in length, edged on the one side to the handle, and
on the other for the half length of the blade: that tbe spears were
long, but were nearly all broken, and were more injured by rust than
the swords: that in the same field he also found a number of horse
shoes, some of which were an entire circle, and others curiously
turned in at the heel, while none of them were exactly in the form
of the present horse shoe. The arms were scattered over the field,
and not more than eight inches from the surface. *

ter much litigation, it was found to be good and sufficient; but, that it was granted
according to the circumstances handed down by tradition, cannot be clearly proved.
The exemption from salt duty along the coast of the Solway in Annandale depends
at present on an act of the Scottish Parliament granted in the time of Charles II. but
that act records that it was a privilege enjoyed from time immemorial, till invaded by
the usurper, Oliver Cromwell.

<FOOTNOTE>It would seem from this that the arms had not been buried nor hid there, but that
each layon the place where it had fallen from the hands of its owner. But if this sup-
position be correct, the battle must have been fought previous to the founding of the
burgh of Annan, which is within a mile of the field, and when the surrounding country
was an almost entire wilderness; for, upon any other supposition than that of almost to-
tal destitution of inhabitants in the neighbourhood, it would be difficult to conceive
how such a great quantity of arms was permitted to remain unmoved till the natural
accumulation of debris on the earth's surface fnrmed a covering over them. The
subsoil of the field in which they were found is a hard till, almost as impenetrable as
rock, otherwise they would no doubt have been sunk much deeper than they were.
	There was found in the month of August 1833, on the farm of Hurkledale, Cum-
mertrees, on a piece of moss recently brought under cultivation, upwards of 100 an-
cient English and Scotch coins. The Scotch coins have on the right side the follow-
ing inscription:--ALEXANDER DEI GRA+ encircling the profile of a king's head crown-
ed, with an inverted sword placed in front of the head. On the reverse de, there is
in very distinct characters REX SCOTORVM encircling a cross and four stars, one in each
angle of the cross. On the right side of the English coins there is a front view of a king's
head crowned, which is encircled with the following letters, EDW RANGLDNSIVE+. And
on the reverse a cross with twelve balls, three forming a triangle in each angle of thd
cross. The inscriptions round the cross on the English coins are various; on some the
words CIVITAS LONDON are very distinct; ono thers CIVITAS CANTOR; on other CIVITAS
EBROCAE; on others CIVITAS DVBLINE; and on others CIVITAS WATERFORD, probably
to specify the different places of their coinage. The English and Scotch coins are
nearly of the same weight and size, and two pieces are scarcely equal weight to one
sixpence. There is no date on any of the coins. And as there are no numerals af-
ter either of the king's names, it is likely that the Scotch are of the reign of Alexan-
der I. of Scotland; and the English of Edward I. of England. The brow of Alex-
ander, as marked on the coins, is lofty and the countenance fierce, agreeable, to the


