
                            NEWTON.                            567

glas, relict of James, Earl of Douglas, killed at the battle of Ot-
terburn (1388), and daughter of King Robert II., the first of the
house of Stuart. This family disappeared about the beginning of
the 17th century, * and the property appears ultimately to have
been disposed of to a gentleman of the name of Raith, a member
of the faculty of advocates, who leaving no male issue, his daughter
became heiress, who was married to the second son of Sir John
Wauchope of Niddry Marischal, which has since been the family
name. This gentleman was appointed (1682) one of the senators
of the College of Justice, by the title of Lord Edmonstone, and
he leaving no male issue was succeeded by his eldest daughter.
She was married to Patrick, son of Sir Alexander Donn, who
thereupon assumed the name of Wauehope, and from them the
present family is lineally descended. The late Colonel Wauchope,
father of the present proprietor, was distinguished for philanthropy,
and his benevolence, as well as readiness to do good on every oc-
casion, endeared him, to all when living, and has embalmed his
memory in the recollection of every one who had an opportunity
of becoming acquainted with his character.+
   Mr Wauchope is the principal and only resident proprietor.
The others are the Earl of Wemyss and Duke of Buccleuch.
   Parochial Registers.-As already noticed, they were begun in
1628 during the incumbency of Mr John Melville. All the re-
gisters then commenced are in one small volume, which is in bad

<FOOTNOTE>beir. The twa chalder of victuale and an 100 merks payable be the patrone. The
other 100 merks mortified by the laird of Edmeston. The third 100 merks is vica-
rage, payable be above 40 severall persons, and they are little more worth in respect
the whole parish is laboured. The parsonage teynds belongs to the patrone, except
these of Sheriffhall, which belong to the Earl of Buccleuch, who had decitusis inclusas.
The foresaid two chalder of victuale and 300 merks was the free stipend and provi-
sion of the said kirk, till of lait, Latherdaill was pleaset to give order to his chalmer-
lane to mak up 800 merks yeirly untill some setled course wer takin for provyding
the same at the sitting of the commission for plantation of kirkes. There is sufficient
of further provision of the said kirk, and that by the teinds of the parish."
   It would appear to have been between 1627 and 1630, for in a Report of the
state of the parish preserved in the Register House, dated 1627, after stating the pro-
portion ofthe stipend paid by his Majesty, it is added, "the rest is paid be Sir Jhone
Edmonstoune of that Ilk; whereas, in the valuation of teind 1630, James Raith is
proprietor of Edmonston.
   In a tribute to his memory inserted in the records of session, of which he was
an exemplary member, it is stated that "two school-houses for female education
were built by him on the most approved plan, and partly endowed by an annual grant
for their support, besides commodious dwelling-houses for the mistresses, also built
at his expense, the one in the village of Edmonstone, the other in the Edmonstone
colliery; that when, in consequence of the increased number of communicants, the
heritors had agreed to make an alteration in the seating of the church, so as to afford
an additional communion table, he presented the session with a pair of communion
cups, and a salver for the bread, all of silver, which are inscribed with his name and
will go down to posterity as memorials of his piety in connection with one of the most
sacred ordinances of our holy religion."


