
704                      ARGYLESHIRE.

long, and leads to a small subterraneous apartment, about 10 feet
long, 6 broad, and 8 high, Four feet above the bottom of this
cave is a small opening, between two rocks, which must be ascend-
ed by a ladder, and which leads to a second apartment, about 15
feet long, 12 feet high, and of an irregular breadth. *From this
there is a narrow and rugged passage to a third apartment,
which is also dark. This place is about 24 feet in length, 15
in breadth, and as many in height. The rocks all around
are covered with petrified water. The bottom, which is also
rock, is perfectly dry. Two large rocks meeting, cover it
above, exactly like the roof of a house. Beyond this there is
another dark cave, nearly of the same dimensions with the first.
These, and a great many other subterraneous apartments in this
parish were, in former times, often the residence of a banditti who
committed depredations on the neighbourbood. They were also
of great service in preserving the persons and the property of the
inhabitants during the deadly feuds and predatory wars which
prevailed of old in this country. A few years before the Revolu-
tion, the powerful families of Argyle and Athol were attached to
opposite parties in the state ; in consequence of this, and prompt-
ed to revenge by the memory of former injuries, the vassals of the
latter made an irruption into Argyleshire. Upon that occasion,
the inhabitants of this parish retreated, with their wives, their chil-
dren, and the most valuable part of their portable effects, to their
caves, their strong-holds, and hiding-places, from whence they
surprised the enemy in several successful sallies, but could not
prevent them from burning many houses, nor from carrying away
and destroying much cattle.
  There are in this parish two small fresh water lakes, which afford
abundance of trout, of a small size, but of a most delicious taste
and flavour. These trouts are killed with the rod, and take the
hook readiest in the months of May and June. In the rivers Goil,
Fine, and Long, there are burn trouts of different sizes; and, near
the coast, sea trout and salmon. Lochfine, Lochlong, and
Lochgoil abound in great variety of excellent fish. At all sea-
sons of the year there are haddocks, whitings, codlings. They
are killed either with the hand line or with the long line. The
haddocks, in Lochgoil are more numerous, and of a larger size,
than in those parts of Lochfine and Lochlong which belong to
this parish. The Lochfine herrings are well known; and the her-
rings killed in the two other lochs are nearly of the same size and
quality.


