
                                   METHVEN.                                    145

      a boundary between the parishes of Redgortor and Tibbermore,
      and falls into the Tay two miles and a half above Perth.  As it
      passes Lynedoch House, the seat of the Right Honourable Lord
      Lynedoch, and the woods at Methven Castle, the seat of Robert
      Smythe, Esq. which are contiguous, the scenery is grand and pic-
      turesque, and furnishes some views, which, for beauty and roman-
      tic effect, are rarely surpassed.
           Geology and Mineralogy.-The sole rocks in this district belong
      to the old red sandstone or trap groups.  On the line of the river
      Almond, up to near Lynedoch, as well as throughout the southern
      part of the parish, the sandstone is of a bright,red colour with
      greyish spots, and dipping slightly towards the north.  This is soft
      and friable, containing large portions of clay and lime; it quickly
      moulders down by the action of the air.  At the new bridge of
      Lynedoch, a thick-bedded, fine-grained, pale gray sandstone makes
      its appearance, and occuppies all the north-western part of the pa-
      rish.  This is worked as a building stone, and is eminently adapted
      for architectural purposes.  In the space of less than two miles from
      Pitcairn, up the Almond, no fewer than five veins or dikes of trap
      cross the country, from north-east to south-west, nearly parallel to
      each other.  These are chiefly of that variety called greenstone,
      and afford excellent quarries for road metal and causeway stones.
      One of these veins, which appears at Cromwell Park dam dike,
      has a singular aspect.  The middle portion is amorphous trap, like
      the cement of an old castle wall, while on both sides of it, like the
      hewn ashler vork, are walls of horizontal basaltic columns, lying at
      right angles to the axis of the vein.  The whole may be about fifty
      feet in thickness.  There are no minerals found in the parish wor-
      thy of notice, or not of ordinary occurrence in similar localities, if
      we except the innumerable veins of satin-spar with which the red
      argillaceous sandstone is everywhere intersected.  These vary
      from an inch and a half to an eighth of an inch in thickness, but
      they are too friable and ill-coloured to be of any value.
           Botany.-A considerable number of plants might be enume-
      rated, as natives of this parish,  and rarely to be found in other
      districts of the country, but notice shall be taken, only of the
      following few, which are rare.  1. Corallorkiza innate, found
      in the wood of Methven in 1804, being upward of thirty years
      from the time that it had been previously found  in the country.
      it ceases to show itself in flower when the coppice is cut downs
      around it, until it be again protected with the shade of the young
              PERTH.                        K


