
                           BERVIE.                                 17

will be followed by great advantages to the shipping interest, to the
inhabitants of the place, and surrounding country.
	The quarrying of stones, which for some time past has been car-
ried on a little way to the eastward of the pier, is considered by
sea-faring people (if it be continued) as likely to interfere with the
protection of the shipping, as the rocks, at the place, are the na-
tural barriers which check the waves from the east, and ought not,
on any account, to be removed.
	Other means of communication are, the post-office in the burgh,
the turnpike road passing direct across the parish, and two daily
coaches, viz. the Royal Mail from Aberdeen to Edinburgh, and the
Times, from Aberdeen to Perth, which change horses at the head
inn near the post-office. These are conveniences which the in-
habitants of inland parishes cannot possibly possess to such an ex-
tent.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, which has been al-
ready noticed in a preceding part of this report, is situated on the
north side of the burgh, and is very convenient for the greater
part of the people. It is a new building, which was completed in
1836, and seated for 900 persons. There are upwards of fifty
free sittings set apart for the poor, besides a seat for baptisms, and
pews for the minister, the elders, the schoollarter, and a choir.
The agricultural tenants, by the nature of their leases, have seats
free of rent. The feuars and others pay a very low rate for seats,
varying from 2s. to 1s. only. The manse underwent a thorough
repair about forty years ago, and a small addition was made to it
last year.
	The extent of the glebe is under five acres (Scotch measure.)
it contains very productive land, and if its value were to be calcu-
lated by the average rent which small fields bring in the neigh-
bourhood of the town, it may be rated at per acre nearly L.4.
The stipend is paid in money and grain by the heritors, out of the
parish teinds. The money stipend, including communion elements,
is L.41, 5s. 11 1/2 d. The grain stipend in bear and meal is 114
bolls, 1 firlot, 2 pecks.
	There is a dissenting chapel in the burgh of the Independent
persuasion. Its members belonging to this parish do not exceed
five. This meeting has been in existence for about thirty years.
The members, by collections and seat-rents, make up a sum of about
L.25 to the minister, who has from some, other sources, a small
remuneration for his trouble in itinerating and preaching in various
	KINCARDINE.                         B


