
348                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

trap on the north, with a considerable angle to the horizon.  Near
the Buchanness Lighthouse, ther is a pretty extensive bed of
hornstone-porphyry, also a rock resembling clinkstone-porphyry.
The rock along the coast, from Buchanness to the mouth of the
Ugie, may be seen at low-water marks, and consists of granite,
primitive trap, syenite, gneiss, compact felspar, felspar-porphyry,
and quartz, variously associated with each other.  The bed or
cleavage of these rocks, as they lie in the quarry, is generally
from east to west; and in granite, the laminae of which it is com-
posed, (and it appears generally to be so composed,) are to be
seen in the same direction. *  The beds of pebbles along the shore,
and the boulders are very extensive, and embrace fragments of
rocks and minerals which are seldom to be found upon the land in
the neighbourhood.  Agates and jasper are to be found; flints
are also abundant, and are not unfrequently found, on being broken,
to contain impressions of sea-plants, shells, &c.  The Meethill is
covered with a deep mass of diluvial clay; at the brickwork, which
is about fifty yards from the beach, and where the clay has been
cut to the depth of from thirty to forty feet, it exhibits various
strata, which appear to have been deposited at different times, from
their differences in quality and colour; some of the deposits are
not above an inch in depth, while others are several feet.  The
skeleton of a bird was lately dug out of the clay here, at the depth
of 25 feet from the surface, and about 15 or 20 feet above the
level of the sea.  From the Meethill, embracing the lands of
Clerkhill, Grange, Windmill of Peterhead, Blackhouse, Balmoor,
Mountpleasant, and Alehousehill, to Downiehills, the surface is
covered to a considerable depth with clay, mixed in some parts
with rounded pebbles.  The links of Peterhead, part of the braes
between the links and brickwork, and some fields near the Kirk-
town, form an exception, being covered with sea-sand to a con-
siderable depth.  Below the sand there is generally clay, but in
some instances moss and vegetable remains.  The Stirlinghill is
separated from the hill of Invernettie by a deep morass.  There
are very few flints on Stirlinghill; but on the hill of Invernettie
and the Blackhill, the surface is almost covered with rounded
flints, many of which, on being broken, are found to contain animal
and vegetable remains, chiefly the impressions of sea-shells.  These
shells embrace considerable variety of the Echini family, occasiona-

<FOOTNOTE>Professor Jameson, who, we are informed, examined this parish some years ago,
met with molybdaena in the granitic rocks of Peterhead.
                                            3


