

        210                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

        the same specimen.  The ichthyolites prove our schists to he iden -
        tical with those of Caithness, and of some places south of the
        Moray Frith.
           Sandstone, some hundred yards thick, lies close to the primi-
        tive rock on the coast of Sandwick. Veins of galena, associated
        with heavy spar, stromnite, quartz in veins or rock crystal, calca-
        reous spar, iron, and copper pyrites, are found in these strata.
        Upon these rests the upper sandstone, which is now considered
        as one of the rocks of the old red sandstone formation, though it
        was formerly classed among the newer sandstones.  It is very soft,
        and generally of a light grey colour; but in Eday it is red.  Our
        highest bills are formed of it.  In Hoy, it contains a fine vein
        of manganese; and another of brown hematite, or iron ore, is
        found there.  Trap rocks also occur, as greenstone, basalt, por-
        phyry, or amygdaloid; most frequently as whin dikes through the
        clay flag, but also through the granite on its north extremity, and,
        I think, through the upper sandstone of Hoy hill, above the green
        of Gair.  One of these dikes also bounds, on its south-east side,
        a mass of amygdaloid in Walls, extending about 300 yards along
        the coast.  A large bed of trap occurs in the west hills of Hoy,
        more than 100 feet thick, and extending for several miles; and in
        its neighbourhood, at Rackwick, is a fine vein of fibrous gypsum.
           The alluvial deposits are neither extensive nor interesting.
        Some rolled blocks of granite are found, far from their original po-
        sition.  There are many collections of sand in the neighbourhood
        of sandy bays.  There is abundance of clay, and in most parish-
        es, of peat moss; in many places, marl; and in some, bog iron ore.
        In the peat mosses, roots of large trees, hazel-nuts, deer's horns,
        &c. are frequently found, showhng that forests formerly existed
        there.
           The decomposition of the clay flag makes clay the predominant
        natural soil; but in, some places, there is pure sand, and these are
        mixed in various proportions; but the best soil is a rich black loam.
           Zoology- Orkney is particularly rich in sea birds and fish.  Seals
        are pretty common, and otters rare.  A few pairs of both species of
        eagle annually build in thp precipices.  There are several species
        of hawk and owl; and grouse are numerous on our heath-covered
        hills.  We have also the great northern, and other species of diver;
        great numbers of gulls of different species; a few swans in winter,
        and some wild geese in spring, and many species of duck all the
        year; also several kinds of grebe; and one pair of the great auk


