
     of Lamington.

ficient to maintain them through the winter and spring.  The
crops are generally late, harvest is begun about the end of
August or beginning of September, and it is not finished till
the middle or end of October; and sometimes it is a week or
two in November, before all is cut down and brought into the
barn-yard.  The farmers are most afraid of rotting rains and
nipping frosts; in consequence of which it is here much the
practice of sowing early corn in the spring, and it is not to be
omitted mentioning, that every family sows a quantity of
flax or lint-seed.  Thus a large house sows a peck or an half;
and a small cap full, i. e. a sorpot or fourth part of a peck*.

   Climate.-The air is sometimes moist, and sometimes dry.
This being an hilly and mountainous part of the country, it is
much exposed to rain in the summer, and snow in the winter;
but, notwithstanding these changes, it is not a little healthful to
the present inhabitants, they being accustomed to them.  The
climate here is generally sharp and cold, and that because the
places toward Crawford-muir and the Lead-hills are exceed-
ing high, and it varies in different parts as they are more or
less elevated.-It is sad, that from Cold Chapel, there is nearly
the same distance to the sea-ports of Annan, Air, Greenock,
and Leith, and in like manner from the town of Lamington
to Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Dumfries, there is nearly the
     4 A 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The servants here, as in the neighbouring parishes, have their wages al-
most double of what they had twenty years ago; thus a man for half an year
gets L. 4 and a maid L. 1: 10 s. A labouring man gets 8 d a day, and his
meat through the year; and at harvest a man reaper has 10 d a day, and his
meat; and a woman reaper 8 d, and her meat Some engage for so much mo-
ney during the harvest, as a man for L 1: 5 s. and a woman L. 1.  In 1791,
oat-meal was sold at between 29 s and 30 s a load,-and bear at 15 s a boll.-
Barley at 20 d a stone, or there abouts.-Bear meal at 8 d a peck;-and pease
meal at 9 d.  But the price of grain is very precarious.


