
                          PARISH OF DUNSYRE.

               PRESBYTERY OF BIGGAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                    THE REV. MR WILLIAM MEEK, MINISTER. *
                    GEORGE C. RENTON, ASSISTANT.

	              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name and Boundaries.-VARIOUS etymologies have been given
of the name.  The most probable is, that it is compounded of Dun
and Seer, the hill of the prophet.  The place seems to have been
originally the site of a Druidical temple.
   The summit of the water-level, at the upper end of the parish,
where the stream, by a single turf, might be sent either to the Clyde
or the Tweed, to the Atlantic or the German Ocean, is 735 feet
above high water at the Broomielaw at Glasgow.  The parish is
bounded by Dolphinton and Walston on the south-east and south;
Linton on the east and north; West Calder on the north; and
Carnwath on the west.  The extent of surface is 17.25 square
miles, or 11071 imperial acres.  Its form is nearly a parallelogram,
having its longest sides lying south and north.
   Topographical Appearances.-The range of the Pentlands, which
commences in the vicinity of Edinburgh, may be said to terminate
with Dunsyre hill, after extending to the length of twenty miles.
This hill is precipitous and rugged, composed of the same stone as
Arthur Seat and Salisbury Craigs.  It rises about 500 feet above the
water level already stated; 1235 feet above high water at Glasgow.
From it a range of hills verges towards the west, which gradually
slopes into a flat towards Carnwath parish.  In the valley betwixt
Dunsyre and Walston ranges, runs the water Medwin, through a
tract of flat ground about a mile in breadth and three in length,
which in that distance falls onl about nine feet.
   There is a very large cave on the hill Craigengar, on the north-
eastern boundary of this parish, which is said to have been a chief
rendezvous of the gipsies or tinkers in this part of the country.

<FOOTNOTE>This Account was drawn up by the Rev. Mr Meek.


