
     Fala and Soutra.

north side of the hill, a little below where the hospital flood,
there is a fountain of excellent water, which was dedicated
to the Holy Trinity, still called Trinity Well.-This well,

<FOOTNOTE>

there is a small eminence or rising ground, still called Cross-
chain-hill.  It would appear that along this hill, and across the
Girthgate, there had been a chain suspended for a considerable
way, in the direction of east and west, to mark the boundaries
of the privileged ground.  Criminals, who had the happiness
to pass or cross this chain, however closely pursued, were safe
from every harm, and exempted from prosecution.  ALEX-
ANDER OF SOLTRA, OF SAUTRA, is mentioned as master of this
hospital in the year 1204; and, in 1292, PRYNNE, in his Col-
lections, styles RODOLPHUS, "Magister Hospitalis de Soitre."
JOHN HERIOT vicar of Soutra, is witness to several charters in
the year 1467.  Adjoining to the hospital, and under its juris-
diction, there was a church, dedicated to the Holy Trinity.
This circumstance has led some authors into the belief of Sou-
tra's having been a monastery; for under this appellation, we
find DOUGLAS in his Peerage, uniformly styling it.
   It does not appear, that ever this hospital was richly endow-
ed; though several donations were made to it, at a very early
period.  Among the first of these donations, was that of the
patronage of the church of Wemyss in Fife, made to it by SIR
JOHN DE METHKIL, an ancestor of the Earl of WEMYSS.  This
donation runs in the following words: "Dominus JOHANNES
"METHKIL, miles, etc.-dedisse, etc.-DEO, et ecclesiae Sanctae
"Trinitatis de SOLTRAY, magistro et fratribus ibidem DEO servi-
"entibus, etc, totum jus, quod habeo, vel habere potui, vel antecesso-
"res mei habere poterunt in ecclesia Sanctae MARIAE de WEMYSS,
"pro anima mea, et anima comitis DUNCANI, et pro animabus pa-
"tris et matris," etc. etc.  Though this donation has no date,
yet it appears to have been made in the end of the reign of
King WILLIAM, who died in the year 1214.  It was afterwards
confirmed by Sir John's heir and successor, MICHAEL de
WEMYSS.  We find another donation, but of what nature is not
certainly known, made to it, by Sir DAVID de GRAME, to which
Dominus ALEXANDER SEATON, of the noble family of WINTON,
and Magister THOMAS de SEATON, are witnesses.  This charter
of donation has likewise no date; but it appears to have been
made between the years 1226 and 1230.  Sir JOHN de KEITH,
Great Marishal of Scotland, confirms to Soltray, a donation of
the lands of Johnston in East Lothian, of which he was supe-
rior, in the beginning of the reign of ALEXANDER III.


