
762                       FIFESHIRE.

heritors to adopt such other method in building the church, as they
shall be advised, and in that case the sale to be made in virtue of
these articles to be null and void." The sale of seats realized
L.3428, and the estimate for executing the plan was L.2740. It
would appear, however, that by extra work, changes on the plan,
law-expenses in settling disputes with the contractor, and addi-
tional work to make the church sufficient, the whole of the money
was expended; for a gallery was afterwards sold to the kirk-ses-
sion for L.205, 11s. and a small assessment additional was requir-
ed to settle the accounts. No detailed account of these money
transactions can now be found; and it is commonly said, that no
such account was ever rendered by those who took charge of the
business.
   Hitherto there have been no free sittings in the church. The
kirk-session have charge of the communion or table-seats con-
taining 160 sittings, and a gallery, which they purchased with
poor's money, containing 200 sittings. These sittings have
hitherto been let, and the rents applied in maintaining the
poor. As this exaction in parish churches has been found to
be illegal, it will, in future, be discontinued, and these sittings
will be free. All the rest of the church is private property,
and is occupied or let by the proprietors. Great inconvenience
is experienced by the letting of sittings being in the hands of a
great number of proprietors. It is difficult for those who want ac-
commodation to find out where sittings may be got; and families
coming to the parish often find it exceedingly difficult to get them-
selves accommodated, not so much because there is no room, for
the church is not filled, (the average attendance will be from 1200
to 1300), but because they cannot find proprietors willing to let
their seats. Pews of eight sittings have of late been selling for from
L.40 to L.50. This is a virtual exclusion of the poor from the
area of the church, in which these pews are situated, for they can-
not acquire such pews; and those, whose worldly circumstances
allow them to advance such a sum for church accommodation to
their families, are often unwilling, by receiving a rent, to admit to
sit beside them their less opulent neighbours.

<FOOTNOTE>An accident, attended with great loss of life, happened in this church in 1828.
The Rev. Edward lrving of London was to preach on the evening of the sacrament-
al Sabbath, and the church was densely crowded before the hour when worship was
to commence. Before he entered the pulpit, the gallery upon the north side of the
church gave way, in a moment and without warning, and precipitated not less than
250 individuals upon an equal number in the area below. "The scene," says an
eye-witness, "that immediately ensued baffles all description. The cloud of dust
that arose, the prayers and supplications for mercy, the howlings, the groans and la-


