
                                   GREENOCK.                           409

      and neither in them- nor in the town is sickness more frequent or
      more fatal than in other places similarly situated.
        Hydrography.-Under this bead, the river Clyde is the only
      object deserving of notice in a statistical account.  The Shaws
      water, bein- an artificial accumulation, appears to fall more pro-
      perly under another head, and will be treated with the minuteness
      which its great importance deserves.
        The Clyde at Greenock, and for several miles above the town,
      is a frith or estuary ratber than a river,-tbe width from the Ren,-
      frewshire side to the opposite coast varying from three to four and.
      a half and five miler.  In the middle of the frith there is a sand-
      bank, which, commencing almost immediately below Dumbarton
      Castle, or about nine miles above Greenock, and running Jongi-
      tudinally, terminates at a point nearly opposite to the western ex-
      tremity of the town, well known to merchants and others by the
      name of the 11 tail of the bank." , During spring-tides, part of
      this bank opposite to the harbour is visible at low water; and the
      depth of the channel on each side of this bank is such as to admit
      vessels of the largest class.  Between Port-Glasgow and Garvald
      point a remarkable promontory, about a mile and a half to the east-
      ward of Greenock, the high part of the bank to which we have
      referred, is separated from the upper portion, (part of whibh, oppo-
      site to Port-Glasgow, is also dry at low water') by a narrow chan-
      Del significantly called the 11 Through-let," through which the
      tide, passing from the lower part of the frith in a north-easterly
      direction, and obstructed in its progress by Ardmore, a promontory
      on the Dumbartonshire side of the river, rushes with such impe-
      tuosity as to produce high water at Port-Glasgow a few minutes
      earlier than at Greenock.  The submarine island which is thus
      formed, and which is bommonly called the Greenock bank, to-dis,
      tinguish it from the high part of the bank ovDosite to Port-Glas-
      gow, was granted by His Maiestv's Government to the corpora-
      tion of the town of Greenock, during the magistracy of the late
      Mr Quintin Leitch.  The charter by the Barons of Exchequer is
      dated 30th September 1816, and contains the following words
      expressive of the object which the corporation bad in viei*,10 ap-
      plyingfor the Lrrant:-11 Pro propositoaedi6candi murum, vel acqui-
      rendi ad ripain antedictam ex; Australi latere ejusdem quantum ad
      Septentrionem eadem possit acq'uiri."
        It may be necessary to mention, for the information of strangers,
      that the southern channel is the only, one for vessels passing to and
      from the different ports on the river, the freatest depth of water in


