
			    PENPONT.                          505

in the healing of diseases. It seems to have been looked upon as
a perpetual Bethesda, for its waters were reputed to be efficacious.
in the cure of every disease, but especially of cattle subjected to the
spells of witchcraft. It was not necessary that the person ailing
should himself visit the loch. This might often have involved consi-
derable hazard; and if the prudent alternative had not been adopted
of employing a deputy, the number of cures consequent upon their
use would probably have been considerably diminished. To accom-
plish the end desired, however, the deputy was required to observe
certain rules. He had to carry a part of the dress of the person
ailing, or of the furniture of the animal bewitched, as an offering
to the spirit of the loch. Whether any of the contingent virtue
might not first accrue to the raiment from lustration in the loch, is
not declared. But when the person had reached it, he had to
draw water in a vessel, which was on no account to touch the ground,
--to turn himself round with the sun,--and to throw his offering
to the spirit over his left shoulder,--formalities all indicative of a
Druidical origin,--and to carry the water, without having once look-
ed back, to the sick person or animal, to be drank. All this, more-
over, was to be done in absolute silence. Like the prophet's ser-
vant, the messenger was to salute no one by the way. If, after an
observance of this ritual to the very letter, expectations were some-
times baulked, is it uncharitable to suppose that the temptation to
violate the injunction of silence sometimes proved too strong for
the virtue of the messenger? Whether the inefficacy of the water
may be ascribed to any defect in the prescribed form or to another
cause, it certainly is now of no longer avail even to cattle, unless,
perhaps, to the fleecy flocks that pasture beside it. Yet it is not
long since the virtue of Dowloch was put to the test, as indivi-
duals are now alive of undoubted veracity and intelligence, who
have seen the votive offerings floating on the lake, or scattered
around its banks. And to such a degree had the habit prevailed in
earlier times, that Mr Murray, the minister who lived till 1736,
was regularly in the habit of debarring from the sacrament those
who had engaged in the heathenish practice.
	The particulars of this somewhat curious history are partially
confirmed and illustrated by an expression still to be met with in
the neighbourhood, but at one time said to be proverbial. When-
ever an individual did not return the usual civilities, on being met
upon the road, or who, when addressed, whether in the day time
or under cloud of night, found it convenient to keep silence,
        DUMFRIES.                   Kk


