
240                            RENFREWSHIRE.

the largest in Scotland whose roof is unsupported by pillars, is
surmounted by a lofty, as well as a handsome spire, which attracts
the eye at a great distance, and the Levern, which is the smallest
of the Paisley churches is picturesquely situated on the left bank
of the river which gives it its name.
   Parochial Registers.-As previous to the year 1736, the whole
of the district comprehended in this article was included in one
parish, there was then only one parochial register kept.  From
that register, we find the minutes of the kirk-session as far back
as November 1699.  In the first volume, which brings down the
minutes to August 1706, a number of leaves appear to have been
torn out.  The next volume commences with the minutes of Ja-
nuary 1710, and ends in February 1775.  A volume appears to have
been lost, containing the proceedings of the kirk-session between
February 1775 and March 1792.  With the exceptions noticed,
the minutes are complete, from their commencement in 1699 to
the present time.
   The registers in the burgh parishes have been regularly kept,
from the opening of the different churches, each parish having a
distinct register.  The sessions of the three endowed parishes in
the town, however, meet together on particular occasions, for all
matters connected with the poor, when they form what is called
the general session.  Each of the three kirk-sessions has a clerk
of its own, elected by the town council in consequence of special
contract; but the clerk of the Abbey session is chosen by the
members of the court themselves, which is also the case with
the clerks of the sessions of the unendowed churches.
   In the Abbey parish the registers of births have been regularly
kept from 1676, and proclamation, of banns from 1670, to the
present day.  In the burgh, one register was kept from 1738 till
1781.  At that period, when the burgb was divided into three distinct
parishes, separate registers were ordered for each, and they have                                   e       VD
been kept with great accuracy from that date to the present time.
   Baptisms and marriages, as well as births and proclamations of
banns, are registered.
The early records contain many curious notices of manners, and
of the passing events in civil and ecclesiastical history.  A few of
theme are given in the subjoined extracts :-

<FOOTNOTE>19th Januar 1694.  The presbitrie being informit by thair brother, Mr Patrick
Hamiltoun, that Robert Aitken and Robert Miller, parochiners of Locliquinnoche,
superstitiouslie behaved yameselves be ringing of girdilles ye day of January ; as also
that Hendrie Paslay, Robert Paislay, Rot. Patoun, and James King, in Muirdykes,


