
to near 3000 feet above the level of the sea.  The principal are,
Ben Cornachantian, Corafuar, Craiginlenue, Aich, Dhu, &c.
These are intersected everywhere by glens wildly picturesque. As
we advance from the south-eastern boundary of the parish north-
ward, the Frood, already referred to, first crosses our way. Glen-
froon, well known in Septtish story as the scene of a bloody con-
flict, fought in 1603, between the clans of Colquhoun and Mac-
Gregor, is but partly situated within Luss.  The Froon flows in-
to Locblomond, nearly opposite the southern end of Inch Murren,
the most considerable and the southmost of its islands.  Parallel
to Glenfroon, on the north, and separated from it by a mountain
range, already referred to, is Glenfinlass.  The sources of the Luss
and Finlass are not far from the upper extremity of this valley.  The
Luss diverges from it by taking a direction rather to the north of
east.  The streams of Finlass and Luss are about three miles apart
at their termination in Lochlomond.  Lastly, at the northern boun-
dary is Glen-du-glass.  At Inveruglas, or the mouth of the Duglas,
is the ferry of Ruardinnan directly opposite, at the foot of Benlo-
mond.  All these valleys intersect the mountains in an easterly
direction, and discharge their respective streamlets into Lochlo-
mond.
  The flat land, which is by far the smaller portion, lies in the
south-east.  It extends along the lake from the southern boundary
to Ross-dhu, the seat of Sir James Colquhoun, Bart.  A consi-
derable part of this land is almost perfectly level, another part,
gently undulating; the rest slopes with a more or less gentle ac-
clivity, till it is lost in the bold, abrupt, or rugged ascent of the
mountains.
  From the village of Luss southwards, the lake near the bank is
in general neither rocky nor very deep.  Northward towards In-
veruglas, it is much deeper, and the bank in many places is rocky.
To the north of the village, the mountain rises with steep ascent
from the very bank of the lake.  The lake in general has a muddy
bottom.  From the southern boundary are a succession of head-
lands, called Rosses, along the flat district, projecting a small way
into the lake. They are Nether Ross, Middle Ross, Ross-finlass,
Ross-dhu and Ross Arden.
  lsland.--The islands of lochlomond included in the parish of
Luss are, Inchlonaig, Inch-tavanach, Inchconachan, Inchmoan,
Inch Galbraith, lnchfriechlan, and a few other very small islets.
Inchlonaig, now occupied as Sir James Colquhoun's deer-park, is


