
             146                        ELGINSHIRE.

               Boundaries, &c.-This parish, as its ancient name imports, is a
             peninsula; bounded on the north, by the Moray Frith; on the south,
             by the lake of Spynie; on the east, by the river Lossie; and on the
             west, by the parish of Duffus.  It is in form a parallelogram; in
             length about four, and in breadth about two miles.   It is low or
             flat, and, excepting on its northern boundary, approaches nearly to
             a level.  Its southern boundary, stretching along lake Spynie,
             through the canal of which the tide now flows, is cold and swampy.
                The low drained fields consist of rich loam or marly clay, and
             bear heavy qrops of every kind of grain; the lighter grounds rest
             upon a substratum of gravel, or upon pure white sand.    The qua-
             lity of the ground is various, and the transition from the very
             best to the worst so sudden, that scarcely twenty acres alike are to
             be found.  About a square mile in the centre is of the very worst
             description.  It never was good,-commons seldom are so ; but
             what was naturally bad, was made worse, by peeling and paring off
             the surface for fuel, as often as its stinted heath would hold the turf
             together and enable it to burn. To hide the nakedness of the
             land, part of it has been planted with firs or pine, but why in plant-
             ing it they did not study beauty or utility I know not ; it would
             puzzle any one to account for its zig-zag direction. This oddity in
             the way of ornamental plantation, and another patch or two of firs
             in the southeast corner of the parish, are our only plantations.
             Neither oak, ash, elm, birch, nor any -of the deciduous tribes have
             been attempted, though more likely to succeed on a low maritime
             coast than pine, which only comes to perfection on more elevated
             grounds, and at a greater distance from the sea.  Fossil oaks have
             frequently been found, and of great dimensions; and Oaken-head,
             (the name of a farm adjoining these plantations,) would indicate
             that oak, natural or planted, once flourished there.
                The sea, at some distant period, it is manifestly seen, cover-
             ed all the low lands of Drainie.  As it retired it left behind a
             beach or strand of polished water-worn stones, now from eight
             to twenty feet higher than the surfate of the present arable fields;
             and this high beach not only guards as it were the opening on the
             north between the Causea and Coulard hills, but extends on the
             east from Lossiemouth to the lake of Spynie.  The mass of water-
             worn stones, hurled together between Canal bridge and Kay's
             bridge, is perhaps the greatest of its kind in Britain.
                Coast.-On the east, fronting Spey's Bay, the coast is flat and
             low; the sea at ebb in high tides recedes a mile from the river


