
                        ALLOA.                                 41

a remarkable fact, that, in the year 1680, there were 1300 commu-
nicants in the parish church, a number somewhat above the pre-
sent average.  Parent are becoming more and more careless as to
the registration of their children, the want of which is frequently felt
by individuals of every rank. It ought to be more generally known,
that, by the 10th of Queen Anne, cap. vii. sec. 6, 1711, commonly
called the Toleration Act, parents may be compelled to " enter
the births and christenings of their children in the register books
for christenings, belonging to the respective parishes in which they
live."
    Antiquities.--In the year 1828, an ancient Roman burying-
ground was discovered, when the old road between the minister's
grebe and Mar's hill was repairing. There were then found above
twenty sepulchral vases or urns of coarse pottery, very rudely
ornamented.  They contained burnt human bones, and were pla-
ced in an inverted position, with the mouth resting upon a piece of
flag-stone.  There were also found two stone-coffins, each of about
3 feet in length.  They were composed of flag sandstones. It ap-
pears that, in that remote age, those bodies which were not burnt
were doubled and put into the stone coffins.  In this instance, the
bodies appear to have been those of men of distinction, as a pair
of pure gold bracelets or bangles was found in each of the cof-
fins.  They were highly polished, but devoid of all ornament.
The workmen who found these supposed them to be coffin handles
of brass, and paid little regard to them; but at the very instant,
a pedlar, a stranger in the district, having joined the workmen,
took advantage of their ignorance, and bought the one pair they
had then got, for a few pounds.  The Antiquarian Society
of Scotland, upon learning the circumstance, put advertise-
ments in all the newspapers, offering the pedlar a reward if he
would return them; but the bracelets never appeared.  The other
pair, exactly similar, were found in the custody of one of the work-
men, from whom they were purchased by Mr Drummond Hay,
Secretary of the Antiquarian Society, for twenty guineas; and they
are now lodged in the Antiquarian Museum at Edinburgh.
   The cemetery on Mar's hill is the third tumulus that has been
discovered, within these forty years, in the immediate vicinity of
Alloa.  It is, therefore, not improbable that Alloa is the Alauna
of the ancients, although there is little positive evidence concern-
ing the true site of it; and that this cemetery, which rises on a


