
                      AUCHTERGAVEN.                          431

where his tall and venerable appearance, with his cocked hat and
high gilt-headed cane, is still fresh in the recollection of the in-
habitants of that city.  He was buried in the family burying-place
at Auchtergaven.  William Lord Nairne, in whose person the title
was revived in 1824, was succeeded by his only son, William, born
in 1808, and died unmarried in l837, an event by which the title
has become extinct in the male line. *  The principal residence of
this ancient family was situated at Loak, in this parish; and the
House of Nairne is still spoken of as one of the finest seatso of the
Scottish nobility.  After the forfeited property was purchased by
the Duke of Atholl, this residence was demolished; and the only
vestige of it which now remains is part of the orchard, with a green
mound planted, which terminated one of the avenues; but there
are persons still alive, who, amid the levellings of the plough and
harrow, can point out the various localities, the favourite walks of
the " last Lady Mary," her sylvan bower, the clear pebble well, of
which the stream still flows, the old tborn tree and the bowling
green in which Lord Nairne marshalled his clan before they march-
ed to join the Prince at Perth.  The exploits of the Lord Nairn
who embarked in the rebellion of 1745 have been celebrated in
verse. +
   While Lord Nairne and other noble chiefs were feasted in the
Castle of Strathallan, Callum Dhu, a formidable bandit, who had
for some time haunted Methven wood, was talked of.  When the
castle clock rang the hour of ten, the company broke up; and
Lord Strathallan urged Lord Nairne not to return home that night,
as he might encounter the robber, his dreary way lying through
the wood and across the rtream where he had his cave.  Attend-
ed, however, only by his servant Clarke, be mounted, and hasted
homeward.  He met the robber, and after a desperate duel, he slew
him, and carried home, his head as a trophy of his victory. He had
received a wound on his shoulder, which his servant wrapped
a bandage to restrain the flowing of his master's blood.
   The Old House of Nairne having been consumed by fire, a
new mansion was erected at great expense, nor was it completely

<FOOTNOTE> " By the death of John Nairne, which lately took place at Brussels, Ba-
roness Keith becomes heiress to his barony.  Being a female title (Lady Keith hav-
ing no sons,) it will descend to her daughters, and the family will assume the name
and arms Naine."-Perth Courier for 11th January 1898.
    + " Nairn, a poem founded on fact, with notes and assedotes illustrative of the
manners and customs of natives of Nairn, or Stratharde, in Partshire,in the
eighteenth century, ia the title of a legend on this subject, by James Anderson,
Perth, printed by Cresur and Son, 1825.


