
                           CHIRNSIDE.                       129

   The stipend, as modified on 19th May 1830, is 17 chalders, half-
meal, half barley, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   The church is attended by about 200 families; and there are
about 400 communicants. The number of families attending the
chapels of Dissenters and Seceders is 74.
   Education.-There is one parochial and two unendowed schools,
--the first attended by about 70 scholars, the others by about 88
The parochial schoolmaster's salary is L. 34: fees probably L. 30,
and he has the legal accommodations,-besides 5 per cent. on the
poors funds, for his trouble in collecting and disbursing thereof.
He teaches, besides the ordinary branches, Latin, Greek, French,
and practical mathematics.
   Library-- A circulating library, consisting of upwards of 500
volumes, well chosen, was established in the parish about thirty
years ago.
   Friendly Societies.-Of these there are two: one of which is
without capital,-the money being collected when necessary. It
was established in June 1808, and consists of 180 members. L. 6
are allowed for the funeral of a member,-and L. 3 for that of his
wife. The other society was established in September 1817, and
consists of about 60. The quarterly payment to it by each mem-
ber is 1s. 6d.; and each member, when sick or superannuated, re-
ceives a small stated allowance.
   It may be proper to add, that, a few years ago, another society
was formed, which is now dissolved. It was called the Cow Society.
Those persons who kept a cow entered into a mutual agreement,
to contribute a small sum to assist any member who might lose his
cow by disease or accident,-that sum being always under the
value of the cow lost. It is proper to state, that the reason of this
was to prevent carelessness or willful injury to the cow.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of enrolled poor is
55; weekly payment to all, L. 5, 5s.; amount of yearly assessment
on heritors and tenants, L. 270; monthly cess of the parish, L. 68
18s. 4d. Scotch. There are no other funds applicable to the poor.
   Inns or Alehouses.-Of these there are five in the parish.
   Fuel.-The fuel used consists for the most part of coal from
Northumberland, with which there is now a ready communication.

   July 1834.

BERWICK.                          I


