
248                     BERWICKSHIRE.

generally adopted by those who are not very accurate in their ob-
servations is placed a little to the eastward of its proper position.
Dunse-Law is 630 feet above the level of the sea.
   Hydrography.-The river Whitadder runs along the northern
and eastern sides of the parish, and forms its boundary with the
parishes of Longformacus and Bunkle. The nearest point at which
it approaches the town of Dunse is distant two miles.-Langton-
burn, a rivulet, rises in the parish from which it receives its name,
and forming the southern boundary of this parish with Edrom,
joins the Blackadder a little below Wedderburn; through part of
which estate it passes.
   The Dunse spa, analyzed by Dr Francis Home about the year
1751, at which time it was in much repute, is now entirely neglect-
ed,-having sunk in reputation ever since it was analyzed. Its
waters having become mixed with the ordinary springs in the neigh-
bourhood are considered as destitute of any efficacy. This
spring, though called Dunse spa, is within the limits of the pa-
rish of Edrorn.
   There is an artificial lake near Dunse Castle formed about a
century ago, which is very ornamental to the place.
   Considering its distance from any river, Dunse is remarkably
well supplied with soft water. Till within these few years, its supply
of that article, so essential to cleanliness, health, and comfort, de-
pended entirely on a spring conveyed from the top of Dunse-Law,
and there was plenty of hard-water in wells dug in every part of
the town; but by the application of a considerable sum of money
bequeathed by the late Alexander Christie, Esq. of Grueldykes,
and the liberal permission of William Hay, Esq. of Dunse Castle,
an inexhaustible supply of excellent water, fit for all purposes, has
now been brought in pipes from a spring near the site of the old
town of Duns.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Cockburn-Law affords an interesting
subject of investigation to the geologist; and the following notices
are furnished by a friend well skilled in the science of geology, who
informs me that it is one of those detached hills which so frequently
occur in Scotland to perplex the geologist. The Whitadder en-
circles it on three sides, the rocks in the bed of the river being
principally greywacke and greywacke-slate, the characterizing rocks
of the transition series. The neighbouring hills are also princi-
pally composed of these rocks. Cockburn-Law itself, however, is
a great mass of unstratified rocks, the principal of which are por-


