
166                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

casionally accustomed to fishing; and all the females are accustom-
ed to spin yarn, principally with the spindle and distaff, and also
to make stockings.
   There are DO lands in the parish of Lochs, that can properly be
called arable. The plough is not used at all. The people rear their
crops on small detached spots, and cultivate the ground with spades.
That notorious implement of Scottish Highland husbandry, 11 the
crooked spade," is much used in this parish. There is not a suf-
ficiency of food produced in the parish, to support its inhabitants.
The wants of the inhabitants in this respect can always be relieved
at Stornoway,-wbere stores of every necessary are always kept by
the respectable part of the mercantile community. Indeed the soil,
but more especially the climate, is not favourable for agriculture;
yet, by giving due encouragement to industrious capitalists, in
granting them long leases, and the land at a moderate valuation,
the country would be greatly improved. - The parish would yield
a sufficiency of provision for its inhabitants; the money sent out of
the island for provisions would be kept at home; and, instead of the
people devoting their time indiscriminately to the mixed avocations of
husbandry, fishing, kelp-making, grazing, &c. each should have his
distinct and sei)arate avocation,-whicb, I am persuaded ' would
greatly conduce to the general welfare of the community. The
poor people are glad, at present, to have a spot ofground, at whatever
price, to ensure some food for the ensuing year; but while their
attention is divided, as we already noticed, they can be-stow on no
part of their avocation that attention which, under other circum-
stances, would ensure success.

               V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Post and Market-'Town.' There is no post or market-town in
the parish of Lochs: the nearest to it is Stornoway, which is eleven
miles from the church of Lochs. The only post-office in the is-
land of Lewis is in Stornoway, from whence there is a mail packet
once a week (weather permitting) to Poolewe, on the mainland of
Ross-shire.
  Roads, $Sc.- There is not a road of any desecription in any part of
the parish of Lochs. Every communication with the next market-
town, must be over the trackless heath or by sea. A line of road
was commenced at Stornoway in 1830, which is intended to
be extended as far as Harris, passing through the parish of Lochs ;
but that road has riot as yet been extended beyond the limits of the
parish of Stornoway.


