
8                            AYRSHIRE.

ced at their mouths, which maintain the complete command of the
current.  This work was effected with the view of recovering a
considerable extent of ground around the lake, by diminishing the
depth and extent of its water.  The effect contemplated has no
doubt been accomplished, in one view, by the diminution of the
surface of water to the extent of nearly one-half, but little advan-
tage has been gained, in consequence of the land recovered being
entirely useless by its channelly surface, while the lake has been
greatly injured in point of beauty and extent.  It is still, however,
much frequented in fishing excursions.  The Doon on its egress,
as above described, runs for nearly a mile through a rocky precipi-
tous chasm, overhung with trees and brushwood, along the bottom
of which a romantic sequestered walk has been cut for foot-pas-
sengers, where the rocks on both sides are so perpendicular and
rugged to a great height, as almost to exclude the light of the sun,
and to form a scene exceedingly sublime and striking.  The
scenery on its banks below Dalmellington is very tame, as the
river runs for several miles through a flat bog and meadow, with
hardly any declination of surface, and nothing to give interest or
variety to its banks.  When it reaches Skeldon, however, it as-
sumes, a very picturesque appearance, its banks rising in promi-
nency, and being well covered with wood; and these features it pre-
serves till it mingles its waters with the sea, two miles to the west
of Ayr.
  The Sea-Beach--Change in the Course of the Doon--The coast to
the same extent is much frequented by the inhabitants of the town
for air and exercise, and the walk, along the sands is always in-
teresting, on account of the healthful breeze from the waters, and
the never-failing attractiveness of a sea view.  The extent of coast,
however, within the parish, must have been more confined at one
time than it is at present, as the Doon seems to have joined the
sea much nearer the town than it does by its present course.  This
suggests a topic of considerable interest and curiosity ; but we have
little to aid us, not even tradition, in our inquiries respecting it.
There seems to be little reason to doubt, that formerly the river
had a different bed at the lower extremity of the parish from what
it now retains, and the alteration appears to have taken place im-
mediately below the lower bridge.  There are obvious indications
that, at or under this point, it ran along nearly the line of the present
road by the south of Gowhscraft nursery, and the eastern boundary
of the farm of Cunning Park,--that it diverged to the west of Sea-


