
                         INVERNESS.                                21

    parts of a building.  About 100 families are supported by sawing
    timber.
       Price of Provisions, &c.-Good beef sells in Inverness at from 4d.
    to 5d. per imperial lb.; mutton, from 3d. to 5d.; veal, 2 1\2d. to 5d.;
    pork, of which no great quantity is exposed, on account of the de-
    mand for cured pork for export and shipping, 3 1\2d. to 4 1\2d. There
    is an abundant supply of excellent haddocks, which sell at from
    three to six for 6d.; cod, from Id. to 1s. a piece, according to tbe
    size and quantity; superior skate, 3d. to 1s. each; herrings vary
    much in price, as boats only occasionally leave the fishery ground
    to dispose of this fish so far up the frith,-they sell at from ten to
    fifty for 6d.; salmon are as high as 1s. to 1s. 6d. per lb.,-the salmon
    fishers being under an engagement to send almost all that may be
    caught to the London market; grilse sell for 5d. Fowls, 1s. 6d.
    to 2s. a pair; chickens half-price; ducks 1s. 4d. to 2s. a-pair;
    geese and turkeys from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. each. Potatoes gene-
    rally 2s. per cwt. Shop goods sell pretty much as in other pro-
    vincial towns. House rents for the better classes are moderate,
    averaging from L. 15 to L. 50, and shops the same.  The wages of
    house-maids are L. 1, 10s. to L. 3 per half year-average L. 2.
    There are generally several country houses to let in the neigh-
    bourhood of Inverness at from L. 30 to L. 200 a-year, furnished
    and unfurnished, and with garden ground, office-houses, and grass
    parks, and other accommodations.
       Live-Stock.-The breed of cattle common in this parish is
    a mixed one of the old Highland, Morayshire, and Ayrshire
    kinds, and considerable attention is paid to their improvement,
    both for the dairy and butcher. A five years's rotation of crop-
    ping is generally observed, and the system of husbandry followed
    is of the most improved and description. Within the last twenty
    years a great extent of waste land has been drained and reclaimed,
    and much ground planted; but none of any consequence has been
    irrigated or embanked.
      Husbandry.-The general duration of leases is for nineteen years,
    though some do not exceed fourteen, or even seven years; and now,
    instead of allowing meliorations for improvements in buildings,
    proprietors are beginning to erect office-houses themselves on
    their farms, charging the tenants with a yearly per centage on the
    outlay. Most of the heritors farm portions of their: own estates,
    which are provided with excellent accommodations,-superior, of
    course, to the more plain but substantial squares of offices posses-


