
			DALRY.			223

	The custom of the "baal-fire" or "Tannel" is still observed on
the last of July, St Margaret's Day.  For some weeks previous, the 
boys perambulate the parish with large horns, soliciting contribu-
tions for the purchase of coals for the bonfire.  Formerly, it was 
customary ot have a piper, and dance a reel round the tannel, but
this has fallen into desuetude.  These bonfires are believed to have
originated in the baal-fires of the Scandinavians,and to have been
adopted, along with other Pagan ceremonies, by the Romish clergy,
and transferred to the anniversary of some tutelar saint,- no doubt
with the view of reconciling the people of Christianity, by incor-
porating with it the observances of their ancient superstition.
     	The game of kyles/f is a very popular amusement in this parish.
Curling is a favourite game; but, from the mildness of the winters 
for many years, an opportunity rarely occurs of enjoying it.
	Habits of the People, &c.-The people are generally cleanly in
their habits. Within the last fifteen years, a great change has taken
place on the dress of the people.  On Sabbaths they appear in a
style little if anything inferior to that of the inhabitants in the same
rank of life Edinburgh of Glasgow.  The ancient checked plaid
still maintains its place in the ordinary dress of females.  It is 
formed of red and blue or green checks, and worn over the head
and shoulders, hanging down if front.
	With some few exceptions, the farmers and proprietors commonly
take their principal meals along with their servants, who receive
the same treatment as their own families,- and in no part of the 
country are farm-servants more uniformly better treated than in
this parish.  The ordinary food of the country people is for break-
fast oatmeal porridge, made with whey, bread, cheese and milk.-
in winter, pork-ham is given instead of cheese.  For dinner, broth,
beef, potatoes, bread, cheese and milk, with variations of pork or

<FOOTNOTE>The kyles or keels are nine wooden pins turned out of ash, about a foot in length,
and two inches in diameter at bottom, tapering towards the top.  One of these is
rather thicker and two inches longer than the rest, and is denominated the king.  The
kyles are placed upright, about nine inches distant from each other, in three lines, the
king in the centre, forming a parallelogram, with the angle towards the player, who
stands about thirty yards distant, and aims a wooden ball about nine inches diameter
at the kyles.  Whether he overturns them or not he is entitled to another throw from
the place to which the ball has rolled.  The great difficulty in playing the game, and
in which the most skill is requisite, is to throw down the exact number which com-
pletes the game ; for instance should forty be the game, and one party stood thirty-
five, if the person whose turn it might be to play overturned six kyles, the party could
be "debuished;" that is, they resume their former position in the game, while the
"debuisher" would play the stroke over again.  The king counts no more should is
be overturned along with the other than a common kyle; but should it be struck
down without overturning any other kyle, a rare achievement, it is deemed equivalent
to prostrating them all.


