
330                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

roots of quickens, potato shaws, or such other suitable materials as
can most easily be procured, and upon this an inch or two of the
most tenacious soil dog out of the drain, which is all well trodden
down and compacted, so as to present an impenetrable barrier to
the incumbent productive soil, which is now thrown in, and the
process is completed. Notwithstanding the elaborate and expen-
sive nature of these improvements, there is not a doubt but that,
even as a mercantile speculation, they do abundantly repay the
landlord, and even the farmer, if he has a long lease; and without
that no farmer either would or should undertake them; but the
result will exhibit the fact better than any general statements.
   2. Subsoil Ploughing.--The field being all thoroughly drained,
as already described, the farmer, especially in the dryfield, is not
yet satisfied that he has done his utmost to the production of a
good crop. He therefore avails himself of the invention of James
Smith, Esq. of Deanston, and sets to subsoil ploughing his fields.
This is done by means of a large plough, in the shape of an old
Scotcb plough, without a sock, and generally drawn by four horses.
The method is the following: An ordinary two horse plough al-
ways goes before, taking the usual depth of furrow, which is fol-
lowed by the subsoil plough cutting to the depth-of about ten inches
deeper, and removing stones, at least all that do not amount to
more than from three to four hundred weight, besides stirring ef-
fectually the subsoil, so that it serves more easily as a percolator,
in permitting the surface water to find its way into the drains.
When the plough encounters a stone larger than the horses are
able to turn out, which is often the case, a lad following the
plough for the purpose, marks it with a tally. Crowbars are then
brought to bear upon it, and it is turned out, and broken to assist
in draining the same or another field. The quantity of work
done in a day by six horses and three men does not exceed, in
general, half an acre; but it completes the utility of the draining
system, and brings the productive powers of the soil into active
operation. Another advantage anticipated and realized by the
farmer is, that his manure, even in the wettest seasons, does not
wholly lose its influence; whereas in fine or moderate, it produces
its legitimate effects, and a good crop is always the consequence.
    Quarries and Mines.--There are three freestone quarries, Cats-
craig, Blackcraig, and Craigbeg, in which 54 quarrymen and 15
labourers are employed. The average wages of the quarrymen
are 15s. p6r week,-the labourers, 11s. In the mines the miners
have 15a. or 16s.; the labourers, 10s. 6d.


