
258                      RENFREWSHIRE.

rish, encouragement being held out to this, by the premiums an-
nually given by the Agricultural Society of Paisley.  The average
value of a good stock of cows may be reckoned at the rate of L. 11
each, some superior ones being valued as high as L. 20 each.  The
average quantity of milk yielded by a cow of the breed rdferred to
is about 1200 Scotch pints, or 600 gallons a year, which will pro-
duce about 130 pounds of butter, the value of which, with that of
the milk was, for the last year, about L.11.  To this is to be ad-
ded the sum of about L. 3 for manure, which will make the annu-
al produce of each cow about L. 14 Sterling.
   The few sheep reared in the parish are chiefly of the Leices-
tershire species.
   As the farms in the Abbey parish are situated in the neighbour-
hood of large towns and populous villages, the dairy produce forms
an important item in the returns made.  The milk is, in general,
converted into butter, and butter-milk, except in those farms in
the more immediate neighbourhood of the towns and villages,
where the cream only is churned, the skimmed milk being easily
disposed of.
   Crops.-The usual rotation of crops is as follows: oats out of lea
or after hay; potatoes or turnips, with 35 square yards ofgood farm-
yard manure, per imperial acre; wheat, barley, or oats, with clovers
and grass seeds, sometimes cut green, but commonly made into
hay.  The barley or oats are generally allowed a slight dressing,
with ash or short dung.  These remarks apply chiefly to the low-
er district of the parish, as the farmers in the higher seldom sow
wheat.  They generally adopt what is called the four-shift course,
sowing the blover and grass seeds along with the barley or oats
after the green crop.  They then pasture their land for three years,
which those in the lower district seldom do.  Oats are sown in
March or April, barley in April, or as soon after the oats as the
weather will permit, and wheat in September or October.  Lime
is generally applied on the lea, in the high districts, and on po-
tatoe ground in the low.  The iron plough is commonly used.  The
crops are generally got in in September and October; but this
year great portions of them, especially in the upper parts of the
parish, were in the fields till the month of December.
   Produce.-Upon the whole, the gross value of farm produce in
the parish, on an average of the last five years, may be stated as
follows:-


