
                           ROGART.                                  49

   Over the whole of the parish, rolled blocks of granites are seen in
great numbers on the surface; in some parts, if viewed from a dis-
tance, the surface appears covered with them. They are found no
less numerous under ground in hollows, where there has been an
accumulation of soil to cover them.
   Of the whole surface of Rogart, moss forms the largest propor.
tion. In some parts it is very deep, found often to a depth of
twelve feet. In those parts where its depth is less, its fresh ap-
pearance indicates rapid growth. The soil in the valleys, and
covering the sides of the hills, is sandy and gravelly. The land
abounds in springs; consequently, to be brought into a state of
culture, it requires to be intersected with frequent drains.
Plants.-The moors produce heather, deers'-hair and cotton-
grass, intermixed in proportions said to be highly favourable for
the feeding of sheep. The hills are covered with heather on the
tops, but on their sides a mixture of fine grasses is to be found;
and, around their bases, red and white clover, and mountain daisy,
are common. The meadows and straths are covered with the
meadow grasses prevalent in similar situations, and, where irrigated,
are very productive.
  Zoology.-Roe-deer may always be seen here, but not in great num-
bers. The red mountain-dear is occasionally seen crossing the moors
to or from the mountains north of this, which abound in that species
of animal. The gray mountain-hare is here common on the higher
grounds. The brown hare, and of late the rabbit, are found on
the lower grounds,-the former exceedingly numerous. Moor-
fowl are still abundant, though less so, it is said, than they have
been. Black game, which are said to increase as moor-fowl de-
crease, are become very numerous.
  Goats were once a part of the stock of the inhabitants, but they
have now nearly disappeared, giving way to more profitable animals.
There is a species of sheep, of small size, formerly the only kind
known here, still reared by the occupants of small lots of land, and
much commended for fineness of fleece and excellence of mutton;
but they are likely soon to disappear also,-those who have them
appreciating the better size of the Cheviot sheep.
  A great variety of trout is found in the lakes. Salmon, grilse,
and sea trout, are taken in the Brora and Fleet. The trout make
for the burns falling into, or issuing from, the lakes, in the month
of October, to deposit their spawn; and their spawning season lasts
  SUTHERLAND.


