
616                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

cattle, stated in the last Statistical Account at 625, is now about
1000, and the increase in weight is probably in a much greater
proportion; while the number of sheep has very much diminished,
there being now only a few of the black-faced kind kept by those
farmers who are close upon the bill.
   The farm-buildings are in general sufficient.  There are about
twenty thrashing-mills, most of them worked by water power, and
the drains and enclosures, in both of which, especially the former,
great improvements have of late been made, are kept in good order.
The fences are in general dry stone dikes; but the small holdings
are still mostly unenclosed.  The lower part of the parish is pretty
well accommodated with roads; but of its upper end the same can-
not as yet be said.
   Since the date of the last Statistical Account, the whole agri-
culture of this parish and district has been placed on a new footing.
The ancient cumbrous plough, with its five or six yoke of oxen,
whose whole force was often necessary to tear tip the wild and
matted surface, has been laid aside : the turnip husbandry, the
rotation of crops, the periodical cleaning and manuring of the
whole ground, and the sowing down of proper grasses, have dis-
placed the old infield and outfield practice; and the use of lime
has become universal, which, when applied in the small quantity
of sixty or seventy imperial bushels to the acre, is found to have
the very best effects.
   Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish may be estimated as follows:-

<TABLE>
            Produce of grain of all kinds,	.        .      L.4000
                    of potatoes and turnips,	         .        1300
                    of hay,	       .             .              1200
                    of land in pasture,	               .         900
            Garden produce,	        .                .            60
            Wood felled,	   .                       .         100
 								                ------
             Total yearly value of row produce raised,	    L.7560

   It may be added, that there are annually exported from the
parish about 6000 dozen of eggs, amounting, at the average price
of 4d. a dozen, to the value of L.100; and 186 cwt. of butter,
amounting at 6 1/2d. a pound, to L.564, 4s.  The quantity of cheese
sold is not great.  Altogether, however, the attention paid; in this
part of the country to these minuter points of " husbandry" or
" housewifery" is such as would have delighted the heart of old
Tusser to behold, and these results show that such, attention is
not bestowed in vain.  There is no manufacturing establishment


