
     Statistical Account

one of the most distinguished and active promoters of the Re-
formation, in consequence of an order from the States of Scot-
land, in a great measure demolished this venerable and magni-
ficent mornastery*.  The only entire ruins of the abbey, now
remaining, are a steeple and gable.  These were lately re-
paired, at a very considerable expence, by the present Earl of
Eglintoune.

   Masonry.-It is the remark of a historian, that from about
the beginning to the middle of the 12th century, the worship

<FOOTNOTE>

tronatus et advocationis ecclesiarum Sancte Marie, et Sancte Brigade, insole de Arran,
cum suis capellis et terris.  The charter is given at Kilwinning the 12th of Octo-
ber 1357.  In the reign of ROBERT III., Sir William Cunninghame of Kilmares,
"for the health of his own soul, and for the souls of his ancestors, gave, in pure
"alms, to the monks of this abbey, the land, of Grange."  In 1538, died
JAMES BETHUNE, Archbishop of Glasgow, and Commendator of Kilwinning.
He was succeeded, as Abbot of Kilwinning, by GAVIN HAMILTON, the last
Popish abbot of this place.  Abbot Hamilton was a firm and zealous friend of
the Queen Regent, and of her beautiful but unfortunate daughter, Queen
MARY; and was employed by them in several very important negotiations.
He was killed in the Canongate of Edinburgh, June 28th 1571.  In the year
1552, he made HUGH, Earl of EGLINTOUNE, justiciary, chamberlain, and bailie
of Kilwinning, and gave him a considerable salary for discharging these offices.
This grant was confirmed by the Queen+.

*The above Earl of GLENCAIRN obtained a grant of the abbey, and made
his son ALEXANDER commendator of it.  To him succeeded WILLIAM MEL-
VILLE, of the family of RAITH.  On his resignation, January 5th 1603, Hugh
Earl of Eglintoune got a new grant of the abbey, with all the lands, and titles,
and patronage of the churches at that time belonging to it, erected into a tem-
poral lordship.  At the Reformation, the revenue of the monastery, exclusive of
the property lands, amounted to 840 L. 3 s. 4 d. Scotch, 8 bolls of wheat, 14 chal-
der, 1 boll and 15 pecks of bear, 67 chalders of oatmeal, 13 stirks 140 capons.
100 hens, 268 cheeses, and 9 fathom of a peat stack.  According to the tradition-
ary account of the entire revenue of the monastery, it is asserted, that its present

+See public records, 21st book, chart. 79.


