
         14                             ORKNEY.


         agreeably varied by the frequent view of ships passing through the
         Pentland Frith, and vessels belonging to the country, on their
         departure and return.  The eagle is frequently seen soaring high.
         over the hills, and sometimes darts on the poultry about the far-
         mers' houses.
           Valleys.-As the parish is bounded on the west by a succession
         of hills and valleys, these valleys began to be cultivated soon after
         the division of the common, which took place in 1818, at the in-
         stance of the late Sir William Honyman, the principal proprietor;
         and twenty-six small farms have been cultivated in these valleys,
         where there had been no dwelling-house before.  In these valleys,
         the soil is in general rich and deep, and yielded rich crops from
         their first cultivation. In different parts of the valleys, the culti-
         vation has not yet been carried to the extent that it admits.
         There are small burns issuing from springs, and running in a south-
         easterly direction. At their sources, the ground is comparatively
         steep, and becomes more level, as they approach the shore.
           Caves.-These are few, and excite no great interest in the mind
         of the spectator.  In Houton head, there is a small cave in the
         face of the rock, the mouth of which is about 90 feet above flood
         mark, narrow at the entrance, but widening, and becoming higher
         towards, the inner extremity which extends to the distance of about
         14 feet from the mouth. It acquired some celebrity in 1803, from
         affording a temporary shelter to two young men in the neighbour-
         hood, who endeavoured to escape from being impressed.
           Nearly a mile east from the church, there are three small caves
         in the face of the rock Bernory, which rises to the height of about
         30 feet. One of them may be entered on foot at low water, and
         extends but a small distance under the rock.  The other two can
         be approached only by boat, extend farther under ground, and at
         the lowest ebb the sea is about two fathoms deep at their mouths,
         becoming, more shallow as the caves recede from the shore.   The
         sides are irregular, composed of sandstone; the roof a coarse spe-
         cies of freestone, and in general flat; the sides converging towards
         the top. On the sides and in the crevices, a few wild pigeons
         build their  nests, and lodge at all seasons.
           On the side of Scalpa bay, near the line of boundary between
         this parish and the parish of Kirkwall, there is a cave called the
         Salt Pans,  running parallel, to the shore to the distance of  twenty
         paces. The front has the appearance of freestone, pillars at irregu-
         lar distances about five feet high. Above and below, and also behind



