
                  AUCHINDOIR AND KEARN.                    409

and heavy stone, somewhat resembling granite in external ap-
pearance, but (unlike granite) susceptible of being split into slabs
of great thinness, and almost any length or breadth.  These form
excellent pavements for footpaths around farm offices, or for the
floors of kitchens or cellars.  The soil of these parishes is various;
towards the hills mossy and poor; but in the lower grounds sharp,
dry, and productive.  Where the upper soil is incumbent upon free-
stone, it presents a rich fertile alluvial loam.  Clay is found in many
places, sometimes in a pure state, but for the most part mixed with
sand and small stones, in different stages of decomposition.  In the
mosses, which are extensive, in the western quarter especially, there
is plenty of peat of an excellent quality, and in these mosses
there are not unfrequently found the remains of imbedded trees
of considerable size, chiefly firs, and sometimes oaks and alders.
   Zoology.-These parishes afford roe-deer, grouse, partridges,
snipes, and woodcocks; hares and rabbits.  Blackcock and ptar-
migan are sometimes seen.  There are also foxes, polecats, wea-
sels, and occasionally badgers; hawks, wild pigeons, and singing
birds of all the varieties known in the north of Scotland.  The
breed of cattle is mostly the pure Aberdeenshire; of sheep the
Scotch black-faced and Cheviot kinds.  The insects most common-
ly injurious are the wasp and caterpillar.  The former are usually
destroyed, by cutting the nest at night and letting it drop into hot
water, or by blowing it to pieces by a large charge of gunpowder.
The latter are never effectually removed but by regular hand-pick-
ing.
   Botany.-The writer of this article is not aware of any of the
rarer plants having been found in these parishes; but he has reason
to affirm that the mountains of Auchindoir and Kearn, and the
plantations and glens within their bounds, contain all the Scottish
varieties that are usually met with.
   The plantations are extensive.  On Mr Leith Lumsden's pro-
perty of Clova, there are several plantations of thriving Scots fir
and larch, and there remain a few specimens of the former
tree in a comparatively low situation, of which the size is large,
and the quality understood to be good.  On Mr, Granes es-
tate of Druminnor there are also promising plantations, though
of a lesser age; and in that part of the parish which belongs
to the Honourable Walter Forbes of Brux, there are similar
young woods.  Mr Forbes has planted over a very wide sur-
face, but mostly in the adjoining parishes, which do not fall


