
                   KIRKBEAN                 239

pearance, is also very tastefully kept, and highly ornamental to the
neighbourhood.

			III.--POPULATION.
	The population of Kirkbean is about 890. The number of in-
habitants residing in villages, of which there are four, is about 400.
The remainder are occupiers of the farms and cottages through-
out the parish.
	The yearly average of births for the last seven years is 20; of
deaths, 13; of marriages, 6. There may be about 30 people
above seventy years of age.
	The farmers, as a body, are as sober, steady, and skilful a set
of men, as are anywhere to be found. In point of professional
intelligence, they would do credit to any district in Scotland.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The number of acres at present under tillage
may be about 3680 Scotch, or 4623 imperial acres. There may
be about as many more, comprehending the mountainous district,
that never have been cultivated. About 600 Scotch or 753 im-
perial acres might, with a profitable application of capital, be much
improved by cultivation,--part of which is at present undergoing
a course of cropping, with a view to its being laid down in perma-
nent pasture; but the greater part is a sandy merse, covered
to a great extent with whins, and would require frequent crop-
ping, in order to keep it in a profitable state. There are, how-
ever, about 60 Scotch acres of rich merse land that might be
brought into constant tillage by embanking, and would pay well
for the capital expended, if judiciously done. There are about
673 Scotch, or 845 imperial acres, not in subdivisions, mostly Iy-
ing along the shore.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of the land under tillage is
about L. 1, 3s. 6d. per Scotch, or 18s. 8 1/2d. per imperial acre,
Some of the land being very light and sandy, and a portion of it
high, the rent of such land is low, but the good land gives a fair
rent; some of it as high as L.2, 10s. per Scotch acre, and a good
deal about L. 1, 10s. per do., while a great part of the bad land
does not give more than 12s. 6d. There is almost no grazing
land let for cows, but what is let gives L. 4 or L. 5; and good land
let in grass for the season, brings About L.2 per Scotch acre.
No sheep are grazed by the year. When pastured on clover
after hay, the charge is 3d. per week for each sheep, and 2d. for
each lamb of six months old. Such land, if there has been a fair


