
64                         FORFARSHIRE.

schoolmasters, who have all the emoluments and accommodations
which the law requires. Practical mathematics, Latin, and snme,
times French and Greek, are taught. Each of the schoolmasters
has the maximum salary, L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d., and handsome dwelling-
houses of two stories, lately built.
   The average amount of school fees received by the schoolmaster
at Strathmartine is L. 30; at Mains, L. 40 a-year. The yearly
expense of a scholar for learning merely to read is 10s.; when
writing is added, the expense is 14s.; with the addition of arith-
metic it is L. 1. The charge for Latin is L. 1, 10s.
   There are no persons belonging to the parish that cannot read,
and few that cannot write; but there are about sixteen children
employed in the spinning-mills, some of whom have not been
taught, and others can read very imperfectly. There is also a
female school endowed by Dowager Lady Ogilvy, and two others,
chiefly for sewing, taught by females. A subscription school in the
parish of Dundee accommodates a few children who are farthest
distant from the school of Mains; but, in general, the distance
from the schools is attended with little inconvenience.
   Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
is 28; but the greater number of them have families. The al-
lowances vary from L. 2 to L. 10 yearly. Four orphan children
receive L. 22, 2s. besides clothes. L. 16 is paid yearly to the
Dundee Lunatic Asylum.

<TABLE>

Annual amount of collections at the church for behoof of the poor, L. 82   1   1
                 dues of hearse and mortcloths,                        9  16   9
                 seat rents,                                          14   4   0
                 interest of money,                                   19   9   6
                 fines,                                                0  19   1
                 beadle's house rent,                                  3  10   0
                 contributed by heritors,                              9  11   0
                                                                    ____________
                                                                  L. 139  11   5

   There is certainly less aversion in the public mind to  receive
public aid than there was fifty years ago. With many, however, the
spirit of independence is not yet broken, and some are ready to
submit cheerfully to much inconvenience, rather than endure the
degradation of receiving public charity. In this parish some coals
are supplied gratis to the poor at the new year.
   Fairs.-There are two fairs held in the parish: one on the
26th of August, the other on the 15th of September. Sheep,
cattle, and horses, are exposed at these fairs; and servants are en-
gaged. The dues of one of the fairs belong to the town of Dundee;
                                 4


