

222	              DUMBARTONSHIRE.


half was afterwards divide between the families of Napier and
Gleneagles. Darleith was the property of the Darleiths, who are
said by tradition to have been hereditary followers to the Earls of
Lennox. The family having gone to decay, the estate was pur-
chased by Mr John Zuil, writer in Inverary, whose attachment to
the Covenant, and sufferings in its cause, are commemorated by
Wodrow.
  Antiquities.--There are very few remains of antiquity of any
interest in this parish. At Auchenheglish, on the lands of Auch-
indenanrie (now BeIretiro), was an old burying-ground, which was
used Within the last century. It probably belonged to a place of
worship which gave name to the field, and the ruins of which are
still pointed out when the lake is low, at a short distance from the
shore, having been overflowed by the gradual encroachment of
the water.
   A correspondent writes, that he "should be inclined to doubt
the existence of a church or any place of worship on the island
or rather the shore off the point of Auchenhoglish. In the
dry summers of 1825 and 1826, the alleged site was examin-
ed with great minuteness, the lake being very low at the time,
and aconsiderable part of the sbore being uncovered; but we
could not discover the slightest vestiges of any building or any
thing in the shape of foundation stone or wrought mason work
of any description. The church or chapel, it may be remarked,
stood on the high bank, immediately north of the Scotch and
silver, fir trees on the side of the road, where it quits the shore of
the lake at what is called Auchenbeglish brae,. where I am told
that one grave-stone- is to be seen, and the appearance of the foun-
dations of a building. A cross or other similar erection may have
been placed on what was probably, in former times, a low green
island, such as the Aberetle is now; but which is now merely a
shoal composed of large stones rounded by the attrition of the
water, few or none being of any size. The gradual rise of the
waters of the lake is quite undeniable. Witness the trees along
the lower side of the road through the BeIretiro property.
   "There is a collection of ancient tumuli on the high lands Of
Sommer, on the edge of the near, which has of late years been
planted with birch and Scotch firs ; the graves, of which there
may be from twenty to twenty-five, within an oblong of 200 feet
by 60, are of the usual description, fenced 6 by rude and undressed
stones. The covers have been mostly moved or destroyed. Some
                               3



