
         34                           NAIRNSHIRE.

         said to have been unknown to their forefathers. In their mode of
         dress, the women differ little, if at all, from their northern neighbours.
	 In former times, the younger women wore the snood, and,
         out of doors, in bad weather, a small handkerchief. Now the cap
         is common among them, and, in many instances, straw bonnets,
         which bid fair to supersede all other head dresses.  The matrons
         or elderly women wore formerly the "toy," which consisted of
         two long broad stripes of linen attached to a cap fitted close to the
         head. Now they wear the ordinary "nutch," which is still preferred
	 by the more elderly women to bonnets, which would be considered
	 by most of them unbecoming their station. Cotton, muslin,
	 and other manufactured stuffs now form the greater part of
         the female dress of the district; but the tartan, linsey-woolsey,
         and russet, of the olden time, have not fallen wholly into desuetude.
            The ordinary food of the peasantry is plain and simple. For
         breakfast, they take pottage made of oatmeal, and, in some cases,
         wbere it can be afforded, they use tea. Their dinner consists,
         variously, of potatoes and milk, sowans, kale and brose; and more
         rarely, of fish or brotb, and animal food.  A drink, called brochan
	 or gruel, suffices for supper, which, like all their other meals, is
         generally concluded with cakes of oatmeal, and milk. Living frugally,
	 tbey are generally happy and contented with their circumstances,
	 and enjoy the comforts common to their station.
           The peasantry are kind, obliging, and hospitable, especially to
         strangers, whom they readily welcome to their simple fare.  But
         they are hasty in temper, and prompt to resent an injury or af-
	 front, real or supposed.  Family feuds, which were formerly kept
         up among them, and caused many a broken head at markets and
         other gatherings, are now fast wearing away. They are not deficient
	 in intelligence, or in moral and religious feeling,-which
         is fostered by their habit of worshipping God in their families, and
         giving regular attendance at church.
            Poaching in game may prevail to some extent; and smuggling
         also, which was formerly more frequent, may still take place occasionally,
	 but very rarely.

       <TABLE=INDUSTRY>                   IV.-INDUSTRY.

         Number of males employed in agriculture, including farmers, cottars, and farm-
				servant, is		                      142
                   males employed in manufactures,                             12
                   males engaged in retail trade, or handicraft, viz. blacksmiths, 4; ma.


