
				FODDERTY.                                 251

        found in them does not seem to belong to the true coal formation. *

           The land towards Dingwall is heavy, approaching to clay. To
	the westward, it presents in many places a fine free loam or mould,
	partly black and partly brown, having a swinestone or gravelly
	subsoil.  And on the south side of the parish, it is generally black
	with a very retentive bottom, which renders it extremely wet in
	winter.
	   Botany.-The less ordinary botanical specimens which have
	been noticed are, the Pinguicula, lusitanica and Melampyrum sylvaticum,
        near Castle Leod, the Linnam borealis, in the woody
	part of the district of Brahan, and the Arbutus alpina, Saxifraga
	oppositifolia, Betula nona, Azalea procumbens, Alopecurus alpinus,
        &c. around Wyves. Both here and along the glens to the
	west of Castle-Leod, mosses, of every shade and colour, and of
        the softest texture, are to be met with in abundance. +
	   Zoology.-The rarer kind of animals which occur are the deer
	and roe-deer, also the fallow-deer from the policy of Brahan,
	the fox, martin, wild and polecat, stoat or ermine, and weasel.
	   The ornithology includes the ordinary sorts of game, together
	with the grey and golden eagle, which build on the Bealach Mor,
	or west end of Wyves, the merlin, kestril, herrier-hawk, also
	the falcon-hawk, which builds in Craig-an-Fhiach, the kite, buzzard,
        raven, hooded-crow, thrush, &c.
	   Black trout, some of which are of considerable size, are often
	caught in the Peffery, a small stream which runs eastward through
	the strath, and gives to it its distinctive name. And the river Conon,
        part of which belongs to the Honourable Mrs Hay M'Kenzie,
	and is connected with this parish, abounds in salmon. The quantity
        taken, however, has of late years diminished. This was supposed
        to be owing to the stake-nets in the Frith, which have been
	recently abolished. But these, if confined within low water mark,
	could rarely intercept either the kelts or fry, as the former, from
	their exhausted state, and the latter from their weakness, suffer

        <FOOTNOTE>Mr Witham informs us, that the coal of Castle-Leod is not true coal, but the
	mineral named slaggy mineral pitch, and that it occurs in veins traversing the gosis
        of the hill on which the castle is built.-Vide Memoirs of Wernerian Natural History
	Society. Vol. vi p. 123.
	   The Rev. D. M'Kenzie, one ofthe former. incumbents of the parish, surrounded
	the lawn in front of the manse with a hedge of the barberry.  However desirable
	as a fence, both from its beautiful appearance and its therny branches this shrub may
	be, it was found necessary to cut it down, as the corn sown near it on the glebe, and
	also to a considerable distance in the adjoining fields, usually proved abortive-the
	ears being in general destitute of grain.


