
     of Aberdeen.

   This town and neighbourhood is not remarkable for any
uncommon or epidemical disease.  A certain kind of pu-
trid sore throat, however, raged lately, and cut off many of

<FOOTNOTE>

the ministers, for a few years of the above period, took an account of the
whole souls in the part of the town under his charge, and was surprised that
those under the examinable age were so few in comparison.  From his lists
the number of souls in the other charges might have been nearly calculated,
but he neglected it at the time, and as he has been dead for some years, we
do not know whether any of his lists can be now recovered.
   The increase of inhabitants during the above period arose in a good mea-
sure from the introduction and extension of manufactures, and also from
the great demand for stones for paving the streets of London; which
brought a multitude of labourers from all parts of the country to Aber-
deen and its neighbourhood; and after that demand slackened, many of
these remained with their families in Aberdeen, as a proper place for ob-
taining employment as day-labourers.  Many likewise, who have come up
as patients to the infirmary, have, after being cured, settled with the same
view.  These circumstances have also contributed to a great increase of po-
pulation in the adjacent parts of the parish of Old Machar.
   For some years previous to the above period, there had been a considera-
ble increase in the population of Aberdeen, owing chiefly to the introduc-
tion of manufactures, but partly also to the extensive cultivation of land,
formerly waste in the environs, which found occupation for many addi-
tional hands.
   Aberdeen affords a signal confirmation of the vagueness of conjectural
accounts of the number of inhabitants of a town, and of its always far ex-
ceeding the truth.  For, during the above period, the writer of this account
happened to ask a gentleman who had been in a public station for near fifty
year, and had bestowed some attention on the state of the town, What
was in his younger days reckoned the number of inhabitants?  And what
the proportion between Presbyterians and Episcopalians?  His answer was
that the examinable persons were always reckoned at least 10,000; and the
Presbyterians and Episcopalians nearly equal in number: But for a few
years previous to the period of the above state, there had been a very great
increase of population, (in one of the three pastoral charges in one year, no
less than about 500), and yet at the beginning of that period they fell far short
of the number specified; and through the whole period the Presbyterians
were nearly to the Episcopalians as 3 2/3 to 1, and to all Dissenters together
(of whom the Secoders were originally Presbyterians) as 2 8/9 to one.


