
			DUNDONALD.                                683

for the dwellers in the other districts, they are left to find and for-
ward their letters as they most conveniently can.
	Railroads.--Of these there are two in the parish. The older,
which is more properly a tram-road, being formed of flat rails with
flanges, was constructed by the Duke of Portland in 1810, for
conveying coal from Kilmarnock to Troon. The principle is bad,
and it is standing in need of constant repair; yet, from the quan-
tity of coal conveyed, it still continues, we believe, a very profita-
ble speculation. The waggons are drawn by horses, and carriages
for passengers pass two or three times a-day; but more frequently
during the summer months. The other, the Glasgow and Ayr
line, passes through the parish along the sea coast for nearly eight
miles. The part from Ayr to Irvine was opened in the summer
of 1839. The whole line was opened in 1840. Since this
date, the whole system of travelling has been completely revolu-
tionized, as if by magic; and, when one hears of the paucity of
travellers a few years ago, which was insufficient to support a rus-
tic one-horse conveyance betwixt Irvine and Ayr thrice a-week,
and compares it with the numbers who are flocking to and fro at
all hours of the day, he is almost led to wonder what moving spi-
rit can have come over the people, and what they can have found
to do. A very neat and commodious station-house has been erect-
ed a mile from Troon, the nearest point of the line; but a branch
is now in progress to connect it with the harbour. Another sta-
tion-house has been built at Fullarton, on a more extensive scale,
principally for the accommodation of the Irvine passengers.
	Harbours.--Of these there are also two properly within the pa-
rish, those of Irvine and Troon. As the former in all probability
will be fully described in the Account of the parish to which it be-
longs, our remarks upon it shall be few. The date of its original
charter is very old; but it has not proportionately increased in im-
portance. The harbour being situate at the mouth of the lrvine
is secure from the winds; but the depth of water is only from 10
to 11 feet. The number of vessels belonging to the port is up-
wards of, 30, from 50 to 100 tons register each. The principal
trade is in coal, as will be seen from the following returns of im-
ports and experts for the year ending 10th October 1840. Im-
ports, barley, 225 quarters; milled do., 100 cwts.; beans, 1231
1174 5/8 quarters; wheat, 4026 7/8 quarters; flour, 1117 cwts. Ex-
port of coal, 43,693 tons.


