
                      DALRYMPLE.                               287

63 contributors from this parish alone, 36 males and 27 females,
principally composed, the former of tradesmen and servants, and
the latter of sewers and servants. The average amount yearly in-
vested is L. 73, and the amount withdrawn L. 41. This bank has
had the tendency to give most of the contributors industrious and
provident habits.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--There are at present 12 persons
regularly receiving parochial aid; and the average sum allotted to
each is 6s. 6d. per month; there are several also who are supplied
occasionally according to their necessities; and three orphans who
are maintained from the parochial funds. The annual amount of
contributions for their relief is about L. 70, of which from L. 30 to
L. 40 arise from church collections, the income from a mortcloth,
&c; and the rest is obtained from the landed proprietors.
	Alehouses.--There are two alehouses in the parish,--one in the
village, and the other on the road from Ayr to Dalmellington, and
about halfway from both places.
	Fuel.--The fuel generally used is coal, brought from the pa-
rishes of Stair, Coylton, Straiton, and Dalmellington. The dis-
tance of the nearest coal-pit from Dalrymple village is five miles;
and a ton of coals, including carriage and tolls, costs 13s.

                   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	In the former Statistical Account of Dalrymple, Mr Walker men-
tions that "the lower part of the parish is surrounded by little
green hills." These hills are now for the most part fruitful fields,
and yield luxuriant crops of oats, wheat, &c.; the remainder is
covered with thriving plantations of all the trees common to this
country. When the former Account was written, there was no wheat
grown in the parish. This is now, in the lower part, about one-third
of the grain crop. The fences, which consisted formerly of large
unshapen stones gathered from the fields, are now in a great mea-
sure superseded by hedges of thorn, beech and privet, which, with
clumps of plantations scattered throughout the parish, give it a
much more clothed and interesting appearance, and are, moreover,
highly beneficial in affording shelter to the cattle in wet and stormy
weather.
	Of upwards of thirty farm-houses and steadings, about one-
half have been erected in the course of this century, with con-
siderable taste, and at the same time for the comfort and conve-
nience of the tenants. They are built of rubble stone, slated, and


