
116                            LANARKSHIRE.

latry to be taken down and destroyed, viz. all superstitious pictures,
crucifixes, &c. both in private houses and in the Hie Kirk. Next
day it was reported that they found only three that could be cal-
led so, viz. the five wounds of Christ, the Holy Lamb, and a Pro-
nobis.
	On the 19th June 1641, the council directed the treasurer to
pay Mr Gavin Forsyth 162 punds for his bygone services in bap-
tizing infants within this city, and visiting the sick in the time of
the town's necessity, and for preaching God's word on Tuesdays.
On Ist December, the council enacted that some Holland cloth,
and Scotch linen cloth, with some plaids, as also two gallons of
aqua vitae, and four half-barrels of herring, be sent as a present to
Mr Webb, servant to the Duke of Lennox, as a testimony of the
town's thankfulness to him for the pains be took in the town's bu-
siness. The said day the Marquis of Argyle exhibited in presence
of the town-council, a commission from the secret-council anent
the transporting of 5000 men to Ireland, desiring the council to
provide boats and barques for their transport. After much rea-
soning, it was thought fit that the freight of each soldier should
be I pund, 10s, and that the soldiers and boatmen should have 6s.
in the day for victuals during the time they are at sea; the whole
to be paid by the community.
	On 13th April 1649, parochial sessions were first appointed;
but as these clerical courts assumed the power of censuring the
measures of Government, his Majesty, Charles II. put them down
by royal proclamation, and it was not till April 1662 that the legal
restriction was removed. On 6th July 1649, the kirk session inti-
mated that any person who knows any point of witchcraft or sorcery
against any one in this burgh, shall delate the same to some of the
ministers or magistrates.
	Oliver Cromwell having on 3d September 1650, got possession
of Edinburgh, marched to Glasgow, and took up his lodgings and
held his levees in Silver Craigs House, on the east side of the
Saltmarket, nearly opposite the Brigegate.
	" Cromwell having learned that Mr Patrick Gillespie, minister of
the Outer High Church, had the chief sway in ecclesiastical affairs,
sent for him, and after a long conference, gave him a prayer. On
the following Sunday he went in state to the Cathedral Church.
Mr Zachary Boyd, the distinguished paraphrast, having been ap-
pointed to preach, took occasion to inveigh against Cromwell, on
which Thurlow, his secretary, said he would pistol the scoundrel.
'No, no,' said the General, " we will manage him in his own way.'
				   3

