
928                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

the boundary of the parishes of Ellon and Methlick, which draws,
however, the principal part of its attendance from the parish of
Ellon.  Two of these schools are taught by males, and three by
females.  All the teachers, with the exception of one female,
who is an Episcopalian, are members of the Established Church.
The gross number of pupils attending the non-parochial schools
may be about 200.  Two of the schools in question, namely, that
on the boundary of the parishes of Elton and Methlick which is
taught by a male, and the female school, in the village of Elton,
each of which schools has a partial, though very inadequate en-
dowment, are remarkably well conducted.  The others, though
less efficiently taught, are attended with much advantage to their
respective neighbourhoods, as they afford, in their several locali-
ties, elementary instruction to children, whose tender age renders
them incapable of reaching a more distant seminary.  Even in
the inferior schools, there is no falling off in the care bestowed on
the religious instruction of the pupils.  In some schools of this
class, indeed, the Scriptures and the Shorter Catechism consti-
tute, as of old, the only school books.  While, however, regard
being had to the amount of good thus effected by teachers who
receive no adequate remuneration for their labours, it would be
unbecoming, and almost unchristian, to speak of the seminaries
conducted by them in terms of disparagement; yet, there can be
no question, that many of their more advanced pupils would de-
rive greater benefit from attendance at an efficiently taught pa-
rochial school.  Entertaining this view, the writer is happy in
being able to state that, through the munificent bequest of the
late Mr Garden of Ardlethem, means will soon be forthcoming
for erecting, in a suitable locality, and under such management
as affords the best guarantee for its permanent efficiency, an ad-
ditional endowed, if not, parochial school.
   The proportion of the population engaged in the business of
education, if we take as the data for our estimate, the numbers,
at any one time, in actual attendance at school, will be found to
be about one-eighth part of the whole amount.  But, as many of
the poorer children attend school only during the winter half year,
being employed in summer in the herding of cattle, &c., the gross
number of pupils enrolled, in the course of twelve months, will
bear a considerably larger proportion to the entire population.
The proportion, in the latter case, will be such, indeed, as to af-
                              4


