
42                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

an English commander, who was slain with his men there about
the year 815; but that this was Athelstan, the warlike King of
the West Saxons, must be utterly denied, if we have any regard to
the time and manner of his death." Tradition still points to the
place, near the ford of the brook, where Athelstan fell and was
buried.
   Extent and Boundaries.-This parish is four miles in length, and
about three in breadth, being on the south side somewhat irregu-
lar. In breadth it extends from the stream called Peffer, which
divides it from the parish of Dirleton on the north, and reaches in
one part to the river Tyne, where it is bounded on the south by
the parish of Haddington. It is bounded by the same parish on
the west, and on the east by the parish of Prestonkirk. The church
and village of Athelstaneford stand near the middle of the parish,
-three miles from Haddington, six from North Berwick, and nine
from Dunbar; the two last towns being seaports. The village
stands somewhat elevated, and commands an extensive view of the
adjacent country, of the Frith of Forth, the county of Fife, the
Bass Rock, and the Island of May.
   Topographical Appearances.-The low lands of East Lothian
have an undulating appearance; they are formed into large ridges,
lying east and west, and sloping gently toward the sea. On one
of these ridges stand the church and village of Athelstaneford.
The surface of this parish exhibits considerable inequalities, the
lower parts having most probably sunk down at an early period,
and the rocky places, left almost bare, retain their ancient eleva-
tion. The columns of rock lying at a gentle slope, and in some
places almost horizontal in the large knoll called Sydserf Hill, and
some very remarkable appearances near Balgone, the property of
Sir James Grant Suttie, afford striking indications that the low
lands of East Lothian do not now retain their former elevation. It
is certain the strata in most places in this neighbourhood have been
greatly disturbed, and are seldom found in their natural state.
The rocks in this parish are of whinstone and gray porphyry, the
last of which is exceedingly hard. No limestone nor freestone has
been found in this parish, and the coal, lying deep in the bowels
of the earth, has not as yet been discovered, though various at-
tempts have been made to find it. The quarries in this parish
have produced nothing remarkable, except some beautiful speci-
mens of rock crystal.


