
                         ROTHES.                       235

then impels to seek their fortune in other lands; and hence,
within the last few years, a good many have undertaken voyages
to America and Australia.\f*
               IV.-INDUSTRY.
   As the several properties in the parish have not been thorough-
ly surveyed, the exact extent of ground which lies constantly waste
or in pa3ture cannot be stated.  That belonging to the Earl of
Seafield is about 8280 imperial acres in extent, and to the Duke of
Richmond 625.  All the properties united do not exceed 12,000
acres. Though cultivation is, in a great measure, confined to the
more level ground near to the river, there are portions of the
hill districts carefully improved, and not at all unproductive. In
particular, the defile called the Glen of Rothes through which
the road from Elgin, the county town, is conducted, and which
is hemmed in on either side by lofty ridges of mountain, con-
tains several good farms in a high state of cultivation, yield-
ing abundant crops of grain. The quantity of land in the parish
still remaining waste or in pasture, which, with a profitable appli-
cation of capital, might be added to what is already cultivated,
does not exceed 300 imperial acres. The number of acres in a
state of undivided common is 625, which belong wholly to the
Duke of Richmond, and are pastured upon in common by the cattle
belonging to His Grace's tenants of Inchberry. The average rent
of the land per acre in the whole parish is about L.I, and the
valued rent is L.2497, 2s. 8d.
   The number of imperial acres on Lord Seafield's estates in the
parish, which are cultivated or occasionally in tillage, extends to
about 2200.  The extent of hill, moor, and moss ground, which
never has been in cultivatioa, and which remains constantly waste
or in pasture, is about 8280 acres. The quantity of land still re-
maining waste or in pasture, and which, with a profitable applica-
tion of capital, might be added to the cultivated land, does not ex-
ceed 200 acres imperial.    On this property, there is no undivid-

<FOOTNOTE>As an instance of the success consequent on honest and laborious industry,
which is characteristic of steady and prudent Scotchmen, we may here mention
somewhat of the history of Dr J. Simpson, of Worcester, a native of the pa-
rish.  Having finished his education at the University and King's College of
Aberdeen, he left the place of his nativity with little more than an empty pocket,
and the wide world before him. He proceeded to England, entered upon the profes-
sion of an academical teacher, and by his prudence, diligence, and perseverance,
blessed by Heaven, accumulated a very considerable fortune. The greater part of
this fortune he bequeathed, at his death, to the University of Aberdeen, and L500
to each of the parish schools of Rothes and Keith, for the purposes of education.
He died little more than a year ago.


