
BURNTISLAND.                           411

                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
The Town-council records are the chief source of information
regarding the history and anti ities of the parish. The Session
records are also of some use in this respect. Some of the follow-
ing details are derived from the Rteport on the Municipal Corpo-,
rations of Scotland.
Historical Notices.-It has been conjectured that Agricola's
army encamped on Dunearn Hill, on the summit of which is a flat
piece of ground, surrounded with an immense number of loose
stones, called according to the former account, Agricolas camp
or garrison. It is certain that that General explored the north
coast of the Frith of Forth, directing his attention particularly to
the barbours. 11 Portus classe exploravit trans Bodotriam," says
Tacitus, in the 22d chapter of his Life of Agricola. He could
scarcely fail to be struck with the natural superiority of the bar-
bour at this point, and may be reasonably conjectured to have
landed here.
Prior to 154 1, the town of Burntisland belonged to the Abbey of
Dunfermline. It was then exchanged by Jam-es V. for some la I nds
in the neighbourbood, and was proclaimed a royal burgb in 1568.
Before the Union, it seems to have been a place of considerable
importance. About 1656, KingborD, Kirkcaldy, Dysart, Wemyss,
Leven, Ely, St Monance, Pittenweern, Anstrutber, Crall, St An-
drews, and South Queensferry were all counted as members of the
head port of Burntisland; and the tonnage of the whole was esti-
mated at'1291 tons, divided over 46 vessels. About that period,
and previously, there seems to have been considerable intercourse
between this port and Holland.
In May 1601, the General Assembly met at Burntisland. On
this occasion, James VI. renewed his vows as a Covenanter. Hav-
ing confessed the errors that bad hitherto characterized his go-
vernment, be vowed, with uplifted hand, that he would adhere to
the religion presently professed in the realm of Scotland, that he
would oppose the efforts of its adversaries, and be more faithful
than he had hitherto been, in performing all the duties of a good
and Christian King. The members of Assembly also vowed, at
his request, that they would be more faithful in the. discharge of
their respective duties; and, that the people might be aware of th e
good understanding between him and the church, the mutual vow
was ordered to be intimated from the pulpits on the following Sab-
batb. At this Assembly, the King also suggested the propriety


