
                         MELROSE.                       65

It is more probable that the good soils, mismanaged by husband-
men ignorant of the principles of agriculture, and exhausted by
incessant cropping, would be found less productive that the worst
land when new broken up; and that, in the greadful famines to
which Scotland in "its warrior day" was liable, the culture of
grain, under the most unfavourable circumstances, would pay. The
number of acres which at present might be added with advantage
to the cultivated land cannot be ascertained; but whenever, in the
wild country, the farmer has a long lease, he generally makes dis-
coveries of pieces of good soil, by the culture of which he is well
repaid. Much of the land subjected to the plough during the war
prices of the grain has been thrown back into pasture; and much
that was even then left in pasture has since been broken up, so that,
through the judicious enterprise of able agriculturists, the parish
seems in the way of being brought in the best possible state for
profitably employing and drawing forth the virtues of the different
soils. An undivided common, we may add, is unknown. A por-
tion of ground in this neighbourhood, of about seven acres, well
worthy of this name, after having been for ages an ugly morass,
was lately drained, cultivated, and sold for L.700, which was dis-
tributed amoung the different tenementors who had claims upon it
in sums of L.39 each. The draining cost them 10s. a-head, and
was at first pronounce "a haver." Of this spirited understaking
Sir Walter Scott was the first suggester.
  The number of acres under wood is not less than 1200, and
there is no natural wood except a few straggling trees, chiefly
birches, at Torwoodlee and Colmslie Hill. A few years ago, the
custom was to plant a proportion of oak, ash, elm, sycamore, and
beech; but at present larch and oak are the rage, and a slight ad-
mixture of other trees. In twenty years, the thinnings of the larch
defray the whole expense of plantation,-the value of the ground
for pasture is doubled,-and the hard-wood with the standing
larches far exceeds the value of the ground on which it grows.
With respect to the management of the trees, it is only necessary
to state, that the greatest attention is paid to thinning, felling, and
pruning; and that in these, and all the other operations of plant-
ing, the most approved modes are followed.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land in the parish
is 15s. per acre; some lands being above L.4, and others not ex-
ceeding 5s. The average rent of grazing is L.4 a-year per ox or
cow; of pasturing, 7s. a-year per ewe or full-grown sheep.
 ROXBURGH.




