
430                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Hydrography.--The Black Esk, which divides this parish on the
south from that of Eskdalemuir on the on the north, for nearly one mile,
falls into the White Esk, at a place called the King Pool,* not far
from the farms-house of Bailiehill. The junction of these two
rivers forms the Esk, that runs through the parish, by many pic-
turesque meanderings towards the south-east, for the space of
seven miles till it reaches Dowglen-Cleugh; then it runs along
the north-side of the parish almost in the same direction till Craig-
Cleugh, a small stream, which divides this parish from Langholm
on the south, as Dowglen does on the north side of the Esk.
Within the bounds of this parish, thirteen burns or rivulets, from
the hills on the south side of the river, and nine from those on the
north side, besides the Megget and Stennis water, fall into the Esk.
The Megget and Stennis have their sources on the south side of a
ridge of mountains which divide the country of Dumfries from Rox-
burgh and Teviotdale. These rivers are separated by a ridge of
hills, and after running southward for six miles, they join at a place
called Crooks, and about half a-mile from this place fall into the
Esk, in the neighbourhood of Waukmill.
	Mineralogy.--The prevailing rocks in this parish are, greywacke
and greywacke slate.  Secondary trap is found on the summit of the
transition mountains, and generally in the shape of mountain caps.
Shell marl is abundant in the farm of Megdale, the property of his
Grace the Duke of Buccleuch. The pit is not of easy access, being
situated on the declivity of a hill. On that account, the marl is not
much used as a manure.
	An antimony mine, the only one in Britain, through not at present
in operation, was discovered in greywacke, at Glendinning, the pro-
perty of Sir Frederick Johnson, Bart. of Westerhall, in the year
1760, but was not regularly worked till 1793, from which time to
1798, it produced 100 tons of regulus of antimony, valued at L. 84
per ton, or L. 8400 Sterling.  The ore, which was in a state of sul-
phuret, yielded about fifty per cent. The vein, which seldom ex-
ceeded twenty inches in thickness, contained blende, calcareous
spar, and quartz.  While in operation, forty people were employ-
ed, who received from L. 23 to L. 26 annually, besides the grazing
of a cow at L. 1, and hay for fodder during the winter at 10s.
	Botany.--There are no particular plants found in this parish, of
an interesting kind. Around the pleasure-grounds of Westerhall,

<FOOTNOTE>It is said that in former times a Pictish King was Drowned in this pool,--hence
the name.


