
                         ELLON.                            905

   Parochial Registers.-Some of the parochial registers reach as
far back as 1630, but we possess a regularly kept continuous se-
ries of them only from 1711.  They contain a record more or less
full of the proceedings of the kirk-session, of the amount and dis-
tribution of the funds from time to time available for the relief of
the poor, and of marriages and baptisms.  From the negligence
of parents, however, the register of baptisms is in most cases far
from being complete.  A well digested Legislative measure, en-
forcing upon parents attention to the duty of registration, appears
to present the only effectual means of remedying the evil resulting
from such negligence.  A register of burials also has been kept
by the gravedigger for the last thirty years ; but as this record re-
spects only the numbers that have been interred in burying grounds
within the parisb, it can furnish but imperfect means of estimating
the actual amount of mortality.
   Modern Buildinqs.-Ellon Castle, although, with the exception
of the walls, it is now in a condition utterly ruinous, cannot be
classed as an ancient building, the greater part of it having been
erected about 1780, by the late Earl of Aberdeen, the father of
the present proprietor.  His Lordship made Ellon his principal
place of residence, and at the time of his death, in 1801, left the
castle, with the gardens and grounds, in a state of repair and order
befitting the rank and wealth of their former occupant.  At the
period in question, a considerable extent of ground in the neigh.
bourhood of the castle was occupied with thriving plantations ; and
though the castle itself could have never had much to recommend
it in an architectural point of view, yet, from the great capabilities of
its locality, it must have presented to the eye of the traveller, when
these capabilities were set off to advantage, an agreeable and in-
teresting object.  The present proprietor, who resides abroad, and
who has not for many years visited his property in this part of the
country, has, for what reasons the writer is unable to say, cut
down the greater part of the wood, and suffered his patrimonial
residence to fall into a state of premature decay.
   There is a substantial mansion-house on the estate of Eslemont,
in which the proprietor, Mr Gordon of Hallbead, usually resides.
It is a plain building, standing on the right bank of the Ythan,
about a couple of miles above the village of Ellon, and surrounded
by from fifty to sixty acres of plantations, tastefully disposed. and
carefully trained.
   The mansion-house of Arnage has its site near the centre of


