
440                       FIFESHIRE.

and their attendance at religious meetings, besides the ordinary
Sabbath services, is a favourable evidence of their religious cha-
racter.

<TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY.>

      The number of acres in the parish in cultivation is,  5035
                                        of pasturage lands,  290
                                        of planting,         595

  In general, the plantations consist of Scotch fir, larch, oak, elm,
plane, ash, and beech. They thrive well, particularly the oak, if
allowed sufficient room. On the north side of the parish, which
is higher and of less value, the plantations, though mixed with va-
rious sorts of bard-wood, are chiefly Scotch fir and larch; the
latter is rapid in its growth, and found to be very useful for many
country purposes. The plantations are under good management,
and regularly thinned, but the produce is small.
  Rent.-The average rent of land may be reckoned at L. 2 per
acre; the rate of grazing an ox depends on his weight and size,-
at three years old, and weighing 40 superficial stones, he may be
grazed for L. 2, 15s.; a milk cow, L. 3; and a full-grown Leices-
ter sheep, 14s.
  Live-Stock.-The cattle generally bred are what is termed the
Fife breed, but it is not considered pure. Of late, some farmers
have bred from sbort-horned or Teeswater bulls, which is reckon-
ed a great improvement, as the stock both milk well and feed well.
No sheep are bred except for private use, and these are of the
Leicester kind. Horses are reared chiefly for draugbt. Some of
a superior kind have been bred lately from Yorkshire coaching
horses, and have brought high prices for gentlemen's carriages.
A considerable number of hogs are bred and fattened. They are
of a smaller kind than formerly, being a cross of the Chinese, which
are easily fattened, and meet with a ready market.
  Husbandry.-There is little waste land in the parish, all having
undergone some degree of improvement, although in some places
much remains to be done. Increased attention is now given to drain-
ing; and considerable sums have been laid out on it, to great advan-
tage. Furrow or surface drains are becoming frequent, and are high-
ly approved. It is usual for the landlord to be at the expense of
opening and filling them, whilst the tenant defrays the remainder.
The general duration of leases is nineteen years. For the first
fifteen, the tenant, though taken bound not to deteriorate the land
by over-cropping, is otherwise unrestricted; for the last four, he
is tied down to a certain management and rotation, according to


