
                   DUNOON AND KILMUN.                587

woods seem to vie with the larch in vigorous and healthy growth.
Some of the other plantations mentioned have rather suffered from
want of attention to early thinning; but they have all of them
been, for several years past, attended to with great care, and the
favourable results are very manifest. It would, indeed, be dif-
ficult to say to which of the kinds of timber planted the soil and
climate appear to be most adapted, where all kinds may be said
to thrive so prosperously. The comparative value of the different
kinds in the market must vary with circumstances, over which land-
owners locally can have no control. But there can be no ques-
tion, that the soil and climate are adapted to the rearing and
growth of the oak,--tbe royal timber of Great Britain for which
timber its, markets will always afford demand, while it continues to
be the great maritime power of the civilized world. But little of
the parochial territory adapted to planting as much as the parts
of it planted already, has yet been turned to that use. Of the
ornament and shelter, not to speak of profitable returns which
planting affords, the lands of Castle Toward, Glenfinart, and Haf-
ton, in this united parish, are very striking instances. The late
Mr Finlay of Castle Toward pursued the system throughout of
planting the arable soils of inferior quality, while he improved, by
liberal and judicious expenditure, the richer portions, bringing
these into the highest state of cultivation by systematic farm bus.-
bandry.
  Zoology.-There are none of the rarer species of animals found
in the parish ; and the zoology is generally the same with that of
all other portions of the west of Scotland. Among quadrupeds,
the mountain red deer may be said to have become extinct, both
in this parish and in the whole district of Cowal; though, down
to a very recent period, the parish of Kilmun embraced a deer
forest, Coir'.an-Ti, on Benmore. The system of sheep farming
has no doubt conduced to this, causing the hills in the district to
be more frequented than formerly, both by men and dogs, distur-
bances which that noble animal brooks not. The late Kirkman
Finlay Esq. of Castle Toward, among his many improvements,
introduced a species of American deer into his grounds at Castle
Toward, where they thrive prosperously. It is an animal growing
apparently to the size and weight of an ordinary red deer, or
nearly, and is of a lighter colour, but not possessing (and what
animal does?) the noble symmetrical form and bearing of the red


