
                         KINTORE.                     665

which includes the allowance for communion elements.  The
teinds are exhausted.
   There are seven families of Protestant Dissenters in the parish,
and one family of Roman Catholics, comprising in all about thirty-
six persons.  The rest of the population adhere to the Church of
Scotland.  The average number of communicants may be stated
at 560.  On the last sacramental occasion the number was 600.
   There is a parochial Association for religious purposes.  The
funds, amounting to L.12 or L.14 yearly, are chiefly devoted to
the support of the General Assembly's Schemes; but some por-
tion of the annual contributions is always given in aid of other mis-
sionary objects.
   The two Sabbath schools in the parish are numerously attend-
ed.  One of them is taught in the church by the minister and
four assistants, the other in the Port Elphinstone school, by the
teacher of that seminary, and a well qualified young man, who as-
sists him, and occasionally supplies his place.  About 150 chil-
dren are usually in attendance at these two schools.  The Sab-
bath school library contains 200 volumes.
   Education.-In the parish school all the ordinary branches are
taught.  There are also classes for English grammar, geography,
and Latin.  The Scriptures are daily read.  The present school-
master has been in office since 1836.  His salary is L.30.  He
has a dwelling house, but no garden is provided by the beritors.
There is a good female school in the town of Kititore.  About
two years ago, Government aid was obtained for the erection of a
school at Port Elphinstone.  This is now a very thriving school,
but has no endowment as yet.  The number of children attend-
ing all these seminaries is upwards of 200.
   A legacy of L.260 has just been left by the late Mr John Bu-
chan of Aberdeen, a native of Kintore, for educational purposes.
The benevolent donor appoints that L.200 of this sum shall be
laid out at interest, and that the annual produce thereof shall
form an endowment to a school to be founded in the west end of
this parish where it is much wanted.
   In the town of Kintore there hs a subscription circulating library,
Among the young here, a taste for reading is very generally dif-
fused.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of ordinary poor in
this parish has considerably increased of late years.  But the pa-
rochial resources, supplemented as these have always been by the li-


