
     of Kildalton.

since public worship was performed in it.  There is at pre-
sent no appearance of any house near this church.  There is,
however, within the church-yard, a very large cross; and
there is another cross on the outside of the wall that incloses
the burying ground; and both of them have the appearance
of having been very long in this place.  This church stands
in the N. E. end of the parish, and within a few miles from
the entry to the Sound of Islay.  There is also, in the other
end of the parish, the remains of an old church, at a place
known by the name of Kilnaughtan.  The walls of this kirk
are very much decayed; and in a few years both the kirk
and the burying ground will be covered over with sand, that
is driven from the shore in great quantities.  There is much
of the burying ground already destroyed; for there is no wall
or fence around this burying place, and it is very difficult to
fence it, so as to prevent the sand from blowing over the
whole church-yard, as it is so near a stormy sea.  The greatest
past of the inhabitants are buried in this place.  The nearest
farm to this is called Baille Vicar, or the Vicar's Town; and
there is joined to this farm the clerk's patch, which is now of
some value.  There is, at the distance of 4 miles, a farm
called Baille Naughtan; and, as that farm is the centre be-
tween the two kirks, it was judged a proper situation for the
minister's manse.  These 2 farms are justly esteemed the best
land in the whole parish.  The church now employed for
public worship was built about 60 years ago, near this last
farm; and it is still a good edifice; only the roof wants some
repairs.  Public worship was performed here before the new
church was built.  There is a convenient manse near this church,
which was built a few years ago, and was lately plaistered.
Good office houses were also built within there 2 years.  The
glebe is large, and maintains, through the whole year, 12
cows, and 4 horses.  It produces 12 Islay bolls of oats,


