
520                      RENFREWSHIRE.

from the church, on Lord Blantyre's property, which have afford-
ed building materials for the new mansion-house at Erskine, for
the church, and an addition made to the matise in 1816. There
is also a freestone quarry on Mr Rodger's property, and several
whinstone quarries throughout the parish, which are chiefly wrought
to obtain metal for the parish roads.
  Fisheries.--There are two or three solmon-fisheries on the
banks of the Clyde, as it passes along this parish, but they are
not taken by any of the inhabitants; indeed, the produce of these
is so small as scarcely to repay the expense of the necessary fish-
ing apparatus. The right of all the s`lmon-fishings on the Clyde
belongs by ancient royal charter to the town of Renfrew ; and the
magistrates of that burgh, or friends authorized by them, occa-
sionally amuse themselves by a day's fishing at the different sta-
tions. Spirlings or smelts are now very rarely found, and the
large red trout and shrimps, which Dr Young mentions as being
formerly caught here, are now unknown. The salmon when
caught is sent to the Glasgow market, and sells from 6d. to 1s. 2d.
per pound.
                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

  Markets.-The nearest market-town is Paisley, which lies about
six miles distant from the east end of the parish. The inhabitants
of the west end usually frequent the markets of Port-Glasgow or
Greenock, which are respectively three and six miles distant from
them.
  Villages.-There are only two villages in the parish, both of
them on the Rossland estate, one called Blackstown, in Honour of
the mother of the present proprietor, and the other called Easter
Rossland, whi oh scarcely, indeed, deserves the name of a village, as
it consists of five houses, containing in all twelve families. They
are both situated on the line of the new Greenock road.
  Means of Communication.-At the post-office of Bishoptoun
there are three arrivals and three departures of mails daily, viz. arri-
vals, from Glasgow, 6 morning, Paisley, 2P.M., Greenock, 3 P. M.:
departures, to Greenock, 6 P. M., Glasgow, 8P. M., Paisley, 8 P.M.
In addition to this post-office, Lord Blantyre and his factor, the
minister; and several of the inhabitants in the eastern part of the
parisbil got their letters at the post-office at Old Kilpatrick, on the
north side of the Clyde, as this arrangement in many respects
proves most convenient to them. The mail is conveyed by gigs.


