
                            ST VIGEANS.                         509

   Here, as elsewhere, the privations of this class are sufficiently
distressing, and would be much worse, were it not for the employ-
ment given to their children in the factories. By this means, and
owing to the local advantages already-referred to, they contrive to
subsist; but when disease and old age supervene, cases of suffer-
ing in its most aggravated form, must and do occasionally occur.
The wages paid for the weaving of a piece of linen, which, in
1825, were 17s. 6d., are now 9s. 6d. The fall in the price of
canvas-weaving since 1836 has been 20 per cent. At present, a
first-class weaver working fourteen hours daily, cannot earn more
than 8s. 11d., and a second-class 7s. 1d. per week.
   At the present time, the number of duck-houses, or shops for
the weaving of canvas, is twenty, containing 242 looms, with the
usual proportion of starching births. These shops are, generally
speaking, low, damp, and ill-aired, which, combined with the long
hours the inmates are obliged to work, in order to earn even mo-
derate wages, can scarcely fail, with inadequate nourishment, to be
prejudicial to health, and hence the squalid appearance of many
of the weavers of sailcloth. The linen weavers are differently si-
tuated,-these, for the most part, having each his loom in his own
house, or in a small shop adjoining, where the air is less impure,
and altogether a greater degree of comfort is found; but they la-
bour under the disadvantage of having to provide and uphold their
own looms, or to pay rent if belonging to others, which is not the
case with the duck-house weavers. There are two items of ex-
pense, however, common to both, namely, for winding and ligbt,
and when these are deducted from their scanty and hard-won
wages, the pittance that remains is poor indeed. Of canvas-
weavers the number at present is about 450, of whom 40 or there-
about are women; linen-weavers, 732, of whom nearly one-third
are females. These are exclusive, of starchers, warpers, and fore-
men, besides a considerable number of aged women employed in
winding the yarns.
   The linen manufacture being the staple one of this district, all
pr most of the other trades carried on therein are subservient to
and more or less connected therewith. There are two works for
bleaching yarns (a few years ago there were four); the oxymu-
riatic acid or chlorine employed as the chemical detergent being
manufactured at the respective works. In one of them the resi-
duum,-black oxide of manganese, and sulphate of soda,-
remaining in tbe retort after the gas has been work off, is


