
568                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

Ogilvy; Sir Alexander Irvine of Drum, *  Sir Robert Maule, Sir
Thomas Moray, William Abernethy, Alexander Straiton of Lauris-,
ton, James Lovel, Alexander Stirling, and above five hundred men-
at-arms, including the principal gentry of Buchan, shared their
fate; + whilst Mar himself, and a small number of survivors, still
continued the battle till nightfall, when the slaughter ceased, and
it was found in the morning that the Island Lord had recreated, ++
checked and broken certainly by the desperate contest, but neither
conquered, nor very effectually repulsed.  Mar, on the contrary,
although he passed the night on the field, did so, not in the tri-
umphant assertion of victory, but from the effects of wounds and
exhaustion.  The best and bravest of his friends were stretched
in their last sleep around him, and he found himself totally unable
to purstie the retreat of the Islesmen.  Amongst those of the
Highlanders who fell, were the chiefs of Maclean and Macintosh.
with upwards of nine hundred men; a small loss compared with
that sustained by the Lowlanders.  From the ferocity with which
this battle was contested, and the dismal spectacle of civil war
exhibited to the country, it appears to have made a deep impres-
sion on the national mind.  It fixed itself on the music and the poetry
of Scotland.  A march called the Battle of Harlaw continued to
be a popular air, down to the time of Drummond of Hawthorn-
den; and a spirited ballad on the same event is still repeated in
our own age, describing the meeting of the armies and the death
of the chiefs in no ignoble strain. S  Soon after the battle, a coun-
cil general was held by the governor, in which a statute was pass-
ed in favour of the heirs of those who had died in defence of the
country, exempting them from the feudal fines usually exacted, be-

<FOOTNOTE>There is a tradition in the family of Irvine of Drum that the Laird of Maclean
was slain by Sir Alexander Irvine.  Genealogical Collections, MS. Advocates' Li
brary, Jac. v. 4, 16, Vol. i. p. 180.  Irvine was buried on the field, where in ancient
times a cairn marked the place of his interment, which was long known by the name
of Drum's Cairn.  Kennedy's Annals of Aberdeen, Vol. i. p. 51.  This cairn is still
in existence (1834) upon the field of battle, and is known by the name of Drum's
Cairn.
          Fordun a Hearne, pp. 1175-76, Extracta ex Chronicis Scotise, MS. fol. 257,
          Here it may perhaps be considered as not out of place to remark, that, in de
scribing the result of the battle of Harlaw, Mr Tytler has fallen into an important
topographical error in stating that the army of the Isles retreated "by Inverury and
the Hill of Benochie"-Inverury being in fact two miles south of the field of battle in
the rear of the Royal army, and directly on the road to Aberdeen, and the Hill of
Benochie being nearly due west from the field; whereas there is every reason to sup-
pose that the retreating army retraced their steps by the common route to the north
passing through the gorges of the Foudland hills, and that they fell back upon those
districts, from which their force had been so considerably increased, on their advance
southwards.
          Battle of Harlaw, Lang's Early Metrical Tales, p. 229.


