
			   YETHOLM.                           161

    means easy to ascertain in what manner the rock above described
    as the pitchstone-porpbyry, occurs in this parish. Apparently it
    is in the form of an irregular bed, or in detached masses subordi-
    nate to the felspar-porphyry. Possibly it may be connected with
    the great dike of this rock, which is described as crossing the Che-
    viot range some miles to the west of this, in a direction nearly east
    and west. Subordinate, also, to the felspar-porphyry, is the quartz
    rock which occupies the summit of Thirlestane hill, where both
    rocks are much intermixed with white steatite. On the same hill
    are quarries of the compact felspar rock, containing amygdaloidal
    crystals of calcareous spar, probably only a variety of the porphyry,
    which here occurs of every sort of colour and structure. The most
    remarkable rock on this hill, perhaps, is a partial deposit of the
    new red sandstone in thin strata of a grey and reddish-brown co-
    lour, hard and compact, but unable for any long period to resist
    the action of the weather. This rock, as you descend from the
    higher ground of Yetholm, towards the north and west, into the
    vale of the Tweed, soon becomes the prevailing formation, and
    where it first occurs, it is found resting on the felspar-porphyry.
    There is no appearance of metals of any kind in these rocks,
    farther than a considerable abundance of the sulphate of barytes
    and white steatite, in a rocky and romantic little glen on the top of
    Yetholm Law, called the "Tod Craigs," may seem to indicate
    the probable neighbourhood of copper or lead. From the cir-
    cumstances stated, there seems little probability that coal, or even
    lime, will be discovered in this parish.
	The bed of the Bowmont affords the finest sharp sand for build-
    ing. The natural embankments of the river are all composed of
    gravel. The soil on the lower parts of the parish, which is some-
    times of considerable depth, rests also on gravel. Hence in dry
    summers the crops are apt to be burnt up; and in moist seasons
    they succeed best.
	In the vale of Cherrytrees are probably an hundred acres of
    moss, which, however, have been drained, and are now under cul-
    tivation. The average depth of the moss is eight feet, in some
    places fourteen feet. Trunks of various trees, as willows, birches,
    but especially oaks of a black colour, and extremely hard, were
    discovered in it.
	Botany.-There are but few rare plants in the parish; and the
    whole range of the Cbeviots, indeed, disappoints very much the
    expectations of the botanist. In the vale of Bowmont are the
	ROXBURGH.                   L


