
	                           KINGHORN.                       819

	ceive half-yearly distributions at the winter and summer sacra-
	ments.  The average amount for their relief is L.121, 19s.  The
	church door collections have averaged, for the last ten years, L.30.
	Voluntary contributions, supplied by the heritors, have averaged
	L.70 per annum, and the interest on L.550 at four per cent., left
	to the kirk-session for the poor by the late Rev. James Henry,
	including L.100 left by the Rev. Mr Shanks of Castlerigg for the
	same object, after deducting stamp-receipt, amounts to L.21, 19s.
	making in all the above sum of L.121, 19s. annually.
	   There is no disposition on the part of the poor to abstain from
	seeking parochial relief.  There is an opinion gaining ground,
	that the heritors of the parish are obliged to supply the wants of
	the poor, which is affecting considerably both the church door
	collections, and the independent feeling which at one time had
	such a strong hold of our Scottish peasantry.
	   Prisons.-There is a strong and secure prison in the town-
	house, but there is not a prisoner in it, and it will not be of much
	use now, except for a lock-up-house, as the prison for punishment
	for this district is in Kirkcaldy.
	   Fairs.-There is a fair marked in the Almanack for Kinghorn,
	but there has not of late been a sweety stall erected on the street,
	on the day on which it is said to be held.
	   Ale-houses.-There is one good inn at Pettycur, and there are
	in the burgh nine spirit-shops and ale-houses.
	   Fuel.-The fuel chiefly consumed here is coal, which costs
	about 9s. a ton, and is driven in carts Lochgelly, Cluny, and
	other collieries, at an average distance of eight miles.
	   Inchkeith. This striking island, lying in mid-channel between
	Kinghorn and Leith, was, soon after the Reformation in Scotland,
	annexed ecclesiastically to the parish of Kinghorn.*  It is up-
	wards of half a mile in length, and it varies in breadth, being nar-
	row towards the south, but widening and increasing also in height
	as it approaches towards the north.  At its highest elevation, on
	which the light-house is built, it is 180 feet above the level of the
	sea.
 	   It has several springs of the purest water, and is rich both in
	its botanical and geological productions.  The soil is excellent,
	where, from the nature of the surface, it can be cultivated, and
	the pasture has long been esteemed peculiarly nutritious for cattle.
	 
<FOOTNOTE> Records of Presbytery, Kirkcaldy.

