
     Statistical Account

   Present State of Agriculture and Improvement.-The im-
provement and cultivation of land have made a rapid pro-
gress in this parish of late years.  The industry of the hus-
bandman, which lay long buried in a state of indolence, is
now roused from its profound lethargy, and awakened to
the most active exertions.  Ancient prejudices are remo-
ved, and the face of this parish is almost totally changed of
late, with respect to the mode of the management and culti-
vation of the soil.  The lands are now inclosed with stone
fences, and the several farms subdivided by stone fences, ditches,
or hedges, suited to the nature of the different soils.  The
farmers are now convinced of the great benefit of different
kinds of manure; and in proportion to their different abi-
lities, are active in the improvement of their farms.  The
indulgent spirit of the proprietors in giving the farmers
suitable encouragement, would soon bring agriculture to a
high degree of improvement.  The farmers have lately al-
most altogether changed that wretched mode of manage-
ment, in which their ancestors had obstinately persevered
for many centuries.  This will appear in the clearest man-
ner, from a state of this parish, and the mode of managing
the land about 60 or 70 years ago, different from the pre
sent, as afterward will be pointed out.  The first openings of
the great advantage of inclosing, subdividing, and improving
land here, took their rise from the example and active exer-
tions of the late John Dalyell, Esq; of Barncrosh, and a
proprietor of land in this parish.  He was the first who dis-
covered and made use of marl.  By this manure, he raised,
upon the poorest land, the most luxuriant crops of different
kinds of grain, to the astonishment of all the country a-
round.  He meliorated the soil, and raised the finest crops
of natural and artificial grasses of different kinds.  He gave
the first example of amending the breed of horses, black
cattle, and sheep.  The pasture being improved, he was


