
          BROUGHTON, GLENHOLM, AND KILBUCHO.                       93

provincial town will be facilitated, and the road will rival the best
in the kingdom.
  The mail from the south arrives at Brougton about half-past
twelve noon; that from the north reaches the same place at one
in the morning. Last summer, the Hero light-coach went and
came every alternate day.
  There is one toll-bar within the parish. The rates are , a horse,
3d.; cart with horse, 6d.; a gig or chaise with one horse, 9d; a
carriage with two horses, 1s. 6d.; with four, 3s.; with six, 4s. 6d.;
black cattle, per score 1s. 8d; sheep do. 4d., &c. The present
rent is L. 124. It was only L. 100 last year.
  The worst piece of road in this part of the Country is from Peebles
to Biggar through Broughton, but it is now in a fair way of soon being
in a state of good repair. From the coal-works at Ponfeith to the
Tweed in this vicinity, the tract is so level, that a rail-road or canal
could be easily formed. A great proportion of the waters of the
Clyde might, with very little effort, be brought to join the
Tweed.
  In the new road bill, it is proposed that a line from Peebles to
Biggar shall be formed, whereby every inequality of surface may
be avoided. Should this plan be executed, the English tourist
may begin at Berwick upon Tweed, and proceed along a compa
ratively smooth, level, and delightful road, enjoying the whole of
the beautiful and grand scenery of two of the finest rivers in the
kingdom, and terminate his land journey at Greenock, whence he
may voyage in steam-boats, and circumnavigate all the western
islands of Scotland.
  A survey has been taken of a rail-road from Glasgow to Kelso,
which would pass through this parish, or a little to the north of it,
to Peebles, and by the side of the Tweed to Kelso, and even to
Berwick. As there are several iron-works not far distant, the ma-
terial for the road might be had at a comparatively trifling ex-
pense.
  The toll-road within the parish is eight miles in legth: a pa-
rish road, part of the line from Peebles to Biggar, extends for about
three miles, and another parish road runs for three miles and a-half
through the southern part of Kilbucho, till it joins the roads lead-
hng to Biggar and Culter.
  There are three bridges along which the turnpike road runds,
one over Kilbucho, and another over Broughton burn, with a few


