
     of Kilmaurs.

the representatives of that noble family now have in the parish, where
their influence was once great, and their property extensive; with sub-
mission, therefore, it may be observed, that some attention is due to
the menorials of ancient greatness.  We regret that the most beautiful
structures of art cannot be preserved from the ravages of time, but
when they are suffered by neglect to fall into ruins, we cannot refrain
from censuring those to whom that neglect, with its consequences, are
to be attributed.
   A disposition to secede from the established church hath long subsist-
ed among the inhabitants of Kilmaurs: and this disposition was first ex-
cited by the following circumstance: About the 1712, Mr Hugh Thom-
som, then minister of this parish, demitted, upon the expectation of
being called to Stewarton, but was somehow disappointed; and either
his pride would not permit him to solicit a re-admission, or a majority
of the people, disobliged with his giving them up, refused it.  He re-
tired to a small property of his own in the parish, and on Sabbaths
preached sometimes at his own fire-side, and sometimes from a tent in
the fields, to as many of his friends as would hear him.  Five or six years
elapsed before another minister was elected; during which time Mr
Thomson had frequent opportunities of reconciling himself to many of
his former congregation.  After Mr Miller was chosen and ordained, Mr
Thomson still continued to preach in his own barn, or in the fields,
to as many as were willing to hear him.  Inconstancy, which always at-
tends the multitude, disposed some to go one way and some another;
directed by humour, local convenience, or by the influence of one upon
another, they attended sometimes Mr Miller, at other times Mr Thom-
son.  While they were in this fluctuating state, which continued long
after Mr Thomson and Mr Miller's death; Mr Smyton a young Anti-
burger Minister, made his appearance amongst them.  This clergyman
by the exercise of popular talents, or by the novelty of his declamations
against the real or supposed defections of the church, drew crowds
after him.  A congregation was soon formed for him, and a meeting-
house built.  He married a daughter of Mr Thomson's, and by her suc-
ceeded to the property of a very good farm which is still in the possession
of his heirs.  As nothing that is violent can be of long duration, so the
extreme ardour with which this man was followed, gradually abated,
and he sunk at last into the climate of cool estimation.  A dispute took
place between him and his associate brethren about lifting the bread in
the sacrament and holding it during the prayer of consecration.  Mr
Smyton insisted, that it is of religious obligation to observe this mode of
dispensing our Lord's Supper, and positively enjoined by the words of the
institution itself.  By his brethren, this action was considered as not

     3


