
                  MARKINCH.                              689

greatest amount (in 1834) being 130; the lowest (in 1802) 53.
Several instances of a longevity exceeding ninety years have occur-
red during the last twenty years; and one, a few months ago, who
had gon beyond ninety-six. The ardour of politics had carried
him, two years before, to a polling-place six miles from his habi-
tation.
  As to the general morals of the community, it were indelicate
to go into specialities of detail. Crime, as the term is usually un-
derstood, is exceedingly unfrequent. Petty breaches of the peace
occasionally occur, but will become rare, as the cause of temper-
ance gains ground,-and happily it does gain on the opposite vice,
-solicited as that vice is by a too promiscuous system of licensing
public-houses, the number of which is still excessive, and ought to
be reduced. The class of immorality that most falls under the
cognizance of the kirk-session has sensibly diminished; and, upon
the whole, the community has an improved moral aspect. This
is much aided by the excellent regulations maintained at the lead-
ing public works, whose proprietors insist on moral conduct as an
indispensable condition of being retained in their employment.
Several of them, too, have provided libraries for the use of their
work people, which operates in many ways in producing a benefi-
cial result. And, in proportion as the popular mind is well-in-
formed, it will cease to lend a facile ear to the propagators of opi-
nions subversive of virtuous order and religious obligation. The
parochial system, not less than other institutions of the land, has
of late years been exposed to unsparing aggression, and nothing
less than its ruin will satisfy assailants. We wish its downfall
averted, in the persuasion that it is a righteous instrument for pro-
moting an host of objects, each of which, we cannot help thinking,
is worth more than the most exaggerated cost of the whole!

                    ADDENDUM.
List of Heritors.- James Balfour of Balgonie ; John Balfour
of Balbirnie; Drinkwater Bethune of Balfour; J. E. Wemyss
of Wemyss Cartle;  Earl of Rothes; Mrs, Col. Paston of Barns-
lee;  United College of St Andrews; G. J. Lindsay of Kirk-
forthar ; John Landale of Man; J. Johnston of Little Lun; Johm
Lawson of Carieston; George Greig of Little Balcurvie;  Ward-
law Ramsay of Balcurvie;  C. M. Christie of Durie; J. Simpson

<FOOTNOTE>Those marked with an asterisk * are non-resident.

FIFE,                                               XX


