
    355                 TOBERMORY.

laide. A Sabbath school is likewise kept, -where about 200 boys
and girls receive religious instruction. There is likewise a pub-
lic news-room.
In the immediate neighbourbood of tbe  village Is a beautiful
loch called Mary's Lake, situated between two finely wooded hills,
extremely precipitous in their descent. This pleasing spot be
longs to Hugh Maclean, Esq. of Coll, who has improved it in a
manner highly 'Creditable to his taste and judgment, and erect-
ed the elegant mansion of Drumfirt, on the banks of the lake.
Toberniory is the only village in Mull or the neighbottritlg
islands of any consequence. Its trade is chiefly domestic, with a
tolerably good berriijg fishery. Here the Sheriff-..rubstitute holds
a court, and it is the polling place at county elections for all elect..
tors residing in the islands of Mull, Ulva, Iona, Tiree and Coll,
and in Morvern. A branch of the Western Bank is established
here.
In the sixteenth century, during the northern retreat of some
ships forming part of the Sp anish Armada, the Florida, one Of
these vessels, was blown tip and destroyed off the Harbour of To.
bermory, a plot. for that purpose having been planned and executed
under the direction of Maclean of Dowart, for which he obtained
a remission under the Privy Seal, as the records thereof bear
dated 2otb Mareli 1588-89. I'he timbers of tl-ie Florida are still
Occasionally brought up. Part of the wood of this vessel was pre-
sented by Sir Walter Scott to his Majesty George IV., on his vi,-it
to Edinburgh. Several attempts were made to recover the sunk
treasure: one in 1 688, by Sacheverel, Governor of Man, who fit-
ted up diving-bells, and tried them with success at the depth Of
ten fathoms. The report of the country goes, that he got tip and
recovered much treasure. -Another attempt was made in 1740-P
ky Sir Archibald Grant and Captain Roe, to weigb her by means
of divers and machinery. This attempt was unsuccessful, but
some guns were brought up. In this harbour, the good but
unfortunate Earl, of Argyle may be said to have wrecked abotit.
life and fortune, in the year 1686; for, at this place, he made
the first landing with his followers, in their fatal invasion,
pert with the unhappy Duke of Monmouth. On the west side
Of the town, are the remains of an, ancient chapel, dedicated to the
virgin, and of a fortalice of a circular form, understood to be of
Wegiati ordered About two; miles north from Tobertnory,


