
                             LANGTON.                   239

rish, containing about 4000 imperial acres, lies among the Lam-
mermoors, and is fit only for sheep-pasture. The rest is arable,
consisting of about 3000 acres, 900 of which are annually let as
grass parks. About 200 acres are covered by wood. Oak, ash,
elm, beech, birch, plane, Scotch fir, spruce, and larch, are the
kinds grown, and they are all in a thriving condition. The recent
plantations, which amount to about 100 acres, will soon afford im-
portant shelter to the various farms.
   Rent of Land.-The rent of arable land varies from 17s. to about
L. 3 per English acre. It may average L. 1, 7s. The average
rent of grass lately has been L. 3, 17s. 6d. per cow, L. 2, 1Os. per
ox, and 12s. per sheep. The cattle are chiefly of the Tees-water
breed, the sheep Leicester and Cheviot, with a few black-faced.
   Rate of Wages.-The yearly wages of a farm-servant are 10
bolls of oats, 3 of barley, 1 of pease, L. 3 in cash, and he has a
cow kept, which is equal to L. 6 more. While he is cutting and
carrying in the crop, his food is provided by the farmer. He has,
besides, a house, a small garden, and half a rood of land for pota-
toes, for all which he furnishes a labourer in time of harvest. He
also provides a labourer for hoeing turnips, &c. and for this he is
allowed 10d. per day.
   The wages of an unmarried servant, besides board, are L. 8 per
annum; those of a female-servant from L. 6 to L. 7, 7s. The
wages of shepherds are the same with those of farm-servants, ex-
cept that, instead of L. 3 in cash, they have a few sheep grazed,
varying in number according to the nature of the pasture.
   Day-labourers on farms receive from 8s. to 9s. per week. They
work ten hours in summer, and in winter as long as day-light lasts.
While the corn is carrying in, farm-servants are ready to work at
all times, labouring sometimes the greater part of the night.
Scarcely any class of men is more respectable than the farm-ser-
vants of Berwickshire. They are intelligent, industrious, and sober.
   Masons, in summer, work ten hours, in winter about seven and
a-half or eight. During the summer of 1833, they had 14s. per
week, and for the three preceding seasons 13s. For a short time
last winter they had 11s., but afterwards 1Os., which had been the
rate of their wages for three preceding years. Wrights work the
same number of hours with masons, and their wages are nearly the
same.
   Smiths are allowed L. 2, 10s., with the driving of a cart of
coals (valued at 8s.) for keeping up the iron work required for a
pair of farm-horses. This includes shoes, the iron work of a


