
                        EDINBURGH.                       757

In addition to the former springs, a new one was opened at
Crawley, on the south-east side of the Pentlands, nearly nine miles
from Edinburgh. Here a large cistern was formed, 45 feet long,
15 feet wide, and 6 feet deep, protected by outside walls and an
arched roof. From this cistern a main cast-iron pipe, varying
from 20 to 15 inches in bore, is carried along the valley of Glen-
corse to Milton Mill, where it passes through a tunnel a mile in
length; from thence it runs by Straiton, Burdiehouse, and Liber-
ton Dams, to the north side of the Meadows, where it again en-
ters a tunnel, and crossing the Grassmarket, enters a third tunnel
and passes into Princes Street, the whole length from Glencorse
to this spot being 81 miles. From this main pipe there are
two branches, one going to supply the reservoir in the green of
Heriot's Hospital, and the other the reservoir on the Castlehill.
The reservoir at Heriot's Hospital supplies the southern districts,
that on the Castle Hill supplies the Old Town or middle district,
while the New Town is chiefly supplied by the remainder of the
main pipe. A pipe also goes to supply Leith.
   The total supply of water is estimated at 298 cubic feet, or
1857 imperial gallons per minute.
   The expense of these works amounted to nearly L. 200,000.
It was considerably increased by the construction of the Com-
pensation Pond, a large reservoir of water formed by a deep
embankment in a gorge of the Pentlands. The object of this
reservoir was to intercept and accumulate the flood water of a
small stream, the Glencorse Burn; which overplus was given as a
compensation to the mills on the course of this burn, for the
waters of the Crawley Spring, now diverted into the city of Edin-
burgh. Notwithstanding this great additional source of water, it
was occasionally found that the supply was scanty; complaints
were made, too, that the city was sometimes supplied with impure
surface water, instead of that from the deep springs; and the un-
precedentedly dry season of 1842 caused an alarming stoppage of
water for days together. In consequence of this a new water com-
pany was projected, but again abandoned on a compromise with
the old company. A new bill was obtained in 1843, by which the
water company were obliged to fulfil a provision of the former bill,
and to bring in certain additional springs at Bevilaw, for the better
supply of the citizens, without increasing the rate of assessment.
   Previous to the introduction of water pipes the city was supplied,
by wells; and water caddies, or carriers, were regularly employed


