
                          EDDERACHILLIS.                         125

      Neither the whale nor the sunfish are captured on this coast;
   the former seldom in any part of Scotland. The latter used to
   be taken in considerable numbers on the coasts of the islands of
   Harris and Barra, through the dexterity of the natives harpoon-
   ing them at sea. The liver alone yields oil to the amount of 360
   gallons at an average.
      Crustacea and Shell-fish are to be had in great varieties and of
   superior quality, consisting of lobsters, crabs, oysters, mussels,
   cockles, welks, and limpets, also pearls in the rivers. The lob-
   sters are brought in large quantities to London, and allowed to be
   the best exposed in Billingsgate.
      Beasts and Birds of Prey and Vermin.-On this subject it
   may be remarked, that wolves were at one time numerous, and to
   avoid their ravages in raising bodies from the graves, the popula-
   tion had recourse to the Island of Handa as their place of inter-
   ment. This is the tradition of the country, and it is believed to
   be well founded. The destructiveness of the fox amongst the
   sheep is now most to be complained of. The otter amongst the
   salmon, and the common rat and mouse, could all be well dispen-
   sed with. No country produces finer specimens of the black
   mountain eagle, so hostile to lambs; ravens and crows also com-
   mit depredations.
      Reptiles.-These are, the adder (Anguis Eryx), lizard, toad,
   and frog. The first is injurious. The following instance is worthy
   of notice: Some years ago, Donald Morrisan, tenant, Ashare,
   was stung; and the effects gave rise to apprehensions of imme-
   diate death. When in the greatest agony, the captain of a strange
   vessel landed on the coast, who prespribed the following singular
   cure: a young chicken to be split or cut up alive, and instantly
   applied to the stung part. After the same treatment had been re-
   plied indicating by its swelling that it had absorbed poison. The
   individual who underwent this treatment recovered, is still alive,
   and enjoys perfect health.
      Botany.-The field for the botanist is rather limited. Profes.
   sor Graham remarks, that the Luzula arcuata has been found only
   in three stations in Britain, the summit of the mountains at the
   source of the Dee, Benmore in Assynt, and Fionnbbein, ranging
   into this parish.
      There are appearances of the whole country  having been at


