
          730                         PEIRTHSHIRE.

         the professional persons employed to conduct the search were
         bribed by proprietors of coal tnines in the south to abandon the
	undertaking.
	  A similar   experiment was made within these few years on the
	estate of Anthony Maxtone, Esq. of Cultoquliey, about two miles
	to the eastward of Crieff, and it was at first    ' attended I with seem-
	ing indications of a favourable result.     Another trial was recently
	made, and boring carried on by practical persons, on their own
	responsibility, for a considerable time on the lands of Lord Rollo,
	near Dunning, where it is also said favourable indications were
	discovered ; but, it is understood, the projectors did not receive
	ene ouragement sufficient to induce them to continue their opera-
	tions.  In 1837, nearly L.800 were raised in Strathearn for the
         purpose of making another trial at Tullibardine, and a bore was
	made to the depth of 40 feet ; but, from present appearances, the
	undertaking is likely to share the fate. of its predecessors. It must
	be observed, however, that Dr Thomson, in the previous article,
	states, that coal-beds are either awanting or buried at such a depth
	as to be unavailing, and other eminent professional men coincide
	in this opinion.   But still the object is, in every point of view, of
         such importance, as to merit a more combined effort upon the part
	of tbe landed proprietors, and of the inhabitants of the country
	generally.
           Soil--The soil is various.  On the low ground, it is in, general
	light and gravellv and the greater part of it, an both sides of the
	Earn, may be said to be of a free generous quality, admitting of be-
         ing easily pulverized.   The haughs or holms, provincially termed
        carses, on the banks of the river, which are of considerable extent
	are enriched by alluvial deposits formed by frequent inundations,
	and produce excellent crops, particularly of barley.  The rocks
         are areneraliv covered with peat, turf, or moss.  There is an ex-
         tensive peat-moss in Glenturret, on the estate of Ocbtertyre, the
	digging of which is limited to the consumption of the tenantry.
           Zoology-Quadropeds.-The sportsman will here weet with all
	the varieties of game common to those districts in the north of
	Scotland which present similar topographical appearances of moun-
	tain and dale, woodland and lake.  But there are no wild ani-
	mals of a  rare species peculiarly calculated to attract the curiosity
         of attention ofthe zoologist, if we except the Alpine bare which
	sometimes seen on the more elevated points of the parish ; it is
         of bluish colour in summer, and in  winter.  The roe fre-


