
			CARSTAIRS.			       557

mits, ploughing is generally well forward before the winter frosts
set in; and the fields are ready for sowing as soon as the vernal
months are propitious. The extravagant opinion of theorists,
" that nature never intended the land to rest,--that if it does not
bear crops it will produce weeds," has been exploded as wild and
chimerical; and every farmer finds it his interest to have as much
of his lands as possible in grass or pasturage. If farmers could be
induced to extend this practice, and never to have less than one-
half of their fields in grass, they wound find it still more conducive
to their interest; and the rich returns, when broken up and crop-
ped with the regular rotations, would amply repay the experiment.
Turnip husbandry has been particularly successful. The use of
bone-dust has been introduced, but it is not generally adopted.
In no part of the country are better crops of potatoes produced.
In favourable seasons many of the farmers have several hundred
bolls in the market; and they can always find ready sale at the
establishment of New Lanark, belonging to Messrs Walker and
Company. The soil, in general, is well adapted to the potato
crop; and our farmers are alive to the importance of a change of
seed,--a practice which, not being observed in other quarters, has
given rise to the most deplorable failures in this important neces-
sary of life. The Ayrshire breed of cattle is to be seen on every
farm. Upon some lands, which the proprietor retains in his own
possession, are to be seen a description of cattle which cannot be
surpassed in Scotland. The great improvement in agriculture
and stock, which not this parish alone, but Scotland as a whole,
now enjoys, is to be traced to the institution of ploughing-
matches, cattle-shows, and the like, which have excited a lau-
dable emulation among farmers,--the good effects of which have
terminated to their own advantage, and will continue to add to it.
	Thrashing-mills are in general use; and the painful and labo-
rious exercise of the flail is only to be seen in small pendicles.
Fencer, too, are much better than formerly; but still, in some
places, there is an evident want of attention to this highly useful
and ornamental part of husbandry. Thorns, indeed, do not thrive
well on the dry-sand soils; but in such soils as do favour their
growth, it is painful to see large gaps in the hedges, arising from
mismanagement and culpable inattention to the plants while young.
	Draning.--We may here mention that Mr Monteith has ex-
erted himself, in the most praiseworthy manner, to introduce agri-
cultural imptovoments. He has drained and improved the fields
in his own hands, and to such purpose as to double their value.


