
262                        INVERNESS-SHIRE.

Miss Flora Macdonald- The story of the heroic conductor Miss
Flora Macdonald in conducting the unfortunate Charles in the dis-
guise of a maid-servant from the Long Island to Monkstadt in this
parish, is so well known that any detail of it here is unnecessary.
   Many were the trials and severe the hardships which fell to the
lot of the gallant Miss Flora, subsequent to this adventure.  She
was soon seized and brought prisoner to. London, where she was,
with Kingsburgh, and many others, confined in the Tower.  All
admired the dauntless part which she had acted, and her case ex-
cited so much interest, that she was visited by the great and noble
of the land.  Among the rest, she had the honour of a visit from
Prince Frederick of Wales, great-grandfather of her present Ma-
jesty Queen Victoria.  This generous prince was so much struck
with the simplicity and dignity of the fair prisoner's character that
lie interested himself to procure her liberation. *  When she had
obtained her freedom, she found refuge in the house of Lady
Primrose of Dunnipace, where she was visited and loaded with
bonours by distinguished personages of all ranks and shades of
politics.  Returning to her native isle, she was married in the
month of November 1750, to Allan, son of Mr Alexander Mac-
donald of Kingsburgh, who resided at the time of his marriage at
Flodigarry, in this parish.  Upon the death of her husband's
father, his son, Allan, succeeded him, and Flora, then Mrs
Ailan Macdonald, became lady of the mansion of Kingsburgh.
She afterwards went to North Carolina with her husband, where
he took part in the civil war which then disturbed the peace of
that country.  After undergoing many hardships in that quarter,
they deemed it prudent to return to Skye.  The vessel in which
they sailed from America was met by a French privateer,and an

<FOOTNOTE>It is said that when Flora was liberated, she used her influence to procure the
liberation of Kingsburgh, as also of Donald Macleod of Galtrigal, and of Calum
mao lain whic lain, who went in the capacity of guide with the Prince from Rasay
to, Kilmorie in Strathaird.  It is said that Kingsburgh was arrested in the following
manner: Some days after the Prince was there, Captain Ferguson of the Govern-
ment war ship, cast anchor at the " Crannag," near Kingsburgh House, and, having
gone ashore, met Kingsburgh's dairy-maid attending dome cattle.  He entered into
conversation with the maid, and, suspecting that she, might have some news for him,
induced her to go to see the vessel.  When on board he treated her kindly, and gave.
head some little presents ; then asking her about various circumstances relative to
country news she not knowing who her entertainer was, told, with an air of pride,,
that she had seen Prince Charles; that he was a night at her master's house ; that her
mistress and other ladies who were there at the time, got beautiful locks of his hair; and
that his appearance pleased her much. This was all that Ferguson wanted, and. by
means of this imprudent disclosure on the part of the unsuspecting maid, the first
certain proot was obtained of the manner in which Kingsburgh had acted, as well as
of the certainly that ther Prince had landed in Skye from Uist.


