
                                 GLENSHEIL.                          189

       regularly ushers in the summer, and its young, found in the nest
       of the titlark, has been frequently reared but in no instance has
       it lived to utter its peculiar note.  The wryneck and woodpecker
       are unknown, as are also the kingsfisher, hoopoe, and creeper. The
       black-cock is rare; but the red grouse are rather numerous, and
       among the heaps of stones which occur on the higher slopes of the
       mountains, the ptarmigan is not unfrequently seen.  Partridges
       are not numerous.  The rock and wood pigeons occur, but rarely.
       The stare is also a rare bird.  The missel, blackbird, redwing, field-
       fare, and throstle are common.  The ring-ouzel is sometimes, and
       the water-ouzel frequently, met with.  The chatterer and gross-
       beak are unknown, but finches and buntings abound,-especially of
       the former genus, the chaffinch, bullfinch, sparrow, and linnet,-
       and of the latter, the common, yellow, and snow-buntings; the last
       named species generally appearing in large flocks, before the first
       snow of the winter. The wood and field-larks are unknown, but the
       skylarks and titlarks are numerous; as are also the white and the
       yellow wagtails, the red-breast, stone-chat, and wren.  The great
       and blue titmice are abundant.  The window swallow is a regular
       visitor, and the goat-sucker is sometimes heard.
         Of the class of waders, the heron, curlew, woodcock, snipe, sand-
       piper, oyster-catcher, and golden plover, are well known, the last
       occupying in great flocks the summits of the less elevated moun-
       tains.  The rare long-legged species (Himantopus melanopterus)
       has been found.  The corn-rail is familiar in the hay fields, and the
       water-hen occurs in the marshes.  Among the fin-footed birds, the
       coot and grebe are seen; and of the numerous tribes of web-footed
       birds, the guillemot and imber, the gull and the tern may be men-
       tioned.  The stormy-petrel has been observed, skimming over the
       sea, or floating on its surface when calm. The red-breasted goosan-
       der, the smew, and the cormorant, are often seen diving along the
       shores; the wild swan, in severe winters, visits the lakes; the lag-
       goose and the barnacle are not unknown ; and the mallard, teal,
       widgeon, and tufted duck are common on the lakes and loch.
         Fishes.- Among the inhabitants of the waters, of the cetaceons
       class, the herring-whale and the fin-fish, the dolphin, porpoise, and
       seal, are all occasional visitors.  Of cartilaginom fishes, there occur
       the piked and the spotted dog-fish, the skate and the thornback, the
       angler and the pipe-fisb. The sturgeon has been sometimes taken of
       a large size. Of the apodal bony fishes, may be mentioned the con-
       ger and common eel, and the lance or sand-eel: Among the jugular


