
70                           KINCARDINESHIRE.

kirk and Fettercairn, and certainly of Upper Banchory; but, as
no correct register has been kept of the range of either the baro-
meter or thermometer, it is impossible to institute a comparison
between the temperature of the parish and that of any other in the
county or in Scotland. * It is the general belief, that the winters
are more mild, in this part of Scotland at least, than formerly.
Since the severe winter of 1822-23, and pretty heavy falls of snow,
which kept the ground for a few weeks in 1827, and 1829-30,
snow has scarcely, at any one time, fallen to the depth of two
inches; and for several winters, scarcely so much has fallen as to
whiten the ground. On the other hand, the spring months are
colder than tradition reports them to have formerly been. The
autumn months, in this part of the island, are invariably fine; and
perhaps no months in the year yield so much enjoyment out of
doors as September and October. The temperature is now more
equable, during the whole season, than formerly, the winter less
severe and protracted, the summer less sultry, and the spring more
tardy and gradual in its approach. This may partly be accounted
for by the general drainage which has taken place over the whole
island, and by the judicious disposition of the plantations, which,
instead of forming, as on the continent, immense forests, here only
serve the purposes of ornament and shelter, without preventing the
free circulation of air, or the gradual evaporation which takes place
in an open and dry country.
	The climate may be described as dry; and, towards the upper
part of the parish, it is no doubt cold, particularly in the spring
months, but it is highly favourable to health and longevity. About
fifty years ago, before the marshy grounds were drained, the lower
part of the parish was subject to hoar frosts and mildews, which,
occurring during the month of August, when the corn was in a
milky state, often blighted the most promising crops, and blasted
the hopes and prospects of the farmer. At this period, the dry
gravelly soils, lying at a considerable elevation above the How,

<FOOTNOTE>The lowest point at which the present incumbent ever saw Fahrenheit's ther-
mometer, which is placed on the outside of a windows shaded completely from the
sun, and exposed to the north, was on January 22d 1820, when it fell to 7&deg;, or 2&deg;
below the freezing point, about 8 A. M. that morning, and continued so for nearly two
hours. The air out of doors was calm, but excessively keen and piercing. There
was a white frost on the ground in the morning, and the barometer stood at 29 3 3/10.
   December 26, 1830. The thermometer stood at 12/d1 at 9 A. M. About noon it
rose to 18&deg; and before 10 P. M. it was 30&deg;. The thaw that night was most rapid.
	The highest point that the thermometer was observed to reach at the Manse of For-
doun, was one very hot day in July, betwixt 1807 and 1810, the year cannot now be
exactly recollected. The thermometer in the shade was 84&deg; about 2 P. M.; in the
open air it rose to above 90&deg;.--Notes by Dr Leslie.
					3


