
664                     ARGYLESHIRE.

a greater supply of food is raised, but principally from a practice
which was allowed to go on for some years, of parents dividing their
land with their children, which is fraught with many evils, is highly
injurious to the people, and detrimental to the proprietor ; but in
all the leases which have been lately granted subletting is strictly
prohibited. A number of people have also congregated in the
village of Portellen, which contains at present a population of 673.

<TABLE>

   Amount of population in 1801,    1990
                           1811,    2269
                           1821,    2427
                           1831,    3065
                           1841,    3315

   The language generally spoken is Gaelhc, which does not ap-
pear to have gained or lost ground for the last forty years, as far
as can be ascertained.
   The customs and amusements of the people are similar to those
which generally prevail in the Highlands.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

  Agriculture.-The extent of land in the parish which is under
cultivation bears but a small proportion to what is waste, and might
be rendered productive by the judicious application of capital.
There are a great many acres under brushwood in the north-east
end of the parish, and a good many have been lately planted by Mr
Campbell, which are succeeding very well. The kinds generally
planted are, oak, ash, fir, plane, alder, horse chestnut, and beech.
Those which are indigenous are, birch, alder, oak, ash, holly, ha-
zel, and willow.
   There are raised in the parish from 800 to 900 bolls of barley;
1300 bolls of potatoes.
   Rent.--The average rent for grazing a cow or ox, is from L. I
to L. 1, 10s. a year, and from 1s. to 2s. 6d. for a sheep.
   Wages.--The average rate of wages for farm-servants is from
L.6 to L.8 per annum, with boarding. The wages of mechanics
are generally 1s. 6d. per day, if fed by the employer, if not, 2s.
A few years back, there were several hundred pounds worth of lint
yarn sent annually to the low country, but there is little more sown
now than the people require for their own use.
   Husbandry.--The system of husbandry which is now adopted
generally over the island, is much the same with that followed in
the low coutury. The late proprietor gave every encouragement
to his tenantry, and set them a very laudable example in his mode


