
116                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

wheat, barley, oats, pease, beans, clover, turnips, and potatoes.
In the western half of this division, the soil is a rich clay-loam on
a till bottom; in the eastern, it is light, sharp, and dry, on a free-
stone or gravel bed.
   Zoology.-About eighteen or twenty years, a small fly was
first noticed in this part of the century very like the common house-
fly, but somewhat lighter in the colour, and nimbler in its motions,
and furnished with a long sharp proboscis, which it darts into
the skin of men and animals in a moment, causing considerable
pain. A silk or worsted stocking is no protection from its attacks.
But troublesome as this little animal sometimes is, it is innocence
itself compared with another, to whose insidious ravange we have
now been exposed for several seasons, from about the middle of
August till the end of harvest. This enemy is very small: when
viewed by the microscope, it appears of a red colour, and resembles
a spider in its forms; but nobody can go among long grass or bushes
after it comes, without being stung all over the body, particularly
in those places where the clothes sit close to the persons, so as to
stop the creatures progress under them. Its wounds are not felt
at the time they are inflicted, but the part soon becomes excess-
sively itchy, swells to the size of a pea or bean, and continues to tor-
ment the victim for several days, or perhaps weeks. It is curious that
there are some fields and districts in the neighbourhood where, it
is said, this plague is not felt, though non plausible reason can be
assigned for the fact.
                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The civil history of Maxton presents little that is interesting.
Its origin may be traced to the beginning of the twelft cen-
tury. Towards the end of that century the monks of Melrose
obtained from Robert de Berkely and his spouse "a caracute
of land" in this parish, with certain privileges of pasture on
the common, and fuel both from the peataria and the wood,
"for the safety of many souls." As a composition for the tithes
of this land, the monks agreed to pay to the parson of Makiston
four merks of silver yearly. Hugh deNormanville married Alice,
the daughter and heiress of Robert de Berkely, and the line of the
Normanvilles was continued through the thirteenth century. At
a later period, the barony of Makiston, having been forfeited by
William Soulis,s was given by Robert I. to Walter, the steward of
Scotland, who granted the patronage of his church, with five
acres of arable land contiguous to the church, to the monks of


