
				ALFORD.                      499

Esq. of Carnaveran, not resident; Duncan, Davidson, Esq. of
Tillychetly, not resident; Benjamin Lumsden, Esq. of Kingsford,
now building to reside.  Five of these gentlemen are freeholders of
the county of Aberdeen.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in these is of date
1717.  They have been very irregularly kept; but one branch of
them is of great historical interest, as showing the inquisitorial cha-
racter of our church courts in the former part of the last century,
till the salutary influence of the General Assembly reduced their
practice to a nearer conformity with the general candour and open-
ness of British jurisprudence.
   Antiquities.-These are of little note.- A circle of large stones,
known by the name of the "Auld Kirk," gives some countenance
to the belief entertained by some persons, that such circles were
places of worship to the ancient inhabitants.  Two circular camps,
recently very distinct, now nearly levelled by the plough, might
hardly deserve notice, did not such remains sometimes happily
illustrate ancient records.  The larger of these contains an area
of 25 acres, on the top of a regularly conical low hill named
"The Da-mil," perhaps a corruption of Danehill; the a in
Dane being provincially pronounced broad.  The fortification has
consisted of an earthen wall and ditch, strengthened, at intervals
of one hundred yards, by round buildings, also of earth, of about
fifty feet diameter.  The smaller camp, is on flat ground near the
church, and has the name of the Roundabout; its area little more
than an acre; but the vallum and fosse have been of very large di-
niensions, and much earth for the former has been taken from the
inside.
   A cairn of stones, in the form of a truncated cone, 120 feet in
diameter, and about 25 feet high, having been partly removed,
there were discovered under, it several chests, formed of flat
stones, in which were found ashes and pieces of charcoal, and in
one a rude urn of baked earth in which also were found ashes
and pieces of bones.  The cairn is on the, summit of a hill named
Carnavemn, a name interpreted, by a gentleman who speaks
Gaelic, "the Cairn of Sorrow." The contents and the name of
this monument thus both unite to show that it was erected to the
memory of the dead; and from the former we may infer that it
was the practice of the inhabitants at the time to burn their dead.
   Modern Buildings.-The church is a substantial building of ru-
ble stone and lime, rough-cast with lime outside, and roofed with


