
                  TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                         441

the first of these subjects, which would equally apply to the
whole district.  The climate naturally good, owing to the soil,
and there being little clay bog in the parish, has no doubt been
considerably improved by planting and draining.  It varies in dif-
ferent parts of the parish.  The crops upon those which lie to-
wards the river and have a south exposure, are about ten days
earlier than the others which look towards the north, or are con-
fined within the hills.
   The harvest of 1837 will ever be gratefully remembered by the
inhabitants of the north of Scotland.  From its conclusion to the
8th day of January following the weather remained unusually fine.
There was no snow, and so little rain fell that several of the
springs which had been open in summer became dried up.  Upon
that day we had a heavy fall of snow, which experienced a slight
diminution by means of a thaw that took place about a week after-
wards, aud continued about twenty-four hours.  But this was im-
mediately followed by an additional fall, and, for some time, scarcely
a day passed in which there was not some increase.  Until Satur-
day 24th February, the weather continued calm; but, on that day, it
blew a dreadful hurricane, which was accompanied with a heavy
fall of additional snow.  The roads which bad been partly cleared,
were once more completely blocked up, and, in many cases, the
cottages and farm-steadings were nearly invisible.  For many
weeks, nothing green out of doors was to be seen, but the tops of
the fir trees.  The sufferings of the sheep with those of wild ani-
mals and fowls were very great.  Wood-pigeons and partridges
have been nearly exterminated.  The thermometer, on more than
one occasion, stood as low as 12&deg; below zero.  Calculating from
the rain guage, and allowing a foot of snow for an inch of water,
there must have fallen, in whole, snow to the depth of six feet over
all.  In duration and severity, there has been no season to com-
pare with it since 1795.  Sowing in favourable situations did not.
take place till about the 12th of April and in many cases, even
then, portions of a field behoved to be left, owing to the remaining
snow.
   The parish is abundantly supplied with excellent water.
Its springs are numerous; and some of them, in consequence
of the strata through which they issue, are more or less im-
pregnated with iron.  There is a very good chalybeate of this
kind in the garden of the writer.  No fewer than six burns de-
scend to the River Don from the glens extending into the moun-


