
                            CARESTON.			        521

soil consists almost of gravel only, which is easily accounted for,
from the very frequent changes of the river,-in so much that, at
one time or another,the Esk must have passed over the whole of
the adjacent valley. Considerably above the haugh land, and
near thd middle part of the parish, moss prevails, under a thick
sward of coarse grass, to no small extent in low places, especially
in a western direction.
	About thirty years ago, the present incumbent, in trenching a
small part of the glebe that had never before been cultivated,
found a piece of shell-marl, about the size of a man's head, in
the bottom of the trench, under a thick covering of sand, rather
more than three feet in thickness; but no more was met, with
there, nor, (as far as he could learn,) in any other part of this
parish; although some nodules of rock-marl may occasionally be.
found by digging pretty deeply. In the small piece of the glebe
that he then trenched, he met with three different subsoils: to
the north, moss about 2 1/2 inches in thickness; in the middle,
pure dark-red clay, of considerable thickness; and on the south,
a thick bed of sand, where the marl was detected.
 	The soil of the parish, where not moorland, of which there is
but little, is generally of a black loam, especially in its northern
portion; but, as before observed, resting on till; this subsoil, being
very retentive of moisture, renders the incumbent soil far less pro-
ductive than it otherwise would be; yet, still, wben judiciuusly
managed, it not only produces good green crops, but oats and
barley too, in their proper rotation. On the north-west corner
of the upper land of the parish, as the black loam rests mostly on
sand, and the loam itself is thick and of good consistency; there,
good crops may in 'general be More depended on than in the game,
northern quarter farther eastward. Were, however, surface-
draining, by the help of tiles, or even divots, used, as is now judi-
ciously done in the middle part of the parish, then a very great
improvement in the agriculture of our northern farms would,
doubtless, be effected, especially on each side of every ridge, now
saturated with moisture. In the middle portion of this parish, the
soil is still black; and lower down, it inclines somewhat to a red-
dish colour, and has a subsoil something like the former, only
there is far less clay mixed with the gravel and sand, and, of con-
sequence, less retentive of moisture. Still, however, even here,
the tile-draining, or that by divots, a far cheaper mode of drying
land from surface-water, must be productive of much good. Be-


