
     Statistical Account

fossee, and is situated near the river.  The tide probably
flowed round it in former times, and filled the fossee with
water.
   The present Castle of Kirkcudbright is situated in a different
part of the town from Castlemains.  It stands higher up the
river, and was built, anno 1582, by THOMAS M'CLELLAN of
BOMBIE, ancestor to the present Lord Kirkcudbright*.  It is
a strong massy building, of the Gothic order.  It is mostly
entire, excepting the roof, which was stripped off and sold by
the late Sir Thomas Maxwell of Orchardtons about 40 years
ago+.

<FOOTNOTE>

married DORNAGILLLA, the eldest daughter, and one of the co-heiresses of AL-
IAN, the last Lord of Galloway, succeeded to a considerable share of the pro-
perty of her father, and also to this castle.  When the contest between the
descendants of Balliol and Robert Bruce, for the crown of Scotland, terminated
in favour of the latter, the property of Balliol in Galloway was forfeited, and
bestowed by the King upon ARCHIBALD DOUGLAS, brother to JAMES, Lord of
Douglas, for his eminent services in driving EDWARD BALLIOL out of the king-
dom.  This castle remained in the hands of the Douglases, Lords of Galloway,
till 1455, when their vast possessions in this country were forfeited, and annexed
to the crown.  JAMES IV.  gave a grant of this castle, and some lands belong-
ing to it, to the burgh of Kirkcudbright, by a charter, dated at Edinburgh, 26th
February 1509.  It appears by another charter, dated at Kirkcudbright 1508,
that the King had been here in person; and the tradition is, that his Majesty
had been hospitably entertained by the burgh, and that they claimed some re-
ward for their former services to JAMES II. when he was besieging the castle of
Trief, and for recent services to himself; wherefore his Majesty granted, with
consent of Parliament, the Castle and Castlemains to the town.  At this time it
was not under the jurisdiction of the burgh; but since the King's grant, it has
been alienated by the corporation, though the land still continues subject to a
burgage tenure.
*He obtained a charter from James VI. comprehending "Totum et integrum
"socum fundum, et locum super quibus et ecclesia fratrum de Kirkcudbright perpius
"construebantur, seu adisicabantur, cum omnibus lapidibus super cildem existentibus, una
"cum pomarii bortis et pendiculis."  This charter is dated at Edinburgh, 6th De-
cember, 1569
+Besides the Celtic of Kirkcudbrights there was another much more ancient;


