
     of Grange.

at L 5, 5 s.  Sterling; of cows, about L. 4 Sterling; of
young cattle, about L. 2 Sterling each.  The prices of hor-
ses are from L. 3 to L. 30, but the average price of the
ordinary size of work horses may be about L. 8 Sterling,
and the average prices of sheep about 6 s. SterLing each.
There are 40 farmers in the parish, that pay from L. 15 to
L. 50 rent; and one farmer pays L. 250 a-year.  The pa-
rish produces much more grain than is necessary to main-
tain the inhabitants, unless in very bad seasons.  The land
yields very differently in different places, but, at an ave-
rage, it may be estimated to yield about five returns, inclu-
ding seed.  The rent is as various as the soil; being from
2 s. 6 d. to L. 1, 1 s. Sterling the acre; at an average, it
lets at about 10 s. Sterling the acre gross rent.  The whole
rent of the parish, including mill-multures, may be about
L. 2000 Sterling a-year*.  There are none of the farms
in the parish inclosed, except the farm of Knock, possessed
by Lord Fife's factor, which is inclosed with stones, with
which that corner of the parish is well supplied; and
the Mains of Edingight, which is inclosed with stone
fence and ditch.  Hedges and ditches are, indeed, the only
practicable mode of inclosing the greater part of the parish,
as there are few or no stones to be had, except limestone
quarried at a considerable expense, and which can hardly
be obtained of any size fit for building.  But hedges and
ditches are much more proper for inclosing the greater part
of this parish than stone fences; as the ditches would tend
to drain the wet soil, and hedges to shelter a bleak and

<FOOTNOTE>

   *Pease and oats are generally sown in March and April, and barley
sometimes in the end of April, and till the end of May, and beginning
of June.  Turnips are sown from the middle of June to the middle of
July.  Hay is cut in the month of July Harvest generally begins about
the middle of September, though in early seasons it used sometimes to be
finished by that time; but it is more frequently ended in November; and
in 1782 and 1787, it was not all got in till the end of December.


