
                384                       ARGYLESHIRE.

                  It is a well-ascertained fact, that it is now a vain attempt to
                rear trees, even in places where, at some former period, they had
                come to perfection, and obtained a great growth.  Some bogs and
                morasses in the immediate vicinity of the sea still exhibit immense
                trunks of oaks, and fir trees imbedded several feet below the sur.
                face.
                                     11-CIVIL HISTORY.
                  Antiquities.-lt is believed, and pretty well authenticated by the
                ancient history of Scotland, that the peninsula of Kintyro and ad.
                jacent isles were at one period the property of the Macdonalds,
                Lords of the Isles.
                  In the centre of the parish, upon His Grace the Duke of Ar-
                gyle's,property, the rude remahns of Dundonald, or Macdonald's
                Castle, are still visible, from which, if any credit can be attached to
                a kind of doggerel rhyme in the Celtic language, the potent and
                turbulent proprietor was in the habit of granting charters.for land
                to his obsequious vassals and dependents ; and where tradition
                says he resided, when he annually visited the parish; to collect his
                rents in kind, and administer his arbitrary commands. In the
                neighbourhood there is a projecting cliff, called sfac-a chrockaire,
                or hanymon'5 roch, where, it is said, criminals were suspended by
                the neck with very little ceremony.*
                 Such are the traditions which were in circulation through the
                parish, thirty years ago ; but now, as the people are becoinint'll
                more enlightened by education, instead of swallowing with avidity
                legendary tales, their leisure hours are occupied in the rational
                amusement of reading.  A few obelisks, of rude unpolished stone
                and evidently sepulchral monuments, are scattered through the
                parish. The most conspicuous has been erected in the neigh-
                bourhood of a ruinous building, and measures 16 feet from the
                surface; a grave at the base of the obelisk, covered with turf, is
                18 feet 7 inches in length, and 44 in breadth
                Barrows or tumuli are sometimes to be found not,far from the
                shore.  In one or two which have been opened, nothing was dis-
                covered but a few human bones, almost reduced to ashes, and

                 The great M-acdonald's charters or grants of lands are said to have run an follo'w-l:
                The Mise MacDhomhnuil a-M'Shuldhe air Dun Dornhnuil a-tabbairt effir dhuit-se
                air do bhaile o'n diugh gun wrnairich agus na h'uile la na dheigh co fhad' is a bhois
                  l MacDonald, sitting upon Dundonald, give you a right to your farm from this
                day till to-morrow, and every day, thereafter, so long as you have food for the great
                Mac Donald of the Isles.



