
          WALLS AND FLOTTA.                                77

commuted into money at the fia prices, and partly in money by
the heritors of Walls. Flotta is held cum decimis inclusis. The
deficiency is made up by the Exchequer to L.153, 6s. Sd.
  The grebe consists of 8 acres of arable, besides pasttire land,
and is furnished with a complete steading for a farm of that size.
  Education.-There are two parochial schoolmasters, in Walls,
who are entitled to the legal salary due to schoolmasters in a pa-
rish divided by an arm of the sea. There is also a subscription.
school, supported by the inhabitants in a district. of the parish re-
mote from any of the other schools; but the advantages enjoyed
by the people, notwithstandhng the number of schools, are limit-
ed, owing to the distances at which they are situated, and their
being often separated by morasses or water. Notwithstanding,
these difficulties, there are few to'be met with who cannot both
read and write.
  Flotta being more compact is more advantageously situated.
The teacher in this parish is supported by the Society for Propa-
gating Christian Knowledge. The school fees in both parishes
are moderate. Pharay has no school.

             PARISH OF FLOTTA
Is bounded on the north and east, by Scalpa Flow; on the west,
by Longliope; and on the. south, by the Pentland Fritb. It is
similar, in situation and climate, to Walls. The land, however, I is
much more level. The soil is considered good. It is between two and
three miles long, and in some places nearly two broad. The rocks
are chiefly composed of sandstone, but are not so precipitous, as
those in Walls. There is an excellent barbour, called the Panhope,
from a salt-pan which was at one time worked at tli'is place.
  It is said, that there was formerly a long house or church on the
island, where the Surrounding clergy were wont to assemble.
 What has been said of Walls, in regard to the variety and plen-
tiftil supply of fish to be procured at all seasons, and the abun-
dance of peat fuel, applies to Flotta. This island is particularly
well situated for fishing; and the inhabitants, who are very enter-
prising, have excellent boats, and yield to no seamen in managing
them. They are industrious, and when not detained at home by
their farming operations, they are engaged in fishing, which is
to them a more pleasing and 'profitable employment. The her-
ring fishery has of late yestra been vigorously prosecuted by the
People of Flotta, as well as the fishing of cad, of Which they cure


