
638                         AYRSHIRE.

and about two miles to the westward, on the banks of the Kill,
there is an extensive quarry of the same description of stone, but
of a greyish colour; this is what principally is used for building
all over the neighbourhood. About two miles tip the same river,
and in immediate connection with the coal-field of Drongan,
there is a bluish-white freestone, which is fine-grained, and takes
a beautiful polish.
	In the lands of Dalmore, upon the banks of the river Ayr, is a
species of whetstone, well known in the country by the name of
the Water-of-Ayr stone. For several years, both the raising and
dressing of the stone have been conducted with much greater
care and neatness than formerly. There are two men almost
constantly employed; the one in stripping and polishing, (both of
which operations are performed by machinery), the other in the
quarry, or in performing whatever else may be necessary. Be-
sides what is disposed of in the home-market, there is a very con-
siderable quantity exported. The stone is 40 feet under cover.
The dip and rise is of an east and west direction.
	About a quarter of a mile above the quarry, there is a trap
rock which, in the bed of the river, is horizontal, but rises on the
south side into a considerable eminence. Close to this, up the bed
of Glenstang burn, occur beds of clay-slate, such as those found
underlying the stone. These and other indications led to the at-
tempt, a few years ago, to find it (the whetstone) in this direction,
and not without success; but the quantity discovered was so small,
and the quality so indifferent, that further search was given up.
The stone extends up the river so as lo be in immediate contact
with the bed of trap, but is there very coarse. It has not been
found in this situation, and the remark is to be understood as ap-
plicable to what lies on the surface.
	Near the stone quarry, is a deposit of black lead, ascertained to
be of excellent quality, and understood to be of considerable ex-
tent. The late proprietor, upon proposing to resume working it,
was recommended to pulverizeit, as being the most advantageous
form for the market. He accordingly erected a miln for that pur-
pose but did not proceed; for what reason, the writer does not
recollect. He enlarged and adapted the premises to the carding
of wool, which he carried on for several years; which branch,
however, was given up after his decease, and all the machinery
disposed of, except what was required for dressing the whetstone.


