
178				FIFESHIRE.


Hay,     .        .        .        .        .        .                  L. 1055   0   0
Flax,    .        .        .        .        .        .                       32   0   0
Land in pasture, rating it at L. 2, 10s. per cow or full-grown ox,
  grazed, or that may be grazed for the season, .        .                  2216   0   0
Gardens and orchards,      .        .        .        .                       55   0   0
Annual thinning and periodical felling of woods, plantations, (most of
  which are young,) and copse,      .        .        .                      150   0   0
Mines.--Amount of sales at the Ketty colliery from January 1834
   to January 1835. The other two collieries have been at a stand
   for a year or two,      .        .        .        .                     2920   13   0
									  ____________
         Total yearly value of raw produce raised,                      L. 13947   13   0

  Rent of Land.-The average price of land may be stated at
about L. 1 per Scotch acre. The value of different parts of the
same farm differs very widely. Several farms have been for many
years under pasture for black cattle, and pay fully as well as in til-
lage. The state of farming is, upon the whole, rapidly improving,
owing partly to the encouragement afforded by the landlords, and
partly to a more judicious mode of husbandry, and greater industry
on the part of the tenants. Paring and burning, draining, liming,
and earlier sowing, are the more striking and beneficial improve-
ments.
  The farm-buildings are, in several instances, pretty good, and
suited to the value of the farms and to the district. Those on
the property of the Earl of Moray have been lately erected. That
nobleman has also improved the appearance and value of his lands
by judicious plantations. And it were much to be wished, that
some of the other proprietors, whose lands afford abundant capa-
bility, would, in this respect, follow his Lordship's example, and that
of the Lord Chief-Commissioner, by which means their own ad-
vantage would be promoted, and the parish be no longer prover-
bial for bleakness. The duration of leases is, in most cases, for
nineteen years, which is considered to be favourable to the occu-
pier. The productions of the parish are, oats, barley, wheat par-
tially, peas, beans, potatoes, turnips, a little flax, and cultivated
and meadow hay.* A day-labourer earns from 1s. 6d. to 2s. a-day.
Male farm-servants are hired at from L. 10 to L. 12 per annum;
and female servants receive from L. 5 to L. 6 per annum.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.- There are no market-towns in this pa-
rish. The nearest are Dunfermline and Kinross, each distant about.


   <FOOTNOTE>From the results of experiments made, for several years past, by the writer of
this account, be has reasoon to believe that carrots sown in our kitchen gardens, about
the middle of May, are much less liable to the depredations of the worm, than those
sown at an earlier period. It will he an additional advantage to sow them in the
beds in which leeks were reared the preceding year.
                    			4

