
                                    DINGWALL                           233

          feeling of a legal right. The infringement of them they therefore
          did not regard as criminal, and imprisonment, on account of it,
          they considered as rather a misfortune than a disgrace. But
          smuggling is now, happily for the peace and comfort of the people,
          almost wholly at an end; so that our jail will henceforth, it is
          hoped, be occupied by those only whose offences are of so unequi-
          vocal a criminality as that the severity of their punishment may not
          be aggravated by a doubt of its justice. The government of the
          jail was extremely defective. Indeed, the poverty of accommoda-
          tion, and the character of the building, which permitted the pri-
          soners to hold free and constant intercourse with the public, pre-
          cluded anything like a proper system of discipline, while the damp
          and ill-ventilated cells into which many were necessarily crowded,
          seldom failed in affecting the most robust constitutions. A new
          county jail is at present iii contemplation, of which Dingwall, as
          the county town, and the most centrical situation, is generally ex-
          pected to be the site.
             Fairs.-There are three annual fairs held in the parish, at
          which all sorts of commodities are vended.  At these the country
          people assemble in great numbers, partly because they still have
          somewhat of the character of festivals, (which the term "feil" in
          Gaelic imports,) but chiefly owing to the force of confirmed habit,
          since all that can be purchased at these fairs may be had quite as
          conveniently in town at any time.
             Inns, &c.-In addition to the two principal inns, which are com-
          modious and well kept houses, there are in the parish at present
          sixteen licensed public-houses. The number a few years ago was
          considerably greater, but the authorities, sensible of their demo-
          ralizing tendency, have been gradually restricting the number, and
          have done much to counteract their influence, by maintaining
          over them a strict superintendence.
             Fuel.-The fuel used in the parish is chiefly coal, of which
          there is always an abundant supply. Peats are also a good deal
          used. They are brought from the neighbouring parish of Fod-
          derty, in small rung carts, and sold at a shilling or fifteenpence per
          load.
                                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
             Since the time of the last Statistical Account this parish has un-
          dergone considerable change, chiefly in respect of its productive
          capabilities, the condition and appearance of the town, and the
          multiplied facilities of communication with all parts of the king-


