
     Statistical Account

   Boats, Fisheries, and Harbours.-There are 12 boats belong-
ing to the parish, of that number two are mostly employed in
carrying freights. Some of them belong to people who fish
occasionally, and require no more than two or three hands
to work them.  There are five fisher-towns on different parts
of the coast.  The proprietors of the ground furnish a new boat
every seven years, to be upheld by the crew, and are entitled to a
fifth part of the fish caught, or of their gains of whatever kind;
but these dues are now mostly converted into money.  The
larger boats pay annually L. 4 sterling and the smaller L. 3-
Every species of gray fish is to be found on the coast, and a
great variety of shell fish.  From a trial made at an expence
of the gentlemen of property in the parish, it appeared, that,
with the necessary tackle, ling, holybut and turbot might be had
in abundance.  Some old people remember a cod fishing at
Portmaholmack, where the beaches for drying the cod are still
to be seen.-This year I792 a lobster fishing was begun, and
carried on very successfully, partly by Messrs. Selby and Cress-
well of London, but mostly by a respectable society, under
the firm of the Northumberland fishing company.  In the
course of the season, from March to July, more than 50,000
lobsters were caught at Tarbat-Ness, and near it; and from
first to last, 28 vessels touched at the point to receive the lob-
sters, and carry them to market.  The charters of one proper-
ty in the parish convey a right to a salmon fishing, but if any
such did ever actually exist, it has been so long discontinued,
that there is no remembrance of it.  However, salmon are
sometimes seen springing out of the water, near the shore;
but there being no rivers to invite their stay it is probable they
only take a short rest here, in proceeding to, or returning from
the rivers and lochs in the Highlands, where they leave their
spawn.
   The variety of fish upon the coast, occasions it to be frequen-


