
     Of Birsay and Harray.

but we seldom have much snow, because the sea air
generally prevails against the frost.  I have indeed seen
the barometer up at set frost; and at the same time the
thermometer down at 24; at which time, what we call
strong beer, was frozen, while small beer broke the
bottles by bursting.-As to the distempers in our parish,
I do believe they proceed from cold and wetness, occa-
sioned by wet clothes and inattention.  Sometimes they
produce nervous fevers, which affect women particular-
ly; sometimes in the spring, sometimes in the harvest.
In the inner part of the parish, I have often seen strong
men, and very strong women, most severely dealt with
by scarlet fevers, which are generally brought into this 
country by ships; and most other diseases in the same
way*.

   Lakes, Fish, etc.-We have 6 lakes in this parish,
abounding with fine duck of different kinds, as also many
other kinds of water fowl; but they are so very shy,
that we can get none of them, most of the lakes being
above a mile broad, and upwards of 4 miles round:  2
of them have plenty of swans in the spring and fall, be-

     VOL. XIV. R r

<FOOTNOTE>

*The small-pox generally visits us once in 4 or 5 years; when I and
my good neighbours generally visit the children subject to them, and we ap-
ply plain washing with lukewarm water, which I never saw fail, espe-
cially when accompanied with clean linen.  I have seen hundreds treated
in this manner, none of which failed:  I have likewise, at the same time,
seen 5 inoculated, upon whom I could see no considerable odds; though
the difference was very great between the natural small pox and those
that were inoculated, as the natural small pox were so confluent, that I
could not stick a pin point between them.  However, the same treatment
did for both; the children slept well, wakened refreshed, and soon got
through the fever without any danger.  The other diseases are, dropsies,
which are generally fatal; the jaundice, which is often fatal, and many
other complaints of less consequence.
 

