
320                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

actively employed in building or repairing bridges. They assist
in repairing the bridges over the Carron and at Chartresball; and,
in 1670, they not only urge the heritors, but the elders collect
largely themselves to erect a stone bridge, instead of the wooden
one, over the Bannock in the upper carses.
  It is not to be supposed that the same activity prevailed under
every incumbent. Mr George Bennet, who was also proprietor of
East Livilands, was minister from 1655 to 1674. In his time the
parochial machinery was in full operation; nor does the accession
of Charles II, or the introduction of Episcopacy, appear greatly to
have paralyzed iL In the early part of his ministrx, grievous com-
plaints are made against Cromwell's English soldiers, and numbers
are summoned before the session, for harbouring or keeping com-
pany with them. At a later period, some parishioners are "con-
vened for beating Argyle's men on the Sabbath day."
   On the 12th of April 1676, "Mr William Fogo was formallie
admitted to the exercise of the ministerial function in this kirk."
The session frequently met; but the minutes are not so full as in
the time of his predecessor. He was succeeded in 1684 by Mr
James Fullarton, who, "on said day, was forinallie admitted to the
exercise of the ministrie in this church." In 1687, "Mr Wright
of Alloa preached and institute Mr Forsyth, formerly minister of
Clackmannan, to the exercise of the ministry in the parish of St
Ninians in the face of the congregation." Complaints are made
of persons not coming to the communion, nor keeping their own
kirk; both men and women are summoned before the Session for
attending conventicles and having their children irregularly bap-
tized.
   A sequestered spot is pointed out, where it is said the Cove-
nanters assembled, and the station where the watchmen stood to
give notice when the soldiers left the Castle of Stirling, coming
to attack them.
   Mr Forsyth appears to have been a keen Episcopalian, and soon
after his admission, Mr Cooper, in 1688, was ordained "by the
unite Presbyteries of Stirling and Dunblane in the Presbyterian
meeting-house of Bannockburn." Mr Forsyth was alive after Mr
Cooper left Bannockburn in 1692 ; but there are no -records of his
session after 1690. The Presbytery occasionally supplied the
pulpit of the meeting-house and the only notice of Mr Forsyth is
a complaint against him "about the state of the kirk and the keys
of the kirk-door." "In June 1695, the united Presbyteries of Stir-


