
                               LONGSIDE.                      859

rochial aid is a matter not of choice, but of the most urgent ne-
cessity. The many spirit of Scottish independence still exists in all its
vigour, and in any in a state of indigence have been known to de-
cline the proffered support, until they were assured that it pro-
ceeded from the mortified flind.
   Fuel.-The scarcity of fuel bears hard upon the comforts of the
poor. From extensive draining in the low mossy ground, a once fer-
tile source of fuel is now nearly dried up, and the scanty supply of
sandy and scarcely inflammable turf from the hilly ground, acces-
sible only by very bad roads, scarcely repays the expense and labour
of its preparation and delivery. The use of coal as a substitute
for turf has now become very general, though this luxury can
only be obtained or a large pecuniary sacrifice, as the expense of
carriage is not less than the price of the coal at Aberdeen.

August 1842.

                      PARISH OF LONGSIDE.

             PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

              THE REV. JOHN IMRAY, A. M. MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-This parish was disjoined from Peterhead, about two
hundred and twenty years ago. For a considerable period, the
Presbytery appointed several of its members, with some elders of
Peterhead, to "travell with my Lord Merschell," who was at that
time chief proprietor in the district, to have "ane new kyrk bouldit
in the head," or west part, "of the paroche."  This was at last ef-
fected in A.D. 1619 or 1620, * and the church was for some time
termed "the ower (i. e. upper) kirk of Peterugie," or "Peter-
heid."  The parish, however, was soon after called "Longsyd,"
from the name of the farm on which the church was situated.
   Extent, &c.-It is of an irregular, four-sided figure, containing
about 30 square miles; and is botinded on the east by St Fergus

<FOOTNOTE>From the Presbytery records it appears, that church extension was zealously
prosecuted here about that period; for within a few years, four parishes (Longside,
New Deer, Strichen, and Pitsligo,) were erected with a church in each,-all of them
exceedingly needful, from the extent and population of the district.


