
                           GLENCROSS.                        321

Biggar road nearly a mile from the church. It has not however,
been substantially built, for within that time it has twice been ne-
cessary to give it very considerable repairs.
   The glebe, together with the garden, contains about nine Scots
acres, lying quite contiguous to the manse, with a fine exposure
to the south. It is well enclosed with hedges, is of excellent qua-
lity, and may be. valued at L.3 per acre. There is also servitude
for ten sheep on Castlelaw bill.
   The stipend is one of those which receive aid from Government.
It consists of 42 bolls of victual, partly oats, partly meal, and partly
barley, which is paid by the highest county fiars; with L.33, 1s.
4d. money stipend, including L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
The allowance received from Government is L.88, 1s. 2d.
   There is no Dissenting place of worship in the parish; but
there are about 20 Dissenting families who attend a Meeting-
House near Penicuik. Divine service at the Established Church
is generally well attended. The number of communicants may
be estimated at about 180.
   There are no regularly constituted societies for religious pur-
poses established here, but collections are regularly made from
time to time in behalf of the General Assembly's schemes.
   The average annual amount of collections for the last five years
is L.11,15s. 6d.
   Education.--The parochial school is not very conveniently si-
tuated for the parish. The branches taught in it are, English,
English grammar, writing, and arithmetic. Sometimes at in is
taught. The schoolmaster has lately got an addition built to his
house, which is now very commodious. He has the maximum sa-
lary, with a good garden of half an acre English. He also receives
L.3, 3s. as session-clerk. The average amount of school fees for
seven year past may be estimated at .20.
   Savings' Bank.--There is a savings' bank in the parish of pe-
nicuik, where some have deposited the money they have been
able to save out of their wages.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 3, who receive from 3s. to 6s. per month.
There are several individuals besides, who in winter get coals,
and occasionally a small supply of money. The annual amount
of collections made at the church door, including proclamation
and mortcloth dues, &c. may be estimated at L.16, 10s. There
is also an assessment of L.30, regularly livied when required, at
   EDINBURGH                                      x


