
192                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

answer the purpose. Sometimes stories are employed along with
the tiles. This is undoubtedly the most effectual mode; but the
objection to it is, that it is both tedious and expensive,-whereas the
advantage of tiles, is, that the work is performed with great ex-
pedition, and with little expense of carriage.
   In some parts of the parish where the soil is deep, particularly
at Southfield, trenching has been practised to a considerable ex-
tent. Upon this subject there is a diversity of opinion,-some main-
tain that the new earth brought to the surface requires a conside-
rable number of years before it get into a proper bearing state.
This opinion, however, is far from being general; and many hold
that the new soil brought to the surface, after a long period of rest,
becomes far more productive, the old having been exhausted by
continual cropping. The expense of the process must be a great
obstacle in the way of its being carried on.
   Amount of raw Produce.-In the present circumstances of the
parish, the amount of raw produce cannot be very accurately as-
certained. Several of the tenants entered upon their farms only
last year, and hence their farms were not cropped, either as they
had been before, or as they will afterwards be. The farmers, in
general, have made the returns required with the greatest readi-
ness. According to the statements received, the amount for 1835
was nearly as follows:

<TABLE>
White crop including wheat, barley, and oats,     .    .       2060 acres.
Green crop, including beans and pease, potatoes, turnips, cabbage, and
      mangel. wurzel,     .     .     .     .     .     .    848
Hay,                   .      .     .      .      .    .     298
Pasture, including links,       .      .      .    .   .     1160
Bare fallow,     .        .        .        .     .      .   714

The value of all which, estimated according to fast year's markets,
will be about L. 30,000.
   The gardens in the parish are not deserving of particular no-
tice. The three mansion-houses, Elvingston, Redcoll, and South-
field, which last belongs to Lord Wemyss, and is occupied by the
tenant, have each of them gardens inclosed with a good wall, where
all kinds of vegetables are raised, and which are well stocked with
fruit trees. Several of the farm-houses have also gardens attach-
ed to them surrounded with a wall, in which all kinds of vegetables
and fruits are reared. The tenant at Redhouse, on the northern
extremity of the parish, has a large mail-garden, the produce of
which is disposed of chiefly in the Edinburgh market; but, as most
of the garden lies in the parish of Aberlady, it does not fall to be


