
326                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

size, from,whatever quarter the wind may blow, and Loch Bay,
Loch Poitiel, and Loch Carroy, though more exposed, afford good
anchorage in ordinary weather. A small branch of Loct Carroy,
called Pol Roag, forms an anchorage as safe as can be imagined;
but, owing to the narrowness of the entrance, it is adapted to small
craft only.
   The high water line is almost everywhere composed of a rocky
ledge, but between this and low water-mark, a beach is found, ge-
nerally consisting of gravel and large stones, sometimes of sand,
and in a few instances of mud.
  Islands.---There is a number of small islands belonging to the
parish, but none of them is inhabited except one, called Eilean
Is, "the island of Jesus," which is only a few miles in circumfe-
rence ; yet, from its fertility, supports fourteen or fifteen families in
considerable comfort.
   Meteorology.-It is well known that along all the Western Isles
agreat quantity of rain falls annually. Skye, owing to local causes,
the height of its mountains and headlands, receives more than its
due proportion of this quantity. The island of Uist, though lying
further west, yet being much lower, enjoys a comparatively dry
climate, especially as regards the partial and generally heavy
showers of summer. Clouds loaded with the vapours of the At-
lantic pass over it unbroken ; but, when dashed against the lofty
hills of Skye, discharge their contents in torrents.
   The winters are very boisterous, but far from being cold. In
this parish snow seldom lies above a few days, except on the
top of the Helvels, and very little ice is formed.
   Climate.-The climate, though moist, is far from being un-
healthy. On the contrary, it is highly salubrious. While so
much rain falls, there are no stagnant pools or marshes to retain
or corrupt it, and the vicinity of the sea tends to preserve an equa-
ble temperature, which is highly conducive to health. Some fatal
diseases, frequent in other places, are unknown or nearly so here;
among which may be mentioned that fatal scourge of Britain ge-
nerally, consumption. The most prevalent complaints are, dys-
pepsia, dysentery, slow fevers, and cutaneous diseases, which are
almost entirely confined to the humbler classes, and arise from
lowness of diet, and want of attention to cleanliness. There is
one very loathsome disease, commonly called the sevens or sibbens,
which is very prevalent here; but whether it be indigenous or im-
ported, I have not been able to learn.


