
                       LATHERON.                                87

Near the shore, blue calcareous flagstone occurs, and is overlaid
by a series of sandstone. beds of considerable thickness. Bena-
cheilt is the highest part of this region, and round it the strata are
arranged in a fan-shaped form, so that while the beds bn the coast,
at Nottingham and Latheron, dip westerly, at Braehungay on the
south side of this hill, they veer round to the N.E. against the
hill; and still farther inland, at Achavanicb, the dip is B.&E.
Between Latheron and Dunbeatb, the beds rise into micaceous
sandstones alternating with blue calcareous flagstone. At the lat-
ter place they consist of bluish and gray close-grained sandstone
with occasional alternating of greenish and bluish flagstones', and
are prolonged into hills in the interior, distinctly resting upon the'
old, red.conglomerate, or puddingstone of Braemore, connected
with the chain of mountains forming the southern boundary. of the
county. Along the coast, the same slaty beds continue to prevail
in high cliffs to the south of Berriedale. At Borguei, there is an
isolated mass of the old conglomerate, probably owing its existence
to the degradation of the nearest point of the Searabins, a primary
mass of quartz rock. This range of high bare rock is clasped on.
each side by the conglomerate series, composing nearly the whole
of the surrounding hills, which, being prolonged between the
Scarabins and the granite of the Ord, terminate in the cliff be-,
tween Berriedale and Ausdale. The coast thence to the Ord is
occupied by red niie-accous flagstone, succeeded by some beds I of
red sandstone rising into a perpendicular cliff about 300 feet h.Lch
at Trefad. Masses of the conglomerate also present themselves
occasionally, particularly in the cliff at Badbea. Farther south,
the cliff again changes its character, and is occupied great
crumbling masses of red marl and sandstone containing a. few
bands of bluish flagstone. These gradually pass into astrong red,
sandstone, which is separated from the granite mass of the Ord by.
a high cliff of conglomerate. The junction is. nearly marked by
a cascade of the Ausdale:rivulet, which tumbles into the sea from.
the height of 100 feet over these conglomerate rocks.
   The necessarily brief and imperfect outline here, given affords
no adequate idea of the interesting olpgical euameter of this
district. To convey, a more complete view of it would be in-
admissible here. It may proper, however, to state that the
old conglomerate, composing the southern hills of hills parish,
and stretching thence along the borders to the west side of the



