
     Statistical Account

of seal-skins.  The raw hides and skins are collected chiefly
from the county of Fife.  But as that range is not sufficient
to supply the consumption, a considerable quantity is impor-
ted from the North of Scotland, from Ireland, and sometimes
from Holland.  For some years back, the price of raw hides
has been about 7 s. per stone of 22 lbs; but the present
stagnation of trade has reduced it under 5 s.
   From 220 to 240 tons of oak bark are annually consumed
in this manufacture.  For many years the bark was brought
wholly from England; excepting only a small proportion

<FOOTNOTE>

one half of the apprentice's earnings, while the other goes to his own support.
In favourable times, an industrious apprentice, over and above the share
which goes to his master, earns considerably more than is necessary for his sup-
port.  And as the surplus is his own, his industry is constantly stimulated by
partaking of its fruits.  But when the wages of labour fall so low, that an ap-
prentice cannot maintain himself with the half of his earnings,-which is the
case at present with the young, the weakly, and the inexpert, he must be-
come a burden upon his master, or upon his friends, or abandon the trade.
If things continue long in their present state, the consequences will in this
view, be extensively injurious to this community.  The number of apprentices
is very great; the demand for weavers, and the high wages of labour for two
or three years past, having increased far beyond the ordinary proportion.  Not
only was every hand that could be spared from the neighbourhood determined
to the loom: but plans were formed for procuring supplies from a distance.
Advantageous proposals were circulated through different districts of the High-
lands, in consequence of which about 50 young men, chiefly from Sutherland
and Caithness came to this place as apprentices to the business of weaving, and
many more were preparing to follow.  Those who came had scarcely begun to
feel the advantages of their situation, when a reduction of wages took place.
Discouraged by this circumstance on the one hand, and tempted on the other,
by large bounties to enter into the army, most of them have run off, and en-
listed.-And this is a scheme likely to be frustrated, which promised to
bring large supplies of productive labourers to this district; and, in the event,
perhaps to carry manufactures and industry into districts of Scotland, where
they are at present almost entirely unknown.


