
28			AYRSHIRE.

ceptions of the characters, and the whole design and execution re-
flect great honour on the innate genius of Thom, a self-taught ar-
tist. A snug comfortable inn was built a few years ago, close by,
for the accommodation of visitors, of whom there are many thou-
sands, during summer, to the monument and scenes around it.
Here they will find excellent fare at moderate expense, and kind
and civil treatment. All these improvements have been carried on,
under the immediate direction of Mr Auld, whose name deserves
to be recorded for the good taste he has shown in embellishing
this interesting spot, and enhancing, as far as art can go, the na-
tural beauties with which it so much abounds.  Those who resort
thither for pleasure from a distance, or for health and recreation in
the vicinity, must feel much indebted to him for a most delightful
retired walk, which he has lately formed among the lofty trees of
the picturesque bank below the new bridge, past the cool limpid
spring, (now gathered into a cistern,) mentioned by Burns
                "Where Mungo's mither hang'd hersel."
	Eminent Men.--Joannes Scotus.--Ayr is distinguished as having
been the birth-place of several men, who have attained to great
celebrity by their genius and their talents, and who have done
honour to their country, as well as to the place of their nativity.
So far back as the ninth century, when the whole of Europe
was sun in the grossest ignorance, and even emperors and
kings could hardly sign their own names, lived Joannes Scotus,
surnamed Erigena; a native of Ayr, as the word imports, a man
of great learning, and the author of several distinguished works.
His learning was derived from the fountain-head of letters, as
he studied at Athens, where he acquired great proficiency in the
Greek and oriental languages. He is said to have lived in great
intimacy with Charles II., called the Bald, King of France, at
whose request he translated the works of Dionysius into La-
tin, which brought upon him the resentment of the Roman Pon-
tiff, from which even royal patronage and friendship could not pro-
tect him,--so irresistible was the power of the Romish church, in
those times of ignorance and barbarity. He fled to England, where
he appears to have been favoured by King Alfred, who employed
him in aid of his attempts to restore learning at Oxford.
	Andrew Michael Ramsay, commonly known by the name of the
Chevalier Ramsay, was also a native of Ayr, and was born in the
year 1686. He was educated at Edinburgh, and afterwards stu-
died at St Andrews, where he acted as tutor to a nobleman's. son,
                                 3


