

                       KIRKCOLM.                   117


     of Kyle cows in the parish, the largest having 42 cows, the small-
     est 15: the total number of cows at these dairies is 357.  In
     breeding, however, from this stock, the Galloway bull is always
     used.  The cows are renewed by queys brought form Ayrshire.
     The cross of the Ayrshire cow with a Galloway bull is found
     to be good.  They are generally black, resembling very much
     the Galloways. though their hair is not so long and rough; and
     they are said to fatten at an earlier age.  A bad description of
     cattle has lately been intruduced from  Ireland into this district
     They are landed at the neighbouring harbours of Porpatrick and
     Portnessack, and the farmers are tempted by the low prices to
     buy them, buth they are not kept as breeding stock.
         Husbandry.- The general character of the husbandry of this
     district is good.  Fifty years ago, the greater part of the lands
     were covered with heather and whins.  About that time the Earl
     of Galloway, then proprietor of the principal part of the parish,
     granted leases for twenty-one  years certain, and the life of the
     tenant if he survived that period.   The effect of the tenant having
     this long interest in the lands was very important.  The pro-
     prietor got a much higher rent than he had previously received,
     and the tenants were induced to apply an exertion to the improve-
     ment of their farms, that would not otherwise have been called
     forth.  The commands of shells from banks near the shore in one
     p`rt of the parish, of shell-sand, and sea-weed on the shores, the
     facility of importing lime, and the rise in the price of farm pro-
     duce from the year 1796, favoured the exertions created by long
     leases, and enabled the tenants, who were distinguished by their
     intelligence and respectability, not only to fulfil their engagements,
     but to increase their own comforts.  They were also early enabled
     to adopt the green crop husbandry, so far as practised in the west
     of Scotland: and they have latterly, with the aid of bone manure,
     introduced a considerable extent of drill-turnip husbandry, for
     which the lands are well adapted.  The general rotation fo crop-
     ping is, 1. oats; 2d year, oats; 3d. potatoes and turnips; 4. barley,
     oats, or wheat; 5. hay and some years pasture; but in many of
     the best managed farms, no two white crnps are now taken in suc-
     cesion.  The advance in agricultural skill in this district has of
     late been, as over all the west of Scotland, very considerable; but
     it is some time before the prejudices in favour of old systems pass
     altogether away.  The principal obstacle to farther improvement
     is the climate; but it is conceived that broad belts of plantations



