
                     	MARKINCH.	             679

ral zeal for the of the kirk an the Covenant. Several in-
stances occur in which " the sessioun thought it meit yt the volun-
tarie contribution should be carried to ye armie by ye minister, and
to be delyvered ther." That the incumbent during these years
was a zealous promoter of the popular cause is manifest from the
above extract, if, indeed, he was not one of the council of mini-
sters appointed to attend the General in the field; for not omly do
the weekly entries show that his pulpit was at frequent intervals
supplied by one of his brethen of the Presbytery, but we also find
such intimations as the following:-" The qlk day our awin mi-
nister taught (Ps. xxxiv. 19,) being returned for ane space from
the armie," and again, " 13th July 1645, Our awin minister re-
turned From England."  We refer to one other entry to show that
the victims of war were not forgotten by such of their brethen as
tarried at home; for under the date of August 24th, 1645, we find
it noted, that a messenger was dispatached by the session " to
Montrose, his ligure, to try if any prisoneris of this, paroche be
thaire." Nor were demonstrations of piety, of which the times fur-
nished such signal examples, wanting to second the effortr, of a ge-
nerous patriotism. The adverse vicissitudes of those troublous
times are duly marked by days of public humiliation and fasting,
for which the reasons are recorded at length, while the successes
of the national leaders are as duly celebrated by public acts of
thanksgiving. Days of thanksgiving were ordained " for ye vic-
torie obtained be our armie at York against Prince Rupert his
armie,"-for " the victorie our arinie obtained at Newcastle,"
-for " the happie victorie obtained be Leivtenant Generall
David Lesslie, against James Graham, sometyme Earle of Mon-
tros, and his rebellis, at Philip Haugh, neir Jedburgh, upon ye
13th of September 1645." In this manner the principal events in
this most eventful period of Scottish history are noticed up to the
Restoration. Such was the political education of our fathers. Their
guides and instructors were their ministers and elders, the former,
for the most part, men of large minds, as well as of an ardent piety;
deeply versed in the principles of civil not-less than of ecclesiasti-
cal polity; while the latter, were, by their birth, education, and mo-
ral worth entitled to the respect and esteem of those over whom
they were called to rule, of whom moreover, they were the local and
legitimate protectors. The priciples and the proceeding of those
days have sometimes wittily ridiculed, and sometimes gravely
denounced as hostile to monarchy, and subversive of liberty of con-


