
                                DULL.                            761

     Whichever way the spectator turns, nothing meets his enraptured
     view but the foaming torrent, in connection with overhanging woods
     and moss-covered rocks, rising on either side to the height of 300
     feet, supporting over-head a small speck of the blue-vaulted sky,
     and producing a dark and gloomy aspect even at noon-day.
        Geology and Mineralogy.--The rocks of this parish, like those
     of the Grampians generally, consist chiefly of mica-slate, occa-
     sionally interspersed with quartz, granite, chlorite, and hornblende
     slate, and, where stratified, the general direction appears to be from
     the south-west to the north-east ; but, from the various nature of the
     stratification, and the different degrees of disintegration it has un-
     dergone, the dip is so very unequal in different places, that it is very
     difficult, if not impossible, to state precisely the general angle.
     Boulders of whinstone, granite, and gneiss occur in almost every
     district of the parish, and are used by the inhabitants for the purpose,
     of fences and architecture, as well as for Macadamizing the public
     roads.  In the district of Foss, particularly, rolled blocks of gra-
     nite appear in vast quantities, and are piled upon each other in
     masses of wild confusion.  A stratum of the same kind of rock, of
     which Taymouth Castle is built, and which is said to approximate
     "in character to chlorite and talc slate," occurs upon the Aird of
     Appin, immediately opposite to the quarry at Bolfracks, where
     most of the materials used in constructing that noble mansion were
     obtained.  There are indications of slate at the base of Schiehal-
     lion, but its quality has not hitherto been ascertained, as no at-
     tempt has been made at working it.  But by far the most import-
     ant rock in this parish, for economical purposes, is limestone.  It
     occurs in the form of a bed, traversing the parish in a south-
     westerly direction, and appearing at intervals in different places
     of the adjacent districts.  At Tomphobuil there is a limestone
     quarry, evidently situated in the bed of limestone which ranges
     through the parish.   Marl, in small quantities, occurs in se-
     veral districts of the parish ; and, a little to the eastward of
     the village of Dull, a pit was opened at no distant period, whence
     it was dug and used by the inhabitants for manuring their farms;
     but thd bed discovered was of such inconsiderable depth that
     it was soon exhausted.  Small bivalve and spiral shells were here
     found intertmingled with the marl.  These, together with oak, fir,
     birch, and other indigenous trees found in the mosses with which
     our hills are replete, and occasionally deers' antlers, are the only
     organic remains generally discovered in this part of the country.


