
     of Menmuir.

quarians, that this was a Danish or a Pictish camp; and what
puts this bypothesis beyond dount, is, first, plain indications
of a fosse or ravin all around; and, 2dly, on the next hill, a
fortification of the same figure, but of less note, being com-
posed of earth; whereas, in Caterthun, the great curiosity
is the vast number of stones.  Whether we consider the
size of some of these, the whole mass in cumulo, the height
to which they have been conveyed, the distance from which
'tis likely they were brought, there being no quarry or rock
in the adjacent moors; or, in fine, whether the curious rest
on one, or on all these circumstances, this structure, rude as
it is, may well excite wonder, and affords much subject for
research.  Some travellers, who have narrowly examined
these stones, tell us, that on some of them they discovered
coarse outlines of birds, beasts, etc.  Within the ring or oval
circumference, the earth is covered with fost grass and
bent; whereas, without the ing, the heath and moss is ve-
ry luxuriant over the hill.  The space inclosed by the
stones may be near two acres.  Among these stones some
herbs appear, but the Digitalis or foxglove is most conspicu-
ous.  There are up and down flight eminences, or small
tusty hillocks, underneath some of which, 'tis not improba-
ble, lie concealed arms, bones, urns, or some notitix of the
original formation of these remarkable ramparts.  But
there is another object visible at first glance, which must be
mentioned.  It cannot be better described than by borrow-
ing some of the words of a writer, who observes, when speak-
ing of the appearances on the top of Craighadrick,
'Within this inner space, there are other marks of artificial
'operation, viz. a portion of ground, separated from the rest,
'near the west side.  This is in the shape of a parallellogram,
'the dike and ditch of the inclosure easily to be discerned.
'But what has been the intetion of this piece set apart, 'tis
'difficult to determine.  It might perhaps have marked
'the residence of those of high rank, or been a place appro-


