274                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

                       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  Since the former Statistical Account was written, many altera-
tions, and some decided improvements, have taken place in the
state of the parish; but, with the exception of the erection of the
village of New Aberdour, the principal part of these improvements
have been niade within the last fifteen years, and in that portion
of the parish comprehending the estate of Aberdour, the property
of Mr Duff Dingwall of Brucklay.  Upon the estate of Auchmed-
den, the want of internal communication has been severely felt,
and until roads are made, it is to be feared that little can be done
by the tenantry in the way of improving that property.

     Drawn up 1835,
  Revised January 1840.

                       PARISH OF KING-EDWARD

            PRESBYTERY OF TURRIFF, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

               THE REV. WILLIAM FINDLAY, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THOUGH the name of this parish has long been writ-
ten King-Edward, yet, by the people in this part of the country, it
is often pronounced Kinedart.  The name is supposed to be deriv-
ed from two Gaelic words, which signify the head of the valley;
and the situation of the ruins of the castle of King-Edward, which
stands near the western extremity of the narrow valley in which
the church is situated, may give some countenance to this deri-
vation.
  Extent and Boundaries.-The parish extends in length from
west to east about 11 miles; its breadth varies from about 2 to
5; and it contains about 28 square miles.  It is bounded on the
south, by the parish of Turriff; on the west, by Alvah; on the
north-west, by Banff; on the north, by Gamrie; on the east, by
Aberdotir and New Deer; and on the southeast, by Montquhit-
ter.  The river Doveran separates it from Banff and Alvah; but
a part of, the latter parish, about a mile in breadth, which lies on
the east bank of the Doveran, and which meets the parish of
Gamrie, completely cuts off the north end of this parish from the


