
                      NEW SPYNIE.                          95

supported by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.
When I came to this parish I instituted several Sabbath evening
schools, which have become an eminent blessing to the people;
and I shall encourage them while I live.

September 1835.


                  PARISH OF NEW SPYNIE.

            PRESBYTERY OF ELGIN, SYNOD OF MORAY.

            THE REV. ALEXANDER SIMPSON, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-SPYNIE, the ancient name of this parish, is derived from
the Loch known by that name, which, before it was drained, bound-
ed the parish along its north ride.
   Extent, Boundaries.-This parish is nearly 4 miles long, and 2
miles broad, and therefore consists of about 8 square miles.  It is
bounded on the south by the river Lossie, excepting a fine field
of about 50 acres called Burrough-bridge, which belongs to this
parish, though on the south side of the river. *  It is bound-
ed on the west by the parish of Alves; on the east by the parish
of St Andrews; and on the north by the parishes of Duffus
and Drainie, or, in other words, by the ground anciently covered
by the loch of Spynie.  About a mile from the east end of the
parish, a ridge of moor stretches almost to its west end, for the dis-
tance of about 3 miles, rising gradually towards the west, into, a
pretty high hill, and clothed almost throughout its whole extent
with thriving plantations of fir, intersected with other forest trees,-
excepting one little farm, near its centre, quite embosomed in the,
wood. Along the south side of the highest part of this hill, about
a mile north-west of Elgin, there is a large extent of flourishing.
oak wood, the property of the Earl of Fife, allowed to be one of

<FOOTNOTE>
   The reason of this is, that the Lossie anciently ran close by the town, as appears,
from the title-deeds of the properties in the adjoining quarter of the burgh-which
still bound these properties by the river, though the valuable field above rdferred to,
now the property of the Eal of Seafield, has been from time immemorial interjected
between them.  The reverse of this has happened a little lower down the river, in
small semicircular field, called Dean's Crook, which has been evidently cut off from
the cathedral lands of Elgin, by the river occupying the diameter, instead of the peri-
phery, which is now for the most part a cultivated field.


