
     Statistical account

less in extent than Lanark-moor, and thence would re-
quire less expence to bring it under tillage:  It is to be
hoped however from the promising appearance of the
young proprietor, that it will soon be brought into a state
of cultivation and improvement.
   The South and East parts of the parish, excepting the
burrow lands, which consist of a rich loam, are in gene-
ral inclined to be light and gravelly.  The estates of Lee,
Cleghorn, Jerviswood, the Namphlars, and the rest of
the parish, consist of a very improvable clayey soil, a-
dapted for wheat, provided there were spirit enough in
the country to promote the erection of a flour mill; but,
as at present there is no flour mill nearer than Hamil-
ton, 12 miles off, there is no encouragement towards
the culture of that profitable and useful crop.

   Minerals.  There is no coal in the parish hitherto dis-
covered; but in the neighbouring parishes of Carluke,
Carmichael, and Lesmahago, there are plenty of coal-pits.
Coal at Lanark sells in general at about 3 s. or 3 s. 4 d. the
800 weight:  Cannel coal from Lesmahago parish, sells
somewhat higher, which being of a very bituminous na-

<FOOTNOTE>

country under cultivation, increase its population and manufactures, prevent
in some measure emigrations, and would have the tendency of always pre-
serving peace and good order in the country.  The greater the number of
proprietors in a kingdom so much the more numerous will be the friends and
supporters of its government, as it increases the number of those who are
materially interested in its welfare.  But whenever the whole lands of a
kingdom, as was the case in France, are absorbed by a few, it is only those
few that are more peculiarly interested in its welfare; for people, whose
property is in money or the produce of their industry, may leave the king-
dom at pleasure, and cannot possibly take that warm interest in the fate of
the country which the proprietor and colonist, who in some measure may
be said to be chained to the soil, must necessarily do.


