
      310                         INVERNESS-SHIRE.

      as sea-ware, lime, marl, and shell-sand; and of these facilities he
      amply availed himself, as did his active and vigorous mind of every
      thing that could benefit the country.  He also did much in the way
      of draining, fencing, and enclosing his fields, as well as in plant-
      ing hedges and hedge-rows, which are now in a thriving condition.
         Although the crofting system was in many respects baneful and
      injurious, yet it had the perceptible advantage of improving the
      aspect of the country, as each crofter, by having a small allotment
      for himself, was anxhous to turn it to the best account, which could
      not be effected by the old ruin-rig system.  Bone dust bas been
      used with encouraging success, and amply remunerated the expense
      of applying it.
         Rent of Land.--The value of arable land may be estimated at
      10s. per acre.  The grazing of a cow at L.2, 10s. per anuum,
      and of a sheep at 2s. 6d.
         Wages.--Good farm-servants receive from L.6 to L.10 per an-
      num; women from L.2, 10s. to L.3, 10s.; carpenters and masons
      about 2s. per day with their victuals.  Shepherds, instead of money
      wages, are generally allowed a house, 6 1/2 bolls of meal; the graz-
      ing of two cows, and of from 40 to 60 sheep per annum.
          Live-Stock.--Tbe principal sheep stocks are of the Cheviot
      breed; but there are some small flocks of the black faced descrip-
      tion, which are esteemed more hardy.  To the improvement of
      each breed their respective owners pay particular attention.  A
      breed of black-cattle, of the most exquisite symmetry and beauty,
      was produced by the late Mr Macdonald of Scalpay and the late
      Mr Mackinnon of Corry, who, by much attention and expense in
      the selection of breeding stock, raised their cattle to a value never
      before attained in this country.  The cattle of the small tenants
      in this parish are superior to those reared in the northern districts
      of the island, in consequence of their stocks baving been always
      supplied with bulls by the individuals already mentioned.
         Quarries.--Freestone and marble, which abound in this parish,
      have been worked by Lord Macdonald, the former for building,
      and the latter for architectural ornaments in his elegant castle at
      Armadale.  The marble quarries have also been worked by the
      Duke. of Hamilton for paving the lobby of Hamilton Palace, and
      by the Board of Ordnance for powder-mill stones.  It was, how-
      ever abandoned by the Board, from the impracticability of finding
      blocks sufficiently large for their purpose.
         A lime-kiln is in operation in the vicinity of Broadford, which


