
108                        AYRSHIRE.

	His son, Andrew, Lord Ochiltree, a zealous reformer, whose
daughter was married to Knox, appropriated to himself the whole
of the lands which belonged to the church of Ochiltree. He
also obtained from David Crichton, vicar, with consent of the Com-
mendator of Melrose, the patron of that church, a charter of fee
farming of all the church lands of Ochiltree, except the vicar's
manse and garden, and this charter was confirmed under the Great
Seal on the 10th May 1567. His grandson, Andrew Lord Ochil-
tree, obtained, in 1601, a grant of the kirk lands of Ucheltree,
called the Vicar's Holm, and also the advowson, donation, and pa-
tronage of the parsonage and vicarage of Ochiltree, and this char-
ter was ratified in the Parliament of 1606. In 1653, the western
part of the parish of Ochiltree was detatched from it, and formed
into a separate parish called Stair. The barony of Ochiltree, as
well as the patronage of the church, went through many hands,
and eventually into the possession of William, the first Earl of
Dundonald, who granted them to his second son, Sir John Coch-
rane, who lost them by forfeiture in 1685. His son, William,
having obtained a grant of them from, the Crown in 1686, they
continued in the Cochrane family until about one hundred years ago,
when they were purchased by Governor M'Rae, who left them to
Miss Macquire, afterwards married. to the Earl of Glencairn.
The barony was again sold about twenty years ago in lots, which
were purchased by different neighbouring proprietors.
	There is another barony in the parish--namely, that of Traboch,
which signifies the dwelling place of the tribe, the property of
Sir James Boswell, Bart. On this estate there is a farm called
Hoodstone, which the ancestors of the present tenant have rented
from about the middle of the thirteenth century. About that
time, three brothers of the name of Hood came from England,
and settled, one of them, in Hoodstone, and the others, in the
neighbourhood. According to the tradition in the family, the
death of their renowned progenitor, Robin Hood, was the imme-
deate cause of their emigration.
	Land-owners,--The land-owner, few of whon reside in the
parish, are, the Most Noble the Marquis of Bute; Sir James
Boswell of Auchinleck; Dowager Lady Boswell; David Limond,
Esq. of Dalblair; James Pettigrew Wilson, Esq. of Polquhairn;
Robert Campbell, Esq. of Skerrington; Andrew Hunter, Esq. of
Bonnieton; Robert M'Dirmet Fergushill, Esq. of Burnockston;
John D. Boswell, Esq. of Garallan, &c.
                               3


