
                              CLATT.                            849

trenching, the soil is partly alluvial, with a mixture of sand, clav,
or peat-moss on a gravelly bottom ; and, in the more elevated parts
of the parish, the soil is of a light and sandy character on a rocky
bed.  The remainder of the surface consists of moorish ground
covered with heath, or of peat-moss of considerable depth.
   Plantations.-While the soil in the cultivated parts of the pa-
rish is capable of producing luxuriant crops of grain, the want of
sufficient shelter from the stormy winds presents a powerful ob-
stacle to the progress of agricultural improvement.  From the ex-
tent of peat-moss, and the discovery of large fragments of oak,
alder, and fir trees at a considerable depth below the surface of
the ground, there is just reason for inferring, that this parish, at a
remote period, exhibited an entire contrast to its present appear-
ance.  Plantations of larch and Scotch fir have been recently
formed on the hills in the southern boundary.  Towards the sum-
mit, the trees are much stunted by the injury which they sustain
from the withering winds and superinecumbent snows; but, in more
sheltered Situations, they are progressively thriving, and have at-
tained to considerable size.  The aspect of the parish, otherwise
monotonous, is pleasantly diversified by a few aged trees of ash,
elm, and plane, around almost every farm-steading; and the village
of Clatt is studded by upwards of 100 ash and plane trees of large
dimensions, that have weathered the storms of 100 winters ; and,
to the eye of the unexpecting traveller, impart to it in summer,
the rich umbrageous appearance of an English village.

                          II.-Civil History.
   The history of this parish at a remote period is involved in much
obscurity.  It appears, however, by the privileges conferred upon
the town and village of Clatt by one of our Scottish Kings, that
it was not deemed unworthy of the exercise of the royal preroga-
tive. By letters of gift and donation from King James IV. of
Scotland, "the village of Clatt was erected into a free burgh of
batony, with all the rights and privileges thereof; with power to
the proprietor at that time, and in all time thereafter, to constitute
and appoint bailies and other officers necessary for guiding, go-
verning, and ruling the said burcrh ; and to have, hold, and keep
therein a cross and market upon Tuesday every week, and public
fairs and markets every year, for the space of eight days, with the
liberties, profits, duties, and commodities thereof, in terms of the
foresaid grant and donation."  In virtue of this royal grant, letters
of publication have been issued at different times by warrant of the
   ABERDEEN                                         3 H


