
			NEWTON-UPON-AYR.                           99

survey, that, in addition to fishermen, carpenters, and smiths, whose
numbers have been already stated, there are in the parish 400
weavers employed by agents for Glasgow houses, 27 colliers,
34 masons, 20 sawyers, and (including i2 shipmasters) about
100 seamen. It may not be unimportant to add, that, as nearly
as can be estimated, there are 600 or 700 women, principally
girls and unmarried women, employed in hand-sewing for ware-
houses in Glasgow.
	The Ayrshire needle-work, so extensively known and justly ce-
lebrated, was executed in this parish forty years ago: and it has
been gradually improving until the present d`y. It consists of
various patterns sewed on muslin and cambric for ladies' dresses,
babies' robes, caps, &c. From the year 1815, when point was in-
troduced into the work, the demand for it in London and other
parts of England, as well as in Dublin and Edinburgh, has in-
creared to a considerable extent. It is also sent to France, Rus-
sia, and Germany, and is exposed to sale in the shops of Paris.
This valuable means of employment affords a fair profit to the
manufacturer, and gives support to many respectable females, who
by dint of industry, can earn from 1s. to 1s. 6d. and, in some cases,
2s. per day. In this work, which is confined to Ayr and its neigh-
bourhood, several hundreds are engaged: and it is calculated that
at least from 50 to 60 of them, who are chiefly young women, re-
side in the parish of Newton.
	Navigation.--That we may not interfere with the account of
the neigbbouring parish of Ayr, we shall enter into no details un-
der this head. It is proper, however, to state, that Newton has a
joint interest in the harbour with the adjacent county town, and
it would appear that this burgh formerly laid claim to anchorage-
dues. Nearly all the coal exported from the harbour, which con-
stitutes a chief part of its trade, is received on this side of the river.
One hundred waggon-loads are daily conveyed to the port along a
railway, from the coal-minds in the parish of St Quivox. About
300 vessels of all sizes are annually loaded with coal, chiefly for
Ireland and the West Highlands. The yearly exportation amounts
to 40,000 tons, which, at the present price of 13s. per ton of 28
cwt., makes the value of this trade L. 26,000 per annum.
			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets, &c.--Newton has a market-day, but it is merely no-
minal--all important business being transacted in Ayr. The pn-
pulation residing in the town is 3768. The town is situated in the


