
                         KINLGASSIE.                        203

Besides the maximum Salary, amounting to L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d, along
with a dwelling-house and garden, the schoolmaster annualy re-
ceives six bolls of oats, the bequest of an ancient proprietor. This
seminary is at present attended by about 100 scholars. The or-
dinary branches of education, including English grammar and the
elementary principles of general knowledge, are taught with dili-
gence and ability. Means of instruction in mathematics and clas-
sical learning are also furnished. The principles of revealed re-
ligion are sedulously instilled. Forty are employed in arithmetic,
20 more are learning to write, The teacher may receive about
L.34 a-year of fees. 
     The village has also a small female school, in which knitting
and sewing are taught for a very moderate sum.
     On the southern boundary, there is a school, which is pretty well
attended. Its erection proceeded from the kindness of Mr Fer-
guson of Raith, who has allotted to its teacher a free dwelling-
house and garden, with a yearly pecuniary allowance.
So commendably desirous are parents of furnishing their chil-
dren with the means of education, that there is hardly an instance
in which an individual beyond, six years of age is unable to read
more or less accurately. To the same praiseworthy feeling, is to
be ascribed the comparatively small number among the youthful
portion of the population, altogether unskilled in the arts of writer.
ing and arithmetic. Children are usually sent to school about five
years of age; although in several instances, distance of locality and
badness of roads forbid that early initiation. But in these and
other cases, some elementary training is for the most part practis-
ed at home.
   A Sabbath school in the village is numerously attended, and
judiciously conducted,
     Library.-Access to a small parochial library is obtainable at a
very moderate rate; and through the generosity of a benevolently
disposed lady, the youth belonging to the village Sunday school are
gratuitously furnished with the weekly perusal of interesting and
instructive books.
     Poor and Parochial Funds.- Various individuals receive a fixed
monthly aliment, others get only occasional aid, and several house

<FOOTNOTE>The schoolmaster lately retired from the charge of the school on secount of his
advanced age ; but is secured for life in the enjoyment of the legal salary, mid of the
house and garden. He is entitled to the trifling sums which arise from making up
the Parliamentary census and registering voters for a Member of Parliament.
The acting teachers beside the school fees, receives from the heritors annually L.20,
and draws the fiars price of the six bolls of oats to which reference has been made.


