
154				AYRSHIRE.

exceptions, the whole surface might be brought to yield a far great-
or abundance of permanent pasture.
	Plantation.--The plantations on the property of His Grace the
Duke of Portland cover nearly 200 acres of land, and I should
suppose that 20 acres more will be found round the seats of resi-
dent proprietors. The trees generally planted are larch, spruce,
and fir, and, though much neglected formerly, his Grace has, since
acquiring the property, paid considerable attention to thinning.
        Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land is L. 1 per
acre. A cow's grass is L. 3, and a full-grown sheep 3s. 6d.
        Live-Stock.--The most approved breed of sheep is the black-
faced kind. Considerable care is always taken to select the
strongest and best shaped ewe lambs to continue the stock; and
occasionally a few tups of the same kind are purchased, but of
larger size and finer shapes, by better feeding and more skilful
crossing. The attention of the farmer is fully awakened to the
practicability of still further improvements; and I make no doubt,
that, in a very few years, by a continuation of their care, this hardy
and useful animal will become much more productive.
	There are numerous dairies of the best Cunninghame breed of
cows. A number of young cattle of the same kind are reared an-
nually, and care is always taken to retain the most handsome to
improve the stock. A few young horses are also reared.
	The old system of taking two, and sometimes three, crops of
oats without manure, and allowing the land to rest for a few years
to recover its lost energies, is still followed by a few of the farmers
in this parish. By far the greater number, however, are farming,
what land has been converted into arable, after the most approved
systems of husbandry. Green cropping has of late years greatly
increased, add, in all likelihood, will increase, and a portion of
waste land has been retained: but there are many thousand of
acres still lying in, their natural state. Surface draining alone
would improve the grasses on this soil, ameliorate the climate, and
enhance the value of stock. Lime and coal are abundaut and
cheap. In short, every requisite is at hand were it but applied.
The spirit of, improvement is, however, awakened. The Duke of
Portland, With his usual public spirit and wisdom, is opening roads
through his property, and building lime kilns. Other proprietors
deserve to be mentioned, and in particular Mr. Aird; who has im-
proved a great extent of moss land. There are many tennants also


