
86                            SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

different species of sea-fowl are reared. 2. Hoan, 1 mile ]ong, and 1/2
mile broad; it lies near the entrance of Loch Eriboll; is green and
fertile, and supports four families. 3. Chroaril, in Loch Eriboll, and about
the same dimensions, and equally fertile. In both of the two latter
islands, there are places of sepulture, which have been discontinued
as such for upwards of a century. Tradition reports, that they
were used for sepulture to prevent the depreciation of wolves, which
at one period infested the country.
  Meteorology.-Cape Wrath is the only place in the parish where
observations have been recorded. After the autumnal equinox,
and about two hours after sunset, the polar lights frequently ap-
pear most plendid, and occasionally extend from the north or
northwest like a belt over the whole horizon. On the 3d Sep-
tember 1833, the horizon, from  three to four P.M., presented a pe-
culiar appearance, and that during sunshine,-as if tinged, trough
faintly, by the polar lights, rushing  with great rapidly. For some
days after, the weather was dry and squally.  When the Orkney
Islands or the neighbouring mountains are clearly seen, either a
storm, or the continuation of bad weather, is the certain conse-
quence. When the sound of the breakers on the shore is heard
distinctly, it indicates frost. The appearance of the swan is a
precursor of snow.
  In a country so contiguous to the ocean, and so mountainous, it
is to be expected that high winds and frequent showers should pre-
vail; but, from these verv causes, snow does not last so long as in
more southern latitudes. Though the climate, in general, be moist
and variable, yet the atmosphere is purified by high and frequent
winds; and the inhabitants are in general healthy. Fevers, small-
pox, &c. are seldom, if ever, spread by infection. In spring, how-
ever, colds, inflammatory sore throats, and rheumatism, are not in-
frequent. In summer and autuim, cases of dyspepsia and bowel-
complaints among the lower orders are of common occurrence.
These are supposed to arise from a sudden change of their diett
which in the summer consists of oatmeal, milk, &c. and after-
wards, of potatoes.
  Hydrography.-The friths that interseet the parish are, 1st, the
Kyle of Durness, which is about six miles long, and averages nearly
one mile in breadth.  Near its entrance on the west side of the

<FOOTNOTE>A monthly report is transmitted to the Board of the Lighthouse Commission-
ers, of the ragges of the thermometer, barometer, and rain-gaage.


