
                              KILTEARN.                              327

	and differs from all others in the country, by its regular and neat
	appearance.
		Fairs.-There are two fairs annually held in it, on the first
	Tuesdays of June and December;  but, since the general intro-
	duction of shops into all the villages, they are not well attended.
		Means of Communication.-The means-of communication en-
	joyed by the parish are very considerable. Ever since 1819, the
	mail-coach passes north and south through it daily; whilst there
	are, for the greater part of the year, smacks sailing to and from
	Leith, London, and Newcastle, principally in the corn, wood, and
	coal trade. The great line of Parliamentary road runs along the
	shore through the breadth of the parish, and communicates with
	the northern parts by means of excellent county roads. In the more
	remote parts of the mountainous districts, the roads are so wretch-
	edly bad as scarcely to deserve the name. The Parliamentary
	line passes over two neat and substantial bridges, one at the east
	and the other at the west end of the village of Evantown. There
	are no harbours in the parish ; but there are two or three situations
	where they might very easily be erected, and where vessels of con-
	siderable burden could conveniently load and unload.
		Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated on the coast, near
	the south-east end of the parish, and is distant about twenty miles
	from its north-west boundaries. The situation is particularly in
	convenient for the attendance of the people. At the time when
	churches and manses were first built in this country, the small spots
	in cultivation lay principally along the shore, and this may account
	for the inconvenience of situation. At any rate, more attention
	seems to have been paid to the comfort of the minister than to
	the convenience ofthe people. Even that, however, has failed to
	be secured ; for a clergyman who is in the habit of visiting his pa-
	rish will find the labour of that duty greatly increased. The pre-
	sent church was built in 1791, and is a neat and very commodious
	building, quite sufficient for the accommodation of the people.
       	It contains 78 pews, 786 feet in length, which, at the rate
	of eighteen inches for each sitter, would give accommodation
	to 524. More than 700, however, can find room with comfort,
	if necessary. No rents are taken by the heritors for the seats; and
	there are some forms exclusively devoted to the use of the poor
	These can accommodate about 60 persons.
	   The manse was originally built in 1762, and was repaired and
	much enlarged in 1806. It is a very commodious building, con-


