
418                         FIFESHIRE.

their cargoes produced 1112 tons of oi 1, and 56 tons of bones.
During that period, the wages and oil money paid to the- crews of
both vessels amounted to upwards of L. 14,400 Sterling; and up-
wards of L. 1300 was paid for labourage, landing cargoes, prepar-
ing the oil, and cleaning the bone. Twelve oilmen and coopers are
employed in the work, and from twelvo to fifteen women in cleaning
the bone. The late Sir John Leslie, in a report on the subject,
gives the following account of the method devised and carried into
effect by Mr Farnie, for destroying the fetid vapours emitted dur-
ing the manufacture of the oil. The boiler is very large, and
completely covered by a circle of thick plank, except a small open-
ing on the more accessible side, to receive the contents of the
casks, and a narrow vent in another part, which allows a current of
air to mingle with the vapour, and sweep over the surface of the
heated oil. All the steaming products are made to enter into a re-
verberatory furnace,, and pass upwards through two successive
branders, charged with coke or coal, that burn with an intense
white heat. On the same level with the branders, are three small
air-holes, baving each a separate flue for inciting occasionally the
ardour of inflammation, and while the ebullition advances, the
blubber lying at the bottom of the pan is constantly turned round
by an agitator, like the stirrer of a large still, only driven by the
action of a crank fixed near the side of the boiler. After the boil-
ing is finished, and the oil has been moderately cooled, it is drawn
by means of asypbon into a tank, and - the refuse thrown into a
covered vault; every operation being performed under the sarne
close roof."Sir John states that he regards the operations iDtrO-
-duced by thiscompany 11 as an invaluable practical invention," and
expresses his belief that it will 11 be speedily adopted in the ma-
ritime parts of the empire, and thus become a real national bles-
sing."
p-Buildin
SAiq.-In the building and repairing of vessels, 30
men are at present employed; at former periods, there have been
as many as 100. The largest Wessel ever built here was one of
443 tons,
V.-PAROCHIAL EcoNomy.
Market- Town. -ITbe nearest market-town is Kirkealdy, six miles
distant. The only village in the parish is Kirktoun.
Bur .qh.-Tbe town-couneil consists of 21, while only 31 bur,
gesses are qualified to -be elected; but this is one of the burghs the
number of whose councillors it is proposed to reduce. it unites


