
90                    ROXBURGHSHIRE.

   Botany.---Medicinal Plants.---Acorus clamus; carminative and
stomachic.  Adiantum capillus veneris; used for preparing the syrup
called Capillaire.  Agrimonia Eupatoria; slight styptic and astrin-
gent.  Artemisia vulgaris; anthelmintic, stimulant, detergent, and
sudorific. Cynoglossum officinale; astrigent, inspissant. Digitalis
Purpurea; sedative and diuretic.  Rubus chamamorus; refrige-
rant, antiscorbutic.  Vaccinium Myrtillus; refrigerant, astringent.
Vaccinium Oxycoccus; refrigerant.  Vaccinium Vitis Idea; refri-
gerant, antiseptic.
  The are a number of thriving plantations in the parish.  The
kinds of timber which predominate at present are the larch, spruce,
and Scotch fir; but considerable quantitites of these are, by the
annual thinnings sold off, and the hard-wood, such as oak, ash,
elm, plane, and beech, are gaining the ascendancy.  In many
places, the firs are nearly thineed out, and the hard-wood trees
are shoolting up beautiful trunks.  There is also a considarable
quantity of old timber in the parish, especially at Borthwickbrae.
Most of the plantations are upon the estates of Borthwickbrae,
Chisholme, Borthwickshiels, Hoscoat, and Harden.  Upon the
Duke of Buccleuch's estate, which forms half the parish, there
are scarecely any plantations.
                  IL--Civil History.
  Land-owners.--The land-owners are, the Duke of Buccleuch;
R. Chisholme, Esq. of Chisholme; Allan Eliott Lockhart, Esq.
of Borthwickbrae; Hugh Scott, Esq. of Harden; George Pott,
Esq. of Borthwickshiels; Thomas Stavert, Esq. of Hoscoat;
Archibald Scott, Esq. of Howcleuch; James Johnston, Esq. of
Alva; Robert Pringle, Esq. of Howcleuch; James Johnstone, Esq. of
Alva; Robert Pringle, Esq. of Clifton, M. P.; and Charles Rid-
dell, Esq. of Muselee.
   Parochial Registers.--There are some registers which go back
as far as the year 1680, but they are neither voluminous nor regu-
larly kept.  They have also suffered much from decay and from
damp.  One small record of the births and marriages of Hassen-
dean parish is still preserved.
   Antiquities.--There are a number of ancient camps inc the pu-
rish,--some of these of a square,--others of an oval shape.  One of
them is situated upon the farm of Highchesters.  This camp, as
the name indicates, is on an elevated piece of ground, and com-
mands an extensive view.  The largest and most complete camp is
upon the farm of Broadlee, to the west of the parish.  There are
two others upon the farm of Todshawhill, one upon the farm of
                            4


