

214                          DUMBARTONSHIRE.

hence to Leven and other distant markets.  At its junction with
the lake it is, often about two feet deep in sumnmer, and for about
two miles next the lake, the average breadth is about 80 feet, and
thedepth usually 10, butfartber up it is rather narrower and shallower.
The principal kinds of fishes to be found in this part of the river
are. the pike, perch, braize, eel, and some trout toward Drytnen
bridge. A large extent of deep and excellent land, but in gene-
ral only a few feet in elevation above the level of tbe lake, lies on
each side of the river; and hence, crops are often injured or car-
ried off by being overflowed with water; and in some parts it is
useful only for meadow hay or pasture. Sometimes in winter, in-
deed, when the. lake is at its greatest height, and the river is much
swollen by heavy rains and the melting of snows, this plain to the
extent of some hundreds of acres, would have all the appearance
of au extensive lake, were it not for some trees standing up from
the water. The better part of, the land in the parish seems to
lie along the Endrick, and from Ross southward to the boundary
at Blairnyle.

                        II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.--The chief land-owners are the following: The
Duke of Montrose, principal heritor in point of valuation, or valued
rent; Mrs Macdonald Buchanan of Rosa and Drummakill; John
Buchanan, Esq. of Ardoch; R.D. Mackeinzie, Esq. of Caldar-
van; and Robert Macgoune, Esq. of Mains.
   Parochial-Registers.--These consist of registers of baptisms, pro-
elamations or marriages, minutes of kirk-session, and accounts of
poor's money, The oldest book is a collection of detached leave,
perhaps fragments of several old books, which are now kept within
two old boards, and contain entries Of all matters connected with
the management of the parish. The earliest data I have disco-
vered in it is 4th April 1647. The next in point of antiquity is a
book containing minutes of session, unsigned by the moderator or
clerk the first date of which is 29th January 1710, and the last
11th December 1771. No book for minutes of session has been
Kept from that date till 23d February 1884, the date of the ear-
liest entry in the new minute book.  The only minutes that have
been kept during all the interval, and preserved till this time, are
written on a few loose leaves: they do not exceed five in pumber,
and are unsigned.  The next in order is a register of haptisms, com-
mencing 4th August 1731, which, with two other books, contains a
continuous register of baptisms down to the present date.  The


