
126			DUMBARTONSHIRE.

<TABLE>

Value of all kinds of grain,       .        .        .        .      L. 2000  0  0
Of potatoes and turnips,    .      .       .      .       .             1500  0  0
Of hay cultivated,         .      .       . .        .                   400  0  0
(Meadow trifling)
Offlax for flannel, are     .       .      .       .       .              20  0  0
Of land in pasture, rating it at L. 2, 10s. for each cow or full-
     grown ox, and for each sheep, 5s.           .       .       .      1200  0  0
Annual thinning from plantation grounds,           .       .             600  0  0
Of salmon fishing,          .       .      .          .        .         100  0  0
                                                                        __________
                                                                     L. 5820  0  0

		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Occasionally sales are effected in Glasgow and elsewhere; seed
oats are sometimes exported to Ireland, and potatoes to the colo-
nies; but Greenock is the chief market for all descriptions of farm
produce from the parish, to which there is a ready access by the
two ferries of Row and Kilcraigin. By the former, (on the Gare-
loch shore) and about six miles from Greenock quay, the farmer can
convey his articles to market in steamers every day ; by the latter,
which is on the Loch Long shore, where the estuary is about three
miles wide, in the regular packet-boat on Mondays and Fridays.
   Villages.--There are several little groups of cottages, scarcely
one of which can be termed a village, unless indeed, the Clachan
lay claim to that distinction among those of the hill of Campsail.
Kilcraigin, Barber, or the mill of Reheane. In none of these, are
there above ten or twelve families, and in the Clachan itself there
are not sixty souls.
   Each family in these groups occupies a separate or self-contain-
ed cottage, so that although contiguous or rather crowded together,
each thus enjoys a certain domestic privacy. Very few of tha cot-
tages are without a ben, the comfort of which is so felt by ihe poor-
est of the people. It is of no mean importance in their domestic
economy, for very obvious purposes; but it may be observed that
it is prized in proportion to the diffusion of the power and habit
of reflection, especially when the mind becomes religiously im-
pressed. Such a family accommodation in their humble dwellings
facilitates the attainment of that quiet and seclusion so indispensa-
ble for those exercises with which a stranger cannot intermeddle.
   Means of Communication.--There are no turnpike roads; but
about twenty-four miles of carriage roads, kept in excellent repair,
traverse the parish in various directions, with the exception of not
more than three miles, the isthmus extending from Coalport to Fer-
nivarry, they entirely surround the peninsula, and bisect it first across
the dingle of Campsail Bay, then at Mamore, thus connecting the
Loch Long and Gareloch sides of the parish, while another line,
			   4


