
			WEST KILBRIDE.                       265

all respects, a most unsuitable and uncomfortable place of public
worship; and cannot be more justly described than in the former
Account, as "a long, narrow, mean-looking edifice; low in the
walls, and deep-roofed." In length, it is upwards of 70 feet, the
width scarcely 18; and from the lowness of the walls, hardly 10
feet in height, and from there being a gallery in each end, light
and ventilation are almost wholly destroyed. Under these circum-
stances, the necessity of a new church has long been seriously
felt; but as it was supposed that the present building could not
be condemned as altogether insufficient in itself, the heritors have
all along resisted being at the expense. Last year, the congrega-
tion, despairing of any thing being done, obtained permission to
erect an aisle for their own further accommodation, and which has
now been completed, solely by voluntary contribution. Altogether,
there is now accommodation in the church for 800 sitters, which
as to mere extent is perhaps nearly sufficient for the wants of the
parish. No benefactions have ever been made to the parish, ex-
cept occasional small sums to the poor; nor are there any free sit-
tings within the church. The manse is delightfully situated on the
glebe land, close by the church. It is sufficiently commodious and
substantial, having been built only about thirty years ago. The
glebe lies conveniently around the manse, and consists of very fine
land, but is only of the statutory extent of 4 1/2 acres, which lets at
L. 4 per acre. Since 1790, three several augmentations have been
obtained to the stipend, and the whole now consist of 16 chalders
of victual, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
	About 250 families attend the Established Church, and the
number of communicants is 515. The Earl of Eglinton is patron;
but the heritors have all acquired right to their respective teinds,
a considerable portion of which is still unexhausted. There are
here no chapels of ease; but there is a very neat and commodious
place of worship belonging to the United Associated Synod, built
about fifteen years ago; and having accommodation for 434 sitters,
though the usual attendance does not probably exceed 150. They
are at present without an ordained minister, their late pastor, the
Rev. Peter Mather, who was appointed to officiate permanent-
lu amongst them, having left them, and joined himself to those de-
nominated Independents.
	Education. --There are in all three schools in this parish; all
situated in the village, but the parochial one alone enjoys any en-
dowment. The average number of scholars attending all three


