
302                        ARGYLESHIRE.

almost their whole extent.  Upon the south side of the parish, there
is only one creek or anchorage ground, and that in Ross, called
Portuisgen, where a vessel of 30 tons may anchor, but not in safe-
ty, if the weather be stormy.  Upon the Ross side of the sound of
Iona, there are two creeks, the one called the Barachan, and the
other Poltairve or the bull pond, where vessels of considerable
burden may anchor in great safety, with proper pilots.  In the
sound of Iona, there is a sand bank almost in the middle of the
channel, so that vessels passing through it, must keep within one-
third channel of Iona.  Lochlahich lies east of the sound of Iona,
at the distance of about three miles; an island or rock at the en-
trance murt be kept by the vessel entering the loeb upon the star-
board quarter, but with a leading wind a vessel may safely enter
between this small island and the Rossland on the west, as this
channel, although narrow, is deep and free of rocks.  After enter-
ing the loch, a small island at the bottom of it must be kept upon
the larboard.  Between this island and the mainland, vessels in
general anchor, but there is no danger in anchoring in any part of
the loch.  This loch runs about two miles from north to south
into Ross, and is considered very safe anchorage.  A small arm of
it runs westward, and is called Lochcaol, but is too shallow for
any vessel to anchor in.  The whole of Loch Scridain may be
called a road, but the best anchorage ground is at Kilfinichen
a another place at the head of the loch, called the Narrows,
where vessels may ride in safety from all storms.  The headland
of Burg in Airdmeanach, and the whole north coast of that dis-
trict, is exceedingly dangerous, the coast being, bold, full of rock,
and no harbour.
   Meteorology.-The climate of the parish is temperate, but ra-
ther moist, arising either from its being surrounded by the Atlan-
tic, or the high hills which separate it from the parish of Torosay.
The prevailing gales are from the west and south-west,  The in-
habitants are healthy, and attain to great age.  Even in Ross,
where it is low and marshy, the inhabitants are healthy and long-
lived, for the gales from the mountains purify the air, and contri-
bute much to the health of the inhabitants.  Few diseases are
known except fevers, which are generally brought from the low
country by labourers returning from the harvest and other works
they are employed in, during the summer and harvest.
   Hydrography.-The only lakes in the parish are three incon-
considerably ones in Ross; the largest of them is not above a mile


