
     Statistical Account

each corner, which is the burying place of the Newalls of
Barskeoch*.  In the farm of Stronfraggan, there is a large

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is one tombstone which deserves to be mentioned, as the me-
morial of two martyrs who suffered a violent death, in the time of the late
persecution for religion in Scotland.  The inscriptions, which are as fol-
lows, though in a rude style, sufficiently describe their cruel and unde-
served sate.
"Here lyeth Robert Stewart, son to Major Robert Stewart of Ardoch,
and John Grierson, who were martyred by Grahame of Claverhouse, for
their adherence to Scotland's Reformation, and Covenants National and
Solemn League."

     Behold, behold, a stone's here sore'd to cry
     Come, see two martyrs under me that lye:
     At water of Dee, who slain were by the hand
     Of Cruel Claverhouse, and's bloody band.
     No sooner had they done this horrid thing,
     But's fore'd to cry, Stewart's soul in heav'n doth sing.
     Yet strange his rage pursu'd even such when dead,
     And in the tombs of their ancestors laid;
     Causing their corps be rais'd out of the same;
     Discharging in church yards to bury them.
     All this they did, 'cause they would not perjure
     Our Covenants and Reformation pure:
     Because like faithful martyrs, for to die
     They rather chus'd, than treacherously comply
     With cursed Prelacy, the nation's bane,
     And with indulgency, our church's stam,
     Perjur'd intelligencers were so rife,
     Shew'd their curst loyalty to take their life."

In the village called St John's Clauchan, is preserved with great care, and
shewn to strangers, a stone which is called St John's chair. The church
having been consecrated to the Apostle John, both the adjacent village and
the chair assumed his name.  In the farm of Bogue is shown a flat stone,
of no great size, on which is inscribed P. G. VII. which is supported to
have been the foundation stone of a little chapel, built in the time of Pope
Gregory the VII. of which, however, no other vestige now remains:
but as in the same farm there is a place called Chapel-yard, as in the farm
of Cleugh, there was some years ago, a dwelling-house called the Chapel-
 

