
                       TINWALD AND TRAIFLAT.		              43

Camelita sativa*         Eupatorium cannabinum        Carex curta
Cardamine amara          Epipacatus latifolia               fulva
Barbarea vulgaris        Carex dioica                       recurva
Nasturtium terrestre          intermedia              Aspidium lobatum
Tragapagon pratensis          paniculata              Botrychium Lunaria

	A large portion of the parish was at one time covered with wood,
the greater part of which was cut down by the last Duke of
Queensberry; and now, except a quantity upon the estate to oak and
field, very little remains. The soil seems most congenal to oak and
ash. We have also a few small belts of Scotch and larch fir; but
these have all been planted. There is also here and there a tree of
the more common descriptions, both of hard and of soft wood. The
church and churchyard are surrounded by a thick row, at some places
double, of large planes and ashes, upwards of a hundred years old.
Of these, however, there a greater number, and many of them
of a greater age upon the policy of Amisfield. And in the garden
there, there is an old holly whose stem below the branches measures
nine feet by seven and a-half as its means girt. Its branches are
rather peculiarly formed: for immediately upon the top of the
trunk they diverge all around in such a manner as to forn a large
open space in the middle, where a number of people might conceal
themselves.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Men.--1. The first person, in point of date, of any emi-
nence connected with the parish appears to be Sir Thomas Charte-
ris of Amisfield, who was appointed Lord High Chancellor of Scot-
land by Alexander III. in 1280. He seems to have been the first
layman that ever held that office.--(Douglas' Baronage of Scotland,
Vol. i. p. 150.) --2. Sir Thomas Charterhs, his great grandson, also
connected with the parish, was appointed to the same office by King
David in 1134. He was killed at the battle of Durham, where his
royal master was taken prisoner.--(Ibid.) 3. We find Sir John
Charteris, also of Amisfield, holding, in the reign of James V., the of-
fice of Warden of the West Marches, one of the most important un-
der the crown: and there is a traditionary story of rather a singu-
lar visit having been paid him by the king, which led to consequen-
ces by which the family were in a great measure reduced.--(For-
syth's Beauties of Scotland, Vol. ii. p. 312. This family was still
farther reduced by the severities directed against it by the govern-

<FOOTNOTE>This, with Phalaris canariensis, has been found only among young grass, with
the seeds of which it may probably have been imported.


