
160                         LANARKSHIRE.

crease its volume in the ratio of the known law according to which
air and gases expand. Thus, if 1000 cubic feet, say at 50&deg; of
Fahrenheit, were pressed by the engine in a given time, and heat-
ed to 600&deg; of Fahrenheit, it would then be increased in volume to
2.1044, and so on for every thousand feet that would be blown into
the furnace. In prosecuting the experiments which this idea sug-
gested, circumstances, however, convinced him, that heating the
air introduced for supporting combustion into air-furnaces would
materially increase its efficacy in this respect; and, with the view
of putting his suspicions on this point to the test, he instituted the
following experiments: To the nozle of a pair of common smith's
bellows be attached a cast-iron vessel heated from beneath in the
manner of a retort for generating gas, and to this vessel the blow-
pipe by which the forge or furnace was blown was also attached.
The air from the bellows having thus to pass through the heated
vessel above-mentioned, was consequently heated to a high tem-
perature before it entered the forge fire, and the result produced
in increasing the intensity of the heat in the furnace was far be-
yond his expectation, whilst it made apparent the fallacy of the
generally received theory, that the coldness of the air of the at-
mosphere in the winter months was the cause of the best iron being
then produced. But in overthrowing the old theory, he had also
established new principles and facts, in the process of iron-makidg;
and by the advice and assistance of Mr Charles Macintosh of Cross-
basket, he applied for, and obtained, a patent, as the reward of his
discovery and improvement.
	Experiments on the large scale to reduce iron ore in a founder's
cupola were forthwith commenced at the Clyde Iron Works, belong-
ing to Mr Colin Dunlop, M. P. and were completely successful, in
consequence of which, the invention of Mr Neilson was immediate-
ly adopted at the Calder Iron-Works, the property of Mr William
Dixon, where the blast, by being made to pass through two retorts,
placed on each side of one of the large furnaces, before entering
the furnace, effected an instantaneous change, both in the quantity
and quality of iron produced; and a considerable saving of fuel.
The whole of the furnaces at Calder and Clyde Iron-Works were
in consequence immediately fitted up on the principle of the hot-
blast, and its-use at these works continues to be attended with the
utmost success. It has also been ado ted at Wilsontown and
Gartsheirrie Works in Scotland, and at several works in England
and France. The air, at first raised to 250&deg; of Fahrenheit, produced
a saving of three-sevenths of fuel in every ton of pig-iron made;


