
                             STRICHEN.                               689

ers.  The land near the village rents from L.2 to L.4.  The com-
mon rotation is three years in grass; then two grain crops; then
turnips or fallow; fallowed by a white crop, and sown with rye and
clover seeds.  The grain generally sown is oats; there is a avery lit-
tle bear or big.  The whole crop is cut down with the sey the.
The culture of potatoes and turnips is now greatly increased, and,
for securing a good crop of the latter, bone manure has of late
years been found of great service.  The breed of cattle is much im-
proved, and the abundance of turnips during the winter, and good
pasture through the summer, enable the farmers to bring them
to market in good condition.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The turnpike road, from Aberdeen
to Fraserburgh, passes through the east end of the parish, about
three miles from the village.  On this road, there is mail-coach
daily.  The turnpike road, from Peterhead to Banff, passes through
the village of Mormond, which is about half way between.  From
Fraseburgh, to which also there is a turnpike road, the farmers
are in the way of driving shell lime, bone dust, and manure.  A
great proportion of the grain, which is disposed of, is shipped
there, being the nearest port.
   Aberdeen is the principal town in the county, and with this
place there is constant intercourse by a daily post, and a weekly
carrier.  A post-office has been  long establihed.
   Mormond village began to be built in 1764, by direction of
Lord Strichen, the proprietor, then one of the Judges of the
Court of Session.  It is regularly built, and laid off in streets,
A good number of the houses are slated, and are neat and com-
modious.  The respectable appearance of those who are resident
in it, their quiet and industrious habits, have been observed by all
strangers passing through the village.  There are in it a good
many shoemakers, house carpenters, masons, blacksmiths, and
tailors; and the Messrs Richards and Co. employ a good many
weavers.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The old church, built at the time of
Strichen being erected into a parish, being found too small, and is
a state of decay, was taken down in 1799, and a new one erected
that year, in every respect commodious and comfortable, and seat-
ed to contain from 900 to 1000 people.  All the seats are rented,
and paid for yearly.  The manse is very old, having been built in
1748.  Since that time, a small addition has been made to it.
  ABERDEEN.                             xx


