
                        ABDIE.                                 49

is let near the west side of it, called the Maw Inch, was formerly
the haunt of sea-mews or gulls, but they have now deserted it.
Large flocks of crows and pigeons are very destructive to turnips,
if left in the fields, in spring.
   Hills, Lakes, &c.- Those natural objects of this sort that chiefly
deserve attention are, the Clatchard Crag, Norman's Law, and the
Loch of Lindores.  The first is a majestic cliff a little to the south-
east of Newburgh, about 250 feet above the road which passes near
its base.
  Upon its summit, there are the remains of a fortification similar
to some of the outworks of the Roman camp at Ardoch. Nor-
man's law (the hill of the northern men) is in height 850 feet
above the sea level. It commands a most delightful prospect, espe-
cially to the north, where the Carse of Gowrie and the Frith of
Tay appear in full view in all their richness and variety. There_
are three concentric circles of rougb stone near the top, supposed
to have been a fortification of the Danes to cover their inroads into
the country, or perhaps erected by the natives to repel these in-
vaders. But by far the most interesting object here is the Loch
of Lindores, covering an area of 70 acres of ground, and in some
places 20 feet deep. This sheet of water is not only highly or-
namental, but also very beneficial to the proprietors. And it so
happens that, by a servitude upon it for supplying the mills, the
water belongs to one proprietor, while the fish and the fowl belong
to another. For the two last years, L. 15 or L. 17 have been given
for the privilege of fowling and fishing upon it. It is frequented
by ducks, teals, snipes, and other water fowl, and it abounds in
pike, perch, and eel. A few reeds are sometimes cut for the roofs
of houses. But the chief advantage is derived from the stream of
water which flows from it, and which is sufficient, except in very
dry summer weather, to turn five or six very valuable mills, whose
yearly rent is more than could be obtained for the whole extent of
the loch though it were converted into arable land. A saw mill
has been lately erected, where a great quantity of fir and other
wood is cut, (it is said to the value of L. 1500 per aniium,) and
disposed of in the neighbourhood,) exported at Newburgh to
Newcastle and other places. A bone mill has also been set a-go-
ing of late, and the corn and barley mills continue to be well em-
ployed; but the fulling-mill Is and Iint-mills mentioned in the former
Report have been given up. The lake, when covered with ice, af-
fords amusement to curlers. The stream, however, which feeds it,
called the 'Priest's Burn, never freezes and is never dried up, even
    FIFE                                D


