
     Statistical Account

or small trunk of a tree.  The stones thus marked are com-
monly free-stone; sometimes, but more rarely, iron-stone.
Vegetable impressions have also been observed upon the py-
rites of the Hawkhead coal*.

   Husbandry.-The husbandry of this parish, as of all the
west of Scotland, was, about the middle of this century, in a
most unprosperous state.  The indigent circumstances of the
farmers, their indolent habits, the want of roads, of wheel-
carriages, and proper implements of husbandry, all conspired
to obstruct the improvement of the soil.  Till about 1770,
lime, coal, grain, &c. were generally conveyed on horse-
back.  The old servitudes of carriages, kain labour, thirlage,
&c. still existed, with many practices discouraging to the far-
mer, and strongly marking the languid state of agriculture.
The spirit of improvement, however, which, about that time,
appeared in Scotland, reached Renfrewshire; and a very fa-
vourable change has now taken place.  The introduction of
artificial grasses, and the culture of potatoes, have produced
a more diligent and accurate husbandry, and banished the
pernicious distinction of croft and outfield+.  Before 1766,
there was scarce any hay sown; and the natural grass hay
then sold at 3 d. per stone.  The general price of hay, of late
years, has been 5 d. or 6 d.; at present it is no less than 9 d.
Potatoes, about 40 or 50 years ago, were brought in boats
from Kintyre to Paisley market.  About 30 years ago, far-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The particulars relative to the mineralogy of the parish
have been chiefly communicated by the ingenious Mr John
Wilson, factor to the Earl of Glasgow.
+The distinction between croft and outfield prevailed very
generally in the old and imperfect husbandry of Scotland.  The
croft, consisting of a few acres nearest the farm house, was per-
petually in crop, and received the whole manure of the farm.
The outfield was the open pasture land, which was occasionally
plowed in patches for oats till they were exhausted, and then
left to rest.


