
782                              FIFESHIRE.

   The county of Perth extends to within less than a mile of the
town of Auchtermuchty on the north; and the line which separates the
parish, on the north-west, from that of Abernethy, forms also the
boundary for nearly two miles, between the counties of Perth and
Fifeshire. Almost the whole rising ground in the parish has a
southern exposure, with an inclination towards the east, while the
south-east part forms a section of an extensive plain of deep, rich,
alluvial soil, which was mostly flooded with stagnant water during
tbe winter season, within the remembrance of many of the inha-
bitants, but is now thoroughly dried, and comprehends some of
the most valuable land in Scotland, renting from L.4, 10s. to
L.5 the imperial acre.
                               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Parochial Registers- The oldest record of this parish is a re-
gister containing the minutes of kirk-session, commencing in the
year 1650, and also a separate register of births and marriages
from the same period. How far the latter contains a complete
record of all the births and marriages which took place within the
parish at this period, it is impossible to say ; but it is probable
that these were much more accurately recorded at this early pe-
riod, than they are now, when the parish was less a prey to reli-
gious divisions and animosities. No particular register appears
to have been kept of the deaths at the time, and the number is
only to be ascertained from the notices given of the funds arising
from the use of the mortcloth. There is, however, a blank in the
records of this parish not easily accounted for, from 1658 and
1667, till the beginning of the eighteenth century, when they ap-
pear again to have been kept with considerable regularity. At
present the records of this parish, and, perhaps, of most parishes
in Scotland, are far from being complete. The register of mar-
riages, amount of collections at the church doors, and minutes of
the kirk-session, are kept with great accuracy ; but the record of
births and deaths is most deficient. Of the former 25, and of the
latter only 8 were recorded for the year 1840, while 50 deaths,
and from 70 to 80 births are known to have taken place in the pa-
rish within that period. This strange anomaly may be accounted
for thus: Over the registration of the former, the kirk-session have
a complete control, over the latter, as the law now stands, they have
little or none; and, consequently, by far the most important
records are incomplete. Few or none of the Dissenters in
the parish register their children's names, and in a parish


