
180                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

in spring and autumn, and smaller parties sometimes remain dur-
ing winter. The mountain linnet (L. montium) is seen but seldom.
The northern linnet (L. borealis) has been seen only once or twice.
It is not commonly known in Scotland.
	Common starling (Sturnus vulgaris) is found in flocks during
autumn and spring, but few in number, having diminished much
of late years. In 1819 and 1820, flocks of many hundreds fre-
quented the holms on the Annan, but of late not more than from
ten to twenty have been seen together.
	The raven (Corvus corax) passes over occasionally, betrayed by
his croak. The hooded-crow (C. cornix) is a rare visitant, and gene-
rally found with the common corbie. The jack-daw (C. monedu-
la) is sometimes seen varied with white. The jay (Garrulus glan-
darius) is very rare.
	Swallows abound. But the numbers of the window-martin (Hi-
rundo urbica), and swift (Cypselus murarius), have diminished much
since the old mansion-house of Jardine-Hall was pulled down;
previous to which numerous colonies of swifts built in the rents of
the walls, and two or three pairs of martins tenanted every win-
dow. Now (1832) a few pairs only of each are to be found; a
striking instance of the change of locality, which is constantly tak-
ing place. The martins are strictly gregarious, living in large bo-
lonies, like rooks and herons.
	The spotted fly-catcher (Muscicapa grisola) common.
	The common night-jar (Caprimulgus Europaeus) is frequently
seen, and is abundant in the opposite parishes of Lochmaben and
Johnstone.
	The land-rail, corn-crake, (Crex vulgaris), very abundant.
	The king-fisher (Alcedo ispida) occasionally seen on the Annan
during winter.
	The common creeper (Certhia familiaris) abundant in winter.
In the breeding season it retires to the more extensive woods.
	The turtle-dove (Columba turtur) was once shot in Jardine-Hall
garden.
	The pheasant (Phasianus torquatus) was introduced here about
ten years ago, and is now tolerably abundant.
	The black-cock (Tetrao tetrix), and grouse (Lagopus Scoticus),
abound in the higher parts of the parish; the former has, within
these few years, extended to the lower district.
        The quail (Coturnix vulgaris) is occasionally met with in Sep-


