
                           MOONZIE.                          789

acquired this estate in the reign of James IV. in consequence of
Alexander Lindsay, sixth Earl of Craufurd, marrying Dumbar,
heiress of Moonzie. But for this statement he produces no autho-
rity, and it os disproved by existing records. "Sir David Lindsay
gave, on the 19th of November 1355, a donation of six pounds of
wax yearly out of his lands of Cairnie, to the abbot and convent
of Lindores, for finding a burning taper every day that mass is ce-
lebrated in the choir of their church, at his sepulchre, which was
confirmed by charter granted by David II. on 3d August 1364."\f
     Eminent Men-In the Craufurd family there were many indi-
viduals who were distinguished for their talents, their bravery, and
for the high situations which they occupied in the government of
the country. Alexander the third Earl of Craufurd, who lived in
the reign of James II. was a man of singular character and habits.
From the fierceness and cruelty of his temper and his undaunted
courage, he was surnamed the "Tiger," and, from his long black
bushy beard, he received the appelation of Earl Beardie. Though
a great part of his property and his principal residence were in
Angus, it is generally understood that he resided occasionally in
Fife. He is said to have built the castle of Lordscairnie, in the
parish of Moonzie, and this account is confirmed by its being call-
ed Earl Beardie's castle to this day. It is a large and lofty build-
ing, being 54 feet in length, and 40 in breadth over walls, and
four stories high. The walls are nearly 6 feet thick, are com-
posed of every kind of stones, and bound together by the strong-
est cement. The ground floor, it is likely, was occupied with
kitchen and cellars, and the second with the great baronial hall.
It is now in a very dilapidated state. The outward walls or shell
of the castle still remains, but the roof and floors are entirely gone,
and even the ribats of the windows and the corner-stones of the
building have disappeared. The tenants of the estate, who were
formerly in the habit of making a quarry of the castle to obtain
stones for building houses or dikes, are now very properly pro-
hibited by their leases from making any farther encroachment
upon it. There was formerly a wall of considerable height and
thickness round the castle, called the "rampart wall," including
several acres of ground, and having towers on it at some distance
from each other. A part of this wall on the north existed till
within these few years, and one of the towers still remains. From
the construction of this tower, it had evidently been a place of de-

<FOOTNOTE>Wood's Peerage.

