
70                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

they are nearly ready for the butcher, as soon as the milk season
is ended.
   Manufactures.--There was a cotton-mill in the parish, which was
burnt down in 1806, and has not been rebuilt; and a printfield,
which was abandoned about the same time, and is now become
ruinous. There is now only one manufacturing establishment--
the woollen factory of Mr John Jamieson, where 400 cwts. of wool
are used annually, and where it passes through all the various
processes, till it is converted into cloth.

                      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Ecclesiastical State.--The church and manse are both substan-
tial and commodious. The former is well attended; the number
of communicants is about 480; the male heads of families in com-
munion, by the roll of last sacrament, are 153. There is no Dis-
senting place of worship in the parish; only 26 families are Dissen.
ters; yet all of these, with one exception, occasionally attend the
parish church. The last augmentation of stipend was in 1814,
when the teinds were exhausted. The stipend consists of 184
bolls of meal, 4 bolls of barley, and L. 3 in money. The glebe
consists of 8 acres of land, worth L.12 annually. The value of the
living, at an average of four years, is L.150.
  Education.--There is one parochial school in the village, with
a salary to the master of L.31 annually, and an allowance of L. 8
in lieu of a house and garden. There are three private schools
in different parts of the parish, maintained exclusively by school-
fees. The number of scholars is about 170 : they are taught only
the elementary branches. There is also a Sabbath school in the
village, which is attended by nearly 100 children.
    Poor.--The regular poor are 12 at an average, and receive about
L.4 each in the year: a few, perhaps six or thereby, receive occasion-
al aid at Christmas, and at Lammas, when the sacrament is dispen-
sed. The whole expense amounts to L.54. The income consists of
collections in the church, amounting to L. 50, and the interest of
capital, L. 4.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The parish, except in regard to education, may be said to be
in a healthy state. A general spirit of improvement is promoted
by the example and encouragement of the numerous resident heri-
tors. One drawback is the distance from fuel, from manures, and
from markets; and good roads are the only means of obviating
that disadvantage. In 1768, the last minister introduced the no-


