
                     HALKIRK.                                 81

pagating Christian Knowledge; and the other three of which are
female schools, are wholly supported by the parents of the chil-
dren. The branches taught are, reading, writing, Arithmetic
book-keeping, English grammar, and at the parochial school Utin
gpd all the other branches. The salary for the parochial school
is the maximum, and the Society for Propagating Christian Know-
ledge allow their teacher at Assary L.15. The amount of fees
varies according to attendance, from L. 3 to L. 5, per quarter; the
quarterly-fees for each individual is Is. 6d. for readin 2s. for
reading and writing; 2s. 6d. for arithmetic; 3s. for book-keep-
ing and English grammar; . and 5s. for Latin and geography.
That the peopleare alive to the benefits of education is evident
from their supporting so many schools at their own charges, to in-
struct their children in the elements 'of reading, writing, and arith-
metic. Were schools established at all the stations at which the
people employ teachers, the inhabitants generally would be within
such a distance of a school as woul d put it in their power to cause
their children attend. The total number of children who attend-
ed the different schools during the year 1835 was 41 1, and  the
average number for some ears is 390.
   Friendly Societies.-There are five Friendly Societies in the pao-
rish. The object of these is to give a weekly Allowance to sick
members, a sum for funeral charges when any of the member's fa-
mily dies, and a quarterly allowance of the widows of members,
who shall have contributed to the funds of the society at least,se-
ven years previous to their death. The total number of members
in these five societies is 644; and the number of widows supported
ed by them is 29. The funds of the Halkirk Villao Society
amount to L. 300. This is the first that was eatablished`in the
parish. The others have been instituted data various periods since;
and one thing that stimulated their founders to get them establish-
ed may have been the success that attended the first. .
societies are useful, in as much as they put in the power, of  heads
of families to provide so far for their  wives and children, as, to
leave them independentof parochial relief.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The anual average number recerv-
ing par, ochial relief during the list  of team
average yea sum, given, to each is Bs; Some of the absentee

<FOOTNOTE>Since the above was written, an innovation has been introduced into these so-
cities, which is likely to end in the' AisikA 06n eir some ot them". The cash was
given out to some necessitous members, and, as this in too many instaces was alone
without proper Security,, the money is not likely to be alf repaid.

   CAITHNESS.                              F


