
     of Kiltearn.

inhabitants of this parish; and yet they are exposed to the
north, while Kiltearn has a south aspect.  The difference must
certainly be owing to the quality of the soil.  That on the
opposite shore is a mould mixed with sand and gravel, chiefly
founded on quarry.  As to the productions of this parish,
were we to mention them all, we would enumerate the seve-
ral animals and vegetables that are most commonly to be met
with in North Britain, with the addition of those produc-
tions peculiar to highland countries.  The hills abound with
red deer, and all kinds of moor game; and various birds and
beasts of prey, as eagles, hawks, foxes, etc.  In the extentive
heaths of this distirct, a great variety of berries is produced,
most of which are very grateful to the taste.  During the
winter storms, there are shols of sea-sowls on the coats here,
such as wild ducts, and a species of geese called rood geese,
which are esteemed good eating.  Some sheel fith are likewise
found upon the coast, such as muscles, cockles, and wilks,
The sea-coast being smooth and sandy for the most part,
there is little sea-weed; and none at all sit for burning kelp.
Bee-hives were formerly very plentiful in this parish, but now
it is probable that there are not above 20 in the whole district.
The parish used to be greatly insested with rats; but they
are now almost extirpated.  Whether this is owing to the
industry of rat-killers, who have been employed to destroy
them, or whether they have emigrated to some other dis-
trict, is not known.  As the prejudice against eating swine's
slesh is in a great measure overcome, a considerable number
of pigs is reared here.  Not only every farmer, but every
house-keeper, rears annualy one or two pigs, and some half
a dozen; the greatest number of which are sold at the neigh-
bouring markets; and, when tolerably well fed, setch from
20 to 30 shillings a piece.  The breed of black cattle here is
various.  In the Highlands, they were small sized and hardy,

     VOL. I. L 1


