
              474                       ARGYLESHIRE.

                Glentendal, or Glendow, is seven miles distant from Glenure,
              and nearer by that distance to the Atlantic.  It is scarcely three
              miles in length, its direction being from east to west, and its
              lower section is luxuriantly clothed with wood.  This glen is te-
              nanted by some hundreds of fallow-deer, which were first brought
              thither about eighty years ago, and have since continued within
              the limits of the glen and its near neighbourhood, without either
              an enclosure or a keeper.
                Glensalloch runs nearly from south to north, is the most ele-
              vated of our glens, and forms the opening betwixt Loch-etive
              and Loeb-creran, distant six miles from each other by this route.
              The views presented from this glen, when in sight of either loch,
              are very interesting.
                Coast, Climate.-In consequence of the irregular form of the
              parish, the extent of sea coast is not less than 65 miles.  Towards
              the western extremity, the coast is comparatively low, though in-
              terspersed occasionally with rocks and projecting headlands of
              considerable altitude.  The shore is sandy, generally over a
              clayey bottom; and towards the head of Loch-etive, where the
              adjacent mountains are composed of granite rock, the particles of
              sand on the shore are uncommonly large, and are formed of com-
              minuted granite.  There are several bays and indentations of
              unequal size, some of them forming fine sweeps.  The Bay of
              Ardmucknish, which extends from beyond Lochnell-house to
              Connell Ferry, will at once arrest attention, from its ample range,
              its finely pebbled beach, and the noble view which it commands.
                In so far as a judgment may be formed from the instances of
              longevity among us, our weeping climate exercises no unfavour-
              able influence on the health of the inhabitants.  Many years have
              not elapsed since one man died here who attained the patriarchal
              age of 112 years.  More recently, another reached his 108th
              year.  In a cottage within a short distance eastward of the manse,
              an aged sire resides now in his 96th year; while at about the
              same distance in the opposite direction, there live a venerable
              couple, whose united ages amount to 177 years, the husband
              having completed his 90tb, and the wife her 87th year.  It is
              but a few months since a woman in the next house, and within
              twenty yards of this pair, departed this life in her 98th year.
                Our winters are comparatively mild, and do not usually com-
              mence before the middle of December; and though our moun-
              tain tops are clothed in a snowy mantle for at least five months of
                                                3


