
466                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

sand of about a foot in thickness. From the agency of successive tides
and currents, this encroachment is slowly becoming less, as is evi-
denced by the beach of loose shingle thrown up in the course of ages,
which extends along the coast for nearly two miles, and which is in
parts upwards of a quarter of a mile in breadth. That the causes
which produced this marine deposit are still in operation, is known
by the fact that, within the last twenty years, the access to the pier
at Fort-George has been completely blocked up by a barrier of
this shingly debris. * The northern coast bears marks of extensive
inundation. Upwards of a mile inland from the present flood.
mark are distinctly visible two beaches of shingle or water-worn
pebbles, parallel to each other in their winding outline, and dis-
tant from each other only a few yards. Parts of the reclaimed
land have been, time immemorial, under tillage. If the inundation
happened within the historical aera, it was probably in the year
1097, when we are told by Boethius, Buchanan, and other histo-
rians, that the Goodwin estate was overwhelmed by sand, and the
lands of Moray desolated by an inundation of the German Ocean.
   In the banks of the rill which divides Ardersier from Fleming-
ton, and which has a channel of some depth, logs of black oak,
lying horizontally, are seen at depths varying from three to five
feet below the surface level. At many points the sides and bot-
tom of the channel present extensive patches of bog-iron ore.
   Zoology.-Quails have been frequently shot in the parish, and
starlings have hatched young broods in the neighbourhood. In
the winter months, the coast is frequented by flocks of aquatic
fowl. Barnacle, sheldrake, teal, and widgeon are the frequent
prey of sportsmen. And some of the rarer species, as the red-
breasted merganser (Mergus serrator,) have been shot in the bay.
Of shell-fisb, the cockle (Cardium edule,) which abounds in the
sea sands, deserves notice. They are gathered in quantities by
the fisher girls, and conveyed to the Inverness market; and they
afford a savoury variety to the humble repast of the poorer classes,
whose children are sent to collect them. Muscles and periwin-
kles are also common on the coast.
   Botany.-The flora of the parish does not comprehend any very
rare species of plants. The maiden-pink (Dianthus deltoides)

<FOOTNOTE>At one locality, some hundred yards from the shore, and about eighteen inches
beneath the surface of the sea sands, a mass of sandstone with a mixture of carbonate
of lime, and enclosing innumerable fossil shells, all of existing species, is discoverable
The shellss seem to be in different stages of fossilization, the texture of the stone be-
ing softer near the surface.


