
                  OATHLAW OR FINAVON.                     309

	In the old Statistical Account of the parish, Mr Raiker has
stated, that the average number of poor in the parish at that time
was 2. This statement seems to have been doubted in some
quarter, for in the Appendix, Vol.xxi. p.58, he says, "To satisfy
you concerning the number of our paupers,-that we have no more
than two receiving charity, is a certain fact, both old women and
widows: and what is still more, one of these does not properly be-
long to us, but to a neighbouring parish, and came to reside with
a daughter married to a labouring man here." He adds the rea-
son for this, which we have quoted above; and continues, "We
have a family or two with a number of young children that we
occasionally relieve with small sums, and it is sometimes with
difficulty that they can be prevailed upon to accept of them, but
no longer than they can do for themselves, which is often at a verx
early age."
	We cannot help stating, that it is matter of high satisfaction to
find that the same disposition not to be burdensome to the parish
still prevails. As a proof of this honourable trait in the people's
character, it may be mentioned, that one man, several years ago,
being under the necessity of removing to Dundee to undergo the
operation of lithotomy, the parish contributed several pounds to
assist him; and the operation having been successful, he, after re-
suming work, repaid the whole into the funds, though, from its hav-
ing been bestowed as a gift, this was neither wished nor expected.
        Alehouse.-An alehouse has been established in the parish since
the date of the former Account. The tenant and his whole fa-
mily are among the most sober, quiet, and industrious individuals in
the parish; but this much I am bound to notice, that all such houses
in the neigbbourhood of spinning-mills or large works of any kind
tend to keep up and cherish those habits of intemperance which
may have been previously formed in towns and large communities.
It is also a general observation, that all such houses are too highly
rented, especially if there be land attached to them; and this is
by no means conducive to their regularity, or to the benefit of so-
ciety in their neighbourhood.
        Fuel.-Although peat is found in `btndance in the neighbour-
ing parishes, there is comparatively little here. The moss of Bal-
lenshoe is the only one on which the estate of Finhaven has a claim,
and it is nearly exhausted. The principal fuel in the parish is
coal and wood,-the wood being procured in the parish, and the
coals being brought from Montrose and Arbroath.



