
				DORNOCH.                              3

	which are sometimes very vivid, are commonly followed by cold and
	stormy weather.
	   The prevailing distempers are rheumatism, consumption, and
	inflammatory fevers.
	   Hydrography.-The Frith of Dornoch extends at least twenty
	miles beyond this parish.  From the Meickle Ferry to the Little
	Ferry, the water is strongly impregnated with salt,'and is found ex-
	cellent for bathing during the summer months.-In the hilly part
	of the parish, there are a few lakes, in which a variety of trouts
	is found, but generally small, and little sought after.-In this
	parish there are the rivers Carnaig and Evlix.  The Carnaig
	takes its rise some miles south of Torboll, and empties itself
	into the Fleet on the sands of Torboll, up to which the tide
	at one time flowed, till arrested by the Earthen Mound.  The
	Evlix takes its rise about the head of Strath Achvaich; and, after
	running about eight or nine miles, with a considerable population
	on each side of it, and its banks beautifully wooded with natural
	birch and alders, it empties itself into the Dornoch Frith, not far
	from the Meickle Ferry.  These rivers are not large; but during
	winter thaws, or heavy rains in summer, they rise rapidly, overflow
	their banks, and in their progress sometimes do considerable
	damage to corn lands.
	   Mineralogy.-Coal was found at Clashmore in this parish; it
	was submitted to Sir Humphry Davy's inspection, and by him'pro-
	nounced to be similar to that of Brora.  The seam is said to tra-
	verse Ross-shire, and become visible in Coigach. There is a con-
	siderable freestone quarry in the neighbourhood of this town, from
	which stones for building houses and erecting fences are taken.
	There is another on the estate of Embo; and several inferior ones,
	fit for fences, have recently been discovered in other parts of the
	parish.
	   Zoology.-In this parish are to be found badgers, foxes, otters,
	hares, rabbits, roe-deer, and occasionally red-deer; also grouse,
	black game, partridges, &c.
	   There is nothing in this parish that deserves the name of a
	salmon fishing.  Abundance of excellent cockles may be found near
	the town when the tide recedes, and westward to the Meickle Fer-
	ry.  They are much sought after in their season, and carried to
	a considerable distance in the interior of the country.
	   There are also two muscle-scalps near the Meickle Ferry, the
	property of Mr Dempster of Skibo.  The Buckie fishermen re-



