
			      DALZIEL.                     453

	Urn.--In digging the foundation of the lodge for the old entry
to Dalziel House, about thirty-five years ago, an urn was discover-
ed containing bones, which shows that the ancient Britons inha-
bited this part of the country.
	Cross Stones.--Of these stones (at which the barons anciently
held their courts, tried, condemned, and executed criminals,) there
were three till lately. One of them stands near the site of Baron
Nisbit's House. It is a heptagon, with a sword emblazoned on
one side of it. The other two were placed where the Roman road
deviated from the present one, but have been removed by recent
improvements.
	Dalziel Mansion-house.--It is situated on the north side of the
Dalziel burn, and on the most picturesque part of the bank of the
glen through which it runs. It was built in the year 1649, two
years after the estate was bought by Mr Hamilton of Boggs, and is
a very fine specimen of an old baronial residence. It is 88 feet in
length, and 27 in breadth. The sunk story is arched over, in
which was formerly the kitchen and extensive cellarage. The din-
ing-room is 32 by 21 feet, and the walls are wainscoat unpainted, and
hung around with the pictures of the ancestors and connections of-
the family. Among others, Sir John Hamilton of Orbiston in a
coat of mail, James Hamilton of Boggs, and Lord Westhall, one
of the Senators of the College of Justice, in his robes of office. At-
tached to the house is an old tower, formerly called Peel House,
without date. It is about 50 feet high, the walls are 8 feet thick,
having the holes or recesses, which were used for sleeping in, and it is
28 by 34 over walls. Only two parts of it are now used, the one as a
cellar and passage to a modern kitchen, and the other as an upper
kitchen. In this kitchen, an iron chain suspends from the roof a
lustre, composed of large stag horns, connected with iron, with
sockets for the candles of the same metal.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers commence in the
year 1644, and except from 1744 to 1797, have been regularly kept;
but are not voluminous.
	Land-owners.--The land-owners are, the Right Hon. Lord Bel-
haven and Stenton; John Glencairn; Carter Hamilton, Esq. of
Dalziel; Robert Stewart, Esq. of Carfin; and Thomas Mansfield,
accountants Edinburgh, is trustee on the unentailed lands of the
Dalziel estate.--Proprietors all above L.50. of yearly rent.

	LANARK.	                    G g


