
358			KINCARDINESHIRE.

school-fees is to cease. The whole amount of fees paid within
the parish is about L.175; and the total expense of education
L.310. In all these schools, instructions are given in reading,
writing, arithmetic, geography, and history. In one of the girls'
schools, French and music; and in the three parochial, Latin,
geometry, and land,strveying, are also occasionally taught. A
careful and regular system of teaching is practised in nearly all
of them; and the method of mutual instruction, by question and
answer among the pupils themselves, has been very extensively
and very successfully applied to almost every subject of their edu-
cation. The number of schools ten years ago was four, and of
scholars attending them about 150. At the presbyterial exami-
nations on 1st March 1842, 395, or more than one-sixth of
the population, were present in all the day-schools, while up-
wards of 400 children were, at the same period, attending six
Sunday schools, constantly taught in the parish throughout the
year. These numbers, however, decrease during summer to
nearly one-half. Parents here are very generally alive to the be-
nefits of education for their children, and a decided change for
the better has taken place, especially among the young, since the
facilities of education were increased, and its quality improved.
In truth, a very considerable desire for general information exists
even among adults, to satisfy which an association was formed two
years ago for the dissemination of useful knowledge, and lectures
on scientific subjects were delivered here and in other places,
which met with great success, and were listened to with deep in-
terest. An attempt has also bden lately made to cultivate a more
general taste for music by the formation of an instrumental band.
This promises to be useful, both in raising the pleasures of some,
and in rendering others capable of still higher pursuits. A paro-
chial library has existed for many years, and consists of upwards
of 400 volumes, chiefly on religious and historical subjects.
	The Poor's Funds consist, 1st, of the collections made in the
parish church (the average annual ammount of which, exclusive of
those allotted for other purposes, has been for the last three years
L.l00;) 2d, of the Leys mortification, yielding annually L.15,
15s.; 3d. of the interest of L.100 mortified by Dr Alexander
Reid, physician to Charles I.; of L.100 by Mr Alexander Shanks
of Castlerigg, a son of one of the ministers; of L.50 by Dr George
Reid of London; and of L.50 by Mrs Aberdeen of Glassel; and,
4th, of occasional donations, mortcloth dues, and some accumu-



