
196                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

feet span, and 8 feet of rise.  The piers are 8 feet thick, by 28
feet broad, but hollow in the centre, as are also the abutments.
The whole building is of ashler, presenting a happy combination
of durability and lightness, and adding much to the ornament of
the adjoining grounds.  The erection of the bridges was suggested
by General Sir John Hamilton.  Dalrymple, Bart, convener of the
trustees of the Dalkeith district of roads.  They were designed
by Thomas Telford, Esq. engineer, and built by Mr James Lees,
mason.
  On the same line of road an embankment over the Cotty-burn,
about half a mile to the north of Cranston church, is now made,
the extreme height of which is 54 feet.  By these operations, the
line of road from the north end of the village of Pathbead, to the
top of Fordel bank, a distance of about two miles, is shortened fully
1200 yards; the access is rendered much easier, and many fine
prospects of the beautifully wooded and highly cultivated country
in the neighbourhood will be opened up.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The situation of the parish church is about
three miles and a half from the eastern extremity of the parish, and
three-quarters of a mile from the western extremity.  It was built
at the sole expense of General Sir John Dalrymple in 1825, and
is a very neat structure of freestone, in the Gothic form.  It can ac-
commodate between 300 and 400 persons.  An elegant new manse,
in the manor style, with very commodious offices, was built in 1830
at the sole expense of William Burn Callender, Esq.  The ex-
tent of the glebe is IO acres, 3 roods, 17 falls, 4 ells, Scotch mea-
sure; it is let for L. 2, los. an acre.  The stipend is 17 chalders,
with the usual allowance for communion elements.  There is also
about L. 20 arising from the interest of L. 550, which was given
to the living by William Burn Callender, Esq. of Prestonhall, in
lieu of the coal on the old glebe.  Divine service at the Established
Church is well attended; there are generally above 200 present.
The average number of communicants is 254.  The average an-
nual amount of church collections is about L. 8.  About 62 fa-
milies belong to the Established Church; and about 36 are Dis-
senting or Seceding.
  Education.-There are 3 schools in the parish, viz. the paro-
chial school, an unendowed school in.the village of Cousland, and
a sewing-school; there are also 2 Sabbath schools.  The branches
of instruction generally taught are, English, writing, arithmetic,
and book-keeping.  The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is


