
                        NEWHILLS.                           239

turnpike roads which pass through the parish, and which lead to
the great and flourishing town of Aberdeen.
   In general, throughout the parish there are very comfortable
dwellings; and the people, upon the whole, with the exception of
some casual residenters, are very quiet, well disposed, and indus-
trious.
   The number of illegitimate births during the last three years
is 18.

                              IV.-INDVSTRY.

<TABLE>
Number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish, which are either
   cultivated or occasionally in tillage,	                                      13,865
Number of acres which never have been cultivated, and which remain con-
   stantly waste or in pasture,	                                              1760
Number of acres that might, with a profitable application of capital, be ad-
   ded to the cultivated land of the parish, whether that land were
   afterwards to be kept in occasional tillage or in permanent pas-
    ture,	                                                                      1160
Number of acres in a state of undivided common,	                                   600
Number of acres under wood, whether natural or planted,                            625

   Soil, Produce, Manufactures, &c.- The lands of this parish are
in general not of the best quality.  The soil is commonly of a
black colour, and of a light quality, and is placed upon a hard pan
or retentive subsoil, which, in wet seasons, is very injurious to the
growth of corn, and turnips, and grasses, the agricultural produce
of the district.  In some parts, however, there are fields of a very
superior quality, and yielding most abundant crops.  These princi-
pally are the property of Lord and Lady James Hay, the value of
whose lands is about five-sixths of that of the whole parish.  Upon
their grounds, there are immense quarries of blue granite stone,
which are extensively wrought, and yield them an annual rent of
about L. 250; in these, there are generally employed about 260
men.  Stones from these quarries are prepared and sent to Aber-
deen, London, and elsewhere.
   Manufactories.-There are also upon this property, which is
bounded by the river Don, three paper manufactories.  One of
them at Waterton, belonging to Mr Pirie, has two large machines,
which form, dry, size, and press the paper, and all in one operation.
The paper is generally a fine printing paper; but sometimes also
for writing.  The number of persons generally employed is about
150.  The machines throw off an immense quantity of paper,
and they are wrought day and night.  The other two, manufactories
have also each a machine.  They work in the manufacture of wrap-
ping-paper,  and a considerable number of handsare employe date each.


