
1038               PERTHSHIRE.

which a considerable number of peats are dug every year.  Brush-
wood, also, is eagerly bought up by the people for the same pur.
pose.

February 1843.

                    PARISH OF DUNBLANE.

         PRISBYTERY OF DUNBLANE, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

             THE REV.  WILLIAM MACKENZIE, MINISTER.


      I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-DUNBLANE is supposed to take its name from St
Blane, a Culdee, and Holme Hill, an eminence or dun overlook-
ing the cathedral.
  Extent, &c.-The extent of the parish is about nine miles in
length, by six in breadth.  It is bounded by the parishes of Lecropt,
Logie, Blackford, Muthill, Comrie, and Kilmadock.  Its situation
at the western termination of the Ochill range, `nd reaching to the
"braes of Doune," an offshoot of the Grampians, renders it, es-
pecially around the "city" of Dunblane, well sheltered from the
east wind; the climate is consequently found to be salubrious to
persons who suffer in an eastern exposure. Its position in the
centre of Scotland exempts it equally from the dalp of the west,
and the cold of the east wind.
  Mineral Well.-The mineral well of Dunblane, two miles distant
from the town, was casually discovered in 1814, and for a time, be-
ing deemed more mild and safe, rivalled the well at Airthrey.  The
concourse of strangers promised to restore to Dunblane the stand-
ing it had lost by the fall of Prelacy and loss of its bishop.  The in-
habitants used every effort to encourage this; but the refusal to do
or permit what was necessary to render the discovery available, has
kept Doublane far behind its rival,-at which now has sprung up
the beautiful and prosperous village of the Bridge of Allan.
  The analysis of the mineral spring, by John Murray, M. D.,
gave the following results: In a pint of water there are,

                    Morinte of soda,  -   24. gr.
                            of lime,  -   18.
                   Sulphate of lime,  -    3.5
                  Carbonate of lime,  -    0.5
                    Oxide of iron,    -     .17



