
                         MELROSE.                          57

munity of Old Melrose, at the head of which was placed one of
Aidan's twleve Saxon pupils, seems to have remained unmolest-
ed for about 200 years; during which period it produced many
who figured as saints in the Roman calendar, among whom oc-
cur the names of St Cuthbert and St Boswell.  Of these, the
formr, who became Bishop of Lindisfarne, was really eminent;
the latter is chiefly interesting to us from his having given his name
to the neighbouring parish of St Boswells, the public worship of
which continued to be carried on after the Reformation in a chapel
dedicated to this saint, until the stones of its principal quadrangle
were employed in the building of the present parish church,which
seems to have been the general practice after the overthrow of po-
pery; for almost all the old and unrenew parish churches in
this part of the country seem to be the identical places of worship
which were used in Catholic times.  And fom architectural indi-
cations which they still exhibit, they appear to have consist of a
large oblong quadrangle, communicating through an ornamented
archway with a smaller apartment called the Queer, which pro-
jected from one of its ends, and which was probably used, like the
continental baptistry, for marriages, baptisms, petite masses, &c.
when a small concourse of people would attend. *  After the Refor-
mation, the queer generally became the burial aisle of the principal
proprietor, the communication with the interior being bult up; or it
was demolished, leaving tras of its ornamented elongated in the direc-
tion of where it stood, in which case nothing is observe but the
coarse recent addition.  The queer of the demolished chapel of
St Boswells remained standing within the last forty years.  These
excursive, must beforgiven.
  In the year 839, when the Scottish power gained a permanent
ascendancy over the Saxon, and the counry was wasted as far
south as the Tweed, the peninsula of Old Melrose was taken
by Kenneth II., and the buildings of the monastery destroyed.
From this disaster itneverseems to have recoverd.  It afterwards
became the temporary residence of a smallparty of monks from
Girwy, but it eventually dwindled down into achapel dedicated to
St Cuthbert, which had the privilege to a sanctuary; and a sanc-

<FOOTNOTE>The people have an old saying illustrative of, and alluding of this, "If the kirk
be over big, sing mass in the queer."


