
650                        PERTHSHIRE.

which is considerable, has been planted with larch trees, which,as
they now conceal some portion of the ruin, from whatever situation
viewed, the effect of the whole is, in consequence, not so impos-
ingly venerable. The names by which the ruin is known are, " An
sean chaisteal," and " caisteal dubh Mhaothlinne," the former ex-
pressive of its antiquity, and of the absence of all authentic infor-
mation regarding its history, and the later appears to be a name
frequently given to such castellated buildings, as "Caisteal dubh
Ghairt," the black castle of Garth. The epithet " dubh" literal-
ly signifies black, but is occasionally applhed to denote something
of a sad or calamitous nature. It is impossible to say when or by
whom this castle was erected.  The style of architecture would as-
sign to it the eleventh or twelfth century.
   Sir John Campbell of Moulin, who was created Earl of Atholl by
his cousin, King David II. is the only person of distinction who is
known to have taken his title from this district ; and hence it is sup-
posed that he may have made it his place of residence.  From Dou-
glas's Peerage, we find that David dd Strathbogie, eleventh Earl of
Atholl, had the office of Constable of Scotland conferred upon him
by King Robert Bruce, but soon after revolting against him, his
estates in Scotland were,forfeited, and these were granted to Sir Neil
Campbell of Lochaw and Mary, his spouse, sister to the Kinf, and
John their son. This son was Sir John Campbell of Moulin, after-
wards created Earl of Atholl, as appears from a charter of King
David II. to Robert, Lord Erskine, of the customs of Dundee.
He was killed in the battle of Halidon Hill, 19th July 1333, with-
out issue, whereby the title reverted to the Crown. *
  Of upright stones, which are generally honoured with the vene-
rable name of Druidical remnants, there is no want in this parish;
and here and there large upright flags of considerable thickness,
with a Roman cross cut upon them, point out what are considered
to be sites of Roman Catholic places of worship. Specimens of an-
cient round forts, which are absurdly attributed to the Danes, not
only in Scotland, but throughout Britain generally, are also to be
seen.
  Coins.-Coins have been dug up in different parts of the pa-
rish. A few of Edward I. of England, and Alexander III. of
Scotland were found several years ago, on the farm of Stroncha-

<FOOTNOTE>The charters of King Robert Bruce is the following: " To Mary,
the John C`mpbell, her son, ownes terras et tenementa que fuerunt
comitatu Athele, quas idem. David forisfecit."


