
                            OYNE.                       639

main, and the old house of Westhall having been again lately re-
paired and enlarged by Captain James Elphinstone Dalrymple,
son of Sir Robert D. Horn Elphinstone, and great-great-grand-
son of said John Horn, forms a spacious and suitable mansion.
The walls of the oldest part are about five foot thick, and very
strong and dry.
   The House of Pittodrie, on the east side of Benochee, is the
seat of Colonel Knight Erskine, the patron of the church and pa-
rish, and the representative of the ancient family of Erskine of
Balhagerdy, known in the history of the civil wars.  It stands in a
very commanding situation, being fully 500 feet above the level
of the sea; but as it is surrounded with wood of different ages,
and well sheltered from the north wind, it is a pleasant residence
both in summer and winter.
   On the south side of the mountain is Tillyfour, an old slated
house, not now inhabited by the proprietor.  This place once be-
longed to the Earl of Marr, but afterwards came into the posses-
sion of Sir Archibald Grant of Monymusk, great-grandfather of
the present owner, and whose doings as an extensive improver
and ornamental planter were the admiration of his time.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built in 1807, at an ex-
pense of L.400, and contains above 500 sitters.  It stands on a
little hill in the east end of the parish, and is a conspicuous object
to travellers on the Huntly road.  The manse was built for the
last incumbent in 1796, for about L.230 Sterling, and the present
school-house was erected in the same year, affording room for
only sixty scholars, with three small apartments above for the
teacher.
  Formerly, there were four meal-mills in the parish, it being
thought an advantage to every property that had a fall of water, to
have a mill for the tenantry; now, there is only one mill strictly
within the bounds of the parish, slated, and having a public kiln
but there are three others of the same kind, very near to it, in the
adjoining parishes, and in which the tenants are accomodated on
the same terms as others.  Thrashing-mills, machines, are now
so generally used, that there is scarcely a farm above thirt acres
that has not one, driven either by horses or by water.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
	According to Dr Webster the population in 1755 was 640
	By the last Statistical Account,          1793,    630
	Government census,                        1811,    552
                                                         ----
          Shewing in 56 years a decrease of    .          88


