
				CARMYLIE.                     363

tendance on the public ordinances of religion, and their peaceble,
industrious, and orderly conduct in private life, they maybe be justly
characterized in general, as a moral and religious people; and al-
though it may not be affirmed that they are more so than their
forefathers, yet there can be no doubt that they are less supersti-
tious. Little credence ia now given to stories of fairies, ghosts,
witches, and water-kelpies. Such legends have almost entirely dis-
appeared. *

				IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--According to the statement of the occupiers of
the lands, there are in the parish, either cultivated or occasionally
in tillage, 4159 acres Scots; exclusive of gardens. There are 734
acres Scots which remain constantly waste or in pasture, exclusive
of a moss supposed to contain 200 acres, and of the ground occu-
pied by farm-steadings. About 200 acres might be added to the
cultivated land of the parish; through not much more than the half
of that number could be improved to any considerable advantage.
Besides the moss alluded to, there are belonging to the principal
heritor tracks of moor not annexed to any farm their extent may
be stated at not less than 100 acres; and being connected with ex-
tensive moors in neighbouring parishes, they are sometimes used for
wintering sheep from the Grampians. There are 335 acres of
planted wood, consisting chiefly of larch, Scots, and spruce firs,
with a proportion of the common kinds of hard-wood.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land in the parish is
about 15s. 1 1/2d. per acre. + Nearly 1700 arable acres are occupied

<FOOTNOTE>In 1743, a reputed wizard was consulted by people in this parish as to the reco-
very of stolen goods; and so prevalent were sucn applications at that time in this
neigHbourhood, that the clergy thought, it necessary to draw out an address on the
subject, which was appointed to be read in all the churches of the bounds.--Session
and Presbytery records.
         + In a copy of the chartulary of the abbey of Aberbrotbook, which is in the li-
brary at Panmure, it is stated, that, in 1485, a lease of the teinds of lands of the ba-
rony of Carmylie, was granted to Robert Strachan and Janet his spouse, for the
yearly payment of twenty merks Scots; and that in 1499, the lease was renewed to
David Strachan for twenty-three merks Scots. Beside the money rent, some ser-
vices were required from the tenant, as appears from the following extract from his
lease "Volumus autem quod dictus Robertus ubique locorum infra regnum Soc-
tise in nostra curia et in curilis successorum nostrorum equitet honeste ut decet in
tempore quando ad hoe premowtus furit per nos aut ruccessores nostroo ornmbus
faude et dolo et delatione pea positis." Assedatio Garbarum Decemalium Do-
minii de Carmylie."
	From the copy of the abbey rental formerly mentioned, it appears that in the six
teenth century, the annual rent of the several lands now constituting the parish,
amounted to 60 boll, of bear or barley, 160 1/2 bolls of oatmeal, 80 bolls of horse corn,
and the teinds of the lands of Carmylie, amounting to L.26 13s 4d.; Guynd pro fir-
mis, L.4, 6s. 8d,; pro rynmart, 6s,; total, 31, 5s. 8d. besides some poultry and car-
riages.



