
     Statistical Account

of the Frith above.  There was a battery erected, upon this
point of land to the east of the Ferry, after Paul Jones ap-
peared, with his small squadron, and alarmed the coasts.
There is a higher and a lower battery, mounting, together,
8 iron guns; 20 pounders, and 8 field pieces.  In the mid-
dle of the Frith, and right opposite, stands Inch-Garvie, the
old fortifications of which were repaired at that time; and
4 iron guns, 20 pounders, mounted upon them.  Each gun has
100 rounds of amunation.  One man belonging to the corps
of artillery lives here, to notice the works, and take care of
the stores.  There is no account of any remarkable battle
within the parish.  There was a small skirmish upon the Ferry
bills, between the Scots and English in Oliver Cromwell's
time.  The great and severe engagement upon the following
day, which was maintained with so much obstinacy and slaugh-
ter on both sides, and terminated in the defeat of the Scots,
was indeed begun near this town, upon a place called Hill-
field; but the Scots retreating, it was chiefly fought upon
the opposite bank of Masterton, which, though not far dis-
tant, lies in the parish of Dunfermline.  Upon the top of
the Ferry hills the prospect is beautiful, extensive, and pic-
turesque to the highest degree.  There is a view from the
Island of May to Sterling, and far beyond it; of a rich country
diversified with town, villages, castles, and noblemen's and
gentlemen's fears, and bounded by the distant hills, with nume-
rous objects, and variegated scenes on each side; the coasts of
Lothian and Fife, with their fertile fields; the several little
islands of Garvie, Comb, Cramond, and Keith; ships fail-
ing in all directions, and some of them lying at anchor in
Leith Roads and other places; and to complete the whole,
there is a magnificent view of Edinburgh, its majestic castle
and lofty buildings, together with the New Town, which is
perhaps one of the most handsome and elegant in Europe.


