
638			FIFESHIRE.

as fifth proprietor of Criecb, and married Euphan P. B. Leslie,
daughter of the Earl of Rothes, by whom he bad an only child, a
female, but, being desirous that the estate of Creich should conti-
nue to be possessed only by those of the name of Bethune, he dis-
poned it to his brother, James, parson of Roxburgh, who became
in consequence the sixth proprietor. He married, first, Helen
Leslie, heiress of Kinnaird, and after her death, Margaret
Wemyss, eldest daughter of David Wemyss of that ilk, from
whom it is said the Earls of Wemyss are descended. Their eld-
est son and grandson succeeded to the property of the seventh and
eighth proprietors. The latter was married to Lady Margaret
Cunninghame, daughter of the Earl of Glencairn: but she hav-
ing no family, and his brother William having no male children,
he disponed the whole estate of Creich, being about 80 chalders
of victual, to James Bethune, then fiar of Balfour, under the bur-
den of 80,000 or 90,000 merks, reserving to himself the liferent of
the most part, and to his Lady the liferent of 32 chalders of vic-
tual. Lamont, in his Diary of Fife, mentions that this Laird of
Creich, soon after disponing the property, died at his dwelling.
house at Denbough, on 4th March 1660, and was interred at Creich
church.
   Family of Seton of Parbroath.-The first proprietor of Par-
broath of the name of Seton was John, fourth son of the famous
Alexander Seton, Governor of Berwick. He became proprietor
of the lands of Parbroath by marrying Elizabeth Ramsay, heiress
thereof. Their son, Alexander, was father of Sir Gilbert Seton of
Parbroath, from whom the lineal succession continued till the reign
of James VI.
   Family of Baillie.-Tbe Baillies of this parish were descended
from the 1st of the family of Baillie of Carphin, in the upper
ward of Lanarkshire. He was second son of Sir William Baillie
of Lamington, and of the eldest daughter and heiress of the cele-
brated Sir William Wallace, the brave defender of Scotland.
The descent of Baillie of LamiiDgton has been traced as far back
as to John. Baliol, father of Jobii Baliol, King of Scotland. The
name was changed from Baliol to Baillie./f&

<FOOTNOTE>At this time the fortune of Creich tailzied to the second son of the House of
Balfour, failing heirs male of of Mr James Bethune." See Martin's Gen COl. MSS
         The barony of Creich comprehend the lands of Dunbog, Contrahills, and
Creich. See Registrum Mag. Sigilli lxxxix. 123,
         See Nisbet's Heraldy, Vol ii App. p. 137. Nisbet, in his Heraldry, informs us
that the barony of Luthrie and Kinsliffe previously belonged to Kinloch of Kinloch
in Collessie parish.
         See Parish of Gladsmuir.



