
                          CRAMOND.                              593

to view. The clay ironstone occurs here in thin seams or bands, and
was once employed by the Carron Company. The clay ironstone
balls, in the shale a little to the east, when split up, are found to
contain coprolites and iron pyrites; and sometimes also galena and-
calcareous spar.
   In the same flattened strata are interesting specimens of the
Lepidodendron dichotomum and Variolaria Ficoides* of Sternberg,
and some portions of the shale seem almost an entire mass of ve-
getable remains, consisting chiefly of Monocotyledonous plants. In
the sandstone of Granton quarry two fossil trees have been exposed
similar to those of Craigleith. Both are slightly compressed, and
incline in the same direction in the attitude of trees sanded up,
with the root in the lower or growing position. These are seen
at once to be Dicotyledonous; and, by microscopical examination,
those of Craigleith have been satisfactorily shown to belong to the
Coniferae, but to that section of this great natural family which is
found at present only in the southern hemisphere. An interesting
fossil fruit or Carpolite, from the sathe place, not yet described,
may be referred to the Cucurbitaceae of an Indian climate.+
   The trap-ridge of Corstorphine Hill, rising 474 feet above the
sea-level, declines gently towards the shore in the direction of
Cramond island, where the same greenstone again appears form-
ing the island. The less elevated trap-ridge of Leny Hill, to the
west, traverses the sandstone strata in a similar manner, and
crosses the Almond at the private bridge of Craigiehall. Different
varieties of trap appear in succession along the shore, and these
are often conformably interposed among the strata of sandstone.
It may at least be a probable conjecture, that the greenstone of
Cramond island may have once been connected with that which
rises towards Corstorphine Hill. The relation, indeed, which
such traps bear to volcanic rocks, whether common or submarine,
bas lately become a subject of interest, and has been particularly
investigated by geologists of the continent,+ as well as of our own
country.

<FOOTNOTE>In regard to this and such analogous forms, as in some of the Cacti and Euphor-
biaceae, found in connection with those of a widely different character, Martius, dis-
tinguished by his elegant work on Palms, who carefully examined the botany of
South America, thus writes to Sternberg,-"Mais ce qui me parait surtout remarqus-
ble, c'est que dans le district des diamants, au Bresil, j'ai retrouve presque toutes les
formes a mois connues de Flore du Monde primitif, reproduites et representees par
des vegetaux vivans."-Essai d'um Expose Geognestico-Botanique de Flore du Monde
primitif. Par Le Comte G. Sternberg.
    Palm fruits, (Palmacites Nogggerrathii,Stern) are also in the writer's possession,
from similar strata in the vicinity Manchester.
   The trap of Corstorphine Hill in by Boue called Dolerite, and the resemblance


