
                                  ABERLOUR.                      111

     Blue-hill, east and west Conval hills, the mountain of Benrinnes,
     and the broad hill of Cairnakay. This chain extends in an eastern
     and western direction.  The three first mentioned hills belong part-
     ly to this parish, and partly to Mortlach; the mountain of Benrin-
     nes is almost wholly embraced by Aberlour; and the last mention-
     ed hill, Cairnakay, which completes the chain, belongs entirely to
     the parish of Inveraven.  Besides these, Aberlour contains part of
     the hill of Carron, which is situated on the borders of Inveraven,
     close to the banks of the river Spey, and separated from Benrin-
     nes by a narrow valley.
        Benrinnes is a steep and sharp-pointed mountain as its name
     from the original Gaelic implies, 2747 feet above the level of
     the sea, and 1876 feet from its own base. Its south and east
     sides or acclivities, particularly the south, are very steep, thereby
     verifying the observation of Bergman, who, in his physical geogra-
     phy, maintains, that '' in chains ranging from east to west, the
     southern acclivity is the steepest." This is the highest hill in the
     country , for many miles round. From the top may be seen in a
     clear day, the Grampian bills to the south, the romantic valley and
     hills of Glenaven to the west, and to the north, as far as the moun-
     tains of Ross, Sutherland, and Caithness. It commands a prospect
     of the sea for many miles along the coasts of Moray and Banff-
     shires, and forms a useful land-mark on that part of the ocean. A
     deep and narrow gorge or pass to the east separates this moun-
     tain from the Convals. This pass, called Glack-harnis, deserves
     particular notice, on account of its great length, its uniform breadth
     at the bottom, and the immnese height and regularity of the slope
     on both its sides.
        The Convals are obtuse and dome-sbaped hills, of twin appear-
     ance, considerably lower than Benrinnes, and entirely covered with
     heath.
        Running as an elbow from the western part of the Blue-hill,
     and to the north of the Convals, lies an elevated patch of land of
     a hilly description, called Allachie; but the whole of this is either
     planted or under cultivation.
        The main valley is embraced by this elevated land, the Convals
     and Benrinnes. The southern part of this valley, which partly
     consists of sloping land at the foot of the Convals, is called the
     Daugh or district of Edinvillie, and is separated by a brook to the
     north-east from the land of Allacbie ; and by the burn of Aberlour
     to the north, from the daugh of Ruthrie which last situated in


