
                           ORPHIR.                             25

This sum is lent on landed security, and the teacher r.eceives the
interest as salary. He is bound to teach for only one-half of the
year, from October to April.  He continues, however, reaching
the whole year, in consequence of the liberality of the people.
James Tait also left L. 100 to the parish of Strombessi for the
same purpose.
   Till of late, there were a few elderly people who could not
read; but, strange as it may appear, some of them could answer
the questions of the Shorter Catechism correctly.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The num ber of the poor receiving
supplies is 15, and distributions are made twice a-year, in March
and August.  As their circumstances are nearly equal, they re-
ceive As. or 5s. each at each distribution.  The weeklv collections
amount annually to from L. 9 to L. 10.  There is a fund of about
L. 50 at interest, which arose from savings from the'collections,
when the number of the poor on the list was less; and a donation
of L. 10 from Lieutenant James Robertson, a native.  The poor
are not forward in applying for parochial relief, unless when their
case is urgent.
   Inns.-There are three licensed inns, two of which retail ale
only, and the other ale and whisky.  The last is sufficient for the
accommodation of travellers.  The others are rather tippling-
houses, and do not contribute to the improvement of morals.
                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   The progress of improvement since the publication of the last
Statistical Account has been considerable.  Green crops have in-
creased a little, and will be more abundant when inclosing becomes
more general.  Much of the pasture grass around the old cultivated
fields miaht be broken up to great advantage; but this cannot be
done, till green crops are more extensively raised.  Some improve-
rnent in this respect may be expected, as the farmers' attention is
now in a great measure withdrawn from the manufacture of kelp.
Every tenant has the privilege of hill pasture.
   The whole extent of the parish, exclusive of the Island of Cava,
is 1250 Scots acres in cultivation ; pasture, 1960; common, 6394 :
in all, 9604 Scots acres.  The rental was ascertained, a few years
ago, to be L. 575.
   It was long the practice of many of the young men to go. to
Hudson's Bay as labourers and mechanics, as carpenters. black-
and brick-layers.  Few have gone in later times, though,
the wages have been raised.  A labourer receives L. 16 a-year


