
                     WISTON AND ROBERTON.                          97

scarcely 4d., that it is difficult to say what is its average rent.  Of
the land constantly in rotation, perhaps L.2, 10s. nvay be taken as
a pretty fair average; and of that which is only occasionally in til-
lage, perhaps 15s,  The averager rate of grazingy is L.3 for an ox
or cow, and 5s. for a ewe or full-grown, sheep pastured for the year.
   Rate of Wages.-The rate of labour, winter and summer, for
farm-labourers is 1s. 4d., and for country artisans, 2s. 6d. per day,
victuals included; for a man-servant, L.12, and a woman-servant,
L.5, 15s. per annum.
   Live-Stock, &c.-There are about 185 adores of sheep in the
parish, chiefly of the black-faced Linton breed; about 366 milk
cows, principally of the Ayrshire breed, though a new species has
lately been introduced and found upon trial to be of superior qua-
lity, viz. the Lanarkshire newly improved breed, crossed by Ayr-
shire cow and short-horned bull, or vice versa; and about 76
horses employed in agriculture, of the Clydesdale breed.  There is
an evident growing attention to the improvement of the breeds of
sheep and cattle, to which, perhaps, the various cattle shows in the
neighbourhood have not a little contributed; and, indeed, the cha-
racter of the husbandry in general has of late very much improved,
and is still improving, particularly as to the reclaiming of waste
land, draining and liming.  As a proof of which, I may state that
one of our farmers, Mr, Muir, Hardington Mains, obtained this
year the silver medal given by the Highland Society for the re-
claiming of waste land; and I believe that another, Mr Wilson,
Hillend, would have been equally successful had he chosen to ap-
ply.  It is right to add, that the merit of whatever has been done
in this respect is almost entirely due to the tenants themselves,
who receive in general but too little assistance from their respec-
tive proprietors.
   Produce.-The average gross amount, of raw produce raised in
the parish cannot be exactly ascertained; but it is believed that the
following is nearly correct:

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds, 	.	.	.	.      L.3370  0  0
Potatoes and turnips,	.	.	.	.	.        1456  0  0
Hay, meadow and cultivated,	.	.	.	.	 2548  0  0
Grazing, at rate of L.3 per cow, and 5s. per ewe or sheep,	  250  0  0
Lime-works, rated at 18,000 bolls per annum, 1s. 6d. per boll,	 1350  0  0
Miscellaneous produce, including dairy, &c.	.	.	 2923  0  0
                                                               ------------
        Total yearly value of raw produce raised,            L.11,897  0  0

                          V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-Biggar, about seven miles distant, is our nearest post


