
                     TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                          449

Of its correctness the writer is unqualified to pronounce
judgment; but, according to his present recollection, there were
objections made upon this score, when it was completed, to the pay-
ment of the sum which had been promised to Mr Robertson for
the work.  In regard to the height of several mountains where Mr
Robertson has differed from the late Dr Keith, in his county sur-
vey, the labours of the gentlemen employed by Government in the
great trigonometrical survey of the kingdom have confirmed the
accuracy of the latter.
   Antiquities.-Near the river and in the immediate vicinity of a
small village, named Mongarry, there is the site of General
Baillie's encampment on the night previous to his defeat by Mon-
trose, in the battle of Alford, 1645.
   Before the improvements, which have taken place in agriculture
within the last thirty years, there were several remains of Druidical
temples, as they have been called, but, with the exception of one,
they have all been removed.  The following account of the appear-
ances which presented themselves to the workmen who were em-
ployed in trenching and levelling the site of one of these with the
surrounding ground, has been communicated by the gentleman
who then rented the farm on which it was situated, and carefully
watched the operations.  The upright stones were mostly gone;
but it was evident that they had enclosed a circle of about fifty
feet diameter. The ground on which the temple stood was slop-
ing, and within the circle it had been levelled by removing the
earth on the upper side, so as to present on this part of the circle,
a bank nearly perpendicular, of not less than five feet, gradually
decreasing to the east or lower part, when it became level with the
natural surface.  The upright stones were on the top of the bank.
From the circle in a south-east direction, an artificially paved road
could be traced to the distance of at least six hundred yards
through a bog, which, at the farther end, was about six yards wide,
but near twenty yards when it approached whitin fifty yards of the
circle, and here the paving was covered with ashes.  The stones
of the pavement were not squared, but very neatly fitted into each
other.  On the upper or north-west side of the circle, although
the ground here wasy very dry, there was likewise a considerable
size of pavement, not under one hundred yards long about forty
wide.  The greater part of the stones of this latter pavement had
evidently been brought from a hill about three miles distant.
There was no pavement within the circle.  About fifty yards
   ABERDEEN.                     F f


