
1116                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

1606, he and five others were brought to trial at Linlithgow for
treason. They made a resolute defence; and "Mr Johnne Forbes
and Mr Johnne Welsche, to quhom the rest gave the place of
speich, spake very powerfully and unveighingly." Forbes especi-
ally distinguished himself; for he "rememberit thame of the Con-
fession of Faith, quhilk they had sworn and subscryvit to profess,
mantein, and defend to their uttirmost; and thairwithall, taking
the same Confession of Faith in print out of his pockett, the oath
quhairof is maist fearfullie conceivit, he red the same distinctlie
and moveinglie; and thaireeftir directit his speich to the nobillmen
and counsellores thair presently sitting in judgement, he gaive
thaime ane maist grave admonitioune, with horribill threatenings;"
and in conclusion, "maist pithilie reassouneing from les to moir,
and directing the admonitioune and threatneing most terribill,
maide all the heireris astonischit, and their hairis to stand!" But
notwithstanding the "assyse," by a majority of nine to six, found
them guilty, sentence of banishment was pronounced against them
on the 23d October, and finally, on the 7th November, they em-
barked at Leith, in presence of "a guid number of peiple waiting
on to tak the guid-nicht at thame, and to see thame, quhois de-
pairtour wes beith joyful and sorrowfull to many; joyfull, in that
many guidfolkis quho were present saw thair constancie and cou-
rage to stand for the guid caus they had in hand, but sorrowfull,
because the land is deprivit of sua notabill lightis as they wer."*
Mr John Forbes was afterwards minister for many years at Delf
in Holland, and died about 1638. He was author of many tracts
on religious subjects, and had a son, Patrick, who subscribed the
Covenant in presence of the famous Glasgow Assembly of 1638,
but was subsequently Bishop of Caithness from 1662 to 1680;+
and another, Arthur, a captain of horse under Munro, in the
army of the Covenant in 1640, who, according to the parson of
Rothiemay, was "none of the wysest nor best commanders.++ It
was rather a singular circumstance that, in 1668, a grandson of
the exiled minister, John Forbes, should come back to lay his ashes
with those of his ancestors in the churchyard of Leochel. SS

<FOOTNOTE>* James Melvill's Diary, 1605-6, pp. 570, 620-26,669. Wodrow, Soc. Ed. 1842.
    + Gordon's Scots Afrairs, Vol. ii. p. 4, note. But Row states, that the person
who thus subscribed was "a minister of Holland, Mr John Forbes, son to Mr John
at Delf, banished for the cause of God."-Hist. of Kirk of Scotland, p. 504, Wod-
row Soc. Ed.
    ++ Gordon's Scots Affairs. Vol. iii, pp. 196, 197. Several of his exploits are also
commemorated by Spalding.
    SS 25th October 1668.-"The said day, John Forbes, Commissar of Catness, son-
  

