
                     SPEYMOUTH.                           53

for about two miles out, has diminished one fathom. This will
give an idea of the quantity of gravel carried down by the stream
From beyond the bridge of Spey, the gravel over which the river
flows is continually in motion, and rapidly descendin to the ocean;
in proof of which I may mention, that several large stones, which
formed part of the bridge of Spey, were cast ashore at the water
mouth, four days after the bridge fell on the 4th August 1829;
and the mooring anchor, weighing at least a ton, and securely fastened,
as was supposed, in the channel of the river, a quarter of a
mile from itr mouth, was during the great flood carried out to sea,
and never recovered.

                     III.-POPULATION.

By the last census the population amounted to 1475, of which
number 675 are inhabitants of Garmoutb, 200 of Kingston, and
the remainder in the landward part of the parish.

<TABLE>
Average number of births registered for the last three years, (though not Dissenterg,
many refuse to register,)						            19
Average of marriages during the same period,                                        13
Number of males,                                                                   695
          females,                                                                 780
Number of families in the parish,                                                  347
                chiefly employed in agriculture,                                    94
                            in trade, manufactures, and handicraft,                127

   Character and Habits of the People.-The people of this parish
are in general honest, peaceable, and industrious very charitable
to the poor, and in cases of distress disposed to acts of humanity.
They are active and hardy. The greatest part apply themselves
to husbandry, to the salmon-fishing, or to a seafaring life, They
seem to enjoy the comforts of society in the same degree as those
of their station throughout the kingdom in general. Scarcely any
change has taken place among the small farmers, farn-servants
day-labourers, &c. since 1792, as to their mode of living,-with
the exception of a greater consumption of tea, which probably
arises from their being deprived of home brewed beer, a beverage
of which they are very fond, and the want ofwhich is the cause of
much vexation, particularly during harvest and when milk is scarce.
The latter is often the case, as cows are kept chiefly for breeding.
In dress there has been a great change. Scarcely anyof the men
use cloth made at home, except when engaged in their daily la-
bours. On Sundays and other particular occasions they appear in
dresses of cloth from England or the south of Scotland. Amoongst
the men hats and watches are universal not a, solitary, bonnet re-


