
                         CARNOCK.                       703

then was enjoyn'd." The same record shows him to have been.

diligent and exemplary in the performance of his pastoral duties.
   Land-owners.-The principal land-owners of the parish, ar-
ranged according to the extent of their property in it, are, John
Stuart, Esq. of Carnock; Sir Peter Halket of Pitfirrane, Bart.;
Adam Rolland, Esq. of Gask; Lady Buchan Hepburn of Smea-
ton Hepburn; and Mrs Mill of Blair.
    Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers, which consist of
minutes of session, records of marriages, birth, and burials, and
accounts of collections and disbursements, commence in 1642,
and come down, with a few intervals, to the present time. They
are comprised in eleven volumes of various sizes, some of which
are much injured, and one of them the duplicate of another that
is now scarcely legible. An earlier volume than any of the pre-
sent seems once to have existed ; but it appears not to have con-
tinued long in the hands of the session, as the following entry in
the record intimates:  " Junii 20, 1647, The kirk registers were
produced, viz. the covenant and declaration, the acts of the Gene-
ral Assembly bolden at Glasgow 1638, &c. The old session book
was amissing." The loss of this volume is much to be regretted,
because it evidently comprehended the early part of Mr Row's mi-
nistry, and would probably have thrown much light on the state of
the parish at that period. The covenant also, another precious
relic, with its signatures, disappeared at a subsequent time.
    The first of the existing volumes wants thirteen leaves at the
beginning. It contains the minutes of session from January 30,
1642, to February 16, 1662; as also an account of collections and
disbursements, and a few notices of baptisms. The first part of
this volume appears to be in the handwriting of Mr Row, and
contains several interesting particulars, both of a local and a gene-
ral character. The greater part of the remainder of the volume,
which comprehends the incumbency of Mr Belfrage, seems to
have been written by the schoolmaster of the time. This latter
fact is noticed on account of the beauty of the writing, which
shows the schoolmaster of that period to have been a superior
penman to most of the clerks that succeeded him, and which in-
dicates a higher degree of literary attainment than what some men
are willing to admit as belonging to the time.
   The principal blanks in the registers are from February 1662,
to February 1665, and from March 2, 1693, to October 23, 1699.
   The more early of these records throw considerable light on the


