
32                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

kinds, running out into the alluvial formations of clay and gravel,
with deep intervening seams of quicksand. The different strata
have, at various times, presented fossil organic remains, parti-
cularly those of shell-fish. In the Supplement to the Encyclo-
paedia Britannica, an account is given of a fine fossil tree, which
was found here in these formations. The Scots Magazine for
1818 also contains a drawing of it. There are also specimens of an
unknown fossil tree at Newhall. Iron is the only metallic ore
that has been met with. It occurs in beds and veins of schistus,
as also in round fragments. A few garnets, and specimens of
heavy spar, may also occasionally be found; but the parish con-
tains little metallic wealth. The Pentlands are valuable only as
excellent sheep walks. The solid rock of these hills is chiefly
porphyry, with smaller masses of whinstone. Fragments of pri-
mitive rock, as of chlorite rock, granite, syenite, &c. occur
among the hills. Gravel, however, predominates in most of the
valleys and lower ridges of the range, presenting a fine soil for
turnips. Still lower down, clay becomes the prevailing forma-
tion, varied by tracts of deep moss, which, though superficially
quite sterile, yet generally present at the depth of twelve feet a
fine rich soil. In some places, this superincumbent mass of moss
has been cut, and carried for fuel, and then the subsoil has been
successfully cultivated. Very extensive beds of sand and gravel
occur about the village of Penicuik, covering formations of sand-
stone and schistus. On the banks of the Esk these beds are from
4 to 15 feet deep, but they are found at other places much to ex-
ceed that depth. The deposits on either bank of the river are
perfectly similar. The soils have of course an inherent intimacy
with these subsoils, being light, where these are gravelly, and clay-
ey, where these are tenacious and adhesive; the latter seem to
predominate.
   Botany.-Great attention has been paid by the present proprie-
tor of the estate of Penicuik, as by his predecessors, to planting
the property, which has been executed on an extensive scale with
combined judgment and taste. The plantations, which cover a
considerable portion of the barony, serve at once to shelter the
otherwise much exposed face of the country, and to heighten its
natural beauties, to a degree that one would little expect in a dis-
trict so high in its climate and barren in its soil.
   Scotch firs, spruces, larches are planted promiscuously with oak
and other hard woods. Great attentions is paid to thinning, and


