
                        COLDSTREAM.                             207

below the old church of Lennel. lberis amara, and Senecio tenui-
folius, have likewise been found, although not mentioned in any
Flora of the district. Tragopagon majus, which has been only re-
cently noticed as a native of this country, is found in the Hirsel
grounds, and near Lennel-hill. It is distinguished from the com-
mon species (T. pratense,) by the calyx being longer than the ray
of the corolla-by the peduncles, in place of tapering, becoming
thicker above,-and by the smaller and more delicate habit of the
plant.
   I have been furnished, by a very skilful and enthusiastic botal-
nist, (Dr John Hutton Balfour,) with a list of the Phenogamic
and Cryptogamic plants, of which he enumerates 697 different-
species. *
   From the retentive nature of the soil, the larch does not thrive
so well as in other districts; but the oak, birch, and elm, thrive
well,-some being found on the estate of Milne Graden above
eleven feet in circumference. There are extensive plantations of
very thriving timber on the estate of Hirsel, a large proportion of
which has been planted by the present Earl of Home.

		    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Antiquities.-Stone coffins have been found in different parts
of the parish, and likewise great quantities of human bones, par-
ticularly in the grounds of Hirsel, and at the junction of the Tweed
and Leet, where the Abbey was situate. These are, in all proba-
bility, the ashes of men who were distinguished for noble birth
and for military prowess, as it is matter of historical record, that
the Lady Abbess had the bodies of the most distinguished warriors
who fell on the disastrous field of Flodden conveyed to Coldstream,
and interred in the burial-ground of the abbey. There are still to
be found on the barony of Snook the remains of a fortification,
which was probably constructed after the use of cannon. Tradition
speaks of Maxwell's Cross, which stood about a century ago, be-
tween Lennel church and Tweed-mill. +
   It is well known that General Monk, before the restoration of
Charles II., raised here the regiment of foot-guards which still
bears the name of the parish.
   Parochial Registers-The parish records, the earliest of which
is dated 1690, and which have been all along kept with accuracy,
prove the existence of villages, of which not a vestige now remains.

<FOOTNOTE>The list is inserted in the MS.
   + A few years ago, several old coins were discovered at Milne Graden, chiefly
Scotch, struck in the reign of the James'. They are now in Mr Milne's possession.


