
310                        KINCARDINESHIRE.

	The sea-coast, along its whole extent, is rocky, presenting a
range of cliffs about 180 feet in height, and generally with no
beach intervening to separate them from the deep water. Occa-
sionally, they fall back into little bays, where a narrow stripe of
coarse gravel is heaped up by the waves, but sand is almost un-
known. Though bare of wood, the soil is fertile, often covered
with rich verdure to the edge of the sea, and the rugged aspect of
the rocks, their deep caves, and precipitous cliffs offer much that
is bold and picturesque to the lovers of natural scenery.
	The high grounds which traverse the parish have marked out
several well-defined districts into which it may be divided. Along
the sea coast stretches a low-lying tract of deep loamy soil, varying
from a quarter to about three-quarters of a mile in breadth, which
has long been celebrated for its abundant crops of grain. Passing
inland over the hill of Slains, a district of inferior value presents
itself, bounded on the north by a range of elevated ground, which
rises at one point into the hill of St John. Beyond, lies the "land
of Barras,"-a district where the effects of recent agricultural im-
provement are very marked.
	Close to the furthest boundary on the north-west is the hill of
Bruxie, 650 feet in height, and the most elevated point in the parish.
The Todhead and Craig David or Bervie Brow are well-known land-

larks on the coast, rising bold and steep over the German Ocean.
	Geology.- -The rocks consist, for the most part, of old red sand-
stone conglomerate. They are well exposed along the coast, dip-
ping from east to west generally at an angle of less than 25&deg;. The
strata are of considerable thickness, and present every variety in
their composition,-the smaller grained sandstones being some-
times suddenly overlaid by deep confused masses of gravel and
boulders compactly bound together by bard cement. The bould-
ers and pebbles of the conglomerate are chiefly masses of granite,
gneiss, quartz, and porphyry. Near Whistleberry, a thin irregu-
lar layer of impure limestone occurs. Traces of igneous action also
are not unfrequent. A claystone porphyry, with imbedded crys-
tals of felspar, sometimes overflows the conglomerate, and, at other
points, inserts itself among the strata. It is known by the provin-
cial name of scurdy, and, in various places through the parish, has
been quarried for fences, and sometimes even houses.
	Calcareous spar traverses the conglomerate in long veins. Clay-
stone, hornblende, crystallized quartz, heavy-spar, asbestos, and
zeolite have been observed. Agates also occur, but not frequently.


