
                     DUNDEE.                          51

L. 515; Seaman's Fraternity, L. 1500; Guildry, L.200; Maltmen,
L. 56; Nine Trades about L. 700; and three United Trades, L. 133.
Three benevolent societies distribute to the poor, yearly, as follows:
The Indigent Sick Society, L. 160; the Female Society, L. 190;
and the Clothing Society, L. 40.  Notwithstanding of all these and
other resources, such as Grieve's mortification, (which maintains a
patient in the lunatic asylum) and much private charity, and not-
Withstanding, too, that employment is at present readily procured,
the assessment for the year ending February 1833 is L. 2500;
and for the year ending February 1834, it has advanced to L. 4000.
   The whole sum given annually, at present, for charitable purposes
in Dundee, arising from assessment, collections, dues, subscrip-
tions, mortifications, and corporations, (exclusive of what is expend-
ed by religious societies,) does not amount to less than L. 11,000.
   In addition to the endowments already-mentioned, it may be re-
corded, that Mrs Gibson of Edinburgh has this year placed L. 100
in the hands of the magistrates; the interest to be applied for the
preaching of a sermon yearly against cruelty to the brute creation.
   Jail.-The Jail of Dundee is, and has been for many years, al-
together inadequate to the wants of the town. It forms part of
the present Town-House; and has room neither for the classifica-
tion of prisoners, nor the insuring of their health. It will not do
to allow the means we employ to correct vice to become nurseries
for it. The administration of the law ought to be for the moral im-
provement of the people; and the personal comfort even of the most
worthless is not to be unnecessarily destroyed. At present there
are sixty-three persons in confinement, besides children; eight for
debt, and the rest for crime. A new jail, however, we have no
doubt, will soon be built. The magistrates, who have the superin-
tendence, have been accustomed to do every thing in their power,
consistent with safety, to promote the health of the prisoners.
The Gaelic minister has been employed for many years back to
officiate in the jail weekly as chaplain.*

<FOOTNOTE>and Grey Sisters, consisting of the present burying-ground, and monastic buildings
to the south, Serres-haugh, or Manorgons-Croft, now Hospital-ward, part of the pre-
sent meadows and adjoining ground. From certain old records it would appear, that
the lands and revenues of the hospital were once much more extensive and valuable
than now. It is not above seventy years since decayed burgesses resided in the hos-
pital. The minister of the Cross church officiated to the establishment; and he still
receives part of his stipend from the funds of the institution. It has since been and
more wise to distribute the fhnds to persons residing in their own houses.
  Means have been taken of late to obtain a new jail and bridewell; and while we
revise this statement, (in December 1833,) preparation is making to fit up part of
the old steeple as a temporary receptacle for the prisoners.


