
302                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

sands of Nigg contain a great quantity of cockles, and other shell-
fish. The parish is in the lower parts very flat and level. The
temperature of the atmosphere is in general mild and gentle, and
extremely salubrious; and the climate is free in a great measure
from those heavy and noxious vapours which occasion almost inces-
sant rains in many parts of the Highlands. In summer, there is
a transparent sky, and unclouded sunshine. This is greatly ow-
ing to the absence of any mountainous ridges. The hills which
skirt the parish on the north are of no great elevation, and serve as
a barrier of defence in that direction. There are no prevalent
distempers peculiar to the district, though the parish is occasion-
ally visited with fever. The inhabitants generally enjoy robust
health, and often live to an extended old age.
  In winter, the sea coast is frequented by barnacles, and different
species of wild duck. Swans occasionally visit the sands. There is
abundance of sea-ware at certain seasons of the year, thrown a-
shore, which the inhabitants collect as manure for their land.
Westerly winds generally prevail, and blow very severely; but, for
the last three years, east winds have been most prevalent. The
whole of the lower district is well cultivated, and appears to reward
the toil and expense employed in the production of the various
agricultural crops; and in summer, the aspect which it assumes is
most beautiful. Directly opposite to the parish lies the Bay of
Cromarty, which, together with the fine prospect afforded of the
Moray Frith by the opening betwixt the Sutors, forms one of the
most delightful landscapes in Britain. Much of the higher dis-
trict of the parish still remains uncultivated, and covered with
heather, amidst which large blocks of granite are thickly scat-
tered, and great quantities of moss, which afford peats for fuel to
the inhabitants.
   Hydrography.-There is no river or fresh water lake in the
parish. The small river of Balnagovn bounds the parish on the
north-east, and runs north and south until it empties itself in the
Frith of Cromarty. On the south, the parish is bounded by the
Frith of Cromarty, which is from 6 to 7 miles in breadth. In the
vicinity of Tarbat House, in a beautiful plantation, and very near
the shore, there are two chalybeate springs which flow perennially,
and are strongly impregnated.
  Zoology.-The small river of Baluagown affords abundance of
trout, and sometimes salmon of a certain growth. Cod, skate,
flounders, and cuddies, and occasionally herrings, are fished in the


