
     Statistical Account

   Roads and Bridges.-Not only in this parish, but over the
whole of Ardmeanach, the roads have, for many years past,

<FOOTNOTE>

tended to raise the price of most kinds of provisions here.  Considering however
the high rents now paid by the farmers, and the progressive advance on every
thing else, those present rates, on the whole, cannot be reasonably complain-
ed of, except by such persons as have had narrow limited incomes, with no
opportunity of improving them.  One necessary article, salt, for home con-
sumption, has, indeed, been uncommonly scarce and high priced for some
months, over all the north of Scotland; but for this, it is boped, that the
wisdom of Parliament will soon provide a remedy.  And the late repeal of
the duty on coals carried coastways, though the advance on freight of such
a bulky article, prevents the benefit being so sensibly felt at present, must,
when the war is over, be acknowledged a great relief, to a district so poorly
poorly provided with other fuel as this.

country.  To promote and encourage such a scheme, would unquestionably
be the interest of both gentlemen and traders on both sides of this Frith; as
good seamen, having their home, or residence of their families here, could
(ceteris paribus) afford to serve the neighhoorhood on earlier terms than stran-
gers:  Besides that, a great part of the money, which there districts must ne-
cessarily pay for such freights, would thus remain and circulate at home.
There is likewise another important consideration, that cargoes would be ex-
posed to less hazard of loss or damage, under the care of seamen so well ac-
quainted with most of the different barbours, rocks and send banks, in this
long and tedious Frith.
   No less remarkable are the inhabitants of this thriving village in general,
for their industry and diligence.  They manufacture, of the best materials
they can procure, not only all their own fishing apparatus, but also a great
quantity of herring and salmon nets yearly, for the use of other stations in
the North and West Highlands.  From Monday morning to Saturday after-
noon, the men seldom loiter at home 24 hours at a time, when the weather is
at all favourable for going to sea.  And the women and children, besides the
care of their houses, and the common operations of gathering and affixing
bait, and of vending the fish over all the neighbouring country, do a great deal
of those manufactures.  Some of their families also cultivate from a rood to
half an acre of potatoes yearly for their own supply; and others, whose
children are more advanced, raise and dress, for the herring nets, a good quan-


