
			KIRKPATRICK-DURHAM.                  257

sheep, and in many places producing nothing more profitable than
benty grass or heather.
	Hydrography.--The Urr, which 19 the only river connected
with the parish, rises in its north-west corner from a lake of the
same name, and flows rapidly through a romantic valley, forming
the western boundary of Kirkpatrick-Durham from one end to the
other, and reaching the sea about ten miles beyond the southern
extremity of the parish. There are a few inconsiderable lakes,
which afford amusement to those who delight in angling, but con-
tribute little either to the general beauty or advantage of the
country.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--Therd have been as yet no disco-
veries of useful minerals. Nodules of lead were at one time met
with in a field on the estate of Chipperkyle; but it has been con-
jectured, with some probability, that these were not the production
of the spot.
	Soil.--In the lower district of the parish, the soil is in general
tolerably fertile; and, though in many places thin and sandy,
where judiciously managed, yields rich and luxuriant crops of
grain. A large proportion of the surface consists of fine old pas-
ture, which furnishes a kindly and often highly profitable nourish-
ment to the herds of black-cattle for which the district is famous.
	The salmon-fishing of the Urr, it is to be regretted, has of
late years become extremely unproductive. It is not many years
since the proprietors on its banks used to procure very conside-
rable quantities of this valuable fish at trifling expense or trouble;
but now it is comparatively very seldom to be had. The cause of
this has been variously stated. There can be no doubt that
poaching is carried on during the whole winter by torch-light, de-
stroying the mother-fish, and thus almost annihilating the breed;
and, what is infinitely more to be regretted, promoting, it is to be
feared, a spirit of lawlessness and dishonesty quite inconsistent
with the good order of society. Part of the evil probably arises
from the extensive stake-net fisheries at the rivees mouth, which
intercept the fish in their way from the sea; and from the erec-
tion of the wiers and dams which the different mills, on its banks
require. The period when the salmon ascend this rivers for
spawning cannot be very accurately stated. The shallowness
of the stream frequently prevents their appearance till after the
ordinary time, and, in dry seasons, they do not reach its higher
parts till so late as November. The other fishes most frequently

  KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                                       R


