
             232                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

                 Literature-It is to be regretted that there is no public library
             or reading-room, nor any literary or scientific society in this pa-
             rish. There was a subscription library established here some time
             ago, but, owing to public indifference, the project failed. The
             reason probably is, that the wealthier and more influential part of
             the community, which comprises almost the whole of its literary
             taste are generally possessed of private libraries, and supply them-
             selves with newspapers and periodicals. Of the former, about forty-
             seven come to the parish, of which about seven are daily papers;
             and of the latter, the number of copies of the larger magazines and
             reviews which come to the parish is twenty-eight, and of the smal-
             ler class, 136.
                 Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor re-
             ceiving regular parochial relief is about 100; whose allowances
             vary from 5s. to L.1 yearly. Besides these, a considerable sum
             is annually expended in relieving contingent cases of necessity.
                 The average amount of poor's funds is L.100; of which about
             L.50 are derived from church collections. The remaining L.50
             consists of the interest of various sums, amounting to L.1000, mor-
             tified at different periods for the behoof of the poor. Of this,
             L.700 was left by one of the proprietors of the estate of Tulloch,
             and L.100 by the late Bailie Murdo Mackenzie of this place. The
             remainder, consisting of cash at the disposal of the kirk-session,
             has been lent out on heritable security, for all which five per cent.
             interest is paid.
                 There is no regular assessment here for the poor, but claims for
             parochial relief do occasionally occur which the ordinary resources
             of the parish are incapable of meeting, and which compel recourse
             to a measure which ought always to be resorted to with caution, on
             account of its obvious tendency to encourage idleness, and to de-
             stroy that feeling of independence which shrinks from parochial re-
             lief, which still exists to a considerable degree here, and which is
             one of the strongest stimuli to habits of industry and economy.
                 Prisons.- There is a jail in the burgh, which, however, has been
             disused for a year or two past, owing to its great insecurity. It
             has recently undergone a temporary repair, and is about to be
             again employed as a place of confinement. Four-fifths of the pri-
             soners confined in it when in use were committed for offences
             against the excise laws.  These, the Highlanders, a simple people,
             unskilled in-nice distinctions, were accustomed to view as oppres-
             sive restrictions on a practice to which habit had given them the


