
70                          PERTHSHIRE.

    S. The Spey Tower was a fortress upon the city wall, near to
Earl Gowrie's Palace, and had in it a strong prison.  Among those
who were at various times confined in it, were the pious persons
whom Casrdinal Bethune caused to be condemned for heresy.  From
it he witnesses their execution.  It was the last of the towers on
the wall, and was taken down about thirty years ago.  Not a ves-
tige of it now remains.
    4. Earl Gowrie's Palace, called in the days of its glory Perth's
Whitehall, was built in the year 1520 by the Countess of Huntly.
It fronted the South Streetm and part of the Speygate on the west,
the river on the east, the Water Vennel on the north.  The city
wall bounded its garden on the south, along which wall ran the
lade which, at its entrance into the river, formed a dock or harbour
for vessels.  After the murder of the noble proprietor, it fell into
the possession of the city.  In 1746, the magistrates made a pre-
sent of it to William Duke of Cumberland, as a mark of the gra-
titufe of the inhabitants for his services against the rebels.  The
Duke sold it to Government, to be converted into artillery barracks.
It continued to be thus occupied till the commencement of the
French war, when the Leith fort become the artillery head-quar-
ters.  In 1805, it was repurchased by the city, and its buildings,
so deeply interesting to every reader of ancient Scottish story,
were ruthlessly razed, and the ground givent to be the site of the
public buildings which have been there recently erected.  The
materials of the house were sold for L.597, 3s. 7d.
    5. The Parliament House.--Meetings of Parliament were some-
times held in the Blackfriars monastery, but this was the place in
which they were held in ordinary.  It stood on the north side of
the High Street, a few paces back from the street.  The avenue
leading to it still retains the name of the Parliament Close.  Its
site was where the Royal Arch Mason Lodge now is, for the erec-
tion which it was taken down in 1818.  Long before that year
it had fallen into decay, and was inhabited by some poor families,
but it retained many traces of its having been a building of high
pretension.  The Scotish Parliament meetings were held in it
till the reign of James II, whem they and the courts of justice were
removed to Edinburgh, that city having then become the seat of
royalty.
    In Mr Caitt's lucubration on Boetius' fable respecting Bertha,
to which I have referred, there is mention made of urns hav-
ing been found in that place on the bank of the river, worn away
                                4








































































