
392                 ROXBURGHSHIRE.

  3d. The cases of gross immorality which occurred during the
course of about thirty years before the Revolution, and when Epis-
copacy was predominant, were about double the number that took
place during the course of thirty years after it, and when Presby-
tery was restored, which may justify the conclusion, that the exer-
cise of discipline according to the constitution of the Church of
Scotland is of signal efficacy in restraining the excesses of profli-
gacy and crime.
  4th.  The kirk-session, in compliance with recommendations from
the superior courts, were in the frequent practice of setting apart
days for public fasting and thanksgiving, having special reference
among other matters to the purity and preservation of the Protes-
tant religion, which wholesome practice must have tended in no
small degree to foster in the minds of the people that strong anti-
pathy to the abominations of Popery which prevailed so extensive-
ly during the course of last century, and which, though unhappily
disappearing amid the liberalism of the present times, we cannot
help regarding as one of the best safeguards both of scriptural
truth and religious liberty.
   Antiquities.-Situated at the upper extremity of the town, and
overlooking the main street, there is a relic of great antiquity,
which is usually denominated the Moat.  This consists of an ar-
tificial mound of earth, which is circular at the base, while it rises
in a conical form to the height of 30 feet, and is almost flat upon
the top.  It contains about 4060 cubic yards, whilst the circum-
ference is 117 feet at the top, and 312 at the base.  Like tumuli
of a similar description which are to be met with in other places,
it is suppored by some to have been used at a distant period as a
court for the administration of justice, and by others as a place of
assembly, where the chiefs of the district held their deliberations
on public affairs. The probability is, that it was employed for both
of these purposes, and this supposition, whilst justified by local
tradition, is strengthened by the authority both of Pennant and of
Sir Walter Scott, although they trace the word to a somewhat dif-
ferent origin, the one alleging that Mot in the Gaelic language
signifies a court, and the other suggesting that in the Anglo-Saxon
it may be translated concilium, conventus.
   The vestiges of several towers or border peels are still remain-
ing in different parts of the parish.  One of the most ancient of
these places of strength now forls a part of the Tower-Inn, cele-
brated as the residence in former times of the Barons of Drum-


