
296                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

from 3s. to 14s. The stock-funds in the hands of the kirk-session
are, Ist, The residue of old session funds, amounting to L. 150;
2d, L. 100, a donation from William Dorward, Esq. of Montrose,
subject to a payment of L. 3 per annum as interest during Mr Dor-
ward's life; 3d, L. 2O, a legacy received from the representatives
of the late Mr Brand of Lauriston, as executor of Mr Duncan of
-; 4th, L. 50, a legacy from Miss Shank of Laurencekirk,
daughter- of the late Rev. Alexander Shank, minister of this pa-
rish; and 5th, L. 500, a legacy from Sir Joseph Straton of Kirk-
side. The last-mentioned bequest, which was received in 1840,
and is managed as a separate fund from the ordinary funds of the
kirk-session, is to be applied, according to the express will and in-
tention of the donor, "strictly for the relief of poor persons with-
in the parish, and in such a way as may be best calculated to en-
courage provident habits on the part of such poor." The collec-
tions at the church-doors have varied since 1837, from L. 70 to
L. 80 a year. The expenditure has been raised to above L. 140
a year. This has been occasioned partly by the admission on
the poor's list of two or three families who have required, for some
years past, allowances varying from L. 9 to L. 13 a year, and
partly by a payment of about L. 8 a year to poor persons tra-
velling through the parish to their homes, or from town to town
in search of employment. Each traveller is allowed 3d. or more;
and the whole number relieved in a year c`nnot be under 500.
  Ale-houses.-There is one ale-house near the Kirktown, another
towards the east end of the parish, and a third at the North-wa-
ter-bridge toll. The consumption of spirits at all these places is
said to be enormous.
  Fuel.-English coals are the chief article of fuel. They are
obtained at Montrose and Johnshaven at a cost of 1s. Id. to 1s.
3d. per barrel; carriage, five Miles 2d. to 3d. per barrel.

                    GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.

	In the foregoing report the more important differences have
been mentioned between the existing and former state of the pa-
rish, as described in the account. of, 1791. It will have been ob-
served, that a large extent of waste ground has been brought into
cultivation. At the same. time. much arable land has been effi-
ciently drained; many large farm-houses, and steadings suited to
the extended size of farms, have been erected; one large and se-
veral smaller bridges have been built. Others have been heigh


