
			   MONIKIE.	                  487

may be stated at 4448. But what may be the annual produce, or
value of the produce, either on an average, or in any given year,
it would be very difficult to determine with any degree of accu-
racy. About 500 acres are under wood, chiefly fir, but not
thriving ; and probably more than 1000 acres are in a state fit
for being planted with advantage, but ought not to be attempted
to be cultivated, especially in the present times. The best land
in the parish is held by industrious and opulent tenants, on life-
rent leases, and at very low rents, and the very liberal proprietor,
Lord Panmure, generally relets these farms, as they fall to the re-
spectable sons of the former tenants, on the very moderate terms.
The inferior land of the parish is generally let on twenty-one year
leases, at a rent of from 5s. to L. 1 per acre. The tenantry, in
general, are industrious and enterprising ; and of late years have
considerably improved both their farms and their fortunes, by fol-
lowing  extensively the dairy system, and selling the milk and but-
ter in the Dundee market. The great demand for potatoes from
the same quarter has encouraged the farmers in this district to
cultivate this crop more extensively than usual.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The church is inconveniently situated
within half a mile of the eastern boundary of the parish ; built in
1812, and seated to hold about 900 persons. It is in good re-
pair, and comfortable, and generally well filled in ordinary wea-
ther. The average number of communicants may be taken at
600. The manse was built in 1794, and repaired and enlarged
in 1827. It is a good house. The glebe consists of 6 acres of
excellent land ; and the stipend of 16 chalders of victual, (half
meal and half barley,) and payable at the highest fiar's prices of
the country.
	There has been in the south-west corner of this parish for many
years a Dissenting chapel, belonging to the United Associate Sy-
nod of Seceders, and supported by a congregation collected chiefly
from the outskirts of this, and of the neighbouring parishes. The
minister's nomimal salary is about L.80, paid partly by the seat
rents, and partly by the contributions of the members of the con-
gregation. The members of the Established Church and the
Dissenters have cordially united for several years in supporting a
L.20 for the propagation of the Gospel at home and abrnad.
        Education.-There are three schools in the parish, in which


