
                      MEARNS.                         517

former occurs chiefly in the alpine lakes of Wales and Scotland.
It spawns in January.
	Geology and Mineralogy.-We have nearly exhausted this sub-
ject in our Account of the parish of Eaglesham, the geological
features of which are nearly identical with those of Mearns. That
district in the south-east of Renfrewshire, from near the village of
Neilston to the southeast extremity of Eaglesham, is entirely com-
posed of igneous rocks. To the north of Mearns in the parish of
Eastwood, the coal measures come in, an arm of which dips south-
wards by Neilston; and a mile and a half to the south-west at
Head of Side, the Ayrshire  coal-field almost meets that of Ren-
frewshire, the intervening space being part of the trap rocks which
run throughout the greater part of this county. The junction be-
tween the trap and the coal formations occur immediately to the
north of Mearns, but is nowhere seen owing to the thick coverings
of alluvial and diluvial matter. The trap itself is mostly of that
description, known in this country by the name of "rotten whin."
To afford some sort of idea of the effect which this mouldering
and readily decomposing rock may have, in reference to the for-
mation of the soil, it is only necessary to remark, that, in various
proportions, and under considerable modifications, we find for the
most part that it consists of a large proportion of silica with a lesser
proportion of alumina and oxide of iron, and sometimes a sprink-
ling of lime, or magnesia, or of oxide of manganese and soda.
These various matters, under favourable auspices, crumbling down
and suffering a continual diminution and subdivision of parts and
particles under the chemical influences of air, light, and moisture,
soon form a peculiar soil, and, in favourable circumstances, are of
considerable depth and fertility. In Mearns the soil is chiefly of
what the late minister termed a "light quick kind," lying on rot-
ten rock, except in some small tracts in the lower portions of the
parish, which lie on a bottom of clay. It is worthy of remark, that
the clay bottom is chiefly found in those quarters where the lower
members of the coal measures approach the trap. The traps
themselves are chiefly greenstone, trap-tuff, wacke, and claystone;
and we saw the roads made in 'one part with a sort of porphyritic
greenstone. The medium elevation of this quarter of the county
of Renfrew may be estimated from 500 to 600 feet. To the east
the land is much higher. As the average quantity of rain through-
out the county, for many years, was only 29.65, less is to be feared
rom the quantity than from its frequency. But this last tendency.


