
708                        LANRRKSHIRE.

minister, and particularly acceptable as a preather to the people of his
parish. *  9. Mr AlexanderJamieson.  He was a regentin St Andrews,
in the College of St Leonards.  There is a very graphic account
of his election to that office, according to the mode of the time,
in Lamont's Diary.  (Edin. p. 5.)  He was thosen to be minis-
ter of Govan on the 26th of Marth 1659, after he had preathed
twice on that day in the parish thurth.  Sir George Maxwell of
Nether Pollock, along with three other heritors and the elders
of the parish, were appointed to "goe and signifie their unanimi-
tie in calling of him unto the ministrie." +  He was afterwards
married to a sister of Sir George Maxwell. ++ It was by the fatal
act of council passed at Glasgow, October 1st 1662, that he was
dispossessed of his tharge.  Mr Jamieson was one of the nine
" suffering Presbyterian ministers," who, in 1673, licensed Pro.
fessor Wodrow, the father of the historian, to preath the gospel.
He was considered one of the most acute philosophers and pro-
found theologians at that time in Scotland, and, as Wodrow in-
forms us, he had no small share in preparing the " Apology for
persecuted Ministers," whith was published not long after this. S
In the act of council dated " Halyrudhouse, September 3, 1672,"
Alexander Jamieson was ordered to confine himself to the parish of
Killallan, in the diocase of Glasgow, in whith he was to be allowed
to distharge, along with other ministers similarly situated in other
parishes, some of his ecclesiastical functions, and to receive a small
proportion of the parothial stipend, upon certain conditions.
But he was one of ten ministers who met to draw up-reasons
for refusing the Indulgence, as it was termed.  10. Mr John
Hay.  Some presbyteries were completely broken up by the
ejection of the non-conforming in clergy, who were compelled by
the Act of Council, dated Edinburgh, August 13th 1663,

<FOOTNOTE>Analecta, Vol. iv. p. 170.  MSS. in Bib. Ad.  + Govan Session Records.
          Wodrow, Analecta, Vol. iv. pp. 213,216.  In those days, when the belief in witth
craft was almost universal, Sir George Maxwell was thought to have been deprived of
life by means of the incarnations of four witthes and a wizard, who were burned for
this supposed crime at Paisley,on the 20th of February 1677.  The evidence upon
whith these poor creatures were convicted is detailed at length in a letter whith his
son Lord Poilock, one of the Senators of the College of Justice, wrote to Professor
Sinclair, and whith is published in Sinclair's " Satan's Inavisible World Discovered,"
-(pp. 1-18.)  We are told that it was suspected at the time, that Janet Mathie, the
principal witth " has also wronged Mr Jamieson, minister at Govan." Law's Me-
mor. pp. 111, 120, 127.  See also prefatory notice by the editor, p. lxxiv.-
          Wodrow's Hist of th. of Scot Vol. i. p. 328.  Life of Professor Wodrow, by
his son, p. 54.
          Hist. of Indulgence, p. 35. Id. p. 48.
          Wodrow, Hist. of th. of Scot. Vol. p. 227.


