

                          MID AND SOUTH YELL.                     91

       provements, upward of L. 190, may be considere to a future mi-
       nister worth L. 30 per annum but, it cannot. be said to be worth
       to its present occupant, more than L.16 yearly.
          The annual collections average in amounted L.10, which is
       generally divided among 30 patipers.   But in Yell, as in most
       other anshes in Shetland, the system prevails of assigning the
       most indigent, what is called a quarter, the inhabitants of which
       either make the pauper itinerate among them, or contribute a
       proportion of food towards his or her support, effehring to the
       quantity of land rented by each tenant in that quarter.  There is,
       generally speaking, but little disposition among the poor to refrain
       from seeking parochial aid.

                       MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
          Spade husbandry is that universally adopted by the tenant
       here: it can be got executed, by those having occasion to  em-
       ploy labourers, at the rate of 8s. the statute acre ; supposing one
       man employed for every two women, the former at 1s. and the
       lutter at 6d. a-day.  This is unquestionably the cheapest, the
       most efficient in producing a return, and, in the majority of, loca-
       lities in Yell, the only mode of culture that can be adopted, on
       account of the steepness, the uxevenness of the surface on the
       rocks, with which the land is not unfrequently interspersed.
          Considerable addition has been made to the cultivated land,
       the memory of the present generation; and, in many instances,
       it has been more than doubled.  About 1790, and even at a later
       period, when the population did not exceed two-thirds of the pre-
       sent number, it was considered a favourable year indeed, when
       the produce of the harvest enabled the people to subsist, until the
       next year's seed was put into the ground.  Nov, on the contrary,
       with the exception of 1835-36-37, which may be ranked as years
       of famine, no active and provident tenant has, for more than twen-
       ty years past, found it necessary to buy meal for his family before
       the beginning of August.
          The tenants have an utter aversion, generally speaking, to take
       leases, from a mistaken notion, that it is the landlord, and not the
       tenant, who is thereby benefited.  And even when they do enter
       into leases, they have been known to object to make improvements,
       which, before the expiry of their tacks, would have remunerated
       them tenfold for all their labour,-so little are the advantages
       arising from this kind of covenant between landlord and tenant
       understood here.


