
     Statistical Account

house to go to decay, which is not conducive to the bene-
fit of a farm?  Might not the building one or two neat
villages in every country parish, be the means of prevent-
ing this great concourse of inhabitants to the towns.  They
might be erected in a dry situation, and calculated for con-
venience as well as health.  Supposing these villages to be
inhabited by mechanics, manufacturers, day-labourers,
farmers servants and widows, there might be one or two
small farmers connected with the village, who might have
leisure, and be induced to perform carriages to the villa-
gers for hire*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Personal services are still performed here.  They are specified and
limited.  Occupiers of a house and garden, or of a house, garden, and one
or two acres of land, perform some days work occasionally, as the pro-
prietor may happen to require them in the course of the year.  Such te-
nants as possess ground sufficient to enable them to keep a horse, besides
the above services, are bound to perform two horseback carriages in the
course of the year, as far as Dundee, which is about 12 a miles, or to a simi-
lar distance.  Greater tenants are bound to bring a certain number of
bolls of coals from Dundee to the proprietors house, which require 2 or 3
days work of their carts Besides, they must give a day's work of all their
reapers, for cutting down the proprietors corns.  There go by the gene-
ral name of services, in place of the old arrhage and carriage, which were
very comprehensive.  Arrhage, I take to be from the Latin, aro, to till;
and implied the driving out of the manure for the proprietor's farm,
ploughing and harrowing his ground, reaping in harvest, and bringing
home his hay and corns.  The old service of carriage was very unlimited,
and very tyrannically exacted-From 16 to 30 years back, from the pre-
sent time, about 37 cottages were razed, or became ruinous.  From 10 to
17 years back, 10 or 11 new cottages have been erected; an increase of
small houses has begun to take place; a mill, for spinning flax-yarn, is
building; and a village is begun, for accommodating the hands to be em-
ployed, which will require a considerable number of houses.  The em-
ploying of cottagers in agriculture, increases population.  A house for ac-
commodating a family, is a considerable inducement for a servant to mar-
ry; and, from having a house and an acre or two of land, a servant is
more inclined to remain in his master's service.  Hired servants are apt to
be touchy and petulant, by being less dependent, as having it more easily


