
                       ST QUIVOX.                                123

length of the parish. There is also a railroad from Whitelets to
the harbour of Ayr, for the conveyance of coal.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was built before the
Reformation, but was repaired and enlarged about twelve years ago,
and now affords good accommodation for nearly 500 sitters. It is
situated near the centre of the parish; but the mass of the popu-
lation, being at one extremity, are three miles distant from the
church, in which they have no accommodation. To remedy this
evil, which had been long felt by that large portion of the inha-
bitants of Wallacetown who belong to the Established Church, a
chapel was built by subscription in that district in the year 1835,
which affords accommodation to nearly 900 sitters. The General
Assembly granted a constitution to this chapel in the year 1836,
and Wallacetown has since been disjoined quoad sacra from the
parish of St Quivox, and erected into a separate parish. The
Rev. John Alexander was ordained minister of Wallacetown by
the presbytery of Ayr in the same year; and the whole of the sit-
tings in the new church are already let--chiefly to parishioners.
   An excellent manse was built in the parish of St Quivox in the
year 1823. The grebe consists of four acres, which may be va-
lued at a yearly rent of L. 10; and the stipend, which was aug-
mented in 1835, consists of 18 chalders.
  There are in Wallacetown an Antiburgher meeting-house, an-
United Secession church, a reformed Presbyterian meeting-house,
a small Independent church, a small Episcopal chapel, and a
handsome Roman Catholic chapel. The congregations attending,
the places of worship assemble from this and eight or nine of the
surrounding parishes. The ministers are paid chiefly from the
seat-rents, but the exact amount of stipends cannot be ascertained.
   The number of families in the parish belonging to the different
religious denominations is as follows:--Established Church, 724
families; Rnman Catholibs, 125; Relief, 112; United Secession
church, 71; Antiburghers, 40; Episcopalian, 20; Reformed Pres-
bytery, 25; Methodists, 18; Independents, 6; Moravians, 3;
Universalists, 2; total, 1146 families.
  The Established Church is well attended by the agricultural po-
pulation, who alone have seats; and the collections for charitable
purposes amount to about L. 50 per annum.
  Education.-There are one parochial and eight unendowed
schools in the parish, in which Latin, mathematics, book-keep-
ing, arithmetic, geography, reading, and writing are taught.  The
                                 4


