
248                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

encouragement seems also at this period to have been given to the
herring fisheries in Loch Fine and in the western seas. In the
same year it is stated; that the "hail burrowis of the west contrie,
sic as Irevin, Air, Dumbertane, Glasgow, and uther burrow is has
zeirly in all times bygane, resorted to the fishery of Loch Fyne
and other lochis in the north ilis for making of herring and uther
fishis." To encourage this trade, no exaction was made "except
the payment of the fishers." Some of the greedy lawless lairds
on Loch Fyne, however, raised a heavy tax or custom on every
"last of maid herring,"-an impost very properly put down by act
of Parliament. Between February 1547 and July 1548, the un-
fortunate Queen Mary was in safe keeping in the Castle of Dum-
barton, till she was embarked in the French gallies and conveyed
to France. She visited the castle again in 1563. During the
troubles which followed her dethronement, the castle of Dumbart-
ton, 1568, was in the keeping of John Fleeming of Boghall. On the
2d of April 1570 (not 2d May 1571 as stated by Chalmers,) the Castle
of Dumbarton was surprized and taken by escalade. The principal
actors in this affair were John Cunninghame of Drumquhassil,
Matthew Douglas of Mains, Captain Thomas Crawford of Jordan-
hill. In the reign of Charles 1. 1641, these seven parishes "Inch-
calleoche, (Buchannan,) Drymen, Balfrone, Fintrie, Kilbirnie,
Strablane, and Campsie, as settled by the 73d Act of James VI.,
and, for a long list of reasons given besides, were annexed to the
sheriffdom of Dumbarton. In 1649, the parish of Kilpatrick was
divided as at present. The title of the act is "Act in favours of the
parish of Dumbartane anent the dividing the parish of Kilpatrick."
The county of Dumbarton was particularly involved in Argyle's
invasion in 1685. On the 11th June of that year, the Marquis of
Athol, with 300 of the king's troops, engaged about 400 of Argyle's
men, killed many of them, and put the rest to the rout, which
obliged Argyle to make a similar march to Allangreg Castle, where
he staid till the 15th of June, when he marched 6000 men to
"Lennox in Dumbartonshire," and thence to Killearn, within four
miles of Dumbarton. Here Lord Dumbarton, commander-in-
chief of the king's troops, was within three miles of Argyle's army,
who, when he saw Dumbarton's army so numerous and well-mar-
shalled, at night made fires over all this camp, and, by the light of
them, decamped and dispersed all his people to their respective ha-
bitations. The subsequent history of the unfortunate Earl is well
known. He was taken by a private trooper in the water of Inch-
                             3

