
           14                          SHETLAND.

           mansion-house, who afterwards took the lease of a small farm
           and managed it by the same mode or agriculture to which he had
           been accustomed in the south; it was found that it seldom failed
           to produce an average crop of grain, turnip, rye-grass, or clover,
           compared with any hill district in Scotland.   One or two tenants
           possessing advantages above the rest, availed themselves of the
           example thus set.    But as to the generality, their poverty, and
           the want of leases, enclosures and roads, together with the sys-
           tem of run-rig, effectually bar all attempts at improvement.
           Other obstacles, however, arise from their engagements in fishing,
           and from the circumstance that the young men of almost every fa-
           mily, in the months of February and March, run eagerly to Ler-
           wick to engage in the Greenland and Strait's fisheries, and, of
           late years, to the cod-fishing; so that, both in spring and harvest,
           a great part of agricultural labour devolves on the females.  But
           even many of the men who remain at home, think nothing of de-
           serting their farms for a whole day, now and then, for the sake
           of any traffic with ships in the harbour. Of course, from these
           circumstances alone, much agricultural improvement is not to be
           expected.
             Two or three leases only exist here, the duration of which is
           from nineteen to twenty-five years.
             Many of the farm cottages have of late years been rebuilt on an
           improved plan, and emulation has been excited on this matter.
             It should be mentioned, that the best cultivated farms may
           produce 5 or 6 bolls of oats, and 8 bolls of bear to the pro-
           portion of an acre, or 200 ankers of potatoes.  It is seldom that
           meal is sold; but when this happens, it is sold by the lispund, a
           foreign measure at present very variously defined.  The average
           price of oatmeal in Bressay is 4s., and of bear meal 3s., reckoning
           to the lispund 36 lbs. of 16 ounces.   Potatoes are sold at 8d.
           per anker.
             Rate of Wages, &c.-Labourer's wages frorn 10d. to Is. 6d.; ma-
           sons, from Is. 4d. to 3s.; carpenters, 3s.; journeymen, 2s.; quar-
           rying and building dry stone dikes per fathom, 2s. 6d.; wages of
           a housemaid per annum, L.2; of a farm female servant, L. 1. Sum-
           mer's grazing of a cow, from 7s. to 1Os.; of an ox, 15s to L. I
           winter's fodder, from 5s. to 7s.- Price of a fult-grown wedder, 7s.
           of an ewe 5s.   The average weight of a cow for slaughter is
           about two cwt., of an ox about six  years old, about three cwt.
           The sheep are, in, general, left to run at,large on the common.


