
   158                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   is called the Forest or Park, from its having been devoted by the
   first Earl of Seaforth to the exclusive maintenance of red-deer.
   Park forms the southern extremity of the parish.  The arms of the
   sea by which it is formed into a peninsula are, Loch Seaforth and
   Loch Erisort.  The isthmus that separates these lochs and joins
   the forest to the rest of the parish, is three quarters of a mile in
   breadth.
     When the forest of Lewis was devoted to the maintenance of
   red-deer, as noticed above, there was a very high dike across
   the isthmus; but that dike can now be scarcely traced. The forest
   has been for many years let to tenants.
     Mountains.-The only mountains of any note in the parish of
   Lochs are in the district called Park.  Some of these mountains
   are celebrated in the hunting-songs of Lewis men of bygone years;
   among others "Benn Chrianeg, Ushinish, and Benn Mhore."
   These mountains are all in the southern division of Park.  They
   are interspersed by valleys that yield good pasture, and are sepa-
   rated from the less mountainous part of Loch Shell.  The rest of
   the parish, especially the interior, is almost all flat, yielding nothing
   but the coarsest of heath.
     Caves and Fissures.-The only cave in the parish of Lochs is in
   an island named Tauneray, which is situated in the entrance of
   Loch Erisort.  This cave is about twelve by eight feet wide in its
   entrance; its dimensions increase towards its centre, but terminate
   in a very limited space in its extremity,-which is so dark as to
   render a minute inspection inconvenient, especially as its entrance
   is washed at all times of the tide, by the sea.  There are many fis-
   sures along the coast, which are not of importance to merit any
   special notice.
     Coast.-The coast of Lochs is generally very bold and rocky,
   especially about the headlands.  The more inland parts of the
   coast are low, and yield a great quantity of sea-ware.  The princi-
   pal headlands are Kilbag-head and Rhu-Rairnish.
     Temperature.-The climate is temperate, which is attributable to
   the insular situation of the country; and though very damp, it is
   nevertheless very healthful, not only to natives, but also to stran-
   gers.  Rainy weather prevails in Lewis, to a degree that is very
   prejudicial to the agricultural interest.
     Winds.-The prevailing winds are west and south-west, which
   are generally accompanied with rain.  In the beginning of sum -
   mer, there is a succession of cold parching easterly winds generally,

