
566                          PERTHSHIRE.

   It is also probable that he had some expectation of hastening
a surrender, by threatening to set fire to the castle. He fired red
hot bullets from two field-pieces which he had brought with him.
The point from which he fired at the north side was so distant, that
the heated balls only charred the very thick rafters of the roof.
And a night or two before breaking up the blockade, he removed
his field-pieces to the south side of the castle, whence their shot
produced no greater effect than from the former position.
   The garrison was reduced to the last extremity, and obliged to
eat horse flesh. There was no probability of the blockading force
being soon withdrawn. Wilson, the gardener at Blair, and a trust-
worthy servant, was despatched with intelligence of its desperate
state to the Earl of Crawfurd, who commanded some cavalry and
Hessian troops at Dunkeld. On the 1st of April, the day after
Wilson set out, not a Highlander was to be seen at Blair.  Lord
George Murray had received a sudden order to join the main
body of the Prince's army near Inverness.
   At this distance of time we cannot but admire the prudence and
sagacity which this distinguished officer exhibited in the blockade of
his native castle. He knew its provisions consisted chiefly of bis-
cuit and cheese, and of which, too, the quantity was small. The
allowance fixed for each man was only one pound of biscuit, a
quarter of a pound of cheese, with a bottle of water a day.  Had
the Prince's counsels, guided at the time by weak and ignorant
courtiers, permitted Lord George to remain but a few days longer
at Blair, the garrison must have capitulated, and Crawfurd's caval-
ry perhaps would have been destroyed in Killiecrankie. Though
the Prince's affections were alienated by the basest acts, and his
confidence withdrawn from his Lieutenant-General, Lord George
paid implicit obedience to his commands, and served him with un-
daunted bravery, fidelity, and zeal. By the unanimous concur-
rence of the Highland army, he was its ablest officer. He was a
man of a noble deportment, of independent mind, and indomitable
spirit.
   Though it was certain that the Highlanders had raised the
blockade in the night-time, the garrison was kept shut up by Sir
Andrew Agnew until the next morning. On the 2d of April, an
officer arrived on horseback from the Earl of Crawfurd, and in-
formed the commandant, that his Lordship, with some cavalry,
might be expected in an hour.  The garrison was accordingly
drawn out, and his Lordship was received by Sir Andrew at the
                               4


