
     of Stronsay and Eday.

Some of the on-call work, or undefined services of ancient
times, are still exacted; which circumstance, with the great
proportion of gloomy and wet weather to which the inhabi-
tants are exposed, and the little encouragement given by the
higher ranks of people to their inferiors, to excite a spirit of
emulation, and to promote improvements in agriculture and
manufactures, give the inhabitants, in general, and the lower
ranks in particular, a demure aspect, and contribute, perhaps,
in some measure, to introduce and propagate certain malay-
dies, which have unfortunately become too common in this
district; particulary severe colds, rheumatisms, consumptions,
paralytic complaints, and symptoms of insanity*.

     3 I 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The following case may perhaps appear singular.  A young girl, in the
island of Stronsay, named Jean Brown, the daughter of a poor labourer, in
the year 1788, when about eleven years of age, was affected with pains all
over her body; these at first continued only a few days, but recurred each
fortnight periodically, for a considerable number of months.  Afterwards, the
pains returned monthly, were of longer continuance and proved more vio-
lent, and her speech became greatly affected.  In this state the remained about
two years.  After which period, her intervals of sickness and health gradual-
ly approached to an equality of duration, and succeeded each other quarter-
ly; that is, in spring and autumn, the was greatly distressed and lost her
speech entirely; her pains increased to such a degree, that the groaned and
moaned perpetually when awake; the could fit in a chair, and could move
slowly about the sides of the houses, leaning to such things as the found in
her way.  In the summer and winter quarters her pains abated, and the re-
covered her speech.  In this state the continued until the month of May 1793,
which was the periodical season of her recovery; in stead of which, the con-
tinued exceedingly distressed, for about six months; when she again, to the
great surprise and joy of her parents, recovered not only her speech, but like-
wise her health, in such a degree, as to be inclined to engage to go to service
last winter, which engagement the actually performed.  Whether her pains
will continue to return periodically, and at increasing intervals of time, as
formerly, is a subject for the medical faculty to discuss.  This case baffled the


