
                                LEWIS-VIG.                            153
             
                            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
          Land-owner.-James Alexander Stewart M'Kenzie, Esq. of
        Seaforth, is the sole land-owner of this parish. The real rent of
        the parish is L. 2535, 2s. 6d.
          Parochial Registers.-Parochial registers have been kept in this
        parish only since the year 1826. There are registers of marriages
        and births.
          Antiquities.-On the Flannel Isles called by Buchanan Insulae
        Sacrae, are still extant the ruins of religious houses.  At Mealis-
        ter and Pabay, are the remains of nunneries; and at Callernish, on
        the east coast of Loch Roag, there are the very entire remains of a
        Druidical place of worship; some of the stones in which are so very
        large, that it is inconceivable by what means they could have been
        brought to the place.  They all stand on end, at the distance of
        five and six yards from each other, and are in a rough natural state,
        as taken from the shore. 
          At Carloway, there is a Danish fort or doune, within the bounds
        of this parish,-with a double wall of dry stone,the largest and
        the most entire I have seen anywhere in Scotland. At the base, it is
        very broad, and towards the top it gradually contracts.  The height
        of the wall, is computed to be about thirty feet. The fabric upon
        the whole is perfectly circular, and finished in a masterly style.
        In the year 1831, a considerable number of small ivory sculptures
        resembling chessmen, and which appeared to be of great antiqui-
        ty, were found in the sands at the head of the bay of Uig, and 
        have been since transmitted to the Antiquarian Society at Edin-
        burgh.
          Modern Buildings.-In the year 1824, the manse of Uig was
        repaired, and a commodious new wing added to it. A new church
        was built in 1829, which will accommodate 1000 people; and in 
        this region, where there is so little of what may be called archi-
        tecture, I may notice that several curing houses for cod and ling
        were erected on the coast, in the year 1826 : and in 1832, Mr and
        Mrs Stewart M'Kenzie of Seaforth erected two commodious school-
        houses and dwelling-houses for teachers in the districts of Valtos,
        and Callernish, for the religious and moral improvement of the
        people.
        
                          III.-POPULATION.
          The people of this parish have always been remarked for their
        hospitality. They are naturally intelligent, and acute and docile
        in their dispositions; and have of late years improved much, in

