
378                   RENFREWSHIRE.

44 over walls.  Contains about 4000 spindles, and is driven by an
engine of sixteen horse power.  Employs about 40 hands.
                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Villages.-This parish contains three villages.  Ist, Kilbarchan,
named the Kirkton in Blaeu's Atlas, published in 1654 at Amster-
dam; and of which a very considerable part has been built, in the
memory of some persons now living.  2d and 3d, Linwood and
Bridge of Weir villages are of recent erection; the one wholly in
this parish, the other (Bridge of Weir,) with an equal population
on each side of the Gryfe, belonging, half to the united parishes
of Houstoun and Killellan.  Strictly speaking, however, Bridge of
Weir is a designation of land only on the Kilbarchan side.  Both
these villages owe their existence to the establishment of cotton
factories in the respective localities.
  Market-Town, Means of Communication, &c.- Paisley, dis-
tant five miles and a half, is our nearest market-town; but
many articles of use, in daily demand, may be purchased in re-
spectable shops here, as well as in Johnstone, distant one mile
and a half to eastward.  There is no post-office nearer than
Johnstone.  Most roads in the parish are turnpike, and in very
good condition.
  No public conveyance passes along any of our roads; but by the
light passage boats, neatly fitted up and moving at the rate of eight
miles per hour, there is access from Johnstone to Paisley and
Glasgow, eight times a day.  Coaches to and from Lochwinnoch,
Beith, Ardrossan, and Glasgow, pass about a mile south of this
village.  Acts of Parliament have been obtained for two lines of
railway; one from Greenock to Paisley and Glasgow, passing
through the east part of this parish; and a branch from this vil-
lage will communicate with the Glasgow, Paisley, and Ayr line,
which passes along the south side of the Cart, and within a mile
of the village.
  Ecclesiastical State.-Of this parochial church, prior to the Re-
formation, the most ancient record, to wbich I have had access,
bears, that " Thomas Cranford of Auchinames mortified the lands
of Lyndnocht and Glenlear, with their pertinents, and an annuity
of three merks out of his lands of Auchinames, for the mainte-
nance of a chaplain to celebrate Divine service at the altar of the
Virgin Mary, in the kirk of Kilbarchan, for the health bf his soul
and of his wife, and for the soul of Sir Reginald Crauford, his


