
166                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

believe, of that singular and interesting race of people, the Gip-
sies, whose origin is involved in so much uncertainty and doubt.
I am indeed far from regarding the "muggers and tinkers" of
Kirk Yetholm as the pure unmingled gipsy race, whose forefa-
thers emigrated or were driven into Europe from Hindostan or
Egypt. They are much less distinguishable as a peculiar race
now than they appear to have been formerly. Still their language,
their predatory and erratic propensities, and, in general, their dark
or dusky complexion, black piercing eyes, and Hindoo features,
sufficiently betray the original of this despised and neglected race.
At what period they first arrived and settled in Kirk Yetholm I
have not been able with any accuracy to ascertain. The family of
the Faa's seem to have been the first who settled there, and pro-
bably about the beginning of last century. * Their number in l797,
according to the former Statistical Account, was 50. In 1816, ac-
cording to the late Bailie Smith of Kelso (whose interesting ac-
count of the Kirk Yetholrn gipsies was published in Blackwood's.
Magazine for May 1817), the number was 109. At present there
are about 100. Of these, one gipsy female is married to a trades-
man in the village; and one woman not belonging to the tribe is
married to a gipsy, whom she accompanies in his wanderings.
   That the gipsies of Kirk Yetholm have a peculiar language is
fully credited by most of the other inhabitants of the village, many
of whom have not only heard them converse with each other in this
language, but also understand a number of the words. It was my
intention to have given a list of such of these words as I have been
able to collect; but I shall at present merely mention this gene-
ral fact regarding them, that, on comparing this list with the spe-
cimens furnished by Hoyland from Grellman, I find that the lan-
guage spoken by the Kirk Yetholm clans corresponds very nearly
with that spoken by the English and Turkish gipsies, and that
most of these also have been traced to an Indian origin. On this
subject, however, they observe a profound secresy.
   Their occupations are various. There are two who manufac-
ture horn into spoons: one tinker; and most or all of the rest are
"muggers," or, as they prefer being called, "potters," or "travel-
lers," who carry earthen-ware about the country for sale. These last
also frequently employ themselves in making besoms and baskets.
The gipsy, in general, enjoys but few of the comforts of home,-with
the exception of the spoon-manufucturer, who must remain sta-
tionary to fabricate his wares, which the females usually dispose

<FOOTNOTE>See Blackwood's Magazine, Nos. I. and II.


