
            46                              PERTHSHIRE.

            clad persons to go out with them to meet the King." Of the many
            amusements furnished for the occasion, " the Sword dance" by
            the Skinner and Glover Incorporation appears to have been the
            most interesting. There is an entry in the council books, 27th
            May 1633, that it should be performed before his Majesty, oppo-
            site to the chancellor's (Earl of Kinnoul) yard head, on a raft
            upon the water. The following account of the dance is given in
            the register kept by the Glover Incorporation:-" Memorandum
            of his Majesty's coronation, and coming to Scotland, his entry to
            Edinburgh and Perth, 15th of June 1633,-which day, our dread
            sovereign, Charles King of England, France, and Ireland, came
            to Edinburgh, being accompanied with the nobility of Scotland
            riding before, and the nobility of England riding behind him, de-
            sired, out of his gracious favour and love, with his nobility of both
            kingdoms, to visit his own burgh of Perth upon the 8th of July,
            and came to his lodging, and went down to the garden thereof: his
            Majesty's chair being set upon the wall next to the Tay, where-
            upon was a flat stage of timber, clad about with birks, upon the
            which, for his Majesty's welcome and entry, thirteen of our brethren
            of this our calling of glovers, with green caps, strings, red ribbons,
            white shoes, with bells about their legs,* shering rapers in their
            hands, and all other abulzement, danced our sword dance with
            many difficult knotts and allafallajessa, five being under and five
            above upon their shoulders, three of them dancing through their
            feet, drink of wine, and breaking glasses about them, which (God
            be praised) was acted without hurt or skaith to any,-which drew
            in to great charges and expenses, amounting to the sum of three
            hundred and fifty merks, (yet not to be remembered,) because we
            were graciouslie accepted be our sovereign and both estates, to
            our honour and great commendation."
               Thereafter two tailors, David Black and George Pourie, came
            forward, and personating, the one the Tay, the other the City,
            performed a poetic comedy before his Majesty.  It is to be found
            in Mr Cant's History.
               Inundations.-The situation of the town being low, and upon
            the bank of a river that is fed by numerous mountain streams, it is

<FOOTNOTE>These bells, with different pieces of the dresses then worn by the performers,
     are preserved by the glover calling. They are to be seen in their hall in the best
     possible keeping. There is, in the same place, also their flag or banner of yellow
     silk, having a square of blue silk in the centre, with the arms and motto of the cal-
     ling emblazoned on it. It is above 226 years old, and is very little tarnished. There
     is here besides an ostrich egg, which husg in their hall for above 200 years. Tradi-
     tion says, that it came to them in the time of the crusades, from the land of Palestine.
                                              4



