
24                          ELGINSHIRE.

will be supported from the interest of money subscribed, and a
small board from the parishes who send the lunatics. It contains
ten cells, and the benefit of it is confined to the insane poor with-
in the county.
   Elgin Institution for the support of old age and the Education of
Youth.-This charity was founded and endowed by General An-
derson, and consists of three branches. Ist, An hospital for the
support and maintenance of indigent men and women, not under
fifty-five years of age, of decent, godly, and respectable character;
persons answering this description from the burgh of Elgin to be
preferred., and failinf applications from those in the town, then
from those in the parish, and failing both, then from any other part
of the county. Five males and five females from the town are at
present enjoying as inmates the comforts of the charity. 2d, A
school of industry for the support, maintenance, clothing, and edu-
cation of male and female children of the labouring class of socie-
ty whose parents are unable to maintain and educate theyn, and for
placing and putting out the said children, when fit to be so, as ap-
prentices to some trade or occupation, or employing them in such
a manner as may enable them to earn a livelihood by their lawful
industry, and make them useful members of society. Twenty-two
boys and eighteen girls from every parish of the county, in propor-
tion to the population, are reaping the benefits of the institution.
On the death of two annuitants this branch will probably include
twenty additional children. 3d, An establishment of a master and
mistress, properly qualified to conduct a free school for the educa-
tion only of such male and female children whose parents may be
in narrow circumstances, but still able to maintain and clothe their
children.  Of this class 230 children are  receiving in the free
school a gratis education suited to their station.
   Friendly Societies.-The six incorporated trades are in one re-
spect of the nature of friendly societies. From yearly assessments on
the brethren of their respective crafts, they have a fund under the
management of each corporation, which the distribute, in whole or
in part, among their poor and decayed members and widows.
   Guildry Charitable Fund.-This fund was established in 1714,
and the members are all merchant guild-brethren. It arises from
quarter pennies and admission fees of entrants. By good manage-
ment and judicious investments in lands, of a part of their income
always reserved, it has rapidly increased, and they now divide L.250
annually among the widows, children, and decayed members, still
			        4


