
430                  ROSS AND CROMARTY.

dained after a vacancy of two years, 19tb June 1823. Died in
the mission in May 1829.-14. Finlay Macpherson, ordained
here in 1830, translated to Tobermory in 1833; and to Kil-
brandon 3d May 1838.-15. John Downie Kennedy, son of the
late,Rev. Neil Kennedy, minister of Logie-Easter, fifteenth and
present missionary minister of Rosehall. He was appointed to
the mission after it had been vacant eighteen months, in Sep-
tember 1835, and was ordained there on the 20th of January
1866.
   Catechist.-There is one catechist in this parish employed by the
Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, from whol he re-
ceives a salary of L.7, 10s. per annum. This class of religious
instructors are well calculated to be useful to the young, as well
as to the more advanced parishioners, by examinations on the
questions of the Shorter Catechism, and by their familiar conver-
sational explanation of the same. The office of catechist has been
established here for upwards of a century,-for as far back as the
year 1730, we find "Donald Ross continued catechist in the pa-
rish of Kincardine, with a salary of L.8 Sterling." (Presb. Re-
cords of Tain, Vol. iv.) Donald Ross was "catechist of Kincar-
dine" in 1770. (Vol. x.) The present catechist is a venerable
and intelligent man in the seventy-seventh year of his age.
   There is not a Dissenter of any description resident in this pa-
rish, and Divine service is alwais very well attended.
   The number of communicants here is fro 70 to 80, of whom
29 are male heads of families.
   The average amount of church collections yearly for religious
and charitable objects is from L.30 to L.35. Such collections
in a parish which has not a single resident proprietor, shows
what may be done by the influence of a good understanding be-
tween a philanthropic pastor and his flock. The collections,
though rather under the usual average this season, "for religious
and benevolent purposes," areas follows: For the Jews, L.8s.;
India mission, L.4, 10s.; Church Extension, L.4, 4s.; Assembly
schools, L.3, 5s.; Colonial Society, L.3, 15s.; Inverness Infir-
mary, L.5; total, L.29, 2s.
   Education.-There are eight schools in this parish, which are all
well attended. The parochial school is situated near the parish
church, and is a comfortable dwelling-house. Besides the school
room, it contains four apartments for the accommodation of the
schoolmaster. The salary is the maximum, which, with an allow-


