
     of Leuchars.

and uncultivated, insufficient for raising cattle of bone.  The
Fife cattle, however, always bring good prices in the market;
and I believe it will not be said that the cattle of this parish are
inferior to those of the other parts of the country.  Cabbages
and greens are also planted in the fields, but in small quanti-
ties by the side of the turnip, to be used when frost renders
the turnip more difficult to be obtained.  Potatoes, that make
so great a part of the food of the lower classes of society, are
cultivated by every one who rents land, for the use of his fami-
ly, horses, cows and hogs.  They are in general used for the
last 3 animals without boiling.  The tenants give 10 yards
square or 12 for planting a peck of potatoes to the manufac-
turers and other labouring people, for so many days work in
harvest, or any other throng season; wisely thinking that
this is preferable to money, as it procures them hands in the
time of their need.  Much useful information concerning the
culture and preservation of this invaluable root has been
lately obtained, by means of the benevolent exertions of the
Board of Agriculture.
   I know not if the following observations have been made.
Many causes for the curle-top amongst potatoes have been as-
signed, that mankind might avoid this devourer of so valuable
a part of their food.  When that part of the potatoe is cut
for a set which the former year adhered to its root, it invari-
ably produces a curle-top.  It would be of no small conse-
quence, therefore, before the seed is cut into sets, that a
careful hand should be employed to cut off this part of every
potatoe, and keep it entirely separate from the seed.  When
there is too little of the potatoe left at the bottom of the eye,
that is separated for a set, it has the same unhappy conse-
quence.  This year has led men of observation to conclude,
that wet land produces the curle-top.  There are two very long
ridges in a field near this place, planted with the same culture,


