
     of Edenkeillie.

part of their necessaries at the markets there+.  This like-
wise gives them an opportunity to get their own manufactures
disposed of, which are but very few.  There are a sufficient
number of weavers and tailors, for manufacturing the stuffs
worn by the inhabitants.  There are 2 shoemakers, 4 coopers,
and 10 riddlemakers; and almost every man in the parish is
a cartwright.  They make their carts of aller and birch tim-
ber, and supply the Elgin and Fortes markets.  The price of
them, in general, is from 6 s. to 12 s.

   Distilleries.-There are no less than 4 distilleries for mak-
ing whisky in this parish, which consume a great quantity of
barley; and, what is astonishing, they sell these spirits as fast
as they can run them:  The inhabitants of this parish are,
however, in general, sober.  Their whisky they send up to
Strathspey and Badenoch.  To account for the constant de-
mand for whisky in the north of Scotland, we must reflect,
that, of late years, a total stop has been put to smuggling, by
the great attention of the revenue officers, in the west and
north coasts of Scotland, which formerly supplied the whole
country with foreign spirits.  It must, however, be allowed,
that there is more of this liquor used by the common people,
than is good for their health or morals,

   Church, etc.-The church is situated upon the banks of
the Divie, about 8 1/2 miles south of Forres.  It was built in

     4 B 2

<FOOTNOTE>

+The prices of provisions are much regulated by the neighbouring town of
Forres.  Hens are sold for 6 d. a piece, chickens 3 d., ducks 5 d., geese 2 s.; eggs,
per dozen, 1 1/2 d.; sweet milk, per pint, 1 d.; skimmed ditto 1/2 d.; butter, per
pound, 8 d.; and cheese, per stone, 4 s.: get farm servants, from 1 L. 10 s. to 2 L.
in the half year, with 6 1/2 bolls of meal in the year, or victuals in the house:
women servants from 15 s. to 1 L. in the half year, with victuals, or 3 stones of
meal:  day labourers 7 d. or 8 d. in summer, and 6 d. in winter.


