
     Statistical Account

amazing distance*.  Again, in attempting to get up the
fall, some of the fish are driven back by the strength of
the current, and thus fall partly in the pool below, and partly
on the rock, which is almost level with the water on both
sides of the pool.  The country people formerly used to
place some branches of trees on this rock, along the edge
of the water, to prevent the fish which sell on the rock
from getting again into the water, and by this simple con-
trivance frequently caught from 8 to 12 fish in a night+.   
A very small proportion of the fish of this river is sold in
the country.  In summer and autumn, the Beauly and
Glass, by overflowing their banks, do much damage to the
natural bay and corn growing by the sides of these rivers.
Near Erchless, the Chisholm's feat, the river Farrar run-
ning from the N. W. falls into the Glass, and these two
streams united form the Beauly.  Five or six miles above
Erchless, the river Cannich coming also from the N. W.
falls into the Glass; and some miles above this, the water
of Deathac, running from the S. W. joins the same river.
On the Cannich and Glass, large logs of timber are float-

<FOOTNOTE>

*On this pool I have seen some of the neighbouring inhabitants fish, by
standing on the rock above it, with a long pole.  On one end of this pole
are fixed three large hooks joined together, and turned back to back.  The
person who fishes with the pole, dips it in the pool, and after waiting for
about half a minute, draws it up with a jerk, and generally hooks a fish by
some part of his body.

+I am also informed, that the late Lord Lovat, by way of amusing
himself on some occasions, caused a small boiler full of water to be placed
over a fire on this rock, and that some of the fish, in attempting to get up
the fall, being driven back by the current, sell often into the said boiler.
A fish caught and boiled in this manner was sometimes served up to din-
ner; so that his Lordship often surprized strangers by telling them, that
the fish now before them had leaped out of the Beauly into the very pot
in which it was boiled; and bringing them sometimes to the spot, what
he gave out was confirmed by ocular demonstration.


