
            	          LOGIE.                            223

copper was produced ready for the manufacturer; but the promis-
ing appearances failed, and, after much loss, the adventure was
given tip and the furnaces taken down.
   Both yellow and grey copper ores were found, but chiefly the
yellow; the accompanying minerals were calc-spar and heavy-spar.
   The ironstone found in the coal formation was the common ar-
gillaceous kind, which yields about 30 per cent of iron.
   There are a few open quarries in this parish. One is of sand-
stone near Causewayhead, but the stone is only fit for very infe-
rior purposes. There are several quarries in the Ochils for stones,
suitable for making and repairing of roads; and a quarry at Abbey
Craig has been wrought for a long period of years, not only for
the making of roads, but for gate-posts and masonry. It is parti-
cularly to be noticed, that those portions of it which, when broken,
present a rough crystallized surface, have been extensively used
for the grinding of wheat.
   As the chief supply of mill-stones used in the kingdom, for the
manufacture of flour, was imported from France, it was with the
greatest difficulty they could be procured during the long war with
France, and that at a most enormous price,--on which account,
the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, London, offered a
premium of L.105 to the person who would find in Great Britain
a rock, from which mill-stones could be made for the manufacture
of flour, as a substitute for the French mill-stones, known by the
names of Bhurr-stones.
   The Abbey Craig rock, on account of its rough surface when
broken, was thought by James Brownhill, miller at the Alloa mills,
to be suitable for the manufacture of flour; and from it he made
apair of mill-stones, the first which ever had been made from that spe-
cies of rock. These, when brought to trial, produced flour in every
point equal to that produced from the French mill-stones. A pair
of the Abbey Craig mill-stones were sent to London, and the So-
ciety of Arts were so fully satisfied with the execution of these
stones, and the quality of the flour produced, that they awarded
their premium of L.105 to James Brownhill for the discovery.
   The Abbey Craig mill-stones are built or composed of a num-
ber of pieces, similar to the French millstone. They have a very
uniform cutting surface, but, require to be more frequently picked
or dressed than the French stones; but a very slight dressing is
necessary and is quickly done. They require no alum, whereas the
numerous large cells, with which the French mill-stones abound,


