
                   PARISH OF ST ANDREWS.

               PRESBYTERY OF KIRKWALL, SYNOD OF ORKNEY.

                THE REV. JAMES SMELLIE, MINISTER.


                 I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Name.-THE present designation of this parish is that by which
  it has, from time immemorial, been known; and no other, nor more
  satisfactory account of its origin can be obtained, than that it is
  derived from Saint Andrew, the tutelary saint of Scotland.
  Extent, &c.-The parish of St Andrews is situated on the east
  coast of the mainland of Orkney. Its extreme length is about
  6 miles, and its medial breadth 2. Its superficial extent has
  never been ascertained by actual measurement, but may be esti-
  mated at 13 square miles.   It is bounded on the north, by Sha-
  pinshay firth; on the east, by an arm of the sea called Stronsay
  firth; on the southe-ast, by Deersound; on the south, by the
  German ocean; on the south-west, by an undivided common
  of some miles in extent, which lies between it and the parish of
  Holm; on the west, by the parish of St Ola; and on the north-
  west, by Inganess bay.  It is separated from the parish of Deerness,
  with which it was formerly ecclesiastically united, by Deersound,
  and a narrow isthmus called Sandaysand. In consequence of its be-
  ing variously intersected by the sea, its figure cannot be well de-
  scribed ; but the principal part lies southe-ast and north-west,
  while an inferior division projects from the northern end, in an
  easterly direction.
  	Topographical Appearances.-The face of the parish, though
  generally flat, is diversified by gentle inequalities in the ground.
  But the highest point is not more than 350 feet above the level
  of the sea, with the steepest acclivity only nine degrees; and the
  least elevated parts are sometimes covered by the rising tide. It
  is intersected from, east to west, by three ridges or inconsiderable
  rising grounds; one at the south end, another at the north, and
  a third in the middle, almost equidistant from each of the others.
  The line of sea-coast, extending along the south, east, and north

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev George Smellie, Assistant and Successor in Lady parish,
      Sanday.


