
50                    SELKIRKSHIRE.

years, however, when former prices were no longer realized, the
original race has been partially replaced.  They are found to thrive
best of any on exposed mossy lands, and in stormy seasons are by
far the surest stock. There are now 1300 black-faced in the up-
land parts of the parish, which are generally crossed with the Che-
viot or Leicester breed.  On some grassy farms, the Cheviot is in
like manner crossed with the Leicester, which supplies the most
valuable lamb for the butcher market.  But in this case, when the
stock is a stationary one, it is apt to degenerate, as second ewe lambs
are bought in annually in place of the draft ewes, so that this sys-
tem succeeds best when trying stock (i. e. one changed every year,)
is kept, and this can be done only on enclosed firms.  Some store-
masters let their flocks go unsmeared, others use turpentine and
different salves, while many retain the old Scottish preference for
tarry wool.  The lambs are now generally three weeks later in being
sold than they were thirty years since.  It his been said that they are
later in being fit for sale, owing to the less nutritious grasses pro-
duced by over-draining and mole-catching.  but the circumference
it would appear, arises chiefly from the market being first supplied
with park lambs of finer breed and faster growth, and from the dis-
continuance of ewe-milking, which made an early sale matter of
necessity.  Great attention has lately been paid to the improvement
of stock, as far as breeding, pastures shelter, and shifting are con-
cerned. The cattle kept for domestic purposes were formerly a coarse
kind of  the Dutch breed.  The Ayrshire breed was afterwards
partially introduced, and latterly the principal attention has been
directed to the short-horned breed,--a mongrel kind of which is
now the  prevailing stock.  They are more readily  for
feeding, and a considerable number is annualy reared. The dairy,
indeed, has not been better replenished, but this is an object of
minor importance.  A number of Highland cattle also is grazed
on the bills.  Where the pastures are coarse, since the complete
draining of the bogs, they consume what the sheep  would not
eat, and must be left to ??? and besides, as a new sward soon
springs up, provision ??? the same time made for keeping more
sheep than before.
   Husbandry and Produce.--The extent of land that hadonce been
cultivated is very great.  Many spots, on which are gathered heaps
of stones, seem to have been tilled with mattocks, and formed oases
in the midst of the forest.  The traces of the plough are `lso vi-
sible far up the hill sides, which have returned to their natural state.


