
     Statistical Account

<UNREADABLE>

   Figure and Surface.-Of the figure of this parish it is im-
possible to give any adequate description, as it is intersected
by three arms of the sea, divided by mountains, and indent-
ed by creeks and promontories. The east part of it is situa-
ted on the westward of Loch-long, an arm of the sea, which
strikes off from the Frith of Clyde, at first in a north,
and afterwards in a north-east direction, and separates the 
counties of Argyle and Dumbarton.  It is about 24 miles in
length; but the parish of Lochgoil-head occupies no more
than 12 miles of its coast.  Lochgoil is a small arm of the
sea, which strikes off from Lochlong, in a north-west direc-
tion, and intersects the south division of the parish for 6
miles.   The north-west part of the parish is divided in the
same manner by Lochfine.  Upon the west side of Loch-
long, and upon both sides of Lochgoil, the coast is bold and
steep, and the hills high and craggy.  The shore, upon both
sides of Loch fine, as fas as this parish extends, is more flat
and accessible; the land is very high, but not so rocky or
steep.  The barrenness of the ground along the coasts of
Loch-goil and Loch-long is partly concealed; and the tre-
mendous wildness of the scene, agreebly diversified by ex-
tensive natural woods, which cover the land near the coast,
and rise to a considerable distance from the shore.  To a
person who is rowed up Loch-goil in a calm summer day, and
who is not accustomed to fee the strong features of nature,
which prevail in this country, the appearance of the objects
around him, must be uncommonly striking.  The surface of
the country in general is very unequal; some of the moun-
tains, which form the western extremity of the Grampian
hills, are situated in this parish.  Particularly, Bein una,
so called from the richness of its grass; Bein-an locham, from
the fresh water lake which washes its base; Bein luibhain, a-
bounding in herbs; Bein thiolaire, remarkable for its springs

</UNREADABLE>


