
164                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

lands, too, carases to the amount of 250, and weighing 2870
stone  were cured by Messrs Halliday last season, and the same
manufacture has been carried on by them sometimes to a less ex-
tent, and sometimes to a greater, for upwards of thirty years past.
	The breed of pigs has of late been so much improved in Annan-
dale, and the mode of feeding and curing them so thoroughly un-
derstood and practised, that its hams vie in flavour with the York-
shire or Westphalia themselves, and far excel those lank ill-fed
Irish which are imported in such abundance into the west of the
island.
        Societies.-The only public association is a small farming society
established in the year 1818, (and to which the principal proprietor
makes a handsome annual contribution,) for giving premiums for
improving the breed of Galloway cattle, draught horses, and pigs,
and for other agricultural objects. To the spirit of emulation and
of enterprise which this little society has evidently excited, is owing
in a great measure that decided improvement both in the quality
of the stock of various kinds annually exhibited, and in the general
mode of parochial management.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Markets, &c.-The nearest market-towns are Lockerby and Mof-
fat, the former being situated at six miles distance from the south-
ern, and the latter about the same distance from the northern ex-
tremity of the parish.
        Means of Communication.-The nearert post towns are Moffat
for the upper district of the parish, and Lochmaben and Lockerby
for the lower. The great road from London to Glasgow, by Car-
lisle, runs for five miles through the parish,-that from Dumfries
to Edinburgh, via Moffat, runs five miles; and a turnpike road
from Moffat to Lochmaben and Annan also runs about six miles
from north to south nearly through its centre. The London and
Glasgow, and Edinburgh and Dumfries mail-coaches, and an Edin-
burgh and Dumfries stage-coach, travel on these roads. The Lon-
don and Glasgow road is one of the finest and best kept in the
kingdom, and has vastly improved our internal communication.
The first bridge over the Kinnel at St Anns, * near Raehills, was
built in the year 1782, rebuilt in 1795, and considerably widened

<FOOTNOTE>Both above and below St Anns, there are several very fanciful wooden bridges
connecting the various beautiful walks which wind on each side, along the romantic
banks of the Kinnel.
				         4


