
928			      PERTSHIRE.

   Education.--The total number of schools in the parish is four,
whereof one is a parish school, and the other three are taught
by individuals on their own account, without any endowment or
other emolument than the school-fees. Three of these schools
are situated in the town, and the other at a place called Banchory,
in the lower extremity of the parish. The salary of the parish
schoolmaster is the maximum; and the parochial teacher has the
legal accommodations. The general expense of education per
annum, in all the different branches taught in these sbhools, is
from. L.1 to L.1, 12s.
   The whole population of the lower part of the parish, and the
greater proportion of that inhabiting the upper district, are within
a convenient distance of one or other of the schools above enume-
rated, or, at least, they are accessible to them without much in-
convenience; but the inhabitants of the detached districts of
Blackcraig and Cruchies, and also the district of Clayquhat, are
at too great a distance from all of them to derive any benefit from
their operation. The wants of that portion of the population are,
however, partly supplied by a school near the Bridge of Cally,
which is open in the winter season only, and by another school situ-
ated at a place called Ballentuim, in the parish of Kirkmichael. The
former of these is supported partly by voluntary subscription, and
partly by the school-fees, which are very small, and the latter al-
together by the school-fees. The district of Cruchies is supplied
partly by a school supported chiefly by Sir James Ramsay of Bauff,
and partly by the parish school of Alyth. An endowed school,
established at or near the Bridge of Cally in this parish, would be
of very great benefit to the population of that district of the parish,
which is very considerable. A bequest of the late Mr George
Barty, connected with this subject, is afterwards described under
the head of Charitable Institutions.
   Literature.--There are two circulating libraries in the town of
Blairgowrie besides the library attached to the Episcopal church,
already mentioned; and a small parochial library has also been form-
ed in connection with the Sabbath school. There is likewise a
small printing press in the town, which is chiefly used for printing
handbills and advertisements.
   Charitable and other lnstitutions.--The only institutions of a
charitable nature at present in operation in the parish are, a So-
ciety for the purchase and distribution of clothing to destitute
families, and a Savings' Bank. The latter was established in Oc-


