
     of Chirnside.

   Having here no remains of the Danish, or Anglo-
Saxon antiquities, but those of the cairns above men-
tioned, we come to observe what appearances there are
of the seudal kind,  especially as found in the east border
of the two kingdoms.  In every barony so situated, and
of the nobler and more extensive siess, there was gene-
rally, first, the baron's castle, placed either on the ad-
vantageous ground of a hill or precipice, or in the en-
virons of a running water of swamp.  In some advan-

     VOL. XIV. E

<FOOTNOTE>

considerable distance.  On a nearer view, the ground occupied by them,
rising towards Whittadder-bank, facing the north, and almost perpendicu-
lar, discovered it to be well chosen for defence, on that quarter; while a
double, or triple line of ramparts, secured it upon its declivity, and where
it was accessible.  They run E. and W., and in a straight direction.
There appeared to be vestiges of two other lines, although much sunk, and
then partly invaded by the plough, which run from the extrimities of the
former towards the bank of the water.  The whole entrenchment forming
a square, but here properly made oblong, on account of its contiguity to
Whittadder, might have induced any antiquary to pronounce it, upon a
survey, a Roman one.  Its ramparts are now very much demolished, yet
not quite overthrown, by the repeated attacks of the husbandman.  It is no
stretch of fancy, but very natural to suppose, that a detachment of troops,
moving from Chester-kuows north and eastward, in order to rejoin their
main army, and having to pass Belly-mure, in the direct and proper line
of their march, would be attacked by their enemies in the defiles to be
made, at that deep bog, and suffer considerably in the encounter, although
they might gain the victory.  This (upon the supposition made), appears
to have been the case with the Romans; who, having repulsed their ene-
mies, with the loss of some of their captains, had time to find out the ridge
of gravel upon the bank of the mire, and there formally deposit their
urns.  Before the first mentioned expedition of Julius Agricola into Scot-
land, committed to him by Titus Vespasian, about the 80th year of the
Christian aera, this country was but very imperfectly known to the Ro-
mans, and any intercourse with the natives, either in war or peace, hardly 
began, until he led his army as far as the Frith of the Taus, or Tay, and
afterward exploring the coasts with his fleet, ascertained Britain, (viz. Eng-
land and Scotland), to be one island.


