
                          NORTH BERWICK.                   325

to have studied under him in the College of St Salvador, and to
have been so fascinated with his instructions as to have followed
him to France. He returned to Scotland in 1530, and resumed
his teaching of theology in St Andrews, which he continued for
many years, and died about the year 1547.-The Earl of Angus,
the famed husband of Margaret of England, the queen mother of
James V., whose changeful and eventful life occupies so prominent
a place in the Scottish Annals of the sixteenth century, died at
Tantallan about 1556 or 1557.-Of the Martyrs the name of
John Blackader, minister of Troqueer, a descendant of the House
of Tulliallan, who died on the Bass in 1685, after five years con-
finement, remains in vivid and hallowed remembrance. He is
buried in the churchyard of North Berwick, where a large flat
monumental stone, with an appropriate poetical inscription, marks
the place of his sacred rest. Its legend was renewed some years
ago under the inspection of Dr Andrew Crichton, while officially
resident here, whose published "Memoirs of Blackader" are full
of interest and instruction.-Besides Sir Hew Dalrymple, Bart.
raised to be the Lord President of the Court of Session in 1698,
and which office he filled till 1737, the name of Sir Hew Dal-
rymple, a later ancestor of the present Baronet, is very honourably
known throughout the country for his enlightened enterprise and
improvements in agriculture, as is also the name of the late Sir
George Suttie, Bart. of Balgone.
   Land-owners.-The heritors are, Sir Hew Dalrymple, Bart.
the chief proprietor, a Captain in Her Majesty's 71st Regiment,
now on service in Canada; Sir George Grant Suttie, Bart. of
Balgone and Prestongrange; Mrs Hamilton Nisbet Ferguson of
Dirleton and Belhaven; the Earl of Dalhousie; Sir Edward
Thomas Troubridge, Bart. of Rockville; Patrick Dudgeon, Esq.
of East Craig; and William Waddell, Esq. of Sydserff. It is to
be recorded, with great regret, that there is not one of the heri-
tors resident in the parish.
   Parish Registers.-The parochial records were, at one time,
voluminous and in excellent preservation; but for very many years
they were kept with extreme carelessness and irregularity. It
is only very recently that they have been kept with resumed ac-
curacy and propriety. There is are inventory made early in 1692,
on the induction of Mr Matthew Reid as minister, which repre-
sents the records as commencing in 1604; but the two earliest
volumes, containing proceedings from 1604 to 1638 with subse-


