
		SANDWICK.                                65

have leisure. One of these is the parochial school, and all the rest
are unendowed. The branches of education taught at the best of
these, are, Latin, French, grammar, writing, arithmetic, music, out-
lines of civil and natural history, geography, geometry, and a little
astronomy; but several taught by females, are limited to reading
and sewing. The salary of the parochial teacher is L.34, 4s.
4 1/2d., but both at this, and the other schools, the school fees do
not amount to much. The parochial teacher has the legal accom-
modation. The expense of education per quarter at it, is 1s. for
reading, with grammar, writing and arithmetic, and 6d. for each
important branch irr addition, but 9d. and even 6d. per quarter
are the fees at some of the female schools. I believe all between
six and fifteen years of age can read, and a great part of them
write. I do not know of more than two or three old people who
cannot read. The people, in general, are alive to the benefits of
education. Notwithstanding the great number of our schools,
another endowed and permanent one is much wanted at the north
side of the parish, where there is a population of about 500, most
of whom are three miles from the parochial school, which in this
climate is sufficient to prevent attendance in the winter season,
when they have most time.
  There is a visible improvement in the conduct of the people
since the facilities of education have increased. In a printed let-
ter of the principal resident heritor, dated 1821, he says, " This
parish has been, time out of mind, so ill supplied in regard to
church and school, owing, in a great measure, to the residence of
the clergyman being placed at the farthest extremity of the other
parish, it is wonderful to me that they are not more savage and
unprincipled than they are. They are a half century behind most
of the other parishes on the mainland, in civilization."
  Supposing this to be a correct description of their condition at
the time, as he had the best opportunities of knowing, I can no
testify from my own observation, as well as that of others, that
they have already made up their half century of lee-way, in less
than twenty years, and have made such strides in the march of
improvement, that they are now equal to their neighbours, even
with their twenty years additional advantages.  The uncivilized
state of this parish, noticed above, is ascribed to its junction with
Stromness, and wanting a resident clergyman.  By a decreet of
the Court of Teinds, however, they were disjoined at the death of
the incumbent in 1832, and since then it has formed a separate
  ORKNEY.							E


