
36                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

  The extent of church accommodation provided in Aberdeen at
the time of the survey was reported to the Commissioners to be as
follows; and it has undergone no material alteration since, except-
ing the recent admission of Mr Primrose's church into the Esta-
blishment:-

<TABLE>
                                            Total sittings.   Let.     Unlet.
In the Establishment,        -     -     -       17271       14700     2571
In the various denomination of Dissenters,       13322        6249     7073
                                                 -----       -----     ----
                                                 30593       20949     9644

   The stipends paid to the ministers of the East, West, and North
parisbes are L.300 a year each; and to the ministers of the South,
Grayfriars, and St Clements L.250 each; but in the case of the
South Church it is made up to L.300 by the congregation.  The
incomes of the other ministers in the Establishiment are various,
according to the amount of seat-rents, collections, &c. from which
they are paid.
   The ministers of other denominations are, in this respect, situ-
ated nearly as the ministers of the five parishes quoad sacra.
   The above-mentioned stipends, paid to the ministers of the six
parishes quoad civilia, are paid out of certain funds administered
by the Magistrates and Council, arising from mortifications, seat-
rents, &c., and in case of a deficiency of these, it is made up from
the "common good," so called, it is to be presumed, as being the
property of the community, and designed for the advancement of
the welfare and true interests of the city; the principal means of
which is, without doubt, the maintenance of the worship of God
and the ordinances of religion, since, without these, all other ef-
forts for the preservation of a sound state in the community would
be in vain.
   In reference to this important object, it may be observed, that
the remuneration of the labours of the ministry should be regard-
ed in the same light as that of any other public functionary; and
that the services being performed, they should receive their in-
comes as the price of the work done, and an acknowledgement of
the good which they have been instrumental in effecting.  It hap=
pens sometimes, however, that a minister is expected not only to
give his services to the public, but also to provide the funds out
of which these services are to be paid.  This must necessarily be
the case where, as in most of the Dissenting chapels and the pa-
rishes quoud sacra, there are no other funds from whence the mi-
nister's stipend can be paid.  Accordingly, in the case of those pa-
rishes for the stipend of whose ministers the magistrates and coun-


