
     Statistical Account

James Ure, witness.          hundred and twentie seven pound
John Buchanan, witness.      of valuation.  And for said Cul-
James M'Grime, witness.      creuch's lands, in the paroch of
                             Balfrone, being One hundred and
                             ten pound of valuation.
                          Hu. Buchanan of Balquhan, for my
                             lands of Boughan and Brunshogle,
                             in the paroch of Killearn, being
                             One hundred and seventy-three
                             pound of valuation.
                          Moses Buchanan of Glins, Two
                             hunder sextie-two pund valuation.
                             John Wright of Ester Glins, Sixtie-
                             six pound val.
                          Alexander Wright of Puside, On
                             hundred and foure pound and six
                             shiling and eghtpenny Scot va-
                             luation.
                          Walter Monteath of Kyp, Three
                             hundred pounds valuation.
                          James Key, portioner of Enblioy,
                             for sextiey six pond Scots valu-
                             ation.
                          Robert Galbraith, portioner of Edin-
                             bely, for thritie-three pound Scots
                             valuation.
                          Alexander Buchanan of Cremanan,
                             for my land of Cremanan, in the
                             paroch of Balfron, and
                             being Two hundred and sixty-
                             eight pound of valuation.

   And the saids James and John Grahames have subscribed these pre-
sents at Buchanan, the eleventh of June Iaj vij and fourty-one years, be-
fore David Græme of Orchill, and John Smith writer in Buchanan: De-
clareing, that notwithstanding of the date of the saids James and John
Grahame's subscription, yet it shall be understood, that the obligations
on both partys by this contract shall and do commence from Whitsunday
Iaj vij nod fourty-one, in regard it was agreed betwixt the partys, that
the saids obligations should commence at that term.  The date, wit-


