
                   KILBRIDE.                                 3

an effect upon the mind as overwhelming as the majestic moun-
tains among which they repose. This is especially the case with
Glenrosa, after proceeding a short way beyond its mouth;
and with Glen Sannox, "the sublime in magnitude, anti sim-
plicity, and obscurity, and silence."* Some miles north from
Glen Sannox, another scene presents itself, quite different in cha-
racter from these, but scarcely less imposing to the view. A large
mass of the mountain which crowns that part of the island having
given way, and broken into numberless detached fragments, these
are seen for more than a mile of rapid declivity, in promiscuous
disorder, piled upon each other: presenting the appearance of an
army flying before a superior force, one fugitive with his enormous
bulk pressing down another, and both threatened with being over-
whelmed by a still more gigantic form behind. This rocky stream
continues its flow till it reaches the ocean.
	The parish, both to the north and south, presents many other
scenes of wild and savage magnificence. Those of soft and roman-
tic beauty are not less numerous. Round almost the whole of the
sea coast, except where the landscape is indented by the valleys and
bays, there is a narrow and level border of land, walled up on the
landward side by a high ridge of rocks which the sea appears to
have washed when its level was higher than at present. In some
places this ridge is a series of rude cliffs and naked precipices;
but in general, and more especially from Sannox to Brodick, it is ex-
ceedingly beautiful and picturesque; its rugged features disappear-
ing amid the luxuriant ivy which clings to its face, and the rich
clothing of natural birch, ash, oak, and thick brushwood which
springs up among its numerous clefts, and crowns its top, covering,
without concealing it. Here a cave scooped out by the sea, there
a romantic amphitheatre formed by one of its numerous bends;
and next a white cascade tumbling over the precipices,--give a va-
riety to its ruccessive aspects, which is ever and anon tempting the
traveller to stop and admire.
	For scenery, combining in a high degree both the beautiful and
the sublime, the grounds about Sannox and the two bays of Brod-
ick and Lamlash, will always attract attention. Mid-Sannox is
formed by nature for being the site of a baronial residence. With
its deep dark glen retiring behind, Cir mor, and Ceum na callich  +
towering majestically above it, its extensive grounds clothed in
beautiful copsewood, and spreading out in gentle and varied undu-

<FOOTNOTE>MacCulloch.
  + Cir Mar, Gaelic, the large comb. Ceum na Callich, Gaelic, the Hag's stop.


