
     Of West Kilbride

mean of promoting those improvements.  It will facilitate
the procuring of lime, without which, nothing effectual can
be done; and when joined to the additional advantage of an
excellent road, which the people now enjoy, the great road
leading from Greenock to Port-Patrick, passing through the
whole length of the parish, will give a spirit to the exertions
of the husbandman hitherto unknown.  It will secure the good
effect of the example of those more industrious and enter-
prising farmers, who have already done a great deal, under
all the disadvantges of driving lime from a distance.  And
it will render the more lazy and obstinate ones inexcusable,
when every cause of complaint, arising from the great ex-
pense of this article shall be removed*.  This measure may

<FOOTNOTE>

*Another thing of great importance to be attended to is, the reviving and
restoring the fisheries.  As farming and fishing cannot conveniently and ef-
fectually be carried on together, the last ought to be put upon such a footing,
and such encouragement given, as to render it worth any person's while to pur-
sue it as a separate branch.  It order to this, it is absolutely requisite to have
some proper station, to which boats may have easy access upon all occasions,
and may lie in safety; and also proper habitations for the accommodation of
the fishers and their families.  Upon a bleak and open coast, such as this is, and
where there is so much foul ground, a stable and regular fishing can never take
place without these provisions.  Hitherto, this shore has afforded nothing of the
kind.  The port of Portincross does not answer the purpose, the entrance of it
is so environed with rocks, that boats can only take it in easy weather, and they
must be drawn up without the reach of an impetous surge which drives in
with every gale.  A little to the northward of the old port, between it and a
place called the Thoughlet, the entrance to the precipice above described,
nature points out a spot, which, by the hand of art and industry, might be
formed into an excellent fishing station.  There is a fine natural inlet, upon
which there is always sufficient depth of water, and which could be easily 
widened to the design; within, a spacious bafor might be scoopped out, where
boats and smacks of all dimentions might enter and lie in the most perfect se-
curity in all weathers.  Around this place, is a great deal of barren land, which
at present yeilds nothing but indifferent pasture.  This might be profitably laid
out in headings and gardens for the convenience of those employed in the fish-


