
326                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

and excited no small interest in the neighbouring kingdom. The
celebrated Ben Jonson, at the age of forty-five, travelled on foot
all the way from London, for the express purpose of paying him
a visit, amd spent several weeks at Hawthornden in the winter of
1618-19.
   He married Elizabeth Logan, grand-daughter of Sir Robert
Logan of Restalrig, and by her had several children. He died
on the 4th December 1649, deeply regretted, not only for the
superiority of hie more conspicuous literary endowments, but also
for the piety and worth of his private character. He was interred
in the family aisle in the old Church of Lasswade.
   His works display much genius and learning, and a classic
taste and purity of composition, but little known at the time when
he wrote. His sonnets, on which his fame as a poet principally
rests, are remarkable for the sweetness and smoothness of the
versification, and have gained for him the title of the Petrarch of
Scotland. In some respects, he is allowed to surpass the Italian.
   The family is now represented by Sir Francis Walker Drum-
mond, Bart. of Hawthornden, who married Margaret Drummond,
only daughter and heiress of Sir John F. Drummond, Bart. (in
whose person the family title, after remaining dormant above a
century, was revived,) and grand-niece of Bishop Abernethy, the
representative of the Abernethies of Salton.
   Mr Clerk of Eldin.--John Clerk of Eldin was the sixth son of
Sir John Clerk of Pennicuik, Bart., and Janet Inglis, daughter
of Sir John Inglis of Cramond. He appears to have received, at
an early period of his life, the estate of Eldin from his father.
He married Susanna Adam, sister of the celebrated architects,
and by her he had several children.
   Near the commencement of the year 1782, Mr Clerk printed
and distributed among his friends a few copies of the first part of
his valuable work entitled "an Essay on Naval Tactics, Sys-
tematical and Historical, with Explanatory Plates, in Four Parts."
It was reprinted and published in 1790; the second, third, and
fourth parts were added in 1797. The work was republished en-
tire in 1804, with a preface, explaining the origin of the author's
discoveries in naval tactics.
   Every unprejudiced person must admit that Mr Clerk has intro-
duced an immense improvement into naval tactics. He was the
first to discover the line of tactics generally followed by our ene-
mies, which was the means of preventing our most celebrated na-


