
     1074               PERTHSHIRE.


     minister was Mr Thomas Schaw. On August 15, 1754, Mr
     James Knox, * probationer, whose predecessor had been admitted
     on a call, was admitted minister of this parish on a presentation
     by the Viscount of Stormont's commissioner.  On 27th October
     1777, Mr Charles Wilson,+ Mr Knox's successor, was admitted
     minister on a presentation by the Viscount of Stormont,  On 15th
     August 1782, Mr James Hunter, Mr Wilson's successor, was
     admitted minister on a presentation by the Viscount of Stormont.
     On 25th September 1793 Mr John Wright, Mr Hunter's suc-
     cessor, was admitted minister on a presentation by the late Earl
     of Mansfield.  On November 19, 1795, Mr William Aitken,
     who succeeded Mr Wright, was admitted minister on a presenta-
     tion by the late Earl of Mansfield.  The present incumbent, who
     succeeded Mr Aitken, was presented by the Crown, and ordained
     September 20, 1832.
       Education.-There is a parochial school exceedingly well at-
     tended, and admirably taught by the present teacher, Mr William
     Keay.  His salary is the maximum.  The fees are not high.
     The branches required, according to minute of election, are Eng-
     lish reading, writing, arithmetic, and Latin; but mathematics,
     French, &c. are also taught.  There are other schools for girls
     in the village, but the attendance is very small.  The teacher
     at Stormontfield has always had an allowance of L.4 from Lord
     Mansfield, and L.2 from Mr Laxton; but this is purely gratui-
     tous, and may be withdrawn at any time.  By a sermon preached
     at Stormontfield annually, a small addition is made to his salary,
     and his fees are rather higher than at the parish school.  He has
     in winter about fifty schoolars.  There are at the parish school in
     winter from 130 to 150.  The Sabbath school is numerously at-
     tended.             -
        Poor and Parochial Funds.- The average number gi poor re-
     ceiving parochial aid may be about 28 or 30.  The allowance va-
     ries from L.2, 8s. per annum to L.4, 16s. or L.5.  The funds

<FOOTNOTE> Mr Knox was descened from William Knox, minister of Cockpen, brother of
     John Knox the Reformer.  William had three sons, who were all ministers of
     Cockpen, Kelso, and Melrose respectively.  William, the eldest, succeeded his father
     as minister of Cockpen.  Simon Knox, minister of Girton, was his third son by the
     second marrigme.  Simon's son was William Knox, minister of Dairsie, and his third
     son was James Knox, minister of Scone.  His grand-daughter married the late Rev.
     John Johnston, first of the Relief, and, at his death, of the Established Church, in
     Edinburgh.
         Mr. afterwards Dr Wilson, had been minister of Auchtermuchty before he
     came to Scone.  From Scone he wdnt to St. Andrews as Professor of Hebrew, and
     is went known as the author of the " Elements of Hebrew Grammar."


