
BROUGHTON, GLENHOLM, AND KILBUCHO.    95

had it not been for gross mismanagement, 5 per cent. might have
been obtained.  Being now lodged in the Royal Bank, the annual
return is of course greatly diminished of late years.
   The stipend was 12 1/2 chalders of victual, half meal and half bar-
ley, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.  An augmenta-
tion of 2 chalders has been recently obtained.
  The number of families attached to the Established church is
124,--number of persons rather more than 400.  The Established
church is exceedingly well attended.  There are only four sece-
ding or dissenting families in the parish, and two or three single
persons; and two of these families have lately come to reside with-
in the bounds.  Three individuals only have gone over to the se-
ceders or dissenters for the last twenty years.  A considerable
number of seceders and dissenters have returned to the bosom of the
Established church within the same of time.  One or two
connected with the Reformed Presbytery reside in the parish,
and regularly attend the church.  There are two or three indivi-
duals that affect no religious profession, and hardly ever enter a
place of worship.  We are occasionally favoured with a visitation
from Itinerants, Independents, or members of the Congregational
Union of Scotland.  The inhabitants in general seem well affect-
ed to the Establishment.
  Before quitting the subject of the church and manse, we may
mention, that, when the heritors took the latter off the hands
of the cotractor, they drew up a paper, which was subscribed by
the principal heritor as preses of the meeting, by which they con-
signed over the church, manse, and offices to the incumbent, em-
powering him, when anything went wrong, to employ a tradesman
without calling any meeting of heritors, and to charge the expense
to their account.  The church has not cost them five shillings a-
year since it was built, and the manse not fivepence.  The road
to the manse from the public road was made to the march of the
glebe at the expense of the incubent, and the rest at that of the
public.  It cost them about L. 24, and requires nothing to keep
it up.  The path to the church is along three wooden bridges,
which are supported at little cost, as one of the heritors gives the
wood for nothing; and the tumber of another bridge over Brough-
ton burn, forming a communication betwixt the manse and the
village, is furnished by another heritor.  The heritors hardly ever
lend a deaf ear to any application for the advantage of the parish
The number of communicants is about 300.



