
                          ALLOA.                                    33

   As to the condition of the colliers, a very decided and evident im-
provement has taken place since the women were relieved from the
most disgraceful slavery of bearing the coals, and the workman
from all charge of the coals, the instant they are weighed at
the pit. From, the circumstance of the wives remaining at home
to attend to the domestic economy, the houses are much more
comfortable and better furnished than they formerly were, and the
whole style of living has been improved.
  There are three particulars worthy of notice, in connection with
the colliers, viz. the pension or allowance to superannuated work-
men; the Bailie Court or Court of Equity; the Friendly So-
ciety or, Colliery Fund, as it is commonly named.
   Formerly all colliers and salters who made salt from sea-water
in Scotland, were attached to the property where they were born,
that is, they were serfs or slaves, and were, with their wives and
children, sold with the estate, from which they could not be remov-
ed. This slavery existed until the year 1775, when it was abo-
lished by Act of Parliament. Before its abolition, the very name
of collier was a reproach. But since that event, the colliers have
risen in the scale of society, and now form a very respectable class.
   While in the state of slavery, their masters had to support them,
when superannuated. Although the obligation to give this sup-
port terminated, so soon as they were emancipated, the family of
Mar continued the allowances to the colliers at Alloa, which
amounted to from L. 200 to L. 500 a year, accordin to the prices
of oatmeal.
   After the colliers obtained their freedom, they fell into a habit
of going from one collier to another. To obviate the inconve-
nience thus occasioned, their employers engaged them and their
children for a period extending from 7 to 14 years. This system,
however, did not work well, for the idea of being engaged. for so
long a term of years, hung so heavy upon their minds that they
were constantly running off; and this was followed by warrants to
apprehend and imprison them. This system at last came to such
a height, that all engagements whatever were put an end to by the
late John Francis Earl of Mar; since which time, they have set-
fled quietly at their work.
   The colliery having been let by the present Earl of Mar to a
Company, his Lordship declined to support the poor on the
lists. In this emergency, the Alloa Colliery Company agreed to
pay one-third of the charity in money, another third being paid
   CLACKMANNAN.				    C


