
246			  ARYSHIRE.

ly more to be feared. Epilepsy is by no means of frequent occur-
rence, and small-pox for a long time past has been but little heard
of,--parents happily having long since got over their "dread of po-
pular odium, or own superstitious opinions," *
	Hydrography.--No medicinal waters, with the exception of
slight chalybeate impregnations, have ever been discovered in this
place. Neither are there any lakes or rivers properly so called.
The more considerable streamlets are, Gourock, Kilbride, (an-
ciently Millburn,) Southannan and Fairly burns, which all have
their source within or near the eastern limits of the parish, and fall
into the Frith westward. Southannan is distinguished by its pic-
turesque cascade and beautiful sylvan banks. Of the others, there
is nothing very notable to remark, sylvan banks. Of the others there
have all in former times been employed in driving corn-mills, as
that of Kilbride (the only one) still continues to be used. Excel-
lent and copious springs very much abound; the largest and purest
perhaps is that of Dornell-well, on the farm of South Kilruskin.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The general basis here consists of
coarse sandstone, declining about a foot in twenty to the south-
east. The stara which come into view along the sea shore are
chiefly brown or reddish; higher up it becomes clouded with white,
whilst the highest of all to the eastward are wholly of the latter
colour, agood deal tinged and streaked with ochre of iron. Nu-
phyritic kinds, intersect it in all directions; in some parts bulging
out into considerable hills, which of course, are all distinguished
by their rounded figures, and beautiful verdure. The brown slate
porphyry before alluded to forms the summits of several conside-
rable hills, as those of Crosby and others, whilst Kame hill, of still
great altitude, is crowned with dark trap of perhaps 200 feet in
thickness. Slight viens of lime appear at Ardneill point, on the
shre and other places, but seemingly far too limited and impure
ever to be of any avail. A the south end of Ardneill bank, is a
very remarkable stratum of puddingstone, the rolled fragments of
which, being at places of considerable size, and the cementing me-
dium bearing striking marks of fusion. This stratum lies nearly
north and south, dipping pretty acutely westward. It rises near-

<FOOTNOTE>Only one distinct case of cholera occurred here during the alarming epidemic
of 1832, and it proved fatal. The individual was employed as a carrier to Glasgow,
where he appears to have caught the infection. In 1835, small-pox reappeared to a
considerable extent, and of which two or three persons of middle age have died.


