
78                   SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

or an exemption altogether, is permitted. The teacher employ-
ed by the Glasgow Society has L. 12 of a salary, and two apart-
ments. He is furnished with fuel by the inhabitants, and is allow-
ed to exact fees on the same principle with the teacher under the
General Assembly's Committee. The teacher on the scheme
of the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge has L. 4 of
salary, a house and croft of land, with fees.
   Last winter, about 240 individuals, from the age of five years to
twenty, attended the different schools in the parish. But owing to the
general poverty of the parishioners, and to the circumstances that they
are under the necessity of having their children, when they arrive at
the age of ten or twelve years, employed, especially in the summer
and harvest months, either in working about their own dwellings,
or earning something for their support, in the service of others,-
education is very imperfectly acquired by a majority pf the young.
Of those, however, from ten to thirty years of age, the greater
number do read either English or Gaelic; many read both, and
a considerable number write, and can keep accounts. Even at
the oldest age at which the people arrive, a considerable num-
ber are found who read the Scriptures fluently and with benefit.
But it is among the aged that the greater number are met with
who can neither read nor write. In 1832, it was computed that
870 persons of all ages above six were unable to read; and 300
betwixt six and twenty.
   The people value the benefits of education, and would most
willingly give their children greater advantages, did their circum-
stances allow it. A permanent school at Armidale, with those
already established, would supply the inhabitants of the sea-coast
with the means of education. It is impossible to place a school in
the interior, so as to accommodate its scattered and widely sepa-
rated inhabitants, consisting of a few families of shepherds.
   Savings Bank.-A savings bank was established this year for
the benefit of the whole county;-of which the Duke of Sutherland
is patron and treasurer; James Loch, Esq. M. P. president; and
the three resident factors of the Duke of Sutherland in this shire,
vice-presidents. There are trustees appointed in this parish, who
meet every fortnight to receive deposits and give out money as oc-
casion requires. The head bank is at Goispie, near Dunrobin,
the seat of the Duke of Sutherland. All deposits are sent from
this parish to it; for which the contributors have the receipt of the
patron and treasurer, and are allowed four per cent. interest on sums


