
               NEILSTON.                                      349

the church doors, L. 16 15s. 8d. ; proclamation dues, L. 13, -18s. -
hearse and mortcloth hires, L. 5, Os. 2d.; effects of a pauper
deceased, L.41, 13s. 4 1/4d.; assessment, L. 518, 15s. 0 1/4 d.
There is no disposition among the poorrestraining them from
seeking parochial relief. Those that are born and bred in the
parish, and whose relatives and friends are in comfortable circum-
stances, feel backward to ask relief from the funds, counting it
degrading; but the English and Irish poor have no such feeling,
and often make clamorous solicitation to be put upon the roll.
Fairs.-These are in number 5. Four of them are held at
Neilston ; three of them for cattle, on the third Tuesday of Fe-
bruary, May, and October, old style; and the fourth for horse-
racing, &c. on the fourth Tuesday of July, new style. At Barr-
head, there is a fifth fair held for horse-racing and a cattle-market
on the last Friday and Sattirday of June, new style.
Inns.-The inits and alehouses are in number 58, and the
quantity of spirits sold in them will be the best answer to the
query, " what are their effects on the morals of the people ?"
That quantity for eleven months only was 19,403 -gallons, most
of which is consumed on the Saturday evenings, and on the Lord's
days; five hundred gallons more, the excise officer supposes, are
used, though not in his ledger, and which he is unable to detect,
making in all, 19,903 gallons, at 8s. 6d. on an average; and the
amount on this average for the eleven months is L. 8458, 15s. 0 1/2 d.
This expenditure proves the high wages which the people receive;
and the demoralizing effects which such a quantity of spirituous
liquors musk have upon their morals and habits, may easily be
supposed.
Fuel.-The fuel used is coal of various descriptions,-one kind
for domestic use, another for the furnaces of the public works,
and a, third for making gas. Some of the first is obtained at the
Nitsbill pits, and Paisley collieries, about the distance of three.
miles from some, and four or four and a-half miles from others,
Most of the latter is got at Huriet,, and the other pits in the pa-
rish, and the splint or bard coal for the gas is obtained from
Muirkirk, a distance of thirty miles.

          MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
The variations betwixt the present state of the parish and that
which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account, are as
numerous as they are striking. Save,its si-tuatwn an extent, its
hills and crags, nothing almost is the same now as in 1790. Every


