
52                             FORFARSHIRE.

	In the administration of justice, Dundee has obtained a great
boon by the appointment, a few years ago, of a sheriff-substitute.
Formerly litigants and others aggrieved were compelled to resort to
Forfar, the county town, a distance fourteen miles. Consider-
ing our population, the presence of a local judge, is of great im-
portance; and the present sheriff, Mr Irving Henderson (as was
the casd vith his predecessor), is an advocate of most respectable
standing at the Scottish Bar.
  1nns.-There are three principal inns in Dundee, besides a
number of respectable taverns. The whisky shops are most nu-
merous and pernicious.
  Fuel.-The fuel used in Dundee is coal, Scotch and English.
It is calculated that 30,000 bolls of Alloa coals are yearly consum-
ed by the steam-engines alone; 20,000 more of Scotch coal, and
100,000 of English coal, by private families. Taking these at 4s.
a boll, the price will amount to L. 35,000 a-year.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
    	Of late years the progress of improvement, especially in manu-
facturiNg towns, has been rapid beyond all former experience; and
perhaps a better illustration of this can nowhere be found than in
Dundee. In looking to the public works, the harbour, seminaries,
spinning-mills, and opening of new streets,-the greater number
of them have been undertaken within the last few years; and there
seems scarcely a limit, except change of trade, to the advancement
and prosperity of the town. Nor in the midst of public measures
have more minute details been neglected. The rough pavement
of our streets, which formerly seemed only of use for proving the
springs of carriages, or affording exercise to the invalid within, is
giving way to the system of Macadam; * `nd our burying-ground,
which lately presented an aspect gloomy to the eye, and uncom-
fortable to the foot, has been beautified with walks and shrubs; so
that the stranger lingers in this lone repository of the dust of many
generations, and the mourner may be seen planting or tending

<FOOTNOTE>Our representative in Parliament, Sir Henry Parnell, has just published a vo-
lume on road-making, containing great and varied information, in which be contro-
verts some of the principles of Macadam. The plan recommended by Sir Henry is
that employed by Mr Telford in constructing the Holyhead road and others. It con-
sists in "making a regular bottom of rough close-set pavement," and then a coating
of broken stones added. Sir Henry describes the New Highgate Archway Road,
which passes through a wet soil, as having a foundation of Roman cement and gra-
vel, in. place of pavement. The advantages of the plan recommended by Sir Henry
are solidity, and consequent ease of traction, besides being drier, especially after frosts,


