
     Of Nairn.

   Roads and Bridges.-The great military road leading from
Forres to Fort-George, is in very good repair.  The Highland 
road from Nairn to the Bridge of Dulsie is remarkably bad. 
Statute labour is not commuted, and therefore cannot be sup-
posed to be so well executed.  The only bridge in the parish 
worth mentioning, is that of Nairn.  It was built in the year 
1631 or 1632, as appears form an inscription on a stone of
the bridge, now fallen into the river.  The inseription is, 
"Gulielmus Rose de Clava."  The motto, "Non est salus, 
nisi in Christo."  "Soli Deo Gloria."  In the year 1782, 
nearly one half of the bridge was carried off by a flood or 
speat in the river.  In that situation it continues to this day;
and were it not owing to the attention of the magistrates and 
council, who have made a temporary repair with timber, on 
many occasions, the river would be impassable.  It is exceed-
ingly strange, that an affair of such public utility should have 
been so long neglected and overlooked; for surely it is well 
known to every traveller, that a bridge over the water of 
Nairn is much more necessary than either over the Spey or 
the Findhorn, because the two last mentioned rivers have esta-
blished passage-boats.  It is therefore earnestly to be hope, 
that Government will soon take a grievance of such public

<FOOTNOTE>

pound, now sell at an average from 3 d. to 4 d. the pound.  Fish, even 25 years 
age, could be had commonly at 3 d. the score of haddocks, 26 to the score, now 
the commonly fetch from 18 d. to 2 s. and sometimes 2 s. 6 d. a score.  Hens 
sell at 6 d. and 7 d. each; ducks ditto; and so on.  Men servants hired during 
the year, receive from 4 L. to 6 L., with victuals in the house.  Lads and boys in 
proportion.  Maid servants from 12 s. to 20 s. in the half year.  Labourers en-
gaged by the day receive different wages at different seasons of the year.  In 
spring, summer, and harvest, a man receives commonly 1 s. a-day, without meat;
in winter, from 8 d. to 10 d. ditto.  At casting peats, women get 6 d., and is 
harvest 8 d. without meat.


