
                         GLENELG.                                141

       arrangement, in connection with the distance of the parish church,
       Arnisdale, with its large Protestant population, is truly inadequately
       supplied with the means of grace. Its circumstances, and also those
       of Knodvart, have been brought under the notice of the Religious
       Instruction Commission and of the General Assembly's Church
       Extension Committee; and it may be safely averred, that no station
       in Scotland can prefer a stronger claim, or come more clearly under
       the description of destitution, to the removal of which the Go-
       vernment and our church have, we trust, now resolved to apply
       their energies.
         In the Knodyart and Morar districts two Catholic priests of-
       ficiate, supported exclusively by the fees raised for their services.
       In the former there is a chapel, if the half dilapidated and straw-
       covered hut, which serves as a place of worship, may be dignified
       with that name; in the latter another is in course of erection.
       The attendance at the first, from the dimensions of the house,
       can never exceed 100. For Knodyart the Honourable the Society
       for Propagating Christian Knowledge, three years ago, granted
       an annual sum of L. 8 in support of a catechist; but as grants in
       such circumstances, by this Society, are made on the condition
       of an equivalent being provided by those benefited, that an ade-
       quate provision may be secured, this bounty has not hitherto been
       made available.
         The present manse of Glenelg was built four years ago. It is
       situated at a distance of more than a mile from the church, and
       a little way beyond the entrance of the larger glen. Of consider-
       able extent, and handsome structure, from the commanding si-
       tuation in which it stands, and in full view of the sea, it forms a
       striking object in connection with the surrounding exquisite scenery.
       The glebe, if it may be called by this name, is of great extent;
       being above 360 acres, 50 of which nearly are good arable, the
       remainder being pasture; and all this, exclusive of a shealing, at
       the distance of a few miles, calculated to be large enough for the
       pasture of a hundred sheep.  The farm of Buarblach, of which
       this forms the description, constitutes the grebe, under the burden
       of an annual rent paid to the proprietor, of L. 19, Os. 7d. Sterling;
       and became so under the following circumstances: Subsequently
       to the Rebellion of 1715, Government resolved to erect in this part
       of the county a fort or barracks, the remains of which are still extant,
       and the proprietor of Glenelg, the M'Leod of the day, being in
       London at the time, sold for the purpose the portion of land on
       which the building stands, and grounds to a considerable extent


