
550                          PERTHSHIRE.

gisters now extant, is 1748. They are now very irregularly kept,
not a tithe of the births or baptisms being recorded.
   Antiquities and Curiosities.-Among these, may be included
the yew tree in the churchyard of Fortingal, already noticed.
The Roman Camp, as it is called, is at the west end of Fortin-
gal. The spot where the General's tent is allowed to have stood,
is surrounded by a deep fosse. To the west of this, at a short
distance from each other, are two obelisks, the one about 6 feet
high: the other lying on the ground, having been undermined
somefifty or eighty years ago. It is 8 feet long. The praetorium,
is still complete. A little to the north-west, is an ablong emi-
nence, nearly 60 feet long, and 18 broad, and about 7 feet high,
which appears to be a tumulus, raised over those whn fell in the
deadly conflict.
   From a slight inspection of the ground, it appears that the
Lyon at one period flowed to the north of the camp, though now
some hundred yards to the south; and this is farther confirmed
by the tradition of the country. Nor is it unlikely that all the
ditchdr surrounding the camp were filled with water from the river.
The area occupied is allowed to be from 80 to 90 acres in extent.
   Near the church of Fortingal, in the middle of a field, is a large
Druidical circle. Many of the Stones have, from time to time, been
buried in the ground, to make way for the plough. The circular
forts, of which the ruins of fourteen or fifteen are still distinctly tra-
ced, are built without any cement or mortar, of such large stones as
would cost the moderns immense labour, if not altogether baffle them,
without the aid of machinery, to raise and lay with such nicety
and regularity on each other. The diameter of the circles with-
in walls (which are generally 8 feet thick) is sometimes 60 feet.
The original height of the walls cannot now with accuracy be tra-
ced or ascertained; because of the constant dilapidation carried on
by people from the neighbouring villages; but the presumption is,
that it was not less than 12 feet. It does not clearly appear that
they were watch-towers, as has been conceived by some, `s they
are but seldom in view of each other, and are as often in low as in
high situations. That they were real habitations, there can be
little doubt; for it is quite evident that, in some of them, there were
several halls or apartments; tradition bears that there were twelve.
The apartments extended from the wall, which served as a com-
mon gable, towards the centre. Some ascribe these buildings to
the Druids: but if any credit be due to the uniform tradition of old


