
762                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

ing to excess in ardent spirits, they are productive of most injuri-
ous effects to the morals of the neighbourhood.
   Fuel.-Peat and turf from Foudiand has hitherto formed the
principal part of the fuel used in the parish.  As the mosses in
Foudland, however, are gettino, pretty much exhausted, and the
peat is of inferior quality, it is probable that the people will soon
become more dependent on English coal, the use of which, to a
small extent, is already almost general.  The feuars of Insch have
the privilege of fuel from the Hill of Melsehach in Kennethmont,
where the peat is of better quality than on Foudiand; but the
length of carriage is upwards of four miles.

     July 1842.

                       PARISH OF MONQUHITTER.

             PRESBYTERY OF TURIFF, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                  THE REV. HUGH GORDON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name Monquhitter signifies the place for en-
snaring the deer, and was derived from the farm on which the
church was originally built.
   Extent, &c.-From east to west, the parish extends about 8
miles, and from south to north, about 10 1/2 miles.  It is bounded
on the east, by the parish of New Deer; on the north, by King-
Edward; on the west, by Turriff and Fyvie; and on the south,
by Fyvie and Methlick.  The surface is generally of an undulat-
ing and monotonous character.  The hills present a bleak and
barren appearance. Nevertheless, they are of much value in their
present state, from the great abundance of excellent peat fuel
which they supply to the neighbourhood, and more especially, as
the nearest sea-port, Macduff, from which coals can be procured, is,
from some parts of the parish, upwards of twenty miles, and, upon
an average, fifteen miles distant.
   It is much to be regretted that so little has been done in this
district of the country in the way of planting.  There are num-
berless spots which would appear to be particularly adapted for the


