
                            KILDALTON.                    661

knock, Lochintallin, Ardmore, Kenture, Aross, Claigean, Ard-
tealla,and Proaig.
   The principal headlands are, the Mull of Oa and M'Arthur's
Head.
  Islands.--There are several small islands along the coast, but
the only ones of any consequence are, Texa, Ellan nan Caorach,
Ellain, Imersay, the Ardelister Islands, and those off the point of
Ardmore.
  The temperature all along this coast is mild. There is very
little frost or snow, but generally a good deal of rain during the
winter and spring months, though it rarely happens that the crops
of active and industrious farmers are much injured by it. West-
erly and southerly winds are the most prevalent. The approach
of southerly wind is known when the Irish coast appears higher,
nearer, and more distinct than it does at other times, excepting
when there is north wind and frost. The approach of westerly
wind is indicated by a deep swell which rolls in from the Atlantic:
north wind and frost, by the arrival of birds of passage, which
migrate from the cold and stormy regions of the north to the
more genial climate of the south. In hard winters, large flocks
of swans and wild geese, with several varieties of the duck species,
make their appearance here, and sometimes extend their flight to
Ireland. The wild fowl which are indigenous, prognosticate the
approach of severe weather by descending from the high to the
low grounds, by assembling together in numbers, by approaching
nearer to dwelling-houses, and by a restlessness which is not ob-
servable at other times. Sheep and black-cattle also collect to-
gether when a storm is at hand, and betake themselves to a place
of shelter. From the variableness of the climate, the inhabitants
are liable to colds, sore throats, and rheumatic complaints but
not more so than the people of the neighbouring islands. There
are no distempers peculiar to the district; and there are few places
in which the people enjoy better health, upon the whole, than in
this parish.
    Hydrography.-The water in the bays and along the coast is
salt and luminous, but not deep. The currents are frequent and
rapid, from the number of islands and rocks which extend along
the shore.
   There are many excellent springs in the parish, which never
dry up. Some of them spring from limestone, and others from
granite.


