

                         YARROW.                               45

are several holdings for payments of a dog-leash, a bow, a pair of
arrows, &c. in allusion to the ancient sports.
     Eminent Charters.-1. Mary Scott, so well known in tradition
and in song by the title of The Flower of Yarrow, was a native of the
parish.  She was the daughter of John Scott of Dryhope, and gave
her hand to Walter Scott of Harden-no less famed for this free-
booting than his bride for her beauty.  *2. Connected with this pa-
rish, was Sir Gideon Murray, who rose to be one of the senators of
the College of Justice, by the title of Lord Elibank.  The appoint-
ment took place in 161:3,-when the Lords dispensed with any trial
of his qualifications "because of the certaine knowledge they had of
them." 3. Dr John Rutherford, a man of genius himself, and father
of a family of genius.  He was long known in his professional ca-
reer as the Yarrow Doctor, from having been a native of this parish,
where his father was installed elergyman after the revolution.  He
studied under Boerhaave; and in 1727, being elected Professor
of the Practice of Physic in the Edinburgh University, contributed
greatly to establish its high character as ` school of medicine.  4.
Elibank was the birth place of Russell, the learned historian of an-
cient and modern Europe.  5. Equally celebrated in a different
sphere, was his kinsman, the late Colonel William Russell of Ashie-
steel, whose heroic military exploits in India, and in particular at
Manilla, reflect honour on himself and his country.  6th, For ten
years  subsequently to the death of the gallant Colonel in 1802,
Ashiesteel was the country residence of Sir Walter Scott, who had
before been appointed Sheriff of Selkirkshire.  While living at this
outskirt of the parish, he won his earliest laurels; and a small hil-
lock covered with trees, beneath whose shade much of his poetry
was penned, is still called "the Sherra's Know." 7. Among the
eminent characters, linked by long residence with Yarrow parish,

<FOOTNOTE>A curious contract relating to their marriage is still preserved in the charter-
chest of the present Mr Scott of IIarden.  From this it appears, that the Laird of
Dryhope engaged to find his son-in-law in mans meat and horse meat at his tower
of Dryhope for a year and day-five barons becoming bound, that, on the expiry of of
that period, the latter should remove without attempting to continue in possession
by force! A notary public, signed for all the parties to the deed, none of whom could
write their names.  A daughter of the Flower of Yarrow was wedded to Gilbert
Elliot of Stobs, commonly called "Gibby wi' the gowden garters."  At their mar-
riage, as at IIarden's own, a contract was made, equally characteristic of the rude-
ness and rapine of the times.  Finding it inconvenient to take home his wife, Gibby
besought his father-in-law to lodge her for some time;-a demand which was com-
plied with only on condition that he should give as her board the plunder of the first
harvest moon.  From them was descended the late Lord Hearthfield.


