
132                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

high and energetic talents, the influence of which will not ultimately
prove the less availing that, from natural taste, the notoriety of
public exhibition seems to be avoided rather than courted by him.
  Antiquities.- Under this head the parish can boast of the most
entire specimens, in the southern parts of the Highlands, of the
ancient Beorgs, Burghs, or Dunes, usually called Pictish Towers.
They are two in number, and situated near each other in Glenbeg,
the smaller of the two valleys to which the name Glenelg belongs
in common. The foundation and ruins of a third are also seen
in this, and part of the materials of what must have been two more,
in the larger, valley or Glenmore. Affording too convenient a
supply of useful stones for modern architecture, scarcely one-half
of the original building, even of the most entire, remains; whilst
of the others little else is to be found than that portion of the ma-
terials which it would have been useless to remove. They are all
situated at no great distance from the sea, and, it has been alleged,
decidedly within the ancient. Scandinavian boundary. The
height of those of which a portion remains is about 30 feet; but
they probably were several feet higher. The diameter within walls
is also about 30 feet, but above 50 outside, or over walls. Within,
the building is perpendicular, but the external wall is curved, bulging
out at top after the form, but not to the extent, of the Eddyston
Light-house. This, with their circular shape, and their having
no opening on the outside wall, (the building, though without
mortar of any kind, being, at the same time, so closely jointed that
no footing could have been had in any attempt at scaling,) shows
that the "towers" certainly were places of refuge and defence.
The walls are double, and exceed IO feet in thickness. Between
or within the walls are tiers of galleries, respectively about 6 feet
high and 2-1/2 wide. One of the dunes which we describe has four
such tiers, of the dimensions stated, one over the other. The second
has only two whose dimensions approach this, the higher
galleries contracting almost to a single wall.  The access to
the galleries was by openings, left for the purpose, inside the
dune, about 3 feet wide, and 5 high,-the communication of each
tier with the other being by an aperture in the floor above, or
rather by a gap in the large flags which, stretching across both
walls, bind the building firmly together, and form the floor of each
successive gallery. The external entrance to these places of refuge
and defence was by a very low door, close to the ground, to
pass through which it is necessary to creep on the bands and knees.
                             3


