
446                        LANARKSHIRE.

or three inches in thickness, which runs along the face of the rocks
at a considerable height; and at one place, above a small well op-
posite the Ross wood, these stones crop out to the day, in a po-
sition so regular, and are so smooth and well polished, and neatly
and regularly jointed, that they more resemble a work of art than
of nature. Some of the freestone connected with the coal mea-
sures of this parish is different, in so far as we are aware, from
that of any other district in the county. At the Windmill-hill
quarry, at present wrought in two places, a very hard rough-grained
freestone, abounding with unequal grains of quartz, much resem-
bling the Arenarius molaris of Linnaeus, is much sought after by
masons, for forming chimney heads, and also by the proprietors of
iron forges, for pavement, &c. it having been ascertained to be
unequalled for standing both the weather and the fire. It was of
this strong and durable stone that the bridge near Hamilton was
built. Near the village of Craigneuk, there is an excellent flag-
stone quarry. These stones are of a fine grain, and of a reddish co-
lour, and are from one-fourth of an inch to five inches in thickness.
They are frequently used in the neighbourhood instead of slate,
for the purpose of covering houses. The projected Wishaw
and Coltness Railway is to pass near these quarries, and it has
been ascertained, that, from the estates of Dalziel, Wishaw, and
Coltness, 1600 tons of stones of different sorts may be sent to
Glascow annually, which at 7d. per ton for carriage, would yield
the proprietors L. 466, 13s. 4d. The pavement required for gen-
tlemen's seats which have been lately built in different parts of the
county has been obtained from the Craigneuk quarry.
	Coal abounds in this parish, but it is only wrought at No. 1 or
Engine Pit, near Coursington. At the depth of 10 fathoms from
the surface, we have the upper or rough coal, which is here 6 feet
thick. Above this coal, there are five feet of surface, and the rest
is blaes, (clay-slate, and bituminous shale,) intermixed with small
beds of ironstone each 1 1/2 or 2 inches thick. At the depth of 14
fathoms from the rough coal, the Ell coal occurs. It is here 4 feet
in thickness, and is that now wrought. The main roof is rock, and
the pavement a scurf of fine clay on solid rock. Fourteen fathoms
farther down is the splint coal, but it has not yet been wrought in
this parish. Above the coal, is a foot of blaes, and below it five
feet of fine clay. The coal from this pit is often marked on its
surface with the remains of various species of reeds, and with small


