
                         CLACKMANNAN.                       123

tensive embankments, which have been, from time to time, erect-
ed along its margin. Along the north side of the river, for ex-
ample, embankments extend from a point, a few miles below Stir-
ling, to a considerable distance below Kincardine. These em-
bankments must be at least fifteen or sixteen miles in length. As
to the average breadth of the rich alluvial soil which has been
thereby reclaimed along the whole line of country, to which allusion
has been made, the writer cannot hazard an opinion. But in the
carse of Clackmannan, it is fully a mile in breadth.
   The depth of the Forth, opposite to the parish, being now very
considerable, and there being a harbour at Kennetpans, and pretty
extensive piers at the mouth of the Black Devon, the utmost fa-
cilities are enjoyed by the inhabitants of the southern division of
the parish, as to the shipping of agricultural produce, coal, &e.
A peculiarity connected with the tides in the river Forth is thus
described in the former Statistical Account of the parish of Clack-
mannan:  "The tides in the river Forth, for several miles, both
above and below Clackmannan, exhibit a phenomenon not to be
found, (it is said) in any other part of the globe. This is what
the sailors call a "leaky tide," which happens always in good
weather during the neap-tides; and sometimes also during the
spring-tides, if the weather be uncommonly fine.  When the water
has flowed for three hours, it then runs back for about an hour
and a-half, nearly as far as when it began to flow. It returns im-
mediately, and flows during another hour and a-half to the same
heighth it was at before: and this change takes place both in the
flood and ebb tides. So that there are actually double the num-
ber of tides in this river that are to be found anywhere else. In
very boisterous weather, however, these leaky tides are by no
means regular--the water only swells and gorges, without any per-
ceptible current, as if the two tides were acting against each other."
   Coal. *--The coal-field in the parish of Clackmannan contains.
eleven workable seams of coal, all of which have been wrought to a
greater or less extent by the different collieries. They are of va-
rious thickness, viz.

  1. 2 feet cubical coal.
  2. 3 do. splint and cubical.
  3. 3 do. cherry coal.
  4. 5 1/2 do. splint called upper five-feet coal.
  5. 4 do. cherry and splint, with a stone in the middle.

<FOOTNOTE>This part of the article was furnished to the Editor by Mr James Wilson,
manager of the Clackmannan Coal Works.


