
                      WICK.                                 147

   --to carry one letter in rotation to any person in Caithness,--to
  give a certain portion of peats,--to dress a certain quantity of lint,
   --to winter a certain number of cattle-to pay one fat lamb, two
  geese, hens, chickens eggs, &c. &e.  The land-redders laid off to
  each penny-land such a proportion of arable land as they thought
  would sow twelve bolls of small oats, or eight bolls of bear.  Of
  the natural grass-land assigned to each penny-land the tenant had
  exclusive possession only till the corn was off the ground, when
  the whole again became common till the next spring.  Instead of
  being encouraged to take in and improve any part of the outfield-
  land, the tenants were expressly debarred from doing so, or, in the
  country phrase, corrupting the leases, and were prohibited from
  cultivating any more than the portion of corn-land which had been
  ridden off to them.
     The state of agriculture was what might have been expected
  from such wretched arrangements.  There was not a cart in the
  whole county.  Not a potato, nor a turnip, nor sown, grass was
  known.  No rotation of cropping was observed, except that the
  arable land was always alternately in oats and bear, the mantire
  being invariably put to the bear-crop.  Not a drain was dug; and
  not a fence was to be seen except about a field or two round the
  proprietors' houses.
     This extraordinary mode of farming went on without any change
  till 1790.  In 1782, Sir Benjamin Dunbar, the present Lord
  Duffus, succeeded his father.  He found all the townlands on the
  Whole of his extensive estates in Wick, compriSing the half of the
  parish, under lease to middle-men, who paid him only the money
  rent payable by the small tenant for the grass-land, and'6s. 8d.
  for each boll of eight stoue and a half, paid by them for the corn-
  land.  Thus the middle-men bad the mains of each townland, and
  the services of the subtenantry free.  Sir Benjamin, aware of what
  was Passing in other countries, determined to put an end to this
  wretched system, which had immemorially prevailed.  Having as-
  certained on what principles the land-redders divided and appor-
  tioned the land, he had the whole of his numerous townlands
  measured with the chain, abolisibed the middlemen, converted all
  the services of the tenants into money, and. granted them leases
  at a fixed rent.  The result of this enlightened, procedures was
  most advantageous.  Tillage was extended, better modes of cul-
  tivation were introduced, land was improyed, the rental of the pro
  prietor increased, while, the tenantry were delivered from their


