
     Statistical Account

moderate, and the climate temperate.  But gales of wind, in
the end of July, or the beginning of August, have sometimes

<FOOTNOTE>

what it meant or what it wanted:  Accordingly, in the month of August
following, one night after he had lain sometime in bed with his wife and
children, upon bearing the last mentioned aggravated noise, accompanied with
dismal groans, he sat up in his bed, and solemnly conjured it, in the name of
tim Holy Trimty, to speak, if it had any thing to say to him.  Inarticulate
sounds of a faultering tongue unable to speak, accompanied with dismal groans,
were heard.
   The noise soon after ceased, and did not return any more to disturb this
family.  The preceding account the minister frequently heard from the said
John Spence, and also from his wife, when separately examined by him on this
subject, on which occasions they always appeared grave and serious
   In this eminently enlightened age, when atheism and irreligion have been
very active in bringing, not only superstition and enthusiasm, but religion it-
self to the Guillotine, it is highly probable, that the traits of character now
exhibited wall be held in derision, and the drawer therof exposed to infinite
ridicule on account of the preceding narrative, by those, who glory in being
superior to vulgar prejudices.  If this should be the case, he will not attempting
to remonstrate, but only humbly propose the following queries.  1 st, Are the
inconsiderable remains of superstition and enthusiasm, which do affect the
character only in small and unimportant matters; or sceptism, which gives
a new and totally different direction to the understanding and the will, least
dangerous to our happy establishment in church and state?  And whereas the
human mind is a fruitful field, in which wholesome herbs, or noxious weeds.
will spring up and flourish,-2dly, Is it wiser to pluck up at once the whole
existing crop, before we have duly considered the nature and tendency of the
seed to be substituted in its place; or to continue to cultivate the seeds of re-
vealed religion, (which system hath been held in high estimation by wise men
in all ages of world,) and at the same time, gradually to check and cradicate
pernicious errors and immoral practices?  A candid examination of there
queries may possibly furnish some apology, why the minister and people of this
district are not very hasty to exchange old prejudices for new and strange doc-
trines, which eventually may be, and in a neighbouring nation have been sub-
versive of the principles of religion natural and revealed.


