
                          KILMANY.                           551

cultivated. The value of the whole of this estate would be much
enbaneed, if it was as completely inclosed as East Kininear.
     To the west of Kilmany is the estate of Rathillet, which was
long in the possession of the Halkerstones; but, for the last sixty
years, has been the property of the grandfather, and father of the
present laird, David Carswell, Esq. It is one of the largest, and,
upon the whole, one of the best farms in the parish. It was well
enclosed by a Mr Sweet, who purchased it from Mr Halkerston,
with hedge-rows interspersed with ash trees, and in this respect
it took the lead, in substantial improvements, of the rest of the pa-
rish, by nearly half a century. The soil, generally speaking, is
not so well adapted for wheat as Kilmany, and of the other farms
which are still to be mentioned; but for barley, and for raising cat-
tle, it has few equals in this or in the neighbouring districts. To the
north of Rathillet, is Newbigging, part of the property of Mrs Robert-
son of Ballendean; it contains some good and some indifferent land.
     The estate of Mountqtihanie, belonging to David Gillespie,
Esq. of Kirkton, originally containing the farms of Stirton, Mount-
quhanie, and Drumnod, lies to the northwest of Rathillet. Of
these, the soil of Stirton is the poorest. It is thin cold land, with
a retentive subsoil. It is not enclosed. Little, for many years, was
done upon this farm. The proprietor took it into his own hands
some years ago. He drove lime to it, and in some degree drained
it. With these improvements, it was lately let to an active tenant,
who will employ skill and capital to increase its productive powers.
MouutquhaDie and Drumnod contain excellent sharp land, (a part
of it upon whinstoiie bottom,) and are highly cultivated.
     To the south of Mountquhanie, are the farms of Starr and of the
Cairnies,Murdoch and New Cairnie. These by purchase were add-
ed to the Mountquhanie estate by the late Mr Gillespie. They con-
tain some of the best land in the parish. They are fit to raise every
species of crop, and equally adapted for the feeding of cattle. To
the west of Murdoch Cairnie is the estate of Newington, belong-
ing to Henry Inglis, Esq. Only part of Mr Inglis' property is in
Kilmany; the rest of it, is in the adjoining parish of Moonzie. It
originally formed part of the Cairnie estate, and is distinguished
for a rich deep soil. Lochmalonie, the estate of James, Horsburgh,
Esq. lies to the, south of Rathillet, and is bounded by it on, the
north and west. The soil of Lochmalonia is various. About the
mansion-house, and farm-steading, it is excellent. The higher
grounds to the south, are of inferior quality. It is cold with a re-


