
                    URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER.                    367

tends along it for a about six miles and a-half, terminating about
a mile to the west of Dingwall.  Its breadth at the east end of the
parish may be about two miles; towards its extremity, it is less
than a mile broad.  At Dingwall it suddenly contracts by about
a mile.  The average depth, in the middle, may be stated
at two or three fathoms; but towards the shore it is very shallow.
The beach varies, being in some parts sandy, and in others clayey.
Its water is muddy, and is rather brackish than salt, in conse-
quence of being mixed with so considerable a body of fresh water
as is discharged by the Conan. Salmon and grilse are taken in
two yairs, on the property of Culloden, but, from whatever cause,
in much smaller numbers than was the case forty or fifty years
ago.  The river Conan, which, as already noticed, pours its wa-
ters into the Frith at its western extremity, rises in a small lake,
about thirty miles north-west from its mouth.  In its course it is
augmented by the confluence of several streams, such as the Black
River, the Meag, the Orrin, &c.  Its breadth near its mouth is
about 50 yards, and its mean depth 2 1/2 feet.  It abounds with
salmon of a rich flavour, which is chiefly sent to the London
market.-The lowest parts of the parish are exceedingly well
supplied with springs of the finest water.  The upper parts, how-
ever, are not so well provided in that respect-the water be-
ing inferior in quality, and in dry seasons, deficient in quantity.
A few of the springs are slightly impregnated with iron, and are
considered to be, in some degree medicinal.
   Geology.-The only kind of rock in the parish is the old red
sandstone formation of geologists.  There are several quarries of
good freestone, which supply the parish, and from which hewn
work is sent to Dingwall, and to other places in the vicinity.  In
regard to the soil, there is considerable variety, being in some
parts light and sharp; in other parts a rich clayey loam is to be
found; but the prevailing kind is a quick black mould-the " so-
lum putre" of Virgil, which is very fertile.  Towards the Maol-
buie, the subsoil is a raw unpropitious gravel, or rather  rough sand,
which being covered only with a thin mossy or spongy layer, the
land is consequently there considerably less productive.  In for-
mer days, a mischievous custom prevailed, of cutting up the sur-
face to obtain turf, which supplied a wretched substitute for better
fuel ; that process necessarily much impoverished the soil.  It
may be observed, in general, that in this parish the subsoil is dry
and kindly,and that, consequently, the crops are not often mate.


