
     of Abernethy and Kinchardine.

of this country, where the women understand the spinning
of wool very well for such purposes; and where there is 
plenty of wool. Something of this kind, and the spinning
of flax, would be of the greatest service for procuring sub-
sistence to poor people, and keeping them from begging,
which numbers are obliged to do, for want of employment 
of this kind*.

   Miscelaneous Observations.-The size of the people is ge-
nerally very good; at an average 5 feet 6, 8, and to 10 inches,
and many above that height; handy and active in their 
persons; generally sagacious and well informed according
to their station; frugal and economical, and in general very
sober.  There is no whisky still in the parish, because there
is no grain for it.  None have been condemned for a capi-
tal crime, since the days of the regality jurisdiction.  They
make hardy, clean, tractable soldiers when in the army;
numbers of them are excellent marksmen.  Their chief at-
tachment is to Highland corps, which Government ought to
make always as provincial as possible; this would increase
their attachment, and their spirit to a degree that none can
understand but such as know their tempers.  A man that

<FOOTNOTE>

*Raising of flax has been and is tried, but has not come any great
lenght as yet, owing to several causes.  Several parts of the lands near
the Spey, are very well adapted for such a crop; but it never can be ex-
pected to answer in the braces or highlands of the parish; the soil and
elimate being totally against it.  Furnishing such people as are unac-
quainted with the kind of crop with seed, without any price paid for it,
or at a very low rate, might, with proper directions given them, bring
this a greater length and do much good.  The want of employment, and 
the large sacts of land laid under sheep in many parts of the High-
lands, has increased the number of beggars much.  And if the price of
leather advances a little further, beggars will not be able to travel for
want of shoes; as they will not be able to get as much as buy them.  Such
highland shoes as the people here wear, have increased within these 20
years from 10 d. and 1 s. to 3 s. and 3 s. 6 d. the pair.


