
580                        PERTHSHIRE.

thic croup is very rare, while the symptomatic and spasmodic va-
rieties are more frequent. Rheumatism is common and severe;
chronic gastritis is a very frequent complaint in this parish, which
may, be owing to one or both of the following reasons:  The fre-
quent imbibing of undiluted spirits, and taking the ordinary diet,
potatoes, as hot as they can be got.  Scrofulous diseases do not
bear so high a proportion as in our larger towns, but they are by no
means rare here.  The deaths from consumption are as 1 to 9 3/4 of the
whole mortality.
   Hydrography.-Loch Earn, the only considerable body of water
in the parish, is 7 miles long, from 1 to 1 1/2 broad, and its depth,
in common with some other Scottish lakes, is very great, in many
parts about 100 fathoms. Its temperature varies little through-
out the year, so that even the river Earn, which flows from it, sel-
dom if ever freezes above its junction with the Ruchill. There
is a small artificial island at the east end of Loch Earn covered with
ruins; and at a small distance may be traced, under the surface on
a calm day, the apparent commencement of another artificial isl-
and. There is a tradition that freebooters of the name of Nish
occupied the castle on the island at one time, and, having the only
boat on the lake, were secure from reprisals, until, having presum-
ed to seize the Christmas cheer of the Laird of M'Nab, on its
way from Crieff to Killin, the sons of that chieftain carried on
their shoulders from Lochtay, a boat across the Grampians, and,
surprising the Nishes when asleep after their Christmas feast, car-
ried back their heads in triumph to the old M'Nab.  This feat is
commemorated on a monument in the beautiful burying-ground of
M'Nab, at Killin. The island was latterly occupied by the fami-
ly of Ardvorlich, who had an occasional residence and a granary
there.
   The rivers in the parish are the Earn; the Ruchill flowing from
Glenartney; and the Lednock, from the glen of that name.
   Earthquakes.-This parish has acquired some notoriety from its
earthquakes. These very remarkable phenomena have undoubt-
edly been felt here at intervals for nearly fifty years, but of late
have been very feeble and rare. The writer of this felt one earth-
quake very distinctly, and has heard of several others during his
incumbency. At and after the time of the last Statistical Ac-
count, the earthquakes were so frequent and violent, and accom-
panied with such loud noises, as to occasion great alarm,-especially
one which occurred on a Sabbath, while the congregation was as-



