
82                               EDINBURGHSHIRE.

granted by the King as superior, with the customery legal minute-
ness. It is as follows: " Of all and sundries, the lands of Ratho,
with the pertnents thereof, comprehending all and haill the
thiry-six oxengate of the town and lands of Ratho, with the man-
sion, tower, fortalice, manor-place, houses, biggings, yards, orchards,
doucats, loch, and meadow thereof, called Ratho Myre, lying within
the parish of Raho and sheriffdom of Renfrew, united and erebt-
ed into a haill and free barony, called the barony of Ratho, to be
holden of his Majesty." This property continued in the family
of Fowlis till 1778, when Mr Archibald Bhristie succeded as heir
to Alexander Fowlis. In 1786, it was purchased by Thomas
Macnight Crawford of Belleville, in North Carolina; and in 1818,
it became the possession of A. Bonar, Esq. in whose family it still
remains.
  Hatton.-Of the Hatton property, which, till within these fifty
years, comprehended in value and extent nearly a half of the pa-
rish, the following particulars have been ascertained.
  It was purchased by Allan de Lawdre or Lawder from John of
Hatton in 1377, which purchase was ratified by the King, as Ba-
ron of Ratho, and superior thereof. The said Allan farther added

 See Inventory of the Lauderdale Titles in posession of Mestre Gibson-Craigs,
 Wardlaw, and Dalsiel.
 Allan de Lawdre acted as Justiciary Clerk on the south side of the water of
 Forth, for which he received from Robert the Bruce, 1309, an annual grant of L.10
 Scots. The Lauders appear to have possessed extensive estates in Peebles and Bdr-
 wickshire, and to have been a family of very considerable eminence in the Scottish
 nation. Hugh, Earl of Rosse, and Robert de Lawdre, Justiciary of Lothian, acted
 in 1328 as ambassadors from the court of Scotland to that of England, to arrange a
 marriage between David HI. and Joh`nna, sister to Edward III.-(See Index of Char-
 ters, 1809).-Alexander Lauder, rector of Ratho, son of Sir Atlas, was promoted to
 Lauder with his ancestors.
   William Lauder, another son of Sir Allan, was first Archdescon of Lothian and
Bishop of Glasgow, 1408, Murdo, Duke of Albany, the Regent, made him Chan-
cellor in 1423. In the same year, he was nominated first commissioner for treating
about the redemption of James I. He continued to hold the offices of Bishop and
Chancellor till his death in 1425. This Bishop laid the foundation of the vestry of
the Cathedral church of Glasgow, and built the steeple as far us the first battlement,
where the arms of Lauder of Hatton are still to be soon cut in several places-(See
Keith's Scottish Bishops.)
 At a later period in the wars with England, the Lauders seem to have taken an
active part; as among other old papers of the Lauderdale family is one containing a
gift from James V. to William de Lawdre of Hattoun (Hatton) "of the relief of all
his lands lying in the shires of Edin, Berwick, and Peebles, and that gratis, for good
done, nr to be done, the said Sir George, his father, and Sir Richard Lauder of
Blyth, and James Lauder, his uncles, with most of their friends having been claim at
the battle of Fledders Field, under the banner of James IV. "The of this is 19th
July 1525. The same papers also mention a license granted to the said William Lau-
der to fority his house at Hatton, and to appoint porters and other officers theres,
no doubt as a preparation of an expected incussion of the English consequent upon
their victory.


