
                               CAVERS.                       433

     Parochial Registers.--These have hitherto been very imperfect-
ly kept, and are consequently very defective.
     Antiquities.--The principal antiquity of this parish is the Cat-
rail, or Picts work ditch, (meaning literally in the language of its
constructors,) the partition of defence.  It passes through the
centre of the parish in a south-east direction, for the space of
about seven miles.  Entering it at the farm of Northhouse-haugh,
it proceeds to Doecleugh, where it appears particularly dis-
tinct.  Leaving two hill-forts or British strengths on the left-
the one on Skelf-hill farm, and usually called Doecleugh Castle,--
the other on the farm of Priest-haugh, and uniformly called the
Brugh hill,--it enters the Dod, and ascends the Carriage hill, where
it again becomes peculiarly prominent.  From this height it de-
scends and crosses the Langside-burn, where it constitutes the
known boundaries of several estates.  Traversing thence the north-
ern base of the Maiden-paps to the Leapsteal, it holds its onward
course into Liddisdale through the pass of the dividing hills near
Robertslin.
     There are likewise, besides these just mentioned, a number of
camps in the parish, some of whhch are called Roman, and others
of them Saxon camps.  An old castle or border tower stood at a
place called Castleweary, in the upper division of the parish, scarce-
ly any vestige of which is now remaining.  Allan-mouth-peel, an-
other feudal fortress, situated at the junction of the Allan with
the Teviot, appears from the portion of it yet remaining, together
with the wall and fosse with which it has evidently been surround-
ed, to have been a place of considerable importance in feudal
times.  Its last occupier, it is said, was a brother of Sir Walter
Scott of Buccleuch, the then warden of the Scottish border.  At
Caerlanrig, about forty years ago, a number of urns, said to be Ro-
man, were dug up.  There is here also one of these camps.  At
Priest-haugh a great number of gold coins were found some con-
siderable time ago, supposed to have been there deposited by the
attendants of Queen Mary, when she visited Bothwell at Hermi-
tage Castle, in Liddisdale.  In ancient times Cavers, like seve-
ral other parishes in Teviotdale, had an hospital for the poor,

the border spirit, or induce its inhabitants to alter their freebooting habits, and these
hostages were shortly afterwards executed at Edinburgh; which circumstance seems
to have given rise to the impression and report that obtains with not a few, that
Jonnie Armstrong himself was put down at Edinburgh, and not at Caerlanrig, which,
however, is not the fact.--See Buchanan's History.



