
440                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

capital, but it is not below the mark to say that above  1000 acres
might be thus added.
  Rent of Land.-The average rent of the land may be stated
at about L.1 per acre, including the privilege of bill common, and
peat moss, which, in general, the tenants enjoy.
  Rate of Wages.-The allowance to day-labourers without maintenance,
is from 1s. 6d. to 2s. per day; to masons, from 15s. to
18s. per week ; to carpenters, from 12s. to 15s. per week.   Men servants
receive, including maintenance, from L.5 to L.6 half-yearly;
women, from L.1, 15s. to L. 2; and boys, from L. 2 to
L. 2, 1Os.
  Husbandry- The few sheep reared in the parish, are generally
of the black-faced kind.  There are also a few Cheviots, which the
gentlemen and principal tenants keep for family use.  The black cattle
consist chiefly of the West Highland breed, and are reckoned
very superior.  At the Highland Society great cattle-sbow
held at Inverness in 1839, the first premium was awarded to a tenant
of this parish, for the best Highland bull. The breed of
horses has likewise been greatly improved, during the last twenty
years. Farming is carried on in the parish on the most improved
system. The rotations of cropping are the five and six years'
shifts. Trenching and draining have heen done to a very great
extent, on almost every farm in the parish. The duration of
leases is nineteen years.  The farm-buildings, and many of the
fences, paling, and dry-stone dikes are substantial.
               V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
Market-Town.-Grantown is the only market-town in the parish.
It was founded in the year 1776, by the late inestimable Sir
James Grant of Grant, Bart. in the midst of an extensive uncultivated
moor. Its appearance, since their period, has undergone a
great change. According to Mr Anderson, the talented author
of an interesting volume on the Highlands and Islands, " no village
in the north of Scotland can compare with Grantown in neatness
and regularity, and in beauty of situation." The town stands
At the distance of nearly two miles to the west of Castle Grant,
and about half a mile north of the Spey. Near the centre ofthe
town, there is a spacious oblong square, 180 by 700 feet in length.
On the south side of the square, stands the Speyside Orphan Hospital
built on a neat design in 1824.  Many years ago, a considerable
sum of money was left by Lady Grant of Monymusk, for
charitable purposes.  A third part of this fund was allocated by


