330                  KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

as containing the germs of all his philosophy. Dr Brown ob-
tained his degree of M. D. in 1803, on which occasion he was
honoured with the highest encomiums of Dr Gregory. In the
winter of 1808-9, he taught the moral philosophy class for Pro-
fessor Stewart with wonderful success,--not only the students,
but distinguished members of the bench, of the bar, and of the
pulpit, were daily present to witness the powers of this rising phi-
losopher. In 1810, he was appointed Professor Stewart's col-
league in the chair of moral philosophy, which he filled with the
highest honour to himself. In 1814, he published a poem en-
titled "The Paradise of Coquettes." In 1815, he published
another, under the title of the "Wanderer in Norway." In
1816, the "War Fiend." In 1818, he published a poetical tale,
entitled "Agnes." In 1819,  "Emily." But his reputation in
this walk of literature was not equal to his fame as a philosopher.
In 1819, his health, which was never very good, became so pre-
carious, and the symptoms of his disease so alarming, that, early
in the session of 1819-20, he was obliged to appoint a substitute
to deliver his lectures. At the recommendation of his physicians,
be took a voyage to London, and established himself at Bromp-
ton. Here he gradually grew weaker until the 2d of April 1820,
when he gently breathed his last. His remains were put into a
leaden coffin, and, according to his own wish, were laid beside
those of his father and mother in the churchyard of Kirkma-
breek. *
   Dr Brown's Lectures on Moral Philosophy were published
after his death in four volumes, 8vo, and have deservedly obtained
the highest reputations. + An admirable account of his life and
writings has been published in one volume, 8vo, by the Rev. Dr
Welsh, Professor of Church History in the University of Edin-
burgh. The biography of Dr Brown also holds a prominent place
in the able and elaborate work of Dr Murray on the Literary
History of Galloway. It has also found a place in Chambers's
Scottish Biography. Dr Ch`lmers has also done homage to the
transcendent genius of Dr Brown in his Bridgewater Treatise;
and Sir James Mackintosh, in his masterly Dissertation on the His-
tory of Metaphysical Science, pays honour both to the head and
heart of Dr Brown "His mind," says he, "soared and roamed

<FOOTNOTE>"One of the most romantic and secluded spots that can possibly be imagined,
and, so far as I know, without a parallel in this country."--Dr Murray.
    + The character of Dr Brown was given in "The Christian Instructor," a few
months after his death, in the most complimentary terms.

                                     3



