
160                         FIFESHIRE.

few respectable families, almost all are operative weavers. Here are
situated the spinning-mills of Mr James Aytoun, a gentleman of
much enterprise and usefulness in the place. At Mr Aytoun's
mills, not less than 120 individuals are constantly and regularly em-
ployed. There are, besides the Linktown and New Town, several vil-
lages in the country district of the parish, of minor note, containing
in all about 197 souls.
  Means of Communication.-To all parts of the parish Kirkaldy is
the post-town. It may also be said to be the principal market-place,
where all the necessaries and many of the luxuries of life may be had
of the best description, and on reasonable terms. Throughout the
whole of the parish, there is an easy communication by good roads,
which are always kept in good repair. The turnpike roads may be
about twelve miles in different directions, and the statute labour roads
about two. There are three bridges in the parish; one of them
lately built, and the other two in tolerable condition, besides seve-
ral small arches of less consequence. In addition to the ordinary
carriages which frequent the different roads, there are three four-
horse coaches which run daily through our streets from Edinburgh
to Dundee, and four coaches of the same description from Dun-
dee to Edinburgh ; a two-horse coach from the east of Fife to Edin-
burgh and back again; and a two-horse coach which runs from
Glasgow to Kirkaldy, and from Kirkaldy to Glasgow, every lawful
day alternately.
  Ecclesiastical State.-It does not distinctly appear where the in-
habitants of this parish first assembled for public worship; but it
was probably in some place connected with the old mansion-house
of Abbotshall. 'The date of the last church, which was the only
one previous to the present, is 1674, twenty-four years after Ali-
botshall became a separate parish. The present church was built
in the year 1788, and on the same spot on which the former stood.
It is a substantial and comfortable edifice, though now too small
for the increased population. The situation of the church, which
is on an eminence at the back of the town, is very pretty, though
not very convenient for the bulk of the inhabitants. It is neverthe-
less well attended, and the congregation is very respectable. The
average number of communicants is nearly 700. There are no
free sittings. The Laird of Raith is patron by a charter granted
by the Crown so far back as the time of Charles II. The manse
was built in the year 1772, and is the first that was in the parish. Till
that time, the clergyman had an allowance of only L. 5 for a house.


