
110                      FORFARSHIRE.

a very rich clay and loamy soil, much resembling that in the
Carse of Gowrie, between Perth and Dundee; and is admirably
adapted for carrying heavy crops of wheat.
   Hydrography.--The South Esk is the only river of any con-
sequence connected with the parish. It takes its rise among the
Grampian mountains,--runs close by the south side of the town
of Brechin, and, after meandering beautifully through the strath,
discharges itself into the basin formed by the reflux of the sea on
the west side of Montrose. The part of it which separates Far-
nell from Brechin is particularly beautiful. The banks are taste-
fully wooded; and there is a pleasure drive along them which
opens up at several places into views highly pleasing and pic-
turesque. Near the church, also, there is a small rivulet, which,
though inconsiderable in its ordinary state, swells in rainy seasons
to an amazing height, overflowidg the bankr, and laying the ad-
joining fields under water. Means, however, have been recently
taken for keeping it within its channel, and thus preventing the
injury which it was apt to occasion.

			  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-Owner.--The whole parish is the property of Sir James
Carnegie, Baronet, of Southesk. A plan of his estates is in the
course of being formed, every farm being surveyed and inserted
at the letting of a new lease. That part which lies within this
parish is already almost completed.
   Parochial Registers.--These extend back to the year 1699, are
full and distinct, and apparently kept with great regularity. But
those of Kinnaird, while it existed as a separate parish, have been
altogether lost; and no trace or history of them can be found.
   Anntiquities.--On the north side of the church, and almost en-
circled by the den from which the parish is supposed to take its
name, stands an old castle, once the property and residence of the
Ogilvies of Airly.  It is kept in good repair, and part of it is al-
lotted as a free dwelling to some infirm and indigent people.
   Modern Buildinqs.--Kinnaird Castle, the mansion of the South-
esk family, is an elegant and spacious modern building. It is of a
square form, with a square tower at each corner, and- has a very
imposing and princely appearance. The lofty trees around the
extensive lawn in front, the flower garden, and other ornamental
appendages, harmonize well with the building itself, and contribute
not a little to its elegance and beauty. The whole place is on a
				4


