
446                         AYRSHIRE.

under ground, 140 men, and 50 boys. Above ground, there is a
manager, clerk, overseer, pit-head-men, machine-men, engine-
men, and labourers, amounting to 30 more, besides 5 smiths, 3
wrights, and 1 mason. There are also 20 men with horses em-
ployed on the rail-road. How many find employment in the land
and sea carriage of the 40,000 tons sold in the year, we cannot
tell. The colliers receive at present 5s. a-day. Their employ-
ment is laborious and dangerous. The loss of life, by stones from
the roof, or similar calamities, has, during the last twenty-five
years, been at the rate of one every year. And much injury is often
sustained where life is not lost. The works are at present well
ventilated; but when this is not the case, the fool-hardy and the
thoughtless are scorched by the inflammable air. Even when the
safety-lamp has shewn that there is danger, there are some who
rashly engage in work, forgetful that though the safety-lamp caus-
ed no explosion, their own lamps may soon work destruction.
	After being so long in the lower parts of the earth, with plea-
sure we emerge to enter on more congenial subjects.
         "Hail, holy light, offspring of Heaven, first born!--
          Escap'd the Stygian pit, though long detained
          In that obscure sojourn; thee we revisit safe,
          And feel thy sovereign vital lamp," &c.
	Zoology.--Among the Mammalia, we may mention Lutra vul-
garis, the otter, occasionally seen in the Garnock; Phoca vitulina,
the seal; and Delphinus phocaena, the porpoise or pellack, both of
them being often seen in the sea near the shore. Sorex fodiens
may be mentioned, a variety of which has been seen, with reddish-
brown throat, and without the black line along the middle of the
belly.
	Rabbits.--The rabbits, which are so numerous, must not be
passed over in silence. They were introduced by the late R. Reid
Cuninghame, Esq. who, in 1777, brought about fifty pairs of them
from the Little Cumbrae. This little colony soon stocked the
sand-hills. There are about 500 dozens killed in this parish every
year. Their careases are sold at 10d. a-pair. The skins, which
formerly sold at 15s. a dozen, have fallen to 2s. 8d. The breed is
the common or gray rabbits. The ground might be turned to much
better account.
				4


