
184                          WIGTONSHIRE.

provement was about L. 8, 8s. per acre (Scotch.) But the expense
of improving more land in the same place will not be the same in
proportion, as the large drains necessary have been made.
	Improvement has been made in the system of draining; but
many are not duly aware of its importance, and are doubtful of a
return for the money expended in such operations.
	There have been in this parish, some specimens of deep drain-
ing (nine and ten feet deep) of late years, attended by the most
obvious and most beneficial effects. In general, we have no want
of declivities, so that draining to a common moderate depth of
from two to four feet is not attended with much difficulty, except
from the numerous lumps of stone under the surface. The ex-
pense of breaking or raising the stones, however, is in a great
measure, compensated, sometimes more than compensated, by
their use in building, and covering the drains when cut. For the
clayey land, in which there are no stone, tiles can be procured in
the parish at a moderate expense. Upon the whole, draining in
this parish is not an improvement of an expensive description; in
comparison with other parts of the country. I am convinced, that,
by deeper and better draining than has been generally practised,
much of the pasture land might be rendered greatly more valuable.
	Irrigation has been but little practised; and there is reason to
believe, that in some parts of the parish, it might be productive
of much advantage at a very moderate expense; but as the water
is in general so pure, that advantage would be less than in other
circumstances. Embankments have been made, of late years, to a
considerable extent on the lands of the Earl of Galloway, against
the tide, and the River Cree; and there is the prospect of land
being not only saved but gained by them.
	In the lower (southern) part of the parish, the land is generally
enclosed, the greater portion of it by stone-dikes, which gives ra-
ther the appearance of bareness and coldness to the district. There
are hedges also, particularly in the wet clayey land, in which stones
are scarce. In many places, it is very convenient to use the stones
dug out in cleaning the fields, for dikes. In the sheep-farms, the
march dikes are allr of stone, as are also the division fences on the
portions cultivated for the convenience of the families resident on
the farms.
	Leases.--Leases are of nineteen, twelve, and nine years dura-
tion. In most cases in which improvement is expected or agreed
to, the leases are of nineteen years; and, indeed, that term is com-


