
	                    BANFF.                               47

supposed by some that, by means of flood-gates, the new basin might
yet be rendered a safe place for shipping.
   The present depth of water at the extremity of the new pier is,
at low-water of spring tides, 4 feet 7 inches; of neap-tides, 6 feet
11 inches. A vessel drawing 12 feet water can enter the new basin
at high water of ordinary neap-tides; one drawing 15 feet at spring-
tides. This depth, however, is only towards the outer part of the
basin, owing to the accumulation of sand fartber in. A vessel can
enter the old harbour at high water of ordinary neap-tides, if draw-
ing 8 feet, spring-tides 101/2 feet.
   A Morton's patent slip apparatus is now in the course of being
laid down at the harbour.
   Municipal State.-The circumstance, that William the Lion
gave a toft and garden in the burgh of Banff to his chaplain Dou-
glas, Bishop of Moray, in 1165, (similar gifts being made in Inver-
ness, Nairn and Cullen, all royal burghs at this period,) makes it
probable that Banff possessed the privileges of royalty before that
time. Tradition makes these privileges to have been conferred
by Malcolm Canmore. They were confirmed by Robert Bruce.
Robert II., in 1372, again confirmed them, together with such pri-
vileges and liberties as were enjoyed by the town of Aberdeen.
Farther confirmations were given by James VI. and Charles II.
  In the municipal government of the burgh, there has all along
been this peculiarity, that the burgh taxes and assessments are im-
posed, not by the magistrates and council, as is the usual practice
in other burghs, but by the inhabitants assembled in head court.
   There is no regular police or night watch in the town. Two
town serjeants perform all the duties of police officers. Offences
against the peace are taken cognizance of by either the Sheriff,
the Justices, or the magistrates, in their respective courts, to each
of which is attached a separate procurator-fiscal of its own, whose
duty it is to prosecute offenders.
   When the property of the town (in lands, fishings, &c.) is ba-
lanced against its debts, the residue would appear to be rather in-
considerable. The sum of L. 482, 9s. 11d. is raised annually, by
assessment on the inhabitants, for the defraying of current expen-
ses, as streets, water, lamps, &c.
   Banff, on the whole, can scarcely be pronounced a thriving place.
It is not increasing either in size or population; and probably few
if any of the inhabitants are accumulating capital. Families seem
to be dying away or becoming dispersed faster than new ones come


