
     of Dornoch.

   Poor.-The poor's roll of this parish generally contains
from 80 to 100 persons.  There is no fund for their support

<FOOTNOTE>

once revived the courage of his associates, and extorted the applause of his ad-
versaries; whereupon the legate, apprehending that he had spoken the pre-
vailing sentiments of his country, broke up the assembly.  The young orator
was, on his return home, universally caressed, and afterwards promoted to the
fee of Caithness.  He built the Cathedral of Dornoch; died at Scrabster, in
Caithness, where the bishops had also a residence in 1245, and was afterwards
canonized.  A statue of him is still shewn in the church here, under the name
of St. Gilbert; but it is not entire.  The last bishop, Andrew Wood, was trans-
lated here from the Isles, anno 1680; and remained till the Revolution in 1688.
Writers tell us, that Dornoch was also the seat of one of the monasteries of the Trinity.
or Red Friars, otherwise called Mathurines, from their house at Paris dedicated to
St. Mathurine.  The great prosessed object of the institution of this order ap-
pears to have been the redemption of Christian captives; to which purpose a
third part of their revenue is said to have been destined. "Tertia vero Pars,"
says their constitution, "reservetur ad redemptionem captivorum, qui sunt sacarcerati,
"pro side Christi, a Paganis." Of 13 of these, which are said to have subsisted in
Scotland at the Reformation, one was at Dornoch, founded in 1271 by Sir Patrick
Murray.  Not the smallest vestige of the building, however, can now be traced;
the very site of it is unknown at this day.  The lands belonging to the ministry
of Berwick were given to this place, after that city had fallen into the hands of
the English.  Here stand the ruins of the bishop's castle, which appears to have
been a stately and sumptuous edifice.  About the year 1567, George Earl of
Caithness, who claimed wardship of Alexander Earl of Sutherland, then a minor,
had got the person of the latter into his possession.  A tribe of Murrays, inhabit-
ing this part of the country, who were firmly attached to the noble family of Su-
therland, and beheld the conduct of Caithness with a jealous eye, contrived to get
the minor conveyed from Caithness, and put under the protection of the Earl
of Huntly, Caithness in revenge invaded this country, by his son John, who
invested the town and Castle of Dornoch, of which the Murrays had possessed
themselves.  Several skirmishes took place with various success.  The Murray,
no longer able to maintain the ground they had occupied, retired to the castle.
Upon this the master of Caithness burnt the town and cathedral; but still the
besieged defended themselves in the castle for a month longer.  At length, how-
ever, they were obliged to capitulate, having undertaken to depart out of Su-
therland within two months, and delivered three hostages into the hands of the
conquerors.  The Murrays fulfilled their engagement; yet the hostages were
treacherously murdered.


