
184                        ARGYLESHIRE.

nally built, at a very remote period, by the aborigines of the coun-
try, and afterwards enlarged and extended by northern invaders,
and more latterly by feudal chiefs.
   In Morvern the castles are three in number, Ardtornish, Ken-
loehaline, and Killundine.  The castle of Drimnin, as the com-
paratively unimportant building was termed, has of late years been
pulled down, in preparing a site for a Roman Catholic chapel, now
erected on the commanding situation which it occupied.  It is
pardonable to express regret that so very unnecessary a work of
demolition should have taken place; but it is just to add, that, in
this expression of regret, the enlightened proprietor of Drimnin
now fully participates.
   The Castle of Killundine, for so the uninteresting building is
termed, is evidently, from its construction, of comparatively mo-
dern date.  It is said to have been used as a hunting lodge by the
feudal occupants of the opposite castle of Aross ; and, from this
circumstance, it is yet known as Caisteal-nan-Conn, or the castle
of Dogs.
   The Castle of Kenlochaline, consisting of a square tower, and
built on a very picturesque situation overhanging the estuary of1
Gear Abhain, is supposed to have been erected by Dubh-Chal,
a lady of the M'Innes tribe, who, according to tradition, paid her
architect with the very extraordinary remuneration, a quantity
equal to the full of the castle, of butter.  This castle was occu-
pied by Colonel Kitteach and his detachment of Irish troops, in
1664, and afterwards set fire to by him,-a proceeding which he
himself is said to have regretted.
   Ardtornish.-" The ruins of Ardtornish," say Sir Walter Scott
"are not now very considerable, and consist criefly of the remains
of an old keep or tower, with fragments of outward defences.  But
in former days, it was a place of great consequence, being one of the
principal, strongholds which the Lords of the Isles, during the pe-
riod of there stormy independence, possessed upon the mainland
of Argyleshire.  Here they assembled what popular tradition calls
their parliaments, meaning, I suppose, their 'campleniere,' or
assembly of feudal and patriarchal vassals and dependents."
   It was here, as history records, that the conference took place
between the commissioners of Edward IV.  and those of John of the
Isles, 19th October 1641, which terminated in the notable treaty, by
which the Lord of the Isles acknowledged himself a vassal of the
Crown of England, promised to aid the sovereign of that king-


