
	226                      PERTHSHIRE.

rish, and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account,
seem to consist in improved instruments of agriculture, in using bone
dust for turnips, and in the general introduction of thrashing mills by
water, where it is practicable; also, in the enlargement and im-
provement of farms, and raising of rents : though both the rents
and sdrvants wages have fallen since the peace.  There is a con-
siderable difference also in the prices of work, of horses, and espe-
cially of cattle fattened for the butcher.  There is a remarkable
difference in the low rate for spinning yarn, in the disuse of lint
and of fallow, which is reckoned unnecessary for our free light
soil, while potatoes are cultivated to such advantage, and the
ground is sufficiently cleaned.  But some farmers subdivide their
land into too many little patches.  There is little waste land
here.  But it is well known that there are many millions of that
description in Great Britain and Ireland.  Now, as humble ad-
vocates for the comforts of the poor and labouring classes, we
beg leave humbly to suggest a plan of general improvement,
equally beneficial to rich and poor, especially to labourers, be-
ing aware of no public reform more important for the temporal
benefit of all classes of the community, without encroaching on
the rights and privileges of any.  A great proportion of the land
in the United Kingdom that is too poor for bearing some useful
crop may be still more improved for pasture.  And what is unfit
both for tillage and for pasture ought to be planted with useful
kinds of trees, suitable to the soil.  Even the heathy rugged Gram-
pians may be planted to the great advantage of the community,
dspecially of the proprietors themselves.  Of this, the late patriotic
  Duke of Athol set a noble example, whose extensive plantations,
in less than seventy years, will, in the opinion of a good judge, who
has been appointed to survey them, be worth eight millions Ster-
ling, at 1s. the solid foot.  Roads had previously been made through
them; and there is still, at the sides of the roads in various direc-
tions, sufficient room for grouse and deer, &c. and shelter for all.
 Whatever ground in Great Britain and Ireland is capable of im-
provement, and yet every way neglected, should, by Act of Parlia-
ment, be taxed or fined at so much per acre, until the suitable im-
provements are made.  Or, perhaps, the same good effects might be
produced more agreeably by the stimulus of premiums; or with-
out premiums, the plan would benefit the revenue.  The proprie-
tors, indeed, are in many cases too much depressed already.  But
the plan in time would tend to enrich them, and improve even


