
544                   EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of a thin, wet, moorish clay, the farmer chiefly depending on the
growth of oats, the rearing of cattle, and the produce of the dairy.
"Most of the agricultural improvements in this parish," says the
former Statistical Account, "are the work of the present race of
inhabitants,-a singular enough fact in a district only six miles
from the capital. Mr Craig of Riccarton was the first who set an
example of enclosing land on his own estate. The late clergy-
man, Mr Craig, was the first who introduced into it the modern
practice of husbandry from East Lothian. He was succeeded in
the same system by the ingenious Professor Fergusson, who has
made a variety of agricultural experiments on a small property he
possesses in the parish, which he has changed in a few years from
a bare heath into a scene dhstinguished for beauty and fertility."
Agriculture may be described as now in a state of great advance-
ment in this parish, since from the spirited and liberal views of the
large proprietors, aided by the enlightened and well-directed in-
dustry of the farmers, facilities are afforded for the introduction of
every new improvement. Drainage in all its forms is extensively
practised, so that, even in the high lands of Currie,-where, at the
date of the last Statistical Account, the crops are said to have been
frequently damaged or lost by the winter rains, or whitened only by
the winter frost, harvest is expected, except inunpropitious seasons,
with as much regularity, and in proportionate luxuriance, as in the
lower and more sheltered plains. The manure in use, besides the
ordinary stable produce, consists of guano, compost of lime, or the
police dung of Edinburgh, which is carried by the canal boats at
8s. per ton. It may be added, that several of the farmers have
been successful competitors at cattle-shows; and that a plough,
considered by practical farmers a great improvement on the com-
mon one, and now introduced into extensive use, was invented by
Mr John Cuningham, farmer at Harelaw.
   Minerals.-The natural history and geology of the Pentland
range, as well as of the whole district within ten miles of Edin-
burgh, including Currie, have been so fully dercribed, first, by
Professor Jameson in the Wernerian Memoirs, afterwards by the
late Mr Cunningham, and by Mr Maclaren, that it is superfluous
to repeat what is already before the public. In addition to the
scientific details of these writers, it may be noticed, that freestone
abounds along the south bank of the Water of Leith, but more
especially in the neighbourhood of the village of Balerno. The
bed of rock there, which is of the very best quality, is distinguished


