
486                            PERTHSHIRE.

the country, but at an enormous cost, since, at this distace, ar
find them to be rather mwre than double the price paid for them at
the shere of Perth.

                MIESCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
    In briefly noticing, the more striking variations betwixt the pre-
sent state of the parisb, and that which existed at the time of
drawing up the former Statistical Account, I have to observe par-
ticularly,-that , from the patriotic and praiseworthy exertions of
the Highland and Agricultura Society of Scotland, as well as
from those of a local nature, considerable improvement has ta-
ken place in the management oth of land and of live-stock. A
greater extent of green crop in general, and of turnips in particu-
lar is annually cultivated;-greater attention is paid to the kind
and quality of seed- corn;- the breed of horses, cattle, and sheep
is in progress to be better;-and the facilities are mightily increase
ed,whether for sending away or receiving produce. Moreover,
there afforded ampler means fnr the acquisition; both of secu-
lar and religious instruction, insomuch that it is to be hoped that,
simultaneously with the improvement of the productive powers of
the soil, and of the domesticated animals, we shall have to con-
template the still higher and nobler result of man's personal ad-
vancemant in knowledge, power, and righteousness.  Nay, this re-
sult -is not altogether a thing of prospect.  In a certain de-
gree, it already begun to make its appearance. Our festive
meetings with funerals, our bridals are no longer dis-
graced with such instance of intoxication,brawling, and fightings
as were but too common some fifty or sixty years ago.  Common
swearing, gross profanation of the Sabbath, low gambling, are vices
almost unknown. The kirk-session of the present day does not
requires, as did a kirk- session of the days of our forefathers, to
reprimand- the people, because they had gone on the Sabbath to
the weed a setting rather than to church; to subject them to
accouran of discipline, because they had devoted the evening og that

mallowed day to the unsabbatical pastime of fidding and dancing.
There is to be found among our peasantry a measure of religous
knowledge which might put to shame wors favoured situations; and,
while I would fain believe that, in the case of many, that knowledge
in a knowledge unto salvatinn, I rejoice to teatify, that, in almost all,
at manisfests itself in the pleasing fruit of an orderly and respectful
regard to the rivil and religous institutions of the country. In fine,
I would sinbody in one single sentence what, in may humble opi-


