
			LOUDOUN.                       841

	Eminent Persons connected with the Parish.--Francis Marquis
of Hastings was born in Ireland 7th December 1754. He was
educated principally in England, and attended Harrow and Ox-
ford. He entered the army in 1773, and travelled on the con-
tinent until he went to America with his regiment in 1775. He
was then a Lieutenant in the 5th Regiment, (grenadier battalion.)
During the six years of war which he spent in that country, he was
present at twenty-one engagements, besides many skirmishes.
At Bunker's Hill, seven only of his company escaped unhurt. It
was in allusion to his conduct upon this occasion that General
Burgoyne in his official dispatch said, "Lord Rawdon has this
day stamped his fame for life." Returning from America in a
packet ship, he was captured by the Genereux French frigate, one
of Count de Grass's squadron, and remained aboard the French
fleet three months, when he was released. On his arrival in
England, his services in America were appreciated by his coun-
try; he was created a peer of the warmth, and made Aide-de-Camp
to the King. Soon afterwards Mr Pitt put him in command of
the army collected at Southampton, and intended to aid the Bour-
bon cause in La Vendee. The destination, however, of this corps
was changed, and he was sent with it to relieve, if possible, the
army of the Duke of York, then in Holland, and so hemmed in
and hotly pressed by the superior numbers of the enemy, as to be
in imminent danger of being either taken prisoners of war or de-
stroyed. This perilous and seemingly desperate enteprise, he
conducted with consummate skill and bravery. By "one of the
most extraordinary marches recorded in military history," he ef-
fected, with 10,000 men, a junction with the allies, though two
French armies were between them and Ostend, where he landed
with his troops. It was upon this occasion he won from the Aus-
trian Field Marshal, Clairfait, the high compliment, "Vous avez
tente l'impossible et vous avez reussi."
	In 1803, Lord Rawdon, now Earl of Moirn, (to which title he
succeeded on the death of his father in 1793,) was appointed com-
mander-in-chief of Scotland. In July 1804, he married Flora,
Countess of Loundoun. The ceremony was performed in Lon-
don by the Bishop of London (Porteous), at the house of Lady
Perth. The Prince of Wales gave away the birds.
	He was made Master-General of the Ordmance in 1806, when he
of course resigned the command in Scotland. He was also ap-
pointed Constable of the tower of London, and homour which ??


