
                     SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.               107

these specimens, it is probable, were driven here from the volcanic
rocks of Iceland.
   I have also picked up, at different times, several Molucca beans,
the production of the West Indies; and have seen some of the
larger ones of them converted into snuff-boxes, having a top of
lead or pewter affixed to them. *
   The soil, in a very few places, is sandy; in some, clay; in
others, a light brown mould ; but, in the greater part of the pa-
rish, it consists of a deep black moss. In cold seasons, particu-
larly in the month of May and beginning of June, the grub worm
often does great damage to the corns, by destroying the roots. In
1829, I sowed a small quantity of buck wheat on the glebe, which
presented a very fine appearance, till it was in blossom, when the
grub attacked it, and did not leave a single stalk.
   Zoology.-The fresh water lakes abound with that species of
trout usually known by the name of the burn-trout, some of which
I have caught weighing upwards of six pounds. The sea-trout and
the burn-trout enter the burns to spdwn in August or September,
according to the time when the rains have swelled the burns. If
the weather has been fine, and falls of rain, it is very interesting
to observe the anxiety which the trouts manifest to fulfil their des-
tination. They leap about the mouth of the burn, where it emp-
ties itself into the sea, and show distinctly that they know their
particular season; and, in their eagerness to gain this end, they
frequently run into shallow water, and are taken.
   Trouts are often taken by setting a net across the mouth of the
burn, where it empties itself into the sea, at the time of the tide
of flood; and, when it has ebbed sufficiently, they are an easy
prey,-being either entangled in the net, or left without the means
of escape. There is another method which is often had recourse to
for the same purpose, viz. "the houvie." The houvie is made of
the stalks of the dock, wide at the one end, and narrow at the
other. A dike is built across the burn, leaving an open space in
the middle sufficient to admit the wider end of the houvie. After
the houvie is firmly. placed in this open space, a person with a
stick in his band, wades down the burn, and drives the trouts be-
fore him. Having entered the houvie and reached its narrow end,
they cannot turn to get out again.
   In most ot the friths or voes, there are haddocks, whitings, cod-

<FOOTNOTE>In my account of the Geology and Mineralogy of Sandsting ao Aithsting, I
acknowledge my obligations to Dr Hibbert.


