
                               AIRLIE.                        675

and associated with these along the margin of the river, the Alche-
milla alpina, and Gallium boreale, foreigners to the soil, and plainly
migrants from a more elevated region, transported by the torrents
of winter. The showy Epilobium angustifolium grows at the con-
fluence of the Melgum and Isla. The gray walls of Airlie Castle
are adorned by the Cheiranthus Cheiri (wallflower,) which finds a
secure abode in their crevices, and, in recompense for the shelter
which they afford it, sheds around them its beauty and its perfume.
   In other parts of the parish there are plants worthy of notice
The Rumex aquaticus, supposed till lately to be rare, may be ga-
thered in abundance near the manse. The beautiful Orobus syl-
vaticus grows sparingly on the side of the road leading along the
Kaims of Airlie; and the Astragalus glycyphyllus may be disco-
vered on the banks of the Melgum. The Trientalis Europoea,
Cerastium arvense (abundant in Strathmore, though apparently
having a very local distribution;) Viola polustris and Cardamine
amara are likewise to be found in the parish; and the Plantago
maritima (var. B.) afar from the sea, or any elevated ridge of
mountains, in which situation it seems to have been supposed that
it exclusively rejoices. The above catalogue must not be regarded
as complete. One or two plants are mentioned by Don as grow-
ing near Airlie Castle (see his list of Forfarshire plants in Head-
rick's Agricultural Report of the Country,) which we have not
been able to detect, and which, while undiscovered, ought to sti-
mulate  the researches of the botanical student. * It is to be hoped,
however, that, in pursuing his researches on the banks of the Isla,
he will not imitate the example of some who have preceded him,
in uprooting the plants, or, at least, that he will spare the rarer
species, several of which, from this improper practice, are in dan-
ger of disappearing altogether.
   The natural brushwood, in the Den of Airlie consists chiefly of
oak, with an intermixture of other trees, and is remarkable as con-
taining, with a similar stool at Ruthven, a few miles down the river,
the most easterly remains of natural oak wood on the southern face
of the Grampians.
   Zoology.--The Isla Melgum, and Dean, are all good sporting
streams. Besides being well supplied with trout, the two former
are also frequented by salmon, which are prevented from  ascend-
ing much beyond the limits of this parish by rapids and waterfalls.
From some natural cause, salmon do not usually enter the

<FOOTNOTE>There remarks on the botany of the parish have been communicated  by the
Rev. J. S. Barty of Bandochy.


