
                              ABERCORN.                      23

from the Himalaya. One of the latter, a very graceful tree, but
a few years old, has attained the height of 20 feet; whilst several
vigorous specimens in various parts of the grounds are curious from
being grafted on the common spruce fir. A Siberian pine (Pinus
cimbra Siberica) in one of the flower-borders, is remarkable for the
peculiarity of its form and the tardiness of its growth. With a
vigorous thickly-thatched head, it is only 5 1/2 feet high, and its
trunk but a few inches in diameter, though nearly a hundred
years old.
                           II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-The Monastery of Aebercurnig is more
than once mentioned by Bede, and appears to have been a Culdee
establishment of early date. In the latter part of the seventh
century, it formed the residence of a bishop, at a period when
Whitherne in Galloway was the only other Episcopal seat south
of the Forth. In 696 when Aegfrid King of the Northurnbrians,
whose kingdom included the Lothians, was slain in battle by the
northern Picts, Trumuini, who then held the see, deeming Aber-
corn too near the Pictish kingdom of Fife, forsook the monastery
with his followers. *  Trumuini, of whom Bede speaks with respect,
was in all likelihood a Culdee bishop, as the papal authority had
then but little influence in Scotland. The Castle and estate of
Abercorn were possessed by Walter Avenale in the middle of the
twelfth century; and in 1176, a dispute took place betwixt his
son, John Avenale, and Richard, second Bishop of Dunkeld, re-
garding the patronage of the parish, the monastery being then
extinct. As might be expected in those days, the claim of the
prelate was triumphant. In 1460, the whole church lands  be-
longing to the Bishop of Dunkeld on this side of the Forth,
including Abercorn, Cramond, Preston, and Aberlady, were
erected into one barony, called the barony of Aberlady. In the
thirteenth century, the estate of Abercorn passed by marriage into
the possession of the Graemes, and was held by the patriot, Sir
John the Graeme, the friend of Wallace, killed in battle against
the English at Falkirk July 22d 1298. The estate was subse-
quently the property of the Black Douglases. Abercorn Castle,
a strong natural position, partook of the fortunes of that proud
house. Repeatedly attacked during a period peculiarly turbulent,
it was besieged by James II. in 1455, and taken by storm on the
8th of April.+  The Earl's retainers were put to the sword, and

<FOOTNOTE>Beda, Hist. iv. 26.          +Godscroft, p. 203, folio ed.


