
                                 KINGASBARNS.                 95

a distinct report upon this part of the subject, it will be necessary
for me to consider them separately.
     1st, The soil of the nine lower famrs consists of two kinds,--a
light and sandy but active soil, along the whole range of land
directly above the sea shore, unless perhaps toward the eastern
end of the parish, where it is stronger,--and immediately above
that, the ground is in general a dseep black loam, in some parts
tending to clay, and admirably adapted for close and continued
corn-cropping.  In this quarter of the country, during fully
the last half century, the alternate systems of husbandry has been
ably followed.  Under it,  the first kind of soil new referred to
is usually employed in raising turnips and potatoes, upon which
a considerable amount of cattle are annualy fed off.  Upon the
latter, these rops are more rarely taken, fallow, beans, and grass
being interposed between the white crops.  The cultivation of the
strong lands generally runs in the sixth course,--fallow, wheat,
berans, barley, grass, and otas,--though of late the pressure ofrom
low prices upon the farmer has compelled a shorter course of crop-
ping and a more frequent introduction of wheat.  Whether in
nineteen years, the usual length of a lease, the general amount of
production, and consequently of profit, be thereby increased, seems
somewhat questionable.  On the lighter soil, the course generally
pursued is green crops, wheat or barley, grass for one or more
years, and otas.  This also is not seldom varied; and after ley,
wheat or barley are occasionally taken.  The want of pasture-grass
on these farms is remedied by the farmers taking parks for their
young stock in the higher parts of the country.  In giving a rough
estimate of the produce of this part of the parish in corn, cattle,
and potatoes brought to market, I give the average from 1827 to
1831, both included,--only I may premise that the crops were, from
cold and wet seasons, more than usually short.  Of 1890 acres
of which the first class of farms consist, 781 acres were upon an
average during the above five years annually uin crop, and in the
following proportions: 246 in wheat; 139 in beans; 191 in bar-
ley; and 205 in oats.  The return was 7 3/4 bolls per acre; the most
productive farms giving 10, the least productive giving 6 1/2 bolls.
This gives an amount of 6042 1/2 bolls; and, receving somewhat
more than 2 bolls per acre of seed, sevants' meal, household con-
sumption, and horse-keep, there remains for market 4188 bolls of
grain.  Potatoes are also raised to a considerable extent for sale, be-
sides the free use of them as daily food for the work-horses and


