
                            FYVIE.                            335

quality, and under that rotation only one white crop is taken after
lea, and the grass land is broken up at the end of the second year.
Two consecutive white crops, as in the case of the seven-shift;-while
it is a system but little followed in the southern and more improved
districts of Scotland, yet, where the soil is not deep, and adventitious
manure cannot be procured, the opinion of many experienced far-
mers is in favour of the system.  They hold that the three years
rest given to the land in the state of pasture, and the less frequent
tillage of the ground, than under a quicker rotation, more than
compensates for the apparent exhaustion by two succeeding crops
of oats; and, indeed, it is often the case that the second, or what is
provincially termed the "yavel crop," is better than the first.  Na-
ture, however, would seem to tire of any uniform system when pur-
sued for a great length of time; and farmers occasionally allow
part of their land to lie four in place of three years in grass, or
take an intervening crop of pease or vetches, and plough them
down, thus to some extent converting the seven into an eight
course shift.  Some farmers also take but one crop of corn after
three years grass; a system well calculated to ameliorate and reno-
vate the soil.  How far the valuable discovery of bone-dust as a
manure may make such experiments unnecessary, it is needless to
conjecture.  Unquestionably the application of this new stimulant is
operating powerfully in the amelioration of the soil; already it may
be said to have come into general use; and it is a remarkable fact,
and given upon good information, that the value of bone-dust con-
sumed in this county during the present season has not been under
L.30,000.  Animalized carbon, a recent Danish discovery, has
also been tried, but it is believed with indifferent success.
   Leases and Rent.-The ordinary enduiarance of leases in the pa-
rish is nineteen years.  A large portion of the land is held by the
proprietors under strict entail, but the usual effect of that tenure
is not perceptible, either in the conduct of the tenantry or the con-
dition of the farm-steadings.  The rent of land is extremely va-
rious.  Favoured spots bring as much as L.2, 10s. to L.3 the
Scotch-acre; old infields are generally rated at about L.2; but
the average of the whole arable land is supposed to be from 12s. to
14s.  Upon some of the estates a part of their rent is paid nomi-
nally in meal at the fiars of the year, in the proportion of from one-
fourth to one-third of the whole rent, but more generally wholly
at a fixed money rent, and always so in the case of crofters and
small tenants.
   Live-Stock.-The cattle are chiefly of the old Aberdeenshire


