
162                       FORFARSHIRE.

extent of them has been improved and cultivated, and forms a very
productive soil. On the whole, this division of the parish may be
stated to be, in respect of soil, fully equal to any of those conti-
guous.
	With respect to the northern division of the parish, the cultivated
ground, is confined to the bottom of the glen, and in some cases to
partial spots, stretching up the sides of the rising grounds. The
greatest part of this soil is of a gravelly nature, exactly similar
both in kind and in fertility to that which we have already de-
scribed on the north side of the lower division. Farther up, on the
sides of the mountains, the soil is at first composed of the decayed
subjacent rocks, intermixed with vegetable matter, forming a very
good soil; but in general the ground is both too steep, and of too
great elevation, to be cultivated. A very large extent on the sides,
the summits, and the hollows of the mountains, is deeply covered
with moss. When there is a due mixture of earthy soil, and no
excess of surface water, the mountain pasturage is finely intermixed
with tender grass and heath, forming valuable sheep-walks; but,
when the soil is damp or mossy, the herbage is of a coarser de-
scription. This division of the parish is, in the particulars now
referred to, on a par with any of the contiguous mountain dis-
tricts, and even superior to some of them.
	Gravel Pits.--From the description which I have given of the
soil of the parish, it may be seen that there are in it many gravel
pits, the pebbles imbedded in which partake of the nature of Gram-
pian rock, or the subjacentrocks; and the trap does not appear to be
a stratified deposit, but a heterogeneous and disordered accumula-
tion. It has been remarked, that the particles of the sand at the
Loch of Kinnordy and at Roundy Hill, are globular, whereas those
of the sand at Auchlishie are angular; on which account this sand,
when mixed with Iine, is in high repute as a cement.
	Peat-Moss.--There are many peat-mosses in the parish. The
moss of Kinnordy has been wrought of late in a systematic man-
ner. Previous to 1810, the inhabitants of Kirriemuir were al-
lowed to dig peats in this moss for themselves; big they con-
ducted their operations in a manner so irregular, that the whole
surface had become covered with deep pits, and the belief had be-
come general, that the moss was exhausted. At this time, at a
considerable expense, the person who superintended the work
drained the moss according to a plan given by the eminent Mr


