
                      STRATHBLANE.                        79

royal family, in consequence of his marriage with Lady Agnes
Stewart, daughter to Matthew Earl of Lennox, (grandfather to
Henry Lord Darnle , the unfortunate husband of Queen Mary),
Sir William was made one of the Privy Council during the Queen's
minority.
  His son, Sir James, was appointed Justice-Deputy under the
Earl of Argyle, Justice-General, and was named one of the asses-
sors on the trial of the Earl of Gowrie, forthe celebrated conspi,-
racy against the liberty of King James VI., called the Raid of
Ruthven, A. D. 1582; but he appears himself implicated in a
plot of the same nature soon after. He was accused, together
with three others of the names of Douglas, Cunningham, and
Hamilton, of a design to convey the king to some place of con-
finement, till those lords who bad left the country in consequence
of their concern in the above conspiracy should be advertised. It
was believed to have been little more. than an idle conversation;
however, the four were seized, and indicted for high treason. Sir
James pleaded guilty, and threw himself on the King's mercy.
The others convicted of having held this treasonable design, were
executed. Sir James seems to have acted an unworthy part in
this business; and, being pardoned, he retired to Duntreath, which
he considerably enlarged. A stone, with his arms and cypher,
but without a date, marks this. The estate, however, was mort-
gaged by his son and successor, William, to Sir William Living-
ston of Kilsyth, and considerable estates purchased in the coun-
ties of Down and Antrim, in the north of Ireland. Fortunately,
however, his next successor, Archibald, resold part of the Irish
purchases, and redeemed the estate of Duntreath, though the fa-
mily residence continued to be, for above a century, chiefly at Red
Hall, in a district called Broadisland, in the county of Antrim.
This Archibald was a strict Presbyterian, and being returned
member for the county of Stirling, in the Parliament which met
at Edinburgh in 1633, in presence of King Charles I., he strong-
ly opposed every effort made by that monarch for the establish-
ment of Episcopacy in Scotland. He had two sons, William and
Archibald. Of these the elder, known as the Dumb Laird of
Duntreath, was disinherited, and put under the tutelage of his
brother, on account of having been born deaf and dumb. He
was, however, a person of great vivacity and cheerfulness, with a
very retentive memory; and, according to a portrait which exists
of him, of a handsome and intelligent countenance, it is record-


