
     of Alford.

   The number of horses in this parish is 172.  They are
well bodied and clean limbed, but they want a sufficiency of
bone*; and, as they seldom rise above 13, or 13 1/2 hands
high, they are under sized for draught.  Their other charac-
teristics are, a large ill-shaped head, with a thick neck and
stiff mane; they are hardy, and easily fed, and, upon the
whole, serviceable horses.  In this country, horses are not
generally employed in ploughing, but they draw the harrows,
which here are only used to cover the seed, and are by much
too light and unsit for any of the other purposes of agricul-
ture, to which proper harrows are applied.  They perform
all the cart work, which principally consists in journeys to
mill and market; in carrying home the corns in harvest, and
preparing and carting out dung.  Their food is the same as
that of horned cattle, with the addition of the light corn;
and this, with a little more attention to their cleanliness and
bedding, (though they are not rubbed down or curry-comb-
ed) keeps them more in flesh, and in better condition, than
other cattle.  By the rise of price,++ which, 40 years ago,
was from 2 L. to 3 L. for a horse, that now costs from 9 L. to
12 L., the breeding of horses has turned a profitable use of
land; and farmers endeavour, at least to supply themselves,
by keeping mares.  The number of carts in this parish, has
increased greatly within these 20 years, and is now 79

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some ill-judged attempts have probably been made, long ago, to raise
the size of the native horses of the country, by crossing them with tall well
bred horses, from other parts of the kingdom, without giving the progeny
proper and sufficient feeding to keep them up to the standard; for the de-
scription does not correspond with the common unmixed breeds of Scotch
horses.

++ The rise of price lately, is owing to the demand from the Southern
parts of Scotland, or North of England, where our small horses are said to
work in the collieries.


