
			EASSIE AND NEVAY.			479

was probably borrowed from the missals of those missionaries from
Rome who first brought the religion of the cross to its benighted
inhabitants. But the sculpture of the stone in this parish is re-
markable for the union of Pagan and Christian symbols. An or-
namental cross is blended with the symbols and ceremonies of an-
cient superstition. In looking back to the dawn of religion in a
country, it is difficult to mark with precision the line where the
darkness of mythology ends and the light of revelation begins.
But the union of idolatrous and evangelical symbols would indi-
cate, that Scotland was at the time passing from superstition to
Christianity. In that state of transition, the people had partially
abjured the one and partially embraced the other and they have
recorded their lingering attachment to the superstition of their fa-
thers, by blending on these monuments its still sacred symbols
with those of the new faith and thus we have an interesting re-
cord of the expiring struggle between the superstition of the na-
tive and the religion of the missionary.
	At what time, and by what people, were these monuments
erected? With regard to the first of these questions it would be
mere conjecture to fix the date precisely to a centurx, as it must even
be with all those "undated relics whose birth tradition notes not."
But they bear internal evidence of very high antiquity. Allusion
has already been made to the elaborate sculpture with which they
are ornamented, carrying us back to times of which there is no
other existing and authentic record. The union also of Pagan
and Christian symbols furnishes a clue to guide us to the period
of their erection. The Romans abandoned Britain early in the
fifth century. The inhabitants of the south of Scotland were
converted to Christianity about this period, but the northern pro-
vinces had not embraced it till near the close of the sixth. It
must therefore have been at some period subsequent to this that
the pillars with crosses and other Christian symbols engraven on
them, were erected. The Pictish period of Scottish history is
from 414 to 843; and although Pinkerton is disposed to assign
the period from 843 to 1056 for engraven obelisks still there is
strong probability that they were executed some time between the
seventh and the ninth century, and before the close of the Pictish
period.
	With regard to the second question, by "what people they
were erected?"-it is supposed by some that they are Danish
There are, how, very strong objections to this view. In the
	FORFAR.				Ii


