
568                     PERTHSHIRE.

rishioners after the militia ferment of 1798, and cannot yet be
said to have acquired its former regularity.
     Antiquities.-Cille Aindreas, St Andrews, lies upon the banks
of the Tilt, and immediately to the south of the inn.  The sepul-
chral remains which were found there, and the names of some ad-
joining grounds, indicate that the place was the site of an ecclesi-
astical establishment. Dail-an-t-sagairt, the priest's field, is near
the spot. The establishment may have been removed to Kilma-
veonaig, as a more convenient situation, and dedicated to St Eonaig.
   A complete or perfect specimen of a Druidical temple is not
to be met with in the parish. Single upright stones, which are evi-
dently a part of such temples, are to be seen in several places. An
upright stone at Pittagowan is still known by the name of Clach
an iobairt, the sacrifice stone. Some writers have maintained that
the circular stones so frequent in the Highlands, were places where
Druids assembled for the administration of justice, and not for any
religious service. Whether that be the case or not, the customs
and the language of the Highlanders evince a connection between
these stones and religious purposes. Burying grounds are found
near these Druidical temples, and to this very day, a village, where
a church is situated, is called, An clachan, the place of stones. Am
bheil thu dol do'n chlachan, are you going to the stones? is the
common Gaelic expression for, are you going to church?
   Buildings.-Blair Castle, the baronial mansion of the Atholl fa-
mily, is the residence of Lord Glenlyon. It is a building of great
strength, magnitude, and extent. The date of its erection is not
known.  It is generally supposed to have been built by John of
Strathbogic, a Cumin, who became Earl of Atholl in right of his
wife. A part of the castle is still known by the name of Cumin's
Tower. Its locality rendered it an important military post in the
warfare of feudal times; and in 1750, two stories were taken from
its height, and the great military garrison of the country convert-
ed into a modern building. Whether James, Duke of Atholl,
acted from personal feelings, or in obedience to a mandate of the
privy-council, it is much to be regretted that the turrets, embra-
sures, and bartisans of his feudal castle should have been demo-
lished and replaced by a plane pavilion roof.  Its apartments, how-
never, are numerous and elegant, and its accommodations are suited
to the residence of a ducal family.  The park contains many
hundred acres of excellent arable land, exclusive of its extensive
plantations; the garden is large and productive; the gravel walks


