
582
               ARGYLESIIIRE.

have no very great diversity. The bills, though rising to a height
approaching to 3000 feet above the level'of the sea, are not suffi-
ciently lofty to produce the rarer species of Scottish alpine plants, yet
several plants do occur which are highly interesting to the botanist.
   The sea shore affords two plants that cannot fail to strike the
attention of one who walks upon the sandy or shinglv portion of
the beach between Diinoon and Toward. The first is the yel-
low-horned poppy (Clielidonium mojus), with its large vellow blos-
soms, and singular seed-vessels; the other, a plant indeed peculiar
to northern coasts, is the sea-side Gromwell (Lithospermum mari-
timum). It sends forth from a pdrennial central root a number of
procumbent stems, clothed with bright, purplish, blue flowers, and
fleshy leaves of a sea-green colour, observed to possess a flavour,
when eaten fresh, exactly similar to that of oysters. The sctirvy-
grass (Cochlearia offici?zalis), and the grass wrack (Zostera marina)
so much employed in the Hebrides, Orkneys, and Iceland, for
stuffing beds, are also common on the beach. Moist and-marsby
grounds present us with the pale butterwort (Pinguicula lusitanica),
a species first found in Portugal, whence its specific name, and which
has since been ascertained to be a native of the western side of
England, Wales, and Scotland; while, strange to say, it grows no-
where in'tbe interior of our island, nor can it be discovered on the
eastern coast. It yields in beauty to the common butterwort (P.
vulgaris), but its rarity recommends it to the plant collector. In
the same kind of localities is found the Gipseywort (Lycopus Euro-
paeus) ; the black bog rush (Schoonus n . ricans) ; the curious and
minute tbyme-leaved flax-seed (Radioa millegrana), which latter
grows at Toward Point; Myosotis palustris, with its turquoise-co-
loured blossoms, which is the true 11 forget me not;" brook-weed
(Samohis Valerandi); marsh-violet (Viola palustris) ; the grass of
Parnassu; (Parnassia palustris), affording a beautiful example of
nectaries, or honey-bearing glands in a flower; the long-leaved sun-
dew (Drosera longifolia) ; the great bilberrv, or bog whortl berry
(Vaccinium uliginosum), of which the fruit is large and esculen4
and the foliage used by the Icelanders, mixed with the alpine club
moss, to, pr odtice t yellow dye for woollen stuffs; the yellow moun-
tain saxifrage (Saxifraga aizoides); and higher up ttie hills the
starry saxifrage (S. stellaris) ; the large-flowered bitter-cre
(Cardamine amara), in the glen near' Mr Malcolm's beautiful
villa in the vicinity of Dutioon-' the marsh dandelion (Leonto-
don palustre). Also, among orchideou plants, the early purple


