
	               LATHERON.                               101

the principal source whence the revenue of the parish is derived.
This fishing commences about the middle of July, when the her-
ring usually make their appearance in small shoals on the coast,
and continues till the middle of September. Great numbers of
young men come from Assynt in Sutherlandshire, and Lochbroom
and Lewis in Ross-shire, to engage as hired hands. They are
employed by the owners of the boats to make up the boats' crew
along With themselves, and receive from L. 3 to L. 4 each, for six
weeks, besides their victuals. Each boat carries four men, and is
furnished with from twenty to thirty-eight nets, according to the
size of the boat. A good boat costs L. 50, and her drift of nets
L. 76; a sum too large for one individual, and consequently there
are generally two and sometimes more who share in the same boat.
They usually last in a seaworthy state about twelve years, and
the nets six years. No employment can be prosecuted with great-
er spirit and assiduity; and few scenes are more enlivening, both
on land and water, than it occasions, especially when any measure
of success attends the labours of the fishermen. The boats usu-
ally leave the shore from five, o'clock to Seven o'clock in the after-
noon, according to the direction of the wind and the distance at which
the fish are supposed to be found, and shoot their nets about dusk.
In this state they remain, with the boat attached to each drift by
means of a head rope, and slowly carried east or West by the tide,
until about three o'clock the next morning. Then all hands are em-
ployed in hauling in the nets and fish at the boat's stern, where
they remain together, dispersed all over the boat, till it comes to
shore, when they commence the operation of disengaging the fish
from the meshes of the net, by shaking the nets. This ope-
ration is frequently performed at the time of hauling the nets,
should time and the weather permit. The herring being thus
separated from the nets, are immediately landed and deposit-
ed in the curing box, where a number of women are engaged in
gutting and packing them in barrels with salt. Having deli-
vered their fish, they bundle up their nets, carry them on shore,
and spread them out carefully one over the other. Here they re-
main to dry, until taken up again in the afternoon to be used as
formerly. After securing their boats, they return to their homes,
take some refreshment, and a few hours repose, as their time per-
mits, and proceed to take up their nets, and put to sea again for
the next night's fishing. In this, manner they proceed for five suc-
cessive nights, every week. Sometimes, however, when the quan-


