
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities.-Dunfermline became at an early period a
royal residence.  Malcolm III. surnamed Canmore or
Great Head, usually resided in a tower or castle, erected

<FOOTNOTE>

loudly complains of the misapplication of the tithes, the scanty provision
made for the Presbyterian clergy, the neglect of the poor, and the little
attention paid to schools and churches.  In the dedication to the Earl of
Marr Regent, Mr Fergusson mentions his reasons for publishing this ser-
mon, and his having laid it before the General Assembly, who by a Com-
mittee approved of the same."  Albert, (says he), my mynd nor purpois
was not (richt Nobill and worthie Lord), to have published this sermo
at any time, zit because it did not fructisie as I supposit it suld have done,
being, (as sayis Exechiel), lyke a tone or pleasant sang to the heirers for
a season, thair hartis in the meane time still going cster their covetouf-
nes, provokit also be the malitious toungis of s11, and eirnestly requeistit
be utheris.  At length I was compellit, (for farther instructioun of the
negligent heirers, the stopping of the mouthis of evill speikeris, and the
satisfactioon of the incessant requeistu of gude and godlie men), to be-
stow and spend sum time and travel, to put it in the same forme and
ordour, that it was spokin and preichit in befoir zour Grace.  Quhilk
quhe I had faithfully performit, (as all tha that heard it, quhen thay sall
reid it agane I trow will testifie), distrusting myne awin judgement,
I presentit it to the kirk now lastly assemblit in Perth, the sext of August,
that they qha (for the maist part) wer heireris of it micht judge asweil
of the soundnes of the doctrine contenit into it, as of my sinceritie in the
wryting thairof, and sa micht allow, or disallow it, as it meritit, unto
the quhilk besines the kirk appointit Johne Erskin of Dun, superintend-
ent of Angus, M. Johne Dowglas, Bischop of Sanctandrois, M. Johne
Winram, superintendent of Stratherne, M. Knox, minister of Edinburgh,
and Williame Christison, minister of Dundie, qha diligently red and ap-
provit the same, subscriving it with thair handis, in the name of the haill
kirk, as a sermon consonant and aggreabill to Goddis word".....
Zour humanitie and gentilnes, qhairof not only I, bot almaist all uther
men, have experience, muifis me to be sa hamely as to offer and dedicate
sa small a wark unto zour Grace, etc.  From Dunfermlyne, the 20th day
of August, Anno 1572.  Be zour Grace's humbill subject and daylie Ora-
tour David Fergussone, Minister of Christis Evangell."-A short speci-
men of the sermon itself will not it is presumed be unacceptable.-
"Brethren, for my part I wald ze had Angelis to zour ministeris, gif
ze wer worthy of thame, or that it wer the will of God, bot seeing that


