
                              UNITED PARISHES OF

                              EVIE AND RENDALL.

                   PRESBYTERY OF KIRKWALL, SYNOD OF ORKNEY.

                     THE REV. DAVID PITCAIRN, MINISTER.


                    I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
              THESE parishes have retained their present names from time
            immemorial, and nothing satisfactory can be said as to their ety-
            mology.
              Extent, &c.-The parish of Evie, which is the most northerly
            of the two, runs from north-west to south-east, about 6 miles in
            length, being very narrow towards the northern extremity, and
            gradually increasing in breadth, till it joins the parish of Ren-
            dall, which is much more compact, and may be estimated to ex-
            tend from 4 to 5 miles square.
              Situation, &c.-These parishes are situated on what is commnnly
            called the mainland of the Orkney Islands. They are bounded on
            the north, by the ocean; on the north-east, east, and south-east,
            by a sound or frith, which separates them from the islands of En-
            hallow, Rousay, Wyre, Gairsay, and Shapinshay. The southern
            boundary is partly a bay of the sea, called Darnsay sound, and
            partly the parish of Firtb. To the west of Rendall lies the pa-
            rish of Harray; and the parish of Birsay meets Evie on the north-
            west.
              Topographical Appearances.-Costa-head forms the northern
            termination of Evie. It is a hill of considerable size and eleva-
            tion, presenting to the ocean a face of bold and precipitous rock.
            From Costa, there is a contiguous range of bill ground, which di-
            vides these parishes from Birsay and Harray. These hills are cover-
            ed with peat moss or heath, mixed with coarse grass. Their outline
            and general aspect is exceedingly tame and uninteresting. In height,
            they are very uniform, and probably not more than from 300 to 400
            feet above the level of the sea. There are also hills of smaller di-
            mension, but of the same character, which intersect the parish of


