
     Statistical Account

minister enjoys, from the possession of a small adjacent farm,
which the family of Breadalbane have continued on easy
terms, for time immemorial, to the successive incumbents of
the parish.  Without some such tenement for supplying the
necessaries of life, the situation of the minister of an inland
highland parish, far from markets, and with a numerous fa-
mily, would often be very distressing.  It is but justice to say,
that it has been the general practice of both the noble fami-
lies of AGRYLL and BREADALBANE, in almost all the parishes
connected with them, to do every thing kind and reasonable
for the comfortable accommodation of their ministers.  This
testimony of acknowledgment, the present incumbent of
Glenorchay and Inishail owes also to his other heritors, who
are 5 in number, viz. Campbell of Lochnell, Campbell of
Monzie, M'Dougall of Hayfield, Campbell of Combie, and
Lindsay of Boccaird.  The Duke of Argyll is patron.-In no
part of the kingdom has patronage been exercised with more
marked attention to the heritors and people of a parish, than
in this country.  Violent settlements are not known in our
bounds.  The rights of patronage and of law are therefore
respected by the people +.
 
<FOOTNOTE>

+The following singular fact is the only instance to the contrary.  At
the revolution, when presbytery is last re-established in North Britain, a Mr,
Dugald Lindsay was the Episcopal minister of Glenorchay.  Mr. Lindsay
would not conform.  Pressed by the synod of Argyll, the noble proprietor of
the country reluctantly wrote a letter of invitation to a presbyterian proba-
tioner, in the shire of Perth, to be minister of Glenorchay.  He accepted; came
on the close of a week to the parish, but could find no house to receive him, or
person to make him welcome.  In his distress, he was drove to the house of the man
whom he came to supplant, and was received with acordiality and kindness,
becoming a minister of the gospel.  Over the whole parish, there was a strong
ferment.  People of all ages and conditions assembled, from all quarters, in the
church-yard, on Sabbath, long before the usual hour of worship.  At the ap-
pearance of the stranger, accompanied by their own pastor, there was a general


