
                     TARLAND AND MIGVIE.                        843

be seen, on a small eminence, the ruins of a castle, the quondam
property and residence of the Earl of Mar, and where the feu-
duties of the proprietor of Blelach, in parish of Logie-Coldstone,
were appointed by his eharters to be paid annually to the supe-
rior.  At what period this castle was reduced to ruins cannot be
ascertained.  Its site is now all under green turf; but it might be
an object worthy of the attention of the proprietor, Mr Farquhar-
son of Finzean, to excavate the ruins, and expose its original plan
and dimensions.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>
	Amount of populati on in 1801,	.     922
				       1811,	.     932
				       1821,	.     964
				       1831,	.    1074
				       1841,	.    1093

   There are no residing heritors in these parishes, with the ex-
ception of the proprietors of Inverernan, Ediuglassie, and Canda-
craig.

                           IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture, &c.-The average rent of land in these parishes
may be stated at L.1, 10s. per acre, with the exception of the
ground adjoining the village of Tarland, which rents at L.3 per
acre.  The spirit of agricultural improvement has shone very
conspicuously throughout the district, for these twenty years
past.  Lime and coals are brought from Aberdeen and other
places equidistant.  The general duration of leases is nine-
teen years, and the farm-buildings are generally substantial and
commodious.  Tarland is the only market-town in these pa-
rishes, or in the Cromar district.  There are seven annual mar-
kets: Breagfair, held at Martinmas; Yule market, in January ;
horse-market in March; Rood-fair, at Whitsunday; a market for
cows the week following; Luag fair in July; and Lammas fair in
August.  A weekly market was held for many years in the burgh,
but has been discontinued for twenty or thirty years past. To
these markets, cattle, horses, sheep, and such commodities as the
country and seasons furnish, are brought; and much commercial
intercourse with the district is thereby promoted.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Village.-The village of Tarland is a burgh of barony, and con-
sits of 68 houses and families.  Prior to 1799, four tenants held
the whole village and ground attached (say 150 acres) in lease
from the Earl of Aberdeen, the proprietor; and all other house-


