
78                      BERWICKSHIRE.

They were at first confined to a small part of a field, which was dug
with the spade for the purpose. But after their utility became known,
every person in the parish who had a house was furnished with a
piece of land as large as their manure would cover, on which to
grow potatoes.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-It appears that a much greater
part of the parish was in tillage in ancient times than now, as is evi-
dent from various fields, which, though they have long lain in a
state of pasture, bear the marks of the plough; and even as far up
as the Twinlaw vaults, the high ridges and low furrows of the an-
cient system of ploughing are still visible; heather is fast covering
several places where good grain was wont to be reared. Notwith-
standing this, however, the agriculture of the parish has been ad-
vancing at a rapid rate of improvement for the last twenty-five
years.
   The number of acres which are either cultivated or occasionally
in tillage is 11,000. The land which is under wood may amount
to about 850 acres, including both natural and planted wood, be-
sides which, there are about 150 acres lying in a state of moss.
The total number of acres in the parish will thus be 12,000.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land is 12s. per acre.
The average rent of grazing for an ox is L. 3; for a full-grown
sheep in the low lands 10s.; in the high lands of the parish, 5s.
The total rental of the parish is upwards of L. 5000.
   Rate of Wages.-The yearly wages of a man-servant is L. 9, with
his victuals; of a female who lives in the house, L. 7, with her vic-
tuals; of a hind, L. 25; of a herd, L. 28. Women, in summer,
who are bondagers, * receive 10d. a-day; those who are not bon-
dagers, 1s, both without victuals; in winter they receive at the
rate of 1d. an hour. Tailors receive from 1s. 4d. to 1s. 6d., and
their victuals; wrights, 2s. 6d.; smiths are paid L. 3 per yoke of
horse; dikers are paid 2s. per rood, 5 1\2 feet high; labourers from
1s. 6d. to 2s.
   Live-Stock.-The breed of cattle and sheep has been greatly im-

<FOOTNOTE>The class of servants here called bondagers are not less free and independent than
other labourers, but they are distinguished from others by being engaged by the hinds
or ploughmen to perform upon their master's farm the ordinary work of weeding, hoe-
ing, barn-work, &c. They receive a rate of wages for the half year similar to that of
house-servants. The hind pays these half years' wages, with board to the bondager ;
but receives the day-wages earned by the latter, which are generally equivalent to the
wages and board. This arrangement is found convenient, and even necessary, to the
various operations of a farm in thinly peopled districts.


