
                            DYCE.                          127

risk and labour.  On an improved farm (especially where the soil
is of unequal quality) leases should be granted not arbitrarily, but
to correspond with a suitable rotation of cropping.
   Farm-Buildings.-The farm houses are in general substantial,
and several on the estates of Caskieben and Dyce are built in a
very ornamental style, usually that of the cottage orn‚e.  The
steadings attached to these are very complete, arranged in the figure
of a square, slated, and with thrashing-mills attached.  Most of
the farms in this parish are inclosed, and several of them thorough-
ly and substantially, with stone walls four feet high. The expense
of these enclosures is from 4d. to 6d. an ell, excluding the mate-
rials.  At the same time, there are considerable exceptions to these
favourable statements.  In some parts of the parish farm-buildings
and enclosurer are very indifferent, in a few instances, even little less
wretched than they are in general found commodious and substan-
tial.  It need hardly be mentioned, that the latter description ap-
plies chiefly to small farms where the soil is of very inferior qua-
lity.  It is only fair to add, that even in these cases there seems at
present a decided tendency towards improvement.
   Improvements.-Little, comparatively. speaking, remains to be
done in the way of reclaiming waste land.  During the last twenty
years, six or seven hundred acres of barren soil have been improved.
On the north and west all that can be done has already been ac-.
complished, and if the extensive improvements now in progress
through other parts of the parish be carried into effect with the
same energy and perseverance as they have hitherto been pursued,
all the barren land which has the smallest chance of being culti-
vated with success will be reclaimed in the course of a verv few
years.  Mr Hervey, who holds the farm of Bedlieston from William
Gordon, C. S., Esq. has raised a very extensive embankment for
the protection of his valuable haugh land against the inundations
of the river Don.  It has hitherto proved effectual, with the excep-
tion of a few cases when the river has risen to a very unusual ex-
tent, as in August 1829. *  There are no obstacler to improvement
in any way peculiar to this parish.  The low price of grain, high
rents, short leases, bad roads, and incessant agitation of the corn
laws, are of course severely felt here as in other places.  The pay-
ment of miln multures, which seems to have been considered a se-

<FOOTNOTE>Within the last three years, however, several of these high floods have occurred.
There can be no doubt this is owing to the multiplication of drains.  As both spring
and surface draining is still continuing to progress, it will probably soon become ne-
cessary to throw a great proportion of haugh land permanently into grass.


