
                           DALSERF.                         731

Robert Hamilton of Dalserf has his name recorded as having
fought for that princess at the battle of Langside in 1568, and as
having incurred forfeiture on that account.  But the following ex-
tracts from the " Acta Parliamentorum," would seem to indicate
that there is some mistake in this.  " At Edinburgh, 12th July
1568, compeared, Johnne Ramage, reider at the kirk of Dal-
serf, as excusator of Robert Hamilton of Dalserf, and schew,
that the said Robert is sua vexit with infirmities, and sa unable,
that be has lyne bedfast thir eight yeires begane, like as is known
to ane part of the nobility now present, and was ready to make
oath thereupon."  Whatever share the above Robert may have
had personally in the affair at Langside, his son Robert, and his
brother Patrick were probably present at the battle; at least they
were forfeited, but returned from exile with the Lords in 1585.
Gavin Hamilton of Raploch, and commendator of Kilwinning,
was also at Langside along with the Hamiltons; was one of Mary's
commissioners at York in 1570; and was included in the treaty
of Perth in 1572.  John Hamilton of Broomhill was not only
wounded and taken prisoner at the same battle, but about two
years afterwards had his house burnt to ashes by Sir William
Drury, Governor of Berwick.
   During the persecuting reigns of Charles II. and James II., the
inhabitants of this parish, in common with the whole neighbour-
hood, suffered much hardship on account of their resistance to
Episcopacy.  Traditions of the sufferings of their forefathers are
still cherished in several families.  The then laird of Raploch
made himself notorious by his officious zeal in behalf of the go-
vernment, and his severity towards his Presbyterian neigbbours.
He survived for several years the Revolution of 1688, and lies
buried in the church-yard of Dalserf.  His memory is still in bad
odour in the parish, and his tomb is pointed out at this day as
that of " the persecuting Raploch."
   By an old decreet of locality of stipend to Mr Francis Aird,
minister of Dalserf, of date 19th May 1721, it appears, that, at
that period, the land of the parish was in the hands of the fol-
lowing heritors, viz. " The Noble and Potent Prince, William,
Duke of Hamilton; Sir James Hamilton of Broomhill, Knight
Barronett; Gavin Hamilton of Rapploch; Cuthbert Hamilton of
Cander; William Hamilton of Dalserf; Robert Hamilton of
Milnburn; James Hamilton of Neilsland, (in Hamilton parish,)
and James Wood, portioner of Auld Machane, heritors of the lands


