
                             MUTHILL.                           321

       The modern castle is a little east from the old, on the, same
    rock, and forms two sides of a sptare, and although not, at all, such
    a mansion as the family would have, were they residing constantly
    in this place, it is, however, comfortable as a summer residence during
    their visit, and is often the abode of the first nobility of the land.
       In the castle, there are a few paintings which interest the con.
    noisseur.  Amongst these, we may notice the following: Charles I.
    with his Queen and children, Duchess of Ancaster, Lady Ann Gor-
    don, Lady Ann Drummond, Lady Sarah Bruce, Cardinal Howard,
    Lord and Lady Perth, James V., James VI., two of Queen Mary,
    one in her sorrowful, the other in her happier days, a full-length
    of Peregrine Beatie, Lord Willoughby de Eresby, 1555, George
    second Marquis of Huntly, the Duke of Perth, James fourth Earl
    of Perth, Lord High Chancellor of Scotland, 1684, the Chan-
    cellor's son, &c.
       Other Families.-Other families of high respectability connect-
    ed with this parish, are those of the house of Ardoch, of Orchill,
    and Braco; and Lord Viscount Strathallan, who lives at Strathal-
    lan Castle, Blackford parish, has also a part of his property in this
    parish.
       Eminent Men.- Few individuals connected with this parish have
    risen to any great distinction, in science or literature, if we except
    Dr Barclay, so famed for his skill in anatomy, and his writings
    thereon.  His uncle, the Rev.  John Barclay, founder of the sect
    styled the Bereans, may be noticed as born in this parish.
       Rental.-The valued rent of the parish in 1835 was L.7784,
    9s. 4d.  Scotch.  Real rent in 1831, L.14,937 Sterling.
       Camps at Ardoch.-All antiquaries who have written on the
    subject of Roman camps in Scotland, have alluded to those at
    Ardoch. These camps deserve this distinction, as the most entire
    in this country, nay, perhaps in Britain; but we believe they would
    not have been half so much noticed, were it not for the mystery
    about them, as to whether they were the Castra Stativa of Agri-
    cola, when on this side of Bodotria, skirmishing with the Caledo-
    nian leader Galgacus, or the abode of some other Roman or fo-
    reign foe.
       It is not our intention, in noticing these camps, to dispute
    with the many great authorities, from Richard Cirencestert Hec-
    tor Boetius, &c., down to a Lieutenant- Colonel Miller, who have
    published on this subject; but we shall adhere to the rife of Agri-
    cola, written by his son-in-law, as the only common source to
     PERTH.                            X


