
                              EDENKILLIE.                 191

   there is a considerable portion now in his own- hands, bold a dis-
   tinguished place. Much waste land has been reclaimed and more
   in course of being so. The most approved system of farming'his
   been adopted. Fields have been enclosed, generally with sunk
   fences faced with stone, along the tops of which Are planted rows
   of forest trees, or hedge-rows of thorn or beech.
      The mode of drying land by wedge drains, according to the plan
   recommended by Mr Smith of Deanston, has been practised to a
   very considerable extent; and the subsoil-plotioh, which Mr Cum-
   ming Brtce introduced two years ago, promises to form, another
   era in the improvement of agriculture in this parish.
      Manufactures.-There are three corn-mills in the parish, viz.
   the Dunpbail, the Logie, and Half-davoch. The Dunphail mills
   include an oat-mill, one for barley, one for sawing tirnber, a
   thirashing-mill, and till lately there was a carding-mill, all under
   the same roof, and wrouoht by the same stream of water.
                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Markets, Means of Communication, &c.-The nearest market-
   town is Forres, at the distance of eight miles and three-quarters,
   from the parish church. Nairn is fourteen miles, and Grantowti
   thirteen miles, from the same place. At Forres, is also. the near-
   est post-office; but runners carrying the mail, bag betwixt Forres.
   and Grantown, which is conveyed in a gig from the latter place to
   Aviemore, one of the stages on the Highland road from Inverness,
   to Perth, pass twice a day along the road extending throughout.
   the whole length of the parish on the east of the river Findhorn.
   Several carriers pass weekly along the same road. The turnpike
   road within the parish on the above line, nine miles of which were!
   made about ten years ago, is eleven miles in length; and three
   more by the old route from Forres to Grantown. From, the turn-
   pike rnad, about half a mile above the church, there is a parish.
   road by the bridge of Dalt-lich, across the Findhorn, and through
   the forest of Darnaway, to the toll-road between Inverness and
   Aberdeen. Besides these, from ten to twelve miles of roads have
   been made by Sir William Cumming on his property within, the
   parish; which, with roads of several. miles in length made by Mr
   Cumming Bruce, afford excellent means of communication to al-
   most every part of the parish. There are, three toll-bars within
   the parish; but travellers passing along the whole length of, the
   toll-road pay only at two of them.
      Bridges.-By the floods of 1829, two substantial stone bridges


