
     of Killearn.

<FOOTNOTE>

glas, the tuentyeth day of Aprile Im vije and fourty-one years, by Robert
Bontein of Mildovan, before William M'Lea his servant, and Mr Wil-
liam Johnston schoolmaster at Balglas, the said Robert Bontein having
filled up his first date, and witnesses names and designations.  At Balli-
kinrain the tuintie-first day of foresaid moneth and year, by James Napier
of Ballikinrain, before Alexander Yuill his servant, and Gibert Couan,
tenant in Ballikinrain, the said James Napier having filled up this second
date, witnesses names and designations.  Att Boquhan the tuenty-second
day of Aprile, moneth forsaid, and year, by Hugh Buchanan of Balquhan,
before there witnesses, John Paterson and Robert Duncan, both tenants
yr. Att Glins, the tuenty-seventh day of moneth and year foresaid, be-
fore these witneses, Walter Monteath of Keyp, and John Buchanan
younger of Glins.  Att Easter Glins, the twenty-seventh day of moneth
and year foresaid, before these witnesses, Walter Monteath of Keyp, and
Thomas Wright younger of Easter Glins, subscribet be Alexander Wright
of Peusid.  Att Ammere, the first day of Mey seventin hundred and
fortie-one years, befor thees witnes, Arsbelt Leckie of Arnmere, and
Walter Menteath younger of Keyp, Walter Monteath, att above place,
day, date, year, and witnesses, by James Key portioner of Edenbelly,
month, date, place, and year aforesaid, before these witnesses, Walter
Monteath therein, and Walter Monteith younger of Keyp, and by Ro-
bert Galbraith at Fintrie, fourth May, before Robert Farrie of Balgro-
chan, and James Ure, tenant in Hilltowne of Balgair.

Will Johnston, witness.      Robert Bontein of Mildovan, for my
William M'Lea, witness.         lands of Balglas in the paroch of
Gilbert Cowan, witness.         Killern, being Three hundred and
Alexander Yuill, witness.       fifty pound of valuation; and
John Paterson, witness.         lands of Provanstoun, in the pa-
Robert Duncan, witness.         roch of Balfron, Ninety-seven
Walter Monteath, witness.       pound seven shilling valuation.
John Buchanan, witness       James Napier of Ballikinrain, for
Thomas Wright, witness.         my lands in the paroch of Killern,
Archibald Leckie, witness.      being Two hundred and fixtie
Walter Monteith, witness.       pound of valuation.  And for my
Alexander Wright, witness.      Lord Napier's lands in said pa-
Archibald Leckie, witness.      roch, being Three hundred and
Walter Monteath, witness.       twentie-eight pound of valuation.
Walter Monteath, witness.       And for Culcreuch's lands in the
Robert Farrie, witness.         paroch of Fintrie, being Seven


