
36                        ROSS AND CROMARTY.

parish.  The larger are used for the herring, and the small for
the ordinary fishing.

                       V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

  Marhet-Towns.--Cromarty and Tain are the nearest market-
towns.  The former is separated from the parish by the Ferry,
about a mile broad; and the latter is six miles distant from the
part of the parish that is nearest to it.  Cromarty and Parkhill are
the post-offices.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is not more than four
miles from any extremity of the parish.  It appears to have been
built in 1626; but it has received several repairs, more especially
in 1725 and 1786.  It affords legal accommodation for 425 per-
sons, and all the sittings are free, thouhg formally divided among
the heritors.  The manse was built about 1758, and repaired fre-
quently since.  The glebe is 4 1/2 acres, and worth L. 10 of rent.
The stipend is 15 chalders, half meal half barley.  There are up-
wards of 11 chalders of vacant teinds.  There is a dissenting chapel
of the United Associate Synod connexion.  The minister's salary
is said to be L. 120, besides innumerable perquisites, and is paid
out of the seat-rents and collections at the door.  The chapel does
not give any thing to support the poor.
  It is impossible to state with accuracy the number of families that
attend either the Established Church or Dissenting meetings-
house, as families are in many instances divided.  160 families may,
however, be mentioned as belonging to the parish church, and 120
to the Dissenting meeting-house.  74 is the average number of
communicants of the Established Church, of whom there are 18
male heads of families.  The collections for the poor vary from
L. 10 to L. 12 a-year.  About L. 16 may be contributed other-
wise to religious and charitable objects.
  Education.--There is one parish school, which is not well si-
tuated for the population, though it is near the centre of the pa-
rish.  There is likewise a female school endowed with L. 5 a-year
by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, and there
are two unendowed schools.  None of them is well attended.  The
Parochial schoolmaster's salary is L. 34; and the amount of school
fees less than L. 5.   He has the legal accommodation.  The
school fees in all the schools vary from 1s. to 3s. 6d. per quarter.
But they are seldom well paid, the parents being in general very
poor, and many of them perhaps ignorant of the value of educa-
tion to their children.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.--62 persons receive each from


