
    104	                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

             			IV.-INDUSTRY.
       Agriculture and Rural Economy.-By a plan of the parish, tak-
    en by Mr Bell of Edinburgh, and lying in the possession of the
    proprietor at Castle-Craig it appears that the measurement of
    the parish in Scotch acres is 2642.  Of these there are under
    cultivation 2072 acres; 320 capable of a profitable cultivation,
    were the markets to become a little more, favourable; and 250 in-
    capable of a profitable cultivation; in undivided common, 8; un-
    der wood, 27.  The trees planted are ash, elm, beech, plane, and
    fir of different descriptions.
	Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land, per acre, is
    15s.; of sheep-walk, 2s. 6d. per acre.
	Rate of Wages.-The rate of labour for agricultural purposes is
    for hired male-servants, per year, from L.8 to L.12; hired female
    do. in summer, from L.3 to L.3, 15s., and in winter, from L.1,
    15s. to L.2, 5s.
	Breeds of Live-Stock.-The few sheep kept are of the black-
    faced description, and form but an inconsiderable item.  As stock,
    they have, we believe, received but little attention; but the dairy
    being here a principal source of income to the Cultivators of the
    soil, the cows, chiefly of the Ayrshire breed, are objects of great
    care, and so attentive have the farmers been to their improvement,
    that at the neighbouring exhibition at Biggar not a few of the
    prizes annually fall among us.
	Husbandry.-The system of cultivation pursued is of the most
    approved character.  The rotation followed is that which has
    found most favour with experienced and intelligent judges in mo-
    dern times. Lime, though brought from a distance, is much em-
    ployed; and draining and irrigation, so far as they are practicable
    and profitable, are highly popular.  From the spirit of activity in-
    troduced, there are not many acres remaining unreclaimed which
    could be cultivated with profit, while grain is so low in price; and
    there are a few spots now under the plough of a rather thin soil,
    which perhaps would yield a better return in pasture than in crop.
	The farm-buildings, though not so excellent as in some other
    parts of the country, are in general commodious and suitable to
    the requirements of their occupants.  The leases are ordinarily
    of nineteen years' duration; and though probably too short where
    there is much new land to be broken up, they seem sufficiently an-
    swerable in the circumstances in which husbandry has already
    been placed.


