
     Statistical Account

   Surgeons, Diseases, etc.-There are four surgeons in this
parish, who, having been all well educated to their pro-
fession, are, according to the mode of the country, consulted
and consided in as physicians, except in extraordinary
cases, when doctors graduate are called from Ediburgh;
which, being so nigh at hand, is the reason why no physi-
cian has ever settled here.  The parish is remarkably
healthy.  Epidemical distempers are seldom fatal. except
the small-pox, which now and then sweeps away too many
children.  Inoculation is by no means universal, which is
probably owing to the influence the sectaries have over
the minds of their neighbours; an observation that is de-
rived from a perusal of many of the Statistical Accounts
already published.  They have, nevertheless,  great en-
couragement to extend the practice, as one of the surgeons,
who has not been settled here above 3 years, has inoculated
above 200, without having lost one.  The havock hitherto
made by the small pox, however, cannot be very great,
as during the whole course of these 40 years last, (the fu-
neral records of which the writer of this account has exa-
mine), the highest average for 12 years is 159, and the
greatest number in any one of these years is only 219.
Forty years ago, there were but three persons in the parish
who had ever been troubled with the gout, and two of
those were not natives.  At present they are chiefly stran-
gers who are troubled with that disease.  The gravel is
also rare, which may be owing to the goodness of the wa-
ter, or rather to that new brisk small beer without hops,
which is the common beverage of the peope; though not
so much as it was formerly, as the twopenny has degene-
rated; and cheap whisky, that bane of the health and mo-
rals of the people, has been substituted in its room.  Nothing
seems more worthy of the attention of the Legislature, than
those circumstances, however minute, which tend to cor-
rupt the morals of the commons of this country, who have
so long been remarkable for sobriety and virtue.


