
            368                   BANFFSHIRE.

            of landed property in another parish has his residence here.
            There are no other inhabitants of independent fortune.
              The people are very, intelligent, thrifty, and good bargain mak-
            ers.  Considering the distance of many frow church, they attend
            public worship with commendable regularity.  The lower orders
            have certainly much improved in morality since the suppression of
            smuggling-a tempting employment-for which the parish had
            great facilities.

				 IV.-INDUSTRY.
              Agriculture.-In consequence of the w`nt of any thing like a
            complete plan of the extensive estate of Arndilly, it has been
            found impossible to give the full table of extents required under
            this head.  From such plans as there are of detached portions of
            that estate, and from the information furnished by the proprietor
            and tenants, the extent of the arable ground upon it, deducting the
            portion in the parish of Rothes, the rate of rent per arable acre,
            and the extent of improveable ground have been ascertained in a
            tolerably close approximation to the truth, and are so added in
            the table below to these particulars, as exhibited on the plans of
            the other properties in the parish.   But of the large number of
            acres under wood, in green pasture, and in heath upon Arndilly,
            the information obtained is quite insufficient for an accurate state;
            and hence the parochial extents of these cannot be given.
            Imperial acres cultivated on Arndilly estate,                    1512
                                         Auchlunkart do.                     1401
                                         Knockan do.                          126
                                         Earl of Seafield's do.              1700
                                                                    Total,   4739
            Imperial acres that might be profitably taken from the waste into cultivation,  600
                           in undivided common,                                            None
               Rent of Land.-Average rent per imperial acre, including rights
            of pasturage more or less extensive belonging to each farm, 18S. 7d.
               Wages, &c.-Good ploughmen per half year, in summer, L.6,
            10s., in winter, L.6; second do. do., in summer, L.4, 10s., in win-
            ter, L.3, 15s. ; cattle boys, in summer, L.1, 10s., in winter, L.1,
            10s.; women for farm work, in summer, L.2. 10s., in winter, L.1,
            10s.; labourers per day, in summer, 1s. 8d., in winter, Is. 4d.;
            wrights do., in summer, 2s., in winter, 1s. 6d.; masons, do., in
            summer, 2s. 6d., in winter, 1s. 6d.
              The above wages for the half year are given along with board
            and lodging, tbose by the day are given as full payment.
              Men engAged by the day for moss work, hay cutting, or har-


