
                        PRESTONKIRK.                              27

perhaps a few old people, all can write. The attendance of the young
at school, however, is irregular,-as they are withdrawn at certain
seasons of the year, when their labour is required in the fields, and
accordingly their education is not so perfect as it should be. The
schools are all in the village of Linton, from which there is no part
of the parish so distant as to prevent attendance upon the, school
   Libraries.-There is one subscription library in the parish and
a branch of the East-Lothian itinerating libraries.
   Charitable Institutions.-There are three Friendly Societies in
the parish, one of very old standing and nearly inefficient, consist-
ing of very few members; one is a yearly society, to which the
members pay 6d. per week, from which a certain sum is paid out
in case of sickness, according to circumstances, and the balance is
divided at the end of the year; the other is not well regulated, and
does not seem likely to endure for any length of time.
   Savings Banks.-There was once one in the parish, but it was
given up, because it did not answer the purpose for which it was
intended; those who bad their money in it being solely from
among a description of people who were able to put their money
in ordinary banks, and who availed themselves of the saving bank
merely on account of the higher rate of interest given in it. The
farm-servants, receiving, their wages in victual, and consequently
having little money in their hands, renders saving banks of com-
paratively little use in this county. The nearest is in Haddington.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 32, receiving the average sum of 5s. each
per month, or L. 3 per year; none receive more than 8s. per month,
except in cases of lunacy. There is an annual assessment of about
L. 120; the amount of church collections is only L. 15 yearly.
   There are some instances of a disposition among the poor to re-
frain from seeking parochial relief as long as they can. But in no
instance are the session the first movers in placing any one on the
poors' roll, and there are few who are fit applicants who do not apply;
at the same time, instances of persons applying who are not entitled
are very rare, and we have a few noble instances of aged and infirm
persons supporting themselves upon the savings of their youth, even,
after bringing up large familie One old woman died last winter up-
wards of eighty years of age, who was left a widow with two daugh-
ters in early life, who lived comfortably, and never applied to the
session or received aid of any kind.
   Inns and Alehouses.-There is only one house  entitled to the


