
			KIRKMICHAEL.				73

	The natural woods consist principally of oak, ash, birch, and
older. The young plantations are composed of Scotch, larch and
pruce firs, with a sufficiency of oak, ash and elm, for standards.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent per acre of meadow and arable
and is 14s. 6d.; of sheep pasture, 3s.; of mossy pasture inter-
persed through the arable lands, partly convertible into meadow,
and including the mosses from which the inhabitants are supplied
with peat, * 4s.; of sand-bed pasture which, after deducting 130
acres for roads, lakes, and water-courses, will be reduced to 150
acres, L. 1.
	The average rent of grazing cattle is at the rate of 25s. for a
one year old; 35s. for a two years old; and L. 4 for a cow or full-
grown ox; and at the rate of 4s. 9d. for a ewe, or full-grown sheep,
pastured for the year.
	Breeds Live Stock.-- The cattle are all of the Galloway breed.
Turnips are cultivated to such an extent, that 2200 Cheviot and
Highland wedders, inclusive of several score of half-bred hogs,
are annually fattened upon them.
	Husbandry--The system of husbandry pursued is, in some
cases, a six, and in others a four years' rotation. Since 1822, when
the old leases terminated, very great, judicious, and expensive
improvements have been made by the Duke of Buccleuch, on his
beautiful and valuable barony of Ross, in this parish by building
very excellent and even elegant farm-steadings, containing every
accomodation of the most convenient and substantial kind that
a farmer can desire; planting both for shelter and ornament; en-
closing, partly with stone dikes, but principally with hedges; mak-
ing roads, and giving every encouragement to promote and ex-
tend the cultivation of the land. There is no part of the country,
through which a traveller can pass, where he will be more delighted
with a view of the rapid progress of very spirited and substantial
improvements. Such are the invaluable advantages which a dis-
trict derives from being blessed with a liberal and patriotic land-
lord.
	The duration of leases is, in some eases, 15, in others 19 years.
The greater part of the farm-buildings on the other properties in
the parish is new and of a superior description. The hedges
that have lately been planted are very extensive; and are all in a
shriving state, being well attended to.

<FOOTNOTE> Much mossy land has already been reclaimed, and now yields good crops of hay-


