
                  TULLYNESSLE AND FORBES.                            447

   3. Whitehaugh, the property of Lieut. Colonel J. J. F. Leith,
H. E. I. C. S., who is a regular descendant of the ancient family
of the Forbes's of Tohon.
   The first of this family, who succeeded to this estate through
the female branch, and adopted the sirname of Leith, was John
Forbes Leith, whose history is well entitled to a short notice in a
work of this description.  He had received an university -duca-
tion at Oxford, and resided chiefly in England until about the
year 1735, when he came to reside upon his property.  A man-
sion-house nearly in ruins, and a tenantry, niot only ignorant of
the improved modes of agriculture, but wedded to old practices,
must have been considerable discouragements to an Oxonian, and
a gentleman accustomed to the comforts of a more advanced state
of civilization : but in place of flying from, he determined to re-
move them, and lived to enjoy the fruits of his resolution in a
comfortable mansion, with suitable garden, a well improved per-
sonal farm, several hundred acres of thriving wood, and an in-
creased and increasing rent-roll.  His son and successor more
than followed up the example which had been set him.  He took
under his own management a large portion of the estate, which
had been before a number of unproductive possessions, and con-
verted it into one beautiful farm of regular fields, tastefully laid
out, and fenced with hedge-rows, and the whole surrounded by
thriving wood.  His labours now yield to his successor a hand-
some rent.  His attention was particularly directed to the im-
provement of the breeds of cattle which, in his time, were in this
quarter of a very inferior description; and at a very considerable
expense he brought from a distance, and was the means of in-
troducing amongst his tenantry, and throughout the district, ani-
mals of a much better kind.
   It may be mentioned that a considerable portion of this estate
at one time belonged to the Knights-Templars.  One field of the
farm which has been particularly noticed is called Temple Close,
and another St John's Close.  Although the Templars, we be-
lieve, had but one settlement in Scotland, viz. the. Hospital of St
Germains in Lothian, they enjoyed the funds of several churches,
and houses in various parts of the country.
   Modern Buildings.-In this, class may be mentioned the very
handsome mansion which is now being finished at Whitehaugh.
The proprietor has, with equal good taste as feeling, retained the
very substantial, and for the time splendid dwelling of his an-


