
     of Mary-kirk.

to the love of God.  Without this as a first principle, we can
have no real regard for any other object less venerable and
lovely.  But possessing this, we shall love our King, our
country, and all the various ranks of men in it; and rejoice
in seeing and promoting their virtue and happiness.  That
this generous spirit is not excited in proportion to its value,
is visible from the many instances we have, of a great indiffe-
rence to serve or succour either the one or the other, as we
are at all times, and by every reason in the world bound to
do.  It would be no impossible thing to render a single parish
happy, did the men of influence and power in it, unite, by
every generous endeavour and possible exertion, to accomplish
so salutary and god-like an object; and the same proportionate
endeavour would be no less effectual when extended to a
nation or kingdom.  But if men of fortune, influence and
power, do not first begin to lend a helping hand to this ne-
cessary work; if they are not firmly persuaded, that it is as
consonant to the principles of right reason and common sense,
that they themselves should first begin to pay real homage
and veneration to the Deity, in any mode or manner worthy
of him, as it is for them to expect gratitude for great favours
they have done, or faithful services and tokens of respect
from their dependents, their children and servants, it never
can take place; all the philosophers and politicians on earth
can never establish it.  What would every person well affect-
ed to his country not give, rather than that that evil and
sanguinary spirit, which has for a long time ravaged France,
should pervade and desolate this country, and destroy the
beautiful fabric of the British Government?  Our country
must be saved; it must not become a field of blood; the pre-
dictions against it are not true.  Let us be but at the tenth
part of the trouble and expence to preserve it, and to bless
its inhabitants, that our enemies have been to raise to them-

     VOL. XVIII. 4 M


