
                         UNITED PARISHES OF

                     WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE.

       PRESBYTERY OF BIGGAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

                 THE REV. CHARLES HOPE, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-CHALMERS in his Caledonia states the name of Wan-
dell to have been anciently " Quendal or Gwendall," signifying in the
British language the white meadow.  The parish was also designated
in former times " the parochin of Hartside alias Wandle," the for-
mer being the name by which a particular district of it towards
the northern extremity is still known.  The same authority also
tells us that the name Lammingtoune, now familiarly abbreviated
into Lamington, was conferred upon the northern division of
this united parish, from a Fleming called Lambinus, one of three
brothers who came over from Flanders, and settled in Scotland
in the reign of David I., and upon whom that monarch con-
ferred the territory which has since, under various modifications,
borne the designation of Lambinstoun, Lambingtoun and Lam-
mingtoune.  In a charter by David II. to Sir William Baillie
in 1367, the lands are designated as those of " Lambinstoun."'
Others contend that Lamington owes; it's name to one " Lambert,"
and hence was occasionally written, " Lambertstoun." Chalmers
adds that Lambinus, had two brothers, Wiscius and Robert, who
gave their names to the two neighbouring Parishes, Wistoun and
Robertoun.
   Extent and Boundaries.-Wendell, reckoning from the southern
extremity, where it is bounded by Crawford, extends in a north-
easterly direction to the parish kirk, a distance of about 6 miles.
It is bounded on the south-west and west by the river Clyde, which
separates it from Crawfordjohn and Robertoun and on the south-
east and north by Lammingtoune, with which it has long been
united.  It contains 6099 imperial acres.  Lammingtoune again,
proceeding from the point, viz. the church, where Wandell
terminates, stretches in a north-easterly line along the river, which
   LANARK				3 F


