
                           DINGWALL.                      219

abundance of trout of various kinds. The salmon-trout appears
about the beginning of June, and is taken in considerable quanti-
ties throughout that and most of the succeeding months. Towards
the end of July, the whitling (known here by the name of finnock,)
enters the river in great numbers, and remains throughout the win-
ter, and part of spring, affording excellent sport to the angler.
The Conan also produces pike and eels, the latter of which com-
mence their great annual migration from the sea early in June.
                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Burgh.-The burgh of Dingwall is of considerable antiquity; but,as
there are no annals existing of its early history, -the only records
now extant commencing at a period comparatively recent, we are
left almost entirely to conjecture as to its origin and early condi-
tion. It was probably originally, as its name would seem to indi-
cate, a Danish settlement, which afterwards became one of the
royal fortifications, which were erected along the coast for the
purpose of defending the country against the incursions of that
people. The charter of its erection into a Royal Burgh was
granted in 1227, by Alexander II., and dated 6th February, and
13th ofhis reign. By this he gave it title to " omnes libertates et
liberas consuetudines quas burgenses nostri de Inverbess et in eo
manentes habent." This was subsequently confirmed and em-
bodied in a charter of James IV., dated 12th February 1497, and
again ratified by a charter of James VI., dated 9th February
1587.
  Dingwall would seem, in the course of its history, to have suf-
fered various changes of fortune, and to have passed through dif-
ferent stages of prosperity and decline. Several circumstances
would seem to indicate that the town was once much more extensive
than it is at present. Pavements have been dug up, and traces of
building discovered running in a south-easterly direction, and consi-
derably beyond the present limits of the town. Being the principal
residence of the powerful Earls of Ross, who acted so conspicu-
ous a part in the early history of Scotland, and doubtless depend-
ing much on their protection and bount it is natural to suppose
that it must have participated to a certain degree in the fortunes
of that family. Accordingly, we find, that on the extinctions of the
earldom by forfeiture in 1476 the affairs of the, burgh suffered a
rapid decline, from which it did not for a long time recover,-the
inhabitants loudly complaining that their trade had almost totally
disappeared, not only from a want of the requisite capital for fo-


