
                     COUNTY OF RENFREW.                      557

soldiers in the army or militia, nor seamen either in the navy or
merchant ships.
   Agriculture, &c.--The county of Renfrew contains about
154,240 acres, of which about 100,000 are cultivated; 20,000 un-
cultivated; and 34,240 unprofitable.  The valued rent in 1674
was L. 69,172 Scots; the annual value of real property as assess-
ed in 1815 was L. 265,534 Sterling.  It is well known that this
shire at one period constituted a part of Lanarkshire.  Indeed,
from its position on the north bank of the Clyde, it may still be
regarded as part of Clydesdale.  In soil and climate they much
resemble each other.  Mr Wilson, in his account of this shire, di-
vides it into the high, middle, and lower districts, thus describing
them:

<TABLE>

	                                         	          English Acres.
  The high district, lying chiefly on gravel or rock, contains   .    101,595
  Middle do. mostly of thin earth, gravel, or stiff clay,     .    .   40,595
  Lower do. mostly of a rich loam or clay,         ..     .  .         12,067
                                                                       ------
                                                                      154,240

  The high district above designated, is chiefly noted for its ex-
cellent pasture, and its extensive and well-managed dairy establish-
ments.  It bears no resemblance whatsoever to the upper ward of
Lanarkshire, the soil of which lies upon greywacke, but the soil
here lies chiefly on what the farmers term whin, or rotten whin.
In some places, this upper region is chill and damp, but it also af-
fords in several parishes excellent pasture.  The middle district is
not so famous for its pasture, but, owing to its vicinity to so many
populous and busy marts of trade, the farmers here receive great
encouragement to exert themselves in the culture of their land;
and the abundance of manure yielded by the towns in return en-
ables them to rear all sorts of crops with the best advantage.  The
same remarks apply to the low, flat, or carse lands, which are farm-
ed with great skill and success.  In deference to the very excel-
lent work of Mr Wilson, entitled "A General View of the Agri-
culture of Renfrewshire," published in 1812, the usual division of
soils is given as above, but this division is very artificial, and is
scarcely correct.  Perhaps we may distinguish them as follows:
Diluvial, or mixed transported soil, abounds chiefly in valleys and
by the sides of the rivers and streams.  It is of various depth, from
a few inches to many feet.  It is composed of almost all sorts of
rocks, with an admixture of vegetable matter.  That connected
with the river Clyde contains shells, and in inland places trees, and
sometimes the horns of the stag, and various other animal remains.


