
     of Campbelton.

as the latter epithet is only a translation of the former.  St.
Ciaran was one of the masters of St. Columba, the Apostle
of the Picts and Western Isles, who addressed a Latin hymu
to him, which is said to be still extant*.
   The church of Kilkerran, was well endowed by the Mac-
donalds, Lords of Kintyre; but what number of ecclesiastics
it maintained, upon its establishment, or what was the a-
mount of its revenues, cannot now be ascertained; though
some account of them may probably be found in the Char-
tulary of the Abbey of Paisley, to which this church, with
all its revenues, was annexed by the patrons.  The motive
which induced them to annex it to so distant an abbey, and
not to that of Saddel, built by themselves in the neighbour-
hood, probably arose from the circumstance of Somerled's
having fallen, with a number of his followers, so near Paisley,
that the prayers of the good people there were judged ne-
cessary to secure their happeness above.

<FOOTNOTE>

*A Gaelic or Irish prayer, ascribed to CIARAN himself, is
also preserved in a very ancient M. S. misfal, lately discovered
in Drummond Castle, and supposed to be that which was bor-
rowed by Father INNES, as mentioned in his Critical Effay.
This prayer, of which the tenor follows, seems to have been
composed by the saint, while he resided in the cave, which we
have mentioned.  Alas, that a learned clerk should perish!  O
'thou SON (of GOD) have mercy on one devoted to thy service.
'Heal and quicken my benumbed soul.  Long have thy visits
'been denied to my cell.  Yet I should have quickly sailed, if
'thou hadst not supported me.  I will therefore render thee
'the tribute of my higher praise, before the multitude of the
'people; and place whatever pangs I may endures, to the score
'of my own sin and folly.
The good man's pangs were not of long continuance.  In
the 37th year of his age, and 548th of the Christian Era, he
left them all behind him, and changed his cave for the regions
of glory.  But the parish still retains his name in the appella-
tion of CIL CIARAIN, (or KILKERRAN); and tile ruins of the
church, which was dedicated to him, are still to be seen in the
center of the principal burying ground of the town and parish
of Campbelton.


