
292                          ARGYLESHIRE.

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds,       .          .           .           L.5500  0  0
           potatoes, turnip, and beet,       .            .        .      4360  0  0
           hay,          .            .          .            .            670  0  0
           garden,             .            .            .           .     150  0  0
           annual thinnings, and periodical felling of woods and plan-
             tations,     .           .          .            .            250  0  0
           fiheries of all kinds,           .            .         .       256  0  0
           land in pasture, rating it at L.2 per cow or full-grown ox graz-
             ed, and at 2s. per ewe pastured for a year,       .          4270  0  0
           wool, 5260 stones at 8s.        .            .                 2104  0  0
                                                                         ------------
                                                                      L.17,560  0  0

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in this parish.  The nearest to it is
Oban, separated from it by the Sound of Mull, and distant ten
miles.
  Means of Communication.-These are, 1st, The post-office at
Auchenacraig, where the arrivals and departures of the mail are
three times a week.  2d, The district road between the ferry of
Auchenacraig and Tobermory, which passes seventeen miles
through the parish, and the road to Kilfinichen, which passes
eighteen miles through it.  3d, In summer one or more steam-
boats ply almost daily through the Sound of Mull, taking on board
and landing passengers and goods at different points of the coast
of the parish.  4th, The bridges are numerous, and are all in good
condition.  All the bays in the parish, with the exception of that
of Pennygown, are frequented by vessels, as being safe harbours.
5th, There are three ferrying stations, one for ferrying to Mor-
ven, one to Nether Lorn, and one to Kerrara.  The last station
is the principal channel of communication with the mainland.
The Sound between Auchenacraig and Kerrara is about four
miles and a half broad.  When the former Statistical Account
was written, there were more black-cattle ferried at Auchenacraig
than now.  At that time, the Coll and Tyrie cattle were landed
at the back of Mull, and driven to this ferry; but now the smacks
that take them first on board, proceed with them direct to the main-
land.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is conveniently situ-
ated.  Its distance from the extremities of the district remaining
attached to it quoad sacra, is only six miles on either hand.  It
was built sixty years ago.  In 1828, it underwent a thorough re-
pair; but new repairs were rendered necessary in 1832, in conse-
quence of its having been struck by lightning.  It is at present in
good condition.  It contains sittings only for 280 people, and
these sittings are all free.


