
     Statistical Account

tre, either the thing itself, or whatever was to represent the thing,
the person, or the act of the assembly.  This ceremony was
followed by that of the ratifying touch, or with a touch giving
solidity or integrity to the public resolution.-Sanquhar was
erected into a burgh of barony in 1484, prior to which period,
it had been a burgh of the same kind, from time immemorial.
At the instance of Robert Crichton, Lord of Sanquhar, it
was erected into a royalty, in 1596, by King James VI.  It
stands 27 miles distant from Dumfries in the southern, and
33 miles from Ayr in the western direction, being both ways
nearly equidistant from the sea.  It has only one principal
street, and is about 1/4 of a mile in length.  It is governed by
a provost, a dean of Guild, three bailies, a treasurer, and ele-
ven counsellors.  The gross revenue of the burgh, at present,
scarcely amounts to L. 50 per annum.  It has indeed, besides,
a commonly of considerable extent, which, from its being in
a rude uncultivated state, is worth only about L. 10 per annum.
-Sanquhar is apparently increasing in population; but as
no register has been kept, it is impossible to ascertain with
what degree of rapidity.  Knitting of stockings was formerly
a considerable branch of manufacture in the burgh, by which
a number of the lower class were decently supported.  To
invigorate the spirit of industry, and to reward its exertions,
the late patriotic Duke of Queensberry, and the trustless for
the encouragement of manufactures, gave annually a premium
of L. 40 each, to be divided in part to those employed in
this branch in Sanquhar; and in part, to those employed in a-
ny other useful manufactures within the bounds of the presby-
tery.  But upon the breaking out of the American war, which,
for a time, shut up the commercial intercourse with this coun-
try, this branch received a fatal blow, because the stockings ma-
nufactured here, were chiefly exported to Virginia.  They
were mostly of a coarse quality; though of them were


