
   of Borgue.

shot from it, and on lower ground, there is another of the
same kind, and nearly of the same circumference.  This is
also surrounded with a fossee, which had been filled with wa-
ter, but is now become dry, from the draining of a moss
adjoining to it*.

   Former State of the Parish.-About the beginning of this
century, the number of farms had been double, or nearly triple,
what it is at present.  Four or six horses were yoked to a
plough, which is now drawn by two or three.  The lands,
notwithstanding, were miserably cultivated; the cattle poorly
fed; farms every where overstocked; and beasts of all kinds
grazed promiscuously.  Hence, though the soil was grateful,

     VOL. XI. F

<FOOTNOTE>

*In this moss pieces of spears, and an old silver coin (the inscription effaced),
were lately found. It is natural to conjecture, from the above particulars, that
they had been intended for military stations; for which, in the opinion of some
gentlemen of the army, who lately visited them, they are very well adapted.
The remains of a strong fortification are also visible in the farm of orneas.  It
is situated on a stupendous rock, which juts into the sea.  It is of a triangular
form.  On two sides the rock rises nearly 200 feet perpendicular.  On the land side,
it is fortified by two strong entrenchments, and a mound, the original height of
which cannot now be ascertained, as it is almost entirely demolished. In other
places of the shore, at the bottom of very remarkable cliffs, there are two or
three curious caves.  One of them evidently seems to have been artifical; it is
uncertain for what purpose it had been intended.  The most remarkable fact, of
which any memory is preserved by tradition, is the robbery of the church of
Senwick by French pirates.  The church, at that time, contained a very consi-
derable quantity of place, which the Frenchmen plundered, and had safely e-
scaped with their booty; but a storm-arising immediately after they had put to
sea, the ship was dashed upon a rock, at a little distance from the shore, opposite
to the church, and every person on board perished.  In memory of this event,
the rock has ever since been styled the Frenchman's Rock.-There are two fine
old ruins in the parish; one of them called the tower of Balmangan, the other
Plunton Castle.  Tradition has preserved nothing certain concerning them.


