
                     ISLAND OF SKYE-SLEAT.                  319

cessary to improve their condition. The able-bodied among them,
after their potatoes are planted in the end of spring, go to the south
in search of employment. They return again at Martinmas; and
their earnings go to pay the landlord's rents, and to support the
weaker members of their families. The winter is almost altogether
spent in idleness. There is no demand for labour in the parish, and
hence there is only occasional exertion on the part of the people.
As the summer's earnings are spent during the winter, there is sel-
dom or never a fund laid up for sickness or old age; and when either
of these comes, there is great poverty and privation. Their clothing
consists of cloth of their own manufacture. This they find fitter to
resist the weather, than any manufactured in the south. Their food
consists principally of potatoes. Oatmeal is a luxury among them,
and butcher-meat is seldom tasted. Their poverty arises very
much from over-population. There are 500 families in the parish.
Of these only 6 pay upwards of L.50 yearly rent; 269 pay from L. 10,
to 7s. 6d. per annum; and there are 225 families, comprising up-
wards of 1100 individuals, located in different parts of the parish,
who pay no rents, deriving their subsistence from small por-
tions of land given them by the rent-payers for raising potatoes.
These are a burden to the proprietor, inasmuch as they destroy
the land in cutting fuel and turf; and are a grievous burden
to the inhabitants generally, from the extent of pauperism prevail-
ing among them. An adequate correction for such an evil is dif-
ficult to be found. Their abject poverty stands in the way of any
stimulus that may be applied for enabling them to better their
condition; and if matters are left as they are, there will very soon be
such a mass of pauperism as it is alarming to contemplate. The
most efficient remedy appears to be an extensive and well-regulated
emigration.
                            IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The parhsh consists of 1335 acres arable; 3956 acres green pas.-
ture; 18,265 acres hill pasture; and 500 acres wood.
   I believe the rental of the parish is about L.2400.
   Husbandry.-The management of the land depends very much
on the tenant. The tacksmen in the parish farm their arable lands
regularly,-have a rotation of crops,-and pay great attention to
the rearing of their sheep and cattle stocks. The case is different
with the crofters. Their principal object is to raise potatoes; and,
as the use little manure except sea-weed,the quality of the root is
bad, and the ground impoverished. Their cattle and sheep stocks


