
                       ECCLESMACHAN.                       111

to have been a man of elegant accomplishments, and of amiable
manners. His poems are thus characterized by no mean judge,
the late Lord Woodhouselee: "Hamilton's mind is pictured in
his verses. They are the easy and careless effusions of an elegant
fancy and a chastened taste; and the sentiments they convey are
the genuine feelings of a tender and susceptible heart, which per-
petually owned the dominion of some favourite mistress, but whose
passion generally evaporated in song, and made no serious or per-
manent impression." Having entertained Jacobite predilections,
he was engaged in the Rebellion in 1745; but, after a few years
of exile, contrived to make his peace with the Government, and
returned home. In 1754, he died at Lyons, in the fiftieth year
of his age, leaving behind him, besides some unpublished pieces,
a volume of poetry, which has been repeatedly inserted in collec-
tions of the British Poets. His patrimonial estate is now in the
possession of his great grandson, James Hamilton, Esq. of Ban-
gour and Ninewar, in East Lothian.
   The late incumbent of this parish, the Rev. Henry Liston, de-
serves to be noticed among its few eminent men. He had a strong
natural turn for mechanics and music. He was equally distin-
guished for his scientific and classical attainments, and was in
many other respects a man of genius. With talents adapted for
a far wider sphere of usefulness, he spent his whole ministerial
life of more than forty-two years in this secluded spot, endeared
to his numerous friends by great warmth of heart and simplicity
of character. His son is now a celebrated surgeon in London.
   Parochial Registers.-These exist in nearly unbroken sequence
from 1662. The oldest, which is written in a fair hand, is en-
titled "Episcopall Discipline exercised by the Kirk-Session of
Ecclesmachan." On the 28th of March 1683, it is minuted,
"Mr John Moubray, according to the appointment of the pres-
bytery, preached, and thereafter gave institution to Mr William
Smairt to the ministry in this place, and the rest of the brethren
off the presbytery gave the said Mr William the right hand off
fellowship." The only other noticeable peculiarity is a commis-
sion from the Bishop of Edinburgh, in exercise of the civil power
now vested in presbyteries, to certain ministers, authorizing them
to visit and report on the manse and kirk of Ecclesmachan. The
registers, subsequent to the Revolution, are kept in the usual
form, and contain nothing remarkable.
   Land-owners.-The proprietors are, the Earl of Hopetoun;



