
                           KINROSS.                           19

they obtain on condition merely of their giving manure, and hoe-
ing the drills of the young plants, when necessary. This practice
deserves to be encouraged, for to those accustomed to sit for hours
at the loom, it affords health and relaxation in the open air, be-
sides supplying, at an expense which none of them feels, an article
of food most nutritious and valuable.

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Town.-The town of Kinross, though not a Royal burgh, has long
enjoyed a species of municipal institution, which has been particu-
larly useful for certain public purposes; the principal of which
are, lighting of the streets, supporting a bell and clock, a fire
engine, steelyard, &c. Having no public funds, the inhabi-
tants have long had recourse to an annual voluntary contribution,
which is placed under the management and control of a preses,
treasurer, and clerk, who, with eight or sometimes ten members of
committee, constitute a sort of town-council, so far as the above
matters go: they are annually chosen at a public meeting, having,
in the first instance, the trouble of collecting the contributions, of
which, for the ensuing year, they have the sole charge; but for
the management of which they are at all times subject to be called
to account at a public meeting of the inhabitants.
   This useful institution, designed "THE STEEPLE COMMITTEE,"
commenced in 1742, when at a public meeting of the inhabitants,
the Rev. Robert Stark, minister of the parish, chairman, it was
agreed, "That, considering it was in contemplation to build a new
church, a steeple might with great propriety be added thereto."
This after much care and assiduity was completed in 1751, when
Sir John Bruce presented the town with a clock. At a meeting
during the same year, the following appears on the record: "that
the bell shall be rung at five in the morning; eight and ten at
night; and on Sundays, at eight, nine, and ten in the forenoon,
and that the last bell for divine service shall continue ringing a
quarter of an hour."-17th July 1758. "The principal Lord of
the Chapmen" compeared, and gave half a crown for carrying on
the finishing of the steeple," which seems to have been the addi-
tion of a vane or weathercock. In 1793 the street were first
lighted by lamps. At present (1839) the number of lamps is
about 42; all lighted with gas.
   The annual collections vary from L.20 to L.25, which, with
an annual donation of L.5 from the road trustees, constitute the
only funds for the purposes above referred to.


