
110                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

for, it would generally be obtained.  There is no peculiarity in
the climate of the parish.*
  Geology and Mineralogy.-The geological character of the pa
rish is varied and interesting.  The whole parish is of the second-
ary formation, interspersed with rocks and minerals in endless va-
riety.  The Pentland Hills are of porphyry, of which the prevailing
kinds are claystone porphyry and felspar porphyry.  The gene-
ral contour of these towards the north resembles the Andes, while,
towards the south, they imitate exactly the aspect of the Malvern
range in Worcestershire.  Caerketan Crags are different in their
composition from the rest of the hills,-the bulk of them being clayey
felspar, which, but for a strong impregnatinn with black oxide of iron,
would be extremely useful to the potter.  This is called Petunse
Pentlandica, from its resemblance to the Kaoline or Petunse so va-
luable in the Chinese potteries, from which the best china is made.
  On the summit of the Pentland Hills, boulders of primitive
rock, such as granite, gneiss, &c., are met with, whose origin-
al site is not less distant than sixty miles, viz. at Benlormond and
Dunkeld.  Malactite or green carbonate of copper is found among
the Pentlands.  Jaspers are frequently met with, and some of
these are very beautiful.  A piece of fluor spar was picked up in
the burn above Bonally, which Professor Jameson does not consi-
der indigenous, but which, if it were so, would be a subject of mi
neralogical interest.  Craig Lockhart Hill is a fine specimen of
basaltic rock, studded with some interesting minerals, as Olivine,
Humboldtite auggite, prehnite, with drusy cavities, zeolite, &c.  In
the bed of the river, immediately below the manse, there is a beau-
tiful specimen of the " dike" fully exposed, the strata being nearly
in a vertical position: and about 200 yards above the manse, in a
cavity in the bed of the river, is a tufa rock, showing that the dis-
turbance in the strata has proceeded from volcanic influence.  A
little below the dam-head of Colinton. barley-mill is found, on the
Hailes side, of the stream, an excellent millstone rock.  The mill-
stones, however, require to be built, as the rock cannot be raised
in pieces sufficiently large to make them entire.  The access to
the quarry is difficult; and there are not many stones taken out to
it.  Indeed, the bed of the Water Leith in this parish presents

<FOOTNOTE>"1652 was a very early year.  Corn was shorn in June, and harvest finished in
August, without wait, storm, or tempest.  It also produced ripe wine berries and
grapes, and abundance of Scotts chastanes, openlie sauld at the mercat cross, and baken
in pasties at Bankittes."-Nicoll's Diary.
  1826 was a similar season.  Corn was cut between Colinton and Edinburgh in
June O. S.; and in August O. S. harvest was finished.  Chestnuts ripened at Craig-
Lockhart House in this parish.


