
                      LEWIS-LOCHS.                            163

   Antiquities- The principal antiquity in the parish of, Lochs is
in that district called Carloway, which is situated on the north-
west side of Lewis, separating the parishes of Uig and Barvas.
This antiquity is a fortification of circular form. It was and is,
still covered with turf, and lined with a remarkably strong stone
wall, which is, however, suffering decay. The lower part of the
interior of this edifice was a place of residence, to which there was a
subterraneous passage from an adjacent hill or brae. There was
also an interior wall of stone, enclosing the more elevated habitable
part of the edifice; between which and the outer wall, there was a
winding flight of stone steps from the top to the bottorn,-over
which, there was a parapet fbur feet high. The interior of this for-
tification or doon, (as it is named in Gaelic) is now in a state of
dilapidation. Its height when entire was about twenty feet. It was
of that class of buildings well known in Ireland by the name of
round towers, of which many were built there by the Danes, who
also are said in the traditions of Lewis to have built 11 Dun Char-
loway." This fortification must have been a place of considerable
strength, when the javelin, the bow and arrow were the only imple-
ments of war. Tradition says, Dun Charloway wa's once taken by
an individual notorious in the traditions of Lewis, named 11 Donald
Caum M`Cuil," who, by means of two dirks which he constantly
carried about with him, one of which he alternately stuck in the
turf that covers the outer stone dike of Dun Charloway, raised
himself up to the summit of the parapet, from which the inmates
were wont to shoot their arrows at the assailing foe. Donald
Caum, once in possession of the parapet, made the sleepi in-
mates easy victims to his resentment, during the darkness of night.
  There are several ruins of fortifications of minor magnitude, but
of a similar description, throughout this island. The only other in
this parish, lies on -a rock surrounded by the sea, at the entrance of
Loch Erisort.
  There is a ruin on the island of St Colm, in the entrance of.
Loch Erisort, which was once a religious edifice. The ground
surrounding this ruin, is the-only place of interment in. the parish of
Lochs. St Colm is the place on which the first factor sent to the
Lewis by the MIKenzies, then of Kintail, resided ' It is the ge-
neral opinion, that the said ruin on the island of St Colm is the
ruin of a place of worship, erected in the'days of ``Mac Mhic
Mhoruchi," which was the patronymic of the first factor sent to
this island by the M`Kenzies.


