
                         LONMAY.                            219

some 200 years ago into the sea, near the village of Rattray in
Crimond, which was also overwhelmed with sand.  But there is
no legitimate basis whereon the gigantic calculation might rest
which was proposed by the ingenious writer of the account now
referred to, and whereby he proposed to prove "that the evapo-
ration from the Caspian sea is sufficient to counterbalance all the
water poured in from the rivers which empty themselves into it."
It is believed, however, that till of late years there was little ap-
parent outlet of the water of this lake into the sea; but then a
constant filtration was visibly taking place, occasioning deep and
dangerous shifting quicksands.  For some years past, a distinct
watery line can be traced by the eye through the sandy beach,
along the margin of which the sand is saturated with the oozing
water; and to this additional means of escape is to be attributed
the fact of the comparative diminution of the waters of Strathbeg.
In the year 1817, the water was four feet higher than it now is at
a gangway placed near a boat-house, built by the present proprietor
on the west side of the loch in 1809.  It is matter of observation to
old persons, as well as of tradition, that the sea has receded con-
siderably, and left a much greater extent of sandy beach on the
eastern boundary of this parish. In 1796, the number of Scotch
acres of sandy ground between the sea and the links is stated, on
the plan of the estate of Lonmay, to be, per measurement, 398 ex-
clusive of bents.  There is now found to be 1126 acres 5 roods:
and, allowing for any little inaccuracy in either of the measure-
ments or both, the increase is doubtless great.  An attempt was
made by a Mr Sellar, forty-four years ago, to drain this loch: Seve-
ral thousand pounds were spent in this attempt, wbich proved a com-
plete failure.  The open canals which he constructed were soon
blocked up by drifting sand.  It would seem that any after operation
of this kind, to afford the probability of success, must be conducted
by covered conduits, and, after all, perhaps, the expense would be
more than commensurate with the profits to be drawn from culti-
vating the present bed of the loch.  This bed consists, for the
most part, of sandy soil, enriched somewhat by the decomposition
of fishes, by the shells of the large mussel, and also by the alluvial
deposits conveyed during occasional swells of the stream which con-
stantly flows into the lake.  Indeed, it seems unlikely that any pro-
prietor of taste would choose to part with a natural object of consi-
derable interest in the landscape, as well as a source of many days
of summer amusement in pleasure-boat sailing and fishing, for all


