
400                         FORFARSHIRE.

tion calls it a battle between the Picts and the Romans,--perhaps
because the common name of the moor is Monroman, although
most probably that name is a corruption of Monthrewmont, and
consequently of much later date than the cairns. The Battle
Burn issaid to have flowed with blood as far as Fifty; and the
herdsmen when they drank out of the well, used to throw into it a
bit of their bread, lest the water should turn to blood,--a rem-
nant, perhaps, of a very ancient superstition, which, peopling every
department of nature with divinities, sought by means of presents
to conciliate their favour, or avert their malignity.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers commence about
1657. But there are several chasm; and indeed the records fre-
quently contain nothing but the collection and disbursements for
the poor. The average collection for one Sunday in the summer
season, was, in 1657, 10d. Sterling; in 1701, 2s. 4 1/2d.; in 1710,
1s. 4d.; in 1750, Is. 11d. The cnllection on the communion
Sunday, in 1657, was 14s. 3 1/4d.; in 1701, L.3, 7s. 2 1/3d.; in 1710,
L.2, Os. 3d.; in 1750, L.2, 5s. 11d. And in these two last sums
are included the collections on the other three sacramental days.
Down to 1701, there was no other week-day service connected
with the communion than the preparation service on Saturday at
two o'clock. The last Episcopal incumbent died in the following
year; and under the present ecclesiastical establishment, no com-
munion was administered till 1710, when the fast-day and thanks-
giving day also make their appearance. Previously to 1702, there
were on the communion Sabbath three reveral services, those of
the morning, forenoon, and, afternoon. The minister generally
had two assistants. One of them preached the sermon in the
morning, and the other the "thanksgiving" sermon, in the after-
noon. The first of these services began very early, probably not
later than seven or eight o'clock. In 1660, the people were ap-
pointed to keep the communion, one-half at six o'clock in the
morning, and the other half at eleven o'clock, and all to be pre-
sent at the " Doctrine of Thanksgiving" at four o'clock in the af-
ternoon. Of the colletions on the communion Sunday, by far
the greater part, probably more than two-thirds, were collected,
not at the doors, but at the tables; and it was not till after 1729
that the practice of collecting at the tables was discontinued.
	Of all tbe original parochial churches within the Presbytery of
Arbroath, two only those, on Kinnell and Kirkden, countiuned to
be rectories or parsonages at the time of the Refomation. Barry


