
                         RATHO.                        85

which, from the evident antiquity of their workmanship, and
from their being found in the track by which Queen Mary's es-_
cape was effected, were not unnaturally conjectured to be those
recorded to have been thrown into the loch by her deliverer on
that occasion. They were shortly after their discovery presented
to the late Earl of Morton, and are now in possession of the pre-
sent Lord, the representative of the chivalrnus Georfe Douglas.
They are five in number, and held together by a small iron chain.
As might be expected, they are considerably corroded by the ope-
ration of the water during three centuries; but from the: care with
which the ard now preserved, they may last till Lochleven Castle
becomes again the scene of a similar story.
   Besides many original letters of great antiquity, and eurious
from the royal and noble signatures appended to them, there is
extant among this nobleman's papers the original warrant for the
confinement of the Queen in Lochleven Castle, signed by the
Lords Atholl, Morton, Glencarne, Marr, J. Graham, Alex. L.
Hume, Sanquhar, Semple, and Ochiltree. The signatures are in
two columns, with four names in each, and from the manner in
which the signatures are affixed, it is difficult to say whether
Atholl or Morton had taken the lead in a matter that involved so
great an amount of danger and responsibility. There is also in the
same repositories an original letter from our great Reformer, John
Knox, to the Lord of Lochleven, dated 31st March 1570. As
both of these documents, however, have been printed by the Banna-
tyne Club, it is superfluous here to insert them.
   Eminent Men.-Among these we deem a place due in this Statis-
tical Account to Joseph Mitchell, 11 the Poet of Ratho, I who was
born in this parish about the year 1684.  His father was a mason
and, though in humble circumstances, with a laudable `mbition not

uncommon among the peasantry of Scotland, managed to give his
son a university education. This was done probably  with a view
to the church, as appears from some allusions in his writings.
   The course of theological sttdy, however, if actually commenced,
was soon dropt, and Mitchell went to London for the purpose of
pushing his fortune. Here he became acquianted (probably-
through the influence of Lords Lauderdale and Stair, as much as
of his abilities,) with most of the literary characters of his day, and,
among other distinguished persons, with Sir R. Walpole, who ap-
pears to have given him his most cordial support ever after. Like

<FOOTNOTE>See New Statistical Account, Kim ross shire, p. 18.


