
                        NEW CUMNOCK.                        511

Auchinleck. This basin is nearly isolated, being bounded on the
west by a ridge of basaltic hills, which commence at Benbeoch,
near Dalmellington, and terminate near Benstone limestone quarry.
This ridge appears to run over the coal-formation, a narrow neck
of which is seen passing between the basalt of Benbeoch and the
greywacke and breccia hills of Meiklehill, &c. into the coal-field
of the Doon, near Dalmellington; and upon the western side of
this ridge, at Knockdon, a seam of five feet of anthracite, or blind-
coal, is found under the basalt.
	In the greywacke hills, galena or lead ore is found in veins, and
has been wrought to a considerable extent on the Afton estate;
but the works have been given up many years ago. Several trials
have been made for lead in the Nippes. Trials have been made
for slate in a dike of schistus, which traverses the Nippes from
east to west. A dike of porphyry is seen crossing the Afton, near
Laight, and running in the same direction, through the greywacke
hills, and crosses the Glasgow road near the county march. This
dike is of a reddish colour; but, when in contact with the breccia,
rocks of Corsancone, it becomes black, and is used there for road
metal.
	The central parts of this valley are filled up with the coal-for-
mation. The dip or inclination of the strata is exceedingly irre-
fular, generally dipping from the sides of the hills that surround
the valley. The strata are also very much broken and confused,
by dikes, slips, and hitches intersecting them in all directions, some-
times altering the position of the beds of coal, lime, and freestone
for many yards, and sometimes only a few feet. The general line
of dikes is from east to west, and they often change the inclination
of the strata.
	The carboniferous limestone is found in great abundance, all
over this parish, cropping out near the foot of the hills on every side
of the valley. There are several beds or posts of great thickness.
The same bed of limestone-rock, about 12 feet deepi is wrought at
Benstone, Mansfield, and Polquhortor; accompanied with several
beds of shale, containing a considerable portion of lime, called by
the workers fahes. Under this post, there are other beds of lime-
stone, in smaller seams, as that wrought at Nether Polquhortor
and Park. At Lanehead, the limestone rock occurs, consisting of in-
numerable beds standing quite on edge. This limestone again oc-
curs on edge at Polqubeys. The mode of working these quarries
is by opencoat, removing the surface and beds of shale, freestone,


