
                  		PAISLEY.			 217

struction is, that, "during the first efferve scence of the Reformation,
the fabric was materially injured, and shortly afterwards its tall
spire, said to have been 300 feet in height, having been struck by
lightning, during a violent thunderstorm, fell demolishing at the same
time, the roof of the choir." * Although the architecture of the choir
has been remarked, as plainer, than that of the other parts of the
church, yet it is not improbable that the windows were decorated
with flowing tracery.
   St Mirin's Aile.-South of the nave or present church, an
closely adjoining to it, is the cloister court, a quadrangle of about 60
feet, the buildings around which still display evident traces of the
piazza itself.  From this court entrance is afforded to St Mirin's
or the sounding aiie, called also the Abereorn chapel, a building on
the east side of the court, of about 48 feet long by 24 broa- 1, and
well-paved,-about 15 feet of the floor at the east end being raised
above the rest.  In the east gable is a large and very handsomee
window, of four trefoil-headed lights, (through now blocked up,) the
arches filled with tracery, composed chiefly of quatrefoils.  Beneath
this window is a series of sculptured figures, in tolerabl bold re-
lief, apparently of ecclesiastics engaged in various offices prescribe-
ed by the Romish ritual.  These figures are placed in a sort of
belt, of about a foot and a-half in width, extending between the
two side walls, except in the space near the centre of the gable,
where probably, at one time, an altar stood., This with the pis-
cina and its niche on the south wall, confirms the opinion of this                                                                           A;
structure having been the private chapel or oratory of the monks,
whose magnificent church appears almost from the very first to have
been put to general parochial use.  On the north wall appear the

<FOOTNOTE>Renf. Char. and Seen. p. 35.  Mackie, in his historical description, states, that
the lofty spire, and a great part of the church, were demolished, in consequence of the
following manifesto, issued by the rulers of the day.   "Traist friendly after maist hartey
commendation, we pray you faill not till pass incontinent to ye kirk of ----. and
tak down ye haill images yrof, and bryng furth till ye kirkyard, and birn thym opping-
ly, and syklyk cast down ye altris and picturis, and purge ye sayd kirk o'a' kynds o'
monuments of idolatrie; and this ye fail not till doe, as ue will do us singular emplai-
sance, and see committis you till ye protection of God.  From "Edinburgh ye xii of
August MDLX."  Signed, "Argyle" "James Stewart," and "Ruthven."  But
with the opinion of this writer we cannot agree, as the above order was issued for
the purpose not of destrouing the churces, but only of purging them of the images
of a degrading superstition; and althogh some in their zeal might be carried farther
than prudence dictated or than the rules proposed by their manifesto, we can scarce-
ly suppose our reforming ancestors were bent on the work of reckless destruction, es-
pecially as the following postscript is added to the manifesto:  "and fail not, bot ye
tak gude heed that neither the desks, winnocks, nor doors be any wise hurt, or bro-
ken either stane work, glassine-work or iron-work."-See M'Lellan's Cathedral of
Glasgow; a beautiful and intersecting work, lately published.


