
<APPENDIX>

     Additional Notes and Letters, sent from time to time, to the deficient
          Clergy.

   THERE was certainly reason to hope, after having made so considerable
a progress, as that of receiving 528 returns, in the space of about two
years, that little difficulty would have been found, in collecting the re-
maining accounts, amounting only to 413, in even a shorter period of time.
The contrary, however, turned out to be the case.  It became necessary there-
fore, to reiterate the applications from time to time, to present the subject
to the deficient Clergy in every possible light, sometimes serious, and some-
times jocular; and to press them, by every means that could be suggested,
to transmit their respective reports.  With that view, the following letters
were successively written to them.  The first one printed; the rest, to
satisfy them how much the number of deficient parishes was diminished,
were written in manuscript; and one, sent with my own hand, to demo-
strate the particular anxiety I felt to receive a speedy answer.  If any one
should imagine, that the Statistical Account of Scotland, could have been
more rapidly completed than it was, I trust that he will exculpate the Au-
thor of that undertaking from any blame, after perusing the following se-
ries of notes and letters.

     Series of Notes and Letters written to the clergy of the Church of Scot-
           land, during a period of Five years, from the 1st December 1792,
           to the 1st of December 1797.

     No I.  Printed Circular Note, dated the 28th December 1792.

   SIR JOHN SINCLAIR presents his compliments.  He hopes that his
former communications, respecting the Statistical Account of Scot-
land, have been received.  It is earnestly requested, that such of the Cler-
gy as have not yet transmitted their respective accounts, will lose no time
in sending them, the Public at large being extremely anxious, to have this
Work brought to a conclusion, as quickly as possible, as the advantages of
which it may be productive, cannot be thoroughly known or felt, until it
is completed Eight volumes, which will contain in all about 500 parishes,
will be published in the course of January 1793, and the remainder of the
Work, if the necessary materials come in, might be finished soon after the
meeting of the ensuing General Assembly, when it is hoped that not a
single account will be wanting.
   The Clergy will hear, with satisfaction, that not only in England, but in
every part of the Continent, the highest eulogiums have been bestowed, on
the zeal, talents, and industry they have displayed, in carrying on this great
undertaking, which, in the opinion of every unprejudiced person, will be of
as much consequence to other countries as even to Scotland.

   LONDON,
December, 1792.


