
           			KILMAURS.		771

                           IV.--INDUSTRY.
       Agriculture.--This is a very rich parish. There are neither
barren moors, nor stagnant mosses, nor sterile sand-bills, in-
creasing, the extent of surface without adding much to the rent-roll.
There is scarcely an acre of bad land in the parish. The soil
throughout is of first rate quality, strong, and deep, and fertile;
yielding heavy crops of wheat, beans, barley, oats, potatoes, &c.
The pastures are very rich, and dairy produce not only abundant,
but, from skill in management, of great excellence.
   Great improvements have lately taken place in the agricul-
ture of the parish by means of tile-draining.
    The average rent of land is about L. 2, 5s. per acre. The
Scots valuation of the parish is L. 5310.
    Manufactures.--Cotton-weaving and shoemaking are carried
on to some extent. In days of yore, Kilmaurs was a little Scottish
Sheffield, and much famed for cutlery. Though the cutlers have
passed away, their fame survives in the Ayrshire Proverb, "As
gleg as a Kilmaurs whittle," which cut, it was said, an inch be-
fore the point.

                       V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         Ecclesiastical State.--About 1900 of the population belong to
the Established Church: and about 651 are Dissenters. There
are also 62 Roman Catholics in the parish. Stipend, 17 chal-
ders. Glebe 4 1/2 acres in extent, and worth about L. 12 per an-
num.
         The manse was built in 1778. It is in a very insufficient and
comfortless condition.
         It is to be lamented that the parish church is not sufficiently
ruinous to be legally condemned, for it is far from being such a
church as should be found in the rich and populous parish of Kil-
maurs.
         The following is a list of the ministers of this parish since
the Revolution:--The Rev. David Brown, ordained 1688; the
Rev. Hugh Thomson, 1691; * the Rev. John Miller, 1718; the

<FOOTNOTE>The Rev, Hugh Thomson, the second on the list, was a person of great mus-
cular strength. We have heard, that, being in Kilmarnock on a market day, be ap-
proached a stand on which a blacksmith had exposed to sale horse-shoes and other hard-
ware articles of his own manufacture. Mr Thomson wishing to purchase some of the
horse-shoes, asked the price of them, and on being told, said by way of joke, "so much
for these! I could twist them with my fingers." "Mr. Thompson took one of them
up, and twisted it almost with as much ease as Samson broke the green wishes with


