
282                           BERWICKSHIRE.

a considerable part of the wall and a semicircular arch was pulled
down, and when the surrounding ground was used as a place of
burial. *
   Coldingham Priory was founded about the year 1098 by Edgar,
King of Scotland, who, having been driven from his throne, fled
into England, and obtained from William Rufus 30,000 men, and
from the Abbot of Durham the banner of St Cuthbert, to assist
him in subduing his rebellious subjects. He afterwards consider-
ed he was as much indebted for his success to the banner and the
priests, as to the King and his soldiers; and as a proof of his gra-
titude, he founded the church of St Mary Coldingham, had it
constituted a cell of Durham, and bestowed on it the lands of Pax-
ton, Fishwick, and the village of Swinton.
   The several kings, from Edgar, its founder, to James I. regarded
this priory with peculiar favour, and enriched it with valuable gifts
and important privileges; but in the feeble reign of Robert III.,
and under the regency of the Duke of Albany, the kingdom being
torn by faction, the monks found it necessary to put themselves
under the protection of the powerful family of Douglas, who ap-
pointed Alexander, the Laird of Home, under-keeper; and thus
commenced a connection between the family of Home and the
priory of Coldingham, which terminated in that family obtaining
all the temporalities of the priory. James III. endeavoured to
suppress the monastery, and obtained the consent of his Parlia-
ment to apply its revenues to the support of the chapel-royal,
which be founded at Stirling. The Homes, in consequence, re-
belled, and a battle was fought near Stirling, in which the king
was slain, 11th June 1488. In 1509 Coldingham was disjoined
from Durham, and placed under the jurisdiction of Dunfermline
by the Pope. Alexander Stewart, natural son of James IV. Abbot
of Dunfermline, and Archbishop of St Andrews, was chosen prior.
He was afterwards slain, fighting by the side of his father, on the
fatal field of Flodden. In 1514, this high office was conferred on
David Home, brother of Lord Home, who was succeeded by Wil-
liam Douglas, brother of the Earl of Angus. Adain, the next
prior, was removed in 1541 to Dundrennan, to make room for
John Stewart, the infant and natural son of James V., who was
appointed commendator, while his father enjoyed the revenue. In

<FOOTNOTE>The history of Coldingham Priory occupies a prominent place in the history of
the south of Scotland; and we must refer the reader who feels interested in the for-
tunes of this still celebrated, once rich and powerful, priory, to Chalmers' Caledonia,
Redpath's Border History, and to Raine's History of North Durham.


