
                       PAISLEY.                            277

and Saltcoats to Glasgow.  There are also coaches to and from
Renfrew and Neilston.
   About three years ago, steam-coaches plied between Glasgow
and Paisley, till a fatal accident, occasioned by the bursting of a
boiler, put a period to the speculation.
   Roads and Bridges.-The roads on which the coaches travel are
all turnpike, and they, as well as the other roads in the parish, are,
in general, kept in excellent repair.  The principal one through the
parish and town of Paisley is the road from Glasgow, which leaves
the Abbey parish on the west, at the distance of about nine miles
from its entrance into it on the east.  It crosses a bridge over the
Cart, which connects the new town with the old, and which at one
period was the only bridge at Paisley.  One of the arches of this
bridge, or rather, of its predecessor, was ribbed beneath, indicating a
style of architecture, said to have been prevalent in the fifteenth cen-
tury.  Besides this bridge, there are other two which form, each a
communication between the Abbey and town parishes.  One of these
is the Seedhill bridge, said to have been built of stones obtained
from the ruins of part of the Abbey building, and which is near the
Seedhill Craigs, once a favourite salmon leap, and where we are
informed, the fish were often shot in their attempts, to reach the
upper part of the river.  The other is the Sneddon bridge, a lit-
tle above the present harbour.  Besides these, the Cart, in its pro-
gress through the parish, is crossed by other two bridges, one about
a mile, and the other about two miles above any of those which
connect the new and old towns of Paisley.
   Canal.-The Glasgow, Paisley, and Ardrossan Canal was ori-
ginally intended to proceed from Glasgow to the sea at Ardrossan,
a distance of about thirty miles, in nearly a straight line, and a
great part of the way through a deep valley.  The adjoining coun-
try, through which it would have passed, is very populous,-the
city of Glasgow, at the one end of it, being the second in Britain in
point of population; while along its course, at short intermediate
distances, are the towns of Paisley, Johnston, Kilbarchan, Loch-
winnoch, Kilbirnie, Beith, Dalry, Kilwinning, Stevenston, Salt-
coats, and Ardrossan-containing, in all, about 400,000 inbab-
tants.  Besides, the country itself abounds in minerals, such as
coal, iron, limestone, &c.  An act of Parliament was obtain in
1805 ; and the first general meeting of the Canal Company was
held at Paisley, on the 17th, of July 1806.  The operation com-


