
     Statistical Account

Earl of Crawford, who, at one period, possessed a great part
of the county of Forfar; the other part was called Ruthvens
Davy, as having belonged to the laird of Kippen Davy.  A-
bout 1380, both these estates came into the possession of
a branch of the family of Crichton, who kept them until
1742*.  After the Frendraught family became extinct, and
the Dumfries family failed in the male line, the head of the
Ruthven family became chieftain of the ancient and illustri-
ous name of Crichton.  Upon the death of the late Thomas
Crichton, Esq. of Millhill, and his brother William, the fa-
mily of Crichton of Ruthven failed in the male line also.  The
remaining part of their estates, which had been once very ex-
tensive in this neighbourhood, was purchsed 50 years ago by
Thomas Ogilvy, Esq. of Coul, and is now in the possession of
his son James Ogilvy, Esq. of Islabank, who resides in this
parish, and has built an excellent modern house, near the
much admired situation of the castle of Ruthven, which, be-
ing ruinous, was pulled down some years ago.

   Hills, River, Black-fishing, Bridge.-There are no hills in

<FOOTNOTE>

*The first of that family who held the barony of Ruthven was James, second
son of Stephen Crichton of Cairns, brother to George Crichton, Earl of Caithness,
and cousin to Sir William Crichton of Crichton, Lord Chancellor of Scotland.
In the year 1477, James Crichton of Ruthven was Lord Provost of Ediburgh;
another of the same name, who had the honour of knighthood, was master of
horse to king Charles II.  It is said, that the haughty disposition of Sir James
prevented him from enjoying long his elevated station; and that his merry mo-
narch having, on a particular occasion, made him a present of 500 L., with a re-
commendation to "creish his boots" with it, alluding to his country and his
office, the knight took offence at the expression, returned the money, resigned
his office, and retired to Scotland.  But, habituated to the extravagance of a
court he had abandoned, he diffspated his fortune, and gave a blow to the fa-
mily estate which it never recovered.  There is a fine portrait of Sir James by
Vandyke, in the possesssion of his descendant, in the female line, John' Kinloch
Esq. of Kilrie.


