
                       INNERWICK.                        245

wheat; 3. grass; next, oats; then, beans; and lastly, wheat.
The five-shift is as follows:-1. turnip; 2. spring-wheat, or
barley; 3. grass, for two successive years; and, finally, oats.
Turnips are pretty extensively grown. These are consumed partly
in the fields by sheep, and partly in the farm-yard by larger
cattle. Messrs J. T. and W. Lee, late tenants in this parish,
were three of the first farmers in the county by whom turnips were
grown to any considerable extent. Drilling is generally practised,
nor is it confined to wheat and turnip crops. Farms adjoining the
sea have the benefit of sea-ware, which is to be found on the shore
in great abundance. Lime and bone-dust are also used in this
parish as manure. Wheat is sown from October to March; bar-
ley from March to May; oats in March; and turnip at the end
of May. Thirlage is in use to some extent.
   Most of the farm-houses in the lower part of the parish are
excellent. Stone fences, as well as hedges, are usual. The for-
mer are preferred by the tenant, and'are increasing. There is a
steam thrashing-mill on the farm of Thurston; on that of Craw-
hill considerable labour and expense were devoted, some years ago,
to the erection of a water-mill. The stream from which the water
is supplied, flows, through a little valley, considerably below the
level of the steading. A mine was forced through the solid rock
to the extent of thirty-six yards, and a pit sunk at the end of it to
the depth of forty feet. In this the wheel was placed. A dam-
head was erected among the rocks of the valley. The expense
incurred was about L. 800. There is one flour and meal mill in
the parish.
   The duration of farm leases is generally either nineteen or twen-
ty-one years.
   Quarries.-There are indications of coal having been formerly
wrought in this parish, but that branch of labour is not now in use.
At the Skateraw shore limestone is regularly wrought and burned.
Much of the stone, however, that might otherwise be turned to
good account is rendered difficult to work by the depth of the in-
cumbent soil. The lime prepared here is of excellent quality. In
the time of war, limestone in considerable quantity was sent from
Skateraw to the Devon iron-works. Now, however, it is almost
always burned before the material is dispatched. A large portion
of the lime goes to Berwickshire. Freestone is wrought in the pa-
rish, when needed for local purposes.
   Fishery.-Two boats belonging to this parish are employed in


