
                       PARISH OF ALLOA. *

     PRESBYTERY OF STIRLING, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

              THE REV. PETER BROTHERSTON, MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name, Boundaries, &c.--THE name has been variously spelled
at different periods. In the charter granted by King Robert 1,
in the year 1315, to Thomas de Erskyne, it is called Alway; in
some subsequent ones, Aulway, Auleway; and more recently Al-
loway. "In ancient Gothic," says the late Rev. Dr Jamieson,
"al signifies water; and aull, gurges fluminis et profundiora loca
maris. Thus aull waeg would signify the way to the sea, or the,
sea-way. "This seems to be the most probable etymology of the
name. +

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr William Brodie; Schoolmaster of Alloa.
            See Dr Jamieson's Illustrations of Siezer's Theatrum Scotie, first published
in 1693, reprinted in 1814, also in 1718, and 1719.
  The very respectable writers of the former Statistical Account supposed Alloa to
be the Alauxa of the Romans, which opinion is supported by Camden and others.
They also suggested that the name may have been derived from the Greek  word
A.&,va, a rural feast of the Athenians, which was adopted by the Roman, and an
swered to our harvest home. (See Old Statistical Account Vol. viii. p. 563, note.)
Kennedy in the notes to his Glen Ochel, a poem, (Vol. i. p.305,) gives, as the de-
rivation of the name, three Gaelic words, signifying the sleepy bank by the still-
flowing stream,--a description which does not apply to the banks of the Forth, at
least in this parish. A different etymology was proposed by an eminent Celtic scho-
lar and antiquarian, the late venerable John Coventry, Esq. of Devonshaw. In
the following extract of a letter to the writer of this article in August 1835,that gentle-
man gave his opinion:--"I would by no means have recourse to a Greoian  festival
for a name to  Alloa, but would rather prefer a name alluding to Christianity, and
would have more satisfaction in deriving it from the Celtic or Gaelic,the original
language of Britain. Shaw, in his Dictionary, makes the word Alla to signify the
Most High, and oigh to be the name for virgin; literally, a church dedicated to the
most high Virgin. You will recollect, that in those primative times, the Catholics
treated the Virgin Mary with great veneration. It has undergone so little va-
riation,that it may still be easily traced. To illustrate the Celticword oigh, I must
bring in an anecdote relative to the battle of Inverkeithing. When the battle was
lost, the Highlanders fled to the Castle of Pitreavie as an asylum, invokingthe Vir-
gin for protection in their native words, oigh! oigh! They put their backs to the
walls of the castle, and continued to protect themselves with their drawn swords,
when the people within threw down stones from the bartian, and killed the poor
Fellows. It was remarked in the country, that, from that day, the Wardlawn of Pit-
reavie went like snow off a dike."
     CLACKMANNAN.


