
			COYLTON.                               659

the benefits of it are yearly inducing the farmer to extend its cul-
ivation. The rotation of cropping, for a long time in general
practice, was two white crops, a green crop, succeeded by another
white crop with grass seeds, and afterwards three or four years
in pasture. But the system which experience has shown to be
best adapted to the clay lands in the parish, and which, at least ex-
pense, yields the best return, and keeps the land in best condition,
is that of two white crops, and sowing grass seeds with the second
crop, afterwards to lie four or five years in pasture. And the rota-
tion best adapted for the light land is, one white crop, a green
crop, a white crop again, with grass seeds, and pasture four or
five years, as may be.
	The general duration of leases is eighteen or nineteen years.
The fences chiefly used are thorn hedges. In most parts, when
properly kept, they thrive well. In the farm-steads, there has
been great improvement within the last twenty years; the old
and insufficient erections giving place to buildings wore commo-
dious and substantial, and more agreeable to modern taste.
	Tile-Works.--There are two tile-works in the parish. One
on the estate of Gadgirth, the properity of Mr Burnett, who
is a most spirited and successful improver. In the course of a
year, when the demand was brisk, about 400,000 tiles were ma-
nufactured at this work. The other is on Mr Oswald's property,
and was erected in 1833 by Mr Robert Boyle, at his own cost, on
a lease of fifteen years at a fixed rental. Both bricks and tiles are
made at this work. The number of draining tiles and soles made
yearly before the sale was afflected by the erection of similar
works in the neighbourhood, was about 575,000; and of bricks,
about 150,000. The demand for bricks, it is expected, will soon
greatly increase. Mr Boyle uses the Marquis of Tweeddale's
patent tile machine, the only one at present in operation in
Ayrshire.
	Quarries.--There are several quarries of excellent stone, and
more might be opened, if necessary. At present, there are three
wrought on the estate of Mr Hamilton of Sundurn. They are
all of freestone, though of different kinds; a red, a white, and a
gray blue stone. The two first are highly approved for build-
ing; the last mentioned equally so for pavement, &c.
	There is a blue whinstone quarry on the Drumsuy property,
from which great quantities of road-metal are yearly taken. The
whole Craigs of Coyl are of this pure material.


