
504                          AYRSHIRE.

continual confinement, which is indispensable in order to a subsist-
ence, will prove much more injurious to health than if the work
were harder, and the person more exposed.
  The proprietor of Cloncaird, forty years ago, made several at-
tempts by boring for coal, but without success. This spring, a
similar trial was made by the Marquis of Ailsa on the Cassillis
lands, but with no better result.
  Quarries.--There is an excellent freestone quarry at Balwbirn,
the property of William Niven, Esq. There are few parishes where
there is such an abundant supply of lime. The following is an ab-
stract of the number of bolls sold at the respective places in a season.
				Bolls.
		Auchalton,	24686	William Niven Esq. Proprietor
		Clonelaugh,	19694	    do,         do.
		Balgreggan,	20498	Sir D. Hunter Blair, Bart. do.
                  Glenside,         6000    Henry Ritchie Esq.          do.
  Clonclaugh, although unexhausted,  has been closed for several
years; Glenside has never been worked to any extent. There is an-
other quarry, Trochain, on the Cloncaird estate, which has been
found to contain a substance exceedingly pure and in great abun-
dance.
  Mr Ritchie erected a tile-work in 1832, which has been of great
service to the country. The annual supply of tiles has reached
the sum of 330,000, which has, nevertheless, been always short of
the demand.

	            V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Kirkmichael is three miles from Maybole and ten from Ayr.
The village contains 560 inhabitants; Crosshill, 1005.
  A daily post arrives from Maybole at noon, and leaves at five
in the afternoon; Kirkmichael carrier goes to Ayr twice a week;
Straiton carrier passes the village to Ayr twice a week; Newton-
Stewart carrier to Glasgow once a week; Crosshill to Glasgow once
a week; Glasgow to Kirkmichael and Patna once a week; Crosshill
to Ayr, two carriers twice a week; Dailly carrier through Crosshill
to Ayr twice a week. There is, besides, a covered cart for pas-
sengers on the market days to Ayr.
  For the admirable state in which the roads of the district are
kept, much praise is due to our excellent surveyor, Mr Reid. In
Kirkmichael, there are twenty-six miles of turnpike, ten miles of
parish roads, and five toll bars,
  Of this parish Chalmers says, it was called in former times
Kirkmichael of Gemilston, evidently a corruption of Gemmil, which
is still a prevailing name in Ayrshire; and in Latin charters, it was


