
			KILBRIDE.				  7

milar fact, of which the writer is cognizant, viz. that in the year
1834, "in a population of less than 400 persons about the village
of Lamlash, there were 16 individuals living, the average age of
whom was 84 1/4 years, and not one of them was under 80."
	Hydrography.--This parish is pre-eminently "a land of foun-
tains and rivers of waters." Wells of the purest water, gushing
out from the clefts of the rocks and the sides of the hills, are met
with in every part of the parish. Some of those in the north are
strongly impregnated with iron and other mineral substances.
Every valley has its river, with a numerous host of tributary streams
that pour into it from every side their liberal contributions. The
rivers of North and South Sannox, of Glenrosa, Glencloy, and
Ashdale, are the largest. The last of these, a short way up the
glen, has two beautiful cascades, one above a hundred, the other
about fifty feet high, which fall with picturesqe effect, through
gorges of columnar basalt, over veins of the same substance on
which the columns rest. When the river is swelled by rains from
the hills, people can pass dry between the larger cascade and the
rock over which it falls. The parish contains but one lake, insig-
nificant in size, which is situated on the Ury Hill, south of Lam-
lash.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The geological phenomena presented
by the Island of Arran, and more especially the parish of Kilbride,
are almost without a parallel in Scotland for interest and importance.
They exhibit within a small compass a kind of epitome of the
mineral structure of the globe; shewing in regular progression,
the successive formations, from the primitive unstratified granite,
to the diluvial gravel and sand reposing, in incipient strata on the
latest formed rocks. They are, in fact, the speculations, which
the structure of Arran suggested to Hutton, and received so ela-
quent an exposition in the "Illustrations" of his disciple, Professor
Playfair, which first raised, geology to the rank of a science in
Great Britain. Accordingly, there is no part of Scotland, which
geologists have more frequently visited, or described with more
minute and laborious care. Professor Jameson, in his Minera-
logy of Arran, gave the first detailed account of it. He has since
been followed by Necker, Headrick, MacCulloch, Sedgwick, Mur-
chison, and Messrs Oenhausen and Dechen, two, scientific Ger-
mans; all of whom gave the results of their enquiries to the public.
To gratify in some measure the curiosity of those who may not have
seen the elaborate geological, statistics of those who have published


