
296                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

Mr Spiers of Elderslie; Mr Campbell of Boquhan; Mr Kay of
Wright's Park; Mr Spiers, present proprietor of Culcreuch;
Mr Galbraith of Balgair; Mr Napier of Ballikinrain; Commis-
sary-General Dunmore of Kilfasset; Mr James Campbell, mer-
chant, Glasgow; Mr Samuel Cooper of Smithston and Ballindal-
loch; Mr Patrick Neilson of Camoquhill, merchant, Glasgow;
Mr Alexander Neilson, part of Camoquhill, writer, Port-Glas-
gow; Mr Pollock of Camoquhill; Rev. Dr Graham of Balfun-
ning and Indians; Dr Blair of lbut; and the Trustees of the late
James Morrison, with other smaller portioners.
  Habits, &c.--It must be confessed that killing game without a
license is very prevalent. The general habits of the population
may be stated to be cleanly. It is quite impossible to view a weav-
ing population, such as ours, notwithstanding all their disadvanta-
ges, and not be struck with their intelligence. The knowledge
which they exhibit, and their acquaintance with certain subjects, is
indeed astonishing.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.

  Agriculture.--There are in the parish above 14,080 acres; of
these 3320 are in a state of culture; 105 are planted; the rest is
in pasture or in waste. 500 acres might very easily, and with a
proper application of capital, be added to the cultivated land, the
average rent of which is about L.1 per acre; and great additions
might likewise be made to the plantations within the parish, and
which, if judiciously done, would certainly improve both the cli-
mate and the shelter.
  Leases.--With the exception of two estates, namely, Balgair
and a part of Gartmore, which are managed by judicial factors, who
reside in Edinburgh, the leases generally run for nineteen years.
On these two estates, the leases are only five or seven years.
This certainly cannot be to the advantage either of tenant or land-
lord.
   The farms in the parish are generally small,--the rents of one
or two being L.150 per annum; but in general, they run from L.30
to L.100.  The farmers are as industrious as need be; but, from
the general size of the farms, and, above all, from the want of re-
siding proprietors, it must, be regretted that there is not that en-
couragement given to men of capital, skill, and enterprise, which
we notice in other districts of the country.
  Rent.--The rent for glazing a milk cow varies from L.2 to L.5,
according to the pasture.


