
			PARISH OF TORTHORWALD.

		PRESBYTERY OF DUMFRIES, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

		  THE REV. JOHN YORSTOUN, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--THE etymology of "Torthorwald,"
the name of this parish, is matter of conjecture. That given in
the former Statistical Report is probably as good as any other,
viz. that it signifies the Tower or Castle of Thor in the wood. There
is still a large ruin of a strong castle near the centre of the parish,
supposed, from the style of building, to have been erected 700
or 800 years ago; and the parish is said to have been formerly sur-
rounded by an extensive forest, though at present there is very
little wood in it.*
       Torthorwald is bounded by the parish of Mousewald on the south;
of Lochmaben on the east; of Tinwald on the north; and of Dumfries
on the west. It lies on the south-west face of a gently sloping ridge,
the summit of which, about 600 or 700 feet in height, constitutes
the march between two divisions of the county of Dumfries, Niths-
dale, and Annandale,--taking their names from the two rivers of
Nith and Annan, which run along their valleys in a southerly di-
rection, and empty themselves into the Solway Firth. The boun-
daries betwixt this parish and those of Mousewald, Lochmaben,
and Tinwald, are not of any strongly defined natural kind, but
chiefly dikes, ditches, or small runners, separating the lands of con-
terminous proprietors. But from the parish of Dumfries it is se-
parated by the water or river of Lochar, which runs along the
whole line of march. The shape of the parish is pretty compact,
and nearly square, excepting one long point, consisting principally
of moss, and projecting about three miles beyond the rest towards

<FOOTNOTE>The old castle of Torthorwald, which is particularly described in the former Sta-
tistical Report, is situate near the church and manse and village of Torthorwald;--
a great part of the walls are still standing. No decay or dilapidation has taken place
on it since last Statistical Report: indeed it may stand as it is for m`ny years, as the
mortar with which it is cemented is as firm as the solid stone.


