
     of Sanquhar.

   Manufactures.-Sanquhar seems naturally formed for the esta-
blishment of woolen manufactures; and nothing perhaps, would
more immediately conduce to the internal wealth and prosperity
of this part of the kingdom.  Nor is it unlikely, that the spirit
of commerce and manufactures, which now begins to per-
vade the island, will in a short time display its lively and be-
neficial effects in this quarter.  No situation can be more hap-
pily adopted for fostering a spirit of this kind.  Almost in the
very centre of a country, the staple commodities of which are
sheep and wool, touching the head of Galloway on the one
hand, bordering on Airshire, the head of Clydesdale, and con-
tiguous to Annandale and Tweeddale on the other.  There is
abundance of coal and water, so essential to the spirit of ma-
nufactures; an easy communication to Edinburgh, Dumfries
and Ayr, by excellent roads, and the cheapest land-carriage
to these places, perhaps in Scotland, particularly from the
two former, owing to the lead exported to the one, and coal
to the other.  There are two different branches of carpet ma-
nufacture begun within these few years, and want nothing
but men of property and public spirit to carry them forward
on a large scale, for the benefit of this and the surrounding
counties.  These two branches are established on the banks of
Crawick, an unrivalled situation, where there is plenty of wa-
ter and descent to drive weighty machinery, if necessary, and
in the close vicinity of coal.  In one of these branches 5 wea-
vers are employed, 2 draw boys, and a pirn winner, 2 wo-
men twisting yarn, and one in what is called bobbining it, af-
ter it is dyed.  These weavers throw off, in the course of one
year, about 12,000 yards, the medium price of which is 2 s.
5 d. per yard.  Besides, this branch employs 8 weavers in town
and country, for manufacturing of stuffs, serges, plaidens,
flannels, etc.  The other branch employs nearly the same
number of weavers, boys and women, and the yarn is manu-

     VOL. VI. 3 M


