
254                    BERWICKSHIRE.

could not have undergone any change, because his father, OELLA,
was the first of his house who settled here, and because in the
interim the arts of peace were not cultivated. It is recorded,
too, that the art of building with mortar or cement was not intro-
duced into Britain till after this time,-the first Saxon buildings of
stone and lime having been the monastery of Weremouth, found-
ed in 674, and the Cathedral of Hexham erected soon after-
wards,-both constructed by masons and artificers brought from
abroad. *
   The situation of Edinshall is neither strong in itself, nor fitted
to protect any part of the adjoining country. From this fact, it
may be inferred that the building was designed not so much for a
military station as a place of residence or a court of justice.
Hence it does not bear the name of burgh, which signifies a
castle, but that of hall, which means a palace or a court.
   It is now generally admitted that the present metropolis of Scot-
land was founded by the same prince to whom we have attributed
the erection of Edinshall.
   On the summit of Dunse-Law are the vestiges of the entrenched
camp occupied by General Leslie and 20,000 Covenanters in May
1639,-for the purpose of opposing a threatened invasion of Scot-
land by King Charles, who, wishing to impose Episcopacy on the
Scottish nation, had advanced with a great force to Birks, seven
miles beyond Berwick. Matters were, however, accommodated
without bloodshed at that time, by an agreement, with which nei-
ther party seems to have been quite satisfied, or in which neither,
of course, was quite sincere. There was found in Dunse Castle,
between thirty and forty years ago, a copy of the Solemn League
and Covenant, which was most probably sworn and signed on that
occasion, and left there by some of the Scottish nobles who were
parties to the accommodation, and occupied the castle, while their
troops were encamped on the neighbouring hill.
   In the turbulent times of 1517, during the minority of King
James V. and the absence of the Regent Duke of Albany in France,
a deed of atrocity was perpetrated on Sir Anthony D'Arcy, also
denominated the Chevalier de la Beaute, at a morass called, from
the name of the sufferer, Batties' Bog, on the line which di-
vides the parish of Dunse from that of Edrom, on the north-east.
The Chevalier, in performing the duties of Lord Warden of the
marches, acting with much severity, had incurred the displeasure

             * Henry's History of Britain, Vol. ii. p. 391.
                                  4


