
62                           FIFESHIRE.

Dispsacus sylvestris, Asperula odorata, Lythrum salicari, Reseda
luteola and lutea, Aqrimonia Eupatoria, &c.
   Within the small enclosure of the ruins of Lindores, we meet
with a variety of plants, some of which are rare, if not extirpated
entirely in the district ; of these may be noticed the H ,yoscya mus
niger, which was once abundant in the neighbourhood. Like the
wild beasts of our forests, it has been expelled from our fields;
only one plant, of surpassing stateliness and beauty, reared its head
this season, and none have been seen for many years. The Ga-
lanthus nivalis is becoming equally shy in its chilly modest aspect;
but in abundance may be found Cynoglossum offwinale, Mercuria-
lis perennis, Scrophularia vernalis and nodosa, Erysimum alliaria,
Hyacinthus non-scriptus, Stellaria holostea, Vervascum Lonchitis,
Allium ursinum, Parietaria Officinalis, Chelidonium majus, Ber-
beris vulgaris, Papaver somniferum, (only once observerd;) Lac-
tuca virosa, Malva sylvertris &c.; of the Filices, the Scolopendrium,
Blenchnum, and Adiantum are in abundance.
   In the hilly district we have the Pyrola media, Parnossia palus-
tris, Pedicularis palustris, Limum catharticim, Genista anglica,
Primula veris, Oxalis acetosella, Pinguicula vugaris, Nymphaea al-
ba, and Nuphar butea. Among the grasses, Poa de cumbens. Briza me-
dia, Eriophorum capitatum, and Anthoxanthum odoratum; of Musci,
Bryum, Bartramia, Grimmia, Hypnum, Polytrichum : of Fungi,
along with the Agaricus 8 species, the Phallus fetidus, is sometimes
met with.
   The principal woods are, Mugdrum, covering a surface along
the banks of the Tay of about 34 imperial acres, and consisting
chiefly of spruce and larch firs; those of Pitcairly, extending to about
12 imperial acres, which contain a considerable portion of the hard
woods, ash, beech, elm, and plane-tree, interspersed with the usu-
al varieties of coniferoe; about 41 imperial acres of the town's pro-
perty has been lalely planted with larch, spruce, and Scotch firs.
No portion of the ancient wood of Earnside now exists, not even a
vestige of its brushwood.  The Abbey of Lindores, which, Camb-
den says, "was placed among the woods," can still boast of a few
fruit trees, which, thought in ruins like itself, attract the notice of
the passenger by their superb venerable appearance.  The identi-
cal trees of which Sir Robert Sibbald speaks, ("witness the vastly
big still many of them remaining.  The orchards of much later ori-
gin, in the immediate vicinity of the town, are in a very thriving



