
44                          PERTHSHIRE.

maid to his Majestie, zou sall inform him whome you are to trust
with that matter, that first in name of the toun he mak his Majes-
tie welcome, and then in sensible and good language, he sal sett
forth his Majestie's awin praise, by innumerable comfortis and
blessings, quhilk this countrey has haid boith in kirk and policie
under his Majestei's moist happie government, and lait go far as
modestie may permitt, he sall speik to the praise of the toune both
anent the antiquitie theairof, the services done by the saim to the
crowne and estait, the willingness of the present inhabitants be
their best endeavouris to serve his Majestie in all and everie, by and
in thair possibilitie, without ony private respect or consideratione,
and the constant and firme resolutinne of the toun to contineu in
all dewtifull obedience to his Majestie and his royal progenie and
successouris in all tyme coming. This being the substance of the
speche, you sall caus it to be deliverit in the best forme that may
be, and remitting the same to your awin graive considerationis
as a poynte heightelie importing the credit of your toune, we com-
mit you to God.  From Edinburgh, xvii. day of Aprill 1617.  Sic
sub. your verie good friendis, Al. Cancell. Bining, Geo. Hay, S.
Murray, Balfour of Burley." Written on the back, "To our Right
traist freindis, the Provest and Baillies of Perth."
   Upon the receipt of these missives an order was issued by the
town-council to convene daily till the King's coming.  On the 4th
May, they received a missive from the Chancellor and President to
provide a propin to his majesty at his entry into the city, and to meet
him with black gowns. They appointed fifty persons to meet him, and
ordered the propin to be 1000 merks, and the silver keys of the
city overgilt. The King's arms were p`inted over the Highgate
port. The arms were also cut in stone, and placed on the west
side of the bridge nearest the tolbooth.  The Bridge of Earn be-
ing the town's chartered property, and as the King must pass it on
his approach, the following appointment was issued: " Appointis
Henry Bannewis to tak cair upon the bigging of the calsayeis of
the Brig of Erne, and brig thairof, and to take triel with the
cosches of his Majesty, that they discretlie be careit langlandis
the brig, bot hurt to the samen, and to the cosches, and the coun-
cill to consider his panes, and the said brig to be ledget with tim-
mer and new daillit."
   The town-officers were ordered to be furnished with clothes
of red Fleming. The skinners were ordered to " provide for the


