
		  GLENURCHY AND INISHAIL.                    83

or the Isle of Druids, in its close neighbourhood. According to
others, it signifies the Island of Paul, viz. Paul the Treasurer of
Scotland, or, as he is called in Gaelic, Paul an Sporain, the found-
er of the noble house of Argyle, who is said to have been buried
here; whilst, according to a fourth party, and in accordance with
a still current tradition, it signifies the Island of Aillidh, or the
beautiful, a daughter of a King of Denmark, whose remains are
said to be interred here.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The extreme length of the parish,
from the shores of Lochetive at Bunawe, on the west, to the bor-
ders of Perthshird, near Tyndrum, in Breadalbane, on the east,
is from 24 to 25 miles. Its breadth is various and unequal, rang-
ing from 5 to 20 miles. Its average breadth is about 12 miles.
Number of square miles, about 300. It is bounded on the east,
by the parish of Killin; on the west, by the parishes of Inverary,
Kilehrenan, and Muckairn, and for a short space by Lochetive;
on the south, by the parishes of Kilmorick, Inverary, and Arro-
char; and on the north west and north, by the parishes of Ard-
chattan and Appin; and on the northeast, near the coufines of
Rannoch, by the parish of Fortingal.
   Topographical Appearances.--The principal range of mountains
in the parish way be designated the Cruachan range, which
stretches along the north and north-east side of the parish, rear-
ing up its gigantic masses, and forming a formidable barrier,
between Glenurchy and the counterminous parishes of Ardchat-
an and Appin. This range embraces several mountains of great
elevation such as Beinabhuiridh, or hill of routing; Stob an
daimh, or the stot's peak; Bein Macmonaidh, or mountain son
Of the hill; and Bein dourain, or the mountain of ottars,--a moun-
tain dear to the Highland muse, and rendered immortal by the
most distinguished of our later Highland bards, the pre-eminently
Poetical, though illiterate Duncan B/a1n McIntyre. In the parish,
of Inishail, there are no hills of any great height. The only range
Which occurs, is that which separated it from the parish of Inverary,
a great Part of which comes, with greater propriety, under the
designation of moor, than either of hill or mountain. This range,
Which stretches away from the westward to the eastern extremity
of Lochawe, extends along the south side of the vale of the Ur-
chay,--forming, by its comparative insipidity and tameness, a
marked and striking contrast to the steep, rugged, and lofty


