
414                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

15. They are supported by quarterly assessments, increased or
diminished according to the state of,the case; and these assessments
are paid, one-half by the heritors, and one-half by the tenants. The
assessment at present is L. 25 per quarter; but this is unusually
large, in order to meet some extraordinary cases. The average sum
collected for poor's rates annually, during the last ten years, is L. 64,
3s. 0 1\2d. and the average number of paupers on the list during that
time has been 12. The evil effects of assessments are apparent in
this parish as elsewhere. The collections at the church for the last ten
years amounted to L. 204, 2s. 7 3\4d. or L. 20, 8s. 3d. yearly. They
are commonly appropriated to the following uses: to pay the sala-
ries of the ordinary office-bearers, to educate the poor scholars, to
aid the Dumfries and Galloway Infirmary, and thereby give us the
power of sending patients to that useful institution; and to give tem-
porary aid to poor people, either to keep them from the poors'
rates, or support them till the first quarterly meeting. The ses-
sion, besides these collections, has L. 80 of mortified money and
accumulated collections, the interest of which goes, by agreement,
in aid of the poor rates, and is accepted by the committee in lieu
of the half of the session funds to which by law they are entitled.
Mrs William Curll, formerly a residenter in this parish, but latter-
ly in Kelso, left to the care of the Eskdalemuir session L. 25,--
the interest of which is to go to aged persons not on the poors'
lists; and Mrs Moffat, late at Garwald, left L. 20 to the session, the
interest to be employed in buying school Bibles for poor scholars.
This last is a most useful legacy.
	Fuel.--The usual fuel is peat, of which there is fortunately great
abundance; so that, in dry years, a sufficient store can be laid up;
but in wet seasons, our situation is uncomfortable.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	The great storm in 1794 should not pass unnoticed, in a work of
this kind. It happened the year after I wrote my former Account, and
from a memorandum taken at the time, I am enabled to describe it
with accuracy. "During the harvest of l793 the weather was good,
and never was there a milder and more favourable winter for stocks
than this was, till the fatal 25th January 1794. That storm was the
most dreadful ever known in this place. The snow began to fall
in the evening of Thursday the 23d, and covered the ground to
the depth of about four inches. Friday the 24th, the forenoon
was pretty good, and in the evening it began to rain ; and there
was every appearance of thaw,'tbe wind being southwest. The


