
356                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

			   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The nearest market-town is Dumfries, to which the inhabitants
repair every Wednesday,--perhaps in greater numbers than is ab-
solutely requisite. There are in Caerlaverock seven villages, viz.
Greenmill, Bankend, Glenhowan, Shearington, Blackshaw, Glen-
caple, and Kelton. Most of these, however, are going to decay.
Bankend, from its central situation in the parish, may probably
continue; and Glencaple, from steam navigation, will likely increase
There are no turnpike, rail-roads, or canals in this parish.*
	Ecclesiastical State.--The situation of the church, although
nearly at one extremity of the parish, cannot be greatly complained
of,--no person having to travel much above three miles to it. It
is almost exactly five and a-half miles from Dumfries, and within
three minutes walk of the manse. It was built in 1781. The
walls are very substantial, and the form is in good proportion. It
has one gallery in front, and it would admit of two additional side
galleries, which, if erected, would amply accomodate all the po-
pulation that will likely accumulate for years to come. The walls
are liable to damp, the floor is not laid, and the passages are also
very narrow; and altogether the interior of the church would re-
quire to be remodelled. It affords accommodation for about 470,
and no rents are charged for any of the sittings.
	The manse was built A. D. 1708, not by the heritors, but by
Dr Hutton. Since the date of its erection, it has been repaired
more than once, partly at the expense of the Hutton Bequest,
partly at that of the late incumbent, and partly at that of the he-
ritors. When the last Statistical Account was compiled, my pre-
decessor writes, " it is yet in decent condition;" and as houses do
not improve by age, the writer regrets to state that he cannot say
much in its praise. A little was done in repairs by the heritors three
years ago; but it continues excessively damp, and, though not very
deficient as to the number of apartments, it is very inconvenient as

<FOOTNOTE>During spring-tides, and particularly when impelled by a strong south-wester,
the Solway rises with prodigious rapidity. A loud booming noise indicates its ap-
proach, and is distinguishable at the distance of several miles. At Caerlaverock and
Glencaple, where it enters the Nith, the scene is singularly grand and imposing; and
it is beautiful to see a mighty volume of water advancing foam-crested, and with a
degree of rapidity which, were the race a long one, would outmatch the speed of the
swiftest horses. The tide-head, as it is called, is often from four to six feet high,
chafed into spray, with a mighty trough of bluer water behind, swelling in some
places into little hills, and in others scooped into tiny valleys, which, when sun-lit,
form a brilliant picture of themselves. From the tide head proceed two huge jets of
water, which run; roaring along, searching the banks on either side, the antennse,
as it were, which the ocean puts forth, and by which it feels its way when confined
within narrow limits."--M'Diarmid's Picture of Dumfries, p. 15.
                                      3


