
			EDDERACHILLIS.                       127

but this was prevented by the alleged intrigue of his rival, Mac-
kenzie of Coigach or Cromarty.  This great man's career termi-
noted in 1692; he fell shortly after the siege of Namur, where he
commanded the  British division of the grand army.
   Parochial Register.- There are no traces of a parochial record
having been kept prior to 1819. From that period, births and,
marriages have been carefully recorded.
   Antiquities.-Little can be stated on this head, At Kylestrome
there are the remains of a Danish fort tolerably entire: and at
Scourie. there are still visible the remains of a similar building,as
well as of tumuli.  At Badnabay, also, there is the appearance of
a Druidical circle of stones.
   Land-owners.-The Duke of Sutherland is sole proprietor of
the parish,-into whose possession, with the rest of the Reay coun-
try, it came in 1829: it was then almost in a state of nature, with-
out a foot of road or other improvements,- the most commendable
thing about it being tbe excellent deportment of its natives as to
religion, and in respect of moral and social order.
   Roads, &c.- The aspect of the country has been since changed,
by the construction of roads, erection of inns, and farmhouses.
These improvements extended over the whole county of Sutherland,
In the aggregate, no less than 480 miles of roads have been made,
greatly by the means, and wholly through the instrumentality, of
his Grace.  The portion of these roads confined to this parish is
32 miles in extent; and three inns have been erected in it solely
at the Duke's expense.
   Means of Communication.-It appears from the former Statisti-
cal Account, that there was no regular post communication with
the south,-a circumstance which caused great complaint in these
days ; and the only way of receiving letter was by a few of the pa
rishioners contributing to send a runner once a-fortnight to Tongue.
to which place there was a communication from the South round
by Caithness,-tbe difference between the direct line and this route
being at least 150 miles. Instead of this, there is now  a post-
office at Scourie, having intercourse, by means of a mail-gig twice
a-week, with Golspie, where there is a daily post to all parts of
the kingdom. The internal communication was equally defective,
-the, intercourse being-carried on by boating, and on unshod
ponies which scrambled, over the precipices with wonderful safety
and agility. Few accidents arose from either.  The last was the
cae of Captain William Scobie of Ardvar, who was drowned in


