
			COUPAR-ANGUS.                              1141

	on reasonable terms at the sales of decayed timber, brushwood,
	&c. that frequently take place.  The tenants on the property
	of the Duke of Athole are entitled to a certain quantily   of
	peats from the moss of Craigleith, on the western boundary of the
	parish.   It is understood that the parochial minister has also this
	privilege; but during many years, it has not been exercised, owing
	to the distance of the moss, and the trouble and expense of pre-
	paring the peats.

	   June 1843.

			PARISH OF COUPAR-ANGUS

	    PRERBYTERY OF MEIGLE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

		THE REV.  PATRICK J. STEVENSON, MINISTER.

		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	   Extent and Boundaries.-THE parish of Coupar- Angus lies in
	the centre of Strathmore.  By far the larger portion of it belongs
	to the county of Perth ; but thd original part of the town being in
	Forfarshire, the parish takes its distinctive name from that county.
	It is bounded on the north-west, by the parish of Bendochy, from
	which it is separated by the river Isla; on the north-east, by
	Meigle; on the south-east, by Kettins; and on the south-west,
	by Cargill.  Its length is about 5 miles, stretching from north-
	east to south-west.  Its breadth varies from l 1/2 to 2 1/2 miles.
	   The parish is divided, in the direction of north-east, by a ridge
	of some height; along which the road to Aberdeen runs; and
	which commands a splendid view of the Sidlaw, (or perhaps Sud-
	law,) hills on the south; the lower range of the Grampians on
	the north, with the distant summits of Ben More, Schihallion,
	and Ben Voirlich.
	   The river Isla forms the north-west boundary of the parish.
	It is supposed to take its name from Yllif, a flood.  In the twelfth
	century, Giraldus Cambrensis calls it Hylef.  This supposition
	derives some corroboration from the whole of the, haugh-land,
	which is of considerable extent on the south side of the river. hav-
	ing been formerly liable to be overflowed.  After continued rain,


