

                      ON THE COUNTY OF CAITHNESS.

       early in July, and continues Dearly two months.  There is con-
       siderable uncertainty as to the quantity, and of course risk,--so that
       the profits are frequently small to the curer, and often a loss is
       sustained.  The fishermen are paid a price of so much per cran,
       which is generally fixed at the commencement of the season; and,
       if the quantity got be tolerably large, be is sure of a fair remune-
       ration.  In consequence of this, he pays a high rent for his house
       and land, and his condition generally is improved.  The quantity
       caught and the number of people employed, vary each year con-
       siderably.  On an average, it may be stated that the quantity
       caught, during the season, may be from I00,000 to 120,000 barrels
       or crans, and the number of people partially or wholly employed,
       including fishermen, coopers, packers, &c. about 12,000.  The
       fishermen are paid from 9s. to 10s. per cran; and the barrel when
       cured is worth about 21s.  The number of boats employed may
       be about 1000, of which 700 are owned in the county, and the
       rest come from the Frith of Forth and various places in the Mur-
       ray Frith.  Each boat is manned by five men.  These state-
       ments will show the immense importance of this fishery to the
       county, and that it is of considerable value in a national point
       of view.  The salmon-fisheries in the rivers of Thurso, Berriedale,
       and one or two others, are also of some value.
         Gaelic is spoken only in the higher parts of the county; in
       the other parts, the inhabitants, comprising three-fourths of the
       population, speak the ordinary language of the country, and their
       manners and habits are those of the lowland Scots.  There has
       been during the last twenty years, considerable improvement in the
       manners and social habits of the inhabitants: upon the whole, less
       inebriety--riots and fighting at fairs have almost ceased--and the
       standard of comfort has been raised amongst all classes.  Edu-
       cation is advancing; but it is to be regretted that its importance
       is not sufficiently appreciated by the mass of the people.  The
       means of communication with the south by steam are every year
       improving.  In the county itself, the roads are both good and nu-
       merous.


