
288                         ARGYLESHIRE.

for building or for road-making.  Some of them contained a few
bones, some ashes, and some a small quantity of black mould.
   Three years ago, some road-makers found, at the depth of a
foot under the surface, an old leathern purse containing three
silver coins.  One of them is a Spanish dollar.  On one side of
it is this inscription, Phil. IIII. D. G.  Hisp. et Indiar. Rex,
1647.  On the reverse side, A. R. C.  *  *  *  Dux. Burg.
Domitor.  Another is a shilling of Queen Elizabeth, and its in-
scription is, Elizab. D. G. Ang. Fr. et Hib. R.  It has on the
reverse side, Deus est meus adjutor, 1595.  Both of these
coins are much worn.  The third, which is about the size of a
franc, is a coin of Charles II, as entire as when it came out of
the mint.
   Modern Buildings.-Since the last Statistical Account was
written, the father of the present Laird of Lochbuy built a large,
commodious and handsome house, at the head of Lochbuy, about
200 yards from the tower.  It commands a fine view of the sce-
nery on both sides of the loch, and also of the island of Colonsay
in the Atlantic, bearing from it south by west, and distant four-
teen miles.
   Colonel Campbell of Possil has, within these few years, made
a considerable addition to Achnacroish House.  He has also built
a fine set of offices.  The stone used is blue gneisbache, found on
the spot; but, owing with extreme hardness, the cutting of it was
attended with more expense than ashlar work would have cost.
   A few years ago, there was a large corn-mill erected on the es-
tate of Torosay.  It has two pair of millstones.  From the strength
of the machinery, and the abundant supply of water, it might ma-
nufacture all the grain grown in the island.  But though, in the
meantime, it is more than adequate to the district thirled to it,
there is every probability that, owing to the progress which hus-
bandry is making in the district, there will be soon much more
corn to grind than at present.

                          III.-POPULATION.
   The population of this parish in 1755, was 1012 in 1790 it,
was 1733; at present it is 1889.
   Of the five heritors, only two are at present resident in the
parish.
   Language.-The language spoken in the parish is Gaelic.
Though English is beginning to be pretty generalty understood,
the natives seldom use it, when conversing with one another.  They
                                    4


