
     Statistical Account

or properly investigated.  From Crawick along the run of
the river Nith, till near the west march, lies the most valu-
able part of the coal in this part of the country.  Its bed is
between 2 and 3 miles broad, and consists of several seams,
some of them very deep.  One of these, at the Cairnburn, is
the only place in this quarter, that furnishes that sort of coal
which is used in working iron.  It is carried in carts for
that purpose, to the distance of 30 or 40 miles, in different
directions.  In several places, the coal is covered with blue free
rock, very fine and hard, that will cut to any size or thick-
ness, and receive a polish not so glossy, but almost as smooth
as marble.

<FOOTNOTE>

lantic, in pursuit of that encouragement, which, because unno-
tified to them, they imagined was not to be found in their own
country.  From whatever cause, their situation at this time
happened to be such, as to attract more than usual attention
and compassion.  Among those who beheld or heard of this
moving scene, an eminent manufacturer, much to his honour,
exerted and distinguished himself.  This was Mr DAVID DALE
Of Glasgow, said to be no less remarkable for his public and
private virtues, than for enterprise and success in the line of
his business, who took these poor intending emigrants under
his care, and employed them in his works.  On this occasion,
too, a SOCIETY was instituted in Glasgow, for PREVENTING
EMIGRATION.  So striking an instance of judicious patriotic hu-
manity, could hardly fail to be the subject of the warmest enco-
miums; but seems to have been too little regarded and im-
proved, as an example for imitation; as no material alteration
for the better has followed, with respect to the number of use-
ful hands, in most of the southern parts of the kingdom.  To
promote more effectually the beneficial purposes of the institution
just now mentioned, or of others similar to it, would it not be
proper, among other things, to publish in the newspapers, or
transmit to every parish, a copy of the plan and regulations ad-
opted?
     -Si quid novisti rectius istis,
     Candidus imperti; si non, his utere mecum.


