
          1178                       PERTHSHIRE.

          separated from, the lowland division, but consists itself of two dis-
          tinct parts. The western portion of this part of the parish lies in
          the angle of confluence between tbe Ardle and BLackwater.  The
          Ardle separates it on the south from the parishes of Blairgowrie
          and Kinloch ; and the Blackwater, on the east and north, from
          the parishes of Blairgowrie and Alyth.  On the west, it is bounded
          by the parish of Kirkmichael; and on the north-west, by a small
          dissevered portion of Caputh parish.  It consists of an elevated
          ridge, ascending more or less abruptly from the banks of the two
          rivers, and having its northern terminus in the hill of Persie, the
          highest locality in the parish, being probably 1400 feet above the
          level of the sea.  On the banks of the Ardle at Cally, there is
          some arable soil.  The arable portion on the Blackwater is chiefly
          the elevated flat at Persie, which is considerably higher than that
          on the Ardle; and, from this cause, and the character of the sub-
          soil, the crops are considerably later there than at Cally.  The
          valley of the Ardle (Strathardle) runs nearly due east, while that
          of the Blackw`ter, with its parallel ridge, comprising this portion
          of the parish, runs nearly due south.  The other portion of the
          Highland division of the parish, and which is not marked in the
          map of Perthshire in this work, being the estate of Drimmie, is a
          large shoulder of hilly ground, composed of two parallel wavy
          ridges.  It lies on the left bank of the Ericht, being the united
          waters of the Ardle and Blackwater, and about half a mile below
          their junction ; and it is embraced on the south and west, by the
          parish of Blairgowrie; and on the east and nortb, by the parishes
          of Rattray and Alyth.
            Meteorology.-I regret that I have taken no observations with
          the barometer or, thermometer with such care and regularity as
          to be worth recording.  It may be mentioned, that in the severe
          winter of 1837-8, the mercury, in the thermometer stood as low
          here, perhaps, as in any district in Scotland.  On the 3d of Fe-
          bruary, at 8 o'clock A. M., it stood at zero.  On Thursday the 15th,
          a memorably cold day, it ranged from from 8&deg; to 5&deg; below zero
          betwixt six and eight o'clock A. M.  On the morning of that day,
          water, spilt in a bed-room, in which there had been conrtant fire
          night and day for ten days previously, almost instantly congealed.
          The effects of the long-continued intensity of the cold were re-
          markable.  Partridges became so enfeebled as scarcely to be able
          to fly; and wood-pigeons, which had become very numerous and
          very troublesome to the farmer, were all exterminated. I saw


