
         346                         BANFFSHIRE.

         grounds of Cullen House, from which the church is only forty
         yards distant.  The interior presents a most venerable appearance,
         -its dingy light, antique fittings, and the ancient monuments
         which grace its walls, combining to impart to it a very imposing
         aspect, and well calculated to aid devotional feeling.  The pecu-
         liarity of its construction, and the circumstance of never having
         been ceiled, render public speaking in it somewhat difficult, and a
         very considerable strength of voice is requisite, to enable the
         preacher to be generally heard.   It was enlarged abott forty-four
         years ago, by the erection of an additional aisle, which, from the
         circumstance of the minister being invisible to the great body of
         the hearers, who occupied that portion of the church, by reason of
         the awkward situation of the pulpit, was commonly denominated
         "the believers' loft,"-a title which is, no longer applicable, the
         evil having been remedied by changing the situation of the pul-
         pit.  The church is situated close to the western boundary of Cul-
         len proper.  It is somewhat about a mile equidistant from the
         northern, eastern, and southern extremities of the parish, and
         three miles from the most remote boundary of the annexation.
         Since the removal of the old town of Cullen, in the centre of
         which it stood, its situation has become not a little inconvenient
         for the parishioners, being nearly a mile distant from the New
         town and Sea town, where nine-tenths of the population are loca-
         ted.  It is seated for 800, allowing eighteen inches to each per-
         son.  The sittings are all free and undivided,-the parishioners
         being at liberty more gregis to accommodate themselves wherever
         they please.  In summer, the whole of the sittings are fully occu-
         pied, and in winter, the attendance hs one-third less. The ave-
         rage number of communicants is 640, and of male heads of fami-
         lies in full communion with the church, 220.  There is no regular
         Dissenting place of worship, either in Cullen proper, or in the an-
         nexation. In the former, the entire number of Dissenters may be
         computed at 26 souls, viz.  Episcopalians, 5 ; Wesleyan Metho-
         dists, 7; Independents, 2 ; Roman Catholics, 12.  With the
         above exceptions, the whole of the parishioners of Cullen proper
         professedly belong to the Established Church.  The greater part
         of the Dissenters give occasional attendance at the parish church,
         and the members of the Methodist communion are in the habit
         of receiving sealing ordinances, at the hands of the parish minis-
         ter. There are, usually four extraordinary church collections du-



