
     Of Kirkmichael.

known that a famine prevailed over the whole kingdom, and
continued during several years.  Either agriculture, at that
time, must have been imperfectly understood, or the calamity
must have been severe, when a boll of a meal cost 1 L 6 s. 8 d.
Sterling.  The year 1709, is also noted for a dearth, and
winter, uncommonly rigorous over every part of Europe*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*In France, it is described by a Poet of the time, as blasting trees, and af-
ecting even the vine.

     "hinc," says he, "nostros et nux et oliva per agros
     Interiit, brumaeque truci vix restitit ilex."

   The effects were felt in this country, and victual rose in proportion; the boll
of meal cost 1 L. 3 s. Sterling.  There are many still alive, who remember the
year 1740.  The frosts came in September, and the snow fell so deep in Octo-
ber, that the corn continued buried under it, till January and February follow-
ing.  At that period, the boll of meal rose to the exorbitant price of 30 s. the
boll:  and to increase the misery of the people, those who sold it, frequently
mixed it with lime, which to many proved fatal.  To support life, the people
over the Highlands, in general, were obliged frequently to let blood from their
cattle, a practice now that is never used in this country.  About 30 years ago,
the seasons being favourable, the boll of meal sold at the low price of 6 s. 8 d.
During the last 20 years, the average price, exclusive of 1782 and 1783, has
been about 16 s. Sterling.  The price of black cattle and sheep, for 3 years
backward, has been, upon the whole, high; cows and calves have sold for 5 L.,
6 L., and 7 L. each; sheeps and lambs for 10 s. and 12 s. each; oxen for 5 L. and
7 L. each, sometimes 8 L.  For the 3 last years, the prices have abated near a
third.  Poultry sell for 6 d. and 7 d. each, and pullets for 2 d. and 3 d. each;
eggs sell at 2 d. and 3 1/2 d. the dozen.  The difference between the prices of
these articles at present, and in ancient times, cannot be accurately ascertain-
ed; but before the year 1745, which forms a remarkable era in the Highlands,
oxen sold for 2 L. and 50 s.; cows, with their calves, for 25 s., and 20 s., and 30 s.;
and sheep, with their lambs, 2 s. 6 d., and 3 s. 6 d.; and other articles in pro-
portion.
   From a consideration of the circumstances of the Highlands, which, previ-
ous to the 1745, were in some measure stationary, it may be presumed, that
during a considerable time, these were the standard prices; but the spirit of
commerce introduced into the S. of Scotland, operates with extended influence,


