
       256                  INVERNESS-SHIRE.

       vengeance, by leaving their native land, and by procuring a set-
       tlement for themselves by force of arms in this and other islands
       around.  Having once obtained possession of their new territo-
       ries, they resolved to make piratical attacks upon their native
       land, on account of Harold's previous cruelty and vengeance;-
       and this procedure provoked the King of Norway and his allies
       to dispatch a fleet to the Isles, by which they were ultimately sub-
       dued, and added to the crown of Norway.  The aborigines of the
       Isles had cause to deplore the barbarities of their new oppressors,
       by whom the "cills" and places of worship erected some centuries
       before, by the Culdees, the pious disciples of St Columba, were
       entirely demolished; and ravages and desolations of the most
       sweepipg description ensued.  That the territory which consti-
       tutes this parish suffered from the effects of these disturbances is
       evident, from its situation being such, that it would be the first
       landing place of the enemy in their piratical excursions from the
       north, and from the fact, that it was strongly secured by the erec-
       tion of many duns or forts, the ruins of which are still distinctly
       visible.
           It would be needless, and would serve no useful end in this ac-
       count, to attempt making mention of the succession of Vikingrs,
       or Kings of the Isles, up to the beginning of the twelfth century,
       when the powerful dynasty of MacD•nuill, or Lords of the Isles,
       had its origin.  The great and warlike family of MacDh6nuill
       sprung from Somerled, Lord of Argyle, * and were, for a succes-
       sion of centuries, justly renowned for their many achievements and
       military prowess.
         At the defeat of the Norwegians at the battle of Largs in
       Ayrshire, in the reign of Alexander Ill. the Western Isles were
       ceded to the kingdom of Scotland, part of which they form to this
       day.  Numerous and intricate were the feuds and quarrels which
       existed between the septs and clans of the Western Isles, by which
       the peace of theset localities was molested for many subsequent
       centuries.
         The islanders were so frequently divided by factions, and their
       mutual feuds were at times so violent, that Government more than
       once deemed it prudent to interfere, for the purpose of reconcilia-

       <FOOTNOTE>Of Somerled there are many traditions still floating among the natives.  He was
       known by the appellation of "Soirle Mae Ghillebride as h-U...mha"-Seraerled,
       the son of Gilbride of the cave.  A full-length portrait of Somerled is beautifully
       executed in stained glass-in one of the windows of Armadale Castle, Lord Mac-
       donald's seat in Skye.



