
132                         AYRSHIRE.

	Woods and Plantations, &c.--A vast addition has been made to
the plantations in the parish, since the last Statistical Account
was written. At that time there were but few trees and no plan-
tations, save those which had been planted in the immediate neigh-
bourhood of Sorn Castle by the late Countess Dowager of Lou-
don. This distinguished lady, after having lived for a considerable
time, at the courts of Queen Anne and George I., took up her re-
sidence at Sorn Castle in 1727, when she commenced, and car-
ried on with wonderful activitx and skill, till within a short period
of her death, those improvements in hedging and planting which
to this day adorn the surrounding landscape. The good work
commenced by the Countess of Loudon has been followed up by
the present possessor of Sorn Castle, Mrs A. Somervell, who, with
great taste and judgment, has laid off extensive plantations and
beautiful hedges, not merely in the vicinity of the castle, but to a
considerable distance along the roads leading to Galston and
Mauchline, and also on the higher lands of the parish. These
plantations are in a very thriving condition, and will soon prove an
ornament and a shelter to this once bleak and dreary district of
country. Besides those on Sorn Castle estate, there are about
100 acres of very thriving plantations on the estate of Dalgain,
now also the properly of Mrs A. Somervell, which were laid off
about twenty years ago by a former proprietor, the late Mr Ste-
venson, and have tended materially to improve the land, and have
added much to the beauty of the scenery. There are also seve-
ral plantations of smaller extent on other properties in the parish.
Larch and Scotch fir are the predominating trees in these planta-
tions, although there is also in them a proportion of oak, ash, elm,
beech, and birch. It is much to be regretted, however, that a
greater quantity of hard-wood has not been planted in there and
in other plantations in this district of the country, and, when plant-
ed, that care has not been taken to cut down in time the firs and
larches. Had attention been paid to this, many plantations in
Ayrshire,which are now in a state of decay, would have been in a
high state of preservation.

	             II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners.--There are no less than twenty heritors in the
parish; of these, Mrs A. Somervell of Sorn Castle and Dalgain,
patroness and proprietress of about two-fifths of the parish; Miss
Gray Farquhar of Gilmillscroft; Robert, Campbell, Esq. of Auch-
mannoch; George Rankin, Esq. of Burn head; Archibald Bucha-


