
     Statistical Account

E. and N. E.; whilst the Grampian Hills, which rise to a
great height, at the distance of a few miles, not only screen
from the northern blasts, but likewise attract the clouds so
often, that in many places of the parish, especially on the banks
of the Ern, and to the southward, there is clear sunshine,
while heavy showers of rain and snow are falling thick, in the
neighbouring parts, to the northward.
   Upon the whole, there are few places, that have more local
advantages than Strathern:  But, what the people, in this part
of the country, chiefly stand in need of, is a COAL PIT, which,
if they had, there would be no situation more agreeable.
Good roads are now making to all the market towns; and
large plantations of useful trees are fast advancing; which,
in time, will pave the way to the introduction of manufac-
tures, and will keep at home numbers of young people, (who
at present are obliged to seek employment in distant parts);
as well as afford opportunities, for the rising generation, to ac-
quire those habits of industry, in early life, which may serve
to render them useful members of society, in their riper
years*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*As a mill-stone is said to cover a hole or deposit, where Roman antiquities
have been found, and where more may still lie concealed, it appears to be no
way difficult, to find out the pit by the means of the mill-stone; and it is very de-
sirable to explore it. notwithstanding the foul air it may now contain.  Fire in
often caused by means to prove the air.  Perpendicular shafts may be worked to a
very great depth, without requiring any renovation of air, by the means of pipes.
If, therefore, this pit contains soul air, at a small depth, it is, most probably, from
the nature of the soil, from its containing sulphur, etc. and may be worth ex-
ploring, on that account.-If, when the hole is at a particular depth, it is sup-
posed to lead horizontally to a certain direction, it may be necessary to sink
down a shaft in this place, to communicate fresh air.-Supposing the hole to be
a place of deposits or a gallery of communication to any particular place,
it cannot be so deep, as to make the soul air a matter of much difficulty or ex-
pence to get rid of.-The mouth of the hole may be enlarged.

