
     of Fossaway and Tulliebole.

demolished.  The greater part of the houses lately built,
are intended for the accommodation of the proprietors of
land; and are built with stone and lime, in a very convenient
and substantial manner, suited to the property and revenues
of their owners.  There are two ancient houses in the pa-
rishes, commonly distinguished by the name of castles, or
towers; that of Tulliebole, and that of Aldie.  They are
both places of strength, or fortalices, with gun-holes and
turrets, suitable to the times in which they were built.  The
castle of Tulliebole was built in the year 1608; the castle
of Aldie, in the century preceding.  The one is the family
seat of Moncreiff-Wellwood of Tulliebole, the other of Mer-
cer of Aldie.  As the proprietors, however, do not reside
in them, they are fast going into dis-repair; yet it is hoped,
and indeed it is pleasing to the country to think, that those
monuments of antiquity may still be kept up.  At no great ex-
pence, they may be made to stand for centuries.  In different
parts of the parishes, there are houses built adjoining to each
other, to the number of 10 or 12; possessed partly by feuars
and tenants, and partly by cottagers; yet these are not known
by the name of villages.  There are only two villages in the
parishes; one at the Crook of Dovan, and the other at
Blairingone.  They are both burghs of barony.  The former
holds of the family of Tulliebole, the latter belongs to the
family of Atholl; both of them have the privilege of holding
markets.  At the Crook of Dovan, there are two markets an-
nually, the one in May, the other in October.  At Blairin-
gone, there is one held in the month of June.  Little business
is transacted at the Blairingone markets; but the Crook mar-
kets, which are for black-cattle, being pretty well attended,
may with attention and care, be brought to considerable per-
fection, and prove very serviceable to the country at large.
The only public houses in the parishes, are in those villages;

     VOL. XVIII. 3 M


