
156                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

offerings of the ruder and earlier inhabitants of the world might
hate ascended with peculiar pomp; the point on which the alluvial
mass rests being one of the most elevated and best fitted for an ex-
tensive view over the whole surrounding landscape.*
  Masses of a deep-coloured basalt are frequently met with,-and,
very near the eastern boundary of this parish, upon the farm of
Sauchland, there is one great accumulation of this material, which
might seem to be a quarry in its original state, but which is, in fact,
a great alluvial deposit.
  The stratified rocks, as seen on the precipitous sides of Currie
wood, consist of layers of a red-coloured and coarse-grained sand-
stone, with intervening portions of a lighter-coloured variety of the
same material, and with unformed masses of a substance composed
partly of sandstone and calcareous matter, and partly of indurated
clay, intersected by minute and lozenge-shaped vein's of calcareous
spar. Sandstone, limestone, and the coal metals are the rocks every-
where occurring throughout the district.
  In general, the sandstone is much intermixed with calcareous
matter, and is not considered as good for the purposes of architec-
ture,-although there are some quarries which are regarded as va-
luable for such humble purposes as are most required in a rural
district. The grain in general is coarse, but when exposed to
the air, the stone hardens into a durable and not unseemly mass.
  From the great quantity, of calcareous matter intermixed with
the sandstone, the stone dikes often fall to pieces after they have
been for a few years exposed to the action of the atmosphere. Yet
the durable quality of the stone of which the Castle of Borthwick
itself is built, and the fine edge which it still retains, have been
subjects of admiration with all who have visited the ruin. There
is reason to believe that the quarry from which its materials were
obtained is in the heart of Currie wood, which is in its immediate
vicinity so that there must be some stone of, a peculiarly excel-
lent kind under the surface in this neighbourhood, although that
which is commonly obtained is liable to the waste we have already
noticed. Crichton Castle presents a sad contrast, in this respect,
to the present condition of the stone which has been used in the
building of Borthwick Castle-the former being much crumbled
and rounded in all its edges, while the latter is generally in as

<FOOTNOTE>I have since understood that a stone coffin and some other signs of the spot
having been used as a place of burial, have been found in the neighbourhood of this
stone - so that, however it may have originally com there, it seems to have been after-
wards used either as a monumental record or for the purpose of Judicial sacrifice.


