
        388                        BANIFFSHIRE.

           The amount of the schoolmaster's salary is L.34, 4s. 41/2.; the
        probable amount of fees, about L.35; and of other emoluments,
        viz. from Dick's Bequest, Bruce's Legacy, session-clerkship, about
        L.53
            Poor.-The average number of persons regularly on the poor's
        roll is about 50, receiving from 5s. to 9s. per quarter; besides
        these, a'good many poor persons receive occasional aid.  The col-
        lections at church were wont to amount to about L.70, and the
        heritors generally gave about L40 per annum.  Now, however, a
        new arrangement is about being made.  Besides the above, the
        population at large are most liberal in alms-giving, relieving very
        many cases of poverty by local subscriptions.

            June 1842



                              PARISH OF KEITH.*

                     PRESBYTERY OF STRATHBOOIE, SYNOD OF MORAY.


                        I.-ToPOGRAPHY A14D NATURAL HISTORY.
              Extent, &c,--THE parish is about 6 miles long and as many broad.
              It lies in that fertile track of country called Strathisla, through
              which runs the water of Isla.  It is bounded on the north, by the
              parishes of Rathven and Deskford; on the south, by those of
              Glass and Botrihnie; on the west, by Grange.  The prevailing
              soil is loam and clay: the climate moist and cold.
		 The general appearance of the parish is not very inviting. Yet,
              along the banks of the Islay, there are beautiful and rich corn-
              fields in the highest state of cultivation.  The course of the Islay
              -throusrh the parish may be said to be from south to north.
                                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
              Mansion-Houses.-A modern and respectable mansion-house
           has been recently erected at Edintore, the seat of the only heritnr
           resident in the parish.

FOOTNOTE>The proceedings consequent on the presentation to the parish of Marnoch in
           1837 led to the deposition, by the General Assembly in 1841, of the Rev. J. Thom-
           son, Minister of this parish:  in which Mr Thomson, and a minority of the General
           Assembly do not sequience. They have obtained a suspension interdict from the
           Court of Session.

