
                            BERVIE.                             15

spiritual welfare and temporal comfort of his fellow-creatures, can
ever desire to see the mills in operation during the hours design-
ed by a gracious Providence for repose and rest.
	A sail-cloth manufacture once existed in this parish, and was
carried on for a good many years; and a branch nf kelp manu-
facture was also conducted on the beach, near the rocks, success-
fully, for a considerable time. It was given up a few. years ago,
when the duty on the barilla was repealed. There was also a
bleachfield on the haughs above the bridge, where bleaching
formed part of the trade carried on in the parish. This has also
been abandoned.
	Navigation.--There are but few vessels belonging to the port
of Gourdon in this parish. They are not chartered here, but have
to clear out at the custom-house in Montrose. There are two
shipping companies connected with the place, who generally em-
ploy two schooners and three or four sloops in the lime and coal
trade.  A good many ships come from other ports, bringing coals,
lime, pavement, tiles, slates, wood, and occasionally cattle and
ponies from Orkney and Shetland; and they leave the port either
in ballast or with grain, which at present is the only export trade
of the parish of Bervie. The harbour dues are exceedingly mo-
derate.
		     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Burgh of Inverbervie.--There is no other town in the parish
but the burgh, of which the principal trade is the manufacture of
linen, commonly called duck and dowlas. The retail trade carried
on by merchants for the supply of the inhabitants consists of gro-
cery goods, clothiery, hardware, earthen-ware, &c. A grain mar-

jet was established here a few years ago, and it has been ever since
carried on with the greatest success. It is frequented by corn-mer-
chants from Montrose, Brechin, and Stonehaven; and by farmers
and millers from all the neighbouring parishes. It commences
about the close of harvest, and holds every Wednesday thereafter
for six months. A great deal of business is transacted. As far as
can be ascertained, about 40,000 quarters of grain are purchased
yearly, and the greater part of it delivered and shipped at Gourdon.
	This place has hitherto been well governed by a provost, three
bailies, a dean of guild, nine councillors, a treasurer, and clerk.
In testimony of which, it may be stated, that the magistrates of
this burgh received the unanimous approbation of His Majesty's
Commissioners, appointed to examine into the state of the diffe-


