
     of Lesmahagoe.

   As the greatest part of this parish, from the nature of its
soil, exposure, and climate, is not the most inviting subject
for cultivation, so neither have improvements in agriculture
made great progress in it.  Fallowing is not practised, ex-
cept in a few farms in the lower ground; nor is paring and
burning the thick turf on the old pasture, which would tend
much to forward vegetation in a cold country, thought of.
The ancient distinctions of croft and outfield are still kept
up; and the greatest part of the manure made about the farm
laid upon the former.  The latter, after lying a few years in
pasture, and sometimes a little compost laid upon it, is crop-
ped with oats for two or three years, and again left to rest.
Upon the crofts the seeds of clover and rye-grass are now
frequently sown, and a crop or two of hay taken; and after
the land has been two or three years pastured, it is cropped,
first with pease, then with barley, with two plowings and
dung, next oats, etc.  Lime, except by a few people, is but
sparingly applied.  The Scotch plough, nearly in the same
state as it has been for this century past, is almost universally
used, it being only near the Clyde where any modern im-
provement is begun to be introduced.
   There is no wheat raised in this district, except in the low
parts in the north corner of this parish.  Oats are the princi-
pal grain; and, from the report of the tenants of the mills in
which they are ground, the quantity produced seems to have
greatly diminished in the course of the last 20 years.  Whe-
ther this deficiency be owing to the land having been former-
ly exhausted-to less favourable seasons-to a less skilfull or
less attentive culture-or whether it be not from deficiency
of produce, but from the corn being consumed otherways than
by grinding it into meal, it is not pretended here to deter-
mine.  It is certainly in some part owing to the last; for in
the first place, farmers, whether purely from the pride of


