
			        KINNELL.                      411

interest of money, sale of poor's effects, repayment of money, &c.
L.16, 4s. 1d. *
	In the above calculations are not included contributions which
were managed by committees in 1817 and 1832, nor the donations
which Sir James Carnegie sent to the poorer householders of his
own estate in 1821, through the hands of his principal tenant, &c.
	In 1801, a pauper, who had lived in the utmost misery, dis-
closed his treasures on his death-bed to an elder, and gave them
to the kirk-session.
	Markets.--Four markets, for the sale of cattle, are held yearly at
the Glesterlaw, on the estate of Bolshan, on the last Wednesday of
April, the fourth Wednesday of June, the third Wednesday of
August, and the Wednesday immediately after the 12th of Octo-
ber. The market is said to have been held originally at Glester,
in the parish of Carmylie, and to have been translated to its pre-
sent place on an excambion of lands between the proprietors of
Panmure and Southesk. The Eastern Forfarshire Agriculttral
Association hold their Lammas meeting at the Glesterlaw, for
the show of horse, cattle, and other animals, and of improved or
newly invented implements of husbandry.
	Inns, &c.--There is no ale-house in the parish save one,--the
toll-house, on the turnpike road, of the same date with the toll,
viz. 1831.
	Fuel.--The fuel is coal from Arbroath, English, at about 1s.
3d. per barrel of twelve imperial stones, and Scotch at about 9s,
6d. per boll of eighty imperial stones. Occasionally, there are
sales of the thinnings, prunings, and back-going trees of the neigh-
bouring woods.
	         	MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The difference between the present state of the parish, and
that which existed in 1792, the date of the last Statistical Ac-
count, is very great. The parish is now almost wholly laid out in
proper fields. Far more food is now produced for the support of
animal life; and if in some cases there may have been weightier
crops of oats, there are now more extensive fields of wheat. Be-
sides what has been done in all parts of the parish, the improve-
ments in Montherwmont moor have added considerably to the
arable acres, to the increase of population, and the extension of
weaving. And nothing in that district so grievously offends the

<FOOTNOTE>From January 1838, to July 1842, the donations of the heritors amounted to
L.98 Sterling.


