
                            LIBERTON.                           7

ing to Pitscottie, by the English in 1543. But what gives it its
chief interest as connected with Scottish history, is the fact, that
Queen Mary chose to reside here as much as possible after her
return from France in 1561. A room is still shown in the Castle
as Queen Mary's bedroom, only 7 feet long by 5 broad, but it pro-
bably was not devoted to that purpose. At the foot of Craigmil-
lar hill there is a small village, called Little France, which was no
doubt the place where the French servants of the Queen resided.
The tradition of the place points to a venerable sycamore tree as
having been planted by Queen Mary. The ruins of the Castle
are still strong and well-preserved, and the situation is one of the
most noble and princely that can be imagined. The grounds have
lately been much ornamented by clumps of beautiful trees.
   The only other fact connected with the civil history of the pa-
rish which I shall mention is, that on the Borough Muir, now part-
ly farmed by Mr Dale, and the property of W. L. Gilmour. Esq.
James IV. reviewed his troops before he set out for the fatal field
of Flodden in 1513, (Maitland's Hist. of Edin. p. 178.)
   Ecclesiastical Antiquities-Churches.-In ancient times there
were three places of worship in this parish; namely, one at Liber-
ton, one at St Catherine's, and one at Niddry. The remains of
the chapel and burying-ground at St Catherine's have long since
disappeared, although "some persons yet alive," says Mr Whyte,
"remember to have seen the chapel;" but there are sell some
traces of the chapel at Niddry, and, in particular, there is still a
burying-ground in which the people of the district continue to bury
their dead. The chapel at Niddry was founded by Robert Wau-
chope of Niddry-Marshal in 1387, and dedicated to the Virgin
Mary. The minister of it, who was connected with the Abbey of
Holyrood, had, besides other privileges and emoluments, a manse,
an acre of ground, pasture for two cows, and twelve merks per an-
num from the lands of Pylmuir, in the parish of Currie, which be-
longed to the proprietor of Niddry. The old chapel and burying-
ground were at the west end of the mansion-house, but, in 1685,
the burying-ground was removed to the south-west side of the gar-
den, where it still remains. The church of Liberton itself belong-
ed to the parish of St Cuthbert's previous to 1124, (Arnot's His-
tory of, Edinburgh, p. 5.) The patronage of Liberton with an
acre of land contiguous to the church, belonged afterwards to Sir
John Maxwell, who bestowed them on the Monastery of Kilwin-
ning in the year 1867, and this was ratified by David II. in 1370,


