
     Statistical Account

<FOOTNOTE>

state of the Church, newly emerged from the darkness of Popery.  In
the year 1637, the bishops made an attempt to impose on the Church, a
liturgy, or service-book, by the authority of an act of council, without
a church-law.  The opposition to which, kindled the flame which de-
troyed the church and monarchy, and had almost consumed the three
kingdoms.
   Anno 1638.  The National Covenant, otherwise called the King's Con-
session, being prepared, was renewed and subscribed with great joy in the
Grayfriars Church by a great number of all ranks, convened at Edinburgh
for that end.  The bulk of the nation having acceded to the Covenant,
they obliged the King to grant them a free General Assembly and Par-
liament.  The General Assembly met at Glasgow, November 21. the same
year.  They approved the National Covenant, and declared it to be the 
same in substance with that signed by King James VI, and his household,
anno 1581.  In this Assembly, all the General Assemblies after the year
1605 were declared null, the High Commission Court, the Book of Ca-
nons, their Liturgy, the five articles of Perth, were declared unlawful;
the 14 bishops were all either deposed or excommunicated, except three
who accepted of single charges.  They restored the Presbyterian govern-
ment and discipline as at first.
   Next year, the General Assembly met at Edinburgh, Aug. 17, and with
the consent of the King's Commissioner, condemned Episcopacy as unlaw-
ful.  They appointed the Covernant to be subscribed and sworn to by all his
Majesty's subjects in this kingdom, of whatever rank and quality.  All
these acts were ratified and confirmed by Parliament in the King's pre-
ence, anno 1641.
   Upon renewing the National Covenant, the civil war began between
the King's party and the covenanters.  The first blow was struck at the
bridge of Dee, and a victory gained by the Earl of Montrose, at the head
of the men of Angus and Mearns, for the coverananters.
   Anno 1643.  The form of the Solemn League and Covenant between
the two kingdoms of Scotland and England, having been prepared by the
committees of the General Assembly, the Convention of Estates, and the
Commissioners sent from England for that effect, was unanimously appro-
ved by the General Assembly at Edinburgh, August 17, that year.  It
was also approved by the Convention of Estates of Scotland, as also by
the Assembly of divines at Westminster, and both Houses of Parliament,
and on the 30th of October, sworn to and subcribed in the High Church
of Edinburgh, by the commission of the Church, the Committee of E
states, and the English communissioners, who had slaid at Edinburgh till the
Covenant was sent up to London and returned again.  The imperemptory
orders were then duspatched to all presbysterries to cause the Covenant to


