
                      KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.                   1279

     ever, on the estate of Blair-Drummond, because, in consequence
     of the moss population being suddenly superadded to the usual
     numbers of the parish, arrangements became necessary for giving
     them employment.  Their rural labours did not occupy them dur-
     ing the whole year; but they have always had sufficient employ-
     ment beside the moss operations, in draining, making and repairing
     roads and fences, and other improvements. It is part of the sys-
     tem of management on the estate of Blair-Drummond, to give, as
     much as possible, constant employment to the same number of
     persons, that industry and good conduct may have their due re-
     ward.  It is considered of importance for the best interests of this
     class of the community to encourage them to maintain a good
     character, by securing to them a steady demand for their labour
     and to avoid the evils of vicissitude in their condition, inseparable
     from any sudden increase or diminution of expenditure.  And per-
     haps in no other place will persons of this class be found more in-
     dustrious, more skilful, and more respectable in their station than
     here, or in more comfortable circumstances.  On the same prin-
     ciple the farms here are so varied in their extent, as to meet the
     capabilieties of men both of large and small capital.
       But to apply these remarks to the moss population and their
     possessions, it may be stated, that the moss-field was originally
     let to the tenants in farms of about eight acres to each, for fifty-
     seven years, and at a nominal rent per acre during a great portion
     of that time.  From the length of the lease the tenants were usu-
     ally called moss lairds, and, with their families, at one time
     amounted to about 1000 souls.   On the expiry of the lease,
     however, the land must, to reimburse the proprietor, bring a
     much higher rent than formerly;, but, as the tenement of
     each was too small to enable him, after the moss was re-
     moved, to pay even an ordinary rent, and at the same time
     maintain a profitable farming establishment, such as were not
     prepared to occupy larger farms contracted mith their neighbours
     for the disposal of their leases, which, with the consent ot the pro-
     prietor, they were at liberty to sell.  So as early as 1792, there
     were sales of this description to the amount of L.849 Ster-
     lin, and since that time, the reversion of their leases has tri-
     pled in value, and many sales have taken place.  In the pro-
     gress of the moss improvement, the practice has prevailed of one
     tenant purchasing the possessions of two or more of his. neigh-


