
414                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

deficiency in the system of parochial instruction, a special reproach
upon them;
  Literature.--About a year ago, a parish library was commen-
ced; not so much in order to meet the demand, as to create a
taste for reading.
  Parochial Funds.--The poor on the roll are about 50. The
proceeds of the mortcloth, the ordinary collections, and contingent
contributions, are the only available funds, which are rarely divid-
ed oftener than twice a year. In regard to the feelings of the
poor in applying for parochial relief, there is found fully as much
delicacy, on their part, in claiming relief, as there is promptness,
in some quarters, to inquire whether they are in circumstances vhich
render such an application necessary. In all such parishes as this, an
allowance by the heritors equal to the parochial contributions
would be sufficient for the maintenance of the poor. The contri-
butions of the people would be proportioned to the necessities of
the poor at the time; the amount would be an index of the state
of the poor; and heritors would have the satisfaction of seeing
that their tenants did not lay a greater burden on them than
they were cheerfully bearing themselves. Every parishioner would
have a motive to liberality by being conscious that every penny
from him secured two to the poor. In consequence of the apathy
towards the poor evinced by the heritors, some of the parishioners
have begun to withhold their wonted church contributions, and
others threaten to follow this example; all things seem tending
to the speedy introduction of an assessment.
  Judging by all that we have been able.,to glean fron! natives of
the parish, the names of Earl of Moray, and Forbes of Culloden,
seem ever to have been associated with all that is mild and pater-
nal in landlords. "We had heard from our ancestors," said an
old man, once, emphatically in Gaelic, "that Pettie was the envy
of the tenant and of the poor, ach dh' fhalbh i builleach, that day
is gone." Part of his regrets was to be traced to dissatisfaction
with the agricultural changes which he had lived to witness. But,
as there is no record, that, with the exception of L. 10 bestowed
at the death of the late Earl of Moray, the poor have ever re-
ceived, through the kirk-session, a single donation of meal, fuel,
or money, from any heritor, we inquired how such a testimony
could be given, as to the happy condition of the poor; an how
they could be said to be worse off now than in former times. The
benevolence of these proprietors was evinced by their gratuitous


