
                                 DUNNING.                       721

     deemed impracticable, from the want of sufficient declivity to
     carry off the water.  The mode in which this was effected, upon
     one of these swamps, called the White Bog, was as follows:  The
     morass was intersected longitudinally by a drain eight feet deep,
     which collected and discharged the water into the channel of a
     neighbouring rivulet, about 80 yards distant.  This apparently
     simple process was attended with difficulties.  The bed of the
     stream, having a greater elevation than the marsh itself, required
     to be greatly deepened.  In consequence, it was found necessary
     to underbuild the foundation of a bridge five feet, where a public
     road crossed the stream.  Again, at a point considerably above,
     the brook had formerly given off a supply of water to turn machi-
     nery, but which, by the deepening of the channel, was now cut
     off.  Hence, one of two things became necessary, either to relin-
     quish the use of the water for driving the mills, or to carry it for-
     ward at the same level as formerly by means of an aqueduct.  The
     latter was preferred, care being taken to coat the bottom and
     sides of the aqueduct with clay, to render it impervious to the
     water.  Thus terminated the labour of draining the White Bog.
     The substances composing the marsh were vegetable mould, clay,
     &c. and were found to rest on a bed of sand.  The channel cut
     for the water was 14 inches deep in this sandy stratum.  The
     water everywhere flowed gently from the sand.  The White Bog
     vanished, and in about one month from the time when the opera-
     tions were brought to a close, the boggy materialr had shrunk se-
     veral feet, exhibiting upon their surface cracks and fissures in all
     directions.  This now valuable land was sown with oats the fol-
     lowing spring, (1820), and the produce of about three acres being
     sold brought L.57, 1Os.  The remainder not being offered for
     sale was estimated at L.20 per acre.  The whole was planned and
     brought to a successful conclusion by Dr Martin, then factor to
     Lord Rollo; and it is a proud monument to the ingenuity and                                               nt to the ingenuity and
     skill of that gentleman, that in place of a dreary swamp, pro-                                               p
     ducing only what is noxious, there is now a smiling and luxuriant
     meadow, enlivening the landscape by its beauty, and yielding a
     liberal return to enlightened and well directed enterprise.
        Quarries.-There are several  quarries of durable stone in the
     parish; and an extensive liver formation of white freestone has
     recently been discovered on the estate of Balquhandy, the pro-
     perty of Major J. G. Drummond.  The Ochills abound with
        PERTH.                                Z z


