
                             PAISLEY.                       265

as the price paid for manufactured cotton work had by this time
been much reduced.  The shawl trade now ramified to a great
extent.  India imitations were produced in soft silk, in spun silk,
and in cotton, and in mixtures of all the three.  The same style of
raised work was also done for ladies dresses on white grounds with
small figured spots.  Imitations were also made in silk, of the
striped scarfs and turbans worn by the natives of the east, which
from their resemblance to the skin of the animal of the name, were
called Zebras.  Very extensive exportations of these articles were
made to the islands in the Grecian Archipelago, and to Turkey.
An attempt was made to supersede them by means of printed goods,
which had nearly the same appearance at first sight; but the circum-
stance of the adherents of the Koran having been, by the precepts
of their prophet, prohibited the use of all stained articles of manu-
facture, soon put a stop to this sort of traffic.  This trade is still
carried on at Paisley, though not to the same extent as it was some
years ago.
   Still the great desideratum was a more strict imitation of the real
India or genuine cashmere shawls.  This was accomplished to a
considerable extent by mixing fine wool and silk waste together;
the yarn spun for this mixture being called Persian yarn.  This,
however, was only fitted for the weft, which was generally shot upon
a silk warp.  Something was Still wanting to approximate more
nearly to the India fabric.  Several attempts were made in Nor-
wich, Edinburgh, and Paisley, but none of these succeeded.  At
length, a house in Yorkshire produced an article which was very
much liked in the market, in consequence of its fine soft feel; and
which they called thibet cloth.  It was nothing more nor less than
a tweeled fabric of fine worsted yarn made from the best of wool,
and when scoured, raised, and cropped, it had a beautiful appear-
ance.  The house purchased borders in Paisley, and elsewhere,
which they sewed to this cloth, and these thibet shawls made in
Yorkshire had a long run.  The Paisley manufacturers at length
succeeded in bringing this branch also to town, and for several years
it was one of the chief staples of the shawl trade.  Still, however,
no figures could be produced on the thibet ground.  The yarn
was too tender to stand harness work; so that in reality. although
the India fabric was approached pretty nearly, a wide gap still re-
mained.  At length, some French shawls were introduced.,so closely
resembling the India, that it was difficult to discriminate between
the two.  Enquiries were set on foot, when it was found that, the


