
                          KIRKINTILLOCH.		        183

out the whole district. The following is nearly the amount of peat
moss in the parish.
<TABLE>
        Drum Moss,                        40 acres.
        Mossfinnin and Bedcow,            40
        Barbeth,                          12
        Muirside Moss,                    12
        Patches of moss elsewhere,        30
                                         ___
                                         134 acres.

  Zoology.-At Cumbernauld, at the east end of the district of
Lenzie, an ancient breed of white cattle were kept for many ages,
after they had disappeared from every other place in Scotland.
We have a direct testimony to this fact, from a variety of celebrat-
ed and reputable authors, from the earliest periods to the present
times. As this district, at one time, belonged to the Cummins, it
is probable, that the same breed were also at Hamilton, as the es-
tate of Cadzow also belonged to the same family. They have
been long extirpated from Cumbernauld. There is, bowever,
one of the fera natura which still keeps its ground there, the nim-
ble and elegant Cervus capreolus, or roe. It is very frequent in the
woods at Cumbernauld and Castlecairy, and has of late been hunt-
ed by hounds trained for the purpose. When attacked, it is very
shy of leaving its cover, but when driven to the open field, it does
not run swiftly, but seems to leap or bound like a calf, and unless
another place of shelter be near, is soon overheated and overtaken.
The Sciurus vulgaris, or common squirrel, abounds in the woods.
The Lepus cunniculus, or wild rabbit, is more common in the woods
than formerly, and has probably been introduced by the gen-
tlemen of the chace to feed foxes.  Better feed them on rabbits
than on their tenants' poultry. Along the banks of the canal, in
particular, the Arvicola aquatica, or water-vole, and Sorex fodiens,
or water-shrew, are very common. Other quadrupeds common to
this part of Scotland are also found. Among the birds of prey,
the Buteo aruginosus, or gled, and the Buteo nisus, or sparrow-
hawk, are the most destructive. In the last Statistical Account of the
parish, drawn up by the Rev. William Dunn, the author states, that
"the advantage resulting from our late improvements is attended
with one circumstance of which we have reason to complain, which
is this, that the use of lime upon our lands, the filth which is con-
veye into our rivers, from the coal-works in the neighbourhood,
and the machinery which have been erected, have already render-
ed a salmon-fishery, which was considerable, very insignificant; and
indeed there is too much reason to apprehend, that the fish in our


