
     Statistical Account

said to be any other kind of manufacture, and where fisheries
which might have been supposed to constitute the riches of
the country, were neglected, must, it is evident, have produ-
ced the most remarkable consequences.  That it has done so
here, may appear from the slightest observation.  The ma-
nufacture of kelp for some years part has employed near 3000
hands, and every one of those during June and July, the
months when it is commonly manufactured, will earn about
40 s. Sterling.  Since the year 1780, there has been such a
failure in the crops for 6 or 7 years, that Orkney has some-
times been almost visited by a famine, and if the people had
not had the produce of this very beneficial article to de-
pend on, many of the poor in all likelihood would have star-
ved; while the lairds, instead of being able to help them,
would have been stripped of their estates, and reduced to
bankruptcy.  Many other effects besides preserving the lives
and the estates of those connected with it, have been produ-
ced by this manufacture.  Industry, which was before very
low, has considerably increased.  The lower class of people
live much better in point of food, clothing, and houses; and
since they began to know of what importance they are to
their superiors, they are throwing off by degrees, that servile
subjection under which these islanders were formerly kept,
and discovering more and more of the spirit of liberty.  But
while we trace with pleasure the advantages which it has
produced, candour forbids us to conceal its disadvantages.
Owing to the kelp manufacture, every species of provisions
has greatly increased in price, which makes it difficult for
those to live who have only fixed incomes.  Wages are much
higher.  Agriculture, which in every country is the first
and most necessary of all arts, is greatly neglected; and a stile
of living has been introduced among the proprietors, which
their lands can by no means support, and which, if ever this


