
              472                         ARGYLESHIRE.

              Lariq-aoilt, which opens into Glencoe.  It is a stupendous mass;
              so much so, indeed, that, by the inhabitants, it is alleged to be not
              inferior in elevation to Ben-cruachan.
                Ben-treelahan is situated directly opposite to Ben-starive, and, on
              the-west side of Loch-etive, which washes its base for five miles, or
              nearly as far as the head of the loch.  Here Loch-etive is greatly
              narrowed, and the high rugged sides of Ben-treehalan, on the one
              hand, and of Ben-starive, on the other, impart a wild and sombre
              character to the place, rarely parallelled even in mountain scenery.
                There is a formidable array. of mountains on the Appin side of
              the parish, and it remains that the names of some of these be
              mentioned.
                Ben-aulay is the highest mountain in this northeast district, and
              is a well-shaped, rounded mountain, which will at once attract at-
              tention.
                Ben-scoullard follows next to the south-west, and is equally cal-
              culated to interest, from its size and its shape.
                Ben-vrech succeeds, a mountain range intervening, of some
              miles in length; and then follows,
                Ben-molurgan and Ben-vean, which form the last links in the
              chan which connects the Glen creran mountains with Ben Duir-
              nish.
                Glens-Glen-noe.-Formed by the northern side of Ben-crua-
              chan, and the south side of Ben-cochail, this verdant glen is four
              miles in length by about one in breadth.  It is watered through-
              out by a stream, which becomes finely wooded as it approaches the
              sea; and, as a commodious dwelling-house has been erected near
              the opening of the glen by the respectable tacksman who now
              farms it, a sweeter and more sequestered summer residence can-
              not readily be met with.  Glen-noe was, for many generations
              held in wadset by a family of the name of M'Intyre, the head of
              which was considered in this country as the chieftain of that sept.
                Glenkinglas.-Though but a small portion of this glen can be
              seen from Loch-etive, owing to a curve in the course of the rivers,
              and the projection of a portion of the neigbbouring mountain, its
              length is not less than nine miles, and the general breadth exceeds
              considerably that of Glen-noe.  Its north side is bleak and rocky,
              but the south yields pasture of excellent quality.  Excepting a few
              alder trees which grow along the river, and brushwood of little
              value, Glenkinglas is now almost-bared of wood, though it was
              once adorned with firs equal to


