
282                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

good quality.  Many of the inhabitants have small lots of land.
There are in it several shopkeepers, and two inns.  There is also
a distillery.  A chapel in connection with the Establishment was
erected here, about forty-seven years ago.  Mr Urquhart of Mel-
drum, who is proprietor also of Byth, is superior.  The number
of inhabitants is 302.
   Market-Towns.-Banff and Macduff are the nearest market-
towns, the former distant five, and the latter four miles and a-half,
from the parish church.
   Means of Communication.-The mail-gig from Aberdeen to
Banff passes and repasses every day along the turnpike road, about
half a-mile to the east of the manse.  The Earl of Fife coach
from Aberdeen to Banff also passes and repasses daily.  The
nearest post-office is in Banff.  We have also several carriers
weekly to Aberdeen.  There is a penny post-office in the village
of Newbyth, in connection with Turriff.  The turnpike road from
Aberdeen to Banff is carried about three miles and a-half along
the western quarter of the parish, and the Banff and Buchan
turnpike runs about five miles and a-half along the north-eastern
quarter.  The bridges connected with the roads are kept in good
repair.  In Lord Fife's park, connected with Duff House, there is
a very singular bridge of one arch over the Doveran, called the
bridge of Alvah.  The scenery on both banks of the river here
is very much admired.  Part of the park is in this parish.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is a very inconvenient old
building.  It stands about a mile from the western boundary of the
parish.  From the irregular figure of the parish, it might be diffi-
cult to point out a situation for a new one that might be most con-
venient for the parishioners; but the inconvenience of the present
situation is now greatly remedied, by the erection of a chapel,
seated for about 400 persons, in connection with the Establishment,
in the village of Newbyth, about nine miles from the parish church,
and about two from the east end of the parish.  This chapel also
accommodates portions of the parishes of Aberdour and New Deer.
The church affords accommodation for 550 persons.  The tenants
pay no rent for their seats.  Their is a gallery in the church be-
longing fo the kirk-session, the seats in wbich are let for sixpence
each, to those who are not otherwise accommodated.
   The manse was built in 1767, and was repaired in 1833.  The
offices were built in 1829, and are both ample and convenient.  The
glebe consists of about 12 acres arable, and of about 2 of natural


