
                         BLAIR ATHOLL.                         573

                    V.---PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
     There is no market-town in the parish, and it can scarcely be
said that there is a village in it. The people of the country pro-
cure what is required either from Pitlochrie, Dunkeld, or Perth.
There are four weekly carriers from the parish to Perth. The
great toll-road from Perth to Inverness runs through the parish.
There are also excellent country roads through Strathtummel and
Glenerichkie. Bridges are now numerous, and afford safe and
easy access to every separate district of the country. The new
Tilt Bridge is a handsome structure. At Blair Atholl is a post-
office, where there is a daily arrival from the south and north by
the Royal Mail Coach.
     Ecclesiastical State.---Lord Glenlyon is patron of the parish.
The walls of the old church of Lude are still standing, and the
old church of Kilmaveonaig was rebuilt in 1791 by the Episcopals
of the country, as a place of public worship for those of their own
communion. When the parishes were united, the churches of
Blair and Strowan only were retained for divine service. Both of
them were for many years in a ruinous state; but when the altera-
tion of the public road, so long contemplated, was effected about
ten years ago, a very handsome parish church was built, and a
new parochial churchyard assigned and the site was changed so
as to correspond with the new line of road. The church is seat-
ed for 650 hearers. In 1829, a new church was built at Strowan
and seated to contain 450. No seat rents are exacted. Public
worship continues to be performed two consecutive Sundays at
Blair, and the third at Strowan. The congregations are in a
great measure distinct, but the sacrament is dispensed at Blair,
only. The people are regular in their attendance at church.*
     In 1752, the manse was removed to its present situation, two
miles distant from Blair, and three miles from Strowan. A good
new manse with offices was built in 1828.
     The glebe upon which the manse is built was assigned in ex-
change for the conjoined glebes of Blair and Strowan. The glebes
of Lude and Kilmaveonaig still remain, and form a part of the be-
nefice. The glebe land of the parisb is much beyond the ave-
rage value of a glebe, and it is worth about L. 100. The stipend,
as modified by the Court of Teinds in 1813, consists of 6 chalders
of victual, half meal, half barley, with L. 63 in money, including

<FOOTNOTE>The church of Tennandry is now endowed, and the above was written without
reference to the new erection.


