
158                       DUMBARTONSHIRE.

parish is again conterminous with Bonhill. The waters of this
lake are particularly soft and wholesome, and are used for culi-
nary purposes. The upper and narrower part of the lake is by
far the deeper, and never freezes. South from Luss, it seldom ex-
ceeds 20 fathoms. This part freezes over only in long and severe
frosts. In the beginning of 1838, the lake was traversed to and
from Inchmurren on the ice, by horses and wheel carriages to either
bank. The greatest depth of this lake is about 100 fathoms, and
its average height above the sea level is 22 feet. After great
floods in winter, it has been known to rise about 6 feet higher than
after great droughts in summer. It is much higher now than once
it was. Stepping-stones across the channel of the Falloch, ai the
north end of the lake, are now several feet under its surface after
the greatest drought. Cambden describes an island as in his day
existing in Camstraddan bay, with a house and orchard. Now on-
ly a heap of stones is to be seen when the water is low, said to
mark the site of the ancient family residence of Colquhoun of
Camstraddan. This lake, for beautiful and picturesque scenery,
is not surpassed by any in Britain. Its beauties have long been
so well known that they need not be particularly described. They
may be surveyed with great advantage from the summit of Inch-
tavanach and Inchmurren, Strone hill near Luss, and the northern
summit of Benbui. From the last the prospect is beautiful, va-
ried, and extensive. To the north and north-east, stretches Loch-
lomond with its islands, and beyond it Benlomond, the bills of
Buchanan and Strath Endrick; to the south-east, part of the vale
of the Leven is seeu and Dumbarton rock; to the south and west,
the Frith of Clyde, with Greenock, Helensburgh, Rosneath, Du-
noon, and the Argylesbire mountains; to north. west, the vale of the
Froon throughout its whole length.
  Locblong, which bounds this parish for a short distance on the
west, is a deep extensive arm of the sea, stretching from the Frith
of Clyde northward between the counties of Dumbarton and Ar-
gyle. Luss can derive but little advantage, however, from its con-
tiguity to Lochlong, as it is fenced on that side by a barrier of
lofty and rugged mountains.
   Geology.-The rocks of the flat south-easterly district are of
the conglomerate or red sandstone formation. Clay-slate and the
kindred varieties occupy the mountainous district. The line of
separation of these two formations may be well traced in the beds
of the rivers and mountain torrents.  From near the pass of Bal-


