
  			   MONEYDIIE.                         209

lary and other necessary expenses are defrayed.  All the poor are
accommodated with free sittings.
  Although the erection of this place of worship has had the effect,
as was to be expected, of diminishing considerably the congregation
assembling in the parish church, it is no small satisfaction to think that
instead of fifty or sixty worshippers, which was all the usual atten-
dance from Logiealmond at the parish church, there are now up-
wards of 300 in the regular enjoyment of the means of grace in
connexion with the Establishment.
  Manse, Sthpend, &c.-Tbe manse, which was built about the
same time as the church, is in good repair, but inconveniently small.
The offices are old and ruinous.  The stipend was augmented in the
year 1830 to 16 cbalders; but the teinds not proving sufficient, it
amounts only to 130 1/2 bolls of victual, two-thirds meal and one-third
barley and L. 103, 5s. 2d. in money.  The grebe contains 7
Scotch acres of good average land.
  Education.-There are three schools in the parish, viz. the paro-
chial school at Moneydie, another at Chapelhill, and another at
Heriotfield, both in logiealmond.  The parish schoolmaster has
the maximum salary (L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2d.) The fees are small, and.
do not amount to above L. 10 per annum.  He is also session-clerk,
the emoluments of which office are about L. 5, 16s.  The teacher
at Chapelhill has a free school-room and dwelling-house, with 100
merks Scots of salary from the heritors; he has also about two acres
of land as cow's grass.  The teacher at Heriotfield has merely a
free school-room, which is attached to the Secession meeting-house.
The branches taught in all these schools are nearly the same,
reading, writing, arithmetic, English grammar, book-keeping, and
practical mathelatics.  The parish schoolmaster is also quittified
to teach the elements of Latin, Greek, and French; but for these
branches there is little'er no demand.  In all the schools the
Scriptures are regularly read, and the catechisms of the church
taught.  The following is a statement of the number of scholars:
At the parish school, 50 ; Chapelhill school, 76; Heriotfheld school,
60; total, 186.  It will be seen that there are thus somewhat more
than one-sixth of the ppulation at school.  It is necessary to remark,
however, that many of these are not permitted to remain  above eight
months out of the, twelve, -as the circumstances of the parents, often
reader it desirable that their children should begin as soon as pos,
sible to do something for themselves.  The consequence is, that,
   PERTH.                                   O


