
               MARISCHAL COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY.             1165

College, and in the new erections given to the other Universities
of Scotland. A principal circumstance is the fixing of each teacher
to a particular class of subjects, in order, as is stated, that the
students may possess teachers worthy both of their genius, and of
the subjects of study.  The same plan is prescribed in the First.
Book of Discipline; but it never appears to have been carried into
practice in any Scottish university till the eighteenth century, ex-
cepting in Marischal College; * the mode of one professor con-
ducting the same students for a period of three or four years
through all the sciences taught being substituted for it.  In Ma-
rischal College, indeed, the founder allows of the old method be-
ing continued, provided the chancellor, rector, and other authori-
ties shall think it best for the good of the university. He enjoins
a strict attention to examinations and exercises in all the classes,
besides examinations at entering the first year, and in passing from
the first to the second, from the second to the third, and from the
third to the fourth class; care being taken that those who are un-
worthy be kept back; and those who have studied four years, and
exhibited sufficient aptitude, are to receive the degree of Master
of Arts.
   The fotnder reserved to himself and his heirs the nomination
or presentation of the principal and professors; but since the for-
feiture of the Marischal family, in 1715, the patronage has been
vested in the Crown.  The mode in which the examination, elec-
tion, and admission of incumbents, subsequent to their receiving
presentations, is appointed to be regulated by the university au-
thorities, has been seldom practised, and some of the provisions
are apparently inconsistent with the patronage retained by the
founder in his family.  The rest of the charter, and indeed its
larger part, is occupied in providing for the choosing of an econo-
mus, adjusting the quality and prices of provisions, keeping up a
constant visitation and inspection of all the inmates, regulating
minutely the discipline, dress, and hours of the day for teaching
and recreation, the amount of fees to be paid by different ranks of

<FOOTNOTE>That the professors in Marischal College were limited to particular branches for
several years after its commencement, is evident from their designations in College
Theses, and other publications.  Thus, in the, "Oratio Fanebris" of the founder,
printed by Raban in 1623, William Ogston is styled Professor of Moral Philosophy;
William Wedderburn, of Greek; Andrew Massie, of Logic; and James Sibbald, of
Natural Pbilosophy: thesd being the four regents. In Bishop Forbes's "Funerals,"
1635, John Ray styles himself Professor of Moral Philosophy in Marischal Col.
lege.  This separation of duties appears to have been continued so late as 1643, but
the year when the ordinary method was introduced cannot be stated with certainty.


