
550                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

ding, not only distanced his competitors, but outstripped a person
mounted on a hunting horse, who rode as arbiter of the race. He
was through life noted for his prodigious muscular power; and it
is mentioned in evidence of his athletic frame, that he was in the
habit of providing grass for his cow daily, by cutting it with the
scythe, when he was upwards of 100. John Dawson died at
Nether Currie in 1821 at the advanced age of 100. Mr Thomas
Craig of Riccarton died at the age of 86, having been eighty-
four years proprietor. A few years ago, six members of the Mal-
leny family survived, whose united ages averaged 81 years.
   Sports and Amusements.-The annual fair and Old Handsel
Monday are the only periodical holidays for the working classes,
on which latter occasion the servants enjoy the pleasure of re-
turning to the bosom of their famhlies, and spending the close of
the day with their friends. The early part is generally devoted
to the less innocent amusement of raffles and shooting with fire-
arms, which, being often old and rusty, as well as wielded by
inexperienced hands, have occasioned some disagreeable acci-
dents.
   Currie has a curling club, the members of which have long been
celebrated for their scientific knowledge of that national game.
The Malleny family, a few years ago, at very considerable ex-
pense, constructed a pond, on which the parishioners can at all
times, and with perfect safety, enjoy the exhilarating sports of the
ice. There is also a coursing club, which meets once a-week dur-
ing the season on Malleny Moor. The proprietor generously af-
fords all his tenants and their friends the privilege of enjoying this
agreeable pastime, in consequence of which not a few of the re-
spectable citizens of Edinburgh are accustomed to partake of the
amusement on Saturdays.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   The parish is estimated to comprise an extent of from 10,000
to 11,000 imperial acres. About 6000 of these are arable. One
hundred and ninety acres form the general extent of the farms;
and the average rent of arable land may be stated at L. 2, 2s.
per imperial acre, whilst that of pasture land does not exceed
7s. 6d.
   Wages.-A ploughman occupies his house rent fred. There
are 193 of this description of workmen, including a few other la-
bourers connected with agriculture.  The average wages on hinds,
for servants hired for farm-work by the year, amount in cash, to-


