
                KILCHRENAN AND DALAVICH.                       375

parishes, and consisting entirely of theological works, were esta-
blished in 1832.  The one consists wholly of Gaelic publications;
the other contains both Gaelic and English works.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
The practice of illicit distillation prevailed at one time to a
very great extent.  The present incumbent used every endeavour
to put a stop to it, both by private and public remonstrance, and
by the exercise of church discipline; but all his efforts proving
fruitless, he had no alternative but to represent the matter to the
Board of Excise, who effectually put it down in 1829.  It has,
however, of late, (but to a very slight extent) been resumed.
He has always found it not merely to have a most demoralizing
effect upon the parishioners-being the fruitful source of drun-
kenness, Sabbath desecration, and other vices, but to be most
ruinous to the temporal interests of those engaged in it.
  There are two churches, upwards of nine miles distant from
each other, whereof the one was erected about seventy-two years
ago, and the other a year thereafter.  Both are in good repair,
and comfortable.  In each there is service every alternate Sab-
bath.  Thus, all of the parishioners, (with the exception of a very
small portion of them, who reside about half-way between the two
churches, and who, although not legally entitled to sittings in
both of them, yet in general avail themselves of the opportunity of
attending both, which their local situation affords them,)-are de-
prived of the means of public worship and religious instruction to
an extent which operates most injuriously on their moral and spi-
ritual interests.  The present incumbent occasionally preaches in
both parishes on the same day; but from the distance, and the
state of the roads, can do so but seldom.
  The manse is situated between the two churches, being a mile
distant from the one, and about eight miles from the other.  It
stands in a sweet and sequestered spot upon the summit of a slope
Close by the lake, embosomed in wood, the planting of the father
and immediate predecessor of the present minister.
  From a list of the parishes of Scotland, arranged under the
heads of the presbyteries to which at the time they respectively
belonged, appended to Dundas of Philipstown's Abridgement of
the Acts of the General Assembly, it appears that the parish of
Innishail, which borders upon that of Kilchrenan, was then annex-
ed to it and Dalavich, and included along with them under the
pastoral superintendence of one clergyman; and, moreover, that


