
			DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.             979

arose among the inhabitants as to the expense of the charter,
which they refused to pay, and the matter was allowed to drop.
The charter was dated 17th April, and written to the great seal,
16th, and sealed 20th September 1704.
   In 1745, the Marquis of Tullibardine, on his way from the
north with the Pretender, took transient possession of the Castle
of Blair, in the absence of his younger brother, the Duke of Atholl,
and spent a short time with the Prince in the ducal palace, which,
but for him, the Marquis might have called his own. Lord Nairn
and Lochiel were sent forward to proclaim the Pretender at Dun-
keld, which they did at the old cross. * Neither upon that occa-
shon, nor on the Prince's resting with the Marquis on their way to
the south, did the inhabitants manifest much attachment to the
Pretender, or his pretensions. The Duke of Cumberland, early
in 1746, made Dunkeld and Blair in Atholl his advanced posts.
These detachments lived on the inhabitants, plundered the houses
of the rebels, and committed very wanton excesses. On their de-
parture, the stations were occupied by the Hessians; but being
ignorant of the country, and of the Highland mode of warfare, they
were daily harassed by the Athollmen. Many well fought skir-
misbes took place between them near Dunkeld.
   Dunkeld was visited by one of our early kings, William the
Lion, for deer hunting. It is reported that he took his station for
shooting the deer, on a small knoll now called the king's seat. It
is a small terraced hill, on the summit of which is the remains of a
building and the out-works of an ancient fort. The road which
runs between that knoll and Craig-y-barns is called the King's pass.
Mary Queen of Scots also visited the locality for a similar amuse-
ment. On one of her bunting excursions, she narrowly escaped
serious bodily injury from the leader of a herd of deer, who ran
in the direction where she stood, and which she selected contrary
to the advice of her attendants. For the entertainment, of that
Queen, the then Earl of Atholl employed 2000 Highlanders to
collect the deer of the central Highlands. + It is traditionally re-
ported, that Queen Anne, who raised the Marquis of Atholl to
ducal dignity in 1703, did subsequent to that year visit the castle
of Blair, on matters connected with Scotland, and subsequently

<FOOTNOTE>The old cross was a round pillar, on which  was four round balls, supporting a
pyramidal top. It was of stone, and stood about 20 feet high. The pedestal was 12
feet square. On the pillar hung four iron jugs for punishing petty offenders. The
cross was removed about forty years ago.
     Pennant's Tour, Vol. ii. p. 64.


