
<TABLE=KILTARLITY>
 			             KILTARLITY.		             495

	Sphagnum acutifolium	  Hypnum riparium     Hypnum nitens
	Polytrichurri undulatum		 udulatum	     alopecurum
 	Tortula muralis	                 medium	       	     striatum
	Didymodon purpureum		 molle	             palustre
	Funaria hygrometrica		 stramineum
        Orthotricbum anomalum		 rufescens
           Wood.-Straftlass, of old, was mostly altogether covered with
	wood, of which, with the exception of the forest of Cugie, on the
	property of Guisachan, but few living remains now exist through-
	out the parish, though traces of it are everywhere to be met with
	in the peat mosses, where the poorer peasantry dig up great num-
	bers of the trunks, which, being very resinous, afford them a cheap
	and tolerably good light, during the long winter evenings. Some
	of the old firs in the forest of Cugie are immensely large, being
	between sixty and seventy feet in height, and sixteen feet in girth.
	The Protector Cromwell used a great quantity of timber from
	Strathglass, in the construction of his fortifications at Inverness,
	and, in fact, until within late years, wood was the only article ex-
	ported from the parish, many parts of which, owing to the gravelly
	nature of the soil, seem peculiarly adapted for its growth. Larch
	thrives amazingly, and it is not uncommon to find specimens of
	this valuable wood, which, at forty years of age, measure 30, and
	at fifteen years, measure 12 cubic feet; and a blemish is rarely found
	in this kind of timber. The ash, though slow in arriving at ma-
	turity, is of excellent quality. Natural fir fetches at the rate of
	1s. 6d. per cubic foot when manufactured; planted fir, 6d per cu-
	bic foot not manufactured; do. do. Is. per do. when manufactur-
	ed; ash and oak generally sell at 2s. per cubic foot in the tree;
	birch for barrel staves fetches L.4, 4s. per thousand; elm, beech,
	and plane tree, sell at 1s. 6d. per cubic foot in the tree; birch and
	oak bark average L.6 per ton.
           The common Scotch fir is not planted so much as formerly,
	the preference being now decidedly in favour of larch, as not only
	more marketable but of quicker growth.
	   There are many new plantations in the parish, and the different
	heritors, of late years, pay much more attention than they were
	wont to do, to periodical and regular thinnings, being convinced
	that the value of their woods is much increased by this process.

	                   II.-ClVIL HISTORY.
	  Parochial Registers.- The only public records of any kind kept
	in the parish, are those of births and marriages. The former be-
	gins in 1714, and the latter in 1812; but though the former was
	kept for the whole of the period since 1714, it is to be regretted


