
     Statistical Account

   As to the derivation of the word Livingstone, we will
not even offer a conjecture.  It is certain that Livingstone
was for a considerable time the chief seat of a family of that
name, from whom were descended the Earls of Linlithgow
and Callander, &c, ; and it is probable, because it was most
common, that the family took their name from the place,
and not the place from them.
   The house of Livingstone was a fortified castle, surround-
ed by a wet ditch about 30 feet wide, and a rampart of
earth within the ditch; more than three-fourths of this ditch
and rampart remained entire till within these 45 years.
In old writings it is called the Peel of Livingstone, a name
denoting this insular situation.
   It is said that the first of this family was ennobled by the
ttle of Lord Livingstone, in the minority of James II.  But
this is a mistake; for either that first Lord Livingstone was
not the representative of this family of Livingstone, or be-
came at that time only what was called a lord of Parlia-
ment*, which did not imply the rank of nobility.  Very

<FOOTNOTE>

*About this period the smaller vassals of the crown, below a certain year-
ly rent, had obtained a dispensation from personal attendance upon Parliament,
on condition of their electing, out of their own body, so many commissioners
from each county to represent them, whose expences they paid.
   At the commencement of each Parliament these smaller vassals were sum-
moned, by a general writ, to elect their commissioners, wilst the greater pro-
prietores, who were not entitled to that exemption, either got each a particul-
lar summons, or attended spontaneously in virtue of their freeholds; hence
these latter acquired the appellation of Lords of Parliament, to distinguish
them from the former.  Anciently, the word Dominus, or Lord, signified no
more than master, governor, or proprietor.  At this day we call the master of
a house Landlord, the proprietor of a great estate Lord of the Manor; and,
in Scotland, the proprietor of any estate Laird, which is merely a corruption
of the word Lord.
   From the confusion which has arisen by not attending to this distinction, it
is probable that the original patents of creation of some of our most ancient
noble families may be sought for in vain.


