                         ROSLIN.                     341

Lord Chancellor Wedderburn, Lord Loughborough, from whom
it descended to his nephew, the late Earl, who was succeeded by
his son, the present Earl, to whom belong the lands, Castle, and
Chapel of Roslin.
   Roslin Chapel is situated in the vicinity of Roslin village, on a
rising ground called the College Hill, on the northern bank of the
Esk, amidst the most lovely and romantic scenery of which Scot-
land can boast.
   The chapel was founded in 1446, as a collegiate church, for
a provost, six prebendaries, and two choristers or singing boys,
and, when finished, was consecrated to St Matthew the Apostle,
and endowed with lands and other revenues.  Its founder, Wil-
liam St Clair, intending that it should be possessed of the utmost
splendour, employed in the erection of it the most excellent ma-
sons in Europe, whom he attracted to his service by great rewards.
   The chapel was originally intended to be in the form of a cross,
with a lofty tower in the centre, but was never completed, in con-
sequence of the death of the founder in 1484;--the choir and
east wall of the transept only having been erected, while the re-
maining parts could scarcely be said to have been' commenced
That part of the building which has been finished, is in the style
of architecture which is called the florid Gothic.  Elegance and
variety are its distinguishing characteristics.  While every sepa-
rate department is executed with almost inimitable beauty, all
the parts are different; every window, every pillar, and every arch
being distinguished from all the rest by ornamental workmanship
of the most profuse and exquisite description.  As an instance of
the variety, as well as the beauty and elegance of this wonderful
chapel, it may be mentioned that there are more than thirteen
different kinds of arches to be found in it.  The energies of the
most accomplished stone-cutters that could be found at the time
when masonry had been brought to its utmost, perfection, seem to
have been expended in making the choir of this chapel a gem
unique in its kind.
   Having entered the court leading to the chapel by a door-way,
surmounted by an antique coronet, helmet, and shield, elegantly
carved in stone you have a view of the north side, of the chapel.
   The north front consists of two walls; the uppermost extending
behind the five western buttresses, and  rest in  on the arches of
the side aisles in the interior.  In the ground wall are five large
windows, the ornaments of which are all varied; and, in the up-


