
106                       FIFESHIRE.

carters. Coals also used to be dug up in Burnturk; but these are
now mostly given up, excepting a blind coal, which is used for
burning lime, and is mostly carted off to Pitlessie lime-hills. Some
ironstone also is found in the parish.

  	             	II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

   Antiquities.-- Under this head, the writer has only to specify what
he described in his former Account. 1. The two eminences on
Bauden Hill and Downfield Hill, supposed to be the ruins of circum-
vallations. 2. The eight barrows, three of which are known by the
names of Pundler's Know and Lowrie's Know, in Forthar ground, and
Lackerstone, in Kettle ground. There is a tradition about the se-
cond, that when dissensions arose between families in different parts
of the country, they met there to decide their contention by arms,
and those who fell were buried in the tumulus. 3. The family of
Seatons, who occupied the lands of Clatto, in the east end of the pa-
rish, and of whose robberies and murders there are many traditional
stories.  The assailants are said to have rushed out from Clatto
Den on the heedless passengers, and dragged them into the cavern.

 		      III.-POPULATION.

   The population of the parish by the census Of 1831, is 2071,
of which there are in the villages of

<TABLE>
                                             Males.               Females.
      Kettle,                                 244      -            283
      Of Holekettle Burnside,                 103         -          99
      Of Bankton Park,                         65         -          81
      Of Balmalcom,                            67        -           58
      Of Coalton,                              32         -          39
                                            _______               _______
                                              495                   530   Total,1025

The average number of births for seven years, 52, and the average of deaths, 41.
Number of families in the parish,     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   462
chiefly employed in agriculture,      .     .     .     .     .     .	  .     .    81
in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,.     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   229

   Heritors and Farmers.--We have 16 heritors whose yearly
rents are above L.50 a-year; of whom only six reside in the parish.
The farmers are comfortably accommodated with excellent houses,
covered with slate and rigged with lead, and have good accommo-
dations for their cattle, dairy, dung-courts, and shades for their
carts, and other farm gear, and are all most respectable in their
line.

	                IV.--INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.--This is properly a corn parish, and does not af-
ford much pasture, and there is only one flock of sheep.  In the
parish are, 3 farms of 4 ploughs; 10 of 3 ploughs; 12 of 2 ploughs;
in all 76 ploughs; and about 10 pendieles, (proediola,)--some of


