
	               CAMPSIE.                              253

  Obstacles to Improvement.--The chief of these is the small
amount of capital brought by the tenant into employment at his
entry. His industry, and the chance of a succession of good sea-
sons, are almost all he has to depend upon. When, unfortunately,
a series of, unfavourable seasons overtakes him, he is sure to take
to over-cropping, to redeem his immediate losses, unless the land-
lord interferes. The consequence is alike injurious to both. Men
possessed of the capital, which it is desirable should be brought
into a farming speculation on even a moderate scale, are ever ready
in this great commercial and manufacturing district, to invest it in
pursuits which promise a greater, more rapid, and less uncertain
return than agriculture. The importance of thorough draining,
wherever the land is damp, begins to be understood; but, unless
the landlord finds it convenient to do the work at his own expense,
it will proceed slowly, because the tenant cannot command funds,
however willing, to sink money in draining,-and however satisfied
that it could be most profitably so employed. Occasionally, at-
tempts are made, and the work is for the same reason imperfectly
executed. The landlord, seeing this, feels unwilling to give money
to assist, believing that it would be expended in work that will not
answer the purpose, or will last only a very few years. Time. and.
observation will probably bring about better arrangements. If at
the commencement of their leases, the tenants of farms in those
parts of the parish, which most need draining, had the means of
both thorough-draining and trenching their lands,-the outlay,
in every case, great as, it would be, would still be amply repaid
them in the course of their tacks. Subsoil ploughing and treoch
ploughing are impracticable in these lands, owing to the boulders
and the extreme tenacity of the subsoil. Partly to this same want of
disposable funds, and partly to the want of habits of neatness and
foresight, is to be ascribed the very imperfect state of the, fences.
The great numbers of mischievous persons, which, in a district full
of manufacturing establishments, infest the fields and pay no re-
ispect to enclosures, make it almost impossible for a landlord, un-
less at a ruinous expense, to keep the fences in order, supposing
he wished to relieve the tenant from the burden of doing, so.
Wherever a weak place in a fence is seen a gap is made; and then
to keep in or out his cattle, the farmer thrusts in-a dead branch.
Digging farm hedge-rows is hardly ever practised. It is to be

<FOOTNOTE>It is but justice to rvfr Macintosh to say, that he has this spring (18-11) set the
example of extensive improvements in this respect on his estate. He has also laid


