
38                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

of water, at some period indefinitely remote, when the whole cir-
cumjacent country had not yet emerged from the depths of the
ocean.
   In the limestone quarry first mentioned, there was formerly
found a considerable quantity of silver ore, whence the place is
still called the silver mine; but the ore was not found to be either
sufficient in quantity or rich enough in quality, to repay the ex-
pense of working it; consequently that has been abandoned.
   There was also a coal mine on the property of Bridgecastle,
about two miles and a-half west from Torphichen village, which
was wrought several years. Its quality is said not to have been
very good, and it also has been neglected for some time, though
it is reported that them present proprietor, Captain Hope, R. N., in-
tends to open it again.
   Zoology and Botany.-There is nothing known of the zoology
of this parish meriting peculiar notice. In botany it is worthy of
more attention; less, however, on account of its possession of very
rare plants, than because nearly all the varieties of plants indige-
nous to the lowlands of Scotland, especially to trap districts,
may be found in it in a state of great perfection, and even some
almost peculiar into the Highlands. On Cathlaw estate the ly-
copodium is found in great profusion; as also the wild gentian,
and some beautiful varieties of the polygala, or milkwort. There
are also some fine species of the orchis; and the trap hills of the
Torphichen ridge abound with the common wild heart's ease in
greater profusion than can be seen almost any where else. There
are also some rather rare kinds of mosses and lichens found on the
moorish districts, and among the rocky banks of the Avon. Some
exotic plants have been occasionally found on the Kipps hills, as
if naturalized, which are thought to have been brought thither by
Sir Robert Sibbald in former days.
   The soil seems to be adapted to the growth of timber of al-
most any kind, as appears from the well-wooded aspect of the dis-
trict in the eastern division of the parish. There are some fine
old trees of considerable magnitude around the mansions of Cath-
law, Lochcote, Wallhouse, and Bridge castle and on Cathlaw
hill and Hilderston hill there are some young plantations in a
very thriving condition,-indicating the possibilities of the district,
were a system of planting adopted generally by the proprietors.
                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Almost the only account of the parish of Torphichen that has



