
     of Canisbay.

bay is at present 6 chalders of visual, one half meal, and the
other half bear, with 200 merks of money, and the small
tithes of the parish, accounted, though not equal to, 200 merks
more.-Besides the parochial school, there are two society-
schools in the parish, with a salary of 10 L. each.  The paro-
chial school may be worth about 18 L. Sterling.  The church
has very lately received a good repair, and the minister has
been extremely well accommodated with new office houses.
The manse, unless attended to, will not be of long duration.
The glebe is a very small one, and there is little or no grass
annexed to it.-The poor, from the session funds, and various
collections, receive, at annual distributions, about the sum of
10 L. or 12 L. Sterling.  The indigent are indeed numerous,
yet there are few or no strolling beggars in the parish*.

   Dress, Customs, etc.-In Canisbay there are no manufac-
tures.  Their common apparel is of home growth and tex-
ture, generally dyed black.  Their dress cloaths are all im-
ported, and in general of better quality, than their circum-
stances can well afford.  Both fexes are alike ambitious to
appear fine.  Few country congregations are more crowded,

     U 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The present minister has been 11 years in office, and has not been asked for
above half a dozen certificates, in behalf of indigent persons, necessitated to throw
themselves upon the alms of the public.  The parish, at the same time, compara-
tively speaking, is far from being a rich one.  The sea is its great support, with-
out which, at the rate the lands are rented, it would be impossible for the inhabi-
tants to live.  The sea not only supplies them with fish, but with bread also,
from the great abundance of tang-manure, which even, in bad seasons, seldom
fails to ensure a crop.  It also affords them employment, with suitable wages
during summer, in the manufacture of kelp.  A good deal is gained by pilotage
and not a little by sea expresses.  From these combined causes, and their being
inured from their earliest years to habits of sobriety and temperance, they may
be said to live in a state equally removed from want and from abundance.


