
90                       FIFESHIRE.

its lowest, it gradually slopes down to the sea.  It consists of two
ranges of land, upon the lower of which the village of Kingsbarns
stands, and the greater population reside.  The shore is low and
rocky, presenting, unless at Randerstone, no prominent headlands,
but possessing a long line of rugged front (with occasional sandy
recesses) sufficient to repel the long waste of waves which roll in
from the German Ocean.  It is fortunate in possessing so stern a
barrier of rock, as the swell, which a continuance of easterly gales
brings in from the main sea, is most tremendous.  Still, for many
years past, the sea has been making encroachments upon the land,
which, indeed, from its light shelly composition, would seem to
have been the residue of former tides.  The recesses above refer-
red to form excellent places of deposit for the sea-ware, which is
carefully collected and carted off by the farmer, and applied to the
fields.  Of late years, much less has come than formerly.  Some
ascribe the change to the immense amount of stone removed from
the shore, for building dikes and drains.  This practice, continu-
ed time out of mind, has tended to lower the surface,-to present
fewer points of seizure, if I may use the expression, to the weed,
and fewer eddies to the waves.
   The parish on its sea line possesses neither prominency nor in-
dentation of form deserving particular notice.  It lies between the
Friths of Forth and Tay, and immediately to the north of what is
called the East Neuk, the eastermost point of land of what was
called in the olden time the Kingdom of Fife.  This position
renders the temperature of the atmosphere less liable to intense
cold.
   In former times, the excess of moisture in this parish was attend-
ed with injurious Consequences to the health of the inhabitants of
the village.  From its situation being directly below the rising ground,
and in the course through which much of the superficial and drained
waters flowed down to the sea, it became the seat of agues and fevers,
and was certain to receive the visitation of every epidemic complaint
raging in the country.   Within these ten years, much has been done
to remedy its unfortunate position:  A cast from the sea has been
brought up; the open ditches and drains in and around covered in;
the streets properly levelled and metalled; many of the old and un-
comfortable houses taken down; new ones with enlarged accom-
modation within, and neat flower-plots in front, erected; and, from
being one of the dirtiest and most unwholesome places of residence,
it now can bear fair comparison with most of its neighbours.  It is

