
     Of Kirkmichael.

firm, to the frozen blasts of their mountains.  Of every
tax imposed, as felt from experience, the seller is ever sure
to avail himself, by exacting double in the price paid by the
purchaser.  May not then the question be put, whether Poli-
ticians, and the sharp-eyed Argusses of the state, should not
make provision against this species of fraud.  The rent of
land is no doubt considerably augmented, but still not beyond
a just proportion to its productions.  But when all the bur-
dens under which the farmer labours are put together, the
exactions of Government, advanced price of labour, aug-
mented rents, short leases, and considerable fines, it must be
acknowledged, that the condition of the farmer is far from
being eligible; and that what Virgil said of that profession,
in his own time, cannot be asserted at present.

     O fortunatos nimium sua si bona norint*.

   Village, etc.-Tammtoul is the only village within the pre-
cincts of this parish.  It is inhabited by 37 families, without

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is the lot, however, of the generality of this class of men, in most parts
of the Highlands of Scotland, to be better acquainted with the reverse of the
description.  To go into their houses, and take a view of their contents, seats
covered with dust, children pale and emaciated, parents ill clothed with care-
furrowed countenances, exhibits a striking picture of Bythinian Phineus, as
described by Apollonius Rhodius, whose victuals the harpies continually de-
voured, and left the miserable owner to hunger and despair.

<UNREADABLE>

     A perviar

</UNREADABLE>

   But in equity, moderation, and humanity, his Grace the Duke of Gordon, is
as much distinguished from many of the other proprietors in the Highlands, as
by his great and opulent fortune.  From that rage which now prevails for co-
lonizing the country with sheep, his Grace is happily exempted, and is deter-
mined at the expiration of the present leases, to discourage a practice, that, by
an unrestrained license, would soon depopulate the country of its ancient inha-
bitants.


