
     Statistical Account

dangerous disorder, the generality not only agreed to inocu-
lation, but many performed the operation on their own chil-
dren, and those of their neighbours, with perfect safety.
   The people are in general industrious, had they a subject to
work upon, or a proper stimulus.  They are not addicted to
any particular vice; but this must be understood with some
exceptions, as must always be expected among so large a body
of people.  In the year 1786, no sewer that 30 were expelled
the parish for theft, not by the sentence of a magistrate, but
by the united efforts of the better sort of the inhabitants.
The good effects of this expulsion have been sensibly felt; and
though a little gleaning is now thought necessary, yet, hav-
ing a sheriff court established in the neighbourhood, the ne-
cessity of such violent exertions are in a great measure ob-
viated*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The principal antiquity is the ruin of a castle, at a farm cal-
led Ardterinish, (possibly the Inishtore of Ossian,) on the Sound
of Mull, where M'Donald of the Isles resided, and held his
courts and parliaments.  Vide Abercrombie's life of James II.
In different parts of the parish, especially along the coast of the
Sound of Mull, on elevated places, there are several circular
buildings, commonly called Druidical temples or cairns.  They
are generally formed of large whinstones, inclosing a small spot
of ground, of different diameters, none of them exceeding 8
yards.  The language, principally spoken in the parish, is Gaelic.
But of late years, by the advantages derived from schools, and
the more general communication with the low country, the En-
glish language is more universally understood throughout the
parish than formerly.  Many names of place in this parish are
of unknown or uncertain derivations; others plainly of Gaelic
or Celtic original.  Thus Innismore, is the great brae; Port a
boat, the boat creek; Fiunary, Fingal's shieling; Dunien, Fin-
gal's fort or hill; Kemin, Fingal's steps or stairs.  Dunien is a
curious round rock, of considerable height, partly covered on the
sides with a green sward, but of no easy ascent.  On the top is an
area of about 2/3 of an acre, which evidently appears to have
been encircled with a wall; very few vestiges of which now re-
main, owing partly to the injuries of time, and partly to want of


