
                        MONIVAIRD AND STROWAN.                     747

       Alehouses.--Until lately there were four public-houses in these
    parishes, but now only two exist; and with these also we would
    cheerfully dispense, for in this as in most districts they have in
    various instances been the cause of great immorality and wretch-
    edness.
       Fuel.--Peats procured from the moss at Loch Turret are much
    used for fuel, the cart costing about 3s. or 4s.  Coal is now also pretty
    generally burnt; but as it is conveyed from Bannockburn, a dis-
    tance of twenty-five miles, it is a very expensive fuel, the cwt.
    costing about 1s. when brought thither.  Barked oak is also not
    unfrequently used for fire-wood.
       Drawn up April 1838.
     Revised December 1842.

       Since the preceding Account was drawn up, this parish and
    neighbourbood have been visited by many smart shocks of earth-
    quake, originating in the adjacent parish of Comrie.  These
    earthquakes were first felt about fifty years ago, when they are
    said to have been pretty violent ; but they seem subsequently to
    have become less alarming, until the autumn of 1839.  At this
    time, however, they began again to be frequently felt, nearly
    twenty shocks being occasionally experienced in twenty-four hours.
    The most violent one happened about 10 o'clock on thd evening
    of 23d October 1839.  The shock seemed to pass along through
    the parish of Monivaird, from the north-west to the south-east.
    For a second or two, every house for miles around the village of
    Comrie was shaken from top to bottom; and while the motion
    was passing away to the eastward, it was accompanied with a tre-
    mendous subterranean noise, like the roar of a hundred pieces of
    ordnance discharged at once, and gradually dying away in the
    distance.  This earthquake was partially felt throughout a great
    part of Scotland, as far as Inverness, Dunbar, Berwick, and the
    banks of Lochawe.  In this neighbourbood, it was very alarming.
    Several individuals fainted, and most of the inhabitants of the
    village of Comrie spent the whole night in the streets, or in the
    churches, which were very properly opened for prayer.  Many
    stone-dikes were thrown down, walls of houses rent, and chimney
    stalks shattered, the stones being frequently shifted from their
    places, but no serious damage was sustained.  The shocks have
    again diminished, both in frequency and violence, since the au-
    tumn of 1839.
       December 1842.


