
     Statistical Account

skipper or master of a boat, to appear ready at the fishing sta-
tion the first week of June, with their boats properly equipped,
and fishing tackling in order.  Each boat carries from 100 to
1/3 20 lines, of 50 fathoms length; each line having 10 hooks,
placed 5 fathoms from each other on a cord 4 foot long.  A
boat's lines will extend 6000 fathoms, or about 6 miles and
an half when laid in the sea.  Each boat has also 4 haddock
lines fitted; their first work is to obtain proper bait, and this
is their employment every evening and morning they are
ashore, as they wish always to have fresh bait.  Haddocks are
most esteemed, of which it will take 6 or 7 score for the lines
of one boat.  Piltocks are next valued, of which it requires
25 or 30 score; failing of these, hallibut, cod, tusk, or ling,
are used for bait.  They set out to sea, when weather per-
mits, from 10 o'clock A. M. to 2 o'clock P. M. according to
the fishing ground they intend to visit, being from 10 to 40
miles distant from the shore.  When arrived there, about 6
or 7 o'clock at night, the 1st end  of the line is sunk by a 
stone of 24 pounds weight; then 2 or 4 men pull to seaward:
the remainder set out the lines, and fix pieces of bait pro-
perly cut, on every hook; and at the distance of every two
lines, are stones fixed about 8 pound weight; and, at the
other end of the line, a large stone as at the first.  There are
buoys at each end of the line, made of sheep skin, and 2
mid-buoys, for finding the lines, least they break while haul-
ing.  Every line for the buoy, is 120 fathoms and more.  The
lines being joined together, so as to form a long train, the 
boat keeps close by the buoy last dropped, for 2 or 3 hours,
according to the tide and weather.  When they begin to haul

<FOOTNOTE>

they were before 1750.  In the account of the fishing from the neighbouring parish
of Delting, there is an accurate statement of the annual expenses of boats, lines,
&c. and the annual returns and balances in favour of sharers in boats, which su-
persedes any thing being said here on the subjects.


