
				  DALTON.  		       373

At one period, it was proposed that a canal should be made through
the level track of meadow and peat-moss in this parish, for the pur-
pose of an inland navigation from the upper part of Annandale to
the Solway Frith; but it is not likely that the measure will ever
be executed. The height of the river at Dormont above the level
of the sea is 160 feet.
	Fish, &c.--The fish caught in the Annan at different periods
of the season are the salmon, grilse, sea-trout, whiting, or herling.
Thirty years ago, they were caught in ffreat abundance; but since
the stake-nets were placed at the mouth of the river in the Solway
Frith, they have become very scarce, and unless some law is made
for the farther removal of these nets, the fish will soon be extinct,--
particularly as the landed proprietors along the course of the river
reap no benefit, and therefore take no interest in preserving the
breed during the winter, so that nearly all that get up in close time
are speared. An act of Parliament was obtained in 1804 for pro-
tecting the fish in the Solway Frith from the 25th September to
the 10th March, which is the forbidden time.

			  II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers.--The kirk-session of Dalton have in their
possession an old book of session records, from the 18th August
1723, to the 1st September 1766, which contains a correct state-
ment of the poors' funds. The registration of baptisms is very in-
correct; but from the year 1769 a correct register of marriages,
births, and baptisms has been kept.
	Antiquities.--The only ancient edifice is a tower at Holmains,
formerly the seat of the Carruthers of Holmains, but now totally
in ruins. It does not appear to have been a place of great strength.
At a short distance towards the east, on the Almagill-hills, there is
a beautiful old camp of a circular form now named Range Castle.
From the summit of the hill on which it is placed, there is a most
commanding view embracing the beautiful vale of the Annan, with
the whole amphitheatre of the surrounding hills, the ancient castle
of Robert Bruce, and the burgh of Lochmaben, with its nume-
rous lakes. The camp is formed upon a transition rock of gray-
wacke; its diameter is 102 yards; the ditch or fosse which surround,
ed the camp is 9 feet deep and 27 feet broad. It must have been
a place of considerable strength, from the great inclination of the
hill on its north and east sides. The lower part of the camp ap-
pears to have been separated from the upper by a rampart or wall
made of stones taken from the fosse, many of which are in a vitri-
fied state. This wall has been removed to build fences in the


