
			       KIRRIEMUIR.                   185

ing the parishes of Glenisla, Lintrathen, Airly, Kingoldrum, Cor-
tachy, Tannadice, and Oathlaw: and the peace of the town is kept
by a numerous constabulary.
	Several years ago, G. L. Meason, Esq. of Lindertis feued two
parts of his property, which have now swelled into villages,--the
one, Marytown, containing 136 inhabitants; and the other, Elli-
norton, the inhabitants of which amount to 108.
	Means of Communication.--The north mail arrives at Kirrie-
muir every morning. About fifty years ago, the revenue from the
post-office amounted in one year, after paying the necessary ex-
pense, to no more than 8d.; it now amounts to L. 360 per an-
ntm.
	There is only one turnpike-road at present in the parish, and
it does not extend to more than three miles. The most import-
ant bridge is at Shielhill, over the Esk. The bridge over the Pro-
sen was widened lately at the sold dxpense of the Earl of Airly.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is conveniently situated
for the lower part of the parish; and no part of the population of
this district is distant above three or four miles from it. The pa-
rish church was built in 1787, and is in an excellent state of re-
pair. It is seated for 1260. There are no free sittings.
	The manse was built in 1774, but so insufficiently, that it was
repaired in 1787. It was again repaired in 1802. This year it
will undergo a thorough repair.
	The glebe consists of four acres and one rood. The minister
is allowed L. 20 Scots, in lieu of a grass glebe. The teinds of
the parish were valued in 1634. The stipend, as modified in 1812
by the court of teinds, amounts to 191 bolls of grain,--two-thirds
meal and one-third barley,--and L. 72 Sterling, inculding L. 8,
6s. 8d. for communion elements.
	There are no chapels of ease attached to the Established Church;
but there is a missionary minister on the Royal Bounty, who officiates
alternately in Clova, one of the united parishes of Clova and Cor-
tachy, and in Glenprosen, connected with Kirriemuir. There is
one meeting-housd in connection with the Original Constitutional
Synod; another in connection with the United Secession Church;
and a third in connection with the Relief. There is also a small
congregation of Inddpdndents, who meet in the afternoon of the
Lord's day for worship and mutual edification. The ministers are
respectably supported by the contributions of their hearers. The


