
		      CORTACHY AND CLOVA.                       435

south to its northern extremity, is about 10 miles in length; to-
wards the south, where it is bounded by the junction of the South
Esk and Prosen rivers, it is narrow, and in the form of an acute
angle. Its mean breadth is about 4 miles; its superficial area is
upwards of 37 square miles, or 23,680 English acres. It is bound-
ed on the south and south-west, by the parishes of Kirriemuir and
Kingoldrum; on the east, by Tannadice; on the north-east, by a
range of the Grampian mountains, which separates it, from the pa-
rish of Lochlee; and on the northwest, by Clova. Clova is about
10 miles in length and 4 in breadth; the inhabited or arable part
of it is about 4 miles in length, and half a mile in breadth. It is
bounded on the south-west, by Glenprosen, a district of the pa-
rish of Kirriemuir; on the west, by Glenisla; and nn the north-
east, by the parishes of Glenmuick and Lochlee.
        Topographical Appearances.-The general appearance of the
parish is mountainous. On the south-east part of Cortachy, the
surface is greatly and beautifully diversified. Of late years the
grounds have been highly improved, and are either under various
agricultural crops or adorned with young and thriving plantations.
This portion of the parish is composed partly of level, but for the
greater part of rising grounds,-the latter, forming the commence-
ment of one of the ranges of the Grampian mountains, decline on
the south and south-west to the river Prosen, and on the east and
north-east to the Southesk river. The above mountain-range ex-
tends in an irregular form nearly the whole length of the parish
forming its boundary on the south-west. Opposite to this is a simi-
lar range of mountains, but in general of greater elevation; extend-
ing the whole length, of the united parish, and forming its boundary
on the north-east. The elevation of these mountains above the
level of the sea varies from 1500 to upwards of 3000 feet. Their
height is gradually increased, as they extend towards the north-
west. Between these two mountain ranges are situated the valleys
of Wateresk and Clova, through which the waters of the Esk
slowly descend in their beautifully winding courre. The appear-
ance of the valley of Clova is very striking, and beautiful. The
mountains by which it is surrounded are steep and majestic. They
are partly of a conical shape. In some places, they exhibit bold
and dangerous rocky precipices; but in general, they covered in
summer, even to their summits, with various kinds of grass, which
afford excellent pasture both for sheep and cattle. The valley of
Clova is divided on the north by a high mountain into two defiles
or glens,-the one extending in a south-west, the other in a north-


