
                      KIRKLISTON.                        133

have taken place in the various manufactures then existing in
the parish.  The distillery has disappeared ; the skinnery! its
very name is lost, having given place to the more poetical de-
signation of Laverock dale ; the magnesia manufactory is in
ruins; the noise of the wauk-mill no longer reminds the pas-
senger of its existence; and the mill for beating flax is, compa-
ratively speaking, in little use.  Still the parish flourishes; the po-
pulation has increased; the rental has improved; and could a little
more of that right-hearted prudence which inclines, and, through
God's blessing, enables man to value and steadily comply with the
counsels of heavenly truth, be infused into the bosom of the gene-
rality of the people, they would be blessed indeed.

   Drawn up November 1838
   Revised October 1839.


                        PARISH OF KIRKLISTON.

             PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND
                              TWEEDDALE.

                  THE REV.  ADAM DUNCAN TAIT, MINISTER.


         L.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   THE parish of Kirkliston lies partly in the county of Linlithgow;
partly in that of Edinburgh.  The river Almond forms the boundary
between the two counties, through the whole extent of the parish;
and the south-eastern portion, lying in the county of Edinburgh,
is about one-fourth of the whole.
   Name.-The ancient name was Temple Liston.  Of the com-
pound Liston there are several instances, in the names of places
in the parish, as Old Liston, New Liston over New Liston, Hal
Liston, Eliston or II Liston or High Liston, and Kirk Liston, the
last being the name of the principal village, an& of the parish.
The etymology of the word Liston is uncertain.  There is an, old
tradition, that a large district of country around was, at a remote
period, possessed by a distinguished family of that name, and that
this circumstance gave its name to the parish.  But it is said, that
the term Lioston signifies in Celtic an inclosure on the side of a ra-





