
		        GLASGOW.                        135

Weekly Chronicle, Chambers' Journal, and the Farmers' Maga-
zine. In 1831, the Aberdeen Journal was printed in this way;
and in 1834, Mr Edward Khull, printer to the University, fitted
up a steam-press for printing the Church of Scotland Magazine
in this city.
	A copartnery for carrying on the whale fishery and making soap
was entered into in this city on the 15th of September 1674. Mr
George Maxwell of Polloc, (created a baronet in 1682,) Provost
William Anderson, and James Colquhoun, one of the bailies
of the city, were among the original partners. The company em-
ployed five ships; and the Providence, built at Belfast, was sailed
by Mr John Anderson, one of the partners. The company had
extensive premises at Greenock for boiling blubber and curing fish.
An advertisement appeared from them in the Glasgow Courant on
the 11th of November 1715, being the first advertisement in the
first newspaper in the west of Scotland. It was in the following
words:--" Any one who wants good black or speckled soap may
be served by Robert Luke, manager of the soaparie of Glasgow,
at reasonable rates." The soaparie was at the head of Candle-
riggs Street, now the Commercial Buildings.
	The manufacture of ropes was commenced on the 17th of
March 1696. Mr William Crawford of Jordanhill, and Mr James
Corbet of Kenmure, were among the first partners. In 1698,
an act of Parliament was passed for the further encouragement
of the manufacture of ropes and cordage in Glasgow, laying a
duty on all ropes imported from the Sound or east seas; and,
in return, the company were to advance a capital of L. 40,000
Scots, and to bring in foreigners to the work. It is probable that
the company's first premises had gone into decay, as the building
of what was afterwards known by the name of the Glasgow Rope-
work Company, reaching between Stockwell Street and Jamaica
Street, were not erected till the autumn of 1766.
	With regard to sugar-houses, although the colonies were not laid
open to the Scotch until the Union, it appears that there were su-
gar-houses in Glasgow long before that period; for, in an action
which the Crown brought against the sugar bakers in Glasgow and
Leith, it was urged that they had not only enjoyed the exemption
from the duties and customs, on the import of materials for a great
number of years, but also the duties of excise upon the spirits and
other commodities manufactured by them. At length, in 1715, a
process was raised against them for the bygone excise duties; and,


