

22                     CLACKMANNANSHIRE.


   The general dip of the rocks is to the north-east, and the de-
clination from the horizon is, on an average, one foot perpendicu-
lar in six feet horizontal.
   This coal-field is intersected by many dislocations or slips, both
in an east and west, and in a south and north direction. Two of
these, which are in an east and west direction, are very remark-
able.
   The one farthest north passes through the rising ground north
from the farm-steading of Parkhead, and has the effect of throw-
ing down the coals and their accompanying strata, more than 100
fathoms. The coal-field to the north of this slip in the parish is
known by the name of Coalyland ; the coal-field upon the south of
this slip is known by the name of Carsebridge. Both these coal-
fields contain the same beds of coal.
   In the Carsebridge coal-field, all the coals having cropped
out, as it is termed in the miner's language, or having come to the
surface of the rocks in a south direction, and in contact with the
alluvial cover, it is found that, on the south side of the parish,
near to the parish of Clackmannan, an immense slip takes place,
and has the effect of throwing down the coals and accompanying
strata fully 200 fathoms, and forms the south coal-field of this pa-
rish, with coals and strata the same as those before-mentioned.
   This is understood to be the greatest slip of the strata hitherto
ascertained in the coal-fields of Scotland ; and it is remarkable, in
a geological point of view, that the surface gives no indication
whatever of such a dislocation or slip, either here or at the other
great slip before-mentioned, and that these slips are somewhat pa-
rallel with the south front of the Ochil mountains, which form
part of the north boundary line of the coal-formation of Scotland.
   These coal-fields being intersected by the great slips before-
mentioned,  each coal-field is, as to its coals and accompanying
strata, basin-sbaped, or rather, the portion of a basin, and some.
what of a fan shape; at least, such is the south coal-field next
Clackmannan parish, and the middle coal-field of Cirsebridge.
But the Coalyland coal-field is part of a long elliptic basin, the
coals and their accompanying strata dipping northwards to the
River Devon, and then rising very abruptly along the face of the
Ochil mountains. The east end of this trough is about a mile east
from this town OU Dollar; the west end of it, where coals are
found, is at the north-west part of the parish, crossing the River
Devon towards the Ochil mountains.



