
1170	                  ABERDEENSHIRE.

mathematical science.  Yet the first Reformers and their imme-
diate successors seem, from many circumstances, to have been
fully aware of the imperfections of much of the philosophy of their
time, and of its incompatibility with the principles of freedom of
inquiry, and appeal to the scriptures, upon which they rested their
claim of superiority to the Roman Catholic Church.  But the
contests which arose and divided the Reformers themselves, and
the wars, partaking more or less of a religious character, which
followed till the peace of Westphalia, were circumstances adverse
to the introduction of improved curricula of study; and till the
discoveries and systems of Descartes, Locke, and Newton came
forward and were taught in universities, there was little to sub-
stitute in the room of the scholastic logic of the middle ages, which
had so long kept in trammels the powers of the mind in the search
of physical and psychological truth.  The course of study came
thus to vary very little in Reformed and in Catholic Universities.
The same professor carried on the students with whom he com-
menced, for three or for four years; and the attempt to confine
each teacher to a particular branch was, after a trial of many
years, not followed in Marischal College any more than in the
other universities of Scotland, although enjoined in its foundation
charter.  One advantage, indeed, it possessed over some other se-
minaries, in the early possession of a separate endowment for a
professor who was confined to mathematical science.  Of the nu-
merous visitations which took place during, the seventeenth cen-
tury, very few had their attention directed towards the improve-
ment of the plan of teaching, although a subject into which they
were generally ordered to inquire. Those of 1664 and 1695 were
especially for prescribing "a course of learning;" and the plan
adopted by the commissioners was to draw up and circulate among
the colleges copies of uniform "dictates," which all professors
were to use in teaching philosophy and the sciences;-a useless
and impracticable undertakings which after many years labour was
left as far as ever from being -accomplished.  The common mode
of teaching continued long afterwards to be by Latin dictations
and, excavations upon them; and particular works of bompilers
in various sciences were also used, and commented upon in oral
instructions.
   Besides frequent commissions of visitation the Scots Privy-
Council often interfered with the Universities, in consequence of
the arbitrary power which that body exercised till its abolition after
the union of the kingdoms.  To it was owing a useful order in


