
                          DUNSYRE.                              67

the seams which run across the island passes through Dunsyre
to the east.  It has also been wrought about a mile to the west,
and runs on to Douglas, and passes through Ayrshire t6 the Mull
of Cantyre.  Calc-spar is discernible in many parts in the parish.
   There are various alluvial deposits in this parish.  At the foot
of those streamlets which descend from the high grounds are se-
veral acres of fine soil carried upon the flat marshy land below.
This soil is generally a mixture of clay and sand, of a reddish co-
lour, and bears most excellent crops.  The river has also, by being
often flooded, deposited on its banks sand to the height, in some
places, of two or three feet above the surrounding bog.  This large
flat is mostly composed of moss,--in some places eleven and even
sixteen feet in depth.  In digging down the one-half of that depth,
it is found to become soft, and the water and sludge rise to the
mouth of the pit.  It lies in a kind of basin, whose bottom is adhe-
sive clay.  Branches and trunks of trees are everywhere deposited in
it, and these are generally composed of hazel, alder, and willow.
   Soil.-The soil in this parish, especially in the eastern part, may
be said to be generally sandy, and the grounds appear to have been,
at one time, traversed by currents of water.  Towards the west,
the subsoil seems to consist of the debris of various hills; among
which are found stones of all kinds mixed with sand and clay, and
occasionally transparent pebbles.  These stone's appear to have
been rounded by attrition.  The light sandy grounds in a few years
are covered with heath, if not kept clear by the plough; and the
other soils become foul with rushes, paddock-pipes, and the coarse
bog grasses.  In many places the Yorkshire fog, as it is called,
covers all the surface, particularly if inclined to moss.
   Zoology.-On this head, it may be only mentioned, that the
gannet, or sea-gull, frequents this parish, especially when a storm
of wind and rain is threatened.  This appears rather singular in a
parish situate nearly thirty miles from the sea coast.  The lap-
wing also migrates in flocks to this point during the summer sea-
son, and has been known to continue during winter.  The eagle is
sometiimes seen on the hills to the north of Dunsyre, particularly
oh Craigengar.  There is plenty of grouse in these moors, and a
few black game.  The gray plover is everywhere to be seen.  Wild
ducks are numerous in the marshes; and during A storm the parish
is often visited with flocks of wild geese, to the amount of fifty or
sixty in a covey.
  Medwin is a fine trouting stream.  The trout are for the most


