
			CRAWFORD.                          329

they are frequently from east and north-east, and are generally
cold and dry. The heaviest rains are supposed to fall in the month
of September. The old inhabitants state that deep snows are less
frequent than in former times.
	As the parish has in general rather a northern exposure, and
the lowest part of it towards the north-west is about 850 feet above
the level of the sea, the climate cannot be supposed to be very ge-
nial, yet it cannot be said to be unhealthy. Rheumatism seems
to be the only prevailing disorder with which the inhabitants are
afflicted,--no doubt occasioned by the fogs and damps prevalent
at high altitudes.
	Hydrography.--This parish abounds with springs of the purest
water. Two of these send forth mineral waters resembling those
of Moffat. They are all on one line, and about eight miles distant
from each other; but the springs in this parish have never been
analyzed. There is a spring on the boundary of the parish which
possesses a strong petrifying quality, and all the foq around it is
turned into stone, from whence beautiful specimens are often taken.
There is another spring in the parish at Campshead still stronger.
	The Clyde is the principal river which takes its rise in this pa-
rish; all the others flow into it, except the Evan, which joins the
Annan near Moffat. The source of the Clyde is about 1400 feet
above the level of the sea, and upwards of fifty miles from Glasgow.
It runs in a small stream till it joins the Daer, a very considerable
river which takes its rise near the boundary of Closeburn parish.
The Clyde receives a number of tributary streams in this parish.
It has a north-west direction, with a gentle declivity, and flows over
a broad gravelly bed. It leaves the parish at Abington, when it
takes a north-east direction by Lamington.
	Geology.--To those interested in the study of the transition
rocks of that particular series which forms the greater part of the
southern high land of Scotland, this parish affords many facilities.
Here, as in other districts of the mountainous region of southern
Scotland, greywacke, with its subordinate formations, predominates.
	Soil.--The soil which chiefly abounds in the parish is the moor soil.
On the banks of the Clyde the soil is rich. Cultivation is carried
on chiefly on the banks of the Clyde, and at the junction of the
smaller streams with the Clyde. Within this small space are found
soils of various kinds, gravelly, sandy, loamy, and alluvial. By the
improvements that have taken place, in consequence of the use of
lime, the regular change of early seed, and the cultivation of green


