
                     LISMORE AND APPIN.                      249

   The harbour, which is safe and commodious is formed by the
banks, of rubbish projecting into the sea on each side, which com-
pletely shelter it from all winds.  There is an extensive wharf for
shipping, alongside of which vessels of any size can lie, to receive
their cargoes.  The manufactured slates are conveyed for shipment,
from the banks by train roads on inclined planes, to the vessel's
side.  The distance to the farthest off part of the rock which is
wrought, to the shipping wharf, is 650 yards.
   The colour of the slate is deep blue, spangled with pyrites cal-
led by the workmen "diamonds," and these gold-coloured drops,
are so firmly incorporated with the slate, that they can never be
separated from them.  The slates are allowed to possess, in a pre-
eminent degree, all the qualities of permanence of colour, and du-
rability of material essential to roof-slate.  The various descrip-
tions of slates manufactured are as follows:  Duchesses, 24 in-
ches by 12 inches ; Countesses, 20 do. by 10 do.; sizeable, aver-
aging 14 do. by 8 do.; under size, do. do.  The nature of the
rock does not admit of an extensive manufacture of the larger
sizes, the chief production being the, sizeable and, undersized.
The quantity produced annually of the above-mentioned kinds va-
ries from about 8000 to 11,000 tons; or in numbers, from five to
seven millions of slates of all kinds.  They are shipped to almost
all the sea ports in Scotland and Northumberland, from which
they find their way to most parts of the kingdom.  Occasional
shipments of them are made to America and the West Indian co-
lonies,-not directly from the quarries, but from ports trading to
these countries.  Besides the various kinds of roof-slates enume-
rated above, pavement, gravestones, and soles for drain tiles are
manufactured; but the production for those purposes is limited,
and the consumption local.
   The whole number of persons employed in the works is about
300 of all ages, including blacksmiths, carpenters, and other
tradesmen.  The average rate of wages earned by the quar-
riers is about 12s. each per week, but this is unequally distri-
buted among them, as the earning of each individual depends,
from the nature of the contract, on the productiveness in slate, of
the part of the rock in which he works, and very much on the col-
lective energy of the crew to which he belongs.  It frequently hap-
pens that an able and well-matched crew earn individually L.1 per
week, and occasionally even more.  As the most efficient men find
employment as quarriers, and the nature of the other work not be-


