
                         KILTEARN.                       317

Malcolm II. feued out the lands of the country to those fami-
lies who had assisted him in extirpating the Danes, the coun-
try between the burgh of Dingwall and the water of Alness
was assigned to Donald Munro, and from that circumstance re-
ceived the name of Ferindonuil, or Donald's land. Part of
these lands was afterwards erected into a barony, called the Ba-
rony of Fowlis. From Donald Munro is lineally descended
the present Sir Hugh Munro, Bart., who is the twenty-ninth
baron of Fowlis, and proprietor of about two-thirds of the lands of
the parish. This family has, at differdnt times, produced indivi-
duals whose military talents reflect the highest honour on their
country and name. In comparatively later times, many of them dis-
tinguished themselves by their firm adherence to the principles of
the Reformation, and their devoted attachment to the House of
Hanover. Buchanan mentions, that, among those who assembled
at Inverness to assist the unfortunate Queen Mary, were the Frasers
and Munros, "who were esteemed among the most valiant of the
clans inhabiting those countries." In the war carried on by Gus-
tavus Adolphus against Ferdinand II. there were so many of the
name of Munro, that, among the officers of that name who served in
that war, there were 3 generals, 8 colonels, 5 lieutenant-colonels, 11
majors and above 30 captains, besides a great number of subalterns.
Sir Robert Munro, the grandfather of the present Baronet, was a
man who would have done honour to any age or country; being
distinguished alike for the highest military talents and the most
unaffected piety. When still a very young man, he served for
several years in Flanders under the Duke of Marlborough, and
there formed an intimacy with the celebrated Colonel James
Gardiner. His father, also called Sir Robert, was still living
at the breaking out of the Rebellion in 1715; and, though
quite blind, actively exerted himself to support the Royal cause
in the north. The Earl of Seaforth sent him word, that "he
was now designed to execute what he bad long determined, to
set King James on the throne," and at the same time demanded
his arms. Sir Robert returned answer, that "what arms he had
were for the use and service of Kin George, whom he would de-
fend while his blood was warm." Retaining a sufficient number
to guard his own residence, be sent the rest of his people to unite
with a body of the Sutherland Royalists at Alness bridge, where
the whole encamped under the command of his son. They de-
tained the rebels in the north under Seaforth, from joining the main


