
              UNITED PARISHES OF

           SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.

     PRESBYTERY OF LERWICK, SYNOD OF SHETLAND.

          THE REV. JOHN BRYDEN, MINISTER.

          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
     THOUGH the Islands of Hialtland, variously named Hethland,
Schetland, Shotland, Shetland, or Zetland, were assigned in wad-
sett to the Crown of Scotland nearly five hundred years ago, little
more is known of them, generally speaking, than if they had re.
mained, to the present day, a pertinent of the Crown of Denmark.
     That the present inhabitants are of Scandinavian origin, many
circumstances tend to prove. The historian, Torphaeus, asserts,
that these islands were discovered about three hundred and eighty-
five years before the birth of our Saviour; but that they might
have been inhabited from a much earlier period.
     When Harold Harfagre, King of Norway, landed in Shetland
in 875, he found "Papee;" but these might have presided over
the worship of Odin, and directed the rites paid to the Scandina-
vian god. It is probable that the Christian religion was not at-
tempted to be introduced among the natives till about the begin-
ning of the tenth century; and even then, its progress was very
slow. For the Earls, who ruled with despotic sway, and who sel-
dom acknowledged any superior, longer than they could renounce
their allegiance with impunity, uniformly opposed the introduction
of Christianity; till a circumstance took place, about the middle
of the tenth century, which brought about its reception and esta-
blishment. The King of Norway happening to touch at the
islands, invited the reigning Earl and his family on board of his
ship, with the determination, it would appear, of converting him
and his people to the Christian faith, by argument or force. The
invitation being accepted, the King gave the Earl his choice,
either to embrace the Christian religion, and be baptised, and thus
secure his friendship, or to have his Earldom wrested from him,
     SHETLAND.                              G


