
400                          AYRSHIRE.

supply of food, both during summer and winter, and in return, get
from L. 6, 10s. to L. 8 for each cow, according to the situation
and the quality of the keep. This practice seems to be becoming
more and more common, and has obvious advantages. The own-
ers of the cows, who have frequently quite enough to occupy their
time and attention otherwise, are relieved of a great deal of care,
while the booers, on the other hand, get an interest in the ma-
nagement, which is supposed to add considerably to the value of
the produce. There are but few horses, comparatively speaking,
bred in the parish, the feeding of milch-cows being found to be
more profitable. More than a half of all the horses used for
agriculture, and other purposes, come from Ireland. These, in
point of bone, are inferior to the Clydesdale breed, but they have
more action, and are kept at less expense. Swine are now fed by
almost every family in the landward part of the parish, and also
by many of the people of the town. In the town, a poor man, by
carefully mixing the ashes of his kitchen, and a little sea-weed, of
which there is abundance in the neighbourhood, with the dung from
the pig-sty, frequently makes up as much manure as is sufficient for
the cultivation of a rood of potatoe ground, which he rents for
about 15s. and from which, in common cases, he raises as many
potatoes as amply supply his family, provided it be of a moderate
size, for a whole year.
	Husbandry.--The low-lands are admirably fitted for the plough,
and, at one period or other, about the half of the whole parish has
been under cultivation. When the last Statistical Account was
drawn up, oats, barley, bear, peas, beans, and potatoes, were the
only crops commonly raised. Wheat and rye were occasionally
tried on a small scale; but the former was thought an uncertain
crop, and the latter found profitable only where the soil was light
and sandy. At the present period, wheat may be said to be the
principal crop. Indeed, there is hardly an acre of the low land
upon which it has not been repeatedly grown during the last
thirty years, and in most cases with ample success. From ten
to fifteen bolls (of 4 Winchester bushels) per Scotch acre, was
no unusual return from the best lands, when the cultivation
of wheat began to be understood. As might be expected, the
produce has decreased, where the land has been subjected to se-
vere cropping, and particularly where wheat has been repeatedly
raised; but still, it is no uncommon thing to see from eight to ten
bolls grown on an acre where there have been alternate crops of


