
     Statistical Account

we have soils very different; some shallow, others deep.  The
deep soils have generally an under stratum of clay, which ren-
ders them hard to plough; but when proper care is taken of
their culture, and the season favourable, they produce weigh-
ty crops.  In the hilly parts of the parish, there are various
qualities of soil, some cold and wet, some moorish and spon-
gy, some dry and gravelly.  In a word, the variety of soil is
so great, that often, in the same field, different soils are to
be found.  This inequality of soils, which, at first sight,
seems a defect, is in reality a remarkable proof of the wisdom
of providence; for there is no soil so ungrateful, as not to
reward the labourer's toil, if he will only bestow proper care
on its culture, and each soil has a season, in which it is pecu-
liarly productive.  The ground, in this parish, has, for the most
part, a good exposure, and grows fruitful, in proportion to
its state of cultivation.  This has encouraged the farmers of
late years to improve tracts of it, which formerly lay waste
and uncultivated.

     Agriculture and Produce.-Such of the tenants as border
on the shore, use sea ware for manure.  But the principal
manure here used is lime, which is brought partly from the
Frith of Forth, and partly from Sunderland in  England, at
a very considerable expence; yet the farmers value it so
much, that they look upon it as an essential requisite in car-
rying forward their improvements.  The times of plowing,
sowing , and reaping, are determined by the seasons, and the
general rules laid down by the most experienced farmers.
The principal crops raised in this parish are oats and barley.
Of the former there is only a small quantity, but of the
latter a great deal is annually exported.  Of late years, a con-
siderable quantity of wheat and turnips has been sown, and, 
in general, succeeded well.  For some years past, the farmers
have paid due attention to the raising of flax; and, from the


