
                                ORPHIR.                         15

      these pillars there are rocks of harder stone.  The name is sup-
      posed to have arisen from the practice of manufacturing salt by
      boiling the salt water; but no such manufaieture is now remember-
      ed to have been carried on at the place.
         Coast.-From Houton head, westward to the parish of Strom-
      ness, the coast is nearly level, and for the most part wholly so,
      The banks nowhere rise above ten feet, and consist of thin strata
      of sandstone.  Here the strata dip to the east and north.  Being
      low flood-mark, some parts are sandy, others covered with small
      pebbles, and frequently with rugged rocks, on which grows a con-
      siderable quantity of tang, of which kelp is made.
         At Houton head, the strata dip to the west and south.  From
      this eastward, is a succession of small bays, in some degree cor-
      responding to the valleys on the west.  The shores of these bays
      are in some cases sandy, but more, generally covered with pebbles,
      and in some cases the banks are from 12 to 14 feet high.  The
      headlands between the bays generally rise to a greater height: the
      highest, however, do not exceed 40 feet, and few of them reach
      30.  There is nothing particularly striking in the appearance of
      these bays and headlands.  The strata in the headlands, which con-
      sist commonly of grey slate or greywacke, are Generally regular,
      though in some cases they have a waving direction, and sometimes
      there is a perpendicular line of junction, where the strata, on each
      side of this line, rise a little, as if compressed by some external
      force during their formation.  Here, the strata dip to the west and
      north.  In the ba of Swanbister, which is the largest of the whole,
      and nearly two miles broad, there is a sandy shore; and a consi-
      derable number of cockles and some spouts are obtained during
      stream tides.
         Island.-Cava, the only island, is about a-mile -and a-halt south-
      east of Houton head.  There are only twenty Scots acres cultivated
      in it, and these lie in the middle on the south side.  It contained
      twenty-one inhabitants at last census.  The cultivated soil is a rich
      black loam, producing excellent crops, both of oats and  bear, there
      being abundances of sea-weed. for manure.  Part of what is unculti-
      vatted consists of excellent peat moss.  The rocks around the shore
      are chiefly common sandstone, freestone, and some limestone.
      The circumference of the island, is 3 miles, I furlong, and 80 yard.
         The holm of Houton lies in the bay of Houton, not a quarter
      of a mile in length and less in breadth; it is covered with
      a coarse kind of grass used for pasture.  Part of it was cultivat-


