
228                         AYRSYIIRE.

prevent the corn from receiving injury from the weather, previous
to being stacked, it is built into small piles called huts, contain-
ing five or six stooks each. The n-ianner of forming these buts
is as follows; two sheaves are set up reclining against each other,
two sheaves are placed at right angles against these, so as to form
a small pyramid; a row of sheaves is next placed sloping around
these; another course is then made, which forms the base of the
hut, about five feet it diameter. On this more courses are built,
each course decreasing in diameter until the but assumes the form
of a cone. Two large sheaves are then placed upon the top, the
bands being drawn up so as to allnw the bottoms of the sheaves to
be spread out and form a thatch. A small rope is then twisted
from the grassy end of the sheaf, with which the top sheaves are
firmly bound together. When neatly formed, these huts will re-
sist the heaviest rains for several weeks, the top sheaves only sus-
taining injury.
Draining, &c.-Draining has been carried on to a great ex-
tent within these few years. During the last year alone, up-
wards of 100,OQO yards of drains were executed in this parish.
The size of the drains varies according to soil and circumstances.
In general they are from 15 to 30 inches in depth, and from 5 to
9 in width at bottom. On moss land, drains in every alternate fur-
row have been cut 4i feet deep and IS inches wide. Stones, from
their abundance, have been principally m,;ed here as draining ma-
terials. The expense of cutting a drain is from 11/2d. to 4d. per fall
of six yards. The expense of a drain 26 inches deep by 9 wide,
nmy eoet 9d. per fall, including all expenses. The cost however,
varies according to soil and access to materials for falling the drains.
In general it may be stated at from L. 5 to L 8 per acre. Tile-
draining is becoming more general; and, owin to the ctifficultv in                                       
wet seasons of cartiiag the stones, there can be no doubt, that, were
a, tile-work/f* erected in the parish, the ure of stones in draining
would -in a great degree be superseded. Turf, straw, rushes, and
'the branches of the Scots fir, as they can be procured, are placed
almve the tiles, to prevent the loose, ear-th from entering and stop-
ping the,drains. Inmanysituationsgravelmig]4tboprocured,or
even micaceous schistus might be useful to place above the tiles.
The Oes-ter part of the draining has been excuted at the sole ex--

<FOOTNOTE>*Since this Account was sent to press, a tile-,work has been erectedi aiad is now
In OMIRtort on the estate of Blair.

