
                         HOUNAM.                                       203

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds, &c.      -       -       -             L. 1124
  potatoes, turnips, and other plants, cultivated in the fields for food,  633
  land in pasture,       -        -       -       -      -      -         5887
  hay, meadow, and cultivated,        -       -       -      -             980
Dairy produce, poultry, &c.                -                  -           621
Miscellaneous produce,         -           -          -          -          90

       Total yearly value of raw produce,            -                  L. 9335

   Large quantities of butter and ewe milk cheese, of the very best
qualities, have long been produced in this parish. * Poultry and
eggs are weekly collected by persons who make a trade of transport-
ing such articles to the different market-towns.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets and Means of Communication.-The village of Hou-
nam has no post-office; but letters, newspapers, and parcels
are regularly brought to it. The nearest market-town is Jed-
burgh, which lies upon the west of, and is distant about nine
miles from the centre of the parish. A carrier goes and returns
from Jedburgh weekly. Kelso, our post and principal market-
town, lies upon the north of, and is distant about twelve miles from,
the centre of the parish. With Kelso, we have regular communica-
tion by carriers. The rate of carriage is 1s. 4d. per cwt.-The pa-
rish is intersected by upwards of thirteen miles of good parish roads,
which are kept up from the statute-labour funds. These and the
district roads are well supplied with substantial bridges, and are
mostly in a tolerable state of repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church occupies a situation
within the precincts of the glebe, and, like many other of our pa-
rish churches, might be more centrical to the population, though
it is not more than about four and a-half miles distant from the re-
motest of the inhabitants, being about two and a-half miles from the
north-east extremity of the parish, and between five and six miles
from its south-west extremity. It is a very ancient building, and
was originally in the form of a passion-cross, of great extent, and
from end to end a burying-place; but is now a plain rectangular
house of 50 feet in length by 19 feet in breadth within the walls,
10 feet having been taken off its length in 1752. This edifice is
but indifferently seated, and in a state of bad repair, and so ex-
ceedidgly cold in winter as to prevent many a well-disposed person

<FOOTNOTE>Hence the old proverbial distich,
    "There's as gude cheese at Chatto as e'er was chew'd wi' chafts,
     There's as gude butter at Philogar as e'er was weigh'd wi' weights."


