
562                         LANARKSHIRE.

parochial school is attended by about sixty scholars, and the
branches taught are, English reading, grammar, arithmetic, book-
keeping, practical mathematics, Latin, Greek, and geography.
The fees for English reading are, 2s. 6d. a quarter; for writing, 3s.;
for English grammar, 3s. 6d.; for arithmetic and practical mathe-
matics, 4s.; for Latin and Greek, 5s.; for book-keeping, L. 1, 1s.
No extra charge is made free geography; and the fee for the higher
branches always includes the lower. The salary is the maximum,
L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d., with a free house and the statutory quantity of
ground for a garden. The schoolmaster, also, receives the produce
of a mortification (left by Sir James Lockhart of Carstairs, Bart.
in 1751,) that yields about L.1, 10s., annually, and for which he
pays 5s. of feu-duty to the superior. Taking into account the
salary, school-fees, and perquisites belonging to the session and
heritors' clerk, the amount received by the teacher may be esti-
mated at L. 75 yearly.
	The private school at Ravenstruther has no salary attached to
it. It is attended by about 65 scholars, a considerable number of
whom come from the parish of Lanark.
	The inhabitants of the parish seem alive to the advantages of
education. The children are sent young to school, generally
about five years of age; so that they are able to read and write
before they are nine. There are none in the parish above ten
years of age who cannot read.
        Library.-There is a library in the village of Carstairs, con-
taining about 350 volumes, tolerably well chosen. It is gradually
increasing, although the fund is but small.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor upon
the roll may be stated at 8. These are wholly suported by 'col-
lections made in the church, which may average 10s. weekly, and
the interest of L. 200; together with the mortcloth dues, amount-
ing to about L. 1, 10s. yearly. There are many more who receive
occasional aid in the shape of money, clothes, coal, and house-
rent. There is no assessment, as in some of the surrounding pa-
rishes, and the non-resident heritors, with one honourable excep-
tion, have hitherto contributed nothing to the support of the poor.
        Fuel.-From the extent of moss in the parish, peat is used as a
considerable portion of the fuel. But the vicinity to coals, as well
as their comparative cheapness, and the labour and expense of pre-
paring peat, induce as great, if not a greater, consumpt of coals
than peat.
				3








