
   246                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   fires of Ireland have, in times of excitement, been revived, for a
   similar purpose in that country.
      "To be satisfied," says Sir George, "of the reason why the
   signal fires should be kindled an or beside a heap of stones, we
   have only to imagine a gale of wind to have arisen when a fire was
   kindled on the bare ground. The fuel would be blown about and
   dispersed to the great annoyance of those who attended. The
   plan for obviating the inconvenience thus occasioned, which would
   occur most naturally and readily, would be to raise a heap of stones
   on either side of which the fire might be placed to windward;-and
   to account for the vitrification appearing all round the area, it is
   only necessary to allow the inhabitants of the country to have had
   a system of signals. A fire at one end might denote something
   different from a fire at the other, or in some intermediate part.
   On some occasions, two or more fires might be necessary, and
   sometimes a fire along the whole line. It cannot be doubted," he
   adds, "that the rampart was originally formed with as much re-
   gularity as the nature of the materials would allow, both in order
   to render it more durable, and to make it serve the purposes of
   defence. "After combating the other opinions upon the subject,
   he concludes, that these structures may have served as beacons to
   castles in their vicinity, the remains of which are almost in every
   instance to be found, e.g. that Knock-Farril may have been the
   signal-post of the Castle of Dingwall, which formed the principal
   residence of the ancient Earls of Ross.
      Craig-an-Fhiach, or Raven's Rock, lies to the westward, and pre-
   sents a bold perpendicular front, from which a loud and distinct
   echo is heard. Near to it, is a very strong chalybeate called Saint's
   Well. Another spring, on the north-east side of Knock-Farril,
   bears the name of John the Baptist's, the water of which is of
   the purest kind, and till within the last fifty years was supposed to
   possess a miraculous virtue. It used to be resorted to by sick peo-
   ple and maniacs, who always left on a neighbouring bush or tree a
   bit of coloured cloth or thread-as a relic. *
      Locb-Ussie lies to the south of Knock-Farril. It contains se-
   verul small islands, and is surrounded with a young thriving
   plantation. Kenneth Oure, whose sayings are still held in
   great repute by the common people, resided in its neighbourhood.
   He attributed his power of foretelling future events to the posses-

   <FOOTNOTE>Some derive the name of the parish from this well, the water of which was by
   way of eminence called Fuar dibhe, i. e. cold drink or refreshment.


