
                        ENDINBURGH.                        661

which are still called Canonmills. The Canongate arms are a
hart's head, surmounted by a cross, in allusion to the legend al-
ready mentioned. Besides these original grants, others were
added by succeeding sovereigns, so that this became the most
opulent religious foundation in Scotland.

<TABLE=At the Reformation, its annual revenues were->
Wheat,   *       442 bolls.
Bear,    *       640
Oats,    *       560
Capons,  *       500
Hens,    *       24
SaImon,  *       24
Salt,    *       12 loads.
Money,   *       L. 250.

   The ancient name of the Canongate was Herbergare, probably
from the Saxon herberg, an inn or hostelrie. In 1177 a national
Council was held in this abbey, on the arrival of a legate to take
cognizance of a dispute between the English and Scotch clergy
regarding the submission of the latter to the Church of England.
  In 1332, it was completely plundered by the army of Edward
III., and in 1335 burnt by that of Richard I. But the greatest
destruction took place in 1544, during the naval irruption of the
Earl of Hertford, when the choir and transept of the church were
entirely demolished, and nothing was left standing but the nave,
the portion which now exists as a ruin.
   At the reformation, the church was stripped of its ornaments, and
converted into the parish church of the Canongate. On tho resto-
ration, however, it underwent a thorough repair, and was set apart
as a chapel royal. A throne was erected for the sovereign, and
twelve stalls, for the knights of the order of the thistle; the floor
was paved with marble, and an organ put up. In the brief reigo
of James VII. mass was celebrated in it, to the no small indig-
nation of the people; and immediately on the abdication of that
monarch, the populace again demolished this remnant of the hated
religion by reducing the chapel to ruins.
   It remained in a neglected state till 1758, when the attention
of the barons of exchequer was directed to it by the Duke of
Hamilton, the hereditary keeper of the palace. A sum was
granted to renew the roof, and otherwise repair the chapel;
but from an error of judgment of the architect, large heavy flag-
stones were put upon the roof,-the consequence of which was
that, in ten years afterwards, the roof fell in, and brought down
large portions of the walls and pillars. The rubbish, contain
ing much ofthe ornamental works, was afterward cleared always;


