
     Statistical Account

ly in some patches: turnips have been tried, but with no
great success, the soil being too wet, and the servants have an
aversion to them, as they are thereby exposed to much cold
dirty work.  Many of the farms have natural meadows, and
several farmers low artificial grasses, both for pasture and hay.
In this remote part, hay cannot be sold to any great extent.
About 30 years ago, the country was for the most part unin-
closed: low ill paid rents, poor farmers, starved cattle, puny
horses, no carts, and scarcely a tolerable instrument of hus-
bandry, prevailed every where.  Now the reverse of all these
is the case.  The farms, two or three excepted, are now all
inclosed, and subdivided; the hedges in many places are ex-
cellent strong fences; the work of ditching and hedging is well
understood, and generally well executed.  A kind of stone
fence, called Snap-dykes, peculiar to Carrick and the north
parts of Galloway, is admirably fitted for sheep parks; being
from 4 to 6 feet in height, strong and firmly locked together
at the top.  It costs from 4 s. to 7 s. per fall of 18 1/2 feet.-
Lime, as a manure, is now very common, and is usually laid
out on the sward, at the rate of 100 to 160 bolls of powdered
lime, which costs 6 d. per boll at the kiln, on each acre, and
gives a good return (from 4 to 6 quarters) after the first year.
Oats weigh, at an average, 36 lb. the Winchester bushel, and
are the general and most profitable crop in this part of the
country*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is a method of preserving corn, peculiar to this part of the coun-
try, called Rickling, thus performed: After the corn has stood some days
in uncovered half stooks, from 40 to 60 sheaves are gathered together, and
put up into a small stack, (the sheaves being set up as erect as they will stick
together,) and covered with a large sheaf, as a hood, tied down with two small
straw ropes.  It keeps corn and sodder to admiration.  Scarcely any spoilt
grain is heard of in this country; though the climate is so wet, that without


