
       	 342                        BANFFSHIRE.

         shoes, 10s. 6d.; tailor's charge for making a coat, 7s., a vest, 2s.
         6d., trowsers, 2s. 6d.; butter, from 8d. to 9d. per pound; eggs,
         5d. per dozen; sweet milk, 3d. per Scotch pint, or 5/4d. per Eng-
         lish pint; haddocks, Is. per dozen; lobsterS, 6d. each; a good
         sized cod, 6d.; ditto turbot, Is. 6d.; beef, 6d. per pound; mut-
         ton, 6d. per do.; a good hen, Is.; a turkey, 3s.; English coals,
         Is. 2d. per imperial barrel; peats, 2s. per cart-load; firewood,
         Is. 6d. per do.
                             V.-PAROCHIAL Economy.
           Town and Village.-The town of Cullen consists of two parts,
         which are completely separated, viz. the New Town, and the Sea
         Town or Fish Town; the latter being situated on the shore, and in-
         habited chiefly by fishermen.  The predecessor of the former,
         which was called the Old Town, was meanly built, and, about
         twenty years ago, was utterly demolished, in order to make way
         for the improvements of Cullen House.  The New Town, by which
         it was replaced, stands nearer to the sea than the old one did, be-
         ing close to the eastern extremity of the Sea Town, above which it
         is considerably elevated.  It is a very neat little town.  The houses
         are good, and the streets are laid out on a tasteful and regular
         plan, according to which but a moiety is as yet erected.  The
         Boundary Commissioners observe, however, that, "being favour-
         ably situated for fishing, and in a well cultivated district, it may
         be expected to increase." Its symmetrical form presents a curious
         contrast to the contiguous awkward squad of fishermen's houses
         constituting the Sea Town, and which display a total independence
         of any thing like partial subordination to the "rank and file" of
         streets-their relative positions very much resembling those of
         hail-stones as they fall on the grotnd.
           As an agreeable and desirable residence, the town of Cullen
         possesses many advantages.  It lies on the post-road, and in a
         highly salubrious district.  It is beautifully situated on the mar-
         gin of the romantic bay of Cullen, and in the immediate vicinity
         of the picturesque grounds of Cullen House.  The society is most
         respectable; and all sorts of commodities are to be bad at a mo-
         derate cost. It has the benefit of a post-office, a regular butcher-
         market, a brewery, a convenient harbour, good schools, skilful
         tradesmen, excellent sbops, gas-light, a copious supply of good
         water, plenty of all the necessaries of life supplied from a rich
         country, on the one hand, and an ample supply of all kinds of


