116                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

  Alexander Trotter, Esq., John Inglis, Esq., Sir James Foulis,
Bart. and Dr Monro, reside in the parish, at least during the sum-
mer,'sometimes throughout the whole year. To this list of resi-
dents the name of Sir James Forrest, Bart. ought perhaps to be
added, though for the present his duties as Chief-Magistrate of
Edinburgh have withdrawn him from the country. Sir John S.
Forbes, though he has ceased to occupy Colinton House, still,
with all the generosity of his family, delights in doing good in the
place which he has left;-his benevolence falls on many a needy
one, as dew upon the tender herb.*
  Families from Edinburgh often reside in, this parish during the
summer months. Most of these, however, are transient visitors.
But there are two whose connexion with the parish is more perma-
nent. Dr W. P. Alison, Professor of the Theory of Medicine in
the University of Edinburgh, resides at Woodville, a small but pret-
ty property; the remainder of a very long lease of which was pur-
chased by himself and his father, the late Rev. Archibald Alison,
LL. B. of St Paul's Chapel, Edinburgh, about seven years ago;
and Alexander Clapperton, Esq, merchant in Edinburgh, who, with
his family, resides regularly during summer at Spylaw Bank, a small
farm which he has in lease from Gillespie's Hospital, and to the
house on which he has this season made a comfortable addition.
  Parochial Registers, Header, &c. at. Hailes.-From a register
of ministers (Maitland Club,) we learn that, in 1576, Alexander

<FOOTNOTE>Hailes-1592. The kirklands of the kirk of Hailles, pertaining sometime to
the preceptory of Sanstanthone, with glebe, manse, house, biggings, and all other per-
tinents ratified to the clerk of registration, and Mr John Hay, his son.-Acts of Scot-
tish Parliament.
  Redhall.-7thh April, 4th year, Robert II. (1375,) Meygmers conveyed to Robert,
Earl of Fffe, and Montoith. (the King's son,) his barony de Redeball, except the
lands de Dreghorne and de Woodhall, which had been given to others.-Index of
Charters under Great Seal.
  1535.--Adam Ottirburn, Provost of Edinburgh, 1538 A. O. of Roidball. 1616.
Sir Thomas Ottisburn of Reidhall, had an only daughter, who married Sir James
Hamilton of Hoperig, Knight, on whom, and their heirs-male, Redhall was settled.
1672. John Christy of Dalry possessed Redhall 1681. James Brand, younger of
Baberton, was ratified in these lands.	(This family called their whole property
Castle Brand, by which denomination it is mentioned in the old parish registers.)
The creditors of George Brand sold Redhall to John Davidson, W.S. in 1749. Mr
Inglis bought it in 1755, and resumed the old name of Redhall.-Acts of Scottish
Parliament, and information from present proprietor.
  Woodhall.-1663. Cunnynghame of Cunnynghame.-head heir of 32 oxgangs of
Woodhall and 0onally, in the barony of Reidhall. 1672. John Cunnynghame of
Entering ratified in 32 oxgaits of land old extent of Woodhall and Bonally.-Acts
of Scottish Parliament.
  Craig Lockhart-1630, 17th February. The lands of Craig Lockhart were by
Act of Parliament disjoined from the parish of West Kirk, and added to the parish of
Hailes. 1662, 3d September, Sir John Gilmour of Craigmiller, president of the Col-
lege of Justice, ratified in the lands of Craig Lockhart, with the tour, fortalice, manor
place, &c.-Acts of Scottish Parliament.


