
48                         KINROSS-SHIRE.

sequence of successive purchases, it now extends from east to west
upwards of three miles, from north to south upwards of two miles
and six furlongs, and contains 3110 Scotch, or 3922 statute acres.
The improvements were commenced in the year 1733, by the
great-grandfather of the present proprietor. At that time the
estate was little better than a wild unsheltered moor, the bleakness
of which was increased rather than relieved by one solitary tree,
which, to use the language of the celebrated Robert Hall, looked
''like nature hanging out a signal of distress'' This fact the spec-
tator at the present day finds it almost impossible to realize. A
greater change than that which has taken place can hardly be con-
ceived. The whole property is now adorned with noble woods,
wbich are tastefully disposed so as to crown the hills, shade the
slopes, and bang over the natural ravines wbicb vary the landscape,
producing altogether a striking and beautiful effect.
  But appearances have not been the only object of the proprietors.
Great pains have been taken to drain the soil, which, when relieved
from water, is in its nature rather fertile. Hedge-rows have been
planted, sunk fences constructed, and every means resorted to for
bringing the improvements to the greatest possible perfection.
  ''The small property of East Mill, of which Mr Hutcheson is
the tenant, is in the eastern district of the parish of Cleish, ad-
joining the west march of Barns. By the judicious management
of Mr Hutcheson, this property has been greatly improved with-
in the last five or six years; and he now raises good wheat, where
no corn formerly grew. The estate of Fruix, bounded by Barns
on the west, and the lands of Gairney on the east, is proceeding in
improvement under the management of the proprietor, and is
greatly benefited by the lowering of the Gairney. The lands of
Gairney, bounded by Brackly (in the parsh of Portmoak) on the
east, by the water of Gairney on the north ; and by the lands of
Blair-Adam on the south, has been possessed for several years by
Mr W. Stedman under a lease from Mr Bogie, the proprietor,
who has built for his tenant most excellent and extensive offices.
Mr Stedman, the tenant, has cultivated the land in a most judi-
cious manner, and has converted what was unproductive and sterile
dry land, into productiveness. He has likewise taken in a great
part of the red moss, and by his judicious management in draining
and liming, has converted what was a peat-bog, where peats had
been dog for ages, into a state of fertility, and this being the work
of a tenant proves that the culture must have been beneficial. This


