
204                       WIGTONSHIRE.

1835 the Ononis reclinata; this being the only station yet known
for this plantin Britain.
	Where the ground is marshy, we find
	CEnanthe pimpinelloides      Scirpus Savii       Schoenurn nigricans
	Carex extensa and distans    Juncus maritimus    Pulicaria dysenterica
On the gravelly beach,
	Lithospermum maritimum      Atriplex laciniata   Crambe maritima;
On the grassy banks overhanging the rocks, we find
	Oxytropis uralencis  	    Jasione scabiosa     Scilla verna
	Astragalus hypoglottis 	  Daucus carota, v. maritimus
Soon after passing the East Tarbet, towards the north, the coast
becomes flat; where sandy, producing abundantly,
	Raphanus maritimus       (and lore rarely) Orchhs pyramidalis and Brassica
	Polygonum Raii               monensis; (where gravelly), Glaucium lu-
	Eryngium maritimum          teum and Vicia sylvatica.
	Convolvulus soldanella.
Also occasionally on the banks near the sea,
	Verbascum thiaspi         Hypericum Androssemum
	Convolvulus sepium.
Where the soil has been undisturbed are found,
	Ulex Europea and nanus     Calluna vulgaris
	Erica cinerea and tetralix.
In the inland marshes we find,
	Hypericum Elodes           Helosciadium nodiflorum
	Alisma ranunculoides       Lythrum Salicaria.
In the cultivated fields,
	Stachys arvensis           Lamium intermedium
	Plantations.--The plantations are mostly confined to the vicinity
of Logan House, and are generally in a thriving state, and contain
trees of considerable magnitude, considering the warfare they have
to wage with the storms, and the copious sprinklings of spray they
must frequently submit to from the sea. The most suitable for the
climate--for thdre is soil for every variety--seem to be the ash,
mountain-ash, sycamore, elm, beech, birch, and Huntingdon wil-
low among the deciduous trees. Pinaster, white spruce, Scotch
fir, Pinus Montana, holly and yew among the evergreens. Where
well sheltered from the sea, many other kinds also grow freely.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Symson's description of Galloway, and Chalmers's Caledonia,
contain the only record nf this parish worthy of notice. The lat-
ter says, " The parish church of Kirkmaiden belonged to the ab-
bot and monks of Soulseat, which enjoyed the rectorial revenues,
while the cure was served by a vicar. In Bagimont's Roll, it is
stated that, in the reign of James V. the vicarage of this church
was fixed at L.2, 13s. 4d. At the Reformation, the rectorial re-
venues were let to William Adair of Kinhilt, by the abbot and


