
                           ABERLOUR.                              119

from the repeated risings of the Spey, will, by leaving successive
layers of alluvial deposit, produce a tolerable soil in the course of
time.
   The stipend is 14 1/2 chalders of grain, one-half barley, and one-
half oatmeal, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
   There is a missionary establishment in the valley of Glenrinnes,
for the accommodation of that remote part which belongs to Aber-
lour, as well as the remainder of the vale appertaining to Mort-
lach. There is a neat and commodious chapel at this station, and
the minister, who is an ordained clergyman of the Church of Scot-
land, receives L. 60 per annum from the Royal Bounty, and is pro-
vided by the heritors with a manse, grebe, and some other little
accommodations. He performs every parochial duty in his dis-
trict, with the exception of administering the sacrament. There
are, about 460 communicants yearly at the church, inclusive of this
district. Divine service is usually very well attended, both at the
church and the missionary station of Glenrinnes.
   Education.-There is one parochial school and a female school
in Charlestown for the accommodation of the main part of
the parish,-the district of Glenrinnes being supplied by an Assem-
bly school in that place. The branches of education taught in the
parish school are, Latin, geography, arithmetic and elementary
mathematics, writing, English grammar, and English reading, with
the principles of Christian knowledge.
   At the female school, sewing, knitting, and English reading are
taught; and English reading, arithmetic and writing, being the
branches most required in the country, are taught in the Assem-
bly's school of Glenrinnes.
   The salary of the parish schoolmaster is the maximum, L. 34, 4s.
4 1/2d. and the school fees average from L. 10 to L. 15 per annum.
   The schoolmistress has a free house, a garden, and a small
croft of land, from the proprietor, Mr Grant of Elchies, which,
along with the school fees and the proceeds of her own industry
in dress-making, form her only dependence.
   The parochial schoolmaster has the legal accommodations, but,
in common with most of his brethren, finding these insufficient, he
has lately built a small addition to his dwelling-house at his own
expense, in the hopes, that, when fartber accommodation shall
have been granted to the schoolmasters in general, he may be re-
imbursed for his outlay. The school fees are very moderate, and


