
706                         ABERDEENSHIRE.

occasional visitor, as also the fieldfare.  Two specimens of what
was considered the American roller were shot some years ago; and
the bittern has been occasionally seen; also the woodpecker.  The
loch of Strathbeg, from its shallow and marshy character, as well
as from the circumstance of its being the most eastern fresh-water
lake in Scotland, abounds in water fowl of great variety, of which
may be mentioned wild swan and geese, wild ducks of every species
common to the climate, teal, balcoot, widgeon, water-rail, snipe,
redshank, and herons of great variety and beauty.  The swans are
only seen in the depth of winter, and when they appear in consi-
derable, numbers betoken the severity of the season in other quar-
ters.  They are frequently shot for their rich down, one skin
bringing sometimes as much as 10s. or 12s.  When one of their
number falls a victim to the rifle or fowling-piece, the survivors,
during their rapid retreat, send forth a melancholy and plaintive
cry.
   Along the beach, curlews are seen in their season and at cer-
tain periods, the woodcock is found in considerable numbers in the
sand or bent hills along the shore.  In these, they generally rest
during the first day or two after their long transmarine migrations,
and at such times, from their worn-out condition, may be shot
without difficulty.
   The otter was at one time very common among the marshes at
Strathbeg, but is now rarely seen.  Roe-deer pay us a visit oc-
casionally, and for several years a stray pair or two took up their
abode in the young plantation at Rattray House.  Rabbits are
gaining ground in the sandy places.  There is a very extensive
rookery in the lofty ash trees where the ancient mansion-house of
Crimond stood.  Among beasts and birds of prey may be mentioned
the fox, polecat, weasel, sparrow-hawk, glede, and carrion-crow, and
magpie.  Among rare sea-fishes and whales, the turbot, halibut,
mackerel, John Dory, seal, porpoise, spout-whale, and the red cod,
found off Rattray Head and a few other localities, and much esteem-
ed for its superior quality.  Of Crustace and shell-fish there are the
lobster, crab, muscle, limpet, and periwinkle, among the rocks at
Rattray Head.  And of fresh-water fish, perch, trout, eel (some-
times of great size), flounder, &c. in the loch of Strathbeg, or in
the stream leaiding to it.
   Botany.-To the botanist, Crimond presents an extensive and
interesting field.  The marshes already mentioned, as well as the
banks of the various burns leading to the loch, are well known


