
742                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

now, there is in one establishment above 23 constantly occupied,
and some of them sometimes by night as well as by day, with fresh
men for the night work, thus increasing the number of presses at
least to 30 in this office; besides, there are many other establish-
ments in the city varying front 3 and 4 up to 7, and altogether, as
near as we can ascertain, there appear to be 78 presses at the
present time in pretty full and steady employment, which affords
the best evidence of the extraordinary increase which, of late years,
has taken place in this department of business. There are about
80 copperplate pressmen in Edinburgh at the present time, jour-
neymen and apprentices, whose wages vary from 10s. to 30s. per
week for the journeymen, and from 2s. to 10s. for the apprentices.
About half a dozen years ago, there was an attempt made to get
up a Benefit Society amongst the engravers: but after it bad been
in existence for about two ears it was broken up and its funds di-
vided, which is much to be lamented. The copperplate printers
have attempted similar schemes, but have not been very successful,
so that at present neither the one nor the other are incorporated
by any general laws or agreements; and there are consequently no
privileges of any sort amongst them.
   Engraving on Wood.-There are only eight engravers on wood
at present in Edinburgh; but, so far as we know, there has been no
work of any great importance executed on this material. The chief
employment consists in cutting diagrams and other scientific details
for the numerous works which are printed at the Edinburgh press.
   Lithographic Engraving and Printing.-This art, although much
patronised by the Society of Arts and by a Society founded some
years ago for the express purpose of fostering its growth amongst
us, has not improved to any extent either as an art or as a link of
commercial employment, and is chiefly confined to the printing of
circulars of various sorts transferred in the handwriting of the
party, or in the manufacture of plans of estates. At present there
are about 7 lithographic establishments, employing about 12 or 15
people in drawing and printing.
   Till of late years, the journeymen engravers and copperplate
printers were very dissipated in their habits; but at present we
have cause to know that there is not a more sober class of men
in Edinburgh than the engravers; and the copperplate printers
have also very much improved in this respect.
   Brewing.-The number of brewers in Edinburgh is 26, of vic-
tuallers 1483. The annual consumpt of malt amounts to 329,606
bushels.


