
     Statistical Account

charge has also an allowance for a glebe.  There are two
good commodious manses built about 14 years ago, with
sufficient office-houses.  Since the demolition of the old
town, there have been only temporary places of worship.
Two new churches, under one roof, are to be built
next season.  The design, by Mr Milne of London, is partly
Gothic; it is ornamanted bu handsome spire of 107
feet in height, rising from the centre of the building and the
whole is calculated to unite elegance with utility and conve-
nience.

   Schools.-The English school has been long well attend-
ed; and for several years past, there have been. at an a-
verage, about 80 scholars in winter, and 60 in summer.
The salary amounts to L. 19:3:4, besides quarterly fees,
and other perquisites; and a small allowance for a Sunday
school, which has been kept about 7 years, and is well at-
tended.  The grammar school, has not, of late been so well
attended as at some former periods.  This may be attribu-
ted, chiefly to the great number of private teachers, of late
employed in the education of youth, and partly to the ex-
pence of boarding, which is high at Inveraray.  The sala-
ry amounts to L. 31:11:8, besides quarter fees and perqui-
sites.  The schoolmasters have each a house, garden and

<FOOTNOTE>

then existed.  This common error of parties, is said to have been fatal to
the cause.  On the report of the Lord of Ordinary, grounded on a hi-
storical detail of the impracticality of the High Court of the Commission ha-
ving sat at Edinburgh on the date of the decreet, (which corresponded
with the time the castle of Edinburgh was in possession of Cromwell's
troops, and no Commission of the Scotch Parliament fitting at Edinburgh,)
the Court of Session, not attending to the commoon mistake of parties,
concluded the descreet spurious, and gave sentence of reduction in favour
of Lord Bute, setting it aside as void.  The annihilation, of so much of
the provision for the minister, of the second charge of the parish, after
being in possession of it from 1651 to 1724, points out the danger of rest-
ing judgements in courts of law, upon conjectures or nice eriticisms, with-
out examining into facts.


