
258                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

the measure of lime has become quite vague and unfixed. Justice
and expediency evidently require that such a system should be dis-
continued, from which the public derive no advantage, and the
dealers can sustain only loss. The competition should be in the
lowness of the price, not in the largeness of the measure, which
should be fixed and ascertained.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   The great majority of the people in this parish are collected in
villages. Besides Lennoxtown, containing between 2500 and 3000
persons, there are several considerable villages and hamlets,-the
Clachan, Haugb-bead, Mount, Milton, Torrance, &c. The last-
mentioned has a population, (including those who dwell in the im-
inediate neigbbourbood,) of 800. It is situate in the southern ex-
tremity of the parish, more than three miles from the parish church,
and five miles from the manse. There are nearly fifty public
houses in this parish,-a fact sufficiently expressive of the habits
of a large proportion of the people, as also of the facility with which
licenses are granted. Those whose business it is to grant licen-
ses, and who should be guardians of the public morals, would do
well to remember, that the multitude of taverns, while it indicates
a great demand for spirituous liquors, also inereases that demand;
for every additional p4b]ic-house is a new centre of dissipatiOD:
bringing the family itself and all its immediate connections into
closer contact with their most dangerous and deadly enemy.
   Means of Communication.- The parish is intersected by two
lines of road, the one running nearly east and west, from Strath-
blane to Kilsyth, the other nearly at right angles from Glsagow
over the Fells, to Fintry and Kippen. A coach leaves Lennox-
town every morning except on Sundays and Thursdays, and re-
turns from Glasgow in the evenin The Forth and Clyde Canal
passes near the south extremity of the parish, and the Glasgow
road, to Stirling by Kilsyth, runs through khe south-east corner.
   Friendly and other Societies.-Several Friendly Societies exist-
ed at one time in this parish ; but an individual, suspected to be
feigning sickness, was the occasion of dissolving them all.
   The skeletons exist of two mason lodges.
   An attempt was made in 1837 to establish a savings bank; but
the bulk of those for whose benefit it was designed would not be
persuaded.
   Ecclexiastical State.-- Campsie was a parish of note in Catholic
times. The parson of Campaie was sacristan of the Cathedral of


