
                     TIBBERMORE                           1033

ber of years, dormant, during which the population fell from 1634,
which was its amount in 1821, to 1223, its amount in 1831.
Character and Habits of the People.-The employments of the
people are very various, and their characters are in no small. de-
gree influenced by their respective avocations.  They way be di-
vided into three great classes,-agriculturists, bleachers, and
printers,o  With the exception of about twenty farmers, the agri-
cultural population consists of ploughmen and cottars.  There is
some reason to fear that these last named classes are neither so
intelligent nor so moral as they were fifty years ago.            e, bot y
system and the practice of our great landed proprietors Accumu--
lating on their estates great quantities of game, are daily producing
havoc on the morals of our agricultural population.             Migratory
habits also operate most perniciously upon their general character
Most of them chai)get their master and also their parish every year,
so that it is scarcely possible to bring any of the usual means of
religious instruction to bear with effect upon them.
The bleachers are perhaps the most moral and religious portion of
our population.  Many of them live and die in the place where they
were born.     A strong attachment exists betwixt them and their
respected employer, who maintains an affectionate but very firm
discipline amODg them.  Their temperate habits, their constatit
employment, and their regularly paid, thouoh by no means high
wages, enable them to maintain their families in comparative coin-
fort, and to give their children a respectable education ; and the
result of this is, that fewer cases-of scandal and fewer instances of
abject povei-ty are to be found among thena than in 'any other class
in the parish.    The character and habits of our catico-printer:-
are, I believe, very similar to those in other parishea.wbere the-'y
are to be found.
IV.-INDUSTRY.
,Agriculture and.  Rural Economy.-The parish contains about
4670 Scots acres.  The whole is arable, and in a high stateof
cultivation, with the exception of about 200 acres, which are un-          I

der wood, and about 150 acres covered with heath and peat-moss
Rent of Land.-In the neiahbourhood of Perth, there is some
land let as high as L.5, 108. per acre, while      there is some in thd
parish as low as L. 1.   There are several farms let on a rain rent
9
which, of course, varies every year.      On an,average, the rent-of
the parish may be said to be from 1-.,'3'td L.1, 10s.'per SDOU
itere.  The valued rent of the whole parish i6 L-4921 Scotak


