
			 TUMPHANAN.                   1087

a variety of hands, which cannot, in the imperfect records of the
period, be accurately traced.*
	About 1330, Randolph, Earl of Moray, tenant to Duncan, Earl
of Fife, in the ertate of Limphanan, granted to Sir James de
Garvieaugh (Garioch), the lands of Balnacraig, Belode (Beltie),
Cloycbock (Cloak), and Talanchsyn (Tillyching). From the
son of this knight, Andrew de Garvieaugh of Caskieben, Robert
de Camera or Chalmers obtained these lands, to be holden of the,
Earl of Moray for a pair of white gloves rendered yearly at the
manor of Caskieben, and became the founder of a house which
flourished for more than 400 years. Of the Chalmerses of Bal-
nacraig, Patrick Chalmers, Esq. of Auldbar is, it is believed, a re-
presentative.+
	About 1363, Andrew, second son of William Rose, second ba-
ron of Kilravock, acquired the lands of Auchlossin.++ In 1544, a
feudal strife arose between the Forbeses and Straehan of Len-
turk, in consequence of the real or imaginary guilt of Strachan in,
betraying the conspiracy formed by the Master of Forbes against
the king's life to the Earl of Huntly. Nicholas Rose of Auchlos-
sin joined the Laird of Lenturk, and fell in one of the conflicts.
He was personally obnoxious to the Forbeses, as he had sat on
the assize which had found the Master guilty. In 1643, the
possessions of the Rosses comprised the barony of Auchlessin, the
lands of Bogloch, Deray-croft, and croft of Alderan (Ardenra-
ver).|| In September 1709, Captain Francis Ross of Auchlossan
was slain at the battle of Malplaquet; and, in 1715, his ertate
was sold by his creditors.||
	The Duguids of Atichinghove were of later origin. In 1634,
they pleaded, in an action brought by the Earl of Mar against his
vassals, that "they and their predecessors had been infeft in their
lands, holding of the king, for the space of 200 years."** In 1656,
Francis Duguid purchased, from George Forbes of Corse, that
part of the barony of O'Neil Corse which lay in Lumphanan, in-
cluding Easter and Wester Kincraigie, Knowhead-Hillock, and

<FOOTNOTE>Robertson's Collections for a History of Aberdeenshire.

<FOOTNOTE>Nishet's Heraldry, Vol. ii. Append, p. 115; and charters in prossesion of Pa-
trick Chalmers, Esq. Auldbar.

<FOOTNOTE>Shaw's History of Moray, p. 119.

<FOOTNOTE>Robertson's Collections for a History of Aberdeenshire, pp. 3, 7, 8, where the
original authorities are quoted.

<FOOTNOTE>Inquis. Ratorn. Abbrev.

<FOOTNOTE>Charters in possession of John Farquharson, Esq. of Finzean; Robertson's Col-
lections for a History of Aberdeenshire.

<FOOTNOTE>Spottiswoode's Practicks, p. 226.


