
                          KELSO.                        309

markable for the encouragement given bY it to the arts;--it be-
ing a regulation of the order, that the brethren, besides observing
the ordinary rules of the monastic institution, should practise, with-
in the convent some useful craft.  The Tironenses were intro-
duced into Scotland under the auspices of that " sore saint for
the crown," the celebrated King David, who was doubtless, in-
duced to favour their settlement, not more by religious conside-
rations, than by a regard to the advantages likely to accrue to his
semi-barbarous subjects, from the arts cultivated by the monks.
Being only heir-apparent to the throne at the date of their first
introduction (A. D. 1113), David appointed them a residence at
Selkirk, in the vicinity of his paternal estate.  But immediately
on his accession, he made provision for their greater influence, by
building, within view of the royal castle of Roxburghe, then the
principal residence of the Scottish monarchs, the Abbey of Kelso,
to which they were removed in 1128 or 1130, and in which they
soon attained, under the fostering patronage of this munificent
prince, a first rank,  in point of wealth and ascendancy, among
the religious houses of the kingdom.
  It does not appear from the records of the times, that the mo-
nastery ever proved of such advantage to border civilization as
its founder anticipated.  Its history is singularly barren, in re-
ference to the exertions of the monks in diffusing a knowledge
of the arts, or even in preserving the treasures of literature.  Yet
for this, perhaps, the monks are not to be blamed, so much as the
untowardness of the times in which their lot was cast.  There
never seems to have existed on the border that respect for reli-
gious houses, which in other places rendered them safer reposi-
tories for literary treasures than the fortresses of kings:  Nor do
the monks ever seem to have gained that ascendency over tbe po-
pular mind, which alone could cause the monastery to act as a
centre and source of civilization to the surrounding country.
Being the scene of almost incessant wars, not only between the two
countries, but between rival barons, the banks of the Tweed were
singularly unpropitious for the tranquil occupations of the library
and the scriptorium, and not peculiarly favourable to the cultiva-
tion of the industrial arts.  Nor can it surprise us that the only
memorial of four hundred years of the monastic life--with the ex-
ception of some reputed improvements in horticulture, and the
titles of a few lost controversial tracts,--should be the ruins of the
magnificent Abbey.


