
226                       RENFREWSHIRE.

cessary to add a third church, to the two already, in existence;
and accordingly, this was done in 1781, by its erection, near to
the site of the High Church; and this place of worship, from its
relative situation, received the name of the Middle Church.  The
burgh of Paisley, which till the erection of this third church had
continued one parish, was on the 20th of February of that year,
by a deed of the Court of Teinds divided into three parishes, called
each from its particular churches, the Low Church parish, the
High Church parish, and the Middle Church parish.  The patron-
age of these churches belongs to the magistrates and town-council.
The Original stipend allocated to the minister of the burgh of Pais-
ley was 1000 merks Scots, with an allowance in lieu of a manse
and glebe.  This, as well as the stipends of the other two ministers,
has been several times augmented, and now the stipend of each
is L. 300 per annum, communion elements being provided by the
council and kirk session.  The stipends are paid out of the funds
or common good of the burgh.
   A small addition to church accommodation in the burgh was
again made in the year 1819, when St George's Church was erect-
ed.  This, however, was merely an increase of 600 sittings, in the
Low Church parish, for the minister of the Low Church was trans-
ferred to this new erection, which was constituted by the presby-
tery, and still continues to be, the church of that parish, while the
old Low Church is no longer used as a church in the establishment.
   Such is all the provision, which the law has made since the period
of the Reformation, for the spiritual interests of this extensive dis-
trict, with its great and rapidly increasing population.  Its scanty
mature will appear, if it be considered, that in the original parish

<TABLE>
There is a population of             26177 with church seats for     1150
In St George's or Low Church parish,  6949     .               .     1850
In High Church parish,       .       14992       .           .       2000
In Middle Church parish,       .      9762     .      .        .     1500
                                     ------                          -----
                                     57880                           6500

   To remedy the want of church accommodation in these pa-
rishes, six chapels, including a Gaelic church, have been erected.
All of these above been raised to the rank of parish churches, each,
mith the exception of the Gaelic one, having a parochial district
assigned to it.  The Gaelic Church was built in 1793, and although
situated in the High Church parish, is intended for the accommo-
dation of the Highlanders in general, in Paisley and its neigh-
bourhood.  The oldest of the other five is the church of John-
ston, in the western district of the Abbey parish, built in the year


