
                  UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.         1151

disponed to the college four crofts of land, for the support of
three bursars on the same footing as the founded bursars ; the
patronage to remain with Sir Thomas and his heirs, and the Se-
natus to present in the event of the patron failing to do so.  The
college accepted these conditions, and have strictly fulfilled them,
increasing these bursaries from L.3, 6s. 8d. to L.5, along with
their own founded bursaries.  They also released Sir Thomas
from arrears of feu-duties due to the College as superiors of the,
crofts.  For a very long period, this transaction was a source of
loss to the College, the revenue of the crofts being quite inade-
quate to the payment of the three bursaries.  But at length the
crofts were feued for building, and thus produced a large revenue,
amounting now to upwards of L.300.  It seems but just that the
college, which has always, even at a loss, fulfilled the original
contract, should now benefit by the improvement in value of the
property which they took with the risk, which was actually for a
long time fulfilled, of deterioration.  But the present Sir T. Bur-
nett has brought an action to compel the college to divide the
whole produce of the lands among the bursars, apparently con-
sidering this contract as au ordinary mortification, from which,
however, it differs in every particular.  The college maintains,
that, having received the property in fee, on condition.  of main-
taining three bursars on the same footing as the founded bursars,
having always done this, and having incurred great loss in fulfil-
ling the contract, it is now entitled to the benefit of the improve-
ment.  The question is now in a court of law, for which reason
we have given the above details, as the question has been very
generally misunderstood by the public.
   4. Redhyth Bursaries.-In 1678, Walter Ogilvie of Redhyth
mortified his estate for the board and education of twenty poor boys,
twelve at the school of Fordyce, and eight at King's College.
At present, the number supported at the school of Fordyce is
thirteen, and at King's College, thirteen.  The former receive each
L.1, 16s, 8d. in money, and 8 1/2 bolls of meal.  The College bur-
sars formerly received L.9 each, then L.11, and at present, L.16,
10s. each, their number being also increased from eight to seven-
teen.  Patron, Earl of Seafield.
   5. Melville Bursaries.-Three in number, founded by Mr G.
Melville in 1679, of the value of L.3, 6s. 8d. each.  They have
been increased to L.3, 16s. 8d.  Patrons, the Senatus.


