
152                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

The allowance given them is indeed scanty, but they know it can-
not be otherwise; and when not treated with undue rigour they
learn to submit to it without murmuring.  The feeling of delicacy,
however, in receiving parochial aid, that so long subsisted in this
country, is now almost extinguished.  The labouring classes are
not unwilling to receive parochial aid whenever they can obtain it;
and it sometimes happens that even respectable tradesmen are not
ashamed to have their aged parents put upon the poors' roll.  They
are in general careless in laying up for future want, and when dis-
tress comes they naturally fall a burden upon the parish.
   The common practice among the labouring classes of living up
to their incomes promotes pauperism.  The evil in this country has
already grown to a considerable magnitude; and nothing but the
strictest economy and care in the management of the funds can pre-
vent it from increasing.  In former times, the people were regular
in contributing to the collections at church, and thus provid-
ed a fund for the support of their indigent brethren.  They never
thought of attending divine service without carrying their offering
along with them.  And in many parts of the country this practice
still exists, and no assessments are required.  But in this district,
a great part of the congregation give nothing, and the collections
in general are miserably small.  About a century back too there were
fewer upon the poors' roll, and these were better supported than
they are now.  The industrious poor are better fed, and better
clothed, and have better wages than formerly; but they are less
economical and less provident, and consequently more frequently
exposed to privations and want.
   Alehouses.-In this parish, small as it is, there are no less than
seven houses which have obtained a license to sell ardent spirits.
There is only one public-house where stabling can be obtained,
and that of an inferior description.  Were there one good inn with
proper accommodation for horses, it might be of great benefit to
the place.  It might diminish the number of tippling-houses, and
by its superior accommodation, contribute to the prosperity of the
village.  At present, the small public-houses are certainly unfavour-
able to morals.  But the evil of tippling does not proceed altoge-
ther from licensed houses.  In private ones, tippling is carried on
to a great extent.  The inmates go to the shop and bring in what-
ever quantity of spirits is wanted, at the joint expense of those who
are present; and in this way disorders and abuses frequently take


