
               		ARDNAMURCHAN.				151

the ground, there is much diversity, in some cases arising from
the nature of the country, in others, from the circumstances of the
occupants.  In some parts of Ardnamurchan and Moidart, there
is neither horse nor plough,-the rocky and broken surface pre-
cluding either.  The sharp-pointed spade only is used in turning
up the soil, and every article, even the sea-ware and other ma-
nure, carried on the back in creels suited to the age and strength
of the members of each family.  These are by no means the
most destitute of the class of small tenants and cottars.
   In other farms, where the ground is more level, the number of
horses appears to be extravagant, seven or eight being kept for la-
bour, which three, if not two, tolerable plough or cart horses could
accomplish.  They are, however, hardy horses or ponies, of 12 or
13 hands, which are, at all seasons, in the open air, and are sub-
sisted at not more expense than the smallest number of stable-fed
work-horses of the country, which could be substituted.
   Sometimes land on the steep sides of hills is seen diligently cul-
tivated by the small tenants, which certainly no capitalist, from
motives of profit, would crop; while elsewhere land easily and pro-
fitably improvable is left waste.  In the one case, this arises from
the crowded state of the population in localities not naturally
adapted for agriculture, and the necessity, in the absence of bet-
ter employment, of raising some.  crop at any rate ; in the other,
not from any paucity of labour, but from inability to wait for the
profits of the undertaking if they attempted it, and insufficient as-
surance of reaping the profits if they did.  When the extent of
their lands admits of it, small tenants, commonly after potatoes
sow their land with bear, and then oats,-the soil, after being well
manured for the first, producing very good bear, and rather infe-
rior oats, which last, however, constitutes the best provender for
cattle.  When their land is not of sufficient extent to raise the
three crops above-mentioned, they are compelled, in order to ob-
tain a greater quantity of food, to confine themselves chiefly to
potatoes.
   The stock, especially the sheep-stock of this class, is of an ex-
ceedingly inferior description, and very ill managed.  This, so far
as,their poverty permits, they are endeavouring to remedy, as yet
without much success.  In the, cultivation of the ground, however,
they have, in some parts, advanced considerably.
   Ten years ago, there was not one cart in the possession of the
small tenants in the district of Ar dnamurchan, and, in somer parts,


