
102                  CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

1745; and left at his death a small legacy of 300 merks Scots for
the behoof of the poor of the parish. He bequeathed his whole
property to his only daughter, Jean Gray, who died in the year
1792. A few years before her death, she sold all the landed pro-
perty left her by her father, viz. the two baronies, by which she
realized no less than L.20,000. At her death, she left several
considerable legacies; among the rest, L.50 to the poor of the pa-
rish of Dollar and a very beautiful large folio Baskerville Bible to
the kirk-session, for the use of the minister.
   The only other minister of Dollar who attracted any kind of
public notice, was Mr Robert Finlay, the third minister after
Presbytery was again established. He was much esteemed by the
parish, and was a person of great humour. *
   Antiquities.--There are no crosses or obelisks or ruins of reli-
gious houses in the parish, and no medals or coins have been dug
up. There are two tumuli, the one in the north-east corner of the
old village, and the other about half a mile to the west, on the
borders of the old turnpike road. Both of them bave been open-
ed, and they are found to contain urns filled with bones: but no-
thing is known of their history. A man is said to have been burnt

<FOOTNOTE>The following incident in his history is too remarkable to pass unnoticed:
About the year 1767, Sir John Stewart of Allanbank gave a presentation to Mr Da-
vid Thomson, minister of Gargunnock, to the vacant parish of St Ninians.  Mr
Thomson was not acceptable to the parishioners of St Ninians, who opposed it, and
were joined in their opposition by the Presbytery of Stirling, who refused to trans-
late Mr Thomson to St Ninians, on the ground that in their opinion he had not a
sufficient call. The settlement or translation was, for one reason or another, hung up
for about eight years. At last, the General Assembly gave a peremptory order to the
Presbytery of Stirling to proceed with the settlement, and even named the particular
day on which they were to induct Mr Thomson; ordering at the same time every
member of Presbytery to be present at the induction. The Presbytery, after this,
considered it unsafe to delay the induction longer, and therefore they resolved, though
with great reluctance, to obey the order of the supreme court. The question now
was, which of their number was to act as Moderator on the occasion. All of them
wished to decline what they reckoned a disagreeable duty; but Mr Finlay readily
undertook it. Accordingly, on the day named by the Assembly, (the last Tuesday of
June,) the Presbytery met at St Ninians, and after the usual sermon, Mr Finlay
proceeded with the induction; but, whether from forgetfulness, or by way of showing
his contempt for the presentee, he omitted to put to him the questions which are usu-
ally put on the occasion; but, what was worse, when he came to pronounce the verba
solemnia of the induction, instead of saying--I, in the name of the Presbytery of
Stirling, declare you, Mr Thomson, minister of the parish of St Ninians, with all the
privileges and emoluments thereunto belonging; he merely said, I appoint you, Mr
Thomson, to be stipend lifter of this parish. This, as might well be supposed, gave
great offence to the parishioners of St Ninians, and to the churches in general.  The
consequence was, that six of the elders and a number of the heritors of the parish gave
in a petition and complaint to the General Assembly against Mr Finlay, which was
served upon him, and he was appointed to be summoned to appear at the bar of the
Assembly to answer the said complaint. Mr Finlay compeared at the bar, and made
such an acknowledgement as satisfied the Assembly, after being sharply rebuked by
tbe moderator.


