
                            ROSENEATH.                 131


They would take nothing;-they were not going to the manse,
nor to Baremman, nor the Clachan, nor Portkiln. "You have
all enough ado with the poor,-it is right we should go among
ourselves, the commonalty." The feeling was too sacred to re-
press. They were allowed without further molestation to proceed
on their way; and they collected from among themselves about
L.9, which met the necessities of their young friend so long as
he lived. *
   These instances indicate a right spirit in the people. The rea-
diness with which they thus assist each other seems to have pre-
vented the feeling of degradation, when they are assisted from the
general fund,-which, indeed, they are besides led to regard in
the light of a friendly society fund, to which in their day they had
regularly contributed.
   It must not be omitted to observe, that, in addition to his an-
nual donation, the Duke of Argyle allows pensions to all his infirm
labourers, when unable to work,-also to the widows of labourers,
and their children, until able to do something for themselves,--a
hereditary compassionateness worthy of the patriarchal interest in
the comfort of their dependents, which has so long distinguished the
house of Argyle.
  Library.-A subscription library exists in the parish, consisting
of several hundred volumes in all departments of literature. It is
rather in a more flourishing condition of late than formerly; but
still the number of subscribers is considerably below what even
our limited population ought to furnish. The subscribers are
chiefly among the labourers and artisans, not the farmers. There
is also a small juvenile library, consisting of religious publications,
exclusively for the use of those who attend the Sabbath school
and the more private instruction of the minister.
  Neither friendly society nor savings bank exists in the parish,
but several individuals, chiefly farm-servants, send their deposits
to Greenock, and these are rather on the increase.
   Inns.-Lately there were five, now there are only two in the pa-
rish,-the ferry houses of Row and Kilcraigin. The privilege
which this parish enjoys in a magistracy, which resorts to all just


<FOOTNOTE> But the most remarkable case in the parish of the relief of the destitute occurred
some years ago. A young woman was supported on her deathbed by the charity of
sympathizing friends. From the subscription edition of the memoir of her life more
than L. 600 were raised, exclusive of all expenses, and the author devoted the entire
amount to the benefit of her surviving kindred, who are in circumstances of extreme
poverty.


