
                PARISH OF MOFFAT.

    PRESBYTERY OF LOCHMABEN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

  THE REV. ALEXANDER JOHNSTONE, MINISTER.


        I.- TOPOGRAPHY And NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Boundaries, &c.- The name is ancient, and applies to
the village, to the parish, and to the principal stream and vale.
When the deep and romantic pastoral valley of Moffat Water was
densely wooded, it must have well suited the name it bore in the
Gaelic language, "Oua-uat," which is said to signify" a long
deep mountain hollow."
   The greatest length of the parish is about 15 miles, and the
greatest breadth from 8 to 9 miles.  The contents, according
to the county map, are 56 3/4 square miles; but including Hart-
hope and Raecleugh in Lanarkshire, they must be 60 square
miles, or 38,400 English acres.  It is bounded on the north by
Tweedsmuir parish with part of Lyne and Megget; by Esk-
dale-muir and Hatton on the east; by Wamphray and Kirkpa-
trick-Juxta on the south; and by the latter parish, and that of
Crawford on the west. The figure is irregular, projecting con-
siderably to the N.E., between the countries of Peebles and Sel-
kirk, but i deeply indented on the east by a part of Selkirk-
shire, and on the S. W. by the parish of Kirkpatrick-Juxta.  In
the line of the boundaries are the summits of Hartfell and Loch-
craig, on the north; Birkhill pass, and the tops of Bodisbeck and
Lochfell on the N. E.; the Bell Craig linn burn on the south; on
the west, the river Annan from Woodfoot to Bridgend, and thence
by the Meikle holm side burn, the Blacklaw hill,--a small part of
Middlegill burn,_and the grain of Garpel Water head; then on the
N. W. are the hills whose water-shed is into the Daer and the Clyde.
    Topographical Appearances.--Parallel ranges of hills of moderate
elevation form the waterfalls of Evan on the N. W., and of Annan

<FOOTNOTE>This Account was written, at the request of the minister when indisposed, by the
Rev. Dr Singer, Minister of Kirkpatrick-Juxta.
                                        3


