
     Statistical Account

are beginning to do something in this way, but the sheep are
great enemies to them in winter*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*One or two seemingly druidical places of worship are known, also a pretty
large stone without inscriptions near Kinlocher.  At the manse there is a cu-
rious font stone, 2 feet diameter.  A few old coins were found some years ago,
when repairing the church-yard dykes, and a mortcloth bought with them.
Very lately above L. 100 sterling, all in Queen Anne's shillings were found by two
herds in one of the dykes of the Gordon's fold near Auchhove.  Their parents
had taken one of these folds for grass; and the boy and girl were taking down
some stones to let their beasts get in to feed, where they accidentally found
the money.  Tradition says, that it is only a part of 50,000 merks hid there
in 1745, by one Malcolm, a servant belonging to Mr Duguid of Auchhove,
who unfortunately joined in the rebellion, and that the rest was secreted in
a man's boot.-The unfaithful servant, after Culloden, returned home, and was
seen going about the dykes as it he had lost something;-when examined, he
said it was a silver headed sword that he was searching for.-The Pool Bogg
near the manse, consists of 50 acres, now inclosed, and rented at about 10 gur-
neas.  About three fourths of the ground are arable.  The burn of Lumphanan
which runs through it, formerly, in the time of rain, when it rose high, did
great destruction, carrying on the earth, and covering the ground with sand and
small stones; but these evils are now remedied.  Near the middle of the bogg
stands a fort, built chiefly of earth from the moat around it, not perpendicular,
but contracting as it rises; it appears round, but is really oval.  The height is
12 yards.  It measures 86 1/2 yards in circumference at the top, and the area
may sow 6 or 7 pecks of oats.  The most at the base is 23 yards wide With-
out lies another ring 350 yards round.  It is uncertain who built this fort; some
ascribe the work to Longueville who came over from France in Wallace's time;
some to Wallace himself, and call it Gargunnock Others give it a much ear-
lier date.  Before the invention of gunpowder it has been a place of strength;
and it often excites the curiosity of strangers.
   Macbeth's Cairn lies about a measured mile north from the kirk, on the
brow of a hill, is 40 yards in circumference, and rises pretty high in the middle
Farther up the hill are several smaller cairns.  It is said by some that Macbeth,
flying from the south, had but a few men with him when he reached Lum-
phanan; that he endeavoured to hide himself at a town called Cairn Baddy, but
flying from hence went about a mile north, till M'Duff out-riding his com-
pany, came up with him at that place where the cairn now lies, killed him
in single combat, and brought back his head to has men.


