
                     NORTH KNAPDALE.                        633

unexpected variety. But, towards the upper extremity, the hills
become abrupt and rocky, while they are, at the same time, richly
wooded even to the water's edge, and high up along their acclivi-
ties. In many parts, also, they descend. in steep rocky precipices,
divided by ravines and enlivened by cascades, the trees springing
out of the rocks in a manner as wild and romantic as it is orna-
mental. The land here is also dispersed in narrow and projecting
promontories, separated by deep and equally narrow bays, inter-
mingled in a manner that no words can describe, and productive
of the most extraordinary scenery. Loch Katrine may convey a
faint idea of this spot; nor is it less romantic than many parts of
that beautiful lake."
   Winds-Climate.-The prevailing winds are south-west and
west; and the climate, though humid, is mild And salubrious.
The people now enjoy much better health than formerly, and ge-
nerally attain a greater age. Since 1840, there have died three
individuals, whose united ages amounted to 285 years; and about
ten years ago, a female died at the very advanced age of 107 years.
   Soil.--There is a great variety of soil in the parish. In se-
veral places close to the shore it is sandy, in others it is of a gra-
velly loam, in others mossy. At the south-western extremity of
the parish it is rich and friable, and very productive.
   Springs--Lakes.--The parish possesses many excellent springs
of water, some of them strongly impregnated with lime. The
Dunrostan, Auchnamara, and Kilmichael waters are the streams
of most importance in the parish. The last of these is the most
considerable. It rises in Kilmicbael Moor, about a quarter of a
mile to the north-east of Cruachlusach. It runs principally in a
north-westerly direction, and pursues a very winding course.
About 300 yards before it falls into the sea, it forms a beautiful
cascade at the bridge of Kilmichael Inverlussay. The parish
contains twenty-one water lakes, all of them abounding in fine
trout. The largest of these lakes is about a mile and a quarter
in length, and upwards of a quarter of a mile in breadth.
   Zoology and Botany.--No rare animals occur in the parish.
Roes are found in considerable numbers in the plantations on the
Poltalloch and Ross Properties. Hares are numerous. We have,
besides, foxes, badgers, otters, martens, wild cats, weasels, moles,
and rats.
   Birds.--The thrush, blackbird, bull-finch, robin red-breast,
and other warblers exist in great abundance. The game con-


