
144                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

analysis made, there is no doubt that copper exists in these veins,
but only in small quantity. The heavy spar veins seem to be su-
perficial; and, until more expensive operations are made, it re-
mains uncertain whether there exist any metal of value in this rane
of hills. It is, however, certain that veins of heavy spar exist, seen
at the surface, in various parts of these hills. The blocks of jas-
per in the Hailstone Burn, above Corrie, are still found, as men-
tioned in last Account; but nothing has been done to turn them
to account.
   Ironstone.-The Carron Company have continued to work the
ironstone at Banton, to much the same extent as stated in the last
Account (about 5000 tons per annum; number of miners betwixt
50 and 60.) The ironstone on Mr Cadell's lands has been almost
wrought out. The operations of the Company are now chiefly on
their own lands, where they have fourteen different seams or
bands or ironstone, wrought at various depths. Some of these
seams are not of good quality, and, therefore, are not wrought;
others are excellent. They vary in thickness from six to eighteen
inches. Besides these, there is a band about thirty fathoms, cal-
led the fine stone, which is of superior quality and thickness; little
of it, however, can be reached, as it is under water. The same
seam of ironstone extends to the lands of Tomphin, where it has
never been wrought. Large fields of ironstone are known to exist
over the West Barony; but, excepting a partial working of a band
or two at West-side, underlying the limestone a few fathoms, none
have ever been wrought.
   Coals.-Great part of the parish is a coal-field: but it is not
of so much value as might be anticipated, from the broken nature
of the strata, by dikes and hitches, which are everywhere met with.
The principal dike is known to run into the River Forth near
Airth, and commences in this parish at Tomphin. This dike varies
both in materials and thickness. It is, at some places, thirty feet
thick, at others double that number of yards. At some places, it
consists of the hardest basalts, at others the softest blaes, and at
others a mass of freestone debris, or solid freestone, or rotten whin-
stone, interspersed with round balls, &c. &c. It sends off, and re-
ceives many branches in its course within the parish. The seams
are various, and of very different quality. The Balcastle coal is
admirable, much of the nature of the best English coal. In some
pits lately opened near to Chape-green, the coal was at first of a
very inferior quality, but now it is good. The coal in the east is,


