
           110                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

           thinning, &c. does not proceed upon a regular system, so that the
           management is not particularly good.  The thinnings of fir wood
           generally sell at about 6d. per dozen.
              Rent of Land.-Arable land does not let high.  In fact, there is
           little grain raised beyond what is necessary for the inhabitants them-
           selves, and often not even that, as the only profitable stock is black-
           cattle and sheep.  Land in cultivation lets at about L. 1 per acre.
           The rent of grazing may be taken at about L. 1, 15s. per cow, and
           Is. 9d. per sheep, allowing two and a-half acres to a cow, and
           perhaps six acres of hill pasture to a sheep.
              Rate of Wages.-Country labour is about the same rate as in the
           neigbbouring districts.  It averages, summer and winter, 1s. 3d. per
           day to a man without victuals; and for a farm-servant about L. 4,
           10s. in the half year: masons, carpenters, &c. get 2s. per day, and
           other artisans at the same rate.
              Live Stock.-The breed of sheep and cattle has been much im-
           proved of late.  The black-faced sheep has superseded the small
           white Highland breed, and the Highland black cattle are daily im-
           proving in size and quality.  The Highland Society gave some
           prizes a few years ago, which roused the spirit of emulation, and
           raised a desire for better cattle.
              Husbandry.-The general system of husbandry is, however, not
           good.  Lime is unknown, except among the more wealthy; and
           black oats are the most common grain.  After a series of crops,
           the land is left for a year in ley; which they manure again, and
           so on, giving the greater portion of the manure to the ley land, in-
           stead of laying it on green crop, which only consists of a few po-
           tatoes.  Were lime introduced, the improvement would be astonish-
           ing; for where this has been the case, the soil has been so rich as
           to give in one place fifteen returns of wheat, and in another seven-
           teen returns of barley.  The soil is in most parts alluvial, and where
           this is not the case it is fine black mould.  The nature of the leases
           is much against improvement.  The tenants are almost all tenants at
           will, or from year to year; and, besides, their lands are so subdivided,
           being ridge about, as it is called, that improvement is almost out
           of the question.  This state of things is changing now, and nineteen
           years leases are becoming common; good farm steadings are in the
           course of being built, and many comfortable houses erected, espe-
           cially on the estate of Mackintosh, and also on that of Tomatin.
           The people themselves are not very spirited; they are unwilling to
           give up old customs, so that the landlords have the trouble of forcing


