
     of Longforgan.

passengers; and another about the middle of the town, upon
a much larger scale, with a brew-house, malt-barn, bake-
house, and good stabling attached to it*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are still remaining a few of the old houses in Longforgan, which
shew what they were 20 years ago.  They are very bad, narrow, low roofed,
and inconvenient; they are built with turf and stone, or with clay for mor-
tar, and all thatched with turf and straw; not a vestige of lime was then
to be seen in the village.  Since that time, all the houses capable of being
made habitable have been repaired; between 50 and 60 new houses have
been built by the present proprietor, besides two sets of farm-offices for lar-
ger farmers, several barns and byres, and two smithies, all within walls, and the
door in the middle; they are divided into two good apartments upon the
gound-floor, with a window to each to the street, and a smaller room in
the middle, with a window backwards, which serves as a store-room to the
family.  In general, weavers have their houses fitted for their particular
convenience; but almost everyone has a small apartment, neatly plastered
with lime, and fitted up according to the taste of the possessor.  They are
built with stone and lime.  The floors are of earth or clay.  The garrets
above are laid with deal, and they are covered either with sewed thatch of
wheat-straw, tiles, or slates, with sky-lights, These houses, when built,
cost from L. 30 to L. 50, according to the size, materials, etc.  The fame
description may serve both for the old and the new houses all over the
parish.
   In the middle of the village there was a Cross, consisting of a pillar of
one stone, with a lion on the top of it, standing upon a pedestal of masonry
of several steps; the whole heights of the stone pillar is 21 feet.  This had
been erected by one of the Earls of Strathmore, probably Earl Patrick, as
there is another built by him exactly resembling it at Glammis.  This Cross
was taken down some years ago, and is now set up upon a rocky eminence
within the park of Castle-Huntly, called Cromwell's Knowe (Knoll).
   This village is situated upon the ridge of a bank, through the middle of
which the turnpike-road between Perth and Dundee runs from west to east;
and it is remarkable, that on the north side of the road, no water nor spring
is to be found, in pits sunk (as some say) 50 or 60 feet deep; while, on the
south side, there are many wells very well supplied with water.

     Vol. XIX. 3 O


