
                   CHAPEL OF GARIOCH.                    567

riff of Angus, who had with them a small but compact battalion
of knights and men-at-arms; whilst he himself followed with the
rearward, composed of the main strength of his army, including
the Irvines of Drum, the Maules, the Moraya, the Straitons, the
Leslies, the Stirlings, the Lovels, headed by their chiefs, and
with their banners and penoncelles waving amid their grove of
spears.  Of the Islesmen and Highlanders the principal leaders
were, the Lord of the Isles himself, with Macintosh and Mac-
lean, the heads of their respective septs, and innumerable other
chiefs and chieftains, animated by the old and deep-rooted hosti-
lity between the Celtic and Saxon race.
   The shock between two such armies may be easily imagined to
have been awful,-the Highlanders, who were 10,000 strong,
rushing on with the fierce shouts and yells which it was their cus-
tom to raise in coming into battle, and the knights meeting them
with levelled spears, and ponderous maces and battle-axes, which
inflicted ghastly wounds upon their half-armed opponents.  In his
first onset Scrymgeour, and the knights and bannerets who fought
under him, with little difficulty drove back the mass of Islesmen,
and, cutting his way through their thick columns, made a dreadful
slaughter.  But, though hundreds fell around him, thousands
poured in to supply their place, more fierce and fresh than their
predecessors; whilst Mar, who had penetrated with his main army
into the very heart of the enemy, found himself in the same diffi-,
culties, hemming every moment more tired with the slaughter,
more encumbered with the numbers of the slain, and less able to
resist the increasing ferocity and reckless courage of the masses,
that still yelled and fought around him.  It was impossible that
this should continue much longer without making a fatal impres-
sion against the Scots, and the effects of fatigue were soon seen.
The Constable of Dundee was slain; and the Highlanders, en-
couraged by his fall, wielded their broadswords and Lochaber-axes
with murderous effect, seizing and stabbing the horse, and pull-
ing down their riders, whom they dispatched with their daggers.
In this way were slain some of the best and bravest soldiers of
these northern districts.  Sir Robert Davidson, with the greater
Part of the stalwart burgesses who fought around him, were amongst
the number; and many of the families lost not only their chief,
but every male in the house.  Leslie of Balquhain, a baron of a
noble alld ancient lineage, is said to have fallen, with six of his sons
slain beside him.  The Sheriff of Angus, with his eldest son, George


