
     Statistical Account

tracks of moor and hill.  In this district, there are at least
18,000 acres that lie barren, and at present of little value.
This space of ground laid under fir, would contain, at a mo-
derate calculation, 80,000,000 plants, exclusive of the fo-
rest of Glenavon, and without much injury to the pasture.
By converting the waste ground to this purpose, the rent of
the proprietors would increase, while the farmer would be
supplied in fuel, and materials for building.  Plantations of
fir so extensive, may appear an arduous undertaking; but by
giving farmers long leases, indemnifying them at removal,
appropriating a portion of the rent for the purpose, and va-
rious methods that might be devised, it might be successfull-
ly carried into execution; and when accomplished would be
worthy of a great and patriotic proprietor.  It has been as-
serted, that moss grows; but this is a fallacy too obvious to
be credited.  Being the production of wood and moisture, it
is well known from experience, that when the component in-
gredients are once exhausted, the substance itself cannot be
reproduced.  Upon the formation of moss, there is a curious
fact mentioned by Lord Cromarty, and recorded in the 5th
volume of the Abridgement of the Philosophica Transac-
tions*.

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the year 1651, his lordship being then 19 years of age, he saw a plain
in the parish of Lochbroom, covered with a standing wood, which
was so old, that not only the trees had no green leaves, but the bark was to-
tally thrown off, which he was there informed, by the old people, was the uni-
versal manner in which fir wood terminated, and in 20 or years the
trees would cast themselves up by the roots.  About 15 years afterwards, he had
occasion to travel that way, and observed that there not a tree, nor the ap-
pearance of a root, of any of them; but that, in their place, the whole plain
where the wood stood, was covered with a flat green moss, or.  and, on
asking the country people what was become of the wood, he was answered,
that no one had been at the trouble of carrying it away, but that it had been
overturned by the wind; that the trees lay thich over one another; and that

</UNREADABLE>


