
                             RATHO.                           87

minent place in the literature of their country. Here he number-
ed among his associates Principal Robertson, Mr John Home, Dr
Smith, Dr Ferguson, and Mr Hume.  While prosecuting his
studies, his father died, leaving him the stock and unexpired lease
of a farm at the Fisher's Tryste, and the care of three sisters.
This event did not paralyze the energies of his mind, nor divert
the current of his inclinations but be continued simultaneously
the practice of agriculture and the pursuit of philosophical and
theological knowledge.  In 1752, he became connected with this
parish, being appointed by the Earl of Lauderdale, assistant and
successor to Mr Guthrie, the minister of Ratho, who, from age and
infirmity, had become incapable of discharging his public func-
tions.  Here be remained till 1761, when he was translated to
the Professorship of Moral Philosophy in the University of St
Andrews.  He died in 1772, at the age of fifty-one years.
   He was a man of strong and original powers of mind, and of
extensive acquirements in general knowledge, the fruit of long and
vigorous application.  He shone particularly in conversation, as
appears from the character given of him by Dr Robertson: "It
seems agreed on all hands," says he "that no man wits equal to
him in conversation and argument.  I have heard Dr Wallace,
the author of the Dissertation an the numbers of mankind, assert
that nobody could cope with him.  His knowledge in almost all
things was deep and solid, and unanswerable; his reasoning was
plain, even to a child.  In shrewdness he had no rival.  Both his
manner and thoughts were masculine in a degree peculiar to him-
self.  Dr Smith says it was an observation of the late Lord Eli-
bank, that wherever Wilkie's name was mentioned in a company,
learned and unlearned, it was not soon drop.  Every body had
much to say in regard to him.*
   The principal character in which he is now known to the liter-
rary world is that of a poet, and his fame in that character is not
widely diffused.  His chief work is an Epic poem in imitation of
Hower, entitled the Epigonaid, founded upon the story of the

<FOOTNOTE>Like many other men of genius he appears to have been not more distinguised
by his abilities than by his oddities of manner, and the peculiarity of his general ha-
bits. His successful practice of agriculture and perhaps his excessive devotion to it,
procured him the name of "the potatoe minister."  It is mentioned among his many
pecularities, that he slept with an immoderate quantity of bed-cloths.  Being one
day on a visit to a farmer, a relation of his own, he consented, at his request, to stay
all night, but begged to have plenty of blankets.  His female friends in the family
collected twenty-four pairs, and put them on his bed.  When asked in the morning
if he had abundance of bed-clothes, he answered that he had just enough, and
had slept well.


