
                           DALMENY.                            107

sheep, 2s. per score. They are let by public roup at present for
three years, at a rent of L. 1900,-a sum which has been gradually
increasing, notwithstanding the general establishment of steam
conveyance to Dundee and Aberdeen, but which will probably
suffer a diminution, should the plan now projecting, of building a
deep water pier at Burntisland, in conjunction with that lately
erected at Granton, and communicating with a railway northern
wards,,carried into effect. At present, the North Mail, the
Defiance to Aberdeen, the Coburg to Perth, and the Antiquary
to Dunfermline and Crieff, from Edinburgh, cross and recross
daily.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is conveniently situated for
the parish proper, and is seated for about 350 persons. There
is also a Dissenting meeting-house in the west end of the town of
Queensferry, in connection with the United Associate Synod,
which draws its supplies to the amount of about 500, from five
adjacent parishes. Of these there are between twenty and thirty
families belonging to the parish of Dalmeny. The rest are, or
profess to be, in communion with the Church. The number of
actual communicants is in summer about 250, and in winter some-
what less. The attendance may,termed good, though the
church is considerably too small for the amount of the population.
   The stipend, which was allocated in 1823, consists of 17 chal-
ders victual, half barley and half oatmeal, at the Linlithgow fiars
prices, with L. 8, 6s. 8d. Sterling for communion elements. Ori-
ginally, the teinds of the parish, as given up at a judicial court of
the abbey of Jedburgh in 1626 were 20 chalders victual, whereof
were to,paid to the minister two chalders and 400 merks.
   Education.-There is a Sabbath school taught in the church
during the summer months by the clergyman, while a number of
the people attend as hearers; and another at Cramond Bridge
throughout the whole year, supported by the Christian liberality of
a lady not immediately connected with the parish,-and taught by
one or other of the agents of the Edinburgh Gratis Sabbath School
Society.
   The parochial school, which is the only one in the parish, is
well attended. It has long been celebrated as a healthful land de-
sirable place for boarders, of whom the present schoolmaster still
receives a limited number. The salary is the maximum of L. 34,
4s. 8 1/2d., with L . 300 Sterling mortified by Lady Grizell Semple
in 1723. This sum is vested at the instance of the Earl nf Rosa-
bery and the minister for the time being, as trustees for behoof of




