
650			AYRSHIRE.

an irregular undulating surface, till it reaches and forms the heights
termed the Craigs of Coyl, the elevation of which above the sea
is about 750 feet. From thence, it stretches farther in the
same line, and terminates in a loftier ridge, which bounds it and
Dalmellington, and forms part of the uplands of the valley that is
watered by the river Doo
	The summit of this ridge is upwards of 1100 feet above the
sea-level, and commands, almost on all sides, most extensive, va-
ried, and in some aspects very magnificent views.
	Climate.--The climate is mild, but for a considerable part of
the year more humid than on the east side of the island. The
atmosphere of the greater part of the parish is perhaps wore moist
than in some other districts of Ayrshire. The nature of the
soil, a retentive clay, and the extent of undrained land in the pa-
rish, the small lochs in the bounds, and the number of marshes or
bogs kept for raising meadow hay, must tend to produce this ef-
fect,--in addition to the more general circumstance, that a great-
er quantity of rain falls on the west than on the opposite coast.
	It does not appear that this degree of atmospheric humidity has
any effect on the state of health and disease. The abundance of
fuel in the district, the extent to which woollen is used instead of
linen, the habits of cleanliness for which the inhabitants am remark-
able, the degree in which the necessaries, and even comforts, of
life are obtained, and the nature of the occupations chiefly agri-
cultural, must greatly counteract any evil that might arise from
moistness of climate. And to these causes it must in part be as-
cribed, that the inhabitants in general, especially the female part,
are a fine-looking, stout, and active race.
	Hydrography.--The parish, in many parts, is well supplied with
springs of good water. There are exceptions, however. In some
places, especially about the middle and lower division, it cannot
be obtained. In others, it is difficult to reach, and when found,
of inferior quality.
	There are three lakes, Martnaham, Fergus, and Snipe, partly
in this parish. Loch Fergus is a beautiful sheet of water, covering
about twenty Scotch acres, and has a wooded island in the middle of
it, nearly an acre extent. Loch Spine spreads over about five acres;
and Martnaham, half of which is in Dalrymple, is about a mile
and a-half long, and at an average a furlong broad. Its greatest
width is 2 furlongs, and it is 26 feet deep at the deepest part. In
the centre of the parish, on the estate of Sundrum, there is a


