
     Statistical Account

heritors in the parish, the Earl of Aberdeen, who has that part
of the parish W. from the church, and Mr. Gordon of Aber-
dour, that on the E. of it, and who resides on his state at Aber-
dour house.  The fabrick of the church is very old, being
built before the Reformation, but in what age is not known.
About 30 years ago, the aile was rebuilt, and some years af-
ter, the steeple was rebuilt; but the rest of the fabrick is in a
bad state of repair, and the school-house is quite ruinous*.

   Language, Disposition of the People, etc.-Though the lan-
guage spoken in this district is a dialect of the English, known
by the name of broad Buchan, yet the ancient names of pla-
ces seem to be derived from the Gaelic, such as Achlin, Ach-
nagan, Auchmadden, Bracklamore, Achintum, etc.  The peo-
ple, in general, are sober and industrious; and, till of late
years, were so peaceable, and so little inclined to litigation,
that for 12 or 13 years after the year 1766, there was only
one single instance of a law-suit going from this parish to the
courts at Aberdeen, and that arose from a difference between
two tenants, about the boundaries of their respective farms;
every other difference subsisting between parishioners being set-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Besides the parish school, there is another school in the W. corner of the pa-
rish near the fishing-town, the teacher in which instructs young children in read-
ing english, in writing and arithmetic, and is commonly a tradesman, and re-
ceives from the church session, besides the ordinary fees paid by the scholars, a
yearly salary of 2 L. 1 s. 8 d. Sterling, out of the interest of money mortified
for that purpose by one of the lairds of Auchmedden, and his lady's sister, Lady
Jean Hay, a daughter of the Earl of Kinnoul, of which mortification the church
session are made trustees.  This school has been of great service to that corner.
There is also a woman lives within a quarter of a mile of the church, who has
taught young children to read english, and knit stockings, upwards of 40
years with great success; and what is very extraordinary, has still a few scho-
lars, who make very good progress under her instruction, though the is upwards
of 90 years of age.  Her name is Jean Lesly; she has been a very useful member
of society.


