
138                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

held in different parts of the country for engaging farm-servants.
The best sign of the times is, when the servants are scarce, and
wages high.

   January 1840.

                       PARISH OF OLD DEER.

              PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                 THE REV. JOHN MORISON, MINISTER.

                I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE word Deer, which gives name at once to the pa-
rish, to the village that lies contiguous to the parish church, and
to the presbytery of the bounds, appears, on a review of ecclesias-
tical and other records, to have been spelled differently at differnt
periods, but always to have been composed of letters which, when
spoken according to the ordinary rules of pronunciation, would
have invariably produced the same sound.  The intelligent author
of the last Statistical Report of the parish traces the origin of the
name Deer to a Gaelic word signifying the worship of God; others,
again, have traced its etymology to a Saxon word signifying hollow
or valley.
   Extent, &c.-The parish is situated about the centre of
the district of Buchan.  It is not less than 11 miles long in its
greatest dimension from south-east to north-west, and frol 4 to 6
miles broad, where it is widest.  At an average, it may be com-
puted as being 9 1/2 miles in length, by 4 1/2 miles in breadth; thus
containing upwards of 40 square miles of surface, or about 25,000
imperial acres. Mr Robertson, in his map of the counties of Aber-
deen, &c. estimates the extent of the parish in Aberdeenshire at
22,940 acres, and in Ballffshire, 2777 acres; an estimate which
agrees pretty nearly with that above given.  The less portion is
generally supposed to be a detached part of a great barony, the
body of which constitutes the parish of St Fergus, that belonged
to a family of the name of Cheyne, once hereditary sheriffs of the
county of Banff, who bad their castle or principal residence at In-
verugie.  These lands came into the possession of the Marischal fa-_
mily, in consequence of an alliance by marriage of one of the


