
916                   	SUPPLEMENT TO THE

attendance, qualifying themselves, by means of the system pur-
sued in it, for the office of Instructors of youth ; and already, at
the date of 31st December 1836, there had been no fewer than
260 teachers, male and female, trained in the Society's schools.
And so greatly is the system followed in their Seminary approved
of by the country at large, that the applications for teachers who
have been trained in it has been more than double of what the
Society could supply.  They have furnished schoolmasters to al-
most every county of Scotland ; and the fame of the Seminary
has been such, as to have induced the Government to send out,
within the last four months, seventeen teachers who had been train-
ed in it, to Australia, and twelve to the West Indies, for which latter
destination they have requested the Society to furnish fifteen to
twenty trainers additional, at salaries of L. 150 Sterling a-year.
And let it be borne in mind, that the system, whose influence is
thus rapidly extending, while it embraces every real and well-di-
gested improvement, both in the art and in the subject matter of
education which modern times have devised, is a system thoroughly
Christian, founded on, and throughout pervaded by, the great
lessons of the Word of God.
   " To give some idea of the expense the Society have incurred in
the erection of such an institution, it may be stated, that although
the centre part of the building has for the present been omitted,
what has been actually built and opened for use, and the whole
of which was absolutely necessary for the immediate and every-
day purposes of the seminary, has cost, with its accompanying
play-grounds, no less a sum than L. 8000.  What has thus been
completed, embraces four model schools--an Infant, a Juvenile,
a Commercial, and a school of Industry, in which, taken together,
there will be accommodation for the training of 1000 children.
Each of these schools has its set of class-rooms attached to it for
the use of the Normal students, and both children and Normal
students of all denominations are admitted to the benefits of the
institution.  The society are satisfied, that, in erecting such a
seminary, they are conferring an incalculable benefit on the coun-
try ; and, therefore, they feel assured the liberality of the friends
of education will enable them to meet the large expense unavoid-
ably incurred.  For this purpose, a sum of at least L. 3000 is in-
dispensably necessary."
   It will be gratifying to our readers to be informed that the Ge-

