
136                       PERTHSHIRE.

cil of Pertb to state, that they have not been inattentive to the
condition of the prison. About three years ago, they appointed a
committee of their number to inquire fully into the subject. The
report of this committee points out many of the existing evils in a
forcible manner, and strongly recommends the erection of a bride-
well at the joint expdnse of the burgh and county."
   The old prison at the foot of the High Street, * abandoned in
the year 1819, when the present one was erected, has been lately
fitted up partly for a police-office, and partly for a small bridewell
establishment for police prisoners, on the principle of completd se-
paration. It contains eight cells, one of which is without light, and
is intended for such as are violent and refractory. Each prisoner is
provided with a hammock and a seat. The hammocks are carried out
in the morning into the lobby, by the prisoners in rotation; there
they are bung up for airing during the day. Each in his turn washes
in the lobby, and returns immediately to his cell. They are made
to work in teasing hair or picking oakum, or at their own ordinary
employments, if circumstances will admit of it. The arrangement
of the cells is such that they cannot converse or communicate with
one another, nor with any one excepting the jailor, when he attends
to their wants, and the chaplain, when he visits them in his official
capacity. For aliment, they are allowed two diets during the day,
--in the morning they have oatmeal porridge and milk; and at
three o'clock afternoon, they have broth and bread. Thus fed,
they enjoy excellent health. The beneficial effects of this small
establishment cannot yet be spoken of with confidence, as it has
existed but little more than twelve months. But there are very
encouraging grounds of hope, that substantial good has accrued
from it to several of those who have been there confined. In the
common jail, the prisoners are necessarily exposed to contamina-
tion of every kind. A prisoner of comparatively decent character
is made the associate of persons, the most profligate and aban-
doned,-the consequence of which is, that the majority leave
the prison not only unreformed, but more vitiated in principle. But
here the prisoners are privileged to have a well regulated discipline,
calculated to produce in their minds sober reflection on their past
irregularities, and to lead them to a new and better course of living.
   From August 1835 to August 1836, there were thirty-nine
committals. The average number of days to each was thirty-six
and a fraction, say thirty-six. The expense incurred beyond the

<FOOTNOTE>The prison must have been originally very small, for it was not till 1666 that
the back or northern division of it was erected.


