
                        PARISH OF DOLLAS OR DALLAS.

                  PRESBYTERY OF FORRES, SYNOD OF MORAY.

                   THE REV. WILLIAM TULLOCH, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name, &c.-THE name of this parish is derived from two Gaelic
   words, dale, a vale or plain, and uiv, contracted from uisge, water.
    The parish was formerly a parsonage, dedicated to St Michael,
   and the seat of the sub-dean. Sir William Gordon Gordon Cum-
   ming of Altyre and Gordonston, Baronet, is patron. Upon the
   annexation of Altyre part of this parish to the parish of Rafford,
   Easter Kelles, (church lands, for above an hundred years the he-
   ritage of Farquharson of Kelles, a family now extinct), was annexed
   to this parish in 1657; and the disjunction and annexation were
   ratified in Parliament in 1661.
      The barony of Dallas bad been long the property of Cumming
   of Altyre, before it was sold to Sir Ludovick Gordon of Gordon-
   ston, in the end of the last century; but the Cummings of Altyre
   have again become heirs to it.
      Extent and Boundaries.-This parish is, in shape, like an oblate
   spheroid. It is about 15 miles long, and 9 in breadth. It is
   bounded on the southeast and east, by Rothes and Birnie; on
   the north-east and north, by Elgin; on the north-west and West,
   by Rafford and Edenkillie; and on the south-west and south, by
   Knockando.
      Topograhical Appearances. -The parish is considerably di-
   versified with rising grounds, and beautiful straths lying between
   the bills, the principal of wbich runs through the length of the
   parish along the river. These bills are in general highly culti-
   vated, and yield rich and luxuriant crops. They are nearly all
   covered with heath, and in many places the banks ofthe river are
   skirted with alder wood, the bark of which many of the people use
   for dyeing black. The hill of Melundy, the Property of Sir Wil-
   liam G. Gordon Cumming, has been lately replanted with silver-
   fir spruce-fir, larch, and birch; and part of ihe hill of Wangie,


