
480                          LANARKSHIRE.

rich seams of excellent coal, which will be inexhaustible for many
centuries. These seams stretch in a direction nearly parallel to
the course of the river. They are from 2 to 7 feet thick, and
vary considerably in their decline. At the eastern extremity of
the parish, the decline is about 1 of 3; half a-mile westward, 1
of 2; and a little farther to the westward 1 of 1 1/2. They are in-
tersected with numberless slips, which throw the coal down from
30 to 50 feet perpendicular. These slips lie nearly parallel, and
are generally from 60 to 200 yards apart. They cross the line
of the coal, in a direction nearly west. As the country to the
south and east is destitute, for a considerable extent, of this precious
mineral, the coal of Douglas is in great demand, and a great quan-
tity of it is carried to a distance of upwards of thirty miles. Lime-
stone is wrought in several parts of the parish, particularly at
Wishaw, near its south-eastern border. Freestone likewise abounds,
some of it of a beautiful white colour, well adapted for building.
Ironstone is frequent; and there are several springs in the parish
pretty strongly chalybeate.
 	Zoology.--Among the wild quadrupeds found in this parish
may be mentioned the fox, of which there are considerable numbers
in the plantations, the polecat, which, however, is but rare, the
weasel, the hedgehog, and the squirrel; hares are very numerous.
Of the smaller birds there is a great variety in the woods. The
most common species are, the blackbird, thrush, skylark, chaffinch,
linnet, sparrow; the yellow-hammer, the wagtail, the robin, wren,
and titinouse are not uncommon, and the goldfinch is occasion.
ally seen. Swallows abound, starlings sometimes appear. In
winter we are visited by flocks of fieldfares. Lapwings and
curlews abound in the moors; wild ducks and coots are very
numerous, particularly on the lake in the pleasure grounds of
the castle; hawks, chiefly of the smaller kinds, sometimes venture
to make their appearance. in spite of the vigilance with which they
are persecuted by the gamekeepers; but the magpie is almost
completely banished, although abounding in the adjoining parishes.
There is great variety and abundance of feathered game; grouse,
black-cock, snipes, woodcock, partridges, and pheasants. Perch,
pike, and trout are the only fish which our waters afford to the
angler. The Falls of Clyde effectually prevent salmon from finding
their way to our streams.
				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Douglasdale, always interesting from historical associations, has

					3

