
     Statistical Account

most extensive and enchanting view, terminated by the
towering, though far distant mountain of Skiddaw beyond
the Solway frith, in Cumberland, on the south; by the lofty
mountains of Hartfell and Queensberry, at the head of An-
nandale, on the north; and across the rich and widely ex-
tended vale of Annandale, in some places 4, in others 8
miles over.  The waters of Dryfe, Annan, Kinnel, and
Ae, uniting their kindred streams in the centre of the vale.
In summer and harvest it is delightful indeed to see such a
rich variety of lofty mountains and deep vallies, of green
hills and growing dales, of winding rivers and rivulets, of
rich pastures and richer crop-lands, all around.  The royal
burgh of Lochmaben is in full and distinct view across the
Annan to the west.  The town clock is heard, and the
Castle loch, a sheet of 204 acres of water, with the castle
ruins on a peninsula on the south side, is seen.  The prospect
is beautified and variegated with a great number of gentle-
mens seats and plantations on all hands; such as the Kirk-
wood, Denbie, Whitecroft, Rammerscales, Holmains, New-
mains, Fourtowns, Halleaths, Castlemains, Lochmaben,
Ellshieshields, Riggheads, Todhillmoor, Kirkmichael place,
Hillside, Balgray, and above all the new and elegant palace
belonging to Lord Hopetoun at Raehills on the Annandale
estate.  The crown is patron.  The parish, in the 13 th century,
by King Robert Bruce, was given as a mensal church to the
Archbishoprick of Glasgow, and also the neighbouring parish
of St Mungo.-There is an established parish-school, with
the usual salary of 100 merks, and the interest of L. 80 of
mortified money, together with the common school-fees.
It is to be regretted, that too small encouragement is afforded
to schoolmasters in Scotland, a class of men extremely use-
ful, if able and faithful.  There are several private schools
also.-The poor are sometimes upwards of 20 that receive
supply from the kirk-session, the ordinary collections at the


