
			KIRKPATRICK-FLEMING.      		283

	"By means of draining, many acres of unproductive morass
and wet land have been brought into a state of luxuriant fertility.
By its proper application, land, which before the art was intro-
duced was considered valuable, has been rendered doubly so; and
by draining alone our climate has been greatly ameliorated."
Though a great deal has been done in this neighbourhood by pro-
prietors and tenants for the improvement of land, by removing
surface and under water by means of open, covered, and tile drains,
yet much still remains to be done. Leases of fifteen years are ge-
nerally given on improved farms; but when a farm has to be en-
closed and drained, a lease of twenty-one years is considered suf-
ficiently short. The rents of a small number of farms here are
from L. 440  to L. 200; of a great number from L. 200 to L. 50
and of some from L. 50 downwards. The farmers are in general
accommodated with comfortable houses and convenient offices.
	The improvement of moss by a covering of clay was introduced
into this quarter, and tried with excellent effect about twenty-eight
years ago, by William Blacklock, who was then farmer of How-
gillside, upon the estate of Springkell. "After the land has been
ploughed into ridges of 14 or 18 feet wide, labourers with spades
widen and deepen the furrows from 15 to 18 inches, and throw
the substratum of clay upon the ridges. The moss is thus press-
ed down, and its depth diminished. This is repeated next season,
and gives new soil for a second crop, equal to, if not better than
the first. Lime is applied in different quantities, according to the
nature of the soil. On clay lands, from 5O to 6O Carlisle bushels
of shells (nearly 3 Winchester each) are floured and spread; and
for moss, from 20 to 30 are found to be sufficient as one dose,
which must be repeated every rotation of seven or eight years.
Where moss is from is from 18 inches to 2 feet deep, it is first ploughed
very thin, and laid over quite flat. It is allowed to lie in that po-
sition till the plants rot a good deal, and limed upon the face. It
is again ploughed a little deeper in the same furrows, and sown
with oats. After the crop is removed, it is plough a third time,
and clayed as above for the second crop and the same operation
is repeated for a third crop, amongst which grass seeds are sown.
The expenses of each claying are found to be about L. 1, 5s. per
acre, by which, and the ploughings, the moss loses fully one-third
of its depth, and the surface becomes firm for the feet of cattle."
	Quarries.--In the immediate vicinity of Springkell there is a

<FOOTNOTE>Letter from Mr Easton, who was some time ago factor at Springkell, to Dr
Singer.


