
356                        BERWICKSHIRE.

  Husbandry.-The system of Husbandry thus arranged, is pur-
sued with much zeal and enlightened generosity to the land, and
appears to be most judicious, and, in the circumstances, highly suc-
cessful. The tenants are all men of acknowledged skill and ex-
perience in the science of farming; they are not embarrassed by
inadequacy of capital, and almost every year some melioration,
chiefly in the way of draining is effected. Unfortunately, how-
ever, the state in which they appear generally to have entered to
the soil would impose upon them much more than -it would be
practicable for most, or prudent for any tenant, on a common
lease, without the greatest encouragement, to undertake. A large
portion of the land, it should be stated, is not enclosed, and much
of the residue is enclosed but indifferently. The best soils are now,
it is true, generally dry and kept in the highest condition: but drain-
ing is needed on almost every inferior field; while over nearly the
whole of the land which is occasionally tilled, water that might be
carried off injures the pasture. Embankment is in some places re-
quired. The rigour of the climate, too, which in winter is fre-
quently unfavourable to the turnip feeding of stock, and in other
respects hurtful, might be mitigated, were convenient stripes of
land, not of much value for other purposes, occupied by plant`tions.
These, however, are changes, that, from their character, or from
the extent to which they would require to be carried, no farmer
could, without great imprudence, on a lease of sixteen or nineteen
years, the ordinary duration of leases, even purpose deliberately.
   It is gratifying to state, that improvements, in some instances
of great importance, emanating from, or aided by, the land-owners,
and sometimes effected entirely by the tenant, have been made, with
manifest advantage, or are now in progress, on a scale sufficiently
large to encourage the hope that anything requisite to put the
agriculturalist, so far our high climate shall permit, on an equal
footing with more favoured districts, will follow in due time. East
Morristoh, the estate of the late Thomas Scott, Esq. has been tinder
his own superintendence, drained carefully, enclosed, and shelter-
ed by plantations, which have become highly ornamental. Colonel
Shillinglaw's property of Birkhillside, with similar advantages, is
in the same excellent condition. The large farm of Corsbie,
through Mr Murray's exertions, has been improved, and is in a
great measure subdivided to the full extent of its arable land, and,
although not sheltered by plantations, is known for the rearing of
excellent stock. On the large and valuable farm of Legerwood,
			    3


