
     Statistical Account

brought to its present situation, exceeds our powers to deter-
mine.
   All rude nations seem to have made use of some external
objects, as incentives to their devotion.  This practice was
not peculiar to any sect of religion, but to a particular pe-
riod of civilization and manners.  A huge stone, detached
from all others, was a conspicuous object, round which the
people could assemble; and where they could see what was
going on, while the priests offered sacrifice, or performed
their sacred rites.
   They were careful, also, to choose such situations as might
either depress the mind with gloom and melancholy, or ele-
vate by the magnificent scenery of nature.  For this last
purpose, the stone we speak of is well situated; for it com-
mands a most magnificent prospect, eastward of the vale of
Clyde, below, and westward of the lakes of Lochwinnoch
and Kilburnie; while the bare rocks behind add to the gran-
deur of the scene.*

<FOOTNOTE>

*North from Clochodrick, on the other side of the hills, stands an old
narrow castle, ancietly the residence of the Knoxes.  About 120 yards South
East of this castle, on an elevated rock, which overtops the castle, is a green
hill, all of forced earth.  It is now named Castle-bill.  The ascent from the
South and East, is gradual; from the North and West, it is steep and diffi-
cult.  This earthen hill is of a quadrangular form; the sides facing the sour
cardinal points.  A trench, dug out of the solid rock, surrounds its base, on
the Fast and part of the North and South sides.  The West side, fronting the
old castle, rests on the edge of the steep rock.  Each side of this hill or mound,
is about 30 yards at the bottom, and 19 at the top.  It is 7 yards in height.
The top, though in some parts defaced, seems to be a hollow square, with a
parapet all round it.  There has been an entrance into it on the Eastern
side.
   From this mount are seen five other artificial mounds, three in Houston
and Killallan, and two in Kilmacolm, called Laws; owing, it is thought by
the people here, to their having been places where justice was administered.
   But most of these Laws are of a conical figure; and though, in feudal


