
	932  	                      FIFESHIRE.

	favourite-with his royal master. He was a man of a bold and re-
	solute character, and therefore an admirable hand, in that fierce
	and stormy age, for executing the purpose, which James so ardently
	cherished, of introducing Episcopacy. It was chiefly through his
	influence that the famous Articles of Perth were carried through
	the Parliament of Scotland. He hastened to Court with the
	pleasing intelligence, and James testified his gratitude for this ser-
	vice by creating him (16th August 1621) Viscount Stormont.
	He died in 1631, and was buried at Scone, where a magnificent
	monument was erected to his memory.
	  With the ancient history of this interesting parish the name of
	Sir David Lindsay of the Mount is associated. This distinguish-
	ed poet and courtier, whose works about a century ago were as
	much read by the people of Scotland as the Waverley novels are in
	our own age, seems to have spent some happy days in Falkland.
	In "the second epistle of the Papingo, directed to her brethren
	of Court," he apostrophizes Stirling, Linlithgow, and Falkland,
	in the following strain:-
			"Adieu fair Snawdown, with thy towers hie,
			 The chapel royal, park, and table round;
			 May,June, and July, would I dwell in thee,
			 Were I a man might hear the birds sound,
			 Which doth against the Royal rock resound.
			 Adieu Lithgow, who, palace of pleasance,
			 Might be a pattern in Portugal or France,
			 Farewell Falkland, the fortress sure of Fife,
			 Thy polite park under the Lowmond Law.
			 Some time in thee I led a lusty life,
			 Thy fallow-deer to see them raik on raw,
			 Court-men to come to thee they stand great awe,
			 Saying, thy burgh been of all boroughs bail,
			 Because in thee they never got good ale."*
	  Falkland is the birth-place of Richard Cameron, the founder
	of the sect of the Cameronians, who distinguished himself by his
	resistance to the criminal attempt of Charles II. to introduce
	Episcopacy by violence into Scotland. In his youth, he was him-
	self an Episcopalian, and acted as parish schoolmaster and pre-
	centor to the curate. A radical change, took place in his views,
	however,  and he connected himself with the indulged Presbyte-
	rians. He subsequently joined the party who refused the indul-
	gence. He was undoubtedly a man of extreme views, but this cir-
	cumstance should not induce us to forget the important services
	which he and his party have rendered to the cause of civil and re-
	ligious liberty. He was killed at Airs Moss in 1680, in a skirmish
	with the King's, troops. His head was carried in savage triumph

<Footnote>Written probably about the year 1590.



