
                             PAISLEY.                            267

of fitting up that part of the loom which forms the pattern is like-
ly to be much diminished.  The Jacquard machine, (so named
from its ingenious inventor at Lyons) used in place of a draw-boy, is
now attempted to be introduced into Paisley, in an improved form,
by a gentleman who has taken out a patent for the improvement. *
The French use no draw-boys, and yet they produce the finest of
patterns, although it must be acknowledged, on a small scale.
   In this sketch of the progress of the shawl manufacture in
Paisley, we must not omit to notice that most ingenious and
beautiful species of shawls known by the French name Cheneille
(caterpillar;) from their variegated colour and the softness of their
feel.  They are to be seen frequently in shops labelled with the
words: " velours au soie" " velvet on silk;" a name very descriptive
of this manufacture.  Mr Alexander Buchanan, now of Glas-
gow, then of Paisley, is the first who produced a web of this de-
scription ; and Mr James Taylor, at present one of the magistrates
of Paisley, was among the earliest to appreciate the value of the
article and to manufacture it on an extensive scale.  These beauti-
ful specimens of art and taste still maintain their place in general
estimation.
   All the trades depending upon the shawl branch have neces-
sarily increased ; in particular that of dyeing has been much enlar.
ged.  Fifteen years ago, perhaps forty or fifty hands were employ-
ed at it; now ten times that number at least are engaged.
   Silk Gauze.-The silk gauze, since its revival about eighteen
years ago, has progressed very much.  Paisley now furnishes near-
ly all the silk gauzes that are used in the kingdom, with the excep-
tion of those imported from France.  The elegance and taste dis-
played in this branch of manufacture, with the moderate prices at
which the goods are produced, is really astonishing.
   Cotton Thread.-In place of the linen-thread formerly made in
this town, there has sprung up a pretty extensive cotton-thread
trade.  There are eight or nine factories employed in making this
thread.  They are propelled by steam, the whole power being about

<FOOTNOTE>advantage.  We know some manufacturers that could not get through their work on
the old system ; but these machines enabled them not only to overtake the work, but
to extend it, which they could not otherways have done.  At that time also, we had
to compete with the French, who in their superior cutting had a decided advantage ;
but they are now completely driven from our market; we mean in the article of
shawls.
          The gentleman alluded to is Mr James Morison, manufacturer in Paisley.  We
cordially wish him success in the application of his patent.  Mr James Mills, pattern-
drawer, has lately attempted with success, some improvements on the common har-
ness.


