
98                      SHETLAND.


and himself and family put to the sword. The Earl, for a time,
hesitated as to the choice he should make; but, seeing the sword
about to be plunged into the breast of his son, parental tender-
ness overcame his scruples; he renounced the worship of Odin,
professed himself a Christian, and was baptised. His people soon
after followed his example.
     Shetland, while subject to the Danish government, was govern-
ed, in all civil matters, by a judge called "the Grand Foude;"
and hence the country was designated by the name of a "Foud-
rie." This Foudrie was divided into a number of small districts,
over each of which was appointed a subordinate foude, or magis-
trate. To him was committed the power of judging and deciding
in cases of smaller moment, of keeping the peace and of regu-
lating weights and measures. In the discharge of these duties, he
was assisted by inferior officers, called "Ranselmen," and "Law-
rightmen." Whoever considered themselves aggrieved by the de-
cision of tbe local foude and his officers, had the power of appeal
to the Grand Foude, who, at his "lawting," assisted by the "Udal-
men," made laws, and determined in all cases of life and death.
     After the islands were annexed to the Crown of Scotland in
1470, in the reign of James III., their government was usually be-
stowed on some Court favourite, who made the most of their preca-
rious possession, and whose sway was generally marked with cruel-
ty and oppression. Though these rulers were frequently changed,
the poor islanders for a long time benefited little by any change
which took place. And, while writhing under the yoke of the op-
pressor, the knowledge that they were deprived of the means of
redress, rendered that yoke still more galling. Even when sub-
ject to a milder sway, the acts of former oppressors continued to
be felt; and many exactions, equally unjust in themselves, and
contrary to express stipulations, were made, and continued to be
made; these, by prescription, having now become legal demands.
     Name.-These united parishes seem to have taken their name
from the two bailiwicks or courts of justice held in them; the one
on the Ting or Taing, (a neck of land jutting into the sea, in the
vicinity of Sand), hence Sand's Ting; the other similarly situated
near Aith; hence Aith's Ting.
     Under the chief foude or judge, there were inferior foudes or
judges, wbose province seems to have been, to hold their courts
in places situated at a distance from the principal foudry, or
high court, to which appeals were carried. The appointment


