                                                                                             427
                                          SOUTHEND.               427

        The peninsula of Kintyre, which we have seen was possessed
        by the Macdonalds for ages, was gifted by James VI. to the Earl
        of Argyle in 1613; and, when Angus Macdonald and his son
        James, with their vassals, fled to Ireland, in consequence of the
        overwhelming force which Argyle brought to bear upon them to
        effectuate their expulsion, after Argyle had thus obtained posses-
        sion, be imported a colony of agriculturists and graziers to occupy
        the deserted lands. These people being kindly entertained en-
        couraged others to follow; and, in the course of a few years, Kin-
        tyre was principally inhabited by strangers. But, on the defeat of
        Argyle by Montrose, 2d February 1644, Macdonald again reco-
        vered possession of the country, when the lowlanders precipitately
        fled to Ayrshire, and soon after swelled the ranks of the Cove-
        nanting army.  Coll Macdonald then divided the again deserted
        lands among his followers; but, on the total defeat of the Roy-
        alists after the battle of Dunaverty in July 1647, Argyle again
        ultimately recovered possession of the country. In 1648, shortly
        after Argyle and Leslie left Kintyre, the plague broke out, and
        depopulated the greatest part of the country. When the plague
        had subsided, the Marquis of Argyle Imported a colony of agri-
        culturists from Ayr and Renfrewshire.
          In 1662, when the Act Recissory was past, and Prelacy restor-
        ed, and the persecution soon thereafter raged with great violence
        in these counties, a number of the inhabitants fled to Kintyre,
        where they were cherished and sheltered by their countrymen and
        relatives who had previously settled in the country.
          The noble family of Argyle, to their immortal honour, gave an
        asylum, during those perilous times which intervened between the
        Restoration and the Revolution, to several Ayrshire and Renfrew-
        shire gentlemen of the Covenant, when cruelty oppressed by the
        Government,-among others to the Laird of Ralston, Maxwell of
        Williamwood, Maxwell of South Barr, Hamilton of Wishaw, and
        Maxwell of Milnwood, and Dunlop of Gartikirk; and when these
        gentlemen could return home in safety, their farms remained in the

        with those of another chieftain, it is said, of Largie, is marked by tbree large  flagstones,
        which are now sunk considerably into the earth.  Though the field where they lie
        has been regularly ploughed and cultivated for more than a century past, yet, much
        to the honour of the feelings of the people, this spot still remains untouched, and is
        regarded with a solemn respect to the memory of the brave.
           In the year 1822, after an uncommon high tide, accompanied with a gale of wind,
        the sand was di ifted from a bank in the farm of Drunerican, which lies in the inime.
        diate neighbourhood of Dunaverty; and there thus became exposed to view `n im-
        mense charnel house of human bones, skulls, with the bones of legs, arms, &c. scat-
        tered about in every direction.

