
276                             BERWICKSHIRE.

been much improved, a different equivalent ought to have been
obtained.
   The stipend is 16 chalders, half oatmeal and half barley, pay-
able according to the fiars prices of the county. In 1755, the
stipend was L. 76, 14s. 5d.: in 1798, L. 120, 11s. 6d.; at the time
of the former Statistical Account L. 110 Sterling, including the
value which was put on the grebe.
   There are no chapels of ease in this parish; and there is no need
of any,-though the church is very inconveniently placed for the
parish, and by no means in a central situation. Divine service at
the parish church is generally well attended. The proprietors are
mostly resident, and we have a most respectable tenantry. The
average number of communicants is about 350. Of the propor-
tion of the parishioners belonging to the Established church and
to the Dissenters, no precise account can be given, because a con-
siderable number of the latter belong to the shifting class of farm-
servants. I would conjecture, however, that the number of Dis-
senting heads of finnilies may be about 55. *
   The heritors and their families are almost all annual subscribers
to Societies for religious and charitable purposes; and generally
in the summer season we have a collection in the church for some
religious or charitable object. Our collection last year for the
Highland Schools under the management of the General Assem-
bly was L. 14, 18s. Sterling.
   Education.-There are three schools in the parish,-the paro-
chial and two private schools. The parochial schoolmaster has
the maximum salary, a very good house, and an allowance in lieu
of garden. His school-fees probably do not exceed L. 5 a-year.
   One of the private schools is at Allanton. The Blackadder fa-
mily give a school-house and a dwelling-house for the teacher, and
a salary of L. 10 perannum. The other private school is at Kimmer-
ghame. The proprietor of Kimmerghame gives a school and a
dwelling-house and garden for the master, and a salary of L. 10 per
annum. The parish school has on an average about 45 scholars; the

<FOOTNOTE>There was, till within these few years, when it was ploughed up, an old burying-
ground on the estate of Kimmerghame, where there is also a field, called the Cha-
pel-field. There was like wise a chapel on the estate of East Nisbet, subseqtiently called
Allanbank, now Big house, near the spot where the large meeting of Covenanters
formerly mentioned was held. Some of the foundation stones have been lately
ploughed up, but I have not been able to get any more authentic particulars about
it. There are likewise on the same estate the remains of a camp: but the field has
been so long under the plough that the form is not very perceptible.


