
                        AUCHTERDERRAN.                   173

nefited by rendering their travelling to Edinburgh and London,
and all the south-east parts of the island shorter, far more speedy
and pleasant,-not to speak of the great local advantages that
would attend it.
   It has not yet been ascertained by experiment whether, from
our clayey close-bottomed strong soil, spade culture could, with
a sure prospect of remuneration, be introduced into general practice
in farming. From the effects produced by this practice on our
kitchen gardens, we have the fullest conviction, that the crops
thus raised are far better than those from the plough furrow.
   We sow our grains earlier than formerly, particularly barley, which
was wont to be sown in May, but now generally in April; and ex-
perience confirms the advantage of the change. There is a full
crop, and the grain is weightier and better ripened.
   Drunkenness, formerly rare, is now lamentably frequent.-Forty
years ago, emigration was thought of with much reluctance; now
the predilection for the native spot has diminished, and emigration
is more readily embraced.-Forty years ago, we were accustomed to
regard increase of population as increase of national prosperity; now
such increase seems regarded as an obstruction.-Forty years ago
we had no medical gentlemen in the parish; at present two are
resident.-Since the draining of our soil and marshes obtained, the
heron has nearly disappeared, and since our district became wood-
ed, pheasants have reached our latitude.-Forty years ago, ser-
vants for husbandry were few in number, at present they seem re-
dundant.-Formerly coal-hewers were inferior to other classes in
morals and respectability, here they are now nearly on a level.-
Forty, nay twenty, years ago, we had not one metalled road, now we
have several.-Forty years ago, irregularity, multiplicity and con-
fusion of weights and measures pervaded all transactions, now we
have one philosophical and just standard.-Forty years ago, the
ministers of the Established Church generally delivered all their
discourses from the pulpit without reading; now they are general-
ly read.-Forty years ago, land was sold in Fife at thirty-five years'
purchase of the existing rental, now it sells at twenty-six years' pur-
chase of the present rental.
   The valued rent of this parish is upwards of L. 7000 Scotch.
The present real rent is about L. 7000 Sterling.-Forty years ago,
rents were all paid here in money; now they begin to be paid in
grain, at the rate of the county fiars.-Forty years ago, resurrec-
tionists, as they are called, were unheard of; now, even the poor


