
428                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

of the persecution, when the curates had usurped, our pulpits.
There was then scarcely the shadow of a collection. We fre-
quently find it as low as three-halfpence Sterling, which was
surely not too much to expect from the persons officiating.
   The number of persons who, at a remote period, flocked from
all quarters to the communion, and the disposition to liberality
usually connected with the dispensing of that solemn ordinance,
occasioned very large collections.  In one case we find the num-
ber of communicants stated to be 1500, being many more than
that of souls in the parish.  In one instance I find the collection
on the several sacramental days to be L.93 Scots; and in 1707, the
union between the kingdoms having just taken place, and the
country being in a very impoverished and unsettled state, the col-
lection, notwithstanding, amounted to L.69, 2s. 10d.  Scots.
   In the former Statistical Account, the first assessment for the
poor is said to have been laid on in October 1764.  It appears,
however, that, so far back as 1653, a "stent" was laid upon the
heritors for maintaining the poor, amounting to "fiftie-four,"
(the name of the measure is illegible) "of meal."  Again, in
1699, an assessment was laid on, and the enforcement of it is
thus recorded.  "9th March, the session appoints intimation to be
given to the congregation on Sabbath nixt, that such as have not
payed their proportion of stent for maintenance of the poor, pay
in the same to the overseirs upon Tuesday nixt at Stow, where
the said overseirs ar to meet for that effect, otherwise they will
be delated to the bailoph."  The assessment, or stent, on this
occasion, was L.1 in the L.100 of valued rent. This fact, with
the number of the poor, upwards of 20, or about double the usual
number, marks a period of great distress. It appears that in
calamitous years,  recourse was had to assessments even at re-
mote periods, and these being voluntary and only occasional, did
good and no evil which is far from being the case when they
are regular and compulsory.  These, as already stated, be-
gan in this parish in 1764.  In the disastrous years 1782-3,
the assessments were of course high, and we find them fluctuating
with the character of the season.  October 1805, the half-year's
assessments is L.45, = L.90 per annum.  In 1806, L.80 per an-
num; enlisted poor, 13, with interims.  November 1831, pau-
pers, 13; while the assessment now varies from L.24 to L.37
half-yearly, the half being paid by the heritors, and the other half
by the tenants.


