
                              DRAINIE.                      157

   weather permits, land and ship goods, passengers, and luggage.
   The imports generally are merchant goods, chiefly foreign and co-
   lonial.
      The exports are live-stock, fresh provisions, agricultural produce,
   salmon, pickled cod and herring, making together about 3276
   barrels bulk of five cubic feet each.  The English coal imported
   is used for family use, and carried to Elgin and the adjoining
   country; the Scotch coal for breweries, distilleries, limekilns, and
   brickworks ; the grain goes to the different ports of the kingdom ;
   the herring to the London, Liverpool, and Irish markets, and oc-
   casionally a small cargo to Hamburgh and Stettin.
   			V.-- PAROCRIALECONOMY.
      Elgin, to which there is an excellent toll-road, was, till the
   introduction of steam-boats, almost the only mart for the little
   traffic of this parish.  There is a daily post.  The runner and post-
   master are paid by Government.
   	A new and useful harbour is in course of being formed under
   the superintendence of Mr James Bremner of Wick, civil-engi-
   neer.  The outer and inner basins are excavated from the
   solid rock, and, at ordinary tides, will admit vessels drawing fifteen
   feet water.
      Ecclesiastical State.-- A new and elegant church was built in 1823.
   It is centrical for the parish, but too far from Lossiemouth and
   Stotfield, where the population is rapidly increasing, and at pre
   sent constitutes the majority of inhabitants.  The church may ac-
   commodate 700.  Most of the sittings are free, and rent only
   exacted where there is a competition for front seats.   The
   manse, though old, is in decent and comfortable condition.   The
   glebe is six acres in extent, and would rent at L. 9 or L. 10 Ster-
   ling.  The stipend is 15 chalders.  There are no chapels of ease,
   nor chapels of any denomination.  The parish church is well at-
   tended.  There are but few Dissenters, and these attend some
   of the Seceding or Dissenting chapels at Elgin.
      Education.-- Education is at a very low ebb.  The parochial
   school is on the western part of the parish, nearly three miles from
   the populous villages of Lossiemouth and Stotfield, where a school
   is much needed.  Till some endowment is obtained for a teacher,
   there, no man properly qualified will accept of the office.  The
   parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary.
      One charitable institution deserves to be recorded.  It took


