
                        EDINBURGH.                         729

exertions of Provost Drummond, who spared no labour in accumu-
lating the necessary funds. In 1750, Dr Kerr bequeathed to it
L. 200 a-year from property in Jamaica; and in 1755, a donation
of L. 8000 was given by government for the expense attending the
reception of sick soldiers. In this year also, a ward was fitted up
for the reception of sick servants belonging to families in the town
and neighbourhood, which proved a great convenience, and en-
hanced the value of the institution in public estimation.
   The building is of capacious size, consisting of a central part
210 feet long, with two wings at each end projecting forward 70
feet. There are three stories, with attics, and a dome in the
centre. In the entrance-hall is a bust of Provost Drummond, by
Nollekins; a large staircase leads from this hall to the different
wards. These wards are divided into those for males and those
for females; and the number of beds amounts to 400.
   In addition to the original building, a surgical hospital was
lately formed of the Old High School buildings, and an entry
made from the Infirmary. This hospital contains wards for sur-
gical patients and an operating theatre. A fever hospital has
also been formed from the building in Surgeons' Square, formerly
the Hall of the College of Surgeons. A lock-hospital, which
formerly occupied one of the wards of the Infirmary, is now also
removed to apartments in Surgeons' Square.
   The direction of the Infirmary is under a board of twelve ordi-
nary managers, including the president of the College of Physi-
cians, with a treasurer, accountants and clerk.
   At the first institution of the Infirmary, and for many years af-
terwards, the members of the College of Surgeons attended in
rotation, and performed the surgical duties of the hospital. This
privilege, for which the surgeons had originally stipulated, was at
length found inconvenient, and in many respects prejudicial to
the institution; and after protracted disputes and litigation, the
question was at last decided in favour of the absolute patronage
of the managers in this respect. The medical attendants are now
appointed by the managers, and consist of four ordinary attending
physicians, who take charge of the medical wards; of four con-
suiting surgeons, of three acting surgeons, and two assistant sur-
geons, besides three physicians' clerks and three surgeons' clerks,
who constantly reside in the house; a pathologist, an apothecary,
a chaplain, matrons, cupper, and chief porter. The professors of
surgery and clinical surgery in the university are, ex officio, per-


