
     Statistical Account

   The people are in general industrious, and where their
interest is concerned, they have address sufficient for ob-
taining or preserving it.  Suspicion among themselves in
transacting business, and design covered by an affected sim-
plicity towards superiors are perhaps sometimes discernible.
Compared with the times which are honoured with the
character of pure, the vices which now appear are fewer
and less attrocious.  Like every other community, ours
consists of a mixture of characters.  Justice requires it to be
told, that much civility, kindness, integrity, and candour,
are practised by many.

<FOOTNOTE>

The kirk of Kilmaurs was founded a college by Sir William Cuning-
hame of Kilmaurs the 13th of May 1403, and endowed by him with cer-
tain lands, for the support of a provost, seven prebendaries, and two singing-
boys.  It is difficult to determine where these lands lay; part of them,
it is probable, are now the property of James Watson, Esq; merchant,
Greenock.  The tower, of which this gentleman is the proprietor, has been
an high strong built house, consisting of several apartments, and is separated
from the church by a garden, laid out with excellent taste, especially of
the kind which is favourable to retirement and meditation.  This of all
other places in the parish, is best suited to the convenience of the clergy.
It is therefore most likely they had this for their residence.  The lands
contiguous, consisting of 80 acres nearly, less or more, pay no tend either
to the titular or minister; and no reason can be assigned for this, unless
that they are church-lands, belonging originally to the Cistertian order.
There was a mill, called the prebendary mill, immediately in the neigh-
bourhood of the lands now mentioned, to which a district of the parish
was thirled, and the multures were paid for behoof of the prebendaries.
The religious house of Kilmaurs, it is said, was annexed to the abbey
of Selkirk, afterward Roxburgh, now Kelso.  The church itself must
have undergone many alterations, if it is not altogether new since its
first erection.  There is nothing magnificent either m its size or structure.
The only remarkable thing about it, is a burying place and monument
belonging to the family of Glencairn.  The monument has been executed
at very considerable expense, but it is now in a state of shameful disre-
pair.  It is open to every idle and thoughtless visitor, who takes plea-
sure in demolishing the carved work: It is the only interest which


