
			MINNIGAFF.                            139

wages are very low, and those employed are in very depressed cir-
cumstances.
	There is a tan-work at Creebridge, at which three individuals
are engaged. There are two mills in the parish, one on the Cree
at Minnigaff, for flour, meal, and barldy, a very extensive build-
ing; and the other, on a small burn on the boundary of the pa-
rish with Kirkmabreck, at Greddock, for meal and barley.
	Navigation.--The Palnure is navigable for a short distance;
and there is a small quay at Palnure bridge, at which vessels of
60 tons may load and discharged. The exports are, grain, pota-
toes, bark, timber, hoops, staves; and the imports, coal, lime,
bone-manure, and slate.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--There is no market-town in the parish, and
the nearest is Newton-Stewart, on the opposite bank of the Cree.
	Village.--The village of Minnigaff is situated on a low piece of
ground, at the confluence of the Penkill and Cree. It appears
to be a place of some antiquity, and, long before Newton-Stewart
existed, was of considerable importances,--weekly markets hav-
ing been held, and where the Synod of Galloway occasionally
met. It is now reduced to little more than a dozen houses, and
nearly one-half of its inhabitants are paupers. It possesses little
external attraction, though, through the exertions of Lady Heron
Maxwell, it has assumed a more cleanly appearance. About a
quarter of a mile below the village, a street has been formed, and
a number of excellent houses erected,--which bears the name of
Creebridge.
	Means of Communication.--The post town is Newton-Stewart,
and letters are delivered in Minnigaff twice a-day. The great road
from Portpatrick to Dumfries passes for four miles through the
parish. An excellent turnpike road has been formed to New Gal-
loway. The road from Ayrshire by Straiton passes for a number
of miles through the upper part of the parish, and has proved of
incalculable benefit. The legth of the turnpike roads in the
parish is 23 miles, and of parish roads 30 miles. The mail from
Dumfries to Portpatrick passes and repasses daily. A mail-coach
to Ayr by Girvan arrives and departs every day; and another to
Stranraer, by Wigton, Garlieston, and Whithorn, leaves Newton-
Stewart every morning.
	An elegant bridge of five arches, built of granite, with freestone
parapets, has been erected over the Cree. A bridge was built a


