
198                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

and may be what are called British Fortifications; many of them
still retain the name of Castle. In breaking up some of these in
the lower part of the parish, especially at Castlehill and Cairn-
hill, opposite the manse, urns have been found containing human
bones and ashes. Some of these urns were in a good state of
preservation.
	There appear to be some Druidical remains on the farm of
Whiteholm, the property of Mr Swan. They consist of seven
erect stones, forming a semicircle, and are by the common people
called the Seven Brethren. Among these remains, bones have
been found; but whether human or not, has not been ascertained.
About a mile distant from these remains, on the property be-
longing to the same gentleman, there existed until lately two cairns
of pretty large dimensions; and there was one of similar form and
size also on the estate of Grange. When the stones were car-
ried away for building fences and other purposes, there were found
in the heart of them human skeletons, contained in something re-
sembling stone coffins.
	In the neighbourhood of that on the property of Mr Swan, there
are several tumuli resembling graves.

<TABLE=Population>
                        III.-POPULATION.
	The population, as ascertained by Census of 1801, was      484
                                                 of 1811,          522
                                                 of 1821,          518
                                                 of 1831,          530 *
1. Number of families in the parish,                                           97
	  of families chiefly employed in agriculture,                         47
                      chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, or handicraft,  23
2. Number of unmarried men, bachelors or widowers, upwards of 50 years of age, 13
           of unmarried women, including widows, upwards of 45,                 7
	There were lately 9 persons above eighty years of age, 3 of whom
were in their eighty-fifth year, and 1, a female, in her eighty-sixth
year, all in the tipper district of the parish. Several individuals
have been known, within the memory of the present gener`tion,
to have reached their ninetieth year and upwards.
	The number of proprietors of land of L.50 a-year in value,
and upwards, is 19 or 20. The total number of proprietors in
the parish is 27, of whom 13 are resident.
        Character of the People.-The people in general are sober and
industrious; seem satisfied with their condition and circumstances;


<FOOTNOTE>The difference betwixt the population as here stated, and the account of it as
given in when the census was last taken, may be owing to the season of the year when
the two accounts were taken.


