
132                           KINCARDINESHIRE.

build a new village on the estate of Johnston, which he had re-
cently purchased, and, in 1779, he got the village erected, by
royal charter, into a burgh of barony, and; on occasion of present-
ing the charter, he addressed "a Letter to the people of Laurence-
kirk," afterwards published, in which he gave them salutary ad-
monitions as to their conduct, strongly exhorting them to culti-
vate habits of industry, frugality, and sobriety. It was chiefly at
his expense, that, during his lifetime, an Episcopal cliapel was
built, for the minister of which he provided an endowment. Other
two public buildings were erected, of which the one is now used
partly as a mason lodge, and partly as a town-hall, and the other
formed a neat library adjacent to a very commodious inn. In va-
rious other ways, he took an active interest in promoting the pros-
perity of the burgh, the inhabitants of which reached the number of
500 before his death in 1793.
	The most eminent individual connected with the parish by birth,
is Dr James Beattie, Professor of Moral Philosophy in Marischal
College, Aberdeen, and author of "The Minstrel," and of "the
Essay on Truth." He was born in 1735, on the farm of Borrow-
muirhills, which is closely adjoining to the village of Laurence-
kirk, and of which his father was at that time tenant, and the
descendants of a sister of Beattie are still in posrersion. His ne-
phew, James Beattie, Professor of Natural History in Marischal
College, was likewise a native of this parish. It is also worthy of
note, as connected with the history of this parish that, for the
third part of a century, it was under the pastoral care of Dr
George Cook, the eminent historian of the Church of Scotland,
who was ordained minister of Laurencekirk in 1795, and remained
till 1828, when he became Professor of Moral Philosophy in the
University of St Andrews.
	Land-owners.--The land-owners among whom the property of
the parish is divided, are four. The Earl of Kintore, to whom,
as lord Falconer of Haulkerton, * extensive estates belong in this

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers in his Caledonia, Vol. i. p. 541, says, "The Falconers of Haulkerton
derive their origin from Walter, who obtained from David I. the lands of Lonkyir,
(Lumgair, parish of Dunottar,) in the Mearns. His son, Ranulph, was appointed
Falconer by William the Lion, who gave him Luthra, Balbegno, (parih of Fetter-
cairn,) and other lands," near the Castle of Kincardine, (parish of Fordoun,) where
King William often resided. From this office he assumed the name of Falconer.
Among the lands thus acquired by the family, those of Haulkerton (as the name it-
self may seem to indicate) appear, to have been part. By intermarriages and other-
wise, the lands belonging to the family, were, in succeeding times , extended in this
neighbourhood. It was in 1540 that they obtained the barony of Middleton in this
parish, of which they are also still in possession. In 1647, the representative of the fa-
mily was created Lord Haulkerton, and in 1778, by female descent, Anthony Adrian,
the eighth Lord Falconer, became fifth Earl of Kintore.--See Douglas's Peerage.


