

832                          PERTHSHIRE.

Boethius's History of Scotland, 1500, is supposed by some to refer.
The battle of Luncarty Having been turned against the Danes by
Hay and his two sons, Boethius says, 'Sone eft ane counsal was
set at Scone, in the quhilk Hayand his sonnis war maid nobil and vot-
ed for thair singular virtew provin in the field, with sindry landis to
sustene thair estait.  It is said that he askit fra the king certane
lands (quhilk he knew richt plentuous afore) liand betwix Tay and
Arrol, end gat as mekil thairof as ane falcon flew of ane mann's
hand or sho lichtit.  The falcon flew to ane toun four miles frae
Dundee, called Rosse, and lichtit on ane stane, quhilk is yet callit
the falcon stane, and sa be gat all the landes betwixt Tay and
Arrol, six miles of length, and four of breid, which landis are yet
inhabit by his posteritie."
   Another large stone, similar to the former, lies on the hill to
the north of the priory, said to be of Druidical origin.  Another
is to be found near the church at Rosrie.  Another is spoken
of as having been near Castlehill, and another near the castle of
Moncur.
   Castlehill, and Baledgarno, the village lying at its base, are de-
serving of peculiar notice under this head.  The author just
quoted from, tells us that the castle which, doubtless, once
stood on the eminenbe alluded to, and which gave rise to the name
the village beside it still bears, was founded by Edgar, fourth son
of Malcolm and. St Margaret, who was anointed King, of Scotland
by, Lodovick, Bishop of St Andrews, in 1001,-of whom be says,
"he had na uncouth waris nor trubyl in his dayis, and governit his
realme in gude peace, and was haldin in mair veneration than ter-
rour amang his peppl;" also, that it was repaired by Alexander,
his brother, who succeeded him, who is represented as building the
Abbey of Scone of Canons regular, and dedicating it to the
honour Of the Trinity and St Michael;-also the Abbey of
Canons regular in honour of St Colme, and completing the Ab-
bey of Dunfermline, besides endowing the Abbey of St Colme,
and the convent thairof, as well-as the church of St Andrews.
   The castle, he expressly says, was "foundit by Edgar in Gow-
ry, wha gat certane landis fra the Erle of Gowry, and annexit his
name to the castle."  And some of its foundations and pavements
have been met with, in preparing for the erection of the buildings
now standing on its site.
   The only other antiquity of interest is the Castle of Moncur,


