
			     PARISH OF GLENBERVIE.

		PRESBYTERY OF FORDOUN, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

		      THE REV. JAMES DRUMMOND, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Boundaries, &c.--The parish of Glenbervie, anciently Over-
bervie, is situated nearly in the centre of thd Mearns,--bounded
on the west, by the water of Bervie and Fordoun; on the east, by
Dunnottar and Fetteresso; on the south and south-east, by Ar-
buthnott; and on the north, by the hills of Strachan and Durris.
It reaches 6 1/2 miles from north to south, and 5 from east to west.
	Topographical Appearances.--It may be divided into three dis-
tricts. That which lies along the water of Bervie is separated
from the middle district by a sort of ravine, and consists of kindly
productive early soil, is diversified by sloping banks and swelling
grounds, and though but ill clothed with wood, and almost desti-
tute of hedge or hedge-row, shelter or screen, is not unpleasing to
the view.
	That part of this district which joins Arbuthnott on the south-
east is bounded by a sand-bank, provincially called the Kames,
rising abruptly from the level on both sides, as if it had been cast
up by human art,--though from the regular strata it contains, it has
obviously been the effect of some water-course; yet the similar
acclivity of each side might incline one to suppose that some con-
vulsion had aided in throwing up the girdling mound.
	Soil.--The middle district contains two very different qualities
of soil. Its western division is considerably elevated, bleak in ap-
pearance, little cultivated, almost neglected. Its eastern division,
though also high and exposed, is fertile, fast improving, and a great
part under good husbandry.
	The northern district, which lies along a low ridge of the Gram-
pians, is generally under the plough. The soil is colder and more
tenacious than that of the south, while its lateness and want of en-
closures give it an unfavourable appearance.
	There is still a small district included in the parish, which lies
farther north, on the water of Cowie. It is separated from the


