
                      PARISH OF KINROSS.

          PRESBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FIFE.

          THE REV. GEORGE BUCHANAN, D. D. MINISTER.


           I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--THE name was formerly written Kynross or Kynrosse.
The word is of Gaelic origin, signifying the head of the promontory,
and referring to the position of the parish at the extremity of a point
of land running into the lake. This seems to be a better explanation
of the name of the town and parish than that assigned in the former
Statistical Account, viz. that it stands at the head of that tract lying
betwixt the Friths of Forth and Tay, which had the appellation
of Ross or the Peninsula. The etymology now given has the
sanction of Christopher Irvine, whore work, entitled Histori&,
Scotica- Nomenclatura, contains these words: " Kinrossium. The
town of Kinross, lying at the beginning or head of a point of land
that runneth into the west side of Loehleven, and this is the rea-
son of its name in, the old language." (See his work, p. 117, Edin-
burgh, 1683.)
  Extent, &c.--The parish of Kinross hardly extends 4 miles in
length from east to west, and 3 1/2  from south to north, and con-
tains about 14 square miles. It is bounded on the east by the
lake, (which leaves only a suiall portion of land betwixt it and
the town,) and part of the parish of Orwell; on the south, by an
angle of the parish of Portmoak and by the parish of Cleish; on
the west, by the united parish of Tullibole and Fossaway - and on
the north, by that of Orwell. It forms a sort of trapezium.
  There are no eminences within the parish to which the appel-
lation of mountains, or even of hills, can in strict propriety be ap-
plied, and hence its area is often called the laigh or level of Kin-
ross, presenting, in this respect, a striking contrast to the heights
of the four adjoining parishes. The surface of Lochleven is 360
feet and odds above the level of tbe sea; but the most elevated
portion of the parish is not I00 feet above the surface of the lake.
  Meteorology.--The altitude of the parish, the range of the
Cleish and Oehil hills skirting it both on the south and north, and
  KINROSS.                            A


