
     of Avoch.

shoals, which now and then come near to our shores, in the
manner that all the hands do at present.*
     4 L 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Messra Falls of Dunbar, were, for many years, the principal adventu-
rers in the herring fishery here:  And from them the Avoch men met with
very good encouragement.  Since the unfortunate failure of that old and re-
spectable house, the Northumberland or Beadnel Fishing Company have
taken up part of this business, in which an established company, with a good
capital, have a far better chance of success than small adventurers, who can-
not afford to lay in a proper stock of salt and barrels, much less to keep them
unused in unfavourable seasons.  At this station, indeed, the herring fishing,
on the present plan, has been found, for some years past, to be but a preca-
tious concern.  One successful winter tempted many of the neighbouring
shopkeepers to embark in it:  And those who did so with borrowed money,
have mostly become bankrupts since.  To secure the important national bene-
fits of this trade, every reasonable encouragement should be given to both the
fisherman and curers.
   The fishing boats used here are of a small size; their keel being only 26 or
27 feet in length; the mouth from 30 to 32 feet long, and 10 feet wide.-
The depth is so proportioned to these dimensions, as that they may sail well, and
may carry, besides the crew and their fishing tackle, 3 or 4 tons safely.  Six
of these boats, wrought by seven men each, for the white fishing, and two or
three smaller ones or yawls, occupied by old men and boys, belong to the
place During the herring season, they fit out a good many more, as four
men, with a boy to steer, serve this purpose, and they then hire some addi-
tional hands from the country.  When the season here proves successful, the
fishing boats of Nairn, Delnies, Campbeltown, and Petty, join them; and
some likewise from Easter Ross, Cromarty, Rosemarky, Fortrose, and Kes-
sock; so that, even in this upper part of the Frith, 60 or 80 herring boats,
containing above 300 men, may be seen at times, plying together on the same
stream.  But such crowds are thought to be rather prejudicial to the business,
in clear shallow water like this, as the herrings often suddenly disappear from
them, and it is strongly suspected, that a multitude of boats and nets tends
to frighten them away.
   The quantity of canvas carried by the Avoch men, and some others in this
neighbourhood, is very much disproportioned to the small size and burden of
their boats.  The length of the mast is generally above 30 feet.  On this,


