
	               SORN.                               131

sandstone becomes less indurated, and better fitted for being
wrought into building stones.
	In the holms, on the banks of the river Ayr, the soil is of a
gravellish nature. On the higher ground it is generally reddish
clay, and near the hills it assumes a mossy character until it ter-
minates in moss. Underneath parts of this moss, however, there
is in many places a substratum of clay, which, when ploughed up
and mixed with a liberal portion of lime, produces excellent crops
of oats and a beautiful sward of grass.
	Zoology.--There are no rare animals found in the parish. There
is in it a great abundance of hares and rabbits. It is only with-
in these few years that rabbits first made their appearance in the
parish in a wild state, but to such an extent have they increased,
as in several instances to prove injurious to the crops and planta-
tions. The fox, polecat, and weasel, white and brown, are all to
be met with in the parish.
	The adder abounds in the moors and mosses.
	Birds of all kinds peculiar to the district abound in the parish.
In consequence of the great additions which have been made to
the plantations Of late years, the number of birds has greatly in-
creased, and they are now very destructive to the farms and gar-
dens. Game birds of all kinds are also to be found in great
numbers in the moors, fields, and plantations. Of late, there has
been a great increase of pheasants, which are now frequently to
be seen running upon the public roads in considerable numbers.
Black-cock too have increased lately on the high grounds, but
have not, as in other districts, displaced the red grouse, which still
abound in the parish.
	The fresh water trout, which at one time abounded in the river
Ayr, but which had for a number of years disappeared in conse-
quence of the tar-works at Muirkirk, now that these works have
been discontinued, have again returned, and are caught in abun-
dance in the Ayr, as it flows through Sorn and the adjacent pa-
rishes.
	Botany.--There is nothing in the botany of this parish worthy
of particular notice. An eminent botanist, who examined its vege-
table productions lately, was unable to discover any plants but
such as are to be found in other districts; the appearance and
vegetable reductions of the banks of the Ayr, from Sorn village
to Catrine, being in his opinion similar to those of the banks of
the, Esk on the east coast.


