
     of Kilmalie.

and, a little below the site of Torecastle, there is a most beau-
tiful walk, about a quarter of a mile long, that still retains his
name.  Along this sweet walk, on the one hand, flows the
Lochy; on the other, there is a delightful bank, which is at pre-
sent planted with fir, and which was then, undoubtedly, covered,
with stately wood.  There is still remaining, of this building,
a wall of 40 or 50 feet, and a vault, almost entire, which
could be converted into an excellent cellar.  Of old, when
fire arms were unknown, it certainly was a very strong place.
It stands on the brink of a frightful precipice, at the bottom
of which the river forces its passage through rocks, and has
been secured on the land side, by a ditch and draw-bridge.
The traces of the ditch are still very visible*.  On the side of
the glen, opposite to the south west part of Benevis, lie sca-
tered in ruins, the last vestiges of a very ancient building,
which, in a few years hence, will be entirely demolished, by-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Out of the face of the rock, on which the ruins stand, grows an aged ve-
nerable ash, luxariant in branches, where a pair of crows had nestled, and con-
tinued to batch for a number of years.  But, of late, the nest has been overturn-
ed, from real wantonness, and its inhabitants scared away.-Many things con-
cur to make this a scene of mixed pleasure and grandeur.  Below, there is a
black deep gulph, that makes the heart recoil; the roar of the water, foaming
and forcing its way amidst rocks, has a wonderful effect upon the mind, while
the salmon are seen struggling against its streams.  Upon the other side of the
river, are beheld lambs skipping along its banks, while the heath is covered with
sheep, which inspire pleasantness and gaiety.  At some distance, Benevis seems to
threaten the neighbouring hills with destruction.  Here and there, are seen some
plots of arable ground, and the corn changing its colour from green to yellow.
The golden rays of the setting sun, glittering on the water, and darting through
the green boughs, heighten the picturesque scenery.  A few yards father down the
river, there is a small island, that is covered with large ancient fir, where a vast
number of herons nestle, whose noise is heard at a considerable distance.  A scene
in which the heart, the mind, and the imagination, are at once interested, is sure-
ly no mean object.  Within a few yards of this ruinous castle the present, mi-
nister of the parish resides, There are a number of tumuli in the parish.


