
		     PARISH OF CLOSEBURN.

           PRESBYTERY OF PENPONT, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

                THE REV. ANDREW BENNET, MINISTER.

	    I--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--CLOSEBURN, to which the extensive pa-
rish, of Dalgarno was united in the end of the seventeenth century,
was anciently called Kilosbern, from Cella Osburni. It is 10
miles in extreme length, and 7 1/2 in extreme breadth. It is bound-
ed on the north by Morton and Crawfurd, on the east by Kirk-
michael and Kirkpatrick-Juxta, on the south by Kirkmahoe,and
on the west by Keir, from which it is separated by the river Nith.
From the great quantity of secondary sandstone strata, and water-
worn gravel, to the depth in many parts of nearly 20 feet, the
valley of Closeburn, comprehending, besides the western part of
this parish, portions, of other parishes, has in all probability been
a lake, the water issuing from its lower level, or south extremity,
having in the course of time worn away the restraining barrier.
In confirmation of this opinion I may mention, that the rising
grounds at the south end of the valley are separated from each
other by the channel of the Nith.  What must have been the
bottom of the lake is a fine alluvial or carse soil.  The higher le-
vel of the parish, before the ascent of the transition hills, is in ge-
neral water-worn gravel upon freestone.
	Topographical Appearances.--The valley of Closeburn is one
of the valleys situated in the mountain range, chieffy of transition
rock, which runs across the island from the German to the Atlan-
tic Ocean. The highest hill in the parish is Queensberry, the
summit of which is 2140 feet above the sea. It was called Queens-
berry, not, as has been supposed, from a species of berry which
grows upon it, but from the Anglo-Saxon, berg, a hill, which is
often formed into berry. It is most appropriately designated the
queen of hills, being one of the highest in the south of Scotland.
	Climate.--It might be supposed that the proximity of this dis-



