
84                       UDINBURGHSHIRE.

Those. formerly known by the name of Ratho Bank, consist-
ing of three parts of the Abthan of Ratho, which at one time,
belonged to Sir James Fleming of Ratho. Byres, and another part
of. the said Abthan of Ratho, all lying within the barony of Kirk-
liston, regality of St Andrews, and sheriffdom of Fife, which whole
lands subsequently belonged to Sir W. A. Cunningbarn of Living-
ston, Bart., and were by him disposed in 1779 to George Reid, Esq.
of Balerno, which was succeeded by his grandson, G. Reid, Esq.
by whom, in 1819, they were disponed to the late George Veitch,
W. S. from whose trustees they were, in 1829, purchased by the
present, proprietor. 2. The lands of Marylands, which originally
formed part of the estate of Ratho. 3. The remaining portion of
the estate of Ratho, lying on the north side of the,Edinburgh and
Glasgow Vnion , Canal, and extending from Marylands to the pa-
rish church, was lately added by Mr Brown.
   These lands, now comprehended in the estate of Ashley, extend
to upwards of 250 acres, of which about ten acres are laid out in
ornamental grounds and plantations.
Ratho Byres.-This designation included anciently part of the
property of Ashley as well as the land which at present'goes by
the name of Ratho Byres. The oldest family at present holding
property in. the parish is that of the Wilkies of Ratho Byres; this
property having been,in their possession for several centuries. The
other families are comparatively of very modern standing in them,
parish.
   Old Books, Paintings, &c.-In possession of the Earl of Morton
is the Bible of his, ancestor, the Regent, supposed to be one of the
few copies now existing, if not the only complete one, of the ori-
ginal Scotch Pardiamenta Bible. It is a folio volume, printed
in a clear and beautiful type for the age, and is, like most old
Bibles, illustrated by coarse plates, representative of the different
subjects of Scripture history. It bears upon the title page to have
been printed at Edinburgh, by order of James VI. in 1579.
 Adorning the same noblemaWs residence ara originate paintings
of tbe Regent Morton and Mary Queen of Scots. It deserves to
be mentioned,as a matter of, interest that the likeness of the
Queen is sunderstood in the family to have been axecuted during
her confinement in Lochleven Castle, for George Douglas, who
assisted her escape.
 A few years age, during the operations consequent upon the
 partial draining of Lochleven, a bunch of keys were discovered,
                                3

