
                              DURNESS.                            87

bay of Balnakiel, are bars and shallows, which frequently shift
their position with north winds. This frith is little visited by ves-
sels, either for shelter or commerce. At ebb, it appears a large
field of sand, which is gradually accumulating from the debris of
the Dinard and tributary stream;. On its banks, may be frequently
seen considerable numbers of seals (Phoca vitulina,) and diffe-
rent species of shellfish. 2d, Loch Eriboll, which is about ten
miles long, with a south.-west direction, and varying from one to four
miles in breadth. Its waters are of a depth varying from fifteen to
sixty fathoms; and no perceptible current is felt, while its saltness
does not materially differ from that of the ocean. Camisendunbay,
near the ferry, is one of the best anchorages is the kingdom, and is
pretty often resorted to by vessels, unable to double Cape wrath
or attempt the Petland Fritht. The tides off Cape Wrath, Farout,
and Whiten Head are very-strong,-running about ten miles an hour.
   Springs.-As might be anticipated in such a mountainous
countryn, and where such quantities of rain fall, the springs are in-
numerable. There are several chalybeates; and those which give
a reddish colouring to the gravelly banks are reckoned salubrious by
the natives.
   Lakes are also abundant, varying from a few hundred yards to
six miles in extent. Of these, Loch Hope is the largest, being six
mies long, by one half mile broad. Its mean depth does not exceed six
fathoms. Its upper end is gradually filling up by the alluvial deposits
of Strathmore water; and its banks occasionally diversified by a few
tufts of birch. Loch Borley and Loch Craspul, near the manse,
are beautiful lakes; both of which are supplied by subterraneous
streams through the limestone rocks in the neighbourhood.  The
former is one mile long, and has a small green isle 200 yards long.
It abounds in char, which spawn in October, and are seldom or
evereaucrhtbvthefly. LocliCraspulislialfamilelon aiidabotinds
witliexcellejittrout,wliiclidonotspawntilIJantiary. Tlierearese-
veral otber lakes around the above and in the iiitei-lor,-all abound-
itig in trout, which appear reddish, dark, or silvery, according to the
clearness of the water. Among these, the largest are Dinard, the
source of the i,iver Kescaiq, and Isliour in the Parf or western
division. Jlarl has been found at Loch Borley, but has not been
aliplied to any extent for the purpose of manure.
   Rivers-The only rivers deserving notice ire the Hope and the
Dinard. The former is merely a continuation of the Strathmore
Water, which has its source from Glengollie and the contigous


