
			NEW MONKLAND.                       247

the people of Airdrie, which is situated about a mile and a-half
or two miles from the church. The manse was repaired and en-
larged in the year 1819, and is now in a comfortable state. The
glebe contains ten Scotch acres of land, but it is of inferior soil. The
stipend is 17 chalders, half meal, half barley, paid according to the
fiars of the county, besides L. 10 for communion elements. There
is a chapel of ease at Airdrie connected with the Established Church,
which contains about 650 sittings. The minister's stipend is L.120,
raised from the seat-rents. There is another chapel built in Air-
drie, fitted to accommodate 1200 sitters. There is also a small
chapel at the village of Clerkston, occupied by a preacher of the
Established Church, who preaches on Sabbath, and visits and
examines the people in the village and vicinity through the week.
The parish church, and these chapels, are in general well attend-
ed. The average number of comnunicants in the parish church is
between 1000 and 1100: and those of the Airdrie chapel are about
400 more.
	There are four Dissenting or Seceding meeting-houses in the
parish, two of which belong to the United Secession, one to the
Old Light Burghers, and one to the Old Dissenters or Cameron-
ians. Some of these meeting-houses are considerably loaded with
debt, and some of the ministers are but poorly provided for.
	Education.--The parish schoolmaster has a dwelling-house and
garden, and about L. 30 of yearly salary; his emoluments from
school fees may amount to L. 30 per annum: and for collecting
road-money, &c. he may have other L. 30. Besides the parish
school, there are four other schools in the parish, built by sub-
scription, viz. at Airdrie, Clerkston, Greengairs, and Coathill. At
Clerkston and Greengairs there are also dwelling-houses built for
the schoolmasters, but none of these have any salary. There are
also eight other schools in the parish taught by private teachers, who
depend entirely on their own exertions. In the parish school there
are taught reading, writing, Arithmetic, book-keeping, mensuration,
Latin, and Greek; but in all the other schools, reading, writing, and
Arithmetic onlv are taught. The general rate of wages is 3s. per
quarter for reading, and higher for the other branches of education.
There are about 800 scholars generally attending all the different
schools, Besides these week-day schools, there are three Sabbath
schools,--so that there are very few but may be able to read if they
choose to attend to the nmns of improvement within their reach.
	Library, &c.--In Airdrie there is a  circulating library, and also


