
     of Chirnside.

relict of David Bruce, Esq., who resided in Fife.  Of these
heritors, 3 have present resedence, William Hall, Esq. of
Whitehall, the principal proprietor, and patron of the pa-
rish, Joseph Home, Esq. of Ninewells, and the above na-
med heritor of East Mains.  The barony of Idington, in 
the beginning of this century, possessed by a Sir Andrew
Lauder, of the Valleyfield family, has been, for above 50
years back, the property of the Hays of Drummelzier,
whose present representative is Robert Hay, Esq., resi-
dent at Dunse Castle, the usual seat of his family.

   Name, etc.-The etymology of the name Chirnside,
is of somewhat difficult explication; yet if we take its
first syllable to be Gaelic, as the other is Saxon, or Eng-
lish, its import and propriety may be understood.  The
word cairn, well known to denote in Erse, the rude se-
pulchral monument of stones, raised by the Saxons and 
Danes, in honour of their warriors who fell in battle, is
written, in some specimens we have of that language,
with a ch; and, at large, charne, or chern*.

     A 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*In this orthography, if the proper one, in Erse, the change of the 
open vowel a or e, into an i, which is more mute, may be easily ac-
counted for, from the abbreviated found being most affected in common
discourse.  Chernside would be readily pronounced Chirnside.  But there 
is a difficulty in understanding how the harsh and uncouth pronunciation
of the cb could be admitted in that word, when it is generally avoided
in the dialect of the country.  The fact is, that, although the book-
learned, and better fort, do adopt it, the common people almost univer-
sally agree in its rejection.  They pronounce Shirnside, as (turning the
ch into an sl) they do in shance, shoice, shair, shopio, sheefe, etc. etc.
And even although they often hear the English pronunciation of church,
they can make no more of it than surch.  The name of Shirnside, or
Chernside, therefore applied to the village, may be presumed to signify
a town, or place hard by the chern, or kern; the ch in the Saxon al-
phabet being founded often like a k.


