
     of Borthwick.

   The east wing of the old church has at one time un-
doubtedly been the altar, and afterward converted into
family burying ground; and there lies in armour one of the
name of Borthwick, with his lady by him, and numbers
of little elegant human figures around them.
   On the property of Mr Brown of Currie, there have
been a great many heaps of small stones, which, in almost
every part of Scotland, are well known by the name of
cairns.  These are evidently sepulchral monuments; and
as a multitude could rear them in haste, such artless me-
thod of perpetuating the memory of chiefs slain in battle,
seems to have been universally adopted by the different

<FOOTNOTE>

ten after the number of the King, dated at Edinburgh, on the 18th No-
vember 1650, and addressed thus:

     "To the Governor of Borthwick Castle there.
   "Sir,
"I thought sitt to send this trumpet to you, to lett you know, that, if
"you please to walk away with your Company, and deliver the house
"to such as I shall send to receive it, you shall have liberty to carry off
"your armes and goods, and such other necessaries as you have.  You
"have harboured such parties in your house as have bately unhumanely
"murdered our men; if you necessitate me to bend my cannon against
"you, you must expect what I doubt you will not be pleased with. I
"expect your present answer,

     "and rest your servant, O. Cromwell."

   A surrender was the consequence of this peremptory summons, but the
besieged seem to have made a bold stand, for, upon seeing no appearance
of relief.  Lord Borthwick obtained very honourable terms of capitulation,
viz, liberty to march out with his Lady and family unmolested, and 15
days allowed to remove his effects. Notwithstanding the waste of time,
the grand appearance of this princely edifice still sills the mind of the
beholder with a sort of veneration, and the windings of the water and
adjacent woods and corn fields, form altogether a scene most beautiful
and pictureique.


