
                              WICK.                     127

   From three to four hundred acres in the strath of Stirkoke are
covered to the depth of from three to five feet, with an alluvial and
loamy soil, which has evidently been brought by the River of Wick
in repeated floods from the parish of Wattin. This track is one
of the richest meadows for the grazing of cattle in Caithness, but
is subject to frequent inundations. On the banks of the Hauster
Water, and, in several other places, a deep covering of detritus
and shale is to be met with.  These contain many fragmentary
remains of ostraceous shells, which are found at a height of from
100 to 150 feet above the level of the sea.
  Though the soil is in some places light and sandy and in other
places rich and loamy, yet in by far the greater part of the parish
it consists of a stiff hard clay, produced by the decomposition of
the clay-slate. In general, the subsoil is composed of a close,
retentive, gravelly clay, mixed with fragments of slate not yet de-
composed, and resting on the surface of the flagstone or clay-slate.
This construction retains the moisture which, along with the hu-
midity of the climate, renders the soil not merely damp, but in
many places wet, and thus offers the greatest obstacle to the im-
provement of the land.
  Botany.-The two Scottish heaths, Erica cinerea, heather, and
E. tetralix, bell-Heatber, abound on tbe moors, A purely white
variety of the former is occasionally found.  The bilberry, Vac-
cinium myrtillus, blaeberry; the Empetrum nigrum, cranberry;
the black bear-berry, Arbutus alpina; and the red bearberry, A.
Uva ursi, may likewise be found on heathery banks And heights.
Myrica gale, the Scottish myrtle, is occasionally found shedding
its agreeable perfume across an impassable bog. One of the
most elegant of our indigenuos flowers, the birds'-eye primrose,
Primula farinosa,- called also from its flowering in April and Au-
gust Primula Scotica, the Scottish primrose, adorns, with its
lovely little purple flowers, the savage heights of the coast of the
Moray Frith. It is also called the powdered beau, from the white
dust which plentifully covers the under side of the petals. The
primrose, Primula veris, is found on the burn sides. A very
dwarfish species of willow may be met with creeping among
the heather im wet places. Orchidaceous flowers, baldairies, in,
great variety abound. The Links of Keiss are begemmed in the
season with the beautiful little white flower of Parnassus, Parnassia
palustris. White and red clovers are indigenous;  the former


