
294                         ARGYLESHIRE.

L.5.  The teachers of the Assembly's school and of the Gaelic
Auxiliary School have each about L.20 of a salary.  The teacher
of the subscription school is boarded by the parents of the scholars in
rotation, and receives a few pounds of money as wages.  None of
the teachers realizes more than L. 5 per annum by the quarter
fees.  These fees, in the parochial schools, which regulate the
others, are as follows : for reading, 1s. 6d. per quarter ; for writ-
ing, 2s.; and for arithmetic, 2s. 6d.
   As the maximum salary is given and divided among several
teachers, the Schoolmaster's Act, as it is at present interpreted,
renders it not compulsory on the heritors to give any accommo-
dations, or even to build school-houses.  The consequence is,
that there is not a proper parochial school-house in the whole pa-
rish.  The children in the depth of winter are often up to the
ancles in water, and frequently the teaching of them is interrupt-
ed altogether, when the ill-thatched hovels allotted to them as
school-houses are stripped bare by high winds.  This shows a de-
fect in the Act which loudly calls for its revision.  If advantage
continue to be taken of the 11th clause of the Act, which ex-
empts the heritors, in those parishes where the salary is divided,
from building even school-houses, it would be more for the inte-
rest of education to have them assessed in the minimum salary only.
For one teacher, having a proper school-house, would surely do
more good in a parish than any number without places to teach
in.  The legal accommodations with the whole parochial stent
would secure the services of a well qualified persons.  Boys of
promising parts would be sent from the remotest parts of the parish
to attend the school, and an opportunity would thus be afforded
them of receiving that measure of education which would enable
them to emerge from obscurity.  Whereas at present the bright-
est genius may remain undiscovered for want of the means of bring-
ing it to light.  The part of the parish in which the school would
be placed would undoubtedly have the chief benefit of it; but it
would not absorb it all.  The school would emit a beneficial influ-
ence that would reach to the farthest off corner of the parish.  Un-
der a proper schoolmaster, so many good scholars would be formed
in the school, that the parents of children, in the remote parts of the
parish, could easily find boys, with higher qualifications than the
present teachers, who would be ready to engage as teachers to
their children for little more than they receive at present for act-
ing as herds.  It is to be hoped that some of the heritors who


