
     Of Clackmannan.

ary rewards are given to the next best, according to their
merit.  Nothing of this kind had been hitherto known in
Scotland; but the example has been  followed in many
parts of the country, and with much success.
   Beans are sown here as soon in the month of February
as the weather permits; oats immediately after, and bar-
ley from the 20th of April to the 20th of May: wheat is
sown from the 15th of September to the end of October,
and sometimes during the two following months; though
it seldom turns out well after the middle of November.
Harvest commences about the middle of August, and
sometimes continues to the end of October.  The average
produce on the best lands, when the mode above mention-
ed is followed, may be computed at 10 bolls of wheat
from the acre, 7 of beans, 7 of barley, and 8 of oats*,
and 300 stone of hay, Dutch weight.  There have been
instances, however, of much greater increase, particular-
ly of wheat and oats, even to the extent of 15 bolls the

     4 I 2

<FOOTNOTE>

of Clackmannan, gained the first prize at the first of these ploughing
matches.  In summer 1793, he was sent for to his Majesty's farm at
Windsor, where it was expected he was to continue.  He carried a plough
with him from Scotland, and began his work in presence of his Majesty,
and a number of noblemen and gentlemen.  It was acknowledged, that
land so well ploughed had never before been seen in that country.  Next
morning, however, instead of going to his work, as he was desired the
preceding evening, he was told, "Not to go near the king's farm at
"Windsor, on any account whatever, nor to have the smallest inter-
"couse with any of his Majesty's farm servants."  After receiving a
reward for his trouble, he left his plough, by special desire, and returned
to Scotland.  It is difficult to conceive, how, in this instance, the jea-
lousy of the English ploughmen prevented the salutary effects intended by
this instructor.
* Stirlingshire sirlot is used here for oats and barley; Linlithgow for
wheat; and a sirlot for beans and prease, about a peck in the boll larger
than the Linlithgow wheat sirlot.


