
               NEILSTON.                             325

moment in Neilston parish. The events of that ' week will long be
remembered by many. The whol6 of the West of Scotland was in
agitation and alarm, save NeitStOD, which was comparatively quiet,
peaceable, and orderly.
This effect we mention with exultation, as an instance of the in-
fltience of the pulpit, and the necessity of having not only an ac-
tive and Gospel ministry, but also an Established Church suffi-
ciently large to admit a considerable number of the parishioners
for hearing divine service.
Eminent Men.-The eminent men connected with this parish
in ancient times have already been noticed. Those in recent times
are scanty; yet a few have arisen who have done honour to them-
selves and their native place. The whole of the talented family
of the Mures of Caldwell have their family crypt or vault here.'
The ltte Baron Mure, who was eminent in his dav, was a Baron
of Exchequer, Member of Parliament for ReDfrewshire, a pro-
found lawyer, and an eloquent man, long the Melville for Scot-
land, was born and buried here. His grandson, the present Co-
lonel Mure of Caldwell, promises to be his superior in literary
fame. His 11 Disertatioti on the Calendar and Zodiac of Ancient
Egypt," exhibits profound research and extensive reading, and
places him high as an astronomer, and eminent as a scholar. His
worth, talents, and literary acquireinents must soon raise him high
in his country's estimation, and give him a name and, a place in
society to which his birth and accomplishments deservedly entitle
him.
The late George Monteath, M. D., son of Dr Monteath, for-
merly of Neilston, now of Houston, is another individual of whom
the parish has reason to be proud. His attainments in science
were considerable; but it was in his profession where his great
powers were seen and appreciated. His knowledge of the struettirl-
of the eye and its diseases, was minute and extensive, ahd his many
operations upon it eminently successful. His quick perception and
discrimination of disease was the admiration of his brethren in the
profession, and gained for him a well-earned reputation. He died
early in life, in the midst of extensive practice, honoured, respect-
ed, and regretted by all who knew him.
We might say all this of his great rival, Dr William Young,
who was born in the same village, and about the same time, and
started with birn in the same professional race. This very 'distin-
guished individual is now enjoying in Glasgow the most extensive


