
                          SELKIRK.

few hands.  A tannage, on a small scale, stands about a mile east
of the town.  The principal mansion-houses are those of Hain-
ing, Bowhill, Sunderlandhall, and Broadmeadows.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

   The number of inhabitants in the early part of last century,   1700
   In 1755, according to Dr. Webster                              1793
   In 1811,                                                       2422
   In 1821,                                                       2696
   In 1831,                                                       2833

   The number of families is 637; of individuals employed in agri-
culture as occupies of labourers, 186; in trade, manufactures, and
handicraft, 280; of professional and other educated men, 50; of
labourers not employed in agriculture, 77.
   The increase of the population has been owing the country
mostly to the improved state of agriculture, and the town to the
few manufactories,-the opening of roads, and the greater quantity
of employment afforded by the landed proprietors.  In the burgh,
the increase might have been yet greater, had not the restrictions on
trade, `nd jealousy of the burghers, forced many young men with
small capitals to places more open to enterprise.  In 1755, three-
fifths of the population resided in the town, and the reminder in
the country.  In the town population at present is 1800, in the
country 1033.  the number of deaths for the last seven years is
51; of marriages for the same time, 22.
   The number of proprietors of land in the yearly
value of L. 50 and upwards is 15.
   Habits and character of the People.-The habits of the people
are cleanly, their houses comfortable, and kept in good order; while
their dress, without manifesting any peculiarity, is much attended
to.  Strangers invariably remarks then eat and decent appearance
of the lower orders on Saturdays.  Their food is good and whole-
some, the bread in the country being mostly made o peace o bar-
ley, and in the town from wheat; and there are few families that
have not butcher-meat almost everyday to dinner: potatoes are in con-
stant use.  They are much addicted to the smoking to tobacco.  They
ar, for the most part, well-informed, disposed to religion, sober, and
respectful.  Drinking of spirituous liquors, which was of late years
very common, has in a considerable degree declined,-and the on-
ly crime prevalent i that of poaching, which is carried on in game
to a great extent, and is but too often the forerunner of offences  of
a deeper dye.  Number of idle young men band themselves toge-



