
68                              ROXBURGHSHIRE.

with drop posts to all the neighbouring places of importance; and,
besides numerous excellent parish and statute-labour roads, which
afford access wherever it is required, there are two spacious turn-
pikes, the Leader and Gala water roads, which pass, the one along
the northern, and the other along the southern boundary of the
parish. The Gala water road, from Newtown, where it enters to
Caitha-toll, where it leaves the parish, is twelve miles in lenght;
and the Leader water road, after diverging from the other about
a mile south from Newtown, continues in the parish for nine miles.
On the former, two four-horse coaches in the parish for nine miles.
seven and eight miles an hour, have succeeded the famous old fly,
which, with its venerable pair, would continue from twelve to six-
teen hours between Jedburgh and Edinburgh. There are two
stone bridges over Tweed, one a mile above, and another two
miles below Melrose, both in the old fashion, narrow and high-
raised in the centre, but in perfect repair. Between them, there
is a handsome suspension bridge for foot passengers and single
horses. A little above the upper stone bridge, there was an an-
cient bridge of singular construction, having a residence for the
pontage-keeper in the centre, and a draw-bridge on each side,
which he could lower and elevate at pleasure. The central pillar,
or rather tower, which contained the keeper's residence, was of
Gothic architecture, and bore the arms of the Tweed was formerly
given by royal charter, burdened with the charge of keeping up
the pontage communications over the river. It gave name to
Bridge-end, which is deemed too small to appear in the enumera-
tion of the villages of the parish.
        Ecclesiastical State.--There have been eleven Protestant clergy-
men since the Reformation. The second of the series was the
nephew of John Knox, and had the same name. His immediate
successor, a person of the name of Forrester, was deposed for po-
pish tendencies, and is said to have used liturgy consisting of dog-
grel rhymes of his own composition, and containing such expres-
sions as these : " From the knock-down race of Knoxes, good
Lord, deliver us." Fletcher, who became Bishops of Argyle, was
much respected during his ministry in this parish for his benigni-
ty, public spirit, and attention to the education of the people.
But this did not prevent them from rejoicing heartily at the re-
moval of his curate in 1689, and accession of Mr Wilson, the
first Presbyterian clergyman after the revolution, who is still spoken
of and regarded with veneration. The school-house was built with




