
			BANCHORY-TERNAN.			343

Physician to Charles I., and. published several works on anatomy
and surgery, (1634-1639.) "Inter medicos Londinenses," says
Professor Smith, "sui temporis primus habitus splendide vixit,
immensas congessit opes, et stupenda reliquit pietatis suae monu-
menta." Besides other valuable donations during his lifetime, he
bequeathed to the College of Old Aberdeen " L.200 Sterling,
the yearly profit of L.100 to come to the help of the gramarier's
stipend, and the other for the help of the regents'. He left also
his whole medicine books for the College library," (Alb. Colleg.
Abdn.) He mortified for the use of a grammar school in Ban-
chory 4000 merks, and 1800 for the maintenance of a woman's
school. He also left the annual rent of L.100 to the poor, and
of the same sum to the minister of the parish. A third son, John,
translated into English Buchanan's History of Scotland. It was
never published, but exists in manuscript in the Univdrrity of
Glasgow. In a preface to the first volume of a manuscript Calder-
wood, this John is said to have been "servitur and writer to Mas-
ter George Buchanan." Besides other eminent individuals de-
scended from this family was the distinguished Dr Thomas Reid,
Professor of Moral Phiiosophy in Glasgow. His father, minister of
of Strachan, was a son of the above Mr Robert Reid, minister of
this parish in 1662. The burial-place of the family is in this
churchyard, where several of them lie interred; and a monument'
erected over them is kept in repair by the kirk-session, in terms
of the bequest of one of them to the poor.
	The session registers begin the 10th of May 1670, those pre-
vious to that date having been destroyed, "first, in the burning of
the schoole, 1664, and lately by the burning of the schoolmaster's
chamber." There is a blank between October 1677 and No-
vember 1682. A separate register for baptisms and marriages
commences 1682.  Nothing in these records requires particular
notice. There appears to have been, since the Reformation to
1830, eight incumbents in the parish, giving an average for each
incumbency of 31.25 years.
	It is a curious circumstances, that two ancient families, whose
residences are in view of each other on opposite sides of the Dee,
(Crathes Castle and Tilwhilly,) should each have given a prdlate
(Bishop Burnett and Bishop Douglas) to the same see (Salisbury)
in the English church; both men eminent in their way as divines
and as authors. It is also singular, that two of the ablest defen-
ces of Christianity against the scepticism of Hume should have


