
114                      PEEBLES-SHIRE.

taries which are of sufficient size to allow the sale on to ascend,
this practice prevails,-very partially, if at all, cheeked by the pro-
prietors, who might be supposed to have an interest in putting into
effect the existing laws against such offenders. The fact is,-so
few salmon find their way during, the open season above the site of
the various fisheries on the Tweed, that the proprietors of land
situated farther up the river have no interest in their preservation
during the period of spawning; and license this system of poach-
ing continues to check, in an incalculable degree, the increase of
this valuable fish, and to encourage the worthless habits of the
many idlers who, during the winter months, thus injure their health
and dissipate their time.
   About fifteen or twenty years ago, this parish was reckoned one
of the finest localities in Scotland for angling, but within that period,
the notoriety of "Manner water" has attracted so many anglers to
its bank, and it has been so often and unsparingly swept by the
small hoop and drag-net of the poacher, that except in autumn,
when a few salmon and sea-trout make their way up, little is to be
found except parts, which still swarm in Shoals. The fine yel-
low and dark-coloured burn trout, once so abundant in the Man-
ner, are now scarcely to be seen here, except in the deep pools of
some of its small tributaries.
                       H.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Eminent Persons.-We are not aware of any very eminent cha-
racter connected with this parish, unless David Ritchie, the well-
known prototype of the "Black Dwarf," is to be considered as such.
With this individual Sir W. Scott became acquainted in the course
of his frequent visits at Hallyards, the seat of the late venerable
Professor Ferguson. He was buried. in the churchyard of Man-
ner: his cottage and garden walls built by himself, and now ob-
jects of interest to the tourist, are preserved in exactly the same
state as when he died.
   Land-owners.-The chief landowners are, James Burnett, Esq.
of Barns; Sir John Nasmyth of Posso; Thomas Horsburgh, Esq,
of that Ilk; Andrew Ballantine, Esq. of Woodhouse; John Ker,
Esq. of Hundleshope; Mungo Campbell, Esq. of Hallyards and
Ballenridge.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest entry in these registers, which
seem in some respects to have been kept with considerable regu-
larity, is dated 1663.
   Antiquities,-There exist within the parish the remains of two
                               3

