
                         KINCARDIRE IN MONTEITH.            1253

      ent kinds and in considerable numbers come up the Forth into the
      interior, fifteen or twenty miles above the flow of the tide, at dif-
      ferent seasons of the year, but chiefly in spring when they cover
      in great numbers the newly ploughed fields, and devour worms,
      &c.  They come also to escape from the storms which sweep the
      Frith; and to nestle in the islands, and on the shores of the lakes
      to the westward.
         The wild swan does not remain here; but is often seen in win-
      ter, passing from one favourite haunt to another among the sur-
      rounding hills and lakes.
         Wild ducks aria very numerous along the streams of the Teith
      and Fortb, but especially on an ornamental piece of water in Blair-
      Drummond park.  Here they are allowed to batch and rear their
      young in safety; and so securely do they occupy this peaceful re-
      treat, that one may pass within a short distance of a great number
      of them, especially in the months of October and November,
      without disturbing them.  There is an island in the middle of
      this sheet of water, bearing trees of various kinds about fifty years
      old.  Among the reeds and rushes which skirt this island, and on
      the island itself, coots and water-rails build their nests, and rear
      their young; and here the majestic swan, in imperial dignity, is
      lord of the isle and the waters.
         The trees are the abode in spring, summer, and harvest of the
      sombre heron, whose ponderous nests, containing a noisy and Vo-
      racious brood, weigh down the more elevated branches of the trees.'
      The cry of the heron and her brood is very peculiar, and has
      been alleged to have led to a superstitious belief in Scotland, in
      the existence of a being called the Water Kelpie.  The jack-
      daw and the heron nestle in the same trees, and the wily little daw
      not unfreqliently usurps the heron's nest, and seems even to watch
      for some of the young heron's food.  The,bre'eding season appears
      to reconcile some kinds of the feathered tribe to each other;
      and in this retired and peaceful spot, where the rays of tbd mid-
      day sun are powerful, but where no storm can enter, there live,
      together in apparent harmony, the heron and the daw, tbe
      coot, the rail, the wild duck and the swan; with  bares, phea-
      sants, partridges, and peafowl, rejoicing in undisturbed peace on
      the margin of the water; while the venerable grove of mighty
      oaks which overlooks the scene, sends, forth tbe varied music of a
      thousand happy inhabiatants.
        Salmon have always been found in the river Telth; and although


