
	              	     LOGIE.                           219

ly to be wished that some enterprizing individual would establish
an hotel, after the model of those at Harrogate or Pitcaithly,
which, if properly managed, could not fail of making a very con-
siderable return. For a more particular account of these springs,
and of the particular diseases in which they have been found be-
neficial, the reader is referred to the very distinct and circumstan-
tial Report, already so often quoted, by Mr William Hutton For-
rest, surgeon in Stirling.
   For the following account of the Geology and Mineralogy of
the parish, I am indebted to the kindness of Robert Bald, Esq.
Civil-Engineer.
   Geology.--This parish, in a geological point of view, is divided
into two distinct portions, both as regarding the alluvial covers or
deposit above the rocks, and the rocks themselves. This line of
division runs in an east and west direction. Upon the north side
of this line are the Ochil Hills, and on the south side of it is the
arable land declining to the river Forth.
   The Ochils are composed of trap rocks, generally supposed to
be of volcanic origin. The beds are of various thickness, nearly
vertical, having their dip to the south. The veins in them run in
a northerly direction, with a few exceptions.
   The rocks under the land to the south of the Ochils, and in
contact with them, are of the coal formation, being a continuation
of the Clackmannanshire coal-field, which commences about a
mile east from Dollar, at the foot of the Ochils. No trials of any
extent have been made for coal in this parish; and there is very
little hope of finding any of a workable thickness, because it is evi--
dent that the strata belong to the lowest series which compose the
great coal-field of Scotland.
   The rocks of this formation not having been laid open at the
foot of the Ochils, no account can be given of the dip next their
face; but there is every reason to conclude, that, as they are a
continuation of the Clackmannanshire coal-field, which, along the
face of the Ochils, is of a trough shape, the strata here will dip
and rise in the same manner, that is, they will rise quickly to the
north, along the foot of the bills, and, forming a trough to the
south, will there rise with a moderate inclination to the south. It
is evident that the western end of the trough is in this parish, as
the coal strata are seen rising to the west, near Causewayhead.
     The Ochils, being of trap rock, are various in their composi-


