
22                       KINROSS-SHIRE.

bath without public woreship in the new building. It is still in
good repair.
   The old manse, inhabited by the Rev. Robert Stark, who was
ordained minister here more than one hundred years ago, still exists
near the inlet of the loch, at the south of the town, into which it
is said the boat was rowed which carried Mary from the island.
The new manse was built in 1784, after the admission to the
charge of this parish, of the last incumbent, the Rev. Archibald
Smith. In 1812, and subsequently, additions and improvements
have been made to it, both by heritors and the-present minister.
L. 600 have not sufficed for the outlay of the latter on the house,
the offices, and the grounds around them.
   The glebe, at the admission of the present incumbent, consisted
of about six acres, including the stance of manse and garden.
After a process at law commenced by him in 1811, and not final-
ly concluded until 1825, be ultimately succeeded in establishing
his claim to grass for a horse and two cows. About five acres, in
the near vicinity of the manse, have been added to his former
glebe, all of good quality, and worth more than L. 40 per annum.
   Stipend.--The stipend of the parish consists of the following
items, viz.: barley, 31 bolls, 6 pecks ; oatmeal, 94 bolls, 4/3 peck;
money, L. 94, 6s. 7/12d.; amounting, communibus annis, accord-
ing to the Third Report of the Commissioners for Religious Instruc-
tion, to L. 184, 16s. 4d.
   The first and last augmentation obtained during the present in-
cumbency, was on the 8th of December 1806; and the present
incumbent has not made another effort to add to the comparatively
inferior stipend he possesses, although, according to the above-
mentioned Report of the Commissioners for Religous Instruction,
there are in this parish unappropriated teinds to the amount of
L.116, 16s. 9d.
   Dissenting and Secedinq Chapels.- There are two places of wor-
ship in this parish pertaining to the United Secession Church, for-
merly the Burgher and Antiburgher communions. Their minis-
ters are paid by seat rents. The amount of the stipend of the one
minister is L. 120, and of the other L. 80, besides a house and gar-
den.
   The number of persons of all ages belonging to the Establish-
ed Church is 1240. Seceding and Dissenting ministers having
no parochial territory, the range of their spiritual labours is uncir-
cumscribed, and accordingly their Sabbath and week day-ministra-
                                  3


