
                    	SORN.     			     139

introduced, and that chiefly by those who have had recourse to
furrow-drainiug. When this mode of draining was first introduced
into Ayrshire, it was done by Means of small stones; of late, how-
ever, tiles have been substituted for stones, and are now to be
easily obtained in this and in most of the neighbouring parishes.
The impulse which this species of improvement has given to agri-
culture, and the increase of produce, is very great. This is strik-
ingly exemplified in the glebe, which has been drained by the pre-
sent incumbent. Fields which yielded only from 3 1/2 to 4 bolls of
oats per acre when he entered upon his charge, yield now about
7 or 8 bolls per acre. But perhaps one of the most remarkable
examples of the good effects of furrow-draining is to be found on
a piece of moss in the parish belonging to Archibald Buchanan,
Esq. of Catrine Bank, who was, if not the first, at least amongst
the first, who introduced this mode of draining into Ayrshire.
This piece of moss, consisting of about 20 acres, averaging 14
feet deep, till within these few years, was lying in a worse than
useless state, and the damp arising from it frequently mildewed
the crops in the neighbouring fields. After being drained and
dug, about 40 bolls of lime, and 50 carts of compost, consisting
of two-thirds clay, and one-third dung, were spread upon every acre.
After this it was sown with oats, and the crop averaged about 6
and 7 bolls per acre. It has since been in sheep pasture, and
yields a return of about L. 2 per acre yearly. Three acres of this
moss have been green cropped, and yielded about 30 tons of
turnips per acre. The whole cost of, cutting the drains, digging,
lime, compost, and putting in the first crop, amounted to L. 14
per acre, and by these means, from being worse than useless, the
moss has become equally as valuable, if not more valuable than
any arable land on the property on which it lies. Should this
system of furrow-draining be carried to its greatest possible extent,
it is to be hoped, that our country will not only in general be in-
dependent'of supplies of foreign grain, but become an exporting
one.
	Wages.--The usual rate of wages given to a ploughman is from
L. 7 to L. 8 half-yearly; to a dairy maid from L. 4 to L.5; to
married male servants who live in houses of their own from L. 10,
to L. 12. Day-labourers receive about 1s. 8d. per day; females,
when engaged in out-door work, about 10d.; masons and wrights
about 2s. 6d. per day; when hired for the harvest work of a sea-
son, men receive about L. 3, women about L. 2. Wages of weavers


