
			FORRES			171

   common.  The farm-houses and steadings in the parish are, al,
   most without exception,good and commodious; many of them have
   been recently erected, and are well arranged, and substantial stone
   buildings roofed with slates.  To most of them are attached thrash-
   ing machines driven by horses, and on one farm there is a machine
   of this kind worked by a steam-engine.
	Husbandry.-Tbe most usual rotation of crops is, 1st, turnips
   and potatoes or fallow ; 2d, wheat and barley; 3d, grass, part
   of wbich is made into hay; 4th, grass pastured ; 5th, wheat or
   barley, and oats ; 6th, oats.    In the smaller farms, the same re-
   gularity of cropping is not observed, and particularly in the parks
   near the town, where the facility of obtaining and applying manure
   render the ordinary rotation unnecessary.
   	Cattle.-There are no particular breeds of cattle or sheep pe-
   culiar to the parish, nor indeed to the county.    Many of the far-
   mers change their live-stock annually.     In the end of the season,
   they purchase animals (most frequently oxen, brought from. the
   northern counties), which they dispose of in the following spring
   or summer to drovers from the south.      In the farms nearest to the
   town, cows are chiefly kept, as being more profitable, from the con-
   stant demand which exists for all dairy produce.
 	Rent.-The rent of land varies greatly, according to its situa-
   tion and quality. Near the town, L.4 and L.5 are commonly paid
   for good land per Scotch acre ; and for the best land in the more
   distant parts from L.2, ]Os. to L.3 are obtained ; while in other
   parts, where the soil is of an inferior quality, the rent is as low as
   L.1. The valued rent of the parish is L.2954,. 6s.6d. ; the real
   land rent amounts to about L.6000, and the annual value of real
   property in the town to nearly L.1800.
   	Fishing.-There is a valuable salmon-fishing on the Findhorn,
   within the parish, which has been managed for many years for the
   behoof of the proprietors, Messrs Forbes and Co. of Aberdeen,
   It has fluctuated much in value of late years, and was greatly in-
   jured by the flood of 1829; but it is understood that, during the
   last two or three seasons, it has again improved.
	Quarry.-There is a limestone quarry on the farm of Mundole,
   belonging to Sir William G. Cumming, where kilns are in con-
   stant operation, and lime is sold, but chiefly to the proprietor's own
   tenants.
   	Mills.-There are flour and meal-mills on the burn of Forres,
   which are kept in full employment, and where considerable quan-


