
                             FYVIE                           325

   Gight.-The estate of Gight in this parish, now the property of
the Earl of Aberdeen, formerly belonged to the maternal ancestors
of the late Lord Byron.  It was sold soon after the marriage of his
mother, who was the heiress.  The burial-place of the family of
Gordon of Gight is in the parish churchyard.  Formerly it was
within the old church, and upon the new cburch being built, my
predecessor acquainted the Honourable Mrs Byron of the altered
situation in which it stood, as being now exposed, and put in her
view the propriety of raising some protection around it, but with-
out success.  It is to be regretted that the application had not
been renewed to the Noble poet himself, as, amid all his difficulties,
it was one of such a kind as probably would have excited his in-
terest, and both bad the desired effect, and called forth from him
some beautiful epitaph.
   About the middle of the churchyard there is a more humble
grave, but one possessed of a certain romantic interest, that of
the heroine of the pathetic Scotch ballad called "Tiftie's Bonnie
Annie."  The original tombstone having become decayed, Mr
Gordon of Fyvie, a few years ago, caused a new one to be placed
upon it, a facsimile in every respect.  The name of the unfortu-
nate damsel, the story of whose love is so finely told in the ballad,
was Agnes Smyth.  The common pronunciation of the Christian
name was Nannie, which in the ballad is farther metamorphosed
into Annie.  On one of the turrets of Fyvie Castle there is a
stone figure of the renowned trumpeter sounding his horn towards
Mill of Tiftie. *
   Land-Owners.-The following are the present land-owners of
the parish, with the names and valued rent of their several pro-
perties in Scots money: Lordship of Fyvie, William Gordon,
Esq. L.2618, 10s. 8d.; lands of Gight, Crichie, and Minnonie,
Earl of Aberdeen, L.2005, 9s. 4d.; lands of Rothie and Mid-
aple, George Leslie, Esq. L.685, 14s. 8d.; lands of Muirs of
Fyvie, Mrs Rose Innes, L.350; lands of Littlefolla, Alex-
ander Gordon, Esq. L.155, 12s.; lands of Towie (Typor-
tia), Gordon's Hospital, Aberdeen, L.150; lands of Blackford
(Typortia), John Forbes, Esq. L.100; Lands of Monkshill,

<FOOTNOTE>As curious specimen of the form of tenure of other days, the following is sub-
mitted, being the rent of William Smyth, the father of Annie, for l672.  "Of maill
three score sax bollis, of money one pound, of wadderis three, of lambis three, of ca-
pounis three dozen, of hennis three dozen, of paittis one lait, one miln swyne, and
one ston brew tallow."-(Rental at Fyvie Castle and Account-book.)


