
                               ABERDEEN.                           37

cil are held responsible, if the seat rents, &c. do not suffice for that
purpose the sum drawn from the common good to make up the
deficiently is regarded as a debt incurred, or rather as so much
lost, seeing there can be little prospect of repayment.  The fal-
lacy of this view will be obvious, if the following statement, which
was made by the Rev. James Foote to the Royal Commissioners,
be considered:  "The expenditure on the churches was L. 2124,
15s. 11d. the mortifications amounted to L. 285 the rental of
the East Church for the year 1837, and the average collections in
that church for five years, amounted to L.950, 10s. 1d.; and the
rental and collections of the West Church amounted to L. 917;
making in all L.2152, 10s. 1d.; so that there was here a surplus
of L.27, 14s. 2d. beyond the whole expenditure, and, whatever was
produced from the other churches, there was a clear gain to the
public from these two churches alone, which of themselves produced
more than the whole expenditure on all the town's churches."
   In another respect, too, a mistake of no small moment has been
fallen into, viz. in stating the expense incurred in the erection, or
by contributing to the erection, of several of the parish churches,
as a debt against them in the town's accounts. *  The common
good being destined for the advancement of the welfare of the com-
munity, ought to be held as much liable for the expense of erect-
ing churches for the maintenance of that form of worship which is
by law established in the country, as for the cost of other public
buildings, whose purpose it is to benefit the community in a secular
point of view, such as court-houses, jails, colleges, &c.  Each of
these in its own department tends to advance the welfare of the
community, and in doing so, they amply repay the sums laid out
on their erection.  The churches of the Establishment are assured-
ly not less conducive to the good of the citizens than these build-
ings, but, on the contrary, much more so, in as much as they are
erected and maintained for the promotion of that righteousness,
which exalteth a nation; it must therefore be an erroneous and
improper view of the matter, to regard the expense of these erec-
tions as a debt due to the community, while that of erecting the
other buildings named is looked on as a useful and necessary out-
lay of the public money. +

<FOOTNOTE>The debt due by the kirk charge, amounted at 15th October last, (exclusive of
the expense of building the East Church,) to L.18,580, 12s. 2d., which may also be
considered as a debt against the treasury."  Town's Accounts for 1838.
          In support of this view, see particularly "Provisioun for sustentatioun of the
Ministers in Burrows."  Book of the Universal Kirk of Scotland, p. 93.


