
     Statistical Account

   Tenantry, Servitudes, and Cattle.-The farms in general
are small, renting from L. 20 to L. 40, which is paid partly
in victual, and partly in money, but without any stated
proportion.  There are a very few farms from about L. 60,
to L. 100; only one farm is completely inclosed, and two
partially.  The villagers occupy many parks and acres,
which are in a rapid state of improvement, and which are
not yet rented, even when most conaguous, above L. 20
Sterling per acre.  The rent of the farms is very various,
according to the quality of the soil, and state of improve-
ment; probably from 5 s. to 15 s. per acre.  The farmers
are exceedingly sober and industrious, and yet they are far
from being in a comfortable situation.  There is hardly
such a thing as a farmer, with a family, bettering his cir-
cumstances; but many instances of farmers of sobriety and
industry, in spite of all their care, spending the capital with
which they began.  The expence of labour is now so great,
and the rent of land so high, that the profits of a small
farm are not sufficient, with the utmost frugality, or even
parsimony, to maintain a family; the holders of such farms
find it exceedingly difficult to support credit at all, and
very often, particularly when the landholders or their fac-
tors are rigid in exacting their dues, sink to poverty.
However hurtful it may be to the production of a nume-
rous and healthy population, large farms are increasing,
and must increase, in order to afford their holders a subsist-
ence; and the tenants of smaller possessions will be under
the necessity of devoting themselves to manufactures of

<FOOTNOTE>

L. 1, 2 s. besides board and lodging.  Now, besides these, men servants receive
from L. 4 to L. 6, according to their strength and capacity; maids, from
L. 2 to L. 2, 5 s.  It is difficult to ascertain the expence incurred by a day-
labourer and his family.  When such a family is not extremely numerous, 
and both the man and the wife are sober and industrious, they generally
enjoy the necessaries of life in plenty.


