
	KIRKMABRECK.		325

	9. Glenquicken pays in money, L. 24, 13s. yearly.
       10. Garrochar pays in money, L. 14 yearly.
       11. Ardwell pays in money, L.2, 4s. 5 1/4d. yearly.
       12. Drumore, &c. pays in money, L.4, 7s. 7 1/2d. yearly.
       In 1794, the real rental of the parish was estimated at L.2750
Sterling. The present rental may be estimated at about L.5450.
       Parochial Registers.--There are three volumes of parish registers.
The first volume embraces the time that elapsed between 1703 and
1792. From 1703 to 1739, they have been kept with great regula-
rity; from 1740 to 1756, no entry whatever; 1756 to 1792, kept im-
perfectly. Some of the intermediate years have no entry ,others only
one; but towards the middle, and onwards to about the end of the
above period, they were kept with great regularity. These records
are almost solely confined to sessional matters, consisting of dry but
succinct details, with little that is interesting to relieve the outline.
The following, however, may be cited as a fine instance of the at-
tachment which existed to our national church at the time the cir-
cumstance alluded to took place, and which, as the spirit that
prompted the gift is now unfortunately somewhat antiquated, we
present in its antiquated dress.
      " Kirk-session of Kirkmabreck, holden within the church yrof
upon the 29th of July 1707, be the minister and eldership then
present. The whilk day, William Muir in Peble, hath delivered
to Mr Samuel Brown, minister and eldership forsd under-subs.,
ane silver cup with this inscriptions yron, (Gifted to the parish of
Kilmabreck, by William Muir in Peble, and Janet M'Bryd, his
spous, 1707.) And yt for the use of sd church during Presbetry,
as now by law established, and no longer. And the said William
Muir heirby appointing the sd Mr Samuell, gif, in his time or
any other, his successors in the sd church, being Presbiterians,
with consent of the eldership that may happen to be for the tyme,
that in case of any revolutione and alteratione of the present church
government, (which God forbid,) to secure the sd cup, and pre-
serve the same till the government return Presbiterian again. And
this the sd William Muir desires to be recorded in the session
books of the said church, ad futuram rei memoriam; and yt the
forsd gift may not be made use of or disposed upon oyrwayes then
is above appointed and designed by the gifters. Whilke gift the
minister and elders have accepted in the terms gifted, and grants
the desire of the gifter. And in testimony of the hail premises,
the said, William Muir, minister and elders, have all subscribed
thir presents."


