
184                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

Church and communicate is 1240. *  They all attend the ordinan-
ces of religion regularly.
   Education.-There are three parochial schools, endowed with the
minimum salary each.  The parochial school in the Kirktown is
in very bad repair, and the heritors will do nothing to renew it, not
conceiving themselves obliged by the late act of Parliament.  The
branches taught in the three parochial schools are, reading, writ-
ing, arithmetic, book-keeping, Latin, Greek, mathematics.  Some
of these are but rarely required.  The salary of each of the school-
masters is L.21, 7s. 9d.  The amount of the school-fees of all
three is L.62, 9s. 10d.  One of them as session-clerk has in per-
quisites L.5, 1Os.
   There are also six private schools on the teachers own adven-
ture, two of them taught by females.  The common branches of
education are taught in them.
   In addition to their other emoluments, the three parochial
teachers derive from L.20 to L.30 each annually from a mortifi-
cation made by the late Mr Dick of Forres.

   Education.-

<TABLE>
		                                Males.	Females.  Total.
   No. under 5 years old learning to read,      40	   42	      82
   No. between 5 and 15 learning to read,	     426	  390	     816
   No. between 5 and 15 learning to write,     331	  200	     531

   With the exception of some very aged people, there are but very
few above fifteen years of age who cannot read and write in a
tolerable manner.  The people in general wish to learn, but their
poverty compels them to remove their children during the busy
season from school, and put them to labour.
   Library.-There is a library kept in the village; the books are
in circulation among the members, and exchanged once a month.
   Poor.-There are between 70 and 80 persons on the poor's roll,
and every prospect of the number increasing.  They receive from 6s.
to L.1 a quarter, and some of them 2s. 6d. a-week.  The fund to
supply this expense arises from the interest of L.700 stock, and the
weekly collections, the latter amounting to upwards of L.50 per
annum.  There are other incidents, as the proceeds of a mort-
cloth, and occasional cnntributions from some of the heritors, and
other individuals.  I am sorry to see that the disposition among the
poor to resort to parochial relief is increasing.  The Dissenters
contribute little or nothing to the support of the poor.  A change

<FOOTNOTE> The above attend at the parish church; the remainder at the surrounding pa-
rish churches; some at New Pitsligo, some at New Byth, some at Methlie, some at
Strichen, some at Old Deer, and some at Monquhitter.


