
               BOINDIE.                                     233

Aberdeen, and various other synods more recently, have taken up
the subject, especially recommending that diets of catechizing
should be held after each half yearly term, for enabling the mi-
nister to form an acquaintance with persons having come into the
parish, and to recommend to them such means of improvement as
the parochial institutions may present. This, or some similar ar-
rangement, is demanded by the circumstances of the class under
review.  The labouring classes suffer generally from their want
of opportunity for retirement; but many of the farm-servants are,
besides, subjected to the powerful demoralizing influence of young
persons being congregated in a bothy, or out-kitchen, without
either the humanizing ties, or the wholesome restraints, of the do.
mestic institution. Again, in many cases, their early education
has been extremely defective; so that although they can in some
sense read, they want the inducements to the pursuit of knowledge
possessed by those to whom the art is a ready channel of knowledge,
in the use of which no sensible effort is required. With wages va-
rying from L.5 to L.7 in the half-vear, they not unfrequently enter
into the married state; their wives and families being left at a
distance without active employment, and without the benefit of
paternal authority and care. Not having the means even of sup-
plying their offspring with adequate food and clothing, they cannot
suitably educate them. At the earliest possible age, their children
are sent to earn their subsistence, when, removed from all parental
oversight, and often neglected by their employers, they perhaps
lose any good they have learned, and they grow up to furnish new
instances of the evils of which we complain.

<TABLE=IV.-INDUSTRY>              IV.-INDUSTRY.

Agriculture.-

	Land cultivated, about                     3600 acre Scots.
        Uncultivated. waste, or in pasture, about   650
         *Might profitably be cultivated, perhaps  100
        Plantathons, about                          600
The wood is regularly cared for, and thinned on approved prin-
ciples. The average rent of arable land is about L.1 per Scots
acre; some of the best farms, however being still held under
old leases at a low reat.

<FOOTNOTE>That is by employing hired labourers. Land not capable of being profitably
reclaimed in this way contribute eminently to the prosperity and comfort of
persons improving it by their own industry, and ultimately not less to the rental of
proprietors. Allotments of this kind, on judicious principles, are, in every view, a
geat public benefit.


