
     Statistical Account

   Prices of Provisions, etc.-The prices of provisions here
are entirely regulated by the rates at Edinburgh, with which 

   that time, offence was done away in the most private manner by the
several presbyteries who had been wrote to.  But even the General As-
sembly was induced to make a declaratory act against the stage, enjoining
all presbyteries to take care that none of the ministers of this church do upon
any occation attend the theatre.  In short, the country was excited into a
flame on this trifting occasion, though not quite so stong and extensive,
yet familiar to that which was raised 23 years afterwards in opposition to
the Popith bill.

   This violent explotion of zeal, which certainly does no honour to the
annals of the churchs, was not wholly owing to the offence taken by
some well meaning people.  It was well known that some share of poli-
tical enmity was added to it, which served to blend parties together in a
manner therefore unknown on so slight an occasion.  The spirit of ec-
clesiastical saction likewise mingled deeply in it, and contributed to in-
crease the clamour, in order to fix a stigma on certain clergymen, who
were looked upon with a jealous eye, by some who then acted as leaders
of the church.

   But what was the sequel? The plans of ecclesiastical intrigue were
unveiled, and funk into contempt.  The courie of public sentiment and
manners becoming gradually more liberal, proved too strong for such
narrow and bigotted principles.  Mr John Home, the author of the tra-
gedy in question, the superior ment of which was already generally ac-
knowledged, having new views opened up to him, demitted his charge in
the month of June 1757, and withdrew from the church without the least
animadversion on his conduct.  In a few years clergymen from many
different parts of the country, as well as some in town, occasionally at-
tended the theatre, and several of the most respectable minutes continue
to do so, not only without any centure from the church, but without any
fort of offence being given or taken.

   It is well known, that the clergy of no Christian country in the world
are in general more blameless in their morals, and less reprehensible in
their conduct, than those of the Church of Scotland; and while they are 


