
                              NIGG.			27

	families of fishermen; and it is remarkable, that among them
	there are only three surnames, Ross, Skinner, and McLeod. The
	original seat of these colonies was at the foot of the hill, imme-
	diately below Dunskeath castle. But there is no plausible tradi-
	tion as to the time or occasion of their having, come to the parish.
	At Shandwick, in the east end of the parish, there is a colony of
	fishermen originally from the same stock. Vass, Skinner, and Ross
	are their most common names.
	     The principal occupiers of the soil at present are, generally
	speaking, recent immigrants, and the most of their numerous farm-
	servants are entire strangers. There are few, if any, individuals
	in the parish whose progenitors were in it, two hundred years ago.
	   Three important events have occurred at various periods since
	1694, that have bad marked effects on the identity and character
	of the population. The first of these was the seven years famine
	betwixt 1694 and 1701. During that awful period, many died of
	want, the rich became poor, the lands changed their occupants,
	and the whole face of society was changed. It is to be remark-
	ed, however, that notwithstanding the sufferings endured for so
	long a time, the morals of the people do not seem to have im-
	proved in consequence. On the contrary, it would appear that,
	during a few years after the famine, vices of the most abominable
	kinds prevailed to an almost incredible degree,-as the records of
	the kirk-session testify.
	   The second event is the cruel and unchristian settlement of a
	minister, in the year 1756. The people who had been highly reform-
	ed, and elevated in mind and character under the ministry of his
	predecessor, Mr John Balfour, almost unanimously resisted the set-
	tlement for three years, and spent L.500 in law expenses. They
	subsequently became true Seceders under the ministry of Mr Bu-
	chanan from Perthshire, and continued so for a considerable time :
	and though now the parish church be full, and the parish minister
	has no reason to complain of want of people, no Christian philan-
	thropist can help bewailing the circumstance that turned away from
	the church many of the Lord's people ; neither can be cease to de-
	plore the extremities to which many of their descendants have gone,
	and the blighting influence which division has produced upon the
	charities of life.
	   The third event is the introduction of the large farm system, about
	forty years ago. The improvement of the soil was much required,
	at that time, as it still is. But its improvement may be carried
	on, at an expense of morals and human comfort which no pecu-


