
                             ABERDEEN                           3

far-fetched to derive a part of the name of the city either from the
supposed junction of two rivers, or from the word signifying a hill;
when the name of the river that runs close by it supplies the syl-
lable tbat is wanting, without requiring to undergo any change.
   Ptolemy places the river Diva in the territory of the Taixali,
who occupied the most easterly part of Albion, and he mentions
the city Devana as being in the same province. *  These, then, cor-
respond with the situation of the river Dee, and of some city near
it.  The exact site of the Devana of Ptolemy has been disputed;
"General Roy," as Mr Thom observes, "having placed it at Old
Aberdeen, and the laborious author of Caledonia somewhere in the
parish of Peterculter;" + the former being about a mile north from
Aberdeen, and the latter about seven miles south-west of it, on
the banks of the Dee.
   That the Romans adopted and Latinized the name of the river,
seems probable from this consideration, that while in very many
cases the Roman names given to rivers have no analogy with those
by which they are now known, we find in several districts of the
Celtic territories, rivers whose present names, though apparent-
ly not of Latin derivation, are almost identical with the names
under which they occur in the writings of Ptolemy and other an-
cient authors, for example the Dee, in Galloway, mentioned by
Ptolemy as the Deva in the country of the Selgovii, the Dee in
Cheshire, called by him the Deva in the territory of the Cornabii,
and the Deba in Guipuzcoa, which is noticed by him under the
name of Diva in the country of the Caristi. It need not excite
wonder that we find no vestige of the name Devana given to the
settlement of the Taixali by the Romans, except in the writings of
the ancients, for although the Romans adopted from the natives
the name of the river, there was no reason why the natives should
give up the name by which the town placed on its banks had
previously been known to them, in order to copy from their, in-
vader the name which they chose to affix to it.  It seems in a
high degree probable that the ancient name of the city among the
natives very nearly resembled the one which it bears at this day,
(though, perhaps, Camden goes too far when be charges Ptolemy
with having put Diva and Devana for Dena and Denana.) ++
   Mr Kennedy observes, that in old records the name is variously
spelt.-Aberdeen, Aberdon, Abirden, Aberdene, Abyrdene;-

<FOOTNOTE>Ptolemei, Geog. Univers. I. ii. c. 3.         History, Vol. i. p. 18.
         "Que Devana, Ptolemeo, pro Denana, Urbs perantiqua, ad Denam fluvium, qui
falso itidem apud Ptolemeum Diva legitur." Camden, Britania, edit. 1587, p. 558.


