
222                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

taken place in thd form and character of the monument since its
first erection; but such an investigation can only be superficially
made in a work of this kind. *
	On referring to the plate, it will be seen that the pillar has four
faces, two of which contain on the margins Runic; and the other
two, Roman characters; and that on the sides inscribed with the
latter, there are Christian figures and emblems, of which the Runic
sides are destitute. This singular combination must strike the an-
tiquarian as affording aprima facie evidence that the sculpture has
been executed at two different periods. But there are other cir-
cumstances which, combined with this, will leave little doubt on the
mind of an unprejudiced inquirer, as to the remodelling of the mo-
nument at a period subsequent to its first erection. These circum-
stances are, 1st, That the monument consists of two separate blocks
of sandstone, and that the upper stone containing the cross is of a
redder hue than the lower stone, and has evidently been taken from
another quarry, which could scarcely have happened, had both been
formed at the same time. 2d, That there is a bar or border at the
top of the lower stone, running horizontally round all the four sides,
and containing inscriptions, which divides the vine work on the
Runic sides into two compartments, and awkwardly interrupts its
elegant convolutions,--an intrusion vhich can only be satirfactorily
accounted for on the supposition that, when first erected, the pillar
was at this point to terminate. 3d, That the sculpture on the
Runic sides, both in elegance of design and skill of execution,
greatly exceeds that on the Roman sides, and indicates a high-
er state of the art. From all these circumstances, there ap-
pears to he satisfactory evidence that the pillar has, since its first
erection, undergnne a great change; that it consisted at first only
of one block, terminating with the bar already mentioned, the up-
per stone containing the cross, having been added at a later period;
and further, that, making allowance for the waste of time and vio-
lence, the sculpture on the Runic sides is in its original form, but
that the Christian figures, along with the Latin inscriptions on the
Roman sides, were probably cut at the time of its change of shape,
having perhaps originally contained carved work of a different kind.
	The writer was at first inclined to think that the original design

<FOOTNOTE>The antiquarian reader who wishes for further information than is here given, is
referred to the Transactions of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland for the year 1832,
where he will find an article, of which the present is an abridgement, drawn up by
the writer of this amount.


