
232                     LANARKSHIRE.

   Prior to the breaking out of the American war, the "Virginians,"
who were looked up to as the Glasgow aristocracy, had a privileged
walk at the Cross, which they trod in long scarlet cloaks and bushy
wigs; and such was the state of society, that, when any of the most
respectable master tradesmen of the city had occasion to speak to
a tobacco lord, he required to walk on the other side of the street
till he was fortunate enough to meet his eye, for it would have been
presumption to have made up to him. Such was the practice of
the Cunninghams, the Spiers, the Glassfords, the Dunmores, and
others; and from this servility the Langs, the Ferries, the Clay-
tons, and others who were at the head of their professions, and had
done much to improve the mechanical trade of the city, were not ex-
empt. About this period, profane swearing among the higher classes
of citizens was considered a gentlemanly qualification; and dissipa-
tion at entertainments was dignified with the appellation of hospi-
tality and friendship; and he who did not send his guests from his
house in a state of intoxication was considered unfit to entertain
genteel company. Latterly, the rising generation of the middle
class, better educated than their fathers, engaged extensively in
trade and commerce; and by honourable dealing and correct con-
duct, procured a name and a place in society which had been hi-
therto reserved for the higher grades. Since the opening of the
public coffee-room in 1781, the absurd distinction of rank in a ma-
nufacturing town has disappeared. Wealth is not now the crite-
rion of respect, for persons even in the inferior walks of life, who
conduct themselves with propriety, have a higher place assigned
them in society than at any former period of the history of the city.
	Families, as has been already said, who were formerly content to
live in the flat of a house in the Old, have now princely self-contained
houses in the New Town. Entertainments are now given more fre-
quently, and the mode of giving them is materially changed. Persons
who formerly gave supper parties and a bowl of punch, are now in the
way of giving sumptuous dinners, entertaining with the choicest wines,
and finishing with cold punch, for which Glasgow is so celebrated.
The value of the table-service, and the style of furniture in the
houses of many of the Glasgow merchants, are inferior to none in
the land. In drinking there is a mighty improvement: formerly,

was instituted in 1783, under the suspices of Mr Patrick Colquhoun, at that time Lord
Provost, and a public-spirited and distinguished merchant in Glasgow, Mr Bannatyne
rendered his assistance, and has hold the office of secretary ever since Mr Gilbert Ha-
milton's death in 1809. The original members of the chamber are now all dead, with
the exception of its able and much respected secretary.


