
                        DALMENY.                          91

seventy feet of columnar whinstone or trap. At the foot of the
basaltic range, there was formerly a loch, which was lately drained,
consisting of moss of unknown depth, and resting at the outlet east-
ward on a bed of shell-marl, from which have been dug several oak
trees with the heart in a state of entire preservation. Southward
from this line of whinstone, towards Kirkliston, is an immense ex-
tent of freestone of the finest quality, which has been cut out in
great quantities from Humbie quarry. The same stratum of free-
stone appears also on the north of this elevation in close contact
with the whin, being separated from it only by a thin layer of in-
durated clay. This range of whin, which forms a prominent fea-
ture in the outline of the parish, extends eastward, reappearing at
a place called Craigbree in a similar form, though less elevated,
till it is again thrown up in an immense mass at Craigie-hill, where,
it attains its greatest height. A line drawn from this point throuah
Mons-hill, Inch-Garvey, and North Queensferry, traces an almost
uninterrupted chain of this igneous rock, though within the grounds
of Dalmeny Park, where it forms an extensive and ever-varying
succession of hill and dale, it is mostly covered with verdure or
thriving wood. The strata lying within this range consist chiefly
of freestone, shale, and limestone, of from seven to ten feet in
thickness, of the finest quality, worked out by mining the an exten-
sive quarry a little to the West of Queensferry, within the water-
mark. There is also ironstone, and probably coal, though no se-
rious attempt has ever been made to discover it. The whole of
these intervening strata dip towards the north-east into the Frith
of Forth, where, for a distance of upwards of five miles, including
a part of Cramond parish to the west of the confluence of the
Almond with the sea, and within the grounds of Dalmeny Park,
they form alternately a beautiful succession of small promontories
and bays, richly, wooded to the water's edge. In the shale or blaes
above the limestone, are found numerous vegetable fossils of the
species peculiar to that order of the carboniferous group. The
view from Dundas-hill, Craigie-hill, and Mons-hill, and indeed
from the whole elevated range from which the stratified rocks
take their slope, can scarcely be surpassed for extent, variety, and
beauty. The panorama from the top of the latter hill, which
forms the highest point in the spacious park of Dalmen and over-
looks its splendid mansion, comprehending an extraordinary varie-
ty of objects that constitute the sublime and beautiful, includes no
less than sixteen different counties.


