
			ISLAND OF SKYE-STRATH.                         309

	to their superiors.  Flagrant breaches of the peace are almost un-
	known, there being but two instances on record of criminal prose-
	cutions against natives of this parish.
	  Longevity.-We have had several instances of longevity.  A
	woman of the name of Mary Innes, a native of Ross-shire, died
	here some years ago at the advanced age of 110.  The father of
	the present incumbent, who was for sixty-five years an ordained
	clergymen, and fifty-two years minister of this parish, died at the
	age of ninety-six, and to the last retained all his faculties unim-
	paired.  Mr Macalister of Strathaird, died at the age of eighty-
	nine, and his sister, who departed this life last winter, attained the
	age of ninety-two.  There are a few others now living between
	eighty and ninet years of age; and one man in his eighty-fourth
	year, who never wore any dress but the kilt, and this year walk-
	ed twenty-four miles in one day.
	  The number of illegitimate children for the last three years has
	been four.

			IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.-Lord Macdonald's property in this parish con-
	sists of 54,768 acres, of which about 1800 are arable, 594 under
	wood, and the rest almost entirely green and hill pasture.  The
	estate of Strathaird consists of 16,000 acres, of which about 300
	are arable, and the remainder green and bill pasture.  It is ob-
	served, that, where limestone abounds, the pasture is invariably rich
	and luxuriant; but where whin and granite prevail, it is of very in-
	ferior quality.
	  Husbandry.-The only grain raised is oats and bear.  The cul-
	tivation of wheat has been attempted, but with no prospect of ade-
	quate remuneration.
	  Potatoes, however, form the principal crop.  They are planted
	in April and May, and are manured chiefly with sea-ware.  In
	favourable seasons they yield an increase of about ten returns; but
	even in the most favourable years, the supply is inadequate to the
	wants of the population.  It is a remarkable fact, that in wet sea-
	sons, the quality of the potatoes is much superior to what it is in
	dry seasons, although the quantity is diminished.  Turnips and
	clover are cultivated, and are found amply to remunerate the far-
	mer from their efficacy in the prevention of braxy.  A consi-
	derable quantity of waste land was reclaimed by the late Mr
	Mackinnon of Corry.  The district in the neighbourhood of his
	residence afforded the means of carrying on improvements, such


