
     of Alloa.

is not doubted but that some, reform, in a matter so interesting
to the public, will soon take place.

   Church, etc.-The church of Alloa was repaired and en-
larged in 1680, by virtue of a commission from the archbishop
of St. Andrews.  Its length is 65 feet, exclusive of Mr.
Erskine's aisle; and the breadth 30 feet, besides 12 feet of ad-
dition to the north.  At the west end it has 2 rows of gal-
leries.  It is now too small and incommodious for the numer-
ous inhabitants of this parish; for it is extremely crowded
when there are 900 hearers, which is often the care.  There
have been many deliberations about building a new one, for
upwards of 30 years past.  To this the heritors are strongly
encouraged, by a donation lately made of 1,200 L. by Lady
CHARLOTTE ERSKINE*; who also lef 800 L. Sterling, the in-
terest of which is to be applied for an assistant minister, whole
income altogether now exceeds 70 L. per annum.-The present
church has a good appearance to the south.  The front is of
hewn stone.  There is a statue in a niche of St. MUNGO,

     VOL. VIII. 4 M

<FOOTNOTE>

*This sum her Ladyship, (who was a daughter of CHARLES Earl of HOPETON,
and widow of THOMAS Lord ERSKINE, son of the last EARL of MARR), ge-
nerously bequeathed for seats to the poor, and to such as had no legal rights to
any.  The latter, however, were to pay a moderate rent for them; part of
which sum was to go towards augmenting the salary of the assistant minister.
Many years ago, an assistant minister was established hero, by a donation from
Mr. JOHNSTONE, a merchant in Alloa,who left some houses in the town, the rent
of which, with the interest of 600 L., that he had in the hands of a company of
merchants In Glasgow, to be applied for the maintenance of an assistant, minister.
The company was dissolved many years ago; and the 600 L. was allowed to re-
main in the hands of one of the patners, who had a good land estate, but who
unfortunately became bankrupt some years afterwards, and the whole was lost,
and nothing left for the assistant minister, but the rents of the houses.  This lost
was replaced by the worthy Lady CHARLOTTE ERSKINE.


