
   536                 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

malt. A peep at the frith from Corlie, the highest ground in the
parish of Greenock, as given by the Rev. Mr Reid, once one of the
ministers of Greenock, and afterwards of Mauchline, is at once
piquant, graphic, and striking. "From this height, those who
are fond of the varying scenery of nature," says he, " will some-
times observe the smooth surface of the frith beginning to be ruf-
fled with the wind, which here and there seems to pour down up-
on it, moving the water in all directions. At other times they
will mark the shadow of thick stationary clouds, which appear as
so many islands; and at times a light fleecy vapour, frequently
mentioned in Gaelic poetry, suspended over, or by a gentle breeze
slowly moving in the direction of the Clyde." This smooth and,
placid surface, it must be recollected, seems to be at the feet of
the spectator, its arms stretching in different directions far into
the Highlands, and, besides the county of Renfrew, includes Bute,
Arran, and Argyle, with the striking and majestic accompaniments
of the western part of the Scottish Alps, the Grampian mountains
of Perth, Stirling, Clydesdale, and Ayr. Sometimes, also during
a severe frost, a very thick fog overhangs the trough of the Clyde
from above Glasgow far beyond Greenock. This fog seldom rises
more than 400 or 500 feet above the level of the sea, and to a per-
son perched on the summit of Corlie, which is much higher, the
scene is peculiar, and to those who crawl through life in the lower
regions of the atmosphere, is not a little instructive. The mist
keeping a certain well defined level, covers all the hollows on both
sides of the frith. While people in the low grounds, all bespatter-
red with hoar frost, pass a dark and disagreeable day, a serene sky
may be enjoyed on the neighbouring heights, without the least
speck of a cloud. The surface of the vast mass of vapour on
which you look down, is so exactly defined, and seems so compact
and firm, that one might think they could, from the brow of the
hill, step upon it, and safely walk over to the hills on the opposite
side of the river. These waves of vapour exhibit the swellings of
the waves of the sea without their motion; and, according to their
situation, form, and density, are variously tinged with the rays of
the sun; while a breath of wind now and then detaching the top
of a wave, spreads it on the azure sky, to assume whatever shapes
the fancy of the beholder leads him to suppose.
   It has already been stated, that the waters of Renfrewsbire, with
trifling exceptions, have nearly their entire outlet by the Cart be-
low Inchinnan Bridge. The whole shire, indeed, seems to have


