
692			AYRSHIRE.

ing the summer months, it is frequently fordable at nearly all points
within the parish. Its banks are tame presenting, in their whole
extent, no charms to the admirer of picturesque scenery; the im-
mediate environs of Glengarnock Castle, and of the waterfall,
alone excepted. The right to the salmon-fishing of this river
from the Rough burn, a mile north of the town of Kilwinning, to
the Polgree water, about half a mile below Kilbirnie Kirk, belongs
to Blair of Blair, having been granted to that family by the mo-
nastery of Kilwinning, to which it anciently belonged. Above the
latter rivulet, the fishing of the Garnock is considered free.
	The source of the Maich is close by the south side of the Misty-
Law in Renfrevrshire. It runs in a direction nearly parallel to
the Garnock, from which it is nowhere more than a mile and a
half distant. After a sinuous course of about five miles in a deep
channel, occasionally fringed with natural wood, this "lonely moor-
land river," enters Kilbirnie Loch from the north, to which it is
by much the most steady and abundant contributor.
	Kilbirnie Loch lies in the south-east quarter of the parish, and
constitutes part of its boundaries in that direction. It is a beau-
tiful sheet of pellucid water, and forms a noble feature in the wide-
spread landscape. Its banks, though tame, are remarkably clean,
and, where not adorned with trees, arable fields slope gently to its
margin. It extends a mile and a half in length, is scarcely half
a mile in breadth, and its greatest depth is about five fathoms and
a half. Besides the Maich, the loch receives supplies from the
Mains and the Bath burns, streamlets which have their sources close
by the town of Beith; and its only outlet is by the Dubs Water,
which discharges itself into Lochwinnoch Loch. It is well stored
with pike, perch, trout, and eel, and is betimes the resort of the
wild duck'and heron. The comparative tranquillity that has hi-
therto hung over this crystalline expanse, will in a short time be
invaded by the noise of locomotive vehicles, and other sounds in-
cident to a great thoroughfare, as the railroad from Glasgow to
Ayr runs along its east bank. The loch forms part of the estate
of Kilbirnie, although that property does not extend around one-
half of its circumference. *

<FOOTNOTE>Kilbirnie Loch is thus noticed by Bellenden, the translator of Boece: "In
Cunninghame is ane loch namit Garnoth, nocht unlike to Loch Doune, full of fische."
It was subsequently called Loch Thankart. In 1628, David Cunynghame of Ro-
bertland is served heir of David Cunyghame, his father, in the lands and barony of
Glengarnock "et loch de Loch Thankart." It belonged to the Cunninghames of
Glengarnock, but the Craufurds of Kilbirnie disputed their right, and, in the spirit
of the times, these families called out tenants and retainers and broke one an-



