
                              FORTINGAL.                        545

ing to the naturalist and botanist, and too numerous to be mention.
ed. But I cannot pass by that beautiful tribe of the vegetable
kingdom, the Cryptogamia, without remarking the great varie-
ties of them in this district. Of the Filices, the botanist will find
the Osmunda regalis, the Lycopodiums, the Polypodium, and
the Cytheas; of the Musci tribe, the Sphagnums, the Phas-
cums, and the Splachnums: and that most interesting of all, the
Dicranums, and Hypnums.
   On the whole, this parish is well worthy of being travelled by
botanists, where perhaps they will discover new plantr, on moun-
tains never before explored by any with a philosophic eye.
   Forests and Plantations.-Our plantations, though they meet
the eye in many parts of the parish, are not very extensive. They
are chiefly of fir; both the spruce and larch seem to thrive almost
as well as the native spdbies; as also ash, oak, birch, beech, elm,
&c.
   In Rannoch, there is a considerable forest of native fir, and a
great deal more of birch still remaining, which is considered as part
of the ancient Caledonian forest, which, at one time, extended from
Glencoe to Braemar, a distance of not less than 80 miles, and from
Glenlyon to the Spian, Loch Laggan, and the Spey, Inverness-
shire,-comprehending a tract of mountains, glens, morasses, and
blue lakes, of upwards of 2100 square miles.
   What remains of the celebrated yew tree of Fortingal church-
yard, described by Pennant in his Tour, appears as two distinct
trees, some yards distant from each other. At the commence-
ment of my incumbency, thirty-two years ago, there lived in the
village of Kirktown, a man of the name of Donald Robertson, then
aged upwards of eighty years, who declared that, when a boy going
to school, he could hardly enter between the two parts; now a coach-
and-four might pass between them; and that the dilapidation was
partly occasioned by the boys of the village kindling their fire of
Bealltuinn at its rool. It is from 52 to 56 feet in circumference.

			 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Battles.-In the reign of King Robert I. or II., a battle was
fought near the River Erochd, two miles north of the head of Loch
Rannoch, between Donnacha Reamhar, (i. e. athletic Dtncan)
progenitor of the Robertsons of Strowan, and M'Dougal of Lorn,
who, with his followers, had penetrated into Perthshire as far
as the Erochd, in order, it is said, to correspond with, or join,
the English. Donnacha Reamhar, as soon as apprized of the
   PERTH.                            M m


