
     of Dunlop.

   Language, Customs and Character.-With regard to the
people in general, and those things which mark and distin-
guish them, it may be observed, that they retain nothing

<FOOTNOTE>

longevity of late years, were James Anderson, who died at the advan-
ced age of 100, and John Andrew, so old as 102, according to the report
of his family.  As to proprietors and tenants, it may be noticed, that
there are but few of the former whose properties are extensive, and of the
latter whose farms are large; and as the greater part of each of these
is in grass, the labour of the female becomes more necessary than that of
the male servant to manage them.  And this accounts for the dispropor-
tion that is between them.  The number of both however is diminished
during the winter, both because they are less necessary, and because
their wages are very high.  The men get from L. 4 to L 6, and the wo-
men from L. 2 to L. 2, 10 s. for the half-year.  From which it is obvious
to remark, that labour is very expensive here.  The wages of an ordi-
nary labourer are from 1 s. 4 d. to 1 s. 6 d. a-day, from the beginning of
February to the end of November, and in time of harvest they are still
higher, as then he gets the same wages and his provisions also.  How to
Account for this it must be considered, that there are but few of this
class, and that these few live within two hours walk of the great works
in a neighbouring parish, where they can find employment at all times
and on their own terms.  Having a situation so inviting always before
them, and circumstances of advantage, which it is not their interest to
neglect, so easily in their power, it is natural for them to avail themselves
of them, which they accordingly never fail to do; so that it is impossible
to say what the price of labour, and where labourers may be found in a
few years in this part of the country.  From what I have said, it will be
easily inferred, that there are none of these works within the bounds of
this charge; and considering its distance from coal and suel of every kind,
and its deficiency in water to answer these purposes, it is more than pro-
bable that none of them ever will be in it.  Nor is this a matter of any
regreat to me, how much soever I may suffer with others, from the causes
which prevent them.  For although I rejoice in the prosperity of my
country, and in every thing that tends to the improvement and hap-
piness of mankind, yet in the case alluded to, there is reason, I appre-
hend, to rejoice with trembling.  Works that depend so much on the
labour of the young, and that must necessarily crowd so many of them
together, must be hurtful to their health, and holding out an early and
strong temptation to indigent and negligent parents to part with their
children, at a time when they should be attending to that education which


