
106                      RENFREWSHIRE.

4s. to 12s. a seat; and if a family be large their sittings in church
are almost equal to their rent, if they have as many as they re-
quire.  The reason of this is,-that even with us where there
is a village population of about 3000 souls, and altogether 3730
persons who profess to belong to the Establishment, there is a me-
lancholy want of church accommodation.
   The present manse, (though not the offices,) was built in 1815,
and is a good house.  The glebe contains from 6 to 7 Scotch
acres, and affords very good pasture.  The stipend is 8 chalders
of meal and 8 1/2 of barley, with L.15 Sterling for communion ele-
ments.  There is no chapel nor any other place of worship, con-
nected with the Established Church within the parish. *
   The only other place of worship is one belonging to the United
Secession body.  It was built in 1792, in the form of an octagon,
and stands near the parish church.  It has a small tower in front,
which improves its appearance.  There have been three different
incumbents in this place of worship, all of them still alive, and ex-
cellent men,--the Rev. Mr Schaw, now in Ayr; the Rev. Mr
Robson, now in Halifax, America; and the Rev. Mr Shoolbraid,
the present incumbent.  A neat house was built for him in 1825,
which, with a garden in front of it, is situated near the church.
His stipend is L.100, which is raised from the seat rents, the re-
gular and extraordinary collections, and, I believe, other occasional
contributions.
   The inhabitants of this parish are in a remarkable manner a
church-going people.  3730 of them profess to belong to the Es-
tablisbment; 1509 have been admitted into full communion with
it; and there are about 1100 regular communicants, leaving about
400 aged, careless or scandalous persons, who do not regularly com-
municate,-after deducting, however, a number in the eastern part
of the parish who are admitted to sealing ordinances in the chapel at
Johnstone.  There are 789 Dissenters of all denominations.
   Religious Societies.-There are two societies in this place for
promoting religious purposes, a parochial and a female society.
Their funds have dwindled down to a very small sum for some years
past.  The former, at its institution in 1815, raised almost L.100;
and now its annual income is generally below L.20.  The latter,
which was instituted a year or two earlier, then raised above L.40;
and now it does not raise L.10.  Our Sabbath evening schools
have become more numerous, amounting to 7, and attended by

<FOOTNOTE>A missionary station was opened in the end of 1834.


