
                            NORTH UIST.                        173

       native manufacture; and the women are seen to most advantage
       in beautiful strips and tartans- of their own manufacture.  Of
       late years, however, the cottons and calicoes of Glasgow, in se-
       veral instances, have superseded the native female dress; and the
       straw bonnets have pretty extensively overcome the neat head-dress,
       the hair kept togetber by a single comb, and preserved from con-
       fusion by a slight kerchief.  Neither of these innovations are im-
       provements, but the reverse.  The ordinary food is potatoes and
       barley-bread, which are almost exclusively used among the poorer
       class.  The small tenants of a better class use, in addition, some
       milk in summer, and mutton and beef in winter.
          The gentlemen farmers live genteely, comfortably and economi-
      cally.  The peasantry enjoy a considerable share of happiness.
      Their chief earthly anxiety is to pay their rents, retain their small
      possessions, and keep their families about them.  The gentlemen
      are well educated, and add to their other comforts many of the men-
      tal enjoyments which the overflowing press of the age so extensively
      furnishes.  The common people are sober, industrious, sagacious,
      and acute, full of curiosity and exceedingly inquisitive.  They are
      insinuating and even artful in their address, obliging and peace-
      able in tbeir dispositions.  Those of them in more comfortable cir-
      cumnstances are honest; but amongst the poorer and more ignorant,
      some are addicted to petty theft.  It is amongst the last class alone,
      that this vice and other immoralities more frequently are found.
      The greater part of the better sort are most regular in their at-
      tendance on religious worship and ordinances, and correct in their
      moral habits.  In this last respect, the gentlemen farmers set a
      praiseworthy example, which undoubtedly has a happy influence.
         Smuggling has for years been completely abolished, not so much
      by the exertions of the excise, as by the wise and determined mea-
      sures adopted by the proprietor and his managers for the purpose.

                              IV.-INDUSTRY.
         The number of families employed in agriculture, 602; in trade,
      manufactures, &c. 69; retail tmde and handicraft, 103; wholesale
      capitalists, professional persons, &c. 18; other males 39; male
      servants upwards of twenty years of age, 92; male servants under
      twenty, 29; female servants, III.
         Agriculture.-

      <TABLE>

      The number of acres (Scotch measure) in the parish which are cultivated or occa-
      sionally in tillage,                                   11,200
      The number of acres constantly in pastures,            42,850
      In sand drift,                                          1,688
                                                            ---------
                                                             55,238




