
280                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

turity, have a greater aptitude to fatten, are much better milkers,
and that such as are bred in this country are remarkably healthy,
and as hardy as the ordinary cattle of the district; but that no ac-
curate judgment can be formed of the short horns, unless greater
attention be paid to the purity of the blood, and care be taken to
cross only with superior males."
   The sheep are generally of the Highland and Leicester breeds.
"Some of a superior quality are kept on the estate of Eden.  They
are strong hardy sheep, and chiefly a cross between the Leicester-
shire and Cotswold, from Gloucestershire."
   Husbandry.--The rotation of cropping observed, is generally the
following: 1. turnips; 2. oats or barley laid down with grass
seeds; 3. grass for hay; 4. grass for pasture; 5. grass for pasture;
6. oats; and 7. oats.  One of the heritors, however, requires his
tenants to follow a five course shift, allowing only one grain crop
after the land has lain in grass for two years.  This mode of crop-
ping is thought to be less encouraging to the growth of weeds than
the former.  There is very little wheat sown in the parish.
   The tenants here have introduced many of the late improve-
ments in agriculture.  They are every year bringing into cultiva-
tion waste land, and in many cases their improvements have amply
repaid them.  On the estate of Eden, within the last twelve years,
all the unproductive land has been either reclaimed or planted;
belts and clumps of trees have also been planted both for ornament
and shelter; an extensive moss has been drained and brought into
cultivation, by which the climate in the neigbbourbood has been
much improved, the property has been divided into compact farms,
and laid off in properly proportioned fields, most of which have
already been enclosed with stone fences and hedges.  "The sum
laid out in improvements already greatly exceeds the value of the
property at the time of their commencement, and it is to be hoped
that the yearly value has also been more than doubled.  Draining
has been carried on annually to a great extent, and the frequent
drain system had suggested itself to the proprietor, and been prac-
tised by him before he was aware of the experiments of Mr Smith
of Deanstoun.  Mr Grant Duff's furrow drains are from 30 to
36 inches deep, varying in width from 10 to 18 inches, generally
built with an eye or conduit in the bottom, and filled with small
stones to within 15 or 16 inches of the top.  His large drains for
carrying off springs in bogs and mosses, are from 5 to 7 feet deep,
filled with stones to within 2 1/2 or 2 feet from the surface. He


