                               KELLS.                            111

    There is a considerable extent of natural copse, chiefly oak and
birch, both of which are evidently indigenous.  The avenue of
limes at Kenmure Castle has been long celebrated, and the oaks
around Glenlee Park are splendid trees.  The only plantation of
any extent is on the estate of Airds, the property of Thomas
Hughan, Esq.  It may consist of about 250 acres.  It is chiefly
composed of Scotch fie, larch, and oak, and is thriving vigorously.
It was planted, we believe, in 1810.
                               II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

     Chalmers in his Caledonis gives an account of the parish.
There is also a description of it in Symson's Galloway, written in
1684, and published in 1823, from a manuscript in the Advocates'
Library.  It is likewise mentioned by a Dr Archibald in a short
account of Galloway, printed along with Symson's work.  "There
is a well," says the Doctor,"in the parish of Callis called Kerna-
dort.  The water is very sweet, to which many people resort who
are distempered with sore heads and stomachs, and it proves ef-
fectual."  This well, which is a strong chalybeate, is still well
known to the inhabitants ; but not resorted to, as in Archibald's
time, by stranger, most probably from its being difficult of access
to invalids.
   Land-owners, &c.-- The land-owners are, Viscount Kenmure;
Sir William Miller, Bart., one of the Lords of Session as Lord
Glenlee ; William Forbes, Esq. of Callendar ; Thomas Hughan,
Esq. of Airds ; John Kennedy, Esq. of Knocknalling ; John
Hoggan, Esq. of Stranfasket ; William Grierson Yorstoun, Esq.
of Garroch ; and the Honourable F. M'Adam Cathcart of Craig-
engillan.  The valued rent is L.4548, 13s. 4d. Scots.  The present
rental is about L.4800 or L.5000 per annum.
   Eminent Characters, &c.--Lowe, the author of Mary's Dream ;
Heron, author of a history of Scotland, a most voluminous writer,
of whon there is an interesting account in D'Israeli's Curiosities
of Literature ; Gordon, translator of Tacitus, and author of the
independent Whig ; and the Rev. William Gillespie, author of
the Progress of Refinement, Consolation, &c., were natives of
this parish.
   Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers are imperfect.
The first entry is in 1693.  The register of baptisms does not
appear to have been kept with any regularity previous to 1750.
   Antiquities.-- Keamure Castle is an edifice of great antiquity.
At what period, however, it was originally built is unknown.




