
94                  LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

Diptera are very numerous, but chiefly the smaller kinds.
   Botany.-There is nothing remarkable in the vegetation. The
best plants are the following:
Galanthus nivalis           Ross rubiginosa,            Carex vulpina
Lonicera Caprifollum        Astragalus glyciphyllus     Scirpus maritimus
Spergula subulata           Atriplex rosea              Ophioglossum vulgatum
Rumez manguineus            ---- littoralis
                            II.-CIVIL HTSTORY.+

   Land-owners.-The sole proprietors are the Earl of Rosebery;
James Dundas, Esq. of Dundas; James Joseph Hope Vere,
Esq. of Craigiehall and Blackwood; and the Earl of Hopetoun.
The three former are resident in the parish, and the latter in the
adjoining parish of Abercorn. Near the south-eastern extremity
of the parish is Craigiehall, the seat of J. J. Hope Vere, Esq.,
beautifully imbedded in the vale of the Almond by the rising
grounds, which are richly wooded on the south and north. The
Almond or Amon, which in Gaelic signifies a meadow, enters the
policy a little to the west of the house, and winding past its south-
ern front, forms a cascade of six or seven feet perpendicular,
whence it descends over a rocky bed, worn out into numberless
fantastic cavities beneath a rustic bridge, from which the effect is
extremely picturesque and pleasing. This bridge, which was built
by the grandfather of the present proprietor in 1757, consists of
one arch, with a cord of 48 feet, so concealed by the ivy and wood
that profusely cover it, as to give it the appearance of a perforated
rock. Immediately above it, and overhanging the cataract, is a
grotto, containing a saloon above and a bath below, which may be
filled and emptied at pleasure by sluices from the river. There
were formerly several statues on pedestals on a walk along the
side of the river, from one of which, a Venus di Medici, a small
island, formed by the division of the stream into two parts a little
above Cramond bridge, obtained the name of Venus's Island. The
original name of this place was Creagach, a Celtic word signifying
a craggy ridge, and afterwards softened into Craigie. John de
Craigie was one of the witnesses to the original charter of Dundas
of that Ilk in the time of King David 1. One of them defended
the Castle of Kildrummy for David 11. against the followers of
Edward Baliol. Margaret de Craigie, only daughter of another
<FOOTNOTE>The above lists have been kindly furnished by Dr Greville, whose eminence as
a naturalist is universally known, and are the result of his own observation during a
residence of several summers within the parish.
   + For the Civil History of the parish, I have been indebted greatly to a manuscript
collection by the late J. P. Wood, Esq., author of the History of Cramond, now in pos-
session of his son, from which considerable portions of it are copied, nearly verbatim.


