
                           PAISLEY.                             281

at all times one in which the water may be allowed to settle, so that
the expense of filtration may be lessened or avoided.  From this reser-
voir, the water will be conveyed to the town, a distance of only a
mile, along a stone conduit, lying near the surface of the ground.
The termination of the conduit will be at a point high enough to
distribute water to every street in Paisley.
   Six bleachfields and print-fields, having reservoirs attached, to
the extent of 5 millions of cubic feet of water, are situated on the
Espedair burn.  Of these, two depend entirely, and the others
chiefly, upon water from the drainage proposed to be intercepted.
Hence some difficulty was experienced, in arranging with the pro-
prietors of these works, the terms on which they would part with
the surplus water of the streams.  At length, the proprietors made
a proposal, which was agreed to by the company, and has been
confirmed by Act of Parliament, which, for its simplicity and easy
adaptation to such undertakings, is worthy of special notice.  Al-
lowing for loss of water by evaporation and otherwise, an annual
depth of 18 inches is supposed to flow into the reservoirs, from the
whole of the ground intercepted.  Three-fourths of this quantity
are to be the property of the company, and one-fourth is to be-
long to the proprietors of the works on the stream; and this last
portion is to be so let out from the reservoirs, as to form a constant
and uniform stream.  Should, however, a larger quantity of water
than 18 inches annually be available to the reservoirs, measure-
ments are to be made for three years, when the fourth part of
the average annual quantity, then determined, is to be fixed as the
amount of compensation in all time coming, provided the quantity
thus measured be not less than 18 inches, which quantity is to be
the minimum.
   No money has been given to the proprietors of public works, a
steady and sufficient, stream being admitted to be an adequate
compensation.
   The lower reservoir will be highly ornamental to the country,
and the terraces formed by the large drains, which are intended
to run almost horizontally along the brow and base of the classic
braes of Gleniffer, will afford some of the most delightful pros-
pects in Renfrewshire.  The committee of management commen-
ced their operations some months ago, and they expect to finish
them in the course of two years. *

<FOOTNOTE>It is an interesting fact, that the principle on which the present undertaking is
founded, was actet upon at Constantinople, in the fifth century.  the rivulets in the
neighbourhood of that city, being evaporated in summer, to an insignificant size, six


