
472                    FIFESHIRE.

employment; and in the country there are 8 families of indepen-
dent fortune. The number of proprietors of land of the yearly
value of L. 50 and upwards is from 35 to 40.

<TABLE>

      The number of families in the parish is	-	     1296
              inhabited houses,    -         -                       863
              uninhabited or building, do.                            14

    There seems to be no peculiarity in the strength, size, complex-
ion, or other personal qualities of the inhabitants, to distinguish
them from their neighbours. The number of insane and fatuous
persons is 13, of blind 5, of deaf and dumb 4.
     The language which is generally employed by the labouring
classes, is the Fifan dialect. Among the higher classes, the English
language is spoken. There is no popular custom that can be said
to be peculiar to the district; but there is a game of skill, which
has for centuries formed a favourite amusement at St Andrews,
viz. the game of golf. For the prosecution of this amusement, a
considerable range of ground is requisite, with a short herbage.
Both these requisites, the links or downs to the north-west of the
city supply. And the inequalities of surface which the course
presents, instead of being regarded as disadvantageous, tends mate-
rially to increase the interest of the game, and to promote the de-
velopement of the skill of the several competitors. The course
for this game is divided into a number of stages from 200 to 500
yards distant from each other. At the termination of each, a bole,
about five inches in diameter and several inches deep, is formed,
and the object of the competitors is to drive the ball they employ
from station to station, landing it ultimately in the holes, with the
fewest number of strokes. For this purpose, clubs of a variety of
shapes are employed, according to the nature of the position in
which the ball may be found after the several strokes. Nearly
eighty years ago, a number of gentlemen in St Andrews and its
vicinity formed themselves into an association for the purpose of
promoting the cultivation of this very interesting and healthy
amusement. This club has now a muster roll of from 300 to 400
members. King William IV., who, before his accession to the
Crown, was Duke of St Andrews, has signified his acceptance of
the office of patron of the club, and has lately sent a splendid gold
medal, to be competed for annually, and to be held for the year
by the winner.
   The majority of the people appear, on the whole, to enjoy in a
reasonable degree the comforts and advantages of society. But
three are many individuals and families'who have both the ability
and inclination to exert themselves, but who, in consequence


