
84				STIRLINGSHIRE.

      Under wood, natural or planted,	.	.	2000 acres.
      Lakes,	.	.	.	.	.	 190
      Occupied by streams, .        .        .                  100
               by roads,   .        .        .                  200
                                                             _______
                                                              14080
         1000 acres might be profitably added to the cultivated-land.
  Plantations.-The most common natural wood is birch, arrans
or alders, hazel, and willow. A great variety of forest trees are
planted. The most common are, the Scotch fir, larch, oak, ash,
elm, beech, Huntingdon willow, and Lombardy poplar. Great
attention is paid to the woods. Most of the plantations are young,
and give every promise of yielding their proprietors a rich return.
Bent ofLand.-The average rent of arable land per imperial
acre is L.1, 3s. The average rent of grazing is L.2, 1Os. per
cow, and 6s. per sheep.
  The utmost pains are employed to suit the husbandry to the
soil; and the farmers are perpetually on the alert to adopt new
discoveries, and to improve their different agricultural processes.
 Two crops of oats are generally taken. The second is sown
down with perennial ryegrass. The third crop is ryegrass, fol-
lowed by three years pasture. In some cases, the first crop is oats;
the second is green crop of potatoes or turnips; the third is wheat or
barley, sown down with grass seeds; the fourth is hay, followed
by three or four years pasture.
  Few portions of the soil require either embanking or irrigation.
Draining is much needed: and both covered and open drains have
been carried to a great extent. Within the last twenty years,
about 300 acres of waste land have been reclaimed. The
process most frequently employed, is to trench two spadings deep;
smooth the bottom of the trench; and place the tough and heathy
side of the upper spading in the bottom of the trench. As
the trenches run in the direction of the declivity, the heathy sur-
face, when removed, acts as a drain, The large stones that are
turned out are used for dikes, and, the stualler ones for covered
drains. This trenching is executed for L.5 per acre. Before the
crop is sown, each acre is limed at the rate of four or five chaiders.
The clialder of lime, according to the distance from the kiln, costs
from L. 1 to L. 1, 5s.
  The duration of the leases is generally nineteen years. The
farm-buildings and enclosures are generally in good repair.
The tenants are suffering greatly from having contracted to pay
money-rents. While the nominal refit remains the same, the great


