
144                       BERWICKSHIRE.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The church, although nearly half a mile
from the village, and a quarter from the manse, is quite central for
the parish, and is scarcely three miles distant from the remotes
habitation. It stands on a romantic spot on the banks of the Eye
nearly opposite to Ayton House, in a situation of sweet seclusion.
As already noticed, it is supposed to have been founded in the 12th
century. Besides the present place of worship, consisting in part of
the ancient walls, there still remain entire those of the south transept
all beautifully mantled with ivy, and now consecrated a second time
by the place having been converted into the burying-ground of the
Ayton family, and adorned with appropriate shrubs and flowers by
the pious care of the surviving relatives. In this portion of the
ruins there is a stone window, with circular, and not pointed arches,
which may be a guide to the antiquarian as to the age of the erec-
tion. There is likewise remaining, the gable of the chancel, the side-
walls of which have been assisted in their decay, by the sacrilegious
hands of plunderers, for the sake of the sandstone. In the gable
of the present church, there is a large circular arch, nearly the whole
width of the wall, but now built up, which must have formed the
spacious communication with the chancel, and of course wide enough
to admit the grand processions to and from the altar in Catholic
times. The hewn stone of the walls, appears, from its quality, to
have been brought from the sandstone quarry by the sea side at
Greystonlees; and this perhaps may account for the church being
built on the south side of the river. Its original dimensions compre-
hending the external ruins, had afterwards been contracted within
narrower limits, corresponding with the actual population,-proba-
bly at the time when it was converted into a Protestant church. Up-
wards of twenty years ago, it underwent repairs and an enlargement,
by the addition of a northern aisle and steeple. Its capacity was thus
better adapted to the increased population, but it would even then,
(and still more now,) have been too small, were it not for the accom-
modation supplied to the redundant population by the two meeting-
houses in the village. These latter have also afforded similar ac-
commodation to the growing population of the surrounding parishes.
It would have been ultimately a saving to the heritors to have
built a new church at the time of the last enlargement. The pre-
sent although still in pretty good repair, will not last so long as a
new one, and when repairs are next called for, it will probably re-
quire to be rebuilt and further enlarged. In its present state, it
may contain nearly 500 sitters. None of the seats are free, except
the communion benches, one or two of which are left for use in the


