
                          ELLON.                           931

recognition of those mysterious ties, which, through a common
God and a common Saviour, bind in the bonds of an everlasting
brotherhood, man to his fellow man, he must have drunk deep at
the fountain of that better lore which gives to the human soul its
highest dignity, and which fits it both for acting and for suffering,
whatever may be the circumstances in which it is placed, in a
manner worthy of its immortal destiny.  Hence, that high moral
and religious bearing, and that manly firmness and strength of cha-
racter which distinguished both the burghers and peasantry of the
olden time, are explicable on principles, which approve themselves
to enlightened reason, as the soil on which such fruits might be
expected to be matured.
   But now in modern education, the prominent qualities of which
we have been speaking, and to which consequences so important
have been traced, will, in many instances, be looked for in vain.
With reference, indeed, to the elementary instruction of the pa-
rochial school, we have not to complain, either that the Bible has
become a sealed book, or that the Bible lesson is negligently
taught.  The Bible, on the contrary, is still a school-book; and
justice to that most valuable body of men, the parochial school-
masters of Scotland, renders it our imperative duty to state, that,
with no exception of which we are aware, due pains is bestowed
by them, at the daily reading of the Scriptural lesson, in impres-
sing upon their pupils the instructions which it conveys.  But as
the Bible is now but one of many school-books, and as the time
that can be allotted for the reading of the scriptural lesson is ne-
cessarily limited, it becomes a most important subject of inquiry,
whether the other treatises usually studied at school harmonize
with the principles of Divine truth.  And, for the establishment of
such a harmony in this respect as the nature of the case requires
it is obviously not sufficient that the treatises in question contain
nothing of a character positively anti-scriptural.  Articles on bio-
graphy, natural and civil history, physical science, arts and manu-
factures, ethical philosophy, &c. can easily be conceived charge-
able with no offensive opposition to revealed truth, while it is yet
their direct and necessary tendency to keep its doctrines in the
back-ground, and to exclude from the mind of the learner all dis-
tinct recognition of an observant and overruling Providence.  A
course of reading composed of such articles can scarcer fail, par-
ticularly in the case of the young, to be attended with conse-
quences extremely prejudicial; it puts man in the place of God;


