
                        BENDOCHY.                            1199

date, was built in 1815, and since that time, no repairs on it have
been asked from the heritors. It is sufficiently commodious and
comfortable. It is sweetly sittated on the banks of the Isla,
snugly embosomed in its own little grove of wood,-and oh ! ye,
my successors, lift not up the axe against the trees. Touch not
the old ash that has stood for a century the centinel of the manse,
guarding it from the eastern blasts, and protecting from the storm
the graceful birches that weep and wave their branches below.
   The glebe, exclusive of garden, &c. consists of 7 Scotch acres
of excellent soil, and would let at L.2 per acre.
The stipend consists of 164 bolls, 2 firlots, 3 pecks, 3 4/5 lippies
oatmeal; of barley, 22 bolls, 2 firlots, I peck, I 3/4 lippies; of bear,
74 bolls, I firlot, I peck, 0 9/10 lippies; and of money, L.29, 14s.
11 9/10 d. It is understood that the teinds are exhausted. The
Crown is patron.
   The Chapel of Persie.-This preaching station is at North
Persie, about thirteen miles from the parish church. The chapel
was erected about the year 1785, at an expense of L.150 Ster-
ling, raised by contributions throughout the district, and amongst
the proprietors and ministers connected with it. It contains about
400 people, and accommodates not only the people of this parish
in that quarter, but the inhabitants of a large adjoining district,
comprising portions of the parishes of Blairgowrie, Alyth, Kirk.-
michael, Rattray, and Caputh. It is most conveniently located,
and has proved a great blessing to an extensive district of country,
containing a population of 1000 souls, which otherwise would
have been very destitute of the means of religious instruction and
pastoral superintendence.  For some years past the average amount
of the seat rents and collections has been about L.70. These
form the salary of the preacher. (In the old Statistical Account
they are stated at L.30.) The proprietor of North Persie grant-
ed the site (half an acre) for the chapel, upon the express condi-
tion that it should continue inalienably in connection with the
Established Church; and the deed provides, that, in the event of
any successful attempt being made to sever the chapel from the
Established Church, that in that case the fabric and the site
should revert to him or his heirs. He nominated certain proprie-
tors and ministers connected with the district an trustees on the
chapel; but for many years past, a committee of the hearers have
managed the whole affairs of the chapel. In 1835, a manse for
the accommodation of the preacher was erected, at a cost of L.150,


