
238                         ARGYLESHIRE.

	                 II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   The civil history of this parish is possessed of a considerable
degree of interest, both on account of its being the residence
of powerful opposing clans, and on account of transactions of
which it had been the scene.  The Stewarts of Appin were, for a
very long period, the proprietors of that part of the parish, and
from their power and influence were of no small importance in the
scale of political rivalship.  In the commotions which agitated the
country during the Montrose wars, the Stewarts of Appin were
conspicuously engaged, and rendered that nobleman no inconside,
rable assistance at the battle of Inverlochay; and, like many of
their countrymen, espoused the cause of Prince Charles Edward
in 1745.  At each of those eventful periods, the Stewarts and the
cause which they espoused, were opposed by the Campbells, who
possessed the south side of the parish, and who ranged themselves
on different sides of politics, both in the religious wars in the
time of Montrose, and in the civil commotions in the time of
Prince Charles.  In Strath of Appin there is a small rivulet called
Con ruagh, or red bog, from the swamp through which it runs,
and this rivulet is still pointed out as the line which separated the
lands of the supporters and of the opponents of Prince Charles;
and one cannot help viewing Con ruagh with interest, when it is
considered, that, in those days of commotion and strife, a single
step from either side to the other brought the individual into the
territory either of a friend or of a foe.  Happily these days are
gone by, and the sound of the warlike trumpet has given place to
the more peaceful toll of the church bell, and the inhabitants of
either side of Con ruaqh meet on its northern bank, not in hostile
array, to dispute the proprietorship of an earthly, but in perfect
amity, to employ the means of obtaining a heavenly crown.  In
1745 some lands in Appin were forfeited, but they were after-
wards restored.
   The valley of Glencoe and its neighbourbood are rendered
classic by Ossian, who, with poetic pathos, sung the Voice of Cona.
From the Palace of Selma, in the parish of Archattan, or from
the Hall of Shells, in Morven, the Fingalian heroes made fre-
quent excursions to Lismore, to Glencoe, and the braes of Appin
on hunting expeditions, and thus, in passing and repassing, they
must have traversed the length and breadth of this parish.  The
massacre of Glencoe, perpetrated it under aggravated circumstances,


