
               AUCHTERTOOL.                                 255

  Prices.--The selling price, in common years, of the different
kinds of grain grown in the parish may be rated as follows:  Wheat,
L. 2, 13s. 10d.; barley, L. 1, 9s. 11d.; oats, L.1. 2s. 4d. per im-
perial quarter.
  The average price of different articles of parochial produce re-
quired for the purpose of domestic economy.--Oat-meal per im-
perial stone, 1s. 7 1/2d.; pot barley, 2d per imperial lb.; cheese made
of milk after the cream is taken from it, 4d. per imperial lb.; ditto
made with the cream in it, 6d. per imperial lb. ; eggs per dozen,
6d.; hens each 1s. 6d.; chickens, 7d. each; potatoes, 1s. 6d. per
bushel.
   Live-Stock.--Of late years, the farmer's attention has been turn-
ed to the rearing and feeding of black-cattle, much more than in
former times, when the price of grain was higher. They find that
this branch of husbandry makes a better return in money, than
the growing of grain at the low prices, during a currency of years
past; while it enriches the land, by increasing the quantity of ma-
nure. Accordingly, the growing of turnips and potatoes is now much
increased. Every farmer is desirous to have as much land in pas-
ture, and green crop, are the nature and extent of his farm will
allow.
   Till within these last three or four years, little had been done
in draining and reclaiming waste land. There is but one farm in
the parish, on which either of these improvements has been carried
to any considerable extent. On the farm alluded to, much has
been done in both. The same improvements are becoming more,
general in the parish than formerly; but the progress is slow.
The reclaimed lands extend to 40 acres or thereby; they consist
chiefly of eminences formerly covered with furze, on some parts
of which the soil was extremely thin. But the nature of the sub-
soil renders it comparatively easy to add to its depth. The subsoil
consists of what is commonly called rotten rock, which, when
turned up by the plough, or any other implement, (though in
pieces similar to that of road metal,) is soon reduced by the va-
rieties of weather, and converted into fertile soil. Where the
plough may not be convenient and efficient, the pick and spade
can be used with complete success; and the labour, though more
expensive, will still be profitable. In this way, the thin soil on the
tops of knolls, in which some fields in the, parish, abound, might
be deepened at a cost which the improvement would amply repay.
The present manse garden was made of a piece if ground where
the average depth of soil did not exceed two inches.It was


