
                             EAGLESHAM.                             391

   casionally planted.  The sort of fir wbich thrives best here is the
   larch, and many acres might be profitably covered with it, which
   are now.of little or no value to the proprietor.  The great profit
   of planting these trees may be deduced from the consideration,
   that, supposing an acre of trees planted at eight feet apart to con-
   tain 680 trees,. and that each tree at fifty years growth should con-
   tain only 70 feet of wood, in that case 680 trees on an acre would
   contain 476,000 cubic feet of timber which, at 1s. a foot, would be
   L.2380. Hard-wood thrives well enough in the lower and more
   sheltered parts of the parish, but not in the higher.

                          II-CIVIL HISTORY.
     This parish was no doubt formerly part of the district of Mearns;
   a term which does not properly apply to a parish, but to a 111 dis-
   trict inhabited by herdsmen or dairy people;" and when the church
   was built, the village which gradually arose around it was termed
   Eagleshain or Kirktown.  The erection of that church must have
   been in very early times, when the Celtic language was still spok.
   en. The earliest authentic records of the parish are connected
   with the Stetiarts.  This with other estates was granted by David I.
   to Walter, the son of Alan the first Steteuart.  Robert de Mont-
   gomery firstsettled in Scotland with Alan Lord of Oswaldestre,
   and is believed to have been a grandson of Earl Roger, by a
   younger son, unknown to the genealogists, from the circumstance of
   the Castle of Alan at Oswestry being in the vicinity of Shrews-
   bury, and no other family of Montgomery being then known in
   England.  He obtained from the High Steward the manor of
   Eaglesham, county of Renfrew, which is still possessed by the
   same family.  These two distinguished individuals died. about 1 177.
   Fir two centuries Eaglesham was the chief estate of the Montgo-
   mery family.  On the accession of the Stetiarts to the throne in
   1371, the proprietor of Eaglesham became a tenant in capite-
   This was in the time of John de Montgomeryo who added to, this
   estate the baronies of Eglinton and Ardrossan, by mardage, with
   Elizabeth, daughter and heir of Sir Hugh, Eglinton, by Egidia,
   sister of Robert 11, King of Scotland.  It was this same indivi-
   dual that, at the battle of Otterburn, 1388,     took Harry llierey
   (Hotspur) prisoner with his own hand, and with the ransom or
   poind-money built the Castle of Punoon, or Poinon as the name
   indicates.  His successor, Sir Hugh Montgomery, was killed at
   Chevy-Chace by an English archer, who


