
   18				NAIRNSHIRE.

   ly Societies established in the parish.  Their object is to give aid
   to members when sick, or unable from age to work, and an allow-
   wance to widows.  Each alsoaallows L.4 to defray the funeral expenses
   of a member or member's wife.  There was a Savings Bank kept
   by the minister of the parish for more than twenty years ; but, on
   the opening of a National Security Savings Bank at Nairn, the
   funds were in 1841 transferred to it, as a more convenient loca-
   lity for the depositors.  The amount of the funds transferred was
   about L.800.
      Poor and Porochial Funds.-- The average number of poor on
   the roll is 44.  There are about six more who require occasional
   relief.  The annual average allowance to each on the roll is 10s.
   The collections for their relief during the year, average as follow :
   Church collections, after deducting payment of session-clerk, pre-
   centor, and kirk-officer, L. 13, 1s.; received for the use of the
   mortclotb, L. 3, 10s. ; contributed by the heritors, L. 6 ; total
   collected exclusively for the poor, L. 22, 1 Is.  The insane poor
   are entirely provided for by the beritors.  There is no other re-
   gular mode of supporting the poor, but donations are sometimes
   given for their use by benevolent individuals connected with the
   parish.  They are very unwillingto apply for parochial relief, and
   their relations often provide for them in order to save them from
   the necessity of such application.  All admitted on the roll make
   over to the session for the behoof of their survivors what property
   they may leave at death, deducting funeral expenses.  Little is
   gained in this way, as none but those without property come upon
   the roll.
      There are no prisons in the parish.  There are four fairs--St
   Colm's market, held the first Wednesday after 19th June; St
   John's, first Tuesday after the Inverness Martinmas market; and
   two fairs, held respectively a fortnight and a month after St John's.
      There are four public-houses, three of which are in the village.
   Their effects on the morals of the people are decidedly injurious.
      Fuel.-- Three descriptions of fuel are used,--wood, peat, and
   coal.  Almost all the parishioners have access to the mosses where
   peat is obtained.  English coals are brought from Nairn.

   			MISCELLANEOUS OBSBYLVATIONS.
      In comparing the present state of the parish with its state at the
   time Rif the former Statistical Account, several striking differences
   occur.  During more than forty years that have elapsed since that
   period, agriculture, from being hampered by ancient prejudice and
					4


