
			GLENISLA.                           425

an angle of about 70&deg;. The plates, however, could not be obtain-
ed in great breadth, nor cut up so thin as to make them be much
sought after for the purpose of roofing. A short way down from
this is the burn of Kilry, where porphyry appears, and where jas-
per is found of such excellent qualities as to be much prized by
the lapidary. Pursuing the line of the Isla, we find the stratifica-
tion very complicated and irregular. Near the bridge of Milna-
Craig, conglomerate of the old red sandstone appears. At the
bridge itself, it dips at an angle of about 7&deg; north. At the fall, 200
yards below the bridge, the dip suddenly changes from this to one
of about 73&deg; south. This sudden change in the stratification seems
to have occasioned the splendid cataract of the Reekie Linn al-
ready noticed. Half a mile lower down, an enormous mass of fel-
spar porphyry makes its appearance. The scenery here, in a pic-
turesque point of view, is very magnificent. A massy vein of black
basalt crosses the river still lower down; and at the Slug of Auch-
rannie, conglomerate prevails. Soon after this, old red sandstone
is visible, dipping at first towards the north at an angle of 70&deg;, but
suddenly changing as it approaches the line of the Barry-hill of
Alyth, at the extreme south-east corner of the parish, it dips south
at an angle of 60&deg;. The sandstone makes an excellent building
stone. The alluvial matter in the parish consists chiefly of ir-
regular deposits of till and of water-worn gravel. * The latter,
along with moss, enters largely into the composition of the soils
in the upper district. These are in consequence generally
loose and friable, but when well wrought and manured, yield,
pretty abundantly, most of the different species of cultivated
plants. In the lower district, the rocks are covered by a thick
deposit of clayey till. The soil is hence tenacious and unfertile
until well-drained, when it produces, especially when manured
with lime, heavy crops of grass and all kinds of grain.

	Zoology.--Of the rarer species of animals we have the following;
Lepus variabilis, alpine or white hare, on the higher mnuntains;
Cervus Elaphus, the stag, and C. Capreolus, the roebuck, in the
Earl of Airlie's forest, Caanlochan. Falco Chrysaetos, the golden
eagle; F. ater, black eagle; F. Albicilla, the erne; and F. Milvus,
the kite or gled. These occupy the steepest cliffs of Caanlochan,
Corvus corax, the raven; C. corone, the carrion crow; and C. cor-

<FOOTNOTE>For the above information on the Geology of the parish, I am much indebted
to Mr G. Buist, author of the Highland Society's Prize Essay on the Geology of
Pertshire.


