
	74                           ORKNEY.

	ply of the fioest fish with which the waters around the parish
        abouod. The cod-fish taken in the Pentland Frith are not sur-         passed by any found elsewhere in Britain, and are so much prized,
	that a numcer of Well-smacks are sometimes here fishing for the
	London market. Lobsters are also taken aod sent to the same
        mast. Cockles and spout-fish are abundant.
	   The berring-fishery is carried on to a considerable extent. The
	gish are not cured on the island; but the fishermen, at the proper
	season, proceed to the different stations, where they are always
	sure to find purchasers. This fishery now promises to be more
	lucrative, as some time ago the fish came almost to the edge of the
	shore at the east point.
	   The cuthes or sillocks are acuodant at all seasons, and afford
        excellent food, besides yielding oil from the livers; aod thus may
        the people generally procure a plentiful supply of what furnishes
	both food and light.
	   Botany.-There are no large trees: in the parish, though, among
	the hills, shrubs and plants abound, which afford much scope for
	the researches of the botanist, In others of the Orkney Islands,
	there are found the remains of large trees, which would lead to
	the conclusion, that, if proper care were taken in selecting those
	trees best fitted for the soil, and planting them in sufficient num-
	bers, the Orkney scenery would, ere long, be greatly improved.
	   The garden fruits are various, viz. apples, pears, and plums,
	also gooseberries, currants, and strawberries.

			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	   Considering the warlike transactions which took place in Ork-
	ney during many centuries, when these islands were governed by
	earls, and subject to the kings of Denmark, we are surprised to
	find in this island so few remains of fortification, especially when
	we consider its proximity to Caithness, and the continued hostili-
	ties which were maintained between the inhabitants of that part of
	Scotland and the Orcadians. There are, however, remains of se-
	veral ancient buildings. Near Snelsetter House, formerly called
	the House of Walls, is a very large rock, separated from those on
	the land which bound the Pentland Frith, there are several traces
	of ancient fortifications. There are. also the remains of what ap-
	pear to. have been chapels. One of these is curiously situated on
	a peninsular rock. There are a few tumuli; but I am not aware
	that any of them have been explored.
	   Mansion-Houses.-The House of Snelsetter, before-mentioned,



