
522                          FORFARSHIRE.

neath the latter subsoil, the lias-rock is often found. Farther
south, the rock wholly disappears; and there the subsoil consists
of a very thick bed of gravel and sand; and as the land here is
far drier, the less draining is requisite. Here, too, the soil be-
comes of a yet more red hue, and this is especially the case with
the haugh-land. In that quarter, the soil is often but thin, and
occasionally intermixed with hirsts of gravel, or gravel and sand;
here, also, the grnund, in dry seasons, yields but a stinted crop,
being parched, and sometimes quite burnt up by the drought;
and, in general, the baugh-land is far less productive than the ad-
joining upper ground, which is still more friable, and, for the
most part, rests on a bed of gravel only.
	In the upper part of the parish, large blocks of trap have been
found amongst the till, together with considerable boulders of
granite, gneiss, micaceous schistus, basalt, and greenstone; as
also trap-tufa, either alone or mixed with specks of limestone;
likewise, either along with these boulders, or alone, there are
to be met with much smaller fragments of quartz, jasper, por-
phyry, serpentine, and trap and slate, all less or more round-
ed by the action of water in very ancient ages. By digging
pretty deep, also some nodules of limestone have been brought
into view, but no bed of it has been found. Sometimes the
nodules of the limestone have been detected intermixed with
the lias, and wherever this is the case, they then render the lias
of a much harder consistency. In the lias, too, clusters of rock-
crystals may occasionally be detected; sometimes, too, pebbles of
chalcedony, veined with white carnelian, and intermixed with
quartz, have occasionally been found; but generally they are very
coarse, and of no value. The direction of the dip of the rnck,
in this parish, is towards the north. Many years ago, quarries
were opened in different places, for stone fences; yet none have
been, wrought here, for upward of forty years, for the above pur-
pose; and when stones for building houses have been required,
then recourse has been had to a quarry, on this estate, in our im-
mediate vicinity, but situated in Brechin parish. There the rock
is very hard, and  requires not a little gunpowder to blast it,

   Zoology-Mammalia.-
     Order I. Pecora            II. FERAE.         Mustela lutra
Cervus espreulos        Canis valpes *            Arvicola amphibin

<FOOTNOTE>Last spring, a two year old fox pursued a lame peacock round the castle, and
having at length caught and killed the old lame bird near a hay-atact, the house-dog
lodging there, killed the kox, and he and his prey were found in the morning, lying
beside the dog, which was an Italian wolf-dog; and in the combat, the dog had his
face well-marked by the fox.


