
188                       BERWICKSHIRE.

   There is only one stream, and that inconsiderable,-the Leet,
which rises in the neighbouring parish of Whitsome, and passes
through Swinton in a westerly direction, to fall, after a course of
ten or eleven miles, into the Tweed at Cold stream.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The whole parish forms part of the
new red sandstone formation, which may be traced throughout a
considerable portion of the Merse or lower district of Berwickshire.
The rocks, disposed in strata which dip to the south, consist of white
sandstone and a dark sandstone slate, with alternating beds of indu-
rated marl. This arrangement appears to extend to the Tweed, and
to rest immediately upon the coal formation of Northumberland;
it is interrupted, however, on the eastern boundary, by rocks, ap-
parently of the coal formation, white sandstone disposed in hori-
zontal strata, and containing calamite with impressions of salices.
A coarse red micaceous sandstone, accompanied with a white variety, is quarried in several parts of the parish. The lower surface
of this rock has not been reached, though it has been bored to the
depth of thirty fathoms.
   The boulders, or loose minerals which occur in the fields, be-
sides sandstone, are of greywacke and transition granite and green-
stone, which appear to have been conveyed from the bills to the
north of Dunse, a distance of about eight miles.
   The soil is in general deep and very productive; but as it lies
upon a strong impervious clay, it is liable, where drains do not
prevent, to be wet or almost miry during long-continued rains in
winter, and in dry summers it has sometimes suffered severely from
want of moisture.
   Botany.-Though not rich in a botanical sense, the parish pos-
sesses several interesting plants. Among the rarer and more
beautiful are the Senecio tenuifolius, * the Alisma ranunculoides,
the Cerastium arvense, Lythrum salicaria, Hyoscyamus niger, Lac-
tuca virosa, Solanum dulcamara, Trollius Europmus, Typha lati-
folia, Cnidium solaris, Spergula nodosa, Arum maculatum, Berberis
vulgaris, Rumex sanguineus, Tormentilla reptans, Plantago mari-
tima, Ranunculus arvensis, Parnassia palustris, Leontodon palus-
tres, Lysimachia vulgaris, and Galium boreale.
   Of the mosses the Bryum ligulatum has been collected on fine
fruit, and the felices are the common Aspidium felix mas.
   No natural wood is to be found in the parish; but the planted wood,

<FOOTNOTE>This plant, gathered in this parish, was added to the British Flora, a few years
ago, by the Rev. Mr  Baird of Cockburnspath.
                                      3

