
                          HAWICK.                               4l7

a great measure to the fact, that the parochial system, which in
other places has been found the most effectual of all checks both
to pauperism and crime, has been prevented, by a deplorable de-
ficiency of church accommodation and pastoral superintendence,
from being brought into full and efficient operation in this parish,
  In connexion with the same subject, we deem it of importance
to record the following facts: 1. Marriages are frequently con-
tracted by parties without making any previous provision for the
maintenance of a family. 2. The practice of working only so
many days in the week as is barely necessary for the earning of a
livelihood is adopted by a large number of the operatives. 3.
The savings bank and institutions of a like nature are supported
almost exclusively by the church-going pnpulation. 4. Applica-
tions, especially in seasons of domestic affliction, are made for
parochial relief, and apparently without much feeling of degrada-
tion, even by families, who, by industrious exertion and provident
habits, might have raised themselves to a state of honourable in-
dependence. 5. Instances of heads of families clandestinely ab-
sconding from the parish, and leaving their wives and children to-
tally unprovided for, are of frequent occurrence.
  These facts we leave to speak for themselves, remarking only,
that it is somewhat mortifying to find that such evils should exist
to so great an extent in a parish where the most liberal provision
has been made on the part of the heritors for the purpose of meet-
ing the necessities of the poor, and when, moreover, it is borne in
remembrance, that the assessment itself, exclusive of collections
and other voluntary contributions, has amounted, since the begin-
ning of this century, to upwards of L.31,850, it is at least deserving
of consideration, whether the adoption of a different system, and
the application of a liberal expenditure to the purpose of moral
and religious training, would not bear more successfully on the com-
fort and moral well-being of the poorer classes of the community,
and peradventure relieve the heritors in a great measure from the
burden of a now large and rapidly augmenting assessment.
  Prison.-The Jail, which forms a part of the town-house, and
consists of a very small apartment, is neither properly secured,
nor capable of being used without endangering the health of its
inmates.  For these reasons criminals are generally conveyed to
the county town, a mode of procedure which is not only attended
with considerable expense, but which, when taken in connexion
with a glaring deficiency of police, presents serious obstacles to



