
         202                 INVERNESS-SHIRE.

         gathers Strength about the end of July, the old bird gets it upott
         its own back, and 1hrows itself, and the young one- headlong into
         the sea below, from whence it returns no more that season.  Of
         these fowls there is no great variety visiting the above rocks; but
         few as the are, eah tribe keeps possession of a certain division
         of the rocks, which its neighbours dare not approach. Thus
         from the bottom to the top of the rock, each keeps its own divi-
         sion.  Nothing can possibly exceed the grandeur of beholding
         the myriads of these aquatic fowls standing erect on the ledges
         of these precipices, sometimes three and four deep, with their
         white breasts and red bills, resembling files of soldiers standing at
         ease, and so very tame, that a person might catch them with his
         hands, were he able to approach them; and when roused from
         their slumber by the firing of a shot, they rise over your bead
         like a cloud of locusts, deafening by. their cries, and darkening
         the sky by their numbers.  The natives, at very great risk, de-
         scend into the rocks, and not only rob the poor birds of their
         eggs, but kill them for their carcase. and feathers.  The first
         they reckon good eating and the feathers they sell for beds.  This
         desperate robbery has cost some of the natives their lives.  No
         less than two melancholy instances of this kind have occurred
         within a few yeam It is hardly possible to point out a scene more
         worthy of being visited for grandeur and variety than that of these
         rocks, particularly during the months of June and July.  St Kilda,
         so often resorted to by strangers, Coruisge, Cuiraing, or any other
         place on the coast of Scotland, cannot come in competition with
         the scenery of the southern isles of Barray, during the period
         above-mentioned.
           Hydroyrophy.-There are only four fresh water lakes in the
         island, none of which exceed half a mile or a mile in length, or
         deserve any farther notice, than that they abound in small
         black trout and eels, and have each an old dun built upon one of
         their small rocks or islands. Neither are there any rivers or
         streams of consequence, as in a place so confined, and so intersect-
         ed by arms of the sea, rivers of any considerable size cannot be
         formed. Although the island abounds in springs of excellent fresh
         water, yet there is none of any medicinal quality.
          Geolqy and Mineralogy.-The rocks in this parish are gene-
         rally of coarse granite: but in the Island of Berneray a quarry
         of granite has boan discovered of a very superior quality, beauti-


