
          408                           PERTSHIRE.

            Mansion-Houses.- Drimmie House, which became the residence
          of the family of Kinnaird, after the Castle of Moncur was destroy-
          ed by fire, in the beginning of the last century, stood in this pa-
          rish.  It was pulled down, however, a few years ago, and not a trace
          of it is now visible.  Rossie Priory, the present magnificent seat of
          his Lordship, more than supplies its place; but the site having
          been removed about half a mile to the northward, it is just within
          the bounds of the neighboring parish of Inchture, in the Account
          of which it will of course be adverted to.
             There are only two other mansion-houses in the parish-Mylne-
          fiel, and Lochton.
             Parochial Registers.-There is a register of baptisms, com-
          mencing in 1635; and one of marriages in 1633, in five volumes,
          two of which are in good condition, the other three being some-
          what torn, and the writing in many places not very legible. The
          records of the kirk-session begin in 1654, and consist of eight vo-
          lumes, some of which are hn a very in different state of preserva-
          tion.  But, in so far as a judgment can be formed, the they all appear
          to have been pretty regularly kept.
             Antiquities -At Dron, on the high ground above the village,
          there are still to be seen the ruins of a chapel, which belonged to
          the Abbey of Cupar-Angus, erected in 1164 by Malcolm IV, the
          grandson and successor of David I, for a community of Cistercian
          monks.  Its north and south walls have long since fallen down or
          been, demolished and only the gables remain, and those in rather
          a dilapidated state.  In the west one, there is a large window, ter-
          minating in a beautiful  pointed arch, which springs from a pilaster
          on either side. It is situated; in a dell, through which a rivulet
          flows; and at the foot of rocky eminence on which it stands,
          there is a fountain of the purest and most limpid water, on which
          the severest drought makes scarcely any impression, and which
          would doubtless be rendered available in the days of Roman Ca-
          tholic superstition.  Though it is now very old, a nearly direct
          road from it to the Abbey still remains open.
             In 1826, a silver coin of Robert II, or perhaps Robdrt III., not
          so much defaced or impaired as might be expected,  was found by
          a farm servant while employed in pulling turnips, and is now in the
          custody of his master.  The legend round the head, "Robertus
          Deigrata Scottorum Rex," can be read with little difficulty.  The
          inscription on the reverse is not easily deciphered. It is with-

                                               3


