
     of Smallholm.

the place liable to any topical or epidemical disease.  The 
village, and two other parts of the parish, have rock for
their bottom, and the materials of that sort are got very near
the public roads, to repair them.  Of the disease, that pre-
vail among labouring people, four sixths are fevers; a physi-
cian who practiced a good many years in this country, said
that these diseases abounded most in years of plenty.

   Antiquities.-On the south west corner of the parish,
stands a large square tower, belonging to Mr Scott of Har-
den.  It is a beacon or land-mark at sea, to direct ships to
Berwick; it is called Sandy-know, or Small olm-tower.  The 
hills or rising grounds are covered with grass for sheep pas-
ture.  This neighbourhood, on both sides of Tweed, was
formerly the warlike part of the country, and exposed to the
inroads of the English; the lands, therefore, all lay run-rig,
that when the enemies came, all the neighbourhood being
equally concerned, might run to oppose them.  After the
Union of the Crowns, this contention ceased, and pro-
perty became safe.  The ravages in former times were so
frequent, that there was no bishopric in Scotland, south of the 
Forth, until Charles I. erected the bishopric of Edinburgh.
In England, none were erected further north than Chester in 
the street,and Lindissern in Holy Island; though on both sides
of the border there were many abbacies.  The reason was,
abbacies were reckoned holy houses, and the people never
touched them.  But the bishop, his palace, and furniture, were
reckoned secular; and therefore, on any inroad, the people,
like the populace of Rome, on the sede vacante,accounted all his
property lawful plunder.  By this run-rig disposition of lands
in Scotland, the possessions were formerly very small; but
the people of such villages were more numerous.  Now al-
most all these run-rig lands are divided.  In the former shape
they were incapable of improvement.  In this parish, in the
     VOL. III. E e


