
                PARISH OF ABBEY ST BATHANS.

        PRESBYTERY OF DUNSE, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

                THE REV. JOHN WALLACE, MINISTER.



          I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THE name of this parish has been va-
riously written; St Boythans, St Bothans, and St Bathans. St
Boythans occurs in the more ancient writings. St Bothans was the
usual form till the early part of the last century; and St Bathans,
which was then introduced, has continued to,the name ever
since. The prefix abbey was first made use of at an earlier pe-
riod, and was probably employed to distinguish this parish where
there was formerly a convent, from that of Gifford, or Yester, in
East Lothian, anciently called St Bothans, where there was a
collegiate church, but no monastic, establishment.
   The mean length of the parish of Abbey St Bathans from
east to west is about 3 1/4 miles, and its mean breadth from north
to south about 2 1/2 miles; the whole extent of the surface falls
somewhat short of 8 square miles. It is of an irregular figure,
and is divided into two portions by a detached part of the pa-
rish of Longformacus. It is bounded on the north by Cockburns-
path, Oldhamstocks and Innerwick, on the west by Longformacus,
on the south by Dunse, and on the east by Coldingham and
Buncle. The church and manse, which lie nearly in the centre
of the parish, are about fourteen miles southward of Dunbar, and
about seven miles northward of Dunse; their latitude being about
55ø 52' N., and their longitude about 2ø 23' W.
   Topographical Appearances.-Though the parish is situated
among the Lammermoor hills, none of the more remarkable eleva-
tions of that range lie within its bounds. The high grounds rise to
a height varying from 300 to 400 feet above the intervening vales,
and then spread out into extensive flats. On the sides of the streams
which drain the hills are flats or haughs of considerable fertility-
the slopes are also in many cases fertile; but the greater part of the
higher grounds is barren and covered with heath.




