
                                  FORTINGAL                           535

       the cliffs and dales where formerly extensive caves existed, capable
       of containing some dozens of men under arms_ which can no longer
       be discovered, probably because the earth and sand and even rocks
       have fallen in, and thus for ever closed them up. They were prin,-,
       cipally formed by, nature, but improved by art; and they were re-
       markable on account of the events of history connected, with them,
       and the heroes who, in troublesome times, took shelter in them,-
       such as Gille-Bride, or Bredus of the cave, Sir William, Wallace,
       King Robert the Bruce, Ranald Og, chief of Keppoch. This last, a
       firm supporter of the royal cause under Montrose was after the de-
       feat at Philiphaugh in 1645, and the butchery at Dunaverty in 1647,
       obliged to seek shelter in the caves of Rannoch, several of which
       bear his  name to this day.
         There is a very remarkable cave near the south,west angle of
       Sith-chaillinn, at the " Shealing,." called Tom-a-mhorair, or the
       Earl's eminence. Some miles to the east, there is, an opening in
       the face of a rock, which is believed to be the termination thereof.
       Several stories are told and believed by the credulous, relating to
       this cave;-that the inside thereof is full of chamber or separate
       apartments, and that, as soon as a person advances a few yards, he
       comes to a door, which, the moment he, enters, closes, as it opened,
       of its own accord, and prevents his returning.
        Leapa'-dionadh, or Sheltering Beds.-In several places, there
       occur, the caverns known by this name. They do not extend, like
       caves, under around,-being only hollows under the shelves of
       rocks or precipices where one might rest without being observed,
       and notice any danger or emergency. Several of them bear the
       names of those who, in consequence of having offended the law, or
       flying from some hostile party, betook themselves to these lonely
       retreats. One or two of them may be noticed. In the north
       side of Glencomrie, in the district of Rannoch, in a rocky precipice,
       is Leaba Dhonnache Dhuigh-a-mkonaidh, i e. the Bed of Black
       Duncan of the Mountain,-a Cameron belonging to that district,
       and one of Prince Charles Edward Stuart's heroes. After the
       battle of  Culloden, hen often lay concealed in his cavern viewing
       the soldiers in quest of him, passing and repassing at the foot of
       the rock, not more than twenty yards distant from him. This man
       was remarkable for agility and awiftnese of foot. While Prince
       Charles was besieging Stirling  Castle, Donnachan Dubh was sent
       upon some important business to Fort William. Duncan is said                                                                        n
       to have performed the journey on foot, eighty-eight miles, in one


