
     of Inverness.

near the shore.  The English plough drawn by two horses,
and without a driver, is now generally used.  The lower
class of farmers at some distance from the town, and in
hilly and stony ground, use with a driver the Scotch plough,
drawn by four small horses, or four or fix oxen, or horses
and oxen together.  Lord Kames's harrows were tried here
by some, but are discontinued.  Drill ploughs and rollers
of various kinds are used here.  The draught horses of
the better fort of farmers are from 14 to 16 hands high,
and were a few years ago bought for from 10 to 12 guineas
each.  The price is now much raised, even to L. 16 and to
L. 20.  This has induced several in the parish to keep
breeding mares, in which they will undoubtedly find their
advantage*.  The land rent of the whole parish was in

<FOOTNOTE>

*Price of Labour and Provisions.-A ploughman has from L. 5 to
L. 7 a year, with 6 bolls, half oat and half bear meal, a house, kail-yard,
land for potatoes; his peats are carried home likewise, and some have
grass for a cow; but the last is not common.  These servants live com-
fortably, their wives are employed in little manufactures for clothing their
own families and for sale, and sometimes in (pinning for the manufac-
tures at Inverness, and earn about 2 s. a-week A woman farm senvant's
fee is L. 1, 12 s. and maintenance in the house, and a herd's wages are
much the same.  A mason's wages a-day, from 1 s. 6 d. to 1 s. 8 d; a
wright's from 1 s. to 1 s. 4 d.; a tailor's 6 d. with maintenance.  Weavers
and shoemakers work by the piece.  Day-labourers at ditching, digging,
and other out-work, from 8 d. to 1 s; threshing of corn 8 d. the boll.
Women reapers 6 d. without maintenance.  Men-reapers 8 d. or 10 d. no
maintenance.  Mowing rye-grass and clover, from 2 s. 6 d to 3 s. 6 d.
the acre, according to the weight of the crop, or 1 s. 6 d. the day.
Women in weeding and hoeing potatoes, are paid at the rate of 5 d. the
day.-There are two weekly markets at lnverness:  beef, matron and
pork, cost from 2 1/2 d to 4 d. the pound.  Veal and lamb at the beginning
of the season may perhaps be reckoned dear, but afterward very reason-
able.  The old custom of laying up in salt a family's whole stock of
beef for the year at Martinmas is long happily discontinued, and a far
better obtains.  Stall-seeding in this parish and the neighbourhood has
been well understood for a considerable time and practiced to advantage,


