
12                          FIFESHIRE.

of glue has been added within these few years. There are three
breweries; a brick and tile-work, at which coarse earthen-ware is
made; and a rope-work.
  Though there are no linen manufactures upon a united scheme,
and no power looms, yet the manufacture of linen is carried on to
a considerable extent, and the number of weavers and others em-
ployed is great. There are at least ten distinct manufacturers with
their capitals embarked in the linen trade. By these different ma-
nufacturers, there are employed within the parish not less than 600
weavers. And as every two weavers require one person to wind
for them, the number employed and earning a comfortable subsist-
ence from this trade may be reckoned at 900, all living in their
own houses, and labouring in their own workshops. Besides those
that are employed within the parish, the different manufacturers
have weavers employed in the various towns and villages in the
neighbourhood throughout the county. The linen manufactured
is of various kinds and qualities, and is exported to the East and
West Indies, as well as to all parts of the continent of Europe and
of America.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.-Cupar has long been known as a leading and import-
ant market-town. Besides the weekly corn-market, which is held
every Thursday, there are a great many fairs for the sale of all
kinds of stock, and domestic and agricultural utensils of all sorts.
Till within these few years, these fairs took place on particular
days of the month, and thus occasioned great confusion. Now, by
an arrangement that has been generally approved of, they are held
on the Thursday next to the day of the month on which they used
to be held. Besides being a market-town, Cupar is also a post-
town. And lying on the great road that leads from Edinburgh to
Dundee and the north of Scotland, through Fife, there are three
coaches that regularly pass through it every day except Sunday, to
the north and to the south. There are also coaches to St An-
drews and to Largo, where there is now a steam-boat ferry to New-
haven. So that, with all the conveniences of excellent market,
the inhabitants of the town and parish can boast of as many advan-
tages as are possessed in any town or parish of its size in the king-
doin. The town of Cupar, along with St Andrews and Craill, the
two Anstruthers, Kilrenny and Pittenweem, send a member to Par-
liament.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated as nearly as


