
546                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

carton bestowed by Robert the Bruce as part of the dowry of
his daughter, when he gave her in marriage to the Steward of
Scotland.-See Kerr's History of the Bruce.
   Lennox Tower, now popularly called by the uncouth name of
Lymphoy, was formerly the property of the Lennox family, and a
place of great strength. It was an occasional residence of the
lovely but unfortunate Mary, and also a favourite hunting place of
her son and successor, James VI. In consequence of his pecu-
niary embarrassments on one occasion, it is said to have fallen into
the hands of the celebrated George Heriot, and by him bequeath-
ed to a daughter, from whom, along with the adjoining land, it
was purchased by the ancestor of the present proprietor. Tradition
reports it to have had a subterranean communication with Colin-
ton tower, formerly the residence of the Foulis family; and, about
the beginning of the last century, a piper attempted to explore it.
The sound of his pipes was heard as far as Currie bridge, where
he is supposed to have perished. It certainly had a bommunica-
tion with the Water of Leith, and with another building on the
opposite bank of the river, on the lands of Currie hill, to be men-
tioned afterwards. Persons living a few years since have descended
a considerable way down the hidden passage. It is supposed that
the garrison secured by this means a clandestine supply of water,
and that, during a siege, when they were hard pressed for provi-
sions, and the enemy in confident expectation of starving them,
one of the soldiers in the act of drawing water, accidentally caught
some fish in his bucket, which the governor boastingly hung out in
sight of the besiegers. On seeing this unexpected store the assail-
ants hastily raised the siege, deeming it a hopeless attempt to
starve a garrison that were so mysteriously supplied. The town
appears to have been surrounded by a moat, and there are still
traces of a deep ditch.
   Curriehill Castle was a place of note in the time of Queen
Mary. Crawford, in his memoirs of that princess, mentions six
places in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh as being fortified,-
three on each bank of the river; among which were Lennox Tower
on the Queen's side, and Curriehill Castle on the side of her op-
ponents.
   Malleny and Baberton Houses are also said to have belonged
to King James. The latter was a few years ago honoured as
a seat of royalty, having been the temporary residence of the un-
fortunate Charles X. of France.
                               3


