
                        EDINBURGH.                            715

liament, and came into operation in 1816. It consisted of a Lord
Chief Commissioner, assisted by four of the Judges of the Court of
Session, and was for the trial of all issues of fact by jury. After
existing for some years, and undergoing several modifications, it
has now merged into the Court of Session, and the office of Lord
Chief Commissioner has been abolished. Any of the Judges of the
Court of Session may now direct issues of fact to be tried before
a jury, and such issues are now generally tried before the heads
of the divisions, the Lord President and the Lord Justice Clerk
during the time of vacation, between terms; and this both in
Edinburgh and in the other towns in Scotland where justiciary
courts are held.
   Court of Justiciary.-This supreme criminal court is compos-
ed of the Lord Justice-General, the Lord Justice-Clerk, and
five Lords Commissioners. Formerly the title of Lord Justice-
General was merely nominal, and was bestowed on some noble-
man who never exercised the functions; now it is vested in the
Lord President. All criminal causes come before this court at the
instance of the Lord Advocate, who is the public prosecutor. A
jury of fifteen decide on the facts of the case by a majority, una-
nimity not being required as in England. The High court of
Justiciary, composed of not less than three Judges, is held in Edin-
burgh. The Circuit courts, where one Judge is sufficient, are held
twice a year during the vacations of the Court of Session. There
is no appeal from this court, except to the clemency of the sove-
reign. Previous to 1839 there were five Lords of Justiciary spe-
cially appointed, along with the Lord Justice-General and the Lord
Justice-Clerk, with separate salaries; but by the act of the year,
the duties of the court of Justiciary, Jury Court, Exchequer, and
Admiralty, are all performed by the Court of Session.
   Exchequer Court.-This court is for the trial of all revenue
causes and matters in which the crown is concerned. It con-
sisted originally of four Barons of Exchequer, before whom and
a jury the trials took place. By late arrangements the Judges
of this court are to be abolished on the demise of the incumbents;
and the business of the Exchequer is to merge into the Court of
Session.
   Faculty of Advocates.-This Society consists of advocates or
barristers, who have the privilege of pleading causes before the
Court of session. They have a dean or president, a treasurer, clerk,
and council. Before admission into the Society, an examination
takes place, and the candidate must have gone through a regular


