
                        PARISH OF KILMONIVAIG. *

		PRESBYTERY OF ABERTARFF, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

		   THE REV. JOHN M'INTYRE, MINISTER.

	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Extent and Boundaries.-THE length of this parish from south
to north, is about 60 miles, and its greatest breadth, 20. It is
bounded by the parish of Kilmalie on the west; by Fortingal on
the south-east; by Laggan on the east; by Glenelg, and Kintail
on the north; and by Boleskine on the north-east.
  Mountains.-This is the most mountainous parish perhaps in
the kingdom. The lofty range from Glennevis on the west ex-
tends eastward a distance of nearly twenty miles, and is from ten
to fifteen miles in breadth. At the western end of this range, is the
lofty Bennevis, arising majestically about 4370 feet above the level
of the sea. It has tremendous precipices where the eagle builds
his eyrie,and sets at defiance the power and ingenuity of man to
disturb his habitation. It consists for the most part of fine brown
porphyry. It contains plutonic rocks at the very top, and in some
parts red granite, of such a beautiful grain as to be capable of the
finest polish, and to be unmatched by any in any part of the world.
It is supposed to contain also veins of silver. In the fissures of this
mountain, the snow has remained from the remotest ages. Some
other peaks of this range rise considerably more than 4000 feet
above the level of the sea. +

<FOOTNOTE>From notes furnished by the Rev. Donald Cameron, Laggan, and others.
The most splendid view is obtained from the top of Bennevis on a clear day.
Persons that attempt the ascent without a guide often find themselves in awkward
and sometimes in perilous situations. A few years ago, the Duchess of Buccleuch,
while sojourning in this vicinity, with her brotber-in-law, Lord John Scott, and
others. set out accompanied only with a guide, on an excursion to the summit. They
reached their destination in safety; but in returning, night overtook them, and they
lost their way. The party left behind felt alarmed for her Grace's safety, and re-
solved on setting out in search of her. They applied to John M'Donald, Esq. of the
Bennevis distillery for his aid in this emergency. His ingenuity was not long in
finding a plan, likely to discover the Duchess if she was alive, and the result proved
Successful. He took with him a large bell; and with this, he and his party set off


