
			     ALNESS.                            337

vation already made in geology, that the metallic vein is injected
into the primary rock, at a point not many yards distant from its
junction with the aqueous or sedimentary strata.
   Boulders.-The only remaining feature which is in the least de-
gree striking in the geology of this parish, is the frequent occur-
rence throughout its surface of immense boulders or erratic blocks
of stone.  In the more cultivated parts, these obstructions to the
plough have for the most part been removed, by blasting or other-
wise: but in the moorland districts, and studding the sides of the
hills, they are seen in great numbers, and of various shapes and
sizes. These rounded masses belong entirely to the primary class
of rocks, being composed either of granite or gneiss; and as they
must have been transported from a great distance to occupy their
present locality, it becomes a problem of considerable interest to
discover where they occurred in situ.
   Zoology.-The animals to be found in this parish are all of the
same species as those commonly to be met with throughout the
country; and it is therefore unnecessary to notice them particu-
larly. In the lower parts of the parish, hares, rabbits and par-
tridges are to be met with in great abundance; and in the more
hilly and uncultivated districts are found moorfowl or grouse, black-
cock and roe. Foxes were very numerous some years ago, but they
seem now to be totally extirpated. Of the rarer birds existing in
this country, the eagle, pheasant, and ptarmigan, are occasionally
to be seen in this parish. The fish commonly taken in the Frith
are of those kinds which live indifferently in fresh or salt water;
the water in the Frith having, as has already been stated, not above
one-half the strength of undiluted salt water. In the rivers and
lochs, but principally in the latter, are to be found several species
of black trout, which, in consequence perhaps of their not being
regularly taken, frequently attain to an immense size.
   The salmon and salmon trout taken in the Frith and rivers are
of a very superior quality, and would be very numerous, were it not
for the poaching and fishing during close season, which for many
years has prevailed to a great extent. It may here be remarked,
that the salmon-fishing along the shore of the Frith is uncom-
monly late, no fish being taken, in general, till the month of June.
The salmon are supposed, by those having charged of the fishing,
to go up the rivers to spawn during the month of September, and
not to return again till the beginning of February.


