
482                        LANARKSHIRE.

declaring that she held his probation accomplished. Having re-
ceived, however, a defiance from Douglas, who threatened, that, in
spite of his utmost vigilance, he should wrest from him the castle
before Palm Sunday, De Walton deemed it a point of honour to
retain it till that day was past. On that very day, Douglas having
mustered a band of faithful followers, while most of the English
garrison were engaged in church, attacked and overpowered them
as they came out; and then hastening to the castle cut down
all that opposed him. Sir John de Walton was slain, and
in his pockets was found his lady's letter, the perusal of which
deeply affected the generous and gallant Douglas. While the
garrison was yet in the church, the slogan, "a Douglas, a Dou-
glas," being prematurely raised, Thomas Dickson of Hazleside,
who was likewise within, watching their movements, thinking that
his young lord was at hand with his armed retinue, drew his sword,
and with only one man to assist him, opposed the English, who now
rushed to the door. Although cut across the middle by an En-
glish sword, Dickson continued his opposition till he fell lifeless
at the threshold. On these incidents, Sir Walter Scott has found-
ed the tale of his historical novel, "Castle Dangerous."
	I have adverted in another place to the frequent meetings of the
Covenanters, which were held in the church of Douglas about the
time of the Revolution in 1688. After many scruples and frequent
and long discussions, it was at length resolved to raise a regiment, in
aid of the Protestant government of William, and in defence of
their principles and rights; and the Cameronian regiment, now the
26th Regiment of the line, was first mustered on a holm or place
near the town of Douglas, on 29th April 1689, under the com-
mand of the Earl of Angus, eldest son of the Marquis of Douglas,
--William Cleland being Lieutenant-Colonel. This regiment soon
after distinguished itself by its gallant and successful stand against
an army of 4000 Highlanders at Dunkeld.
	The following notice of Douglas parish and castle, from the
description of the sheriffdom of Lanark, by William Hamilton of
Wishaw, written in the beginning of the last century, may be in-
teresting to many of our readers. "Douglas parish and barony
and lordship heth very long appertained to the family of Douglas,
and continued with the Earls of Douglas until their fatal for-
feiture, anno 1455; during which time there are many noble and
important actions performed by them, by the lords and earls of
that great family. It was thereafter given to Douglas, Earl of


