
952                                FIFESHIRE.

gregation within the church of Crail, and there making a public
disavowal of his adherence to the cause of Charles I.; and at the
battle of Worcester, in 1651, one of his soiis was slaiii and another
taken prisoner while contending in the royal army. Patrick (the
son taken prisoner) either experienced the leniency or escaped
the crtielty of Cromwell, and, after the Restoration, was appointed
commissary of St Andrews, an office which was held by several of
his descendants in succession. In the troubles of 1715, this fa-
mily appears to have taken an active part in favour of King James,
and to have suffered in substance, if not personally;\f and in 1746
Patrick Lindesay, son of the then proprietor, was executed at
Carlisle for having joined Prince Charles, and fought at the battle
of Culloden. The last proprietor, Patrick Lindesay, Esq., com.
manded a ship for a number of years in the East Indies, and af.
terwards purchased the patrimonial property from his elder bro-
tber, who had succeeded to the estate of Kilconquliar.
     Kirkmay House is a handsome and spacious building, at a little
distance from the principal street of the burgb, with pleasure
ground in front, and a flne garden and offices behind. It was
built in 1817 by Robert Inglis, Esq, of Kirkmay, a descendant of
the baronets of Cramond, and is the finest modern structure in
the parish.
     A letter, which the writer of this found in Wormistone house, together with the
annexed extracts from the record of the kirk- session, will help to show the state of
the parish at the time. This letter is addressed 11 To the Laird of Wormistoun and
Meritors of the parish of Crail," and is as follows: " Sir,I am directed and order-
ed by the Earl of Marr, commander in chief of his Majesty's forces in this kingdom,
to transmitt to one of the principal beritors of each parish the inclosed order, and it
is required that the order so transmitted should be intimated to the severall beritors
and their tennents within your parish, to the intent that punctuall obedience to my
Lord Marr's orders.' (may be given, we presume, has been omitted.) "You
have the inclosed warrand sent you to be published and intimatted accordingly If
payment of the money imposed is refused or delayed after three days, a party of
Highlandmen are to be employed to poind for payment: What loss that will occa-
sion to your parish you way easily conceave, and that it may be prevented is heartily
wished by-Sir, your tnost humble servant, (Signed) JA. SMYTH. Dated Cupar,
13th ctober 1715.   .
     Session Record, 18th. October 1715. There was no sermon Sabbath last, the
Highland army being here." Nov. I3 "There was no sermon Sabbath or week
day, the town being then bombarded, an4 the minister sought for to read the Earl
of Marr his edict." Nov. 20. "No sermon on Sabbath, the Highlanders being in
town." Nov. 27. "The Minister forbidden to preach in the church, unless he read
the Earl of Marr his edict, and pray for K. James. A young man, Mr Nivens, 
order of baillie Crafurd, preached in the church after the old Episco all fushion. Our
minister preached in his own house." Dec. 6. "Sermon in the minister's house."
Dec. 11. "No sermn, being stopped by a party of Highlanders.  Dec. 18. "Ser-
won in the Minister's house forenoon, but interrupted afternoon.- Dec. 25. "No
sermon. being stopped by letters, one from baillie Crawfurd tn baillic Robertson,
Another threatening letter to the minister." Jan. 31 1716. "No sermon on Sun-
day  by our minister, the Highlandmen being here. One Mr Nivens, ane Epiecopall.
precher, possesed the kirk that day, and had the English service."


