
				ST. MUNGO.                     209

Wauchope Water, thirty miles distant from Criffel, is liberally
strewed with rolled masses of syenite of very large dimensions.
	The marl-pits in the parish are almost exhausted, as is nearly
the case with the peat-mosses. The sandstone, for a circuit of
twelve miles round this parish, is the new red. A patch of the
grayish sandstone, already-mentioned, of some extent, in which
this colouring matter is wanting, occurs at Cowdens, in the parish.
It has been used, but is soft and easily acted upon by the atmo-
sphere.
	Alluvial soil, forming the vales of Annan and Milk, measures
about 286 acres. The holm land of the Annan, lying on stand-
stone, is light and sandy: that forming the holms of Milk, lying on
transition rocks, is a deep rich loam, constituting the most valuable
land in the parish. The alluvial soils formed by both rivers mea-
sure about one and a-half foot deep, and are free from stones of
all kinds. Towards the junction of the Annan and Milk, the bed
of the Milk is much raised by the quantity of debris carried down
by the winter floods: hence the alluvial soil deposited there is near-
ly a bed of gravel, of comparatively little value.

				II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The principal proprietor in this parish is Thomas Hart, Esq. of
Castlemilk, a most active, liberal, and indefatigable improver.
	Parochial Registers.--The session-register consists of four vo-
lumes. The date of the session minute-book is 1699. The mo-
ney accounts are regularly kept from 1699 to 1784. No regular
accounts were kept from that time till 1803, and from that period
up to the present term a regular register of marriages, births, bap-
tisms, and burials has been kept. The session minutes (except
in as far as may tend to usefulness) are not engrossed as the sede-
runt-book.
	Antiquities.--From a much defaced inscription on the founda-
tion coins, (now in the incumbent's possession) the parish church
appears to have been built under one of our Alexanders; but this
cannot be clearly made out. A considerable part of the church
seems to have been rebuilt from the remains of the original struc-
ture, as the present walls contain the remains of broken pillars,
and door and window ribats. The church was in the form of a
passion cross, having very narrow lancet-shaped windows. In
1754, the south wall (not the whole church, as stated in the for-
mer report,) was rebuilt, as appears from, an inscription over the
	DUMFRIES.


