
                            DUNNET.                             37

acres of land covered with sand, from I to 10 feet, (the debris of
Dunnet-bead, carried into the bay by the sea,, and drifted eastwards.)
These links were formerly common, and overstocked and poached
with cattle. They were subject to break up and drift into the in-
terior, covering up considerable tracts of arable land where the
vestiges of the houses are still seen. They have since been di-
vided and protected; they are now covered with herbage.   Bent
grows rapidly near the shore, and arrests the progress of the sand,
which is forming rapidly into a ridge of knolls already from 20 to 30
feet above high water mark, and covered to the sea with bent.  A
small portion is still used as a common by the township of Dunnet;
the cattle destroy the bent, and it is still subject to breaking up
and drifting.  On these links, where spongy, a vast number of the
marl shells breed on the surface; but except the Loch of Hayland
on the east of the links, there is no pond to retain them : hence,
except in this loch, there is no marl, as the shells are swept to the
sea by the winter floods.
   Zoology.-Numbers of the various kinds of sea-fowl frequent
the coast. There are a few eagles, hawks, and ravens, vast num-
bers of plovers and snipes, with a fair proportion of partridges and
grouse, and almost all the varieties of small birds peculiar to Scot-
land.  Of wild quadrupeds the number is few, comprising otters,
polecats, and weasels. Foxes have disappeared from the district;
hares abound, and there are a number of rabbits in the links-also
a few seals along the coast.
   There are still about 400 sheep on Dunnet-head, belonging to
the small tenants surrounding it on the east, mostly of the original
short-tailed breed of the country.  They are the same race as the
Shetland sheep-are small and nimble-produce a little fine wool,
of various colours; their mutton is very fine, but they seldom get
fat, or weigh above 36 lbs.  The young lambs are'covered with a
strong coat of curled hair for a few weeks after lambing, exactly
resembling Siberian lamb skin,-hence I would attribute to them
a Scandinavian origin.  They are altogether a worthless breed,
and not easily improved by crossing with more improved races of
sheep.
   Dunnet Bay abounds with haddocks and other white fish.
There is likewise a tolerable salmon-fishing at the mouth of
the Burn of Dunnet.  Salmon are also taken in the Pentland
Frith, near Brough, but the fishing there has not as yet been much
prosecuted.  There are occasionally shoals of herrings in it the bay,


