
             20                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

                                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
               Agriculture.-In the western and higher parts of the parish, in
             The districts of Aberiachan and Caiplich, and the heights of Doch.
             four and Dunain, cultivation has been sparingly and in patches
             carried up to an elevation of perhaps 800 feet above the sea.  In
             the vale of the Ness, the large and regularly fenced fields are little
             elevated above the bed of the river; and behind them, on the
             southern side, the terraced bank already noticed rises to the
             height of 90 feet, and stretches back to the base of the sandstone
             ridge of the Leys, with a flat or gently undulating surface, from
             one to one and a-half or two miles in breadth.    The subsoil is
             universally a porous gravel, the superior soil being generally sharp
             or sandy; and hence, from the absence in many parts of the pa-
             rish of a due proportion of clay, the cultivated land, though war
             and early, can scarcely be denominated rich, or favourable to the
             growth of large forest trees requiring deep loams.
                 The number of acres tinder cultivation is supposed to be from
             8000 to 9000; waste perhaps 3000; improvable about 1000, (there
             being scarcely any undivided ground) ; while the rest of the sur-
             face is under heath, or beautifully and usefully covered with
             woods of Scotch fir, and thriving plantations of larch, asb, elm,
             beech, and oak.
                 Rent of Land.-The average rent of cultivated ground is from
             L.1 to L.2, 10s. per acre, except in the close vicinity of the
             town, where it fetches from L.5 to L.7 an acre.  There is little
             or no.ground set for grazing.
                Rate of Wages, &c.-The rate of wages is from 1s. to 2s. a-
             day to labourers, and from  1s. 6d. to 2s. and 3s. for artisans.
             The prices of implements of husbandry and household furniture
             vary much according to the kinds and qualities; but generally, a
             good cart costs from L.8 to L.9; a wooden plough L.2; but the
             plough most in use is formed of malleable iron-work, and costs
             from L. 4 to L. 5. The chairs and tables used by labourers are
             of common fir deals, and very plain, the former costing from 2s. to
             6s. or 8s.; but there is a regular gradation upwards till we find ar-
             ticles as finished and fashionable as are made in Edinburgh or Lon-
             don.  The price of a rood of mason work is L. 1, 16s.; and when
             scaffolding is required L. 2 or L. 2, 2s., or L. 8, including mate-
             rials per rood. of ruble work; and of carpenter work for roofing
             and sarking, 6d. to 8d. per vard; flooring aid d joisting, 10d. to 1s.
             per yard; pannelling, 6d. to 8d. per foot, and so on'as to the other


