
     of Tough.

nificant, being formed by a junction, of two or three final
crofters, who make up a yoke among them.  There are 52 carts,
but many of these are also very small.  There are not above
householders, that can properly be denominated farmers.
Many of the farms are now divided into small partitions,
which are here called crofts, on each of which there is a house
and family.  It is now so expensive to stock a considerable
farm, that settling upon crofts, is become much more com-
mon than formerly.  Within these 5 or 6 years, two farms
have been very much improved by a rotation of crops.  One
of them, the greatest part of which is in the hands of the pro-
prietor, has been improved by lime, which he brings from
Aberdeen.  About a fifth part of that farm, was, some time
ago, let on lease to an industrious tenant, who pursues his land-
lord's plan.  For this part, he pays more than the old rent
of the whole farm; and yet, it is said, that he is no loser
by the bargain.  The people now begin to be more sensible
of the advantages resulting from raising turnips; and one may
observe a small spot of them in the corner of almost every
croftsman's field.  The late Mr. Byres of Tonley, was the
first who sowed turnips in the fields in this district.  He was
also the first who had a cart in it about 40 years ago.  His son,
the present proprietor, has of late very much improved his
estate.  The barren muirs, and dry soil, are employed in rais-
ing plantations of fir, which are also intermixed with almost
every other species of wood common in this part of the coun-
try.  Some of these plantations are about 10 years old, and
are in a most thriving condition.  They will not only add
very much to the value of the estate, but also to the beauty
of the neighbourhood.  There are in these plantations, three
natural dens, through each of which runs a small rivulet.
Through these the firs, larix, birk, and oak, make a most de-
lightful appearance.  One of these dens by nature forms a

     6


