
     Of Mid-Calder.

   Antiquities.-Not many roods to the S. of Calder
manse. slands the house of Greenbank, which has a gar-
den and a few acres of land belonging to it.  It was
formerly in the possession of the superintendant Spottis-
wood and his son, as it appears both from tradition, and
the following quotation from an old deed of conveyance:
" All and whole that mansion house, built by the de-
ceased Mr. John Spottiswood, grandfather of umquhill,
that is, deceased, Sir John Spottiswood of Dairsie,
Knight, and by the deceased John Archbishop of St.
Andrew's."  The property was lately purchased by
Lord Torphichen.  In the house, there is a portrait of
the superintendant; and till lately, there was a bed in
it, which had probably belonged to the family of the
archbishop.  The posts of it were massy, and had vari-
ous figures carved upon it.  It stood in a closet, which
is lined with tapestry, in excellent preservation.
   Calderhouse, the seat of Lord Torphichen, is situated
a little to the W. of the town.  In the gallery of paint-
ings there, I found the following inscription on the back
of Mr. Knox's picture.  "Mr. John Knox.  The first
sacrament of the supper given in Scotland after the Re-
formation, was dispensed by him in this hall".  Between
Calderhouse and the town, at the top of the passage,
which leads by the side of the chruchyard, there is a
single plane tree.  The trunk of it is 14 feet high, the
     VOL. XIV. 3 A

<FOOTNOTE>

land.  He took provisions to Edinburgh, though the contagion was pe-
culiarly dreadful there.  He escaped the infection, as it would appear,
and amasted a considerable fortune, by being well paid, as we may pre-
fume, for the danger which he encountered. He left a sum of money for
the benefit of a schoolmaster in Calder, the interest of which is annexed
to the salary paid by the landholders, for the support of our parish school.
It is also said, that he devoted more of his property to other purposes of
utility and benevolence.


