
     Statistical Account

winter is mostly collected, and in September, after the sale
of cattle in the summer markets is over, and the prices of the
knitting of stockings for the preceeding half year are collec-
ted.  The meal and bear is paid in, between Christmas and
Candlemas.

   Manufacture.-The only manufacture, carried on in this
district, is the knitting of stockings, In which all the women,
and some old men and boys, are employed the whole year
round, excepting in harvest.  At this occupation, a woman
will earn from 1 s. 8 d. to 2 s. and sometimes 2 s. 6 d. in the
week.  Manufacturers come from Aberdeen at stated times,
and give out wool to the workers; and the stockings, when
wrought, are sent either to Holland or London, for which
many thousand pounds are returned to the county of Aber-
deen.  By the loss of America, which was a good market
for stockings, by the rivalship of the people in Jersey and
Guernsey, as well as Germany, and especially by the late
invention of frames, this manufacture has decreased in va-
lue.  Notwithstanding this, the people here prefer it to the
spinning of flax, which requires more confinement and ex-
ertion*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Forty years ago, the wages of a ploughman, who held a
twelve oxen plough, did not exceed 16 s. 8 d. besides victuals
for half of the year; a stout man got for harvest, 13 s. or 14 s.
and the wages of the best women servant for half a year, never
exceeded 10 s. but now, tempora mutantur, the wages of a
ploughman have risen from 6 L. to 7 L. and even to 8 L. besides
victuals, for the whole year.  A stout reaper, in harvest, now
gets 40 s. and the wages of a maid servant have also risen from
2 L. 10 s. to 3 L. besides victuals for the year.  Masons and car-
penters, and tradesman of every sort, have raised their wages in
proportion.  The hire of a day labourer formerly, never exceeded
4 d. and victuals, but is now come to 1 s. and even 1 s. 3 d. a
day, without victuals.  Ditching, trenching, and dyking, to-


