
410                         LANARKSHlRE.

still may be said to pay our rents, when they are brought to Glasgow
from a circle of at least fourteen miles round. Almost every farmer
has a churning as well as a thrashing machine, all driven by horse
power; and the quantity of milk that is taken to Glasgow, sweet and
sour, every day, is almost incredible.
	Some of our farmers are considered the best ploughmen in the
Old Monkland, Barony, Bothwell, and Cadder Farming Society,
have carried off the highest prizes where they competed. Drain-
ing has been for a long time attended to, and is now carried on with
the greates vigour, and to the utmost extent. The proprietor in ge-
neral opens the drains, and the farmer carries and puts in the stones,
wood, turf, or tiles, and closes them. A rush bush is likely soon to be
as rare as a stone in our tilly soil, and not a drop of water will be seen
where the soil is lighter. The heath and indigenous grass which
have been long striving to gain their former dominion, will soon be ba-
nished, and a softer and more varied carpet will be presented by
our pastures. The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
The state of the farm buildings is in general good; and in some in-
stances they are elegant and commodious. The soil has hitherto,
for the most part, been unfavourable to hedges; and we cannot say
that they have been carefully trained. We had few enclosures of
any kind prior to 1790.
	Produce.--We raise annually about 510 acres of wheat, 1900
of oats, 103 of barley, 150 of beans, 470 of potatoes, 140 of tur-
nips, 890 of rye-grass, 80 of flax, and 7 of natural hay. There are
about 1000 cows, 490 queys, 150 calves, 320 horses, 50 colts, and
20 foals. To these we may add about 10 pet sheep, and at pre-
sent 2 goats.
	We have no pasturage to let, unless on a farm when accidental-
ly out of lease, or the lawns around some mansion-house, which
are generally occupied by the Glasgow butchers. Our young cattle
are generally grazed on the braes of Campsie or Kilsyth, or on
some other lands somewhat distant from Glasgow.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--Glasgow is the post-office for part
of the parish; but Kirkintilloch, to those who live near it. The
Inchbelly road, by Kirkintilloch, runs about four miles through the
west division of the parish, and the Cumbernauld road runs nearly
the same length through the other district of the parish. They are
both pretty well kept.
	We have not above five of what can be called bridges, all of one


