
				KINNELL.                     397

sided, with the name of provost, in old  time; and latterly, the
tenant of the Kirktown, with the same appellation.
   The castle of Bolshan, which as Monipenny's Scottish Chro-
nicles tell us in 1612, was Lord Ogilvy's special residence, has
passed away with the other monuments of feudal grandeur. The
cemetery and site of the chapel were subjected to the plough be-
fore 1767. The last remains of the castle were remove soon
after. And now, for a long while, there has been no other remem-
brancer of the ancient glory of the place, than the peculiar apppear-
ance of the soil, a little to the westward of the present farm-housd.
   The Ogilvies, as proprietors, perhaps, of Bolshan, seem to have
had a sort of heritable claim to the bailiary of the abbey of Ar-
broatb.* In the minority of Sir John Ogilvy, the Master of
Crawfurd, availing himself of the distractions which prevailed over
all Scotland, in consequence of the similar minority of King,
James II., obtained possession of the office. But his insolence
and oppression soon disgusted the monks; and the Ogilvies, un-
der the conduct of Sir Alexander Ogilvy of Inverwharity, tutor of
the claimant, took up arms to assert their right. The Earl of
Crawford, who had hasted from Dundee to attempt a reconcilia-
tion between the contending parties, was recklessly slain as he
went forward to hold a conference with Sir Alexander. His
death was the signal for a general engagement, and victory de-
clared on the side of his son. About 500 of the Ogilvies were
slain, and among them Sir John Oliphant of Aberdalgay, and five
lesser barons. Sir Alexander Ogilvy was taken, and carried to
the castle of his rival at Finhaven, where, in a few days, he died
of grief and wounds; and the Earl of Huntly, who, having been
accidentally Sir Alexander's quest, chose to partake of his quarrel
as well as his hospitality, escaped only by the swiftness of his horse.
About 100 fell on the side of the victors. The battle was fought
on the 24th January 1445-6, in the neighbourhood of Arbroath;
and men did not fail to remark the speedy punishment which over-
took the leaders of the two clans, and which they were unwittingly
constrained to execute upon one another. For acting in concert
with the Earl of Douglas, who had greatly increased the distrac-
tions of the times, they had been jointly engaged in plundering
the vassals of the Bishop of St Andrews, and, indeed, were but
recently returned from Fife with their spoils. In memory of the
battle, a spur and boot, which had belonged to one of the slain

<FOOTNOTE>Boethii Hist. Lib. 18, fol. 365. Par. 1574.


