
540                       DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

it has been latterly. The number of farms was much greater,--two,
three, and four, having afterwards in many cases been united into
one: and the marks of the plough are visible on many places which
have been long under sheep pasture. Within the last ten or twelve
years, the proprietors and tenants of these pasture farms have found
it profitable again to break up their dry uplands, which had been
formerly ploughed, and were covered with heath and coarse grasses.
They are generally of a fine dry soil; and although the elevation is
in most cares great, being from 400 to 800 feet above sea level,
yet, when limed, they produce excellent crops of oats and potatoes,
which, although attended with some risk in bad seasons, more
amply remunerate the farmer than his land kept long in rotation.
	The pasture is by liming and breaking, in part tripple in value.
This improvement is going rapidly on; and it is not perhaps too
much to say, that there are yet 1500 acres more of dry soil to be
improved, having an elevation that admits of its being profitably
brought under occasional cultivation.
	There may be said to be no natural timber remaining in the pa-
rish, excepting a few scattered trees of ash alone, the banks of the
Dryfe. The plantations are of very small extent, and chiefly made
within the last five years. The whole do not exceed 100 acres,
and are chiefly larch and spruce fir. Within the last two years a
number of clumps have been planted on the sheep-farms for shel-
ter,--a system which will no doubt be carried to a considerable ex-
tent. But although the soil is good, the elevation and exposure
will make the growth tardy. About a century ago, ash trees seem
to have been regularly planted around the farm-yards, and great
care to have been taken in the rearing of them. From the plan-
tations being so young, little management is yet required.
	Rent of Land.--It is difficult to state a rent per acre of arable
land, there being almost no farm without a considerable proportion
of pasture. Were they separated, the best land on the lowest Si-
tuation (although there is none less than 350 feet above sea level,
and most of it 500,) would probably give L. 1 per acre. But, taking
the average of the whole, it would not exceed 10s. There being
no farms devoted entirely to the rearing or grazing black- cattle, the
rate of rent per head cannot be distinctly ascertained. Where
cattle happen to be taken in for grazing on ordinary unimproved
land, the rate paid for the summer grass may be L. 1 for a year
old, and L. 1, 10s. for a two year old. The rent per head for
sheep is well known. Of the whole extent of the parish two-
thirds are occupied by regular breeding stocks of Cheviot sheep,


