
314                          FORFARSHIRE.

wards. The exterior of the circle is packed to a breadth of 3 or
4 feet with a mixture of earth and stones. Either in the centre,
or on one of the largest stones in the circle, is to be seen the
blackness of colour and the brittleness of texture produced by the
continued action of fire. Such vestiges as these, the framer of this
Account has seen in an insulated state, and also in clusters with
some corresponding outworks; and upon unquestionable testimony,
he can state that, from the most extensive and perfect vestige of the
kind which he has met with, either a groat-stone or the fragments
of a quern was dug up. He considers them to be the remains
of the wigwam of the country-a conjecture which he is the more
disposed to cherish, by a notice of Captain Ross in his Arctic
Voyage, that he bad seen a resemblance of the same in what
he considered the deserted summer residences of the Esquimaux.
One of these circles was lately torn up in the parish; and in the
immediate vicinity a stone cnffin was found. A similar discovery
was also made, at a short distance from the more extensive and
perfect vestiges already referred to.
        Until very lately three Laws were visible in the parisb,-Hilton,
Windsard, and Drumcoth-law. The materials of the two last
have been removed. Many urns, and some of them entire, have
been dug up in the vicinity of the last, which allows us to conjec-
ture that there may have been some fighting on the adjacent fields.
	It is enough to mention, that one stone remains to show that a
Druidical circle once stood a little to the north-east of the Castle
of Vane. Whether built by Cardinal Beaton or not,-this castle,
by all tradition, was appropriated by him for the residence of a Lady
Vane, probably a corruption of Bane or Bain, signifying white or
fair. The castle (now a ruin) is situated on the brink of a
romantic little den, the channel of the Noran. The name of
Tammy's Hole or Cradle is still given to a deep pool in a dark
cavern of the channel,-in reference, it is said, to the loss of a child
of his by the same lady.
	As the permanent inheritance of feudal superiority, or the field
of national achievement, Fearn has no title to consideration; but
if tradition can be relied on, it once constituted the pivot, upon
which moody fortume thought proper to adjust the rightful title to
the thrnnd of Scotland. According to this tradition, John Colles-
sie, Knight of Balnamoon, with a following of three hundred horse-
men before going into action at the battle of Brechin, requested
of Crawford to be put in possession of the Barony of Fearn, as a


