
                        ATHELSTANEFORD.                           53

Brown's Itinerating libraries, presently consisting of 2600 Volumes,
in forty three divisions, each division remaining a year at one sta-
tion, so that there is no want of books to them who are disposed
to read.
   Poor and Parochial Funds- There never had been any assess-
ment for the ordinary poor of this parish until a few months ago.
The receipt of money from the weekly collections at the church
doors, what is received for the use of a hearse, under the manage-
ment of the kirk-session, and for mortcloths, have, with some sav-
ings previous to 1770, been adequate to supply the wants of the
parochial poor.  The people are regular in attending the church,
and liberal, according to their circumstances, in giving to the poor;
and it is for these reasons chiefly, that assessments for the support
of the poor had not been found necessary in this parish until 1835.
The kirk-session disburse to the parochial poor about L.130 an-
nually.  Thirty years ago, when the present incumbent was settled
here, the number of poor on the roll was almost the same as at
present, but the monthly allowance to each is about one-third more
now than it was then.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   At the time the last Statistical Account was published the farms
in this parish were too small, and a number of the farmers had not
sufficient capital to carry on improvements.  Grazing was not then
practised to any considerable extent, and this prevented a proper
rotation of crops.  A large portion of the land was wet, and no
proper means had been taken to lay it dry.  The feeding of sheep
and cattle on turnip was not then much practised, a great part of
the land being unfit for that kind of crop.  An improved mode of
drainage has now greatly altered and ameliorated the soil; so much
so, that a large extent of land in this parish formerly unfit for tur-
nips, now bears weighty crops of that valuable root.
   The present farmers are intelligent and skilful in the line of
their profession, and the far greater part of them are doing every
thing that wisdom joined with prudence can suggest for the im-
provement of their possessions. Nine-tenths of the land of this
county being under entail, the improvements in agriculture which
East Lothian exhibits, have arisen not so much from encourage-
ment given by the landlords, as from the spirit and enterprise
of the farmers.  Drainage, however, when well executed, being
deemed a permanent improvement, many of the landlords now
show a readiness to bear a fair proportion of the expense of that



