
614                     FIFESHIRE.

in thickness, of excellent white limestone, alternating with shale
and slaty sandstone. It contains all the shells, corallines, and
other organisms peculiar to this formation. Between the lowest bed
and the under coal measure, many beds of slate and shale appear
in which thin beds of blue limestone, with encrinites, occur. These
seem to mark the dawn of this truly marine deposit.
  3. Superincumbent on the limestone are the true coal measures.
These consist of the usual alternates of sandstone, shale, iron.
stone, fire-clay and coals, with subordinate calcareous strata. The
coal not being worked in this parish, it can only be judged of
from the workings in the neighbourbood of Pittenweem. There
it consisted of seventeen beds, making an aggregate thickness of
82 feet,6 inches. Of course, only a few of the lower coals can
make their appearance in the parish of Anstruther, as they crop
out to the eastward. Faults and dislocations of various kinds de-
range them so frequently, that it is impossible to state with certain-
ty what way be found to the north-west of this parish. This, how-
ever, we know, that two seams are wrought at Balcaskie; and as
the dip is moderate, and these not apparently the lowest, the crop-
ping of still lower seams must lie between Balcaskie and Grange-
muir. In the northern division of the parish the dip is about 10&deg;
to west north-west. In the southern, the dip is more irregular, the
strata being forced up into bosses, or thrown down in troughs. The
main boss, and in fact the only one, may be stated as having its
centre in the harbour of East Anstruther, from which point the
dip is quaquaversal, until, for a mile inland, where they flatten out
and assume the regular inclination to west north-west. So evident
and unbroken is this rounding of the strata, that, the high ledge of
Billowness, west of Anstruther, rounds and aimin makes, its ap-
pearance at Cellardyke harbour, a distance of nearly two miles.
Two faults occur west of the Billowness, which derange the strata
for a short distance, throwing them up to the north-east, about four
or six fathoms. These are no heterogenous veins; but heteroge-
neous veins occasioned by infiltration, occur in the Billowness rock.
This rock is ferruginous sandstone, traversed by cross fissures,
which are found filled with arenaceous iron oxide from the stone.
The water percolating and acting on the inherent iron has produced
this uncommon appearances.
   From the extent of the rock measures laid bare by the sea, a
very excellent field is afforded to the oryciologist. Indeed, to few
points of the country, could the student repair with greatest advan-
                                   3


