
296                       BANFFSHIRE.

estate of Troup are all related in some way to each other.  This
system of clanship is carried still farther among the fishing
population in the villages; the most of whom in Crovie and
Gardenstown are of the name of Watt or Wiseman, so that they
are obliged-to have recourse to nicknames for the sake of distinc-
tion.  It is a rare thing for them to marry but among themselves,
as the manners and habits, as well as the work of the rural popu-
lation, are quite different from theirs.  The influx of strangers,
however, at the time of the herring-fishing leads both sexes to form
connection with strangers, which will lhkely in time give more va-
riety of names.

   March 1842.

                        PARISH OF KIRKMICHAEL.\f*

                    PRESBYTERY OF ABERNETHY, SYNOD OF MORAY.

               THE REV. ALEXANDER TULLOCH, MINISTER.

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE parish takes its name from the church, which was
dedicated, previous to the Reformation to St Michael, and called
after his name, St Michael's Kirk, or Kirkmichael.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish is upwards of 30 miles in
length from north to south along the banks of the Avon, a tribu-
tary branch of the Spey ; and its average breadth is from 3 to 4
miles.  Only about eighteen miles of its length is inhabited.  The
other twelve or fifteen miles stretch into the Grampian hills, and are
uninhabited. Of this territorial extent, about nine miles of the inha-
bited part, and all the uninhabited portion, lie in the quoad sacra pa-
rish of Tomintoul.  The main range of the Grampian mountains
on the south, and branches of that range running from south to
north on the east and west form its boundaries, and encircle it, ex-
cept on the north, where it joins the parish of Inveravon in a nar-
row neck at the outlet of the Avon.
   Mountains.-The whole mountainous range of Glenavon, in-
cluding the north side of Benmacdui and the east side of Cairn-

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Charles Macpherson, Minister of Tomintoul.


