486 Statistical Account

Bishop Brown, in the year 1500, divided the parish of Little
Dunkeld into the old parish of Little Dunkeld and the parish
of Caputh; and, " at Caputh he built, on his own charges, a
quire, with painted cieling and glazed windows. He gave
for the support of the vicar, a vicarage, which had been for-
merly united to his own fee, four acres of glebe land,
and the rising around called the Mute Hill *, to build a
church upon." The parish is singular in tis extent; for
besides what lies contiguous, there are several distinct uncon-
connected portions belonging to it, some in the county of
Perth, and some in the connty of Forfar, 8 or 10. and even
20 or 25 miles from the church  . It is difficult to give
a satisfactory reason for such peculiarities. May it not be
supposed, that those distant places belonged anciently to
some considerable proprietors in this parish, whose desire of
having all their estates in one parish à, occasioned these
extraordinary

* Hence it appears, that the mount on which the church is build, (now
called the Kirkhill), was the place where, in ancient times, public justice
was administered. It stands 260 yards from the bank of the Tay, on a
gentle declivity, in a beautiful and romantic situation.

  These it seems not improper to enumerate: Balholmie, locally situ-
ated in the parish of Cargill; West and Middle Gormack, in Kinloch,
East and West Logie, Cairns, Chappelton, Meadows and Crofty, in Cin-
nie; and Craigtown of Dalrulzian, in Kirkmichael, and in Perthshire
. And south Bandirran, in Collace; Balbeuchly, in Aughterhouse,
Broughtay castle and fishings, and a small piece of ground at Mylrfield,
near Dundee; and Forfarty in Kinnettles; all in Forfarshire   In Forfar-
ty ther is a field of about 4 acres called, from time immemorial; " The
Minister of Caputh's Glebe," and is believed to belong to him, though
not hitherto occupied.

à The following words of Dr Johnston may see to favour this con-
jecture: " When Christianity was established in this island, a regular
mode of public worship was prescribed. Publish worship requires a pu-
blic place; and the proprietors of lands, as they were converted, built
churches for their families and vassals. For the maintenance of ministers,
they settled a certain portion of their lands; and a district, through which
each

