
     Of Pettinain.

tion, to be convinced of the propriety of changing them for 
new ones.  Improvements in agriculture, however, when real 
and lasting, are gradually communicated and adopted.  The 
attentive farmer fees it to be his interest to imitate the prac- 
tice of those of his neighbours who turn their lands to better 
account; and he learns, by experience, to follow that plan 
which is best suited to the soil and climate of his own grounds.
There are several very judicious farmers in this parish and 
its neighbourhood, who have introduced many substantial im-
provements, and whose example will have its proper influence 
upon others.  It is still, however, the practice with many to 
lay all their dung upon the crost-land, except what the out- 
field may receive by folding, or in the course of pasture; to 
take 2 crops of oats, and 1 of barley (or beer) * from the 
former, and 3 or 4 crops of oats running from the latter; 
and to lay out their ground without sowing any grass-seeds.
Too little attention, likewise, is paid to the killing of quick- 
grass and other noxious weeds.  A great part of the lands 
here is well adapted to the culture of turnip and potatoes. 
This has been carried on, for some years, to a small extent; 
and the good effects of it, in cleaning the ground, and pre-
paring it for barley and grass-seeds, ought to render it more 
prevalent.  The turnip are employed in feeding milch-cows, 
once, or, at most, twice a-day, upon the fading of the pas-
ture grass after harvest.  When given oftener, they impart a 
disagreeable rafle to the milk and butter: but this may be, 
in a great measure, prevented, by mixing with the milk,
when it is put warm into the vessels, a small quantity of salt-
petre dissolved in water.  They are, likewise, very usefully 
employed in rearing young black cattle, and in fattening for 

     Vol. XII. E

<FOOTNOTE>

*Barley is the name usually given to a better kind of grain that is not much 
sown in this higher part of the country; and the inferior fort that is more ge-
nerally cultivated, is called beer or rough beer. 


