
                    ULVA.                               351
with the feudal -law, and Black I stone denies that the Gavel -kit)A
tenure I originated in such a practice. The Irish maint-ain that
the Danes introduced the practice into this country, and the 14igli-
landers allege that it was a power actually exerted by the Lords o-t
the Isles.
The smaller island of Gometra, separated from Ulva by a very
narrow channel, contained, by the annexed census taken in 1637,
168 souls, the soil and character of its products being nearly the
same as those of Ulva. It has two barbours, the one'f,*eing the
south, and the other the north.
The still less island of Collohsa has only a population of sit
souls, and the soil is not so fertile as either that of Ulva or , Go-
metra.
 Staffa is uninhabited, and is about one mile long, and a quarter
of a mile broad; but to give a minute detail of the natural beauties
which attra ' ct the annual crowds of strangers from every quarter of
the globe to view this isle of columns and eaves, would occupy
larger space than these limits permit. Referring, therefore, to
the many publications and works by men of science and know-
ledge on this very interesting subject, which are already in the
band,; of the public, it may be only necessary to mention here
that its Scandinavian name means 11 the Island of columns." Its
highest point is 144 feet above the level of the sea. Westward,
the cliffs are generally low, rude, and without much beauty; but in
the north-east quarter, there are five small caves, remarkable for
the loud reports they give, when the tide enters, resembling the
distant discharge of heavy ordnance. The northernmost point
is columnar, and nearly -level with the water. The higbe-,kt
Point of the great face is 1 12 feet from high-water mark, and - be-
comes lower as it proceeds towards the west; the greatest height
above Mackinnon's cave being 84 feet. The same takes place at
the Clamshell' cave, where the vertical cliffs disappear, and are
replaced by an irregular declivity of a columnar structure, beneath
which the landing. place is situated. Here the columns are placed
iu irrefular directions, being oblique, erect, horizontal, and s6me.41
times curved : obere they reach the grassy surface of th6 island,
they gradually disappear, but are sometimes laid bare, presenting
the appearance . of a geometrical pavement, where their ends are
Been, and in other places- displaying portions of their parallel side.*.
At the C, lamshell cave, the columns on one side are bent, for m,


