
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities.-In this parish there are few antiquities.  On
the estate of Captain Scott of Maleny, there are the remains 
of an old castle, commonly called Lennox Tower, said to 
have been a habitation of the family of Lennox, and which 
had formed, according to tradition, the occasional residence 
of Mary Queen of Scots, perhaps 
     "When love was young and Darnley kind."
It became afterwards, according to the same tradition, a seat 
of the Regent Morton.  It stands on a very elevated situ-
ation, above the bank of the river, commands a beautiful 
prospect of the Frifth of Forth, and in those times, must have 
been a place of very considerable strength, being inaccessible 
on all sides.  It had a subterraneous passage to the river, 
(to that no enemy could deprive the inhabitants of water), 
which has been only shut up within these few years, from
the cattle being apt to go down into it.  The extent of
the rampart, or out wall, which goes round the brow of the
hill, is about 304 paces, or 1212 feet.  The under part of it
is now occupied as a hogstye.  Sic transit gloria mundi*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Not far from this castle, on the opposite side of the river, are the ruins
of another ancient edifice, the mansion of the Skenes of Curriehill, the
date of whose creation, as Baronets of Scotland, is unknown; but they had
possessed very extensive property in this parish.  The fanaly of Balmerino,
originally, had here also, a considerable domain, which would, no doubt, 
be forfeited on the attainder, and the execution of their last and brave chief, 
who died with a heroism worthy of a better cause.  On the top of Ravel-
rig hill, the property of Mr Davidson, there are to be seen the remains of 
a Roman station, or explaratory camp, which affords a farther confirmation 
of the name of this parish having been originally dervied from the 
Latin.  This station has never yet been observed by any of our Antiquaries. 
It is situated on the summit of a high bank inaccessible on tree sides, de-
fended by two ditches, and faced with stone, with openings for a gate.  It 
is named by the country people Castle-bank.  Farther cast, are the 
appearances of another station or post, which commands an extensive view 
of the Strath towards Edinburgh, and is styled the General's Watch.-
They are both very distinctivel marked, in an old plan of the Ravelrig estate, 
in the possession of Mr Davidson, but they are now much defaced, the 
former proprietor, having carried off the greater part of the stones, to build 
sences. 


