
430                       EDINBURGHSHIRE.

	            MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   Under the head of Civil History it has been seen that Mr John
Clelland was minister of Stow at the time of the Restoration, and
that, in consequence of the persecution of the Presbyterians which
soon followed, he resigned in 1665; and that his place was occu-
pied by two or three curates, till the Revolution in 1688.  Soon,
after (1690) Mr James Scott is mentioned as minister.  He was
succeeded, in 1693, by Mr James Douglas, who died minister of
Stow, in 1732.  In 1733, Mr David Duncan succeeded him, and
died in 1759.  Mr Robert Dawson, his successor, signed the for-
mula 6th May 1760, and survived my settlement as his assistant
and successor (17th September 1807) till 23d March 1809.
   The first minute book of the heritors, as distinct from the ses-
sion records, begins in 1759.  Heritors continued to be designated
simply from their property, as George Innes of Stow, James
Pringle of Bowland, or by the name of their property alone, as
Torsonce, Torwoodlee, &e., till between 1770 and 1780, where
Mr is occasionally, but seldom prefixed to the name.  The first
instance in which Esquire occurs is in 1780.  It is not till about
1790, however, that either Mr or Esquire is regularly used.
From the earliest period, Mr is prefixed to the clergyman's name,
not as indicating a status in society, but as equivalent to Master
of Arts.  Thus we find Boston in his Memoirs begin a solemn
deed in this manner: "I, Thomas Boston, now Mr Thomas
Boston," &c.  In a curious manuscript of poll-tax, paid in 1695,
we find "Mr James Borthwick of Stow." This prefixture of
Mr I am inclined to ascribe to the literary, and not to the civil
status of this gentleman, of whom some notices have been already
given.
   Poll-Tax, 1695.--From a curious old MS. in the possession of
John Borthwick, Esq. of Crookston, who has kindly given me the
perusal of it, a few extracts may not only be interesting in them-
selves, but lead to some important results.  The tax was levied
over the kingdom; and in this MS. we have the names and desig-
nations of persons in "Stow toun," and in order those of the dif-
ferent farms and properties in the parish, so far as these lie in the
county of Edinburgh.  The individuals paying the tax in "Stow
toun" were 96.  This seems to have included every soul, as the
designation of the tax indicates.  Husband, wife, children, mother-
in-law, servants, apprentices, are all mentioned by name, and the
sum paid by each.  Paupers were, of course, excluded.  The


