
                                  PERTH.                                 139

     there are small houses in which tippling is carried on to a fearful ex-
     tent, by day and by night-and in which, as the police books can
     testify, the most worthless characters are found to congregate, and
     from which they often issue in the night season, to the annoyance of
     the sober citizens.  To the existence of these houses may be easily
     traced the poverty and domestic wretchedness of many a family.
     We condemn the infatuated beings who frequent them, but equal-
     ly, nay more, worthy of condemnation is the Publican who, to gain
     a livelihood, encourages the dissipated in the habits of dissipation.
     And those incur a heavy responsibility who, either directly or indi-
     rectly, contribute to the increase of those foul pest-houses of the
     city and neigbbourhood, by aiding their procurement of the license.
     When from some of those places, and on account of improper
     conduct, the license is threatened to be takdn away, it is often
     pleaded, and too often successfully, that that would "break the
     poor man's bread," or ruin some poor family, or poor widow, who,
     being the proprietor of the house, depends for subsistence on the
     rent-for the rent of a tippling-house is always high; but a sound
     regard to the moral order of the community should, with every
     magistrate and justice of the peace, be paramount.  Certificates
     of character from the clergymen of the city are not required,-
     And wherefore?
        Besides the 249 inns and alehouses, there are 74 grocer shops,
     in which spirits and beer are sold, and in not a few of which, spirits
     in single glasses, and in very small quantities, are sold over the
     counter.  This is a fruitful source of intemperance among the
     lower orders, as it brings the getting of the article within the power
     of the poorest who have a penny to squander.  It is no matter of
     wonder that intemperance prevails, when such and so many facili-
     ties abound to encourage it.  It is a disgraceful fact, that some of
     these dram-drinking shops are kept by persons of religious profes-
     sion.  The sellers of spirits and beer are at present 249  74-
     323!
        Fuel.-With respect to the fuel used in Perth, it is pit-coal.
     There are no coal minds nearer than twenty miles-in Fifeshire.
     The article, therefore, is brought by sea from Newcastle, and from
     the coast of Fife.  It is sold both by measure, and weight. The
     met measure contains three bushels, which is equal to 2 cwt. or 16
     stones imperial.  The price of that quantity varies according to
     the expense of sea carriage, from 1s. 6d. to 2s.

                      MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     I shall here subjoin a few historical facts, illustrative of the im-


