
               ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON.                            231

jected to the plough.  Here the majestic Ben Voirlich near the
north-west extremity of Loch Lomond rears an alpine peak to the
height of nearly 3300 feet above the level of the sea. The pa-
rishes of Luss and Row are also decidedly hilly. In the latter of
these parishes there are two ridges of hills running north-east and
south-west, intersected by a beautiful strath, (the highly interesting
and picturesque Glenfruin), which stretches between them upwards
off five miles. The height of Finnar, which is washed at its base
by the sea, towers above it to the height of 2500 feet. In Luss,
Ben Cruachanstean, Corafuar, Shantron, Beneich, Doune, and
many othes, attain great altitudes, some of them 3000 feet above
the level of the adjoining seas. The lofty hills in Luss and Ar-
rochar are strikingly and exquisitely contrasted with the, wide ex-
panse of the beautifully spread and pellucid waves, of the queen
of lakes, the far-famed, and yet scarcely sufficiently admired Loch
Lomond.  Here savage grandeur in all the towering superiority of
uncultivated nature, is seen side by side with the very emblem of
peace and tranquillity, an alpine lake, which the winds reach only
by stealth, basking by day under the enlivening beams of the sun,
but not subjected to the tidal attractions of the pale silvery moon.
The parish of Roseneath, enclosed between two lochs or arms of
the sea, like Argyle's Bowling Green, a little to the north of it,
also adds much to the varied and attractive scenery of Dumbarton-
shire. This peninsula in itself is a very striking panorama. It
consists principally of one ridge or height rising             from the south in
undulating wavy lines, till at Tamnahara, it attains an elevation of
about 800 feet. From almost any part of the intersecting levels,
beautiful peeps of sea, mountain, peaceful valley, or rich and ara-
ble expanses of fertile lands, may be obtained. Towards the
south of the county, the parishes partake,more of the lowland cha-
racter, and rising, as most of them do, from the Clyde or Leven,
and other intersecting streams, attain no great altitude, and present
but few of the more striking irregularities of surface. To this re-
mark, there are, however, many exceptions, and these striking
ones, as for example, the rock of Dumbarton, which to the eye of
the geologist presents the idea of a coprolite, after nature had ex-
hausted herself by her more gigantic efforts to the north. The
Kilpatrick braes, rising to the height of 1200 feet above the sea,
are, also a fine range of hills, intersecting a fertile and beautiful
lowland country, affording from their summits some of the finest


