
290                          RENFREWSHIRE.

tress they were intended to relieve, would speedily bring about
their ruin.  As they declined, however, others arose in their room
both in the town and Abbey parishes.
   Hitherto, no observations had been made, on the proportions
existing between the periods of health and of sickness; nor was
it possible, from the nature of these societies, which gave out their
aliment as a matter more of charity than of right, to arrive at any
satisfactory conclusion, by an examination of their experience.
It was seen, however, that a want of sufficient income was the ra-
dical defect, and to remedy this, the friendly societies then in ex-
istence demanded from their members, an annual payment, in addi-
tion to their entry money, varying from a penny to sixpence a week ;
and of these reformed societies, Paisley had twenty-two by the year
1810.  Although for a time the funds of these associations ra-
pidly increased, there was still a defect in their constitution.  The
anxiety of their promoters to remove all idea of charity, from the
minds of the receivers, made it imperative on every member, what-
ever his station in life might be, to take his aliment, and thus the
demands were again increased to a higher rate than the supplies
could afford.  One great point, however, was gained, that of the
ratio of health and sickness, which put it in the power of the cal-
culator, to fix the amount of aliment that a society might allow,
from a given contribution, or from the amount of aliment required,
to fix the necessary contribution.  With this view, in 1815, one
of the societies, consisting of 450 members, appointed a commit-
tee to examine its own operations, from the date of its commence-
ment in 1802.  The experience of other five societies was after-
wards obtained.  In 1820, the subject was taken up by the High-
land Society of Scotland, and in returns made to them, the expe-
rience of seventy-nine associations was procured; and it is worthy
of remark, that the proportions found to exist, in the six societies
in Paisley whose operations were examined, scarcely varied from
that, of the seventy-nine, furnished to the Highland Society.  We
subjoin a copy of the result of the annual examination of the ope-
ration of the society, which gave rise to the improved system, from
which it will be seen that these useful institutions are now based
on such rational and scientific principles as may secure their per-
manence, and that, by a method which requires on the part of
the accountant or clerk to the society, only a knowledge of the
common rules of arithmetic.


