
				PARTON.

one time exceeded L.100; but it Has been reduced, on account of
the reduction of the duty on the English slates.

		V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--Castle-Douglas is the nearest market-town,
and is six or seven miles distant. It, affords an excellent market
both for grain and cattle. The high road from Castle-Douglas
to New Galloway passes through the western part of the parish;
and the high road from Dumfries to New Galloway passes through
the eastern part. There is a daily post along the western line.
There is a coach on this road communicating with one from Dum-
fries to Ayr.
	Dalbeattie and Palnackie are the nearest ports, and are at a
distance of about twelve miles. Almost the whole of the lime,
and a portion of the coals used in the parish, are brought from
these ports.
	Fuel.--The fuel principally used is peat,  which the parish sup-
plies in great abundance.
	Ecclessial State.--The stipend is eight chalders of barley
and eight chalders of meal.
	The glebe is sixteen acres in extent, and valued at L.25 Ster-
ling. The manse was built in 1777, and has had two additions
made to it since. It is now commodious and in good repair.
	The church is situated, like most in the neighbourhood, on
the banks of the Dee, and is therefore put at the extremity
of the parish. A considerable effort was made by a portion
of the heritors to have it removed to the interior, at the pe-
riod of its being rebuilt in 1834, but, as heritors  holding more
than one-fourth of the valuation opposed it, tbe proposal was
abandoned. A chapel on the banks of the Urr was subse-
quently built, and a preacher has been supplying regular service,
supported partly by seat rents, and partly by the liberality of
Major Fletcher, Esq. of Corsock. There are localities conhect-
ed with it in Balmaclellan and Kirkpatrick-Durham, as well as in
Parton, upwards of four miles from the parish churches;  so that,
if a new parish quoad sacra is disjoined it will embrace a part of
all these parishes, and be of considerable extent.
	Education.--There are two parochial schools in the parish.
One of the masters has L.31, 6s. 8d., and the other L.20, of sa-
lary both subject however, to a deduction of L.4, 3s. 4d. each
as an annuity payable to a retired teacher. The fees actually
paid to the schoolmasters do not exceed L.25 and they have no
other emoluments.



