
244                          FIFESHIRE.


  Fisheries.--The herring fishery in winter was once of great im-
portance, but for several years back it has been all but annihilat-
ed.  There is a very trifling stake-net salmon fishery.
  Produce.--No estimate of the quantity of raw produce raised
in the parish can be given, for the reasons mentioned above.
  Manufactures.--There is a large distillery in which whisky is
made, both for the English and home markets, by Coffey's pa-
tent steam apparatus. There are also two founderies in the parish,
where large articles are cast, and steam-engines and other machi-
nery made. There is a tan-work, a ship-building yard, a salt-work,
a magnesia manufactory, and a brick-work, where very excellent
fire-bricks are made, and also chimney cans of elegant patterns,
and other ornamental work, exactly resembling a fine freestone.
A mill driven by steam has also been erected for crushing bones
for agricultural purposes. These bones are chiefly imported from
abroad, and are exported when ground down to supply the con-
sumption of the east coast of Scotland,-little of them being used
in the district. There are two mills for making meal and flour,
and abarley mill. A considerable number of the usual tradesmen
reside in the parish, and also some weavers employed by the da-
mask table cloth-manufacturers of Duntermline. The distillery
employs about 80 men when in operation, the two founderies
from, 40 to 50, and there are a considerable number of carpenters
in the building yard. The usual time of working is ten hours a
day; the emp'oyments are healthy and the payment good.
  Navigation.--There are twenty vessels of from 20 to 100 tons
burden belonging to the port, employed chiefly in the coasting
trade. A considerable number of foreign and English vessels
load coal here, and some occasionally bring bark, timber, and bones
to be ground down for manure.

                        V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

  There is in this parish, the burgh of the same name, having,
as before stated, a population of 2020. It has not much trade,
the coal and stone shipped here being brought from the interior
parts. The distillery is carried on by a company. The whisky
made is chiefty sent to the London market. Fire-bricks, and a lit-
tle magnesia are also exported; but there are no import or export
merchants in the proper sense of the word. There are two villa-
ges, North Ferry and Hillend.
  Means of Communicatim.--There is in the burgh a principal
or assorting post-office, from which bags are daily dispatched


