
620                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

them of employment, and of every inclination for it.  The oppor-
tunities for theft, and many other vices, which such a practice af-
fords, are too obvious to require to be pointed out; but the tax
thus levied on an industrious and charitable population is perhaps
not sufficiently adverted to.  Suppose (which probably is below the
truth) that every day twelve of these wandering mendicants, or
seventy-two per week, perambulate a parish such as this, in which
there are about 160 inhabited houses; that they call at one-fourth
of these, and receive alms to the amount of a halfpenny each, (and
where they are served with meal or provisions, so little as a half-
penny worth is never offered them), then the sum thus levied would
amount to L.6 a week, or L.312 a year; one-tenth part of which
would probably exceed the contingent such a parish would be cal-
led upon to furnish, were any general measure for the suppression
of begging entered into throughout a district.  This evil, we are
happy to say, has been much lessened since the establishment
throughout the county of a rural police.

   December 1835.-Revised May 1842.

                       PARISH OF BOURTIE.

            PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                THE REV. JAMES BISSET, MINISTER.

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE etymology of the term " Bourtie" cannot be
traced; but, as in some old charters, it is found written Bourtiach,
we may reasonably presume that the first part of the appellative is
significant of some distinctive quality; in like manner as the name
of the district (Garioch or Geiriach) signifies shining or splendid
field.
   Extent and Boundaries.-Bourtie extends from west to east 5
miles; in average breadth nearly 2; and contains probably 9
square miles.  In figure it resembles an irregular triangle, of which
the western bmadary, resting on Chapel of Garioch, forms the
base, and the eastern point, where it touches Uday, the apex.  On
the north, if it is bounded by Daviot Meldrum, and Tarves; and


