
                                    GREENOCK                        469

       after having for many years'discharged the duties of his office
       with great credit to himself and advantage to the public.
         It is somewhat singular that no school-rooms have been pro-
       vided by the corporation for either of the teachers now mentioned.
       They receive each L. 25 per annum in lien of schoolroom rent.
       The magistrates and council ought to be the best judges of the
       propriety of this arrangement. Perhaps looking to the growing
       prosperity of the town, they may be of opinion that a grammar
       school establishment on a larger scale than the present, may be-
       come necessary, and that,on that supposition, it would be unwise
       to expend even the small sum of L1000 or L. 1500 in making
       provision for the now existing classes.  If the taste for Greek and
       Roman learning should revive amongst us, the corporation judge
       rightly in deferring for a short time the erection of a grammar
       school, or, to speak more correctly, of an academy. If, on the
       other hand, the taste for classical literature shall continue to de-
       crease, a small building, comprising one apartment for the classi-
       cal teacher, and a larger one for the teacher of arithmetic and ma-
       thematics, will suffice for many years for the accommodation of the
       young ladies and gentlemen of this prosperous town. *
         Each of the grammar school teachers receives from the corpo-
       ration L. 30 per annum as Wary.  Scbool fees for the burgh
       schools are 12s. 6d. for Latin ; 15s. for Greek; and 12s. 6d for
       arithmetic and mathematics - and in the adventure schools for the
       wealthier classes I Os. 6d. per quarter.  In the other schools where
       the tbacbers have a salary, they vary from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. per quar-
       ter. Where the teachers leave no salary, the few vary from -3s. 6d
       to 7s. 6d., according to the branches taught. The total  number
       of scholars in all the schools above-mentioned is 2450, or some-
       what less than one in twelve of tbe whole population. This as-
       touinding fact demands the seriuos attention of every friend to this
       town and to the country at large.
          Literature.-It must not be inferred from the facts which
       have been stated in the preceding section, that the inhabitants
       of Greenock have little or no taste for literature, or, that they
       are more inclined to that unprofitable and often pernicious
       reading commonly called light reading, than to the perusal, of
       books fitted to expand the mind, and to cultivate and refine the

       <FOOTNOTE>In making this observations the eamplier hopes that he will not be accused
       of undue severity ofapplying  specially to Greenock, what is perhaps still more ap-
       plicable to Glasgow and other mercantile towns.


