
                                WEST KILBRIDE.                      264

whole of the arable parts does not probably exceed L. 1, 10s.--
the moorish wastes, perhaps, not 5s. which would make the gross
annual rent of land about L. 9662. * The value of produce and
cost of labour is much the same all over the district of Cunning-
ham; and, as particulars of these must be communicated from
many parishes of greater importance, it seems unnecessary they
should be repeated here. the arable pastures are chiefly occu-
pied with dairy cows, the produce being almost exclusively cheese
of the quality known by the name of Dunlop-cheese. The moors
are principally stocked with sheep of the native or black-faced race.
	The different species of live-stock in 1819 were as follows: horses
of all kinds, 162; dairy cows, 600; rearing and other varieties of
cattle, 790; sheep, 2373; swine, 218;  + and there is no reason
to think that great alteration has taken place since that period.
	The natural adaptation of this parish, whether with respect to
climate, soil, or situation in the great manufacturing district in
which it lies, is obviously as to the dairy; and the practice ac-
cordingly becomes more and more accommodated to that species
of farming. The soil is far too deficient in calcareous and adhe-
sive components to fit it in any degree for continued aration; and
cannot advantageously be subjected to the plough but after a con-
siderable period of rest. Neither are many of the pastures rich
enough for the purpose of feeding stock; hence the alternative of
the dairy, perhaps the most suitable to which it ever can be ap-
plied, has wisely been universally adopted. The whole is now
pretty, has wisely been universally adopted. The whole is now
pretty completely enclosed and subdivided, the fences being ge-
nerally hedge and ditch, but in high and arid situations stone dikes
have usually been adopted; and for about fifty years past all the
ordinary means of improving the soil have pretty successfully
been in practice. Here, as perhaps everywhere else, road-making
was the last improvement to make its appearance in the manage-
ment of farms, though theoretically it ought to have preceded all
others, as without facility of access, every operation must be done,
at a great disadvantage. Consequently much this way remains to
be done; there being scarcely a farm yet sufficiently provided with

<FOOTNOTE>The number of arable farms may be about fifty, which makes the medium size
about 120 acres, the largest about 300, the smallest 30. For some time back, an in-
clination to reduce the size of farms has prevailed, some of the largest having latterly
been divided into two, others into three separate possessions; and, but for the expense
of additional buildings, it is probable this practice would soon become more general,
The moors are chiefly divided into two sheep-walks, that of Crosby and Southanan.
         Topographical Description of Cunninghame, published at Irvine in 1820, by Mr.
George Robertson, a man well versed in such matters, and whose work will be found
in supply a great deal of this nature.


