
     of Alloa.

   Implements of Husbandry.-There is now scarce one of the
bid awkward carts to be met with+.  The farmers, at pre-
sent, use large carts, with iron axles, drawn by two horses;
and, in hay or harvest time, they have large open bodies to
fit the same wheels, in which they carry great loads, frequent-
ly from 90 to 100 stone tron weight, (which is nearly from
18 cwt. to a ton avoirdupoise), of well made hay.  However,
what was asserted by the late Lord Kames, in his Gentleman
Farmer, that "a well constructed one-horse cart, is the most
profitable carriage," seems now to be almost generally ac-
knowledged; and the farmers here will probably adopt them
very soon.  Since the two-horse ploughs have become gene-
ral, the breed of horses used by the farmers is considerably
improved.  Formerly, they had miserable garrans, not worth
more than 5 L. or 6 L. a piece; now, it is no uncommon fight
to see, in a farmer's plough, horses which are worth from 36 L.
to 48 L. the pair.  The ploughs now used are chiefly of Small's
construction, with an iron head and cast iron mould board.
They cost from 2 L. to 2 L. 10 s. according to the weight of the
iron.

   Servants.-All the principal farmers here prefer married

     VOL. VIII. 4 H

<FOOTNOTE>

bondage of services, so universally imposed on the old tenants of Scotland, as it
seems to have rendered them almost incapable of becoming farmers.  They seem
to have been only fitted for servants; and, did not their pride prevent them,
they would enjoy more comfort and happiness as day labourers.  This observa-
tion is at least just with regard to this parish.

   +Formerly, all the implements of husbandry used here were ill constructed.
Some years ago, it was a rarity to find a farmer with spoke and nave wheels to his
cart.  The carts in common use, consisted of a few board; ill put together, and
of a size not larger than a good wheel barrow, placed upon a thick wooden axle,
which was fixed to some low wheels, composed of 3 pieces of wood, joined to-
gether by two or three large wooden pins.  The axle turned round with the
tumbril wheels.


