
                             ST CYRUS.                        271

lies the fine crescent-like bay of Montrose. Behind these promon-
tories, and removed in some parts, more or less, from the present
limit of the highest tides, is a steep and almost continuous escarp-
ment, varying from 50 to nearly 300 feet in height the barrier,
according to geologists, of the ancient ocean. This escarpment,
is in several place a perpendicular cliff, and is prolonged with
somewhat less elevation along the right bank of the North Esk,
from its mouth to the junction of this parish with that of Mary-
kirk.
   The only inlet for vessels on the coast is at Sea-greens, where
a small harbour has been formed for the admission of the smallest
class of coal-ships; but it is too much exposed to the effects of
easterly gales to be secure, and can only be approached in smooth
water. In northerly gales, when, from the configuration of
the coast, it is found impossible for vessels to proceed in their
course northward, the bay of Rockhall affords a convenient an-
chorage; and there, it is no unusual sight to observe from twenty
to thirty vessels moored under the shelter of the cliff.
   About a mile of the coast from the mouth of the river is lined
with a flat beach of fine sand, held together by the usual sea-
grasses; the remaining part of it, by belts of shingle, or fragments
and exposed strata of low rocks, covered at low water with sea-
weed, which has for many years been allowed to vegetate, undis,
turbed by the kelp-maker.
   Temperature, &c.--Observations of the thermometer indicate a
mean annual temperature of from 45&deg; to 46&deg; Fahrenheit. The
mean level of the parish is about 300 feet above the sea, and its
temperature must be considerably lower than that of the adjoining
parish of Montrose. The springs in the parish give a range of
47 1/2&deg; in September, and 43&deg; in March. With regard to the ge-
neral aspect of the seasons on this part of the coast, it may be ob-
served, that, on the cessation of the easterly winds, which are con-
tinued in some seasons from the beginning of March to the mid-
dle of June, and which, whether dry or moist, always occasion a
keener sensation of cold than might be expected from the indica-
tions of the thermometer, the first summer rains are usually the
result of electrical changes; that a much less depth of the rain falls
on this part of the coast, than in the immediate vicinity of the
Grampians, during the summer months; and that, while the spring
and winter are distinguished by gloomy and often dismal weather,


