
636                        EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Indies all obnoxious persons-half the clergy of Scotland were de-
posed for nonconformity to rites which their consciences disap_
proved, and large fines were imposed on all who did not give per-
sonal attendance on those church services. The rigid observance
of Lent was enjoined; and on Wednesdays, Fridays, and Satun-
days, no person was permitted to eat flesh withhout a warrant from
the privyxtouncil.  Other most oppressive measures were also en-
acted. All inn-keepers and burgesses of the town were ordered to
give up the names of strangers residing with them, and the dis-
arming laws of James VI. were rigorously enforced. But none
of these laws were so galling to the people as the strict prohibition
of conventicles, or all meetings for religious purposes, except those
by law established. The parliament and a great proportion of the
nobles, with the exception of the Earl of Argyle, bowed their
heads submissively to the yoke; but the great mass of the people
were determined at all hazards to support their civil and religious
rights.  The western counties rose in open rebellion ; and almost
every district secretly combined to oppose the measures of the court.
A terrible civil war ensued-; and executions and imprisonments,
without regard to law or justice, or common humanity, stained the
annals of the klngdom for several years.
   In 1680, the Duke of York, with his Duchess and the nobility
of Scotland, were entertained in the Parliament House by the ma-
gistrates ; which cost the city nearly L.15,000 Scots. On the ac-
cession of James to the throne, the citizens presented an address,
and, as usual, some more substantial tokens of their loyalty. But
this monarch, like his predecessor, soon lost the confidence of the
people, by his open adoption of Popery, and his arbitrary acts.
   No sooner was it known that the Prince of Orange had landed
in England in 1688, and that the soldiery had been withdrawn to
reinforce the English army, than the Presbyterians and other
friends of the revolution flocked to Edinburgh from all quarters.
The Earl of Perth, the chancellor, with the other adherents of the
late monarch, fled from Edinburgh, and the government fell into
the hands of the popular party. A mob was soon formed; drums
were beat through the cityi; and the Papists and Episcopalians now
became the objects of  public vengeance.   The multitude proceed-
ed to demolish the palace of Holyrood.   They were oppose by
about one hundred men, who were stationed in the Abbey as the
adherents of 'James.  The mob pressing on, were fired upon by


