
364                         AYRSHIRE.

	Parochial Registers--The earliest entry of a birth is in January
1712; and the register of births is continued regularly from that
date down to the present day. The register of proclamations of
banns and marriages is of a much more recent date, and does not
seem to have been accurately kept. The earliest date of minutes
of session is December 1777. A very accurate register of deaths,
and the age and the diseases of the deceased, has been kept for
the last few years; and the mode of furnishing a document so im-
portant is at the same time so simple, that its general adoption is
much to be desired. A small fee leads the church-officer to make
the requisite inquiries at every funeral. The result is given into
the kirk-session every Sabbath after sermon, and is then entered
into a book. If there is any defect in the information, the elder
best acquainted with the relatives of the deceased makes farther
inquiry, and reports to the succeeding meeting.
	In so far as the parish registers may be depended upon, the
average births for the last seven years have been 151; marriages,
51; deaths, 135.
        Antiquities.--The ruins of several religious houses are' still to
be traced in different parts of the parish. The walls of the church
of Kirkbride, on the farm of Dunduff, are distinct, the surround-
ing burying-ground is still used, and an adjoining field bears the
name of the Prieses Land. At Auchendrane and elsewhere,
the rudera of similar erections were visible when Abercrum-
mie wrote his Journal. Kirkbride has generally been consider-
ed as a parish unitdd to Maybole, but, being unable to find
any notice of the union, I am rather inclined to think that it and
the other ruins referred to were chapels attached to the collegiate
church of Maybole. This last was an establishment of consider-
able importance, and had a rector and three prebends. It was
endowed out of the provost and priest's lands in the parish of Kirk-
michael, which fell into the hands of the Earl of Cassilis, upon
the dissolution of the college at the Reformation. The Black
House and Well Trees still remain of the residences of the priests,
and the orchards that surrounded the others are well known. The
collegiate church is used as a burying place by the family of Cas-
silis, and others who formerly contributed to its repair. It was,
nevertheless, allowed to fall into a most ruinous and filthy condi-
tion, from which it was only rescued by the public spirit of Mr
Andrews, and the inhabitants of Maybole, who a few years ago,


