
864                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

to say whether they or their masters are most to blame.  The ha-
bit is clearly unfavourable to the character of those who indulge

it; and means have been taken by church courts and other bodies
to counteract its injurious effects.
   Though generally intelligent, the people are by far too indif-
ferent about acquiring useful information, except in regard to their
ordinary pursuits.  Their moral conduct is less open to objection.
They are neighbourly, kind to the poor, and so free from those of-
fences which are condemned by human laws, that a committal for
crime has not been known to take place here for a very long pe-
riod.  Their attendance upon the outward ordinances of religion
is, for the most part, regular.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Most of the inhabitants are now employed in agriculture, or in
occupations connected with it.  For some time after the beginning
of this century, the manufacture of woollen cloth was carried on
with spirit and success.  A large work of this kind was erected at
Milbank, near the confluence of the two branches of the Ugie,
where broad cloths of the best quality were made, and many hands
employed both on the spot and throughout the parish.  But a sud-
den stoppage of the work in 1828 proved disastrous to all concern-
ed ; and nothing of the same kind has again been attempted.
   A distillery has been carried on, for at least fifteen years; but
the proprietors, becoming disposed to employ their capital other-
wise, have lately advertised the buildings and apparatus for sale.
   The retail-dealers, termed merchants, of whom there are 10,
keep a supply of excellent goods at moderate prices, and do much
business in exporting dairy produce and eggs chiefly to London.
   There are six meal-mills, seven smithies, and such a proportion
of other handicrafts, as to meet the demands of the parish.  Of
professional and educated men, there are three clergymen, one
physician, one land-surveyor, and three parochial teachers.
   Agriculture-

<TABLE>
	Number of imperial acres in cultivation,     .      .    12,550
				 in waste, or in pasture,   .	          3,450
				 which might yet be improved,  .        3,000
		                 planted,         .        .          370

   Average rent of arable land per acre, 16s.
   Price of grazing an ox or cow, L.3.  Rate of labour without
board, from 1s. 3d. to 1s. 10d., according to the season.
   The cattle are generally of the pure Buchan breed, which, as
it deserves, is highly valued.  Of late years, indeed, by the intro-


