

118                   LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

suredly the substituting midsummer for the New-fear would seem
to be an improvement on the plan.
   A field, called Maukes Hill, which, being intersected by the
Ammon, is partly in that and partly in Mid-Calder parish, is con-
sidered as a battle-field of long past years, but, as the tumuli con-
taining stone-coffins, skeletons, and all that gives verisimilitude to
the conjecture, have mostly been found in the part belonging to
Mid-Calder, the elucidation of this somewhat obscure matter be-
longs more properly to the account of that parish.

<TABLE=POPULATION>
                     III.-POPULATION.

   The former Statistical Account gives the population in 1755 to
be 598.  The state of the population afterwards is as follows:

                        1801,       -       551
                        1811,       -       879
                        1831,       -      1035
                        1841,       -      1004

                              IV.-INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.-The whole of the parish is cultivated or in pas-
ture, except about 500 acres. There are not 200 acres of moss
which may yet be drained and planted. From 250 to 300 acres
are under wood, viz. spruce, larch, and Scotch fir, with a few hard-
wood trees intermixed. Great attention is paid to the manage-
ment of the plantations, particularly upon Lord Rosebery's estates,
where likewise they are most extensive, and where the yearly thin-
nings are found very profitable.
   Rent.-The rent of land is believed to be about L.1, 4s. per
acre.
   The Ayrshire and Teeswater milch cows are commonly kept,
often crossed with other breeds. The general character of the
husbandry is a regular rotatiou of white and green crops, and then
the land is laid down for pasture. Nineteen years is the dura-
tion of the common lease.
   Quarries and Mines.-There are lime, whinstone, and sand-
stone quarries. The lake-stone quarry, on the property of James
Scales, Esq. in the vicinity of Blackburn village, which has been
wrought for many years, is much famed for supplying excellent
floors for ovens. It has hitherto given employment to six men in
hewing and quarrying, and is sent to all parts of the country for
nearly thirty miles round. Quarry now given up for encroaching
on the public road. The limestone on the same property is six
feet thick, and lies upon a bed of slaty sandstone, called by the
workmen "blaes," four feet thick above the coal, Which is like-



