
              518                            PERTHS-HIRE.


              the settlement of a minister on a reluctant congregation in the
              neighborhood. "After the death of Mr Stirling, which occur-
              red on the 16th December 1813, the right of patronage appears
              to have been claimed by the Crown; and two presentations were
              accordingly laid on the table of the presbytery in one day, viz. one
              in favour of Mr Alexander Maxtone (now minister of Foulis
              Wester.) which was issued by the Crown; and another in favour
              of Mr Alexander M'Intyre, which was issued by the Honourable
              Miss Drummond of Perth-now the Right Honourable Lady
              Willoughby de Eresby, whose right had hitherto been undisputed
              The question was settled in favour of the claims of the latter; Mr
              M'Intyre's presentation was, in consequence, sustained by the
              presbytery, and the usual steps taken with a view to his settle-
              ment. But, as he encountered a very strong opposition from the
              people at the moderation of his call, the matter was referred to
              the synod for advice, and instructions were given by the court, that
              a secood call should be moderated in. This was done without
              being followed by any satisfactory consequences; and the call was
              again carried to the synod, when it was decided that the presentee
              should be rejected, and that intimation thereof should be trans-
              mitted to the proper quarter. Against this decision Mr M'Intyre
              protested, and appealed to the ensuing General Assembly, where
              the judgment the synod was reversed, and a decision given, ap-
              pointing that the prensentee should be ordained with all convinient
              speed, according to the rules of the church. The ordination took
              place in the midst of uncommon excitement and demonstrations
              of hostility. But the unhappy minister, whose health had by this
              time begun visibly to decline, almost immediately engaged the
              service of an assistant, and went to the south of England, where
              he died very soon after. He was succeeded by the present incum-
                 The parish church is conviniently situated in the town of Crieff,
              and is not more than three miles distant from the farthest bound-
              ary of the parish. It was built in the year 1786, and repaired in
              the year 1827, at the joint expense of the heritors and old feuars,
              the former paying in porportion to their valued, and the latter in
              proportion to their real rents. It affords accommodation fo 966
              persons, allowing 18 inches to each sitter, and as the seats are al-
              lecated according to the same rule by which the church was built,
              the old feuars have obtained a right to about three-fourths of the
              whole accommodation. The heritors in general retain their sit-


