
4                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

continually growing in its channel, and not to the influence of the
tide, as many have supposed.
   Some Of the burns, such as those of Inches, Holm, Dochfour,
and Aberiachain, display small but beautiful waterfalls, associated
with hazel copses and woodland scenery; but none of them are so
large as to merit particular description.
   Geoloqy and Mineralogy.- The greater portion of the Highlands
of Scotland consists of rocks of the oldest or primary class, that is
of such as have a highly crystalline structure, and are entirely de-
void of organic remains or petrifactions. Where stratified or re-
gularly disposed, the beds or strata usually maintain a course from
south-west to north-eart, are vertical or highly inclined to the
horizon, but without any constant dip or position. Parallel to the
prevailing direction of the strata, the mountains generally run in
lines from south-west to north-east, with great longitudinal valleys
or straths between them, into which the waters of the ocean have
penetrated, forming.large bays and friths; or the surfaces of the
valleys are occupied by a succession of fresh water lakes united to-
getber, and with the sea, by winding streams and rivulets. Lesser
valleys, called glens and passes, traverse the mountain chains, or
stretch along their rocky sides; and it is generally among these
that the most pictaresque seenery, and most beautiful and romantic
castles and seats of the Highland gentry, and hamlets of their te-
nants, are to be seen.
   Towards the south-western boundary of the Highlands, mica,
chlorite, and clay slates prevail; in the north, and especially in In-
verness-sbire, and the counties beyond it, gneiss is the most abun-
dant rock; and throughout and far above it, enormous masses of
granite and of the oldest trap or porphyritic rocks shoot up,-such
as the Grampians, and the alps of Glencoe and Ben-Nevis.
   On this great nucleus of primary rock, deposits of secondary
strata, distinguished chiefly by their fragmentary structure and the
presence of organic remains, both animal and vegetable, and con-
sisting for the most part of sandstones, shales and limestones, re-
pose. They are found on both sides of the island, and at its
northern extremity. The secondary deposit on the eastern coast
seems at one time to have filled the great basin of the Moray Frith,
and to have extended far out into the German Ocean. Its re-
mains may still be traced from the mouth of the River Spey in a
continuous line along the coast to the westward and northward, ex-


