
  353          PARISH OF KILBARCHAN.

  PRESBYTERY OF PAISLEY, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.
        THE REV. ROBERT DOUGLAS, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THE name of this parish is not improbably derived
from three Gaelic words, viz. Kil, a cell, Brae, or Bar, a hill, and
Chan, a vale or plain, and would thus signify the "chapel of the
hill-bounded vale." Such a designation is strikingly descriptive
of the situation of the church and village,-on a gently rising
ground, sheltered, on three sides by wooded hills, and sloping
down gradually towards the south, where it is quite open. From
a glen, formed by the rather sudden rise of two of these elevated
ridges, issues a streamlet, which, after winding rotnd Glentyan
Hill on the north-west, and supplying a power, to keep in activity
the bus scene of a corn-niill and a bleachfield not far distant, pur-
sues a south-easterly course through part of Captain Stirling's
pleasure-grounds, where it presents a . succession of delightful
short falls at intervals,-till, having watered also part of the
Milliken pleasure- grounds, it falls into the Black Cart, a mile
or thereby to the eastward, a little above Johnstone. Some
however, would trace the name up to St Barchan, who is, by
tradition, said to have lived, as well as to have founded a place of
worship in this very inv ing locality, in the age of the Culdees.
Yet, as in remoter periods, the names of individual.s were not, un-
frequently adopted from those of the places where they were
born, or in which they acquired superior distinction, the two, ac-
counts may coincide more nearly than at first sight might have
appeared.
Lest the above-mentioned origin of the name should seeva fan,-
ciful, it may not, perhaps  be deemed too minute an, observation
to remark, what may appear somewhat singular, that, notwith-
standing the corruption to which the merely oral transmission of
names, is liable, during',SO long a period as unatliaveelapsed since tbe,
Celtic was the vemacwar language of this district, a very great aumi.


