
72                           ELGINSHIRE.

<TABLE>
   By Government Census in 1811, the population amounted to 1832
                           1821,      -       -       -     1414
                           1831,      -       -       -     1497, of which num-
   ber 699 were males and 798 females.
          Average number of births for last seven years is   39
                         of marriages for      do.           11
                         of deaths during 1834,       -      21
     There are 3 insane persons, 2 or 3 fatuous, and 3 blind.
     There are 3 landed proprietors, and 16 tenants paying L. 50 and
   upwards yearly for their farms; 6 merchants who have shops for
   the sale of cloths, groceries, &c.
     Most of the inhabitants are employed in agriculture as farmers,
   crofters, labourers, or farm-servants.
     There are also 13 masons, 1 heatherer, 4 gardeners, 13 wea-
   vers, 7 tailors, 11 shoemakers, 8 Blacksmiths 10 wrights, 3 car-
   penters, 6 sawyers, 1 dyer, 2 carding-millers, 4 grain-millers,
   1 forester, 1 carrier, 1 butcher, 1 groom, 1 fish cadger.
     Language.- Not very long ago, the Gaelic tongue was spoken
   in this parish. There are now, however, not above a dozen indi-
   viduals who understand it, and not the half of these natives. Knoc-
   kando is reckoned a Highland parish, but the preaching of Gaelic
   has been discontinued for nearly ninety years. Provincial Scotch,
   mixed with English, is now the common dialect of the country. In
   the neighbouring parish of Cromdale, Gaelic is still spoken and
   preached.
     Customs, &c.- Amongst the customs, it may be remarked, that
   married women generally retain their maiden names in preference
   to assuming those of their husbands. Many of the people appear
   to have formerly had two names. The following specimens are
   selected from the parochial registers:
     Grant alias Beg; Grant alias Achnach; Grant alias Roy;
   Grant alias M'Robbie; Grant alias Miller; Grant alias M'Ker-
   ran; Grant alias Cly; Grant alias Moir; Smith alias Gow;
   M'Pherson alias M'Lellan; Robertson alias M'Robie alias
   M'Robert; Cameron alias M'Phail; M'Donald alias M'Alister;
   M'Donald alias Muggach; M'William alias M'Cully.
     The night-waking of corpses still continues, but nothing of an
   improper nature now occurs. The system of drinking, which was
   too common at funerals, has been happily abolished. It is singu-
   lar that in this quarter, the father, who ought to appear as chief-
   mourner, seldom attends the funeral of his eldest child. Tues-
   day, Thursday, and Saturday are the common days on which wed-


