
                           BERTRAM SHOTTS.                   633

secession, they have, nevertheless, all along consistently maintain-
ed the principle of an Establishment, and, of course, cherish a
friendly feeling toward the mother church.
   The number of families who adhere to the Established Church
is 457, and the number of pprsons of all ages attending the church
of Shotts is fully 800.  Our average number of communicants is
nearly 500.  The amount of church collections yearly may be
stated at L.27.  The Seceding chapel is attended by 150 fami-
lies, and the number of sittings let is about 500.  Those belonging
to the United Secession church are 125 families; of the remaining
part of the population, 10 families are Roman Catholics, 5 Came-
ronians, 2 Episcopalians, and 1 Unitarian.
   Education.-The total number of schools in the parish is 6.
Of these, 3 are endowed, and 3 unendowed.  There are none
supported by societies, but one by individual subscription.  The
branches of education which are taught are, Greek, Latin, English,
geography, writing, and arithmetic.  The salarv of the parochial
schoolmaster is L. 34, 4s. 4d.: his fees may amount to L. 28:
and his other emoluments to L. 18.
   I am not aware that there are any of the young between six and fif-
teen years of age who cannot read or write, although there are a few
adults in that unfortunate state of ignorance.  A school is much
required for Omoa Works, where there is a population of at least
260 souls.  They are at a considerable distance from any place of
instruction.
   Literature.-There are two circulating libraries in the parish.
In the library belonging to the Shotts Iron-works, there is a large
and excellent assortment of books.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-There is no savings bank in
the parish, but we have it in contemplation to establish, in a very
short time, an agency here in connexion with the National Se-
curity's Savings Bank in Glasgow.  I have been endeavouring to
enlighten the people on this most important subject, by means of
the circulation of pamphlets and otherwise; and I have little doubt
but that all the working-classes will gladly become depositors when-
ever the opportunity is afforded them.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
who receive parochial aid is 60, and the sum allowed to each per
week may be stated to be 1s. 2d.  The propertion of that sum
arising from church collections is L. 15.  A legacy was left to
the poor of this parish some years ago, the annual interest of which


