
                         KINCLAVEN.                              1139

   til the period of his ejection in 1741, are all in the neat and dis-
   tinct hand-writing of Mr Fisher.  From all accounts, he seems
   to have been a man of talent, intelligence, and worth.  His expo-
   sition of the Assembly's Catechism is still deservedly held in high
   repute.   It is rather a remarkable circumstances however, and
   well fitted to convey an instructive lesson of mildness and modera-
   tion in these days of ecclesiastical strife, that, in a few years, Mr
   Fisher was not in communion with his old flock, whom he had,
   been instrumental in carrying off from the Established Church;
   for, while he attached himself to that party in the Secession who
   were denominated Burghers, they chose to connect themselves to
   the Anti-burgher party.   Under the faithful ministry of his suc-
   cessors, Messrs Blythe and Pringle, the Secession Church in this
   parish continued to flourish, and has long been one of the most
   prosperous country congregatinns belonging to that body.  In ad-
   dition to those belonging to this parish, it is understood that they
   have always drawn a considerable portion of their members and
   bearers from the neighbouring parishes of Little Dunkeld, Auch-
   tergaven, Redgorton, and Caputh.  The Rev.  David Young is
   their present pastor, having been elected two years ago on the de-
   mise of the late Rev.  James Pringle, who had been minister of
   the congregation upwardsof fifty years.   He was, in all respects,
   a good man, and, emphatically, "a lover of peace."
      Education.-There are two schools in the parish, one paro-
   chial and the other unendowed.  The average number of scho-
   lars attending the parochial school may amount to 40.  The
   salary is the maximum.  The branches of Education taught,
   and the school fees are as follows, viz.  English reading, 2s.
   6d.; writing, 3s.: arithmetic, geography, and preceding bran-
   ches, 3s. 6d.; book-keeping and preceding, 4s.; for practical
   mathematics, Latin, and preceding, 5s.  In 1833, the heri-
   tors, expended L.200 in erecting a neat and commodious school-
   room and in making a thorough repair on the schoolmaster's
   dwelling-house, which now contains much more than the legal ac-
   commodation.  There is also a good garden attached to the school-
   house. The unendowed school is situated in the village of Arn-
   tully, in the west end of the parish.  The average number attend-
   ing the school may be estimated at 50.  It is principally sup-
   ported by tbd Dissenters, who are numerous in that part of the
   parish.  Parents, in general, seem t'a be fully sensible bf the bene-
   fit of giving their children all the schooling which they can afford.



