
                            KIRKCALDY.                        743

No plants are found in it, except what are common in similar lo-
calities. The adjacency of the spot to this parish may justify us
in noticing here, that around Ravenscraig Castle, in the parish of
Dysart, these two rare plants are found, the sea-fern (Asplenium
marinum,) and Alexanders (Smyrnium Olusatrum.)
   The only plantations in the parish are about Dunnikier house.
and in the den already mentioned. They are between sixty and
seventy years old, and contain various kinds of fir, beech, elm,
and oak; but they present nothing remarkable.
                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   No historical account of this town has ever been published.
Nor do the burgh records throw any light on its earlier history.
It seems, however, to have been a place of considerable import-
ance at a very remote period. The obscurity of antiquity conceals
what accident or causes led the Culdees to Plant an establishment
here ; and the date of these Christians coming to occupy this as
one of their stations is unknown. Of the existence of one of their
houses here, no reasonable doubt can be entertained. Its sup-
pression, or at least it being brought into subjection to the religi-
ous establishment at Dunfermline, under which it subsequently
continued for a long time, very probably took place in the earlier
part of the twelfth century. David I., before the middle of that
century, introduced thirteen English monks from Canterbury, be-
longing to the order of St Benedict, into the Culdee establish-
ment at Dunfermline: and thus brought it under the dominion of
the Pope. Such an innovation awakened the alarm of the Cul-
dees, by threatening their independence with overthrow. To re-
concile them to the change, and to divert their attention from the
danger of their contemplated overthrow, the king elevated the
priory of Dunfermline to the rank of an abbey ; and to flatter
them still farther, it is said he, at the same time, suppressed the
Culdees of Kirkcaldy, or made them subordinate to, and depend-
ent on, the newly erected abbey.
   The first authentic notice of the town, except what is vague
and general, from which the commencement of its history must
be dated, is its erection into a burgh of regality in the year 1334,
David II. at this date mortified Kirkcaldy to the abbot of Dun-
fermline, and his successors. For more than a century, it was-
held by this monastery, and used in all probability as the princi-
pal sea-port of Dunfermline. In 1450, the commendator and con-
vent of Dunfermline, " gave, granted, and disponed to the bailies
and community of the burgh of Kirkcaldy, then present, and their


