
625
                          EDINBURGH.

deacons was killed by the Hamilton party; and the minds of the
inhabitants wholly alienated from the Earl of Arran.
   Henry VIII. of England, entertaining a project to annex Scot.
land to England by giving in marriage his son Edward to the
young Queen of Scots, entered into a treaty with Arran for this
purpose. But the intrigues of Cardinal Beaton prevented it front
being carried into execution. The English monarch, offended at
the disappointment of his plans, immediately invaded Scotland.
Two hundred sail of ships entered the Frith of Forth; and the
forces having landed, they burnt the towns of Leith and Edinburgh;
and plundered and laid waste the adjacent country. This hap-
pened in the year 1542. A few years afterwards, Edinburgh.
again was assailed and pillaged by the English under the Earl of
Hertford, who defeated the Scottish army at Pinkie.
  The doctrines of the Reformation, which, at this period, were
exciting the minds of all the liberal inquirers on the continent of
Europe, were transported to Scotland by John Knox and the
other disciples of Calvin, and were eagerly embraced by the Scot-
tish intellect. Knox arrived in Edinburgh in 1555, where he soon
drew around him groups of eager listeners to his doctrines. He
boldly declaimed against the errors of Popery; and expatiated
upon the impiety of even being present at mass. The hand of
power obliged him to a temporary flight; but he returned, and
daily drew around him crowds of willing converts; among whom
were many of the most powerfull Scottish nobility and gentry.
This party formed themselves into the celebrated Congregation,
and bound themselves to the mutual defense and support of each
other and of their civil and religious liberty. Mary of Guise, the
Queen-mother, and a zealous Catholic, had succeeded the Earl
of Arran as regent of the kingdom. But all her power and influ-
ence were not sufficient to cope with the growing sway and deter-
mined attitude of the army of the Congregation. On the approach
of the feast of St Giles, the tutelary saint of Edinburgh, in the
year 1558, certain zealous reformers, to prevent the profane and
idolatrous procession, stole the image of St Giles, and threw it
into the North Loch. There was great confusion among the
priests, when, upon their going to decorate the image for the proces-
sion, they discovered that it was stolen. To supply its place, a small
image was obtained from the Greyfriars; and, to overawe the crowd,
the Queen Regent graced the solemnity with her presence. The
procession was conducted peaceably, till towards the end; when,


