
274                           LANARKSHIRE.

with Mosaic and all sorts of precious stones; particularly a casket
of ebony ornamented with gilt bronze, and oriental stones in re-
lief, formerly belonging to the Medici family. At the upper end
of the gallery is the present Duke's ambassadorial throne, brought
from his embassy at St Petersburgh, and placed between two an-
tique magnificent busts of oriental porphyry, the one of Augustus
and the other of Tiberius; and on the walls, on each side of the
throne, are two capital portraits of George III and Queen Char-
lotte, painted soon after their marriage. Fronting the throne, at
the other end of the gallery, is a magnificent large architectural
door of black marble, the pediment being supported by two orien-
tal columns of green porphyry, unique in their kind, and supposed
to be the finest of that material in Europe. These will afford a
faint idea of the gorgeous splendour which reigns within the walls
of Hamilton Palace. The collection of pictures may amount to
about 2000 pieces, of which about 100 are at Chatelherault. The
value of the prints alone in the Duke's possession, none of which
are ever exhibited to strangers, and many parcels of which, I be-
lieve, are not yet unfolded, are worth from L. 10,000 to L. 15,000.
It is impossible to form any idea of the value of the paintings,
Many of the cabinets are worth L. 1500; and a single table has
been estimated at L. 4000. The value of the plate, including a
magnificent gold set, is probably about L. 50,000.
	Earnock House, &c.--Earnock House is pleasantly situated on
the higher grounds, in the west, amidst abundance of plantations.
It is a modern square building, well adapted for a gentleman of mo-
demte fortune. lt has very fine pleasure grounds, and an excel-
lent garden, tastefully laid out, and furnished with glass-houses
both for fruits and plants. The houses at Ross, Fairhill, and
Grovemount, are also large and handsome buildings, abounding
with whatever can contribute to bonvenience or comfort. There
are also respectable residences at Nielsland, Fairholm, and Edle-
wood. There is a curious fog-house at Grovemount, of great di-
mensions, tastefully conceived, and skilfully executed, which cost
a considerable sum in fitting up.
	New Prison, &c.--On Tuesday loth June l834, the foundation;
stone of the new prison and public offices was laid at Hamilton,
with masonic honours. * The offices consist of a distinct building

<FOOTNOTES>The glass vessell containing the coins, newspapers, &c, having been deposited be-
neath the plinth of one of the intended columns in front of the public offices, was
desterously dug into an the night of the 2d November 1834, and the most valuable
part of boarded treasure extracted. The thieves who thus boarded justice in its
own peculiar domains have not yet been detected.


