
  		       ABBOTSHALL.                             151

mains, it must have been originally of great strongth, and of con-
siderable importance. The walls measure in thickness six feet and
a-half, and the dimensions within walls are thirty feet. It is reason-
ably supposed to have been a square. All that is now preserved
is the east wall, which is entire, and part of the north and south
walls. The lower part of it has been arched, and it was probably
used as a defence for cattle. In these more peaceable times, it is
used for feeding cattle, which purpose it is made to answer welL
The height of this tower or castle could not be less than from fifty
to sixty feet. On the roof of the building, according to tradition,
the white-haired and venerable sage was accustomed to sit, observ-
ing the face of the heavens, and conversing with the stars.
   Eminent Men.-Sir Michael Scott was born at Balwearie, accord-
ing to the most accredited accounts, near the beginning of the thir-
teenth century, and from his earliest youth discovered a remarkable
thirst for knowledge. After receiving such scanty rudiments of educa-
tion as his native country at that time afforded, he went into Eng-
land, where, at the University of Oxford, he devoted himself with
deep application to the study of philosophy. Completing his studies
at Oxford, he repaired, according to the fashion of the age in which
he lived, to the University of Paris, where he prosecuted with so
much ardour the study of mathematics, as to acquire for himself
the name of " Michael the mathematician." Nor did he, in the
midst of these avocations, neglect the study of the sacred let-
ters and divinity - but gaining in these branches a high reputation,
he received the degree of Doctor in Theology. With these learned
distinctions, Michael Scott determined on farther travels, and visit-
ed many other countries and universities. Amongst these, he first
sought the far-famed College of Padua, where such appears to have
been the impression created by his talents, that his essays were no
longer, as in France, confined within the walls of a university. His
fame became noised abroad, and he began to publish to the world
those predictions of future events, which were remembered in later
times with awe and reverence in Italy.+ From Italy, Michael Scott,

<FOOTNOTE>Balwearie, according to Sibbald, was in possession of the family, of Scott for
at least 500 years. To the same family belonged also Scotscraig and many other
land. in the county. The family of Scott of Balwearie is said to be now represent.
ed by Scott of Ancrum.
	  Vellani, a historian who wrote long after the reputed prophet was gathered to
his fathers records a prediction of Michael Scotes, which he declares had been Agid.
ly fulfilled'; and Dante has given him, in his character of a magician, a consplau0m
Place in his Inferno.

        "Quel altro, che no fianchi e cosi poco,
	Michele Scoto fu, che veramente
	Delle magiche frode oeppe il gioco." Inferno, Canto 209&


