
702                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The offices at the manse, which were built between sixty and
seventy years ago, are at present in a ruinous state, especially the
roof, and the manse will soon require considerable repairs.  The
glebe is very small, and is most inconveniently situated at a dis-
tance from the manse; but the minister is accommodated with
suitable ground by Mr Robertson of Foveran.
   Education.-The parish school is situated in the eastern part
of the parish, and is much too small and low roofed for the accom-
modation of the large number of scholars who attend it.  There
is reason to hope that the heritors will soon pay attention to this
most important subject.  There is another school at Cultercullen,
in the western part of the parish, with an endowment of L.8, a free
house, and ground for a cow.  It is well attended.
   Poor.-The average collection at the church door is about L.60
per annum.  The number of the poor has increased greatly of late,
and their wants, from whatever cause, still more rapidly.  Nearly
L.100 are now necessary annually for their maintenance.  The
session has hitherto been enabled to meet the demand, by having
received several legacies and donations; but an application to the
heritors for assistance must very soon be made, or a small fund,
which has not been broken in upon for many a year, must be used.
   1840.

                       PARISH OF CRIMOND.

              PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                THE REV. ALEXANDER BOYD, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-The ancient name of the parish was spelt Creichmont.
It is perhaps derived from two Gaelic words signifying "moor for
cattle."
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-It contains an area of a ittle more
than nine square miles, and is situated in the district of Buchan
on the sea coast between the towns of Peterhead and Fraserburgh,
being about eight miles distant from each by the present line of
communication between these sea-ports.  Its form resembles that
of an isosceles triangle, being from three to four miles wide at the
base, and from five to six in length.  It is bounded on the north


