
162                     KINCARDINESHIRE.

Lord Arbuthnott, with a view to plantation. The hazel, alder,
and mountain-ash are probably native.
	Rent.--The average rent of arable land is about 18s. per acre.
	Rate of Labour.-- Male servants for farm work, ploughmen, earn
from L.11 to L.13; male servants for all work, L.7 to L.8;
female servants for farm work from L.5 to L.6; female ser-
vants for house work from L.4 to L.5, 1Os. per annum. Country
artisans earn about 2s. per day on an average of the year.
	Live-Stock.--Few sheep are reared. The kinds are English
and black-faced. The breed of cattle is generally the Galloway,
There are a few Ayrshire cows.
	State of Husbandry.--Agriculture is carried on with great spirit.
The five-shift or seven-shift rotation is employed according to the
nature of the soil; but the seven-shift appears to be now gene-
rally acknowledged to be the best. The use of bone-dust on the
lighter soils, as manure for turnips, to be e`ten off with sheep, has
been introduced with great advantage. Much barren land has
been brought under cultivation by Viscount Arbutbnott; and a
very considerable extent by the tenants on their several farms. Irri-
gation is unnecessary, and is unknown. Draining has been car-
ried to a great extent, and has added at once to the productive-
ness of the soil, and the salubrity of the climate. From the rapi-
dity with which the surface water is in consequence poured into
the Bervie, embankments are now become indispensable along
great part of its course, to prevent it from carrying away great
portions of the haughs, or rendering them useless by the deposi-
tion of sand and gravel.
	Leases.--The general duration of leases is nineteen years. Few
of these are held in writing. The farm buildings are in general ex-
cellent but from the difficulty and expense of procuring materials,
scarcely half the land is propely enclosed with stone dikes. Pal-
ing is used as a temporary fence, but is considered an expensive
one.
	  Produce.--Yearly produce as nearly as can be ascertained.

<TABLE>

	Grain, 6400 imperial quarters, value,   L.9600  0 0
        Potatoes, turnips, and best,              5000  0 0
        Hay,                                      4800  0 0
        Old grass,                                2400  0 0
        Garden prnduce                             100  0 0
                   				------------
					      L.21,900  0 0


