
                       CARESTON.                             529

of his near alliance to the blood royal, he was permitted to as-
surne the royal arms of Scotland, as yet appears by their em-
bossment above the mantel-piece of the chief room in the Castle
of Careston. Things continued much in the same condition
for two generations, till David, who was surnamed the Tiger
Earl, or Earl Beardie, having dared to unite in a rebellious league
with the Earls of Douglas and Ross against, the interest of
King Jarnes II.; his estate was forfeited. Still be ventured his
fortune in battle with his sovereign's lieutenant, Earl Huntly, at
Huntlawhill, in the neighbourhood of the town of Brechin.
Here he was overcome, and was so far humbled as to be con-
strained to sue to his conqueror to intercede with the King
to reverse his forfeiture, and repone bim in his estates.
Huntly undertook, and successfully accomplished, on the hard
conditions of his granting to Huntly precedence in dignity, the
sheriffship of Inverness county, and the lands of Lochaber and
Badenobh therein situated. * Very long afterwards, during, the
reign of King James VI., another Earl of Crawford fell into a
situation similar to that of his predecessor, Earl Beardie; to extri-
cate himself out of which, he had to yield a similar sacrifice to
Mongo Carneggy, Esq. the father of the before-mentioned Sir
Alexander Carneggy, and a most eminent lawyer of his day; by
the happy exercise of whose legal acumen Earl Crawford escaped
his impending danger; but at the great expense of parting with
the lands of Careston, which thus passed into the family of the
Carneggys of Balnamoon.
	About the commencement of last century, Carneggy of Bal-
namoon and Careston sold this latter estate to Sir John Stewart,
Bart. of Grandtully, who, after having been some years in

<FOOTNOTE>torously murdered John, Lord Glammis and Strathmore, at the moss of Bal-
hall, after which wicked deed he durst never appear at Court during all Robert II.'s
lifetime.
      Earl Crawford's loss of the battle of Brechin is commonly ascribed to the defec-
tion of Collace, laird of Baluamoon, who, along with his follower, gave their aid, to
Earl Huntly's men in the above contest,-Collace being provoked with Crawford for
some time before, refusing to confer on him the lands of Deuchar, then in Crawford's
power to bestow. This desertion of Collace, no doubt, had role effect in causing the
above disaster to Crawford: and was accordingly punished by Crawford's afterwards
burning all the houses on the estate of Baluamoon. But a far more fatal defection,
at the same time, took place by the desertion of the Highland part of Crawford's bost
consisting of men from the districts of Lochaber and Badenoch, who, being unwil-
ling to fight against thier countrymen amongst Lord Huntly's retainers, espous-
ed thier cause in that eventful battle. And duobtless the treachery of these. High-
landers the more readily disposed Crawford afterwards to yield up both Lochaber and
Badenoch unto Huntly, when he had so special a favour to ask at this hand, as to
become an intercessor for him with his, King James II.


