
     of Kilsyth.

"penetration and considerable learning.  Being especially
"eminent in the knowledge of the law, he was appointed.
"one of the senators of the College of Justice in 1609.  And
"having disinguished himself in that office by his assiduity
"and abilities, he was in a few years admitted to be one of
"his Majesty's Privy Council, and constituted Vice-Cham-
"berlain of Scotland.  He died about 1627."

<FOOTNOTE>

and child in her arms, were slightly injured by the lightning sitting at her
own fire, while a cat was killed at their feet.  Some women who were
bleaching clothes in the valley, narrowly escaped the rapidity of the torrent,
by climbing up a thorn tree which was hard by.  This thorn still stands
in the valley.  Many cattle were swept away, along with the houses in which
they stood.  It is said, that some of these were left alive, when the flood
subsided.  It is even said, that an infant in a cradle was carried several hun-
dred yards along the stream, and yet was found safe.
In the years 1769 and 70, when the great canal was cut through the Dulla-
tur bog, there appeared a very singular phenomenon.  Myriads of small toads,
each about the size of a nut, or small turkey bean, were seen hopping over all the
adjacent fields, to the extent of several miles square.  Ten, sometimes twen-
ty or thirty, might be collected in one square yard.  So that when you looked
along the surface of the ground, they appeared hopping like hail stones.
What was very singular, they were all going in one direction, directly
north; yet they were never seen beyond the summit of the hill; nor
any where in any quantity the ensuing spring.
It is supposed they came originally from the Dullatur bog, which is a large
and very deep morass; and in all likelihood it has once been a lake.  For at
present, it is only covered with a thin matted turf, or sward.  Under that,
there is in most places, a great body of water, though in some, of flow moss.
And near the west end of it, there is a small dry rising ground covered with
wood, which is called the ealan, or in English the island.  From all which I am,
disposed to think, that in the time of the Romans, perhaps since that period,
it was one deep extensive lake.  Yet it never sent forth at any other period in.
the memory of man, any such swarm of reptiles.  There, though innumerable,
were all of one age and size.  If it were to fend forth such a swarm annually,
the whole country would soon be overrun.

     VOL. XVIII. Q q


