
                           CUMBERNAULD.                      149

with my knowledge, is that of a few deludedmen in the village of
Condorat, who, in the year 1820, joined some disaffected charac-
ters from Glasgow, and accompanied them, upon 6th April 1820,
to Bonnymuir, about three miles west of Falkirk, where, engaging
a party of the King's troops, they were defeated and taken pri-
soners. One only was a native of the parish, and was executed
at Stirling for high treason; the others had their sentence com-
muted to transportation.
   There are some poachers; but since the change in the Excise
laws, if there be any smuggling, it is inconsiderable. A change
in the game laws seems in justice equally desirable.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.

   Rural Economy.-The parish comprehends 9145 acres, 3 roods,
and 5 falls; of this number, 6168 acres, 2 roods, and 21 falls are
arable; 2170 acres, 1 rood, and 12 falls pasture and moss; 556
acres, 3 roods, and 12 falls plantations and woods; and 250 acres
roads and waters.
   It is divided between 40 and 50 proprietors. About 20 or 25 of
them derive more than L. 50 from their respective properties. Se-
veral of them have very considerable incomes. The Right Honour-
able Lord Elphinstone is the only nobleman who possesses pro-
perty, and the Honourable Admiral Fleming the only person of
rank who has a mansion-house within the parish.
   The soil of the parish varies; but generally rests upon a stiff
retentive till, and when allowed to lied for a few years is gain co-
vered with rushes. During the last twenty years, much has been
done in the way of general improvement, by plantations, draining,
straighting, clearing of stones, weeds, &c. Tile-draining has late-
ly been tried with advantage, and still a great deal requires to be
done.
   The manner of farming generally may be stated to be the fol-
lowing: 1. oats; 2. oats; 3. green crops, potatoes, or turnips; 4.
wheat, barley, or oats, with grass seeds; 5. hay; 6. pasture, for a
less or greater number of years.
   Lime is sometimes laid on the sward. When prepared for fal-
low or green crop, five or six chalders of lime, with fifty or sixty
carts of dung, are allowed per acre. About the commencement of
the before-mentioned period, few turnips were grown, but they are
now common on every farm, and the breadth is yearly on the in-
crease, while that under potatoes has likewise been greatly enlarged.
This crop was very deficient last year, both in quantity and quality.


