                                     GLENSHEIL.               199                  199

      <TABLE>
                               Amount of population in 1801, 1801               710
                                                             1821,              768
                                                             1831,              715
     Number of families in the parish,                                          144
                       chiefly employed in agriculture,                         155               
                                         trade, manufactures, and handicraft,    15

       There are no insane, fatuous, blind, deaf, or dumb persons in the
       parish; and only 2 individuals of infirm mind.
          There is no register kept of deaths.  There is no landed proprietor,
       or other person of independent fortune, resident in the parish.
           Character of the People,&c-The male inhabitants have long
       been remarkable for the personal qualities of great size, strength,
       activity, and courage; the females, for beauty and gracefulness;
       and both sexes, for an extraordinary taste for the cultivation of poe-
       try and music. *
          The personal qualities of the people are, however, undergoing
       a change, corresponding to that which has taken place in their cir-
       cumstances and habits.  They are still indeed a taller race than'
       the inhabitants of the neigbbouring parishes; but even this only re-
       maining distinction is rapidly disappearing under the combined in-
       fluences of hard labour and scanty aliment.
          The language generally spoken is Gaelic.  Forty years ago, there
       was little English known; but that language is now, from the joint
       effect of schools and increased intercourse with strangers, rapidly                                                                                               rap y
       gaining ground; and there is scarcely an individual of the rising
       generation that does not understand and speak a little of it, the
       advantage of which is daily experienced.
         Dancing may be stated as the favourite amusement of the people,
       within doors.  Weddings are still celebrated in a style more expense
       sive than the circumstances of the parties can well afford; and dur-
       ing the winter holidays, subscription balls are occasionallyh held. The
       abominable practice of drinking to excess at funerals is now nearly
       abolished.  The club or shinty used formerly to be much played on

<FOOTNOTE>One Duncan Macrae, an inhabitant of the valley of Glensheil, in the early part,
          Of the last century, possessed these qualities in such a degree, as to entitle him to be
          regarded as a type of the distinguishing characteristics, physical and intellectual, of
          his. countrymen. A stone of immense size, which he carried to some distance in his
          arms, remains upon the farm of Achnangart, as a monument of his extraordinary
          strength.  The thieves of Lochaber often experienced his sagacity activity, and cou-
          rage, in recovering his own and his neigbbour's cattle; and several poetical coinposi.
          tions, distinguished for pathos and pious sentiment, prove that this Highland," Ca.
          thernach," in common with heroes of greater celebrity, amids the din of arms, did not
          neglect the gentler arts of peace.  he was killed, with many of the best men of his
          surname, at Sheriffinuir in 1715, but not, it is said, before he had, with his broad
          sword, done terrible execution among the ranks of the enemy; and his formidable
          weapon was long, and perhaps still is, preserved in the tower of London, and shewn At
          the " GreatHighlander's sword."


