

                          KIRKMAIDEN.                              215

church. A carrier from each of the villages of Drumore and Port-
Logan goes regularly to Stranraer, one and sometimes twice
weekly. Penny post-offices are established, at regular distances, on
the road between Stranraer and Drumore. The mail is conveyed
daily by a car, carrying also passenger, to Port-Logan, and is for-
warded by a person on foot to Drumore.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated in the centre of the
parish; but, being six miles distant from the extremities, it is incon-
veniently placed for the aged, infirm, and even the hard-working la-
bourer. The building of it was commenced in 1638, but owing, it is
said, to some dispute among the heritors, it was not completed till se-
veral years afterwards. The walls and roof are substantially good,
the seating is in a state of great disrepair; but as it accommodates on-
ly 275 sitters, its worst fault is its want of room. None of the seats are
rented. There is a small gallery occupied by the residing heritor
and his immediate dependents; the rest of the seats are apportion-
ed to the different farms. Few of the farmers, however, have
sufficient accommodation for their own families exclusive of their
servants and labourers; and there is none whatever for the inhabi-
tants of the two villages.
   The manse, having become partly ruinous and very uncomfort-
able, was taken down, and a commodious and substantial one
was built in 1837. The extent of the glebed, including garden
and site of houses, is 6 acres, and its value about L. 1, 6s. per
acre. The amount of stipend is L. 137, 13s. 6d. Sterling in
money, 5 4/5 Galloway bolls of bear, and 75 imperial stones of
oatmeal. L. 5, 7s. 8d. is received from the Exchequer, to raise it
to the minimum amount. There is no Dissenting or other chapel
in the parish. It is proposed to erect a church, somewhere be-
tween this and the neighbouring parish of Stonykirk,-to which a
parish, containng a population of 1000, may be attached.
   There are about 88 Roman Catholics, andd 28 Protestants Dis-
senters in the parish; the remaining 1935 of the population be-
long, professedly at least, to the Established Church.
   The attendance upon public worship at the Established Church
has beeb improving for a considerable time past, and would un-
doubtedly be greater were the church larger. The inhabitants
may not be a church-going people; but thie arises principally
from the want fo accommodation; few who have sittings for them-
selves have sittings for their children also. They are thus prevent-
ed from bringing them to church, and training them up to church-




