
                        EARLSTON.                              19

pers of the skin, so frequently observed among the lower orders of
society, are here exceedingly rare.
   Hydrography.-There are two rivers in the parish, the Eden
and the Leader, both of which have their source in Lammermoor,
and flow into the Tweed. And though neither of them be re-
markable for breadth or depth, or extent, yet the Leader, on ac-
count of the beauty of its banks, has been justly celebrated in Scot-
tish song. Its windings between the hills of Carol side and through
the classic grounds of Cowdenknows, till its waters at Drygrange
are lost in the principal river of the south of Scotland, form part of
a scene of uncommon beauty.
   Soil.-Considerable varieties of soil appear in the parish of Earl-
ston. The arable land is for the most part dry; it is of a loamy
rather than a sandy nature, and some of it is justly considered as
strong and rich. A proportion of barren heath is here and there
to be met with; and while in the eastern quarter there is a good
deal of marshy ground, there is a moss in the northern division
consisting of several hundreds of acres.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   Eminent Persons.-Among the eminent characters connected with
the parish both by birth and residence, a conspicuous place must
be assigned to Sir Thomas the Rhymer, to whom a considerable
portion of the lands of Ercildotin belonged. This extraordinary
man lived about the end of the thirteenth century, and though it
be not now easy to ascertain whether he himself made any preten-
sions to more than mortal knowledge, he was very soon after his
death represented by his countrymen not only as a poet but as a
prophet. The accounts which have descended to our own times
concerning the predictions he is said to have uttered respecting
many families of importances and the ruin of the grandeur of his
own family, and the union of the British nations under one monarch,
together with the popular belief of his having been carried off at
an early age to fairy land, are all particularly mentioned by Sir
Walter Scott in a poem of uncommon beauty, to be found in the
Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border.
   The succeeding biography of the parish presents no such singular
materials as those that are furnished by the history of this prophet
or poet, but it affords others far more interesting and useful in
the lives of several individuals who were distinguished not only by
rank and talent, but by worth severely tried in the furnace of afflic-
tion. Among these individuals the Right Honourable George


