
                      ABBEY ST BATHANS.                       111

able part of the grounds under cultivation, and different kinds of
grain, particularly early oats and barley, are produced, little infe-
rior in quality to those raised in the lower parts of Berwickshire.
The five break rotation of crops is generally employed, namely,
turnips, barley, grass, and oats, the grass being allowed to lie for
two years; but a crop of pease is sometimes introduced, in which
case the grass is allowed to lie for only one year.
   The chief object, however, that the skilful farmer has in view
in making use of the plough, is not so much the immediate return
from the corn that he raises, as the amelioration of the pasture for
his cattle and sheep, by sowing his fields with artificial grass seeds,
particularly rye-grass and white clover, which thrive well on all the
dry grounds that have been improved with lime, and also the pro-
curing of hay, turnips, and straw, as food and litter for his stock
during the winter. This method of husbandry enables the farmer
not only to keep a much greater quantity of stock, but also greatly
to improve the breed both of his cattle and sheep.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of grazing on out-field pas-
ture is at the rate of from 25s. to, 35s. per ox or cow, and at the
rate of about 3s. per ewe or full-grown sheep pastured for the year.
But the summer pasture of a cow, if she is grazed on sown grass,
is at least L. 3.
   The expense of furnishing a pair of horses with harness, &c. to
fit them for draught in the cart and plough, is about L. 10. The
smith work necessary to keep a plough in repair, and a pair of hors-
es properly shod, costs about L. 3.
   Price of Labour.-The wages of male servants who get their
board in the house are about L. 8 a-year; of female servants about
L. 5 for the summer half year, (field labour being then required,)
and from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2 for the winter half year. Servants who
have families and keep a house are paid in grain, have a cow grazed,
and other perquisites, which altogether amount to about L. 25
yearly. The wages of a day-labourer are about 1s. 8d. or 2s. a-day
in summer, and about 1s. 6d. in winter. In hay time and harvest
they are considerably more.
   Breeds of Live-Stock.-The breeds of sheep commonly kept on
the farms are the black-faced and the Cheviot, but chiefly the lat-
ter; and to improve the stock, the black-faced and Cheviot ewe is
often crossed with the Leicester tup.
   Improvements.-On one farm in the parish the present tenant
has, in the space of six years, improved, out of heath, upwards of




