
492			RENFREWSHIRE.

the churches of the Evangelical Dissenters.  Schools have been
erected, and a mechanics' institution house has been built.  And,
lastly, the town of Greenock, which not long ago had no share of
the representation in Parliament, has now the privilege of sending
one Member to the House of Commons.
   If we extend our retrospect to the beginning of last century,
the profress which this town has made is still more remarkable.
It was then a small fishing village; it is now a great commercial
town.  Under a kind and merciful Providence it owes its commer-
cial prosperity to its local advantages; to the liberal and enlight-
ened policy of its barons superior in former and later times ; and,
above all, to the enterprising spirit of its inhabitants.  To what
elevation it is yet destined to rise in this respect, is known only to
Him to whom all His works are known from the beginning to the
end.  The improvements which are now making on the means of
communication are so rapid and extraordinary, that no man can
presume to calculate what will be the result to the several manu-
facturing and commercial towns throughout the kingdom.  Green-
ock may decline.  Its commerce and manufactures may be injur-
ed, perhaps annihilated, by the successful competition of other
places.  Like Tyre it may one day become a place for fisher-
men to spread nets upon : or it may be bereft of its greatness
without returning to its former simplicity.  One thing is certain,
that the continuance and increase of our commercial prosperity
depend essentially on the causes which gave it birth.  The acti-
vity and enterprise of our merchants and manufacturers must, and,
we doubt not, will be stimulated and directed by the judicious ar-
rangem not, of our civic rulers on the one hand, and the fostering
care and liberal policy of the Legislature and Her Majesty's Go-
vernment, and the principal landed proprietors, on the other.
Enjoying these advantages, Greenock will, we trust, continue
to hold her place in the mighty competition, which, if it has
not already, commenced, is fast approaching, and will rise to
still higher eminence than she has yet attained.  That this may
be her lot is the earnest wish of the writer of this Account.  To
that wish he would, add his fervent prayers for better and more en-
during blessinngs.  It is a fine sentiment which is embodied in the
motto of a neighbouring city, "Let Glasgow flourish by the
preaching of the word."  Sound religious and moral principle is
the only solid foundation on which the prosperity of nations, and
cities, and families can rest.  It is the only pledge which men can


