
764                         LANARKSHIRE.

and conduct, moral and religious, the people have, for a good while
past, been steadily advancing, and have advanced, amidst all com-
plaints to the contrary, in a ratio fully equal to that of the increase
of population.  The band-loom weavers have, for some years back,
had to struggle with low wages and much discouragement.  They
have in general, however, borne their lot with great fortitude and
patience, and with far less deterioration of character than might
have been expected.  It is to be hoped, that better times will come
to reward their good conduct and perseverance.
   In regard to rural matters, no person, who is able to look back
twenty years, can travel through the parish without being struck
with the improvement that has taken place during that time, in
regard to roads, fences, houses, and a better and more spirited
style of farming.  There is still, in many things, great need of a
further advance, as will be seen from some of the preceding state-
ments.  The upper part of the parish would be greatly improved
by belts of planting for shelter, of which it is at present nearly des-
titute.  A large portion of the same district stands much in need
of draining, and especially of furrow-draining.  This improvement
has commenced in several places, and, it is to be hoped, will be
persevered in, till the whole ground in the parish is made dry and
rendered fit for a more regular rotation of crops.  In regard to
any ground, deserving of the name of soil, no expenditure gives a
speedier or surer return than the money spent on drains.  Lime
applied to wet and damp ground is, in a great measure, thrown
away.  Landlords ought to build better farm-steadings on the lar-
ger farms of the parish, as they are required.  At present, about
two-thirds of the farmers of the parish perform manual labour,
along with their servants.  Although large farms are scarcely
adapted to this part of the country, there might, by judicious ar-
rangements, be an improvement in this respect.
   The Clyde, in several places, requires embanking.  Besides
smaller evils occurring from year to year, the river about once in
every six or seven years, overflows its banks to a considerable ex-
tent, destroying the ripe grain in autumn, and in winter and spring,
carrying off the young wheats, manure, soil, and all; and some-
times depositing beds of sand or gravel on considerable portions of
good haugh land.  Something has been done on the farm of Over-
ton and elsewhere to prevent this evil; but the improvement would
require, for the farmer's security, to be carried to a much larger


