
	   		         PARISH OF KINLOSS.

   			PRESBYTERY OF FORRES, SYNOD OF MORAY.

		THE REV. WILLIAM ROBERTSON, A..M. MINISTER.

   		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name and Boundaries.-TRADITION bears, that Duff Mae Mal-
   colm, King of Scotland, having been assassinated in the Castle of
   Forres, his body was for a short time concealed under a bridge in
   this parish, and its name, as if commemorating this tragical event,
   is by the less educated classes in the surrounding districts written
   not unfrequently Kingloss.  There is every reason to disbelieve
   this legend of the twelfth century.  The name seems to be a com-
   pound of the two Celtic\f* words cean-loch, pronounced Kinloch, the
   form in which it actually appears in a charter of endowment of
   lands granted to the abbey by King William, and which accurate-
   ly points out its locality, the abbey being situated at the head of
   the bay.  The parish is bounded on the north, by the Moray
   frith; on the south, by the parishes of Rafford and Forres; on
   the west, by the river Findhorn; and on the east, by the parish of
   Alves.
      Topografihical Appearances.-In figure it is nearly square, the
   side between three and four miles in extent.  Viewed at its south-
   ern boundary, on the turnpike road leading from Aberdeen to In-
   verness, about three miles east of Forres, where the land is some-
   what elevated, it has a flat champaign appearance, offering little of a
   picturesque description, but a great deal on which the eye of the
   philanthropist may look with satisfaction.  The first object that
   attracts notice is Grangehall, with its thriving plantations.  Then
   are seen the ruins of the abbey, the church and manse of modern
   date, and Seapark House with its policies.  Fertile well cultivated,
   fields, studded with farm-houses, adapted, some of them for the ac-
   commodation of genteel families, and all neat and comfortable, ap-
   pear on every side; whilst in the back ground, Findhorn displays its

   <FOOTNOTE>Moray, the name of the county, is itself of Celtic derivation--Mur-thoobh, the
   sea coast.
							3


