
     Statistical Account

current.  The fields are level and of easy culture.  A regular sys-
tem of agriculture would soon give this district the appearance
of an almost continued series of beautiful gardens, from the one
extremity to the other.  A ride through the whole length of
this division is peculiarly delightful to a traveller, passing alter-
nately through woods and lawns, at the bottom of a long range
of mountains, presenting a bold and elevated face; anti which
by its various angles and striking projections, is ever and anoen-
tertaining the eye with varying shades of light, and new pros-
pects, on each side of the valley.-Two or three gentlemens
seats, of a snug and romantic appearance, add considerably to the
beauty of the rural scene.  The soil consists chiefly of sand,
with some mixture of loam.
   The remaining district is separated from the bishoprick by
a large tract of hilly ground of considerable extent and eleva-
tion: This too, is a valley, extending 9 miles westward, from
Invar to Amulric, and derives the name of Strath-bran from
the river Bran, which runs through its whole length, and falls
into the Tay opposite Dunkeld.  The arable fields rise from
the river towards the hills, on each side, in a gentle slope.
The country is planted thick with populous hamlets anti farms;
sustains about 1400 inhabitants, old and young, and looks
cheerful and thriving.  One of the proprietors has his residence
near the western extremity of this district, which he is begin-
ning to improve considerably both in the way of agriculture
and planting.  The soil of this country is of no mean quality,
being a mixture of reddish clay and loam.  It abounds more in
moisture than the other districts, and is very favourable to the
growth of flax.
   The hills of the parish are those already mentioned, together
with a long tract, of about 4000 acres, on the south side of
the Bran.  They are for the most part covered with heath, and
some of the eminences are rather barren; but in general, they

     3


