
	                              DUTHIL.			       129

	ing his paternal acres in the possession of others, with the excep-
	tion of Glenchernich and Belindalloch.  With these hit power
	seemed also to vanish.  For the purpose of propping his falling
	greatness, and of checking the growing power of the Grants, (be-
	tween whom and the Cummings there had been a hostile rivalship
	for many generations,) he had recourse to a no less singular than
	ludicrous expedient.  At Gibbon's door, there stood a large stone
	cistern for keeping water for the fowls.  When any applied for per-
	mission to join Gibbon's standard, if the applicant's appearance in-
	dicated, that he would be an acquisition to the clan, he was seized
	by the heels, and with ludicrous solemnity, plunged three times
	head foremost into this dirty font.  After this immersion, he was
	not only entitled to bear the name of Cumming, but enjoyed all
	the privileges peculiar to the clan.  Hence their descendants are
	called  "Cuiminich clach na'n cearc,"-the Cummings of the hen
	trough.  Independent of this ludicrous expedient, to which the
	proud chieftain resorted, he had the mortification to see his own
	power fast declining, and his rival's increasing in an inverse ratio,
	when his only daughter and heiress caused a cessation of hostilities,
	by giving her hand to the rival chieftain, Sir John Grant of Freuchy,
	naturally hoping that, at no distant period, her good-natured father
	would withhold from her neither his blessing nor his acres.
	   By this act of Gibbon's daughter, the feuds between the rival
	clans subsided so completely, that Gibbon M•r, in the year 1364,
	ceded his lordship of Glenchernich, not to his son-in-law, Sir John,
	but to his grandson, Sir Duncan Grant of Freuchy.  This transfer
	had been subsequently confirmed by a charter from King David,
	dated the same year,-and, by an instrument of sasine pro-
	ceeding on a precept from King James' chancery, for infefting
	John Grant de Freuchy (son of Sir Duncan) io the laods of Glen-
	chernich and Belindalloch with the mills, &c.  The dispensing
	clause makes  "locum de Mulquuharde, principale messuagium dic-
	tarum terrarum," and accordingly the infeftment was taken there
	the 8th April 1499.  Since that period, the parish has been the
	undisputed property of the chief of the Grants.
	   Considering the isolated situation of the parish, and the deadly
	feuds and bloody broils in which the inhabitants were too frequent-
	ly engaged io days of yore, it will excite no surprise that its an-
	nals record but few, if any, men who become eminent in the arts
	and sciences peculias to social and peaceful life.  But if we might
	recur to those days of misrule, when "might overcame right,"
	   ELGIN.			I


