
 614                           AYRSHIRE.

                         V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	The nearest town is Kilmarnock, which is distant only one mile
from the village.
	Villages.--Riccarton village contains nearly 1200 inhabitants.
There are two other villages in the parish, viz, Hurlford and Sorn-
hill. In the former, there is a population betwixt 300 and 400
chiefly connected with diffierent coal-works in the neighbourhood;
and in the latter and its neighbourhood, which is above six miles
from Riccarton, the population is nearly 100.
	Means of Communication, &c.--There are two post deliveries
from Kilmamock daily. There are three great lines of highway
traversing the parish,--one from London to Glasgow,--another
from Glasgow to Ayr and Portpatrick, which passes through the
village,--and a third from Ayr to Edinburgh, which passes through
the villages of Riccarton and Hurlford. These are kept in excel-
lent order. The parish roads are likewise in tolerably good repair.
Three stage-coaches, besides the Portpatrick mail, pass through
the village from Glasgow to Ayr, and return daily. There is be-
sides a coach which runs through the parish, and returns every day
from Edinburgh and Ayr; one which runs from Glasgow to Dum-
fries; and a public omnibus betwixt Kilmarnock and Ayr. A
private branch railway passes from, the great coal-works at Ca-
prington to the Kilmarnock and Troon railway. The great
Western Railway between London and Glasgow, now in contem-
plation, is expected to cross the parish towards its eastern extremi-
ty on the line to Kilmarnock. Should it be carried into execution,
the advantage to the parish will be incalculable.
	Bridges.--There are three principal bridges all over the Irvine,
two at the village of Riccarton, and the other at Hurlford. One
of those at Riccarton has been but lately built and only opened
last Whitsunday. It is very handsome and substantial. It has
three skewed arches, thus forming the largest bridge of the kind
in this country, if not in Scotland. The bridge itself, with the new
line of road connected with it, forms a most convenient and beauti-
ful outlet from Kilmarnock, as well as a decided improvement to
the village. The old bridge, which stands about thirty yards up
from the new one is in good condition. The other bridge is at
Hurlford. It lately underwent very extensive alterations and re-
pairs, which have rendered it very spacious and substantial. The
smaller bridges in the parish are all good order.
	Ecclesiastical States.--The parish originally was a chaplainry be-


