
220                                 KINCARDINESHIRE.

edifices, the ruins of Dunnottar Castle hold a prominent place.
They occupy an area of between four and five acres on the top
of a precipitous rock, separated by a deep chasm from the main-
land, and almost surrounded by the sea. The great tower, still
nearly entire, and the ranges of buildings adapted to the vari-
ous purposes of a garrisoned place, present, in their majestic posi-
tion and hold and varied sutline, an object at once grand and pic-
turesque. Nor is less interest derived from an examination of
the interior, where, shut in by a portcullised gateway, and secur-
ed at every assailable point by walls and ramparts, are to be seen,
suffering less from time than from the hand of the spoiler, the
halls and chambers, now roofless and deserted, which once were
animated by the pomp and circumstance of war, and all the
splendour of baronial greatness. It is stated in the last Statis-
tical Account, that there were in the custody of the late Mr Keith
of Ravelston, and doubtless there now are in the possession of his
grandniece, Lady Keith-Murray, to whom the ruins belong, some
old papers establishing that, during the contest between the parties
of Bruce and Baliol, a fortress was built on this rock by an an-
cestor of the family of Marischal, who acquired the right, on the
condition of his erecting, in a more convenient situation, a parish
church in lieu of that which formerly stood there. Another ac-
count is, that a Sir William Keith suffered excommunication for
having built the castle on consecrated grounds and that, by a bull
from Rome in 1394, his excommunication was removed, on con-
dition of his building a new church, and making recompense to
the clergy. It is certain, however, that Dunnottar Castle was in
existence long before 1394; and that it had existed even before
the contest between Bruce and Baliol, is to be inferred from the
fact mentioned by Buchanan, that when at the commencement of
that contest, Wallace had assumed the Regency, Dunnottar, "suf-
ficiently manned and fortified," was one of the fortresses then held
by the English, which were reduced by him. "By an unexpect-
ed assault (says the historian) he carried Dunnottar castle, which
be; garrisoned." This, it is believed, is the earliest historical
notice of the castle; and while it seems to establish that it was
then not a recent erection, it leaves the origin of it in obscurity,
from which, probably, it will never be extricated. There is indeed
a tradition that the great tower, in appearance the oldest of all the
buildings, was the work of the Picts. In this, there is at least no
improbability, for although dismantled, and left to all the influ-


