
                        TONGUE.                                    177

when visiting his extensive domains in the north.  Part of it is in-
habited by his Grace's factor. There are three substantial resi-
dent sheep-farmers ; a medical practitioner, whom the proprietor
encourages by giving a free house and, L. 60 annually; and a fish-
ery officer. The peasantry reside in hamlets, and when a road
passes through, the houses are arranged in a straight line on the
one side, each standing on the croft of land attached to it. 244
pay rent. There are about 116 families, besides, who are, mere
cottars, having no land, in the majority of cases without any trade,
and depending for their sustenance on a little day labour and on
the kindness of their neighbours, who often give them patches of
their own small crofts for raising a few potatoes. There are 4
carpenters, 10 masons, 8 tailors, 9 shoemakers, 3 smiths, and 1
watchmaker. There are 6 fatuous, none insane, 2 dumb, and
none who were blind from birth.
    Language.-The language of the peasantry is Gaelic; in it
they invariably converse with one another, but, owing to the influx
of persons,from the south, the influence of schools, and the, fre-
quency with which they go south in quest of labour, English is
generally understood by the young, and spoken by many of them
with considerable accuracy.
    Character of the People.-The young of both sexes are ambi-
tious to dress well, so as to make a respectable appearance - on
Sabbaths and holidays. This is a laudable feeling, though it
sometimes leads to extravagance, by inducing them to expend their
hard-won earnings in sacrificing comfort to occasional show.
When dressed in their best attire they are allowed to be a fine-look-
ing peasantry. At the late Duke of Sutherland's funeral, when
numbers from the whole county were invited to attend, and direct-
ed to line the road, arranged according to their respective parishes,
as the procession passed by, the men from Tongue attracted ge-
neral notice for their superior dress and appearance. It might
hence be expected that their comforts were also superior; but no.
They are, indeed, not worse off than their neighbours in this re-
spect. The general standard is, however, wretchedly low. No
doubt a few of them are comfortable, but the generality seldom
can rise above the commonest necessaries of life; and it is painful
to think of how some eke out a subsistence. The consequence is,
that poverty is gradually manisfesting its baneful effects upon the
intellects and morals of naturally a fine and generous people.
The taste for music, dancing, and public games, is much on the


