
                         MARKINCH.                             687

expense of their admission into a public asylum. At present, there
is one individual so maintained at Perth. In general, recovery
is by no means hopeless, when the case is not too long neglected.
  To meet these charges, the permanent funds of the parish are
very inadequate. These funds comprise church door-collections,
dues on marriages and mortcloths, and interest on money in bank
deposit. The first named class of revenue is variable, and it is to
be regretted that the younger portion of church-goers are less ex-
emplary in the Sabbath offering than their fathers. Injurious
opinions, indeed, are by some inculcated, to the effect that such
contributions, going only to exonerate the proprietors of the soil,
who are legally bound to support the poor, form an act of gratuitous
generosity on the part of the unlanded community, as if charity
were the business of a class, and not the general concern, of a
virtuous community.
  Other causes operating unfavourably on church-door collections
might be mentioned, did the nature of this report allow more than
general views. It must, moreover, be taken into the account in
stating an average, that the quoadsacra parishes, having, their own
collections, must cause a diminution at the parish church. By the
terms of their constitution, they are allowed to apply their collec-
tions for their own objects, provided they collect twice annually for
the parish funds. It is a remarkable fact, that, in one of those new
erections, that at Thornton, not a single pauper has claimed to be
relieved. Since these disjunctions took place, the average col-
lection the parish church is under L. 1. Thrice annually,
(at two sacramental occasions, and first Sabbath of the year,)
extraordinary collections are, made,  the proceeds of which
are distributed in addition to the ordinary supplies, and chiefly to,
persons not on the stated roll. Collections for objects not elec-
mosynary are also occasionally made, averaging from L. 30 to
L. 40 per annum. These include the General Assembly's
Schemes, books for Sabbath school library, &c.
  The return for mortcloths has of late years greatly declined,
the right of the kirk-session to exact a;fee being occasionally disput-
ed, and not by Dissenters alone, though it was first challenged on
thatside. The payment is undoubtedly legal, but cau rarely be en-
forced without violating the decencies due to interment of the dead.
  There is a deposit fund of L. 400 belonging to the parish, the in-
terest of which only is at the disposal of the kirk-session. A Female
Society for aged women in destitute circumstances lays out about

<FOOTNOTE>These are always liberal.


