
                    INVERCHAOLAIN.                            113

silver fir, oak, ash, and birch. There are 1000 acres of oak cop-
pice woods generally cut every twenty or twenty-one years, yielding
a handsome return to the proprietors. All the rest is hill pasture.
The only remarkable trees are two hollies of great size, the largest
near the mansion house of Southhall, the other near the farm-
steading of Inverchaolain.
   Little advancement in agriculture has been made in the parish
on the whole, and few improvements have taken place upon the lands
of the old proprietors, except in the immediate neighbourhood of
their own residences. There is no regular rotation of cropping;
two or three, and even four white crops are taken, till sometimes
it hardly returns the seed sown, notwithstanding the forcing it
with sea-weed; thus the natural grasses are destroyed, and the land
becomes covered with weeds, consequently many of the hill sides,
once cultivated and left out in this state, have become overrun with
heath. The lands in the immediate neighbourhood of the manse
do not yield, by a third or even a half, what they are said to have
done fifty years ago. There are no proper ring fences, not even
the old ones kept up which separate the hill pasture from the home
farm or arable land. The parish principally consists of sheep farms,
containing a portion of arable land, and generally let for a period
of nine years, (many of them rack-rented,) which is considered
too short. However, Mr Finlay has a few arable farms in the pa-
rish highly cultivated, drained, and subdivided, though the lands
are principally very sandy and light, a great portion of them be-
ing reclaimed from barren heath, by the late Archibald Younger,
Esq. a former proprietor. The leases on these lands extend to
nineteen years, and the farmers have comfortable houses.
   Live-Stock.-There are about 10,300 sheep in the parish, all
of them of the black-faced breed, with the exception of nearly 100
Leicester, fed on the low rounds by two of the proprietors, and
a few pets. About 150 slack ewes are wintered on the low pas-
ture, and sold, with their lambs, to the butchers in summer. There
are some very good sheep-stocks, and well attended to in every
respect. The hill pasture is generally good, and surface-draining
in some instances practised: but, upon the whole, we do not consi-
der the sheep-stocks improving of late years.  There are upwards
of 250 cows, 7 bulls, and 240 young cattle fed during the summer
months, and nearly 200 calves reared annually. They princi-


