
             SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                            135

of feals, and intended to last for a part of the year only, they way,
be mentioned as one of the obstacles to improvement.
Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is very inconveniently
situated, as before observed ; and a considerable proportion of the    '
population is distant from it about seven miles of marshy road,
and many of them impeded by arms of the sea.  The kirk is seat-
ed for 437 persons; and no free sittings allowed.
The manse was built in 1817; a very insufficient and inconve-.
nient house, so much so, that when the presbytery and beritors
met to have it declared free, an heavy fall of min having taken
place during the previous night, stepping-stones were laid along
the passages and lobby, that they might not wet their feet.  Two
years after, it received a new roof.    The ends of the joists have
twice been rotted out of the walls, and two floorings laid, since
that time. The. manse    .was finished with the very worst descrip-
tion of planted fir from the north of Scotland.     The office-bouses
have stood condemned, by the report of tradesmen, for a number
of years.
The glebe is nine merks and would rent at about L. 12.  Ster-
ling.- It is not good land; but its hill privileges are extensive and
good.   The stipend payable from the lands in the parish is
L.] 15, 9s. 6d., and from GoverDment L.42, 17s. 2d.  Sterling, in-
cluding I- 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
There are two Independent meeting-houses; to one of which
no preacher is appointed, and the other has not been opened for
some years,-the members being so very few, they meet in the
preacher's dwelling-house.  This individual has the small sum of
L. 5 per annum allowed him by the Congregational Union, and
acts as factor to one of the principal proprietors.  In the other,
worship is sometimes conducted by a regular preacher; but for
the most part, one or more of the members - divine the word,".*,
as they feel disposed. The numbers who are joined wi       tb the In-
de pendents may be stated about 40.
There is -one Methodist meetinghouse.' in which sermon is ap-
pointed to be once a inonth, but is not regularly given.  The mem.-
bers in communion with the Methodists are between 50 and 60.
Both -Independents and Methodists have not manifested the great-
est desire to promote the religious instruction of the -people of Sand-
sting,, because, instead of building their mieeting-houses in the

A favourite expression ofsome of their Members


