
238                      LANARKSHIRE.

already mentioned, was founded by Bishop Turnbull under the
authority of a bull issued by Pope Nicholas V. dated 7th January
1451. It formed a corporate body, consisting of a Chancellor, Rec-
tor, and Dean, with Doctors, Masters, Regents, and students in the
several faculties into which it was divided. One of these was known
as the paedegogium, or College of Arts. In 1459, James Lord
Hamilton bequeathed to the principal regent of that College some
buildings and several acres of land, on part of which the present
College was afterwards erected. The College of Arts was restored
and endowed by King James VI., in 1577, and its property has since
been augmented from various sources. It is governed by the meet-
ing of Faculty, or College meeting, consisting of the Principal
and the Professors who originally belonged to, or have since been
received into its body. This meeting exercises the administration
of the whole revenue and property of the College, the patronage
of eight professorships, and the presentation of the parish of Govan.
The also administer discipline, either as a body, or through a
part of their number called the Jurisdictio Ordinaria, amongst the
College students. The University is governed by the Senate, con-
sisting of the Rector, the Dean, and all the Professors, whether
belonging to the College or not. Meetings of this body are held
for the election and admission of the Chancellor and Dean of Fa-
culty; for the admission of the Vice-Chancellor and Vice-Rector;
for electing a Representative to the General Assembly; for regu-
lating and conferring degrees; for the management of the libraries;
and for all other business belonging to the University. In the
Comitia, where, besides the members of senate, all matriculated
students have a place, the Rector is elected and admitted to his
office, public disputations are heard, inaugural discourses are de-
livered, the laws of the University are promulgated, and prizes for
merit distributed annually."

			ADDENDA.
   A Jews synagogue was opened in this city in September 1823.
Mr Moses Lisneihm is their priest, Hebrew teacher, killer, inspec-
tor, marker, and sealer. It appears from a report of a Select
committee of the House of Commons in 1828, that in London the
office of priest and killer merges in the same person, and that no
Jew can use meat unless the animals are slain with a peculiar knife,
and marked with Hebrew seals. The Feast of Tabernacles, which
used to be celebrated by the Glasgow Jews in Edinburgh, is now
observed in this city.


