
                              ETTRICK.                        73

who form a part of the congregation of Ettrick and Eskdale. They
have sometimes sermon here, though they have no stated minister,
house, or place of meeting.  There are two score and ten belon-
ing to the flock of the United Associate Synod.  In all, there
may be 15 families of Dissenters.  Their general place of worship is
in Selkirk; but as the distance is so great, many of them attend the
parish church as regularly as the most of our most regular attenders.
     The parish church, it would appear, from the old records of the
parish, has been generally well frequented, though we do not know
if we might say well attended.  After the admission of Mr Bos-
ton (in 1707), there is a complaint by him on record, of the
"indecent carriage of the people at the kirk, going out and in, and
up and down the kirk-yard the time of divine service.  The clerk
was therefore appointed to go out after the first psalm in the fore-
noon and afternoon, to see if any be found about the church-yard,
&c." Afterwards, the elders were enjoined to "prevent or correct
the abuse."  But what was to be expected of a people shut up from
the whole world.  The road to their county town was little better
than the channel of the river.  They had long been destitute, too,
of all the means of improvement.  "There had been little know-
ledge of religion among theme," says Boston, "till the time of con-
fusion and persecution; so that John Anderson in Gamescleuch
told me of a time when there was not a Bible in the church, ex-
cept the minister's, his father's, and another."  There was be-
sides this, a vacancy of our years from the time Mr M'Mihan
left the parish till Mr Boston was settled among this people
as their pastor, though everv tenant had applied to his laird
again and again, to endeavour to have them supplied with a Gos-
pel minister.  The kirk of Ettrick is, however, now well attend-
ed.  When Mr Boston dispensed the sacrament for the first time
(July 16), in 1710, he says 'he had only about fifty-seven com-
municants belonging to the parish.'  When he dispensed the same
ordinance for the last time, (June 13) in 1731, the number of com-
municants was 777. *

<FOOTNOTE>Boston gives the following interesting account of the solemnity.  "The tokens distri-
buted to communicants were about 777; the collection on the three days L.77; 13s. 4d.
Scots.  There were about nine score strangers in Midghope; four score of them William
Black, husband of Isbel Biggar, entertained, having baken for them half a boll of meal for
bread, bought 4s. 10d. worth of wheat bread, and killed three lambs, and made thirty
beds.  And I believe their neighbour Isbel's brother would be much the same.  This
I record once for all, for a swatch of the hospitality of the parish; for God hath given
this people a largeness of heart, to communicate of their substance on these and other


