
486                          LANARKSHIRE.

adjoining parishes, so that the register may be supposed to present
a fair average of the deaths in the parish of Douglas.

Number of families,	                                        528
		    chiefly employed in agriculture,	         97
			in trade, manufactures, and handicraft,	212

			   IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Rent.--The valued rent of the parish is L. 3989, 3s. 6d.; the
real rent nearly L. 8450. Of this L. 3816 arises from arable land;
L. 4134 from pasture land ; and about L. 500 from minerals. The
arable land thus averaging L. 1, and the pasture land 3s. 8d. per
Scotch acre; or 15s. 10d. and 2s. 11d. per imperial acre. The
land is divided into 60 farms, averaging about L. 140 of yearly
rent; that of arable farms varying from L. 30 to L. 250, and sheep
farms from L. 100 to L. 500.
	Live-stock.--Sheep are here the principal objects of husbandry.
The pasture is excellent; and the stock, consisting almost entirely
of the black-faced short Scotch breed, is scarcely to be surpassed.
The store-masters, particularly active and intelligent, direct their
most sedulous attention to the means of maintaining the pre-emi-
nence which their stock has long held in the markets. The whole
stock of sheep in the parish is about 15,200. Great attention is
likewise paid to the dairy. The milch cows are generally of the
Ayrshire breed; about 450 in number; and the making of cheese
is here as well understood, and perhaps as successfully practised,
as in the most noted dairy districts of the neighbouring county of
Ayr. There are, besides, about 460 black cattle of other descrip-
tions. About 110 work-horses are employed in agriculture; and
the saddle and young horses may be reckoned about 80. Swine
are not kept in flocks here, as in Dumfries-shire; but they are
very generally reared for home consumption; and the total num-
ber in the parish may be about 250.
	Husbandry.-- The danger of early frosts obliges the agriculturists
of this parish to restrict themselves to oats, barley, and bigg or bear,
as their only grain crops. Of these, the produce is generally abun-
dant, and the quality good. For the last three or four years, one
farm, has sown wheat with the most encouraging success; and
others have been induced to follow his example. Thesoil is par-
ticularly adapted to potatoes and turnips, of which excellent crops
are raised. The kinds of oats in greatest estimition are the Blains-
ley and early Angus. A boll of Linlithgow measure is the quan-
tity of seed. allowed for an acre; and the produce in favourable
seasons is from eight to ten bolls. Harvest generally commences

			         4

