
                                EDNAM.                          423

Produce of grain of all kinds,                       L. 8730  0  0
          potatoes, turnips, &c.                        3045  0  0
          hay, whether meadow or cultivated             1100  0  0
          land in pasture,                              2520  0  0
                                                   ________________
     Total yearly value of raw produce raised,     L. 15,395  0  0

                          V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

     The village of Ednam, the only one in the parish, is about two
miles and a quarter from the post and market-town of Kelso.
There are two stone bridges and two wooden ones, all in an excel-
lent state of repair. Besides parish roads, there are three turn-
pike roads,--one three miles and a half in length, and the other two
more than two miles each.
     Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church, the only place of wor-
ship, is conveniently situated, being near the village, and though
not in the centre of the parish, not more than two miles from any
house therein.  It was built in the year 1800, is in good repair, and
affords accommodation for about 260 persons.  No seat-rents are
levied.  The manse, an excellent house, was built in 1833-4.  The
glebe consists of five Scotch acres, and is let for L. 13 per annum.
The stipend is paid in money, and, together with the allowance for
communion elements, amounts to L. 158, 6s. 8d.; L. 111, 2s. 2d.
being payable from the land, and L. 47, 4s. 6d. received from the
Exchequer.
     According to the census taken in 1838, the number of families
belonging to the Established Church was 44, the number of Dis-
senting families 42, and the number, in which some of the mem-
bers attended the Established Church, and some went to dissent-
ing places of worship, 32.  Three hundred and forty-five persons
of all ages were connected with the Establishment, 240 were Dis-
senters, and there were 6 Episcopalians.  There is no reason to
believe, that since the date of the census referred to, any material
alteration has taken place in this parish, either in the amount of
population, or in the relative proportion of persons connected with
the Establishment, and Dissenters.  As has already been stated,
the inhabitants of this parish, of all denominations, are, with not
very many exceptions, attentive to the ordinances of religion.  The
average number of communicants in the parish church is about
160.  There are no Societies for religious purposes; the average
amount of church collections yearly for such purposes is about L. 6.
     Education.--The parish school is the only one, and no other
is required.  The branches of education taught in it are, reading
of English and English grammar, writing, arithmetic, mathematics,



