
                            DORNOCH.                             7

there are not a few, contribute to the increase of the population.
There is one instance of a marriage in which both parties were
married for the fourth time.

<TABLE>

1. Number of families in the parish,                                          644
                       chiefly employed in agriculture                        598
                                       in trade, manufactures, and handicraft, 41
2. The average number of marriages, for 7 years,                               21 1/7
                         births, for the same period,                          82 5/7
   of the whole number of births during the 7 years, 300 were males, and 279 females.
        average number of deaths, for 7 years,                                 44 1/7

   There is 1 person insane in the parish; 3 fatuous; 3 blind,-2
of them by small-pox; and 1 dumb.
   Language, Habits, &c. of the People.- The vernacular language
is still the Gaelic; from which also almost all the names of places
are manifestly derived. In that language, baile signifies a town.
Hence Tor-baile, Kerr-baile, Eun-baile, Skia-baile, compounded
of that word and others, signinifying repectively mount, rock, fowl,
wing; and these names indicate the figure, situation, or other cir-
cumstances of the places to which they are applied. Some places
in the vicinity of the cathedral have been denominated from the
offices of those who formerly held them; as Crot'n Espig, Au-
chintreasurich, Auchinchanter, signifying the Bishop's, Treasurer's,
and Chanter's fields. This language has, however, lost ground
considerably during the last twenty-five years, owing to the influx
into the parish, from various parts of the kingdom, of persons who
speak the English Ianguage, but especially to the introduction of
schools, first Gaelic and then English, into every district of the parish.
The predilection for the Gaelic language is, however, still manifest,
from the well-known facts, that the comnion people prefer to use
it in their ordinary intercourse, and that larger congregations at-
tend public worship during the Gaelic services than during the
English. Nevertheless, the English is making rapid encroach-
ments on our ancient languagd; and it is not improbable that,
in the course of sixty or seventy years, the latter may be ex-
tinct.
   The habits of the people in regard to cleanliness have improved
considerably. Instead of their feal-houses, in which it was scarcely
possible to maintain cleanliness, they have now generally neat cot-
tages, built of stone and clay, and harled with lime, having chim-
nies, instead of the fire-place being in the middle of the house, as
formerly,-there being then no outlet for smoke except by the
door, or a hole in the roof.
   A great improvement has also taken place in their dress, parti-


