
                            RERRICK.                        361

Ramsay M'Culloch, Esq., the most distinguished political Econo-
mist and Statist of the day. From this point to the base of Bengairn,
the surface of the parish is of a wild and upland description, the
greater part of it belonging to Mr Murray of Broughton. This
seems enonugah in the way of a general description and survey of
the parish.
	Mineralogy.--There is much in the parish of Rerrick deserving
the attention of the mineralogist and natural philosopher. The
range of hills, of which Bengairn is the summit, affords fine ex-
amples of the granite formation, while the coast everywhere
abounds with freestone of excellent quality, which has of late been
much in request for building purposes. Upon the shore, in the
immediate vicinity of Portmaary, there is a remarkable natural
arch of Barytes or Terra Ponderosa, which, from its resemblance
to a person in a state of suspension, has long borne the name of
the Hangit Man. Some of the highest headlands in the parish, and
partictilarly those in the vicinity of the White and Black Coves of Bar
locco, are composed of puddingstone, resting upon extensive beds
of very hard freestone. In the Coves fine specimens may be occa-
sionally obtained of jasper which takes a high polish, and rock-
crystals of a pale purple colour and of the most perfect prismatic
forms, abound in a small stream upon the hill of Screel, within the
estate of Colonel Maxwell of Orchardton.
	In the lands of Auchenleek, in the eastern district of the pa-
rish, formerly belonging to Lord Macartney, and now the pro-
perty of Mr Henry, an iron mine has been opened under the ma-
nagement of an English company. From fifty to seventy tons of
ore of superior quality are obtained weekly, and it is sent chiefly
to Birmingham and the neighbourhood. A mine of copper ore
has also for some time been wrought in the Island of Heston, at
the mouth of the Bay of Auchencairn. It is at present let on
lease to an English tenant, and the ore is shipped to Swansea.
	Ports.--The facilities for shipping produce from Rerrick are-
considerable; and three places on the coast have been declared
free ports,--Balcarry, on Auchenncairn Bay, Burnfoot, at the
point where the Abbey burn enters the Solway and Mulloch
Bay, at the south-western extremity of the parish. The first of
these is safe and commodious by nature, and the other two parts
might be made so at a very inconsiderable expense.


