
                    PARISH OF DRUMOAK.                                 872

        PRESBYTERY OF ABERDEEN, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

              THE REV. ADAM CORBET, MINISTER.

             I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THIS parish has two names, Dalmaik and Drumoak,
both of which have been written differently at different periods.
The first is the name generally given to it by the people in the
parish and neighbourhood, and seems, indeed, to be the most an-
cient, for, so early as the year 1157, there is mentioned in a bull
of Pope Adrian IV. " Ecclesiam de Dulmayok," * whereas the
latter name, Drumoak, has not been observed in any writing ear-
lie than 1407, at which date, a charter granted by Bishop Gilbert
is subscribed, " Alexr. de Kynloch, prebendariu de Drumaok."+
After that period, both names seem to have been used indiscrimi-
nately, so that in 1541, the copies of a charter, and the precept
of sasine on it, are signed " Robertus Lockhart de Dulmaok,"+ and,
in 1543, a charter of obligation by the vicars of the choir is signed
by the same individual, " Robertus Lockhart de Drumaok."
   Drumoak, which thus appears to be the more modern name of
the parish, is derived from the Gaelic word Drum, the ridge of a
hill and Moloch (Molochus), contracted into Moak, the name of
a celebrated saint, in honour of whom a monastery was erected in
St Servanus's Isle, on the water of Leven, which gave its name
to the parish of Portmoak, so that the word Drumoak signifies the
hill of St Moloch, a name which is very applicable to the parish.

<FOOTNOTE>Chartulary of the See of Aberdeen, fo. 43.
     Regist. Capellanorum,  fo. 66.     Ibid. p. 100.
     Necrol. fo. 22.
   The writer begs to acknowledge his obligations to the Rev. A. Taylor, minister
Of Leochel-Cushny, for the kind assistance which he rendered him while librarian
of King's College, in fixing the etymology of the name of the parish, by furnishing
him with extracts from the Chartularies of the See of Aberdeen, which are preserved
in that library.
     The gradual change of the original name of this monastery into that which it
now bears,-a change corresponding exactly with that which has taken place on the
name of this parish,-distinctly shown by the variations in tis orthography, as found
in several acts of Parliament ;-thus, in an act of date 1469, it is Portmollok ; in
1471, it is Portmowok ; and in 1567-8, it is Portmook.


