
     of Kells.

der.  There are eleven stone bridges, and which are
kept in good repair.  One of them, of two arches, over
the large burn of Paharrow, is the private donation of one
Quintin Maclurg, a tailor, who lived in that neighbour-
hood about 60 years ago.  Being often in fear and danger
of his life, in passing and repassing this burn, to serve his
customers, he resolved that no one after him should be in
such jeopardy again, and erected this bridge out of the earn-
ings of his trade, which was never more than 4 d. a-day.
His name still remains engraven on a large stone on the top
of the bridge, as a testimony of his public spirit.-There
are only 2 inns in New Galloway, where entertainment can
be had for men and horses.  There are 7 smaller ale-houses
in the town, and 3 in the country parish; but as these can-
not afford to pay the license, they fell only prosessedly in
time of fairs.  Formerly there were double that number;
but of late years, the law has been so rigorously executed,
and heavy fines imposed on such as sell without license,
that many of them have given up selling; and happy for
the country that it is so, as cheap whisky has now found
its way here.-Within these 10 years, 7 houses have been
built and rebuilt in the town of New Galloway, 3 of which
are 2 stories high; besides 1 built for a tannery, lately set
up there, and now carried on to a great extent.  In the
country part of the parish there are 4 houses built, and 3 re-
built, 4 of which are 2 stories high, and elegantly fitted out.
A better taste for neatness and elegance is getting into this
country, and which always bears some proportion to the spi-
rit of industry.  Gentlemen are not only building more ele-
gant houses for themselves, but are also giving better and
more convenient houses to their tenants.  So many new
houses are no proof of the increase of population; on the
contrary, the farmers meet with greater encouragement
from the landlords, in accumulating several farms into one;


