

368                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

dition, or in the old records, where the name frequently occur. It
is written Halstaneadene., Halstenden, Halstansdene, and Hasta-
neden, from which, perhaps, it changed into Hassingden, and Has-
sendean, as softer to the ear.  It may either signify the dean of
the holy stone,-a supposition which is strengthened from its con-
taining a place of religious worship from, a remote period, or it
may simply mean Halstein's, or Hastein's dean, these being com-
mon Scandinavian names, and the appellation might be taken from
some person of distinction who resided there, or to whom it be-
longed.  So far back as the twelfth century the lands of Hassen-
dean were granted by David I. to Walter, * the son of Alan; and
by a charter of Robert the Bruce, they were confirmed to Sir
James de Conyngham, and held by a tenure of feudal and mili-
tary service, with the payment of L. II Sterling, in two equal parts,
at the terms of Whitsunday and Martinmas.  There is another
charter dated 1409, confirming a grant by his kinsman, William de
Conyngham to John Turnbull, son of Adam Turnbull of White-
hope of the lands of Hassendean-Bank.  From Satchell we learn
that David Scott, about 1446, was the first of that name designed
of Hassendean, and was the eldest son of Sir William Scott of
Kirkurd, who exchanged the lands of Murdiston for those of
Branxholme.  It is to this old branch of the Scotts that Satchell
alludes in the lines,-

                    "Hassendean came without a call,
                    The ancientest house of them all."

We learn, however, from, an entry in the Criminal Trials published
by Pitcairn, that there was in 1493 a Walter Talzour Baro de
Hassindene; for in that year he was peinnitted to compound for
intercommuning with the English, the Laird of Buccleuch being
his surety.  A Sir Alexander Scott of HasseDdean was killed at
the battle of Flodden in 1513.  Among the border barons who in
1530 neglected to fulfil their bonds, there was a William Scott of
Hassendean, who is again mentioned in 1539, as having beem
robbed by Thomas Turnbull of Rawflat of some important legal
documents; while, farther, in 1564, the Criminal Trials record the
slaughter of a David Scott, laird at Hassendean, by William Elliot
of Horsliehill.  It does not seem to be ascertained at what period
the male line of this family failed, though it may perhaps have
been at the death of the said David Scott; but in the appendix to

<FOOTNOTE>See Ayloffe's Catalogue, and the Rotuli Scotiae.


