
	582                          PERTHSHIRE.

	Sir Walter Scott laid the commencement of the chase in the Lady
         of the Lake. The ptarmigan, and the alpine or white hare are found
         in a few of the higher hills. The moor-fowl and black-cock are
         abundant on most of the estates. The goats that formerly were
	abundant in this parish, as well as the hill horses, have now almost
	disappeared.
	    In the rivers the salmon appears in June or July, and spawns in
         October or November. The sea-trout generally appears in July
	or August in the Ruchill only, it being remarked that they are
	scarcely ever found in the Earn above its junction with the Ruchill,
	although it is the larger stream, while they go up to within a mile of
         the source of the Ruchill. Trout of good quality are found in the
	lake and river Earn; perch also occur rarely.  Abundance of small
	trout are found in the Lednock, and in the Boltachan, a hill loch
	above Dunira.  In Loch Earn, char of excellent quality is found;
	but, from ignorance of its habits, the fishery has never been pro-
	secuted, although from the demand for that fish in the English
	markets, a reasonable prospect of success might be anticipated.
	   Woods.-There are extensive natural woods of oak, ash, birch,
	alder, and hazel, and a large revenue is derived by the proprietors
         from the annual cuttings of oak-coppice. The soil is peculiarly
         adapted for oak and ash. There are several natural grown oaks
         at Aberuchill, about 15 feet in circumference. The trunk of an
	ash at Wester Fenglen, on the estate of Ardvorlich, is 17 feet 9
         inches in circumference. Firs of different kinds with larch have
         been extensively planted, and have thriven well. Where the soil is
         dry, rocky, and sloping, the larch thrives best. The Scotch fir
	grows best where the soil is dry, and barren, with a mixture of peat.
	When the subsoil is moist and tilly, the spruce and silver fir thrive
	Well.
				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

            There are, in several places, remains of Druidical temples, and
	large upright stones.  Tradition reports that Dundurn was a
	preaching station of Fillan, the Culdee Saint, and at Dun Fillan,
	the hill overhanging the old church of Dundurn, is a holy well
	at which many Popish superstitions were practised, even so lately
         as at the date of the last Statistical Account. These happily are
	now abandoned. Fifty years ago, there were very distinct remains
         of two Roman camps at Dalginross. The larger camp is now
         obliterated by the plough. This station seems to have been con-
	nected with those at Ardoch and Strageath, and a Roman road
					3


