
     of Forfar.

   About 1745 the common rent of an acre of burgh land was
L. 10 Scotch, including 40 d. for ministers stipend.  An acre of
the same land is now often let at from 50 s to L. 3 per annum:
Several of them near the town bring more than twice as much,
and the whole of them have been lately found by a deerect

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

About the same period, a leg of good beef weighing 4 stone might have
been purchased for 5 s.; a leg tolerable veal for 5 d. the hughest for 1 s. and
some to low as 2 d 1/2; mutton from 8 d. to 1 s. per leg, a smaller sort from the
Olan plans, but of excellent flavour, from 4 d. to 5 d. per leg.  Previous to 1745
there was no meat sold in Forfar by weight, and very seldom was an ox killed
till the greater part of the carease had been bespoken.-A little before that
two work oxen, weighing about 30 stone each, were sold in one of the Forfar
for 50 merks Scots the head; and both the size of the cattle and the
price of them were thought a wonder.
An ox, worth at that time about 40 s supplied the flesh-market of Forfar
eight days or a Fortnight, except on extraordinary occasions, from Christmass
to Lammas.  Between Hallowmass and Christmass, when the people laid in
the winter provisions, about 24 were killed in a week; the best not
exceeding 16 or 20 stone.  A man who had bought a shillings worth of beef
or an ounce of tea, would have cancealed it from his neighbours like murder.
Eggs were bought for 1 d. per dozen, butter from 3 d. to 4 d. per lb. and a good
hen was thought high at a great.
The gradual advancement of population, trade, and agricultural improve-
ment, has produced the gradual risk in the price and consumption of all those
articles, which within these list twenty years are some of them doubled, and many
of them trebled, oat meal too has, but not in the same proportion with
most other articles.  And there are few artificers who cannot well afford to
treat themselves and their families frequently with meat and wheaten bread,
considerable quantities of both being confirmed by them.  At an average,
these is not less than L. 50 worth of meat sold in the fresh market of Forfar
every week throughout the year.-Good meat brings from 3 d. to 4 d. and some-
times 5 d per lb. and can seldom be purchased in quatities, even at the cheap-
est periods, for less than 4 per stone.  Eggs which ten years ago sold at 2 d.
per dozen are now even to 4 d and sometimes.  Hens are from 10 d. to 1 s.
Butter from 8 d. to 10 d. 1/2 per pound of 24 ounces English-and other ar-
ticles in proportion.  Though this bears has 1 upon annutants, yet it is u-
niversally allowed that labouring people purchase more of these articles now,
and we better able to do it, then when, methods were changes.

</UNREADABLE>


