
BURNTISLAND.                                      413

Parochial Registers.-The session records commence at March
They consist of eight volumes, and have for the most part
1602.
beenregularly kept. Blanks occur from 1670 to 1672; from
1686 to 1693; from 1711 to 1719; and from 174$ to 1769.
From 1786 there is a series of fragments on to 1821; after which
periodl the record has been regularly kept. The register of
births, baptisms, and marriages commences at 1672, and is con-
tinued more or less perfectly to the present time. As in the
session records, there are some considerable blanks. At va-
rious periods, a record of deaths has been kept, but it is very
scanty.
Antiquities.-The town was at one time fortified. On the south-
east side of the harbour, part of the walls of a fort is still standing;
and till within a few years back, traces of the ancient fortification
were discernible on the small eminence in the north side of the
town. At Lamberlaws, ona knoll projecting into the sea, are the
traces of anencampment ascribed to Cromwell ; in COllsequence
of which, thename of Oliver's knoll has sometimes been given to
the locality.In the same situation, there'appears to have stood
at one time a gallows for the execution of criminals under thefeu-
dal system. In allusion to this circumstance, the locality is some-
times called Gallows Knoll.
On an eminence overhanging the harbour stands Rosselld Cas-
tle, erected, it would seern, at some period in the fifteenth century,
by Dury of that Ilk. Sibbald, in his History of Fife, states, that
in the chartulary of Dunfermling, (to which abbacy this town,
castle, and harbour belonged,) there is a grant by George Durie,

<FOOTNOTE>Since 1616, there appear to have been sixteen ministers of the parish, the aver-
age duration of their ministry being nearly fourteen years. One of them, 11 Mr
Harie Malcoine," officiated 011ly one Sabbath as minister. The record, after giving
an account of his admission on June 17th 1663, has the following entry Sunday
the 21 of June, our minister, Mr Raie Malcome, preached before and after noone,
&c. He went awave on Monday in the morning yrafter to his father's, and came
never back againe t; us, for his f.1her presentlie dieing where he was there he stayed
and sucsidet to his father's church."

          Some of the entries are of a striking character Jan. 1737, perished in a
storm ne Andrew Watt, late Prov 't of this buTgb, and with him in the
ship also perished his eldest son Andrew, his second son, William, his fourth son,
David. Also perished with them Andrew Boog, son to George Boog, late Bailie
in this burgh. Also perished with them James Sinclair, mariner in this town, also
other four youths."--, 1739, May I Oth, being Thursday about three o'clock in the
morning, perished in the water within the harbour. ( the sea being in) within twenty
or thirty vards of the Iron-crag towards the south-west of it, John Aitken, David
Laverok; andGourlie, all belonging to Kingborn, their fathers still living
there, and AndrewThomson, carpenter, at present living here (1) All four young
men, below thirtyyears of age the eldest. An awful Providence!"


