
                           DURRIS.                            171

strength; and near the top of one of the hills, there is a medici-
nal spring called Red-Beard's Well, from an old tradition, that a
certain freebooter called Red-Beard, lived in a cave near this well,
in the times of black mail. This water has never been analyzed;
but it is said to contain neutral salts, and in many of its proper-
ties to resemble the Harrowgate water. It is difficult to obtain
the water in a pure state, the spring being surrounded with reeds
and decayed vegetable matter, and rills of water often falling in-
to it.
	Mineralogy.--Throughout the whole extent of the parish, there
are immense masses of stone (gneiss;) but Cairnmonearn and
some of the other hills afford the finest granite and whinstone.
The quantity of both appears to be inexhaustible. From the
sides of these hills the naked rocks often show themselves; but
they are generally covered with two or three feet of moss and
heath; and in the hollows at the foot of the hills, the depth of moss
is very considerable, affording peats and fuel of the best descrip-
tion. The soil in the lover ground is, in general, a loam, very
fertile with good management; but clay and gravelly soils are like-
wise found. In most of the varieties of soil under cultivation, the
enormous masses of stone (gneiss) would attract the notice of a
stranger; and would deter an agriculturist from settling here, who
had been accustomed to the smooth fields of the southern counties.
But custom has brought both men and horses to plough round
these rocks, with the greatest ease; and it is generally observed,
that the soil is superior where these rocks abound most. There
are here several large plantations of Scotch fir and larch in a
thriving state, where the subsoil is not retentive of water; and
hard-wood, such as beech, ash, and elm, grow well where the soil
is congenial.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The estate of Durris comprehends this whole parish, and a con-
siderable part of the adjoining parish of Banchory Ternan. This
large property has passed from several owners, in the course of a
few years. It formerly belonged to Lord Peterborough; afterwards
the whole estate was held in lease from him, by the late John Innes,
Esq. of Leuchars, near Elgin. On the reduction of this lease by the
Supreme Court, the estate came into possession of the late Duke of
Gordon in 1824, as next heir of entail; and under authority of
an act of Parliament, tranrfdrring the entail to other lands, the
estate was purchased from the Duke of Gordon last year, by An-


