
                            GOVAN.                        707

Wilkie was one of the commissioners appointed by the General
Assembly in 1642, to visit the College of Glasgow, when, among
other things, the commissioners ordained, that the Greek text of
Aristotle should be analysed viva voce, and thereafter the sense of
the text written ; that the disputation of the students should con-
tinue in their classes, and in the public schools ; that the students
in private should speak Latin, that they should be exercised in law-
ful games, such as golf, archery, and the like, and abstain from all
games that are unlawful, as carding, dicing, and such others as are

prohibited by their laws; and that every master should educate
his own students through all the four classes. * The synod de-
posed Wilkie on the 29th of April 1649.  He was accused and
convicted of not preaching against Hamilton's engagement, of as-
sociating with malignants, and of being remiss in the exercise of
discipline. +  Principal Baillie, who presided at the first presby-
terial visitation for investigating the charges which were brought
against him, thought he was treated with undue severity. ++  7. Mr
Hugh Binning. & Mr David Veitch. Being a protester, he could
not obtain license from the presbytery of St Andrews.  He there-
fore presented himself for the purpose of being licensed by them
to the presbytery of Biggar, to whom the famous Samuel Ruther-
ford gave this strong testimonial respecting him, that " the like
of Mr Veitch in his age for great learning and piety, be had never
known."  The heritors and elders of Govan elected him to be their
minister, on the 14th of May 1654. S  It was the intention of Mr
James Durham, minister of the Inner High Church of Glasgow,
to nominate him to be his successor, with the permission of the
Town-Council.  Being reminded ofthis on his deathbed, he said,
" Mr David Veitch is too ripe for heaven to be translated to any
church on earth.  He will be there almost as soon as I."  His words
proved prophetic.  Mr Veitch preached to his parishioners, and took
a solemn leave of them, on the Sabbath immediately after his pious
friend's death, and expired on the following Friday.  He was but
twenty-seven years old when he terminated bis earthly career.
Wodrow represents him to have been an admirable scholar, and a
man of great piety.  He likewise say, that he was amost laborious

<FOOTNOTE>Regist. of Gen. Ass. spud Evid. of Royal Com. Univ. of Glasg. Vol. ii. pp.
258, 260.
          Glasg. Pres. Rec.             Letters, Vol. ii. p. 338.
          Govan Session Records.
          Mem. of Veitch and Brysson, edited by Dr M'Crie, pp. 14, 17.


