
     Statistical Account

   Means by which their Condition could be meliorated.-If the
British Society for improving and extending the fisheries, or

<FOOTNOTE>

and meanly furnished.  But, as they have little acquaintance with any better
condition, so long as they can make a stretch to pay their rent and their debts,
they appear contented with their own.  Their moral character is, in general,
good, if we except only a few vices and failings, to which their straitened si-
tuation exposes them They are honest and industrious, faithful to their ma-
ster or landlord, and attached to their King and Country.  As to religion,
the greater part of them appear serious and devout, and regularly attend on
public worship and ordinances.  In most parishes here, it is not uncommon
for several thousands of people to assemble, from all corners of the country,
on a sacramental occasion
   Marriages, in this place, are generally conducted in the stile of penny
weddings.  Little other fare is provided, except bread, ale, and whiskey.  The
relatives, who assemble in the morning, are entertained with a dram and a
drink gratis.  But, after the ceremony is performed, every man pays for his
drink.  The neighbours then convene In great numbers.  A fiddler or two,
with perhaps a boy to scrape on an old violincello are engaged.  A barn is
alloted for the dancing; and the house for drinking.  And thus, they make
merry for two or three days, till Saturday night.  On Sabbath, after return-
ing from church, the married couple give a sort of dinner or entertainment
to the present friends on both sides.  So that those weddings on the whole,
bring little gain or loss to the parties.
   As superstitious prejudices begin to wear out, the practice of inoculation
for the small pox gains ground considerably here; though it is not so, success-
ful as in other parrs, owing to many of the patents not following the surgeon's
prescriptions; and giving ardent spirits to their children, even during the
height of the disease.
   At common funerals, in this district, the corpse is preceded by the paris
officer tolling hand bell.  The pall or mort-cloth is of plain black velvet,
without any decoration, except a fringe.  An immence crowd of both foxes at-
tend.  And the lamentation, of the women, in some cases, on feeling a belov-
ed relative put into the grave, would almost pierce a heart of stone.
   The inhabitants of Seatown live more comfortably than of the country:
And they begin now to build neat commodious houses, which cost above 20 L.
Sterling, each.  Among the fishers, it usual for both sexes to marry at, or un-
der 20 years of age.  And of several of their families; there are four gene-


