
                      CUMBERNAULD.                         153

the ministers have dwelling-houses, and both congregations are
made up from all the surrounding parishes.
  Of the 700 families composing the population of the parish,
about 180 belong to the Secession, and there are 5 or 6 Irish fa-
milies, supposed to be of the Roman Catholic faith. In these 700
families, the annexation is not included.
  Education.--The parish school is situated in the village of
Cumbernauld, and is attended generally by from 80 to 90 scholars.
The salary is the minimum.  The dwelling-house has two rooms
and kitchen. The garden falls short of the legal quantity by six
falls, for which the heritors allow is. per fall, or 6s.
   The school in the village of Condorat, two and a-half miles west
of the church, is attended by from 60 to 70 scholars. Here, there
is a very good school-house, and a dwelling-house for the master
of two rooms and closet, built three or four years ago by public
subscription. Another school at Garbethill, three miles east from
the church, has about 20 scholars. Each of the teachers of these
two schools has an allowance from the heritors, during pleasure,
of a sum of about L.4, 8s. annually, which small sum has been
sometimes withheld.  Another school in the village of Cumber-
nauld is upon the teacher's own adventure. The fees are the same
as in the other schools.
   Few persons between six and fifteen years of age are unable to
read the Bible, and the numbers of those above that age still few-
er, though, from the change in their circumstances, occasioned by
the decline in the cotton trade, there is neither the anxiety nor
the ability for giving children the education which was evinced by
parents some years ago, when they were in easier circumstances.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of poor up-
on the roll is about 25. The average weekly allowance is about
Is. 3 1/2d. with occasional relief both to those who are upon the roll,
and to others who are not upon it. For meeting this expenditure,
there are the weekly collections at the church door, averaging
about L.50 per annum ; the letting out of mortcloths, about
L. 7 per annum; and proclamation fees, with occasional donations
from non-residing heritors. There never has been a legal assess-
ment. Voluntary contributions and extraordinary collections have
hitherto been the means resorted to for meeting any deficiencies.
But as legal assessments seem desirable to some influential heri-
tors, it is probable they way ere long be had recourse to in pre-
ference to the old way of raising funds for supporting the poor.


