
     Statistical Account

upon a small water or burn, the bed or run of which greatly
abounds in dones of various sizes, as there are a great many
freestone quarries along its banks.  When this water is
flooded, such is the immense force and rapidity of the 
stream, that it sweeps along, and throws out upon the low
grounds, stones of a great weight and size.  In October
1775 this water was prodigiously flooded, overflowed all its
banks, and had it not cut out a new run for itself, the whole
village would have been insallibly swept away by this
sudden inundation.  The depth of the water in some 
houses of the village was upwards of 3 feet.  The united
parishes of Garvald and Baro extend from E. to W. about
8 or 9 miles, and from N. to S. about 4 or 5.  Their fi-
gure is irregular. being intersected by several of the adja-
cent parishes.  The air is extremely pure and healthful.
Having at all times a free and full circulation, its salubrity
is seldom injured by noxious vapours.  The inhabitants are
of a robust and healthy constitution, and generally enjoy
the blessings of life to a remote old age.  There died lately
in this parish a man upwards of 90, and there are living in,
it just now a number of persons on the borders of 80, who
support the fatigues of their respective employments with
a considerable degree of strength and activity.  No epide-
mical distempers are peculiar to the inhabitants; colds,
fevers, of different kinds, and the small-pox, sometimes
prevail here*.  The grounds that lie in the S. and N. of 
these parishes, exhibit so different an appearance, that they
are a striking  contrast to each other.  The grounds that lie

<FOOTNOTE>

*Inoculation for the small-pox bath been introduced, but the com-
mon people are not quite reconciled to it. However a great many of
this class do now inoculate their children, as inoculation bath been
practised with great success in this country; few having died that were
inoculated.  Formerly this distemper proved fatal to a vast number of 
young people.


