
                BROUGHTON, GLENHOLM, AND KILBUCHO.                83

peat is of excellent quality.  Large trunks of oaks and other trees,
in good preservation, have been found imbedded in the mosses.
   Zoology.--Birds.--A single pair, resembling the Saxicola rube-
tra or whin-chat, come regularly every season and build their nest
on the ground, close by the side of the road leading to the manse.
They usually bring seven young ones, and when these are able
to fly, they all take their departure hence.  It may in general be
said that we have as residents or occasional visitants some species
of the following genera :--Motacilla, Hirundo, Cuculus, Columba,
Rallus, Alauda, Caprimulgus, Turdus, Corvus, Scolopax, Anas,
Emberiza, Parus, and Fringilla.
   The only sleeper we know is the bat.  All birds that feed ex-
clusively on insects must either in winter repair to milder climates,
or betake themselves to repose.
   The birds of passage that visit us in winter are the fieldfare,
the red-wing, the snow-flake, and the cock of the north, to which
we may join the ring-ouzel, that stays only till the fruit of the
mountain ash is exhausted.
   The water-ouzel, which feeds on fish, remains with us all the
year round.  The opinion, that the male chaffinches leave this
district in winter, seems to originate in a mistake.  The young
males have for the first season no gayer plumage than the females,
and, consequently, during the winter the number of females ap-
pears to be altogether out of proportion to that of the males.
   Wild-swans, wild-geese, and sea-mews are not so plentiful as
formerly, owing to the same cause which has banished the wild-
ducks, viz. the draining of the bogs and cultivation of the meadows.
The snipes, for a similar reason, are less frequent than formerly.
Magpies are natives ;  but the jay is seldom to be seen within our
bounds.
   Wood-pigeons are enemies to turnips, especially the ruta baga.
In severe winters they collect in thousands, and eat up not only
the leaves, but penetrate into the very heart of the plant.  Green
kail and cabbage, if planted at a distance from houses, are equally
liable to their depredations.  Pheasants, as well as crows, are pe-
culiarly hurtful to potato crops :  but a species of potato has been dis-
covered that bids defiance to their ingenuity.  It may be planted so
deep as to be out of the reach of their mining bills, and yet springs
up as well as those planted much nearer the surface.  The jay
and the bullfinch are particularly obnoxious to gardeners.  It is
uncertain, however, whether the latter are in search of insects that



