
88                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

    Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving-parochial aid is about 101 ; and the average sum allotted
to each per year is from 2s. to 5s. Thi5 annual amount of con-
trib utions for their relief is about L. 2 t ; of which about L. 16, 13s.
are collected at the church doors, and L. 5 are the interest of
L. 100 left as a legacy to the poor. There is no other regular
mode of procuring funds for the poor, except by fines imposed
upon persons proved guilty of adultery, fornication, &c.; part of
which goes to pay the session-clerk and the beadle; and in the
most clamant cases of distress, the heritors have always resisted
an assessment, which cannot be enforced without law expenses.
There is a strong disposition among the poor to refrain from
seeking parochial relief, which they consider as in the lowest de-
gree degrading.
   There is no prison in the parish; nor is there any fair held there.
The number of tippling-houses, particularly about Ullapool, is con-
siderable; and their effects on the morals of the people, perni-
cious.
   Fuel.- The fuel chieflv used is peat, procured from mosses, which
in many places are nearly exhausted, or so far removed from the
townships, that, if the labour of providing it could be converted
into money, at any reasonable rate, it would be much cheaper to
burn the best of Newcastle coal than the worst of Loebbroom peat.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

The difference betwixt the present state of the parish, and that
-which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account, in regard
to the implements of husbandry and mode of cultivating the soil, has
been already noticed. The difference is no less striking, in the
-price of provisions ard wages. At present, a boll of oatmeal, of
the same measure as then, will fetch L. 1, 4s.; a boll of oats, L. 1;
of barley, L. 1, 10s. Butter fetches froui 12s. to L. 1, is. per
stone, according to the quality; and cheese, 8s. per stone. A good
'Ploughman gets from L. 6 to L. 9 a-year of wages; a woman from
I,. 1, 5s. to L. 1, ]Os. in the half year, with rhoes; and a day-
labourer will hardly think himself well paid by Is. 6d. without
victuals.
   Improvements.-The, first and greatest improvement of any
country, in a worldly point of view, is, to have it well opened up
by good roads and bridges. Of this improvement, not one parish
in Scotland stands nearly,,;o much in need, as the parish of Loch-
broom. Above forty years ago, a road was constructed at a great
                                4


