
                                      BOHARM.                           359

          from the influx of the Fiddich, near the bridge of Craigellachie,
          down to Ordequish, about a mile above the village of Fochabers,
          the small peninsula excepted, which has been already noticed as
          annexed to Rothes, though on the Boharm side, and, excepting
          also two trifling haughs of this parish, which are on the Rothes
          side.  This rapid, large, and turbulent stream, rising in Lochaber,
          holds for about ninety miles a direction due south-east, till it
          strikes upon the abutments of Benagen at the south-west angle of
          this parish, when it is turned due north for the rest of its course,
          about sixteen miles, to the Moray Frith, at Garmach. It is strict-
          ly a mountain stream, sometimes falling very low, and often very
          suddenly rising in mighty floods, provincially spates, which, on va-
          rious occasions within memory, have been so large as to fill the
          whole bottom of the valley (nearly a mile in breadth) with resist-
          less torrents, most destructive to property, and even fatal to life.
          The flood of 1829, so well chronicled by Sir Thomas Dick Lau-
          der, will not soon be forgotten on the banks of the Spey. The
          river is generally so large in autumn, winter, and spring, as in these
          seasons to permit the fir timber of the forests of Rothiermurcus,
          Abernethy, Invereshie, &c. to be floated down in immense rafts to
          the various timber yards on the bank, and to the sea at Garmach.
             The Fiddich, which, descending through the lovely vale of Bal-
          veny in Mortlach, skirts this parish on the south and south-west,
          is a stream of considerable magnitude, beautifully wooded, but,
          like the Spey, is subject to very destructive floods.  The rivulet
          Aldernie, already mentioned, conveys to the Fiddich the collected
          waters of the upper part of the parish, while those of the lower
          part, uniting where the eastern valley meets with the circular val-
          ley, form the "Orchill," now the burn of Mulben, which thence
          descending very rapidly to the Spey, which it joins at the place
          called Boat of Bridge, has cut a very romantic channel for itself
          in the rocks through which it passes.
             Geology.-Along the south boundary of the parish, in the val-
          ley of the Fiddich, and a little distance backward to the hill,
          gneiss is everywhere to be seen. Northward from this, for more
          than two-thirds of the length of the circular valley, and up to the
          summits of the hills, talc slate, dipping to the south, and with a
          direction north-east, is the prevailing rock; it might be called the
          universal rock, except that it is traversed by frequent veins of
          quartz, and by a narrow vein of primitive limestone, which sets off




