
                              LOUDOUN.                        853

prime cost; the members paying shop rent, salesman, &c.; one
Economical, to join a small part of their weekly gains, and to lodge
these in bank when they amount to L.4, the principle being nearly
that of the savings' bank; two Funeral, to pay for the mortcloth
and the expenses of the funeral of the members, their parents,
and children; one Farmers', for mutual relief in case of fire, on
the principle of fire insurance.
        Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons at present
upon the poor's roll of the parish is 70. Those paupers may
be divided into the following classes, with the weekly aliment re-
ceived by each. Aged and infirm, 46, three of whom receive
weekly 2s. 6d.; five, 2s.; five, 1s. 6d.; thirteen, 1s.; twelve, 9d.;
eight, 6d. Widows with families 9,-one, 2s. 6d.; three, 2s.;
three, 1s. 6d.; two, 6d.-Orphans, 9,-four receive 2s.; three,
1s 6d.; two, 1s. Fatuous, 7,-one, 7s.; one, 3s.: one 4s. 3d.;
one, 1s.; one, 9d.; one, 6d. Total, 70; per week, L4, l0s.
In addition to the above weekly allowance, L,24, 12s. 6d. is paid
by the heritors for house-rent to the paupers, while upwards of
L.30 is expended on incidental poor, whose names are not on the
roll; and also in occasionally giving additional aid to the regular
pauper. The above sum is raised by voluntary assessment, except
what is collected at the church door, which in the year amounts
to about L.34. The assessment is laid upon the valued rent, the
heritors charging the tenants with one-half.
        Charitable Bequests.-There are three charities in thd parish,:
0. Smith's Bequest, left by a Mr John Smith, who was born in
Newmilns, and died a merechant in Glasgow. It is for decayed bur-
gesses in Newmilns, their widows, and children. The managers
are, the two magistrates, and two councillors named by them;
the minister, and two elders named by him. The income at their
disposal is L.60 per annun, which is all expended in Newmilns, and
is confined to those who receive no parochial aid. 2. Mrs Crawford
of Bolquarn's mortification, of L.16 per annum, in favour of four old
people, L.4 to each; the session are the managers. 3.Mr. Brown
of Waterhaugh's Charitable Foundation educates twelve children,
six in Galston, and six in Loudoun. The parents of the children
receive L.2, as. 6d. to clothe their children; the school fees being
paid to the master besides.
	Pauperism is either steadily upon the hncrease, or the poor are
getting mnre into the habit of seeking relief from the parochial
fund. The causes of our pauperism are of course various, such as



