
                             FOGO.                           227

brought under the plough or planted; so that there is no waste land
except what lies along the banks of the river, which may extend to
twenty or thirty acres, and even that, may be pastured or cut to the
water's edge. There is no undivided common, but a patch of four or
five acres near the church, bounded by the water, and the lands of
two proprietors. The acres under wood may be about 305, planted
within these sixty years by the late and by the present proprietor at
Charter-Hall; five acres on the bank of the river in front of Caldra-
House, planted by the late General Home, as before noticed; and
about five acres at Harcarse. These plantations consist mostly
of fir, with some beech, birch, and other hard-wood, and are
thriving well. The fir of Charter-Hall is used by the fish-curers
to make barrel staves.
   Rate of Wages.-The wages of day-labourers are 1s. 6d. a-day,
summer and winter. Hinds or yearly servants working a pair of
horses receive 14 bolls of grain, a cow summered and wintered,
ground for planting half a boll of potatoes, producing ten or twelve
bolls; L. 4 in money; four double carts of coals (48 bolls) driven,
and a dwelling-house and small garden for vegetables, of the value
of L. 2,-for which last they find a shearer in harvest, the tenant
furnishing victuals, as he does to all his labourers in harvest. A
hind's gains are estimated at L. 30. If he has children above ten,
they are employed and paid for working in the fields, which adds
to the income of the family. The hind is also bound to keep a
bondager for out-of-door work at the master's call, who pays for
the bondager, when employed, 10d. a-day.
   Unmarried men-servants within the house, besides board, receive,
half yearly, from L. 3, 1Os. to L. 4, 1Os.; boys, from L. 1, 1OS. to
L. 2; women, L. 5 in summer, and L. 2 in winter,-the cause of
which difference is, that in summer they are employed in hoeing
and out-door work. Reapers' wages in ordinary seasons are 14s.
a-week for men, and 12s. for women, with victuals.
   Prices of Agricultural Implements.-Wood and iron,-the princi-
pal articles of raw produce in use for husbandry,-are brought
from Berwick at market-price; the iron, when wrought, is charged
by the pound, or according to the time occupied in working. Smiths
generally agree to keep in repair the iron work at L. 3 a-year for
each pair of work horses; carpenters charge about L. 12 for a cart,
L. 3 for a plough. Paling costs 1s. 8d. per rood of two rails, and
2s. 6d. per rood of three rails. Masons receive 2s. 6d. a-day, and
sometimes work by estimate.


