
			CROSSMICHAEL.			199

ern extremity at the parish, and adjoining the town of Castle
Douglas, a chapel in connection with the. Relief Synod has exist-
ed for a few years. It is not understood to be ina flourishing
condition, its members being few, and those not in affluent cir-
cumstances. Two families belong to the Secession, five or six to
the Cameronians, and three or four to the Catholic churches. A
number have joined or are in the habit of frequently attending the
Free Church in Castle Douglas. The collections in the church
for the poor of the Parish amount to about L.40 annually. A col
lection is annually made in the church for the support of the
schemes of the Geneneral Assembly.
        Education.-There are two parochial schools in the parish, and
in one of them no fees are exacted. There are two other schools.
In our first parochial school, nearly the maximum salary is given
by the heritors, along with a house and garden, and all the usual
branches of education are taught in it successfully, along with
French, Greek, Latin, and geography, with the use of the globes.
The other was built and endowed by William Gordon, Esq.,
merchant in Bristol, in 1735. The endowment, which is only
L.11, being unable to support a teacher and his family, he was
induced, in 1775, to petition the Commissioners of Supply, when
he obtained a legal salary of 200 merks Scots. Of late, the
school-house has been enlarged, and the dwelling-house is com-
fortable, to which a good garden is attached. No fees are ex-
acted from children belonging to the parish ; but small gratuities
are given at Candlemas. English, writing, and arithmetic, are
the only branches taught in it.
	There is a parochial library in the parish. In 1792 a Brotherly
Society was instituted for the benefit of those connected with it,
when visited with sickness. It also gave assistance to the widows
of those who had been members. Like many other institu-
tions of the same kind, it failed in securing for its members the
ends they had in view, and the whole of its funds were divided
among them a few years ago.
        Savings' Bank.-A national security savings bank has now for
a few years been established in Castle Douglas and is at present
ina most flourishing condition.
        Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
amount to about twenty-three, and the average sum per quarter
allotted to each amounts to about 15s. In a few instances only,


