
     Statistical Account

country might have remained till now, had not Mr. Barclay,
who is possessed of an enterprising spirit, and extensive know-
ledge in agriculture, which he acquired by reading the best
publications on that subject, and by his own observations in
the different tours which he made on foot in his younger
years through Scotland, and a great part of England, intro-
duced a new system.  Before the above period, lime, as
means of improvement, was little known, and had never
been used; clearing the land of stones, straighting and level-
ling, summer fallow and green crops, dividing and enclosing
ground in separate fields, had never been attempted.  All this
was left to be done by Mr. Barclay, who embarked in the
arduous undertaking with animation and fortitude; and not-
withstanding the many obstacles that necessarily occurred to
obstruct his progress, he persevered in the prosecution of his
designs with ardour and resolution:  But as he was so oblig-
ing as give the writer of this an account of his operations
and improvements, he shall publish it in the terms he re-
ceived it.
   "Land improved by Mr. Barclay of Ury, in the space of
25 years, about 800 acres; 500 of which, were arable, and

<FOOTNOTE>

7 L. a-year; and that of a female-servant 3 L.  Twenty years ago, their wages
were little more than a half of what they are now.  When the incumbent was
settled, the wages of the first male-servant he had was 2 L. 6 s. 8 d. Sterling a-
year, and of his first female-servant 1 L. 6 s 8 d. Sterling.  Every article of liv-
ing is increased in proportion.  Beef cost then 1 1/2 d., or at most 2 d. the pound.
Mutton was not sold by weight; on an average it was 9 d. the quarter Veal
and lamb were seldom brought to market; few people thinking it worth whole
to fatten them.  Now beef costs 3 d. the pound in autumn and winter, and 4 d.
in spring and summer.  Veal, mutton, and lamb, are from 3 d. to 3 1/2 d. the
pound.  Butcher meat is to be had in Stonehaven, the nearest market town,
every lawful day of the week, which is very convenient for the inhabitants, and
the people in the neighbourhood.  Poultry and eggs are almost double the price
they were some years since.


