
                             PAISLEY.                              167

the work, we are inclined to think that a good English translation of
the really historical parts, with the moral and political reflexions in-
terspersed, is, a desideratum in literature.  It is scarcely necessary to
add, that the sombre colour of its covering gave the name to this far-
famed MS.  At what time it changed its dress we cannot say ;
but it is upwards of a century, since Bishop Nicolson and Sir Ro-
bert Sibbald claimed for it the epithet "red" as more strictly ap-
propriate.
   The Chartulary of Paisly.--In 1832 the Maitland Club of Glas-
gow conferred a singular boon on the lovers of antiquarian lore,
by the publication of the Register or Chartulary of the monastery
of Paisley.  The MS., which was presented to the club by the
Earl of Glasgow, its noble President, is the same which was long
in possession of the Earls of Dundonald ; and it has been collat-
ed with the copy in possession of the Faculty of Advocates.  An
admirable prefatory dissertation has been prefixed by Cosmo Innes,
Esq. Advocate, who edited this work.  In the dissertation, various
strange blunders of George Crawfurd have been pointed out ; and a
most interesting view given of the genuine uses to which such mo-
numents of other times may be applied, in illustration of the man-
ners of the respective periods; the genealogies of families ; and the
authentic history of the times.
   Maps, Plans, or Surveys of the Parish.-No plans or surveys of
this parish distinct from the other parishes of the county have been
published, or are known to exist.  An excellent map of the town and
suburbs, on an extended scale, was drawn up and published about
fifteen years ago by Mr Knox, and a new edition of it, with the
necessary changes and improvements, is at present in progress
(1837.) The engraving of Paisley in 1693, appended to the Pais-
ley Magazine, we have compared with the original in Sletzer's
"Theatrum Scotiae," and found it perfectly accurate.
   Historical Notices.-Though of comparatively recent date as a
principal seat of British manufactures, Paisley is of venerable an-
tiquity as a place of note.  The whole of the county of Renfrew,
in which Paisley is now the chief town, lay within the Roman pro-
vince of Valentia.  The general voice of antiquarians assigns Pais-
ley as the place designated by Ptolemy, the celebrated Egyp-
tian geographer, Vanduaria.  The the Romans had here a post
of importance is unquestionable.  Principal Dunlop wrote his
description of Refrewshire about the end of the seventeenth
century, and has given the following account: " That the Ro-


