
   224                   ROSS AND CROMARTY.

   in the management of their affairs, and not altogether destitute of
   that thoughtful and imaginative cast of mind characteristic of High-
   landers.
  	Their character for morality is upon the whole creditable. Mak-
   ing due allowance for exceptions, they are honest, sober, and
   peaceable, good citizens, and loyal subjects. The number of ha-
   bitual drunkards in the place is small, bearing no proportion to
   the amount of temptation to that vice presented by the great num
   ber of public-houses. Still the tone of their morality is perhaps
   rather strict than high.
   	With regard to religion, in so far at least as externals are con-
   cerned, thev are decidedly a religious people; having great re-
   verence for sacred things, evincing a laudable diligence in attend-
   ing the means of religious instruction, and in general maintaining
   a suitable conduct, with those exceptions which must occur in every
   society.
			   IV.-INDUSTRY.
   	Agriculture.-
   The number of acres in this parish, either cultivated or occasionally in tillage,
    is,                                                                           2388
   The number which have never been cultivated, but remain in pasture is          3168
   There is very little of this capable of being added to the cul-
   tivated land of the parish with any prospect of remuneration. It
   chiefly consists of some hill pasture, and moorland lying at the
   northern extremity of the parish. But there is an extent of about
   200 acres within the parish recoverable from the sea, and capable
   of being very profitably improved. It consists of a flat bay, with
   a bottom composed of mud, covered only at high water, which
   might be easily rendered capable of yielding excellent crops ; all
   that is requisite. being to exclude the sea, which might easily be
   effected by means of an embankment, owing to the shallowness of
   the water. A method has been suggested by which this land
   might be recovered at a very inconsiderable expense, which is
   worthy of notice. It is found that each tide carries along with it
   a quantity of the slime of which the shore is chiefly composed for
   a considerable distance, which at present it washes off again by
   its action as it recedes. But if a row of pretty closely set piles
   were so placed as to prevent its being carried away, the mud would
   not only accumulate about the piles (which might be multiplied
   from time to time, as an increase of height or solidity was required,)
   so as in time to form an embanknent, but a deposit would gra-
   dually go on which would have the additional advantage of raising


