
			   MARYCULTER.                       193

	Live-Stock.--The horses here are poor, but fast improving in
breed. Black-cattle small, but good; all black or dark, and free
from white, almost all without horns. Short-horn or Teeswater
bulls are fast coming into fashion, several of which are to be found
in the parish,--imported to cross with the native cow.
	The prices of provisions are the same as at the Aberdeen market.
	Much has been done in the way of draining, both in cutting
channels for brooks, and also in under-ground draining with stone.
	The leases ard all, or almost all, of nineteen years duration.
	Quarries.--Granite is quarried in small quantities; but there is
no extensive work of this nature.
	Fishings.--There are five salmon-fisbings in the parish. The
reduced state of the rents of thetn has been already noticed.
		    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Means of Communication.--There is no village or market-town
in the parish.  There are excellent roads in it; of turnpike about
two miles. There is as yet no public carriage.
	Nearly fifteen miles of a new turnpike road through this and the
adjoining parishes are almost finished. This road will be a very
material improvement to the district of the country, running all that
distance in a great measure parallel to, and in some places almost
on the brink of the Dee; and in regard to engineering, beauty of
execution, and scenery, it is almost unrivalled,
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is very conveniently
situated for the population. It was built in 1787, and its present
state of repair is good. It affords accommodation for about 460
persons, allowing eighteen inches for each seat.
	The manse appears to have been built about twenty-nine years
before the present church. There have been additions to it since,
one lately,--witb repairs. The offices were lately rebuilt. The extent
of the glebe, exclusive of the sites of the manse and offices, is ten
acres imperial; its value about L.2, 8s. per acre in its present
state of cultivation.  As to the amount of the stipend, it consists of
L.149, 12s. 7d. in money, (omitting some fractional parts,) and
in victual of oatmeal , 23 bolls, 3 firlots, 8 peaks, I lippie; of
bear, 6 bolls, 2 firlots, 2 lippies; and of corn I firlot,--in the old
measure, (omitting some fractional parts,)--for wich, victual-sti-
pend, money may or may not be received. It has been received
for some considerable time, according to the fiars of the year. The
teinds are exhausted.

	The great majority of the inhabitants belong to the Established
	KINCARDINE                    N


