
     Statistical Account

school is healthy.  There is at present good accommoda-
tion for boarders, and will be still better very soon, the
rector being about to build a large and commodious new
house; and every attention is paid both to the morals and
education of those under his care.  This school is indeed
not only blessing to the parish, but a public good to the
country.-The only provision for the poor of the parish
is a fund of L. 100, lent to a Banking Company at 4 per
cent. the weekly collections amounting to about L. 32 or
L. 33 a-year, and some small fines, together with money
received for the use of a mort cloth, amounting to L. 2 or
L. 3 a-year.  The number of poor is from 20 to 25.  Of
these, a few depend wholly upon that they receive out of
the parish; and others are capable of doing a little work,
which, with a small aid from the weekly collections, serves
for their support.

   Measurement, Soil, Rental, Stock, etc.-The lands in
this parish have almost all been measured.  The amount of
the whole is about 28,000 acres; 1900 of which are an-
nually in crop.  The soil is various.  Along the river

<FOOTNOTE>

house.  The land is at present rented at L. 90, including public burdens,
which amount to L. 14:17:11.  But the lease expires next Whitsun-
day, (i.e. Whitsunday 1793.) and a new lease has been given at the
yearly rent of L. 175.  The branches of education which the deed of
mortification requires to be taught at this school, are, reading English,
writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, Latin and Greek.  But besides these,
French, geography, and sometimes mathematics, are also taught.  The
English, writing, arithmetic, and book-keeping classes, are taught by an
usher, named by the rector, and approved of by the presbytery.  His sa-
lary is paid by the rector, and is by the deed of mortification appointed
to be L. 10 a-year and his board, or L. 18 without his board.  The
rector is likewise obliged to pay L. 5 a-year to a person named by the
minister, to teach English in a remote part of the parish, which, on ac-
count of the distance, cannot reap any benefit from the other schools.
All these schools are free to the children of the parish.
  

