
854                             FIFESHIRE.

spot now discovered. Barbour gives the following account of the
funeral:-
                     " I hop that nane that is on lyve*
                     The lamentacioun suld discryvet+
                     That that folk for thair lard maid.+
                     And quhen thai lang thus sorrowit had,
                     Thai baiff had him to Dunferlyne :-
                     And him solemply erdyt$ syne
                     In a fayr tumb, intill the quer.
                     Byschappys and prelatis, that thar wer,
                     A ssoilyeitll him, quhen the serwice
                     Was done as thai couth best dewiss ;
                     And syne, on the tothyr day,
                     Sary and wa ar went thair way,
                     And he debowaillyt was clenly,
                     And bawmyt syne richly.""

   Fordun, too, who wrote after Barbour, and who acknowledges
the excellence of his work, says, that " the King was interred at
the monastery of Dunfermline, in the middle of the choir, with
due honour."++ And farther, as quoted by Morton, in his Monas-
tic Annals of Teviotdale, p. 232, " magnificently interred under
the grand altar of the church of Dunfermline Abbey."# Both
these early writers mention the choir, and the latter, the middle
of it, as the situation of his grave, and the Spot found precisely
corresponds with this, as far as the form of the ancient building can
be ascertained, for it is in a line with the exact centre of the Ab-
bey Church.
   Farther, it is well known that Bruce, in the view of his approach-
ing dissolution, which took place at Cardross, near Dumbarton,
on the 7th June 1329, from a severe disease, then termed leprosy,
at the age of fifty-five, in the twenty-fourtb year of his arduous
and glorious reign, reckoning from his coronation at Scone, took
a pledge from his faithful friend Sir James Douglas to carry his
heart, on his decease, to Jerusalem, and humbly to deposit it in
the Church of the Holy Sepulchre there, as the only mode which
he then had of fulfilling a vow, which he had made as soon as he
restored the peace and freedom of his kingdom, to undertake an
expedition to the Holy Land against the enemies of the Christian
faith. This pledge, the gallant-knight, on the demise of his be-


<FOOTNOTE>
   * Alive.              + Describe.             # Lord.    $ Interred.
  ll Assoilcit. As King Robert was excommunicated by the Pope, for the murder
of Cuming in Dumfries, on account of treachery, so far back as 1305, his body could
not receive the accustomed rites and ceremonies of what was then deemed " Christian
burial" in consecrated ground, till this sentence was removed by ecclesiastical authority.
This may explain what is here referred to by the poet, Some authors, however, state
that he was pardoned in1309.-Guthrie's Hist. of Scot., ii. p. 205.
   Devise                "  The Bruce, Edin. 1820, 4to, B. xiv., I. 871-884.
tt Scotichron. xiii. 13.                      # Scotichron. xiii. 20, 14.


