
600                  EDINBURGHSHIRE.

The farmers here are well known to be a very industrious and in-
telligent class of men. Within these few years there has been a
very extensive drainage of land. Whatever improvements in agri-
culture have been discovered are readily adopted by the enter-
prising tenantry of Cramond.
   The following is the rotation of cropping as practised in the
parish:-
   I. Six course shift, for light soils.-1. Oats; 2. potatoes, well
manured ; 3. wheat; 4. turnips, manured; 5. barley; 6. hay or
pasture.
   II. Five course shift, for strong or clay lands.-1. Oats; 2. po-
tatoes, beans, or fallow, well manured; a wheat; 4. barley, ma-
nured; 5. hay or pasture.
   III. Four course shift, for land of middling texture.-1. Oats;
2. potatoes, well mantired; 3. wheat; 4. hay or pasture.
   IV. Five course shift, on light soils.-1. Oats; 2. turnips, well
manured; 3. barley; 4. pasture; 5. pasture.
   V. Eight course shift.-1. Oats; 2. beans, manured; 3. wheat;
4. fallow; 5. wheat; 6. beans, manured; 7. barley; 8. hay or
pasture.
   VI. Six course shift, when land has been long pastured.--1.
Oats; 2. fallow, limed; 3. wheat; 4. beans, manured heavily; 5.
barley; 6. hay or pasture.
   Rents.-These are variable. One and a half quarter of wheat
per Scotch acre (the Scotch acre being one-fifth more than the
imperial acre), is very common. This quantity is converted and
paid by the highest flars prices of the county of Mid-Lothian.
In many. cases, a five or seven years average of the fiars price is
taken as the data for ascertaining the rent.
   Wood.-There are no extensive woods in this parish; 400 acres,
Scotch measure, may be stated as the quantity of land under-
plantation.
   Manufactures.-Along the banks of the river Almond, and not
far from the village of Cramond, are the iron works, the property
of Messrs W. Cadell and Co. These works were established in
1771, and at present are carried on with much spirit. They con-
sist of a rolling mill, two forge hammers, steel furnaces, &c.
The principal articles manufactured are bar iron, steel, spades and
shovels, nails, chains, &c. There is also in the same locality a
paper work of considerable extent under the same proprietorship,
which was established about thirty years ago. The only descrip-


