
     of Unst, in Shetland.

what might be tilled with the plough*.  No land is plowed
here before spring.  Oats are sown in the end of March,
and beginning of April; bear begins to be sown in the end
of April.  The crops are fit to be reaped in September;
and, by the end of October, the corn is usually in the yards,
and the potatoes in the houses.

   Mills.-The water-mills, like the ploughs, are of a sin-
gular construction.  They are without wheels.  A round
piece of wood, about 4 feet in length, and fitted with 12
small boards, in the same manner as the extremity of the
exterior wheel of an ordinary mill, with a strong iron spindle
fixed to its upper end, supplies the place of a wheel in these
mills.  The iron spindle, passing through the under mill-
stone, is fixed in the upper.  A pivot in the under end of
the tirl (the piece of wood above mentioned,) runs in a
hollowed iron plate.  The water falls upon the awes or
feathers of the tirl, at an inclination of between 40 and 45
degrees.  The millstones are commonly from 30 to 36 in-
ches in diameter.  The tirl occupies the same situation un-
der this mill, as the trundles in the inner part of an ordinary
     VOL. V. B b

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are, in the whole island, only a day-labourers in husban-
dry.  Every householder is a n independent tenant and fisher.  A
man servant qualified for all sorts of farm work, is paid from 30 s. to 35 s.
a-year; and receives, besides, his board and a pair of shoes.  A farm ser-
vant of inferior skill receives from 20 s. to 25 s. a-year.  A boy, or young
lad not fully grown, receives from 15 s. to 20 s. of yearly wages.  Ordi-
nary female servants are paid from 10 s. to 15 s. a-year.  Domestic  female
servants, well qualified to few and dress linens, are hired in the gentle-
mens families at 40 s. or 45 s. a-year, and are allowed tea.  Cook-maids,
who have been out of Shetland, and have returned instructed, receive the
same encouragement.  Gardeners, and in general, all other servants from
Scotland, receive somewhat higher wages here than in their own country.
A pair of shoes in the year is a common perquisite throughout the island,
to all ordinary male and female servants.


