
           166                         ELGINSHIRE.

           is preeminently deserving of notice. Mr Dick left his native pa-
           rish, early in life, and went to America, where lie accumulated a
           large fortune, and at his death in 1828 bequeathed L. 140,000 for
           the benefit of the parochial schoolmasters of the counties of Mo-
           ray, Banff, and Aberdeen; a sum, the interest of which gives from
           L. 20 to L. 30 per annum to each schoolmaster in these counties.
           This fund has been hitherto admirably managed by the trustees,
           leading members of the Society of Writers to the Signet in Edin-
           burgh, and under the particular inspection of Allan Menzies, Esq-
           W. S., a gentleman eminently qualified for the important duties
           to which he has been appointed. It is certainly matter of sur-
           prise, that the enlightened class of persons who participate in Mr
           Dick's patriotic and noble generosity have as yet taken no decid-
           ed steps to testify their gratitude to him, by erecting some testimo-
           nial to his memory. The inhabitants of Forces are desirous
           to unite with those who share so largely in his bounty, in rais-
           ing some suitable monument in his native town, and where the re-
           mains of his parents and ancestors repose, to record the obliga-
           tion of the country generally, and of the schoolmasters of the three
           counties in particular, to this great friend of education ; and it is
           to be hoped, that, at no distant period, their wishes will be respond-
           ed to by those gentlemen, to whom, perhaps, should belong the
           merit of originating such a measure.
            The late John Gordon, Esq.  M. D., of Edinburgh, was also a
           native of Forces, and though his sun went down at noon, it shed
           a lustre on the place which gave him birth and on his country, ere
           it set.
            The family of the late Provost Duncan Grant of Forces have,
           by their distinguished merit and success in life, reflected Honour
           on their native parish.  The eldest son, Mr Walter Grant, died
           early in life in India, but not until he had earned a high reputa-
           tion as a barrister.  His brother, the late Lieutenant-Colonel
           Alexander Grant, H. E. 1. C. S., was no less distinguished as a
           soldier than his brother was as a lawyer.  His bravery was conspicti-
           ously displayed at the Battle of Assaye, to which victory he greatly
           contributed by his gallantry. Another brother, the late Lieute-
           nant-Colonel. Colqulioun Grant, was intrusted with the most im-
           portant and confidential services by the Duke of Wellington dur-
           ing the Peninsular war, in which he acquitted himself under cir-
           cumstances ofextraordinary difficulty and danger, with remarkable
           courage and success. His services and merits are well described


