
   186                         BANFFSHIRE.

   Account, it may be mentioned that a tumitlus was opened at
   Auchmore in 1828, in which was found an earthen urn, contain-
   ing ashes. The urn was placed in a kind of rude coffin, formed
   of stones laid together for that purpose. This and the large
   mound raised over it would seem to indicate, that it bad been a
   person of distinction whose ashes bad been deposited here. And
   there is reason to believe that they may have been those of some
   warlike chief, who had fallen in an engagement, of which there is
   a tradition that it took place near to the spot. The above urn is
   now preserved in thd museum at Banff. Within a mile of the
   same place, on the brae of Roseacre, in the immediate vicinitx of
   Portsov, no fewer than five tirns have been found, containing ashes
   and bones. Two of them were du' tip about the beginning of this
   century, and the other three only a few years aoo, when that part
   of the field was being trenched over to improve its productiveness.
   They were all, however, broken by the workmen; but the frao,
   ments, which are still preserved, show that they would have been
   about twelve inches in diameter, and of a proportional depth. And
   in September of last year, there was turned up by the plough, oil
   the farm of Ley, another urn, containing some remains of a si-
   milar kind. It was found placed upon a stone with a cover on the
   top, but was also broken. It is now likewise in the Banff museum.
      The old Castle of Findiater is deserving of notice amongst the
   antiquities of this parish. It is the most interesting ruin within it.
   It stands oil a peninsulated rock on the sea shore, and still evi-
   dences, that, in its day, it had been a place of considerable im-
   portance. Leslie, Bishop of Ross, describes it (although, froin
   the tactics of modern warfare, we suspect that the description
   would not now hold true) as 11 castrum, loci natura ita muni-
   tum, ut inexpugnabile.videatur." Its outdr, or north wall, is so
   built as to correspond with the face of the rock; and its windows,
   which appear to have been chiefly on that side, would thus
   look into the sea. The lower apartments, some of which are
   partly excavated I out of the solid rock, are strongly vaulted with
   stone arches; and the south side of the building, which was the
   only one exposed to danger, appears to have consisted of a large
   mass of dead wall protected by a fdsse and drawbridge. Beyond
   this and at about the distance of 100 yards, there had been ano-
   ther fosse and rampart, as an outwork to defend the castle; leav-
   in an intermediate space large enough to exercise a considerable
   number of men. The'stones of the baildings, which were in the


