
l38                        FIFESHIRE.

ceedingly for upwards of a century; but nail factories having been
established in other parts of the country, greatly diminished the
profits of the merchants here, and now the trade itself is almost
totally discontinued.
  The same thing may be said of the manufacture of linen cloth.
FormerlY great quantities of it were made in the parish; but very
few now.
  The principal branch which flourishes at present is the manu-
facture of checks and ticks. This branch of trade was introdu-
ced into the parish between 1710 and 1720; it continued to in-
crease till 1776; but about that time scarcely brought L. 9000 of
yearly value. It is very different at present. The number of
looms employed in the manufacture of this kind of cloth is
about 2088; the quantity of cloth made is supposed to be
31,006,720 yards; and the annual value of this quantity not under
L.150,236. A large proportion of this is sold in Glasgow, Lon-
don, Manchester, Liverpool, Nottingham and Leeds. A large pro-
portion of it is also sent to other parts of Europe, to the Cape of
Good Hope, and to the East and West Indies. The number of
hands employed in this department of trade, including weavers,
winders, and warpers, may be fairly estimated from 5000 to 6000.
Several of the manufacturers have agencies in different parts
of the country, in Ceres, Strathmiglo, and Perth; and it appears
from their testimony that the number of looms employed by them
out of the parish is above 1000.
  The weavers are engaged all the six days of the week, when they
can find employment. Some of them, indeed, are obliged to work
from four or five in the morning till ten or eleven at night; and after
all their industry, will not earn more than 5s. or 6s. per week. It
is almost needless to add, that this is but a poor remuneration for
their labour; that the effects of such long hours on their health
are any thing but good, and are very adverse to mental improve-
ment.
  At the mill where flax is spun, the work people are employed
from half-past five in the morning till eight at night, half an hour
being allowed for breakfast and the same for dinner. The earn-
ings of the female mill-spinners are from 6s to 7s weekly. It de-
serves to be mentioned that the proprietors of this mill are men of
great respectability; that they take an interest in the morals of the
young people; and that they will not allow the most distant ap-
proaches to anything like vice.
                               4


