
			RUTHERGLEN.                         389

immediate neighbourhood of places of strength. They were put in
possessio n of certain rights and privileges, the management of
which was committed to the inhabitants. They were consequent-
ly viewed as so many free and almost independent communities
existing in the midst of oppression and slavery. Justice was to be
found in their courts,--the lives and properties of the inhabitants
were secured from the rapacity of the haughty barons,--arts, com-
merce, and industry prospered within their territories,--and from
them the cheering rays of liberty were widely diffused.
	The inhabitants of Rutherglen have long been considered adepts
in burgh politics. From the union with England till the passing
of the Reform Bill, great exertions were made by many of the in-
habitants to become members of the town-council, that body hav-
ing an equal share in electing a Member of Parliament as the im-
portant city of Glasgow. At contested elections (and there were
few otherwise) a considerable part of the community deserted their
usual avocations. The sinews of industry were enervated, and in-
stances were not awanting of families being ruined by habits of
dissipation, acquired on such occasions. Liberty was turned into
licentiousness, and the political franchise became, in the respect
now alluded to, a curse instead of a blessing to its possessors.
From living several years in the immediate vicinity of the burgh,
I am enabled to say that, notwithstanding this general character,
I have seen some noble instances of patriotism among the working-
classes who happened to be electors.
	Since the passing of the Reform Bill, for the attainment of
which the inhabitants were most solicitous, the political influence of
Rutherglen may be said to be annihilated. There is now good
reason, however, to hope that industry, trade, and manufactures
will rapidly increase in the burgh.
	Incorporations.--There are four incorporated trades in the
burgh, viz. hammermen, governed by a deacon, collector, and four
masters, freedom fine for a stranger, L. 1; weavers, governed
by a deacon, collector, four masters and five directors, freedom
fine for a stranger, 16s. 4d.; masons and wrights, governed by a
deacon, collector, and four masters, freedom fine for a stranger,
L.1, 13s. 4d.; tailors governed by a deacon, collector, two mas-
ters, and an assay master, freedom fine for a stranger, L. 1, 5s.
	Burgess Fines.--The fines on becoming a freeman are as fol-
lows: a stranger, L. 1, 2s 2 8/8d., a burgess's eldest son, if his fa-
ther is in life, 8s. 4d.; if his father is dead, 6 5/4d.; other sons of
burgesses and sons-in-law, 11s. 1 1/3d.

	  LANARK.                        C c


