
     Statistical Account

informs us, that in this expedition, the Romans lost no less
than 50,000 men.  We need not wonder then at the speed
and success, with which this great undertaking was accom-
plished*.  In the moss of Kincardine, a Roman way, 12 feet
wide, and regularly formed by trees or logs of wood laid a-
cross each other, is still to be traced+.  And a Roman camp
kettle was found in the year 1768, in the lands of Mr Ram-
say of Ochtertyre, which has been presented by him to the
Antiquarian Society in Edinburgh.  Such are the grounds
on which it is believed that the forest in this part of the coun-
try was cut down by the Romans; most probably in the ex-
pedition of Severus, A. D. 207, whilst Donald I. reigned in
Caledonia.  He was the first Scottish prince (according to
Buchanan++), who embraced Christianity.  The overthrow
of this forest would naturally interrupt the course of those va-
rious streams which formerly ran through the valley.  This

<FOOTNOTE>

proponchantur consultò oves bovesque, ut quum ea nostri raperent, ac longe
de via declinarent, facile opprimerentur.  Ad hæc nostris aquæ valde oberant,
dispersisque insidiæ parabantur: quumque non possent iter facere, occidebantur
a suis, ut ne ab hostibus caperentur.  Itaque mortui sunt e nostris ad quinqua-
ginta millia.  Neque tamen destitit Severus, quousque ad extremam insulam
venit.

*Modern historians, relying on these authorities, agree in their accounts of
the transactions of the Romans at this period in Britain. Buchan. Rer. Scot.
Hist. Lib. IV. c. 37.  Henry's Hist. of Great Brit. Vol. I. chap. 1. Encyc.
Brit. edit. 3. Vol XII. p. 388, under the word Moss.

+In Moss Logan in this parish, a way has lately been discovered, which from
all accounts, in respect of breadth and construction, exactly resembles that in the
moss of Kincardine.  But as the information concerning it was received only
since this account was drawn up, no opportunity has yet offered of examining
it so particularly, as to authorize a more decided opinion respecting its origin.
++Hist. lib. IV. 26.


