
                             TURRIFF.                            985

rate.  No representative of the Gamrie fish bed has been met with in
the parish, although, from the close resemblance of the dark inhe-
rent conglomerate seen at Darra and Gask, to that which over-
lies the fossiliferous strata of Gamrie, it is not improbable that fu-
ture researches may be rewarded by the discovery of this most in-
teresting deposit.  The sandstones and conglomerates of Delgaty
afford the greater part of the building stone of which the houses
in the town of Turriff, as well as those of the neighbouring pro-
prietors, are composed.  Coping stones, and ashlar for mill
courses, are also quarried for the use of many adjacent parishes.
In Conn's quarry fifteen men on an average are employed, and
the tacksmen drive a considerable trade.  Quarriers earn 12s. to
14s. per week, and dressers L.1.  Dressed rybats and corners
are sold at 6d. per foot; copings, 7d. per running foot; stones
for mill courses, 6d.; rubble for dikes, &c. 3d. per load.
   Superficial Layers.-To give a detailed account of these layers
would exceed the limits of the present notice.  They are in ge-
neral similar to those occurring along most of the east coast, and
are, according to some, the moraines clay and gravel left by gla-
ciers.  According to others, they are chiefly the produce of vast
water currents.  On an eminence west-north-west of Delgaty
Castle, there is found a rather peculiar bed of gravel.  The sur-
face of the pit presents a covering of three feet of light-brown
ochry clay, under which rests the gravel bed, eight to ten feet
thick.  The boulders are all water-worn, and consist chiefly of
the purest milk quartz, mixed with very white micaceous sand.
Among the moss, water-worn chalk flints occur, sparingly contain-
ing the usual chalk fossils.  This forms the western termination
of the Buchan chalk flints discovered by Dr Knight, and consi-
dered by him as transported by ice.  This interesting deposit de-
serves more attention, as likely to modify considerably the recent
views of Professor Agassiz.
   Attempts at different times, and very lately, have been made to
open on the Craig-brae of Laithers a quarry of roofing slates;
but, though appearances were favourable, and slates of tolerably
good quality were obtained, the labour and expense were found
to be so great, that the business has not been prosecuted to an any
extent.
   Botany.-The Flora of the parish has not been so accurately
investigated as is desirable.  From the variety of soil, situation,
and exposure, it cannot fail to be rich; while, from the circum-


