
ABERCROMBIE.                            351

nan's, by their charter as above quoted, were bound to uphold
the fabric. The heritors accordingly had recourse upon the
feuars - the latter resisted, and the matter came before the
Court of -Session. The feuars were found liable, to uphold the
building in terms of their charter. They did therefore apply a
repair, but very partial, and by no means amounting to what had
been decerned by the Presbytery, "and nothing more," says my
predecessor in 1790, 11 has yet been done." Down to 1825, it
continued the uncomfortable decaying fabric above described.
But a great deal has now been done. Early in February 1826,
the present incumbent brought the state of the church before the
Presbytery. A visitation in the usual form took place, the heri-
tors being competently represented, and tradesmen attending ac-
cording to citation. Upon thorough inspection, the tradesnjen for-
mally condemned the church. The beritors' representeives erav-
ing delay, the Presbytery did not immediately decern. Another
meeting was appointed, against which the berit-ors-engaged to have
the opinion of Mr Burn, architect This gentleman being applied
to, visited the church, and with strong professional enthusiasm, de-
precated the idea of its being abandoned to ruin, and gave his de-
cided opinion as to its capability of being repaired into a beautiful
specimen of ecclesiastical architecture, and a place of worship sin.
gularly well adapted for seeing and hearing. This report coinciding
with the previous views of the heritors, and approved by the Pres-
bytery, was immediately acted upon ; and after all the tedious forms
connected with so great a work, we were, in June 1824 put, into
occupation of one of the most beautiful places of worship of which
the country can boast. There was a lofty communication opened
under a splendid arch betwixt the main - building and the areaof
the steeple, The side-wings to the north and,south, forming the
transept, were raised to the height of the principal buildings, and
finished in the same style with the original roof. Thd pulpit was
removed tolthe west end, immediately in front of a magnificent Go-
thic window. There were opened four similar windows in the south
'Wall, and two in the north, and we were provided with a commodi -
ous vestry behind the church.
The heritors abandoned the claim they had upon the feuars for
upholding the fabric; but thought it reasonable , that, as an in -
demnification for the great sum laid out by them, (not less than
L. 1730,) they should receive a, moderate seat rent from the fouam
This arrangement (consented to by the feuars) still subsists, one


