
		      FETTERESSO.                     263

day; and a coach to and from Aberdeen and Stonehaven, four
times a-week. The Aberdeen and Edinburgh steamers call on
their way; and there are carriers in constant employments every
direction.
   Dispensary.--The poor receive medical advice, are visited in
their houses, and supplied with medicines. The establishment is
supported by contributions from the inhabitants. The services
of the physician are gratuitously afforded.
   Bank.--A branch of the Aberdeen Town and County Bank
is established in the town.
   Savings Bank.--Soon after the introduction of these institu-
tions, one was established for this, and the neighbouring parish of
Dunnottar. Its funds have always been increasing, and now the
deposits amount to upwards of L.14,000.
   Harbour.--The parish is principally supplied with coals, lime,
&c. from the harbour of Stonehaven, close to its southern boun-
dary; and from it, grain and other produce are exported. Coals
and lime, to a limited extent, are imported, during the summer
season, at a creek at Elsick, formerly mentioned.
   Markets.--There is a weekly market at Stonehaven, on Thurs-
day, when butter, cheese, poultry, eggs, &c. are exposed for sale.
On that day there is a market for grain, during its season, attended
by the farmers of the adjoining district; and in winter and spring,
for cattle. Immediately previous to Candlemas, Whitsunday, Mar-
tinmas, and Christmas, the market is for cattle, feeing of servants,
&c. Fairs, formerly at Megray, about two miles north, for cattle
and horses, in June and September, are now held in Stonehaven.
Butcher-meat is to be there procured every day.
   At Muchalls, there are cattle fairs, at several seasons of the
year, generally well attended.
   Inns, &c.--There are 40 houses licensed for the sale of spirits,
&c.--iu Stonehaven, 25 (five of which have wine licenses); in the
villages of Cowie, Stranathro and Sketraw, 7; and along the
roads, in different districts, 8. The number in Stonehaven, in
1838, was 32. It is hoped that the cause of abstinence from in-
toxicating liquors, at present favourably advancing, will continue
to make progress, and public-houses, year after year become less
common.
   Horticulture.--There are good gardens at the seats of several
of the proprietors, a particularly fine old terraced one at Ury,
and a conservatory and hot-house at Fetteresso Castle. Much


