
                             KILMORIE.                  49

strength; to fan the embers of liberty that still lived in the
bosoms of his countrymen, and be at hand to take advantages of
any false movement on the part of his foes, or any favourable one
on that of his friends. During his stay on the island, he made a
cave, on the sequestered shore of Drumidoon, the place of his
usual resedence. How long he remained here is uncertain, but it
was sufficiently long to attach the inhabitants unalienably to his
interests. A body of their number fought under his banner at
Bannockburn, and for services then rendered, or kindnesses for-
merly shewn, after his accession to the throne of his ancestors, he
gave many of them grants of land on the island, one of, which is
held by the lineal descendant to this day.
   The circumstances of his departure are somewhat differently
related. Tradition, which always affects the romantic, narrates,
that one morning, while musing in bed over his past misfortune,
and his future prospects he observed a spider vigorously endeavour-
ing to raise itself to the roof of the barn in which he lay. Once
and again it failed in its attempts, just as many times as he had
done in his, to regain the throne of his ancestors. Though often
baffled, yet it still persevered, and ultimately succeeded. Ani-
mated by this prophetic incident, alone, and disguised as a min-
strel, he crossed over to his maternal castle of Turnberry, in Car-
rick, then garrisoned, by the English under Percy. Should he
find matters favourable to his cause, he was to make a signal to
his friends whom he left behind, by lighting a fire on an eminence
above the castle, on seeing which they were to follow him. In-
stead, however, of finding them favourable, he found them quite
the reverse. The garrison was strong and vigilant; his partisans,
few, feeble. and dispirited; and even his own hereditary vassals
indifferent, if not hostile.

	  "Long harassed by oppressor's band,
          Courage and faith had fled the land,
          And over Carrick, dark and deep,
	  Had sunk dejection's iron sleep.--Lord of the Isles.

The minstrel monarch was therefore on the eve of returning, when
Providence achieved for him what his own prudence would not
have permitted him to attempt. A fire was raised for some other
purpose on the very spot where the preseconcerted signal was to
have been lighted. Aware of the consequence, Bruce spent the
night on the beach, that he might apprise his friends of the mis-
take, before their arrival could he discovered by the enemy. They
reached the shore before dawn, but, when told of the circumtances,
    BUTE.     			      D


