
			WEST KILBRIDE.				257

of such restrictions, as well to the possessors themselves, as to the
public interest, the owners of property still with an undimi-
nished fondness to this no less injurious than absurd and prepos-
terous practice in the disposal of their lands. Difficulties of no
ordinary kind undoubtedly have ever stood in the way of undoing
the past; but that government could not be said to discharge its
proper and bounden duty, which, when such erroneous policy came
to manifest itself through its consequences, did not instantly put a
stop to its futher baneful operations. So long as this barbarous
remnant of the spirit of fuedalism is suffered to exist, it is odvious,
all future ameliorations of the soil must be circumscribed to an
incaculable extent.
	Parochial Registers.--The registers of this parish commence
pretty early, are complete, and in good preservation; cer-
tainly much more so than is usually the case with such documents.
The rigister of births begins November 6, 1691, and is regularly
continued to the present time. It is to be noted, however, of this
record, that at no time has the law been uniformly complied with,
many births never been entered at all; which of course very
much lessens its value to the community. The registry of mar-
riages is continued from 1693, and is preserved entire. Minutes of
the kirk-session commence February 15, 1716, and now occupy
nearly two thick quarto volumes. Money accounts in reference
to the poor are preserved from 1730 to the present time; and
minutes of the meetings of heritors separately since 1795.
	Antiquities.--Some traces of remote still exist here.
Along the steep banks facing the sea-beach are placed a chain of
little round eminences called "Castle hills," supposed to be the
remains of a very primitive class of fortlets. They stand at un-
equal distances, apparently as suitableness of situation offered--
some scarcely half a mile, other a mile and a half apart.  In par-
ticular, they occur at Boydston, Glenhead, Seamill, and Ardneill.
They are all constructed in the same manner, and are of very li-
mited dimensions. A portion of the bank is detached on all sides
and rounded conically; the enclosure on the summit, of about 30
or 40 feet in diameter, is surrounded by a rampart from 6 to
8 feet in thickness, faced on both sides with large undressed
stones neatly laid, the interstice being filled up with small stones
intermixed with earth. That at Ardneill stands on a finely isolated
eminence called Auldhill, and in front of the enclosure or praeto-
rium, there is an esplanade of 40 or 50 paces in length, very ex-
   ARY.				     R


