
                                DALRY.                          229

pense of the tenants. There are proprietors who bear a liberal pro-
portion of the expense, but these unfortunately are few.
        In the irrigation of land, the water is generally turned over the
meadows during the months of October and November.
        Embankments have been erected along the banks of the Gar-
nocks, to prevent its aggressions during inundations. These are
principally formed of earth, in some places faced with stone.
Stone walls have also been erected in some situations. These
have all been built within these forty years.
        Leases.--Few of the leases extend to nineteen years, the great-
er number being from ten to fifteen years duration. And some pro-
prietors have adopted the short-sighted policy of letting their lands
for two or three years only. For lands in high cultivation, which re-
quire little or no outley beyond the expense of cultivation, twelve
or fifteen years may be a sufficient lenght of lease. But when
great outlay is required for improvement, as is the case with the
greater number of the farms in the parish, this is too short a
period to renumerate an enterprising tenant for his capital and
skill,--while on a two years lease, not only is all improvement at
a stand, but even the fences are in danger of becoming ruinous.
The preciation of the currency is the reason assigned for these
leases, which have such a tendency to produce a dteriora-
tion of the soil.
        Farm-Building.--Within the last forty years, the greater part
of the farm-houses have been rebuilt or repaired. Many of them
are two storeys high, all are built of stone and mostly slated. There
are a few old steading still remaining, generally wretched incom-
modious buildings,--these, however, are gradually being displaced
by more ample houses. In general too little attention is paid to
cleanliness or neatness around the farm-houses, although in this
respect great improvement is taking place. The parish has long
been enclosed and subdivide4d in the higher parts with stone dikes,
and in the lower parts with thorn hedges. Although the latter
may be said to be in good condition, still with the excemption of the
hedges around the gentlemen's policies, the farm of Ryesholm,
and some other places, too little attention is bestowed on the
management and dressing of them.
        Improvements.--The most important improvement has been the
reclaiming of moss land by the application of lime. John Smith,
Esq. of Swinridgemuir, has the honour of introducing this im-
provement. Mr. smith's attention was first directed to the sub-



