
                           PARISH OF DUNNING.*

               PRESBYTERY OF AUCHTERARDER, SYNOD OF PERTH AND
                                 STIRLING.

                    THE REV.  Dr JAMES RUSSELL, MINISTER.


                     I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
         Boundaries and Extent.--THE parish of Dunning is bounded
       on the east by Forteviot; on the west, by Auchterarder; on the
       south, by Fossaway; and on the north, by Gask.  It measures
       about 7 miles from north to south, and 4 from east to west, which,
       were the surface level, would give an extent of 28 square miles.
       About one-third of the whole is situated among the Ochil hills.
         Name.--There are two suppositions entertained regarding the
       origin of its name: one, that it is from the Gaelic term Dun, a hill
       or fort, the other that it is derived from Doucha, an abbot of
       Dunkeld, who is said to have fallen here in battle in the year
       964.
         Hydroqraphy.--The inhabitants enjoy an abundant supply of
       excellent spring water.  The rivulet, called Dunning Burn, rises
       among the Ochil hills, and, after a rather rapid descent over a bed
       of gravel, falls into the Earn.   In the western division of the pa-
       rish, upon the property of Lord Rollo, is a lake called the
       "White Moss," covering about eleven acres of ground.  It rests
       upon a bed of moss and gravel, contains a variety of small fish,
       and abounds with wild duck.
         Soil.--The soil along the banks of the Earn is light and sandy;
       in other parts, it consists of clay-or gravel; and the Ochils afford
       excellent pasturage for sheep.
         Plantations.--There are many plantations in this parish, vary-
       ing in extent from three to twenty acres.  These consist. chiefly
       of oak, tir, ash, elm, and poplar.  In the garden of Duncruib, the
       seat of Lord Rollo, is an old spruce,  planted in 1707.  Accord-
       ing to a measurement taken in the month of March 1838, its

       <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Mr John Laurie, parochial schoolmaster of Monzie.


