
882                        LANARKSHIRE.

mingled.  At Allerton farm, in the bed of the Cart, limestone is seen
dipping in below the igneous rocks, at an angle of 40&deg; west; a little
below, ironstone occurs above the limestone at an angle of 8&deg; north.
At Allerton, the limestone is all lying on its edge; a clear proof
that it had been deposited before the eruption of the igneous rocks,
and afterwards disturbed by them.  Limestone above the bridge at
Netherbridge dips 40&deg; south.  Limestone with greenstone alternates
frequently in the Cart, till it bounds this parish.  Thornton Glen is
full oflimestone.  It is also wrought at Hillhead, in the lands of Drip,
at Hall, and at Thornton.  These are all one bed or post.  The green-
stone comes in to the north.  The limestone at Braehead is also cut
off by the whin at Carmunnock.  In Shields quarry the limestone
seems to be on an anticlinal line, dipping east at 18&deg;, and west at 5&deg;.
At Newlands the limestone posts are nearly horizontal, the whole,
with the dip of the earth and shale above being only about 3&deg;
north.  As the plies here are very interesting, on account of the
appearance of Roman cement, we give them as follows:-
   1. A layer of blaze, several feet in thickness, almost as hard as
clay-slate.  2. Roman cement, i.e. lime with ironstone 8 inches
thick.  3. Common slate-clay or blaze.  4. Limestone 2 1/2 feet thick.
5. Two inches of the same black hard blaze, as above the Ro-
man cement.  Roman cement is also found at Clay-brae, Lime-
kilns, and Mossneuk, of the very best quality.
   One remarkable feature in the lime deposits here is their con-
nection with the trap and other igneous rocks, which are some-
times seen above it, sometimes underneath it, and occasionally inter-
stratified with it.  In some places the limestone is completely turn-
ed on edge, and in other places, as Hermyres, and at Shields, near
Newton, the rock is rent into wide perpendicular fissures, almost
the whole depth of the stratum.
   The limestone when first denuded of its diluvial covering is full
of inequalities, and smooth and undulating as if water-worn.
These inequalities are generally observed to arise from the pre-
sence of shells and other marine products, which, being harder
than the lime, are not so easily rubbed or fretted away.  The
whole affords a decisive proof of some great changes since the
limestone first began to be deposited; but as to what these changes
were, their causes or amount, such inquiries belong entirely to
another branch of the science, and fall within the province of the
speculative geologist.
   Much interesting information may also be found on the lime-
			    4

