
              COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                307

from the improved morality and comfort of the inhabitants; the
former, principally at least we suspect, from the superintendence
of the coast guard, who have a station within the parish, consisting
of six boatmen and a commanding officer.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.>
   Agriculture and Rural Economy.-
The number of acres, standard imperial measure, under cultivation may be stated
   at                                                                           5200
Never cultivated, or remaining constantly in pasture,                           3838
That might be added to the cultivated land, though not at present with much
   prospect of profit,                                                           200
In undivided common,                                                               0
Under wood.                                                                      500
   Rent of Land.-From the great diversity in the quality of the
soil, it is not very easy to state the average rent of amble land in
the parish. A considerable part of the farm of Path head, and
other lands near the village of Cockburnspath, rent as high as
L. 3 per acre; while in some other parts of the parish, the rent of
arable land per acre is as low as 5s.,or 8s. The difficulty of stating
an average sum is increased from the circumstance, that most of the
farms are let at corn rents. Perhaps the average sum for the
lower part of the parish may be stated at L. 1, 15s. per acre, and
for the whole parish at L, 1. The rent of grazing an ox or cow
may be averaged at L. 3 for the whole parish; a ewe or full-grown
sheep at 8s. The rental of the parish may be estimated at about
L. 8000.
   Prices of Labour.-Ploughmen or hinds throughout the parish,
with some trifling variations, are paid as follows:- 10 bolls of oats;
3 bolls of barley; 2 small bolls, or 6 fire lots of peas; L. 3 of sheep-
money, as it is called in this parish, or fallow-money, as it is named
in some other parts of Berwickshire; a cow kept summer and win-
ter; 3 bolls of coals at 12 cwt. per boll; and 12 bolls, at an ave-
rage, of potatoes. Every hand and cottar is required to keep a
bondager. It should also be mentioned, that the hind's wife, instead
of the payment of rent for the house and small garden attached to it,
gives her services; in cutting down the crop in harvest. Formerly it
was permitted to the hinds to keep poultry,-a practice now very
generally given up. Instead of this privilege they are allowed one-
half boll of barley. Altogether a hind's income cannot at present
be stated at more than from L. 22 to L. 24 per annum. Men-ser-
vants, with board, &c. receive for wages L. 9, 10s.,-that is, L. 5 for
summer and L. 4, 10s. for winter; women servants receive generally
L. 7, viz. L. 5 for the summer half year, and L, 2 for the winter.


