
ABERCROMBIE.                               355

said to be in it one travaller's inn, where there is regular stabling
or posting. But there are too many ale-houses, and their effect
upon the morals of the people is highly unfavourable.
  Fuel-Fuel is an expensive article here. Coal, exclusive of toll,
may be stated at 1s. 3d. the load of 22 stone; 1s. 4d. if toll be in-
cluded; a cart load of 4 1/2 stone laid down at Abercrombie, with
hire and toll included, would stand 8s. 5 1/2d. It is a coal at four
miles distance that is referred to,-Earlsferry. Sir Ralph An-
struther has lately opened a coal in the neighbourhood at Is. a
load of 22 stone.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
There is one variation of rather an unpleasant kind betwixt the
present state of the parish and people, and that which subsisted
at the time ofthe last Statistical Account. They are certainly less
shy than formerly in applying for and receiving parochial aid.
My predecessor says, "There are now upon the poor's list three
persons and two orphans." At present there are nineteen. There
are no indications of such an increase of povertvas can account for
this difference. The truth is, that the spirit of independence,
which shrunk from being troublesome in coming upon the fund,
is now greatly broken down. It is natural to think that the fine
edge of delicacy will be blunted as the number of receivers increase,
to keep one another in countenance. Whatsoever is given, how-
ever, is received thankfully, and it is so far consoling that pauperism
has not been upon the increase these some years. It is, at the same
time, a compensating fact, that ourcollections, though still extremely
moderate, are very far beyond what they were forty years ago.
Within these last twenty years, there has been a marked improve-
nient in the style of the farm-houses and farm offices in the parish.
It seems to be no unwarranted assertion, that the people are im-
proving general intelligence, and in their acquaintance with the
truths of religion.\f*

January 1837.

   In stating the amount of stipend, the author has omitted the stipend from Bal-
caskie, The following is the actual grain stipend :

                            Qr. B. P. L.             Qr. B. P.

    Abercrombie,    Barley, 32  3  1  1        Oats,  4  5  1 1/2

    Balcaskie               28  7  3  0              28  7  3


