
318                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

of a lippie of meal, and two-twelfths of a lippie of barley of aug-
mentation, with one penny Sterling money, stipend.  Three noble-
men have estates in the parish; but none of them reside or have
houses in it.  The Duke of Montrose, who has still a good
estate in the moorlands, is superior of an extensive tract. Lord
Abercrombie has a small, but very valuable estate in the Carses.
The Earl of Dunmore's landed property in this parish is of great
extent; and his residence, Dunmore Park, is in our immediate
vicinity.  The greatest landed proprietors, are, Mr Murray of
Touchadam and Polmaise, and Mr Ramsay of Sauchie, in this
parish, and of Barnton in Mid-Lothian, and Lord Dunmore. Next
to them are Touch, the Hospital of Stirling, Carnock, Craigforth,
Plean, Auchintowie, Throsk, East and West Greenyards.
   Parochial Registers.--The oldest parochial register is that of
births and baptisms, commencing at 1643, and continued down-
wards with a blank betwixt 1711 and 1717. Proclamation of
banus, at 1688, has two blanks, viz. from 1719 to 1725, and from
1754 to 1774.
   The session records, down to 1838, are contained in ten volumes
folio. The first volume now in existence commences November
1653; but there is part of a minute, dated 1608, and two extracts
from a former volume, 1631 and 1639, are entered anew under
1699, in which John Drummond of CarDock and Skeock grants
right to certain seats to John Rollo of Bannockburn.  James
Edmonstone was minister. The record 1653 commences witb,
"This day the session being frequentlie, i.e. fully convened," but
often immediately after the date, it is "compeared" such and
such persons.  No sederunt is marked till 1660, nor any mention
made of prayers, though probably offered up, either at the open-
ing or close, till after the Revolution. But though modern forms
were not observed, much business was transacted. From 1653 to
1750, with few exceptions, there were from twenty-four to thirty
meetings of session in the year. The minister and elders exercised
most extensive powers, both in passing acts, and in punishing delin-
quents. Besides licentious persons, drunkards, Sabbath-breakers,
and slanderers, they took cognizance of those guilty of theft preva-
rication or perjury, of scolding and railing. Severe enactments are
made against those that "haunt public-houses, that do not keep,
tbe kirk, and the examinations,"-but idle persons,such as vagrants,
vagabonds, and sturdy beggars, and also "those that resett them,"
are objects of their highest displeasure. Nor was it merely by


