
   944                           FIFESHIRE.
  
   to run her ashore among Kilminning rocks, where she went to.
   pieces. Providentially no lives were lost.
      Beside the lighthouses, there are comfortable lodgings for the
   keepers and their families, and excellent accommodation for the'
   Commissioners when they may visit the island. The only inba.
   bitants are the persons connected with the lighthouses; but there
   are generally also a number of pilots from various quarters look.
   ing out, for ships, and the old light tower is fitted up for their ac-
   commodation.
      Hydrography.-There are no lakes or rivers in this parish, yet
   there is a plentiful supply of excellent water from the springs
   which are everywhere to be found, and from a few burns which
   meander here and there. At one time there was a loch of Sypsies,
   covering six or eight acres of ground; but, since the beginning of
   the present century, it has been drained, and the soil is now under
   cultivation.
      Climate.-The nature of the soil, and the position of the country
   at the junction of the Forth with the ocean, combine to render
   the climate particularly pure and healthful. The public roads,
   and the streets and walks of the town, are almost always dry, for
   no sooner does the rain fall, than it is absorbed and lost in the
   soil, or flows away into the sea. The spring is, no doubt, often
   rendered chill and unpleasant by a haar which sets in from the
   east during the months of April and May. The wind continuing
   in that quarter sometimes for weeks together,  brings with it a
   dense vapour, which spreads over the country for several miles,
   thus rendering the east coast not so agreeable as the west at that.
   period of the year; yet, though such weather be unpleasant to
   the feelings, and sometimes leads delicate persons to remove to a
   more inland situation, it does not seem to retard vegetation, or to
   be very prejudicial to animal health. Every species of crop ad-
   vances to maturity as speedily as in almost any district of the
   country . The arbutus and similar trees often ripen their berries;
   the jessamine flowers on houses along the streets ; and, fuscbias
   not only withstand the winter in open ground, but, on returning
   spring, may be found budding at a height of four and five feet
   from the ground. indeed, unless upon extraordinary occasions,
   the labour of the husbandman has been, for a number of years,
   but little interrupted either by frost or snow. Bestial of all kinds
   thrive, well and fatten rapidly.  Among cattle, murrain prevailed
   pretty extensively last year, but with very few deaths and this

