
     Statistical Account

is 1035 families, and 4534 souls, which is nearly 4 1/2 to a fa-
mily.  The return to Dr Webster, from this parish, being
6306, fully proves to what an extent depopulation has been
carried.
   The annual average of baptisms, for the last 7 years, is,
by the register, but 89.  At least 15 more may be added,
to supply the deficiencies in the register, or those baptised
by sectaries.  The annual average of marriages, for the same
period is 33.  No accurate state of burials can be given*.

   Stipend,-The stipend victual of the parish of Elgyn to
each minister, (it is a collegiate charge,) should amount, by
the decreet in 1714, to 104 bolls of bear, but the actual
payments are only 103 bolls 2 pecks.  The money stipend
to each, is L. 49, 9 s.  Sterling, but in this are included L. 6,
as the rent of half of the glebe, and L. 2, 2 s. as his share of
the rent of the ground for a manse and garden.  But from
this sum is to be deduced 11 s. 1 d. as the vicarage of the
college, which does not now exist.  There is no manse,
though the ground for building on, had been set apart, with
a suitable garden.  The Crown is patron of both livings.
The congregation in the parish church, is numerous and

<FOOTNOTE>

*In 1643, a Mr Douglas, town-clerk of Elgyn, by order, and at fight of
the magistrates, and upon their credit, attests, that, by the rolls at their mu-
tuie, there were only aucht score, (one hundred and sixty) able bodied men,
fit for bearing arms in the town, and to pass six months, in such business; and
of these only fourscore could be furnished, with muscaths, pickes, gunnis,
balberds, densaixes, or Lochaber aixes.  This bears, to be taken up, by the
direction and warrant of the Committee of Estates.  There is another attes-
tation in 1645, sighed by the same Douglas, and the Provost and Council
of Elgyn, that bears there were only fourscore sensible men within the
burgh, many having fled from the town, for fear of their enemies.  In this
attestation, the Provost, after his name, adds Provost of Helgeyne.


