
     of Edzell.

   Natural Productions.-The water of the North Esk has
obviously a petrifying quality; because the rocks through,
which it runs are of all degrees of consistene, from sand in
the very first stage of concretion, to stones of sufficient hard-
ness for all the purposes of ruble building.  There is also a
lime-quarry, to which all the tenants of the proprietor have
right.  It has been of some service for a long course of years;
but the difficulty of procuring fuel to burn the lime-stones,
is a bar in the way of its being very extensively useful.  There
are still many spots of natural birch.  But there is not a
doubt this parish once abounded with fine oak and beech, as
stately trees are often found in the mosses.  There is a tradi-

<FOOTNOTE>

(reguli de Glenesk) were engaged.  After coming to the posses-
sion of Edzell, their power surpassed that of any other family
in the county.  One of this family, about the beginning of last
century, built a small castle, called Auchmull, in this parish, and
another, called Innermask, in Lochlie, as lurking holes, while
he was forced to skulk several years for the murder of Lord
Spynie.  One of them succeeded his cousin, Earl Crawfurd,
who had disinherited his own son; but the honours and estate
afterwards reverted to the natural heir.  The last of this family
left the country about 1714, having greatly degenerated from
the martial character of his progenitors, and afterwards died in
the north of Scotland, or in Orkney, in poverty and wretched-
ness.  This family, like other powerful chieftains, possessed the
power of life and death upon their estate.  The place of execu-
tion still retains its name.
   In two different parts, appear those monuments of antiquity
commonly named Druidical temples.  Two of these are found at
Colindie, considerably up the glen, within a few yards of one
another.  They consist of tall upright stones, inclosing elliptical
spaces; the largest about 45 feet by 36, the smallest somewhat
less.  There is in one the appearance of a small portico or en-
trance.  They must be of very great antiquity; because the
stones of which they are formed, though exceedingly hard in,
consistence, are yet hollowed and wasted away by the weather.
Several miles further south, at Dalbogg, is a third, but not so
entire as the two former.  The ground on which they stand is
considerably elevated.


