
128	                      RENFREWSHIRE.

<TABLE>
      Grain of all kinds,    .       .      L. 5449  4  0
      Potatoes, turnips, &c.,	      .      .   2955  0  0
      Hay    .       .        .      .         1299  0  0
      Pastures,     .       .        .     .    867  0  0
      Dairy,   .       .       .       .       2500  0  0
      Woods,       .       .       .      .     150  0  0
      Peat,	      .       .       .      .      400  0  0
					             --------------
                                           L. 13620  4  0

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Markets.-The principal markets for the sale of grain are those
of Paisley and Glasgow, the former three miles, and the latter se-
ven miles distant at the nearest point.  The produce of the dairy
is disposed of in Paisley.
   Villages.-There are only two villages, if they can be so called,
the larger of them containing six houses, with the average number
of two families accommodated in each house.
   Means of Communication.-The high road from Glasgow to
Greenock intersects the length of the parish.  Two good roads
communicate with Paisley.  Two bridges, one called Inchinnan
bridge, the other Barnsford bridge, supersede the fords or ferries of
former times.  Water-carriage is principally adopted in importing
manures from the towns.  Formerly a mail-coach and stage-coaches
passed to and from Glasgow and Greenock through Inchinnan
daily, but steam has banished them all.  The post is conveyed by a
gig, which takes a somewhat circuitous route for the accommodation
of Paisley, and the letters for Renfrew (where the head post-office
formerly was) are conveyed to it by a runner.  Farmers now sel-
dom walk or ride to market.  A coach, which starts for Glasgow
from Renfrew on all the other lawful days, is employed on Thurs-
day (the market day of Paisley) in conveying them and their brethren
of the adjoining parish to that town.
   Ecclesiastical State.-That a religious establishment of some
kind existed at Inchinnan, in remote times, is not to be question-
ed, although it may be prudent not to give implicit credence to
all the averments of the Scottish historians.  According to them,
Saint Convallus, * a disciple of St Kentigern, taught Christianity

<FOOTNOTE>It may be worthy of remark, that in former times, a stone called Saint Conal-
lie's stone, stood near to the ancient ford of Inchinnan, on the Renfrew side of the
river.  The said stone, as appears from the records of the burgh of Paisley, was the
starting point of a horse race for a silver bell, instituted by the bailies and council in
the year 1620.  According to the late Mr Motherwell (see his notes to Renfrewshire
Characters, and Scenery, a Poem, Part I.) the above stone, now called Argyle's stone,
as marking the spot where the Marquis of Argyle was taken, was the pediment of a
cross erected to the memory of Saint Convallus, near to the site of his cell, and which
cross might at once serve to indicate the ford, and remind the traveller to invoke the
saint's protection, or to thank him for his preservation.  As to Saint Convallus him-


