
680                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

   University Library.-This library owed its commencement to a
donation of books made by Mr Clement Little, advocate, to the
town-council, for the benefit of the citizens, in 1580.  When the
college was founded, some years afterwards, the books were con-
signed to this institution; and thus became the nucleus of the
present extensive collection.  Until the new copyright act
passed a few years since, this library, along with the other
university libraries of Britain, received a copy of each book enter-
ed at Stationers' Hall.  This privileges now, however, abolished,
and the expenses of the library are supplied from a payment of
L.575, made in lieu from the public funds, from part of the matri-
culation and graduation funds, and from a fee of L.5 payable by
each of the professors on his induction.  The matriculation fee is L.1.
   The library apartments are in the south side of the quadrangle.
The great hall on the upper floor is 198 feet long by 50 feet
wide, and forms a magnificent room, of chaste design and elegant
proportions.  The books are arranged in double cases, projecting
from the sides of the room, but in such a form as not to impair
the symmetry and beauty of the apartment.  A collection of pic-
tures and bronzes, the gift of Sir James Erskine of Torry, to the
university was, till lately, also arranged here, but has now been
transferred to the Royal Institution buildings on the Mound.
Books are given out to all students who apply for them, on the
production of their matriculation ticket, and the temporary depo-
sit of L.1, for which a receipt is granted.  The library contains
about 100,000 volumes in theology, science, and general literature.
   The library contains some ancient historical documents, and a
beautiful MS. in vellum of Fordoun's Scotichronicon.  There is
a separate theological library appropriated to the students of di-
vinity, and supported by a matriculation fee of 10s.
   In consequence of an arrangement with the College of Sur-
geons in 1764, that body joined their library to that of the uni-
versity; and on this account, and on the payment of L.5 per an-
num, which is now increased to L.20, the members of the College
of Surgeons claim free access to the library, and have the privilege
of taking out books.


