
     Of Kirkmichael.

beautiful purple dye.  It is called in the Gaelic, crottal, from
crot, a bunch, and eil, a rock.  He erected a manufacture of
it at Leith.  At that place, in 1765, the inventor died, much
regretted; while his mind was teeming with various and ori-
ginal projects for the improvement of his country*.

     3 K 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*As a contrast to the above gentleman, may be mentioned James and Tuim,
or James of the Hill.  His real name was Grant, and the nephew of Grant of
Carron, a gentleman of property.  While a very young man, he committed
manslaughter at Elgin.  Being rigorously prosecuted, he betook himself to the
hills and woods of this country for shelter.  From that wandering kind of life
to which necessity had reduced him, he soon became noted for address, strata-
gem, activity, and those talents that are the result of the school of adversity.
In consequence of the success attending some of his solitary adventures, a band
of desperadoes belonging to this parish, attached themselves to his fortunes; un-
der his conduct, they became the terror of the surrounding countries, till at
length embracing a wider range, their lawless depredations drew the attention
of the parliament of Scotland.  A considerable reward was offered for appre-
hending him.  A gentleman of the name of Macintosh undertook the atchieve-
ment.  By corrupting the landlord of an inn, which James an Tuim frequent-
ed, he expected to accomplish his purpose; but an hour or two before the
time conceited for the pertidy, such was the intelligence of the freebooter, that
he came with his party to the house, forced away the landlord, and hung him
to an apple-tree, that marked the march of the contiguous parish.  There is a
letter full extant at Castle-Grant, written by the Privy Council, thanking the
laird of that name for having apprehended him.  Imprisoned in the castle of
Edinburgh, his wonted presence of mind did not desert him.  His wife came
to visit him in his confinement, and brought a kit full of ropes with her, cover-
ing the surface with butter.  By the aid of this machinery, James an Tuim made
his escape.  He went over to Ireland, where having killed one of the most for-
midable freebooters of that country, Lord Antrim, as a reward, procured him
a pardon from the Crown; and having returned to this country, he died a na-
tural death.  Such frequently is the exit of the profugate, as well as the virtu-
ous, with respect to this world.  A stanza is still recited in this country, de-
scriptive of his character, according to the standard of excellence that prevail-
ed at the time.

     'Ta mo ghradh's thar gach duinne
      Air Sheimas an Tuim',


