
646                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

the magnificent arch of the Regent Bridge and the buildings of
Waterloo Place were erected, together with the Calton Jail.
The Regent Bridge was founded in 1815, and opened for the
first time in 1819, when the present King of Belgium, the Prince
Leopold, made his entry by it into Edinburgh.
The extension of the Now Town made very rapid progress for
several years.  The streets to the north of Heriot Row were built,
the Royal Circus, Moray Place, the streets on Raeburn's grounds,
Stockbridge, and lastly the Royal and Regent Terraces on the
Calton Hill.  Besides these streets, several churches and other
public buildings were erected during the same period.
In 1826 a plan was suggested for opening up a communication
with the Old Town towards the south, in a line with Bank Street
and the Earthen Mound.  An act of Parliament was procured for
this purpose, assessing the inhabitants and proprietors of houses to
defray the expense.  In 1827 a number of old houses were pulled
down on the south side of the Castle Hil, and the foundation of
George IV.  Bridge laid.  This bridge spans the Cowgate; and
consists of ten arches.  An approach was also opened up and a
bridge built on the south-west side of the Castle Hill.
The Dean Bridge, consisting of four lofty arches, of ninety-six
feet span each, leads across the Water of Leith to the new sub-
urbs of the Dean.
It was now found, however, that the building of houses had gone
on faster than the increase of population warranted; and since
1827, very little extension of the city or suburbs has taken place.
As a necessary consequence, also, of over production, a considerable
decrease of house rents occurred; and thus a further discourage-
ment was given to improvements, so that several of the newer
streets remain yet incompleted.
On the whole, however, the architectural operations and im-
provements in Edinburgh during the last half century rival, both
in extent and beauty, those of any other city in the kingdom;
and reflect no less credit on the public enterprise of the inha,
bitants, than on the taste and science of the architects employed.
Territorial Extent.-Edinburgh is divided into the Old and
New Towns.  All that portion of the city which lies to the south
of the hollow, formerly occupied by the North. Loch, and now
constituting the Princes Street Gardens, belongs to the former, -
while the latter comprehends all the streets to the north of the
same.


