
6	                 DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

ceived with every demonstration of loyalty; and in return, he pre-
sented the Incorporated Trades of the burgh with a small silver gun,
to be awarded from time to time to the best marksman amongst their
number. From this date, the annals of the town present nothing
worthy of record till the year 1706, when the inhabitants displayed
their opposition to the Union with England by burning the Articles,
together with the names of the Commissioners, at the market-cross.
Upon the breaking out of the rebellion, however, in 1715, they
evinced the greatest loyalty towards the reigning family; for hear-
ing that Viscount Kenmore, at the head of a considerable body of
insurgents, purposed to march upon the town, they so completely
fortified it by a rampart where it was unprotected by the river, and
presented so determined and warlike an attitude, that the rebels
judged it most expedient to alter their line of march. But in 1745,
a party of Dumfrisians having annoyed the rebel army in its march
southwards, the town was severely dealt with upon the return of
those lawless intruders, who, not satisfied with levying the excise, im-
posect upon the inhabitants a fine of L. 2000 Sterling, and 1000
pairs of shoes. Before, however, more than L.1100 of the sum had
been paid, a false alarm of the approach of the Duke of Cumber-
land having been given, Prince Charles and his army hastily aban-
doned the town, carrying with them Provost Corbet, and Mr Rid-
dell of Glenriddell, as hostages, to ensure payment of the remain-
der.
        Eminent Characters.-The Rev. William Veitch, who suffered
much during the struggles betwixt Presbytery and Episcopacy, and
of whose life an account has been published by Dr M'Crie, was, for
some time after the Revolution, minister of Dumfries. His pulpit
Bible is at present in the possession of a relation who resides here.
	The poet Burns spent the latter part of his life in Dumfries, and
his ashes rest in the burying-ground attached to St Michael's
Church.
        Cholera.-In 1832, Dumfries was visited with Indian or spas-
modic cholera, and experienced its effects with more than ordinary
severity; on which account some notice may here be allowed of the
progress of the disease in this place.
	The first case occurred on the 15th of September, and ter-
minated fatally in a few hours. Two other similar cases occur-
red next day, although no personal communication had taken
place with the individual first attacked. In the course of the en-
suing week, several others were seized; but still the inhabitants


