
     Of Mid-Calder.

   It behoves us to rejoice, that we live in happier times,
when the darkness of error is fast giving way to the 
light of reason, truth, and science.  As this darkness is
removed, so will those opinions, prejudices, and spectres
die, to which ignorance and credulity gave birth.  I
cannont say, that the belief in witchcraft has entirely left 
the people in this parish; but it appears to have little
influence either on their lives or their conduct.  While 
some give no credit to it at all, but impute the whole 
of it to delusion, the most general opinion among the 
common people, is, that it did formerly prevail; but
they are convinced, that the power of the gospel has now
put it to flight.  May the human mind daily increase in 
wisdom, and assert more and more its native dignity, till
it rise superior to folly, superstition, and vice!

<FOOTNOTE>

knowledge themselves guilty, they inflicted torments upon a friend, a hus-
band, or even a darling infant; adding the most exquisite sensibility of 
mind to the acutest pains of the body, and thus compelling them to say 
any thing which their enemies desired; as in that situation they must 
have preferred death, however dreadful, to a life of misery and despair-
But among those who were tried for witchcraft, we may believe, that 
many supposed, and were convinced, that they were in prossession of its
power.  The same spirit of credulity, which led people, in general, at
that time, to believe in witchcraft, would induce some of the weaker
sort to imagine, that they were endued with the art.  Those who dealed 
in witchcraft used enchantments; and among the variety which they em-
ployed, it is more than probable, that some of those things which they
had a with to accomplish, really took place in the common course of 
events.  When an instance or two of this happened, they were as 
firmly of opinion, that it was done by their power, as the few who, in
distant places, even yet pretend to charms, are fully persuaded, that, by
these means, they can prevent disasters, or cure diseases.


