
46                         BANFFSHIRE.

   There ig a daily stage-coach to and from Aberdeen, and to and
from Elgin; and a daily mail-coach to and from Peterhead; an
open car also runs daily between Huntly and Banff; a coach twice
a-week between Keith and Banff; occasionally there have been
others. All the mails (except to Peterhead) are conveyed by gigs
or foot-posts.
   The Doveran is passed, near the town, by a handsome and sub-
stantial stone bridge of seven semicircular arches, having a free
water-way of 142 yards length. The parapets and abutments are
of freestone. The bridge was built at the expense of Government
in 1779. The burn of Boyndie, on the west of the parish, is pas-
sed by a stone bridge of two arches. Both these bridges are in
complete repair. Lower down on the burn of Boyndie, and where
it is crossed by the old road, is another bridge of two arches. Along
the whole line of the turnpike roads in the parish are substantial
stone fences or hedges.
   Harbour.- The harbour of Banff is situated at the western ex-
tremity of a circular bay, at the opposite extremity of which is the
town and harbour of Macduff. The two extremities of the bay are
rocky. The middle of it is a beach of sand and shingle cast up by
the meeting of the river Doveran with the sea. The mouth of the
river is sometimes at one, sometimes at another, part of this beach,
but is most cornmonl near the land, and along the roadway lead-
ing from the town of Banff to the harbour.
   The old or inner harbour (completed in the year 1775) is a tri-
angular space enclosed within two piers and the land, the entrance
being at the exterior angle facing the N. N. E. In 1816, how-
ever, a new pier and break-water covering the old entrance was con-
structed to the north of the old harbour, and a basin formed in the
intervening space, according to a plan furnished by the late Mr Tel-
ford. The expense of these improvements amounted to about
L. 18,000, one-half of which was furnished by Government out of
the proceeds of the forfeited estates. Unfortunately the new basin
was found not to be a safe haven, as was sufficiently proved by the
circumstance of vessels being wrecked when fairly moored within it.
It has since, too, been almost filled up with sand, an increase of
which it has also been the means of creating in the old harbour.
Still the new pier has been of considerable use in several respects.
It prevents all swell and agitation in the old harbour, which is now
perhaps the safest artificial haven in the Moray Frith. It also af-
fords some additional facilities for bringing vessels in or out. It is


