
                           OYNE.                        641

   As there have been no actual measurements of the surface of
Benochee, which is reckoned a royal forest or commonty, with
certain rights, granted by charters to neighbouring properties, the
above must be held as only an approximation to the superficial
contents of the parish.  The valued rent is L.2300, 13s. 4d.
Scots, the real rental not less than L.3000 Sterling, consisting
chiefly of money, with small proportions of farm meal, bear, and
oats, by the county fiars, or payable in kind, as minister's stipend,
&c. &c.  There are five farms let at more than L.100 of yearly
rent, sixteen farms above L.50 yearly, and the rest from L.20 to
L.40 yearly, besides numerous crafts of a few acres, under L.10.
The rate for outfield land varies from 10s. to L.1 per acre, impe-
rial; that for old infield or croft land is about L.2 per acre, and
some of it above L.3 yearly; and the latter having been enriched
(under the old system of tillage), for many years in succession,
with the whole manure produced on the farm, is found cheaper
than much of the outfield, though let at double or even triple the
rent; there being a much greater surplus of produce left for other
uses, after paying the higher rent, than from the poor field lands
after deducting the lower rent, with seed and labour.  The graz-
ing of cattle is rarely charged by the head, but when it is, the ex-
pense may be reckoned at 15s. for a year old beast; L.1, 10fs. for
a two year old; and L.2, 10s. for a three year old stot, during the
five months from June to October inclusive.  Grass parks are
let principally by the proprietors in the district, who keep many of
their fields in perennial grass, which bring from L.3 to L.4 per acre.
   Live-Stock.-The number of black-cattle kept in the parish
may be rated at about 1200; horses of all kinds and ages, 200.
But the number of sheep is much diminished since the last Statis-
tical Account was given; for at that time most of the wearing ap-
parel and bed-clothes used in the country was of native grown
wool, and home manufacture,-coarse in the fabric but very dura-
ble; hence almost every farmer and tenant kept a small flock of
sheep, pastured in the hill, which was common to all; and though
the flesh of these brought them little gain, the pasture was cheap,
and the aggregate fleeces were valuable.  But now, very little
home-made cloth is used, excepting coarse blankets; and propor-
tionally few sheep are kept in the hill,-not above 400 in all,
with Perhaps 100 of a larger kind, kept on tether, in the fields, of
finer wool, and for better purposes; thougb the mutton of the lat-
ter is much inferior to the former when equally fed.
  ABERDEEN.                                    S S


