
186                      RENFREWSHIRE.

   7 August 1705.-"The said day they have by plurality of votes
allowed to Mr George Elen, master of the grammar school, and
Mr James Alexander, Doctor, twenty pounds Scots, towards the
defraying of the expenses of their acting of Bellum Grammaticale,
and also for their furder encouragement, promise to erect ane theatre
on yr own expence."
   Police Establishment.-It is not necessary to trace the mode of
management adopted by the rulers of this ancient burgh, with re-
gard to police, farther back than 1695.  At that period the popu-
lation of the town and Abbey parish amounted to 4375 persons,
of which number there.  were in the burgh about 2200.  In the
year 1806, when the police act was obtained, the population
was 35,000, and now, in 1837, it appears that there are in the
town and parish about 60,000, and within the range of the police,
which extends one English mile in every quarter and direction, be-
yond the marches or boundaries of the burgh or burgh lands, and
territories "so called or known,"-50,000.
   Previous to the union of Scotland and England in 1707, it ap-
pears from the records of the burgh, and the peculiarity of some of
its usages, that the inhabitants were more regulated by the autho-
rity of the magistrates and council, and by the pastors of the pa-
rish, and their consistory or session, than by the King and Parlia-
ment; and that the municipal and moral regulations were varied
according to the circumstances in which they were placed.  Before
this period, many of the great heritors of the county bad their win-
ter residences in Paisley.  The Abbey with its numerous ecclesi-
astics, during the continuance of the Popish system, and even after
its erection into a temporal lordship, attracted the gentlemen of
the county to reside a part of the year in the town or its vicinity.
About the beginning of last century, there happened to be a con-
siderable number of weavers in the place, distinguished for inge-
nuity and skill in their several departments.  After the union, a
connesxon with our southern neighbours, induced some of the in-
habitants to commence linen cloth for sale.  They soon after em-
ployed a number of their females to spin cotton yarn; of which,
they made Bengals, or incitation of muslins.  They likewise com-
menced a manufacture of handkerchiefs ; afterwards of lawns ; and
at a later period of linen gauzes.  The inerease of population and
of manufactures was accompanied with the increase of crimes and
bracnh of police was at first had recourse to occationallu, when it


