
		          ROSENEATH.                            127

longitudinally stretching from Portkill to Pattown, along the farm-
steadings of the west, verv much facilitates all intra-parochial com-
munication. An additional line bisecting the ridge between Kilcraigin
and Mamore would afford a more direct access to the Row ferry,
and the church from the Loch Longside farms, and contribute to the
comfort of a very considerable portion of the population.
   From the position of the parish, our extra-parochial communi-
cation is chiefly by water, for which since the use of steamers, there
are abundant facilities. Not many years ago, an open packet
boat from the Row and Kilcraigin ferries was the ordinary mode of
conveyance to Greenock; often against wind and tide would hours
be spent in crossing the frith; now, there are two or three steam-
boats at all seasons, and in summer, arrivals and departures at the
Gareloch ferry seven or eight times a day. At all times, by the
row-boat, passengers can cross the Gareloch for the interior to the
east. The channel of the ferry, at low water certainly not more
than one-sixth, widens, with the return of the tide, to upwards of
half a mile.
   Of late years, a daily penny post subsidiary to Helensburgh, has
been added to our means of communication. It was established
on the condition that, although arriving on the Sabbath, no bag
should be made up or dispatched as on other days. Its time has
rather varied. At present, it arrives at twelve and departs at half-
past two.
   Ecclesiastical State.--In the twelfth century Rosneath was a
parsonage, the patronage of which belonged to the Earl of Len-
nox. The territory which the name then included, with the pa-
tronage of the church, Amelec, a younger son of Allwyn, Earl of
Lennox, obtained for his patrimony in 1225, granting the church
with all its pertinents in perpetual alms to the monastery of Paisley.
By an agreement in 1227, between the Bishop of Glasgow and
Abbot of Paisley, the monks of that abbey were allowed to appro-
priate the church of Roseneatb, and it continued in their possession
till the Reformation. They enjoyed the whole of the revenue, and
employed a curate to perform divine service.
   At the Reformation, the revenue was let by the Abbot for L. 146,
13s. 4d. per annum; and in 1587 the patronage and tithes, then
held by Lord Claud Hamilton for life, as commendator of Paisley,
were granted to him and his heirs for ever, along with the other
property of the monastery, now inherited by the Marquis of Aber-


