
340                        RENFREWSHIRE.

the old mountahnous one by the south of the village, which cost
little; but this new one cost the trustees, in taking it up the Le-
vern to Loch-Libo, about L.. I t,000. This road is almost a com-
plete level, and passes through a very pleasant country. The
bridges are i ' n number 22, and are all kept in excellent repair by
the diligent and faithful surveyor of them, Mr Thomas Anderson,
post-master of Neilston.
Though the cess-money amounts to L. 500 a-year, yet the debt
on the parish roads is 1,. 130. This arises from the excellent state
in which they are kept. So late as the year 1770, there was scarce-
ly a road in this parish. Every kind of raw material, such as grain
of all sorts, lime, coal,,, or the produce of the dairy, had to be car-
ried on horses' backs. In taking the produce of farms ' to Glas-
gow, two days were occupied,,one in going and the other in re-
turning. Except in the drought of summer, or the hard frosts of
winter, the people in the moorland districts got neither to kirk
iior market; for the parish roads were impassable, and then there
were no turnpikes. Indeed, till about the year 1790, there were
only three turnpike roads in all this county; and these, by being
carried over billy and rough courses, were very tedious and unplea-
sant, and often unsafe to travel on. All this, however, has happily
been done away with; and Renfrewshire can now boast of roads
and footpaths equal to any in the kingdom.
As yet, there are neither canals nor railways in the -parish; but
if, thepresent mania. for railways go on, we sball probably have one
from Ayr, Troon, Kilmarnock, and Irvine, running through the
whole le -ngth of the parish. Nature has pointed it out, and come it
must some day, instead of the proposed circuitous route by Dalry'
l,ochwinnoch and Paisley. From Irine to Cilasgow, it is almost as
SirLigbt as the crow flies, and without a hill; and from the Troon
to Irvine, it is a dead level. Nothing can be more direct, if it be
wished to 'unite Glasgow with the west coast. - Before travel-
1,6rs from Ayr, Troon, Killarnock, or IrvineL could.be at Loch-
winnoch by the proposed railways they would be in Glasgow.
,  To f=ilitate communication, there am two post-office., one in
N,eil sion, and the other at Barrbead, yielding annually to the re-
venue about I- 160, independently of the twopenny-post lettersi
Wfi'en the post-offic44 was -first established in, Neilston, its arrival;
arid'de4wrtures.were only thrice a-vveek, on the Tuesdavs Thurs-
days, &md Saturdays. Now it is an every-day post here, as well as
in,Bai-rhead.


