
   			  KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                       3

summit by paths at distances of less than a yard, formed by cat-
tle,or sheep feeding around their sides. They yield abundant
shelter as well as food, and might, be subjected to the operations
of the plough, were it not that their inconvenient forms would
greatly increase the labour of tillage. There are other eminences
of greater magnitude than these productive hillocks. They are
called Drums in the language of the country, but their soil is of
inferior quality. It consists of a poor shallow surface resting up-
on a bed of tilly clay. This forms what agriculturists call a re-
tentive bottom; and is cold, wet, and uncongenial, and difficult of
improvement. Among these varieties of surface, there exist large
tracts of excellent arable land, consisting of a light friable mould
upon a sharp gravelly subsoil. These are regularly ploughed and
make good returns to the farmer. There are also some, although
not extensive, meadows yielding annually abundant natural crops
of what is called "bog hay," which is carefully stored for winter
fodder. Upon the whole, though by far the larger portion of the
parish may be considered arable, and in reality is subjected to a
rotation of crops, yet it seems to be acknowledged that the nature
of the soil is more suitable for grazing, and that the chief cause of
the resent large extent of tillage is the necessity for providing
winter provender to the cattle, the meadow grounds being inade-
quate to supply a sufficiency of food for their sustenance.
	Climate, &c--The climate of this parish is mild. The pre-
vailing winds are from the south and southwest. There are often
heavy, and sometimes long-continued falls of rain, and, except
during some rare summers, frequent showers. Indeed, the soil in
general cannot bear a continuance of drought without exhibiting
its injurious effects upon vegetation. Although the atmosphere,
especially in the winter and spring months, is not unfrequently
charged with moisture, and the town which stands but a very lit-
tle above the level of the sea, on the brink of the river, is subject
to fogs, yet the parish is generally healthy. Colds, rheumatism.
and consumption are probably the most prevalent disorders, but
typhus occasionally breaks out, though seldom with much violence.
	Rivers, Streams, &c.--The only river connected with the parish
of Kirkcudbright is the river Dee,-Deva of the Romans. This
river consists of three united streams, namely, the Deugh, the
Ken, and the Dee, with their several tributaries; and it is curi-
ous to remark, that the two former have been deprived of their


