
			       KIRRIEMUIR.                        183

brown linen, introduced into the country after the Rebellion in 1745.
It is supposed that not fewer than 3000 individuals are engaged
in it, and that the number of webs woven may be 52,000 per an-
num, containing 6,760,000 yards. This trade has increased three-
fold since the beginning of the century. From November 1798 to
November 1799, there were stamped 1,814,874 yards, and from
November 1799 to November 1800, 1,846,516 yards. There is
no peculiarity in the mode of conducting this manufacture; the
manufacturers being all practical tradesmen, are well qualified to
judge of the work when executed; and the fabrics being few in
number, the work is both well and expeditiously done. This ma-
nufacture, when flourishing, has certainly afforded a fair remune-
ration and support to those engaged in it, but for several years past
it has not done so to those who have pursued it on a small scale.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--The only market-town is Kirriemuir; from which
the parish takes its name. It is a burgh of royalty of great anti-
quity, whose baron, the Lord Douglas, the representative of a fa-
mily long the most powerful in Scotland, enjoys a fixed jurisdic-
tion, both civil and criminal, which he may exercise by himself
or his deputy. Before the abolition of hereditary jurisdiction in
Scotland, his powers were exceedingly extensive, in virtue of
which, "per fossam et furcam," that is, drowning in a ditch or
pool, or by suspending on a gallows, he could punish all per-
sons guilty of certain crimes, from the Law of Dundee to the
Grampian mountains. If he imposed fines on criminals, he was
allowed to appropriate them to himself. Mr Wood is said to
have been the last deputy who exercised the power of life and
death. For some goods stolen, he condemned and executed two
individuals, Walker and Rob by name, and seized on their pro-
perty; and it is generally said, that avarice influenced him as much
as a sense of justice. The functionaries who succeeded Mr Wood
seem to have conducted themselves with propriety,--the most of
them keeping "brewseats;" and, as there is "more law in good
ale than in any in Westminster-hall," the lieges were accustomed,
under their auspices, to make up their disputes under a quaich of
their favotrite beverage. Since 1748, the bailie can judge in no
civil actions where the debt or damage exceeds forty shillings Ster-
ling; and in cases of assault, battery, and minor offences, he can
impose a fine not exceeding twenty shillings Sterling, or set the de-


