
         54                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

         face of nature be remarkably bland and sweet, and, especially, if
         in the afternoon, a certain sunny softness seem to sleep on the land-
         scape, or if the hamlet's smoke rise in long straight pillars, a very
         heavy fall of rain is likely to take place before the close of next
         day.  So also at night, when the galaxy is vivid and strongly de-
         fined, and the stars are twinkling with a sickly lustre, a similar
         sequence may be expected.
           The splendid meteor, or Draco volans of 1783, was distinctly seen
         and carefully observed by the writer of this account, while it sailed
         in superb majesty over the town and neighbourhood of Dumfries,
         with a tremendous length of train, (longo tractu, a tergo albes-
         cente!) and while it moved equably in a S. E. direction, sinking
         at last from view towards the mouth of the river Annan, when a
         rumbling noise was heard as if some huge mass of red-hot iron had
         there fallen into the sea.
           Hydrography.--The river Nith, though it intersects a small cor-
         ner of the parish at Isle, may perhaps be said rather to form its west
         boundary than to be one of its streams.  We have several stream-
         lets or burns, however, which are generally very romantic and pic-
         turesque in their scenery, and abound in trout.  In the Duncow or
         Newlands burn there are three waterfalls, one of which, (the
         Whitehall or Glencarrick leap,) when the stream is swollen with
         heavy rains, presents a sight peculiarly striking.
         	 Geology.--On the rocky banks of some of our streams, beds or
         strata of stone are observable, generally dipping to the west.  There
         is a red freestone quarry (wrought with pick and wedges) at
         Quarrel (Quarry) wood, having its dip in the same direction; and
         there is at the same place a variety of sandstone impregnated with
         that variety of red iron ore used by the natives nf Southern Africa
         in painting their bodies and powdering their hair, which has been
         noticed by geologists.  Some white marl has been found in the
         southern parts of the parish.  Near the middle of the parish,
         in sinking for water, 60 feet of loose watery gravel were found,
         and beneath the gravel, 12 or 14 feet of very fine sand of a red
         colour, and soft as brown sugar.  The depth of this bed is not known.
         On the high grounds are often found mossy strata about six inches
         thick, then a bed of earthy gravel, after that, red till, schist,
         and decomposed slaty rocks.  A gravelly soil, inclining much to
         sand, intermixed with small round stones, is generally found on the
         braes or sloping grounds, while there is on the low lying or holm
         land an alluvial soil intimately mingled with clay, and apparently


