
418                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

was, for some time, minister of Lauder in Berwickshire; from which
he was translated to Stirling in 1648.  In 1650, he preached
against certain resolutions of the Commission of the General As-
sembly, as involving the church and nation in an approval of those,
who were disaffected to the solemnly approved and ratified eccle-
siastical establishment.  In February 1651, he was summoned by
the chancellor to appear at Perth, and answer before the King and
Committee of Estates, for the doctrine he had preached, and for a
letter he had written to the Commission of Assembly, remonstrat-
ing with them on the same subject.  On the 22d of that month
he appeared, and gave in a protestation against the authority of the
king and his Estates, to take trial of his doctrine, and to be his
judges, as to matters for which he was answerable to the ecclesi-
astical courts only; while he submitted himself to their jurisdiction
in all matters of a civil nature.  He was kept in prison at Perth, till
1he 28th of the same month; when he again appeared before the
King and the Committee of Estates, and gave in a similar protes-
tation.  At that time he was dismissed, and the matter was no
farther proceeded, with.  But, ten years afterwards, when Charles
had been restored, and the determination was adopted to crush the
Presbyterian Church, and assert the royal supremacy in all causes,
spiritual as well as civil, upon the same grounds, as well as for be-
ing, as alleged, the author of a publication entitled " The Causes
of God's Wrath," he was seized and imprisoned, and brought to
trial before the Parliament in Edinburgh.  He defended himself
with such eloquence, knowledge of law, and strength of argument,
as utterly amazed his friends, and confounded his enemies.  But
he had been the leader of the protestors; his death might strike
terror into that party, and induce them to yield; and he had
pronounced sentence of excommunication, many years before,
against the Earl of Middleton, the chancellor, for which that vin-
dictive nobleman sought to be revenged.  He was therefore found
guilty of high treason; condemned to suffer death; and hanged
on the 1st of June 1661, at the cross of Edinburgh.  In pursu-
ance of his sentence, his head having been separated from his
body, was, fixed up on the Nether-Bow Port.  After it had
remained thus a public spectacle for about twenty-seven years,
Mr AlexAnder Hamilton, then a youth at the College of Edin
burgh, took it down at the peril of his life.  Thirty-eight years
afterwards, this same Mr Alexander Hamilton succeeded him in
the ministry at Stirling; where he proclaimed the gospel from the


