
                404                        AROYLESHIRE.

      tion more to agriculture and fishing than they bad been accuses
      torned to do. And the present bolder of that property gives good
      encouragement to his tenants, by aiding them in draining and
      enclosing, the materials for which are to be bad in abundance
      almost in every field. It will not be his fault, if his tenants do
      not keep in advance of their neighbours in this quarter of the
      country.
        There are some leases of seven, others of fifteen, and three of
      nineteen years dur`tion. Short leases are certainly unfavourable
      to the tenant. In the greater number of instances, farm-steadings
      are thatched, and of an inferior description. The farms are en-
      closed by march dikes, but subdivisions are still much needed, to
      enable the tenants to preserve the land sown down with grass-
      seeds from being poached by the feet of cattle in the winter.
      The sea air is supposed to be injurious to hedges, yet there are a
      few good hedges in the island which make excellent fences, while
      they afford much shelter to crnp and cattle.
         The principal improvements which have been recently made,
      are, a new road to the mill, which cost L.250, repairing the mill,
      draining the mill dam loch to enable the people to take turf out
      of it for fuel, building two good slated farm-houses and several
      good slated farm-offices. All these improvements were made at
      the sole expense of Captain M'Neill.
        Want of capital has been a great obstacle to improvement, and
      is still. The most of the farms, too, were held by the very un-
      certain and unsatisfactory tenure of from year to year, for a con.
      siderable period of years, and while that state of things lasted, no
      considerable or expensive improvements were undertaken by the
      ten`nts.
         Fishery.-During three or four months, beginning about Can-
      dlemas, twenty boats, and sometimes more, each having four men
      in it, are employed in the cod and ling fishing, on banks two or
      three miles from the two ends of the island, towards the north-
      west and southwest. The quantity cured and sent to market
      averages about fifty tons, which is sold in Glasgow, Greenock,
      and Campbelton at from L.10 to L.14 per ton. L.10 per man,
      after paying all expenses, are considered good wages for the time
      they are engge &,at the fishing, Their families ard, at the same
      time supplied with abundance of fish and oil for their own use.
         At other seasons of the year, these men work their potato ground
      make their peats, workat days' wages, or engage in coasting ves-


