
		        RUTHERGLEN                            375

fell the unfortunate Queen Mary, immediately after her forces were
routed at the battle of Langside, has ever since continued to cha-
racterize this place with an indelible mark of opprobrium. Her Ma-
jesty during the battle stood on a rising ground about a mile and
a-half from Rutherglen. She no sooner saw her army defeated than
she took her precipitate flight to the south. Dins-Dikes unfortu-
nately lay in her way. Two rustics who were at that instant cutting
grass hard by, seeing her Majesty fleeing in haste, rudely attempt-
ed to intercept and threatened to cut her in pieces with their scythes
if she presumed to proceed a step farther. Neither beauty nor even
royalty itself can at all times secure the unfortunate when they
have to do with the unfeeling or the revengeful. Relief, however,
was at hand, and her Majesty proceeded in her flight.
	The parish of Rutherglen, of which the burgh forms a part,
extends on the south bank of the river Clyde, about 3 miles in
length, and 1 mile 2 furlongs in breadth. Clyde is the bound-
ary on the north; the parish of Govan on the west; Cathcart on
the south-west; Carmunnock on the south; and Cambuslang on
the cast. The whole is arable, and is mostly enclosed, chiefly with
thorn hedges. It lies in a pleasant situation, forming the lower
part of the declivity of Cathkin hills, and is beautifully diversified
with a regular succession of hills and narrow dales, excepting the
parts next the river, where it forms into some very fertile plains.
	There is nothing on record by which we can precisely ascertain
what was anciently the extent of Rutherglen, or the number of
houses it contained. When digging at the east end of the town,
the foundations of buildings are sometimes met with in places which
were nvver known to have been occupied by houses. One princi-
pal street, in a direction nearly east and west, and a parallel lane
called the Back Row, constitute the greatest part of the town.
The main street, which is very straight and well paved, is nearly
half a-mile in length, and is in general 112 feet broad. From botb
sides of it go off a few lanes, as the Farm Lone, School Wynd, &c.
	The plains next the river comprehend the estates of Shawfield,
Farme, Hamilton Farme, and Rosebank. Shawfield extends about
a mile in length from the town of Rutherglen to Polmadie, having
the Clyde for its boundary on the north. Sir Claud Hamilton was
laird of Shawfield in 1615. This property was adjudged to Mr
John Ellis, and other creditors of the family, about the year 1657,
and in 1695 it was conveyed by the said John Ellis to Sir Alexan-
der Anstruther of Newwark, who sold it in 1707 to Mr Daniel


