
			GLAMMISS.                              341

are also to be found, and occasionally serpentine; but granite and
other compound rocks of the immediate Grampians are very rare
	The conglomerate beds, as also those of calm, are turned to no.
practical use; and when they occur in the quarries, are thrown aside
as rubbish. The intermediate beds afford valuable build in mate-
rials of all descriptions, as well as pavement and slates, and are ex-
tensively wrought for these purposes. There is one quarry close
upon the village, long known for the excellent millstones it pro-
duce, some of which are exported: the stone having also the quality
of withstanding the effects of fire, is in much request in Dundee
and elsewhere, for oven soles.
   The beds of slate, which are thin grey flags, are in the Seidlaw
district, and have at some very remote period been very extensive-
ly wrought, both in this and the adjoining parishes, much beyond
what the wants of the immediate country, inclusive of Dundee, could
have required; it has therefore been suggested, that the old town
of Edinburgh and others in the Lothians might have had, at that
period, a supply from this quarter. These beds, by being now
wrought deeper, produce the pavement so well known by the name
of Dundee or Arbroath pavement.
	The whinstone affords excellent materials for roads, and is ex-
tensively wrought for that purpose.
	Some veins of lead ore were wrought about sixty years babk, but
were abandoned as not being worth the expense. The mines are close
upon the east end of the village, where the remains of them are still
to'be seen ; the veins cross the burn, and traverse the grey sand-
stone, and are accompanied with sulphate of barytes. Traces of car
bonate of copper are also occasionally to be met with in the trap
rocks of Seidlaw, but to no great extent.
	Shell marl is found alon the northern side of the parish, with-
in some of the mosses, and particularly in great abundance in
the loch of Forfar, which was partially drained for the purpose sixty
years ago. The drained portions having been very much exhausted,
it has for many years been dredged up from below the water, by an
apparatus attached to a boat, and many thousands of pounds of this
useful manure have been obtained out of this loch. Of late years,
however, it has-been much less in request, partly owing to the
greater part of tbe lands haring been repeatedly marled, and
partly from the depressed state of agriculture.
	Among the grey sandstone beds, impressions of plants and scales


