
		               MAYBOLE.                           373

portion of the respectable farmers, and several of the clergy of this
division of the county. Four regular meetings are held in the year,
and there are commonly two exhibitions of stock of different kinds,
when premiums, voted by the society, and two pieces of plate, an-
nually given by the Marquis of Ailsa and Sir James Fergusson of
Kilkerran, are competed for. The Society also awards premiums
for the best management of green crops, and the neatest operations
in ploughing and other field labour. Essays on subjects connect-
ed with agricultural improvements are read and discussed at the
meetings, and a grant is annually made from the funds for the pur-
chase of books, models, or new implements of husbandry. Assist-
ance is also given to members who may have fallen into poverty,
and to the families of such as may have been left in that condition.
Its affairs are altogether most judiciously managed; its meetings in
every respect most beneficial; and, notwithstanding the liberal
sums given every year for the various purposes referred to, there is
at present a capital of L. 575.

        	    V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

	Market-Town.--Maybole is a market-town. The market is
held on Thursday, and is limited to the sale of butter, eggs, and a
few of the minor articles of country produce. The grain raised in
the parish is generally taken to the town of Ayr, about nine miles
distant.
	Means of Communication.--There is a post-office in Maybole.
The length of turnpike roads is 28 miles 6 fur. 0 poles, 8 yds.
A mail-coach passes daily through the town, to and from Glas-
gow, and Port-Patrick. Two stage-coaches run twice in the week
to and from Ayr. The fences of dry-stone dikes, or more
generally of thorn and beech hedges, are in good order, and
bridges, embankments, and all connected with the public roads
are in the best condition.
	There is a sm`ll harbour at Dunure, where there are a few
fishing-boats, and where lime and bone-dust are frequently landed
in vessels, freighted by the farmers from Ireland, but it is getting
fast into a state of dilapidation, and if not soon repaired will be-
come utterly useless.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situate at the east
entrance to the town, and though extremely convenient for its in-
habitants, and those of the southern and adjacent parts of the
country parish, is still very far removed from many localities to-
wards the east and north, and more especially from the whole of


