
                 PARISH OF PEEBLES.

PRESBYTERY OF PEEBLES, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

THE REV. JOHN ELLIOT, A.M. MINISTER.

     I.-- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

   Name and Boundaries.-- In the grant made by David II. of some
of the Burgh mails, the name is spelled Peblys:  but the or-
dinary spelling in the old records is Peblis and Pebblis.  In the
oldest record belonging to the Presbytery, extending from 1596 to
1600, the name is almost uniformly written as at present, Peebles.
In the next oldest record, from 1603 to 1624, it is generally
spelled Peibles.  The author of Caledonia, after an indifferent
sarcasm against Dr Dalgliesh in the former Account, for deriv-
ing the name from "the pebbles with which the soil abounds,"
deduces it from the celtic word Pebyll, corresponding with the
Saxon word Shiels, and signifying moveable dwellings or tem-
porary encampments.  The parish is bounded on the south by Ma-
nor and Yarrow; on the west, by Lyne, Stobo, and Manor; south-
east, by Yarrow and Tranquair; east, by Innerleithen; and north, by
Eddlestone.  From east to west it extends about six miles, and
from north to south about ten; but the most southern part, stretch-
ing three or four miles into Selkirkshire, is uninhabited.  The
burgh may be considered as the centre of the parish; and none of
the inhabitants are above 31\2 miles from the parish church.  The
parish is calculated by the author of the "Companion to the Map
of Tweeddale' to contaon 18,210 acres; which calculation was
submitted to the Court of Teinds in 1821, and sustained.
     Topographical Appearances.--The general aspect of the parish
is hilly, except along the banks of the Eddlestone water and the
Tweed, on the latter of which is a vale of considerable size, com-
mencing at Peebles, and extending to the extremity of the parish
towards the east.  None of the hills rise to a great height, as in
some of the neighbouring parishes.  They are, for the most part,
grassy, exxept those towards the south, which are covered with
heather, and abound in grouse.
   PEEBLES.                               A




