
70                      CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

parish which may be noticed, Tobair Acraig,the well of Halkirk,
about a mile south-east from the church, is believed to be medi-
cinal, and partakes of the nature of chalybeate waters. The other
is at the north-west end of the Loch of Calder and is believed by
the inhabitants in its vicinity to be useful for the cure of diseases.
It is of the same nature with the one just mentioned.. It may be
observed that marl is found in the Loch of Calder, and that a
year or two ago, exertions were made, which are still persevered in,
to raise it by means of a boat having machinery attached for the
purpose. Another loch, that of Leurary, the whole bottom of
which is a bed of marl, was drained a number of years ago, and
the loch being now dry, this substance is easily obtained, and is
found very useful for agricultural purposes.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners in this parish are, Sir George
Sinclair of Ulbster, Bart. M. P. for the county; Lord Duffus;
Sir Patrick M. B. Thriepland of Fingask and Toftingal, Bart.;
James Sinclair, Esq. of Forss; Charles S. Guthrie, Esq. of Scots
Calder; Donald Horne, Esq. of Langwell; David Henderson, Esq.
of Westerdale; James Smith, Esq. of Olrig; and Adam Duff, Esq.
of Banniskirk. None of these except Mr Henderson of Wester-
dale reside in the parish.
   Parochial Register.-The old registers of this parish were de-
stroyed many years ago by some ill disposed persons. The present
ones commence with the year 1790.
   Antiquities.- One of the relics of antiquity in this parish is the
Castle of Brawl. It is situated on the north bank of the river
Thurso, which flows through the middle of a valley, long and broad,
commencing to form at the sea, and extending fully twelve miles
into the interior. A place equidistant from both the extremities
of this valley, and at which there is a peculiar winding in the
course of the river, attractive and pleasing to the eye, is the spot
chosen for this once strong and well fortified, but now ruined
haunt of ancient heroes. Under the general designathon, Castle
of Brawl are comprehended two distinct buildings, belonging to
different eras of architecture. The most ancient of these is a
tower 39 by 36 feet; and there still remain 35 feet of the height.
The walls are 9 feet thick; and in the centre of the east wall is
formed a stone stair leading to the very top of the building. In
the walls there are several recesses 2 feet and 2 feet 8 inches, in
breadth, which may contain two or three persons in a standing po-



