
472                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

land-front, and are occupied by the governor's, lieutenant governor's,
engineer officer's and chaplain's quarters; and also by the artil-
lery barracks. The barracks are constructed for 2500 troops.
The fort is also provided with a chapel, brew-house, bake-house,
and inn, and is supplied with water from eight pump-wells. The
drawbridges and main approach form an elegant and imposing
piece of workmanship." The staff-officers have gardens on the
common. A garrison library has lately been established by go-
vernment, to which the soldiers have access. At the ferry of Fort-
George, which connects the eastern part of Inverness with Ross,
and the northern counties, the steamers from London and Leith to
Inverness land and take in passengers and goods.

		      III.-POPULATION.
  A century ago Ardersier was so tbinly peopled that it was called
"the parish of six."
	   Dr Webster's return of the population amounted to    428
           By the census of the present year it is             1477
	   This number includes the garrison.
	   Yearly average of births for the last seven years,    22
                             marriages,                          12
	   No register of deaths is kept.

   There are two fatuous, one insane, and one blind person in the
parish.
   Language.-The language generally spoken in the village, which
contains three-fourths of the population of the parish, is English.
In the interior, Gaelic prevails. But, from recent changes in the
lessees of farms, and from the new occupants possessing little of
the Celtic character, it may be fairly stated, that the Gaelic has
lost, and is losing ground. It is a curious circumstance that, from
the year.1757 to 1781, during the ministrations of two incumbents,
no Gaelic was preached in the parish. On the ordination of the
Rev. P. Campbell, in the latter year, it was requested by the
peoples, and agreed to by him, that be should exhort them in the
Gaelic language.
  Of the prevailing popular customs, one may be mentioned, to
which the pencil of Wilkie has given a kind of classical celebrity
-We allude to penny weddings. These are falling into desue-
tude, except among the fishers-a class of people who possess
many habits and many superstitious observances quite peculiar to
themselves. They never intermarry out of their own tribes, and
there is an, obvious reason for this on the part of the young men,
as no other fernales would undertake the laborious out-of-door oc-


