
88                         KINCARDINESHIRE.

ed or planted. Many plantations and roads have been formed or
improved, the burns and water-courses straighted, and the farm-
houses, cottages, and steadings rebuilt or repaired, so as to be su-
perior to most in the county.
	On Pittarrow there is now no mansion-house. A fine old tower,
which formed a prominent object in the "How," was pulled down
a few years ago.
	Fordoun House, (Viscount Arbuthnott's,) is a better sort of farm-
house; it is in tolerable repair, and, with a moderate outlay, might
be made a pleasant residence, as the situation is most eligible.
The house with the farm is let to a tenant.
	Monboddo is an old house, but in tolerable repair. The situa-
tion is good, and the plantations judiciously laid out, and in a
thriving state. This place derives importance, from having been
the birth place and patrimonial estate of the late Lord Monboddo.
His daughter, the late proprietrix, Mrs Burnett, did much in im-
proving the estate, which now belongs to her son, who resides at
Monboddo.
	Castleton, William Forbes, Esq. although a mere farm-house,
yet from the disposition of the garden, and a few remaining plan-
tations, this place still retains something of the appearance of a
mansion. It is occupied, along with the farm, by a tenant.
	The only remaining mansion to be noticed is Drumtochty
Castle, which, although the last described, is certainly the first in
importance. The small property of Drumtochty formerly belong-
ed to Mrs Mackenzie, who inhabited a snug and unpretending
cottage, on the site of which the present mansion stands. Situated
on a steep bank, on the north side of a narrow valley, enveloped
by plantations of considerable extent, in which the graceful birch
predominates, and surrounded by lofty mountains, it may be
questioned if the view of the present lordly mansion ever gave
half the pleasure to one possessor of sound judgment and taste,
which the former humble cottage afforded. The cottage seemed
just adapted for the size of the glen, and the place it occupied,
and was then well known, to all as the abode of worth and un-
pretending hospitality. The estate was purchased about thirty
years ago by George Harley Drummond, Esq. of the well known
banking-house in Charing Cross, who laid out vast sums on build-
ing, in planting, and enclosing the estate. Under his direction, a
house was erected in the style of castellated Gothic, from designs


