
		COUNTY OF HADDINGTON.		                 371

ous character, that a bare summer following is found by far the
best foundation for its profitable cultivation. Wheat regularly
follows the fallow, and is sown in the spring with grass seeds,
which, the year after, is cut or pastured, and the fourth year the
land is sown with grass seeds, which concludes the rotation.  Some-
times the grass lies two years before the oats are taken, and, in
other cases, beans and pease mixed succeed the oats, which, being
followed by wheat, forms the sixth and last year of the course.
But it is only an the better description of land that the sixth course.
system can be adopted with any thing like, advantage to the culti-
vator.  The climate, too, being rather late, is against that prac-
tice, and which, on the whole, is rarely pursued.  At the same
time, all that portion of the western district that slopes to the north,
and lies within a mile or two of the sea, is generally of very fine
quality, and yields the richest crops of every description.  The
entire Southwestern, district contain 25,231 acres; and its gross
annual produce is estimated at L.3, 10s. to L.6  Scotch acre.
The sea-side part of the district contains 5740 acres, and its gross
annual produce is valued at L. 6, 10s. per acre.
   In the third or trap district, the circumstance that more particu-
larly distinguishes the system of cropping there from that in other
parts of the county, is the very general cultivation of pease and
beans, or black crop, as these are commonly designated.  The greater
part of that district has a retentive subsoil, and the soil itself is, in
many cases, of a heavy loamy character,-consequently very well
fitted for the leguminous crops mentioned, although not so well.
calculated for growing turnip.  The climate is likewise favourable
which, united with a kindly enough working soil enables the far-
mer, with considerable certainty, to have the bean stubble regu-
larly sown with wheat before the winter,-a circumstance on which
much of the, prosperity Of the district depends.  Summer fallow
has long been the foundation of the system of cropping adopted,
-the land being commonly sown with wheat in the autumn, and
with grass seeds in, the spring for the year following.  The third
year, the greater part of the grass is pastured with sharp only what
is necessary for the work horses-being cut with the scythe.  Oats
the fourth year follow after the clover lea.  Beans drilled the next,
when what, the sixth year, finishes the rotation.  On dry sandy
er gravelly loam, found to a limited extent near the sea shore, tur-
nip have long commenced the rotation, and latterly, by skilful
draining, the cultivation of that useful plant) has been gradually,


