
                   KILLARROW AND KILMENY.                  669

     Climate. &c.--The air is generally moist.  The prevailing
winds are the west and south-west.
                     
                   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
     
     Parochial Register.--There are four parochial registers,--ist,
Marriage rigister, commencing November 15, 1789; 2d, Bap-
tism register, commencing November 17, 1789; 3d, List of poor,
and state of poor's funds, commencing June 13. 1819; 4th, Kirk-
session minute-book, commencing March 6, 1823; all regularly
kept from the respective dates of their commencement.  Any-
thing previous to these dates consisted of mere scraps.
     Land-owners.--W. F. Campbell, Esg. of Islay, is the sole pro-
prietor.
     Mansion-house.--The only one in the parish is Islay House.
     Antiquities.--About the beginning of the seventeenth century,
the feuds which had long subsisted between the Macdonalds of
Islay and the Macleans of Mull, ended in the transference of the
inheritance of the island to the Campbells of Argyle.
     "The remains of the strongholds of the Macdonalds, in Islay,
are the following.  In Loch Finlaggan, a lake about three miles
in circumference, three miles from Port Askaig, and a mile off the
road to Loch-in-Daal, on the right hand, on an islet, are the ruins
of their principal castle or palace and chapel; and on an adjoining
island the Macdonald council held their meetings.  There are
traces of a pier, and of the habitations of the guards on the shore.
A large stone was, till no very distant period, to be seem, on which
Macdonald stood when crowned, by the Bishop of Argyle, King
of the Isles.  On ann island, in a similar lake, Loch Guirm, to the
west of Loch-in-Daal, are the remains of a strong square fort,
with round corner towers; and towards the head of Loch-in-Daal,
on the same side, are vestiges of another dwelling and pier.
     "On Freuch Isle, in the Sound, are the ruins of Claig Castle, a
square tower, defended by a deeper ditch, which at once served as
a prison and a protection to the passage.  At Laggavoulin Bay, an
inlet on the east coast, and on the opposite side to the village,
on a large peninsular rock, stands part of the wall of a round sub-
stantial stone burgh or tower, protected on the land side by a
thick earthen mound.  It is called Dun Naomhaig, or Duni-
vaig.  There are ruins of several houses beyond the mound,
separated from the main building by a strong wall.  This
may have been a Danish structure, subsequently used by the
Macdonalds.  There are remains of several such strongholds





