
     Statistical Account

   Employments.-Though agriculture is the chief object of
industry, yet there are a considerable number of people, who
follow mechanical prosessions.  There are about 20 weavers
in the parish.  Other tradesmen too, such as masons, joiners,
smiths, shoemakers, etc. hold fully as great a proportion to
the total population, already stated, as could well be expected.
Enlistments in the army are very rare; not above 2 or 3 of
the natives of Urr having disposed of themselves in the mili-
tary line for there 20 years.  At present, few characters much
tainted with idleness or disspation are to be found here; of
absolate prosligacy, there is not one known at present.

   Provisions and Wages.-The prices of grain, beef, mutton,
and provisions of all forts, are estimated in Urr at the rate of
the Dumfries market.-As the encouragement for labourers,
in the line of agriculture, is considerable, manufactures have
not as yet been much thought of.  Though some parts of the
parish are well peopled, others are not.  Even to this day,
there is hardly in it one human creature for ten acres of land.
Much waste ground, therefore, is yet to be inclosed and
cultivated.  The wages of labourers are high, and they are
well paid.  Day labourers can earn from 1 s. to 1 s. 6 d. per
diem.  Men servants have from 4 L. 4 s. to 4 L. 10 s. in the half
year, and some 5 L.  Women servants have from 1 L. 5 s. to
1 L. 15 s., and even 2 L. per half year.  What is called a cottar,
or farm servant has, by the year, as follows:

<TABLE>

1. 60 bushels of corn, valued at 20 d. per bushel,   L. 5    0   0
2. A house and yard, at                                 1    0   0
3. A cow, kept summer and winter,                       3   10   0
4. Three pecks of potatoes, set with the master's,      1   10   0
5. A sheep at Martinmas, or in lieu, a swine grazed,    0   10   0
6. Wages for the year, in money,                        2    0   0

                                                    L. 13   10   0

</TABLE>


