
                     DALMELLINGTON.                             313

years. Wild ducks abound in the Bogton loch, and frequently tempt
the eagle from the Star mountains to a comfortable meal. That
beautiful little bird the teal also frequents the loch. The loch is also
adorned from October to March with flocks of wild swans, which
make it their resting-place during the winter. The bittern, commonly
called from its ominous sound, the bull of the bog, was in former
days also to be found on the loch. Foxes were wont to be very
abundant in the parish. Certain caves, formed by the fallen co-
lumns of Benbeoch, afforded them strong hiding-places, whence
they issued, and committed frightful havoc among the flocks and
poultry. By dint of persevering efforts they were entirely extir-
pated; but within these two or three years, certain stray ones have
reached the old abodes.
	Botany.--The rarest plants noticed in this parish are the fol-
lowing: Agrostis pumila, Holcus mollis, Melica uniflora, Festuca
vivipara, Scirpus setaccus, Fnaphalium sylvaticum, Nympha a alba,
Solidago virgaurea, Stachys ambigua, Saxifraga hypnoides. On
Benbeoch is found abundance of the beautiful Cryptogramma
crispa, and in the Glen of Ness the Polypodium dryopteris, As-
plenium viride and Trichomanes, Aspidium lobatum, and 3. lonchi-
tidoides, Hymenophyllum Wilsoni, are frequent; and also, in beau-
tiful fructification, abundance of the Neckera crispa and Hook-
eria lucens.

		          II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	The most ancient account of parish transactions is to be found
in the session-records. The first date of them is 7th March 1641.
For twenty-one years they were exceedingly well kept, and very
voluminous, and again for the same period at the beginning of
the last century; and give a striking picture of the times in the acts
embodied in them, and the vigilance and extent of the discipline
they bear to have been exercised,* For a century after the last date,

<FOOTNOTE> A session of these ancient days would have shamed the scanty muster of modern
times. The list of session in 1641 is given at the beginning of the record. It was
made up of the minister, fourteen elders, four deacons, and the clerk, to whom seem
to have been added at a future period other two elders and four deacons. And this
in a parish in which in 1755 there were but 739 inhabitants. The following ex-
tracts will shew the style and character nf ecclesiastical enactments in these days.
The following is of date 21st March 1641, and is intituled "Act ancent Egyptians."
"The qlk day it was enacted, yt if any within the sd parochoune sal resett or enter-
tain any vagabounde, especially those who be called Egyptians, they sal pay of penalty
5 lib." The follwing "Act anent Sabbatt breaking" is also of the same date.  "The
q1k day it was also enacted, that if any sould be fund absent from the kirk upoun
the Lord's day, or any other way be prophaning the same, that they sould stand in
the public place of repentance, and pay of penalty ane mk." Standing in sackclott
was then ordained by the presbytery against delinquents, who had been referred to its



