
552			AYRSHIRE.

2400 pairs of shoes are made per week, of which three--fourths
are exported. The annual value of this branch of trade is about
L. 50,000.
	There are about 18,720 of bonnets manufactured annually by
the Corporation of Bonnet Makers, the value of which is about
L. 12,000.
	The number of sheep and lamb skins dressed annually exceeds
140,000. There are three tan-works, in which the trade of tan-
ning and currying are carried on extensively, and the annual value
of leather manufactured is estimated at L. 45,000.
	Besides these several branches, there are extensive manufactures
of machinery, telescopes, tobacco, candles, bats, hosiery, and sad-
dlery. The trade in grocery goods, victuals, and liquors, may
amount to at least L. 16,000; and of cloths, silks, linens, cot-
tons, and hose, there may be retailed to the annual amount of at
least L. 70,000. There is also an extensive trade in field and
garden seeds.
	Men, women, and children, work in these manufactures six days
per week, and most ten hours per day, and some twelve hours. And
when thus prosecuted steadily, the manufactures afford a fair remu-
neration and support to those engaged in them. The severest prh-
vations of the operatives arise from the frequent recurrence of stag-
nations of trade, and the attendant want of public confidence. And
it must be added, with sorrow, that some of the working classes
increase their difficulties by their improvidence and intemperate
habits when trade is good. Here there is no complete remedy.
After humanity has exercised all her ingenuity, and put forth all
her strength, much distress has been experienced.
	The carpet manufacturers in Kilmarnock are eminently indebt-
ed to the inventive genius of Mr Thomas Morton of this town, a
self-instructed mechanist, who, by his improvements in machinery,
has effected a considerable saving in time and manual labour, and
secured a greater variety and accuracy in the patterns. This ac-
tive genius has now turned his attention to the construction of teles-
copes, and has built, at his own expense, a fine observatory with
valuable  machinery, and two telescopes of a very superior descrip-
tion. From the high character of these instruments, he has
been called to supply with them various  other observatories.
As a grateful memorial of these obligations to their townsman,
the manufacturers of Kilmarnock presented him with a massy
silver punch-bowl, with the following inscription:  "Presented by


