
				GLASGOW.		235

this derivation. In ancient British, Glasgow has the same mean-
ing, and it is applied to other places, having a similar locality in
other partstof Scotland.
	The origin of this city is lost in the obscurity of the middle ages.
At the Roman invasion, the part of Scotland in which it lies was
inhabited by a British tribe called by that invading people the
Damnii, and was mostly included within their province of Valentia.
On the retirement of the Romans, the provincials were left to their
own resources, and their previous peaceful habits changed into a
state of constant warfare in defence of their territories against, first,
the inroads of the Northern Caledonians or Picts, then the inva-
sion of the encroaching Saxons from the east, and latterly the as-
saults of the martial Scots, who, emigrating from Ireland, settled
in the districts now called Argyleshire and Galloway. With all
these invaders they maintained a precarious conflict during a pe-
riod of four centuries. From the researches of modern historians
it appears highly probable that Alpine, the last King of the Scots,
as a separate people, lost his life in combat with Strathclyde Bri-
tons, near Dalmellington in Ayrshire, and not, as more generally re-
ported, contending for the Pictish crown in the eastermost district
of Scotland. About the middle of the sixth century, Kentigern,
or, as his name appears in the ancient Welsh narratives, Cyndeyrn
Garthys, makes a figure in their history as a distinguished eccle-
siastic. He is associated as archbishop with the celebrated Ar-
thur, then Sovereign Prince. His Episcopal seat is said by the
same authority to have been established at Penrynrioneth, which
was also the seat of the monarchy, and seems to have occupied
nearly the present site of Dumbarton. Kentigern, from his pious,
benevolent, and amiable character, seems to have acquired the ap-
pellation of Mungo, used in several languages as an epithet of
fondness and endearment. The conduct of Marken, the successor
of Arthur, in insulting and banishing the Saint, was believed to
be avenged by his premature death. The surname of Bountiful,
bestowed on the next Prince Ryderick or Roderick, seems to have
been acquired by his favour to Kentigern, to recall whom from ba-
nishment was one of the first acts of his government. It has been
reported by tradition, that the space now occupied by Glasgow had
been previously covered by an extensive forest, within the recesses
of which were celebrated the religious rites of the Druids. It is
well known that the first teachers of Christianity generally esta-
blished their churches on the spots which had, in the estimation of


