
			PARISH OF DORNOCK.

		PRESBYTERY OF ANNAN, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES.

		  THE REV. NICHOLAS SLOAN, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name, Boundaries, &c.--The name of the parish is said, in the
former Statistical Account, to be derived from the Celtic words Tor
or Dor, signifying an oak or wood, and nock, a knowe or hill. But
this derivation is questionable; for of the venerable oak, there re-
mains neither root nor branch, and of "hills" this parish cannot
boast--the grounds being generally level. Dornock is situated in
a neighbourhood proverbially beautiful in its scenery, and much fre-
quented for its salubrious breezes, and for its sea-bathing. Its ex-
tent from east to west is 2 1/2 miles, and from thd Solway Frith to
the river Kirtle, about 5 miles. It might have been nearly a square
had not a piece of common ground, belonging to Kirkpatrick-Flem-
ing, detached two properties in the north from the west of the
parish. It is bounded by the parish of Annan on the west and
north; by Kirkpatrick-Fleming on the north-east; by Graitney on
the east; and by the Solway Frith on the south.  When viewed
from the north side of the village, the ground rises in a gentle accli-
vity, forming a kind of semicircle, bounded by thriving plantations.
	Soil, Climate, &c.--The soil is generally fertile, and now, under
the improved mode of culture, yields abundant crops. The climate
is healthy, and the air of late years is said to be milder than for-
merly. The most prevailing winds are from the south and south-
west; but often from the east, when they are generally chilly and
piercing, not without rain.
	The parish is well supplied with perennial springs of water; one
of which is in the glebe, as transparent and sparkling as crystal,
pleasant to the taste, light, and much resorted to as giving relief in
cases of colic; its composition, however, has never been analyzed.
No coal or lime have been found in the parish; but it is not doubt-
ed that, were a few enterprising individuals to make the trial both
might be had in abundance.


