
316			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

shore,--the signs which Virgil so wall describes.* These are
regarded by many as indications of a change of weather; and
when the foam is floating plentifully upon the rising tide, or when
the shadows of the trees and houses on the opposite side of the
bay are reflected in the sands, these are regarded by some as ne-
ver-failing signs of approaching rain; and if, at the same time,
the smoke of Wigton is hanging over this town or descending to-
wards the bay it is affirmed that rain is at hand.
	The barometer generally ranges between 28 1/2 and 30 1/2 inches.
By the thermometer, the mean temperature for the year may be
about 47 1/2.
	The prevailing winds are from, the south and south-west, and
our severest storms of rain and snow are from the south or south-east.
	Climate.--The climate may be considered healthy from the
number of old people generally to be found in the parish. The
air upon the whole is pure and dry, although for a few years the
seasons have been cold and wet. The rain, even when it falls in
considerable quantities, is carried off rapidjy, and the lands and
roads are soon left dry. The diseases most prevalent are catarrh,
pleuritis, and rheumatism. From the old Statistical Account, it
appears that small-pox had prevailed very much at one time in
this parish, which was attributed to the prejudice of parents
against vaccination. This prejudice has disappeared, although
some parents still neglect to get their children vaccinated, which
is a most hazardous and culpable omission. In the spring of 1836,
small-pox, prevailed in Creetown to a considerable extent. Six
adults died who bad never been vaccinated; but those who had,
either escaped the disease altogether, or soon recovered from it.
	Hydrography.--The Bay of Wigton, which forms the western
boundary of the parish, may be, in some places, about six miles wide,
and nine miles long. By the ebbing of the tide, it is left nearly dry,
and presents a large and smooth surface of sand, intersected by
the Cree and Bladenoch. By the flowing of the tide, which oc-
casionally rises 22 feet above the level of the river, the whole
bay is one beautiful and unbroken sheet of water; and in calm
weather, the hills around, and the Heavens above, and the ves,
sels upon its surface, are reflected as in a mirror.

<FOOTNOTE>"Cum media celeres revolant ex aequnre mergi
	 Clamoremque ferunt ad littora; cumque marinae
	 In sicco lundunt fulicae, notasque paludes
	 Deserit, atque altam supra volat ardea nubem."
			"e pastu decedens," &c.
	"Certatim largos humeris," &c,


