
     of Saline.

   Ecclesiastical State and School.-The manse was built about
50 years ago; it is ruinous, and intended to be rebuilt this sum-
mer.  The church is also in a bad state, having got no mate-
rial repairs for a long period; it will scarcely admit of repairs
now, and probably must be soon rebuilt.  The stipend, which
needs much to be augmented, is only 1000 merks Scotch, in-
cluding communion element money, which last is no more
than 1 L. 5 s. 9 d. Sterling, a sum four times less than the
minister's actual expences on that occasion: This small sum is
never paid but when the sacrament is administered, even when
it is not in the minister's power to do so.  The whole is paid
in money; formerly there was part in victual.  There has
been no augmentation for 50 years past.  The glebe is small
but good.  There was a considerable quantity of excellent
wood growing on it, planted about 70 years ago, by the Re-
verend Mr Bryce.  Some of the heritors, ignorant of the law
and the rights of a clergymen to every thing growing on his
glebe, cut it down, and sold it for 30 L. Sterling, immediate-
ly after the death of the last incumbent.  The presbytery, as
guardians, interferred; and, by the exertions of such of the he-
ritors as had all along disapproved of the unjustifiable mea-
sure taken by the rest, the matter was at length amicably set-
tled, and the money, arising from the sale of the trees, was
paid to the present incumbent shortly after his settlement.
There have been only 4 ministers here since the revolution;
Messrs Wyllie, Plenderleith, Bryce, and Hunter.  The last
was settled in the year 1732, was 60 years minister in Saline,
and died at the age of 95; his wife and children all died long
before him.  The present incumbent was settled on the 24th
of January 1793.  The crown is the undoubted patron.
   The whole emoluments of the schoolmaster, including per-
quisites for marriages, etc. may amount to 20 L. Sterling
yearly, a sum by far too little for so large a parish, and so


