
578                    ABERDEENSHIRE.

   The numbers belonging to the Established Church are, of fa-
milies, 367 ; of individuals, 1763.  The numbers belonging to Dis-
senters and Seceders are, of families of Episcopalians, 9; of Re-
man Catholics, 6; of Independents, 3; of Seceders, 1.  Of in-
dividuals, including parents and children, Episcopalians, 52; Ro-
man Catholic, 29; Independents, 19; and Seceders, 10.
   Divine service in the Established Church and in the new
church is exceedingly well attended.
   The number of communicants in the church of Chapel of
Garioch, at the last dispensation of the sacrament, was 807.
There are from 34 to 40 young communicants annually, and, they
generally communicate for the first time, when they are about
sixteen yearsof age.
   Education.-The total number of schools in the parish six,-
one parochial; two receive each from the heritors annually L.3,
3s.; another unendowed: two are schools taught by females, one
of whom has a salary of L.20, and the other a salary of L.10
from two benevolent ladies connected with the parish.
   The branches taught in the parochial school, besides the ordi-
nary ones, are, geography, practical mathematics, Latin, and Greek.
The salary is L.27 per annum, and the school-fees amount to
about L.20.  A very commodious school, and dwelling-house has
been lately erected for the schoolmaster.
   At the other schools, the ordinary branches of education are
taught.  The teachers' emoluments in whole may amount to from
L.5 to L.18 per annum.  The parochial school is quite close to
the church.  The first of the three other schools is situated about
a mile and a half, the second about three miles and a half, and
the third about four miles and a half from the parochial school
There are no persons in the parish above seven years of age, who
cannot read, and only a few of the old who cannot write.  The
people are fully alive to the benefits of education, and would ra-
ther want some of their little comforts, than that their children
should not be instructed in the ordinary branches taught at paro-
chial schools.
   Besides the weekly schools, there are four Sabbath-scbools,
one of which is taught by the minister of the parish.
   Library.-There is a small parochial- library, consisting princi-
pally of religious books.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-There never has been an assess-
ment for the poor in this parish.  They are supported by the
                             4


