
        LOCHGOIL-HEAD AND KILMORICH.                      703

moss. The land, upon the coast, is light, sharp, and sandy; and
some of the low valleys are rich and fertile. The face of the
Heavens is generally louring and cloudy; a serene sky is seldom
to be seen. The tops of the mountains are most frequently co-
vered with clouds, and, during winter, with snow. The rain is
heavy and frequent. The winds, prevented from a free circula-
tion,'rush through the glens with irresistible violence; and, at the
bottom of high hills and in narrow valleys, the transitions of heat
and cold are sudden and excessive.
Caves.-There are in the parish a great number of natural
caves, vaults, and grottos, of different forms and dimensions. One
of these caves is situated a little below a very high and tremen-
dous rock, from which a great number of smaller rocks seem to
have been torn by some convulsion. Among these smaller rocks
is the cave already mentioned. The entry to it is in the form of
an arch, about 4 feet high and 3 broad. The cave itself is very
spacious, of a circular figure, but not perfectly regular. It is more
than 70 feet in circumference, and about 10 feet -in height. All
around the cave there are smaller vaults, resemblino, cellars ; and,
from one part of it, a narrow passage leads to a small apartment,
not unlike a sleeping chamber. The cave is covered above by a
great number of large rocks, which appear to have been thrown
upon one another without any order or regularity; within, it is
perfectly dry, but rather dark, having no light but what it receives
through the passage already mentioned. This cave is remarkable
for having been the sanctuary of one of the lairds of Ardkinglass;
who, according to the tradition of the country, having been de-
feated and oppressed by some powerful neighbour, was, obliged to
conceal himself, and a few followers, in this cave for a whole year;
during which time his vassals and tenants found means to supply
him with provisions so secretly, that his retreat was not discovered
by the enemy. It is called from this incident, Uamh inhei Sain
Reoich. * But the most remarkable of all the numerous caves in
this country is one which is called Uamh na plundarain. In the
face of a steep hill there is a small, area between two- rocks. At
the bottom of this area is -a small opening, the mouth of which is
covered and concealed from the eye by thick heath, and ferns.
This narrow and troublesome passage, through which a person of an
ordinary size is with great difficulty able to creep, is about 6 feet

<FOOTNOTE> Hai Sain Reoich, the son of Swarthy John; the patronymic name of the family
of Ardkinglass.


