
                            DALSERF.                           763

distributed in small sums among fifty or sixty individuals, not re-
ceiving regular parochial aliment.  Several of the occasional poor,
however, are in the number.  But, with whatever prudence this
charity may be managed, there can be little doubt that the above
legacies, however kindly meant, have contributed considerably to
accelerate applications for regular relief, and to swell the roll of
paupers.  There is, whatever the causes may be, fir less reluc-
tance than formerly to apply for parochial aid.  With honourable
exceptions, of not unfrequent occurrence, there are far too many
who do not think it in the least degrading to seek, on not very
pressing emergencies, public aid for themselves and their relations.
The parish, about twenty years ago, by contributing L. 50 to the
Royal Infirmary at Glasgow, acquired the right of recommending
patients to that excellent institution.  The session pays a sub-
scription of L. 1 annually to the Glasgow Eye Infirmary, in order
to procure advice and medicines for poor persons, labouring under
diseases of the eyes.  The poor's funds are to a large amount ex-
pended among the manufacturing poor.  Three-fourths of the
whole sum collected go to Larkhall and neighbourhood.  During
seasons of dull trade, extraordinary collections and subscriptions
have occasionally had to be resorted to.  The coal-masters almost
every year give liberal donations of coals in winter.  But for tho
manufacturing villages, the parish could easily support its rural
poor out of the church collections.
   Fair.-There is a sort of fair, accompanied by a horse-race, at
the village of Larkhall in the month of June ; the only purpose
served by which is to collect idle people, and to promote dissipa-
tion and riot.
   Inns.-The parish contains 16 or 17 inns and alehouses, or, to
describe the larger portion of them more correctly, shops for the
retail of ardent spirits.  Their effect on public morals is decided-
ly bad.  It is a pity but that the number of such places were di-
minished, and those that are allowed to remain placed under strict
regulations.  Night and Sabbath drinking are far too common.

                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Great changes in all respects, mostly for the better, have taken
place in the parish since the publication of the former Statistical
Account.  Whatever room there may be for further progress, it
cannot be denied, that, in regard to intelligence, the arts and com-
forts of social life, general habits, and appearance, and character


