
692                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Town-House.-There is a very neat town-house, with a spire
built in 1816, by direction of Mrs Fraser of Stichen, then re-
siding at Strichen House, her son, the present Lord Lovat, being
then a minor, and having just, succeeded to the large property of
the Lovat family, in Inverness-shire.
   Inns.-In the village there are three inns.
   Fairs.-There are five annual fairs, for the sale of horses and
cattle, in February, May, July, August, November.  The
market in February was established for the sale of yarn, but there
is now very little flax raised, either in this or the neighbouring
parishes.

   Drawn up February 1840.
      Revised May 1842.

                           PARISH OF PREMNAY.

               PRESBYTERY OF GARIOCH, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

                    THE REV. JOHN WILSON, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Extent, and Boundaries.-The name of this parish is
said, to be derived from the Gaelic.  In some old registers, it
is written Premanal.  Its greatest extent from east to west is about
4 miles, and from north to south about 4 1/2 miles; but its average
breadth of arable land from north to south does not exceed 2 miles.
It lies on the north side of Benachie, and from 25 to 29 miles
north-west, from Aberdeen, the county town.  It is bounded on
the east and north-east, by the parish of Oyne on the north are
north-west, by Insch; on the west, by Leslie; and on the south,
by Keig.
   Topographical Appearances.-Although the surface of this
parish is cultivated, it is considerably diversified by little hills;
having a few acres on the top of each covered with whins, the soil
there being rocky and too poor to admit of cultivation.  These
hills occupy the centre of the parish, having on all sides extensive
fields of arable land sloping down to their bases.  In the valley
between these hills and Benachie, the Gady runs from the west to east,
                             4


