
                                ST ANDREWS.                            181

       a delicate or refined taste, yet they are very particular in the ob-
       servance of such rules as fall within their own notions of decorum.
       They are, however, very deficient in attention to the order and
       cleanliness of their habitations.  The interior of the apartment
       commonly occupied by the family is generally coated with dust,
       ashes, and soot,--owing, in no small degree, to the practice of
       having the fire-place in the middle of the room, without any other
       chimney to conduct the smoke outward, than a hole in the roof of
       the house.  In addition to this, poultry, and even pigs and calves,
       as well as dogs and cats, are often admitted to a corner of the same
       apartment with the family.  The food of the people consists of
       bread made of the meal of oats or bear, and sowens, which is a pre-
       paration from the siftings of oatmeal; also of potatoes, cabbages,
       milk, butter, cheese, and fish, with a small quantity of animal food,
       --and that chiefly goose or bacon.
         Poaching is unknown; and smuggling is almost at an end,--
       the only remaining instances of the latter being occasional attempts
       to make a little malt for private use, without previously lodging in-
       formation with the excise officer of the district.

                               IV.--INDUSTRY.
         Agriculture.--The lands never having been surveyed, and the
       cultivated parts lying in detached shreds of every size and shape,
       it is impossible to state accurately the number of acres that this
       parish contains, or that is under cultivation.  But from the best
       local knowledge, we may venture to give 2200 acres, as an esti-
       mate, of the quantity ever under tillage, which is probably a near
       approximation to the truth.  Perhaps half of the ground that has
       never been touched with the plough might, by labour, be made
       yield the means of human subsistence.  But from the wetness and
       natural poverty of the soil, it is questionable whether in a corner
       so remote from markets this could, except in a very few cases, be
       done with a profitable application of capital.
         Where the extent of a farm is not known, either by the land-
       lord, his tenant, nor any one else, it is difficult to state the average
       rent of arable ground.  But it may be estimated at from 7s. to 10s.
       value per acre.  Along with the arable land so rented, however,
       the tenant receives as much or a greater extent of pasture ground,
       which is considered as going into the bargain.  The practice of
       grazing cattle for rent is so little known, that nothing satisfactory
       can be said as to its average expense.


