
                            TWYNHOLM.                       43

cester. It is a common practice for the farmers to buy a large
stock of sheep in autumn to-eat off their turnip crop, and then to
send them to Liverpool by steam, when fat. But besides this,
more lambs are bred on the farms than there were some years
ago.
	A great deal has been done of late years, both by proprietors
and tenants, in draining wet lands; and in many of the farms,
much still remains to be done in that way. It is acarcely to be
expected, however, that this work will be extensively engaged in,
or substantially executed, unless the proprietors come forward to
bear a considerable proportion of the expense; and though some
of them are ready to render every assistance, others leave the
whole work to the tenant, to be executed or not as he may choose.
	The duration of less is very different, varying from three to
nineteen years, but whether find it to be for their own interest that the
occupants of the farms should be changed as seldom as possible,
and hence the removal of an tenant, if steady and industrious,
is of rare occurrence.
	The state of the farm buildings is generally good. The inclo-
sures might in my cases be improved. It is only within these
few years, that thorn hedges have been introduced, and kept in a
proper state of see the superiority of such fences to the old stone
dikes, are undertaking the care of keeping theme in repair.
	The woods are generally well managed. They are mostly
planted with about one-fourth of the plants oak; while larches,
spruces, Scotch firs, &c. are put in for nurses. As the planta-
tions grow, the soft woods are carefully thined out, and the oaks
at last remain alone. The woods on the property of Compston
show the adavantage to be derrived from careful management, both
in regard to beauty and profit.
	Manufucture.--The only manufacture in the parish is worth
mentioning, is a mill for carding and spinning wool in the village of
Twynholm. There is also, under the same roof, and belonging
to the same owner, a mill for dressing flax; but both these mills
are used solely for country purposes. The farmers and others in
the neighbourhood bring the woel they have remained for family
use, or the flax they may have grown for then same purpose, and
have it prepared here for working up at their own houses.


