
56                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.

with the zeal and piety of our forefathers, unless by supposing that
the age in general was greatly less enlightened and less moral than
the present.  It is more easy to fight and die for God, than to
live a well regulated life in obedience to His law.  *
   Historical Notices.-- The history of this parish is co‰val with the
first introduction of Christianity among the Saxon population of
this part of the country in 640.  It is related by Bede, who lived
in Northumberland, and during the seventh century, that Oswald,
the Saxon King of Northumberland, whose dominions comprehend-
ed the whole of the eastern part of Scotland south of the Forth,
was converted to Christianity by Culdees, from Iona, whom he met
with when an exile from his country, among the Picts north of the
Forth; that, on being restored to his country, and eventually raised
to the throne, he became anxious to Christianize his subjects, and
with this view prevailed on a number of Culdees to visit his king-
dom as missionaries, one of whom, named Aidan, he made bishop
of Lindisfarne,-and ibat he built churches and planted mis-
sions at Old Melrose in this parish, and in vaxious other places
of his dominions.  Old Melrose, a pdninsula nearly surround-
ed by the Tweed, which is overhung on the farther side by its
lofty precipitous banks, is strongly guarded by natural defences
on every quarter except the south, where it has an easy communi-
cation with the country, and where a wall, seen by Milne, was
drawn across the narrow isthmus.  It is a most delightful place of
residence.  The limited central space of the peninsula is, high
raised above the encircling river, and keeps the general level of the
adjoining country, the ground descending all round with a steep
but smooth unbroken declivity, finely contrasting with the abrupt-
ness of the opposite banks, to a circular grassy plain of pleasing
seclusion,--tbe scene, perhaps, of the devout meditations of St
Cuthbert, and of the shivering penances of Drythelme.  Uniting,
therefore, the advantages of easy defence and delightful retire-
ment, it seems to have been judiciously chosen for the residence
of a religious community in a barbarous age.  The religious com-

<FOOTNOTE>It deserves to be mentioned as a curious trait of the manners of the period in
question, that it was then common for people of the lowest rank to appear with a
sword at their side when in full dress,--and it is related by an a person, whose
grandfather was present on the occasion, that Mr Wilson, Who was ordained minister
of this parish in 1690, on the removal of the English curate, and whose memory is
still revered, began his first diet of examination, by seizing on these weapons and
breaking them, maintaining, that the unnecessary appearance of them in the house of
God was aprofanation.  The number of swords which the people still have in their pos-
session, covered with rust, and each, having " eaten of its sheath two handful," is im-
mense.-Pereant rubigine.


