
     Statistical Account

and beg or starve the rest of the month*.  No distinction be-
tween the poor of the dissenters, and the poor of the Establish-
ed Church is allowed.
   For 17 years preceding 1781, the collections, on an average,
were L. 15: 10; the hire of the mortcloths amounted to
L. 3: 5; and the sums distributed among the poor, to about
L. 30 annually.
   Since 1759, no person in this parish hath perished by hun-
ger, nakedness, or want of lodging; nor have any taken to
begging.  During this period, it must be mentioned, that
the heritors of the parish have not given one farthing to the
poor, offerings at the church door excepted; and even there came
only from one family, all the other proprietors being non-resi-
dents+.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The poor, says Mr Willis, should be treated like young birds, give them
little at a time, but often.

+Many plans for the support of the poor have been projected: this only
seems certain, that wherever poors rates have been adopted,they have generally
been found very expensive.  The philosophers of the present day, instead of
thinking, "whatever is, is right," seem to think, "whatever is, is wrong."
Many new plans have been proposed, and no one agreeing with another,
have always thought, that it is better to begin with amending an old plan, that
has proved not to be very bad, that to take all at once a new one, however
finely spun.  I will venture to say, with respect to our old plan, that, of all the
public funds of Europe, none are managed at so little expence to the fund it-
self, none so frugally, none so impartially, and none laid out more to the pur-
pose for which they were raised, than the poors funds under the care of the
kirk-sessions of Scotland.  Never, perhaps, will Scotland find a more proper
jury to determine the objects of public charity, nor the quantum necessary for
their supply.  Two amendments may be suggested: The first is, to protect
these funds against the burden of natural children being brought upon them,
which could be done by altering the present law, and making the oath of the
woman father all bastards, as is the practice in England.  The oath of that

     3


