
330                            AYRSHIRE.

sold at a greatly inferior price. Their value has fallen very much
in the market from what it once was. The number of individuals
employed in this trade is 64; the average wages earned by them
are 13s. 6d. per week, and the quantity of boxes finished weekly is
58 dozen. The greater part of these are sent to London.
	           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Town.--The nearest market-town is Kilmarnock, which
is fourteen miles distant; Ayr is fifteen; Galston twelve; and Cum-
nock one and a-half miles distant. The village of Auchinleck, which
is feued from the estate of Auchinleck, chiefly consists of a row of
houses on each side of the Glasgow and Dumfries road, and may
probably contain about 600 inhabitants. The Independent coach
from Glasgow to Carlisle passes through it daily. This road is kept
in good repair, but is in many places remarkably hilly. The road
from Ayr to Edinburgh by Cumnock, also traverses this parish for
about five miles, and that to Ayr by Ochiltree for about three miles.
The road to Glasgow, by Galston, branches off from the Carlisle
road at the Auchinleck toll-bar.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situate very conveniently
for the greater part of the population; but, from the extent of the
parish, is inconveniently situate for a considerable number. It is
distant about three miles from the lower, and about thirteen or
fourteen from the upper, extremity of the parish. Many of the in-
habitants of this quarter, in coming to their own church, pass the
church of Cumnock. In Chalmers's Caledonia, there is the follow-
ing statement in regard to Auchinleck Church: "In 1238, the se-
cond Walter of the Stewart family granted to the monks of Pais-
ley, in pure alms, the Church of Auchinleck, with all its pertinents.
The Church of Auchinleck continued to belong to the monks of
Paisley till the Reformation. The monks enjoyed the tithes and
revenues, and provided a chaplain to serve the cure." It is not
known when the present church was built, with the exception of
the aisle, which was added by Lord Auchinleck in 1754. Part of
the older fabric is believed to be of a date prior to the Reformation.
It is said, indeed, that it is statedly anathematized by the Pope as
being one of the first churches in this country in which the doc-
trines of the Reformation were taught. It is not easy to discover
the authority on which this has been affirmed, though it is quite
a common report in the country. It can accommodate about 400
persons. The sittings are generally, according to custom, divided
among the proprietors, and occupied by their tenants. The table


