
                            LARGO.                            441

the nature of the ground, and particularly, to leave a proportion
of it in grass, green crop, and fallow. The term of lease may be
long enough in ordinary cases, but not sufficient to reimburse the
tenant when great improvements have been accomplished at his
expense. The farm-buildings are now generally commodious and
suitable. Much has been done for their improvement, within twenty
years. The farm-house ordinarily consists of two storeys, covered
with tile or slate, and has the office-houses behind it, for the most
part in the form of a square. There is only a small proportion of
unenclosed ground in the parish, although some of the fences are
very insufficient, and not well taken care of. More attention is
now paid to them, and the ditches are occasionally scoured, and
the hedges dressed and cleaned annually. No obstacles of mate-
rial consequence oppose the agricultural improvement of the pa-
risb, except the low prices of produce for some years, which have
barely enabled the tenant to pay his rent and his current expenses
of cultivation.
  Fishery.-Some years ago, a salmon stake-net fishery was com-
menced in Largo Bay. The rent paid to the proprietors of the diffe-
rent stations was one-fourteenth of the gross produce. The annual
amount of the fish sold, on an average of five years, was only
L. 130, and from the expense of erecting and keeping the nets,
nearly half of the capital employed was lost. The undertaking
has been resumed, and is now more prosperously carried on.
  Manufactures.-There are two manufactures in the parish; one
water-mill for cleaning, and the other water and steam-mill for spin-
ning flax; the first employing 4, the second employing 85 hands.
They work six days in the week, twelve hours per diem, and nine
on Saturday. They afford a fair remuneration, and are not con-
sidered as particularly prejudicial either to health or morals.
  Shipping.-Three small vessels only belong to the port of the
parish. The trade carried on in old times, in coal, salt, iron,
sandstone, &e. with Campvere and Rotterdam, and more recent-
ly in wood with Norway, being altogether at an end.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Towns, &c.-Leven and Colinsburgh, each three miles
distant from the Kirkton of Largo, may be considered as the
market-towns of the parish, for although it has several bakers
and brewers, it has-never regularly supplied itself with butcher-
meat. The several villages contain a population as follows,-Kirk-


