
824                        LANARKSHIRE.

bling of ourselves together."  There is one very striking circum-
stance which I cannot pass by without here noticing, and it is not pe-
culiar to this parish, but common to the whole district ; namely,
the extreme paucity of young persons, below the age of puberty,
who are to be seen on Sabbath in any place of public worship.
The excuse that I have received for this from the lower classes
having families is, that they " cannot afford to give their children
two suits of clothes at once, and are ashamed to send or take them
to the kirk in rags."  This is but a very lame apology for any
Christian parent to offer.
   Poaching of game has of late received a complete check, by
the vigilance of a resident game-keeper.  River poaching, however,
is carried on to a great extent, chiefly by people coming from a
distance, with the double rod, &c.

                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The tenants of this parish are an industrious
class of men; many of them particularly so.  The rotation ge-
nerally, observed in cropping, is, first oats, then potatoes or tur-
nips, then bear or barley along with rye-grass and clover, for a
crop of hay in the succeeding year.  Both red and white clover
seed are sown; a larger proportion of the latter is used when the
ground is intended to be laid down in permanent pasture. There
is no undivided common in either Wandell or Lammingtoune.
   Wood.-The only plantation occupies about a rood of ground
behind Causeway House, on the side of the old Roman way, or Wat-
tling Street, about the middle of Wandell;-this was planted with
larches about twenty-five years ago.  Indeed, as to wood of any de-
scription, the whole of this fine old barony is naked in the extreme,
although a great proportion of it might be planted with immense
advantage.  So satisfied of this are its intelligent tenantry, that
all of them have told me that, for sake of mere shelter, they would
gladly give up land for planting without asking, damages, provided
only the Noble proprietor, Lord Douglas, would put in the young
trees and protect them by suitable fences.  The reader may have
some, faint idea how much this improvement is wanted, when it is
mentioned, that in what was once a distinct parish, and ex-
tends to no less than 11 1\3 square miles, there are only to be met
with in I all 61 trees !  These are chiefly at Hillhouse, Hartside,
and Woodend, marking out in some instances the spot where, in
former generations, a farm-steading has been.  Few of these trees
are probably younger than a century, and some from their size


