
                             DESKFORD.                        77

that sum, and others less, according to circumstances. The regu-
lar distributions are made half yearly, but intermediate disburse-
ments are occasionally made, as cases of necessity occur. The
annual amount of church collections for the poor of the parish, as
already stated, is about L.20. There is likewise, as already stat..
ed, interest of money for their behoof, amounting to L.10, 12s.2d.
In cases of extreme emergency, contributions are occasionally
made, particularly in winter and about Christmas, by humane in-
dividuals going about from house to house, and collecting, in meal
or money, whatever each person is disposed to give. There is but
one travelling beggar now belonging to the parish, and she a very
lame person, who can visit only her friends in her immediate
neigbbourbood. There are, however, too many beggars from
other parts, whom it is very desirable to discourage; so that they
may remain where they are best known, and are least likely to
thrive by imposture or idleness. The only way of effecting this is,
by withholding alms from those from other quarters; but this plan
it is not easy to persuade the people with sufficient energy to adopt
There is rather an unwillingness to receive parochial aid, except
in cases of necessity, but these are, alas I too numerous. There
are six bolls of meal annually given from Cullen House, to be dis-
tributed by the kirk-session among the most necessitous. There
are likewise several poor and aged individuals, who receive from
the same quarter a regular allowance, some of them at the rate of
half a peck of meal per week, and some more, as the Noble proprie.
tor, upon ascertaining the cases, is pleased to direct.
   Alehouses.-There are no prisons nor fairs in the parish; and it
is very desirable, that it could be added there is no alehouse; but,
though the number of alehouses be reduced, there is still one,
which is quite unnecessary, and affords facilities and temptations
to intemperance. It is much to be regretted that the magistrates
or justices are not more alive to the baneful effects of licensing these
where there is no occasion for them, and that certificates from mi-
nisters and kirk-sessions are not more invariably required before
granting such licenses.
   Fuel.-The fuel chiefly used is peat and turf. The expense of
this is not great, as it is prepared and taken home by the tenants,
when their agricultural operations are slackest, between their tur-
nip husbandry and harvest. They even burn their limestone with
peat, and a mixture of coal, which they obtain at Cullen, at 1s. 1d.
or 1s. 2d. per imperial barrel.


