                         DUNFERMLINE.	                      867

created in 1839 a British Baron, by the title "Lord Dunferm-
line."
   Broomhall Family.-This family trace their origin to Robert
de Brus a kinght of Normandy, who came over to England with
William the Conqueror, and claim to be the representatives of the
male line of the illustrious house of Bruce, although the exact
connection with the monarchy has been lost. The lands of Broom-
hall, formerly Wester Gellet, about three miles south from the
town of Dunfermline, appear to have been possessed, at the be-
ginning of the seventeenth century, by Sir George Bruce of Car-
nock, who gave them to his son Robert. Sir George, from whom
the Elgin family is descended, in a direct male line, was the
youngest of three sons of Edward Bruce of Blairhall, Esq., who
lived in the reigns of James V. and Queen Mary. The eldest
succeeded to Blairhall, which line ended in an heiress Mary, who
married one of the family of Stuarts of Bute, and died in 1759.
Edward, the second son, was an eminent lawyer, and built the
house now called the Abbey of Culross, so named from its being si-
tuated near the old abbey or monastery. He was an ambassador to
Queen Elizabeth in 1594, and was of much service to James VI., on
his accession to the English throne. Having followed his royal
master to England, he was made by him Master of the Rolls, and
created Baron Bruce of Kinloss in 1603. His eldest son was
killed in the duet with Sir Edward Sackville, and the son's heart
is buried at Culross.
   The late Earl, Thomas Bruce, succeeded his brother William
Robert, who enjoyed the title only two months, and died in the
eigth year of his age, on the 15th July 1771. Earl Thomas
was long one of the representative Peers of Scotland ; a lieutenant-
general in the army ; a general of the Royal Archers of Scotland;
a family trustee of the British Museum ; and a member of the
Privy Council. He was ambassador at Constantinople in 1799-
1801, when, in his zeal for the fine arts, he rescued the marbles
of the Parthenon at Athens from the destruction which awaited
them, and secured them as an invaluable possession for Great
Britain. Having been purchased from him by Government for
about L.30,000-a sum, however, which it is understood was
only about half of what they cost him-they have been perma-
nently deposited in the British Museum, and bear the name of
"The Elgin Marbles." His Lordship was a liberal patron, not
only of the fine arts, but of science, literature, and antiquarian

