
     Parish of Wilton.

forbidden.  If a legal provision for the poor shall somewhat a-
bate the general and strong desire to lay up treasures on earth,
the effect is happy.  View the poor man in his future destina-
tion, and whatever alleviates mortal cares, smooths his way to
immortality.  3 d, It is asked, with some degree of alarm, what
will be the final consequence of alimenting the poor,-for,
wherever this tax is imposed, it increases gradually?  This gra-
dual increase, where it takes place, may be owing to two causes;
First, that some are induced through false shame to suffer extreme
want, rather than accept of an aliment.  Second, that those who
appoint the aliment are at first too sparing; the more frequently
and attentively they consider the case of the poor, they are dif-
posed to give the more.  Let false shame be combated, and the
miserable instructed in their rights.  Let those who have the
management of the poor, proceed till every indigent person be
fonnd out, and their real wants supplied.  When all that need
have been persuaded to ask, and when those who give, have
learned to give enough, the rate will become stationary; till
then it ought to rise.  The law which gives a maintenance to
the poor, is one of the bulwarks of the British government, by
which it is defended from the rage of want and despair.  Heri-
tors and Kirk Sessions, to whom the execution of this law is
committed, will give a substantial and seasonable proof of their
attachment to our happy Constitution, by making the poor of the
land to participate its blessings.  Were those who lately assumed
to themselves the amiable name, Friends of the People, to new-
model our Constitution, it is much to be feared, that a law in
favour of the indigent would not be found in their code; and
if such a law were found in their code, it is still much to be fear-
ed, that the new possessors of unrighteous mammon, would not
be forward to execute the law of mercy.
   N. B. The carpet and inkle factories, mentioned in the his-
tory of Hawick, are the same that were formerly mentioned in
the history of Wilton, where they actually are.

