
     Statistical Account

sessing sentiments and manners superior to their rank in
life.  The higher ranks in this parish have been, from time
immemorial, uniformly distinguished by their exemplary
conduct, and their regular attendance upon all the ordi-
nances of religion*; and it is but justice to say, that they

<FOOTNOTE>

XXIV. Robert, seventh Laird of Clackmannan, succeeded John, and
married-Murray, daughter to the Laird of Tullibarn, by whom he
had issue.
   XXV. Sir Robert, eight Lord of Clackmannan, had to his first wife
Jennet Wardlaw, daughter to the Laird of Tory.  After her death, he
married Helena Durie of the house of Durie.  What numerous issue he
had by them, it is needless here to repeat, since the tree clearly points
them out.
   XXVI. Robert, ninth Laird of Clackmannan, married Elizabeth Hal-
liburton, daughter to the Laird of Pitcur, and had by her Sir Henry;
2. George Bruce of Comery He had also three daughters; 1 Catherin,
married Robert Watson, brother's son Casters; 2. Jean married
Weemeys of Pitney; 5. Helena married Alexander Bruce of Kinnaird.
   XXVII. Sir Henry, tenth Laird of Clackmannan, hade to his first wife
Lady Mary Shan, daughter of Sir Alexander Shan of Sauchy, by whom
he had Sir David, his successor; 2. Captain John Bruce, who married
-Robertson of Bedlay; 3. Henry Bruce.  He had also a daughter,
Jeanie, who married James Bruce of Powsoules.  His second lady was
the Countess of Dundie.
   XXVIII. Sir David Bruce, present Laird of Clackmannan, married
Margarett M'Kenzie, eldest daughter to the Viscount of Tarbert, and
has by her Elizabeth Bruce, etc. who God long continue.
     Amen, Amen.
   Pranobilis illustrisfimze & antiquitate haud ulli secundze Brusiorum
familze genealogiam in hae tabula delineatam, honoranssimo viro D. Da-
vidi Brusio, Eq A. & Baron Gentis Suze principi submisse dicacvit.
     M. Joh. Szombatinus Hungarus. A. Do 1686.
* The late lord Kennet, one of the Members of the Court of Session,
and of the High Court of Justiciary, had his residence in this parish.  Hi
publick virtues, and his character as a judge, are too well known to need
any encomium.  His private life was no less amiable and respectable
He was a blessing to all ranks in this corner of the country, in which he


