
     Statistical Account

general to sold upon the whole, unless the pasture grounds
are of a proportionable extent; and therefore one part is
solded upon, and the other is not; and where the out-field
is small, it cannot be divided into solds, of which eleven+ is
accounted by the farmers of this country, the most proper
number for their rotation.  One of these solds is every sum-
mer surrounded with a fed (turf) dyke, and the cattle are
inclosed in it during the night, till after harvest, when the
dyke is knocked down; the land is ploughed, and left in that
state all winter.  In spring, oats are sown; and as soon as the
crop is off the ground, it is again ploughed for a second, and
so on till it has borne five++ successive crops of oats; and then
it is left five years lee, to throw up whatever poor grass such
worn out soil will produce.  The first two years the grass is
as bad as possible; and though, during the other three it thick-
ens, yet even at the best, it gives but a scanty bite to the cat-
tle.  The sixth year it is again folded upon and dunged
and thus, in eleven years, where the number of folds is eleven,
a fold is 5 years in corn crops, 5 lee, and one in preparing
for another similar succession.  The out-fields, which are not

<FOOTNOTE>

+This number is thought the most proper, where 5 successive crops
are taken; but, upon some farms, the out-fields are in divisions of 9 and 10
folds.

++It is said that three crops only of oats, upon toathed or dunged out-field,
were allowed by the ancient customary law of Scotland; and that action for
damages lay at the instance of the landlord, or of the incoming against the
outgoing tenant, if he injured the possession by a more severe round of crops.
Some documents of the use of this action, are said to be still extant, in the re-
cords of the Sheriff Court of Perth.  It is certain, that where out fields
were formerly managed by solding, and where they still are so, the most
general practice is to take three crops only.  In some places, five crops were
probably allowed of old by the landholders; and the record of a court of the
barony of Alford, 11th May 1794, affords very good evidence that this was
the case in this county.


