
804                         AYRSHIRE.

been opened on the Earl of Glasgow's grounds to the south,
which affords the present supply.
   Manufactures.--The only public work is that recently erected
at Bankhouse, by Mr George Henderson.

                 V.---PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Since the commencement of the present century, no town in
the county has been so completely enlarged and remodelled, nor
its environs so much beautified with villas, the most of which are
in a superior style of architecture.  A few of the old tenements
still remain, and exhibit a very humble appearance when compared
with those of modern construction.  The only building of a public
character is the Baths, which contain, besides hot and cold baths,
a spacious billiard and reading-room.
   Villages.--The only village in the parish is that of Fairlie,
which is pleasantly situated on the coast, at the south end of the
parish.  There are several handsome villas set down, and the
spot is so attractive and retired, that many prefer it to Largs.
Both are most desirable places, having all the charms of nature
in her pleasing variety:--

    <Footnote> " Where smiling spring its early visit pays,
                 And parting summer's lingering bloom delays."

   Means of Communication.--Since the last Statistical Account
of the parish was written, an excellent new turnpike road, across
the moor, from Largs to Kilbirnie and Dalry, has been made,
which has been of the utmost benefit to Largs.
   Lime to any extent can be had at Hourat lime-work, a distance
of about seven miles, for 10s. the chaldron ; and the landed pro-
prietors and tenants have not failed to take advantage of it.  Coals
are also brought from the pits in these parishes, a distance of about
eight miles ; the price at the pit is 3s. 4d. for fourteen hundred-
weight.  A parish road has also been made through the Vale of
Brisbane to the boundary of the parish, near Loch Thom, which
joins the Greenock parish road.  This road is of much benefit to
the farmers on the line, and general traveller, as it shortens the
distance from Largs to Greenock about two miles.  There are
in all thirteen miles of turnpike, and eleven miles of parish roads.
   Harbour.--When steam-boats began to ply between Glasgow
and Largs, the want of a harbour was much felt in the landing of
passengers and goods.  Upon application to Sir Thomas Mac-
dougal Brisbane, Bart., he agreed to give the ground for a pier,
to take shares for the price, and to extend the boundaries of the
harbour from Haylie to Noddleburn ; a subscription was entered


