
                    PETTIE.                          405

huts are hardly in keeping with the agricultural advancement of
the district. It would be well, also, if their possession of crofts had
been made dependent on their sending their children, female as
well as male, to school, till able to read and write; and that, as a
precaution against pauperism, in 'case of disasters at sea, they
should be required to contribute to the Shipwrecked Fishermen
and Mariners' Benevolent Society. *
  Oysters of an inferior description may be fished between Artirlie-
Point and Avoch. The grandfather of the present proprietor of
Culloden had takensome pains to form and foster a bed, by pro-
curing oysters from a distance, and placing them at the Point.
More recently another bed has been formed.
		 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
  Market-Town.-Inverness is the great market to which the po-
pulation bring all their marketable commodities: the tenant, his
well fed stot and grain; the cottar's wife, her fowls, eggs, and dairy
produce; and the fisher, his nocturnal capture of cod, skate,
whiting, haddock, flounder, sole, or herring. Since steamers
have begun to ply regularly between London and Inverness, any un-
comnonly fine beast is sent to Smithfield. The coach-road from
Aberdeen to Inverness, by which two stage-coaches and the mail
daily leave and reach each place, runs through the entire length
of the parish, making a bend so as to pass near Fort George
through the village of Campbelton. Every obstacle to the forma-
tion of a line of road higher up, keeping nearly the track of the old
Nairn road, is now removed; and the making of it has been com-
menced. This line will nearly bisect the parish along its entire,
extent from east to west, will save about two miles in the distance,
between Nairn and Inverness, avoid a good deal of hill, and
open up a better access towards Cawdor and Croy. At present
there is, strange to say, not even a receiving-house for letters in,
the parish. To the advantage of the new line of road, that of a
post-office whll doubtless be added. The nearest post-offices, are
at Fort George, (Ardersier,) and Inverness. The only tryst held
in the parish is the long established and much frequented Camp-
belton market, held on the confines of Pettie and Ardersier, at
Lammas. It is here that farmers from Moraysbire and round In-
verness engage their shearers; a good deal of business is done in
the sale of lambs, cattle, horses, and small quantities of wool not
worth being offered at the Inverness wool market.

<FOOTNOTE> * All that is required to constitute a member is a yearly contribution of 2s. 6d.


