
367                  KILFINAN.

considered as having lost ground in some measure durin the las                      g
increased facilities of intercourse, in consequence of forty years,
with people of the low country, and also in consequence of a con-
siderable number of families from the low country having of late
settled in the parish.
                IV.-INDUSTRY.
Agriculture.-By far the, greater part of the parish, is hilly
ground, unfit for cultivation, and only adapted for the feeding of
,sheep and cattle.* On each farm there is generally as much am-
ble land as supplies the tedant or tenants with food for their fami.
lies, and with provender for their cattle during winter. Few of
the ten`nts understand or practice the improved methods of eul.
tivatino, the ground, so as to raise good crops of any thing btit po-
ta,toes. They are slow in adopting the modern improvements in
husbandry, and, indeed, the greater number of them want the
means of doing it. By a proper system of cultivation much bet-
ter crops might be produced; and had they the necessary means
of draining and eticlosiiicr, much land that has hitherto been tin.
cultivated might be rendered available for crops.
The average r,ent for grazing a cow or ox during the year may
be stated at I.,.2, and for a ewe or sheep, 3s.
Wa.qes, 4c.-The rate of wages for common labourers is, in
summers Is. 6d. per day, and in winter, Is. 3d. The fees of farm-
servants, exclusive of lodging and victuals, are from L. 5 to L. 7
per half vear. Those of femal servants are about L. 3 per half-
year. The duration of leases, which generally does not exceed
in,ine year,-a, is too short for inducing tenants with capital to lay of it
much of it in improving their farms. Another hinderance to im-
provement is the want ot enclosures to protect the arable lands
from the cattle, both dtiring summer and winter; as without enclo-
stires and subdivision of fields, there can be no proper adherence
to a rotation of. crop$. Indeed little attention has hitherto been
given to the cultivation of crops, the chief dependence of the
larger tenants be'tig on the prosperity of their stwep and. cattle,
while qthers wba have smaller fartns depend chiefly on the pro-
duce of the herrinff-fishing, in which tlxey engage during summer.
Extensive improvements, however, are in course of being made. "'
the estate, of Mr Campbell of Ulimore in regard, to daitaing, in-
lelbsing, and plapting ; and it is probable that the other proprie,
     It is computed to contain an ea of about 64 squar miles, or 40,963 imperia I
re one twelfth of which, at lemo, may be considered arable.


