
		DUNKELD AND DOWALLY.                         983

Muicklarie, and out of the rents he endowed the chaplain. By
virtue of a grant, the dues payable to the chaplain have now been,

of David II.--Foed. t. vi. 38, 40.  In 1369, he was a witness to the treaty for a truce
between England and Scotland, for fourteen years.--Foed. t. vi. 632. Mill has, omit-
ted this bishop.
	17. Michael Monymusk. He was the great Chamberlain of Scotland, and died in
1376.--Mill.
	18. John Peeblis. This bishop was King's Chancellor, and intrusted with various
important national negociations.--Foed. t. vii. p. 441. It was he who drew up the ce-
lebrated act of Parliament which recognized the title of Robert II. to the throne of
Scotland. He died in 1396.
	19. Robert de Cairdney. He showed great zeal and assiduity in adorning the ca-
thedral, and improving the revenues of his diocese. He acquired the lands of Cra-
mond in excambion for Cammo.--Catal, of Bisb. p. 53. The chartulary of Cambus-
kenneth, as quoted, (Ibid.), mentions that this bishop was excommunicated for re-
fusing to comply with the formalities of ecclesiastical processes required by the Pope.
He was one of the hostages for the redemption of James I.--Foed. t. v. p. 125.
	20. Donald Macnaughtan. He was Dean of Dunkeld, and elected by the chapter
on the death of Robert; but King James opposing his appointment he took a jour-
ney to Rome to obtain confirmation from the Pope. On this journey he died. Nis-
bet, Heraldry, p. 419, gravely says, "Donald Macnaughtan was by James II, rais-

dd to the Episcopal see of Dunkeld, where he exercised his Episcopal function till
his death, as in Spottiswood's History of the Church of Scotland." It happens un-
fortunately for the credit of Mr Nisbet's accuracy, that, in the passage referred to,
Spottiswood says, that "James opposed this bishop's election, and he died on his way
to Rome."--Spot. p. 100. Donald endowed the church of Clunie.
	21. James Kennedy. He was the son of Sir James Kennedy of Dunure, by Mary,
younger daughter of Robert III. and Queen Annabel. In 1438, he was chosen bi-
ihop, and in 1448, translated to St Andrews, became a Privy Councillor, and Chan-
cellor of Scotland, and afterwards one of the Regents of the kingdom, during the mi-
nority of James III.--Historical Genealogy of the Royal House of Stuarts, by Mark
Noble, p. 88. Keith, p. 18.
	Alexander Lauder, who had been rector of Ratho: "Venerabilis vir," says For-
dun, lib. xvi, c. 26, "et nunc morurn probitate conspicuus." Mill says he died in
October 1440, before consecration,
	22. James Bruce, first rector of Kilmeny in Fife. He became Chancellor of the
kingdom, and was promoted to the see of Glasgow, but died before his translation
in 1447.
	William Turnbull, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, was nominated in 1447, to suc.
ceed James Bruce in the see of Dunkeld; but on the death of that bishop he w`s

translated to Glasgow before his consecration for Dunkeld.--Keith.
	23. John Ralston, Dean of Dunkeld, Keeper of the Privy-Seal, and Secretary to
the King, was raised to the See in 1448. He was afterwards created Lord High
Treasurer, and employed in several foreign embassies. Foed. t. ii. p. 2420. Mill
says, "John died about 1450; but it was after the 6th November 1452, for on that
day he is witness to a charter under the great seal."--Keith.
	24. Henry Douglas, son to the Earl of Douglas, succeeded Ralston, He is said
to have filled the see two years.--Life of Leslie, Bishop of Ross. Neither Keith,
Mill, or Spottiswood make mention of Henry.
	25. Thomas Lauder assumed the mitre in the sixtieth year of his age. He was
tutor to James II. Mill, who lived in Bishop Lauder's time, says of him: "This
venerable prelate had such acquaintance with divinity, that he himself preached the
faith to his people." He died in 1481, having in 1476 resigned the see on ac-
count of his advanced age. After his resignation he was styled" Episcopus in uni-
versali ecclesia."
	26. James Livingston, Rector of Forteviot and Weem, said to have been remark-
able for his stature.--Mill. He was Chancellor, but held the Office a short while.      .
He erected a chaplainry in honour of St Columba, in the church of St Giles in Edin-
burgh, and died in 1483.
        Alexander Inglis was next elected by the chapter, but the Pope annulled the elec-
tion, because he had not been previously consulted.
 	Robert appears as Bishop of Dunkeld in 1483-4-5.--Catalogue of Bishops, p.50.
This fact is difficult to reconcile with the history of Mill, who lived at the time, and
does not mention a bishop of that name.


