
     Statistical Account of the

those parishes, whereof the College are titulars of the tithes;
insomuch that all now remaining of them to the College is
340 l. sterling, and 193 bolls of victual; but which is still lia-
ble to future augmentations of ministers' stipends.  The be-
nefactions to the College have chiefly been given for provid-
ing new bursaries; insomuch that the stock of these morti-
fications is at present worth 16 or 17,000 l. sterling.  The
rights of these mortifications are vested in the corporate bo-
dy of the College; who are likewise patrons of most of them,
but derive no benefit from them except the, small honorari-
um or fee to the teaching masters*.

   Greek Class.-By the ancient practice of the University,
the regents not only taught in rotation, the several branches
of science, which constituted the philosophical course, but
Greek also.  It was not till about the beginning of the pre-
sent century that this department was allotted, by a Royal
and Parliamentary visitation, to a separate professor.  As few
of the students who now enter College, make any previous
proficiency in Greek, their first year is generally devoted to
the study of its elements; the professor meeting with this
first or elementary class three-hours every day during the
session, Saturdays and Sundays excepted.  It had once been
customary, to give a fourth hour daily for the benefit of more
advanced students; but from various causes this practice fell
into disuse.  Within these few years, it has been revived un-
der a different form: the bursars of the higher classes are re-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Lesser donations for the purchase of books, philosophical apparatus, etc.
have been made at different times: these it would be tedious to enumerate
though the names of the donors are carefully preserved; but it would be un-
grateful to omit the name of Dr Murray of Philadelphia, who lately bequeath-
ed a sum of money, burdened however with the support of his wife during her
life, for the maintenance of a bursar, and of a lecturer in the College Chapel.


