
244        GENERAL  OBSERVATIONS

L.4500. The farms in some places do not exceed 20 or 30
acres in extent, but in some instances they amount to 600 or 800
acres. The smaller farms are occupied by smaller tenants, mi-
serably fed, living upon land over-cropt and miserably cultivated.
In the best parts of the county, the cultivation equals the best
style of agriculture known in the west of Scotland. In the north,
the average rental of arable land is L. 1, 10s. per acre, the ave-
rage grazing of an ox or cow L. 2, and of a sheep from 2s. 6d. to
3s. A little farther south the price of grazing is somewhat
higher; but the rental of cultivated land is much the same.
The Highland breed of cattle is grazed on the hilly pastures.
The milch cows on the low grounds are mostly of the cross breed
between Highland and Ayrshire, and on the low and sheltered
land pure Ayrshire. The indigenous horses are of a small size
between the cart-borse and the Highland poney, combining the
faults and blemishes of both. The prevailing breed of sheep are
the south of Scotland black-faced sheep on the hill pasture, and
occasionally the Cheviot breed on the low grounds, with some
pets of the English breeds.
  In some places farther south still, the general character of the
husbandry is improving, chiefly by enclosing and draining on the
modern system. Nearly the whole of the cultivated ground is
inclosed by hedges and stone dikes, and waste lands have in some
places been reclaimed to a considerable extent. Within these
few years a great deal has been done in the freeing of the land
from moisture, by the modern improvements in draining. But
much yet remains to be done, before the parish be greatly im-
proved in this way. In the better cultivated places, the average
rental of land is L. 1, 15s. per acre in the higher and wilder parts,
and from L. 2 to L. 2, 1 Os. and L. 3 in the more fertile grounds.
On pasture farms, the average rate of grazing a cow or ox is L. 3,
and near towns and villages, L. 5 are taken for a milch cow for
the season, and about 83s. for a sheep.
  The husbandry in the south-east of Dumbartonshire includes
a good deal of green cropping, and in the best places with a six
years' shift; namely, 1. oats; 2. potatoes, or a little turnip; 3.
wheat with rye-grass and clover; 4. hay ; 5. and 6.pasture. In
most instances, however, no regular rotation is observed; and the
practice of taking two white crops in succession is still in too com-
mon use.
  Wages.--The average wages of the best plouglimen is about


