
                        BIRNIE.                                83

above the level of the Moray Frith.  The surface is uneven, inter-
sected by a few ravines and water terraces, and studded over with
many alluvial knolls.
   Climate.-The superiority of the climate of the lower districts
of the province of Moray over that of some more southern coun-
ties, may in a great measure be accounted for by the little eleva-
tion at which these districts stand above the level of the sea,-the
absence of any mountain range to attract the watery clouds,-the
neighbouring waters of the frith preventing such extremes of tem-
perature as are experienced in more inland situations,-but per-
haps chiefly by the dry and sandy soil speedily absorbing the rain
after it falls.
   Rivers, &c.-The small river Lossie, rising in the parish of
Edinkillie, enters the parish of Dallas, the lower part of which,,
Kellas, is evidently the bed of an old and extensive lake.*  The
river, leaving this ancient bed, runs in a deep and lengthened chan-
nel, cut through the solid rock, which formerly had been the bar-
rier of the lake.  In this water-worn channel, several of the pecu-
liar characters of the rock (gneiss) and its quartzose veins are to
be met with.  The Lossie forms the western boundary of the pa-
rish of Birnie for about 2 miles, then enters the ancient bed of
another lake, which had extended from Birnie to Aldroughty, and
after a course of about 25 miles, excluding windings joins the
Moray Frith at Stotfield-head. Small though this stream appears,
it is yet found extremely difficult in many places to keep it within
its proper channel.  At one part of its course where it touches
and intersects a corner of this parish, it has brought down from
the higher ground, and thrown up such quantities of shingle and
coarse gravel, as, instead of forming any protection to the adjoin-
ing land, often stop up the old run, and make the water diverge
into a new course. At this place it has within the last hundred
years swept away many acres of good land, and is at this day, from
want of sufficient bulwarks, cutting and washing away a field of a
soil inferior to few within the county.
   Geology, Soils, &c-The Grampian range, both on the north
and south sides, and its subordinate chains of primitive mountains,
are flanked by the rocks of the old red sandstone formation.  With-
in the province of Moray, these secondary rocks dip into what is
geologically termed the basin of the Moray Frith.  They form
both banks of the Spey for several miles above its influx.  Thence

<FOOTNOTE>
     Vide Sir Thomas Dick Lauder's Account of the Moray Floods of 1829.


