
     Statistical Account

presbytery of Paisley, and synod of Glasgow and Ayr.  Its
extent varies from 3 to 4 miles in length and breadth, but its
figure is very irregular, being frequently intersected by the ri-
vers in the neighbourhood, and by the abbey parish of Paisley.
All kinds of soil are to be found in it.  Some part of it consists
of a light kind of sand; which, without constant attention or
manure, would soon return to its natural state.  Some is rather
inclined to a kind of till.  A great part of it is a strong clay, but a
still greater part is a deep rich loam.  In general, however,
the whole of the parish is good ground, capable of yielding
excellent crops, of the different sorts of grain, usually cultivated
in Scotland.-There is very little moss; and not many
acres in planting.
   In the course of the last century, the town of Renfrew
stood upon the banks of the river Clyde, and vessels of consi-
derable burden were built close to the town.  But the river
lest its usual course, nearly opposite to Scotstoun, took a semi-
circular direction, leaving the King's-Inch upon the north
side, and running along by the bottom, of the garden be-
longing to the manse, came into its present direction, just a-
bout the place where the ferry now is.-There is a pretty
large canal made, on the old bed of the river, from the Clyde
to the town, where even large vessels can come and unload at
spring tides.  There is another canal made, to accommodate the
people of Paisley.-When the bridge of Inchinnan was built,
the navigation to that town was very much obstructed.  Ves-
sels were then obliged to pass through the arches, which could
not be done without lowering their masts, the channel below
the bridge became vastly wider, and of course very shallow.
To render the navigation of the river sit for vessels with fixed
masts, the town of Paisley obtained liberty, to make a cut about
half a mile in length, in which, there is a very complete draw-
bridge, in the turnpike road,  at the east end of Inchinnan bridge.
      

