
                          POLMONT.                        193

there are two or three bands of ironstone, which has been long
wrought by the Carron Company and others, and is now nearly
exhausted. But, besides these seams, it is proved that these are
other two of considerably greater depth, which have not yet been
opened up.
  In the part of the field which extends between the two main
slips, there occurs, above the seams already described, to the east-
ward of the first main slip, a seam of soft coal, and it is the only
one, excepting the seam just below the ironstone, which for many
years has,been wrought.
  To the westward of the second main slip, the first seam, which
is limited to this part of the field, is to be found only in the higher
grounds, and is of very partial extent. It is from 4 to 5 feet thick,
of excellent quality, and rarely more than eight fathoms beneath
the surface; but it is now almost wrought out. The second seam,
which is also peculiar to this part of the field, and found from 25
to 35 fathoms below the surface, is the splint coal; it is 34 inches
thick, and the quality is good. Below this seam 14 fathoms
is the soft coal, previously mentioned, of 32 inches thick, and like-
wise of fine quality. Besides the seams occuring in the eastern
part of the field, it is ascertained that here there is another, 30,
inches thick, 46 fathoms under the soft coal; but to it there have
litherto been no sinkings.
   The coal proprietors are, the Duke of Hamilton; William
Johnstone, Esq. of Meadowbank; and John G. Drummond, Esq.
of Abbotsgrange. To the first, belongs the Redding Colliery;
to the second, the Middlerig Colliery; and to the last, the Shiel-
hill Colliery. The Redding Colliery is conducted on the largest
scale. The coals from the pits are raised by steam-engines, and
conveyed to the Union Canal by a railway with inclined planes; one
of these being upwards of 800 yards in length, and at which can
be let down at one time from 10 to 12 tons. The splint and
soft coals are those which are at present wrought, and sent chiefly
to the Edinburgh market. The output varies, of course, in amount
with the demand. But the quantity must be always very great,
as there are employed at the Redding and Middlerig Collieries up-
wards of 400 men,-miners, labourers, and artificers, besides draw-
ers, an office performed usually by boys, and by women or girls,
Of the Shielhill Colliery, the Carron Company are lessees; and
though at one period it was carried on very extensively, they have
  STIRLING.


