
     Statistical Account

a lively malt liquor, of moderate strength; which was thought
to be well made here, as long as the nature of the excise permit-
ted it.  Their convivial meetings, were, of course, rarely attend-
ed with riot, or extravagant debauch.  The better sort retained a
respect for order and propriety; the interior ranks were sub-
missive to authority, and respectful to their superiors; an es-
teem for virtue, a just regard to the peace and property of o-
thers, and an unambitious contented spirit, generally prevail-
ed.  The beautiful tints of this pleasing picture are now some-
what defaced.  Decency is too often the butt of scorn; and it
is the best zest of a srolic, that it is attended with mischief to
the inoffensive.  Whisky, which inflames its votaries with fu-
ry, or debases them into the groslicst slupidity, is become a
common beverage; and people too often forget every sense of
duty, when indulging the bewitching draught.  Even women of
the lower ranks are not ashamed, as often as they have an op-
portunity, to drink it to intoxication.  The changes in the
state of our manufactures, which have been above adverted
so, having removed the intermidiate gradations in the scale of
society, operative people, deprived of the prospect of advan-
cing a step higher, have lost that incentive to economy and in-
dustry:  nor has the eye of the employer, at a distance, and
almost unknown, any influence as a restraint on their behavi-
our.  The young artizan, having finished his short appentice-
ship, finds himself master of his conduct and of his earnings,
before he has attained discretion to manage them, and, yield-
ing to bad example, unthinkingly plunges into folly and dissi-
pation.  Thus are the social and domestic duties too often ne-
glected, by those, whose existence depends upon thier applica-
tion to labour.  Habits of laziness gain ground; and a day of
idleness of riot is sometimes closed by a night, either employ-
ed in wanton mischief, or in supplying the deficiency of in-


