
                                 GOLSPIE.                      43

facilities of education have considerably improved the moral and
social condition of the people.
   Poor.-In regard to the poor of the parish, it may be observed,
that though they all receive some aid from church collections, and
from other funds, there are none of them wholly supported by these.
The average number on the poors-roll is somewhat more than
sixty. The average sum which each of them annually receives is
8s., and occasionally some meal. The average annual collections in
church are about L.19. There is the interest of money lent in behalf
of the poor, amounting to about L.7. And her Grace the Duchess
of Sutherland, besides many charitable pensions, and many liberal
donations in money, meal, clothing, and house accommodation,
annually contributes L.6 to the parochial fund for the poor. Out
of this general fund there is a small annual allowance to the ses-
sion-clerk, precentor, kirk-officer, and treasurer. The average
amount of church collections for other charitable and religious
purposes may be L.15 a-year.
   There is in the parish a house for the accommodation of seve-
ral poor widows, which was sometime since built at the joint ex-
pense ofthe present Ladies Surrey and Grosvenor.
   Literature.-It may be observed, that the gentlemen of this
and the neighbouring parishes have formed themselves into a read-
ing club. They purchase new books of merit, which, after being
circulated among the members, are sold to supply the means of
purchasing others.
   Fairs, Inns, Fuel.-There is an annual fair held near the vil-
lage of Golspie, in October, chiefly for the sale of country cattle;
but merchants and pedlars also resort to it, with goods suited to
the wants of the country people. There is another fair of a simi-
lar nature, but of little importance, in May. In the vicinity of
the village, there is an inn, lately built, large, commodious, well-
furnished, and well-kept. It is allowed to be the best country
inn in the Highlands, and is beautifully and picturesquely situated.
In the village itself, there are several smaller inns, or alehouses,
for the use and accommodation of the lower orders; and hitherto
these houses do not seem to have had any particularly bad effects
on the morals of the people. The fuel used in the parish is coal
and peat. The coal is imported from Newcastle, and generally
costs 2s. per barrel. The peats are cut and seasoned in the
mosses, at the distance, of some miles from the coast; and were
the expense of cutting, seasoning, and carriage, duly calculated, it


