
140                      FORFARSHIRE.

Seldom does so much ignorance appear as sometimes did twenty
or thirty years ago. Yet morals cannot be said to have improved
in proportion to the means of instruction.
	Literature.--There is a parish library, consisting of about 600
books of a useful and religious kind: and each of our two booksel-
lers has a circulating library. There is usually a public news-
room: and a printing press has lately been established.
	Charitable Institutions.--There is here an institution called the
Hospital of Maison Dieu, which gives small weekly allowances to
poor residenters, widows, and children of burghers. There is also
a public dispensary, established several years ago, chiefly by means
of a legacy from the late Mrs Speid of Ardovie, and supported by
subscription from some of the heritors and other inhabitants. It
is very useful. The patients average 73 in nulber for the last
eight years. There are several friendly societies, both for males
and females in distress; but most of them are expiring from want
of encouragement, or from wrong calculations. They surely tend
to create a spirit of independence and of frugality.
	We have also a society of ladies for relieving aged and indigent
women, about 60 in number, who receive one shilling monthly. It
was instituted in 1810.
	Savings Bank.--There is a savings bank chiefly employed by
servants, who are sober and industrious.  The amount invested from
September 1832, to September 1833, was L. 595, 9s. 11d.; with-
drawn in the same time L. 659, 12s. 9d.
	Poor and Poors' Funds.--From 60 to 200 paupers receive aid
from the session funds. The former number consists of weekly pen-
sioners, at 1s.; on an average, widows with children receive from 1s.
6d. to 2s. 6d. according to their necessities. The funds for their relief
arise from the collections at church, and some garden rents belong-
ing to the session; besides 200 sittings in the church, fines and mort-
cloths,--the whole amounting to about L. 250. Last year they rose
as high as L.340, 7s.; but, an extraordinary call was then made  upon
the heritors. There is as yet no assessment, but it is feared, if the
poor and also Dissenters increase in number, that recourse must be
had to it. Somd `re slow in applying for parochial aid, but others
are too ready to seek it. An assessment, it is well known, greatly
increases this propensity.
	Prisons.--There are too often some prisoners in our jail, usual-
ly for debt, sometimes for bad conduct. During the last year
(1831) there were confined for debt, 14; on criminal charges, 20.


