
     Statistical Account

introduced the manufacture of Manchester goods, thicksets,
waistcoats, handkerchiefs, etc. on a small scale, which pro-
mises to do well.  There is a thriving stone ware pottery,
as well as a pottery for brown ware at this place*.  There
are several soap boilers and starch-makers in this parish:
One of the latter sort, at Monkton, of considerable extent+;
which, in the year preceding July 6. 1792, paid no less than
L. 406+: 13: 4 of excise duty, and was carried on by Ait-
chison, Brown, and Company, the proprietors of the
great distillery in St Clement's Wells, locally in the parish
of Tranent, but on the boundary of this parish, in which
they have their rectifying-house, and their malting, and
where most of their workmen reside.  This is a distillery
of great extent.  The barley made into malt in one year,
from July 6. 1791 to July 6. 1792, amounted to 13, 131
bolls.  They feed off 600 cattle twice a-year, besides many
hundreds of hogs at the starch work and here; and the ef-
fects of their dung are perceived not only on their own ex-
tensive farms, but on many fields in the neighbourhood.
The brewing of beer and ale has much decreased of late,
there having been only 14600 bolls of barley made into malt 

<FOOTNOTE>

Stuff has been discontinued.  Between 30 and 40 years ago, a cotton ma-
nufactory was begun and carried on here, so as to employ above 200 looms,
most of which were in this parish.  That also has been given up for some
time past, as the same kind of cloth came to be furnished cheaper in other
parts of the country.  Some yers ago there was a china manufacture at
Westpans, in this parish, which received some encouragement from the no-
bility and gentry, as the artist succeeded well in fabricating ornamental
china: But as he never could make tea-table china cheap enough for com-
mo dale, and had no stock, it was soon given up.

*It is situated in a garden, where, three score years ago, stood the man-
stop-house or West pans, then possessed by a family of the name of JOICE, or
JUICY now given etc, whole estate was what is now called Drummore, in
them and of Prest in owns.

+This starch work was given up in 1793.


