
334                ROSS AND CROMARTY.

of alow temperature. There are none, however, in which the
water has any peculiar mineral character, except one or two bear-
ing asmall quantity of lime in solution.  In the northern dis-
tricts there are two fresh-water lochs, each of them about three
miles in length, with an average breadth of one mile. Neither of
them is destitute of the ordinary beauties of highland scenery;
but the more remarkable is the easterly one, which is called Muire
or Mary, taking its name from a Roman Catholic place of wor-
ship, built in a romantic glen at one extremity of the locb, and the
ruins. of which still exist. This collection of water is of no great
extent, ydt, from its position, and the immense height of the rocky
precipices which rise on either side, it affords an excellent specl-
men of what may be termed the sublime in mountain scenery.
Another feature in its character, and one which is worthy of no-
tice, is its great depth, which might be inferred as well from the
immense height of the rocks on either side, as from the fact, that
even in the most severe and protracted frosts, its water has Dever
been known to freeze farther than a few yards from the side.
   There is no river which can properly be said to belong to this
parish, for though. both the Alness and Auldgrande take their rise
within its bounds, they rather bound than intersect it. The for-
mer originates in Loch Muire, which has been already noticed, and
after flowing for about fifteen miles in a winding direction, falls
into the Cromarty Fritb. Though larger, it is not, however, so in-
teresting or so worthy of remark as the Auldgrande, which, from
the singular character of part of its channel, forms one of the most
striking natural curiosities in the north. Issuing from a small but
beautifully situated loeb, at the foot of Ben Wyvis, it flows for se-
veral miles, gradually increasing iii size, in consequence of the
number of torrents which pour themselves into it from the neigh-
bouring bills. When within three miles of the sea, its banks on
either side suddenly heighten and contract, and the waters be-
coming invisible, from the depth of the gulf, and the quantity of
under-wood growing on its sides, their presence is discovered only
by the hollow roaring within, resembling at times the noise of con-
tinued thunder. The whole length of the chasm is about a mile
and a-balf; but so near do the sides approach each other, that boys
been known to cross on branches of trees, growing from the
sides, and stretching across the centre. There. is no convenient
way of crossing the cbasyn, except at one part where a wooden
bridge has been thrown across. But even here, from the great


