
34                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

are fed on turnips. When the turnips are let, the price per week
is from 4d. to 6d. for each sheep.
   Husbandry.-All kinds of grain are cultivated. The rotation
followed upon the clay soil is, 1st, fallow, manured; 2d, wheat; 3d,
grass; 4th, oats; 5th, beans, drilled and manured; 6th, wheat. Upon
the free loam and lighter soils, the four-course shift is practised; as,
1st, turnips, partly with bone dust (first introduced into this parish
by Mr Alexander Dudgeon, who, it is believed, was the second far-
mer in Scotland who applied this useful manure;) after turnips, the
2d crop is spring wheat or barley; 3d, grass; 4th, oats. In some
cases the continuance of the grass a second year is thought, in the
present depressed state of agriculture, to be for the interest of the
farmer.
   Of the 6000 imperial acres which the parish may contain, there
may be about 4000 under a system of alternate cropping, the re-
mainder being under wood and grass. There is a waste and sandy
marsh of about 300 acres, formed at the estuary of the river Tyne,
which the Earl of Haddington has it in contemplation to embank,
and which it is supposed will amply repay the expense.
   Leases and Rents.-Leases are granted for nineteen or twenty-
one years' endurance, and possession in this way is held to be an
unquestionable advantage to the proprietor, the farmer, and the
community at large; indeed the want of possession for a number of
years certain is an acknowledged bar to successful agriculture.
   In the last Statistical Account of this parish, the writer mentions,
that, "in some cases, former rents had tripled;" but the return
of peace and other causes rendered it difficult, and, in several of
these cases, impossible, for the farmers to fulfil their engagements,
even after great sacrifices. A scheme for the relief of his tenants,
worthy of so distinguished a nobleman, was devised by John late
Earl of Hopetoun, whereby the money rent which had been pro-
mised was converted into a proportion of wheat, at the price it
was expected to realize when the contract of lease was made, and
at the same time a maximum price was fixed, to protect the far-
mer against contingency; and this mode of paying rent is now
generally adopted. We have only one or two exceptions within
the parish in these instances the average money paid is L. 2, 17s. 6d.
per imperial acre. The average proportion of wheat per acre, paid
at the fiars price for East Lothian, is nine bushels. The average
produce from land under crop may be thirty-six bushels of wheat
and beans; forty-eight bushels of barley; and sixty bushels of oats.


