
          COUNTY OF RENFREW.                                533

come near the truth.  The average annual fall of rain at Greenock
is said to be 35.34, and here a comparison is made between West-
morland, Cumberland, and Manchester. As the tables referred
to in England are now so me of them very old, and as the mode of
conducting these things formerly was different from that adopted
at present, less reliance can be placed upon them.
   Very accurate tables were published in the Manchester Tran-
sactions, Vol. iv. including observations made at Chatsworth,
27.865; Liverpool, 34.40 ; Lancaster, 40.3; Kendal, 61.223
Dumfries, 36.127; Manchester itself being 43.1.  As the rains
of the west are so much celebrated, it has been thought worth
while to dwell somewhat at length on the subject.  The other
meteorological phenomena will be found in the accounts of the
several parishes.  Dr Fleming of Neilston's "poplar-leaf" is not a
bad thermometer, or rather index to the weather.
   Hydrography.--First in importance under this head is the
frith or arm of the sea which bounds so considerable a portion of
Renfrew.  The Clyde, in its upper course, is not a large river,
and only sends its tide up to Rutherglen, a short way above Glas-
gow.  Although, on its first approach to the shores of Renfrew,
it is not picturesque in itself, yet it soon becomes so as soon as it
begins to swell into a frith. At first the shores are flat and some-
what marshy, but are beautifully studded, both near and at a dis-
tance, with thriving villages, villas, and gentlemen's seats.  At
lenght the hills of Dumbarton and Argylesbire appear, rendered
more interesting in their blue and misty distance, as yet but im-
perfectly defined to the eye. As the breadth of the frith expands,
a curious isolated rock with a mitred summit springs up like the
presiding genius of the Leven and the Clyde. Here they both
cease to be rivers.  This curiously formed and obtrusive rock
bursting upon the sight all at once with an effect so piquant to the
imagination, is tbe rock of Dumbarton; Port-Glasgow and Green-
ock soon appear upon the Renfrew shore; and at length the frith,
now a smallsea, breaks into numerous arms or Icchs, the main
branch turning southward along the western shore of this county,
on its way to the Ayrshire and Irish coasts, the North Channel,
and the Atlantic Ocean. Renfrewshire runs with a sort of elbow
into the Clyde at Greenock and Gourock.  This noble frith, like
all the seas either surrounding or intersecting this island, seems to
have been subject (and still is so,) to great and progressing changes.
Mr Montgomery, in his very excellent account of the geology of


