
     of Preston-pans.

mentioned.  The imports are the ingredients used in the vi-
triol work and potteries; sometimes English barley for the
use of the distilleries in the neighbourhood.  More wheat,
barley, oats, potatoes, and hay, are supposed to be consumed
than are raised in the parish: Less pease and beans.  Con-
siderable quantities of cabbage plants are raised.  The season
of sowing them is Lammas.  Besides the sale in the neigh-
bourhood, 150,000 at a medium are sent annually to Glas-
gow, and about 70,000 to Falkirk and Carron.  The severer
the winter, the demand for them is the greater.  The price
is from 3 s. to 6 s. 8 d. per 1000.  The principal market for
garden productions is Edinburgh.

   Custom-House.-A custom-house is established here, the ju-
risdiction of which extends from the Figgat Bourn on the
west, to the mouth of the Tyne on the east.  The port is
Morison's Haven: The creeks, the Figgat Bourn, Mussel-
burgh, Port-Seton, Aberlady, and North Berwick.  There

     VOL. XVII.

<FOOTNOTE>

ton-pans, 19 of which were imported in ships belonging to the
town.  Of these cargoes 21 were wholly from Norway, 6 from
Sweden, 1 from Dantzic, 2 from Dantzic and Norway, 2 from
Bremen, 5 from Rotterdam, 2 from Havre de Grace and St.
Martin, 1 from Oporto, and 1 from Maryland in North Ameri-
ca.  This last cargo consisted of 102 hogsheads of tobacco, 59
of which were delivered at Preston-pans, and the remainder was
carried to Leith.  Some years after this period, several of the
vessels belonging to this port were lost at sea.  This, together
with the check it received at the Union, gave the trade a blow
from which it never recovered.  No person of enterprise or ca-
pacity, or possessed of a sufficient stock, made any persevering
efforts to re-establish it.  Purchasers not finding such an assort-
ment of goods as formerly, had recourse to other ports; and a-
bout the year 1743, it entirely ceased.  The harbour mostly
used by the traders was Port-Seton, about a mile to the east, in
the parish of Tranent.  Before the Union, and for some years
after it, the Dutch trade centered chiefly in Preston-pans and
Queensferry.


