
			LATHERON.                         95

doctrines of our church, which maintain a powerful influence over
them in all the relations of life.  In particular, their minds are
deeply imbued with suitable impressions of an overruling Provi-
dence governing all things according to tbe Divine will; a prin-
ciple which, whilst it moderates their joy in prosperity power-
fully supports tbemunder adversity.  Of this there were innume-
rable instances of a very pleasing nature during the three past
years, when, as is well known, the crops were almost a total fail-
ure all over the Highlands.  The patient resignation and deep
submission with which this heavy calamity was borne, could not
fail to excite the admiration of every attentive observer.  Instead
of riot, robbery, and bloodshed, which in many other quarters fol-
low in the train of less formidable privations, here the public peace
was never disturbed; but, on the contrary, life, and even property
in general, were alike secure as in more favourable circumstances.
To behold 7000 people suffering under the most distressing des-
titution for three successive years, many families without a hand-
ful of meal in their houses for weeks together, others satisfied
with a little water-gruel once a-day, and still nothing but quiet-
ness and submission prevailing, what a triumph for that sound
Scriptural education to which they are early habituated, and con-
sequent religious principle of which it seldom fails to be produc-
tive!  A high veneration for the being, attributes, and worship
of the Deity is everywhere observable.  The sanctity of the Sab-
bath is universally upheld.  Scarcely a movement is to be seen
during that sacred day excepting to or from the places of public
worship, which are remarkably well attended.  The important
duty of family worship, so necessary for the formation and
exhibition of the Christian character, is also very generally
observed.
   But wbilst it is truly pleasing to dwell upon the ascendency
which these principles and habits possess among the great body
of the peasantry, yet a regard to truth requires the admission,
however painful, that instances do occur from time to time, of
a character directly opposite.  Of these one of the greatest irregu-
larities is that of drinking ardent spirits, to which not a few are
addicted, especially during the winter season.  This degrading
practice was formerly occasioned by the extent to which the smug-
gling of whisky was carried on; but the system of heavy fines or im-
prisonment, introduced many years ago in all cases of detection,


