
                  MARKINCH.                                   681

were placed on a secure basis, the church, if not a faultless, at
least exhibited a fair and well-proportioned institution, as efficient
an instrument for publishing the Gospel, and instructing the peo-
ple, divested of religious pageantry and superfluous appendages
as latter ages have witnessed. From that happier period, the pa-
rish seems to have enjoyed a succession of not only sound, but
able ministers-all of them faithful, and some of them eminently
successful in their day. The patronage, which is vested in the
Crown, was exercised judiciously, chiefly by means of the Earls of
Leven, who till lately held the rank of principal heritor, and long
diffused a salutary influence over the parish. No, unpopular settle-
ment, I believe, ever took place, and those who advocate the advan-
tage of such management, will no doubt be anxious to ascertain
the result.
  Now, though every minister in his day has had sufficient rea-
son to deplore the limited success of his ministry, it is due to truth
to make the statement I now do, that, after twenty years connec-
tion with the parish, I have found among its ancient families, as
compared with new-comers, transplanted from fields placed under
a different system of spiritual husbandry, an order, decency, and
moral bearing, obviously superior, even where much might be
lacking as to the full standard of wished-for piety. This. general
statement admits many exceptions on the one side and on the
other; but enough remains to warrant the assertion, that a sound
Christian agency is the best calculated to induce moral order, and
did, in fact, in this place, largely prove its adequacy to that affect.
  As to literary distinction, few of the pastors referred to had
leisure, or inclination, it is presumed, to enter the lists with com-
petitors for fame. One or two of them were deemed fit to be
transferred to St Andrews, to occupy in that University the place
of principal. Another who furnished the former Statistical report,
Published an agricultural survey of the county, about the time of
his translation to a city charge; of the rest, nothing remains be-
yond a few sermons, mostl of an occasional and ephemeral sort.
heir works, however, we doubt not, will bear a last-day review
without shame, as they are without pretension.
  Owing to the rapid increase of populition, the parish field soon
became unmanageable for a single Tabourer, especially as secular
business increases on the hands of the Established clergy in pro-
portion to the census. Household ministrations necessarily became
rare, and the effects of one visit had vanished before another could


