
236                       LANARKSHIRE.

the people, been previously hallowed by the habitual performance of
their devotions. It is probable that Kentigern, following this prin-
ciple, founded his church here on the vestiges of the Druidical
circle. This took place, as is commonly reported, about the year
560, and he died in 601, leaving the infant town which had begun
to spring up under the shadow of that stately church, the founda-
tion of which he is said to have laid, and where at his death he was
interred, under his paternal benediction. According to Spottis-
wood, he was the pupil of St Sevirinus Bishop of Orkney, was dis-
tinguished by the strict performance of all that were considered
pious and meritorious exercises, and lived to a very great age. Af-
ter his death, his memory appears to have been held in high vene-
ration, and in many parts of Scotland there were religious houses
which, as well as his own extensive see, claimed the patronage of his
name and the benefit of his prayers. This account of the origin
of Glasgow, drawn from unvarying tradition, and confirmed by no-
tices scattered in contemporary chronicles, derives additional con-
firmation from the armorial bearings of the see. These are de-
scribed in Edmonstone's Heraldry, as follows: Argent a tree, grow-
ing out of a mountain base, surmounted by a salmon in fesse, all
proper; in the salmon's mouth an amulet, or; on the dexter side,
a bell pendent to the tree, of the second. Discarding the monkish
fables respecting the origin of each separate part of this cognizance,
we may conclude with little danger of mistake, that the tree refer-
red to the ancient forest which surrounded the cathedral, the bell
to the cathedral itself, the ring to the Episcopal office, and the fish
to the scaly treasures poured by the beautiful river below at the
feet of the venerated metropolitan.
	"During 500 years the history of Glasgow presents an entire
blank; but the existence and the importance of the see during
that period, is demonstrated by the inquisition made in 1115,
by David then Prince of Cumberland, and afterwards King of
Scotland, into the lands and tithes previously belonging to the
church of Glasgow. These appear from that document to have
been of great number and extent, embracing a multitude of
parishes in the southern, and western districts of Scotland. This
fact sufficiently shows that, during the period , in which no tra-
ces of its history can be found, the cathedral not only existed
but was largely_endowed. It, may, however, have suffered many
vicissitudes and even occasional demolition amidst the disasters of
the kingdom of i Strathclyde, the bloody contests of the Scottish


