
			TERREGLES.                          231

abbey at Lincluden, (an ecclesiastical establishment), which is
within its bounds, and situated on the banks of the river Cairn.
	Extent, Boundaries, &c.--Terregles is situated within the stew-
artry of Kirkcudbright, and is within two miles of the town of
Dumfries. It extends from east to west about 5 miles and at an
average is about 3 in breadth. Its boundaries are, Holywood on
the north; Troqueer on the south and east; Lochrutton on the
west; and Irongray on the north-west.
	The church is situated as nearly as possible in the centre of
the parish, and the manse about a mile to the south-east. To
the west, there is a beautiful range of hills, part of which is co-
vered with wood, and part affords excellent pasturage for sheep
and cattle.  From the top of these hills is seen, in great beauty
and splendour, the town of Dumfries, which, to the eye of the
beholder, lies immediately below, and the vale along the Nith,
which, from the windings of the river, and the variety of the sce-
nery around, is an object of great attraction and interest, together
with a portion of the Solway and the Cumberland hills in the dis-
tance.
	Hydrography.--The only river or rather stream besides the
Cairn, which separates the parish from that of Holywood for about
two miles, is the Cargen. Although this stream be of small ex-
tent, yet, in proportion to its size, it affords excellent fishing both
of salmon and trout. The Cargen joins the Nith, about two miles
below the town of Dumfries.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Land-owners, &c.--The principal proprietor in the parish is
Marmaduke C. Maxwell, Esq. of Terregles. The Hon. Mrs Young
of Lincluden; John Walker, Esq. of Woodlands; and James
Biggar, Esq. of Maryholm, also hold properties in the parish.
The estates belonging to the two last-mentioned are situated prin-
cipally in other parts of the county. All the heritors are resident
with the exception of three. There are twenty-one farms which
yield each the yearly rental of L.50 and upwards. It may be
mentioned, that Marmaduke C. Maxwell, Esq. the principal he-
ritor in the parish, is of the ancient family of Nithsdale, the title
of which was forfeited in the year 1715. This family is Roman
Catholic. In consequence of the great and judicious improve-
ments which are going on, and the regular employment afforded
to the labouring class, the residence of this family in the parish
is of the utmost benefit. Their attention to the tenants on the

