
                          MID-CALDER.                          365

bers.  As individuals they retained their vow of poverty; but
their vow was but a cozenage of the world. They had rich pa-
laces and revenues, and nineteen thousand manors in Christen-
dom, belonging to their order. Vice, the almost invariable attend-
ant upon luxury, may have corrupted them to a certain extent;
but it is more than probable that the avarice of the sovereign Pon-
tiff, and of his coadjutor, Philip the Fair of France, who hated
the Templars, was the true cause of their being suppressed. On
5th October 1307, the Knights Templars throughout the whole
of Europe were seized and imprisoned, and, after being tried for
capital crimes, were condemned, and many of them put to death.
All their wealth and vast domains were confiscated, and bestowed
on the sovereigns in whose dominions they lay, or were given to their
rivals, the Knights of St John of Jerusalem, afterwards of Malta,
and to such persons as were in favour with the sovereign Pontiff.
 In Germany, England, and Scotland alone they were treated
with humanity. Thus fell this once powerful and illustrious order
of the Knights Templars, who, in virtue of their own sovereignty,
when in their full vigour, were subject to no secular power, were
freed from all taxes, could witness in their own cause, and whose
very houses possessed the right of sanctuary. In Scotland their
estates and revenues were transferred to the Knights Hospitallers.
In this way Sir James Sandilands, second son of Sir James San-
dilands of Calder, having succeeded Sir Walter Lindsay as pre-
ceptor of the order of St John of Jerusalem, in Scotland, in 1538,
obtained possession of the vast wealth and revenues belonging to
that order. But, although the lands of the Templars were given
to their rivals the Hospitallers, they still retained the name of the
terra templaria-the Temple-lands; and in time this name
was given also to the estates of the Hospitallers. An abstract
of the charters, and other papers recorded in the Chartulary of
Torphichen, from 1581 to 1596, extending to upwards of 50
quarto pages, was printed at Edinburgh, 1830, by its possessor, the
late Robert Hill, W. S., for private circulation. Sir Walter
Lindsay kept a regular rental of all the lands, patronages, tithes,
feu-duties, &c., belonging to this preceptory; and the last minute
of his hand-writing, subjoined to said rental, bears date 26th
August 1539; and annexed is a note, in the hand-writing of his
immediate successor, Sir Jarnes Sandilands, viz." This renta
is Schir Valter Lyndsea's hande-wryt, and sign his decease was never
alterit, nor lung time a for." Sigued, JAMES SANDILANDS of Tor-
phichen.


