
                              DUNDEE.                        3

down the river; and this probably is the reason why marine in-
sects never attack the piles, buoys, or beacons about the harbour.
The river opposite the town is rather less than two miles broad.
The channel across is much interrupted by a sand bank,* which,
though formed within the last forty years, has now at full spring
tides only about ten feet water over its summit; and at neap tides
scarcely more than four. Its position is not far from midway across.
Its form ir rpindle-shaped; its length, as seen at low water, upwards
of a mile; and its course parallel to that of the river. At present, its
lower or eastern extremity is stretching down in the form of a curve
concave towards the harbour of Dundee. It is, however, so constant-
ly altering its features, that no other remark need be made upon
it, but that it is always increasing in quantity, and slowly moving
down the river.
	Of the water, which is carried through the town in pipes, there
is but a very inadequate supply; and this is the more deeply to be
regretted, since it has been lately estimated, that for a sum be-
tween L. 40,000 and L. 50,000, a supply of 200,000 cubic feet
daily of good water may be obtained from any of three sources at
no great distance.
  Geology.-The whole parish, along with, all the surrounding
country, consists of rocks subjacent to the carboniferous strata,
and interposed between them and the members of the primitive
series.  Of the last mentioned class of rocks, the nearest to the
parish is mica-slate, (which forms a great part of the Grampian
range,) lying about twenty miles to the north; while the nearest
coal-pits are in Fifeshire, about fifteen miles to the south. That
part of the intermediate series which forms the parish of Dundee
is composed chiefly of porphyry, sandstone, and amygdaloid, which
are here mentioned in their apparent order of superposition in an
ascending series. In the sandstone, and especially in the amyg.
daloid, there also occur included masses and alternating beds of

<FOOTNOTE>As this bank is an object of great interest, in reference to the navigation of the
Tay, and, as it may be important in some future age to ascertain its present magni-
tude and position somewhat accurately, we have thought it might be worth while to
give the following data, with which we have been favoured by one of the engineers
at the harbour. The base line, being the sea wall of Earl Grey's dock, at present
known by the name of the West Protection Wall, a line 817 feet in length; the two
extremities of the middle bank at low water, on December 3d, 1833, being the 22d
day of the moon's age, make the following angles
  With the base line at its eastern extremity, 57&deg; 54' and 26&deg; 2'
  With the base line at its western extremity, 112&deg; 23' and 150&deg; 10


