
192                       STIRLINGSHIRE.


  Geology and Mineralogy.-The Minerals are both abundant
and valuable, consisting of freestone, coal, ironstone, with fire-clay.
  The freestone, which is the only rock, extends nearly through-
out the whole of the parish. The dip of the strata generally is to
the north-east, except when their position is altered by a dike
which traverses one part of the parish, as exemplified in Brigh-
ton's Quarry, when the strata in consequence dip to the north-
west. This is the only quarry which is at present in operation.
Recently it has been, and is still wrought to a great extent, on
account of the increase of demand for stone, occasioned chiefly
by the projected railway between Edinburgh and Glasgow. The
quality of the rock is good, the colour brownish. Stones of any
size can be procured. But preparations are making for opening
another quarry at Battock. The freestone here forms a lower
bed than what is found at Brighton's. It is of a white colour, and
is hard and durable. The dip of the strata is to the north-west.
  The coal is situated in different parts of the parish. The pre-
vailing dip of the strata is to the north-east, rising, consequently
to the south-west, with an inclination of I in 12. The coal-field
is intersected by several slips or dislocations, by which the strata
are depressed in some instances many fathoms. Hence it fre-
quently happens, that the seams of coal on the one side of a slip
are not found on the other, being either thrown off, or thrown
down to so great depth, as to render the working of them im-
practicable, while new seams are often superinduced. Two main
slips have been ascertained. These run from north-west to south-
east. Besides, a great number of smaller slips have been discovered
in sinking the coal ; yet, on the whole, the coal-field, compared.
with many others, way be considered a clear field.
  About half a mile west from Brighton's Quarry, one of the
main slips is met with, which throws down the coal to the west-
ward about 120 fathoms ; and about three-quarters of a mile to
the west of the first, is the second main slip, by which the coal is
depressed to the westward upwards of 30 fathoms.
  The first coal, found to the east of the first main slip, consists
of two seams. The upper seam is about 10 or 14 fathoms be.
low the surface, and is of a soft caking quality. Here it is from
34 to 36 inches thick, though, between the two main slips, it does
not exceed 21 inches. Beneath this seam about 8 fathorns is the
lower one; it is 4 1/2 feet thick, and its quality is inferior, because
there are several ribs of stone in it. ImmediatelY above this seam


