
     Statistical Account

thousand carts of ballast are annually call upon the shore, at
the back of the harbour.  Were proper means used to pre-
vent the sea from washing it away, it would soon accumulate
and become solid.  4. Our trade is chiefly to the Baltic,
which is frozen in the winter, of course the sailors are at
home 3 or 4 months in the year.  It is a pity they were not
employed during that time; so much labour is thus lost to
the community, and so much comfort to the individual.  They
would be happier employed than idle.  Those who are bred
weavers or smiths have an advantage in this respect:  they some-
times follow these employments when at home.  5. The engines
and salt pans occasion much smoke, which is very disagree-
able, destroying vegetation in the gardens, and penetrating
the inmost recesses of the houses.  By erecting the proper ap-
paratus on the chimney tops, it might be converted into tar.
Thus the nuisance would be prevented, and a manufacture
established, peculiarly adapted to a sea-port town.

   Remarkable Events.-On the 7th of January 1740, a num-
ber of boys, according to custom, on 1st Monday of the year,
were diverting themselves on the sands below Pathhead; 13
had gone into a cave, when the roof suddenly fell in; 3 only
were taken out alive, and one of these died soon after.  The
friends of those who met this untimely fate, for many years
kept the first Monday of the year as a fast.  An instance of
3 at a birth has happened 5 times during the incumbency of
the present minister.  Few of them survived long*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antiquities.-There was a priory of Black Friars in the town of Dysart.
Their chapel called St. Dennis, was long in a ruinous state, but was lately con-
verted into a forge.  The Romans had a station here.  A high rock, command-
ing the harbour, is called the Fort, and is said to have been fortified by Oliver
Cromwell.  No remains of any works there appear.  There is a stone erected in
field to the N. of the town.  The tradition is, that a battle with the Danes


