
                             KELSO.                         325

pupils for several weeks afterwards.  The custom, formerly con-
nected with this, of the scholars marching in procession through
the town with a gilded ball on the top of a pole, has of late years
fallen into desuetude.
  Upon the whole, however, Kelso can hardly be classed among
places noted for their popular games, at least in so far as the resi-
dent population are concerned.  Except when a fine summer even-
ing tempts a few apprentices to the knowes, to try a match at foot-ball
or quoits, or a severe winter provides an ice-bound river for the use
of the curlers, nothing of the nature of sport is to be seen among
the people at large.  The intoxication of political excitement
has here, as elsewhere, tended to deaden the popular mind, as well
to cheerful amusement, as to other matters of more vital impor-
tance.  And it is to be lamented that, by reason of the long hours
which a tradesman must work in order to provide the means of
subsistence, there is a want of time, even when there is no lack of
disposition, for these manly and healthful recreations.  Is it not
to the disgrace of this great and wealthy nation, that the bulk of
the working-classes should require to spend so many hours of the
day in toil as to have no leisure either for the culture of their
minds, or for the improvement of that physical vigour which is also
most essential to a cheerful and contented tone of mind ?
  In connexion with local customs, it may not be impertinent to
rectify a mistake, to which the name of Sir Walter Scott has
given currency, with respect to the usage called a "Kelso convoy."
According to Sir Walter, this is a proverbial phrase of disparage-
ment, which took its origin from the practice of the Kelsonians,
who, less hospitable than the other borderers, "convoyed," or
accompanied their departing guests no farther than the steps
of their own threshold.  Sir Walter's border lore is in this in-
stance at fault.  " A Kelso convoy" is not a shabby dismissal of
a guest after attending him only to your door.  The old Kel-
sonians did indeed finish, the "convoy," by parting with their guest
on the threshold; but then this parting did not take place until
they had first hospitably convoyed him to his door, and been, in
return for the compliment, reconvoyed by the latter to their own.
  Physical Habits.--In respect of cleanliness, clothing, and ge-
neral style and manner of living, the inhabitants,--the class of
gypsies and the more improvident of the paupers excepted--are
justly considered to surpass most rural population.   A taste for
neatness of dress, well furnished houses, and other domestic com-


