
714                       FIFESHIRE.

quently, the number, decreased considerably, and has never since
reached that number. This diminution, especially of late, has
been owing to the depression of trade.
    The parochial teacher has barely the legal accommodation.
The school-room is small and ill-furnished; and the dwellling-
house, which is above, is in ill-repair and uncomfortable.
    A seminary for young ladies has for a number of years past
been successfully conducted at Cairneyhill, by Mrs More. Be-
sides the ordinary branches of education, there are taught French,
Italian, English composition, music, drawing, and other branches,
both useful and ornamental, that are usually taught in the most
respectable boarding-schools. The terms are moderate, and the
seminary is flourishing.
    Libraries.-There are two libraries in the parish; one in the
village of Cairneyhill, which has existed several years; the other
in the village of Carnock, which was established by means of col-
lections and subscriptions by the minister in the year 1840, and
which now consists of about 250 volumes. The desire for read-
ing has of late been increasing among the people.
    Friendly Societies.-The only association of this kind in the pa-
rish is what is called the Dead Fund, the object of which is to
assist in defraying the expenses of funerals. On the occasion of
a death in the family of a member, a certain sum is paid out of
the fund to the survivors, each member contributing a shilling or
a sixpence, as the sum to be paid may be greater or less. This
association has proved very beneficial.
    Savings' Banks.-There is no Savings' Bank in the parish.
The nearest is in the town of Dunfermline. A Savings' Bank
was established there a good many years ago; but as a national
one was opened in 1838, the deposits of the old bank were trans-
ferred to it. Few persons, however, in this parish avail themselves
of the advantages which it offers.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
on the permanent poor's roll, including those that are dependent
upon them, is 12. Of these some receive 5s. a month, and some
as low as 3s. 6d. One pauper receives 2s. a week. Besides those
on the permanent roll, there are several that receive occasional
relief. The funds to meet these expenses consist of collections at
the church doors, mortcloth-dues, the interest of L.200 of money
accumulated in former years by the session, and now invested in
the Dunfermline gas stock, and a voluntary assessment by the
                               4

