
     of Gigha and Cara.

   Caves.-There are several caves:  The most remarkable are
two on the west side of the island near the farm of Ardacha'.
One of them, called Uaigh Mhor, or the Large Cave, was ori-
ginally 190 feet long.  At present there is only a part of ie
covered, but so filled up with earth and stones that it is dif-
ficult to get into it.  This part is 86 feet long, and the rest
(which is 104), forms a grand entrance to it, by a hanging
rock on the north fide, 70 feet high, and by another riling
parallel to it, on the south side, equally high *.-At a small
distance south of this, is Uaigh-na'n Colaman, or Pigeon's
Cave, (from these birds nestling there).  It is about 70 feet
long, 30 broad, and 40 high.  The end, which, like the other
cave, is narrow and dark, is adorned with a beautiful coating
of spar, which runs down along the fide in large veins, and
sometimes in perpendicular tubes.  The water which oozes
through this substance, and which forms drops of different
magnitudes, according to the pores and diameters of the dif-
ferent veins and tubes, has a beautiful appearance with candle
light.  Here are some plants reckoned useful in certain com-
plaints; particularly cneam-na-muc-sia, i.e. wild boar's gar-
lic, which is used in stomach complaints.  Its leaf is bean-
tiful and long, hanging down from the fide of the cave.  On
the 4th of January, when there caves were examined, vege-
tation was so strong, that the different plants appeared perfect-
ly fresh and vigorous.-At the south end of the island, there
is a subterraneous passage 133 feet long, into which the lea
runs.  About the middle there is an aperture 8 feet long anti
broad Near the end there is another, 20 feet long and 4
broad.  Round this aperture are large pieces of rock; one of
which having fallen in, and being jammed between the sides,
divides it into two, and forms a convenient resting place for taking
 
<FOOTNOTE>

*See the plate.
+Or Hart's Tongue, according to Mr. Shaw's Dictionary.


