
     of Mid and South Yell.

In these parishes, there are several good harbours; particular-
ly Mid-Yell-Voe, Hamna-Voe, and Burra-Voe.-

<FOOTNOTE>

pa said to Paul, "almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian."  I
sent to ask the man of God to honour my roof, and dine with me.
I asked him of his country, and what not:  I even asked him, if his
sermons were his own composition, which he affirmed they were.
I assured him, I believed it, for never man had spoke or wrote so
well.  "My name is Dishington," said he.  "I am an assistant to
"an old minister in the Orkneys, who enjoys a fruitful benefice of
"501 a year, out of which I am allowed 201 for preaching, and
"intrusting 1200 people, who live in two separate islands; out
"of which I pay, 1 l. 5s. to the boatman, who transports me from
"the one to the other.  I should be happy, could I continue in
"that terristrial paradise; but we have a great Lord, who has
"many little people soliciting him, for many little things, that he
"can do, and that he cannot do; and if my minister dies, his suc-
"cession is too great a prize, not to raise up many powerful rivals,
"to baulk my hopes of preferment."
   I asked him, if he possessed any other wealth.  "Yes." says he,
"I married the prettiest girl in the island; she has blessed me with
"three children, and as we are both young, we may expect more.
"Besides, I am so beloved in the island, that I have all my peats
"brought home, carriage free."

   This is my story,-now to the prayer of my petition.  I never
before envied you the possession of the Orkneys, which I now do,
only to provide for this eloquent, innocent apostle.  The sun has
refuses your barren isles his kindly influence;-do not deprive them
of so pleasant a preacher:-let not so great a treasure be for ever
lost to that damn'd inhospitable country; for I assure you, were
the archbishop of Canterbury to hear him, or hear of him, he would
not do less than make him an archdeacon.  The man has but one
weakness, that of preferring the Orkneys to all the earth.
   This way, and no other, you have a chance for salvation..... Do
this man good, and he will pray for you.  This will be a better


