
                           BATHGATE.                             161

mer, only one is constantly wrought. It is in the park of Balbar-
die, and affords a very excellent and beautiful building stone. The
whinstone quarries are chiefly wrought for materials for the roads.

<TABLE=Produce>
     The produce of grain crops averages in value, as nearly as can be as-
         certained,                                          L. 7541  5  3
     Potatoes, turnips, & c.                                    5448  5  0
     Hay,                                                       1892  0  0
     Land employed in pasture,                                 13160  0  0
     Mines and quarries,                                        6000  0  0
     Other produce, gardens, woods, &c. at least                 500  0  0

                       Total,                               L. 34541 10  3
   Manufactures.-The mass of the town population is manufac-
turing. There are about 500 handloom weavers, all supplied with
work from Glasgow, except a few employed by an Edinburgh
shawl-manufacturer, and a few engaged with customer-work. 122
women and girls are employed in tambouring, and 38 in sewing
webs. The wages of weaving, though occasionally good, have,
on the average, afforded but a scanty remuneration to the work-
man for years past. Tambouring and sewing webs have, for a
considerable period, been very inadequately paid. Two brick and
tile-works afford occupation to several hands. A distillery has
been in active operation for a number of years. A considerable
brewery was established somewhat later.
   Associations.-There is an Agricultural Society here, which has
an annual show, at which premiums are distributed. Its influence
has been decidedly beneficial. A Horticultural Society has been
in existence for six years.
                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Town.-The town of Bathgate had in 1841 a population of
2809. It was originally a burgh of barony, a baron baillie being
appointed by the proprietor of the estate of Bathgate. In 1824,
with the consent of the late Mr Marjoribanks of Balbardie, who,
was then superior of the town, an Act of Parliament was obtained,
by which it was erected into an independent burgh of barony, and
all provision made for the government, police, &c. of the town.
It is now governed by a provost, three baillies, treasurer, and twelve
councillors, the provost, two baillies, treasurer, and four council-
lors being elected yearly by the burgesses. The burgh funds con-
sist of road money, customs, common good, and an assessments li-
mited by the act to 1s. a-pound on the valued rent of the houses
in the burgh; from these funds the "paving, lighting, and im-
proving the harsh, and establishing a police therein," are defray-
LINLITHGOW.


