
                        KIRKLISTON.                        143

between each of these sorts. Of sheep there is little stock kept
-they are chiefly fattened. Sheep pasturage is yearly increasing
throughout the parish, and wherever the soil admits, the sheep
are fed with turnips on the grounds-this, with the free use of
lime, has produced pastures of the first order.
  Husbandry.-The general character of the husbandry is good.
On some of the farms, especially the larger, it is of first-rate ex-
cellence, certainly equal to any style of farming in Scotland.
About three-fourths of the land is stiff, with a large admixture of
clay, and upon a retentive subsoil, and is better adapted to the
cultivation of wheat and beans than turnips. As a remedy for this,
drainage has been extensively employed both in the way of deep
cutting, and of close or furrow-draining; and these plans have
been attended with such success, that turnips are now grown in si-
tuations in which it would formerly have been reckoned quite im
possible to cultivate light green crops, and the five-shift rotation
is becoming every year more general. The use of the various
most approved manures is now very common, and is producing a
marked improvement in the culture of the soil, such as rape-cake,
bone-dust, soot, and the common manures from Edinburgh. These,
coupled with large quantities of oil-cake, given to feeding cattle,
greatly enrich the home made manure, and are yearly giving ad-
ditional weight to the crops. In the southern part of the parish
there is a considerable extent of light land, well adapted for turnips
and other green crops, and of that land some portion is of the very
best quality.
  General duration of Leases, State of Farm Buildings.-The
present leaseholds are all of nineteen years duration. There is
scarcely an instance of a longer term. The rents are almost
wholly regulated by the price of grain, as fixed yearly by the fiar
of the county. Generally speaking, the land is let at a, fair
rate, the landlord having a full rent for his property, and the te-
nant being able to meet his engagements: in consequence of this
there subsists between the proprietors and the tenant a mutual
friendly feeling, which is necessarily conducive to the comfort of
both parties, and to the welfare of the community at larger's The
farm-steadings are all convenient and suitable, and the dwelling-
houses generally are commodious and good: all the steadings
lately erected have been built on, the most approved plan embra-
cing every possible, accommodation for the most, complete manage-
ment of the land.


