
180                            FIFESHIRE.

   Some years ago, Francis Berry, a native of the parish, and who
spent the greater part of his life in it, in the capacity of a small far-
mer, (in consequence of the death of his only child, a student in
divinity,) bequeathed a feu in land and houses, the fruit of honest
industry, for educating poor children, natives of the parish. The
property is subject to the liferent of his widow, an elderly woman.
It is let in lease for L. 28, 10s. per annum. The kirk-session are
appointed sole trustees.
   Poor.-The maintenance of the poor has long been a light burden.
At present there are only 5 on the roll, three of whom receive each
1s. a-week and the other two, in more indigent circumstances,
1s. 9d. each. Their wants are supplied out of the ordinary collec-
tions, which amount to about L. II annually; the interest of L. 100
due by promissory-note to the session, and the dues upon marriages
and burials. The poor evince no unnecessary disposition to soli-
cit parochial aid.
  Inns.-There are one inn and four public-bouses in the parish,
and their effects are notoriously injurious to the morals of the
people.
  Fuel.-The fuel used is coal, of which there is great abundance
at a reasonable price.

		  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The more striking variations between the present state of the
parish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Ac-
count, consist in an improved mode of farming, better farm-build-
ings, plantations, collieries, roads, population, school, and number
of resident beritors, which is smaller. The standard weights and
measures are in use.
  There is still much room for improvement in the way of drain-
ing, reclaiming waste land, and planting. What might be profit-
ably done in this last respect, is sufficiently evinced in the exten-
sive and thriving plantations on the estate of the Lord Chief- Com-
missioner, a gentleman to whose taste, liberality, and public spirit,
this district, generally, is highly indebted.

	Given in April 1833, Revised April 1836.


