
                        BENHOLME.                             57

bable, as the niche has obviously been carefully enclosed by a door,
and had the resemblance of human bones carved on the inside.
The workmen employed in taking down the old church discovered
two human skeletons, in a state tolerable preservation, among
the ruins of a part of the north wall which had been overturned by
gunpowder. The precise position in which they had reclined could
not be ascertained, but they seem to have been lais side by side,
with the heads towards the east. It appeared that they had rest-
ed on a flat stone, built into the wall, six or seven feet above the
ground. The under side of this stone was quite rough, while the
upper side had been hewn; and near the one extremity, had been cut
a circle of a foot diameter, enclosing three or four shapeless gravings
near the circumference. From the circle proceeded two parallel
lines, about three inches apart, extending to thd other extremity,
where was a circle similar to the former, but adorned with some
additional gravings. There was no trace of any inscription or date.
Of course, the period when the stone, with its sepulchral accom-
paniments, was introduced into the wall, must remain a secret.
A portion of the stone had been broken off, a number of years ago,
when the church received some repairs, and was found built into
the belfry. If any bones were then discovered, the circumstance
probably excited little attention, and is now quite forgotten. In
the burying aisle of the old church, were two monuments, now built
into the wall of the present church. *

<FOOTNOTE>On one of these, the following verses are inscribed;
                       "Vix lustrum vixit. mirabere plurima vixit
                       Longaeva illa mibi. quae bene vixit. erit
                   Foelix vita. obitus foelicior. ultima vox haec
                      Cum Christo ut vivam. nune mibi dulce mori
                   Vera igitur Maria es. Marthae mundana relinquis
                      Cum Maria semper vive. fruare Deo."

And on a stone formerly belonging to the same monument, is an inscription which
points out the individual to whom it refers:
  "Hic. jacet. Domina. Maria. Keyth. charissima. filia. nobilissimi. commi-
tis. illustrissimique. Domini. Georgil. comitir. Marescalli. Domini. Keyth. et.
Altrie. &c. et. nobilissimiae. clarissimaeque. Dominae. Dnae. Margar. Ogilvy.
Marescalli. comitissae. quae. foelix. in. Domino. obiit. 14. Octob. Anno. Do-
mini. 1620. AEtatis. suae. 5&deg;."
	A curios circumstances connected with this parish is recorded by Chambers in his
Biographical Dictionary. The party principally concerned was Margaret Ogilvy,
widow of the celebrated founder of Marischal College, Aberdeen,-the fifth Earl Ma-
ricshal. She, with her then husband, "Sir Alexander Strauchane of Thornetoun,
Knight," and "Robert Strauchan, Doctor in Psychic," were accused (3d March 1624)
of plundering the place of Benholm, belonging to the Earl Marischal, a short time
before his decease. At the same time, James Keith of Benholme, probably the Earl's
steward, was accused of the same crime. The inventory of articles stolen proves the
Earl's great wealth. "Of Portugal ducats, and other species of foreign gold, to the
avail of 26,000	pounds or thereby; 36 dozen gold buttons; a rich jewel set with dia-
monds, which the deceased Earl received as a gift when he was ambassador in Den-
mark, worth 6000 merks; the Queen of Denmark's picture in gold, set about with


