
                          KILSYTH.                               157

for Radicalism; yet there is a strong Conservative spirit, which has
been lately increasing. Neglect of religious ordinances, with
which too many are chargeable, is generally excused by the alleg-
ed and often real want of clothing,--the effect, no doubt, often-
timess of previous improvidence, and the habit of using tobacco and
ardent spirits. The want of church accommodation is also com-
plained of. The church attendance, however, is much better now
than it was, about sixteen years ago.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.--The agricultural population of the parish are a most
industrious, frugal, sober class of people. By far the largest pro-
duce of the parish is that of the dairy, to which the rest is subsi-
diary; and, consequently, the husbandry is what is called the mix-
ed; indeed, no other would suit the soil and the climate. Be-
sides, the large manufacturing village affords abundant consumpt
for the produce of the dairy. Butter and butter-milk are the
chief produce sold from the dairy. Very little cheese is made be-
yond what is necessary for the farmer's family use. The dairy
cows are all of the Ayrshire breed, and are, through the whole
year, very highly kept by turnips, and other produce of the land;
sometimes with distillery refuse, draff, &c. all the year round, but
chiefly in the winter months. The produce from each cow may
average L.8 per annum.
   The stock reared is principally for the purpose of maintaining
the stock in the byre, the oldest and least valuable being yearly re-
placed from the young stock, while those turned out are either al-
ready fat, or are sold to be put on grass for that purpose.
   At the time of the last Statistical Account, scarcely a single
boll of wheat bad ever been raised in the parisb; but the extra-
ordinary agricultural improvements which soon after took place,
introduced very extensively the cultivation of wheat. It was found,
however, that wheat was not the crop most productive and profit-
able; and oats, barley, and green crop are adhered to, as far more
profitable in the long run.
   Live-Stock.--The following, is a state of the stock, and annual
value thereof, in the parish of Kilsyth, * at October 1838.

<TABLE>

   550 milk cows, at L.8 each,     .         .              L.4400  0  0
   583 young cattle reared, at L.1, 10s. each,    .            774 10  0
  1618 sheep, at 12s. a head,  .       .           .           964  6  0
   200 fat cattle, at L.3 per head. +   .            .        600  0  0

<FOOTNOTE>Furnished by Mr John Rennie, at Currymire.
          In the last Statistical Account, 750 is given as the probable number of fat cattle.










<FOOTNOTE>Furnished by Mr John Rennie, at Currymire.
          In the last Statistical Account, 750 is given as the probable number of fat cattle.


