
			ESKDALEMUIR.                           409

should be of considerable length, to collect a sufficient quantity
of water for keeping, them clear; and, where the ground will allow
it, they are commonly made to run up the water rather than down;
that is to say, when draining the wet side of a hill, facing the east,
for instance, with a burn running south at the bottom,--in place of
beginning the drains at the north end, in a parallel direction from
north to south, as the burn runs,--it is better to begin them at the
south end of the bill, and make them run north into some ravine
or syke on that side, communicating with the burn. You can thus
make the draining more level, by having gained the difference of
level on the north end, above that on the south. The advantages
of these drains, on sheep farms containing much bog, are incalcu-
lable. The grounds which retained the wet after rain, or were
locked up by every frost, by having their surface moisture quickly
carried off, afford a dry bed for the sheep, and better grasses for their
support, and have banished that most destructive of all diseases,
the rot. In this parish, there are on some of the farms between
30,000 and 40,000 roods of these drains; and in the whole parish,
there are nearly 400,000 roods of drains.
	Embanking.--But, besides surface drains on hill lands, the
straighting and embanking of the Black and White Esks, with se-
veral of their tributary streams, have been of material advantage.
There is a long embankment of the Black Esk on the farm of Kil-
burn, and one of shorter dimensions, of the Garwald water, below
Thickside; but the principal one is that of the White Esk on the
farms of Nether Cassock, Davington, and Burncleugh, extending
to nearly two miles, and done at great expense. By it, an exten-
sive holm or haugh, of more than 100 acres, which, in many places,
was a sour swamp and much overflowed every flood by the river,--
has been dried and rendered productive both for crops and hay.
	Mole-catching.--Mole-catching, which, in my former Account,
was merely mentioned as a thing proposed, was in the summer of
1797 carried into effect, on the whole of the Duke of Buc-
clench's farms in the south country. Messrs Fleming and Thom-
son from Lancashire undertook to catch, for fourteen years from
that date, on the following conditions : For every 100 acres of
arable land, 10s. annually for each of the first three years; and
5s. annually for each of tbe remaining eleven ; and for every 100
acres of sheep pasture, 8s. 4d. annually for each of the first three
years, and 4s. 2d. for each of the remaining eleven. The plan is
continued still, but at a lower rate; for, the first fourteen years re-

        DUMFRIES.


