422                          AYRSHIRE.

months; and during last summer, two others plied between Glasgow
and Stranraer, touching at Ballantrae, so that there was a convey-
ance from Ballantrae to Glasgow by steam three times a-week, and
as often back again. It is understood that the same arrangement
is to be continued by at least two of the boats.
	There is an annual ploughing-match in the parish, at which up-
wards of thirty ploughs compete. Four years ago an annual cattle
shew of dairy stock, viz. Ayrshire cows and bulls, Galloway do. do.,
young beasts, both Ayrshire and Galloway, cross breeds between
the Ayrshire and Galloway, horses, foals, rams, and pigs,--was set
agoing in Ballantrae, and went on with great spirit. It has now
been extended to the three parishes of Barr, Colmonell, and Bal-
lantrae, under the name of The Stinchar Association. The shew is
held in each parish in rotation.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The ruins of the church at Innertig are
still standing. The present parish church is situated in the north-
west corner of the parish in the village, but by far the greater part
of the population is comprehended within a distance of four miles
from it. There are, however, several families eight miles from it,
and others in a different direction, nine or ten. It is a neat church,
affording accommodation for nearly 600, and was built in 1819.
There are no sittings in it absolutely free, but there are fifty placed
at the disposal of the kirk-session, a few of which are let at 1s. a
sitting for a year, the rest are occasionally occupied by whoever
chooses. The manse was built in 1736, and, though now a cen-
tury old, is still in a good state of repair. The glebe, together
with a manse and church, built at the "Laird of Barganye's lairge
and sumptuous chargis, was voluntarilye designed to the minister
serveing the cure at ye kirk of Ballintrae, out of ye saide Lairde
of Barganye's awin proper landis and heretage without anye con-
straynte," when the church was removed to the town of Ballintrae
in 1617, in consequence of which the patronage was retained in
the family of Bargany, and remains in it still. The glebe consists
of between 6 and 7 acres, nearly two of which are grass glebe, in-
capable of cultivation. The stipend was augmented in 1826, at
which time 46 bolls 2 firlots, 3 pecks, 2 lippies of oatmeal, 16 bolls,
3.998 bushels imperial of bear, and L. 186, 17s. 3 1/4d. were grant-
ed. The teinds are now exhausted. The value of the glebe may
be estimated at between L. 10 and L. 12 yearly. The number of
families that attend church is about 260, and there are about 30
Dissenting or Catholic families in the parish. There is no Dissent-


