
448                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

merous thick beds of gravel, sand, &c. occur, which present a very
enigmatical spectacle to the eye of the geologist. From what has
been stated, we consider it evident that they were formed under
the sea; but the absence of organic remains leaves us in the dark
regarding the period of their formation. They are probably equi-
valent to the English and continental oolitic cretaceous and ter-
tiary strata; a supposition which is strengthened by the ocurrence
of certain organic remains similar to those in Morayshire. There
are several quarries of excellent freestone in different parts, parti-
cularly on the estate of Inches, which, chiefly supplies the town of
Inverness; its formation is north by west, and south by east, for
the most part in nearly a horizontal position, in some places up-
held to an angle of from 25&deg; to 30&deg;. They are obviously Neptu-
nian, the top strata being grey, or new red sandstone, the sub-
strata grey sandstone, streaked with red and white quartz. There
are many erratic boulders on the surface and in the subsoil. One
may be mentioned particularly, lying on a plain surface, 24 feet in
length, 18 in height, and 38 across, the largest plum-pudding-
stone in the country, and none similar within at least ten miles.
Its form is nearly an oblong square, and it is 560 tons in
weight.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Antiquities.-In draining a lake at the east end of the parish,
an artificial mound appeared within a few yards of the shore, about
60 feet in circumference, and 5 in height. It was formed of al-
ternate strata of stones, earth, and oak; piles of oak being driven
in the ground, were kept strongly fixed by transverse beams of
smaller size. Over these were round stones, and on the surface
some inches of fine black mould. Some fragments of brass rings,
pieces of potteries, and the bolt of a lock, of no ordinary size, were
found on the mound.
  At about 100 yards distance, there is a circle of large piles of
oak, driven deep in the earth, apparently the commencement of a
second mound; but for what purpose they were intended, it is im-
possible to conjecture. They could not be places of defence, as
the one finished was so near the edge of the lake, and completely
commanded by the opposite rising bank. While draining the lake
by cutting a deep canal, oaks of gigantic size were found more than
twenty feet below the surface, as sound as the day they were over-
whelmed by water, sand, and gravel. At the same time, a canoe
of most beautiful workmanship was found, which some modern


