
806                                AYRSHIRE.

corn.  In Charles I.'s reign, the patronage and tithes of the church
of Largs passed from the Earl of Abercorn to Sir Robert Mont-
gomery of Skelmorlie, who, in 1636, erected, in an aisle on the
north side of the church, a handsome burial-place and monument,
of which some notice is elsewhere taken.  Lilias Montgomery,
who became the heiress of Skelmorlie, by marriage, in 1735, car-
ried the patronage and tithes of the church of Largs to Alexander
Montgomery of Coylsfield.  Their son and beir, Colonel Hugh
Montgomery of Coylsfield, succeeded to the Earldom of Eglinton
in 1796; and his grandson, Archibald William Earl of Eglinton
and Winton is now patron of the church of Largs.
   Immediately after the Reformation, we find that in 1567 David
Neil was exhorter at Largs, with 40 merks of stipend, and in
1576, Alexander Callendar was minister, his stipend being L. 134,
6s. 8d. Scots, with the kirk land of Kilbryde, and that David
Neil was then reidare, his stipend L. 16, with the kirk land, &c.
In 1598, William Cole was minister.  He appears as one of the
subscribers to the letter of admission in favour of Alexander Camp-
bell to the kirk of Ardrossan.  Mr Cole was succeeded by Tho-
mas Craig, who was minister in 1635, as appears from a decree of
locality of stipend obtained at his instance, in that year.  The next
minister of whom we have notice is William Smith, who died of
the plague.  He was buried in a sequestered spot near Brisbane
House.  Over his grave is a flat stone with this inscription, " Here
layeth William Smith, minister of Largs, a faithful minister of
the gospel, removed by the pestilence in 1646."  The inscription
was renewed in 1710, and again in 1760.  In 1672, John Wal-
lace was appointed along with Alexander Gordon, under the se-
cond Indulgence; but, having been charged with transgressing the
rules, he was called before the council, and treated with more
than usual severity. *  Mr Wallace was a man of some means.

<FOOTNOTE>
    * The following account is given by Wodrow, Burns' edition, Vol. iii. p. 5., " Last
year, in November, Mr John Wallace indulged at the Largs, and Mr Patrick Simp-
son indulged at Kilmalcom, had been cited before the council for breaking their
confinement.  Mr John Wallace appeared, and was remitted to the committee for
public affairs.  And this year, February 15th, I find the council again call Mr
Simpson, and upon his non-compearance they order him to be denounced.  What
kept him from compearing I know not, but it hath been some necessary excuse, for
I know he continued several years after this in the peaceable exercise of his ministry
in that place.  Mr John Wallace is called before the council, February 18th, and no
probation being adduced as to his breach of his confinement, he deponed upon the
verity of his libel, and frankly told them how matters stood, as to that practice conm-
mon to him and his brethren.  It was but few of the council were for depriving him
of his indulgence upon this score, and so other occasions against him were sought;
and being called in after he had been removed, the council interrogated him, as they
say, for the further clearing of his deposition, though, as far as I can find, his depo-


