
     Statistical Account

tiful, and contain large distinct chrystals of black Schort.  The
next chain, of which the King's Seat is the highest, and be-
longs to that class called secondary mountains, consists of
strata of Argillaceous Schistus.  Below this, in various parts,
are found craigs or rocks of Basaltes, or whinstone.  The
Castle Craig is of this sort, and is peculiarly interesting to the
naturalist, as it is in part composed of nodules of whin-stone,
exhibiting concentric crusts of decomposed basaltes, like the
coats of an onion, surrounding a harder nucleus.  Garnets
are not uncommon in the micaceous Schistus, which forms
the shade between the granitical and argillaceous Schistus.
There are many veins of copper in the hills.*  Iron-stone,
of an exceeding good quality, has been found in many dif-
ferent places.  Some veins in Watty-Glen are as rich as any
discovered in Scotland.  The Dovan Company have a lease
of the iron-stone belonging to Mr Bruce, and have employed,
during the greatest part of this year, 64 miners and 10 wo-
men bearers.  At an average, each miner gains 1 s. 6 d. per
day, and a bearer 8 d.  A great many strings, or veins of
rich iron ore of the kidney kind, have been discovered in
the hills, equal in quality to any discovered in this coun-
try, and by no means inferior to what is brought from Eng-
land.  Some small trials have been made with one of the
veins, and it is to be regretetd that they are discontinued.
Besides copper, there is a great appearance, in the hills, of dif-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some of these were wrought near 30 years ago, to a very considerable
extent in the Mill-Glen.  Four different kinds of copper ore were disco-
vered, the thickest vein of which was about 18 inches.  The ore,
when washed and dressed, was valued at 50 L. Sterling per ton.  A Company
of gentlemen at London were the tacksmen, and for several years employed
about 50 men.  After a very great sum of money was expended, the works
were abandoned, as unable to defray the expence.


