
140                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

stantly resisted every solicitation to take a part in the administra-
tion, from a conviction that he could be of more real service to
the nation by attending to the improvement of his extensive pos-
sessions. The respect he paid to religion gave a peculiar dignity
to his character, and secured him the approbation of good men.
Being deeply convinced of the truths of the gospel, his piety was
exemplary and sincere, and he was regular in his attendance upon
public ordinances. His first employment every morning was to read
a portion of Scripture, and recommend himself to the protection of
the Almighty.
   To guard against the danger connected with an education at
public seminaries, he had his sons brought up chiefly under his
own immediate inspection. Though he was ever ready to relieve
the distressed, he gave no countenance to those whose distresses
were brought on by idleness, profligacy, and intemperance. The
Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh owes much of its present greatness
to his generosity, he having contributed no less than L.400 a-year
towards its support. Notwithstanding his residence during a great
part of the year in a different part of the country, Ormiston flou-
rished under his patronage and superintendence. He was accus-
tomed to reside eight months of the year at Hopetoun House;
the other four months were generally spent at Ormiston, and in
excursions to the baths at Buxton. He watched over the interests
of the parish, and has left an example worthy of the imitation of
all in the higher ranks of society who take an interest in the wel-
fare of their country.
   His sons who succeeded him, first James and then John, were
distinguished for their talents and their virtues. James was in the
practice of residing some months every year at Ormiston Hall; and
by the countenance he gave to religion, by his kindness and en-
couragement to its ministers, and his benevolence and attention to
the interests of the people placed under his influence,-he secured
their gratitude and esteem.
   His brother John, the fourth Earl, upon his succeeding to the
family titles and estates in 1816, brought along with him a high
reputation as an officer in the army. He resided with his family
a year and a-half at Ormiston Hall, while the splendid man-
sion of Hopetoun House was undergoing some repairs: during
which time, he was assiduously employed in superintending and
improving his East Lothian possessions. He took a great interest
in the public roads, and got the one leading through the parish


