
296                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

crops of turnip, potatoes, or beans.  A considerable addition has
been made to the quantity of arable land in the parish, since the
Statistical Report of 1793.
   Fishings.-The estates of Cairnbulg and Inverallochy are the only
lands in this parish which extend to the sea-coast.  On these es-
tates there are fishing villages very contiguous, containing by the
census of 1831, 820 inhabitants.  In 1801, there were only 404
inhabitants in those villages.  During the herring-fishing at
Fraserburgh, which commences in July, and generally continues
to the end of September, the fishing villages in this parish are
almost deserted, as the fishers who are able to be employed at that
fishing remove to Fraserburgh with their families.
   On the shores of these estates, there is often abundance of sea-
weed, affording additional supply of manure to the lands.  Till of
late, when the season and weather permitted, a great part of the
sea-weed from the rocks, or drifted ware, was manufactured into
kelp, in some seasons, it is said, to upwards of So tons. The re-
duced value of kelp, within these few years, has caused the mak-
ing of kelp to be almost discontinued on this coast. The estates
of Cairnbulg and Inverallochy are very valuable when compared
with their extent, the abundance of sea-weed affording a great
additional supply of manure, by which means the occupiers of the
lands are enabled to keep their farms in a high state of cultivation.
   Rent.-The real rent of the parish is supposed to exceed L. 5000
Sterling; the valued rent is L.3520 Scots.
   This parish is separated from the parish of Fraserburgh by a
small stream called the water of Pbilorth or Rathen, which has
its source in the upper part of the parish of Tyrie.  Trout of con-
siderable size and various kinds are caught in it; but it does not
appear at present to be frequented by salmon.  The writer of this
report is informed by the proprietor of Cairnbulg, that he has a
grant of salmon-fishing in that stream from the Crown, of a remote
date,-which would lead to the conclusion, that at one period it
had not been entirely destitute of-that description of fish.

                       V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The turnpike-roads from Aberdeen
and Petershead to Fraerburgh form a junction in this parish on the
estate of cortes. The cross roads have of late been much improved.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is old, and inadequate to the
population.  The minister's stipend is L.100, 3s. 9 10/12d. includ-
ing communion elements allowance; 39 bolls 2 firlots bears; and


