
180                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

Ratter has an extensive and profitable quarry of flagstones for
pavement, &c. which he works; and there are one or two others
in the county. The stones are principally shipped for London and
Newcastle.
Agriculture.-The science of agriculture and. husbandry, in all
its branches, has made much progress of late years. The late
Sir John Sinclair, who was a native of the county, and held large
estates therein, gave a considerable impetus to the spirit of im-
provement; but it has only been within the last twenty years, that,
through the efforts mainly of Mr Traill of Ratter, Mr Horne of
Scouthel, and one or two other gentlemen, these improvements
have taken the practical shape they have done. The soil of the
county, where cultivated, is generally a strong clay mixed with
earth, producing green crops of I kinds, of the best quality and
luxuriance. Farms are now to be seen of as great extent, and
cultivated with equal skill and success, as in any part of Scotland.
A great number of cattle of the best description are annually
reared and sold in the south ; and it was found at a late show of
the Highland Society at Inverness, that a great proportion of the
prizes were carried off by competitors from Caithness. A large
number of sheep is also kept; and one gentleman from Caith-
ness, Mr Paterson of Borlum, it is believed, annually obtains, at
the Falkirk Tryst, the bigbes prices given for sheep and lambs.
A considerable part of this county is, of course, still in the posses-
Sion ofsmall farmers, paying from L. to to L. 50 ofyearly rent; but
their condition is improving, and many of them raise green crops,
and pursue a system of rotaition. Along the sea coast, the fishermen
generally hold small farms, which they cultivate when at home.
These, of course, are not in the best order; but it does not seem
possible, while the fisheries continue, to alter this system. Marl
is found in considerable abundance$ and of good quality; and the
refuse of the herrings, when properly amalgamated with some
other substances, is much and advantageously used in bringing the
waste lands into a proper system for cropping.
Manufactures.-There are few manufactures in the county.
Two or three rope-works; some straw plaiting; and a few distil-
leries.
Fisheries.-The berring-fishing has been for a number of years
the principal trade and business of the county. The herrings are
got all around the coast; but Wick and the surrounding fishing
villages are the principal places of resort. The fishing commences.


