
                           HUTTON.                              161

pert performers, after an examination of the work done. It is
thought that an institution of this nature will stimulate young men
to attain proficiency in an art so essential to an agricultural district.
   Produce.-The average gross amount and value of raw produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as
follows:

<TABLE>
Grain of all kinds,                              L. 11906  0  0
Potatoes, turnips,                                   2622  0  0
Hay,                                                 1224  0  0
Land in pasture, rating it at L. 4 per cow, or full-grown ox, and 16s.
  per ewe, or full-grown sheep,                      2555  0  0
Gardens,                                              200  0  0
Thinnings of plantations,                             150  0  0
Fisheries,                                           1000  0  0

                                                L. 19,657  0  0
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-Berwick-upon-Tweed is the nearest market-town, and
is distant about six miles from the village of Hutton. From it the
inhabitants of the parish are chiefly supplied with butcher-meat,
groceries, wearing apparel, &c. Berwick can boast of very excel-
lent markets. Hutton and Paxton are the only two villages,-at
each of which there is a post-office, where letters are received, and
despatched daily by means of a runner to and from Berwick.
   Means of Communication.-Ample means of communication are
enjoyed by the inhabitants with the surrounding country. A bridge
across the Whitadder connecting this parish with that of Foulden
or Chirnside, would be one of the most useful local improvements
that could be executed. The roads in every direction are excel-
lent, and much care is used to keep them in repair. Two turn-
pike roads pass through the parish, one leading from Dunse to
Berwick, and the other from Berwick to Kelso by Swinton.
On both of these roads there is a considerable passage by carts.
There are ten miles of parish roads, and the same number of turn-
pike. Formerly great inconvenience was experienced from the want
of a bridge across the Tweed. Many serious accidents, and frequent
instances of loss of human life, occurred. In the year 1820, however,
a remedy was applied to this evil by the erection of an iron suspen-
sion-bridge, under the superintendence of Captain Samuel Brown of
the Royal Navy. The bridge is distant about two miles and a-
half from Hutton, and is about six miles up the Tweed from Ber-
wick. The structure is an admirable specimen of this kind of
bridge, and completely answers the purpose for which it was intend-
ed. It is made of malleable iron. Its length is 361 feet, and its
weight 100 tons. A very substantial and elegant arch of freestone
   BERWICK.


