
12                       BANFFSHIRE.

lemot, (Cephus grylle, here called the testie,) may often be seen
in the bay. The arctic skua (Cataractesparasiticus.) Black-back-
ed gull (Larus marinus.) Herring gull (Larus argentatus, here
called the pewel, from its cry.) Common gull (Larus canus.) Kit-
tiwake (Larus rissa, provincially kitty,) one of the sea fowl found
in greatest abundance on the Gamrie rocks. Common tern or
sea swallow, (Sterna hirundo, provincially piktarrock,) not resident
in this parish, but may occasionally be seen on its way to flat and
sandy coasts, its usual places of abode.
   III. FISHES.-The sea lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) has
been occasionally caught. It is termed the lamper eel. Common
dog-fish (Spinax acanthias,) caught in immense quantities dur-
ing the herring season, and sold by the cart-load for manure to
the ground. The thornback skate (Raia clavata.) The common
skate (Raia batis.) Sturgeon (Acipenser sturio.) A sturgeon,
about 5 feet in length, was caught in the bay in the summer of
1833. Salmon (Salmo salar.) Bull-trout (Salmo eriox and Sal-
mo hucho.) The bull-trout occurs occasionally in the Doveran.
Sea-trout (Salmo trutta) found in great numbers. Finnock (Sal-
mo albus,) also found in great numbers, and by the most expe-
rienced, judges regarded as a species perfectly distinct from any
other of the genus Salmo. Common burn-trout (Salmo fario.)
Herring (Clupea harengus;) taken in great quantities from about
the middle, of July to the middle of September. Gar fish, sea-
needle or sea-pike, (Belone vulgaris.) Minnow (Leuciscus phoxi-
nus.) Lump-fish, cock-padle, (Cyclopterus lumpus.) Common cod
(Morhua vulgaris.) Haddock (Morhua aglefinus.) Whitehills, a
fishing village in the vicinity, is famous for its smoked or yellow
haddocks. These by many are reckoned equal, if not superior, to
the celebrated Finnon haddocks. Ling (Molva vulgaris.) not so
frequent as the cod and haddock. Whiting (Merlangus Vulgaris.)
Coal fish (Merlangus carbonarius.) The young in their least state
are called gerracks, afterwards podlies, sethes, &c. Turbot (Pleuro-
nectes maximus,) here called the roan fleuk. Till of late years
the value of this fish was but little known as an article of food,
and by the fishermen themselves it is still but little esteemed for
that, purpose. It is, however, now eagerly bought up by those
who are fond of good living. Brill (Pleuronectes rhombus;) but
little inferior to the preceding species, for which it is not unfre-
quently taken. Sole (Solea vulgaris,) not common. Plaice (Pla-


