
                            ROXBURGH.                            133

oats; which is succeeded by turnips,-a succession of crops thus tak-
ing place of four or five years, according as the ground is allowed to
remain one or two years in pasture. These are called the systems
of four and five-break husbandry. Such a method of husbandry has
been found well fitted for the climate of this country and highly
profitable. One difficulty, and that a very formidable one, has
occurred in pursuing it. Allusion is made to what is called the
bad-root among the turnips. Various conjectures have been form-
ed as to the cause or causes of this evil, the principal of which
seems to consist in a constant repetition, within a limited time, of a
turnip crop. It may be observed, however, that the evil has abated
considerably by the use of lime, and attention to a proper change
of rotation.
   The general duration of leases is from fifteen to twenty-one
years. The state of farm-buildings is creditable to landholders
and tenants. The pasture land of the parish is well inclosed, and
the arable part well subdivided and inclosed.
   Quarries and Mines.-There are various sandstone rocks in the
parish, but none of them of great value for building, and none of
them regularly wrought. No mines as yet have been discovered
in the parish.
   Fisheries.-On both rivers, the Tweed and the Tiviot, are sta-
tions for fishing. The quantity of fish, though an article of com-
merce, has been for some years very inconsiderable. The rent of
the whole fishings does not exceed L. 60 per annum.
  Produce.-The average gross amount of raw produce raised in
the parish, as nearly as that can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>

Produce of grain of all kinds, cultivated for food of man or the domestic
  animals,                                                              L.14,280  0  0
Of potatoes, turnips, and other plants, cultivated in the fields for food, 2,910  0  0
Of hay, meadow and cultivated,                                             1,200  0  0
Of land in pasture, rating it at L. 2, 10s. per cow or full-grown ox
  grazed for the season, and 9s. per full-grown ewe or sheep pastured
  for the year,                                                            3,578  0  0
Of Gardens and orchards,                                                     240  0  0
Of river fisheries per year,                                                  60  0  0

             Total yearly value of raw produce raised,                  L,22,268  0  0
                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   There is no market-town in the parish; but there are two si-
tuated at a very convenient distance, viz. Kelso and Jedburgh. The
former is about four miles distant from the village, and the latter
seven miles. There are two villages in the parish, viz. Roxburgh
and Hieton.
   Means of Communication.-Two public roads run through the


