
                      KILCALMONELL AND KILBERRY.                           411

         On some of the estates there are no leases at all, the tenants
       continuing from year to year, as tenants at will ; and it is surpris-
       ing how few removal occur within the space to which leases are
       generally extended.  Such a system, however, cannot but, ope-
       rate as a drawback upon agricultural improvement; and the fact
       is, that there is but little progress in this department.   Mr Camp-
       bell of Stonefield has proved, on his farm of Crear, in Kilberry
       parish, how much the outlay of money can accomplish towards
       beautifying the aspect of a country, and procuring, at the same
       time, a fair remuneration for the expenditure of the capital.
         The landholders of this united parish have lent their sanction,
       for time immemorial, to the establishment of a cottage and vil-
       lage system over their estates.   A farm is let to a tenant at a giv-
       en rent, and he is subjected to no restrictions as to the manage-
       ment.   He has cottagers in two or three places on his farm ; each
       of whom engages to pay a rent Of from L. 2 to L. 5 per annum.
       But this is accomplished very frequently, by having recourse to il.
       licit distillation, and the evil practices therewith connected. The
       evils again, of the village system, are lamentable in the extreme.
       If the inhabitants can command a meal or two of potatoes per
       diem, their ambition rises no higher. In the parish of Kilcalmo-
       nell alone, exclusive of Tarbet, the burden laid upon the heritors
       for the maintenance of the poor is L. 50 this year.  But the vices
       engendered directly by this system are still more to be deplored:
       and most earndstly would I beseech all my heritors to annihilate,
       as speedily as the laws of humanity permit, a system so fraught
       with such incalculable evil.
                           V.-PAROCHIAL EcoNomy.
         The village of Tarbert contains a population of 700 or 800;
       the inhabitants depending mainly on the herring fishingy.  This
       village is probably the ancient county town of Argyle; and is still
       a tbriving little place.  Tarbert is a post-town, the mail being
       transmitted thereto every lawful day from Glasgow, per one of the
       streamers, from wbence it is forwarded, by land, to Campbelton.
         Ecclesiastical State.-The Kilcalmonell church was built about
       eighty years ago; the Kilberry one in the year 1821.  The seats
       are all free, to the extent of 600 in the former, and 700 in the
       latter; there is also a chapel at Tarbert, supported by the Ro al
       Bounty.  There is an Independent meeting-house, erected some
       twenty or thirty years ago, where the minister officiates every al.


