
136                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.

mington-mill burn and its tributaries, where the parish is bounded
by that of Eddlestone.
    Hydrography.-The only waters of any importance in the pa-
rish are the Lyne and the Terth, and next to them Flemington-
mill burn. These are frequented only for trout fishing. There
is an artificial pond of about fourteen acres at Whim, and another
perhaps about half as large at Magbiehill; they contain trout,
eels, and perch. The new proprietor of Lamancha is also form-
ing some fish-ponds.
    Mineralogy.-The rock in the range of the Kellheads is whin,
which is rarely to be found in solid beds, but is divided by fissures
in all directions. It contains veins of pretty rich ironstone; and
there are many chalybeate springs. In the east end of the parish,
on the estates of Whim and Lamancha, the coal formation occurs,
composed of limestone, slate, white sandstone, and common black
bituminous coal. None of these are now wrought for sale. On
the adjoining estate of Magbiehill there is lime for sale; but the
coal for burning it is brought from the neighbouring parish of Lin-
ton. Farther down in the vale, in the hill of Broomyleas, there
is a quarry of excellent durable red sandstone or freestone, which
supplies all the county.
    Zoology.-Under this head may be noticed the brown, or Rus-
sian, or Norwegian rat, which a good many years ago invaded
Tweeddale, to the total extermination of the former black rat in-
habitants. Their first appearance was in the minister's glebe at
Selkirk, about the year 1776 or 1777, where they were found
burrowing in the earth, a propensity which occasioned considera-
ble alarm, lest they should undermine houses. They seemed to
follow the courses of waters and rivulets, and, passing from Selkirk,
they were next heard of in the mill of Traquair; from thence fol-
lowing up the Tweed, they appeared in the mills of Peebles; then
entering by Lyne water, they arrived at Flemington-mill, in this
parish; and coming up the Lyne they reached this neighbourhood
about the year 1791 or 1792.
    Within thirty or forty years the brown squirrel has founds its
way hither from Dalkeith.
			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
    Eminent Persons.-Of remarkable persons born in the parish, I
can only state Sir Robert Murray Keith of Hallmyre, who was am-
bassador at Copenhagen, and saved the life of the queen in the
affair of Count Struensee; and Sir Basil, his brother, who died in


