
			    BORTHWICK.				   185

to all travellers towards the southern districts.--Catcane Mill, still
a place of active business, though several of old cottages
now in a state of dilapidation.--North Middleton, a line of cottages
by the way side, which have chiefly been built within the last
twelve years--and Borthwick itself, which has fewer cottages now
than in former days--and but two or three scattered groups, which
form, however, no unpleasing contrast to the more imposing struc-
tures in their vicinity. These cottages are clustered groups, which
very base of the castle--and with their mossy roofs--and simple
tructure--and small garden plots, serve rather to complete than
to encumber the picture which the whole scene presents to the
eye of taste and of sensibility.
   Farms.--There are in all twenty-seven farms in the parish, of
which the chief are the following:--Belonging to, Arniston, six,
viz. Halkerston and Haugh head, Arniston Mains, Shank Mains,
Castleton, and Stobbs Mills.  Belonging to Middleton, or former-
ly connected with it, Middleton Upper, Middleton Lower and
Torcraik, Lime-kilns, and formerly Hayfield.  Belonging to Cur-
rie, Currie Mains, Halfla Kill, Old Currie, and formerly Wright's
Houses.  Belonging to Vogrie, Ford, Woodhead. Vogrie Mains,
Mount Skip New House, Loquharriot, Borthwick Mains, Cat-
cune, Hag Brae, Stobbs, and Fushie. Belonging to Crookstone,
Borthwick farm and Cowbrae Hill. To most of these are at-
tached the ordinary complement of hinds' houses and other cot-
tages.
   Gypsies or Tinkers.--We have already, said that these do not
now exist as a separate tribe in Middleton, but are much inter-
mingled by marriage with the common people of this and the
neighbouring parishes.  In some instances they have accomplish-
ed matches of a yet higher kind. Their prevailing names are
Baillie, Tait, and Wilson. They are, in general, less under the
influence of religious impressions that the native population,
but are eagerly devoted to business, and retain, even in their
mixed state, something of the adventurous and native spirit of their
original condition. Their manners, when they are not excited, are
courteous and plausible,--but they are terrible in their resentments,
and subject to strong paroxysms of nervous feeling.  They are clan-
nish, though not proud, so far as I have observed, of their original
descent.  In occasional instances, the dark complexion, and well-
formed features, and sparkling eye of the purer race may be dis-
covered--but, in general, their colour is rather cadeverous, or of
darkish pale--their cheek-bones high--their eyes small and light.


