
                             KIRKMAHOE                      65

	At Quarrelwood there is a dissenting meeting-hnuse belonging
to the Cameronian Presbyterians; but; for some years past, di-
vine service has been seldom performed in its, as the hearer have
a new chapel in Dumfries, where attendance is more convenient for
them. There are 1600 parisioner in Kirkmahoe; and of these
perhaps 20 are Cameronians,-20 or 30 more, perhaps, attend
different meeting-house in Dumfries; all the rest profess to at-
tend the parish church, and are in that respect, on the whole, very
exemplary. The writer records this circumtance with much and
heartfelt satisfaction. The average number of communicants may
be 600; and about 30 communicate for the first time at the cele-
bration of the Lords Supper every summer, on the first Sunday
of July.
        Education.-There are three school in this parish, whose mas-
ters receive each a part of the parochial salary,-one at the village
of Duncow, the master of which school receive an yearly salary of
L. 25, 13s. 3d.; another in Dalswinton village, whose salary is
L. 17; and there is a third school in a remote corner of the parish,
to which is appropriated the yearly sum of L. 8, os 6d. Beside
these there are two or three private school. Two well-disposed
female teach a few young girls to sew and to read. Latin and
Greek, and the practical branches of mathematics, are occasionally
taught in our schools. The total amount of school fees received
at the three parochial school is probably about L. 120. The ac-
commodation of none of the public teachers is so comfortable as
could be wished.
        Library.-A parish library was opened in the school-house of
Duncow, under the auspices of the present minister, on the 1st day
of January 1800, and for some years the concern flourished; but
by degree it languished, and at least expired. Books were so nume-
rous in private houses, and so easily to be gotten from the pub-
lic libraries of Dumfries, that we allowed this parish light to go
out.
	The average number of poor on the session-roll is 28. It was
22 fifty years ago. L. 2, on an average, are given yearly to each
pauper from the church collection; and L. 2, 10s. or more, when
other sources are taken into the account. No other methods have
yet been employed to provide for the poor, besides the collections
and the interest of our mortified money, amounting to L. 500.
Within these last few years, some poor person have been heard
saying, in a bold tones, that "the rich are obliged to maintain the
         DUMFRIES.                         E


