
     Glasgow.

takes its rise about 50 miles nearer the head of the shire.
Its latitude 55 degree 51' 32' north, and its longitude 4 degree 15 west
from London.  A very accurate map of the city was pu-
blished some years ago, by Mr M'Arthur, and a map of
the royalty, under the inspection of the Magistrates, by the
town's surveyor.  It is proposed to publish a map of its
environs for 7 miles.-The tide flows, (at least at spring
tides,) nearly about 4 miles above the city ; but he Clyde,
until of late years, was only navigable to Glasgow by
small vessels, and even these met with many obstructions
from the numerous shoals and sand banks which were in
it.  This inconvenience was much felt by the inhabitants,
and many proposals were made to have it remedied.  As
far back as the reign of Queen Mary, it is reported, that
many hudreds of the citizens of Glasgow, in conjunction
with the inhabitants of Renfrew and Dumbarton, under
the inspection of officers appointed by the Magistrates,
lived for six weeks, per vices, in tents and huts, about 13
miles below Glasgow, endeavouring to remove the obstruc-
tion of the river at Dumbuck Ford.  These, or similar ef-
forts, however, had not the desired effect; and hence, af-
ter several surveys, an act of Parliament was obtained in
1759, in order to render it navigable for large vessels, by
meand of locks.  Many difficulties, however, having oc-
curred, this scheme was dropped, and another act was af-
terwards obtained, for improving the navigation of the ri-
ver, from Dumbuck Ford to Glasgow, by deepening the
bed of the river, and straitening the channel by means of
jetties on the sides of it; for defraying the expence of
which, a tonnage duty of 8 d. a-ton on coals, and 1 s. a-ton
on all goods and merchandize, that should be carried be-
tween Dumbuck Ford and the city, was allowed to be levied.
In the year 1775, the work was so far finished, that the depth
was increased so much, as to allow vessels drawing 6 feet

     VOL. V. 3Q


