
                   EDINBURGH.                             639

themselves into a volunteer corps; andwere supplied with arms
from the castle A regiment of dragoons, under the command of
Colonel Gardiner, joined the city forces, when accounts were
brought of the actual advance of the rebel army from Stirling.
Notwithstanding all these preparations however, the troops which
were drawn up at Corstorphine fled in panic on the,first sight of
the enemy; and after a Hurried consultation of the citizens in the
new churih aisle, they resolved to surrender. Early in the morn-
ing of the 16th September, a coach drove down streets, and the
sentinels suspecting nothing, permitted it to pass. But on the gates
of the Netberbow being thus opened, a party of Highlanders, who
had reached the gate undiscovered, rushed in, secured this and,
the other gates of the city, took possession of the main guard,
made the, soldiers on duty prisoners, and seized upon the arms
and ammunition belonging to the city. About noon of the
same day, the Highland army, headed by the Chevalier, ar-
rived in the King's Park, and encamped around Duddingston,
Prince Charles taking possession of Holyrood House. Amid a
vast multitude of spectators, many of whom assembled from a se-
cret favouring of his cause, a royal proclamation was read at the
cross, declaring Prince Charles regent, and promising the free ex-
ercise of the Protestant religion to the people, with a recognition,
of all their other privileges. The inhabitants of the town and
country were also commanded to deliver up their arms at the Pa-
lace of Holyrood House and the soldiers of the Highland army
were strictly prohibited from all pillage or molestation of the citi-
zens. A peremptory order also on pain of military execution,
was sent to the town council, requiring a certain quantity of stores
for the army, of which payment was promised as soon as the Pre-
sent troubles should be over. These were accordingly furnished,
and an assessment of two shillings and sixpence on the pound on
real rents within the city and liberties was imposed for:defraying
the expense. After the battle of Prestonvans, the Chevalier and
his army again returned to Edinburgh, wherea, notwithstanding
their victory, they still behaved in the same Peaceable manner to-
wards the citizens.  General Guest meanwhile held possession Of
the Castle, and, with the exception of some skirmishing between
the Highlanders and the troops there, and a slight cannonading, by
which some houses were injured, no other circumstance of import-
ance occurred till the Highland army finally quitted Edinburgh on
their march to England, which took place on the 31st of October.


