
892                   ABERDEENSHIRE.

second time.  But the river having risen in the autumn of last
year, to within a few inches of its heigbt in 1829, a considerable
portion of the embankment again yielded to its pressure, and the
torrent, charged with drift-wood, swept with irresistible violence
over the haugh and lawn, destroying the crops on the former, and
committing great devastation among the clumps and belts which
ornamented and enclosed the latter.  The present proprietor,
however, is about to repair it in a more judicious manner, at the
estimated expense of L.1500; and when that sum shall have been
expended, this embankment, which protects only 60 or 70 acres of
indifferent haugh land, will have cost, within twenty years, upwards
of L.3500,
   Leases and Farm-Buildings, &c.-The leases of the farms are
for nineteen years; a term which seems to be satisfactory to both
landlord and tenant.  The farm-steadings are much improved,
those lately erected being neat, substantial, and commodious.  A
great deal of the arable land has been enclosed with stone dikes
within the last twenty years, and many of the fields, especially
upon Park, are well sheltered by belts of thriving wood; but much
of this kind of work remains to be done in different parts of the
parish.  It may not be improper to state, as a proof of the ex-
tensive nature of the improvements which have been effected upon
Park alone, that, in 1807, Mr Burnett purchased that estate for
L.9000, and, in 1839, Mr Kinloch, the present proprietor, pur-
chased it from Mr Moir for L.28,500.
   Fisheries.-On that part of the Dee which bounds this parish,
there are three stations where the salmon-fishery is prosecuted
with the drag-net and cobble.  They were formerly verv produc-
tive, and brought high rents annually to the proprietors; but their
value is now much reduced on account of a deficiency of fish,
which has of late years been so great, that the number taken in a
season has frequently been inadequate to cover the actual expense
Various causes have been assigned for this deficiency, but it is
chiefly to be attributed to the employment of stake and bag-nets
in the fishery.  These destructive engines are so thickly planted
along the coast, and placed so close to the river's mouth, that
when the salmon instinctively approach the beach in search of
fresh-water, the greater number of them are entangled in these
snares, from which escape is impossible.  The fishery is also pro-
secuted with them as actively on Sunday as on the other days of
the week; and this circumstance, when viewed in connection with
                               4


