
                            BANFF.                            53

in the town-house have been allowed for the accommodation of the
Literary Society and Scientific Institution.
   The Established Church, Episcopal, Secession, and Independ-
ent chapels, have each a small library belonging to it. There is
also a trades' library, open to master, journeymen, and apprentice,
tradesmen. All these libraries are maintained by voluntary dona-
tions, or subscriptions almost nominal. The collection belonging
to the Independent chapel was begun in 1814, and contains 320
volumes. Here also there is a juvenile library of 364 volumes.
The other collections are smaller. The advantages to be derived
from these libraries, though not neglected, do not appear to be so
eagerly sought after as might be wished. Probably the means at
the disposal of the conductors will not always afford the selections
best adapted for the readers. *
   Benevolent Institutions.-About the year 1755, or soon after, Dr
Alexander Strachan, physician in Banff, built a small house in the
low part of the town, and left it, under the management of the ma-
gistrates and kirk-session, as a residence to four poor persons, be-
stowing, at the same time, a small sum of money and additional
space of ground, now jointly yielding (after payment of certain feu-
duties) an annual sum of L. 1, 3s. 6d. applicable to the upholding
and repairs of the house.
  By a will, dated at Bombay, 7th November 1769, Mr George
Smith, a native of the parish of Fordyce, in the county of Banff,
vested in the magistrates of Banff the management of such residue
of his estate as might arise out of certain legacies bequeathed by
him to relatives of whose existence at the time he was uncertain;
and which, after the lapse of five years, might remain unclaimed
by them: appointing the sum of L. 1000 to be applied to the en-
dowing of an infirmary in Banff or Fordyce; L. 25 yearly to be
paid to the minister of Fordyce; and L.40 yearly to a school-
master, to educate, at Fordyce, as many boys (of the nale of
Smith) as could be maintained, at the rate of L. 25 each, out of
the interest of the final residue of the estate. As the handiest way
of managing the affair of the infirmary or hospital (for which
L. 1000 was held to be a rather slender provision,) the magistrates
formed the design of laying out a part of the town-house for a broth
or soup-kitchen to the poor, in consideration of which they resolv-
ed on applying the sum in question to the general expense of that

<FOOTNOTE>There is a collection of books in the academy, but mostly so antiquated or in-
complete as to be of little use.


