
                       FYVIE.                              323

involved in dispute with the Bishop of Aberdeen, about the pay-
ment of the second tithes. In 1383, he quarrelled with Sir John
Lyon of Glammis, Chamberlain of Scotland, and son-in-law of
the King, and slew him in single combat.  In 1385, his share of
the French subsidy was 2000 livres.  In 1388, he fought with
the Earl of Douglas at Otterburn.  In 1395, as already mention-
ed, he raised the siege of Fyvie Castle, which his lady had brave-
ly defended.  He died 1397, without male issue, and was succeed-
ed as Lord of Crawfurd by his cousin, Sir David Lindesay of
Glenesk, while the Formartine property fell to his brother-in-
law. *
   Sir Henry Preston.-He was of the family of Preston of Craig-
millar, shared in the subsidy of 1385, and fought at Otterburn, in
which battle he appears to have been the captor of Ralph Percy,
as he had for his redemption a grant from Robert III., in 1390,
of the lands and barony of Formartine, on the resignation of his
brother-in-law, Sir James Lindesay.  Sir Henry was a commis-
sioner to treat with the English in 1390 and 1391, and he died
about 433, leaving, according to the most probable accounts, two
daughters co-heiresses, one of whom married Forbes of Tolqu-
hon, and the other Meldrum of Fyvie, thereby endowing their
husbands with these respective properties. +
   Sir George Meldrum.-The Meldrums possessed Fyvie for
about a century and a-half.  Sir George, who lived about the
middle of the sixteenth century, seems to have been the only one
among them known in a public capacity.  He is termed by Lesley
"ane vailyeant and wyse gentleman)," while he relates that, in 1544,
Sir George was sent by the Governor of Scotland on an embassy
to the King of England, their personally engaged in the siege of
Boulogne in France.  His instructions were "to commoune upon
certane abstuonce, to the effect that Commissioners should meit,
quhilk was aggreit qntill his returning in Ingland in the moneth
of August thairaftir." ++
   Alexander First Earl of Dunfermline.-He was third son of
George Sixth Lord Setons, and brother of Robert first Earl of
Winton, and became proprietor of Fyvie by purchase from the, Mel-
drums in 1596.  In early life he studied at Rome for the Church,
but the establishment of the Reformed Faith in Scotland led him to
turn his attention to the law.  He was in great favour with James VI.

<FOOTNOTE>Douglas Peerage. Wyntoun.          Douglas, Fyvie Charters.
          History, English ed. 1880 p. 187.


