
                              DULL.                     769

  Situated within sight of the above, on the north-east shoulder
of Drummond Hill, and in the parish of Ween, is another for-
tress, commanding an extensive prospect of the whole vale of Ap-
pin, and part of Grandtully and Strathtay. But instead of being
circular as the former, it is in the form of a parallelogram, and is
built upon the top of a rock measuring from 150 to 200 feet in
height, so as to have its south and east sides naturally formed
thereof. The wall on the west side measures about 60 yards in
length, that on the north again is about 80 yards, and from near
the east extremity thereof, another wall projects at an angle of
about 30&deg; towards the north-east, and as these sides were the most
accessible, they were defended by trenches or some sort of an
out-work, which can still, be easily traced. There is a part of the
building still standing, from which it appears that the stones were
regularly coursed and banded. The walls are of similar thickness
with those of the preceding, and like them too are void of either
lime or mortar in the construction thereof. The principal access
led from the north-east along the edge of the precipice, and it
was covered on the north-west by the foresaid projecting wall.
The rock forming the south and east sides of the garrison had its
base defended by another rude but strongly built wall, through
which a minor entrance led from the south to the fortress above.
  Druidical Temples.-The completest circle of this kind in this
part of the country is to be seen in the park at Croftmoraig in
this parish, a little to the east of the principal lodge leading to
Taymouth Castle, and on the right hand as the traveller proceeds
from Kenmore to Aberfeldy. Besides this, there are several
standing stones to be met with in Appin, and elsewhere through
the parish, both single and in groups; but whether these are
Druidical remains, or monuments of departed heroes, is now en-
tirely a matter of conjecture.
   Mansion-Houses.- By far the most remarkable seat to the parish
is Grandtully Castle, one of the family residences of an ancient
branch of the Stewarts. It is a fine old baronial mansion. Un-
til within these two years, its walls and turreted roof were mostly
mantled over with ivy, but being found to have an injurious effect
upon the building, it was pulled off, which greatly detracts from
its former air of antiquity and grandeur. The other principal
mansion-house are those of Foss, Moness, Cluny, and Der-
culich.
   PERTH.                              3c


