
                  46                          RENFREWSHIRE.

                  unproductive land in the parish. Draining, which then was little, if
                  at all, practised, is going forward with great, and will with-
                  out doubt tend much to improve the quality of the  soil and, pro-
                  mote its fertility. It does not appear to the writer that any bet-
                  ter system of husbandry can be introduced, or the facilitids of in-
                  ternal communication increased,-there being already excellent
                  roads leading to and through every part of the parish. Could ar-
                  dent spirits be altogether banished, or their consumption diminish-
                  ed tenfold, and those engaged in the public works led more generally
                  to sanctify the Sabbath and attend upon public workship, these
                  things would tend greatly to promote the best interests of the
                  working-classes. It is likewise evident that there is much need for
                  church-extension,-the present accommodation being by no means
                  adequate to the population.

                       January 1836.







                                     UNITED PARISHES OF

                                    HOUSTON AND KILLALAN.

                     PRESBYTERY OF PAISLEY, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                          THE REV. JOHN MONTEATH, D.D. MINISTER.



                              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.




                     THE parishes of Houston and Killalan were united in the year

                  1760.
                     Names.-Killalan is a corruption of Killfilan, i.e. Cella Fillani-
                  the name of the tutelary saint of the parish. Houston may be sup-
                  posed to be a corruption of Hew's town, perhaps from Hugo de
                  Padvidan, who is said, by Mr Crawfurd, in his History of Renfrew-
                  shire, to have obtained a grant of the barony of Kelpeter, the an-
                  cient name of Houston parish, from Baldwin of Biggar , Sheriff of
                  Lanark in the reign of Malcolm IV.
                     Boundaries, extent.-The united parish is bounded on the west
                  Kilmacolm; on the south by Kilbarchan; on the north and east
                  by the parish of Erskine, whhch separates it from the Clyde. It
                  is about 0 miles in length and 3 in breath.
                     Hydrogarpahy.-The only considerable river is Gryle, which


