                          INVERESK.                          301

whence it was obtained only in terms of an arrangement regarding
its investment and administration, approved of by the Court of
Chancery. The chief and second magistrates of the burgh, the
minister, and ordained assistant minister of Inveresk, and the
Sheriff of the county, are ex officio trustees. Dr Bruce's legatees
having been declared entitled to a proportional share of the resi-
due of his estate, several additions have been made to the original
sum; these, with interest which accrued before the money was
obtained, have increased the amount, which is now invested in
L. 3015, three per cents. reduced. The trustees apply the year-
ly produce for the benefit of the poor of the town: 1. one-half in
supplying with coals, meal, flannel, or money, such aged and in-
firm persons as may be selected by them; 2. two-sixths for edu-
cating, poor destitute orphans, and the children of such poor per-
sons as they may select; and 3. the remaining sixth in clothing
such children. The good effected by this sum will form an im-
perishable memorial of the generous donor.
   Hastie's Fund.-Tbis fund has not yet come into operation,
neither is its amount yet known, but eventually, on the death of
several annuitants, it may become of some importance. By a deed
of settlement executed by George Hastie, Esq. Midcalder, who
died in 1832, his trustees are directed, after the purposes of the
trust are fulfilled, to distribute the reversion of his estate amongst
the kirk-sessions of the Established Church, and the Secession
church-sessions in the parishes of Inveresk and Tranent, in the pro-
portion of six-tentbs to Inveresk, and four-tenths to Tranent.
This money, which he directed to be called "Hastie's Fund," is to
be committed to the management of the above-mentioned bodies for
the purpose of being lent out at interest to decent tradesmen or other
industrious persons within their respective parishes, in such sums as
these persons may require, and can find security for; and the benevo-
lent bequeather recommends that a preference should be given
to young men beginning business. He also directs that a factor
shall be appointed for the purpose of transacting the business of
the fund, who is to receive one-half of the annual interest, the
other half is to be converted into stock or principal.
   Prison.-The prison, attached to the town hall, and for the sa-
crilegious erection of which, with the consecrated stones of Our
Lady of Loretto's chapel, the thunders of the Vatican were long
duly fulminated against the burgh, consists of three rooms, a
debtor's room, a lock-up, and another cell. It is believed to be


