
           190                          PERTHSHIRE.

           now adopted, it promises to stand as long as the abutment shall en-
           dure.  By this means, three falls are obtained, which give motion
           to as many different works.
              The uppermost of these is that which belongs to Alexander Reid,
           Esq., and consists of a flax spinning-mill, powdr-looms, and a bleach-
           field; so that the whole operations requisite to work up the flax
           into a finished article, ready for the market, are conducted on the
           premises.
              In the spinning-mill, there are 430 spindles, which spin flax
           from 2 to 3lb. per spindles, and of tow from 3 1/4 to 7 lb. per do., 11,000
           spindles, per week, amounting to, per annum, 57,200 spindles.  This
           is worked up by 40 power-looms capable of working, per week, of
           cloth each 150 yards, making per annum, after allowing for stop-
           pages, &c. a total production of about 300,000 yards.
              The whole is afterwards bleached upon the premises, and fi-
           nally finished by four single sets of beetles, for the markets.
              The whole of these operations employ 120 hands.
              The two next falls are possessed by Hector Sandeman, Esq. who
           has upon the upper of them a cotton spinning-mill, and power-looms.
           The spinning-mill is just finished and ready to be started, and will
           be in full operation before this account passes through the press.
              It contains of self-acting mules 1728 spindles; throstles 1152 do.;
           capable of spinning of No. 40 for warps per week 1000 lbs.; of No.
           36 for wefts per do. 1000 do.; making a total per annum of about
           100,000 lbs.  The whole is intended to be worked by power-looms,
           of which there are for five-fourths 42 looms; for eight-fourths
           20 do.; of which there are in operation 34 do.  The water-
           wheel for weaving is 10 horse power; do. for spinning 20 do.
           The third fall is employed in driving beetles for dressing cloth,
           which is bleached at Tulloch-field, and carried back there to be
           printed.  The water-wheel is 17 horse power, and drives four single
           sets and two double sets of beetles.  There are at present employ-
           ed 45 hands; will be required in spinning 30 do; the whole
           employing 75 hands.  All these different works are on the pro-
           perty of Lord, Lynedoch.
              Upon the same river there are, at Pitcairn-mill, two falls; to
           the upper of which the river is taken in by a dam-dike run ob-
           liquely across the river, and abutting upon the rock, upon which the
           old bridge of Almond is founded; a mine being driven through
           the rock, behind the foundation, for the passage of the water.
              This fall, which has been for some time employed in driving a


