
                    DUNOON AND KILMUN.                      629

at Kilmun, and one at Ardentinny. But it is not the most pleas-
ing task to record that there are not fewer than eighteen, places
besides, within the united parish, licensed for the sale of spirituous
liquors. In the year 1841, the amount of spirits imported into
the united parish for consumpt in those places, amounted to
2958 gallons.  It is obvious that so many places of resort, for the
consuming of ardent spirits, is altogether out of proportion to the
population of the parish.
  Fuel.-The fuel now almost universally used is coal, procured
generally at Glasgow, and sometimes from mines on the Ayrshire
coast. The general cost is from I Is. to 14s. per 24 cwt. Peats
are still used by the inhabitants in the more upland parts of the
parish ; but even in such situations coals are preferred.
  Presbytery.-Dunoon being the seat of the Presbytery bearing
that name, it may be proper to remark, that the presbytery em-
braces the six parishes in the district of Cowal, viz.  Dunoon and
Kilmun, Inverchaolain, Kilmodan or Glendaruel, Kilfman, Stra-
chur and Stralachlan, and Lochgoilhead and Kilmorich or Cairn-
dow, with the two parishes in the island of Bute, Rothsay and
Kingarth. To these are added the quoad sacra parishes of
New Parish, Rothsay, and North Bute.
  The presbytery records consist of eleven volumes, including the
separate register. The first volume begins 1st 639,
and ends on first Wednesday of May, 1686. This volume be-
coming decayed, and the writing in danger of being, obliterated
has been transcribed at the expense of the members, and contains
many interesting notices of the manners and events of the period.
The second volume begins 26th November 1689, and ends 24th
March 1707. The third volume begins 20th May 1707, and ends
12th October 1716. The fourth volume has been recently re-
covered by the presbytery, and consists of minutes in scroll, com-
mencing 4th December 1716, and ends 5th October 1731. The
fifth volume begins Ist February 1737, and ends 30th March l761;
down from which period the records are regular and complete.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
     The variations betwixt the present state of the parish and that
which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account, are cer-
tainly striking and great. The rise, progress, and advancement
of the villages of Dunoon and Kilmun, are in themselves changes
of local importance, and their progress has been unusually rapid.
The one fact of steam communication with the Lowlands and towns


