
308                      LANARKSHIRE.

	The gross produce of the parish I am unable to ascertain with
accuracy.

			V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Roads, &c.--In every part of the parish the roads are excellent
and kept in good repair. It is greatly in favour of Avondale that
two turnpike roads, the one leading to Ayr, and the other to Muir-
kirk, run nearly parallel to one another from the town of Strath-
aven to the western extremity of the parish, the one on the north
and the other on the south side of the Avon. The other roads
kept by the parish statute labour extend to perhaps sixty miles,
and cost the parish, including every thing, about L. 300 a year.
There are about 30 bridges over the different rivulets in the parish,
but in general they are too narrow. The road commissioners em-
ploy a clerk, treasurer, and overseer, (who is in general the same
person) at the very moderate salary of L. 15 a year. He super-
intends all their road operations, and has improved the bridges and
lines of communication very much.
	Town of Strathaven.--Strathaven was erected into a burgh of
barony in 1450. It had an extensive common, which has now all
become private property. There is a weekly market, besides a great
many annual fairs. It is ruled by a baron bailie, who is appointed
by the Duke of Hamilton. For some years past the town has been
deprived of this functionary, or if there be a person appointed to
that situation, he is non-resident. The population of the parish
of Avondale and town of Strathaven may be stated now to be
6000. The population of the town in 1781 was 1444. In 1791
it had increased to 1610, and in 1831 to 3000; and at present it
may be rated at 4000.
	Strathaven lies prettily at the end of a small ridge of eminen-
ces on the banks of the little stream of Pomilion, which runs through
it, and divides it nearly into two equal parts, and contributes greatly
to its cleanliness and comfort. It has the appearance of being a very
old town. The houses in the old part of it are very much crowd-
ed together, and the streets are narrow and irregularly built. It
is built in the immediate vicinity of the castle, which is now in
ruins. No doubt the cause of the narrowness of the streets, and
the crowding of the houses so much together, was, that the inha-
bitants wished to be under the protection of the castle. Though
now in ruins, the castle is still a beautiful feature in our landscape. It
is said to have been built by Andrew Stewart, grandson of Murdoch
Duke of Albany, and must have been a place of considerable strength.
                               1


