
				ALFORD.			       511

some all the fodder on the farm, with the exception of that of the
last crop,; and, not restricting him absolutely to any particular
rotation of crops, that he shall yet never take more than the two
customary grain crops in succession after three years grass; and
that at the end of his lease he shall leave specified proportions of
his farm in grass, of specified ages.  Sub-letting is strictly prohi-
bited, with the exception of certain specified crofts, that may be sub-
let to farm-servants, or persons of certain handicrafts, needed in
the neighbourbood; and, however much this arrangement may
be condemned by some persons as interfering with an open trade
in farming, yet, it is humbly conceived, none could be more effi-
cient for preserving some of the best interests of society ; as it al-
ways secures to the proprietor of land the power of excluding per-
sons of bad or doubtful character from among his tenantry.  There
is at least no doubt entertained, that the peaceable and orderly
habits of the people of this parish have been preserved from con-
tamination by the prohibition of sub-letting.
   Farm Buildings and Inclosures.-The farm buildings are now
in general sufficiently substantial, and laid out on commodious plans.
The materials employed in them have been already stated.  The
arrangements between landed proprietors and their tenants, regard-
ing houses, are not uniform; but the most frequent practice is,
that the land-owner advances the necessary rough wood, and the
tenant executes the building and work at his own expense, receiv-
ing an obligation for payment, at the end of his lease, of the value,
determined by arbitration ; but limited either to a maximum sum,
or to a certain plan and specification of houses, agreed on by the
parties.  By this system much the larger part is advanced by
the tenant; and it would therefore be highly objectionable, were
there a want of capital among the tenantry, which happily does
not appear to have been the case in this parish.  Where the tenant
has sufficient capital for the purpose, it is undoubtedly highly expe-
dient, that he should have that deep interest in having the build-
ing executed economically, and kept in constant repair, which the
above arrangement gives him.  Experience has proved, here, that
the tenants can build and keep houses in repair, much more eco-
flowically than the land-owners.
   About half the arable lands of the parish are enclosed and subdi-
vided; and this improvement, so important to the mixed husbandry,
is in the course of being gradually extended to the remainder.
The fences are dry-stone walls, the materials for which are either


