
                UNIVERSITY AND KING'S COLLEGE.              1141

impossible subsequently to pursue the same course.  All those of-
fices, therefore, which were only intended for the better perfor-
mance of divine service after the Romish form were either from
time to time abolished, or fell into disuse ; till at last the univer-
sity assumed the present form, consisting of ten members of sena-
tus or masters, besides the chancellor, the rector, and his asses-
sors.
   Bishop Elphinston liberally endowed the university during his
life, and at his death left to it the sum of L.10,000 Scots,-in those
days a very large sum of money.  He also provided all the mem-
bers with manses either in the college or close to it.  He built,
about the time of the first foundation, the original handsome fa-
bric, of which a considerable part yet remains.  But in the pro-
gress of the Reformation, and especially at the period of the abo-
lition of Episcopacy in Scotland, the greater part of the funds of
the university, which chiefly consisted of ecclesiastical property
and tithes, was alienated, and what remained was so much dimi-
nished by various causes, especially by the augmentation of minis-
ters' stipends out of the tithes belonging to King's College, that,
at the beginning of the last century, the university funds were in
a most miserable condition.  They have since been somewhat im-
proved, partly by a sale of certain superiorities belonging to the
college, which produced about L. 3000 Sterling, partly by grants
from the Crown in aid of the masters' salaries.  This statement
refers to the property belonging to the college itself.  But the
members are also trustees of a large amount of property, bequeath-
ed at various periods by benevolent persons, for the foundation of
bursaries or scholarships, of which the number attached to King's
College is now very large.
   In this slight sketch of the history of King's College, it is ne-
cessary to mention that King Charles 1. in 1641, after the aboli-
tion of Episcopacy in Scotland, granted a charter incorporating
this University with the Marischal College of New Aberdeen un-
der the name of the Caroline University.  This charter was rati-
fied by Parliament in the same year, and confirmed by Cromwell
in 1654 ; and the union continued till after the Restoration ; but
Charles II., when he re-established Episcopacy, rescinded all the
acts passed from 1640 to 1648, by which means the union was an-
nulled, and the two colleges have ever since continued distinct and
independent.  At different periods during the last century, namely,
in 1747, 1754, 1770, 1786, and still more recently within the last


