
  			PENNINGHAME.                          173

cate smell of which is dissipated by the sun, and is therefore sen-
sible only in the morning and evening; and the Gymnadenia co-
nopsea, which at all hours impregnates the air with its grateful
odour. The other orders of this great division of plants do not
seem to call for particular remark.
	There are no forests in the parish, but there are several plan-
tations; of the latter the greater part is not very old. Trees of
many kinds are planted: the most common are, larch, Scotch,
pine, Norway spruce, oak, ash, and elm. On the dry land, the
larch, Scotch pine, and trees of tbe spruce species, with oak, ash
elm, and beech, grow well. Evergreens of all kinds grow on damp
ground, when the stagnant water has been drained off. Some of
the plantations are on land not very valuable for other purposes;
and even on the high cold exposed parts of the parish, the trees
soon form a shelter to one another, and grow more quickly than
could be expected. The effect of the shelter afforded by them
becomes very soon perceptible on the adjoining fields. It is pro-
bable that there was a little natural wood near to the River Cree
in the northern end of the parish, but the ground on which it must
have grown seems all to have been planted.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	I have not learned that an authenticated historical events of
importance have occurred in Penninghame. There are tracer of
a battle having been fought at Killhemore, not far from the tomb
of King Galdus, in the neighbouring parish of Wigton; but what
credit we should give to the history of that personage I do not pre-
sume to determine.
        Eminent Characters.-Penninghame was the usual residence of
the Bishops of Galloway, so that in one sense the persons, some
of them very eminent, who successively held that see, may be re-
garded as having been connected with this parish (Symson, p. 38.)
But the celebrated Bishop Alexander Gordon, (titular Archbisbnp
of Athens,) who died in 1576, was connected with this parish by
being proprietor of the estate of Clary, (afterwards the seat and
still the property of the noble family of Galloway,) which estate
he conferred on his only daughter, who was married to Anthony
Stewart, Rector of Penninghame. (Gordon's History of the House
of Gordon. Murray's Literay History of Galloway, 2d. edition, p.
40.)
	But Penninghame has produced more than one distinguished
character in more modern times. The Rev. Robert Rowan,


