
     Of Linlithgow.

   Benefice.-This consists of meal and barley, with a small
proportion of oats, and 34 L. 9 s. in money.  The incum-
bent cannot yet ascertain its value; but his predecessor,
on an average of 13 years, in which the 1782 was in-
cluded, rated it at 120 L.  There is at present no manse, but
in lieu of one, the town allow annually 100 merks Scotch.
That might once be adequate, but the minister cannot
now be accommodated for double the sum.  As there is
no allowance for communion elements, that expense is
defrayed by a collection.  The glebe lies about half a mile
from the town.  Being small, and not enclosed, it has
been usually let at 6 L. a-year.  The Crown is patron*.

     4 B 2

<FOOTNOTE>

into a single farm large tracks formerly occupied by several tenants, with
numerous families depending on them.  Nor does this only affect parti-
cular spots, but it must be hurtful in general, both to population and
morals, as the sedentary employments and artificial intercourse of a town
are certainly less favourable to health and virtue, than the invigorating
exercises and natural recreations of a country life.
   The number of inhabitants in the town has increased, though not in
proportion to the diminution of the country parish.

The average of births, marriages, and burials, for 10 years preceding,
is as follows:

<TABLE>

                  Of marriages,   29.
                  Of births,      94.
                  Of burials,     62.

</TABLE>

   The number of marriages and births may be exactly ascertained, but
deaths are not so regularly inserted, nor will even the account of mort-
cloths fix this, as some who die here are buried in other parishes, and
vice versa.
*Though there is only a provision established by law for one clergy-
man, the cure was served by two, from the 1700 till the translation of
Mr. Speirs to Burnnsland in 1743.  For supporting a colleague, the ori-
ginal incumbent agreed to advance annually 350 merks.  The town
bound themselves at first to pay 550 merks, with 40 L. Scotch for house-
mail, and raised that sum afterwards to 800 merks.  The trustees for
the Widows Fund opposed the abolition of the second charge; but the
town was assoilzied by the Court of Session, in an action brought at their
instance.


