
                                 CULLEN.                           335

   vantage.  They are, however, the only description of stock suitable
   for the ground, its steepness rendering it in many places unsafe
   for cattle.  The practice of feeding off sheep on turnips, has
   not yet been introduced into the parish.
     No leases are given on the lands occupied by the town's people.
   The farms are let for a period of nineteen years, being the ordinary
   duration of leases on the Seafield estate.  The only farm buildings
   situated within the parish are those at Seafield.  They
   are of a commodious and substantial description, and comprehend
   a thrashing-mill of five-horse power, wrought by steam,-the only
   thrashing-machine of the kind in the county.  There are few per-
   manent enclosures in the parish ; but a considerable proportion of
   the grass lands on the farms is generally enclosed with wooden
   palings, which are obtained at a moderate cost, from the Earl of
   Seafield's extensive plantations in the immediate neighbourhood.
   The ordinary ploughs used in the parish are iron ones, of a good
   construction, made by the tradesmen of Cullen.  Larger ploughs,
   with teams of four horses, are generally used by the farmers, for
   giving a deep furrow to land intended for green crop and fallow ;
   and Mr Smith's (of Deanston) subsoil plough has been used on
   all the farms.
    Upon the whole, this parish may be said to be in an advanced
   state, as regards agricultural management.  Much has been done
   to the drainage of the wet lands, in the old mode of draining; and
   of late years, the Deanston system of thorough draining has been
   actively commenced.  Stones are used where accessible; and in
   the southern part of the parish, where they cannot be produced,
   but at a great expense, tiles have been lately introduced.  A tile
   work for the manufacture of drain tiles was erected last year, on
   the border of the parish, by the tenant of Tochieneal farm, John
   Wilson, Esq.  This gentleman has also brought from Stirlingshire,
   one of Mr M'Ewan's lately invented drain-ploughs, an implement,
   which, with a team of sixteen oxen, has performed the
   operation of casting drains for tiles in a very satisfactory manner,
   doing great credit to the ingenious inventor.
      Banffshire Farmer Club.-The influence of associations, for the
   promotion of the arts and sciences, must be regarded as among
   the most efficient means of improvement.  It is impossible to contemplate
   the transactions of the Highland and  Agriculltural Society
   of Scotland, since its  formation, and the gigantic strides
   which have been made in the march of rural economy during. the
     BANFF.


