

				MINNIGAFF.			125

repast, her three sons appeared, all "lusty men." The King
being much pleased with their appearance, asked if they would
cheerfully engage in his service, to which they willingly assented.
When he had finished his meal, he inquired what weapons they
had. They informed him that bows and arrows were the only
weapons they used. The King, accompanied by the young men,
went out to see his followers, who had spent the night in an ad-
jacent glen, when he asked them if they could make use of their
bows. M'Kie, the eldest son, observing two ravens perching on
a pinnacle of a rock, let fly an arrow, and transfixed both birds
through the head. At this feat, Bruce smiled,and exclaimed,
"I would not wish you aimed at me." The second son, Mur-
doch, aimed an arrow at a raven on the wing, and shot it through
the body. M'Lurg, the third brother, made a similar attempt,
but was unsuccessful. In the meantime, the English, in quest
of their illustrious enemy, were encamped in Moss Raploch, a
great flow on the other side of the Dee. The King observing
them, informed the young men that his forces were much inferior,
they amounting only to 300 men. Upon which, they advised the
King to a stratagem; to collect all the horses, wild and tame, in the
neighbourhood, with all the goats that could be found, and to order
that they should be kept by the soldiers during the ensuing afternoon
and night. This was accordingly done; when the English, hear-
ing so much neighing and prancing, and the horns of the goats
appearing in the distance like warlike weapons, conceived that
they were surrounded by a great force, and durst not venture be-
yond the limits of their camp. after a night of apprehension
and dismay, the English, though in reality much more than a
match for Bruce's small party, were attacked with such fury, that
they fled precipitantly; and a great number were killed, There still
stands, in the centre of the moss, a large boulder stone, called
the King's Stone, against which he leaned his back while his
men were gathering up the spoil; and fragments of swords and
other weapons have been dug up at the spot, in recent years, by
the adjoining inhabitants. The three brave young men followed
Bruce in all his subsequent wars, and had the gratification of see-
ing their stratagem repeated with as signal success at Bannock-
burn. After the English were completely expletely expelled, and their
royal master had firmly established himself upon the Throne which
he had so well earned, he remembered them in the division which
then took place of the property left by the invaders. On being



