                              STRACHAN.                     239

	There is an agricultural association in the adjoining parish of
Banchory, with which the farmers in this parish are connected.
	Prodce.--
 		Annual produce of grain of all kinds, 4101 quarters, reckoned at an
			average of L. 1 per quarter,                         L. 4101 0 0
		Annual value of potatoes and turnips, &c.                       1498 0 0
			Do.  hay,                                                657 0 0
		        Do.  pasture grass,                                      638 0 0
		        Do.  sheep pasture,                                      230 0 0
		        Do.  gardens,                                             60 0 0
	        Miscellaneous,                                           	 200 0 0
			Total yearly value of raw produce raised,            L. 7824 0 0
			   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Market-Towns.--The market-towns to which the parishioners
resort for sale of their farm produce are Aberdeen, Stonehaven,
and Montrose.
	To the latter town there is a weekly carrier from the parish, and
two weekly pass through it from the adjoining parish of Birse;
also a weekly carrier passes through the parish to Aberdeen.
Distance to Aberdeen, twenty-one; Montrose, twenty-six; Stone-
haven, fifteen miles.
	There is a post-office at Banchory, three and a-half miles dis-
tant from the manse.
	Roads.--The more public roads, though not turnpike, are in
excellent order, but narrow and seldom defended on the precipi-
tous side. The private roads to the farm-houses are, in several in-
stances, in a miserable state, from which great inconvenience must
be experienced.*

<FOOTNOTE>In a remote and rude age, the Cairn o' Mount road, the great line of communi-
   cation across the Grampians, was haunted by a lawless banditti, and the traveller,
   when possessed of money or articles of value, always carried with him a defensive
   weapon. A ravine about 500 yards from the top of the cairn hill on the north side,
   close by the road, and well adapted for concealment, still retains the name of the
   "thief's buss." About a century and a-half ago, (as it is related,) a Highlander pas-
   sing to the south, was obliged to stop at a smith's shop at Ford of Dye, near where
   the present bridge stands, to have a shoe replaced on his horse ere he took the hill.
   He found a man of rather suspicious appearance sitting in the shop, who proved to be
   the chief of the gang, though unknown to the Gael. While the smith was at work,
   the Highlander took a pistol out of his pocket and commenced cleaning it. The son
   of Vulcan enquired regarding his intentions with the weapon, remarking that it was
   old and useless. The Highlander replied that the night was dark and the road
   dangerous--that he had a trifle of money which he would not like to part with, and
   should he be attacked, if his pistol " widna fell it might maby fleg."  His friend the
   smith in vain sought for an opportunity of warning him of the character of the stran-
   ger, who was sitting by. The nag being shod, the mountainer proceeded on his
   journey, but had not advanced far when he heard the noise of a horse behind him at
   full speed. On turning round, he recognized the man whom he had left in the smithy,
   who sternly demanded his money, backing the demand with a cudgel raised in a
   threatening attitude over the head of the honest Celt, and which he no doubt thought
   an over-match for the old rusty pistol. But the cunning Highlander had a better
   weapon, and drawing out another pistol from under his plaid shot the robber dead,
   and proceeded in safety across the cairn.


