
                           STIRLING.                              441

37.  There are, properly speaking, no parochial schools.  The
magistrates and council are patrons of four schools; viz the High
School; the writing and mathematical school; the first English
school; and the second English, or Allan's Hospital School.
The rector of the High School and the teachers of the other three
schools have L.50 each of salary; and the rector receives L.20
yearly for an assistant.  The rector has a dwelling-house and gar-
den.  All the teachers occupy school-houses belonging to the
burgh, excepting Allan's Hospital School.  The salaries are paid
out of the property of the town, and the three hospitals, in fixed pro-
portions.  The branches taught at the High School are, Greek,
Latin, French, geography, and ancient history.  At the writing
and mathematical school, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, geo-
graphy, navigation, and mathematics in general.  At the first En-
glish school, English, elocution, geography, and drawing; at the
second English school, English, history, geography, writing, and
arithmetic, and occasionally book-keeping and practical mathe-
matics.  The school fees are, grammar school, 7s. 6d. per quar-
ter; writing school, 3s. 6d. per ditto; for one hour in the day,
2s. 6d. per ditto; first English school, 5s. per ditto; second dit-
to, English, 3s. 6d., and other branches with English, 4s. 6d. per
ditto.  These fees are fixed by the patrons, for children belong-
ing to families having right to benefit from any of the hospitals.
At the grammar school and writing schools higher fees are charged
in certain cases to others.  At the grammar school, when French
is combined with Latin or Greek, the fee is 12s 6d. per quarter.
At the writing school, algebra is charged 1Os. 6d. per quarter; ma-
tbematics, comprehending the First Six Books of Euclid, L.1, 1s.
per course; plain trigonometry, 10s. 6d. per ditto; mensuration,
10s. 6d. per ditto; navigation, L. 1, 11s. 6d. per ditto.  The ma-
gistrates and council likewise patronize two other schools, by giv-
ing to their teachers a small salary, and a dwelling-house and
schoolroom; and another, by giving the use of the upper hall in
Cowan's Hospital.  In these, English, writing, and arithmetic,
are taught.  There are eight English altogether, dependent
on school fees, three of them boarding and day schools for girls;
one by the Stirling and Bannockburn Caledonian Society; one, the
infant school, supported by a Society of ladies, aided, in cases in
which it can be obtained, by a weekly fee of 11/2d.; one for girls, sup-
ported in a somewhatsimilar manner. There is a recently commenced
seminary for English, Latin, Greek, geography, writing, arithme-


