
                  CANISBAY.                              29

vest.  A mason's daily wages are from 2s. to 2s. 6d.; and it car-
Penter's from 2s. 6d.'to 3s.; and other artisans in proportion.
implements of Husbandry.-The ploughs now generally in use
are made of iron, and -cost from L. 2, 1 Os. to L. 3, and are 4mwn
by two horses. The carts had till lately wooden axles      now they
are seldom to be seen, having almost all been supplanted by iron
ones.
Breeds of Live-Stock.-The sheep are in general of. a very in-
different, and, I suppose, indigenous breed.  They are small in
size,Iand of every shade of colour from. black to white. No at.
tempts have been made to improve them.  They belong to the
different tenants, -who may have from ten to twenty each. , Their
wool is short but soft.  It is spun by the females in the winter sea-
son, and either weaved into blankets or knit into stockings for the
use of the family.  It is also woven into -a kind of cloth here
called black-grey, Which is made into wearing clothes for the more
aged members- of the family.  The breed of cattle is also very infe-
rior.  Swine are exceedingly numerous.  Every family rears one, and
most families two.  They grow to a greater size than might be ex-
pected from the manner in which they are attended to in-ibeir
youth, and bring at market from L.1, 10s. to L.2; 10s.  The Earl
of Caithness, on his farm of Barrogill mains, has a few Cheviots,
which answer well.  He has also several fine cattle-of the,Tees-,
water breed.  The pro rietor of Freswick has at his farm at Fres-
wick some very fine Highland cattle.  And George S. Sinclair of
Brabster has on his farm several of the Teeswater breed; and he
has lately got a few sheep of a cross between the Leicester and
Cheviot, which have hitherto fully answered his expectations.
Husbandry.-With the exception of what them proprietors them.
selves cultivate, the land is wretchedly cultivated.  Rotation of
crops is unknown among the common people.         IBear or big, and-
oats with potatoes for'the use of the family, are the only crops. to
beseen.  Fromthecultivatedpartsoftheparislilyi.ngin geneml
along the shore, and, from the great abundances of sea-weed for,
manure, the crops of bear are good ; but the oat crop is almost
always very indifferent The fructifying qualities of the seaweed
seem to be exhausted in one season;, and as neither, sea-weed nor
any other manure is ever laid on the land allotted to. the -oats. this
may account for their inferiority.
Leases are seldom granted, and this is a very great, obstacle,to
improvement.
Little has been done in the way of reclaiming waste land.  The


