
246                     BERWICKSHIRE.

At an average, the society relieves 21 sick persons and 7 super-
annuated. The largest sum given to a member when sick is 4s.
per week, and this is continued, if required, for three months,
after which it is reduced. The least sum is 1s. per week. L. 3
are allowed to defray the expenses of a member's funeral, and
L. 1, 10s. for that of his wife.
   This society was for a long time exceedingly prosperous; but
latterly, like those in the neighbourhood, it has received only a
small addition to the number of its members. Its allowance was
at first more liberal than the funds would admit, and was conse-
quently reduced,-a circumstance which probably deterred many
from joining it. Still it is exceedingly useful; and, as the rate
has for some time been stationary, strong hopes are entertained
that it will revive.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The annual assessments have been
greatly reduced, chiefly by the temporary aid which is furnished
from the weekly collections in church to those individuals or fa-
milies who may require it. They are thus enabled to extricate
themselves from difficulties, and prevented from coming perma-
nently oil the roll. To enable the session to afford this assistance,
the whole of the collections since the commencement of the pre-
sent incumbent's ministry have been placed at their disposal. The
allowance to paupers on the roll averages 1s. 9d. per week; but
the session also gives occasional donations of meal and coal dur-
ing winter, and 8s. or 10s. to each after the communion. In some
instances a weekly allowance of 4s. has been given to individuals
who bad formerly been in more prosperous circumstances; but
these instances have been rare. Widows with three or four young
children have received 4s. and have had their children educated,
sometimes at the expense of the session, sometimes at that of the
heritors. It is due to the benevolence of the Marchioness of Brea-
dalbane to say, that there is not a parish in Berwickshire where
more liberal provision has been made for the poor.
   In 1832 the assessment amounted to L. 29, exclusive of L. 2, 10s.
paid to the collector. The number of paupers on the roll was 5,
one of whom was so old as to require the attendance of another
individual. The collections at the church doors amounted to
L. 29, 3s. 0 1/2d. Of this, L. 6, 17s. was paid to the precentor, ses-
sion-clerk, beadle, presbytery and synod clerks. The remaining
L 22, 6s. 0 1/2d. was distributed, partly among the poor on the roll,
and partly among ten individuals not receiving stated assistance.

   August 1834.


