
                             PORTPATRICK.                          155

ing it in its arms, was planned by the justly celebrated engineer,
the late Mr Rennie, and the work was carried on for some time
by a resident engineer under his direction. Subsequently to his
death, the direction was transferred to his son, the present Sir John
Rennie. The whole plan was originally designed for sail-vessels,
and was admirably adapted for their warping out into the current
of the channel in any weather, when it was possible for them to go
to sea. After the substitution of steam-vessels as mail-packets, it
was found necessary to excavate to a greater extent than was con-
templated in Mr Rennie's plan, in consequence of which the ori-
ginal estimate (about L. 120,000,) became deficient, and an ad-
ditional grant was made by Parliament, which it is believed will
complete the work. The form of the new harbour very much resem-
bles a horse shoe. From the south side of it, the old quay, a
pier showing the date 1774, points inward, nearer the land than the
centre of the basin, whilst the other side embraces a large rock,
by which it is partly sheltered from the sea that enters the mouth
of the harbour. Both sides run out into piers, inclining slightly
towards each other, and furnished with jetties near their extremi-
ties, by which the entrance is contracted to 180 feet. The north
pier is not yet finished; but the south one was completed about three
years ago, and is a very handsome building. The parapet is wrought
in massive grey limestone from Wales, and terminates in a semi-
circular curve, half embracing and protecting a handsome light-
house 46 feet in height, and built of the same material. The back
of this pier is protected by a glacis of rubble-work. From the
extent of a quarry to the south, some idea may be formed of the
enormous quantity of stone that has been poured into the deep in
the construction of this harbour. But no one who did not see the
work at its commencement, or in the early stages of its progress,
can estimate the labour expended in excavating rock under water
in the basin, partly by means of puddle dikes, and partly with the
diving-bell. An animated description of these operations has been
given by Mr M'Diarmid in his "Sketches of Nature." Although
much opposition has been raised of late to this harbour as the
station for the mail-packets between Scotland and Ireland, there
seems to be very little reason to doubt of its possessing many very
great advantages, in which no other station that has been stg-
gested can compete with it. It is the nearest point to Ireland, be-
ing only 21 miles distant, which during nine-tenths of the whole
year, gives it an undeniable superiority. Steamers can go out here


