
			       DALZIEL.                      465

parties before the Court of Session. The result was, that the right
of the college was found preferable, and decreet was given accord-
ingly in their favour, dated 19th June 1581. They got and con-
tinued in possession, till the beginning of the seventeenth cen-
tury, as appears from inhibitions at their instance, against the
heritors, from a process of augmentation raised against them and
Sir Robert Dalziel, as tacksman of teinds, by the minister, and
from Mr Hamilton's account of the sheriffdom of Lanark in 1702.
How it passed out of their hands I have been unable to ascertain.
The Hamiltons of Dalziel have been long patrons and titulars of
the parish.
	The old church of Dalziel was a plain Gothic building, having
the font for holy water, and the gorgets attached to it, used in
punishing civil and ecclesiastical offenders, and was considered to be
contemporary with the cathedral of Glasgow. It was taken down
in the year 1798, and the stones used in building an addition to
the old manse. This is deeply to be regretted, as the walls were
found to be so strong, that the mason declared he would sooner
have quarried the stones than taken them down. It might have
been retained as a monument of antiquity, and used as a burying-
place. The present Church was built in the year 1789, is most
conveniently situated, and affords accommodation to 370 persons.
It is in the form of a cross, having only one gallery above the aisle,
in front of the pulpit; but two additional ones are about to be erect-
ed, which will increase the number of sittings to 514. The seats
are all unlet, and are allocated among the heritors, tenants, and
feuars. *
	The present manse was built in 1827, and is a most suitable
and convenient one. The old manse, which was taken down in the
following year, originally consisted of only a room and kitchen,
but had several additions afterwards made to it. The glebe con-
sists of 7 acres of good land; nearly 5 1/2 acres are in orchard; and
the average yearly value of the whole is L.60 ; stipend, L.150
per annum, consists of 47 bolls, 1 firlot, 2 8/6 pecks, oatmeal; 7 bolls,

<FOOTNOTE>Church music.--This was, about fifty-five years ago, in a very low state in this pa-
rish,--so much so, that it became proverbial in the neighbouring parishes, when a
child cried, to style it Dalziel Ps--ms, a reproachfull expression now almost disus-
ed. In this state, the writer's father found it, when he became assistant and succes-
sor in 1787. Understanding music himself, and delighting in having that part of the
church service properly conducted, he got masters to teach the young connected with
the church, and then drilled them himself, by meeting with them in the church once
a week. The consequence of this training was, that, from being one of the worst sing-
ing congregations in the district, they became the very best,--the admiration of all
strangers, and a model for the imitation of their neighbours. The taste for church manse
in the parish from that date, has never died out, is still lively.


