

                              BOWDEN.                        37

times, the occasional residence of the Roxburghe family.  A plan
of this place was sketched a few years ago, and presented to His
Grace the Duke of Roxburghe.  In that plan, the site of the build-
ings is delineated, as far as that could be correctly ascertained, by
inspecting the foundations, and the portions of the walls still stand-
ing, and by information received from old individuals resident near
the place.  The plan is believed to be correct in its proportions.
The house and lands of Holydean were included in the grant made
by David I. to the monks of Selkirk, and were confirmed to them,
by renewed charters, after their translation to Kelso.  At this place
they had a grange or farm for feeding cows and sheep, and raising
corn.  In the sixteenth century, the lands of Holydean were be-
stowed by royal grant upon Sir Walter Kerr of Cessford, ancestor
of the ducal house of Roxbughe, as a reward for border services.
Different opinions are entertained as to the year in which this took
place.  In Douglas's Scottish Peerage, and Chalmers' Caledonia,
it is said to have been in 1569, while by others we are informed
that it was in 1530; and we consider it a very strong circumstance
in favour of the latter opinion, that there is still to be seen at the
place a stone, of which we shall by-add-by make more particular
mention, having on it, together with the arms of the house of Ker,
the date 1530. " Holydean," says the former Account, " was,
not long ago, 'a strong fortification of its kind.  The court-yard,
containing about tbree-fourths of an acre, was surrounded by a
strong stone and lime wall, four feet thick, and sixteen feet high,
with slanting holes between five free-stones, about thirty feet from
each other, from which an arrow or a musket could have been point-
ed in different direction.  Upon an arched gateway in the front,
there was a strong iron gate.    Within the court stood two strong
towers, the one of three, the other of five stories, consisting of eight
or ten lodgeable rooms, besides porters' lodges, servants' hall, vault-
ed cellars, bake-houses, &c." The walls of these towers were four
feet thick, and their roofs and floors were of the strongest oak.
They were both perfectly entire, and in excellent condition, at no
distant date.  About seventy-four years ago, the commissioner
to John, the third Duke of Roxburghe, his Grace being then
in his minority and abroad, ordered the buildings to be mostly
pulled down, for the sake of getting the freestones in them to
build a large farm-house and appurtenances.  One of the large
vaults still remains in good repair, and is used by the tenant for
sheltering carts and other agricultural implements.  There is also


