
        		KILMORIE.                                55

place of worship for the district, and around it that for interment,
till the removal of the former to Kilmorie. Infants are still bu-
ried in it, and the wall that enclosed it may still be traced by its
ruins, but the only monument of them which lie beneath, is a stone,
beautifully carved. A well, once celebrated for its miraculous sa-
natory virtues, stands at a short distance from the chapel.
         Castles.-Lochranza Castle, now roofles, and fast falling in
ruins, stands upon a small green peninsula, bear the entrance of
the loch. The date of its erection is uncertain, but it is enume-
rated in 1380 among the royal castles, as a hunting-seat of the
Scottish sovereigns. It was afterwards inhabited by the Montgo-
meries of Skilmorlie, the ancestors of the family of Eglinton, who
possessed a considerable part of the north end of the parish, but
lost it in wadset to the family of Hamilton. Kildonan Castle is
a square tower, standing on the edge of a precipitous sea-cliff, op-
posite to Pladda. It scarcely deserves the name of a castle, and
seems rather to have formed one of a line watch-towers extend-
ing from the entrance of the Clyde to the Rock of Dumbarton. lt
was originally the residence of a family of the name of Macdonald,
to whom the adjoining lands belonged. From these, it passed to
the Stewarts of Kilquhully, in Bute, who sold it, with the rest of
their properties, to the Marquis of Bute, from whom it was lately
purchased by the Duke of Hamilton.
	Natural Curiosities.--The natural curiosities are numerous, but
those most deserving of notice are the caves and cascades. Of the
former there are many, but the largest and most romantic are
the Monster's Cave, at Strueyrock, which is 110 feet long, 40 feet
broad, and 80 hhgh; the Preaching Cave at Kilpatrick, and
King's Cave at Drumidoon, the retreat and residence of King Ro-
bert Bruce. It is 114 feet long, 44 broad, and 47 1/2 high. On
the side-wall, and near the entrance, were inscribed the letters,
M. D. R. These are now almost, if not altogether, deleted by the
action of the weather, and the scribbling of visitants. But at its
southern extremity, may still be seen, rudely cut, a hunting scene,
said to have been done by the fugitive monarch, as figurative of
his own condition, when he made this lonely cavern the place of
his abode. Several other representations are said to have covered
its walls, executed by the same hand; but they have all been
either entirely erazed, or rendered untraceable by those of more re-
cent writers. It has lately been cleared of its accumulated fifth
and rubbish, and a wall built around its entrance, to prevent the
still remaining memorials of persecuted royalty from being injured,



