
   130                          SHETLAND.

   a tailor with his victuals, Is. per day.  Making a pair of shoes for a
   woman, 10d.; for a man, Is. and Is. 2d.  Boat-builder, Is. for
   every foot of keel in small boats; but when larger, the price ad-
   vances.  A slater charges about L.1, 5s. per rood, or 2s. per day,
   without food.
      The wages of a man for farm-work, in spring or harvest, is 6d.
   a-day with victuals; and a woman's wages 4d.
      Very few of the servants take any interest in their masters' ser-
   vice.  With the greater part of them, the principal concern seems
   to be, to work as little as possible, and that not always in the best
   manner; while meal-time and pay-day are well attended to.
      The usual charge for grazing an ox or cow, for about six
   months in summer, is from 6s. to 8s.; the owner of the animal
   providing a tether.  A young cow or ox foddered during the six
   winter months, costs about 5s. ; and a cow in calf, for the same time,
   from 8s. to 10s.  Nothing is paid for foddering a farrow cow, her
   milk being considered to pay daily for the fodder she eats.  When
   a cow in calf is given out, on the condition that the calf is to be
   reared, the person who receives her keeps her till Michaelmas,
   and then returns her, the calf remaining, which is afterwards con-
   sidered "havers" property ; that is, the calf itself and its store to
   belong in equal portions to the owner of the cow and the person
   who reared the calf; and when sold, the price to be equally di-
   vided.
      Fisheries-The fisheries consist of ling, cod, and herring
   The ling-fishing is carried on in boats of about 18 feet of keel,
   and manned with six men.  This fishing, twenty-five years ago,
   was much more extensive than it is now.  At that time, thirty-six
   boats of the above description were engaged in it; now, there are
   only eight.  The boats fish from the island of Papa Stour, as
   being much nearer the  "haaf," or fishing round.  And before
   they commence fishing, perhaps eight or ten days, they repair to
   the islands and put in order the huts which are to shelter them,
   when on shore, during the fishing season.  Fishermen are allowed
   by law to build huts for their accommodation, while prosecuting
   the fishing, on any unenclosed or uncultivated land, at a distance
   of not more than 100 yards above high water-mark.  These huts
   are very rudely built; and the wood, pones, or divots, which form
   their roof, must he transported to the island.  The usual practice
   is to carry home the roofs of the huts, when the fishing-season is
   over.
				3


