
248                          RENFREWSHIRE.

These gentlemen are also ministers of congregations respectively
in the town, and during the hall term (which is in the months of
August and September) their pulpits are supplied by ministers spe-
cially appointed by the synods.  The number of students at both
of these institutions may average 40.  Each hall has attached to
it an extensive collection of theological books.
   Religious Societies.-Paisley was for twenty years the seat of
very flourishing Bible Society, tnder the name of " The Paisley
and East Renfrewshire Bible Society ;" which, besides supplying
home wants, sent annually many hundred pounds to the British
and Foreign Bible Society, and other societies of the same kind.
Of late it has existed under the form of four female Bible associa-
tions, which have done much good by distributing Bibles, purchas-
ed, lent, or gifted to the poor of the place; and which have also
distributed of their charity to the Highlands, colonies, and foreign
parts.  The missionary enterprise was early befriended in this place,
and several associations in behalf of the London, Scottish, Bap-
tist, and Continental Societies, have from time to time lent their
aid to the good cause.  Of late, various circumstances have directed
the attention of the Christian public more immediately to the sup-
ply of spiritual wants at home; but the visits of the representa-
tives of these and other institutions of the same nature are still
hailed with pleasure, and liberal collections and subscriptions, from

time to time, made in their behalf by all denominations.

                           IV.-POPULATION.
   State of the Population.-The population of the Abbey and town
parishes may be distinctly traced from the year 1695; and, ac-
cording to the statements given at different periods, it is as follows:

<TABLE>
                Abbey.                   Town.                 Total in
Year.      Families.   Souls.      Families.    Souls.       Abbey & Town.
1695,        435                                 2200
1755,                  2509                      4290            6799
1781,       1536                               11,100

   In the above table we have not distinguished the males from
the females, as there is no record of the number of each, at the
different periods referred to.  Besides, in the Abbey parish, the
number of souls is mentioned only at one of the periods; at the
other two, we have only the number of families in the parish.
   From the year, 1791, we are able to give the statement of the
population with more accuracy, distinguishing between the males
and females in each year in which the census was taken.


