
                           GLENELG.                              133

As this entrance still remains, in the case of one of the dunes, it is
evident, from the construction, that a single stone dropped, after the
manner of a portcullis, from the opening between the double walls,
must have formed a barrier which no intruder could force. In
some instances of similar erections, the external entrance is said
to have been subterraneous ; and it is true that a passage of this
kind from one of the Glenelg towers was shut up a few years ago,
by the farmers in the neighbourhood, the loss which they sustained
by sheep and cattle falling into it having led to this. The
passage never was explored byany of the existing generation; but
the tradition is, that it Commudicated both with the neighbouring
river and the second tower.
   It is probable that the dwelling-houses of the inhabitants, in the
troublous times which gave origin to the structures which we have
attempted to describe, were erected close by the burghs or dunes,
and that when the lighting of the beacons on the neigbbouring
mountains, gave intimation of the approach of an enemy, or his descent
on the coast, they forsook their habitations, conveyed their
moveable property, with provisions, within the walls of the fortress,
if not always kept there, and, having previously driven their cattle off
from the coast, or dispersed them over the mountains, awaited the
event or prepared for defence. The protection afforded by such
strongholds, usually built upon eminences, must have been considerable.
The galleries described above provided perfect shelter for
women and children, from arrows and other missiles, which might
be thrown into the fort; for they do not seem to have been roofed
over. The form of the dune precluded the prospect of capture by
scaling: whilst from the summit, where, from the projecting stones
which remain, it is evident there must have been some description
of platform, the besieged could hurl destruction on the enemy who,
either by this means or the battering-ram, sought their ruin.
From the construction of the castles, and the nature of the assaults
made by the predatory adventurers, for defence against whom they
were intended, it must have seldom occurred that they were taken
by an enemy, unless by surprise. The generally received opinion
of their origin is, that they were not the workmanship of any
purely Celtic tribe, there being many circumstances to render it
probable that they were erected by the Danes or Norwegians. It
is necessary only to state further, that the stones, large and small,
with which those of Glenelg are built, were conveyed a distance
of more than a mile, from a neighbouring mountain, of which the


