
     of Dunnet.

poor are exceedingly small.  Hence they would have been
very destitute, had it not been for the liberality of the late
Rev. Dr. James Oswald, who was a native of the parish, and
who settled an annuity of 20 L. Sterling, for charitable pur-
poses in it.

   Antiquities.-There are few natural curiosities in the parish,
excepting 2 or 3 caves, in the rocks of Dunnet Head, and
one at Ham.  But as the access to them is difficult, they have
not been sufficiently examined to permit a description.  None
of them, however, excepting the last, are supposed to be of
great extent.  Vestiges of 3 chapels are still visible.  One
of these is situated in Dunnet Head, and supposed to have
been a place of penance.  Two inner cells of Picts houses
are still entire at Ham.  These appear to be divided only
by a stone partition, 3 or 4 feet thick, probably hearted with
earth*.

   Character.-The inhabitants are, in general, a sagacions
people; and, excepting in so far as they are prevented by

     Vol. XI. K k

<FOOTNOTE>

*The entrances are about 8 feet asander, and seem to have led from 2 outer
circular apartments, of about 17 or 18 feet diameter, which appear to have
had a communication from the one to the other.  The entrance to the largest
sell is near 30 inches wide; but as it is much filled up with earth, it is not
known what the heighth of it may have originally been.  The cell is about 9
feet long, and 6 feet wide about the middle; but becomes narrower towards
the farther extremity, which is circular.  The roof is at present about 5 feet
from the earth in the floor.  The walls are constructed of large rough stones,
apparently without any kind of cement.  Every course in the walls projects
little over that immediately below it, till they approach within about 3 feet of
one another.  That space is covered by a course of strong stone lintels.  The
smaller cell is finished in the same manner.  And the whole is covered with
earth, which forms a beautiful green mount, about 8 or 9 feet above the level of
the adjacent field.


