
     of Dundee.

till, after dividing the town of Dundee, nearly in the middle,
they fall into the Tay.  Another small stream, called Wallace
Burn, rises on the north of the Law, and running east, and
then south, falls into the Tay at the east end of the royalty,
and at the distance of a quarter of a mile from the mouth of
the former.  Between there two, on the sea-shore, and on a
low flat ground, the ancient town of Dundee is said to have
been situated.  It seems to have consisted of two parallel
streets, the Seagate, and on the north of it the Cowgate.  In
the broadest part of the Seagate, remains of the ancient cross
were some years ago to be seen; and, by marks in the present
causeway, its situation is still distinguished.  West from the
mouth of the first stream, the ground rises into rocks, which
are from 50 to 90 feet above the level of the Tay.  On one
of these, the ancient castle stood, and on the grounds lying
among them, and declining towards the east and south from
them, the more modern and largest part of the town is situat-
ed.  When the great church was built by David Earl of
Huntingdon, a great part of the grounds was probably in a
state of cultivation, and the ordinary designation of the church
was for a long time the Kirk in the field.  From these rocks,
the ground continues to rife all the way west to Balgay-Hill,
and forms a sort of ridge, bounded on the south by the Tay,
and on the north by the Balgay stream.  The valley, where
the stream runs, is exceedingly beautiful; and few situations
can be conceived more delightful, than those of the castle of Dud-
hope, and the house of Logic to the north of the valley; of the
house of Balgay, at its western extremity; or of Blackness on the
ridge on the south of it.  On this ridge, the late additions to
the town have chiefly been built, and they extend along the
summit, and on both tides of it, near to Blackness itself.
Other considerable additions have, however, been also made
in other quarters, particularly at the east end of the royalty,

     B b 2


