
100                            PEEBLES-SHIRE.

Sterling, out of the lands of Scrawline, to a chaplain in the church
of Dummanyn,--which grant was confirmed by Daivd II. in 1362.
From this date there is nothing known till the sixteenth century.,
when the lands of Skirling, with those of Roberton, Newholm, and
Heeds, in the parish of Dolphinton, were in the possession of the
Cockburns.*  Haying passed from them, the barony appears to
have descended with rapid succession from one family to another,
for about a hundred years.  In  1674, it belonged to Air James Ha-
milton of Priestfield.  Thence it passed to a Sir Jasmes Murray,
probably one of the Murrays of Stanhope, who then held a power-
ful sway in this district.  "In 1683, David Oswald of Dalders was
infeft in the lands and barony of Scrawline."  At the revolution,
the estate of Skirling was possessed by a General Douglas of the
Queenburry family, who, according to tradition, fell at the battle
of the Boyne.  Immediately after this, it was purchased by John
first Earl of Hynford, for his second son, the Hnourable William
Carmichael, and in that line it has continued ever since, the present
if Skirling, Bart. great-grandson of the Honourable W. Car-
michael by Helen, his eldest daughter, amrried to Sir J. Gibson
of Durie.
     Parochial Reigsters.--The date of the earliest parish record is the
6th of July 12654. From that time till the year 1674, the most
pointed regularity seems to have been maintained, in recording every
transaction connected with the sessions. Afterwards, to the close of
that century, few entries appear to have been made.  On the 23d of
August 1700, regular registration again commences,, and is carried
on with care down to the 16th of March 1713, whgen it is again given
up as to every thing except births: and that, too, ceases to be at-

<FOOTNOTE>* In December 1513, a cause was heard by the Lords of Council, against Willliam
Cockburn, laird of Scrawline, for taking violence a part of his own goods, which
had been escheated and granted to Mathew Campbell, viz. three verdour beds, an
arras bed, three pair of sheets, a buird-claith of Dornik, (a damask table-cloth,) six
frocks of Dornik, a linen buird-claith, a feather bed, with a boldster and four cods
(pillows), two verdour beds, a pair of fustian blankets, a ruff and curtains, two pair of 
sheets, one pair of blankets of small white, a feather hed and two saddles, with their
repairings, all which goods extend by good estimation to thirty pounds Scottish
money.--Parl.Record, page 538.
            The same tradition says, that immediately before his leaving Skirling, he
the inhabitants tohgether.  All were alarmed, supposing that in the might of feudal
dominancy, which then was little diminished, he was about to draft the stoutest to
share in the perils in which he was about to engage: but it was merely to take an
affectionate farewell of them, and advise them to the maintenance of brotherly kind-
ness till his return--a return never peermitted.
            Retour in the library of the Writers ot the Signet; Wodrow's Hist, vol.
            iv. p. 245.

                                          4


