
<APPENDIX>

   No XV.  Extract Translation of a Letter from Monsieur Plescheef,
   Author of a Geographical View of the Russian Empire, dated
   St Petersburg, 25th September 1792.

   IF it should ever be in my power, to draw up a complete Statistical Ac-
count of Russia, on a plan more extensive, and more philosophic, than
the work I have already executed, nothing can be more serviceable, than
the valuable specimen which you have had the goodness to communicate to
me, which may justly be considered as a sure foundation, and a classic and
inestimable model, to be followed by those who may choose to occupy
themselves in such valuable researches.

No XVI  Extract of a Letter from Dr Guthrie, dated St Petersburgh,
26th September 1792.

   YOUR Statistical Work is, in my opinion, the most perfect which has ever
yet appeared, and will probably serve as a model to other countries,
although few possess the same set of respectable Pastors, to collect mate-
rials, living with their stock in habits of friendship and intimacy, the natu-
ral result of the sennsible regime of the Scotch Church.

   No XVII.  Extract of a Letter from Professor Thorkelin, dated Co-
penhagen, 24th November 1792.

   YOUR Analysis of the political state of Scotland, is not only admired
here, but followed.  It has given rise to new ideas, in particular, to a
new society, in Norway, who have united themselves in order to make the
present state of that long forgotten kingdom publicly known.  Such exer-
tions, though particularly advantageous to Great Britain, will also be of
immense benefit to others who derive information from them.  The Statisti-
cal Account of Scotland, translated into German, is announced, as preparing
for the press at Leipzie.

No XVIII.  Extract of a printed Letter to the Clergy of Cornwall,
respecting the establishment of a County Library, dated 23d De-
cember 1792.

<UNREADABLE>

   WE may flatter ourselves, that such an institution will excite the emu-
lation and attention of our brethren the Clergy of Cornwall, to use-
ual and interesting subjects, and particularly to what relates to the natural

</UNREADABLE>


