
     Statistical Account

   Roads.-The roads in this district are repaired by the sta-
tute labour, which, if properly performed, would have kept
them in repair: But the work was always too superficially
performed, because too much was attempted in one year.
And, as the roads stood as much in need of repair as ever,
in a few years they became very bad.  This rendered people
averse and aukward in performing the statute labour.  Be-
sides, about 10, 12, or 20 years ago, the then residing heri-
tors frequently repaired their private roads by means of the
statute labour; and overseers were often partial or negli-
gent.  More attention, however, has been paid to the public
roads for some years past, and they are now considerably im-
proved.

   Lake, Hill, etc.-The Loch of Strathbeg is partly in the pa-
rish of Crimond, partly in that of Loanmay.  It contains about
550 acres, and is above a mile in length from E. to W.; the
breadth is unequal, The E. end, which is in Crimond, is
nearly half a mile from the sea, the W. end somewhat far-
ther*.  At the E. end of the Loch of Strathbeg, in a very

<FOOTNOTE>

ed by the poor.  The heritors either do not reside, or do not attend public
worship.  A great many are dissenters, who contribute little or nothing to the
support of the poor.  For 10 or 12 years past, Mr. Irvine of Drum has caused
5 or 6 bolls of oat-meal, and sometimes more, yearly, and, at different times
money, to be distributed among the poor of his estate.  An example which de-
serves to be followed by all non-residing heritors, and those who do not attend
public worship.

*At the beginning of the present century, this lake was of much smaller ex-
tent than it is now.  It was confined to a small part of the E. end, and had a
communication with the sea, so that vessels of small burthen could enter it.
People born about the beginning of the century well remembered the first over.
flowing of the W. part of the Loch, though the particular year is not now
known, but it must have been about 1720.  Previous to that time there was a


