
                   LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.                      1117

     Sir Arthur Forbes.-This was the fourth son of William Forbes
of Corse, who, having entered the army, served in Ireland, was
created a baronet in 1628, and became proprietor of Castle Forbes,
in the county of Longford. His son was raised to the dignity of
Earl of Granard by Charles II. after the Restoration.
    Dr John Forbes, Professor of Divinity in King's College.-He
was the second son of Patrick Forbes of Corse, Bishop of Aber-
deen, and Lucretia Spence, daughter of Spence of Wormiston, in
Fife, of whose marriage, in 1588, Mr James Melvill states him-
self to have been the occasion.* John Forbes was born in 1593,
and having passed through the usual course of study at King's
College, Aberdeen, he went abroad, and attended several of the
universities of Germany, especially Sedan and Heidelberg, in the
latter of which he studied theology under the famous Paraeus. In
1619, he was called to the office of the ministry at Middleburgh,
and having soon after returned to his native country, he was ap-
pointed in 1620 to the newly established chair of theology in
King's College. He was also for a short time one of the minis-
ters of St Nicholas. In 1635, his elder brother being already dead,
he succeeded his father in the estate of Corse. In 1638, he and
the other Aberdeen doctors opposed the commissioners of the Co-
venant both by their preaching and writing; and this soon involv-
ed him in trouble with the dominant party. He appeared frequent-
ly in synods and committees appointed to deal with him; and
"muche panes was tackne upon him by some of his neer rela-
tiones, who stood for the Covenanters, for to draw him to sub-
scrybe; but it wold not bee. Therefor he was conveened before
ther comittye, (viz. of the General Assembly at Aberdeen in
1640), at Marshall's house, and ther interrogated concerning his
doctrine and beliefe; to all which he answered so readily, so
learndly and orthodoxly, and with such candor and modestye, that

<FOOTNOTE>to Patrick B. of Catness, departed this life in Craigivar in the morning, being the
Lord's day, before sermon. His burial was upon the Fryday yrafter, the penult of
October, at night, with torches, in the Laird of Craigivar his yle and hurial-place at
Leochell"-Burial reg. of Leochel. In the same record of mortality we find that
    "Mr John Young, some time minister at Birss and Keig, died at Miltonbank, Octo-
ber the 18th 1671, and was buried in the Laird of Craigivar his yle at Leochell Oc-
tober 24th." He was one of the commissioners from the Presbytery of Alford at the
Assembly of 1638, and no doubt ejected by the re-establishment of Episcopacy after
the Restoration, when upwards of 350 churches were summarily rendered vacant by
the Act of Conformity.
   * "This wintar (1587) I past ower to Dalkethe,--and in retourning, of mere Pro-
vidence, was the occasion of the marriage of Patrik Forbes of Curs with Lucres
Spence, sistar to the Lard of Wilmerston, married in Anstruther in the simmer fol-
lowing."-Diary, p. 260, Wodrow Soc. Ed.


