
     The Statisticat Account.

been found to be the fruitful mother.  On the revival of
learning, therefore, the alarm was immediately caught by the
priesthood; every avenue for its farther diffusion was care-
fully barred; the people, by more than Mahometan severity,
were not even indulged in the use of their bibles; and vigo-
rous measures were adopted, to square their knowledge to
the conveniences of the church, and to adjust their belief to
the purposes of ghostly edification.  Thus, the little lamp of
learning, that had just begun to glimmer, though not totally
extinguished, was not permitted to answer any beneficial pur-
pose.  It was employed in the investigation of no object of
practical or moral tendency, and its beams were confined to
the chambers of a few; while the darkness, in which the
multitude were involved, was equally deplorable in its origin
and its effects, and equally pernicious to the conduct of in-
dividuals, and to the spirit of society.
   Britain had the felicity to be among the first of the na-
tions that were emancipated from Popish slavery; and its in-
habitants, of consequence, were soon distinguished by their en-
lightened sentiments and growing knowledge.  A civil revo-
lution, which soon after took place, contributed likewise to
promote the same happy end.  By the co-operation of these
events, the means of instruction were laid open; and a taste
for free discussion, and liberal enquiry, was communicated to
all ranks of society.  Many institutions were erected for the
improvement of the poor; and many benefactions, both pub-
lic and private, were bestowed, to reward the teachers, and to
support the scholars.  In the northern division of the island,
however, the peasantry were still scantily supplied with op-
portunities of instruction, and slowly emerged from the bar-
barism and superstition of their fathers.  Partial steps, indeed,
had been taken, to enlighten that neglected region; but, by
its distance from the seat of legislation, and other unfavoura-
     VOL. XXI. Q. q


