
     Statistical Account

   Soil, Produce, and System of Farming.-The country of
Harris can never be enriched by agriculture.  The soils now
in culture are, generally speaking, poor; and of the waste
lands the far greater part will entirely bassle the art of the hus-
bandman for ever.  The rude inhabitants of the rocky and
mountainous regions have attempted tillage with amazing suc-
cess, in places where an experienced farmer of a more favour-
able clime could never think of turning a sod for the pur-
pose of raising a crop.  The quantity of land throughout the
whole parish, which can be called properly arable, i.e. to be
turned with the plough, is very inconsiderable, in proportion
not only to the extent of muir and waste lands, but to the
quantity otherwise contrived to be tilled.  The plough lands
are confined to the four Southern Isles, (none of which, how-
ever, is altogether arable) some fields of sandy soil on the west
shore of Harris within Tarbert, some in Huskinish, and a
small patch, perhaps 10 acres, in Taransay.  There lands are
laboured with a common Scotch plough and feathered sock,
drawn by four horses; and immediately sown and harrowed,
sometime betwixt the 1st of April and 12 of May.  Weak
stubble ground, manured with sea-weed, which is cart ashore
in May, is sometimes ploughed down so late as the 10th or
12th of June, and yields excellent barley.  Of all these lands
the soil is in general sandy; that especially which lies nearest
the shore, from whence the sand is perpetually drifted by
high winds, is pure shell, ground very fine, in which the
eye can scarcely discern a particle of earth.  Towards the lat-
ter end of spring it get, a strong surface; and, when plough-
ed without manure, it yields a thin crop of small black oats,
the stalks of which seldom rise above a foot from the ground.
Towards the rising grounds the soil improves, being a mix-
ture of black earth and sand, in which the corn rises much
higher, and grows close.  When manured, both soils, if the


