
332                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

is denominated the King's Bed-Chamber. Farther on, is a com-
munication with a well, to which we shall afterwards advert. Pro-
ceeding a little way, and ascending a few steps on the left, is an
apartment with 175 square apertures, cut in the rock, called the
King's Guard Room. On the opposite side of the passage is
another apartment, known by the name of the King's Dining
Room. In the court formed by the old tower and the modern
house is a well cut in the solid rock, which is said to have served
the double purpose of being an entrance to the caves, with which
it has a communication, and of supplying the inhabitants of the
caves with water, when they were shut out from all intercourse with
the world above.
   At the west end of the modern house is a seat hewn out of the
solid rock, from which, in a summer day, may be obtained one of
the most charming views which the eye of man can behold. To
this end of the house is affixed the Following remarkable inscrip-
tion: "To the memory of Sir Lawrence Abernethy of Hawthorn-
den, second son to Sir William Abernethy of Salton, a brave and
gallant soldier, who, at the head of a party in the year 1338, con-
quered Lord Douglas five times in one day, yet was taken prisoner
before sunset."--(Ford. Lib. xiii. cap. 44.)
   There is also an inscription to the memory of Drummond the
poet, and a dedication of the stone-seat by Bishop Drummond.
But, as the poetry is from Young, it is unnecessary to quote it.
   To the north of the house is a room cut out of the rock, 16 feet
by 12, and about 6 feet high. The room seems to be of conside-
rable antiquity, and there are four recesses in the sides of it.
   Still farther to the north is a pretty large recess cut in the free-
stone rock, called the Cypress Grotto. This was a favourite re-
treat of the poet, and he is said to have composed some of his
poems in it.
   Wallace's Cave.--On the same side of the river North Esk,
and, about half a mile farther up the river than Hawthornden, is
Wallace's Cave. The cave is the form of a cross, and is ca-
pable of holding sixty or seventy men. Like the caves, which we
have. already mentioned, it is evidently artificial.
station is situated on the
   Wallace's Cast or Camp.--This military station is situated on the
north side of Bilston Burn, and about a mile from its confluence
with the river North Esk. It is in the form of a half-moon, and
defended by a broad and deep ditch. The semicircle measures
84 yards, and the average dimensions of the ditch are follow-


