
                           OLD DEER.                           143

stones built rudely into something like the form of a cube, 5 feet
on each side, four of these measures, or 500 solid feet, being esti-
mated to yield 100 bolls of lime.
   Within two furlongs ofthe lime quarry, on the lands of Annochie
also, are numerous large blocks of pure white quartz, some lyhnf on
the surface and others imbedded in the earth.  Towards the
south side of the parish, and in several other detached districts,
such rocks and stones as are found partake chiefly of the silicious,
character, and can with difficulty be forced by the hammer or any
instrument into proper shapes for building.  The high ground
south of the house of Kinmundy, and the top of the hill of Skel-
muir, fully more than one mile and a-half to the westward, and se-
parated from the other by a pretty deep and broad valley, are
overspread with nodules and fragments of flint.  The heart of
most of these nodules, when they are broken, contains a cavity,
and discloses the impression of a sea shell.
   In digging gravel pits to find materials for making roads, the
constituent parts of granite, felspar, quartz, and mica are often met
with; all regularly disposed, and exhibiting, till touched, some-
what of a rocky appearance, but without the least cohesion among
the particles.  Phenomena of this kind, and well marked symptoms
of stratification, may be traced at different elevations, in some in-
stances from one side of a valley to a corresponding level on the
opposite.
   There have been, at some period, immense fields of peat moss
occupying the low ground, and filling up cavities where there was
stagnant water in more elevated situations.  Btt in consequence
of the heavy demand that has been, long made upon it for fuel and
other purposes, and the little care taken to promote its growth,
there are but few places now where it is not altogether or almost
exhausted, and the spots where it existed either left an unseemly
waste, or reduced to tillage.  Nor is the destruction of this sub-
stance much to be regretted; for it manifestly tends to deteriorate
the climate, by reason of the facility with which, like a sponge, it
receives and retains moisture and frost.  And if due allowance be
made for the time, money and labour consumed in procuring this
commodity, when the place where it is found lies several miles dis-
tant from that where it has to be used, the same quantity of heat
ma be obtain at less cost from sea-borne coal, provided a horse
can go by a tolerable road to the port, and return with a load the
same day.  Boles or logs of hard-wood trees, principally oak, rarely


