
                              KEIG.                           945

   Hydrography.-The Don is the only river: it rises about six
miles above Corgarff, in the parish of Strathdon, and after a course
of sixty-one miles, falls into the sea near Old Aberdeen. Its ave-
rage summer breadth, where, in a singularly winding manner, it
intersects Keig, is about 140 feet, and where its depth is fifteen
inches, its velocity is about 90 feet per minute, thus discharging
in that time 15,750 cubic feet of water.  In the flood of August
1829, it rose four inches higher than in that of 1778, and did
much damage, but the injurious effects of it are now nearly obli-
terated.
   Geology.-There are not many parts in Keig where the rock is
laid bare so as to furnish an easy opportunity of ascertaining its na-
ture, but wherever it is to be seen, granite prevails, mixed in a few
places with gneiss, greenstone, and clay-slate. Some masses of por-
phyry are found, and, among the simple minerals, tolerable speci-
mens of rock crystal.  A great deal of micaceous schist is scattered
about on the surface of the ground, even on the tops of some of the
granite hills; but the writer has seen none of it in situ within the
bounds of the parish.
   With the exception of the haugh land, which is alluvial, lying
over water-worn stones and gravel, the soil of Keig is gene-
rally sandy or gravelly, combined with clay, which in a few places
is stiff and yellow, and in some poor low wet tracts is light and of
a bluish-white colour, the whole probably referable to granite in
different states of decomposition.  Pure clay is found in a very
few places.  In the best lands, tillage has produced an abundant
mixture of good mould, but in the poorest, there is little but the
original moorish surface soil, a thin stratum of which covers near-
ly all the uncultivated ground.  Peat moss is confined to a few
spots; it is very impure, and makes bad fuel.
   Botany.-The botany is, in general, similar to that of the neigh-
bouring parishes.  The following few species deserve a notice,
being among the rarer Scottish plants: Juncus obtusiflorus, Epi-
lobium angustifolium, Pyrola rotundifolia, Rubus suberectus, Fu-
Maria claviculata, Genista Anglica, and a remarkable Hieracium
with spotted leaves, upon very hairy footstalks.
   The following plants, natives of the parish, may likewise be-
mentioned, as they are rare in the district wherein Keig is situated,
though abundant enough in certain parts of the kingdom: Erio-


