
     of Hutton and Corrie.

glen similar to many of the small glens named Corries in
the Highlands*.

   Soil.-The soil of the high or north parts of the parish
is partly mossy or moorish, excepting what lies within view
of the waters.  The corn lands upon the Dryse, exclusive of
the holms, are a rock gravel of a good quality.  Those upon
Corrie are generally a fine clay, and the holms excel as
meadow for producing large quantities of bay.  The same
clay soil prevails over the heights of Corrie, until it ap-
proaches the water of Milk, where again the rock gravel
soil comes in.

   Farming, and Different Kinds of Sheep.-The farming or
management of farmers in this parish is various.  The upper
part of the parish is all under sheep, and chiefly breeding
sheep.  The middle and lower parts of the parish have corn,
cattle, and sheep, mostly changeable stocks.  The sheep in
the highest farms are of the black faced kind, called short
sheep, and in farms rather lower situated are white-faced,
called long sheep, now known under the name of the Che-
viot breed; each kind is held to have its qualities.  The short
sheep are generally supposed the most hardy, and the wool of
the Cheviot sheep brings most money.  It is more generally
allowed, that when manufactures are low and seasons not
good, the short sheep have most buyers; when circumstan-
ces are different, there is most demand for long sheep.  It
is agreed on all hands, that there are many farmers in
Yorkshire, Lancashire, Westmoreland, Cumberland, and 

     VOL. XIII. 4 C

<FOOTNOTE>

*Hutton, it should seem, was at some early period a more distinguish-
ed place than in later times.  Upon the farm of Nether Hutton, there is
a mount, artificially formed, (and the highest of the Holts), now called
Hutton Moat.  It is large and distinct of the kind.  It is granted by all,
that these moats were the places where courts were held, for the distri-
bution of justice.  Moat is the word in Gealis at this day for a court of
justice.


