
222                            FORFARSHIRE.

with the turnips, they receive daily a quantity of hay or straw,
which they eat from covered hecks. And if the winter prove dry
and favourable, they are generally fed off, and found in excellent
condition for the butcher by the month of April, when they bring
from L. 1 to L. 1, 8s. per head. The complement being thus re-
duced by the sale of the fat sheep, is made up partly by the re-
maining ewes and lambs, and partly by purchases at the sheep-
markets. The rearing, grazing, and feeding of cattle are favourite
objects with our farmers, because they are profitable in regard to
manure, as well as to money. But not rearing a number sufficient
for consuming their grass and turnips, they supply the deficiency
by purchases made at the several fairs, from the famed cattle-rear-
ing counties of Mearns, Aberdeen, and Moray. If not sold at the
end of the grazing season, they are fed off on turnips and straw
during winter, and bring very high prices in the Edinburgh or
Glasgow markets. As great attention is thus paid to rearing, graz-
ing, and feeding, the parish contains a large and valuable stock of
cattle. Besides a permanent and flying stock of cattle, the far-
mers generally keep a considerable stock of cows, partly of the
Angus, and partly of the Ayrshire breeds, for yielding milk for
rearing calves, and for dairy purposes: And it is reckoned a very
good cow that yields four or five imperial gallons of milk per day
during the best of the season.
	Draining,&c.--About thirty years ago, there was a considerable
extent of waste land in the parish; but, by means of draining within
these twenty-five years, it has been, with the exception of about 106
imperial acres of flat marshy ground along the northern extremity
of the parish, subjected to the plough, and converted into corn land.
And now that the trustees of the late Earl of Strathmore have wid-
ened and deepened the great drain which extends from the loch of
Forfar to the back of the Castle of Glammis, the whole waste land
alluded to will be easily drained and reclaimed, and twenty acres
of it will be under corn crop this season. In the course of two
years, the whole superficial area of the parish, the rocky brow of the
hill of Kinnettles only excepted, will be in an arable state. Seve-
ral years ago, paring and burning were the two great expedients
employed here in reclaiming waste land; but, having been found,
on experience, to reduce and deteriorate the most productive
part of the soil, these have been laid aside for ten years in the
improvemdnt of waste land. The plan now generally adopted
in reclaiming land of this description is, to plough it very deep,
			        3


