
                  DESKFORD.                              63

the war; and, like all other places, when the product of these an-
ticipations was once expended, and the permanent burden they en-
tailed began to be felt, it suffered from the transition. In the first
period, there was a general start upwards of every rank in society,
each occupying the place of the one next above it. The revulsion
was necessarily in proportion. Numerous failures among the merchants
and tradesmen took place after the peace; and no little
difficulty was sustained by others, whose circumstances were not so
necessarily made apparent. Perhaps the increased facilities of
bank accommodation which began to be afforded about that time,
augmented the evil. But the worst is now past ; matters have returned
to their natural level; and nothing seems wanting, but the
continuance of foreign and domestic tranquillity, to enable the community
to realize as much prosperity as, under national and local
circumstances hardly admitting of alteration, the human condition
is usually known to allow.

July 1836.

            PARISH OF DESKFORD.

PRESBYTERY OF FORDYCE, AND SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

      THE REV. GEORGE INNES, MINISTER.

     I. - TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name. - THE present name of this parish, there is reason to believe,
is the only name which it has borne since its erection; and
is supposed to have reference to its situation and climate with regard
to Cullen, with which it has, of all places, the most intercourse.
Deskford lies to the south of Cullen, and being farther from the
coast, the climate is naturally, colder than that of Cullen; hence,
the name Deskford has been derived from Chess fure, which signifies
" a cold place to the southward. *
  Extent and Boundaries. - The length of this parish is rather
more than 5 miles, and its breadth somewhat above 3. It is bounded,
on the south, by Grange; on the west, by Rathven; on the

<FOOTNOTE>Fordyce, from which Deskford was probably disjoinded, is said to have the same
etymology. The climate of the greater part of both is samilar, and the name, (inverting                                       name.
the syllables.) is also similar.


