
118                    HADDINGTONSHIRE.

   Rate of Wages, &c.-The rate of labour for farm and other la-
bourers is in summer 1s. 8d. per day; in winter 1s. 6d.; females
employed in the field receive in general from 8d. to 9d. per day.
The wages of shearers in time of harvest have, for the last ten
years, varied from 1s. to 2s. 6d. A large portion of the male in-
habitants are employed as farm-servants, or, as they are provincial-
ly termed, hinds. These hinds receive no stated daily wages. They
are allowed from L. 8 to L. 10 per annum in money; a cow's keep,
equal to L. 5; potato-ground, and a certain weekly allowance of
oatmeal, barley, pease, and corn; in all, their yearly income,
may, when reduced to money, amount to about L. 23. Twenty
days' shearing is the amount of their house-rent.
   The wages of artisans, &c. are as follows: carpenters per day,
from 2s. to 2s. 6d.; masons from 2s. to 3s.; coopers, 14s. to 15s. per
week; blacksmiths, 16s.; bakers, 6s. with bed and board. The
price of a full-mounted cart fit for use, L. 10; ploughs, L. 3, 3s.
to L. 3, 10s.; wooden harrows per pair, L. 1; do. iron per do.
L. 3.
   Husbandry.-The system of husbandry pursued in the parish is,
in general, in accordance with the most approved principles adopt-
ed in this highly agricultural county. The farming of the prin-
cipal part of the arable land is conducted according to what is
technically termed the four-course shift, viz. fallow, wheat, grass,
and oats, in successive annual rotation. In some soils, what is
termed the six-course shift is used, consisting of the following suc-
cession; fallow, wheat, grass, oats, pease or beans, wheat or oats:
and recently the five-course shift, consisting of fallow, wheat, two
years grass, and oats, has been adopted apparently with much suc-
cess. In these several rotations, the term fallow is used as includ-
ing partial crops of turnip and potato. Turnip husbandry is not
carried on to a very considerable extent,-the ground not being al-
together suitable for their cultivation. At present, the quantity of
land under this species of culture may amount to about 100 acres.
A portion of the turnip crop is raised by the aid of bone-manure
and rape-cake, which are now more universally employed than for-
merly, and to a considerable extent supersede the use of lime. About
one-half of the turnips are eaten off the ground by sheep; the remain-
der are removed for the uses of the farm-yard. The ground was in
former times generally drained according to the old system; but
furrow draining has been lately introduced, and is now universally
adopted, apparently with the most beneficial results. For this pur-



