
24-                         SHETLAND.

deep,  shingly bay; Gloup Voe, long,      narrow, and partly sandy
SI'd of Brecon, Papal, and Cullivoe.
Our climate is mild but moist; snow seldom lies more than
three or four days at a time.  Rbeumatism and stomach com-
plaints are very prevalent, and sometimes fever comes amongst
us, but is seldom very fatal.  North Yell is said to be more healthy
than Fetlar.
Hydrography.-Colgrave Sound bounds Fetlar from south-west
to northwest: it is about nine miles broad between Lamblioga in
Fetlar, and Burravoe in South.Yell, and three miles broad be-
tween Hammersness in Fetlar, and Burraness in North Yell.
The Sound between Fetlar and Unst, is about six miles broad, and
Blue Mull Sound, betwixt North Yell and Unst, about one or two
miles, where narrowest.  In all these sounds, but particularly in
Blue Mull Sound, the tides run at a very rapid rate, so strong
when wind and tide are contrary, that no boat or vessel could at-
tempt to stem them.
We have some mineral springs but of no account, and no locbs
of any consequence, though numerous small ones.  The largest is
in Fetlar, in the neiglibourbood oftbe manse, which may be three-
fourths of a mile long, and one-fourth broad.
Geology.-Serpentine, containing chromate of iron, is an abun-
dant rock; associated with the serpentine are deposits of mica
slate, quartz rock, gneiss, chlorite slate, and clay slate.  We may
add to our list of rocks, diallage rock, syenite and syenitic green-
stone, and granite in veins.
Zoolqyy.-Sea-fowl in abundance breed on our rocks and holms,
and many eggs are taken in the breeding season.  Seartbs, gulls,
kittiwa, es, marrots, mother Carey's chickens, and ducks of vari-
ous kinds, abound.  The wild swan pays us a visit in considerable
iiumbers, going north and returning.  Of land-fowls we have the
corbie, the booded-crow, the hawk, the grey plover, sparrow,
linnet, starling, blackbird, wren, snowfleck.  The mother Carey"s
chickens breed in deserted rabbit holes in the bolms.  The plovers,
starlings, finnets, sparrows, snowflecks, and corn buntings aire found
in large flocks.  I have seen only one or two robins, and once beard.
the, cry of the cuckoo.  The corncraik comes to us in summer,;
and wild pigeons are in abundance.
Our breed ofeattle and ponies is small but bardy.  A good num-
ber of-both is sold every year fat cattle,frorn L.2 to L.3; ponies,


