
                                STRATHMIGLO.                        775

   Vacant October 1703.
   Robert Macculloch, D. D.; Mr John Macarthur. Mr Angus
Macgillivray, present incumbent.*
   Education.-The number of schools in the parish, exclusive of
Sabbath schools, three. The yearly amount of parochial school
master's salary, L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d., with house and garden. The
probable yearly amount of fees actually paid to parochial school-
master, L.25.
   Poor.-Average number of persons receiving parochial aid, 12.
Average sum allotted to each of such persons per week, 1s. Ave-
rage annual amount of contributions for relief of the poor : from
church collections, L.18; from alms, legacies, &c. L.17.

February 1843.

                             PARISH OF STRATHMIGLO.

                      PRESBYTERY OF CUPAR, SYNOD OF FIFE.

                     THE REV. GEORGE MIDDLETON, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, Name.-THIS parish is bounded on the north by
Abernethy and Arngask; on the west, by Orwell and Portmoak;
on the south, by Falkland and Portmoak ; and on the east, by
Auchtermuchty. The name is obviously derived from the Miglo,
a small stream which flows eastward through the strath, and is
afterwards designated the Eden. In form, the parish resembles a
very irregular oblnng, extending in length seven miles, and varying
from two to four miles in breadth.
   Topographical Appearances.-The greater part of the surface
consists of two gentle acclivities rising on either side of the
stream which divides the parish. On the south, and forming a
striking natural limit to the parish, rises the West Lomond hill,
whose elevation above the level of the sea has been computed at
1700 feet, and which, diversified by bold mural cliffs, thriving
woods, and rich sward, constitutes a very picturesque object. On
the north, it terminates in a succession of inconsiderable eminences
which may be regarded as a continuation of the Ochil range,

<FOOTNOTE>See Appendix to Records or Synod of file, printed for Abbotsford Club.



