
                         EARLSTON.                         25

nor do I know a single family in the parish, any of whose mem-
bers, from six to fifteen years of age, have not been taught to read.
   Library, Friendly Society, and Savings Bank.-The other in-
stitutions existing in the parish are a Subscription Library, and a
small library for children; a Friendly Society for affording relief
to its sick members; and a Savings Bank for the lower classes of
the people, in which there may be at present about L. 100.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is 34. The average sum allotted to each
is 8s. per month, which is raised by regular half-yearly assess-
ments. A few individuals may occasionally be met with who are
unwilling to be placed on the roll of paupers; but it must be
acknowledged, that the people in general are not reluctant to ap-
ply, and that they consider it as no degradation to receive a regu-
lar support.
   Inns.-In the town of Earlston there are four inns, and six
other houses where ale and spirits are sold.
   Fairs.-There are here also two annual fairs for horses and
cattle, one of which is held on the 29th of June, and the other on
the third Thursday of October.
   Fuel.-The principal fuel is coal, which, as it is brought chiefly
from the neighbourhood of Dalkeith, a distance of twenty miles,
seldom costs less than 1s. or 1s. 2d. per cwt.
                MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   Among the variations between the present state of the parish
and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account,
considerable improvements in the system of husbandry deserve to
be noticed, together with the erection of a considerable number of
neat and comfortable houses in the village of Earlston. And,
while much advantage is anticipated from an intended alteration
in the road from Kelso to Edinburgh by the way of Earlston, the
facilities of communications would be still much increased were a
line of road made from Fans through the waste land eastward to
the Edinburgh turnpike by the neighbouring parish of Gordon.

   June 1834.


