
                        PAISLEY.                              245

want of the means of education, although of late, attempts have been
making for the purpose of remedying this evil.  The state of edu-
cation appears, from a report of the presbytery given in to the Ge-
neral Assembly, in May 1834.  According to that report, there
were then in the Abbey parish 32 schools, attended by 2318 scholars,
including those who attended in the evening, making in a popula-
tion of 26,177, only about one in 11.28, or nearly 9 per cent. un-
der education.  In the town parishes, there were 33 schools, and
2458 scholars, making in a population of 31,460, only about one
in 12.80, or about 7.81 per cent. receiving instruction.  How very
different is this from what it ought to be ! for in order to exhibit
a parish fully enjoying and improving the means of education, there
ought to be a fifth or a sixth part of its inhabitants receiving instruc-
tion, and this we find to be the case, in some of the well educated
parishes in Scotland.
   Of these 32 schools in the Abbey parish, not one is parochial.
One of the teachers has an annuity of about L. 10 or L. 12, being
the interest of a sum of L. 240, left by William Maxwell, Esq. of
Bredieland, as a small endowment for the improvement of educa-
tion in the parish.  Four of them are furnished with school-rooms,
built by subscription, and kept in repair by a committee of subscrib-
ers.  All the other teachers are wholly unendowed.
   The 33 schools in the town of Paisley include those called
the town schools, whose teachers are appointed by the council, and
over whom that body exercises a particular superintendence.  The
first of these is the grammar-school, in which the Latin and Greek
languages are taught, and from which, for many years past, some
of the most distinguished classical scholars have been sent to the
neighbouring University of Glasgow.  Had all the funds. origi Lual-
ly destined for the support of this school been retained, the rector
would, at this day, have been provided with an ample endowment.
For we find, that, in the year 1576-7, seven roods of land, with
the revenues and endowments of the altars and chaplaineries in the
church of Paisley, that is, a chapel formerly in the town of Pais-
ley, dedicated to St Rock, were bestowed on the magistrates and
community of Paisley, for the erection of a grammar-school. *
These endowments, however, through the lapse of time, have, in
a great measure, been lost sight of ; and the -income of the teach-

<FOOTNOTE>Histor. Descrip. of Abbey, p. 86


