
108                    RENFREWSHIRE.

been obliged to move from place to place, and even when he re-
turned to Lochwinnoch, got little encouragement.  In an old MSS.
book belongi ng to Barr, there are the following records, "school
taken up 4th January, 19 waens, including 4 lassies;" "school
taken up October 27th, 1697, 6 callans, no lassies."  "Ye school
taken up 22d June 1697, 13 weans, including 3 lassies."
   Female education seems at this early period to have been very
much neglected, and former generations, Perhaps, were still worse
instructed.  This might be one reason for a resolution still to be
found in the minutes of session during the incumbency of Mr John
Paisley, dated October 13th 1691.  "William Glen, school-
master, is required to take care that all his scholars get the Cate-
chism so perquier, that by turns they may repeat the same before
the congregation every Lord's day, one standing on the east end
of tthe church inquiring the question, and the other in the west
answering."
   Libraries.-There is a parochial library, which was instituted
in 1823, and therefore is not yet large.  Special care is taken
to exclude from it all books hostile either to religion or government.
Another parochial library, exclusively religious, was established
in 1833.  But many persons disliking this exclusive character, an-
other was formed in 1934, called the Working-Man's Library; into
which all kinds of books upon every subject are admitted, though
containing the most conflicting opinions, except such as are
hostile to evangelical religion.  Long before the existence of any
of these libraries there were book-clubs, which interfere with the
prosperity of the parochial institutions. Some persons prefer these
clubs not merely from their dislike of public libraries, but be-
eause, after they have existed for some time, the books are sold,
and divided amongst the members, which enlarge and improve their
private libraries.  There is likewise a small library of elect books
upon religious subjects, and adapted to the capacities of young per-
sons attached to the Sabbath evening schools.  This library is di-
vided into seven portions, one of which is given to each of the
Schools for a year; after which, they are exchanged Iike the circu-
lating libraries in East Lothian, and every a school has an opportu-
nity of using the whole library in the course of seven years.
   Friendly Societies.-The oldest of these societies was the Far-
mer's Box, which has been broken up; but there is still one at
Hollowood, connected with the landward part of the parish, whose
existence is, also endangered, not by poverty, but by injudicious


