
                     LEWIS-LOCHS.                         165

   Habits, Language, &c. of the People- They are generally sober,
hospitable, industrious, and capable of enduring much fatigue.
   The common food of the people is potatoes, bear meal bannocks,
pottage made of black oat-meal, milk and fish occasionally.
   The games prevalent here were jumping, putting the stone, the
shinty or club; but these are now gone out of use,
   Poaching in game is not known here; but there is poaching of
a more pernicious kind practised, which, though recently checked,
is not quite abolished viz. catching fresh water fish with a kind of
pock-net, in rivulets and rivers, in the spawning season,
   The people of Lochs are intelligent considering their opportu-
nities. They are quiet, tractable, and very hospitable, sensible of
their ignorance,and eager to be instructed in temporal as well as
spiritual matters. It would be desirable, however, that they
more attention tocleanliness. -It cannot be expected, indeed, that
a people shut outfrom intercourse with the civilized world should
be so polished asothers who have better opportunities of improve--
ment; but their general good behaviour is such as might put many
of these more favoured individuals to the blush.
               IV.-INDUSTRY.
   AgricuIture.-
Number of acres, standard imperial measure, in the parish, which
     are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage, from            2000 to 3000
Number of acres which never have been cultivated, and which
     remain constantly waste, or in pasture, probably from . 150,000 to 100,00011
Only a few acres are under natural wood.
   Manufactures.-The only article manufactured in the parish of
Lochs for exportation, is kelp,-of which upwards of 100 tons are
exported annually. There are many articles manufactured here,
for home consumption; such as blankets for beds, coarse cloth,
various in quality and colour, but chiefly striped, stockings, &c.
The poor people. generally rear the wool fiom which they manu-
facture their scanty store of these necessaries; but there are some
of them (the poorest,) who have no sheep, and are therefore com-
pelled to buy wool from their more highly favoured neighbours,
-which, however, they are in many instances unable to do to the
extent their necessities would require.
   Mechanics.-The only resident tradesmen in Lochs are, boat-
builders, weavers, and tailors. Almost all the labouring part of
the population, male and female, are acquainted with the manu-
facturing of kelp. All the males fit to endure the fatigue are oe-

<FOOTNOTE>The writer regrets he has not the means of estimating these quantities more
precisely.


