
                                 SOUTHEND.                             423

      the King of Man, and the Chronicles of Man inform us that
      by this Princess he had four sons :-Dugald, of whom came the
      M'Dougalds of Lorn ; Reginald, the progenitor of all the
      M'Donalds, and other two sons, Angus and Olave, of whose issue
      history has not recorded any thing memorable After the battle
      of Methye-n, the illustrious Bruce fled to Kintyre, and was hospita-
      bly entertained by Angus, Lord of Kintyre, at the castle of Saddle,
      and on his way to Ireland he took refuge in'the fortress of Duna-
      verty, in this parish, where, according to Archdeacon Barbour, he
      remained for some nights.  That fortress, the remains of which
      are still visible, was built on the top of a tremendous precipice,
      hanging over the sea, which nature, assisted by art, rendered im-
      pregnable.  The sea nearly surrounds it; and the fosse cover-
      ed with a drawbridge, (after which two or three walls, one within
      the other,) fortified the ascent.  From this fortress Bruce was sent
      by Angus to the island of Rathlin, distant about twenty miles, and
      there he remained in concealment until after the death of Edward
      I. of England.  On the island of Sanda, distant about three miles
      from Dunaverty, is a hill still known by the name of Prince Ed-
      ward's hill.  The only Prince of that name connected with the his-
      tory of Scotland is the brother A Robert Bruce, and the tradi-
      tion in the parish is, that he was placed there to give timeous
      notice to the king of the. approach of danger.  At the battle
      of Bannockburn, Angus and his followers fought on the right
      flank of the army, and, as a mark of distinction for his gallant con-
      duct on that memorable day, Bruce assigned to him and his de-
      scendants, the same honourable position in the royal army on all
      future occasions.  This Angus, who was buried in the monastery
      of Saddle, was, after his death, denominated the Great M1Donald;
      but his arandson John abandoned the interests of David Bruce,
      and espoused the cause of Edward Baliol.  He afterwards, how-
      ever, returned to his allegiance, and was married to the daughter
      of Robert 11.   Of this marriage there were four sons, Donald
      Lord of the Isles, John of Antrim, Alexander and Allan.  Donaldp
      in right of his wife, succeeded to the earldom of Ross, and his
      son Alexander was designed Earl of Ross and Kintyre and Lord
      of the Isles.  John, the son of Alexander, died without lawful is-
      sue, when John, the son of Angus, his natural son, claimed his
      estates.  The earldom of Ross was taken possession of by the
      Crown, and James IV. held a Parliament in Kintyre in the year
      1493) and emancipated the vassals from their connection with


