
                      COUNTY OF  RENFREW.                   531                               531

There are, besides, many other small but delightful vales amidst
the hills, and by the courses of the smaller streams.  The side vale
going by Kilbarchan and Lochwinnech, is the site of the principal
inland lakes in the county, viz. Barr and Castle-Sample, lochs in-
cluding Kilbirnie.  At one period, this valley seems to have been,
very extensively covered with water.
  Meteorology.--The county of Renfrew may be regarded as the
counter-part of Lanarkshire, the one lying on the north, and the
other on both sides of the upper Clyde. Renfrewshire being nearer
to, and more under the influence of the Western Ocean and Frith
of Clyde, is certainly more moist than Clydesdale. In several of the
New Statistical Accounts of the parishes of Renfrewshire figures
and tables are employed by their authors to show that the climate is
not so rainy as is generally supposed. This is certainly a meteorologi-
cal fact worth ascertaining, even independent of the apparent desire
to screen themselves, at the expense of their neighbours, by at-
tempting to prove that there are moister skies not far off than
that which hangs over the shire of Renfrew. Certainly in a me-
teorological point of view, the atmosphere and climate of this part
of Scotland are shrouded in as little mystery as any other dis-
trict in the whole island. On either side of the county we have
the very accurate, comprehensive, and scientific tables kept at
Glasgow, both during the late and present centuries, besides those
of Sir Thomas Brisbane at Largs, both places, to use a vulgar
but expressive phrase, but a "cock-stride" from the north-eastern
and south-western extremities of the shire-exactly corresponding,
in this respect, with the grand geological directions by which the
more active phenomena of nature in former times were exercised,
in giving shape and form to the present structure and surface of
the globe.  A very, careful and important meteorological journal,
seems to have been kept for many years past at Castle Semple, in
the parish of Lochwinnoch, giving the results of the barometrical.
and thermometrical movements, and differences in that quarter,
for a definite portion of time, together with the conflicting results
of two rain-gauges, kept in the gardens at the same place. In the,
account of the parish of Greenock, and also in the account of
Paisley, some extracts and calculations are given from registers of
the, state of the weather, kept by Me Mackinlay, the apothecary,
and clerk of the Infirmary at Greenock, and Dr Rodman of
Paisley. In the Greenock account, and in the account of the pa-
rish of Lochwinnoch, all the statistical facts respecting the climate


