
                          LIVINGSTONE.                        117

lection in those infant days of the science, he traversed foreign
countries with a view to increase it. Having gone over the whole
of France, he was, on his way to Italy, cut off by a fever, much
to the prejudice of natural history in Scotland, and deeply
regretted by those friends who could estimate the worth of charac-
ter displayed by a youth, who, in the uncontrolled possession of an
abundant fortune, could steadily devote himself to a praiseworthy
pursuit.
   Patrick Murray had been the friend and pupil of Sir Andrew
Balfour, who, after his death, had his plants transported to Edin-
burgh, where, joining them to his own, Sir Andrew laid the foun-
dation of the first botanic garden in that city.
   Land-owners.-These are, the Earl of Rosebery; John Pit-
cairn, Esq., Nether Dechmont; William Wilson, Esq., Dech-
mont; Alexander Gray, Esq., Knightsridge; Misses Burd, Sea-
field; William Erskine, Esq., Blackburn House; Robert For-
syth, Esq., Redhouse; Thomas Balfour, Esq., Murrayfield; Heirs
of William Baird, Westwood; Heirs of the Rev. Mr Kennedy,
Briech.
   Parochial Registers.-Parochial registers were begun in 1696,
and have been regularly kept since, but, owing to the smallness of
the parish, are not voluminous.
   Antiquities.-The house, or, as it was anciently called, the peel
of Livingstone, was a fortified castle surrounded by a wet ditch
about thirty feet wide, having a rampart of earth within; more than
three-fourths of this ditch and rampart remained entire till nearly
the middle of last century. The more modern house of Living-
stone was pulled down by the present proprietor, the Earl of Rose-
bery, soon after his purchasing the principal part of the barony.
About half a mile north-east of its site is the farmhouse of New-
Year Field: here, within these sixty years, stood the remains of
a square tower, said to have been a hunting-seat of the Kings of
Scotland, and frequented by them while Linlithgow was their
stated residence, not only for amusement, but for the benevolent
exercise of their prerogative of touching for the scrofula, for which
disease the water of a spring-well adjoining was considered a spe-
cific, when applied by a royal hand upon the morning of New
Year's Day before sunrise. As no cures are recorded, may not
we conjecture that the real benefit was inducing both monarch and
subjects to practise early rising and morning ablutions, though as-



