
	               KILRENNY.                             981

	only village, but there is no market held in either of them.
	East Anstruther adjoining Cellardyke, and about a mile west
	from Kilrenny, is the place where the nearest market is held,
	and where the post-office is situated. The road along the coast
	from Atistruther to Crail passes through the parish, extending up-
	wards of three miles; and the road from Anstruther to St An-
	drews intersects the parish in a different direction, to the extent of
	two and a-half miles. Besides these turnpike roads there maybe
	two or three miles of statute labour roads.
	   Ecclesiastical State and Education.-The old church was of
	much larger dimensions than the present, being 100 feet by 50
	over the walls, and having the roof supported by two rows of
	Gothic arches and round pillars. The time of its erection is not
	known. It has been stated by some of the older inhabitants of
	the parish, that on one of its arches was cut a Lochaber axe,
	and on a stone on the west gable outside, was the figure of a sheep,
	as forming part of a coat of arms. Having, upon inspection in
	1806, been found in a dangerous state, it was taken down, and
	a plain commodious building erected on the same site, capable of
	accommodating about 800 sitters, but, in consequence of the rapid
	increase of the population, it should have been enlarged. Adjoin-
	ing the church is an excellent school-room, to which a considerable
	addition has lately been made, and a comfortable dwelling.house
	at the same time built for the accommodation of the schoolmaster.
	Both kirk and school are so placed, as to be convenient for the
	country part of the population; but, as the great bulk of the in-
	habitants is in Cellardyke, it would have been desirable to have
	had them put down nearer to that locality.
	   It appears that William Comyn, Earl of Buchan, with consent
	of his countess, confirmed the grant of the church of Kilrenny in
	Fife to the monks of Drvburoh, which had been made. by the
	Countess Ada, the mother of Malcolm the Fourth and William
	the Lioti. The parish church is situated in the village of Kil.
	renny, its distance from the extremities of the parish, being about
	two miles.  It was built, as has already been mentioned, in 1806,
	and is at present in a good state of repair. The patronage is itt
	the possession of Sir Windham C. Amtruther, Bart. The
	manse was built in IS19, and is also in a good state of repair.
	The extent of the glebe is about eleven acres, and is.valued about
	L.27. The stipend is 136 bolls of meal and the same of barley,
	with L.10 of communion element money.

