
222                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

of Buchan.  It has the following peculiar advantages over others
-its roots pierce more readily and effectually through the hard
iron sand, and agree with the under soft sand; it grows free of fog or
tree fungus; thrives under the drop and branches of other trees; it
puts out a number of ledding shoots, and these are seldom or ever
blighted,-not being so early as to suffer from the cold and often
frosty winds of spring.  The beech, moreover, is feathered with
branches from top to bottom, and in the course of thirty years
overtakes all other trees in height.  Where there is previous shel-
ter, pines of various species may be planted with advantage; and,
after being three year in the ground, push rapidly, and assist by
their shelter the growth of their neigbbours.  Oaks also thrive
well, and have been too sparingly planted here.	 The sycamore,
or pseudo-platanus, and the rowan or mountain-ash are both hardy
trees, and are said to be indigenous.  The birch thrives well, but
is not a lofty tree here.  Limes look healthy, and come to tole-
rable size. The horse-chesnut does well where sheltered. Most
flowering shrubs and evergreens Which have succeeded north of
the Tay, seem to agree with our light soil, but require most of
them protection from the climate, especially from the cold winds
of March and April.  But, above all others, May is our trying
month, which "brings down many wounded by her."

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners at present are, Thomas Gor-
don, Esq. of Buthlaw, proprietor of Lonmay and Cairness, prin-
cipal heritor and patron; * 2. Charles Bannerman, Esq. of Cri-
monmogate; 3. James Russell, Esq. of Kinninmonth; 4. William
Shand, Esq. of Craigellie; 5. John Lumsden Sheriffs, Esq. of
Blairmormond; 6. George Fraser, Esq. of Park; + and 7. Colonel
Charles Fraser of Inveralochy.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial register begins anno 1709.
The first sentence following the title is worthy of attention:
"1709, Sept. 24, This congregation having for near two years
been without an Established minister since the death of Mr Hous-
ton, late Episcopal incumbent here the people and heritors seve-
ral times endeavouring to have a gospel minister among them, but
still differing and dividing in their choice of the person: at length
a young man, Mr Thomas Gordon, Preacher of the Gospel, by

<FOOTNOTE>He is now a general officer in the Royal Greek army, and author of a book,
which deserves to be generally read, The History of the Greek Revolution.
          Deceased since the above was written.


