
338                                 AYRSHIRE,

has been desolate for centuries, yet, as one of the titles of the Earls
of Cassilis is said to have been ranger of the forest of Buchan, they
may have grown in the vicinity. There are, however, few oaks of
such magnitude in our age, even in the most cultivated parts of
Ayrshire. * The old Castle of Blairquhan, of which some of the
windows and mouldings are preserved in the kitchen court of the
modern mansion, was of great antiquity. A considerable part of
it had been built about the year 1570, but M'Whirter's tower was
some centuries older. A curious legendary tale regarding one of
this family in the reign of James III., may be found in Chambers's
Picture of Scotland. The castle afterwards became the property
of the Kennedys, a branch of the family of Cassilis. In the reign
of Charles II. it came into the possession of the Whiteford family;
and at the end of last century it was purchased by the present
family of Hunter Blair, who are maternally descended from the
Kennedys, Earls of Cassilis.
	During the persecution, a garrison was stationed in Blairquhan,
of 100 foot, and 20 horse. Four persons were at that period shot
in the parish, of whom one Thomas M'Haffie has a tombstone
erected to his memory in the church-yard. +
	Modern Mansions.--Blairquhan Castle, the seat of Sir D. Hun-
ter Blair, Bart., was finished in the year 1824. It is upon the
banks of the Girvan, almost upon the site of the ancient castle,
and about a mile from Straiton village. It is a correct specimen
of the architecture of Henry the Seventh's time, and its general
effect is striking and splendid. The porch is of the Tudor style,
The saloon, which communicates with the principal apartments,
is 60 feet in height. The approach, which is entered by a hand-
some bridge and lodge, has been conducted up the river for two
miles and a half, and winds through rocky and well-wooded banks,
till it comes within sight of the house, at the distance of half a mile,
and presents a sudden prospect of the mansion, and the hills of
Craigengower, and Bennan, in the background, peculiarly interest-
ing and grand. The grounds have been laid out with great judg-
ment and taste.
	Berbeth, the residence of the Honourable Colonel Macadam
Cathcart, is on the Doon at an extremity of this parish, nine miles

<FOOTNOTE> An account of these discoveries is given in the Ayr Advertiser newspapers of
17th July 1823, and 8th September 1831. They are alluded to in Lyell's Geology,
and a full statement of them, with sketches of the canoes and war-club, and battle-axe,
was sent by me lately to a scientific gentleman in England.
    + Wodrow. ++ Neale's Views of Seats, Vol. ii. 2d Series.


