
     Statistical Account

   Town of Nowburgh, its History, etc.-The town of New-
burgh arose, in the times of popery; and, at an early period,
was erected into a burgh of regality, under the Abbot of
Lindores.  In the year 1600, James VI. erected the Abbacy
of Lindores into a temporal Lordship; and, in the year 1631,
his fort Charles I. granted a charter to the town of Newburgh,
forming the community into a proper royal burgh, with the
several immunities and privileges, usually conferred on the
royal burghs of this kingdom.  At present, Newburgh has
no voice in the choice of a representative to parliament; but,
in all other respects, it retains the features of a royal burgh.
Its revenue, indeed, is very inconsiderable, not exceeding 25 L.
Sterling, per annum, out of which the minister receives, yearly,
20 L. Scotch, in payment of stipend.  Notwithstanding which,
its office bearers make a decent appearance; a court is held in
it weekly, with marks of dignity; and it retains a clerk of abi-
lity for recording its public proceedings.-One, who has oc-
casion to observe the importance of insuring full respect, to
persons cloathed with the office of magistrates, may be allow-
ed to express a wish, that government would devise some me-
thod of increasing the revenues of the lesser burghs.  A small
sum of the public money applied in this way, could not fail
of contributing to the preservation of order, in places, which,

<FOOTNOTE>

"night, and almost the clay tyme; also, that nothing could stay her, untill she
"died.  Nevertheless, befor her coming to sie her, and her embracing of her,
"took as weill wt the spaining, and rested as weill as any bairne could doc.
"5. That she is of ane evill brutte (report) and fame, and so was her mother be-
"fore her." When there points were put to trial by the kirk-session, the evi-
dence of their truth did not, it should seem, come out with such clearness, as to
enable the kirk-session to pass sentence against Katherine; and they accordingly
referred the matter to the presbytery of Cupar for decision.  But in what man-
ner the presbytery of Cupar treated it, no notice is taken in the records of the
kirk-session.


