
                       COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                        161

   and high commercial civilization,-were unceasing in their de-
   nunciations against the landlords, as injuriously compelling their
   tenants to deliver to them their produce at a less price than they
   could obtain in the market, while the countervailing fact was over-
   looked, of the proportionally low rent paid for the land.  This ad
   captandum argument was but too successful; the tenants became
   dissatisfied; many of them dishonestly eluded tbe compact by clan.
   destine disposal of much of their produce to others tban their
   masters, while these were paid with low rents,-and at length they
   demanded to be at liberty to give their labour to the highest bid-
   der, and pay a higher money rent to their landlord as a receipt -in
   full of all his annual claims on them.  Several of the lairds, se-
   duced by the specious but spurious simplicity of this free-trade view,
   annoyed by incessant and unjust charges of ignorance and oppres-
   sion, or willing to be relieved from irksome details, consented, and
   the rest were soon compelled to follow, or have. their lands un-
   tenanted.  For a few years, all went on pretty smoothly; but the
   tenants had now fallen into the hands of a set of small shopkeepers,
   whose interest was not to secure their rents, or have regard to the per-
   manent prosperity of the tenant, but to exhaust his means in sbop
   advances; a result for which the system, rather than they, was to
   blame.   Thus the tenants fell into habits of profusion. and heavy
   arrears, and bad seasons supervening, the hollowness of the
   scheme at once became manifest.  The shopkeepers (many of
   whom were also ruined) could not furnish supplies, because the
   tenants substance and credit were exhausted; and the landlords,
   in want of their rents, were little able to relieve them. One of
   them did, however, interpose nobly; and, but for their instrumen.-
   tality, the tenants must in many instances have starved.  The eyes
   of most people are now opened to the necessity of resuming, the
   principle. of the old system, which, in some instances, has been
   done, and already the aspect of things is improving.  One main
   point of this system as I have already stated, is, that the greater
   part of the produce of the tenants industry shall pass under the
   control of the proprietor, chiefly as a rent security; and to make
   this have the appearance as well as the reality of mutual justice,
   the highest market price is allowed for it while a fair money rent
   is paid for the lands. Under this  mode of management of their
   property, much detail and active supervision are imposed on the
   landlords; but there appears to be no alternative of extensive ap-
   plication, except that of throwing their lands into pasture and eject-
     SHETLAND.


