
         			LOUDOUN.                       849

the first constructed by statute-labour in the county. He plied
vigorously the work of enclosing and planting.
	A great many improvements have taken place in the Loudoun
estate within the last few years. Many farm-houses of the most
approved description, have been	built, which add to the beauty of
the landscape, as well as to the comfort of the tenants. Many
roads have also been made. A large tile-work has been in ope-
ration for the last six years, solely for the benefit of the tenants on
the estate, who pay a small per centage for the tiles. This year
upwards of a million tiles have been manufactured, which will drain
250 acres. Another tile-work has this year been erected on a
part of the estate, near the village of Darvel. It is let on a
lordship, and is intended to supply tiles for public sale.
        Plantations.-The plantations around Loudoun Castle contain
some fine trees. Lord John, mentioned above, planted, about lOO
years ago, upwards of a million of trees, chiefly elm, ash, and oak.
Many of the elms and oaks, (and these too not the largest), which
were lately cut down, contained upwards of 150 square feet of
timber. The soil seems admirably adapted for forest trees. Many
of the various kinds of trees and shrubs, such as yew, holly, Por-
tugal laurel, cedars, and arbor vitae, American oaks, hickories,
walnuts, &c. have grown to a remarkable size. Many of these
shrubs were brought from America by Lord John himself, who
was Governor of Virginia in 1756. "He also formed," it is ob-
served by Dr Walker, "one of the most extensive collections of
willows ever made in this country. Wherevdr he went, during
his long military services, he sent home every sort of valuable tree
be could meet with. All the willows he found cultivated in Eng-
land, Ireland, Holland, Flanders, and Germany, as also in Ame-
rica and Portugal, where he commanded, were procured and sent
to Loudoun." One Portugal laurel, now in the old earn sweeps
with its branches a circumference of 140 feet. The "old yew
tree of Loudoun," which grows close to the castle wall, is of un-
known.antiquity. It is said that one of the family charters was
signed under it in the time of William the Lion. One of the ar_
ticles of union, it is also, said, was subscribed by Hugh, under
its deep shades. When Lord James went into voluntary banishment
to Holland, he addressed his Flatters. (being afraid of detection)
for his lady "to the gudewife at the Auldion, at the old yew tree of

<FOOTNOTE>The first "Ayrshire rose" was brought into this country by Lord John from
America. The original plant is yet growing fresh and vigorous at Loundon Castle.

	AYR.					3



