
	10     			NAIRNSHIRE.

	and their number thus amounted to about 3500 foot, and 400
     	horse.  Montrose, having also received re-inforcements, from
        which his army amounted to about the same number, proceeded
 	to Auldearn, and waited the approach of the Covenanters.  These,
	advancing from Inverness, engaged the royalist army on the 9th
	of May 1645.  The latter seem to have occupied very nearly the
	line of the present and road between Newmill and Auldearn; their
	right wing being posted on the site of the modern village, and
	their left resting on the Bog of Newmill.  Previously to the en-
	gagement, Montrose ascended the steeple of the church which
	stood on the rising ground above the village, the view from which
 	position commanded the approach of the enemy and the whole
	field of battle.  Here be seems to have remained a spectator of
	the fight, till circumstances about to be mentioned called him to
	the aid of his men.  The attack commanced on the part of the
	Covenanters, and was directed against the left wing of the royal-
	ists, commanded by a Highlander named Macdonald, and entrusted
	by Montrose with the charge of the royal standard.  The troops
	under Macdonald, though well defended by brushwood and en-
	closures, soon gave way before the veterans of the Covenant.
	When Montrose observed this, he descended from the steeple,
	and advanced with Lord Gordon to attack the left wing of the
	Covenanters.  These, after a very obstinate resistance, he put to
	flight: and, advancing to the aid of Macdonald, succeeded at
	length in defeating the whole of the enemy's force.  His success
 	on this occasion was considerably aided by an unskilful mevement
	on the part of Major Drummond, who commanded Hurry's horse.
	This officer, anxious to support the infantry when hard pressed
	by Montrose and Lord Gordon, wheeled about so suddenly, that
        he encumbered the ranks of the foot, and threw them into partial
	disorder, which led to their ultimaten defeat.  For this he is said
	to have been tried at Inverness, and condemned to be shot.  Va-
	rious accounts are given of the number of slain on both sides.
	The most correct seems to be that of Shaw, who says that 800
	of the Covenanters, and a considerable number of the Royalists,
	fell in this battle.  Among the killed on Montrose's side was
	Macpherson of Inverreshie.  And if tradition may be credited, the
	life of Macdonald, though he was brave to desperation, was saved
	as much by his cunning as by his bravery.  He was engaged
	hand to hand with Hay of Kinnudie, a tall and powerful man;
	and, perceiving himself about to be overpowered, called out to Hay,
	"Ill not deceive you; my men coming behind you." Having


