
178                             SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

decline, and few or no traces are to be seen of the poetic talent
and sprightly wit for which their ancestors, in common with most
Highlanders, were distinguished. The imaginative powers are
crushed under the continued pressure of a poverty that impels
the mental energies in the low direction of what shall we eat and
what shall we drink; and the habits of reflection and deep-thinking
are exchanged for a sharp-sightedness in looking after their little
secular interests. It is impossible that circumstances which have
thus operated on their intellectual character, should not also affect
their morals and religious feelin;11. They have done so, though
not so greatly as might be expected; and it is saying much to
their credit, that there is so little amount of crime, and so much
security for person and property. There were never but two from
this parish tried at a justiciary court, one not a Dative, and the
other only f6r a breach of trust. The people are kind and peace-
able, patient under adversity, submissive to laws, and respectful to
authorities. They possess a good deal of religious knowledge,
and much veneration for religious ordinances and usages. It is
rare now to find one who cannot repeat the Shorter Catechism,
and the writer knows not that such a thing exists among the na-
tive peasantry as a family without the daily worship of God. Many
among them are decided Christians. The generality, it is to be
feared, rest satisfied, however, with acquiring vague ideas, and en-
gaging in empty forms; while it is matter of painful experience
that the downward earthly tendency of their thoughts, induced so
much by poverty, has a fearful effect in deadening their minds to
religious impressions. It is manifest, also, that intercourse with
the ungodly when south, and at the herring-fishing in Caithness,
togiftber with the desecration of the Lord's day by travellers from
other places, (a sin till lately happily unknown), are very injurious
to their morals and religious sentiments. Laziness is no IODger
characteristic of the people. They are alive to the advantages of
industry. In proof of which many of them, annually o south, be-
cause so little encouragement is given them at home. Poaching
is, unknown, and smuggling. has been effectually put down through
the exertions of the proprietor.

                         IV.-INDUSTRY.

Agriculture.-The number of imperial acres in cultivation is
about 1000. It may safely be said, that three times this num.
ber might be - added with a profitable application of capital.
There are 200 acres of plantation, and fully 500 acres under na-


