
280                     FIFESHIRE.

and gradually shelving. There is, perhaps, no place on the coast
of Fife better adapted for sea-bathing. Accordingly, in the sum-
mer and autumn months, it is much resorted to for that purpose;
and in consequence of the great facilities opened up by steam com-
munication, the probability is, that the numbers will be considera-
bly increased. The village, undoubtedly, is one of the cleanest
and most healthy anywhere to be met with ; and although, in
a popular Gazetteer, it is said to be excessively dull, it is not
more so than other places of the same size. There is not, indeed,
so much trade to enliven it, as it once enjoyed, or as, unddr more
favourable circumstances, it might still command. But it is a very
desirable retirement, and will not be found deficient in society by
such as do not depend altogether upon others for their happiness.
   Hydrography.--The parish cannot boast of any rivers. On
the north, the boundary is partly formed by a beautiful lake, called
Kilconquhar Loch, which is said to abound in pikes and eels. We
are not aware, however, that many of them are taken. A small
stream that issues from it, runs into our harbour, which might per-
haps be profitably employed for driving machinery. Indeed, it is
reported that a gentleman, engaged in the linen trade, lately wish-
ed to erect a flax mill on it; but that the trustees on the estate of
Elic gave the idea no encouragement; and although work might
thus have been furnished to a few labourers, there is little reason
to regret, in so far as the morals of the people are concerned, that
the proposal did not succeed.
   Harbour.--The barbour here is excellent. By those who are ac-
quainted with sea affairs, it is universally acknowledged to be the
best in the Frith, and the only one where, in certain winds which
blow with great violence, it is possible to find a shelter. Should
vessels happen to miss it, there is no other port which they can
take; and the consequence is, that many instances are on record
of their having been driven to the coast of Norway. By the easy
access to it, and its conveniency and safety when taken, it has
often been the means of preserving much valuable property, toge-
ther with the lives of many hardly seamen; and we find from a
representation given in to the Privy Council of Scotland in 1696,
that three hundred of his Majesty's soldiers would have perished,
had it not been for the protection which it afforded. The repre-
sentation alluded to is contained in a petition laid before the
privy-council by William Reid, bailie of Elie, and James and Ro-


