
284                        STIRLINGSHIRE.

practice of throwing two or three small farms into one; but chiefly,
from the Dunmore colliery having been given up. There are two
villages, Airth and Dunmore. The population of the former is
850; and of the latter, 246. Population in the country, 754.

          Average of births for the last seven years,   30
                     deaths,                            29
                      marriages,                        12
Number of unmarried men, bachelors, and widowers upwards of 50 years of age, 75
                    women upwards of 45 years of age,                       185
Average number of children in each family,                                    4
   One nobleman is resident in the parish, viz. the Earl of Dunmore,
and three or four families of independent fortune. By far the
greater proportion of heritors are non-resident. Proprietors of land
in the parish, of the yearly average of L.50 and upwards, are thir-
teen in number.

                         IV.--INDUSTRY.

   Agriculture.--The number of acres, standard imperial measure,
in the parish, is l6,400, almost constantly in tillage. Saving the Dun-
more parks, extending to about 200 acres, and the lawn surround-
ing Airth Castle, consisting of 70 acres, there is little or no pas-
ture. There are between 300 and 400 acres of moss, some of it
to the depth of 16 feet, covering ground of most excellent qua-
lity. Part of the moss is covered with a thriving plantation,
whilst by far the greater part of it is in the hands of tenants, or,
as they are called, Moss Lairds, who, by dint of hard labour, are
gradually removing it. They are paid for the land when cleared
at the rate of L.24 per imperial acre; whilst the land so cleared,
is measured off once every four years, and a rent exacted for it,
amounting to about L.2 per acre. The number of acres under
wood in the parish may be estimated at about 160. All kinds of
hard-wood are planted, and every attention is paid to thinning,
felling, pruning, &c.
    Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land, per imperial
acre, is about L.3.
   Wages, &c.--Farm-servants receive from L.7 to L.10 in tbe half
year, with board; women employed in several departments of
farm labour, from L.2, 10s. to L.3, with board; labourers, 10s. per
week, summer and winter.  A cart thoroughly finished costs L.10,
a plough, L.3, 3s.; a pair of harrows, L.1. Mason's wages per
day are 29. 6d.; a carpenter's the same; a smith's, 3s.
  Husbondry.--The general character of the husbandry has been
very much improved; and now, it may, without exaggeration, be
aid to equal that of any other part of Scotland. No less than 150


