
506              RENFREWSHIRE.


Botany.--There are no plants which are indigenous, or if there
ever were, they have disappeared as cultivation extended itself
over the parish. The following herbs are commonly met with:
Myrrhis odorata, Gnaphalium dioicum, Menyanthes trifoliata, Are-
naria peploides, Statice armeria, Silene maritima.
   In the gardens at Erskine, vines, mulberry and fig trees may be
seen growing on the open wall, and the fruit of the former, both
as regards quality and size, is far superior to that which grows in
the hot-houses. When this garden was made, about twelve years
ago, the gardener, adopting Sir James Stuart of Allanton's plan
for transplanting full-grown trees, removed with the most perfect
success all the most valuable fruit-trees from the old garden, and
one of these, a Mayduke cherry, is not only the pride of the gar-
dener, but likewise the admiration of ever visitor. The first ripe
fruit is gathered from it about the second week of April, and it
yields with annual regularity large supplies till the end of July,
producing in the market an income from L.20 to L.25 yearly.
In the pleasure-grounds, about the new house at Erskine, there are
found growing in the richest profusion, not only the rhododendron,
and other common evergreens but also many valuable exotics,
wbich need no protection even in the depth of winter. Among
these is a tree of the Magnolia tripetala, which has been mention-
ed by Loudon in his Arboretum Britannicum as the largest spe-
cimen be had seen in Scotland,--tbe Calmia latifolia, the Cal-
mia glauca, and the Calmia angustifolia, the Passiflora coerulea
or pasion-flower, the Acacia affinis, the Gum cistus, the arbutus,
and the tulip.
   There are about 500 acres of land covered with woods and plan-
tations, which consist chiefly of oak, elm, beech, ash larch, Scotch,
spruce, and silver firs, and horse-chestnuts, though there are also
in the woods near Erskine some fine old walnut and sweet-chest-
nut trees, the latter producing in dry and favourable seasons fruit
which may vie in quality, if not in size, with the famed chestnuts
of Spain. In the immediate neighbourhood of Dargavel House,
tbere stands a yew tree, which, from its size and circumference,
seems to have been planted by some ancient representative of the
family of Maxwell, and which is confessedly one of the greatest
ornaments and antiquities of the parish.

                   II-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices--This parish, does not appear to have been
at any time the scene of actions or events sufficiently memorable.


