
88                        SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

mountains, and empties itself about three miles from the mouth of
Loch Eriboll,-running a distance of fifteen miles. The latter bas
its rise from loch Dinard, and empties itself at the head of the Kyle
of Durness,-running a distance of ten miles. Both these rivers
very rapid, especially when swelled by their tributary streams. it"
both, the cruives are shut in March; but very few salmon are found
till summer, owing, it is supposed, to the coldness of the snow
water descending from the higher mountain streams. Salmon are,
also in small quantities, found to ascend the Sandwood water from
the Atlantic, Dal water from Balnakiel Bay, and Strathbeg waterway
at the head of Loch Eriboll. All these are tolerably good ang,
ling rivers, especially for trout, during the months of May and,
June. During heavy rains, the mountain streams present to tho
eye some fine cascades, the most noted of which are at Altnacailisk
in Strathmore, and at Benspionnadh on the north-west side.
   Geology.-There are few parishes in Scotland that furnish such
a rich field to the speculations of the geologist-botti from its ex-
tent and the variety of its formations. These have been examined
by Professor Jameson, Professor Sedgwick, and Dr M'Culloch.
Following the geographical divisions of the parish we find the high
and precipitous rocks on either side of Cape Wrath, chiefly sand-
stone and gneiss, with numerous veins of granite and felspar. The
central mountain of Fasbbeinn is gneiss; but all the other moun-
tains are chiefly of the red sandstone formation, and puddingstone,
-the strata of which are horizontal. At Handa Island and store
in Assynt, the same formation of sandstone appears.
  In the second or Durness division, the mountains are all com-
posed of quartz, gneiss, and mica-slate, with occasional veins of pr-
phyry and granite. The dip of the strata is chiefly north-east.
The higher mountains present their steeper and bolder-fronts to
the west and north-west,-with the exception only of the Farout
Head, composed of dark gray slate. The greater part of tbe
low lands of Durness from the Kyle to Smo, consist; of an im-
mense triangular bed of primitive limestone, of about fifteen square
miles,and of unknown depth. It is of different colours-gray, blue,
and pale white.  These often alternate with each other, and are
of various depth, often horizontal, but generally inclining to the
north and east.  The fissures almost always cut the strata at right
angles, and frequently consist of thin veins of earbonate of lime,
pure, white, and crystalized. This bed at its southern angle dis-
appears under the Foinnebhinn and Horn Mountains, and


