
     Of Abbay of St. Bathans.

and monasteries in Cistertium in France.  There is in the
wall, near the altar-place in the church, a font stone with
lead pipe in the bottom, and from springs in the braes to the
south, the church and buildings adjoining had been supplied
with water by means of lead pipes, part of which have been
seen by people thereabout, after being dug up about 40 years
ago.  To the south, and round the church and nunnery, were
gardens, now arable land, and on that account were called
the Precinct Yards, and round the whole had been a walk of
3 tire of stones, which have also been seen by those who
raised part of them.  After observing that the nunnery lies
upon the south side of the water of Whitadder, it may be
added, that there are pleasant haughs adjoining, sheltered
from the north, by Shannabank wood of natural oak, on a
steep brae, rising to a great height, and forming at top a se-
micircle, and from the east, by Blackerstone braes and natu-
ral wood there.  On the south of these haughs, and at a small
distance from the nunnery, issues a spring called St. Bathan's
well, that neither fogs nor freezes, and prevents a dam-lead
from Whitadder serving a corn-mill below, being locked up
with ice in winter.  About a quarter of a mile from the nun-
nery, on the same side of the water, lie the foundations of a
small chapel and yard holding that name; but there are no
marks of people having buried in it: about a mile from the
nunnery, on the other side of the Whitadder, is situated Trois
Fontaines (3 springs or wells) on the side of Manegnut water
which empties into the Whitadder here, where the remains
of a chapel and burying-ground are yet extant.  It has al-
ways been handed down, that a subterraneous passage went
from the nunnery of St. Bathan's, below the water of Whit-
adder, to this chapel, where the nuns passed along to be con-
fessed by the clergy from Coldingham, who had a house at
God's croft in this parish, and at a little distance from the

     VOL. XII. I


