
     of Lochlee.

of the white breed; the remainder are reckoned white
sheep.  It is believed, however, that, by not attending to the
rams in the proper season, the true breed of white sheep is
entirely gone.  The first of the black faced sheep were
brought into the parish about 30 years ago.  Before that
period, three glens in the west end of the parish, viz. Unich,
Mark, and Lee, extending to several square miles, were set
apart for the pasture of black cattle during the summer.
Unich is still employed for that purpose, and had in it, du-
ring the months of June, July and August last, upwards of
300 black cattle, for which the glen-keeper received about
1 s. 6 d. Sterling per head.  The other two glens are now chiefly
employed in the pasture of sheep.  There are about 1000
black faced lambs reared in the parish yearly.  The remainder
are bought, either in lambs, from L. 5, to L. 5, 10 s. the
score, or in hogs, from L. 9, to L. 10 the score, but chiefly in
hogs, in regard many of the bought lambs die in the au-
tumn, of the sickness.  The wool of the black faced sheep
is very coarse, and is sold at different prices, according to
the manner in which it is treated; a considerable quantity of
it is sold unwashed, for about 8 s. the stone, part of it is
washed, but very indifferently, viz. by driving the sheep
three or four times through a pool of water, and sells at a-
bout 10 s. the stone; what is cleansed by hand washing sells
at about 12 s. the stone.  The tenants are unanimously of
opinion, that the pasture has an influence upon the quality
of the wool.  Perhaps, it might be proper also to take the
 climate into the account.  The west end of the parish, where
the greater part of the black faced sheep pasture, is very
cold, and in the winter much exposed to storm.  The cros-
sed breed and white sheep, are all brought up in the parish,
the wool of the latter sells at 16 s. the stone; and, in a few
farms in the east end, where great attention is paid to the
sheep, it sells from 1 s. 2 d. to 1 s. 3 d. the pound.  Some of


