
     of Wick.

part of the coast, to get to their boats descend a huge preci-
pice by winding steps in the face of the rock, by which
some lives have been lost; and yet, from frequent practice,
it is often done without assistance, by a blind fisherman in
Ulbster.  To secure their boats from being dashed against
the rocks, particularly in storms and stream tides, the fisher-
men hang up their yauls by ropes, on hooks fixed in the face
of the rock, above the level of the water, where they ares
safely suspended, till the weather is fit for going to sea.  Mr
Brodie, tacksman of Ulbster, has paid some attention to the
cleaning of there havens, and rendering the passage easier
down the declivity.  At one of there creeks (called Faligoe
from the fall of water) is a fine cascade, rushing down a very
high precipice, which with the reflection of the sun, makes
a very conspicuous appearance, from a considerable distance
at sea.  Underneath there rocks are many coves, extending
up a considerable way, and accessible only by water in boats.
In those hideous caverns, as visitors advance, the light of
the sun is gradually excluded, till at last, they are involved
in utter darkness, and recourse must be had to torches, before
they reach the strand.  Along the shelving sides of the
coves, many cormorants nestle and rest; and the report of a
gun fired in them resounds with a most tremendous noise.
In the season for seal catching, the fishermen as silently as
possible, land in boats at the head of the coves, on the beach,
where they find numbers of seals, which they kill with blud-
geons for their oil.  In the egress from there coves, the gra-
dual light of the sun is enjoyed with double satisfaction.  The

<FOOTNOTE>

was thrown ashore, and interred in the neighbouring burying-
ground at Ulbster, where Sir John Sinclair's family tomb is
situated.  The stone, which is said to cover her grave, is still
extant; and has some Hieroglyphick characters inscribed,
though now much obliterated by time.


