
694                     FIFESHIRE.

which is more exposed than the rest of the quarry, is, in some
places, broken into large masses, and assumes a cliff-like form.
But whether the mass may have been, at any former period, sub-
merged under any fluid which could have given it its dark hue,
can only be matter of conjecture.  It is certain, that the substan-
ces, which at present are thinly spread over its surface, could not
have produced this effect; for they are the same as those which
partially cover the face of the white portion of the rock.  In the
former Statistical Account of the parish, the writer, speaking of
the black rock, says, "This stone will stand the fire, and the
longer it is exposed to it, it becomes the more durable, and con-
tracts the blacker hue."  This, however, is a mistake; for the fact
is, that this stone, when subjected to the heat of an ordinary fire,
soon becomes red-hot, loses entirely its black colour, exhibits to
the eye a coarser texture than before, and is more friable.
   No fossil organic remains belonging to the animal kingdom have
been, so far as is known, found at any time in the rocks of this pa-
rish.  A few belonging to the vegetable kingdom have been met with,
which were chiefly lepidodendrons.  And, as marking the action of
the watery element, it may be mentioned, that some of the slabs
which have been dug out of the freestone quarry on the Carnock
estate show very distinctly the ripple of the wave upon them.
   The chief alluvial deposits are sand, gravel, loam, clay, and
moss.  In the last mentioned of these, trees in a considerable state
of preservation are found imbedded.  The soil varies much, and
often within a small space.  In the southern division of the parish
it is more fertile; yet in some of the northern parts it is scarcely
inferior.  But the difference of exposure gives a considerable ad-
vantage to the former in point of climate.  In some places, the
soils have much depth; but generally they are the reverse,--rest-
ing principally on sandstone, whinstone, and a hard clayey subsoil,
rather wet than otherwise, and consisting chiefly of loam, clay, and
gravel.  Boulders are frequently met with near the surface; but
none of them have been found of any great size.  They consist
chiefly of whin.  Moles are frequent in the loamy soils.  But the
farmers seem not to consider them hurtful, as no mole-catchers are
employed in the parish.
   Zoology.-The birds are those ordinarily met with in the dis-
trict.  The very rare visitant, the greater butcher-bird, was seen in
the parish in the string of 1838.  The whinchat, a bird rather
uncommon in the district, is occasionally found here.  Snowflakes


