
136			WIGTONSHIRE.

clay slate; No. 6, coarse alum slate; No. 7, coarse alum slate;
No. 8, decomposed greywacke; No. 9, Lydian stone; No. 10,
coarse alum slate; No. 11, clay slate of various tints, as grdenish-
grey, purple, and reddish-brown. Beside No. 6, on the shore, is
a fixed mass of No. 6 a, which appears to be decayed greywacke,
in Nos. 7, and 10, masses of No.7 a, which is common iron py-
rites, about the size of a man's hand, are frequently found. Along-
side of No. 11, and at the height of 100 feet up in the face of the
cliff, there is a stratum of No. 11 a, of a decomposed rock. No-
dules of coarse jasper and agate, quartz in nodules and layers, and
thin veins of carbonate of lime, are found not unfrequently in the
rocks. No organic remains have hitherto been found.
	The soil in the parish is in some places pure brown earth, ge-
nerally with a considerable proportion of sand; in other places it
is black, being chiefly reduced moss, with a small proportion of
the clay, being subsoil. Where it does not rest on the rock, it
lies generally either on layers of gravel apparently laid by water,
or on a light brown clay, or on reddish till.
	There are no rolled stones in the parish, except a few of the same
substance with the variety of greywacke, No. 2.
	There is a layer of clay-slate near the Piltanton burn, on the
eastern boundary, such as soft slate pencils are made of.
	Zoology.--It is believed that there is little remarkable in the
zoology of this parish.
	The seal (Phoca vitulina) has sometimes been seen on the rocks
of the shore, and the otter (Lutra vulgaris) frequently. The brown
rat (Mus decumanus,) which infests almost every house and stack-
yard in the parish, abounds in the rocks along the shore, and is
believed to feed there on shell-fish and the carrion cast up by
the sea. The black rat (Mus rattus) is not found in the parish.
Among the loose rocks, about the roots of furze, and in stone
dikes everywhere, but especially near the coast, may be found
abundatly the hedge-hog, (Erinaceus Europaeus,) the weasel
(Mustela Vulgaris,) the ermine (Mustela erminea,) and the fou-
mart (Mustela putorius.) The gamekeeper at Dunskey thinks
there are two distinct species called weasel here, the one much
smaller than the other, and seldom attacking animals larger than
mice or small birds; the other attacks rabbits. Foxes have been
killed in the parish, but none have been known to breed in it for
at least three years past. Hares are not so abundant as in many
other districts. A young one was found last year nearly quite



