
                      ARDNAMURCHAN.                       127

tioned, as connected with the general structure of the country.
It extends from Glenfinnan at the east end of Lochshiel, in a
north-eastern direction for some miles, when it is intercepted by
a mound, or lower mountainous range, connecting the higher
ranges on each side.  Beyond this, the valley meets with no si-
milar interruption, until it terminates at the head of Lochaylort,
distant ten miles from Glenfinnan.  This is the neck which joins
the whole of Moidard and part of Arasaig to the mainland.
   Moss Flats.-At the west end of Lochshiel, and in close
neighbourhood there are three extensive flats of this description.
   The Moss of Kinkaw, extending from the west end of that
lake to the sea shore, and along the eastern bank of the river
Shiel, is, according to an old survey of Sir Alexander Murray
of Stanhope, fully seven square miles in area.  Another, the moss
of Achaneilein, with a mean breadth apparently of about three-
fourths of a mile, stretches along the south side of Lochshiel for
upwards of five miles from near the eastern boundary of the first.
The greater part of both is a perfect quagmire, or quaking moss
of unknown depth, through which progress can only be made by
leaping from one tuft of stunted heather and coarse grass to ano-
ther; but many hundred acres of both, especially along the mar-
gin of the lake and the sea shore, are highly improvable; the
moss, only two or three feet deep, reposing upon a bed of sand.
Right opposite to the Moss of Achaneilein, on the north or Moi-
dart side of Lochshiel, is situated the Moss of Langal, a plain of
679 acres, all capable, at a moderate expense, of being converted
into highly productive arable soil.  The moss rarely exceeds three
or four feet ia depth; the substratum is sand, which, when brought
to the surface in trenching, soon decomposes the peat.  With the
help of a marly shell sand, found in considerable quantities in the
bed of the river Shiel, at the western end of this moss, and some
sea ware, good crops of potatoes have been raised, although the
ground was not broke up until the previous winter.  On the hill
slopes to the eastward, there are 400 acres of the same descrip-
tion, equally susceptible of improvement.
   At Inveraylort, in Arasaig, there is a considerable flat of im-
provable moss, not unlike that of Langal in quality, but not pro-
bably exceeding fifty acres in extent.
   Betwixt the west end  of Lochmoric and sea shore of Arasaig,
there is another great moss flat of many hundred acres, a great
proportion of which, it may be presumed, from the success with


