
52                       STIRLINGSHIRE.

larger fortification than the Keir-hill. It was situated on a rising
ground about fifty yards from the Forth, where that river takes a
direction to the north, and about fifty or sixty yards east from the
mouth of the burn of Gargunnock. It was surrounded by a ram-
part and a ditch. Part of the ditch is still visible on the south,
where it communicates with the burn. There is not a vestige of
the Peel now remaining: the plough passes over the place where
it once stood; and the site must be pointed out to the inquiring
stranger. The use of the Peel is supposed to have been for the
protection of a ford, formed in the Forth by the influx of the burn.
There was also a small fortress about three miles up the river, for
the defence of the Ford of Frew. There is an account of the
Peel of Gargunnock, in the history of Sir William Wallace. This
patriotic and brave man and his followers were in possession ofthe
Keir-hill, from whence they sallied forth, and attacked and put to
flight the English who were stationed in the Peel. Wallace and his
men crossed the Forth, on their way to the moss of Kincardine, by
the bridge of Offers, part of the ruins of which is still to be seen,
about half a mile above the Peel. Between the old bridge of
Offers and the Peel, and very near the new line of the Dumbar-
ton road, a substantial and handsome suspension-bridge was erected
nine years ago, by Colonel Graham of Meiklewood. He also made
and repaired, at his own expense, a new line of road from the
bridge, to the great road from Stirling to Callendar, a distance of
two miles. A communication has thus been opened up, through
this rich and beautiful strath of country. The public are much
indebted to Colonel Graham, who, in this undertaking, has dis-
played a well-informed mind, and a most liberal and public spirit.
   At Ballochleain, near the west end of this parish, a battle was
fought between the Grahams and the Leckies, the date of which
is not recorded. The late learned and accomplished Lieutenant-
General Fletcher Campbell of Boquban alludes to this battle in
a curious manuscript left by him. "The ballad," says be, "that
celebrated the battle of Ballochleam, was still sung by a lady of
our days. The Leckies must have been of considerable numbers
at that time, if they could cope with the Grahams. Ballochleam,
signifies the hollow ofthe leap. In the hollow of one of those fields,
searching for limestone, an old tenant found soine pieces of brass
armour, with the points of spears, and a great quantity of different
kinds of bones. He said he intended to go on, but a thought came
that he might raise the plague."  There was also a tower belong-
                                3


