
                 PARISH OF DUNBAR.

PRESBYTERY OF DUNBAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

         THE REV. JOHN JAFFRAY, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATUAAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE, richest part of East Lothian, which is the finest
corn district in North Britain, is the parish of Dunbar. The name
is evidently derived from the castle, which had the same appellation,
and stood on a lofty rock within sea-mark, dividing equally the
length of the parish. This castle, according to Hollinshed and
Buchanan, was conferred by Kenneth I. of Scotland, about the year
835, upon an eminent warrior, whose name was Bar,-hence it was
called Dun-bar; but it is much more probable that this ancient hero
took his name from the castle, and that the word is descriptive of
the object and its situation, and signifies, both in British and Gae-
lic, according to the learned author of Caledonia, the fort on the
height, top, or extremity. *
   Extent, Boundaries, &c-The parish consists of a royal burgh
and a landward district. The former is near the castle, to which
it owes both its name and existence. The latter stretches along
the coast from east to west, 7 miles, 6 furlongs, and 160 yards in
length, and from south to north 3 miles, 6 furlongs, and 70 yards
in breadth. The mean length is 6 miles and 6 furlong, and the
mean breadth 1 mile 5 1/3 furlongs,-which gives 11 1/4 square miles
of extent.  It is bounded by the parishes of Tynninghame and
Prestonkirk on the west; Stenton and Spott on the south; In-
nerwick on the east; and the German ocean on the north.
   Topographical Appearances.-The figure is very irregular, being
much indented both by the sea and by other lands. The coast to
the east of the castle is of low rocky ledges, and to the west it is of
craggy cliffs, which are lost under the sand of the beautiful bay of
Belhaven. The surface presents a pleasing variety of hill and dale,
ascending gradually from the sea towards Lammermoor-com-
manding an extensive prospect which embraces a great variety of
striking objects,-St Abb's Head, Traprain-law the beautiful woods

<FOOTNOTE>Chalmers, Caledonia, ii. 406.


