
506			FIFESHIRE.

the south. When or for what reason the alternative name St
Phillan was added, is not known.
     Extent and Boundaries.-The parish, which is of an oblong
figure, is nearly 6 miles long and a little more than 2 broad.
It is bounded on the north by the river Tay; on the west, by the
parishes of Balmerino and Kilmany; on the south, by Leuchars
and Logie; and on the east, by Ferry-Port-on-Craig.
     Topographical Appearances.-The generaI aspect is highly pleas-
ing, from the irregular and undulating appearance of the ground.
The only eminences that have received the name of hills are those of
St Fort and Newton, the greatest altitude of which above the Tay
is about 300 feet. There are several valleys or straths, the largest
of which commences at a tract of flat land in the eastern extremity
of the parish, and forms, with a slight interruption, the southern
boundary, until it reaches the most westerly district, where it bends
northward, and forms the west boundary at the Tay. Along this
strath, there were several pieces of marshy ground or mires, all of
which have been drained and brought under cultivation since the
last Statistical Account.
     The shore of the Tay, which extends nearly four miles on the
north side of the parish, is covered with gravel or large stones,
above sleech or clay near high water-mark, and at low water-mark
it is entirely sleech or clay. The coast is uniformly of a bold or
rocky nature, averaging from thirty to fifty feet above the adjacent
shores. Wormi Bay, where the coast is more flat, forms the
western extremity of the parish; besides which, there are creeks at
Woodhaven and Newport, where there are small harbours. About
half a mile east of Newport, there is a headland, which in a very
ancient Atlas is marked under the name Skarness. It is now
named Craighead.
     Climate.-The climate of the parish is dry and highly salu-
brious, which, in connection with its favourable situation for bath-
ing, induces many families to resort to it in the summer season.
There are numerous instances of longevity. Few epidemical dis-
eases prevail; and it is remarkable, that during the time of Asiatic
cholera not a single, case occurred in the parish, although there
was an hourly communication with Dundee, where the disease was
general and fatal.
     Hydrography.-The width of ther Frith between Newport and
Dundee is one statute mide and a little more than a half, or about
2760 yards. During the ebb-tide, the water is brackish, but dur-


