
     Statistical Account

pleasant situation on the banks of the Tweed; but the church
is not in the most centrical situation for the conveniency of
the parish.  The stipend consists of 54 bolls of oats, 26 bolls
of bear or barley, both of the measure of Dryburgh Abbey,
and 24 L. 6 s. in money.  The common measure of this
country is the Teviotdale boll, which contains 15 pecks;
but the Abbey boll contains only 14, which reduces the vic-
tual in the stipend to 50 bolls of oats, and 24 of barley, Te-
viotdale measure.  The money stipend, 24 L. 6 s. arises chiefly
out of a conversion, by which the incumbent is a great loser.
The glebe consists of about 4 Scotch acres, and the land ex-
ceedingly good.  In addition to this, the incumbent has some
banks, in name of a grass glebe; but the greatest part of
them being dangerous for either horse or cow to feed on, no
material advantage is derived from them.  A process to pro-
cure some small addition to the living is in contemplation*.

   School.-There is an established schoolmaster in Lessudden,
where he has a good comfortable house, and teaches reading
of English, writing, arithmetic, book-keeping, mensuration,
etc. with the principles and the books used by beginners in
the Latin tongue.  Beside the school wages, he has a legal
salary of 100 merks Scotch; but, upon his application, the
heritors, at a meeting lately held, unanimously agreed to aug-
ment his salary to 100 l. Scotch; which addition to his li-
ving, they have given him ground to believe, will be conti-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In the bank of the grass glebe next theTweed, there are
sundry springs of water, one of which is reported to be of a
chalybeate quality; but no experiments which are now remem-
bered, have been made to ascertain its properties.  It has, how-
ever, been long, and still is, used in scorbutic cases, some say
with great success; and it is in the recollection of many, that
sundry people have thought themselves so much benefited by it,
that they made a point of using it either on the spot, or of ha-
ving it brought to them.


