
678                           FORFARSHIRE.

sergeantr, telling him that it was his part to have obeyed his or-
ders, and instantly commanded him back again, and caused him
deface and spoil the house."
   It is remarkable that, a very short time before the destruction
of Airlie Castle, an unsuccessful attempt had been made upon it
by the Earl of Montrose, then a champion of the Covenant, of
whom, in the latter part of his career, the Earl of Airlie was the
most devoted adherent. The feud between the families of Argyle
and Airlie had been of long standing. In Pitcairn's Trials, we
find James Lord Ogilvy complaining, on the 21st October 1591,
that a body of Argyle's men had attacked him when residing
peacebly in Glenisla, killed several of his people, ravaged the
country, and compelled himself and his lady to flee their lives.
The burning of the Bonnie House of Airlie was, in 1645, re-
venged by the destruction of the Castle of Gloom, near Dollar,
one of the residences of the Earl of Argyle, which still remains
in ruins.
   The noble family of Ogilvy became connected with this parish
in the year 1458, when Sir John Ogilvy of Lintrathen received
a grant of the castle and barony from James II. The chivalrous
loyalty by which the Airlie falily has aways been distinguished,
and the prominent and gallant part taken by its successive repre-
centatives in the commotions of the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries, are familiar to every reader of Scottish history. A full
account of the genealogy of the family, with notices of its most
eminent members, has already been given in the account of the
parish of Cortachy, which renders it unnecessary to enter into the
subject here. One important particular, however, has been omit-
ted;  the marriage of Gilchrist, Maormar of Angus, with the
Princess Matilda, sister of William the Lion. This illustrious
asigned to his very, obviously designated in the armorial bearings as-
signed his descendants. The arms of the neighbouring family
of Strathmore are also commemorative of a similar matrimonial
connection; their founder, two centuries later, having married a
Sister of Robert II. In both those cases, the object is to exhibit
an analogy to, and a difference from, the royal insignia. This is
attained, in the former, by representing the lion in a diffrent at-
titude from that in which he appears in the national arms being,
in haraldic phrases, "passant, gardant," instead of "rampant"
while the allusion intended is sufficiently intimated by the addition
of the royal crown placed upon his head. In the latter, the de-


