
258                          ARYSHIRE.

actly formed and levelled. Something similar exists at Seamill,
but the rest are confined to the circular rampart alone. Conjec-
ture assigns these strutures to the era of the Danish incursions,
which seems not improbable; but they may belong to a still higher
antiquity.* Tumuli have likewise been accidentally explored here,
in which were found urns cotaining calcined human bones and
ashes. Near the Castlehill, at Seamill, about four years ago,
whilst the new line of the coast road was being executed, two
entire urns of this sort were dug out in a stratum of gavel, about
three feet below the suface, but without the addition of any
mound being raised over surface. One of these, it is believed, has
since been deposited in Aderson's Institution in Glasgow. These
urns were formed of coarse red clay, of very rude manufacture,
yet well proportioned and modelled in the vase form. In harden-
ing the fire appears to have been applied solety to the inside of
the urn, that part being changed to a dark colour, whilst the out-
side remains of the natural red. A short time ago, a slendid an-
tique siver brooch, of large size, richly ornamented with filigree
work, and bearing a Runic inscription, was found near Hunter-
ston; a description with drawings of which, it is said, is in prepara-
tion for the Transactions of the oft he Society of Scottish Antiquaries.
	One of the large ships of the celebrated Spanish armada of
1588, after the dispersion of that formidable fleet, having found
her way into the Firth of Clyde, ultimately perished close by the
castle of Portincross. "She sunk in about ten farthom water, at no
greatb distance from the shore," on a clean firm sandy bottom.
Tradition affirms that part of the crew were saved, and it seems
not improbable that most of them might get to land. In De Foe's
Tour, Vol. iv. ed. 1779, there is an interesting account of an at-
tempt to recover property out of this vessel, by means of diving
machine, in the year 1740. A good many brass and iron ordnance
were obtained from the wreck, which were all carried off except
one of iron, which still lies on the beach beside the old castle;
and on which may still be faintly traced the Spanish crown and
arms near the breech of the piece. +

<FOOTNOTE>A few years ago, an openiong being made in the ground outside of the rampant
at Seamill, a considerable quantity of charcoal of wood, bones of cattle and deers'
horns, some of which appearing to have been sawn asunder, were found a few feet
below the surface, the materials of the wall having fallen down over the place.
       In the legends of the place, the sinking of this ship is ascribed to the spells of a
noted witch of the neighborhood.  Geils Buchananm who, mounting the brow of the
promontory and twirling her spindle, with the lengthening thread the hapless voyagers
sunk down.


