
     Of Northmaven.

   After considering the above accout, can it be doubted that
the situation of the tenants might be much improved, by
granting leases, by larger farms, by indulgence and aid from
the proprietors at the beginning, to enable them to stock
their farms, and make the proper improvements; by a full as-
surance and considence that they were entirely free from all
restraints in their dealings with others, when they paid their
landlor, agreeable to contract.  Is it not also obvious, that
if 3 or 4 skilful farmers, and as many shepherds from Scot-
land, were settled commodiously in the parish, that the far-
mers in the place would imitate their example?  For it can-
not be said that they are wedded to their own practices and
ways' so that a few years might make a great alteration to the
better in their circumstances.  It is clear also, that the te-
nants possessing the larger farms, and sheep pastures, should be
employed solely in that way, and by no means engaged in the
fishing.  I have heard it advanced by gentlemen well known
in the state and situation of this parish, that it would be much
for its advantage, if one fish was not caught by them in seven
years.  However that be, it is not to be doubted that it would
be of great advantage to the people that a great many of the
tenants were confined to the improvement of their farms*.

<FOOTNOTE>

mismanagement, more than to weather, or any other misfortune.  Since the
year 1745, there have been 30 fishing boats lost at sea, belonging to his parish,
by which many a widow and fatherless child have been lest in the greatest dif-
tress.
*That employment which gives the readiest relief to poor people, will be
pursued before that which is more profitable, if the returns be at a more distant
period.  As there should be many farmers who were not fishers; so it would be
also of advantage that every master of a fishing-boat was not a farmer.  And, as
it is said, that such should be idle the half of their time, might they not also be
employed in spinning and making their lines and herring nets?  might they not
also be carpenters, tailors, weavers, among them, but not so as to prevent their
attention to the fishing.  The making of coarse soap, tanning their leather on a 


