
552                              LANARKSHIRE.

very bare, a dreary flat, but once the seat of a magnificent forest,
certain proofs of which remain in the extent and depth of the moss
to be found in it. The lawn at Carstairs House contains some fine
trees. Below the house, on the bank of the river, is an extended
avenue of beeches, terminated on the east by the mausoleum, which
contains the ashes of the late proprietor, Mr Fullerton. This
structure, in the shape of a small temple and on a rising ground,
supplies a beautiful termination to the vista.

                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

        Land-owners.-There are in all nine land-owners in the parish,
four of whom are Commissioners of Supply; viz. Mr Monteith of
Carstairs; Mr A. E. Lockhart of Cleghorn; Mr R. C. Buchanan
of Drumpellier, and Mr Robert Campbell of Dalserf.
	By far the greater portion of the parish is possessed by Mr
Monteith, who spares no pains to improve his estate. He is con-
stantly resident, superintending the extensive operations which are
continually going on; thus affording an abundance of employment
and good wages to the labouring-classes, whose comfort and wel-
fare have been much advanced by the personal residence and pub-
lie spirit of such an heritor. Were every one, who has it in his
power, to follow Mr Monteith's example, he would confer a signal
blessing on his neighbourhood.
        State of Property.-The manor of Carstairs, with its church and
pertinents, belonged to the Bishop of Glasgow, in the twelfth cen-
tury, whose right was confirmed by bulls from different popes;
particularly in the years 1170, 1174, 1181, and 1186. Soon after
the death of Alexander III., Robert Wishart, then Bishop of Glas-
gow, with the consent of Edward I. of England, built a castle of
stone * near the church of Carstairs, and the manor and parish

<FOOTNOTE>The ancient Castle of Carstairs was originally a Roman station or fortification,
and was given by King David, or St David, as he was called, in A. D. 1126, to the
Bishop of Glasgow, for his country palace.
	The following curious information is from the Rotuli Scotiae in the Tower, pub-
listed by the Record Commission:
	When Edward I. was at Berwick in 1292, deciding on the claims of Bruce and
Baliol, he was in possession of all the fortresses of Scotland.  At that period the King
granted a license to Robert Wishart, Bishop of Glasgow to finish the Castle of Carstairs,
which had been begun without his leave. The following is a copy of the license: " The
King and Sovereign Lord of the kingdom of Scotland, to all his bailiffs and faithful
men to whom those shall come, greeting, Whereas a venerable father, Robert, Bishop,
at his own manner of Carstairs, county of Lanark, a certain castle of stone and mor-
tar, after the death of Alexander of blessed memory, began without any license to
build. We to the same bishop, a special being willing to have granted in this
part to him, for ourselves and for our heirs that he the said castle so begun may
finish and fortify with kernels, and the same so finished, and turreted, and kernillated,
may hold to him, and to his successors for ever. Nor wish we that the said bishop,


