
     Of Killbrandon and Killchattan.

coal, steel, and powder.  Their consumption of meal
cannot be under 2000 bolls a-year, all imported, as the
neighbouring farmers can do no more than supply them-
selves*.

   Rental.-The rent of these parishes, exclusive of the
quarries, is about 1600 L. Sterling. More than two-
thirds of the parish are the property of Lord Breadalbane.
The extend of his property here, is above 7800 Scotch
acres.  The extent of other small properties, cannot be
exactly ascertained, as they have not been surveyed;
but, I imagine, they do not exceed 3700 Scotch acres.
The whole, therefore, is about 11,500.  The proprietors
are 5; 3 of whom reside+.

   Services.-Services are still, in some measure, exacted.

     X 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The greatest complaint among them is the dearth and scarcity of
fuel.  This they must purchase from the neighbouring farmers; but, in
rainy seasons, peats, which are the common fuel, cannot be saved nor
procured in sufficient quantity, to keep them comfortabel through the
winter.  The duty on coal was a general complaint, nor can the remo-
val of it effectually relieve the needy in this remote corner, where pear
and turf are scarce.  In procuring these, not only the poor and trades-
man, but the farmer, is obliged to waste the summer season, which
should be allotted to their various occupations, and improvement in a-
griculture.  Happily, however, the general ground of complaint is re-
moved; and if it should be still necessary to continue this duty, why not
impose it at the pit?  This would be more equitable than subjecting
those who, by their situation, are always subjected to the additional es-
pense of freight and insurance.
+Wages, and Price of Labour, &c.-Servant men from 5 L. to 6 L. a-
year, with shoes; women from 2 L. to 3 L.; day-labourers ls. a-day;
wrights 1 s. a-day, with victuals; tailors 8 d. a-day; and masons is, 8 d.
a-day.  The price of provision cannot easily be ascertained, where there
is no regular market.  Every one, according to his ability, is obliged to
purchase from his neighbour who can spare, and that sometimes below,
but frequently above, the real value.


