
                        SPROUSTON.                            235

many parishes regularly act upon it, while there are others so in-
different to their own interest, as in a great measure to neglect it.
  Inns.--There are no public-houses in this parish.  For many
years, there was an inn established in the immediate vicinity of the
church, and it was justly regarded as a public nuisance, by every
right thinking person in the community.
  Fuel.-The ordinary fuel which is used here is coal, and which
is brought from a distance of twenty miles.  There are several de-
pots in the neighbourhood, where the supply of this useful article
may be obtained at about the rate of 9d. per cwt.  Wood is also
frequently used.
  May 1836.


                       PARISH OF SPROUSTON.

         PRESBYTERY OF KELSO, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE.

                THE REV.  GEORGE CRAIG, MINISTER.


      I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--THE name of this parish is of doubtful origin.  Chal-
mers, in his Caledonia, gives two conjectures; one, that it may have
been derived from Sprous, a proper name, and Tun a dwelling; the
other, that Sprus in the Cornish dialect signifying "grain," Sprus-
tun may "denote the place fertile in grain."  This latter is a very
appropriate derivation.
  Extent, Boundaries.--In figure and extent the parish forms
nearly a square of about 4 miles.  The boundaries are, the Tweed
on the north; the parish of Carham in Northumberland on the east;
the parish of Linton on the south; the parishes of Eckford and
Kelso on the west.
  Topographical Appearances.--Two elevations of gradual ascent
run across from north-east to south-west,--Hadden-rig through
the centre, and Lempitlaw along the southern extremity.  The
vale between is in some places marshy, and, with the exception of
a few acres on Hadden-rig, contains almost the only portion of the
parish not under cultivation.
  Soil.--Tbe soil, along the river especially, is very productive, and
is kept in a state of high cultivation.  The Redden-haughs are
famous for their extent, and for the sureness and abundance of
their crops.  Along the river, the soil consists of a rich loam, in


