
     1152                         PFRTHSHIRE.

     ridge of Yewtrees, where it is probable a wood of yews formerly
     grew, though no vestige of it now remains.  Here there arises a
     pretty copious spring, which divides itself into two branches, the
     most considerable running eastward through Lochcon and Loch-
     ard, and communicating with the German Ocean ; the other run-
     ning westward into Lochlomond, and communicating by the Clyde
     with the Atlantic.  About half a mile to the east of Loch-ard, the
     Forth receives an important accession to its streams by the water
     of Duchray, which has its rise near the summit of Benlomond, and
     which may seem to have an equal clail tn the source of the Forth.
     It may be observed, however, that the branch which issues from
     Skid-n'uir, by passing through the above-mentioned lakes, and re-
     receiving the streams poured down by a much larger tract of coun-
     try, sends forth a body of water, which, upon an average of the
     whole year, may be estimated larger than the other nearly by one-
     third.  For the first four miles after the junction of these branches,
     the Forth is a shallow and narrow river.  After passing Gartmore,
     however, it increases in depth ; but the fall from that to Stirling,
     during a course of twenty miles, is not more than eighteen feet, as
     found by a measurement taken under the direction of the late Lord
     Cathcart, when it was proposed to carry the great canal up by the
     bed of the Forth, and to join it to the Clyde by Lochlomond and
     the Leven.  That scheme, however, was abandoned on many ac-
     counts, and it is not likely that any great benefit will ever be de-
     rived to this neighbourhood, from the navigation of which the Forth
     may be rendered capable, above Stirling.
       At the farm of Ledard, near the western extremity of Loch-
     ard, there is a very beautiful cascade, formed by a mountain stream
     of considerable size, passing first over a height of twelve feet into
     a magnificent basin formed of the solid rock and so transparent,
     that, at the depth of ten feet the smallest pebble may be seen.
     From this basin, dashing over a ledge of rock, it precipitates it-
     self again over an irregular slope of more than fifty feet. The sides
     of this stream are closely covered with oak copse, birch, and moun-
     tain-ash, so that in approaching the fall, you enter, perhaps, one of
     the finest scenes of the grand and beautiful to be met with in High-
     land scenery.  This cascade is rendered peculiarly interesting from
     its having been made the subject of description in two of the cele-
     brated works of Sir Walter Scott,-Waverley and Rob Roy.
     There is another cascade about a  quatter of a mile to the north of
     the inn; but as it is supplied by a smaller mountain stream,


