
278                           RENFREWSHIRE.

menced in May 1807 ; and the navigation between Paisley and
Johnston was opened about the 10th November 1810 ; * and that
between Glasgow and Paisley on 4th October 1811.  This cut
between Glasgow and Johnstone, 11 miles in length, is all of
the canal that has yet been completed.  The breadth at the
surface is 28 feet, and the depth 4 1/2.  In its progress it passes
through two tunnels,-one under the Causewayside Street of
Paisley, 240 feet long; and the other near the west end of the
town, 210 feet in length.  The chief aqueduct bridge formed for
this canal is over the river Cart, on the east side of Paisley.  It
is 240 feet in length, 27 in breadth, and 30 in height, with a span
whose fine arch is not less than 84.  The present cut is supplied
with water from several brooks betwixt Paisley and Johnston.  Its
actual cost is said to have been not less than L. 130,000, a sum
greatly beyond the original calculation.  So level is the ground
through which the cut has been formed, that it has not been found
necessary to construct any lock, during its course.
   Besides the vessels for the transportation of goods, there were
formerly employed on this canal two, and sometimes three boats,
for the conveyance of passengers.  These were elegantly fitted
up, and calculated to carry 100 passengers each.  Of late, this
sort of navigation has been prodigiously increased, by means of
the gig-boat for passengers, an immense improvement on the for-
mer tack-boat.  It is the invention of an ingenious and enter-
prising gentleman, William Houston, Esq., Johnston Castle, who
has devoted much of his valuable time and talents to the pros-
perity of the town and commerce of Johnston.  One of these
gig-boats starts every hour, from nine in the morning till nine
at night, from Port-Eglinton, Glasgow, for Paisley; and from
nine in the morning till eight at night from the Canal Basin,
Paisley, for Glasgow.  The voyage is made within the hour.
The intercourse, by the same means, between Paisley and John-
ston, is frequent.  From the 1st of October, 1835, to the 30th
of September, 1836, the number of passengers by these boats
was 423,186; the fares drawn from them amounted to upwards
of L, 9000.  There are about sixty-four horses employed for the

<FOOTNOTE>On the 10th of November, a few days after the canal was opened between
Paisley and Johnston, a very melancholy accident happened at the basin, near Bar-
clay Street, in consequence of which eighty-five individuals lost their lives.  It was
occassioned by the heeling of the boat, while crowded with passengers, by which more
them 200 individuals were thrown into the water.  Of this accident, a particular ac-
count, written by the late Mr D. Wallace, is given in Dr Burns's Historical Dis-
sertation on the State of the Poor, p. 116, 1st edit.


