
                                  TONGUE.                         171

        the Kyle from Coldbacky to Cnoc-Craggy, consists of conglome-
        rate capping the gneiss, and resting horizontally on its fractured
        beds.  The junction in this case is quite visible in some expose
        rocks at Coldbacky.  Red sandstone has also been discovered at
        one point in this mountain-range, near Dalcharn.  The whole
        mountain of Ben Laoghal is sienite, " which consists of a light
        flesh-red felspar, grey quartz, and black or dark-green hornblende,
        with minute and sparingly disseminated crystals of brown sphene.
        In several places the quartz almost disappears,--the rock then be-
        coming a binary compound of felspar and hornblende.  The struc-
        ture of this sienite on the small scale is small granular, while on
        the large it is disposed in a most distinctly tabular manner.  In-
        deed, few localities can be pointed out in Scotland where this
        beautiful rock arrangement is more characteristically developed.
        From various parts of its summit the entire structure may be traced
        with the utmost precision, and the several tabular concretions fol-
        lowed, with little variation, throughout its whole extent.  The la-
        teral planes of the tabular concretions are in general nearly paral-
        lel, and exhibit an almost polished surface.  This mountain might,
        if other circumstances rendered it expedient, be wrought exten-
        sively for building materials.  Such would be attended with but
        little difficulty as far as the raising of the stone is concerned, while
        the tabular form is so regular, that, for many purposes, very little
        dressing would be requisite."*  Black manganese ore has been
        found on the top of Ben Laoghal.  Bog-iron ore is very common.
        Granite boulders are frequent about Tongue village.  Whence
        they have come, is a problem not easy to solve.  The prin-
        cipal alluvium is peat, which covers a great proportion of the pa-
        rish: a quantity of fir-wood is found imbedded in it.  The soil,
        which is, or has been, under cultivation, is in some places a black
        rich loam; in others a sandy loam; but, perhaps, the most com-
        mon is a soil compounded of gravel and peat, with an admixture
        either of clay or sand.
          Zoology.-- The zoology of the parish is such as is common to
        the whole of this north coast, on which the various species of
        quadrupeds, birds, and fishes are numerous.  Game of almost
        every description is to be found in the parish, but not in such
        abundance as formerly, owing, it is supposed, to the extensive
        moor-burnings upon the sheep farms.  Fishing upon lakes and

<FOOTNOTE> Cunningham's Geognosy of Sutherland,--a work to which the writer is in much
        indebted in drawing up this article.


