
                        NEW ABBEY.                              255

	Library.--For upwards of thirty years, there has been a pa-
rocial library. The books are generally standard works of his-
tory, travels, and divinity; novels being expressly excluded.
	Savinqs Bank.--About twenty years ago, a Savings bank was
established, but after ten or twelve years' trial, it was abandoned.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
upon the poor's roll is 30, who each receive on an average, in meal
money, and coals, about L.3 yearly. Others occasionally receive
aid; and when the necessities of the regular poor are increased
by disease or other temporary causes, an addition is made to their
usual allowance, and L.1 is always granted to the person who de-
frays the funeral expenses of any one upon the roll. The means
at the command of the session for meeting this expenditure are,
the rent of a farm yielding L.110, the interest of mortificions,
and church collections, amounting on an avarage to L.20 yearly.
Nearly L. 200 have been expended in rebuilding farm-houses,
about L.70 for a charter and feu-duties, and upwards of L.300 for
valuing teinds. These outlays were made from the mortifica-
tions, and are to be repaid by instalments, which has been partially
done. But till the whole be paid up, the poor will not recive the
full benefit of their apparently ample inheritance. The high and
independent spirit of Scotland's poor still hovers over, the parish,
but results only on one in a hundred. The farm was purchased in
1756, at L.220, consisting of a mortification of L.156 for behoof
of the poor, by Bailie Paterson of Dumfries, L.14 of accumulated
interest, and L.50 of collections that had been saved. Mr Pa-
terson was a native of the parish. He also erected the bridged at
the entrance to the village from Dumfries, as is commemorated
by the following inscription: "Erected by Bailie John Paterson,
late of Dumfries, 1715."
	Inns.--There are four inns in the parish, and of these three
are in the village.

	Drawn up 1840.
Revised February 1844.


