
       		    LIFF AND BENVIE.                       579

at present going on, beginning 1834. 11. Register of marriages,
at present being filled up, 1834.
        Eminent Characters.-In the number of distinguished charac-
ters connected with the parish, by residence, though not by birth,
may be mentioned the late Admiral Viscount Duncan. During
the intervals of professional service, he resided at the family seat in
this parish; and in the intercourse of private life, the benevolence
of his disposition and urbanity of his manners conciliated the re-
spect and affection of all classes. He was a staunch friend of the
Established Church, and occasionally officiated as an elder.
	The late Professor John Playfair of Edinburgh was born at
Benvie on the 10th of March 1748. He succeeded his father as
minister of the united parish in August 1773; but the bent of his
mind being decidedly towards scientific pursuits, he resigned the
pastoral office in 1782, and became tutor to Mr Fergusson of
Raith and his brother Sir Ronald Fergusson. He taught for se-
veral years the mathematical class in the University of Edinburgh,
and was afterwards appointed Professor of Natural Philosophy, both
which situations he filled with distinguished Honour and ability.
The works he has left behind him establish his claim to the cha-
racter of an eminent scholar and elegant writer. This parish was
also the birth-place of his brother, William, author of many excel-
lent works on history and antiquities.
        Antiquities.-Druidical Temple.-The Druidical temple men-
tioned in the former account of the parish, consisting of nine large
rude stones, is still to be seen. The enclosed space is circular,
about ten feet in diameter.
        Roman Camp.-Of the Roman camp, described by Maitland
in his History of Scotland, and called "Catter Milly," or quatuor
millia, (alluding, it is supposed, to the number of troops assembled
in the fortress, or the distance of the encampment from some other
station), no trace remains.
        Pitalpie.-Pitalpie, or Pit of Alpin, lies on the confines of the
parish to the east. A few cottages on the farm of Dryburgh bore
the name of Pitalpie. They are now removed, and the space
whereon they stood is within the plantations of the Earl of Cam-
perdown. The name is Considered as referring to "the scene of
an engagement, in the ninth century, between the Picts and Scots,
in which the latter were routed, and Alpin, their king, with many
nobles, was slain. The king's head after the battle, being fast-
ened to a pole, was carried by the victors to Abernethy, at that


