
                     COUNTY OF RENFREW.                        559

of Paisley by Dr Burns, and in the accounts of the parishes of
Greenock, Port-Glasgow, Renfrew, Kilbarchan, &c. there will be
found very full, accurate, and interesting information, respecting
the trade, merchandise, and commerce of this extensive and opu-
lent county. About a century ago, the chief  manufacture of the
district was linen, which in 1828 amounted to 85,527 yards, of
the value of L.6852, 14s. 9d. Sterling. In 1784, it increased to
1,922,020, valued at L. 164,386 Sterling. When the cotton trade
came to be more generally cultivated,the produce of the linen trade
in 1821 had fallen to 50,162 yards. The cotton-mills now form
a striking feature in the manufactures of Paisley. Mr Robert
Frame, in his Considerations on the Interest of the County of La-
nark, published in 1769, says, "when there was lately a proposal
to allow the importation of French lawn and cambries, what a cry
did it not justly raise in the country. We all then foresaw the ruin
of our infant manufactures established at Paisley. Will not Pais-
ley in a few years be able to dispute the market with  any people
in Europe?" At the present moment, she still experiences a for-
midable rival in France. Mr Frame, in following up the above re-
marks, concludes: "Is not the case quite fhe same as to subsist-
ence, at a time when our agriculture is in its infancy? Is not the
raising of grain a manufacture to all intents and purposes,as well
as weaving?" At the early stage of our manufactures, when our
commercial and trading towns first began to feel their importance,
there was a great outcry against the high prices of food, and the
rise in wages. Stewart of Coltness, the political economist, who
wrote about the same time, alludes to the unreasonable outcry of
the selfish and conceited artisans, who were then just springing
from "the dunghill and rising into prosperity!" "Nothing," says
he, "is more hurtful to trade, than transient years of extraordi-
nary plenty and low prices of subsistence. If lanufacturers do
then continue diligent, the high profits upon their industry  en-
gage them to a better way of living, and when high prices of sub-
sistence returns again, they complain as much as if they were de-
prived of the necessaries of life." This is the key to much of the
noise which, we hear at the present day about high prices for food.
Let these people look back to the condition of their forefathers,
not a hundred years ago. A writer who knew these times well,
thus alludes to them; "What a change must it be to the whole
class of labourers, who used to live their year out, they did not
rt well, know how; to be receiving four shilling a-week for their
 RENFREW.




