
     of Dowally.

   Most of the birds, native or migratory, in the northern
parts of Scotland, are to be found here.  Of the first kind,
are grous, partridge, black-cock, ring dove, raven, rook,
etc.  Of the last, the wood-cock*, pied oyster-catcher, nor-
thern-diver, goat-sucker, etc.  The capercallie appears to
have been once a native bird of this country, but is now ex-
tinct +.

     VOL. XX. 3 O

<FOOTNOTE>

*A woodcock, supposed to have been bred here, was shot upon the 12th
of August.

+There is a curious proof of the capercallie formerly being in this
neihbourghood, in a letter from King James, in 1617, to the Earl of Tulli-
bardine, ancestor to the Duke of Atholl.  A copy of it cannot fail to amuss
the reader.

     " J A M E S,

   Right trushe, and right well beloved cosen and counsellor, We greet
you well.  Albert, Our knowledge of your dutiful affection to the good of
Our service, and your countries credite, doeth sufficienthe persuade us that
you will earnesthe endeavour yourself to express the same be all meanes in
your power; yet there being some things in that behalf requisite, which
seem, notwithstanding, of so meane moment, as in that regard, both you
and others might neglect the same, if Our love and care of that Our native
kingdom, made Us not the more to trie their nature and necessity, and ac-
cordingly to give order for preparation of every thing that may in any sort
import the honour and credite thereof.  Which consideration, and the
known commoditie yec have to provide, capercallies and termigantis, have
moved Us very earnesthe to request you, to employ both your oune paines
and the travelles of your friendis, for provision of each kind of the fardis
foules, to be now and then sent to Us be way of present, be meanes of Our
deputy thesaurei; and so as the first sent thereof may meet us on the
19th of April, at Durham, and the rest as we shall happen to meet and ran-
counter them in other places, on our way from thence to Berwick.  The
ratitie of these foules will both make their estimation the more pretious,
and confirm the good opinion conceaved of the good cheave to be had there.
For which respectis, not doubting but that yee will so much the more ear-
nestlie endeavour yourself to give Us good satisfaction a sent the premises,
as yee will do Us acceptable service, We bid you farewll.  At White-
hall, the 14th Marche, 1617."


