
162			   DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

century ago, is altogether banished from the parish, and barely sub-
stituted in its room. Wheat is regularly cultivated in three or
four farms only.
	Nearly the whole parish is under leases of twenty-one years,
which commenced in 1814, and great prices being then calculated
upon for agricultural produce of every description, the farms were
anxiouly taken at too high a rent, to afford an adequate remune-
ration to the tenants. Mr Hope Johnstone was early aware of
this circumstance, and has kindly made, during almost the whole
currency of the leases, abatements of rent from 25 to 40 per cent.
and thus at once given a powerful stimulus to the industry of his
numerous tenantry, and afforded an instance of liberality equalled
by few, and surpassed, we believe, by none of landlords in the
south of Scotland. Very few tenants have consequently quitted
their farms during this period; and it is a remarkable fact in our
parochial statistics, that two-thirds of the whole present tacksmen
and their forefathers have been in the parish for fifty years and upwards.
	During the last fifteen years, the parish has been almost wholly
inclosed and subdivided with fences of hedge and ditch, and on
most of the farms, neat, commodious, and substantial steadings of
stone and lime, with slate-roofs, have been built; and it is sup-
posed that the proprietor has laid out from three to four years'
rent on these improvements.
	Mr Johnstone has been at unusual pains to stimulate the spirit
of enterprise among the tenantry on this part of his estates, and
the increase of produce and general improvements have been re-
markably rapid within these last twenty years. The inferiority of
the soil of a portion of the farms, and the recurrence of defective
crops in bad seasons, make, however, the progress of these im-
provements less steady than it would otherwise be in a kindlier
climate, and more propitious soil.
	Quarry.--There is only one freestone quarry in the parish, on
a small scale, for the supply of stones for farm-buildings.
	Pruduce.--Average gross amount of raw produce yearly raised
in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds cultivated for the food of man or dosmestic animals, in-
	cluding fodder, and deducting seed,          		L. 4600    0	0
Ditto of potatoes and turnips, and ditto,                          1900    0    0
Produce of rye-grass and meadow hay,                 1200    0    0
          Carry forward,                          L. 7700                    0    0


