
			      ALFORD.				519

has a regular communication, and to which the disposable grain is
chiefly sent, is Aberdeen, at twenty-seven miles' distance.
   Means of Communication.-A daily post from Aberdeen passes
through the parish; and the Alford post-office is at the border of
it.  The parish is admirably well accommodated with good roads.
turnpike road, of which there are three miles and a half in the
parish, leads to Aberdeen ; and in the other direction extends to
Strathdon, at the distance of eighteen miles west.  A branch turns
north to HuntlY, joining there the great north road.  A finely
kept road, executed under the authority of the Parliamentary
Commissioners for Highland Roads and Bridges, crosses the pa-
rish from north to south at the broadest part; and farther south
crosses in succession two lines of turnpike roads, opening a fine
communication in many directions on that side.  There is only
one deficiency,-in the Parliamentary road not being extend-
ed over the Cairn-a-mont.  The extension of that road, there,
would shorten our distance from Brechin and Dundee about
twenty-five miles ; and the distance from Huntly to these places
nearly twenty miles.  The commutation roads within the parish,
made by an assessment of L.2  on every L.100 valued rent, and
all the private roads, are mostly in a good state of repair.  These
good roads have afforded facilities for communication and land-
carriage, without which the agricultural improvements could not
have been executed.
   A stage-coach passes through the parish three times a-week to
Aberdeen.
   Bridges.-We possess also the advantage of all necessary
bridges.  A beautiful granite bridge, over the Don, about a mile
from the church, was built by the Parliamentary Commissioners
in 1810, at an expense of L.2000; and more recently another was
built by them over the Loechal, close at the church, in the line of
their road.  These works are of the utmost utility, not only to the
parish but the public at large, being in the live by which many
thousands of cattle pass yearly to the south.  The expense of the,
bridges and Parliamentary road was L.5000 in all, one-half of
which was derived from subscription by the gentlemen in the
neigbourhood.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The situation qf the church is suffciently
convenient for all the parish.  It was built in 1804 and enlarged
in 1826, and accommodates, 550 persons.  At a temporary divi-
sion, arranged aawng the heritors, it was recommended to them


