
                          CARRIDEN.                         63

and treason, entertaining notour rebels in his house, publicly
maintaining the principles of Naphtali, Jus Populi, Lex Rex, and
declaring that Scotland would never be well till it wanted Episco-
pacy, and the present government of the Church was destroyed,
as unfit for the nation;" but the trial was never brought on from
want of evidence. This nobleman entered heartily into the Re-
volution, raised a regiment of 600 infantry for the public service
in 1689, and died on the 25th May 1693. From an act of the
Scots Parliament, we learn, that another sufferer in those times of
religious persecution was John Hay of Lochloy, who was in 1683
committed prisoner for the space of thirteen months, "pairtly in
the tolbuith of Edinburgh, and pairtly in the castle of Blackness."
His offence was his hearing the nonconforming ministers.
   There are still attached to the castle a governor and lieutenant-
governor, but both non-resident, When the former Statistical Ac-
count was written, the garrison consisted of 2 gunners, 1 serjeant,
2 corporals, and 12 or 15 privates. Lately, the barrack furniture
has been removed, and now the only inmates are an inferior officer,
and his wife and daughter.
   Eminent Characters.- Colonel James Gardiner, who fell in the
battle of Prestonpans in 1745, and whose life, as recorded by Dod-
dridge, affords so impressive and affecting an example of the power
of divine grace and the influence of Christian example, was born
in this parish at Burnfoot, where are yet pointed out the window
of the apartment in which it is alleged that he first drew the breath
of life, and two trees, an apple and a pear, said to have been plant-
ed by his hands, but which are now in a state of great decay.
   In the new churchyard lie interred the remains of Dr John Roe-
buck a native of Sheffield in England, and projector of the exten-
sive iron-works at Carron. Besides originating other important
establishments connected with the arts in different parts of the
island, this ingenious and enterprising individual was united in
partnership with the celebrated, James Watt in perfecting his im-
provements upon the steam-engine; and the story is told, that the
first time the great engineer succeeded in setting his working mo-
del agoing was in Dr Roebuck's dining-room, who was then resi-
dent in Kinneil House, as lessee, of the Duke of Hamilton's coal
and salt-works near Borrowstounness.
   The late Sir John Lees, Private Secretary to the Marquis of
Townshend when Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, and who afterwards
filled the office of secretary to the post office in Dublin, was in his


