
                           ABERDEEN.                         73

making for agricultural and general purposes, and in the making
of twines for fishing and for manufacturers.  The number of men
and boys employed in this branch of manufacture is rather above
than under 200.  It is not easy to give any statement of the amount
of wages paid, as some of the manufacturers hire their men by the
piece, and others do not; but it cannot probably be much under
L.5000 annually.
   Comb-making.-This branch of industry was introduced into
Aberdeen as far back as 1788, but it was carried on in a very small
way only till 1830, when the firm of Stewart, Rowell, and Co.
commenced on a larger scale than has been done in any other part
of Scotland, and they were the first in Scotland to apply steam-
power to this department.
   The number of workmen employed by this firm is at present
245, the weekly amount of wages paid by them about L. 90, and
the number of combs of all kinds, finished in this manufactory
amounts to about 43,200 weekly, which, in consequence of the im-
provements recently introduced in the methods of manufacture,
can be sold now at a price not more than one-sixth of what they
cost nine years ago.
   Fisheries.-It is probable that there have been fishers settled at
the mouth of the Dee, both in Futtie and at Torrie, (on the south
side) ever since Aberdeen became a town of any noticeable mag-
nitude.  The fishers who now inhabit these villages are, like those
along most of the east coast of Scotland, evidently of a race dis-
tinct from the other inhabitants, and from their aspect, features,
and other circumstances, it seems probable that they have come
from the opposite coasts of Denmark and Sweden.
   They occupy a village consisting of two squares of houses, which
were erected by the town some twenty years ago, at the south-east
extremity of the parish, and immediately adjacent to the entrance
of the harbour.  Each house consists of a but and a ben, with oc-
casionally a small apartment between.  The magistrates designed
to have made the houses of two stories, but the fishers refused to
live up stairs, and they also refused to have any other than an
earthen floor in their houses.  In both of these, though there may
have been some superstition and a good deal of prejudice, there
was also some reason,-for it would have been next to impossible
for them to have kept a wooden floor clean, while an earten one,
if not clean, at any rate does not show the dirt so much, and it
would have been very inconvenient for them to lug their long lines


