
     Statistical Account

qual; and, except those employed in the paper manufac-
ture, and a few mechanics of different occupations, not ex-
ceeding 12, the rest of the inhabitants are confined to the
business of agriculture.  In their religious opinions, one
half of the parish are Seceders, which occasions a consider-
able decrease in the weekly collections at the church.

   Ecclesiastical State.-The stipend, including the value
of the glebe, (which consists of a small inclosure of four a-
cres,) does not exceed L. 100 Sterling.  It is paid partly
in grain, and partly in money.  On the account, it has
rather of late years been on the rise.  The patronage of
the church may be disputed, but the Town-council of E-
dinburgh have for some time past assumed the right of no-
mination.  The parish seems originally to have belonged
to the collegiate church of Corstorphine, dedicated to St

<FOOTNOTE>

trained to go without a driver.  The same may be instanced in many o-
ther departments of husbandry.

4. A fourth and very powerful cause has been, the preference given
of late to the occupation of the mechanic, over that of the husband-
man.  For here, as in all situations near a great town, where manufac-
tures are flourishing, the young generation, tempted by higher encou-
ragement, have forsaken the employment of agriculture, the inconveni-
encies of which were more immediately before their eyes, and have en-
tered into a new life, the prospects of which are more promising.  Hence
the number bred a agriculture in this parish is very small, in proportion
to what it was formerly.

5. To these general causes of depopulation, a fifth and pecular one
here may added, viz. the suppression of smuggling.  As this part of the
country, is the opening to the shire of Ayr, (the chief seat of the trade,)
it formed the retreat of those adventures engaged in it, when bringing
their goods to Edinburgh, being at a convenient distance, so that when a
fit opportunity offered, they could easily transport them.  Hence that clan-
destine commerce added formerly to the members of this parish, especial-
ly in the remote parts of it.


