
                          CAMPSIE.                         259

Glasgow, where he resided, being one of the canons. He served
the cure by a vicar. The living appears to have been great. Lam-
berton Beaton and W. Erskine, afterwards Archbishop of Glas-
gow, were all of them parsons of Campsie.
  The old church stood at the Clacban, where the manse and the
parish school yet remain. It was small and inconveniently placed,
being near the western extremity of the parish, and five miles dis-
tant from a large number of the people. The present parish church
was built at Lennoxtown in 1829,--which village, besides contain-
ing a large proportion of the whole population, is also nearly in
the centre of the parish-though many of the people are still three
miles distant from the church. This applies particularly to the
village of Torrance, which adjoins the parish of Cadder, to which
it migbt be attached with advantage to all parties, there being
plenty of room for the peoplo in Cadder parish church, and the
minister being enabled, by the small number of his own parisbion-
ers, and the proximity of Torrance, to give the inhabitants of this,
village, a degree of attention which the minister of Campsie, be-
ing five miles off, and having a very populous parish to attend
to, can never. be expected to render.
   The congregation in Campsie church is numerous in moderate
weather, though less so than it should be. That part of the peo-
ple who dwell near are not more regular in attendance than those
who are distant, but, in many cases, less so. A great number of
persons go very seldom to church--many never. The excuse most
frequently alleged is want of suitable clothing. To meet this evil as
far as possible the three parish school-houses, situate, all of them,
at considerable distances from the church, are employed on Sunday
evenings as preaching stations, as is also the large new school-house

<FOOTNOTE>It appears that Alwin, secondd Earl of Lennox, who succeeded to his father in
1165, "gave to Walter Bishop of Glasgow, and his successors in that see, the church
of Campsie in his Earldom of Lennox, ad orandum pro animabus regis David et Co-
mitis Henrici, et regis Malculmi et pro salute domini sui Willielmi regis et, domini
nae Emergarde reginae, &c."--Chartulary of Glasgow.
    In Douglas's Peerage, it is  stated that the church of Campsie was built and endow-
ed by Isabela, Duchess of Albany by charter to the Convent of Grayfriars at Glas-
gow dated 18th Nfay 1451, and the endowment is declared to be made" pro salute
animae nostree et pro salute quond, recolendre memories dilectissimi sponsi nostri Do,
mini Maardaci dudum Ducis Abanie, necnon, pro anima quoud. Domini Duncami
Comitis de Levenax, progenitoris nostri, ac pro animabus Walteri, Jacobi et Alexan-
dri, quondam filiorum nostrorum." Mr Lapslie say it was one ofthe bishoo's church-
es gifted by Donald.Earl of Lennox to the see of Glasgow in the year 1270. This
Must be a mistake for Malcolm was Earl at that time. The first Donald that possesi
sed the Earldom succeeded in 1333. The donation mentioned in the former extract
was probably  the first byquest of lands in Campsie to the church.  Duchess, Isabella
probably erected the first church or at least a new church,and bestowed additional
lands.


