
   186			   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   is seen in a few places.  No fossils or petrifactions.  The soil
   between the west shore and the lakes is all sandy for almost
   the whole length of the parish, varying in breadth between
   half a mile and a mile.  The soil, in those parts lying between the
   lakes, and the moorland and hills, is partly black loam, and part-
   ly moss.  There is no clayey soil in the parish.  The most fruit-
   ful soil, when well manured, is what is called mixed soil, consist-
   ing of black soil and sand.  The soil is thin, resting over gravel
   or rock; but produces good crops in favourable seasons.
      Zoology.--There are many kinds of birds which migrate to this
   country, and remain in it during the winter and spring, from Oc-
   tober till April, such as swans, barnacle geese, several species of
   ducks, teals, &c.  Besides these migrating birds, there is a vast
   number of wild geese, common wild ducks, a considerable number
   of eider duck along the western shore, cormorants, curlews,
   herons, sea-larks, sea-gulls of different species ; but of aqua-
   tic birds, which never land, but may be seen in the neighbour-
   hood of the shore, the writer of this account is not possessed of
   sufficient information to supply a correct account.  Besides
   these aquatic birds, there is abundance of pigeons, grey and green
   plover, larks, thrushes, linnets, and other birds common to the
   adjoining parishes.  Game consists of grouse, woodcock, and snipe.
   The carnivorous birds are, eagles, hawks, falcons, kites, ravens,
   booded-crows.  As to quadrupeds;--besides black-cattle, horses,
   sheep, swine, and goats, there are rabbits, otters, rats, and mice.
   There are no snakes dor serpents of any kind; no lizards, toads,
   nor frogs.  There is no species of fish in the lakes and streams, but
   those already described, including salmon.  Salmon comes up the
   two streams already mentioned, to spawn, from the middle of Sep-
   tember to the beginning of November, and they return to the sea
   in December and January; but the months of July and August,
   and beginning of September, are the time when the scanty fishing
   is most successful
      The coast, for several years past, (at least the lochs on the east
   side of the parish) has not been much frequented by herring.
   Vast shoals of this fish are, every year, seen on the west coast of
   the parish; but from the want of capital, skill, and encourage-
   ment, the people are not enabled to take the benefit of them.
   Besides, there is a very great disadvantage arising from the want
   of harbours on the west side, and the impossibility of finding a
   proper landing-place when there is a strong breeze.  Though


