>
                       WEST CALDER.                            305

limestone is found in connection with the coal at Baad's Mill,
which, when burned, is considered of a superior quality for build-
ing, but inferior for manure, being of a more coaly nature than
that in the neighbouring parishes. A supply of tolerably good
lime has for many years been had at Handerwood. There was
a stratum of limestone at Limefield, about a mile and a-half east
from the village, about nine or ten feet thick, which is now ex-
hausted, and the kilns are completely removed.
   Ironstone has been wrought for a number of years on the estate
of Handerwood by the Wilsontown Iron Company; and for about
three years past, on the estate of Muldren, at the western extre-
mity of the parish, by the Shotts Company. It has been found
about two fathoms above the coal at Longford; but only a small
quantity has at yet been wrought there.
   Botany.--The Flora of the parish is varied and interesting,
possessing many rare plants. Pyrola uniflora is to be found in
Harburn Firwood; Lonicera caprifolium in the hedges; Dryas
octopetala at Levenseat, Handerwood; Viola lutea at Woodmuir;
Gagea lutea, or Ornithogalum luteum, is more abundant on the
banks of Briechwater, than at Auchtertool Linn, one of its most
noted stations. Besides the Ericas common to most of our Scot-
tish heaths, there is a rich variety, seldom to be found, of the Erica
vulgaris. Ferns abound throughout the parish; and in less than
half an acre of ground, in a small glen on the border of the vil-
lage, fourteen species of Polypodium, Aspidium, Oreopteris, and
Asplenium have been found. The meadows are enriched with
numerous varieties of Orchis mascula, Morio, latifolia, and ma-
culata, also with Listera ovata, Ophioglossum vulgatum, and Pin-
guicula vulgaris. The drier grounds abound with Habenaria vi-
ridis, and H. albida. The parasite Orabanche major is very
abundant. There are hundreds of other plants, common to the
most of Scotland, which it would be superfluous to mention here.
                     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.--Toward the southern extremity of the parish, on the
Harburn estate, there was an old castle, said to have been fortified
by Cromwell, to repress the depredations of the Moss-troopers.
   On the top of a rising ground called Castlecraig, there are the
remains of a small Roman camp,--within the environs of which
several Roman coins have been dug up.
   Parochial Registers.--These have been so kept, that they do
   EDINBURGH.                                 V


