
          154                   SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

          interior to the coast side, and which, with its consequences on the
          comforts and habits of the inhabitants, will be noticed hereafter.
             A correct map of the county of Sutherland, on a scale of one
          inch to a mile, was completed a few years since at the expense of
          the late Duke of Sutherland; from which it appears that the sur-
          face of this parish contains 103 square miles, or 65,000 acres im-
          perial, measure.
             The Duke of Sutherland is sole land-owner of the parish. The
          property of Kilcalmhill, which belonged for about 300 years to the
          Gordons of Carrol, a highly respectable family connected with
          the Gordon branch of the Earls of Sutherland, was purchased by
          the late Duke about thirty years ago; also detached portions of the
          estate of Uppat, lying in Clyne; the place of Uppat, afterwards
          purchased by his Grace, being in the parish of Golspie.
             Parochial Registers.-There is no trace of any parochial regis-
          ter being kept farther back than the year 1706, and even for some
          time thereafter the strictest accuracy has not been observed.
            Antiquities.- This parish is not remarkable for much that deserves
          the notice of the antiquarian, and the few scattered remnants that
          can be traced are greatly dilapidated. Castle Cole one of those towers
          once so common in the north, is, however, worthy of particular
          notice. It is perhaps the most entire of what are called Pictish
          towers, in this part of Scotland, excepting that of Dornadilla, in
          Strathmore, in the parish of Durness. It is situated on the cast
          side of the Black Water, about two miles above its junction with
          the Brora, and must have been held an impregnable place of de-
          fence in its day. The opposite bank is a precipice of 70 feet.
          The river running rapidly over a rocky channel, renders it in acces-
          sible on three sides, and the narrow neck which connects it with
          the east bank seems to have been protected by a ditch. The
          building is oblong; the walls 11 feet thick, without lime or mortar;
          the diameter inside 22 feet; the only part of the walls now stand-
          ing is on the south and east sides, about 12 feet high; the door,
          5 feet high, 3 feet wide, is in this part of the building facing the
          south. There is a space in the wall, on the east side of this entrance,
          which can be traced round the building, and its height would on-
          ly admit, of people to lie or creep in it. This tower must have been
          the stronghold of the chieftain or of the tribe; and the remains of
          a line of watch-towers, to give warning of any hostile approach,
          may still be traced to the toast.
            Craig Bar, on the south side of Loch Brora, is thus noticed in
          the former Statistical Report. "It is a steep and rocky precipice,


