
     Statistical Account

the latter is, perhaps, unable to pay his rent, or to furnish
cattle for his yoke.  Hereby, also, another difficulty under
which the country labours, would probably be removed, viz.
the difficulty of procuring servants:  This is, in a great mea-
sure, owing to the endless division and subdivision of farms
into trifling possessions, making almost every man a master.
An intelligent, active, wealthy farmer, from an improved
country, set down here and there, would exhibit an example,
at once instructive and animating.  Such a man, entering a
competent farm, with a long lease and other suitable encou-
ragements, would shew the people how to live, and how to
acquire the means of living:  Meanwhile, they having their
possessions enlarged, and acquiring the skill, and adopting the
practice of such a man, would, as their circumstances improv-
ed, build, inclose, &c. and being first taught and enabled,
would, by and by, afford the proprietor a suitable rent.
With regard to manufactures, the country contains a sufficient
number of inhabitants, and might furnish proper materials for
them.  The prices of labour and provisions are, comparatively
speaking, moderate, though both have advanced considerably of
late years*.  Large tracts of ground in the neighbourhood, have
lately been covered with sheep.  Here is a foundation for the
woollen manufacture.  The soil here too, appears very fa-
vourable to the raising of flax.  Small quantities are raised
yearly; it grows well, but from unskilful management in

<FOOTNOTE>

*The pay of day-labourers can hardly be ascertained, there being few or
stone of that description here.  If they were assured of constant employment,
they might, perhaps, be found at 6 d. per day; occasionally they demand 8 d.
and sometimes 1 s.  In harvest, women get 5 d.  Domestic men servants have
from 30 s. to 40 s. per ann. of wages, and women servants from 20 s to 30 s.
and both are on the rise.  Both men and women dress in a style very different
from what they did 30 years ago; woollen shirts, which were then generally
worn by the lower class, are laid aside, and various articles of finery introduced
among both sexes.


