
942                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

of weeds, are very productive, with half the manure which is ne-
cessary in the lower parts of the county; and the harvests are ge-
nerally earlier.
   Hydrography.--In the hydrograpby of Lanarkshire, the princi-
pal feature,--a most important and interesting one--is the Clyde.
This river, next to the Tay the largest in Scotland, and, beyond
comparison, the first in commercial importance, has its rise
near Queensberry Hill, at the southern extremity of the county,
about 1400 feet above the level of the sea.  It is at first a small
rivulet, called Crossburn.  This flows into a stream called the Daer,
which, after a course of a few miles, is joined by the Little Clyde,
an inferior stream, which rises at the foot of Clydeslaw, near the
sources of the Tweed and Annan, and, by an usurpation similar to
what occurs in the case of the Nile, and some other important
rivers, defrauds the larger stream of the honour of giving its name
the river formed by their united waters.  Seen from the top of
Tinto, in a fine summer day, this noble river is one of the most
interesting objects which perhaps any landscape can present.
Towards its source, it appears like a thread of silver, expanding
as it approaches nearer the spectator's eye, into a broader and more
splendid line, and flowing through a country richer in beauty, as
well as more distinctly seen.  After sweeping past Tinto in a north-
east course, which it has pursued for several miles, it seems, by an
ample curve, which it takes on the borders of Culter parish, to be
making an effort to return to its mountain scenery, for it now flows
to the west.
   At this point of its course a phenomenon sometimes oc-
curs, which naturally gives rise to speculations of some interest.
The waters of the Clyde are occasionally discharged into those
of the Tweed.  So slightly elevated above the bed of the Clyde
is the vale of Biggar-water, which stretches between the two
rivers, that, in a high flood, the Clyde pours some of its
waters into the Biggar, by which they are borne to the Tweed.
This happens not only at long intervals, as in the course of a cen-
tury, but once in three or four years, evincing with what facility
the Clyde might be diverted into the channel of the border river.
Had our southern neighbours, when their hostile incursions were
so frequent and harassing, been able to foresee, and to estimate
the commercial superiority which they would have acquired, and
the injury which they would have inflicted on our nation, by mak-
ing the Clyde a tributary to their boundary river, discharging its
waters, with those of the Tweed, at Berwick, who can calculate


