
148                       ABERDEENSHIRE.

don of Murtle, who are vested with discretionary power, and have ap-
plied the greater part of the proceeds to the endowment of a school
for educating poor girls in Aberdeen, and the establishment there of
something like Parochial schools; Upper Crichie, Annochie, and
Elrick, to the Trustees of the late Andrew Simpson of Colliehill,
who destined the first-named place to endow a hospital, now con-
joined with that of Mr Gordon of Sillerton's, for educating the
sons of poor burgesses in the same city, and the two last for the
behoof of the ordinary poor there.  Kinaddie was likewise left by
the late Mr Burnett of Dens for the same purpose, as long as it
should not be necessary to have recourse to a legal assessment,
and, in that event, to pass to the Infirmary or Lunatic Asylum.
The same gentleman bequeathed a small property, yielding at
present upwards of L.40 of gross rental, under a certain trust,
to the kirk-session, for the benefit of certain descriptions of poor
on his own estates in the parish.  He has stipulated, however,
that it shall revert to the heir of the family estate, seven years
after the permanent establishment of a poor rate shall be found
necessary. *  This small fund is eminently beneficial, and the ap-
plication of it is so judiciously guarded, that it holds forth no en-
couragement for paupers to settle on the estate from the prospect
of sharing in the benefit.  It is intended chiefly for those, who,
after an industrial residence of seven years, have been reduced to
straits by the infirmities of age or severe sickness, a preference be-
ing shown to persons of good character.
   Parochial Registers.-The prochial and session registers are
incomplete.  It is generally alleged that the registers anterior to
the death of Mr Keith, the last Episcopal incumbent, and the set-
tlement of Mr Gordon, 1710-11, were carried off.  The Episco-
pal clergyman at Old Deer has or had in his possession a regis-
ter of baptisms previous to that period, in a good state of preser-
vation.  There are no records of proceedings that stretch farther
back; and, besides that most of the books seem at times to have
been imperfectly kept since, there is many a hiatus to interrupt
their continuity.
   Antiquities.-The only ruinous building within the parish en-
titled to notice, is the Abbey, of Deer.  What remains of this an-
cient edifice is now situated within and protected by the high wall
which encloses the fruit and kitchen garden of Pitfour.  Before pains
were taken to preserve the ruins, the fabric, which appears from the

<FOOTNOTE>This apprehended contingency has now taken place.


