
              52                          PERTHSHIRE.

              hanged-the Cardinal feasting his eyes with this deed of horrid
              cruelty. Janet Stark desired earnestly to die with her husband,
              but was refused. She was taken to a pool of water hard by, where,
              having recommended her children to the charity of her neighbours,
              and her sucking child having been taken from her breast and given
              to a nurse, she was drowned, dying with great courage and com-
              fort.
                 This barbarous execution, or rather murder of innocent per-
              sons, increased the growing aversion to the priests and their super-
              stitions, and spread the spirit of Reformation throughout the coun.
              try. These and various other atrocious acts of Popish Oppression
              perpetrated in the neighborhood, such as the burning alive Mr
              George Wishart, the son of the Laird of Pitarrow at St Andrews,
              and, at the same place, Walter Mylne priest of Lunen, in his
              eightieth year, prepared the great body of the people to embrace
              the first opportunity of openly expressing their hatred to the Ro-
              man Catholic superstition.
                 John Knox, having been in Geneva, was sent for by some Pro-
              testant noblemen. He commenced his return in 1557, and arriv-
              ed at Leith May 2, 1559. From thence, he immediately came to
              Perth to the aid of his brethren, and having publicly made confes-
              sion of his faith, be entered on ministerial duty. "In a sermon de-
              livered in the Old (Middle) Church, he declared what command-
              ment God had given for the destruction of the monuments of ido-
              latrie, and denounced the mass as an abomination. The service
              being closed, a priest, opening a splendid tabernacle which stood
              above the altar, was about to celebrate mass, when a boy cried
              out,  "This is intolerable," The priest gave him a blow. The
              boy lifted up a stone, and throwing it at the priest, hit the taber-
              nacle, and broke down an image, and immediately the multitude
              dispatched the tabernacle and the other monuments in the kirk,
              before the tenth man in the town understood the matter, for the
              most part were gone to dinner. This being noised abroad, the ras-
              cal multitude assembled, and, -finding nothing to do in the kirk,
              run to Gray and Blackfriars, and after they bad destroyed the
              monuments of idolatrie, they began to seek some spoil."*
                 John Ruthven, sixth Lord Ruthven and third Earl of Gowrie,
              was the second son of William the first Earl, and Dorothea Stew-
              art, daughter or grand-daughter of Henry Stewart, the first Lord

                                           Calderwood.


