
        		GLALMISS.                             345

with, snow. By mistake, they directed their fight accross the loch
of Forfar, where they perished. On one side of the monument
there are the figures of two men, who, by their attitude, seem to
be forming the blood conspiracy. A lion and a centaur on the
upper part represent as is supposed, the shocking barbarity of the
crime. On the reverse of the monument, several sorts of fishes
are engraves as a symbalicai representation of the loch in which
the assassins were drowned.
        St Orland's Stone.-At the distance of about a mile north-east
from the castle, near a place called Cossins, there stands an obe-
lisk not less curious than the two already mentioned. It is vulgar-
ly called St Orland's Stone. No probable conjeaure has been
formed, as to the object of it. On one side, is a cross rudely
flowered and checkered; on the other side, four men on horse-
back appear to be making the utmost dispatch. One of the
horses is trampling under foot a wild boar; and on the lower part
of the stone, there is the figure of an animal resembling a dragon.
It has been supposed by some, that these symbols represent officers
of justice in pursuit of Malcolm's murderers.
	Glammiss was given to the present family, by a grant of Robert
II. in 1372 to John Lyon, his secretary, who afterwards married
the Khnf's daughter, and got the barony of Kinghorn as her dower
At the time the castle was renovated by Earl Patrick, he also
planted the present old timber around it in the ancient style of
rows and avenues. The principal avenue, upwards of one mile in
length between the castle and the village, and forming an approach
in which there were three antique gateways,-was almost entirely
destroyed, in the course of a few hours, by a hurricane in 1772.
About sixty years ago, in Earl John's time, the grounds were
turned, into one park, which is, yet called the "Angles" from the
angular shape of the old enclosures, and rows of trees along them;
and the gateways were removed. The avenues were also much
mutilated. The gateways were rebuilt at the three different en-
trances into the present park, and are still kept up in repair.
	There were also three other castles within the parish but they
are now wholly raced; one at Cossim, belonging to the same fa-
mily; mother in the glen of Ogilvie, which belonged to the family
of that name, now the property of Lord Douglas; and the third
in the glen of Denoon. In the latter glen there are also the re-
mains of an ancient fort, upon the top of an isolated basaltic hill
rising up in the bottom of the glen, and to such a height as to com-


