

                    DUNBLANE.                          1039

  During the summer months a supply of the water is carried
daily to a neat lodge erected close to the town.
  Rivers.- The rivers in this parish are the Allan and the Ardoch.
  Soil.-The red sandstone formation underlies the whole of the
parish, and its soil varies from gravel to a reddish clay.

            II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
  Dunblane is said to have been the residence of a Culdee fra-
ternity.  By David I. it was erected into a Bishop's See. The
names of thirty-one bishops have been handed down, of whom
twenty-five were Popish.  One of these was canon of St An-
drews, and one of the three first professors in the infant uni-
versity there.  Another, Maurice, obtained the see, from being
King Robert Bruce's chaplain at the battle of Bannockburn.  A
third, Bishop Chisholme, at the Reformation alienated the whole
lands, and, as Spottiswood angrily asserts, utterly "wracked" the
benefice.  And a fourth, Graham, was the first bishop in Scot-
land to give up the Episcopal office as unlawful, which he did in
the very General Assembly that condemned Prelacy as unscrip-
tural.  A sixth, Ballanden, was the confidential correspondent
and agent of Laud in introducing his Popish novelties; and a
seventh, was the distinguished Bishop Leighton.
  He was son of Dr Alexander Leighton, a sufferer under the tyran-
ny of Laud, who publicly thanked God when Leighton was sentenc-
ed to have his nose slit, his ears cut off, and his cheek burned, for an
alleged libel, entitled Sion's Plea against Prelacy.  Robert Leigh-
ton, after being minister of Newbattle, and Principal of the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, was, by his Popish brother, Elisha, pri-
vate secretary to James II., then Duke of York, and at the per-
sonal solicitation of Charles II., persuaded to accept a bishoprick,
and took Dunblane, as the poorest.  After vain attempts to re-
concile Prelacy with Presbytery, he abandoned his, office, broken-
hearted, declaring that he "would not have Christianity itself,
much less a form of church government, planted in a country, at
such expense of blood." His Commentary on Ist Peter is a model of
excellence.  He bequeathed his library to the clergy of the diocese
of Dunblane; and his executors, being his sister, Sapphira, and
her son, Edward Lightmaker, erected, at tbeir own expense, a
house to contain the books, and mortified L.300, the interest of
which to go to a librarian, and to uphold the fabric, and add to
the books.  After the full establishment of Presbytery, Mr
Lightmaker constituted seven trustees,-the Right Honourable



