
                               MOONZIE.                       787

      partially successful. The crops are still scanty and uncertain, and
      sometimes hardly defray the expense of cultivation. When em-
      ployed in draining the loch, the labourers found many large oak
      trees deeply imbedded in the soil, and in a good state of preserva-
      tion, and some are still discovered when they are ploughing the
      ground, and digging for marl. Many deers' heads, with splen-
      did branching horns, in a petrified state, were also dug out of the
      moss, and were eagerly sought after by the lovers of natural his-
      tory, to adorn their museums. Under the moss, about two or three
      feet from the surface, there lies a bed of excellent shell-marl. It
      varies in thickness in different places from one to three feet. It
      has been employed with great success in fertilizing the soil of the
      adjacent country. Great quantities have been raised at different
      periods, and employed with advantage, as an ingredient in com-
      post dunghills, and as a top-dressing for pasture ground, and in
      some cases it has been applied to a naked fallow like lime.
         Geology. *-The parish of Moonzie comprehends the summits
      and slope of three connected elevations, shutting up the west end
      of a valley extending east about two miles, by about a mile and a-
      half broad. On the west these elevations are connected by a neck
      of high land with the declivity of Norman Law, and consequently
      form an offset from the line of high lands formed by the Ochil and
      Campsie hills. Observations in the neighbourbood of Cupar, near
      the line and level of the Eden's bed, as well as those made near the
      Tay in the opposite direction, give every reason to believe that
      the trap rocks, of which alone the surface of the parish is formed,
      rest upon that series to which the name of red sandstone or old
      red sandstone is given, forming the floor of all the Fife, and I be-
      lieve, of all Scottish coal fields.
         Whether these rocks are to be considered as contemporaneous
      with the red sandstone and subordinate to it, as some theorists con-
      tend, or as having been forced up and overflowing these rocks at
      a subsequent period by the action of internal fire, it is impossible,
      from any appearances discovering themselves here, to conjecture.
      The hills are generally rounded, and covered with soil to the sum-
      mits, and the trap of the vicinity only shows a tendency to the co-
      lumnar form in the rock of Craigfoodie hill, which affords a pictu-
      resque termination to the distant view down the valley to the east-
      ward. Beds of trap tufa and boulders, crumbling down in layers

<FOOTNOTE>For the few remarks on the geology of the parish, I am indebted to George Go-
      van, Esq.


