
	1232                         PERTHSHIRE.

	they are of great antiquity.   It is very remarkable that before they
	were discovered, there was a local tradition that a battle was once
	fought near this spot, and that several were killed in the fray.
	The tombs discovered may have been the graves of these ancient
	chieftains.
	   Modern Buildings.-The principal modern buildings are the
	parish church at Doune, Lanrick Castle and Suspension bridge,
	Deanston House manufactory and village, the new Secession
	chapel at Bridge of Teith.

<TABLE III-POPULATION.>
		The population of this parish in 1755 was only           2730
		By the last census (1841) it had increased to            4050
		In 1831 it was                                           3752
		   1821,                                                 3150
		   1792, at the date of last Statistical Account, it was 3209

	One cause of the great increase during the decade between 1321
	and 1831 is said to have been the extension of the Deanston
	Works.
	   Language.--The language generally spoken is provincial Eng-
	lish, with Gaelic by a few families.  The common language, in last
	Account is said to have been " a mixture of Scotch and English."                                           tch and English."
	" In the quarter towards Callander," says Mr M'Gibbon, " the
	generality of the inhabitants speak Gaelic," as some of them do to
	this day,
				IV.-INDUSTRY.
	   Agriculture.--The parish contains about 51,200 acres, a part
	of which remains constantly waste or in pasture.  A great deal
	might, with a-profitable application of capital, be added to the
	cutivated land of the parish.
	   Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land is said to be
	about L.1 per acre.
	   Great improvement have been recently made in the parish.
	Besides those on Lanrick and at Argaty, we cannot omit to no-
	tice the system carried on by Mr Smith at Deanston, who has not
	only completely changed the face of the country, but turned the
	wilderness into a garden.  It  is only necessary to refer to Mr
	Smith's published "Remarks on Thorough  Draining and Deep
	Ploughing."  These are the two great principles of the well
        known " Deanston system." *  Mr. Smith holds furrow draining to
	be the foundation of subsoil ploughing.

<FOOTNOTE>The system is thus spoken of in the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture (June


