
306                       ROXBURGHSHIRE

trap rocks.  Nearly forty years ago, the late Mr Dickson of Edin-
burgh discovered, near Kelso, one of the rarest of British ferns,
Asplenium alternifolium; but although diligently searched for, for
several years past, by an accomplished native botanist, Dr Francis
Douglas, it has hitherto eluded discovery.  A fungus, Clavaria
rosea, new to Great Britain, although described by continental
botanists, has recently been found on one of the road-sides.  It is a
very elegant species of a beautiful pink or rose colour; and as it
has been seen for three successive seasons on the same spot, there
is reason to hope that it will retain its habitat.
  Besides fine specimens of all the more common forest trees,
elm, plane-tree, oak, &c., which adorn the park and plantations of
Floors and Springwood, the parish can boast of several single
trees remarkable for their size, age, or historical interest.  Close
to the village of Maxwellheugh, is a poplar, which is estimated to
contain not less than 800 or 900 cubic feet of timber; its height
from the ground to the point where it gives off branches is 16
feet; its girth at the root is 31 feet; at 2 feet from the base, 21,
and at 10 from the base, 18.  An ancient elm, known by the
name of the trysting-tree, extends its arms at the point where
the parish marches with Roxburgh, and marks the spot where
the river used to be forded before the erection of Teviot-bridge.
It is now in the last stage of decay; but beautiful specimens of
furniture made from its timber may be seen at Floors, espe-
cially in the magnificent cabinet of British birds which the taste
of the present Noble proprietor has recently fitted up.  Ano-
ther tree of equal historic interest, though greatly inferior in age,
is the yew-tree which marks the spot (in the park of Floors) where
King James II. was killed in 1460 by the bursting of a cannon
while he was engaged in the blockade of Roxburgh Castle.  Nor
must a remarkable Platanus, or oriental plane, pass unnoticed
which, though it no longer exists (except in the shape of furni-
ture, *) is still remembered as the favourite of Sir Walter Scott's
boyhood, and must ever continue to be classical, as having afford-
ed the "leafy shade" beneath which he read for the first time
Percy's Reliques of Ancient English Poetry,--the work which
seems to have kindled the minstrel-spirit within him.  This tree,
under whose overshadowing boughs the border muse may be said
to have visited and inspired her favourite son, formed the chief at-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr William Darling, Kelso, possesses a dining-table made of the timber of this
tree.


