
     of Kiltarlity.

the summer and harvest.  The birch and other trees grow-
ing on the sloping sides of this island, with the surrounding
rocks, and a fall of water near the E. end thereof, form in 
summer a very pleasing and picturesque scene.  On the S.
branch of the river, near the eastern extremity of the island,
stands the saw-mill, in a hollow, extremely well sheltered
on all sides by the surrounding hills and rocks.  The mill
consists of three shades, the length of the whole three is about
126 feet.  In these shades 7 saws are moved by 4 different
wheels; the wheels are about 4 feet deep, and 2 feet 8
inches in breadth.  Above the mill is a natural fall of about
6 feet, and a strong artificial dam, of 2 feet high, is raised
above this fall.  Thus, from having the command of a
great body of water all the year round, with a considerable
fall, the wheels go with amazing rapidity.  They turn
from 80 to 90 times in a minute, and when the saws are
in good order, they easily cut through a log of 10 or even
12 feet long in 4 minutes.  This manufacture has been
carried on from the year 1765.  The present manufacturer
pays to Chisholm for his wood from L. 250 to L. 300
Sterling a-yaer.  The greatest part of the timber manufac-
tured grows in the neighbouring parish of Kilmorack.
The trees, when cut, are from half a mile to 2 miles from
water; and after being cut into logs of 10 or 12 feet long,
they are carried by horses to the water edge, and after-
wards floated on the rivers Glass, Cannich, and Beauly,
from 30 to 40 miles, before they come to the saw-mill.
As there is a considerable fall about 2 or 3 miles below
the mill, the manufacturer is obliged to carry all his planks
and deals from the mill, three miles by land.  They are
afterwards floated in rafts, 4 miles farther down tha Beauly,
and lodged in a wood-yard at Lovat, in the parish of Kirk-
hill; and as vessels from 50 to 90 tons burthen can, by the
assistance of the tide, come up the Beauly this length, they


