
			URQUHART AND GLENMORISTON.               49

that valley by the Parliamentary Commissioners, appointed in the
beginning of the present century for the formation of roads and
bridges in the Highlands. Portions of the old road may still be
seen winding along the impending rock cliffs above Loch Ness;
and, although few travellers would now a-days trust themselves
on such a promenade, persons are still alive who recollect that it was
a day of great rejoicing in the district when three gentlemen of Ur-
quhart were first enabled to ride abreast all the way from Inverness.
A branch of this district road was conducted up to the top of,the
glen at Corrymony, and another off-shoot across the hill of Coille
Shallach (or the boggy copse) into the valley of Glenconvinth,
thereby communicating with the Aird and the post-road from Ross-
shire. Both of these district roads are at present kept in good
repair. The southern boundary of the parish is now skirted all
along by the new Parliamentary road, which proceeds from Inver-
ness by the north side of Loch Ness, through Glenmoriston to
Kintail and Skye. Its surface is excellent, but it is in some places
rather narrow, too steep, and in need of continuous parapets.
Portions of it were excavated out of the solid rock at great ex-
pense and labour, the under side being propped up with high walls
and buttresses.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church, which stands in the
lower part of the valley of Urquhart, within about half a mile of
Loch Ness, was built in 1630. It is rather an ill constructed
house; and, although repaired in 1814, is in so dilapidated a state,
(besides being inadequate to accommodate the people who attend,)
that it will be necessary to make immediate application for a new
and larger building. The minister officiates here two Sundays out
of three, and the third at Miklie, six miles up the glen, where a
commodious chapel or meeting-house was built about six years.
ago. There is a missionary minister settled in Glenmoriston by
the Committee for Managing the Royal Bounty,-who preaches
alternately at Invermoriston and in the upper part of the glen, at
each of which stations there is a comfortable meeting-house. Both
Gaelic and English are preached in the different places of worship
within the parish,-with the exception of the one in the braes of
Glenmoriston, where there is seldom occasion for service in the
latter language.
   There are no Dissenting or Seceding chapels in the parish, the
inhabitants all belonging to the Established church, with the ex-
ception of 55 individuals of the Roman Catholic persuasion, in
   INVERNESS.
                               D


