
              		    PAISLEY.                           193

frequent and hearty co-operation of the inhabitants at large in
carrying into effect the great practical design of the institution.
   Meetings of Courts.-The Sheriff-court sits every Tuesday dur-
ing session.  The Sheriff Small Debt Court is held once a fortnight,
on Thursdays.  The Burgh Court is held every Monday and
Friday.  The Commissary Court sits on Thursdays.  The
Quarter Sessions are held at Renfrew on the first Tuesday of
March, May, and August, and last Tuesday of October.  Justice
Court for small debts is held at Paisley every Friday.  Licensing
meetings held at Renfrew, first Tuesday of May and last Tuesday of
October.  The town-council have three stated meetings, called
"Head Court," annually ; they meet for ordinary business gene-
rally once a week, and oftener as required.  Meetings of Commis-
sioners of Police are held quarterly, arm oftener when required.
   Antiquities, Ancient Mansions, &c.-Of these, by far the most
interesting is the Abbey Church.  But as it will be noticed under
the head of Ecclesiastical History, we at present simply remark,
that, in its immediate neighbourhood, stands the Mansion-House or
Place of Paisley, an old building, at one time the residence of the
Abercorn family, and at another of the. Dundonald ; but let
out to various tenants.  This tenement is the property of the Mar-
quis of Abercom.  It is no way distinguished for its architecture.
   Crockston or Cruichston Castle is a lofty but greatly shattered
ruin, finely situated on a wooded slope, about three miles south-
east from Paisley.  The ancient proprietors of this castle and lordship
were a family of Norman origin, surnamed De Croc, one of whom,
Robert De Croc, was in the time of king Malcolm IV. a sub-
scribing witness to the foundation charter of Paisley abbey.  The
castle and adjacent lands are now the property of Sir John Max
well of Pollock, Bart.  Of the noble yew tree, which ence grew
near the castle, conspicuous for miles around, and noted for hav-
ing oft afforded shade to Queen Mary and Lord Darnley, ere love
grew cold,not a vestige now remains. *
   The ancient tower of Stewarts Raiss is still to be seen.  it
stands on the right bank of the levern, about two miles south of
Cruickston, and distant four from Paisley.  It was once; the pro-
perty and seat of a family named Halrig, a branch of the noble fa-
mily of Darnley.  "I have seen," says Crawfurd, in his "History
of the Shire of Renfrew," "a charter granted by John, Lord Darn-
ley, and Earl of Lennox, of the lands of Halrig and Raiss, to

<FOOTNOTE>It was removed by the proprietor about eighteen Years ago.


