
			BUITTLE.                             207

	Rent of Land.--The average rent of land varies from 15s. to L.1,
10s. per acre, according to soil and situation; hill pasture from 8s. to

were banished to the plantations, whilst others were imprisoned, and it brought great
distress upon this part of the country. At that period, justice was not very properly
administered; for a respectable man of the name of M'Clacherty, who lived in Bal-
maghie parish, was concerned in the mob, and, on his being brought to trial, one of
the justices admired a handsome Galloway which he rode, and the justice told him, if
he would give him the Galloway, he would effect his acquittal, which he accordingly did.
This misfortune, with what happened to the Mississippi Company in the year 1720,
did most generally distress this quarter of the kingdom. It is not pleasant to repre-
sent the wretched state of individuals as times then went in Scotland. The tenants,
in general, lived very meanly on kail, groats, milk, graddon ground in querns turn-
ed by the hand, and the grain dried in a pot, together with a crook ewe now and
then `bout Martinmas. They were clothed very plainly, and their habitations were
most uncomfortable. Their general wear was of cloth, made of waulked plaiding,
black and white wool mixed, very coarse, and the cloth rarely dyed. Their hose were
made of white plaiding bloth sewed together, with single-soled shoes, and a black or
blue bonnet,--none having hats but the lairds, who thought tbemselves very well
dressed for going to church on Sunday with a black kelt-coat of their wife's making.
It is not proper for me here to narrate the distress and poverty that were felt in the
country during these times, which continued till about the year 1735. In 1725, po-
tatoes were first introduced into this stewartry by William Hyland, from Ireland,
who carried them on horses' backs to Edinburgh, where he sold them by pounds and
ounces.  During these times, when potatoes were not generally raised in the coun-
try, there was, for the most part, a great scarcity of food, bordering on famine; for,
in the stewartry of Kirkcudbright and county a Dumfries, there was not as much
victual produced as was necessary for supplying the inhabitants, and the chief part of
what was required for that purpose, was brought from the sand beds of Esk in tum-
bling cars, on the Wednesday, to Dumfries; and when the waters were high, by
reason of spates, and there being no bridges, so that these cars could not come with
the meal. I have seen the tradesmen's wives in the streets of Dumfries crying, be-
cause there was none to be got. At that period, there was only one baker in Dum-
fries, and he made bawbee baps of coarse flour, chiefly bran, which he occasionally
carried in creels to the fairs of Urr and Kirkpatrick. The produce of the country, in
general, was gray corn, and you might have travelled from Dumfries to Kirkcud-
bright, which is twenty-seven miles, without seeing any other grain, except in a gen-
tleman's croft, which, in general, produced bear or big for one-third part, another
third in white oats, and the remaining third in gray oats. At that period, there was
no wheat raised in the country; what was used was brought from Teviot, and it was
believed that the soil would not produce wheat. In the year 1735, there was no mill
in the country for frinding that sort of grain, and the first flour mill that was con-
structed in these bounds, was built by old Heron at Clouden, in the parish of Iron-
gray, some years after that date.
	In these times, cattle were also very low. I remember of being present at the
Bridge end of Dumfries in 1736, when Anthony M'Kie of Netherlaw sold five score
of five year old Galloway cattle, in good condition, to an Englishman, at L.2, 12s. 6d.
each; and old Robert Halliday, who was tenant of a great part of the Preston es-
tate, told me, that he reckoned he could graze his cattle on his farms for 2s, 6d. a
head, that is to say, that his rent corresponded to that sum.
	At this period, few of the proprietors gave themselves any concern anent the ar-
ticles of husbandry,--their chief one being about black-cattle. William Craik, Esq.
of Arbigland's father died in 1735, and his son was a man of uncommon accomplish-
ments, who, in his younger days, employed his time in grazing of cattle, and studying
the shapes of the best kinds,--his father having given him the farm of Maxwelltown
to live upon. The estate of Arbigland was then in its natural state, very much co-
vered with whins and broom, and yielding little rent, being only about 3000 merks
a year. * That young gentleman was among the first that undertook to improve the
soil; and the practice of husbandry which he pursued, together with the care and
trouble which he took in ameliorating his farm, was very great. Some of it he
brought to such perfection, by clearing off all weeds and stones, and pulverized it so

<FOOTNOTE>18 merks make L. 1 Sterling, or L.12 Scots.


