
			GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

                     ON THE COUNTY OF SHETLAND.


	   THE Shetland Islands are 90 in number, and extend from
	north to south 70 miles, and from east to west 54 miles.  Of
	these, 25 are inhabited, the rest are occupied in pasture, some of
	them being only islets or holms a few square yards in extent.
	Mainland is the largest, about 55 miles long and 25 broad;
	on its eastern side, lies Lerwick, a town containing 3000 in-
	habitants, and the only one in the country.  Sumburgh Head,
	rendered classical by Sir Walter Scott's "Pirate," is the ex-
	tretme south point of Shetland, and lies in latitude 59' 51" north,
	and 1' 16" west from Greenwich.
	   The general appearance of the coast is precipitous and pictures-
	que, constantly diversified by bold promontories, deep bays, and
	small creeks, and the rocks are broken into the most rugged and
	fantastic forms by the action of the weather and the surge.  The
	scenery is remarkably varied, chiefly in consequence of the different
	species of mountain rock of which the islands are composed, want-
	ing, however, in one element of sublimity, great altitude, for al-
	though hilly, the country cannot be tremed mountainous.  Roo.
	ness hill is the highest land, 1476 feet in height.  Of the mural
	precipices the highest is that of Foola, 1200 feet above the sea
	level.  In general, they are under 500 feet.  The predominating
	feature of the interior is undulating, bleak, moorland.  Many of
	the vales and much of the land skirting the bays, have rather a
	fertile and romantic appearance, but the absence of wood, and the
	paucity of sunshine, are deficiencies which enthusiastic tourists will
	deprecate.
	   Climate, &c.--The climate is moist and variable, rarely present-
	ing great extremes of temperature, and is, on the whole, wild, and
	to natives salubrious . The predominant winds are south-west from
	which quarter commonly those heavy gales arise, that are in autumn

	<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by Laurence Edmondston, Esq. M.D.
	SHETLAND. 			            K


