
518                    RENFREWSHIRE.

1st year, oats after lea ; 2. potatoes or turnips; 3. wheat, barley,
or oats; 4. hay; 5. and 6. pasture : and lately, on some of Lord
Blantyre's farms, an eight-shift course, as it is called, adding two
years, more of pasture, has been adopted, with every prospect of
success. The nature of the soil will not admit of repeated crop-
ping without a failing off in the produce, and a considerable rest
in grass seems requisite, in order to preserve fertility, except
on the heavy land, which forms too small a proportion of the whole
parish to affect its general features. The propriety of persisting
in making wheat a general crop seems very doubtful,-neither the
soil nor the climate being, adapted for bringing this valuable article
to maturity; in addition to which the wheat crop seems to be by
no means a good nurse for the young grasses sown down with it.
Barley is not a general crop, but might take the place of wheat
with advantage, as it is much better adapted to the soil and cli-
mate, and produces no bad effects upon the young grasses sown
down with it.
  The greatest improvement introduced into the parish, of late
years, is the tile-draining on the parallel or furrow system; and,
as all the soils of the first, second, and fourth classes, above-men-
tioned, require to be freed from superfluous moisture attendant on
an impervious subsoil, much yet remains to be done in this depart-
ment. From the interest taken, both by landlord and tenant, in
this system, it is to be expected that a great change will have
taken place in the course of ten or twelve years, both in the aspect
and produce of the parish. On the Erskine estate the landlord
provides the tiles, and is at the expense of draining in the first in-
stance, the tenants paying five per cent. interest on the outlay dur-
ing the continuance of their leases, and the same plan has been
adopted by the other proprietors. Two tile-works have been
lately erected in the parish,-one by Lord Blantyre on the lands
of Glenshinnoch, and the other by Mr Rodger on the landr of
Gledestane, on both of which there is found abundance of excel-
lent clay for the manufacture of tiles. The subsoil plough, which
has been introduced into East Lothian with great success for the
purpose of turning up the subsoil, and mixing it with the surface
soil to be introduced, during the course of this year, into this
parish for the same purpose; and, meanwhile, deep ploughing af-
ter draining has been successfully practised, with that end in view.
   The leases of farms vary from fifteen to nineteen years, a num-
ber of the more recent being of the former period. There are

                              4


