
230                       FORFARSHIRE.

mated value of maintenance, it is L.20, 10s. 10d. In 1792, a fe-
male-servant's yearly wage, including L.3 in money, and L.4, 6s.
8d. the estimated value of maintenance, was L.7, 6s. 8d.; now
it is, including L.5, 15s. in money, and L.6, 8s. 2 1/2d. the estimat-
ed value of maintenance, L.12, 3s. 2/2d. In 1792, the wages
of a day-labourer per day, withnut victuals, were 1s. 1d.; of a car-
penter, 1s. 4d. and of a mason, 1s. 6d.; now the wages of a day-
labourer, without victuals, are 1s. 10d.; of a carpenter, 2s.; and
of a mason 2s. 6d. Comparing the fiars prices of grain, as struck
at Forfar for crop 1833, with the prices of grain in 1792, it is
found that wheat, barley, and oats, are as. low-priced at present as
they were forty years ago.
	The general aspect of the parish, as well artificial as natural, has
unquestionably been much improved within the last forty years.
Many parts of it which were then wet have been drained; many
wastes reclaimed, and at least 300 acres brought from a state of
nature into a state of cultivation, while about 20 acres have been
added to the plantations. Farming, in all its branches, is conducted
upon the most approved principles, by a body of men who are gene-
rally enlightened practical farmers. Formerly, the rotations of
cropping prescribed to the tenants were often found to be disad-
vantageous; but now the farmers enjoy a more liberal system of
cropping, and are tied down by no rotations that are hurtful either
to themselves or their farms. Formerly, flax, pease, and beans,
were cultivated to great extent, but the first being found to be a
scourging crop, and the two last to encourage foulness, have
been almost completely laid aside. By adopting the system of
alternate husbandry in corn crop, green crop, and grass, and by
applying lime and marl, with a proportionate quantity of dung,
the farmers have generally put the arable land in excellent con-
dition. Hence there is not only a greater extent put under
corn crop, green crop, and artificial grasses, but the same extent
yields a produce very much superior, both in quantity and quality,
to the produce of former times. Indeed, it may with safety be said
that the produce of grain and green-crop is about double of what
it was in 1792. Since that period, the progress of agriculture has
been rapid. This rapidity has in no small degree been promoted
by the introduction of some valuable machines, and by the adop-
tion of new modes of growing and consuming turnips. Besides,
the arrangement of the former enclosures has been greatly alter-


