
			BANCHORY DEVENICK.                   185

the main pillars is 185 feet, and the length of the whole bridge
305 feet. It cost about L. 1400, independently of an embank-
ment of about a quarter of a mile long on the south side, forming
the approach to the bridge. This embankment cost above L. 50,
and was erected chiefly by subscriptions from those heritors whose
properties profit most by the bridge. Mr John Smith of Aber-
deen was the architect, who has contrived to give the bridge such
a degree of firmness, that its motion is scarcely perceptible in the
heaviest gales of wind. This bridge completely connects the Aber-
deenshire district of the parish, containing a populathon of at least
700, with the church and school, to which there is now easy and
safe access in all states of the river.
	A turnpike road has been contracted for, and is in progress
along the south bank of the river, and is intended to supersede the
commutation road already mentioned.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church was built in the year
1822, on the site of the old one, which, although not ruinous, was
pulled down by the heritors, much to their credit, merely on ac-
count of its inadequacy to accommodate thd parishioners. Indeed,
the population had so much increased, and by consequence the
number of communicants, that these last could not be contained in
the old church. There was no date on the old church. The bell
was cast at Gotin in 1597; and on the coping-stones of the church-
yard gate is the date 1608.
	The church is seated for 900 sitters, and none of the seats are
let. The distance of the church from the south and south-east
extremities of the parish may be about five miles; from the wester-
most, and eastermost, not more than two; but these last being on
the opposite side of the river, the situation of the church, in point
of convenience, may be regarded as sufficiently centrical. Besides,
at Portlethen there is a chapel which contains about 300 sitters,
and in which a licentiate of the Church of Scotland preaches every
Lord's day. His salary, L. 30, is paid from the seat rents, the col-
lections being applied to the maintenance of the poor.
	This chapel is situated about three or three and a half miles
from the parish church, in a populous district. It was a family
chapel previous to the Reformation, and has been recently repair-
ed and enlarged, partly by subscription, and partly by an applica-
tion of some part of the poor's funds,--which last will soon be re-
placed from the surplus of the seat rents. Before this was dnne,
the preacher had not more than L. 24 a year, although drawing


