
                            WILTON.                             83

parish and neighbour hood, respecting the acquisition of this land
to the benefice, which, though not supported by any existing docu-
ment, must have had its origin in fact.
 It appears from the records of the presbytery of Jedburgh, that
a Mr John langlands was minister of Wilton in 1641, and that
the presentation to the parish at that time belonged to the Buc-
eleuch family, and to the Langlands of Langlands, per vices.  The
Mains of Wilton, which lie contiguous to the church and manse,
and formed a boundary to the estate of Langlands are said by this
traditionary account to have been given by the Laird of Langlands
to his relative, then minsiter of the parish; and, if any deed of con-
veyance accompanied the grant, it has long since been lost.  The
tradition, however, from the remotest periods, has universally been,
that the benefice obtained the lands in the manner now mentioned
from the Langlands family.
   Yet, notwithstanding the uncertainty as to the origin of the glebe,
and although it could not be shown that the Mains of Wilton had
ever been designed by the heritors in lieu of any portion of the
stipend, the Court of Teinds in 1827 held the lands to be the
old glebe lands of the Popish incumbents, forming part of the
original endowments of the benefice.  Previous to 1649, the sti-
pend was 12 bolls of meal and bear, Tiviotdale measure, and 540
merks Scots.  An auglentation was then obtained, although the
decree of locality is now lost, which made the stipend amount to
3 chalders, Linlithgow measure, and L. 560 Scotts, exclusive of the
glebe, and this continued to be the value of the living for the pe-
riod of 178 years.  During this long interval no process of aug-
mentation, so far as it is known, was brought forward; and, while
other churches were gradually rising in the scale of emohument,
the heritors of Wilton, through the apathy or timidity of its in-
cumbents, were suffered to retain in their pockets the augment-
ed stipend which might have been obtained.
  Besides the lands which lie contiguous to the manse, there are
also belonging to this church about sixteen English acres, which
were acquired in the division of Wilton common in 1765.  This
out-field is two miles west from the church , and, although nearly
all arable, yet, being in a high and exposed situation it is much
inerior in value to that part of the glebe formerly mentioned.
  There are no chapels of ease, nor dissenting congregation of any
description in this parish.  The Seceders, as at the period when
Dr Charters gave in his report, are numerous, although they have


