
236                         STIRLINGSHIRE.

to visit the glens, so that the quiet and decency of a country Sab-
bath are here destroyed during half the year.
  Hydrography.-The Glazert, which runs through a consider-
able part of this parish, and which, together with the abundance
of coal found here, has converted this into a manufacturing dis-
trict, empties itself-into the Kelvin, opposite the town of Kirkin-
tilloch, and is form‚d by the junction of three burns,-the Pu',
a languid streamlet which skirts the base of the South Brae; the
Finglen Burn, which crosses the valley at the west end of the
village of Haughead; and the Kirkton Burn, which crosses it at
the eastern extremity of the same village. These three unite
their waters near the lodge, at the entrance to Lennox Castle.
Besides those now mentioned, no less than sixteen burns are said
to empty themselves into the Glazert.
  Climate and Diseases.--It is to be regretted that no exact ob-
servations have yet been made, which might enable us to deter-
mine exactly the comparative meteorological character of this dis-
trict. Compared with the surrounding country, however, the cli-
mate is evidently more moist, and also both colder in winter and
hotter in summer. These differences are easily accounted for,
by reference to the position of the locality, situated between the
Frith of Clyde on the south-west, and the Frith of Forth on the
north-east, and lying immediately under lofty hills, which attract
the clouds ascending along both 'those arms of the sea. The
comparative coldness of this parish in winter arises not only from
its proximity to the depositories of snow on the summits of the
hills,'but also from the contraction towards the west of the strath,
through which the winds from the eastern quarter rush as through
a funnel. The temperature in summer is greatly heightened by
reflection from the Fells, which lie nearly at right angles to the
rays of the sun at noon, and present an almost unbroken surface,
bending gradually towards the south at both extremities, so as to
concentrate the rays upon the valley below.
  The ill effects of a damp climate are in part counteracted by
the general dryness of the soil. Still, I do not think Campsie
can be pronounced a remarkably healthy locality, at least in the
valley. Fevers and inflammations prevail to a great extent, as
well as pulmonary diseases. In the year 1836, there were 153
funerals, the largest number, I believe, which ever has taken place
in one year. Besides climate, other causes are to be adverted to,
as operating unfavourably on the sanatory condition of the popu-
lation. 1. The cottages are almost, without exception, damp,


