
308                   ARGYLESHIRE.

  They make expert and hardy seamen, being accustomed to the
sea from their infancy; and they make no less effibient soldiers.
When his Grace the Duke of Argyle, in 1793, raised the Ar-
gyleshire Feucibles, commanded by the Marquis of Lorn, very
many of the youth of the parish joined these ; and many of them
enlisted in the 74th Regiment, then under his Grace's patronage.
During the continuance of the late war, many of them were found
in the line ; and they made no mean appearance in the volunteer
corps, sustaining at all times, and under the most trying circum-
stances, the exalted character of the Highland soldier.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Several individuals pay rents of L.70 or thereby ; but the bulk
of the population, consisting of crofters, possessing small patches
of land, agricultural labourers, cottars, and fishermen, pay rents
from L.4 to L.12 annually.  These have no leases, occupying
only from year to year.  The large tenants have leases, varying
in duration according to agreement.
  Agriculture.-The different kinds of manure made use of are
shell sand, which is found in Ross, dung from the housed cattle,
and sea ware, with which every part of the coast abounds.  The
plough is made use of where the nature of the ground will admit
of it ; but where the ground is broken and full of stones, and in
soft and mossy parts, the old Highland spade is used ; the crops
which places so worked by the spade produce, seem, in a great
measure, to compensate the toil.
  Small tenants or crofters plant their potatoes in the lazy bed
way.  Those raised by sea-ware in this mode are not so dry as
these planted or dibbled in the same kind of beds, and are ma-
nured with dung.  Others in the parish drill their potatoes, where
the ground is accessible to the plough.
  The other crops raised are oats, and bear or Scots barley.
The former is made into meal, or used in the straw, during winter
and spring, for feeding the cattle ; the latter obtains a ready sale
at the Tobermory and Oban distilleries.  Turnip on the large
farms is being grown, and clover and rye grass are not unfrequently
sown.  The parish does not produce so much meal and potatoes
as to support the inhabitants.  The meal imported comes gene-
rally from the Clyde; and the parish of Ulva supplies to those
requiring it the quantity of potatoes awanting.  The sowing be-
gins generally about the 20th March, and is finished about the
                            4


