
			ELGIN.                                21

   ary Society, L. 24. Collections are also made periodically in the
   Established Church in aid of the General Assembly's Schools, the
   Indian Mission, and the funds of the Hibernian schools. The ave-
   rage amount of such collections yearly may be about L. 20. -
	Education.-There are thirteen schools in the parish, of which
   ten are in the town. The Elgin Academy is partly endowed, and
   partly supported from the town's funds, and the three schools of
   which it consists, though not perhaps technically, are in fact paro-
   chial schools, and most efficiently answer the same purpose. The
   trustees of the Dick bequest to the parochial schoolmasters of the
   counties of Moray, Banff, and Aberdeen, have not as yet admitted
   the teachers of the academy to any share of the fund under their
   management, but it is hoped, they will give the benefit of any am
   biguity in the wording of the benevolent donor's settlements to
   seminary where education is conducted after the most approved
   method, with exemplary zeal and distinguished success. The
   school of industry and the free school of the Elgin institution are
   both endowed; four others in the town, two of which are for the edu-
   cation of young ladies, are unendowed; and one, an infant school,
   recently established, is supported by individual subscriptions and
   fees;-the other three in the landward part of the parish, are also
   unendowed. The branches taught in the academy, are English
   reading and writing, English grammar and composition, arithmetic,
   geography, practical mathematics, French, Latin, and Greek. A
   course of lectures on natural philosophy is occasionally delivered,
   and illustrated by a neat experimental apparatus, partl public, and
   partly the property of the mathematical teacher. In the ladies'
   schools are taught, English reading and grammar, and composition,
   writing, arithmetic, sewing, geography, drawing, music, French and
   Italian. The youths attending the other schools are instructed in
   the ordinary branches of educational The Bible is read, and, the
   Shorter Catechism committed to memory in all the schools.
     The salaries of the English and mathematical teachers of the
   Academy are L. 45 each; that of the classical teacher is L. 50.
   They have no house or allowance for one, and the English and
   classical teachers are obliged by agreement with the magistrates to
   keep and pay assistants. The fees are, for English reading per
   quarter, 2s. ; reading and writing,3s.;  English grammar,2s. 6d.;
   Latin 7s. 6d. ; elocution, mathematics, French, and Greek, 10s.
   6d,; arithmetic, 4s,; a course of geography, L.1, 1s., and three
   sets of book-keeping L.1, 1s.; The interest of  L.200 was bequeath-


