
32                          ARGYLESHIRE.

and potato land. Labour is not very often performed by piece
work; when it Is sheep drains cost 1d. per fall; dry stone walls,
from 4s. 6d. to ]Os. the fall, according to circumstances.
   Fishing.-The fishing forms a source of considerable wealth,
and though the herring fishing, which affords employment to every
individual who is disposed to labour, has for some years been un.
usually unproductive, it has contributed greatly to aid the soil in
supporting those families who derive part of their sustenance from
the pursuits of agriculture. It affords a cheerful and exciting oc-
cupation to the young.
The herring fishing generally commences about the end of June,
and continues, if the weather permit, till the beginning of Janu-
ary. The congregating of a few gulls into one place, or the pro.
loosed visit of " the whale," as the sail fish is called, sets every
hand to work to get boats and nets into order. The boats used
vary in size, being from 18 feet keel, and 8 feet beaua, to half dec-
kers of 22 feet long by 9 broad. The former cost about L.20,
the latter L.40. The train used also varies in length, according to
the size of the boal The ordinary train, however, consists of 36
nets, each net being formed of smaller nets called breadthr or
dippens of twelve yards. in length, and two in breath. The whole
train is thus 436 yards long when stretched td its full length;
but when dropped- into the water so that the meshes become ex-
tended, its breath is 10 yards, and its length is greatly diminished.
Each dippen costs, at an average, about 2s., and each train L-18.
The fishermen can seldom afford to purchase the whole. They
and their children  generally manage, to net a considerable portion,
as well as to repair whatever is torn or decayed, and for these pur-
poses they prefer the twine twisted at a, rope work to that spun at
bome. The  train is suspended in the sea, by attaching a blad-
der ingated with air to the end of every net, and a small , buoy to
every fourth net.
  In the beginning of the season; the herrings swim near the sur-
face; but about the end of August they often retire towards the
bottom, and they are fished for by affixing the buoys to long
strings which mark the place where the train is set, while the blad-
dors when the net is taken.down by its weight, serve to keep the whole
perpendirplar. In fishing near, the surface it is, customary to remove
from station to station during the night as occasion requires, and to
examine the nets lest herrings; if any, become the  of otber
fish; but when long or ground string is used in deep sea fish-


