
                        ARROCHAR.                             95

   There are no caves that require any particular notice. Tradition
says that there was one of considerable extent in Ben Vorlicb, and
another of smallerdimensions, on the farm of Stuckindroin, theseene
of some tragical event.
   The extent of coast along Loch Lomond on the east is nearly
14 miles, and on the west along Loch Long about 3 miles. The
shores of Loch Lomond are sandy, flat, and occasionally rocky, with
many most beautiful headlands. There are small bays at Cam-
busnaglass, Farkin, Tarbet, Inveruglass, Ardvorlich; and there
are three islands in Loch Lomond, which may be considered as
belonging to Arrochar.
   The climateisgenerallyinild,butvariable. Frosts,thoughocca-
sionally severe, are seldom of long continuance. Snow seldom lies
above a few days upon the low grounds. Colds in winter and
spring are sometimes general, and then they usually assume the
character of influenza ; inflammatory attacks were more frequent
some years ago than at present. Typhus fever occurs occasion-
ally, but has been confined almost always to one family, and never
extended to more than two families in any one season, for upwards
of twenty years.
   Loch Lomond, the eastern boundary of the parish, is 24 miles
in length, and in some places seven miles broad. From Lower
Inveruglass, where the parish of Arrochar commences, up to near
its northern point, it is of considerable depth. Opposite the point
of Farkin, about a mile and a-.half from Inveruglass, it is 66 fa-
thoms, a little farther north So fathoms deep ; for about a mile
south of Tarbet, it is about 86 fathoms deep; but about 2 miles north
from it, opposite Alt Gary, it is 100 fathoms, which probably is its
greatest depth ; beyond that, its depth gradually diminishes to its
northern end. It is almost unnecessary to add, that the scenery
of Loch Lomond is singularly bold and beautiful, and for extent,
variety, and maggificence, is not perhaps equalled or surpassed by
any Lake in Great Britain. Loch Long, which constitutes part
of the western boundary, is from 20 to 22 miles in length, and at
Some parts may be about 2 miles in breadth. Its depth in the
immediate neighbourhood of Arrochar may be stated from 15 to
20 fathoms. Its shores are occasionally Tandy, but their general
character is rocky. There are several magnificent points in Loch
Lougg the opening of Loch Goil, and the bold and splendid sce,
Fiery towards the head of Loch Long, are objects of general attmc-
tion and admiration.
   There are no rivers in the parish that require particular notice.


