
     of Castletown.

consist of 8 furrows*.  One farmer uses a pair of oxen with
Small's plough, and approves of them.

   Seasons.-Though the hills are most, yet from the reflec-
tion of the sun from each side of the valley; and its favour-
able exposure in the summer, the weather is very warm,
and the harvests are early.  As soon as vegetation com-
mences in the spring, it shoots forth with wonderful vi-
gour and with great rapidity, and the ordinary productions
of the garden arrive at great perfection.  Our harvests are
much more early than in Canonby, or even part of Cum-
berland, though both of which countries lie to the south of
Castletown.  Oats and pease are sown in March and April;
barley in the end of April or beginning of May, and they
are all reaped in September.

   Population.-The population of this parish has decreased
a little within there 40 years, as appears from the follow-
ing table.  This decrease is easily accounted for, by several
farms, formerly let to different tenants, being now pos-

<UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

The whole of the holm land along the banks of the river appears
formerly to have been covered with wood, and the sides of the hills to
have been almost entirely in cultivation; the surrows and ridges are
plain and evident.  But at this period, to sow corn on those places, or to
expect a crop, would be equally varn What is the cause of this change?
When the vallies were covered with wood to a certain height, were the
sides of the hills more warm?  Were the seasons themselves then more
kindly, as tradition positively affirms?  Or were the inhabitants obliged
to cultivate the high grounds, when the lower were covered with wood?
About the middle of the hills, on each side the river Liddal, a deep ditch,
or a strong wall, appears to have been drawn almost the whole length
of the country, beneath which lay the arable ground, where the?????
rows and ridges appear, and all above was either for pasture,????
In those days every kind of fence was necessary, not only from beasts of
the fields but also from the inroads of the plunderer

</UNREADABLE>


