
     Statistical Account

rearing young cattle, than for feeding oxen for the butcher.
Each farmer kills an ox or cow betwixt Martinmass and
Christmass, which is salted up for family use.  Potatoes are
only beginning to be planted in large quantities in the field,
and only a few bolls are sold over and above what is needed
in the parish.  The crop is worse this year than any crop
since 1782, having suffered much damage by the long con-
tinued rains, but much more indeed from the high winds
that followed after.  The corns in many places, then stand-
ing, have been almost all shaken: and it is supposed, that
after the quantity of victual necessary to sow the fields, and
supply the inhabitants with provisions, for a single year is
secured, there will not be much over to pay the farms, or to
send to market.
   In 1771, every family in the parish brewed the small beer
they needed, which cost them about 15 d, or 16 d per barrel;
and generally had some of the strongest wort made into a
better kind; but now this is entirely and by necessity given
over, and all their small beer is taken from a brewery at 2 s 8 d
per barrel.  Whisky is the only spirituous liquor that is used,
or can be afforded here; which about 16 years ago, they
could buy very good in quality, from 1 s 10 d, to 2 s 2 d per
pint; i. e. 16 gills; but now they pay 3 s 6 d for the same
quantity, but much worse in quality*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is indeed worthy the attention of the Legislature, to endeavour to
correct an abuse which has been introduced into this kind of traffic, and which
is now arrived at the most alarming height.  Whisky is a spirit distilled from
malt, and when properly done, it is esteemed by some, as very little inferior
to rum; but for some years, it has very much changed its taste and flavour;
and it is suspected, that either proper attention is not paid to it at the time
of distilling, or that afterwards it is mixed with some pernicious ingredients
very destructive to the bowels, or to the health or constitution of those who
drink it.


