
     Statistical Account

E. to W. and divides Old Montrose from Dysart.  The
soil upon these rising grounds is in general a very fine loam,
which bears excellent crops of barley, turnips and grass.
Upon the lands of Dysart, as they lie higher, the soil is of
a lighter quality than Old Montrose.-This parish is in a
pretty high state of cultivation, and would have been much
more so, were it not for the pernicious effects of long leaves
and low rents, leaves let many years ago, and many years
of them still to run.  Improvement of land on a large scale,
and to extent, did not take place in this part of the
country till of late years, when the old leases were at an
end, and the rents were raised.  Farmers, like men of o-
ther professions, must be spurred on to industry by necessi-
ty.  Those who possessed the old leases found that they
could live as their fathers had done before them, and were
satisfied with the day of small things.  If they got a live-
lihood with ease, they were not anxious for wealth, when
accompanied with exertion.  It would be injustice, howe-
ver, not to acknowledge, that some of the tenants who pos-
sess the old leases are now beginning to go on with spirit
and industry: but that was not the case, till they were
shown a good example; and perhaps, but from necessity,
that example would never have been shown them.  There
is much fine land in this parish let at 10 s. the acre, and
even under that; and yet the tenants are not more wealthy
than their neighhours, who pay 30 s. the acre for land of
no better quality.  What can be the reason of this, but
that the former are not so industrious as the latter, owing
to long leaves and low rents.  Great as the improvements
are, which have been made in this part of Scotland, within
these few years past, yet the land is by no means ar-
rived at that value to which it is capable of being raised.
-There are two modes followed in cropping the strong
clay land in this parish.  The one is first a fallow, with 50


