
	                   AYR.                            17

ing one, which has been pointed out to us by an intelligent practical
gardener in this neighbourbood, who has paid great attention to the
study of botany. We shall give the account of it in his own words:
"A few years ago there was found on the farm of Cockhill, about
three miles south-east from Ayr, a very fine species of Ononis. In
its general appearance it approaches near to spinosa. The root is
stationary, which distinguishes it from the Ononis arvensis. The
stems rise about two feet high, are very spiny, and covered in sum-
mer with a profusion of red-coloured blossoms of a very handsome
appearance. This plant has been sent to various quarters of Britain,
and is known in gardens under the name of Ononis spinosissima. It
has not been found anywhere else, nor has it as yet been described in
any botanical work." Another botanical friend has informed us, that
be once found a very fine specimen of the CEnothera biennis, in a state
of nature, among some solitary sand-hills, far from any garden whence
its seeds could have escaped. He supposes the seed to have been
blown to that spot, from some timber ships from America, as it is un-
certain whether it has ever been found before in Scotland, in a wild
state. What will be reckoned interesting to botanists in regard to the
temperature of this place, is the fact, that in the garden of Mount
Charles, the Acacia dealbata, and the Benthamia fragifera, the for-
mer on a wall, the latter in a border, have stood the last winter
without any covering, and without having received the smallest in-
jury. Though there are no plants that are peculiar to the parish,
with the exception above described, yet there are some that are
rarely found anywhere else. For instance, the Brassica Monensis,
or Isle of Man cabbage, grows in great abundance along the sea
coast in the vicinity of the town, and though it is to be found in
Bute and Arran, yet it is seldom or never met with on the main-
land. The Convolvulus soldanella has been picked tip once or twice
on the sands, but it grows with great luxuriance on the shores
of a neighbouring parish. It has been remarked, that plants ac-
quire a greater brilliancy of colouring here than in most other
places of Scotland, probably owing to the arid nature of the soil;
certainly very handsome specimens may be obtained. The most
numerous classes are the Vicia, Trifolia and Gramina, and it might
perhaps be of advantage to the stock-farmer to be at pains to im
prove the two former in his pastures and sheep walks. From the
proximity to the sea shore, there are some plants that are indigenous
this parish, and by no means common in many parts of Scotland.
Among others we may mention the following:
   AYR                         B


