
     of Monzie.

on all sides but one.  It is defended by a deep trench With-
out the walls.  It is 30 paces in breadth within the inner
wall, and 180 paces around the fort.  Each wall is 20 feet
thick, and 20 feet distant from each other, and from the
outer wall to the trench is 30 paces.  This is said to have
been FINGAL'S habitation, after GARA burned his house*.
The walls are built with stone but no cement, and some of
the stones would weigh 300 stones weight.  About 2 miles
East from Fiantiach, there is another fort, called Lene.  It
is twice as large as the one above, exceedingly strong, and
appears to have been built by the same persons:  It is fur-
rounded with two walls.  The inner wall is 240 paces round,
the distance between the walls is 20 feet, and each wall is
20 feet thick.  On the contiguous muir there are many cairns,
tumili, and burrows, which are thought to be monuments of
heroes, but even tradition is silent about them.  One, however,
is called Cairn-Combat++, in memory of FINGAL'S father.  In
the same moor there are also 2 cairns, 50 feet in circumfer-
ence.  On the top of a hill, on the other side of the passage
through the hills, and opposite to Dunmore, is another cairn,
where the stones seem to be a fallen arch; it was probably
a small fort, and is so near that of Dunmore, that persons
could converse with each other across the glen.  There is a
small camp on the South side of the parish, near to Culto-
quhey, called in Gaelic, Combat cults i. e. Comhal's battle++.

     VOL. XV. K k

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some large teeth were found lately, and a quern, i. e. a hand mill,
which was made of the hill stone, and did not bear the mark of any tool.

+This Cairn was opened lately, and contained a large stone coffin, the
stone covering the lad of the coffin, was 4 feet 10 inches long, 2 1/2 feet broad,
and 2 feet thick.

++Tradition says, that COMHAL sought here, but lost the battle.  Some
urns with-ashes were dug up here lately.  In the register of St Andrew's we


