
          PARISH OF SOUTHDEAN.

PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

        THE REV. JOHN RICHMOND, MINISTER.


        I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.--The parish is called indiscriminately Shouthdean or
Charters.  The upper district is more properly than the other
parts called Southdean,--a name supposed to be derived from its
having been the south valley or dean of the once celebrated Jed
Forest.
  Extent, Boundaries, &c.--The extent of the parish is about 13-
miles in length, and 7 in breadth.  It is bounded on the S. by Nor-
thumberland, and partly by Liddesdale; S. W. and W. by the pa-
rishes of Hobkirk and Bedrule; N. E. and E. by Jedburgh and
Oxnam.
  In a parish of so great extent, it may well be expected that there
will be a considerable diversity of soil.  The lower parts consist ge-
nerally of gravel, light black earth, and in some parts a strong clay.
Along the river Jed, gravel prevails, inclining to heath.  Towards
the hills, and upon them, light earth, moss, and strong clay are preva-
lent.  The arable part of the parish is now considerably extended.
  Climate, &c.--The elimate varies greatly.  While the upper
part of the parish is cold and stormy, the lower is sheltered and
mild.  It is, however, throughout its whole extent remarkably heal-
thy.  There is at present ond person upon the pauper list, consider-
ably above ninety.  One also above that age died only a few months
ago; and there are several others above eighty.
  Diseases formerly prevalent in this district are now greatly mi-
tigated, if not entirely removed.  Those arising from dampness of
climate, such as ague and rheumatism, have almost disappeared,
owing, no doubt, to the extensive draining of sheep pasture, as well
as the more general use of flannel.  Thyphus fever and inflamma-
tory complaints have, however, proportionally increased.
  Mineralogy.--In regard to minerals, it may be observed, that a
seam of antimony was discovered many years ago on the estate of
Abbotrule, but after several attempts to work it, it was ultimately


