
300                       RENFREWSHIRE.

and valuable collection of several thousand volumes.  Most of the
congregations have libraries of religious books attached to them,
for the use of the members and the public.  There is a library of
theological books, to the extent of 800 volumes, supported by volun-
tary subscription.  Of " Book-clubs" the number cannot be stated.
They have long been in high repute; and their periodical sales
have been the means of introducing many valuable literary works
into the houses of the members.
   Stereotype Printing.-Printing by stereotype has been lately be-
gun in Paisley by Mr Alexander Gardner, Bookseller and Sta-
tioner; and we have at present before us a very promising speci-
men of the work in a neat edition of the psalms and paraphrases
of a small size, and very moderate price.  The psalms are accom-
panied with the valuable notes of John Brown of Haddington,
abridged; and the paraphrases have appended to them what we
never saw before, a short summary of the contents of each, with
the name and biographical notice of the author.  We understand
that Mr John Neilson, long well known as a printer in this place,
has commenced business in the same line.
   Lithography.-Lithograph printing, writing, and ornamental
sketching, are executed with great beauty and exactness by Messrs
Robert Hay and Son, at the Advertiser Office.

                 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
   In bringing our remarks on the town and parishes of Paisley to
a close, we cannot help expressing our belief that this locality
possesses an interest to which few, if any other, places in Scotland
can lay claim.  Whether we wander on the banks of its streams,
or follow the antiquary to the ruins of its castles, or to the remains
of its far-famed abbey, or dive into the pits of its richest minerals,
or ascend the heights of nature or of art, and gaze on the extent
and beauty of the scenery around, or accompany our intelligent
farmers in their healthful occupations, or visit our extensive fac-
tories teeming with their busy population, or examine our schools
and places of moral and religious instruction,-we meet with
much not only to interest, but also to instruct.  But deep as
is the impression which the present aspect of Paisley is calculated
to make, the impression becomes much deeper when we compare
Paisley as it now is, with what it was when the old Statistical Ac-
count was published, and with what, from its continued progress,
it is likely at no distant day to become.
   Compared with its state when the Statistical Account was pub-


