
                             DRAINIE.                              153

abundant, the oak charcoal was scanty, and the larger and harder
bones, particularly the vertebra, not half consumed.
   I know not what our Pictish ancestors may have done, but it is
certain the Celts did burn, and burn with oak.  The Druids con-
sidered oak as the symbol of Deity; their altars were; strewed with
its leaves and encircled with its branches, and cbaplets of oak
were worn by the priests and by the people on all their religious
ceremonies, none of which were more solemn than the funeral
rites paid to the dead.  That the Celts were expelled from Kin.
nedder and all the lowlands of Moray by the Picts, is admitted ;
and I think it must also be admitted, that the Celts built the for-
tress of Kinnedder, from which, after much slaughter they were
driven by the Picts, and the Picts in their turn expelled by Mal-
colm IL or Ill., and Kinnedder granted as a fief to the Bishops
of Moray.  The numerous graves running parallel to the'wall, and
covered by the high earthen rampart, which, till lately, -never ap-
pear to have been disturbed, prove the ancient castle and fortifi,-
cation to have been the work of the Celts, or of the Picts, if they
also burned their dead ; but clearly disprove the claim of any Bi-
shop of Moray having built either the Great Tower, or surround-
ing fortifications.  Some, however, from the numerous fragments
of urns found in Kinnedder, suppose the fortification to have been
Roman, and an outpost of Burghead (Ptoroton).
11 Warlihe Hills."-These are a range of arti6cial, conical earthen
mounds, at nearly equal distances, and from twenty to thirty feet
high, erected on the summits of the Causea. bills, which stretch
their perpendicular rocks on the north, along the Moiray, Frith, and
raise their heads on the south, above the long extended plains of
Moray.  Their name denotes the end for which they were con-
structed. . Commanding a distant prospect both by sea and land,
'they were uqed as telegraphic signal-posts.  When the Celts p6s.-
sessed the land, they announced by lighted fires a; hostile invasion
by northern.  Celts or Danes.  When the NAish or Norweean
race possessed the land, they answered the same purposeby -sutl*_
nion-ing their armed warlike vassals to the field, or served to direct,
through the Moray Fritb, tbecourse of the fleets of their brethren
the Danes, who might come to; their aid, or extend their conquests.
Eminent Characters.-After theestablishment of E
Moray,'the bishops were the only proprietors of Kinnedder :and
099ton, from the time of Malcolm 11. down to that of the, unfor
tunately. But excepting the ruins of the old church of Kin-


