
580				LANARKSHIRE.

Lockhart of Kirkton. Of these three, the elder branch became
extinct in 1776 by the death, without issue, of Sir William Lock-
hart Denham, Bart., grandson of William Lockhart of Wicket-
shaw. The representation of the family thereupon devolved upon
the late Major-General William Lockhart, great grandson of
Robert Lockhart of Birkhill; and on the death of Allan Lockhart,
of Cleghorn in 1805, he became the undoubted head, in the male
line, of that branch of the Lockharts. On the death of his grand-
uncle, James Somerville of Corhouse, in 1767, be also became
the representative, in the female line, of the Somervilles of Cam-
busnethan. His nephew, William Lockhart of Milton-Lockhart,
is, after Sir Norman Lockhart, the most extensive proprietor in
the parish.
        Eminent Characters.-The only native of the parish of emi-
nence was Major-General Roy, famed as a civil and military en-
gineer, as also for his standard work on Roman antiquities. Chal-
mers, in his Caledonia, Vol. ii. p. 64, professes entire ignorance
of his birth-place, as does also Chambers in his Lives of Eminent
Scotchmen. But the parish register mentions his birth at Milton-
head, on 4th May 1726. His brother Dr Roy was also born in
this parish, and held the bursary in Glasgow College, instituted
for natives of Carluke by the Countess of Forfar. Robert Forrest
and John Greenshields, well known for their eminent skill as self-
taught sculptors, are also natives of this parish. Mr Greenshields
died on 19th April 1835.
        Antiquities.-The Roman road, which passed through Clydes-
dale to the western extremity of the wall of Antoninus, ran through
parish for several miles, in a north-westerly direction; and
its course may still be traced from the Roman camp, near Cleg-
horn, by Kilcadzow, Coldstream, Yieldshields, and Dyke to Bel-
ston, after passing which, it runs by Castlehill into Cambusnethan
parish. A portion of it is still very perfect at the Dyke, accom-
panied with its wall or dike, a mound of earth on the north-east

<FOOTNOTE>pany proposed to join in a psalm of praise. Birkhill remonstrated, reminding his
companions, that the enemy was in close pursuit. He took refuge on the top of a
tree; but had scarcely got himself safley ensconced, when the soldiers pounced upon
his friends, who shortly afterwards ended their career on the scaffold. Mr Lockhart,
however, did not long survive them. Worn out by fatigue and privations, he was
soon after found dead in a moss, and was secretly buried, after night-fall, within the
church of Carluke. The sword and pistols he wore at his death have been preserved
by his family. Walter of Kirkton at first held a commission in the royal army, but
afterwards expoused the causes of the Covenanters. He held the office of Paymaster
of the Forces in Scotland, and died in Edinburgh Castle, in 1748, aged 87.



