
            468                       RENFREWSHIRE.

            tioned, before the middle of last century.  Mr Robert Arrol, the
            author of an elegant translation of Cornelius Nepos, was the first
            master.  Under him the celebrated Mr Watt received his educa-
            tion in the classics.  Mr John Marr, who lived at the same pe-
            riod, was Mr Watt's instructor in mathematics.  Mr Arrol's suc-
            cessor, Mr John Woodrow, was nominated in 1751.  He was
            succeeded by Mr Bradfute, who continued in office for about four
            years.  On his removal to the Grammar-School of Glasgow, Mr
            John Wilson, author of a poem entitled Clyde, reckoned of so
            great merit as to be republished in 1803, was chosen master.  He
            died in June 1789, and was followed by Mr Thomson.  Mr Da-
            niel M'Farlane was appointed his successor in 1794, and conti-
            nued to teach with distinguished ability for thirty years.  On his
            resignation in 1824, Mr Potter, a young man of singular learning
            and talents, was chosen master, but did not live to perform the
            duties of the office.  W. L. Brown, LL.  D., is the present mas-
            ter, of whom it is no more than justice to say, that if the late la-
            mented Sir Daniel Sandford, one of the most eminent scholars of
            his age, was a competent judge, Dr Brown has few if any equals,
            among the teachers of the Greek and Roman classics in the pre-
            sent day.  It is lamentable to observe, that, Possessing such a
            teacher, the inhabitants seem to be insensible to the value of a
            literary education.  Out of a population of 30,000, the number
            of scholars in all Dr Brown's classes seldom exceeds 60.
               The mathematical class is taught with very great ability and
            success by Mr Robert Buchanan, son of the late Mr Colin Bu-
            chanan, for many years a teacher in this town enthusiastic in his
            profession, and justly respected by all who knew him.  Mr R.
            Buchanan has a numerously attended school.  Some of the young
            ladies under his tuition, much to their honour, have made consi-
            derable Proficiency in geometry and algebra.  Mr Colin Lamont
            was Mr Buchanan's immediate predecessor.  It is believed he was
            the first in Scotland to introduce into public schools the applica-
            tion of modern astronomy to navigation.  So early as in the year
            1785, he gave instructions in nautical astronomy, and the use of
            the instruments necessary for ascertaining a ship's place at sea, by
            lunar observations and chronometers.  With this view he had a
            place fitted up at his own expense, and provided with suitable in-
            struments,-incuding a 3 1/2 feet talescope, astronomical circle,
            clock, &c., for which, so far as we have learned, no remune-
            ration has yet made to him.  He retired some years ago,


