
     of Ardnamurchan.

of the Great Seas, appositely to its prominent situation amid
the larger Hebrides, which, with the peninsula, apparently
divide the ocean into several seas.   From a record in the
Teind-Office, it appears, that in the year 1630, this peninsula
was a separate parish, called Kilchoan, after the church of that
name dedicated to St Coan; and the remaining districts of
the present parish of Ardnamurchan formed a second pa-
rish, under the name of Island Finan, a beautiful little island
in Loch Sheil, then the residence of the minister, and site
of the principal church, dedicated to St Finan; but in more
ancient times, probably, the two most northern districts were
a third parish, named Kilmaria, after the church, the walls
of which remain at Keppoch in Arasaig, dedicated to the
Virgin Mary; and it will appear, that each of the three
was of large extent.

   Situation and Extent.-The Ru, i.e. the extremity of the
peninsula above mentioned, which is the south-west corner
of the parish, is remarkable as the most western point
of the mainland of Great Britain, and the most noted head-
land from Cape Wrath to the Moil of Kintyre, between
which it is centrically situated*.   The parish is, on the

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is to be regretted, our best maps and charts are so inaccurate in re-
spect to this remarkable headland, and still more so, as to the coast to the north
thereof, at least in this parish.  Though some attention has been paid to our
own shores, in the present reign chiefly, it has cost the public infinitely more
to explore the Antipodes.   The true place and figure of net one, perhaps, of
the Hebrides, is so well ascertained and known as those of O-why-hee or O-
ta-heite.  The best delineation that has been published, of any part of this or
of the neighbouring parishes, is Bruce's map of the Parish and Barony of Ard-
namorchan, in 1733, published by Sir A. Murray, that has been copied by
Dorret.  It lays down the Point of Ardnamurchan in latitude 56 degree 58' north,
and longitude 6 degree 13' west.  (Sea charts in present use make the longitude
6 degree 30').  A manuscript map of the same, in the book after-mentioned, makes


