
     Statistical Account

   Language etc-The Scotch, with an intermixture of some
Norwegian vocables*, is the only language spoken in the pa-
rish.  The pronunciation, as well as language of the peasantry,
is better than what prevails among the vulgar in more southern

<FOOTNOTE>

*The names of places seem to be derived from the Norwegian language.
Ster. which signifies an estate, is the terminating syllable of an immense number
of the names of places in, Carthness and elsewhere.  They consist for the most
part of two syllables, the first most probably being the name of some distinguish-
ed possessor.  Many maritime places, both in Carthess and Orkney, derive
their names from some peculiarity respecting the coast of the sides.  Aae, in the
Danish tongue, signifies a current of water, or the particular course of a side.
It seems to claim an affinity with the Garlic ashne and the Latin ammis, both
signifying a river.-Where word is the terminating syllable, the place is not only
maritime, but there is always, in its vicinity, an opening of the coust, larger
than a creek, but smaller than a bay, whose two containing sides form an angle,
similar to that of the lips, terminating in the cheek.  It is remarkable, that, in
the Scotch dialect, this is always termed the wick of the mouth.  It does not
therefore appear, that there is the least affinity betwixt wick and vicus.  The for-
mer vocable is for the most part, if not always, maritime: the latter, from the
meaning of the word, can have no possible respect to local situation.  If wick
were derived from vicus. we would find wicks as generally inland as upon the
coast; and every place bearing the name of wick ought either to be, or to afford
some evidence, that in former ages it had bern a village.  In Orkney, there are
a great number of wicks, and in Caithness two.  They are all upon the coast,
and every one of them characterised by an opening in the rocks, of the particular
figure above described.
   From the above observations, the names of most places in Canisbay are of easy
derivation.  Huna is made up of the word huln and aae.  The former is the
same as hollow in English, and how in Scotch:  The latter is the tide stream,
or current, opposite to the coast.  In confirmation of this etymology, Huna is
one of the lowest lying places in the parish, and where the tides are less rapid
than on other parts of the coast.  Stroma is compounded of Strom and aae; the
former in the Danish tongue signifying impetuous, and the latter, a current, as
already observed.  The tides around Stroma, are supposed to run at the rate of
near 10 knots an hour.  Freswick is the green wick, from frish, signifying green,
and the figure in the coast strikingly defined in its vicinity, which is found in every


