
                         FLISK.                            601

NovembeR 18, There was collected this day in obedience to the
Assembly's order, for building a church at Breslaw, in the province
of Silesia, L,10, 3s. 10d.
   Antiquities.-The Castle of Ballinbreich lies in ruins near the
western extremity of Ahe parish, overhanging the rivers and em-
bosomed in a small plantation of trees. It is built of red. Mad-
stone, 160 feet long, and 70 broad, and without date, arms or in-
scription. Formerly, a garden lay to the south of the castle; an
orchard to the east of the oak avenue; and fish ponds, and a swan
pond in the plantations to the West of it. It was long the resi-
dence of the Earls of Rothes. But, first deserted, then sold to an-
other lord, it has been suffered to go into decay. Nothing re-
mains but bare or fallen walls, the ponds have been dried up,
the garden destroyed, and many of the trees cut down. The
plough has converted the dulce into the utile. Besides the few
acres of trees surrounding the ruins, two chestnuts which formed
part of the straight avenue leading to the castle, are still allowed
to keep their station near the farmhouse of Ballinbreich.
   Close by the castle to the east, and within the remaining plan-
tation, is Chapel-hill, where the foundations, of a sacred edifice are
still to be traced.
   In Flisk Wood, at the opposite extremity of the parish, are low
ruins, most probably those of a place of worship, and consisting of
the apparent remains of the edifice, and of an enclosing wall. In
enumerating the parishes, churches, and chapels, in the deanery of
Fife, in the eleventh year of King William, Sir Robert Sibbald
mentions " Flisk cum capella." Which of the two noticed above
formed this capella, cannot now be ascertained.
   Silver coins of Edward III. were turned up a few years ago,
on the farm of East Flisk. They were given to Dr Fleming and
consisted of sixpences, shillings, and half-crown piece. About
the same time, on the hill side, and on the farms of East Flisk and
Belhelvie, several rude stone coffins were discovered, with urns in
them containing burnt bones. The urns were a niixture of clay
and rotten rock, baked in the sun; and most of them fell to pieces
on being exposed to the air. Burnt bones were also discovered
in a cairn of stones on the top of Whirly Kip, (or ratber, perhaps,
Whit-law cap,) a conical rising ground on Fliskmill, between
Lyndemus and Pittachop.
   On Fliskmill Hill, are a few stones placed as the arms of a chair,
and called St Muggin's Seat; St Muggin being robably a cor-



