
     of Leslie.

ing a total income of L. 46: 10.  Of which, L. 4: 14 is paid
for session clerk's and officer's salaries, quarter fees of poor
scholars, house rents and clothes for the poor.  About L. 41,
on an average, is distributed among 33 pensioners, of whom
30 reside in the town of Leslie.  The distribution is made
weekly; none get above 1 s. nor any less than 6 d.  This is a
much better mode than that followed by most of the kirk-ses-
sions in the neighbourhood, who make their distributions
monthly, thus occasioning the poor to live plentifully one week,

<FOOTNOTE>

England?  I have not heard, indeed, whether the Hottentots, the Cherokees,
the Chictaws, the Esquimaux, etc. ever had any clergy; and as little have I
heard of the learned productions of those ornaments of human nature.
Upon the whole, I cannot help thinking, it would be bad policy in any
state, to suffer a body of men, who, first and last, have been of no small use
to the interests of learning and of virtue, to languish in poverty, and dwindle
into contempt.  No doubt, the art of printing, and the establishment of uni-
versities, have contributed, as well as the clergy, to the increase, and to
the diffusion of knowledge; but the clergy diffuse knowledge, and the best
kind of knowledge, to all men, high and low, to the cobler as well as to the
king.  While the schools of the philosophers of old, thought it a profanation
to enlighten the vulgar, the fishermen of Galilee, and their successors, have
initiated the vulgar in the most sublime doctrines, and the purest morality;
have suggested to them the most noble consolations, and have drawn them
forth to action, by the most exalted hopes.  And who are the men, who pro-
vide society (I do not say with the necessaries and comforts of life only), but
with all its elegancies, with all its superfluities, with all its luxuries?  Who
but the vulgar?  They bear all its burdens, and I am forry to say, suffer all its
hardships.  And can justice or gratitude, can humanity and compassion, leave
them to drudge in this world, like beasts of burden, cut them off from all conso-
lation here, and leave them destitute of all rational hopes of enjoying a better
condition hereafter?  That, however, must be the case, if they are deprived alto-
gether of the instructions of their best friends, and thrown into the hands of
persons who may he as ignorant as themselves.


