
                          KINCARDINE IN MONTEITH.

                           V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

          Villages, There are no market-towns in this parish; the mar-
       ket-towns being Stirling, six miles, and Doune two miles distant
       from the manse.  The only village in the parish is Thornhill,
       which includes Norriestoun, and in which there is a post-office
       subordinate to Stirling.

         Police.-One of the recent improvements, which have proved
       beneficial to this parish, is the establishment of a county police.
       Previous to their appointment, vagrants, tinkers and gipsies from
       various quarters were numerous; but, by the vigilance of the police
       they have been suppressed.

         Means of Communication.-From the Bridge of Drip, six miles
       of the turnpike road from Stirling to the Port of Monteith pass
       through this parish, and about two miles from the manse towards
       Doune parish.  There is a cross road turnpike as far as Thorn-
       hill, entirely new made, and about five miles long, which runs
       from near the Bridge of Frew, past the west end of Thornhill to
       the top of the ridge in this parish, which overlooks Callander.
       The Nethertoun Bridge, across the Goodie, on this road, was
       built and the new part of the road in the carse, and in the road, was
       was made at the exense of Mr Drummond; and if the prie-
       tors in the, neigbbourhood of Callander were to extend the road
       on their side, there would be a very short line to, Kippeall Fintry,
       and Glasgnw. One public coach runs from Stirling to Callendar
       twice a-week during winter and spring, and there are coaches
       daily on the same road during summer.
          There is now a direct communication between the north and
       south sides of this strath by a suspension bridge, which was de-
       signed by James Smith, Esq. of Deanston, and erected at  the
       expense of Colonel Graham of Meiklewood, in 1831. An ac-
       count of this bridge way be seen in the Third Report of Drum-
       mond's Agricultural Museum, and in the, leading journal that
       date.
          From the nature of the soil, and the state of the banks of
       Forth, much difficulty occurred in  findng good foundationsn for
       the pedestals at each end, but these were surmunted by the ge-
       nius of Mr Smith.  The north end of the bridge,rests on Colonel
       Graham's land in the parish, and the south end on a portions of
       land which he procured for the purpose from the proprietor of
       the estate of Gargunnock, This bridge cost at least L.800, and
       PERTH.                                     4 M


