
                          DUMBARTON.                         13


the other a United Secession, Chapel. Neither of these are endowed,
the clergymen, being supported by the seat rents alone. The Ro-
man Catholic clergyman is provided with a house, the other clergy-
man is not. The Dumbarton Roman Catholic Chapel is within
the diocese of the Bishop of Glasgow. The Baptists have a place
of meeting,-a small room in the town; they are by no means
numerous. The following will give a tolerably correct state-
ment of the religious persuasions of the people of Dumbarton, as
ascertained in 1837: Of the Established Church, 2311; Episco-
palians, 35; Independents, 8 ; Roman Catholics, 284; Relief,
262; United Secession, 113; Baptists, 30; Cameronias, 9; Se-
ceders; 26; Unitarians, 5; number of persons of no religious per-
suasion, 33; total, 3116. There are several Sunday evening
schools in the parish. There is also a Society for the Diffusion of
Missionary Intelligence, which meets regularly once a month.
  Education.-There are seven schools in the parish, exclusive of
tbe parochial school. Four of these are taught by male teachers,
the others by females. The parochial teacher has a salary of
L.40 Sterling per annum, which is paid by the magistrates of the
burgh. The amount of his school fees cannot be ascertain-
ed. The other teachers depend on school fees alone. At the
half yearly examination of the public school in February 1838, the
branches of education taught, and the number of pupils learning
each branch, were as follows: Greek, 3; Latin, 12; French, 6;
English reading, 161; English grammar, 49; mathematics, 3;
geography, 22; arithmetic, 78; writing, 96; drawing, 1. Se-
veral years ago, the public school was taught by three masters,
one taught the Greek, Latin, and French languages, another
taught English grammar, &c. and the third taught writing, arith-
metic, book-keeping, &c. Since 1833, one master manages the
three departments. It is much to be regretted that classical learn-
ing is very much neglected now. Not quite twenty years ago, the
master of the classical department was able to live comfortably on
his school fees, from the number that attended his classes. Now,
there are only three Greek, and twelve Latin scholars, making a
total of fifteen!
   Literature--There is a public library in the parish, which was
instituted in 1797: it contains nearly 2000 volumes,--among
which are some good standard works. The "Dumbarton Sabbath
Evening School" has about 600 volumes, which are lent out to
the scholars. The scholars of the public school have also a small.


