
68			AYRSHIRE.

two parishes. But towards the end of the last century, the want
of church room began to be seriously felt, there having, been very
few Dissenters in the place, and hardly any dissenting places of
worship. Before the new church was built, the demand for sit-
tings in the old church became so great, that a single pew would
cost a sum that would be considered extravagant at the present
day. What added to their value, and the difficulty of obtaining
seat room was, that the galleries had become appropriated to dif-
ferent corporations, to which they continue to belong at this day.
Hence the demand for pews was such, in the disposable part of the
church, that the most of them were purchased as private proper-
ty by the more wealthy classes, and still continue to be so held.
Accordingly, many who, from these causes, could not procure ac-
commodation in their own parish church, were under the necessity
of obtaining it in the church of Newton-upon-Ayr, or elsewhere;
to which they have mostly since adhered, when otherwise they would
in all probability have continued to receive instruction from their
own parish ministers,
	The magistrates committed two material errors in regard to the
building of the new church, the consequences of which have
continued to be seriously felt ever since. The first was, their not
having erected it at an earlier period, in order to supply timeously
the existing wants of the people for seats, and thus prevent them
from seeking them elsewhere. The second consisted in their not
allowing or soliciting the proprietors of land to bear their share in
the expense, which, it is said, they would willingly have done, in
order to provide suitable church accommodation for their tenantry.
Ayr, in this respect, differs from all other parishes in Scotland that
have landed districts, and it is owing, perhaps, to the magistrates
having been once the sole proprietors. Not a single tenant on any
of the estates into which the parish has been now subdivided, can
claim seats for himself and family, as belonging to his farm, and
not a landlord has it in his power to serve his tenantry with seat
room in the same church with himself, in return for the stipend
which is paid to their parish ministers. There is thus a want of
those most sacred of all ties betwixt them that can bind men to-
gether, both as public bodies and as individuals. There is no lack
of unoccupied seats in the new church; they may be had by such
as choose to pay for them; and yet, the proprietors of land, who cer-
tainly have no disinclination to accommodate their farmers in this
respect, are put out of the way of doing so, from having no right


