
                   ORWELL.                                       69

ral markets for cattle, sheep, and horses, tnd take place in the be-
ginning of May, July, and November, and end of August.
  Inns and Alehouses.-There are no less than 14 spirit, licenses
granted for this parish. Of these, 5 are issued to inns or public-
houses in the village of Milnathort; seven grocers in the village also
allow spirits to be consumed on their premises ; and there are two
public-houses in the landward part of the parish. This facility of
obtaining spirituous liquors, not to mention the cheapness of the
article, while it has given an effectual check to smuggling, has in-
creased their consumption, and greatly deteriorated the morals of
the lower orders ; and instances of late have occurred of some
abandoned wretches stealing and selling mere trifles to obtain the
few pence requisite to purchase a dram.
  Fuel.-Almost the only kind of fuel now used is coal, which is
obtained in several places in the county of Fife, at no great distance
from the borders of Kinross-shire. The distance of the pits from
Milnathort is from seven to nine miles. The price is variable, but
at present the cost may be stated at 7s. or 7s. 6d. per ton at the
pit mouth. A cart load weighs 84 stone Dutch, or 13 cwt. and
14 lbs. ; and when contracted for on behalf of the poor, it varies
from 7s. to 8s. 6d., including carriage and tolls.
  There is no distillery now in the parish. The one belonging to
Mr Stein of Hattonburn, noticed in the former Statistical Account,
having been converted into a potato-flour or farina manufactory.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  Since the former Statistical Account was written, and, indeed
within the last thirty years, great alterations have taken place ow-
ing to an extensive system of draining, and a more skilful method of
husbandry. Many fields, which at that period were totally useless,
may now be seen to produce excellent crops. The greater part of
the parish is dry ; yet, from the close-bottomed nature of many
fields, improvement still may be expected from wedge-draining, as
yet partially introduced; and it is probable that this will be more
attended to, as the returns to those farmers who have thoroughly
practised it have been satisfactory. The roads are all in excellent
order, and lime is to be had at a convenient distance, and at no
great expense. Taking these circumstances into view, together
with the moderate rate of wages, the agriculturist has every facility
to carry on his improvements.

   April 1839.



