
			       LOCHMABEN.                       379

its purgative qualities. There is also an abundant supply of spring
water of the purest kind. The water of the lochs is used with per-
fect safety for culinary purposes during winter and spring. Fa-
milies, however, prefer it at all seasons for washing, on account of
its softness. There are five lochs in the parish of considerable
size, viz. the Castle loch, which covers a surface of more than 200
acres; the Broomhill loch contains, 80; the Mill loch, 70; the
Kirk-loch, 60; and the Hightae loch, 52. The depth (taken dur-
ing winter) has been found in several of them to be 52 feet. Be-
sides these five, there are four others of considerably less extent.
	Geology.--The rocks found in this parish are all of second-
ary formation, and dip to the south. In the beds of the smal-
ler rivers and burns, blocks of dark rolled whinstone are found,
from which excellent curling-stones are made. The only quarry
worked in the parish is of red sandstone. A very considerable
portion of this rock is found in thin layers, which are easily sepa-
rated, so that they are now much used in covering the roofs of
houses, particularly of farm-steadings. The roof when properly
put on looks very neat, though some objections are made against
its weight, and tendency to draw damp in winter, which is inju-
rious to the wood.
	Botany.--All the common plants are found in this parish.
Among the rarer aquatic plants, we may mention the white water-
lily (Nympea  alba,) cat's tail or reed mace (Typha angustifolia,)
the reed (Arundo Phragmites,) the great water horse.-tail (Equise-
tum fluviatile,) which grow abundantly in several of the lakes.
The blaeberry (Vaccinium Myrtillus,) and the cranberry (V. Oxy-
coccus,) are common, particularly the latter. The small sloe tree
(Prunus spinosa,) and the hagberry (P. Padus,) are found in
the brakes and hedges. The deadly nightshade (Atropa Belladon-
na,) among the ruins of the old castle. The oak, the ash, the
plane, and the horse-chesnut, are of great size around the pleasure
grounds of Halleatbs, Elshieshields, and of the castle.
	Zoology.--No wild animals of the class Mammalia are found in
this parish, except such as are common to the neighbouring coun-
try. The fox is seen frequently, both in the woods of Halleaths
and Elshiesbields. The otter, though not common, has been
found in the Annan near Halleaths, and in the Castle loch. The
badger has entirely disappeared for many years. The pole-cat
or foumart, the weasel, and the different species of rats are all com-
mon. The Vespertilio altivolans has never been seen flying about


