
298                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

old abbey in Perthshire. Connected with the establishment, there
is a female Society for the advancement of religious purposes,
which was founded in the year 1834. In order to enable the
children to attend the Sabbath school under the superintendence
of this society, and the house of God, many of the children, in-
deed the greater part of them, receive clothing from this Society,
who at the same time very liberally meet in this respect the wants
of the aged and destitute. In connection with the Society, there
is a library of above 150 volumes, which have been in extensive
circulation, and which, under the divine blessing, we trust, have
proved beneficial to many in the parish. For the encouragement
of all who may be engaged in Sabbath school teaching, or who
may take an interest in their working, it will be gratifying to be
told, that the effects of Sabbath school teaching in Balfron have
been delightfully apparent; and that these teachers, both male
and female, are either weavers or cotton-spinners. They are of
the same rank with those children amongst whom they labour so
cheerfully and so effectively; and have been bred tip to teaching
by their attendance upon a week-day class for religious instruction,
taught by the present minister of the parish, and which has been
in operation from 1826, and from which many delightful young
people have, from time to time, gone forth.
   The parish church is situated very nearly at one extremity of
the parish, convenient enough for the great bulk of the population
residing in the village, but too far removed from the eastern part
to allow the population of that quarter the full benefit of public
ordinances. In some degree to make up for this, the minister of
the parish preaches once every six weeks in summer at the school-
house of Lernock, about five miles to the east of the present pa-
rish church. In winter, he does this once a quarter. He goes to
this place in summer, after having had regular service in the church.
In winter, he is reluctantly obliged to leave his church vacant.
Public worship is well attended in the summer half year. In the
cold months of winter, neither weavers nor cotton-spinners are
able to stand the cold of the church; and hence, during these
months, the attendance is not so numerous.
  The number of communicants in connection with the Establish-
ment, is upwards of 400, and they are gradually increasing. The
manse was built about forty years ago, at a cost of something un-
der L.300; originally a poorly built and ill-finished house. The
heritors have in consequence been frequently called upon to repair


