
346                         LANARKSHIRE.

their cattle in times of civil or predatory warfare. And to these may
be added two round mounds or moats, one at Wolf-Clyde, and one
at Bamflat, anciently employed as watch-towers and signal posts.
A chain of these artificial mounds can easily be traced all along
the vale, running between the Clyde and Tweed, and from these
the inhabitants of the one district telegraphed to those of the other,
when danger was near.
	In the midst of a morass, half a mile north-east from the farm
of Nisbet, may be seen a very singular remnant of antiquity. A
mound of an oval shape, called the Green Knowe, measuring about
thirty yards by forty, rises about two or three feet above the sur-
face of the surrounding bog. On penetrating into this elevated
mass, it is found to consist of stones of all different kinds and sizes,
which seem to have been tumbled promiscuously together without
the least attempt at arrangement. Driven quite through this su-
perincumbent mass, are a great number of piles, sharpened at the
point, about three feet long, made of oak of the hardest kind, re-
taining the marks of the hatchet, and still wonderfully fresh. A
causeway of large stones connects this mound with the firm ground.
All around, it is nothing but soft elastic moss; and beneath it
too,--for on cutting through the bed of stones you immediately
meet with moss. No vestige of lime has ever been found near the
place. The spot was probably chosen for concealment or protec-
tion to man or cattle, perhaps to both. The thick stratum of loose
stones would afford firm footing,--the oaken piles driven through
the bed of stones would consolidate them, and hold them together
like a pavement; whilst the surrounding marsh would keep off the
aggressor. Near the spot are the remains of some very large trees.
Suppose the whole morass to have been a wood, might not the
cattle during a sudden foray have been driven into this encamp-
ment as a place of concealment? For who would think of search-
ing for them in a moss? All this, however, is conjecture, and con-
jecture for which there will soon be no data. The mound for many
years has been used as a quarry;, hundreds of cart loads of stones
have been taken from it, and at this date the work of demolition
goes on.
			III.--POPULATION.
	Culter proper being in Lanarkshire, and the part of Kilbucho
annexed being in the county of Peebles, the population of each is
here given separately.


