
478	                    FORFARSHIRE.

have executed nor even understood the beautiful sculpture on
those pillars. The age, whatever it was, that produced them,
must have been one of comparative civilization and peace. They
are the works of men and times of which there is no other existing
record; and thus a strong light is thrown upon remote antiquity
by these carved obelisks; and from them alone we gather this im-
portant fact in the history of our race, that, at remoter periods
than the historian has been able to reach, civilized communities
already existed.
	It has been supposed that there is some unaccountable affinity
between the sculpture of these monuments and Egyptian symbols.
In many of them the serpent is a very conspicuous figure; and of
every superstition in every age of the world, serpent worship ap-
pears to have formed a part. In the magic of Chaldea, in the
philosophy of Egypt, in the Brahmanism of Hindostan, and in the
Druidism of Britain, it is distinctly to be traced. This universa-
lity of serpent worship can be explained only by supposing it to
have one common origin everywhere, and that it is to be found in
the Scripture history of the fall of man. It is one of those frag-
ments of early revelatinn that have been broken off from the sys-
tem of which they form a part, and carried down the stream of
time after their object and purpose had been forgotten. The
serpent in Paradise is the origin of serpent-worship everywhere;
and thus an idolatrous symbol on an ancient obelisk becomes an
argument at once for the antiquity and truth of the Old Testa-
ment Scriptures. It is gratifying to find thus enlisted in the cause
of Christianity the memorials of those very superstitions which
were at one time the greatest barriers to its progress, and the most
formidable rivals to its claim upon the affection and veneration of
former ages.
	Another striking feature in the sculpture of these stones is the
frequent representation of hunting scenes. The chase was the
national amusement of Scotland from a very remote period; and
in such estimation was it held by the nobility and gentry, that in
the eleventh century, by the forest laws of Canute the Great, no
person under the rank of a gentleman was allowed to keep a grey-
hound. It is in commemoration of this favourite pastime that the
figures of deer-hounds and wolf-dogs are so prominently represent-
ed on these old obelisks. But the most remarkable figure on these
sculptured stones is that of the cross. It was perhaps intended to
commemorate the introduction of Christianity into Caledonia, `nd


