
	208                       BANFFSHIRE.

	of the parish; but some individuals, amounting, to about 30, have
	joined the Dissenters.  No Episcopalian or Roman Catholicis,or bas
	been, in this parish during the last forty years, with the exception
	of a servant DOW and then.  The people, in general, are as regular
	in their attendance at church, as the unfavourable circumstances
	of their situation admit.  The average number of communicants is
	about 300. Besides the parochial population, the inhabitants of
	a district of the parish of Mortlacb, amounting to about 150, at-
	tend divine ordinances at Glass church, it being much nearer than
	their own.  Two annexations have been made to the original pa-
	rish.  On the removal of the Bishop of Mortlach in the thirteenth
	or fourteenth century, a large district of that extensive parish was
	annexed to those of Glass and Cabrach.  Two chapels erected by
	the Bishop in this district were occupied by a Roman Catholic
	clergyman, so lately as the middle of last century. But not a ves-
	tige of Popery is now to be found, except the ruins of these chapels,
	and the burying-ground about them, which is used by the inha-
	bitants.  The Bishop drew a part of his revenue from a farm, now
	in this parisb.  The other annexation, consisting of several of the
	best farms in the east end of the parish, taken from the then pa-
	rish of Drumdelgie or Peterkirk, now annexed to Cairnie or Bo-
	tary, was made about the end of the seventeenth century, so that
	the original parish must have been small.
	   Education.-There is but one parochial school, and one unen-
	dowed. The salary of the parochial schoolmaster is the max-
	imum, with allowance for garden, L.36, 7s. 0 1/2d., and the amount
	of school-fees, L.28, 3s. 4d.  The schoolmaster has the legal ac-
	commodations.
	   Poor.-Tbe number of individuals on the poor's roll is, at pre-
	sent, 10, who receive from 5s. to 10s. each quarter. There are
	also several other poor families and individuals who receive occa-
	sional aid, amounting in all to about L.20 per annum.  This, with
	the very liberal benefactions of the more opulent inhabitants, has
	bitherto prevented the necessity of begging and assessment.  The
	annual amount of collections at church is about L.22, and interest
	of money, L. 6. In most cases, there seems to be a disposition to
	refrain from seeking relief from the poor's funds.

      March 1842.


