
			MUTHILL.                             317

grouse, black-cock, woodcock, partridges, pheasants, plovers, wild
ducks, wild geese, snipes, hares, &c. The principal sorts of ver-
min are foxes, polecats, and badgers.
   The following account may give an idea of the quantity of game
in this quarter. Killed on the Perth estate, anno 1835, bares,
1521; grouse, 842; rabbits, 6268, &c. The large park of Drum-
mond Castle is still well-stocked with fallow deer, which adds much
to the beauty of its pleasure grounds. The stag has now been
driven up to Glenartney for his abode.
   Botany and Plantations. -Although we had nothing more under
this head to mention, than the garden of Drummond Castle, yet that
should be enough to induce the botanist to visit our strath. It may
be said to be in its style partly Dutch and partly French. The cas-
tle stands upon an elevated rock, and on its south side is the far-
famed flower garden,-famed for the manner in which it is laid out,
for its locality, and its size. Scarcely a breath of wind can in-
jure the most delicate flower in it; for on all sides it is protect-
ed from the blast; and every thing about it, as its lofty trees, its
descending stairs, its little ponds, and its lovely walks, with va-
ried flowers on every hand, render it truly enchanting. We at-
tempt not to number the different kinds of heath, of roses, &c.
which are to be found in it; but we notice one kind of plant, in its
hot-house, which lately attracted much attention. It was the rare
plant Aloe Americana. In 1832, June the 30th, it began to flower.
Its temperature was the common heat of the hot-house, and it was
nourished by frequent waterings. Its height was 23 feet, circum-
ference 11 inches at the bottom, and 1 inch at the top ; branches
29, and flowers on each branch 89, in all 2581 flowers. The
flowering continued during the month of July, and when all fully
blown, the plant died.
   What made this plant a matter of curiosity, was, the common be-
lief, that it only flowers once in the hundred years, and then dies ;    
and on that account it was visited by most of the florists in Scot-
land.
   Some rare plants are also found in the parish, such as the
Pyrola rotundifolia, Stellaria holostea, Polygala vulgaris, Eupa-
torium cannabinum, Anemone nemorosa, Scabiosa arvensis, Blech-
num boreale, &c. The plantations are to a considerable extent, and
consist of fir, in its various kinds, larch, oak, birch, sweet chestnuts,
and limes. The largest plantation in the parish is that around
Torlum Hill, which is said to contain about 600 acres of Scotch

