
   166	                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   ant is appointed to a pass along the lakes, which he cautiously
   approaches, and when all are presumed to be at their stations, an-
   other party, with a small boat provided for the purpose, come up
   as quietly as possible. The deer, scared from their fastnesses in
   the islands, make for some of the passes, and it very rarely hap-
   pens that a chance of a good shot is not afforded to some one or
   more of the sportsmen concealed under the cover of the heather.
     The black-cattle, sheep, and horses, which formerly were bred
   here, like those throughout the Long Island, were small, and a very
   great proportion of the sheep still reared are the indigenous breed,
   and of very diminutive size. Their numbers are considerable, but
   they never thrive so as to enable their possessors to sell or export
   any of them beyond the island. Their mutton is deliciously fine-fla-
   voured; their quantity of wool, though very fine, is exceeding small,
   each fleece being from one and a-half to two pounds in weight.
   Stocking with sheep has been introduced lately in a few favour-
   able situations, and on a limited scale; and they appear to answer
   well. All the sheep exported or sold from the parish, do not
   exceed from six to seven hundred.
      The breed of black-cattle has been immensely improved, within
   the last twenty years, by the introduction of superior Highland
   cattle and bulls from various quarters, at an enormous expense;
   and in consequence, there are some stocks which yield to none in
   the Highlands, in point of united symmetry and weight. The cattle
   of the small tenants, too, are on a scale of rapid improvement, in
   consequence of the liberal and wise measure which the proprietor
   some years ago commenced, and still continues, of giving premiums
   annually for the best bulls exhibited by the small tenant farms.
   There can be no doubt, that, by a similar regulation and encou-
   ragement, the small breed of sheep would be rendered more va-
   luable, and would amply compensate for the necessary outlays
      The horses used by the tacksmen are of equal size and value
   as those kept for similar purposes in the south of Scotland ; and
   in general, the horses of the small tenants are of a larger and bet-
   ter description than formerly.
      We have already mentioned that the lakes are stocked with trout,
   In some ofthem with which the sea communicates, sythe and some
   other fish are found of large size and of fine quality, and partaking
   in some degree of tbe flavour of fresh water trout. The inlets of the
   sea are not very productive of many varieties of fish. On the east
   side are some good red or rock cod, and on the west, along the fords.


