     
    304                        PERTHSHIRE.

     this cauldron, by an unseen communication, it glides into a second;
     from this second, in a similar manner, into a third; and finally, in-
     to a fourth; when at last, in one body, by a fall of 44 feet, it reach-
     es the open space below it.
       Geology and Mineralogy.-The rock that prevails in the upper
     part of the parish, is trap or whinstone. Near the banks of the De-
     von, at the Vicar's Bridge, there are some strata of ironstone, lime-
     stone, and sandstone or freestone ; and in the west end of the pa-
     rish, there is a bed of coal.  The ironstone is wrought on the Fosso-
     way side of the Devon, and is esteemed a very rich ore.  On the
     Muckart side, however, it is not wrought, owing to the want of a
     proper level to carry away the water.  The limestone in the parish
     is occasionally wrought by the proprietors for their own use, but not
     for sale; there being abundance of limestone in the neighbourhood.
     The coal occurs in the shape of a basin, fully half a mile in length,
     by as much in breadth. There are a number of seams, but only
     one is wrought; from which, gome thousand tons are taken annual-
     ly, and carried principally to the western part of Strathearn.        In
     both the ironstone and limestone, a number of fossil remains oc-
     curs, principally shells. Some rather pretty specimens of rock
     crystal are occasionally found, in quarrying trap for road metal.
     In the upper part of the parish, a number of rolled blocks occurs,
     composed generally of trap, but occasionally of sandstone, of con-
     siderable magnitude,-although there is no sandstone rock in the
     neighbourhood, but what is at least 200 feet lower.  The soil in
     the upper part of the parish is in general light and gravelly, con-
     joined occasionally with moss, and, if not resting upon rock, rest-
     ing upon sand or gravel. Farther west, the soil becomes more re-
     tentive; and on the banks of the Devon, in the immediate neigh-
     bourhood of Dollar, in the lower part of the parish, it approaches
     more nearly to sand.
       Zoology.-No rare animals occur in the parish, and the only cir-
     cumstance worth mentioning is the fact, that the same species as the
     Lochleven trout is in some solitary instances found in the Devon.
     Some have attempted to account for this, by the supposition, that
     some of the small tributaries of the Devon and other streams that
     flow into the loch, may, in very moist weather, be so connected in
     certain situations, at the small trout from the one may find their
     way into the other. Sometimes the trout in the Devon attain to a
     great size. One was caught lately, with the common fly, which
     measured 22 inches in length, and weighed about 7 pounds.

