
     of North-Berwick.

carried on in it, to any extent.  The only regular trade
from the harbour consists in the exportation of grain.-A
small quantity of kelp is annually made, from the sea weed
cut from the rocks at low water; but the driven sea ware
is made use of as a manure.

   Church* and Poor.-The stipend of North-Berwick is
worth, at an average, about L. 116 Sterling, and the glebe,
which consists of 6 acres, is, from the richness of the soil,
of considerable value.-The poor of this parish, although
pretty numerous, are enabled to live comfortably, and none
of them find it necessary to beg.  They are supported
partly by the Kirk-session, partly by a fund of rather more
than 20 guineas a year, less some time ago for their behoof,
and partly by the liberality of the patron of the parish.
The sum expended annually for their support amounts to 
about L. 90 Sterling.

   Tamtallan.-The castle of Tamtallan, stands about 2
miles to the east of North-Berwick, on a high rock, over-
looking the sea, by which it is surrounded on three sides.
It is encompassed by two diches, the inner of which ap-
pears to have been very deep.  The entrance to the castle
was by a draw-bridge.  From the style of its architecture,

<FOOTNOTE>

*At a small distance to the S. W. of the town, there are the ruins of a
monastery.  The eminence, on which they stand, commands a delighful
prospect of the Frith of Forth, the coast of Fife, and several little islands,
which lie about a mile or two from the shore.  The monastery was founded
by Duncan, Earl of Fife, who is supposed to have died A. D. 1154.  It
was governed by a prior and prioness, and possessed a very considerable pro-
perty in Fife and Ayrshire.  A small ruin, supposed to have been a chapel,
belonging to the monastery, or to an hospital, stands a little to the east of
the harbour.  The adjacent ground was probably a burial place of the fa-
mily of Douglas.  In 1788, a seal with the inscription 'Sigillum Willielmi
Domini de Douglas, was found in ode of the vaults.  This Lord Douglas
lived about the year 1353.


