
136		FIFESHIRE.

<TABLE>
                  Boreland                                     184
                  Country part of the parish,                  302
                                                               ____
                                                               7104
                  Males,                                3291
                  Females,                              3813
                                                       ____

  The only family of nobility residing occasionally in the parish
is that of the Earl of Rosslyn: but there are many families of in-
dependent fortune, and five or six proprietors of land whose in-
come from that source varies fiom L. 200 to L. 300 or L. 400 a
year.
  Dysart can boast of at least as many instances of longevity as
any parish in Fife. There are a good many instances of people
above eighty years of age, attending church regularly twice a day,
not only in sununer but during winter; and not many months ago,
a respectable old man in his ninety-fourth year, not only attended
church but sat in session with his brethren, and his recollections
were as distinct as at any period of his life.
  The number of lunatics known to belong to the parish is only
two, and they are supported in an asylum by the heritors. The
number of fatuous persons does not exceed three or four at most.
  The great body of the people are of industrious habits; and al-
though from the pressure of the tirnes, they have not had it in their
power to enjoy those comforts which they did a few years ago, it
would be great injustice to conceal that they have borne their pri-
vations with more than ordinary patience--and that, upon the whole,
they are contented and happy with their situation and circumstan-
ces. There are a great niunber of very intelligent individuals
amongst them, and not a few who are distinguished both for reli-
gious principle and good moral practice.
  At one time, smuggling prevailed to a very great extent, and the
common impression was, that there was no harm in it.  In many
of the old houses, indeed, the smuggling holes where sea-faring
people concealed tea, gin, and other articles, are still to be seen;
but this degrading and sinful practice is not now known to exist.
                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agriculture.-This parish contains 3O54 SCotch aCres, the whole
of which are arable, and under the plough,--except about 400 acres
of plantation ground, and a park here and there let for grazing cattle.
  The trees belonging to the different plantations, as formerly men-
tioned, are fir, oak, elm, &c. all of which are regularly thinned
and pruned, and the management of which is understood to be ex-
                                3


