
     Statistical Account

the parish; the names of all the places seem to be derived
from the Gaelic, as Killian, Stronsbira, Benbuie, Kenmore,
Leachna-Bhan, Kenichbregan. etc.-Before the 1745 there
was but one weekly runner from Dumbarton to Inveraray,
and, though the postmasters were allowed the whole posta-
ges, they all became insolvent.  At the present, there are 6
weekly arrivals, and departures, from the south.  Yet the
receipts at this office, desray the necessary expence; and for
the last 12 months, have returned to the revenue, the sum of
L. 319:17:5 Sterling.  There are, besides, 10 post-of-
fices in the country; a strong proof of the increase of trade
and correspondence*.-At Inveraray there is one principal
inn, and several public houses of inferior accomodation.

   To every liberal and humane mind it must afford the high-
est satisfaction to observe the rapid progress which manufac-
tures and improvements of every kind have made in this
kingdom, particularly since the 1762; and yet, were the
clergy of Scotland actuated with the selfish and interested
views, with which they are sometimes unjustly and ungene-
rously branded, to them, this would be no source of plea-
sure; for, whilst the day labourer and artificer have more
than doubled their wages, and some other classes of men
their fees, whilst proprietors of land have, in many places,
more than tripled their rents, many of the established clergy
of this kingdom, have, for more than the period alluded to,
been precluded froom getting augmentations; and, it is
believed, that such as have obtained them, have, at an ave-
rage, scarcely received L. 20 Sterling, whereby they are in

<FOOTNOTE>

*The postage of a letter from London to Inveraray, which is 491 miles,
is 1 s. and of one from Oban, which is about 35 miles, is 3 d.  Would it
not be more conformable to equity, to pay for this, as for all other carriages
as nearly as possible, in the proportion to the weight and distance?  Letter
carriers deliver letters to the inhabitants of all other post-towns in
Scotland; ought not the same to be done here?


