
                            LAIRG.                                61

Of the rest, some died from hunger, others from thirst, and a few in
strong convulsions or in raving madness! The wreck having at length
taken the ground, fourteen were saved by the merciful interposition
of Providence in their behalf. The principal survivor was William
Mackay, and he published a narrative of the sufferings and escape of
himself and his companions,-which, from the extraordinary nature
of the facts, and the graphical felicity of his narration, bids fair to
transmit his name to posterity.
   Immediately after this wonderful preservation, William Mackay
returned to sea, and after various adventures, was in 1801 dispatched
by the Bengal government in command of a brig, to the Red Sea
with stores and provisions for General Baird's army, destined to
co-operate with that of Sir Ralph Abercromby in Egypt. On this
voyage, he had another marvellous escape from shipwreck, and
was instrumental, by superior seamanship, under God, in saving
the lives of many others, as may be seen in the appendix to a late
edition of the Narrative of the Juno. He died at Calcutta in 1804,
from an affection of the liver, contracted during the twenty-three
dreadful days he passed on the wreck. In the churchyard of this
parish there is a square monument with a separate tablet for each
commemorating, by an appropriate inscription, the characters of
the Rev. John Mackay, his son, and two grandsons. Concern-
ing the last, it is said, 11 their bodies lie in the opposite quarter
of the globe, but their monument is erected where their memory
is dearest, near the remains of their pious fathers, and amidst many
living, whose gratitude will attest, that fraternal affection has not
overcharged this record of their virtues."+

<FOOTNOTE>It is a circumstance worthy of remark, that from this narrative Lord Byron
has borrowed some of the finest incidents and most touching images in the de-
scription of a shipwreck, in his poem of Don Juan. Concerning these passages the
biographer of the noble poet observes: "It will be felt, I think, by every reader,
that this is one of the instances in which poetry must be content to yield the palm to
prose. There is a pathos in the last sentences of the seaman's recital (see Narrative
of the Shipwreck of the Juno, page 26,) which the artifices of metre and rhyme were
sure to disturb, and which, indeed, no verses, however beautiful,could half so natur-
rally and powerfully express." It deserves to be recorded to the honour of our Scot-
tish parochial schools, that this narrative as written by a young man who had gone
to sea ten years before, without any nxwe education than he received at the school Of
his native parish.
     A tribute of remembrance, similar to that which his brother's memory received
from his regiment, has been paid to the of memoryof William by his friends, who have,
in the churchyard of Calcutta, recorded his worth, sufferings, and death.
     It may not be irrelevant to subjoin a list of sons or grandsons of the clergy, who,
at the time above referred to, were on General Wellesley's staff, and all of whom had
been recommended to him solely by their own merits, viz.
  1st Captain Hugh -Mackay, agent for draught and carriage cattle to the army,
killed at Assaye, 23d September 1803.
  2d, Captain, afterwards Lieut.-Colonel Sir Robert Barclay, K.C.B., Adjutant-
General, Son of the Rev. Mr Barclay, minister of Delting, Shetland, deceased.


