
492                         FIFESHIRE.

missioners, the Lords of the Treasury were directed by his late
Majesty, George IV., to issue an order for the appropriation of
the sum that might be deemed requisite, for re-establishing such
of the buildings as were capable of being repaired, and of rebuild-
ing such as were hastening towards irremediable decay. St Mary's
College has in consequence been repaired agreeably to a design
bv Mr Reid, the King's Architect in Edinburgh, and has now an
appropriate academical appearance. An elegant plan was also
formed by the same gentleman, for the erection of a new set of
buildings for the United College. A considerable part of the
work was in consequence executed, and its continuance and com-
pletion, it was expected, would ere long have been carried into exe-
cution; but the farther progress of the undertaking has been delay-
ed, and farther advances from the Treasury have, it is understood,
been refused, on the ground, that the sum set apart for the re-esta-
blishment of the University buildings, has already been expended. It
may be propertoadd, that the University Library, whose apartments
were completely filled with a store of books, amounting to upwards
of 30,000 volumes, was at the same time greatly enlarged. The
front of the old part of this building toward the street, was then
renewed, or retouched, so as to harmonize with the new part of
the erection, and it exhibits a line of handsome shields, extending
from the one extremity to the other, on which are emblazoned the
arms of the several Chancellors of the University, from its first
erection down to the present times.
     The elegant Gothic Chapel and Tower of St Salvator's College,
erected by Bishop Kennedy, still remain, though somewhat muti-
lated and altered, both internally and externally. The fine arched
roof of the former was removed, considerably more than half a cen-
tury ago, on an apprehension of insecurity, for which there appears
to have been but little foundation. Its rich antique windows have
been supplanted by others of a far less appropriate aspect, and the
beautiful monument of its founder, with which the chapel was
adorned, was seriously injured by the carelessness and unskilfulness
of the workmen, who were employed in carrying these alterations
into execution. About the same period, the parish church of St
Leonard's having fallen into disrepair, the congregation removed to
this chapel, which was properly fitted up for their accommodation,
and it still continues to be employed fot this purpose.
     There are many other interesting particulars relative to the
University and its colleges, which might have been detailed, but
				3


