
                        DIRLETON.                             205

alton, at the south-east corner of the parish, and immediately di-
vides into two streams, one running east, and falling into the sea
near Tynningham, the other west, which, after a course of eight
miles, falls into the sea at Aberlady.
   Geology.-The formations here are of the secondary class, the
sandstone or great coal formation, with their accompanying rocks
of igneous origin. It is to these we owe any slight elevations that
are to be met with in the parish. The sandstone throughout seem
to be buried beneath these-appearing only occasionally here and
there,  having been forced to the surface by the rise of the igneous
rocks. Gulane Hill, however, of considerable height, is of sand-
stone, part of which is regularly quarried, and produces excellent
freestone; ironstone is also to be found there in considerable quan-
tity, and was at one time wrought. The igneous rocks present the
different varieties of whinstone or secondary trap. In the middle of
the parish, and also on the coast, we have basalt, and at one place
its characteristic features are beautifully developed. Some time ago
upwards of thirty pentagonal- pillars were laid bare in the farm of
West Fenton. The Parish, as already observed, is composed of
two parallel ridges, running cast and west. The centre of the
southern ridge, from Fenton Tower on the east, to the village of
Fenton on the west, rests on whinstone, which crops to the surface
occasionally through its course. At the latter place, basalt makes
its appearance, and continues the ridge for about a mile further to
the westward. Limestone is found within the tract of the basalt,
possibly raised by it to the surface, but it dips so rapidly to the south,
as to have been considered unworthy of being wrought. It is also
to be met With at the bottom of the whinstone quarry at Burnside,
near the east side of the parish - but from the depth of the covering,
and from the declination of the strata, dipping to the south at an
angle of upwards of 30, it has never been wrought, In the north-
ern ridge, the whinstone appears again at Dirleton, with the bare face
of the rock to the west, and its fail of water-worn stones and till,
covered with more recent soil, stretching eastward. This rock is of
felspar porphyry, in which occur frequent veins of a dark-red jasper.
The western end of this ridge rests on freestone and ironstone,
near Gulane, the surface being poor, barren sand. Coal has been
found on the north-east side of the parish; but as it rises nearly to
the surface of comparatively high, ground, within a few hundred
yards of the sea, and dips rapidly beneath the low flat ground along
   HADDINGTON.


