
                                 EASTWOOD.                           41

     and morals of persons employed in  well-eonducted manufacturing
     establishments are greatly superior to what they are in other district$
     of the  country.   The regular and,abundant food, and comparatively
     comfortable lodging, more than compensate for the lesalrequedit ex.-
     posure to the open air, an& the greater duration of labour; - and the
     means. we possess of knowing and checking open vice, have, I be-
     lieve, a, powerful effect in suppressing it" The observationrof Dr
     Macgill inthe former Statistical Amount, seems just."  The people
     of this parish are in general more healthy than those usually are
     who follow such occupations.  This may be owing in part to the fresh
     currents of air vhich blow frequently with considerable awmeh
     betwixt the surrounding heightsl and very much to the tradesai*w
     minglin-a sometimes with hia sedentary employment thaexhilaratjirg:
     exercises of the garden and the field."

                           V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
       Pollockshaws is the only town in the parish. It was erected in
     the year 1814 into a burgh of barony by a charter from the Crows,
     and has a provost,,bailie, and, six councillors, with a townoderk and
     fiscal.  All persons who rent a house of L. 4 and upwards have
     a I right to vote in the election of,  the magistrates and council. It
     has no proper market day; but' Provisions of all kinds may be
     readily at any time procured.  A post,-office was some yearas ago
     established, which has daily communication with the post-office at
     Glasgow. The village of Thornliebank is situated a mile to the
     south-west of Pollockshaws,--the whole of which, with the ex-
     ception of two or three small houses, belongs to Messrs Crum, and
     is almost wholly occpied by persons in their employment. The
     length of the several turnpike roads which pass through the parish
     is about four miles; and there are stage-coaches which travel daily
     upon them. The roads are oppressed with toll-dues so much, that
     in foing from the south-west of Pollockshaws to Glasgow, a dis-
     tance of only three miles, a single horse-gig pays 1s. 4d. We
     have no canals or railways in the parish. The bridges and fences
     are generally kept in good repair.
        Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is situaded upon the slops
     of a hill, at the south-west end of Polleckshaws. It is very conveni-
     ently situate for the inhabitants of Polleckshaws and Thornliebank,
     who compose by far the greatest part of the populations. Its dis-
     tance from the most remote part of the parish does not much ex-
     ceed three miles. The old church, which stood about half a mile
     to the west, was taken down, and the new one built in 1781: it is


