
                        	PARISH OF ABERNYTE.

		PRESBYTERY OF DUNDEE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

			THE REV. JAMES WILSON, MINISTER.


               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name.-THE name Abernyte seems to be of Gaelic origin,
referring to the situation of the principal village of that name in
the angle near the confluence of two rivulets.  One of these, per-
haps, was anciently called, the Nyte.
  Boundaries, Extent.-The whole parish, including Glenbran,
annexed to it quoad sacra, is an irregular kind of oblong parallelo-
gram, terminated by the highest hills above, where several parishes
meet from Strathmore, as well as this district.  It is bounded by
the parish of Inchture below; Longforgan on the east; and Kin-
naird on the west.  Its greatest length may be about 3 miles or
little more, and its greatest brdadth about 2, and it contains 4
square miles.
  Topographical Appearances.-The most populous parts of the
parish in the lower grounds are nearer Dundee ; but those conti-
guous to Dunsinnan hill, in the parish of Collace, are nearer Perth.
  The whole is situated in those eminences that risd gradually from
the Carse of Gowrie to the top of the Dunsinnan ridge.  The
highest point here is called the King's Seat, which, according to
an average of various measurements, seems to be 1155 feet
high.  The most cultivated parts of the parish are probably
not above 300 feet above the level of the Tay, and about three
or four miles in a straight line from it.  The highest range
of hills, which commands a noble prospect, runs parallel to
Strathmore on the north-west side, and on the south-east in most
places, to irregular undulations of inferior heights, with some hol-
lows between.  These inferior heights also form very interesting
points of view through the whole extent, and in this parish protend,
nearly at rigbt angles, two other eminences like arms, on the north
and south sides, embracing the beautiful glen of Abernyte.  It
opens toward the Carse on the south-east, and is bounded on three


