
272                    KINCARDINESHIRE.

the autumn is for the most part the most delightful season of the
year.
   Hydrography.--The alluvial soil is of great depth over a large
proportion of the surface, and springs are in consequence not fre-
quent; and not a little inconvenience and expense are occasioned
from this cause, both as regards the supply of water for domestic
purposes, and for inclosures. Wells not entirely perforating the
clay give neither a large nor constant supply, nor of good quality.
Trap rocks usually afford abundance of water, but always contain-
ing a large quantity of lime; and the whole of the springs from
sandstone and clayey gravel are more or less impregnated with
iron. One in particular, near the village of Milton, is saturated
with iron, and had the reputation some years ago of working cures,
or of alleviating the symptoms of various complaints.
   Each den (of which there are six in the parish) has its burn,
pouring its inconstant stream into the North Esk, or into the
ocean. The largest of these is that which rises on the heights of
Garvock, and, collecting the waters from about eight square miles,
issues through the romantic Den Fenella to the sea, near the east
end of the parish, and is chiefly noticeable on account of the
beauty of the scenery in the neighbourhood of a waterfall which
occurs near its termination. The course of the burn in its upper
part is through a wide ravine, with not a bush or tree to vary the
uniformity of its uninteresting slopes; below, it enters into a broad
band of trap rock, through which it has channelled a deep and
winding passage, and towards the termination of its accelerating
progress to the sea, is precipitated in a cascade (taking the adjuncts
of trees and rocks into the account) of no little interest and beauty.
The Fall of Den Fenella is, in the Mearns, next in celebrity to
the admired scenery of "the Burn," and has given occasion, as
may be supposed, to many attempts at poetical as well as pictorial
description,--banks and trees, chasms and crags, dark foliage and
festoons of flowering plants, the furious gush of the waters, &c.
forming in the chief ingredients in the description, and the principal
grouping in the picture. There are two handsome bridges across
the den, one of which is directly over the fall, and about 120 feet
above the pool into wbich the waters are poured, while the fall it-
self is accomplied in a single perpendicular leap of 65 feet.
   The river North Eak, it has been already stated, flows along
the western boundary of the parish, and marks the limits of the
countries of Angus and Mearns. The course of the river, from its
			   3


