
328                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

and Thomas de Nory, sheriff of Aberdeen; having professed
penitence, they were absolved by the Bishop, and solemnly sworn
to obedience in future. *
   The patronage of the church of Fvvie, of course, belonged to
the Abbey of Arbroath, in consequence of King William's gift,
and in the chartulary of that establishment, there are accounts of
several presentations to it.  In 1616, Alexander, Earl of Dun-
fermline, had a charter from James I. uniting the rectorage and
vicarage of Fyvie into one benefice, and conferring on him the
advocation, donation, and right of patronage of the parish church;
since which time, the patronage has gone with the Fyvie pro-
perty. +
   Chapel of St Rule at Folia or Folla-rule.-This was founded
at Folla or Follach, a Celtic term, signifying a place surround-
ed with mosses, in 1376, by Adam Pyngil, burgess of Aberdeen,
with consent of Marjory Blackvatyr, his spouse, in connection with
the cathedral church of Aberdeen.  It was endowed with the lands
of Folethrowle, which the founder acquired in 1364 from Hugh
de Ross, Lord of Philorth, and brother of William Earl of Ross,
and with the mill and multures of Folethrowle, and the founda-
tion was confirmed by a charter of Robert II. in 1379.  It is stated
by Orem in his description of the chanonry &c. that in his time
the vestiges of the cbapel were to be seen in the "town-land" of
Meiklefolla; and that the chaplainry haying been annexed to the
King's College, the heritor paid L. 40 Scots of feu-duty to the
College for the said land. ++
   Besides the religious houses already mentioned, there were also
in different directions, and towards the extremities of the parish,
other chapels, connected, no doubt, either with the church or
priory.  The vestiges of one are still to be seen on the farm of
Eastertown, beside St Paul's well, already noticed; of another on
the farm of Fetterletter, on the estate of Gight, and probably
there was one on the farm of St John's Well, on the land of Min-
nonie, although no traces of it now remain.
   Chaplainry of St Ninian, in St Nicholas' Church of Aberdeen.
-This was connected with Fyvie by endowment and patronage.
In 1490, William Meldrum, who became patron, granted by
charter to the altar of St Ninian, and to Robert Leys, the chap-
lain, a perpetual annuity of L.2 from his lands of Waterton

<FOOTNOTE>Chartulary of Aberdeen, Advocates' Library.         Fyvie Chart.
          Description of Chanonry, &c. Edin. 1791, p. 87.


