
     of Glendovan.

legal glebe.  There are few poor, and these are supplied by
the ordinary collection.  The schoolmaster has 10 L. salary.

   Population, etc.-Pasture farms requiring few hands, and
there being no towns, or what may be termed villages, within
the parish, the number of inhabitants are few, scarcely amoun-
ting to 200 of the established Church.  They seem to have been
more numerous formerly, although the return to Dr Web-
ster in 1755, was only 220 souls.  The number of marriages,
during the last ten years, was 16, and the number of births 38.
Besides those of the established church, there are 5 burghers
and 35 antiburghers; there are one smith, one mason, and 5
day labourers.  Most of the work is performed by servants
hired by the year.  An ordinary day labourer may earn 1 s.
per day; this, together with the economy and industry of the
wise, enables them to support their families comfortably, and
give them a suitable education.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The people are sober, industri-
ous, and happy in their situation.  The grain produced in
the parish is not sufficient to support the inhabitants, who are
supplied with this article from Strathern.  They are very well
supplied with fuel, either with coals from Blairngone 5 miles
distant, or with moss from the hills*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*There is one house which appears to have been built for
defence.  It is one of these which were erected in the 16th cen-
tury by the chieftans, to protect their vassals against any sudden
attack.  It was built by the family of Crawford, to whom the
lands of Glendovan, comprehending two large farms, viz. E.
Glensherup and Whitehills, belonged.  It is longer than most
of the same kind; and must have been built at a considerable
expence, as many of the stones came from a distance, by a
road that was but lately deemed accessible for carriages of any
kind.  This house was sometime in ruins, but was lately fitted
up by the proprietor, for the accommodation of tenants.

     VOL. X. G g


