
                GREENOCK.                             461

      sion Committee and other contributors to the, building of our new
      churches had no other reward than the iacrease of the number
      church-goers, in poor but sober and industrious families, that reward
      is a sufficient return to them for the labour and money which they,
      have expended in this great and and good cause. If they have not
      had all the success which they desired in reclaiming men from
      the irreligious habits into which they had fallen, they have the sa-
      tisfaction of knowing that they have in some measure arrested
      their progress.  It is to irreligion, the result,-We may say the
      cessary result,- of inadequate church extension and deficient pas-
      toral superintendence, that the intemperance and profligacy, and
      wretched condition of many in the working classes is to be as-
      cribed.  Nor can it reasonably be expected that the population in
      our large towns should be restored to its once boasted moral ele-
      vation until religious instruction be accessible to all, and our sys-
      tem of pastoral superintendence be brought again to its, former
      completeness and efficiency.
           The deficiency to which we have now alluded has long engaged
      the attention of the Christian philanthropists of this place. For
      the seamen, whether strangers or belonging to the port of Green-
      ock, the Seamen's Friend Society long ago provided a small chapel,
      in which there is divine service and sermon twice every Lord's day,
      by a licentiate of the Church of Scotland, which is numerously at-
      tended; besides which, every Wednesday evening, a sermon is
      preached in rotation by the Protestant ministers of all denomina-
      tions in Greenock and Port-Glasgow. An agent is employed by
      the society to inform the seamen in port that they may enjoy this
      privilege, and to invite them to attend.
           There is another class of persons whose destitute condition long
      ago attracted the notice of a merchant in this town,* who is not
      less distinguised for his unwillingness to procalim his own good-
      ness, or to have it proclaimed by others, than for the number and
      extent of his charities. He had observed very many children
      amusing themselves on the streets and highways on the Sabbath,
      ill-clothed, and evidently neglected by their parents or guardians.
      He found that a considerable proportion of these were attending
      the charity-school-room of that institutions, if no to hear ser-
      mon, at least to receive religious instruction in a form as interests-
      ing to them as might be devised. He commenced the experiment

      <FOOTNOTE>Thomas Falkirk, Esq.




