
                               ARDCHATTAN.                            473

                               "the tallest pine
                    Hewn on Norwegian bills, to be the mast
                    Of some great ammiral."
      And though the quality of its timber was not inferior to the best
      Memel.  But these woods were, almost a hundred years ago, let
      to an Iron Smelting Company from Ireland, who erected a furnace,
      the ruins of which are still visible, near the mouth of the liver,
      levelled a great proportion of the trees to the dust, and converted
      them to charcoal.  The axe has since recklessly felled what re-
      mained.
        Glen-ketland opens from the river Etive, opposite to Inver-
      charnan, about three miles beyond the head of the loch, the
      mountain of the same same forming one of its sides.  It does
      not exceed two miles in length, partakes of the character of the
      surrounding scenery, and adds considerably to the effect produced
      by the whole.
        Glen-etive exceeds in length any of our other glens; for, from
      the head of the loch, where this glen commences, to the King's
      House, near to which it terminates, the distance is not less than
      sixteen miles, the tract throughout being marked with the impress
      of sublimity and loneliness.  The whole district was once a royal
      forest, and the proprietor of Dalness is said to claim exemption
      from public burdens, on the ground of his being hereditary fo-
      rester.  A part of Glen-etive, and an extensive  range contiguous,
      which forms a section of the parish of Glenorchy, has been again
      stocked with red-deer by the Marquis of Breadalbane, and some
      thousands of this noble race of animals now roam among these
      mountains.  Mr Campbell of Monzie has likewise laid out a por-
      tion of his property in,Glen-etive for the same purpose.  Like its
      neighbour Glenkinglas, Glen-etive, throughout its length and
      breadth, was once clothed with majestic firs and spreading oaks.
        Glen-ure, or "the Glen of the yew trees," opens from the
      river Creran, and stretches to the south and east for about
      three miles; its remote extremity being characterized by sterile
      grandeur.  The respectable family of Glenure once resided near
      the opening of this glen; and the buildings, now falling into a
      dilapidated state, are superior to what would be expected in a
      locality so secluded.  The plain in front of the mansion-house,
      though low, is of ample bounds; and the adjacent farm of Bar-
      namuck, "or Height of the wild boar," the highest farm in the
      parish in that direction has always been noted for the excellence
      Of its pasture.


