
                    ON THE COUNTY OF SUTHERLAND.                  217

       mile from its western extremity is Loch Stack, a large and nearly
       circular lake of about one mile in diameter, with a contacted limb
       towards the west, which brings the deep water of the lake to with-
       in three miles of the head of the sea water of Loch Laxford.
          In Edderachillis and Durness, many other, lakes of considerable
       size, add to the beauty of the scenery, or agreeably break, the uni-
       form bleakness and, sterile appearance of parts of the country ; but
       Loch Hope, which is in this district, requires to be separately no-
       ticed, as being a singularly romantic and placid lake of six miles
       in length, situate at the foot of the majestic Ben Hope.  The dhs-
       trict of Assynt lies to the south of the chain of lakes already no
       ticed, and may be said; to be studded with lakes, having upwards
       of 200 moderately sized lakes, besides smaller tarns, Loch As-
       synt, about six miles and a half in length, is one of the most pie-
       turesque of all the Sutherland lakes, and presents many splendid
       views.  Lochs Urigill, Cama, Veyatie, Na-gana, Beanoch, Gorm-
       loch, and Culfreich, in the same parish, are also large, and some
       of them romantic sheets of water.
          On the other hand, Loch Loyal, which reposes along the east
       side of the splendid mountain of the same name, is, with its con-
       tinuation, Loch Craigie, seven miles in length.  To the south-
       west, Loch Maedie, having some small wooded islands, is three
       miles long; and about five miles to the eastward,Loch Naver
       extends Six miles along the foot of Ben Klibreck. On the east
       side of this mountain, are the secluded, but very picturesque, Lochs
       Corr and Vealloch,-the former three, and the latter two miles in
       length, and both almost unknown to the public.  Still farther to
       the eastward are Loch Strathy, about a mile and-a-half long, land
       the lakes which distinguish the upper parts of the parish of, Kit-
       donan; but of these we will only enumerate Loch Badanloch,
       Loch-na-Clar, Loch-na-kuen, Loch Truderscaig, Loch-ari-cliny,
       and Loch-in-ruar.
          In the east district of Sutherland, several small lakes occur;
       but Loch Brora is the only one, of any note. t It Is greatly admir-
       ed, and its banks exhibit many of the bold and wild features of
       the Highlands, combined with verdant meadows, fertile fields,
       and vigorous plantations, amidst which the waters of the lake con-
       tract and expand at three different points in its length of three
       miles and a-half. There are some other smaller lakes in the pa-
       rishes of Clyne, Golspie, Rogart, Lairg, Criech, and Dornoch
          SUTHERLAND.


