
                       SYMINGTON.                           868

of the revenues of the vicarage of Symonton, for the payment of
L.30 yearly: And he was, moreover, obliged to get the service
of the church duly performed.  After the Reformation, the patron-
age, tithes, and church lands of the parish church of Symontoun
belonged to the commendators of the monastery of Kelso, till
1607, when they were granted with the other property of that
establishment to Robert Lord Roxburgh.  The patronage of this
church was resigned by the Earl of Roxburgh to Charles L., and
it was afterwards conceded to Sir James Lockhart of Lee, who
purchased from Baillie of Lammington, the barony of Symontoun,
which had belonged to his ancestors, in the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries.  The barony and the patronage of the church passed
from Lockhart of Lee to Lockhart of Carnwath, at the end of the
seventeenth century.  The patronage of the church of Symontoun
now belongs to Lockhart of Lee and Carnwath.
   Boundaries, &c.-The parishes is bounded on the north and east
by the River Clyde; on the south-west, by the parish of Wiston ;
on the north-west, by the parishes of Carmichael and Covington.
   The figure of the parish is oblong, though somewhat irregular
on the west side.
   Hydrography.-The parish abounds with springs, both, peren-
nial and intermittent.  The only river is the Clyde, which bounds
one-half of the parish, running nearly north, and then turning to
the west.
   Plantations.-The plantations are mostly of Scotch fir and
larch: the latter of which seems to suit the soil best, but none of
the trees have yet grown to any great size.  A few hard-wood trees
of different kinds surround the village.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-The chief land-owners are, Mr Dickson of
Hartree; Mr Carmichael of Eastend; and Colonel Campbell of
Symington Lodge.
   Parochial Registers.-These consist of the records of the kirk-
session, a register of births, and accounts of the poor, commencing
in the year 1709; but neither of them have been regularly kept
nor well preserved.
   Antiquities.-There are the remains of an ancient camp of a
circular form on the top of an eminence, about a quarter of a mile
south of the village, called Castle-hill, containing nearly half an
acre.  Some say that it was the site of a castle, of which nothing
now remains.  It is now planted with trees.
  LANARK.                           3K


