
                       DENDOCHY.                     1197

Coupar Angus. Corn-merchants from Dundee, and the millers
of the adjoining district, attend the weekly market there. The fat
cattle (if not sold in the byre) are disposed of at the fortnightly
markets held in Blairgowrie, which are frequented by the Glas-
gow dealers, and at these markets the farmers from the Highland
district sell their oats,-tbe distillers in the neighbouring glens
relieving them generally of their spare bear.
   In 1835, the road from Coupar Angus to Blairgowrie was con-
verted into turnpike. About a mile of it traverses the parish. An
omnibus from Blairgowrie passes along the road once a day in
winter, and twice or thrice a day in summer, to the terminus of
the railway at Coupar Angus. Passenger trains start three or
four times a day from Coupar to Dundee, and the parish enjoys
its own share of the advantages conferred on Strathmore by the
opening of this line of railway.
   The bridge over the Isla at Couttie was built by Government
in 1766. It is inconveniently narrow. The riding stone and the
wading stone, immediately below the bridge, mark the course of
the ford used before the erection of the bridge; "and, as works
of nature outlive those of art, they may show the place where it
stood after it is gone." (Old Statistical Account.) There is an-
other bridge over the Ardle at Cally and a third over the Black-
water at Strone, each of those of one arch. There is a great improve-
ment on the parish roads of late years. About twenty years ago,
the road struck off immediately at the bridge of Couttie, straggled
deviously through the low haughs within flood-mark, and passed
within six yards of the manse. In these days travelling in wet
weather was not unattended with danger, and the carting away of
the grain, savidg in the time of frost, next to impossible. Within
the last four years, our roads have got into a much better state of
repair, apparently from the circumstance of the outlay of the road
money being entrusted to two or three of the farmers.  The car-
riages are mostly driven gratuitously, and, if the present system is,
adhered to, the principal lines of road in the lower part of the pa-
rish ought soon to be in an excellent state.
   Ecclesiastical State.-It may already be inferred that the situa-
tion of the parish church is about as inconvenient as can well be
imagined. It is within 300 yards of the southern extremity of the
parish, while it is distant from the northern extremity about thir-
teen miles. There is scarcely a third of the people that can con-
veniently attend the parish church; and such is the territorial


