
                          CARESTON.                       519

bore the name of Fuirdstone, of Fordstone, from the number of
good fords in the Esk, that exist yet in this district. *
  Boundaries, Figure, and Extent.-This parish is bounded by
those of Menmore, on the north; Brechin, on the east; Aber-
lemno, on the south; and Tannadice, together with Fearn, on
the west.
	In figure, it forms an irregular oblong, stretching out in length
to about 3 miles from north to south, by 1 in breadth from east
to west. On two sides, the boundaries are pretty regular and
strahght, but on the two ends of the oblong, the limits are more
irregular, more especially to the south, where, in two different
places, they pass beyond the river Southesk. The parish con-
tains a surface of nearly 3 square miles. Agreeably to a mea-
surement made, about eight year ago, by Mr William Corsar,
land-surveyor, this parish contains upwards of 2056 acres sta-
tute measurd. Formerly, it contained perhaps about 100 impe-
rial acres more, now belonging to the farms of Balnabriech and
Craigend, which farms, thought they both belong to the estate
of Careston, are yet situated in the parish of Brechin; conse-
quently, whatever ground was lost to careston parish by the
straightening of the marches of these farms, was so much added
to the Brechin, where this latter parish unites with Careston.
	From the Southesk river, which, for a small way, forms the
southern limits of this parish, it rises with a gentle undulating
swell to hear its northern termination, and then begins to decline
as it stretches farther north to its termination with the lands of
Balhall, in Menmore parish. Here, the boundary is by no means
distinct, which it might easily have been made by following the
course of the small rivulet of Wiras westward as far as the parish
extends in tha quarter; as this same streamlet, where it leaves
the parish on the east, forms the parochial boundary on the
north-east.
	The climate is on the whole good, the air being, for the most
part, pure and salubrious.

<FOOTNOTE>The present incumbent has in his possession a decreet of valucation of the teinds,
of date 1758, wherein the lands of Carestion are designed by the name of Fuirdstone,
in the following manner: "All and whole, these parts of the lands and barony of
Careston, alias Balnamoon, particularly after specified, vix. the lands and barony of
Carsldstone, formerly called Fuirdstone, with the tower, fortalice, manor place," &c,
	The tower of Fuirdstone refferred to was situated on the farm of Wester Balna-
briech, and its remains were removed by the late tenant in the course of his improve-
ment of the abouve farm. If is not unlikely that the fore-mentioned tower and other
buildings therewith connected constituted the first manion-house on the estate of
Careston.


