
     of Walston

common people enjoy the comforts of society in a moderate
degree; but they have no peculiar advantages.  One great dif-
advantage to which this parish, in common with the whole of
this high country, is exposed, is, that the corns on their lower
grounds, especially in the neighbourhood of rivers, mosses,
and marshes, are very liable to be destroyed by frosts, in the
night-time about the end of August, and beginning of Sep-
tember.  One of those beautiful, calm, serene evenings,
which draws numbers of the people in towns into the streets
and the fields, fills the farmer here with anxiety, and deprives
him of his sleep.  He knows it is highly probable, that, when
he rises in the morning, he may fee the hope of his harvest
gone.  The frost in September last destroyed many hundred
bolls of corn in this country.  Seldom does one year pass
without loss in this way, less or more.  But the years 1782
and 1784 were peculiarly distressing to this part of the coun-
try.  Their corns were so effectually destroyed by the frost,
that, out of 40 bolls sowing, some of the farmers had not 20
bolls of meal; nor durft they venture to sow a peck of them
the following season.  They were therefore obliged to pur-
chase, at a great distance, the whole of their seed-corn.  The
little meal which the frosted corn of those years produced was
as black as earth; and the porridge made of some of it, after
standing a short time, ran partly to water.  Their potatoes
also, which are now become a considerable part of the people's
food, were entirely destroyed.  No remarkable sickness, how-
ever, followed.  So great were the straits and hardships to
which the people were reduced by those calamitous years,
that they contracted a dull and melancholy look, which con-
tinued for several years after.  Till the winter 1788, even
the curling-stone lay neglected.  In those years, many more
than usual received supply from the parish funds; and the
late Count Lockhart of Lee and Carnwath, in the year 1782,
remitted to the most of his tenants one third of their rent.

