
			DUNDONALD.                          687

roll is 94, which is, perhaps rather large amount. But on look-
ing into the old session-records, we are not sure if matters, in this
respect, are worse than they were. In the year 1643, we find
that sixty-three persons were licensed by the session to beg with-
in the bounds of the parish, which, considering the supposable
amount of population, is a much greater proportion than at pre-
sent. The average rate of weekly allowance is 1s. 4 1/4d. which is
raised in the usual way, from parish dues, church collections, in-
cluding the stipulated sum of L. 4 from Fullarton, and an optional
one of from L.7 to L.10 from Troon, and a voluntary assessment.
of the heritors. The collections at the parish church for the last
year were L. 32, and the assessment 1s. per pound Scots of va-
lued rent. Besides this, there are two mortifications of L. 90, and
L.45, the former under the management of the session, and the
latter under that of the Fullarton Indigent Sick Society. The
interest of each sum is distributed among five poor families not on
the roll. The above may be considered a very scanty provision,
but there are few parishes where more is done in the way of pri-
vate charity. All the principal heritors are liberal in the distri-
bution of coal and clothing, and other necessaries. In this, they
are generously seconded by the farmers and inhabitants generally;
and there cannot be a doubt, but that the claims upon their cha-
rity are becoming more and more urgent. What may be the rea-
son, we know not, but sorry we are to say, that the good old spirit
of Scottish independence, which once spurned the kirk-box, as al-
most worse than starvation, is fast dying away, and that few in-
deed now think it any degradation to have their wants so supplied.
This is surely a symptom of change not for the better, and as it
is, from accounts, very generally manifested, we trust it will meet
with due consideration from those whose especial business it is to
provide and legislate for the poor.
	Fairs.--No fairs are now held within the parish, unless an
annual cattle-show which takes place at Dundonald in the month
of May, can be called such.
	William Fullarton of that Ilk, in a charter dated 1707, and to
which we have already referred, obtained the power of erecting
the town of Fullarton into a burgh of barony, with two annual
fairs, on the third Wednesday of July, and first Thursday of No-
vember, old atyle. We are not aware wheter the charter in this
latter article was ever acted on; but it is now a dead letter, and


