
                         CRAIL.                                965

     Willim Myreton, vicar of Lathrisk, and Janet, prioress of Had-
     dington,) erected into a collegiate church, with a provost, sacrist,
     ten prebendaries, and a chorister.  The provost had a right to
     the vicarage tithes, and six of the prebendaries had annuities
     pavable out of certain lands and tenements of houses lying in the
     town and neighbourhood, mortified for that purpose by Sir Wil-
     liam Myroton, who is called the founder of the College Kirk of
     Crail. At that time, besides the high altar, which was richly en-
     dowed., there were eight other altarages within the church dedi-
     cated to the Virgin Mary, to St Catharine, to St Michael, to St.
     James, to St John the Baptist, to St Stephen, to St John the
     Evangelist, and to St Nicholas.\f
       For many years after the college was established, the church
     retained its connection with the priory of Haddington; for though
     King James VI., in 15S6-7, made over to the town of Crail the
     place called the college, with the college kirk, and all emoluments
     belonging to the provost and prebends thereof, with the advoca-
     tion, donation, and right of patronage, it was not till 1594 that an
     act of Parliament was passed disjoining the church and parish
     from the priory, and establishing Crail as an independent rectory.
       By this act, one-third part of the fruits was assigned to the mi-
     nister rerving the cure, another to the new college of St Andrews
     for the sustentation of students of theology, and the remaining
     third to the college of Edinburgh, for students of philosophy,--
     Lord Lindsay being declared patron of the parsonage and bursa-
     ries.
        " About the time of the Reformation," says Mr Bell, in the
     former Statistical Account, "Lord Lindsay seems to have obtain-
     ed from the prioress and convent of Haddington a tack of the
     teinds both parsonage and vicarage, for the yearly rent of two
     hundred and fifty-five merks.  The patronage was vested in Sir
     William Murray of Balvaird, who presented Mr Murray to the
     benefice.  He then resigned the patronage into the king's hands
     in favour of John Lord Lindsay, who, in 1609, obtained from Mr
     Murray a confirmation of the former tack of the teinds for three
     lives and three nineteen years."
       The town of Crail," says the same writer, "having by several
     charters obtained a grant of the collegiate church and its revenqes,
     with the right of patronage, &c. disputes began to Arise between.

<FOOTNOTE>A list of the "ornaments and sylver werk in the College Kyrk of Carale;" is
     contained in the chartulary now in the Advocates' Library.


