
                            DUNBAR.

ground. "It is a sad reflection," says Chalmers, "that it was of
little importance to a harassed people whether the fanatical Leslie
or the miscreant Cromwell should  prevail," The first of these
actions is here called the battle of Dunbar, the other the battle
of Downhill.-During the civil war in 1745, Sir John Cope land-
ed his troops at Dunbar, where he was joined by two regiments of
dragoons; he marched thence towards Edinburgh, and was inglo-
riously defeated in the battle of Preston.-In 1779, the famous
Paul Jones lay off Dunbar several days with five ships, and alarm-
ed the inhabitants, who prepared to defend the town.-In 1781, the
American Captain Fall, another sea adventurer, tried to carry off
a vessel from the mouth of the harbour. This led to a brief and
decisive action: three shots were fired on each side, and one of
them from the shore was so well directed by an old skilful seaman,
that it nearly carried away the enemy's mast, and made him change
his purpose. To defend the town and harbour against such as-
saults, a battery was erected in the same year, of sixteen guns,-
which at the general peace were removed to Edinburgh.-When
an invasion of the French was dreaded, it was believed that a land-
ing might be attempted at Belhaven bay; to guard against which
an encampment was made in 1803 on West Barns Links, under
the command of General Don, a very active officer; and thereafter
barracks were erected west of the castle for 1200 infantry, and
at Belhaven for 300 cavalry. Dunbar was distinguished for its
loyalty, and could boast of a corps of volunteers, and a troop of
yeomanry cavalry collected from the parish and neighbourhood,
equal to any in the kingdom.
   Burgh.-Buchanan mentions Dunbar so early as the year 856,
when it was burned by Kenneth King of Scotland. It has evi-
dently grown up under the protection of its castle. It was of old
surrounded with a wall, had three posts or gates, and its principal,
street is regular and spacious. It was created by David II. a free
burgh, with limits as extensive as the earldom of March, with a
market cross, with power to buy and sell, with a coquet and trone,
and with a free port at la Belle Haven. Its privileges were after-
wards confirmed and extended by several royal charters. In one
of the last of these charters, dated "apud palatium nostrum de
Halyrudhaus, 1 Mar. 1603," King James VI. confirmed to the
provost, bailies, and community of Dunbar, the charter of David II.,
-a charter by King James II., dated 16th May 1445,--a charter

<FOOTNOTE>Caledonia, ii. 426.


