

70                                   ROXBURGHSHIRE.

the  Leader and Gala, belong to dissenting congregations in Gala-
shiels, Stow, Lauder, and Earlston; so that the number of Dissen-
ters residing within the bounds of this parish cannot be estimated
at more than 700.    The  who adhere to the Established church
are 3400; the number of families about  600; the number of com-
municants 800.   Both in the Establishment and among the Dis-
senters,  divine service is well attended.
   Religious Societies.-There are two missionary societies in the
parish; the amount of their contributions is about L.12 each; and
there is an annual collection for their behoof, which has frequent-
ly exceeded L.20, and sometimes fallen so low as L.6.
   Education.-Besides the parish school held in Melrose, there
are six considerable schools in the villages, for each of which a
comfortable school-house has been built.   There is a small school
at Langshaw, with a salary of L.3 a-year, derived from a mortifi-
cation, which is the only endowed school in the parish; and there
are numerous other small schools among the remote onsteads and
cottage groups, sometimes established by the teacher himself on a
speculation, and sometimes by a number of families, who unite to-
gether and agree to hite a teacher, the usual rate being his board
and lodging free, and his chance of scholars.   He is comfortably
lodge with the principal person in the cottage group, to whom he
is an agreeable companion, and to whose children he privately
gives additional attention, and his school fess may amount  to L. 15
per annum.  He is generally some pious old intelligent person in
decayed circumstances, or a young aspirant after a higher school,
who is gradually acquiring habits and attainments to fit him for
more extensive usefulness.   The whole system is working exceed-
ingly well, and no. addtional scholls are required.  If any were
such is the importance the people attach to the  education of their
children that they would not be long wanting.     We may venture
to say, that there are none  in the parish above six who cannot
read, and none above fifteen who cannot write, and that the people
universally are alive to the benefits of education.    In the side
schools there is little required but English, writing, arithmetic,
with geography and history.    In the parochial school,  the highest
branches of education are taught admirably well.      The teacher
is thoroughly versed in Latin, Greek, Frech, mathematics, with
their application to the arts and sciences.   His salary is L.30,-
L.4 4s. less than the maximum, but he has the legal accommo-
dation.  The school fees are 2s. a quarter for English, and for
                              4
 


 

