
                      CULTS.                565

tronage of Cults and of the other parishes above-mentioned is still
vested in the Professors of the United College.
  Antiquities.-"The Walton-hill," says Mr Wilkie in the for-
mer Statistical Account, "has many fossa and ramparts cut along
its side, which are supposed to be the remains of a Roman camp,
pitched by Agricola, who, when invading Scotland, encamped on one
part of his army here, and the other at Newtyle in Angus." The
truth of this supposition is very doubtful. The Romans usually
encamped in the plain, not like the Danes and Britons on the
hill or hill-side. Mr Wilkie adds, "that many urns and bones
have been dug up on and near this hill." Of what description
these urns were he omits to mention. Probably they were of the
same kind with those Celtic urns of rudely moulded earthenware,
which have been, at a more recent period, found in great numbers,
on the adjoining lands of Edenwood, in the parish of Ceres. Urns
exactly similar to these last have been discovered near Maiden
Castle, in Collessie, and are described in the New Statistical Ac-
count of that parish.
  Parochial Registers.-These parish records commence in the
year 1693, and are continued downwards with little interruption
to the present day. Prior to 1748, however, the entries are made
in a very confused and slovenly manner,-the notices of births,
marriages, and deaths being huddled together with the minutes of
the kirk-session, and the accounts of the collections and disburse-
ments for the poor. The older minutes of the Session exhibit
some curious traits of the characters and manners of the times to
which they refer. From the account of the collections, it ap-
pears that these were sometimes made in former times, not only for
the maintenance of the poor, and for missionary purposes, but for
the repairing of roads, bridges, and harbouts. And it more than
once occurs that the recusant members of the congregation, who
fail to give their mite to these occasional contributions, have their
names reported to a subsequent meeting of the kirk,session and
recorded in the minute.
  Eminent Men.-This parish has the honour of being the birth-
place of Sir David Wilkie, the celebrated painter, who was born
in the manse on the 18th of November 1785. His father, the
Rev. David Wilkie, for thirty-eight years minister of Cults, was
of respectable family in Mid-Lothian, and was nephew to the
famous Dr Wilkie, Professor of Logic in the University of St
Andrews, and author of the "Epigoniad." His mother, Miss Isa-


