
214                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

his son, John Cowper, who built the existing mansion-house of the
estate in 1625 and 1626, as appears from the initials of himself
and his wife, J. C. and H. S., which are carved above these dates
on the front of the house.  John Cowper was killed in the blow-
ing up of Dunglas Castle, on 30th August 1640.  His son, John
Cowper, erected a monument to his memory in the Old Church-
yard of Edinburgh, on which there was the following inscription, viz.
   "Joanni Cupero Gogarae Comarcho, patri suo charissimo ejusdem
nominis filius moerens merenti poni curavit vixit annos 46.  Obiit
cum multis allis viris generosis de ecclesia nostra optime meritis,
apud Dunglas." John Cowper was created a Baronet of Nova
Scotia in 1646.  He was for many years an elder of the parish,
and took a deep interest in every thing connected with the church.
He joined James Lord Forrester in his opposition to Cromwell,
and in consequence his rents were sequestrated.  Sir John Cow-
per executed an entail of the lands of Gogar, in favour of his
daughter Mary, and her husband Thomas Chalmers, in 1685,
but it was reduced at the instance of his creditors by the
Court of Session in 1697.  The estate was sold at a judicial
sale in 1699, to Andrew Myreton, a wealthy merchant, who had
previously acquired the adjoining lands of Leny, in Cramond pa-
rish, and afterwards purchased East and West Craigs, and Mea-
dowfield, part of the barony of Corstorphine, and erected the
whole into the barony of Gogar in 1701.  In the same, year he
was created a Baronet of Nova Scotia.  He died in 1717, and
left the barony to his son, Sir Robert Myreton, by whom it was
enclosed and considerably improved.  Sir Robert Myreton died
at Gogar in December 1774, and was buried within the old church
there.  His only surviving daughter, Frances, was married to Sir
William Augustus Cunningham of Livingston, Bart. and their son
David Cunningham, after his grandfather's death, succeeded to
the estate, and in 1790 sold it for L. 37,000 to William Ramsay,
Esq. of Barnton, whose grandson is now proprietor.*
  In 1809, about 92 acres of the estate of Gogar were sold to three
separate feuars at the rate of 200 guineas per acre, and these feus
now constitute the three villas of Gogar Park, Gogar Burn, and
Hanley.
  The other properties in this parish are Clermiston, and the two

<FOOTNOTE>Previous to the sale of Gogar to Mr Ramsay, Sir Grey Cowper, Bart.  M. P.
the beir-male of the family of Cowper of Gogar, made an offer for it which was re-
used.


