
                     MID AND SOUTH YELL.

north,  along the east side from the Ness of Burravoeto Burra
ness in North Yell, when it acquires an inclination of about 120
in a more northerly direction. From the Brough of Cuppasetter,
situated on the southwest corner of the island, to the "Rock of
the Birreir," a distance which embraces nearly one-haff of its
west coast, the line is also north-east by north. After pass-
ing this rock, the coast takes a more easterly direction inclin-
ing thereto from 17&deg; to 20&deg;; thus reducing the north end of the
island to nearly one-half of its south end and middle breadths.
Two ranges of hills, of from 206 to 400 feet in height, extend al-
most the whole length of the island, and in a direction nearly pa-
rallel to each other. These are occasionally intersected by others,
running in a direction east and west; and between which, are two
excellent barbours, viz. Midyellvoe and Bastavoe, this last men-
tioned, being in North Yell.
  Mid Yell voes, formed by the Ness of Lussetter on its south sides
and the Head of Hindigarth on its north, runs about a mile and a-
half west, on a bed of elay and shell sand, affording easy access to
vessels of any tonnage, and of sufficient extent to moor a fleet of
An hundred sail, in from six to ten fathoms water.
  Another inlet, called Whalefirth voe, approaches to that of Mid
Yell voe from a north-west direction, so as nearly to form a jumction
with it; there being but a few hundred yards betweem the pools
at high water. As the intervening space consists entirely of peat-
moss resting on a substratum of blue clay, a canal  might be cut at
a very trifling expense, which the influx and riflux. of the sea would
in a short time convert into a channel, through which boats could
pass at any time of the tide. Were a Communication between
the seas on the east and West side of Yell thus opened up there
can be little doubt that the  value of a locality in the vicinity Of
either of the voes just mentioned,would be considerably increased
from the additional quantity and variety of fish that would be there-
by introduced into them, and the facility afforded to all the inha-
bitants of that district, of prosecuting the various kinds of fishing,
on whatever. side of the island their endeavours were likely to be
Attended with the greatest success.
   Along the whole. of the east side of Yell, the land is moderate-
ly low, and in many places sandy, and there is scarcely more than
mile of coast, where a boat cannot land in ordinary weather. On
the south side of the island, there are also the good harbours
of Burravoe and Hamnavoa, about a mile distant from each other.


