
144                           AYRSHIRE.

the road, reach their destination early on the following forenoon.
Carts are also despatched from Glasgow every evening with cotton
and goods for the bleachfield, which reach Catrine every forenoon.
There is a stone bridge over the Ayr, near the manse on the
road from Galston to Auchinleek, which was begun and com-
pleted through the exertions of the Rev. William Steele, the se-
cond minister who was settled in the parish after its final sepa-
ration from Mauchline. There is also an excellent stone bridge
over the Ayr at Catrine, on the road from Mauchline to Muir-
kirk through that village.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish of Sorn was originally a part
of the parish of Mauchline, from which it was finally and complete-
ly separated in 1692, when Mr Mungo Lindsay was ordained mi-
nister, a stipend and glebe provided, and a manse built. The pre-
cise year in which the church was built cannot be ascertained. The
writer of the last Statistical Account represents it to have been
built in 1656; but there is a stone in a part of the building which
represents it to have been built in 1658. From Wodrow's history,
it appears that a Mr John Campbell was ejected from Dalgain in
1662 for non-compliance with Episcopacy; and according to
Cruickshanks, Mr Andrew Dalrymple, minister at Auchinleck, was
"indulged" to Sorn in 1669. Nor is it improbable that, previous to
the Revolution in 1688, there was an Episcopal incumbent settled in
the parish, as a tradition prevails that he was obliged to flee at that
period; and a small pass at the side of the river Ayr, near Sorn
Castle, over which be is said to have passed during his flight, is
still called the Curate's Steps. It is not unlikely that he was one
of those to whom Bishop Burnet alludes as being so obnoxious to
the people, that they tore their gowns, and carried these in mock
procession through their parishes previous to expelling them. In
1826 the church was thoroughly repaired, and the seating so ar-
ranged as to accommodate about 50 persons more than formerly.
It is conveniently enough situated for the parish,--has 611 sittings,
of which 64 are set apart for the poor and those not otherwise en-
titled to church accommodation. There is besides a chapel of
ease in the village of Catrine, which was built by the late Claud
Alexander, Esq. of Ballochmyle, in 1792, and cost L. 1000. In
1829, this chapel was purchased from the present Claud Alexander,
Esq. of Ballochmyle, by the fouars of Catrine, who, by their feu-
rights, are bound to-maintain a chapel in connection with the
Establishment, as well as a church-yard. This chapel, which con-


