
     of Kiltarlity.

that have been dispossessed, have remained as cottagers in
the parish, or have built houses for themselves in the
moors, and improved a small portion of ground called a
croft, around their houses.  Again some of the gentlemen
having a taste for improvement, employ a number of day-
labourers throughout the year, who crowd in to us from
the neighbouring parishes*.

   Proprietors and Rent.- There are 6 proprietors, and 1
wadsetter, 4 of whom reside constantly, the other two oc-
casionally in the parish.  The valued rent of the parish is
L. 2455, 15 s. Scots.  The real rent may be about L. 2200
Sterling.  The rent of land is various, from 5 s. to 20 s.
the acre.

   Produce, Implements of Husbandry, Manure.- The prin-
cipal crops in this parish are oats, rye, Scotch bear, and
some barley.  The gentlemen raise turnip and some
wheat in their enclosures, as also a little pease and beans.
Some of them yearly lay down a considerable part of their
farms in grass feeds-and clover.  The small tenants, crof-
ters, and cottagers raise a considerable quantity of pota-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The average of births for the last 15 years is about 67 1/2.  But as
the names of natural children have not till this year been inserted in the
parish register, I suppose 3 may be added to the above number, which
will make the average of births to be 70 1/2 of these, 38 are males, and
32 1/2 females.  The proportion of examinable males to the females, is as
5 to 6 1/4.  The decrease of adult males is owing to their leaving the pa-
rish.  Several young men go to the south of Scotland; some inlist in the
army; a few go the West Indies, while the women remain.  The ave-
rage of marriages and of deaths cannot be so exactly ascertained, as no
register of marriages has been kept, and there are 3 different burial
places in this parish, and in these, some are buried from the neighbour-
ing parishes of Kilmorack, Kirkhill and Inverness, as several from Kil-
tarlity and Convent bury in Kirkhill.  The average of deaths may be
about 34, of marriages from 16 to 18.


