
  	1260				PERTHSHIRE.

	tradition, was a castle in the immediate vicinity of the church-
	yard, the old walls of which were mentioned above, and were visi-
	ble in someplaces not many years ago.
	   George Drummond of Blair, in 1684, acquired by purchase
	from the Earl of Perth the lands of Drip, Cambusdrennie, and
	others ir this parish, being part of the ancient "Barronnie of
	Kincardin in Monteith, which came to the house of Drummond
	by the Lady Mary Montefix."  These lands were, at the same
	time, erected, in favour of the said George Drummond, into a
	free barony, to be called the barony of Blair-Drummond, from
	his own name, and that of his paternal estate of Blair, in the
	Stormont.  But it was not till 1714 that he obtained from the
	Earl of Perth the conveyance of the other parts of the barony of
	Kincardine on which the house of Blair-Drurnmond is built.  The
	building was commenced soon afterwards; and before that time
	there was no family residence in the vicinity, nor a tree planted,
	except the, few that were usually raised, according to the custom
	of the times, in the turf dikes that surrounded the small corn-
	yards of the tenants."
	   There is an inscription in elegant Latin on a shield in the
	church of Kincardine, in memory of this George Drummond; and
	there are also other separate inscriptions to the memory of seve-
	ral of his descendants.  His grand-daughter, Agatha Drummond,
	the Lady of Lord Kames, succeeded to the estate of Blair-Drum-
	mond.  Lord Karmes died in December, 1782, and his lady in
	June 1795.  There is a monument over their tomb in this church-
	yard, bearing an inscription, which is also in the church, and which
	was composed by Dr Hugh Blair, and is particularly noticed by Lord
	Woodhouselee in the second edition of the Life of Lord Kames.
	  In the church there is also a very appropriate inscription to the
	memory of George Home Drummond, Esq., (the only son of
	Lord Kames,) whose lady was the sister of Sir Henry Jardine.
	The estate has descended to Henry Home Drummond, Esq.,
	their eldest son, who lately represented the county of Stirling in
	the British Parliament, and who is at-present the Member and
	the Vice-Lieutenant of the count of Perth.

<FOOTNOTE>Genealogie of the House of Drummond, 4 to, Edin. 1831, p. 111.
	    The first of the name who was designed "Blair" was George Drummond,
	who, with his youngest son, William, was waylaid and slain by the Lairds of Gor-
	mock.  Drumlochie, Ardblair, and others, in 1554.  (V. Appendix to the "Genea-
	logie.)  He was son to John of Ledcreefe, and grandson to Walter fo Ledcreefe,
	who was uncle to John, first Lord Drummond.


