
24			FORFARSHIRE.

that can be produced green during the summer. The cow-feed-
ers buy all the turnips also not necessary for the farm stock. The
average price of an acre of good sown grass for cutting green is
L. 12, and for an acre of good turnips about L. 13; sometimes the
last is considerably higher on some farms near town.
	The land is generally cropped on a six-course rotation:--1. grass;
2. oats; 3. potatoes; 4. wheat or barley; 5. turnips; 6. barley
sown with grass seeds. The dung made on the farm is applied to
the land for potatoes, at the rate of about twenty tons per acre, and
the dung purchased in Dundee is applied to the land for turnips at
the rate of about sixteen tons per acre. The average price of dung in
Dundee is 5s. per ton. Oats are sown in March: barley is sown,
and potatoes planted in April; and turnips are sown from the 1st to
the 20th of June. The potatoes are taken up about the 20th of
October, and the ground is then sown with wheat. There is little
or no summer fallow made. Harvest commences about the 20th
of August. The corn is cut down with the sickle, generally at a
certain rate per threave, which consists of twenty-eight sheaves of
wheat of one foot diameter, and of twenty-four sheaves of oats or
barley of ten inches diameter. The average price of cutting, bind-
ing, and stooking a threave of wheat is 4 1/2d. and of a threave of oats
or barley 3 1/2d.
	Manufactures.--The manufactures of this town and parish are
become of great interest not only to Dundee, but to Scotland, and
even to Britain. The proportion which they bear to the general
produce of the industry of the state is very high; and their rapid
and continued progress encourages us to expect still greater acces-
sions to every department of our trade. To go back to the early
periods of the commerce of this place, and trace its progress down-
wards, would lead to details too extended for this work. All that
can be here attempted, is to present an accurate yet condensed
view of the whole as it now exists.
	Linen Manufacture.-- Of our manufactures the linen trade holds
the first place. It employs the greatest number of hands, and the
greatest capital, and it gives a spur to all other branches of trade and
commerce. It is probable that the trade in linen was early introdu-
ced into this place,--at least to an extent equal to the demand of the
town and neighbourhood, and nearly a century ago some was made
for exportation. From the first the coarser fabrics only seem to
have been made; and, although these are still the prevailing fa-


