
     Statistical Account

   Of the Church.-Campsie was a parsonage; the parson of
Campsie was the Sacristan of the Cathedral of Glasgow; of
course, he must have been one of the residentary canons; he
had a house in the Ratten-row of Glasgow, said to be still in
existence; and was accustomed to serve the cure at Campsie
by a vicar.  As this parish, in Roman Catholic times, contained
above 150 plough-gates of land, from which the parson drew
tithes; the probability is, that the living was considerable.

<FOOTNOTE>

age.  About 35 years ago, it would have been considered as disgraceful to chil-
dren to have allowed their parents to be supported by the session, or even the
more distant relations of brethren or nephews, to have heard of their sisters or
uncles cast upon the box, as they termed it; it is now astonishing with what
greediness people receive public charity; they somewhat consider it as a pen-
sion, to which they are entitled.  It is not uncommon to perceive children
enjoying high wages, and indulging in many of the gaieties of life, neglecting
their aged parents: such unnatural conduct was not congenial once with
Scottish independence, and that dignified pride, which characterized our fore-
fathers, in their more virtuous days.  When a pauper dies, it is customary
for the session to provide the coffin and winding-sheet, and mortcloth, gratis.
And if there shall be no relation of the deceased in the parish, to contribute for
the little entertainment necessary at the funeral, which seldom happens, 5 s.
is allowed for such expence.  As it might tend to throw more light upon the
political situation of a country, to examine at what age, and what are the class
of people of which the paupers of a parish are composed, I have subjoined the
following table, comprehending the different periods of admission, and the
sums given.
<TABLE>
   No. of paupers on our list,                                                  25
   Of these there are females,                                                  16
   Males,                                                                        9
   Above sixty years of age,                                                    19
   The average of the years of their receiving charity,                          8
   Of this number of paupers, there are no less than five facile in their mind,  5
   The higher sum given is per month,                                           61
   It would appear that it is only the hundredth part of the whole inhabi-
     tants who require public charity,
   Of these twenty five paupers, eight are unmarried women.
</TABLE>


