
480                      FORFARSHIRE.

first place, it is stated by Chalmers in his Caledonia, that the
only true Runic remain in North Britain seems to be the Danish
monument in the churchyard at Ruthwell in Dumfries-shire,
which is curious from having been ordered by the General As-
sembly, in 1644, to be thrown down, as an object of idolatry to
the vulgar. In the second place, they want the Runic characters
that distinguish Danish obelisks, and which are to some extent
supposed to be represented on those in the vicinity of Aberdeen,
Dundee, and Perth. And, in the third place, how, on this theory,
are we to account for the Christian symbols sculptured on them?
	The Danes had not embraced Christianity till just before they
left Scotland in 1014, and during that short period the Scots
never allowed these invaden to obtain so permanent and undis-
turbed a footing in this part of the country as to leave them at
leisure for the execution of elaborately sculptured monuments. If
these objections be well founded, then these monuments must be
of Pictish orifin, as the only other people by whom they could
have been erected. The period during which they have been
supposed to have been erected, namely, the Pictish period in Scot-
tish history, warrants us in ascribing them to that people. An-
other argument may be drawn from the emblematical devices and
characters engraven on the stones. The figure of the cross is
profusely covered with a variety of circles and other mathe-
matical figures. In these may be traced rude representations
of the planetary system; and we know that the worship and
theology of the Druids have much reference to the revolutions and
aspects of the heavenly bodies. Now Druidism was the religion
of the Picts, and that people, in their half-state of conversion to
Christianity, represented on their obelisks, as already stated, the
united symbols of their old and their new religion. But farther,
the Druidical temples were circular. The cross on the stone at
Eassie is covered with circles, and these may have been intended
to represent the temples in Which their fathers and probably
themselves had worshipped. Once more, animal sacrifice was a
part of Druidical worship; and on one side of this stone there
is represented a procession of figures in the robes of priests, with
animals wreathed and consecrated, as if for some expiatory of-
fering.
	Nothing is known with cdrtainty of the particular event or indi-
vidual to whose memory this stone at Eassie was erected. There
is a tradition that connects it with the death of one of the Royal



