
612                                AYRSHIRE.

	                        IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Manufactures.--Hand-loom weaving is the chief branch, of ma-
nufacture carried on in the parish. The principal kinds of work
done, are harness-shawls, plain-middles, and mousselin-de-laine.
The work is got from Kilmarnock and Paisley. There are in the
village hetween 40 and 50 families depending on the weaving, 94
weavers, between 50 and 60 pirn-winders, 40 draw-boys. The
wages of the first-class, 13s., deduct expenses, 4s., neat wages 9s.;
second-class, 7s., deduct expenses, 1s. 6d. neat wage, 5s. 6d.
Draw-boys receive from 2s. to 2s. 8d. per week; pirn-winders,
4d. to 8d. per day. We understand that the making of shoes
for the foreign markets constituted at one time a very considera-
ble branch of trade carried on here, but of late, from various
causes it has greatly declined, so that there is not above dozen
now employed in it in all the parish.
	 A great proportion of the females in the parish are employed in
sewing and embroidering muslin. Their wages vary from 9d. to
3s. 6d. per week; but this latter sum can only be earned at the
best work, and by the most expert sewers, and at much ex-
pense of comfort to themselves. The employment, we believe, is
very injurious, to the general health of those employed, but espe-
cially to, their chest and eyes.
	Aggriculture.--The parish contains about 18,000 acres, 500 of
which are under wood, about 700 still in moss; which last, how-
ever, are yearly diminishing, as the different proprietors and far-
mers connected with them are yearly making inroads upon them
with tile-draining and the plough-share. The rest is under culti-
vation. The rent of land varies from L. 1, 1Os. to L. 3, 10s. per
acne. The grazing of a cow or ox, L.4. No sheep are grazed
in the  parish,  excepting a few, in the parks immediately surround-
ing the different mansions of proprietors. The cows are chiefly
of the true Ayrshire breed, and the horses used for labour are all
mostly of the Clydesdale variety.
	Rate of Wages.--Farm-servants' wages yearly are from L. 12 to
L. 16, with food; women's, from L.7 to L. l0; labourers in sum-
mer receive 12s.; in the winter, l0s.
	Dairy.--This is much attended to, and from its produce the
greater part of the rent in many cases is paid. Above 160 tons
of cheese are produced annually than this, but there are several in-
dividuals in the parish whose cheese, with the other productions


