
			COYLTON.                             653

adhesive ungenerous clay, on a substratum of a like stiff cold re-
tentive mould. Till the introduction of recent improvements, it
did not yield very abundant crops. But when properly drained
and cultivated, it loses its tenacity, becomes loose and friable; in
most cases, increases 30 per cent. in value; and, by its excellent
crops, amply repays the toil and outlay of landlord and tenant.
The holms, or flat grounds on the banks of the rivers are of a light
loamy nature, on a sandy or gravelly bottom. There are inland
fields, and parts of farms of a similar nature. These are very fer-
tile, and well adapted to all kinds of green crop.
	Zoology.--Besides the fur and feathered tribes common in other
parts of the county, such as partridge, hare, &c. there are rabbits,
snipe, wild-duck, pheasants, moorfowl, and black-cock. The
blackbird, thrush, woodlark, bullfinch, goldfinch, and siskin,
birds noted for their song, frequent and breed in the woods and
policies on the Ayr and Coyl. Some time ago, there was shot on
the estate of Drumsuy a hoopoe, the Upupa epops of Linnaeus.
This bird is an inhabitant of the south of Europe and opposite
shores of Africa; it is met with in Asia, and abounds in the de-
serts of Russia and Tartary. It seldom breeds in this country.
Solitary individuals are found to migrate from their usual haunts,
but few, I believe, have been seen, so far north in Britain as the
above.
        Botany.--The following is a list by an eminent botanist, * of
some of the rarest plants in Colyton:
Aira canescens               Sambucus ebulus          Lysimachia vulgaris
Arundo phragmites            Sparganium simplex       Lobelia Dortmanna
Alisma simplex               Hypericum elodes         Pilularia globulifera
Botrychium lunaria           Littorella lacustris     Ruscus acculeatus
Fumaria claviculata          Listera ovata            Scirpus lacustria.
Primula veris
	Plantations.--The lower part of the parish is well wooded. The
plantations are chiefly of larch and Scotch fir. But oak, beech,
ash, elm, sycamore, horse chestnut, lime, silver and spruce fir, osier,
birch, &c. likewise abound. The soil on the banks of the rivers is
friendly to all kinds of hard-wood; and there are some trees, es-
pecially silver and spruce fir, ash, elm, osier, beech, sycamore,
an horse-chestnut, of great size and beauty.
		     II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Coylton was formerly of smaller dimensions than at present.
The original parish lies along the south banks of the Coyl.
About the end of the seventeenth or beginning of the eight-

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Smith of Monkwood Grove.


