
     Statistical Account

tribes of the uncivilized northern nations.  Below, and all
around the tumuli now instanced, have been discovered,
and dug up numbers of earthen pots full of half-burnt hu-
man bones, and each of them covered by a flat stone.
These have generally been found about a foot or a foot
and a half in the earth, and sometimes so near the surface,
that they have been uncovered by the plough.  Some of
these pots, with their contents, are very entire, and others
considerably wasted.  Most of them may contain about
two Scoth pints.  Specimens of them have been prefer-
ved, and are still in possession of the proprietor of the
ground*.

   Eminent Men.-This parish hath produced several very
great men.  Among the Literati, one, to whom this place
gave birth, will hold a distinguished rank, while a taste
for literature remains in the world.  The late Principal

<FOOTNOTE>

*All of them are of coarse but curious workmanship, and most of
them are ornamented with various figures, from which, however, nothing
can be drawn to enable us to ascertain with certainty, when or by
whom they have been deposited.  The spot on which they are found has,
in all probability, been a military station; but whether Roman, Danish
or British, we shall not pretend to decide.  From the united testimony
of travellers and historians, there seems to be little reason to doubt, that
the practice of burning the dead did once prevail among some of the
northern nations, and Dr Henry, who was indefatigable in his researches,
and whose veracity hath never been called in question, observes, in his
history of Britain, that "the ancient inhabitants of South Britain burnt
"the bodies of the dead, according to the custom of the ancient Gauls,
"from whom they were descended."  This the historian thinks evident,
from the the great number of urns, of British workmanship, which have
been found in various corners of the island, full of ashes and human
bones, half burnt.  Discoveries too, of a late date, tend to corroborate
the circumstances which the Doctor brings in proof of his conjec-
ture.


