
	             KIRRIEMUIR.                           165

when the fit of running or leaping comes on, nothing was found
tending to abate the violence of the disease, so much as allowing
the patient to exercise himself till nature was exhausted. There
is only one person in the parish who is known to me as at present
now liable to be afflicted with this singular disease.
	Hydrography-Rivers.--The only streams in the parish are the
South Esk, the Prosen, the Carity, and the Garie. The South
Esk takes its rise round the mountains of Clova; and after receive-
ing many tributary streams in its progress, falls into the sea at
Montrose. The Prosen has its source in the north-west extre-
mity of the northern division of the parish, and runs through the
whole of Glenprosen. It is fed by the rivulets of Lednathy,
Glenoig, Glenlogy, and many others, and falls into the, South
Esk, near Inverquharity. The Carity rises at Balintore, in the
parish of Lintrathen, and is lost in the South Esk, near Inverquha-
rity. The Garie has its source in the loch of Kinnordy, and
falls into the Dean a little to the eastward of Glammis Castle.
Before the loch was drained the Garie was a consider`ble stream;
but it is now so small that often in summer it is scarcely suffi-
cient to turn a mill.
	Loch of Kinnordy.--The only lake or loch of considerable ex-
tent in the parish is the Loch of Kinnordy. It was drained in 1740
and 1741 by Sir John Ogilvy, for the sake of the marl. It is about,
a mile in length, and half a mile in breadth, and abounded, as the
Rev. George Ogilvy assures us, in pike, perech, and the large
silver-coloured eel. This lake being but imperfectly drained at
first, Mr Johson, when proprietor of the lands of Balfour in Kin-
goldrum, undertook to drain it completely; but after he had ex-
pended a great deal of money in the, attempt, he desisted. In its
present state it is both unsightly and unhealthy; and it certainly
should either be drained effectually, or restored to its pristine con-
dition, by allowing the water once more to cover it. This last
alternative could easily be accomplished; and it is a matter for
consideration whether the value of the water, as a reservoir for
the mills on the Garie, might not compensate for the loss of the
marl, the demand for which has become of late very limited.
	Zoology.--From the extent of the parish, and from the great va-
riety of soil and climate which it embraces, it possesses perhaps as
many varieties in zoology as most others in the kingdom. No per
son is better acquainted with this branch of natural history than John


