
336                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

commodious country churches in Scotland, and is seated for up-
wards of 1000 persons. During the last few years, it has under-
gone several extensive repairs and alterations, which reflect the
highest credit on the liberality, taste, and judgment of the heri-
tors of the parish.
   The manse was built in 1789, and cost L.500. It stands on
an eminence near the church, and in its immediate neighbour-
hood, is the ruin of the old church; the three objects forming a
group remarkable for its beauty. The glebe extends to 8 acres,
and, is worth about L.40 per annum. The stipend amounts to
about L.200 per annum. In the Taxation it is rated at 90 marks,
which exhibit a higher rate than any church in Mid-Lothian, ex-
cept St Cuthberts.
   The church-yard has been vastly improved within the last few
years. In the centre of it stands the ruin of the old church,
which has been converted into family vaults.
   There are two Dissenting chapels in the parish, the one be-
longing to the Reformed Presbyterian Church, and the other to
the United Secession Church. Their ministers are paid by vo-
luntary contribution.
   About two-thirds of the inhabitants belong to the Established
Church, and the remaining, one-third to the Dissenters. Divine
service is well attended at the parish church. The number of
communicants at the parish church is about 700.  Annual collec-
tions are made at the church door for each of the five schemes of
the General Assembly. Last year they amounted collectively to
the sum of L.70, 10s. The ordinary collections, last year,
amounted to L.79, 9s. 3d.
   Education.--There are eight schools in the parish. They are
all in an efficient state.
   The ordinary branches of education are touch in all the schools.
An excellent education may be received at the parochial school,
where, besides the usual branches, are taught Latin, Greek,
French, and mathematics.
   The parochial schoolmaster has the maximum salary, and ac-
commodation for several boarders. The school is numerously at-
tended, and the fees are very considerable in amount. The
schoolmaster at Pentland has a salary of L.20 per annum, a free
school-house, and a free dwelling-house. The school-house is a
spacious and elegant building, erected wholly at the expense of
Mrs Gibsone of Pentland. This lady also gives the salary and


