
     Statistical Account

posed, it is upon the increase.-The lists of births, deaths
and marriages, in the table, are taken from the parish re-
gisters, which, though kept with care, cannot be depended
upon; owing to the obstinacy and ignorance of the people,
and their aversion to have the births and deaths in their fa-
milies duely inserted.  The general average of births is supposed
to amount to 51 annually, which is as 1 to 32 of the whole
population.  As to the average of deaths, for the reason above
given, this cannot be ascertained, nor can the incumbent ob-
tain means of ascertaining them with any accuracy.  Of the
twin births mentioned in the table, three happened anno 1790
when there was an uncommon number of such births in this,
and in other countries.-A fact remarked at the time, but never
attempted to be accounted for.  The people, particularly those
in the manufacturing line, and women servants, emigrate to
Glasgow, Paisley, and Kilmarnock.  And of late some of them
have gone to Catrin and Muirkirk.  But these emigrants have
not materially affected the general population, to which the
Earl of Dumfries, by the number of labourers he employs,
gives all imaginable encouragement*.

   Produce, etc.-The greater part of Lord Dumfries's lands,
which form the bulk of this parish, are presently out of leases,
and let from year to year in grass.  But if the arable ground

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*There are no remarkable plants.  But considerable plantations of Scotch
sir, larix, elm, beech and plane trees; the natural woods consist mostly of
birch and oak.  The ash, mountain ash, aller, and the bird cherry abound
also, but few of any size; the natural woods and plantations cover at least 400
acres.  And it is said that Lord Dumfries draws communibus annis, about
L. 200 by the sale of wood, which he replaces by very extensive new planta-
tions.  For he must have drawn hedges and ditches to the extent of about
40 miles, and stone dykes to half that length, since he came into possession of
that estate.

</UNREADABLE>


