

206                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

   Extent and Boundaries.--The length of the parish is about
seven miles: its irregular breadth may average two. The river
Avon descending towards the north-east, till it turns to the north
and west, not far from Linlithgow bridge, bounds its extreme
length on the south-east, and forms the border of its breadth on
the north-east, separating it from the parishes of Slamannan, Tor-
phichen, Linlithgow, and Borrowstounness, till it meets with the
rivulets which form its less apparent division from Polmont and Sla-
mannan on the north-west and west.
   Topographical Appearances.--Part of that dreary table-land
which stretches across the island between the Clyde and the Forth
is found on its extreme west,--while it occupies five miles of its
length in descending eastward through ever-varying ridges towards
the rich fields of Lothian and the luxuriant Carses of the Forth.
These heights are, for the most part, crested with plantations, and
embosom well-dressed fields.
   Although none of them exceed the elevation of 400 feet above
the sea, or of 150 from their own base, yet the remotest Gram-
pians are seen from many points,--the towers of Stirling, Clack-
mannan, and Linlithgow, the shores of the Forth and the glens
of the Devon. On the whole, its ever-varying surface, its wide-
spread view of frith and plain, of mountain, wood, and tower,
render its aspect unusually interesting and cheerful.
   Hydrography.--In the clay soil, which occupies two-thirds of this
parish, springs are deficient, and the inhabitants are dependent on
water of an inferior description, taken from ponds or hollows on the
surface. Many springs in the mosses are so strongly impregnated
with iron, that they speedily choke their outlets  with red ochre. In
the gravel soils, perennial springs are plentiful and strong, some-
times impregnated with minerals, rendering them less useful for
household purposes,--an inconvenience rather increased than di-
minisbed by boiling. As the parish forms an irregular ridge be-
tween,the river Avon and the Carses of the Forth, its proper
streams are necessarily small, such as the Hollock, the Mannel;
and the Sandyford burns.
   The river Avon forms the most remarkable natural feature of the
parish, which it bounds for nine miles, finding the flood-mark of the
Forth about two miles below it. This stream is dull, sluggish, and
Swampy near the source, reserving its rapids and its foam for the
sport of that maturer strength in which he visits us. The first
symptom of this disposition is shown on its meeting with a mass


