
                          KINNEFF.                            311

        Botany.-The surface of the parish, varying from the rocky sea-
coast, to the upland marsh and heathy moor, presents a consider-
able field for native plants. Among the more remarkable is the
Silene nutants, not hitherto observed so far north, which blossoms
in great profusion among the rocks. Primula veris and P. elatior,
contrary to the statement of Hooker, are found growing abundant-
ly with P. vulgaris, in circumstances which cast doubt on their
claims to the rank of species. Close to the sea the Geranium
sanguineum hangs forth its showy flovers; while the scarcely less
beautiful Gentiana campestris, and Astragalus hypoglottis, with the
more common Silene moritima and Dianthus deltoides, also adorn
the banks.
	The native Fuci of the rocks do not present much that is re-
markable or rare. Dulse (Rhodomenia palmata) grows large on
the conglomerate where exposed to the tide; Iridaa edulis and
Catenella opuntia occur more sparingly; and in sheltered spots no-
thing can exceed the beauty of Delesseria sanguinea and Odontha-
lia dentata, with their elegant deep-red fronds floating beneath the
wave.
	In some instances, the native plants are turned to economical
purposes. Broom is employed for thatch, many poorer houses in
the parish being covered with it. The younger shoots are chiefly
used, and are bound down to the roof with ropes of straw, or when
greater durability is desired, of heather. The latter are twisted
with the hand by shepherds in the neighbourhood. The whin is
sometimes employed for feeding cattle. On several small farms
there is an apparatus in use, driven by a horse, for bruising the
branches of the plant, and preparing them for food. Dulse is
much eaten, being gathered to a considerable extent during the
summer months, and carried inland in carts for sale. The young
shoots of the tangle (Laminaria digitata) are also similarly used.

                  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

	When King David Bruce returned from France in 1341, he
was pursued by the English fleet, and driven so far from his di-
rect course, that the first point of his kingdom which he touched
was the shore of Kinneff. In gratitude for his escape, he after-
wards caused a chapel to be erected on the spot, and mass per-
formed. The ruins of this building which were standing at the
date of the last Statistical Account, have since disappeared; but
the bold rock under which be landed, still bears the name of Craig


