
                     ANSTRUTHER EASTER.                 301

included Anstruther Easter. In his Diary* he says, "that the
parishioners of Kilrenny bound themselves to build him a house,
upon a piece of ground which the Laird of Anstruther gave freely
for that purpose; but he adds, it would never have been perfected,
unless the bountiful hand of his God had made him take the work
in hand himself." The town and landward parish scarcely afforded
half of the building materials; the remainder of the expense he
bore himself,-tbe whole cost of the erection being upwards of
3500 marks, or about L. 190 Sterling.  It remains to this day,
with very few alterations, and these only in the interior, if we
except a paltry addition made to it by a former minister, not at
all in the substantial style of the original building.  The situation
is remarkably well chosen; the walls are of great thickness; the
lower story consists of three vaulted cellars; the ceiling of the
apartments in the second storey is as lofty as in most modern build-
ings; that of the third much less so.  A staircase, in the form of
a round tower, is carried up the whole height of the building, at
the top of which there is a small apartment, commanding a very
fine prospect, and having on the outside, chiselled in stone, these
words-" The Watch Tower."  This manse, at present far infe-
rior to modern manses, might, with a judicious repair, be made a
most commodious dwelling, and might remain for generations a
monument of the judgment and liberality of one who, during his
harassed life, was scarcely permitted to occupy it for any length of
time together.  It is ascertained that the burden of upholding the
manse lies upon the town.
   There is no grebe, properly so called, belonging to the minis-
ter of the parish of Anstruther Easter.  The land which goes
under that name, about nine acres, is a mortification as part of
stipend, which is made up of several smaller mortifications; the
tithes t of fish brought into port; a grant of part of the bishop's
rents out of the lands of Kilrenny; and a sum from the Ex-
chequer,-the amount of the whole may be estimated at nearly
L.200 per annum.
   The outward means of spiritual improvement afforded to the
parishioners are, public worship on the Sabbath, forenoon and

(FOOTNOTE) The Diary of James Melville was published in 1829, by the Bannatyne Club,
from a manuscript in the Advocatee Library.
  The right to the tithes of fish was purchased by James Melville; and such was
their value in his time, that be deemed them sufficient to afrord a permanent stipend
to the minister of the parish.  Now, however, the tithes are with difficulty collected,
and, though great quantities of fish are brought into the port, they have for many
years yielded little.

