
     Statistical Account

   Soil, Agriculture, etc.-The soil varies in different pla-
ces, but in general that of the higher grounds is lights,
mixed with sand, and has sometimes rock for its bottom, and
sometimes mortar.  The lower grounds are either of a black
soil, inclining to loam, or of clay.  At present upwards of
2000 acres are divided into 12 farms, none of them contain-
ing less than 100 acres, and one 400 nearly.  The remaining
grounds in the district, allowing for about 400 acres plan-
tation, and perhaps even more for roads and moor or
waste, particularly towards the extreme boundary on the
north, are for the most part occupied by smaller tenants, or
by feuars.  Some of the more considerable farms have
rented of late at two guineas an acre; but one half of these
being either liferent tenures, or held upon old leases, the
medium rent of the whole cannot be estimated higher than
from L. 1,5 s. to L. 1, 10 s.  Smaller holdings rise in va-
lue, in proportion to their vicinity to Dundee, those espe-

<FOOTNOTE>

Children tht are full-born, or die unbaptized, are never mentioned in
the public register; besides, there are parents, who sometimes from ne-
glect, and sometimes from partimony, do not insert in it their childrens
names, and by Dissenters this duty is often omitted entirely.  Some allow-
ance may likewise be necessary respecting the deaths here.  Many persons
from other quarters having settled of late years in this district, some of
these after death are conveyed to the parishes whence they came, and
others are interred privately in the neighbouring church-yard of Logie,
which appertains to these united parishes, but has become more the bu-
rial place of people from Dundee.  And all cases, unless the mortcloth
here be called for, (which is sometimes prevented, in the instance of bu-
rials at Logie, by private  mortcloths being hired cheaper in Dundee,)
no mention is made in the record of the persons deceased.  The burying-
ground in each of these united parishes is still kept sacred for the recep-
tion of the dead; but the church-yard of Liff, and next to it, that of
Logie, are most frequently used.  Very few in comparison are buried in
Bervie, and in Invergourie not above two burials on an average will hap-
pen in the year.


