
RENNOWAY.                               381

Of fatuous individuals there arp 4 ; of blind, 2 ; and of deaf and
dumb, 7. Of the last mentioned class, 5 belong to the same fa-
mily, viz. two sons and three daughters. The family, in all, con-
sists of three sons and four daughters, all of whom are of adult age.
  Illegitimate births in the course of the last three years, 13.
Character of the People.-The people, in their general habits,
are industrious, cleanly, and economical; and their circumstan-
ces are, for the most part, comfortable. In behaviour, the great
bulk of them are worthy of commendation, as being sober, peace-
able, decorous, and upright. - Some few exceptions have, no
doubt, always existed ; and these have of late years, it is to be fear-
ed, been very considerably increased. Drunken brawls, and acts of
wanton mischief, committed during the night by persons under the
excitement of spirituous liquors, have, for a few years past, been
frequent and outrageous beyond all former precedent in the history
of the place; and at this moment, a general movement is making
by the respectable part of the community, to put an end, if pos-
ible, to such things, by having the perpetrators of them uniform-
ly prosecuted and punished ;-to take steps towards which, indivi-
duals who have been aggrieved have- hitherto felt a great reluct-
ance. The grand remedy, if it could be applied, would be to lay
a restriction on the improper use of ardent spirits. Drunkenness
is certainly the prevailing vice amongst us ; and is the originator,
or at least inciting cause, to almost every mischief. Imprisonment
for violent assault under its influence has of late been in two in--
stances inflicted.
" A considerable proportion of the inhabitants of this-parish,"
says a discerning and impartial observer, who has lived long amongst
them, the Rev. Dr Fraser, 11 appear to me to discover their own
share of Scottish acuteness and intelligence. I have often seen
evidence. also of their readiness to assist each other ; particularly
by personal service, in times of affliction."

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
Agriculture.-The number of acres in the parish, standard im-
perial measure, may be stated at 3750. Of these, 3470 are under
the plough ; 30 have never been cultivated, remaining constantly
waste or in pasture; and 250 are under wood. Larch and Scotch
firs are the kinds of trees that have -generally been planted ; but
enough of hard-wood of various kinds has been here and the-re in-
terspersed,1 to prove by its healthy and vigorous growth that the
soil is congenial to its produce.


