
848                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

any useful purpose, and of too soft contexture to receive 'the re-
quisite polish.
   Vitrification.-On an eminence in the northerly division of the
parish, stones in a vitrified state are thickly scattered over an ex-
tent of about six acres. Thev are of various dimensions, though,
in general, not exceeding a few inches diameter; but no mass of
vitrified matter has been discovered near the spot. Their exist-
ence in such a situation furnishes an interesting subject of anti-
quarian research ; but it is apprehended that the best directed
inquiries will lead to no satisfactory result.  The stones bear evi.
deiit marks of having been in a state of high ignition, and, when
broken, disclose small globules filled with a white pulverized de-
posit, of a slightly sulpbureous smell.  There is no appearance of
a crater that might connect the vitrified matter with volcanic re-
mains, nor are the least vestiges discovered ofa vitrified fort. At
a distance of about four miles is situated the mountain of Noath,
with a valley intervening.  On the summit of this mountain, atan
elevation of nearly 1800 feet above the level of the sea, are the
remains of a volcano or vitrified fort, and it is only on the side of
the eminence in the parish of Clatt, opposite to Noath, that the
vitrified stones are found.  The writer mentions this singular co-
incidence without venturing to deduce from it any inference affect-
ing the merits of the inquiry.  He would merely remark, that the
vitrified matter at both places appears to be nearly of the same
consistency, and that, at a similar distance from Noath, in an east-
erly direction, stones of the same description are found over a li-
mited extent.
   Botany.-Among the Plante rariores of the district, the fol-
lowing list, furnished by the Rev. John Minto, parochial school-
master, an accurate botanist, may not be deem'ed unworthy of no-
tice:  Plantaqo maritima, Drosera longifolia, Epilobium anqusti-
folium, Arenaria verna, Cerastium arvense, Habenaria viridis,
Listera cordata, Goodyera repens, Carduus nutans.
   Soil.-This parish exhibits a considerable diversity of soil.
The land, which has been immemorially in a state of cultivation,
consists of a rich, deep, loamy soil, formed by the repeated appli-
cation of manure, and the existence of decomposed vegetables,
lying on sand or broken rock, which readily absorbs the moisture.
The basis of a large proportion of the richest soil is clay, which,
by the application of stimulants and manure, has been converted
into a beavy loam.  In those grounds, reclaimed by draining or


