
    186			ROXBURGHSHIRE.

	Education. -The parochial school is in the village of Crailing.
    The teacher, besides house and garden, has a salary of nearly
    L. 30, and L. 3, 15s. arising from a sum of money (1500 merks)
    left at interest with magistrates of Jedburgh, by one of the Lords
    Cranstoun, and a Bailie George Cranstoun. He enjoys also the
    emoluments belonging to the offices of session and parish clerk.
    We have also a flourishing school at Nisbet, which is under the
    control and patronage of the Marquis of Lothian, and is support-
    ed at his Lordship's expense; each of the tenants on the estate
    contributing also a certain proportion. The salary of the teacher,
    in addition to house and garden, is L. 20, and his other emolu-
    ments may amount to L. 20 or L. 30 more. At this school, be-
    sides the usual branches, the classics are frequently taught. The
    number of children receiving education at both schools throughout
    the year may be stated at between 70 and 80, and the school fees
    are as follows, 2s. 6d. per quarter for English reading; 3s. when
    writing is also learned, and 4s. when instructions are given both in
    arithmetic and writing.
	Library. -At Nisbet there is a limited but excellent collection
    of books, kindly furnished by the Marquis of Lothian, for the use
    of those residing on his property. The teacher acts as librarian,
    and the spirit of reading prevails particularly during the winter
    months. At Crailing also we have a division of Brown's Itinerat-
    ing Libraries, containing fifty volumes of useful and improving
    reading.
	Poor and Parochial Funds. -The poor are supported by an as-
    sessment. At this time there are 25 persons on the roll, and the
    aid granted to each may be stated at between L. 4 and L. 5 per
    annum. The church collections amount to nearly L. 12 per an-
    num, and are employed in giving occasional aid to the necessitous
    not on the poors'-roll, and in paying the school-fees of children
    whose parents are in difficult circumstances. It is expected that
    the voluntary contributions at church will be so increased as to
    reduce the rate of assessment, -the heritors having, by a late act,
    liberally placed the whole of these funds at the disposal of the
    kirk-session, and relieved them of the payment of church officers'
    salaries, (viz. session-clerk, beadle, presbytery and synod clerk,)
    -with which the revenues of kirk-sessions are generally burdened,
    and against which a prejudice prevails in some places so as to in-
    jure the collections. It must be acknowledged with regret, that
    the feeling of independence and of reluctance to accept parochial

				3


