
298                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

hall; there is one at Walliford, established by the family of W.
Aitehison, Esq. of Drummore; one at Westpans, established by
Sir George Grant Suttie, for the children of such of his workmen
as reside there; and one for girls in Musselburgh, supported by
subscription.  The teachers of all the other schools depend solely
on the school-fees.  The total number of schools in the parish is
14.  The school-fees are as follows:-English reading, 5s. per
quarter; -writing, 7s.; arithmetic, 9s. 6d-; Latin, 5s.; French, 21s.
An infant school has recently been established, by the Rev.  Alex-
ander Davidson, minister of the quoad sacra parish, which has
hitherto been successful, and is well attended.  The Sunday schools
connected with the Established Church, including one in connec-
tion with the new church, amount to 7, at which upwards of
800 children receive religious instruction, many of whom, from the
unwillingness or inability of their parents, would otherwise be left
in a great measure uninstructed.  There are few altogether unable
to read, but a considerable number, whose education has been so
defective that, although able with difficulty to read the Scriptures,
they derive little benefit from what they read.  There, in gene-
ral a sufficient anxiety to obtain the benefits of education, but an
increasing tendency on the part of parents is observable to shift
the burden of paying for the instruction of their children upon the
shoulders of the benevolent.*
   Libraries.--A Subscription Library, containing upwards of 1300
volumes, which was established in 1812, still continues to flourish.
The annual contribution of each subscriber is 6s.  There is also
a Circulating Library, consisting of 1200 volumes, the property of
Mr Walker, bookseller, whose printing-press affords a convenient
facility in preparing circulars, advertisements, &c.  At the read-
ing,room the leading London and Edinburgh newspapers are re-
ceived.
  Friendly Societies.-Various friendly societies exist in Mussel-
burgh and Fisherrow, both yearly and permanent.  Of the latter
kind are the following,-the Youths' Caledonian, Hammermen, St

<FOOTNOTE>Prior to 1609, a music school was endowed by James VI. law following quo-
tation from the Maitland Club Book will explain why it is not included in the ac-
count of the seminaries of this parish.  "Item, thair is ane musick schoole in Mus-
silburgh, quhairvnto King James, quha lait deceissit, of worthie memories,
giftit iijc. merkis money, furth of the yeirlie dewtie of the erectit lordeship of New-
botle.  This pensioun wes gevin be the vmquhile Kingis Majestie to vmquhile Mr
Andro Blakhall, minister for the tyme at the said kirk of Mussilburgh, and to his
sone Mr Andro Blakhall, present minister at Abirlady, to the vse and behove of the
said musick schoole, and the said Mr Andro hes sauld and disponit the said pensioun
sua that the parchine and the schoole is frustrat of his Majestie's gift."


