
728                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Name.-It is written Culsalmond and Culsamond.  A variety
of etymologies may be assigned to it, of which only one need be
mentioned,-namely, Cul-Sal-Men, these words signifying in Gae-
lic the end of the hill-lands.
   Rivers.-The only stream to which the name of river can be ap-
plied, either in the parish or district, is the Urie, which, from its
source, till it passes the church, is called the Glen Water.  It runs
along the whole length of the parish, and conducts to the Don Al-
most all the smaller streams which arise in the upper part of the
Garioch, such as the Colpie Burn, the Kellock, the Shevock, and
the Gady.  It has its source in the parish of Gartly, and termi-
nates at Inverury, where it empties its water into the Don, tra-
versing an extent of country of about eighteen or nineteen miles.
In its course it passes the foot of Foudland, and betwixt the hills
of Culsamond and Culmeaddin, receiving during this part of its
progress several rivulets from the Foudland Hills on its northern
border.
   To the west of the Culsamond Hill is a fine view of Belrinnes,
and to the north-west are seen the hills of Caithness, with a dis-
tinct view of a great part of the Moray Frith, and of the Buchan
district.
   In some parts of the parish, the soil consists of a deep clay
loam, in others, of a thin sandy loam, much mixed with small
stones; but, in both, the ground is very fertile, and, in general,
the crops are early ripened.
   About seventy years ago, plantation commenced on Cairnhill;
and latterly, on the estates of Newton of Newton and Sheelagreen.  Much
wood has been sold from these properties since, especially from
Newton.  About 250 acres have been planted on the hill of Cul-
samond since 1804, by the late Mr. Fraser of Williamston, and a
variety of belts and clumps around the manor house by his son.
The late Mr Leith, of Freefield, and his son, Major-General Sir
A. Leith, have also done a great deal in that way on the small
farm of Cairnhill, which belongs to that family.
   Slate Hill of Culsamond.-The stratum to which the masses in
his hill belong begins at Melross, near Macduff, on the north-
east, makes its first appearances here, and proceeds north westward
by Clilaneaddin, Fordland, and several hills in the parish of Gartly.
It seems to have been formed horizontally, and afterwards to have
been raised up and split asunder by some forces acting from be-
neath it.  The blocks are now, in general, vertically inclined,


