
		ON THE COUNTY OF PEEBLES.                    179

former times the produce was consumed on the land, now the greater
part is exported. Tweeddale at present contains about 102,000
sheep, a very small number of which is consumed in the county or
even in Scotland; almost the whole of the annual produce, such as
lambs, cast ewes and wethers being sent to the south of England:
whereas formerly neither sheep nor cattle ever crossed the English
border, unless when a few were lifted in a marauding foray.
    It has been said, "we have nothing of the pastorico-poetical
mania, which would lead to the erection of cottages for idlers, for
whose labour there is no demand, for the mere pleasure of excit-
ing poetic ideas." * It were much to be wished that this mania
prevailed a little, not for the sake of poetry, but of humanity. Cot-
tages, on the whole, are the nurseries of a sober industrious race of
people; and it is surely only reasonable and consistent with hu-
manity that the labourer should be as near as possible to the
scene of his daily toil, instead of being obliged to walk several
miles before he can begin his day's work, and after bearing the
toil and heat of the day to return the same distance in the even-
ing. The hardship is still greater, if he be obliged to go to a re-
mote part of the county, when he must leave his wife and family
in some confined lane in the Burgh town, and, carrying his week's
provision with him, must take such accommodation as he can find.
The bad effects of this cruel system of not affording the day la-
bourer a cottage in the parish where he earns his subsistence, is se-
verely felt in the county town, in which, as his domicile, he claims
his parish settlement.
    Peculiarities of the People.-The inhabitants of this county are
not distinguished from their neiglhbours by any peculiarity, if we
except their almost total want of a taste for music. A stranger
would be inclined to suppose that a pastoral district must be the
land of music and Song, and yet this is not the case. Pennecuik
says "musick is so great a stronger to their temper that you shall
hardly light upon one amongst six that can distinguish one tune
from another;" and the editor of Pennecuik, who wrote a hundred
years afterwards, says " in confirmation of this general want, it
has been remarked, that from a band of Tweeddale shearers a
Song is scarcely ever to be heard; that a ploughman seldom en-
livens his horses by whistling a tune; and that, although the scenery
is so purely pastoral, the sound of a pipe, or flute, or cow-horn, or
stock in horn, or even of a Jew's harp, is a rare occurrence in tra-
velling through it."

<FOOTNOTE>Agricultural Survey of Tweeddale, p. 47.


