
                   KILFINICHEN AND KILVICEUEN.                297

finichen and Kilviceuen, from the two places of worship before
alluded to, although, in the country, it is more generally known
by the name of the Parish of Ross.  In the year 1828, the Par-
liamentary Commissioners, under the Act 4 and 5 George IV.,
built a Government church and manse in the Island of Iona, and
a quoad sacra parish was thereto attached.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-Exclusive of the Islands of Icolmkill,
Inniskenneth, and Eorsa, which belong to it, the extent is very
great.  Situated in the south-western part of the Island of Mull,
it is bounded an the east and north-east by a ridge of mountains
which separates it from the parish of Torosay; on the south, an
arm of the Atlantic, running up towards Oban, separates it from
the Islands of Colonsay, Jura, and Isla, and the main land of Ar-
gyleshire; on the west, by the Atlantic; and, on the north, an
estuary from that ocean, called Loch-nan-gaul, separates it from
the parishes of Ulva, and Kilninian, and Kilmore.  The Islands
of Inniskenneth and Eorsa, belonging to the parish, lie in this
estuary.  From the confines of the parish of Torosay, to the
Sound of Icolmkill, which is its extreme length, exclusive of the
Island of I or Icolmkill, in a straight line, it may measure about
24 miles.  Its greatest breadth is where it meets the parish of
Torosay, and may be about 13 miles.  Exclusive of its islands,
the parish, quoad civilian, may be set down about 170 to 180
square miles.  The parish, quoad civilia, is divided into four di-
visions or districts, namely, Icolmkill, Ross, Brolas, and Aird-
meanach.  The three first lie to the south of Lcrchscridain, an,
arm of the Atlantic that runs twelve miles from west to east into
the parish.  Airdmeanach, the fourth district, lies north of Loch-
scridain, and parallel to Ross and Brolas.  The Island of I lies
in the Atlantic, and is separated from Ross by a narrow channel
called the Sound of I.  This latter district will be described at
greater length in the sequel.  The districts of Brolas and Ross
are nearly of equal extent, and separated from one another by a
ridge of hills of no great height.  From the Sound of I to the
parish of Torosay, these two districts extend to about 24 miles,
which, as already mentioned, is the greatest length of the parish,
and their breadth may be from 3 1/2 to 7 miles.  Airdmeanach
joins Brolas at the head of Lochscridain, and may be about 13
miles in length, and from 3 to 6 in breadth.
   Ross signifies in Gaelic a point of land jutting out into the sea
or a peninsula; Brolas, a grey ridge, or a rugged ridge; and


