
4                       ROSS AND CROMARTY.

at every step, as if assuming in succession all the various combina-
tions of form which constitute the wild and the picturesque; and
the pale yellow hue of the stone seems, when brightened by the sun,
the very tint a painter would choose to heighten the effect of his
shades, or to contrast most delicately with the luxuriant profusion
of bushes and flowers that wave over every shelf and cranny. A
colony of swallows have built, from time immemorial, in the hollows
of one of the loftiest precipices. As the traveller proceeds, the
dell becomes wilder and more deeply wooded, the stream frets and
toils at his feet, here leaping over an opposing ridge, there strug-
gling in a pool, yonder escaping to the light from under some frag-
ment of cliff: There is a richer profusion of flowers, a thicker mant-
ling Of ivy and honeysuckle, and after passing a semicircular inflec-
tion of the bank, which, waving from summit to base with birch and
hawthorn, may remind one of some vast amphitheatre on the morn-
ing of a triumph, he finds the passage shut up by a perpendicular
wall of rock, about thirty feet in height, over which the stream pre-
cipitates itself in a slender column of foam into a dark mossy basin.
A little cluster of hazels fling their arms half-way across,-trebling
with their shade the apparent depth of the pool, and heightening
in an equal ratio the effect of the white flicker of the cascade, and
of the little bright patches of foam, which, flung from the rock,
incessantly revolve on the eddy. The entire scene is exquisitely
wild and picturesque,-such a one as the painter would love to
transfer to his canvas, and the man of taste delight to contemplate;
but a larger body of water is wanting to raise it to the dignity of
the sublime. There are two other cascades, scarcely inferior in
beauty, in the upper part of the dell.
  Geology.-The eastern corner of the parish, which, from its
superior elevation, bears the name of the hill of Cromarty, is com-
posed of an immense primary mass of granitic gneiss, partially vein-
ed with white quartz, and lined, in some places where it bounds
on the Moray Frith, with huge blocks of bornblende. The strata
are much twisted and broken, as if shattered by earthquakes when
passing under the influence of extreme heat from a solid to a fluid
state, and in many places they assume a nearly vertical position.
The precipices of the hill are of great heights rising perpendicu-
larly nearly an hundred yards above the shore, and they abound in
caverns, which add mauch to the wildness of the scenery, and pre-
sent us in several places with picturesque and highly uncommon
combinations of form. In the gorge of a deep precipitous chasm
				4


