
256                        PERTHSHIRE.

in 1320, when a treasonable conspiracy was formed against King
Robert the Bruce, through fear or remorse, betrayed the guilty se-
cret, with which she was entrusted, and was condemned to per-
petual imprisonment.  Malise died without issue, by which the male
line of the family became extinct; but the daughters of the preced-
ing Earls had been married to the progenitors of the ducal families
of Hamilton, Athole, and Montrose; and to the noble families of
Ruthven, Oliphant, and Bothwell, who got with them great estates.
Sir John Moray of Drumsergard, (lineal heir and representative of
Sir Andrew Moray of Bothwell, his grandfather, the eldest sur-
viving branch of Freskine de Moravia,) was married to Mary,
only sister of Malise, the last Earl, who got with her the lands
of Abercairney.  The earldom, which bad been forfeited by Ba-
liol, was resumed by King David, and conferred on their son, Sir
Maurice Moray, heir of line, whom failing, to return to the
Crown, in the same case, and as entire as possessed by Malise
in the time of his forfeiture.  Maurice was killed at the battle of
Durham, in 1346, and leaving no issue, the earldom returned to
the Crown, according to the last grant.  The family of Abercairney,
continued by Alexander, the Earl's brother, are therefore the lineal
heirs and representatives of the ancient Earls of Strathearn, as
well as of the Lords of Bothwell.
   The only other heritor resident in the p`rish is Maxtone of
Cultoqubey, whose property has been in the singular predicament,
during all the time it has been possessed by his family, of being
neither increased nor diminished.  He has the same common an-
cestor with the Maxwells, the one name being Maccuston, a Saxon,
and the other Maccus-villa, a Norman termination, denoting the
town and villa of Maccus, the son of Undyn, who had lands upon
the Tweed, which acquired from him the appropriate name of
Maxton and Maxwell.
   Fowlis appears to have been a favourite seat of the Druids.
Several of their clacbans have been demolished, but there are still
four large Druidic stones, standing west from the village, one of
which is a cromleach, or altar-stone, in which there is an artifi-
cial cavity, where the blood and oil of the sacrifices flowed.  On
the summit of the hill, due north from the same place, there is a
Druidic circle of stones, and a double concentric circle.  This is,
believed to have been the temple of an arch Druid, which when
erected was probably in the midst of a forest hn which were the
oak, and consecrated grove, the  3favou'rite objects of their super-
                                   3


