
               	  ON THE COUNTY OF DUMBARTON.               239

loch. This rock is of a circular form, composed entirely of old
red sandstone conglomerate, containing many rounded water-worn
balls, chiefly of quartz, very much resembling the breccia of the:
Lanarkshire formations. It is about forty feet high, and seems,
left as a pillar to mark the modern subsidence of the waters which
once surrounded it. The same conglomerate is found in the Cil-
liter range, a little to the north. In other places this sandstone is
of a greyish-blue colour, either coarse- grained or fine granular.
The coarse-grained contains angular fragments and rolled masses
of quartz, felspar, greywacke, and clay-slate, often so large as in
the above instances to constitute conglomerates,--the fine gra-
nular, in some varieties, with a base, in others, with a cement of
clay, is chiefly composed of quartz, felspar, and mica, minutely
aggregated. This formation has, in all respects, the characters of
old red sandstone, approaching to greywacke,and very much re-
sembles the old red sandstone of Lanarkshire. In some places,
jasper is found in considerable abundance ; and in one place, north-
west of Cilliter, a dike of jasper of a coarse hard quality occurs.
On the estate of Camis Eskan in Cardross, the old red sandstone
contains traces of limestone, sometimes pervading the rock as a sort
of base, as above Lanark in a neighbouring county, or more fre-
quently in the form of contemporaneous veins.
  Proceeding southwards, and above the old red sandstone ,we
have, in some places, a reddish sandstone, evidently not of the old
red sandstone formation, and in other places a sandstone of a warm
cream colour, easily chiselled, but hardening by exposure. The
author has paid much attention to these formations on the borders
of the old red sandstone, and has no doubt but that they are ana-
logous to apparently similar formations in the upper ward of
Lanarkshire. Yellow sandstone, of the same sort as is found in
Dumbartonshire above the old red sandstone, occurs in Lanark-
shire abudantly in Wiston parish, also on Keunox Water, Dou-
glas, and near Monk's-head, Lesmahagow. It usually lies in both
Counties in thick plies, not far above the conglomerate, and imme-
diately connected with the lower limestones. This yellow sand-
stone in Dumbartonshire extends, perhaps, as far as Netherton
Garscube in New Kilpatrick, not in an uniform mass, bub, as it
were, incidentally. Above these rocks, limestone and coal, shulo
and small beds of ironstone connected with the lower limestones
occur. These metals, which are wrought with so much advantage


