
                               KIRKMICHAEL.                   785

     cieties; a greater facility in acquiring every branch of useful
     knowledge, by introducing more generally the most approved
     system of tuition and suitable class-books into all our schools,
     combined with a more extensive diffusion and higher standard of
     education, by establishing additional schools, and raising the en-
     dowments of such as are already established,-are means well cal-
     culated to advance the moral and spiritual improvement of the
     community, and which could not ultimately fail, by the blessing of
     Providence, to yield the peaceable fruits of
                         "A virtous populace to rise the while,
                         And stand a wall of fire around our much-lov'd isle."


       December 1842.

                  		PARISH OF KIRKMICHAEL.

	        PRESBYTERY OF DUNKELD, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLING.

                        THE REV. PETER DRUMMOND, MINISTER.


              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Boundaries, &c.-THIS parish is bounded by those of Logierait
    and Moulin on the west; Braemar and Crathy on the north; Glen-
    isla and Alyth on the east; and Blairgowrie, Kinloch, Cluny, and
    Caputh, on the south. It comprehends the greater part of Strath-
    ardle, the whole of Glenshee, and a district lying at the lower extre-
    mity of that glen, on the west side of the river called Black Water.
    Strathardle is about 10 miles long, and from 1 to 2 miles broad, and
    includes art of the parishes of Moulin, Kirkmichael, Blairgowrie,
    Bendochy, and Kinloch. Glenshee is about 7 miles long, and
    less than a mile broad. At the head of this glen are two smaller
    ones, narrow, and about 3 miles long. The district bordering on
    the Black Water is of a form nearly circular, measuring somewhat
    more than 2 miles in diameter. Though this parish is pretty ex-
    tensive, there is no part of it detached. Its figure does vary
    much from a parallelogram, being 17 miles long from north to
    south, and from 6 to 7 miles broad.
      According to tradition, Strathardle was anciently called in
    Gaelic Strath na muice brice, the strath of the spotted wild sow;
      PERTH.                                   3D


