
                       AUCHTERARDER.                         293

<TABLE>

     Gardens,                                            140
     Quarries.                                            50
                                                      ------
     Total value of raw produce raised,            L. 42,913
     Real value of property assessed in 1815,           6434
     Scottish valuation of the parish,                  5284

  Manufactures.-The trade of Auchterarder consists mostly in
the weaving of cotton, supplied from Glasgow. There are upwards
of 500 looms in the parish.  Malting is carried on to a considerable
extent. There are four malt barns, in one of which 7644 bolls of
malt are annually made.  On the water of Ruthven, there are
13 mills or manufactories on a small scale; grain-mills 4; lint-
seed oil-mills 2; flax-mills 2; a saw-mill; a paper-mill; a fulling-
mill; a woollen manufactory of shawls and blankets and similar
materials.
                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECOMOMY.
  In Auchterarder there is a weekly market, held on Saturday.
It is the principal mart in the district; and business to a conside-
rable extent is done in grain.
  Fairs.-There are 6 fairs annually held here, one on the last
Tuesday of March; one on the day after Amulree, which is on
the first Tuesday and Wednesday of May; one in each of the
harvest months, the Friday before, the Falkirk trysts, principally
with the view of allowing the people in this district, who may wish to
buy stock, an opportunity of the cattle passing to Falkirk; and one
on the 6th of December, when, besides cattle, the current ac-
counts of the year for lime and other articles required in rural and
domestic economy are usually settled.
  Means of Communication.-There is a daily post by the way of
Crieff.  The Perth and Glasgow coaches pass daily through the
town.  There are carriers who go every week to Glasgow, Edin-
burgh, Perth, and Stirling.  The turnpike road extends six miles
in the parish.
  Villages.-The only village of note is Smithyhaugh, recently
sprung up.  It is distant two miles and a half to the east of Auch-
terarder.  It is pleasantly situated on the banks of the Ruthven;
its trade is chiefly weaving from Glasgow.  The population of the
district amounts to 638.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church stands in the mid-
dle of the town of Auchterarder, which is on the north-west
corner of the parish. It v`s rebuilt in the year 1784.  In 1811,
the front wall was removed out, the old roof supported by a
cross beam, and 360 sittings added. The church now contains


