
        	     CUMMERTREES.                             255

requested by the kirk-session. Among the native poor, that is,
among those who have been born and brought up in the parish,
there is still a very general and honourable pride, which renders
them averse either to seek or accept of parochial relief, and none
of them complain of the smallness of the sums allotted. But among
those who have come from distant parishes, and obtained settle-
ments, the feeling against receiving parochial relief is neither so
strong nor so general. The Irish, in general, use every method
that cunning can device to get a parish settlement.
	Inns and Alehouses.--There are three inns and two aldhouses
within the parish, besides two on the very boundaries of the parish;
all licensed to sell ale and spirits, the effect of which is most per-
nicious to the morals, the health, and comfort of the inhabitants.
	Fuel.--The fuel of the country people is mostly peats, and costs
in cutting, winning, and leading home, about 1s. 2d. per cart load;
but excellent coals can be had from the opposite coast for about
8s. per ton of 14 cwt.   .

         	MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The improvements that have been made in Cummertrees since
the publication of the last Rtatistical Account are extensive and
varied. What was then peat-bog,the resort of the bittern and
lapwing, is now laid out in beautiful green pastures, and surround-
ed by thriving hedge-rows. There were then scarcely ten acres
of wood in the parish, now there are upwards of a thousand. Then,
most of the farm-houses were built with low mud walls, covered
with straw, which had scarcely a frame of glass in their windows;
now, most of the farm-steadings are substantial stone and lime
buildings, covered with flag or slate, and kept in a neat and com-
fortable manner. The only great drawback upon future improve-
ments, and a still greater return of yearly produce from the land,
is the high rents of many of the farms, and a consequent yearly
diminution of capital among the farmers. Nothing could contri-
bute more to the health and comfort of the labouring-classes in this
parish, especially of those who reside in villages, than land where-
on to keep a cow, and to grow a few potatoes. The digging of the
field would occupy many hours that are spent in idleness, or in the
public house, while their cows-milk, and their potatoes, would keep
their family from want during the winter months, when, little out-
door work is to be had.

	March 1834.


