
                           CARNWATH.                           87

fog, and white clever, and left to lie some years in grass.  At the
end of this period it is taken up again, and one or two crops, as
before,_are received from it, when it is again laid down, dung be-
ing applied with the crop, among which the grass-seeds are sown,
and, if well enough broken, the field is left to be as permanent pas-
ture.  The great expense of digging has prevented many addi-
tional acres within the bounds of the parish from being cultivated
in the same way; but an improvement has been introduced of late
years which promises to obviate in some measure this difficulty.
Wedge-draining has been followed in some places to a considera-
ble extent, and with complete success.  By the use of it fields of
moss, which, in common language, would not carry a sparrow,
have been so completely dried, that the plough has been introdu-
ced, and done its work as successfully as on any other part of the
farm.  In almost every corner of the parish improvements of the
above descriptions have been in progress, within the last twenty
years especially, and most successfully on the properties which lie
on the banks of Dippool, Medwin, and Cleughburn.
   Dairy System.-The dairy system is carried on almost on every
farm to a great extent, and with great success.  Some of the far-
mers keep twenty cows, and the prizes awarded by the Highland
Society to the district for the best managed dairy, and the best made
cheese, have, in almost every instance, found their way to this pa-
rish.  The cheese is of the kind called Dunlop, and most of it is
carried to Edinburgh, where it is sold at from L. 2 to L. a per cwt.
   Rent of Land.-The rent of land per acre is very different, ac-
cording to circumstances and situation.  Thus, immediately around
the village of Carnwath, L.4, and even L.5 are paid for an acre,
and four guineas is the common grass mail for a milk cow, while
not much more than a mile from the same village, a hundred acres
will not bring much more than any of these sums.  In the upper
part of the parish the same disparity prevails, but it may he men-
tioned, that, after the most minute investigation, the present in-
cumbent, in 1822, gave in the rental to the Court of Teinds at
L 14,000 a-year.  Since that period be has no reason to think
that it is lessened, though the liberality of Sir C. Macdonald Lock-
hart's deductions to his tenants have been such as to reduce it some-
what, so far as he was concerned.
   Rate of Wages.-The wages of a good Ploughman are from L.6
to L.8 a half year; of female servant, from L. 3 to L.4 for the
same time ; of a labourer, from 1s. 6d. to 2s a day, in summer;
of a shearer (man) L. 2, of a. woman 35s.


