
136                       RENFREWSHIRE.

   " At Paisley, the Romans had a station or town, which antiqua-
rians regard as the Vanduaria of Ptolemy.  The most probable
conjecture concerning the etymology of this name, is given by
Chalmers, who believes it to be the Latinized form of the British
words, wen dur, or white water, applied by the natives to the river
White Cart, which flowed past the eastern wall of the camp.  The
Romans entered Scotland in the year 80, and left it in 446.
Vanduaria must, therefore, have flourished at some period between
these years.  After the retreat of the Roman forces, the name was
lost, and no place connected with its site is found in history, till
the middle of the twelfth century, when lands on the bank of
the river opposite to the camp are mentioned under the names of
Passeleth, Passelay, and Passelet.  The earliest mode of spelling
is Passeleth, and is found in a charter granted by David I. *  In
the next century, Paisley occurs in one paper as Passeleht.  The
terminations in let and lay occur most frequently, and seem to have
been used indifferently, till the middle of the sixteenth century,
when the orthography commonly employed became Paslay.  Chal-
mers mentions two etymologies of the name, the first Pasgel-laith,
which, in the ancient British, signifies moist pasture ground; the
second Baslech in the British, and Bas-leac in the Gaelic, which
signify ' the flat stone shoal,' supposed to have been applied to a
ledge of rock which runs across the channel of the river White
Cart. +  That these etymologies rest on a foundation little better
than resemblance in sound, is evident, from the meaning of the
one being so widely different from that of the other.  The difficulty
of ascertaining the origin of the name of Paisley is somewhat dimi-
nished, by the existence, in ancient times, of two places of the same
name in England, one in Sussex, the other in Gloucestershire; and
more than one place, in which Paisley formed the first part of the
name.  In the ancient documents published by the Record Com-
mission, ++ the spelling of these places scarcely differs from the most
ancient forms of the Scottish Paisley.  The first syllable is either
' Passe,' ' Pese,' or ' Pis;' and the last syllable ' Leghe' or
' Ley.'  In the same documents, Stainley, Tharnley, and the
other names terminating in Ley, are likewise found terminating in
Leghe, indicating that these terminations were understood by the

<FOOTNOTE>Vol. published by the Maitland Club, in 1831, p. 229.
    Chalmers' Caledonia, Vol. iii. p. 819.  The meaning of Bas, as given by Arr-
strong and M'Alpine in their Gaelic Dictionaries, is different from that assigned
by Chalmers.  By them Bas is the palm of the hand, and Bas " death."
    Inquisitiones post mortem, in unquisitiones nonarum, rotuli hundredorum, calen-
darium rotulorum chartarum.


