
     of Kirkaldy.

   Leather.-The next, both in standing and importance to
the manufacture of cloth, is leather.  This branch was es-
tablished on a small scale in 1723; but it has since been much
extended.  At present, it employs 16 hands; who manu-
facture annually from 3200 to 4000 hides of oxen, and cows,
about the same number of calf-skins, and a small proportion

     VOL. XVIII. E

<FOOTNOTE>

ployed, and for all kinds of work, do not now exceed the weekly average of
five shillings.
Much has of late been said of the bad effects of high wages on the indus-
try and prosperity of the people.  It may be doubted, however, whether
such reflections are founded on liberal or just views of the interest of the com-
munity.  High wages, it true, like high profits on trade, or high rents of
land, increase the means of dissipation to those who are addicted to it, and a-
bate the necessity of their application to industrious habits.  But when the
mind hath candidly distinguished between things themselves, and the abuse of
them, it will unquestionably be found, that liberal wages are on the whole
attended with important advantages.  The liberal reward of labour, instead
of abating industry, serves in general to increase it; that quality, in the o-
pinion of one of the most competent judges*, "improving like every other, in
"proportion to the encouragement which it receives."  As high wages facilitate the
support of a family, labourers when they receive them are encouraged to marry
young; and population increases.  The industrious are enabled, not only to
support their families comfortably, but in many instances to save a little,
which they generally apply to the purchase of stock, and begin to work for
themselves.  In this way, a number of operative weavers have been of late
coming forward into the rank of manufacturers, and, by widening the foun-
dations of the trade, were contributing to increase the security of its continu-
ance.  By the fall of wages, a stop is put to this gradual advancement.  And
by the stagnation of trade, which is radically the cause of that fall, many of
those who were advancing beyond the state of workmen, are thrown back in-
to it; with earnings that are hardly sufficient to maintain their families.  In
this situation, if they happen to have apprentices, their distress is often in-
creased by them, The ordinary plan on which apprentices are taught here
irrational and liberal.  The time of apprenticeship is short, usually 3 years. No
premium is required for instructing them: But the master receives in lieu of it

*Dr. Smith, Wealth of Nations, book i. chap 8.


