
     Statistical Account

on Forest Trees, says, "It was the late EARL of MARR, that
"first introduced the wilderness way of planting among us,
"and very much improved the taste of our gentlemen, who
"soon followed his example." And the gardens at Alloa,
which were laid out according to the fashion of the times,
were long visited and admired.  The Earl, unhappily for his
country, himself and family, was principally concerned in
the rebellion 1715.  But whatever errors he may have fallen
into, it cannot be denied, by any one who reads the papers
he has left behind him, that he had the general improvement
of his country greatly at heart.  His only amusement, during
the long exile in which he died, was to draw plans and de-
signs, for the good of that much loved country from which
he was banished; and there is one paper*, dated in 1728,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Speaking of the public works necessary for the improvement of Scotland,
Lord Marr says, "All ways of improving Edinburgh should be thought on:
"as, in particular, making a large bridge, of three arches, over the grounds be-
"twixt the North Loch and Physic Garden, from the High Street at Halker-
"stone's Wynd to the Multursey Hill, where many fine streets might be built.
"as the inhabitants increased.  The access to them would be easy on all hand,
"and the situation would be agreeable and convenient, having a noble prospect
"of all the fine ground towards the sea, the frith of Forth, and coast of Fife.
"One large and long street, in a straight line, where the Long Gate is now;
"on one side of it would be a fine opportunity for gardens down to the North
"Loch; and one on the other side, towards Broughton.  No houses to be on
"the bridge, the breadth of the North Loch; but, selling the places on the
"ends of the bridge for houses, and the vaults and arches below for warehouses
"and cellars, the charge of the bridge might be near defrayed.
"Another bridge might also be made on the other side of the town, and al-
"most as useful and commodious as that on the north.  The place where it
"could be most easily made is St. Mary's Wynd and the Pleasants.  The hollow
"there is not so deep as where the other bridge is proposed; so that it is thought
"two stories of arches might raise it near upon a level with the streach at the
"head of St. Mary's Wynd.  Betwixt the south end of the Pleasants and the


