
  236                       ELGINSHIRE.

  ed common. The number of acres under wood, which is almost
  wholly planted, extends to 520. The wood consists chiefly of
  Scots fir and larch, which are particularly thriving, and of which
  a considerable part is nearly advanced to maturity.
                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
    The old church and churchyard of Dundurcus, the former in
  ruins, are to be seen not far from the Spey, about two miles
  from the village of Rothes, and occupy an interesting and attrac-
  tive situation on the verge of a piece of table-land overlooking the
  fertile haugh of Dundurcus. Only the walls of the church remain,
  and the burial-ground is enclosed with a substantial wall, which
  was built a few years ago, at the expense of the late Dr John
  Simpson. The present parish church stands-in the centre of the
  village, and is a plain, simple, and unadorned edifice, well befitting
  the unassuming genius and humble character of our Presbyterian
  form ; and, being the only place of worship in the parish, (for there
  are no Dissenters within its bounds), is barely sufficient to accom-
  modate the population of the parish. The benefice is one of the
  smallest, L.37, 18s. being paid out of the Exchequer. This dis-
  advantage is, however, in some measure, compensated by the
  annexation of the glebe of Dundurcus to that of Rothes, making
  in all nearly twenty acres of excellent arable land. About the year
  1630, Mr John Wemyss, brother to the Earl of Wemyss, and mi-
  nister of the parish, made a private agreement with the proprietors,
  fixing the stipend at L.120, 12s., and 45 bolls of meal. The sti-
  pend was augmented, in 1812, to 71 bolls, 3 firlots, 3 pecks vic-
  tual, half meal and half barley, and L.52, 12s. 10d. Sterling.
  The sum paid by the Exchequer to raise the said stipend to L.158,
  6s. 8d. which includes allowance for communion elements, is, as
  already said, L.37, 18s. Two-thirds of the right of patronage to
  the living belong to the Earl of Seafield, and the remaining one-
  third to the Crown, in consequence of the annexation just,alluded
  to. The manse is an elegant erection, built about a year ago.
  It is of the old English or Elizabethan style of architecture, and is
  very commodious; and, being situated on an eminence skirted with
  wood, and overhanging the village, is a truly picturesque object in
  the lovely landscape with which it is surrounded on every side.
    Educatiom-The educational establishments of the parish con-
  sist of the parochial school, a female society school, a school hav-
  ing a very small endowment, and two adventure schools. There
  is also another school, which is to be endowed with a small salary,


