
				PERTH.                                  112

	to the dispensation of religious ordinances.  But that privilege they
	cannot enjoy, if heritors and corporations may at pleasure deny it
	to those who cannot pay them the rents exacted.  The moral in-
	terests of the poorer classes in Perth, as well as in other such
	towns, have suffered severely from this.  There are not a few poor
	families in it who cannot possibly pay rent for the sittings which
	they require.  The melancholy consequence of this is, that many
	young persons never acquire church-going habits, and gradually
	fall into the habitual neglect of Sabbath observance; and then these,
	when they become heads of families, render the evil more inve-
	terate and extensive.  It is a miserable and short-sighted po-
	licy to raise a revenue for any purpose, however important and va-
	luable, at the expense of the religious instruction and moral im-
	provement of the industrious poor.  But such a policy does exist,
	and by wise worldlings is defended.  The poor may be urged by
	the ministers of the church to attend ordinances with their families;
	but in many cases the requiring it is almost a mockery, as they are
	excluded by the proprietors of the sittings, who will not accommo-
	date them without their advancing a sum which their limited in-
	come puts it out of their power to advance.  The want of proper
	and suffhcient church accommodation for the poor is a demoralizing
	evil which is every day becoming more apparent.  Those who le-
	gislate and rule upon an enlightened Christian principle, unbiassed
	by considerations of party attachment, must admit that it is a pa-
	ramount duty to make spiritual provision for those of their subjects
	who are spiritually destitute.
	   The ministers of the East and Middle Churches have each a
	stipend of 70 bolls of barley and 80 bolls of oat-meal paid by the
	heritors of the old parish, and L. 130 each paid out of the city re-
	venues.  The minister of the East Church has, in addition, the
	vicarage teind, which is L. 7, 8s.  IO 2/5d.  The stipend of the mi-
	nister of the West Church is L. 250, and that of the minister of St
	Paul's is L. 280, both paid out of the city's revenue.  That of the
	minister of St Stephen's (Gaelic) Church is L. 80, and to increase
	as the income from the seat rents increases.  That of St Leonard's
	is L. 100, and to increase in like manner. There are neither
	manses * nor grebes.  The town-council are patrons of the East,


<FOOTNOTE>The parish church, which had been  dedicated to St. John Baptist, the manse which
	belonged to it, and another house in the city. with the whole tithes of the parish, were,
	given by David I. to the Abbey of Dunfermline.  The abbot and monkr received the
	rectory tithes, and employed a vicar to officiate at Perth.  At the Reformation the on the pro-
	perty of the abbeys, and of other such religious houses, reverted to the Crown. In
	   PERTH.


