
54                   CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

of the Abbey Craig, near Stirling, to the purpose of grinding
wheat into flour. The Clackmannanshire millstones are a useful
substitute for the French bur-stones, which could not be obtained
in Britain during, the late war; and they are now considered supe-
rior in some respects to the French ones. Many hundreds of them
are now used in different parts of England and Scotland. They
are sold at from L.16, 16s. to L.21 a pair, whereas bur-stones
cost about L.63.The ingenious individual here mentioned was
rewarded for his discovery by the Society for the Encouragement
of the Arts, who presented him with L.105. *
   The Village of Tullibody. +-This village is situated about two
miles,to the west of Alloa, and claims a comparatively high anti-
quity. It is said to be co‰val with the accession of Kenneth King
of the Scots, about the year of our Lord 834. On succeeding to
the throne, this monarch, as may well be conceived, felt highly
exasperated at the conduct of the Picts towards his father, whom
the put to death, and whose head they affixed to the gate of their
capital. Determined on revenge, and supported by the nobles, he
proceeded forthwith against the enemy. Druskein, the Pictish
monarch, aware of the gathering storm, took every precautionary
step to avert its effects. He summoned to his standard every Pict
capable of bearing arms, and provided a large body of English
auxiliaries. Assembling at Maiden Castle, a fortified place in Lo-
thian, and at that time in his possession, he marched in a west-
erly direction, and, ordering supplies at Camelon, proceeded to
Stirling, where he crossed the Forth, intending to encamp on its
northern bank. In the meantime, Kenneth had approached to
the distance of about five miles from Stirling ; and, receiving in-
telligence of the position and strength of the enemy, he assem-
bled his nobles and troops on the rising crofts on the east of the
river Devon. Here, with the greatest solemnity, he and they took
an oath, that they would not lay down their arms until either they
or their adversaries fell, Here also they encamped for the night.
   Next morning at day-break, Kenneth, with all his forces,
proceeded westward, and, coming up with the enemy, attacked
them with such skill and impetuosity, that in a few hours they
were totally routed, with immense slaughter. In the evening, be

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Henry Hutchison, Manager of the Alloa Rope-works, invented a very inger-
nious machine, by which can,be solved many of the astronomical problems usually
solved by the terrestrial and celestial globes.
<FOOTNOTE>In this part of the article, the writer, has been much indebted to the assistance
of the Rev. George Hislop


