
                           PENNINGHAME.                185

mon throughout parish. The shorter leases, for the most part,
are given for the fields, and small portions near the village. The
leases are commonly favourable to the occupiers; but there are
cases certainly in which too much rent is offered. That evil, and
a great evil it is, arises from competition among the offerers; and,
instead of being beneficial, it is injurious to proprietors, as well as
to tenants, because when the tenant's means are diminishing or
exhausted, improvement or even good management of a farm can-
not be expected.
  The farm-buildings have been improved much of late years, and
in general they are now good, substanial, and suitable to the farms.
  The enclosures are in general adapted to the size of the farms;
at least in all imrovements, that adaptation is contemplated. The
fences are various in kind and quality; those made at present, or
that have been made lately, are high and sufficient for any pur-
pose; but the old fences are, in many cases, low, and by no means
strong. Some of them consist, in a great measure, of a single row
of stones (or little more) piled on one another to a small height,
and they soon become nearly as useless as they are ugly. The
appearance of the country would be greatly improved by the in-
troduction of hedge-rows, instead of stone dikes generally.
  Great improvement has been made within the last twenty years
by adopting a regular and better rotation of crops, and by better
management of stock and farms generally, and also by draining,
especially by introducing tiles for drains.  Ploughing and all farm
work are now done in a much better style than formerly, and the
produce of the land has increased in proportion.
  The embankments made by the Earl of Galloway form one of the
principal improvements at present; and the effect may be expected
to become soon very apparent.  When completed, the quantity of
land recovered may amount to about 100 acres; and it is contem-
plated to extend the nperations greatly. The quantity of land that
may be recovered still, is supposed to be about 800 acres.
  The tenant in Balterran, Mr John Hewetson, has reclaimed
some valuable land from the moss of Cree, to which reference has
already been made.  He first made a deep drain along the edge
of the moss, which intercepts the water from the higher land. The
moss having been by that means dried, becomes fit for being dug
and ploughed. The quantity reclaimed by him is about 70 acres.
  Improvement is not impeded by the want of capital generally;
















