                                                                   295
                   ISLAND OF SKYE BRACADALE.

   heirs and successors, are trustees, with unlimited power as to the
   management of the school, and appointment of the teacher. Ow-
   ing to the poverty of the people, the fees in each of these schools
   are very inconsiderable.
      Fuel.-The fuel is peats, which the women carry home in creels
   on their backs, from a very great distance.

      April 1840.

  	       		PARISH OF BRACADALE.

              PRESBYTERY OF SKYE, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

               THE REV. JOHN R. GLASS, MINISTER. *

                             _________

               I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of the parish, which appears to be com-
   pounded of the Celtic adjective breac (spotted,) and the Norse
   word dale (field,) has been the same from time immemorial.
      Extent.-Its length is about 20, and its extreme breadth about
   8 miles.
     Boundaries, &c.-It is bounded on the south and south-west by
   the sea; on the north, by the parish of Duirinish; on the east, by
   the parishes of Snizort and Portree; and on the south-east, by the
   parish of Strath. Its form is very irregular, being intersected by
   arms of the sea in various directions. The only bills in it of par-
   ticular interest are part of that ranged called Coullin, stretching
   along the boundary between it and the parish of Strath, and so
   justly celebrated for their picturesque appearance; and a hill call-
   ed Priosmheall, overhanging the farm-house of Tallisker. But
   the surface is in general very hilly.
     In that district of the parish called Minginish, there are various
   valleys which form almost the only low and flat lands; but that of
   Tallisker is the only one worthy of particular remark, its forma-
   tion being highly romantic, and its soil particularly fertile. In
   the other district, there are several detached fields along the
   coast.

   <FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. Roderiek Macleod, formerly Minister of Bracadale, now
   of Suizort.


