
                            DUNNICHEN.                       153

	The present church is situated on a rising ground at the lower
part of the kirk-town of Dunnichen. It is on the outside of the
parish,--there being only three inhabited houses, (of which the
mansion-house of Dunnichen is one,) near to it on the north. This
church was built from thd foundation in 1802, but in a very im-
perfect mannner. It is in a damp situation, was covered with heavy
sand-stone flags, and the cupples, being of young unseasoned wood,
were so completely rotten, that in 1817, it became necessary to
furnish it with a new roof, covered with blue slates. It can accom-
modate about 500 sitters, and is lotted into three divisions, corre-
sponding to the valuation in the county books of the three estates
in the parish. Each proprietor subdivides his portion of the church
among his tenants. Since the people of Kirkden have got a spa-
cious and elegant new church in the neighbourbood of Letham,
most of these people have got accommodation there. There are
no free sittings in the church; and the number of communicants
always somewhat exceeds 500.
	The old manse was situated immediately under the church-yard,
which overtopped its eaves. After a long and expensive litigation
before the Court of Session, a new manse and offices were built in
a dry and well-aired situation in 1814-15; but, as the cheapest
estimate was accepted, and no proper inspector was appointed,
every thing was done in the most insufficient manner, and the un-
dertakers were discharged before the work was finished. A more
effectual repair of the offices was agreed upon last spring; but it
has been delayed from various causes, unthl they are in danger of
falling down.
	There were two adjudications of a glebe by the presbytery. The
first allotted four acres of arable or tilled land, with two acres of
meadow pasture, besides the garden and stance of manse and office,
which are half an acre. There were included some patches which
never had been tilled, but which have since been trenched and

<FOOTNOTE>times. Forty-eight bolls of oats, payable to the paraon of Dunnichen, were after-
wards exchanged for 19 1/2 bolls of meal. This shows that black oats were then culti-
vated on the best of the monastic lands, as they are in some parts of the Highlands
and Isles to this day, and of which two bolls only yield one boll of meal. The meal
being more portable, it was reckoned a just equivalent for the ones after paying the
mill dugs. Having thus provided what was reckoned a sufficient stipend for the mi-
nister of Dunnichen, these monks were allowed to alienate the lands of Dunnichens,
cum decimis inclusis. But if these bolls should be eviated, (and part of them has been
eviated to augment the stipend of the minister of the parish,) it may become a ques-
tion at law, whether recourse may not be competent upon the teinds of Dunnichen.


