
                 KIRKINTILLOCH.                          185

year'1195 William, the'son of Thorald, who held the manor of
Kirkintilloch, granted to the monks of Cambuskenneth the church
of Kirkintilloch, with half a carucate of land. William Cummin,
afterwards Earl of Buchan, held the manor of Kirkintilloch in
1201. The estates afterwards came into the hands of the Noble
family of Fleming. There is in the charter-room at Cumber-
nauld an ancient charter from Alexander II., dated about.1226.
In the "Registrum Magni Sigilli Regum. Scotorum," published by
order of Government, there is a charter to Malcolm Fleming from
King Robert, conveying "totam baroniam de Kirkintolach que fuit
quondam Jobnis Comyn." In the reign of Robert ll. there is a char-
ter of confirmation, dated Kingborn, 20th July, the fourth year of
his reign. This had reference to the claim of William Boyd, son of
Thomas Boyd, the former proprietor of the barony of Lygne. The
same monarch, by a charter dated Arnele, 13th May, in the third
year of his reign, grants "Villa de Kerkentuloch to Gilbert Ke-
nedy, grandson of Malcolm Fleming." In 1526, James V. "ra-
tifyies and apprevis the charter of new infeftment maid by our so-
verene Lord to Malcolm Lord Flemyng, making the touns of
Biggar and Kerkentuloch, bulghis of barony, with the mercat
dais, in all punctis, with arteklis,'after the form and tenor of the said
charter of infeftment maid thereupon." In 1672, William Earl
of Wigtown built a bridge of three arches over the Luggie, the
old bridge being quite ruinous. The building of this new bridge
is said to be a "maist necessary and useful bridge for the saife
passage of all persons who travel from Edenbro, and Stirling to
Glasgow and Dumbarton, being situated on the highway leading
to and fro these touns." The Earl, in consideration of the ex-
penses he was at in building the new bridge, was permitted by Act
of Parliament, for the space of five years after the opening Of the
same, to exactan imposition of four pennies Scots forevery ox, horse
or cow, four pennies for every ten sheep, and eight pennies for
every loadened cart. This distriet formerly belonged to Stirling-
shire. Some time between 1507 and 1522, the name of the whole
was changed from Kerkentulach to Lenzie. In 1621, an attempt
was made to get a new church erected in the middle of the pa-
rish, but without success. In 1659, the Parishes of Kirkintilloch
and Cumbernauld were finally separated. A new church was built
at the east end for the new parish, and the chapel of the Virgin
Mary, built 1644, became the parish church of Kirkintilloch, as
at present.


