
                   PARISH OF ORDIQUHILL.
                PRESBYTERY OF FORDYCE, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

              THE REV. LUDOVIC W. GRANT, MINISTER.-

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, Boundaries, &c.- THIS parish derives its name from Gaelic
words, signifying the hollow beside the height. It is situate be-
tween 6 and 7 miles from the sea. It is of an oblong form, and
is 3 1/2 miles in length, by 2 1/2 in breadth, undulated with rising
ground. It is bounded on the north and west by the parish of
Fordyce; by Grange on the south-west; by Marnoch on the south
and east; and by Boindie on the north and east. It is terminated
on the south-west by the Knock Hill, nearly 1640 feet in height.
  Topographical Appearances.- The appearance of the parish is
bleak from the want of wood,- but in a few years will be much
improved by the thriving plantations which have been lately made.
   Geology.- As has been stated, the parish is in general flat, par-
ticularly towards the northern part, and affords but few geologi-
cal features worthy of notice,- the strata being in general deep-
ly covered with beds of coarse clay, grit and iron shingle, so that
the rocks are but sparingly laid bare, even by the burns and
streams passing along the hollows; and no quarries have ever been
wrought within the parish, to open up the strata to public view.-
We may state, however, that the greater part, if not the whole, of
the parish appears to rest on a thick bed of coarse mica-slate pass-
ing into gneiss, which again rests on granite,- the latter, in a dis-
integrated state, cropping out on the south-eastern point of the pa-
rish, near the place called the Brown Hill Park. *
  The direction of the strata within the parish is generally from
the north-east to the south-west, and the dip is north-east and
south-west, standing at various angles of elevation. At some points
it appears almost horizontal, and at others standing at almost right
angles to the horizon. The eastern side of the parish is covered
by a thick bed of moss, resting on a bed of coarse clay, intermix.

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the former incumbent, the Rev. John Innes.


