
                             OYNE.                              635

side, and ill the northern part alone has three fresh water streams
which mark its boundaries, namely, the Stievock, dividing it from
Insch on the north-west; the Ury, separating it from Rayne on
the north ; and the smaller stream Gady, rtinning from the west,
and falling into Ury at the eastern extremity, where Chapel of
Garioch begins; and these general features of the peninsula are
distinctly seen from Ardoyne, which signifies the top or height of
Oyne, and is the highest ground in the northern section of the
parish.
  Extent and Boundaries.-Its extent, according to the latest
county map, is 11,000 imperial acres, or 17 square miles, which
is probably not overrated, as three-fourths of a considerable inland
mountain are surrounded by cultivated grounds and inhabited
houses belonging to this parish, and must therefore, in any ge-
neral survey, be reckoned within its bounds.  The extent from
south to north, or from Don to Ury, is nearly 6 miles; from east
to west, about 3 miles; but the form is irregular.
  The chief mountain already referred to, and which is a conspi-
cous object in the district, is Benochee, a name which in Gaelic
signifies the Hill of Paps, and is very applicable to the round tops
or summits of this mountain, which are six in number, and known
among the country people by various names; the highest and
largest of the whole, on the south-east, being called the Mither
Tap (Mother Top).  It is, 1677 feet above the level of the sea,
and nearly 1400 feet from its base.  The summits or crags are
formed of masses of red granite of considerable size, the largest
being about 50 feet in height, and of proportional length, but
narrower on the top.  The whole mountain extends from east to
west about five miles; from north to south, about three-and-a-half
miles.
  The Don, which takes its rise in the mountains above Strath-
don, runs along the south side of this parish for about three miles,
separating it front Monymusk; it is joined by the Ury about
six miles eastward, and falls into the sea a little to the north of
Old Aberdeen.  But this river, though a boundary of the parish,
is secluded from the, most populous and cultivated part of it, and
is accessible only to the occupants of one property lying on the
south side of Benochee
  The chief mineral in this parish is granite, which is of a
red colour.  It is found in very large masses under grouud,
and could be cut into blocks of the greatest size required for


