
                             DENNY.                        129


paper-machine, 22 feet diameter, and 18 inches wide. The works
are lighted with gas and four tens of coals are used daily.
   There has been a considerable branch of the woollen trade car-
ried on in this parish, for thirty years past.
   The next three mills are at work in this manufacture. They
are driven by water power, and are extensively engaged at pre-
sent in the manufacture of tartan and fancy shawls, and lin-
sey-woolsey stuffs, solely upon account of Messrs Wingate and
Son and Company of Glasgow. Mr John Wingate of this firm
is well known in the country, as a distinguished Constitutionalist,
and one of the munificent Church Extensionists of Glasgow. The
quantity of wool wrought up into these goods exceeds 160,000
lbs. annually. The various branches of the manufacture are in-
cluded, viz. spinning of the yarns, dyeing, weaving, and the fi-
nishing of the goods which afford employment to nearly 200 persons
of both sexes, young and old. The wages paid average L. 300
per month. The water of the river Carron being uncommonly
pure and soft, is peculiarly adapted for cleaning and dyeing, pro-
ducing bright fancy colours, so requisite in that description of
goods. The three mills are all on Carron, and near each other,
two at Stoneywood, and one at Randolph Hill,--lighted by gas,
and heated by steam. A recent cut from Tamaree lin supplies
plentifully with water four of these mills. Before that cut was
executed, there was no paper-raill below Tamaree lin, excepting
Herbertshire mill, at which, according to the old practice, paper
was made by the hand.  Combinations among operative paper-
makers were, at that time, a frequent cause of great annoyance to
masters, and of misery to many innocent families. The improve-
ments mentioned have put an end to combinations among pa-
per-makers.
   A mill for chipping, rasping, and grinding dye stuffs, belonging to
the firm of Messrs John Gray and Son, stands on the river bank a lit-
tle below Herbertshire mill. The company have lately enlarged
their premises by the works on Castle Rankine Glen, so that
they now not only furnish the dye stuffs, but, by means of the ad-
dition referred to, provide at once to manufacturers of fancy,wool-
len, cotton, and linsey-woolsey articles, the liquor for the colours
desired. The company employs 21 hands, and pays monthly
L.46, 12s. of wages.
  Lowest on the river in this parish, is Denny cort and pot-bar-
ley-mill, belonging to the estate of Herbertshire, which has a large
thirlage astricted to it.
  STIRLING.


