
     of Kilmartin.

Such as deal in that kind of provision, must slaughter for
themselves, this being a species of luxury, which the ordinary
class of tenants cannot afford to indulge in.-The wages of a
common day labourer, at husbandry, road making, or any
other work in that way, is from 1 s. to 14 d.; taylors, 8d.
and their victuals; shoemakers, 6 d.; house carpenters and ma-
sons, are generally paid by the piece, but when by the day, from
20 d. to 2s. without victuals.  A married day labourer,
with 3 or 4 children, would consider 10 L. as a good pro-
spect for a year's subsistence, with some potatoes.-The
present wages would give that prospect, but the uncer-
tainty of the weather occassions much lost time*.-No manu-
factures, properly so called, are carried on:  There may be
some spinning and knitting, in the intervals of labour by bro-
ken weather, and in the winter nights; and also dressing small
parcels of lint, by the common people; but there are princi-
pally for the use of their families.  There are no other manu-
factures, except a whisky distillery.-Property has undergone
little change for a century back, till of late that an estate of 714 L.
free rent, sold at 25,050 L.; and another small property, about
2 years ago, at nearly the same proportion.

<FOOTNOTE>

of many other places, to one who has not acquired a critical knowledge of
that language, may seem arbitrary, as no obvious connection appears with re-
gard to situation, or any other circumstance.
   *The prices of labour, and other things, about 40 or 50 years ago, cannot
be ascertained by any written record; yet there are many people who remem-
ber these periods well, and the common prices of the times, having had frequent
occassion to pay them.  About the year 1745, cows fold from 25 s to 30 s., equal
to those of 4 L. and 5 L. in the present times; nor was there any great rise, for se-
veral years after that period; sheep, from 2 s. 6 d to 3 s; cheese much the fame
by the stone, being then 7 d. per lb.; butter, 6d.  The ordinary wages of female
servants, by the year, was 12 merks; of male servants, from 24 merks to 30 s.
of taylors, the best of them 4 d. a day, and their victuals; and of other trades-
men in proportion.  Meal seems to be the article, which has undergone the least
change, for these 30 years back; though variable in its price:  yet it is generally
from 14 s. to 16 s, the boll.

