
214                       FORFARSHIRE.

tapering snout. They feed to eighteen or twenty stones, imperial
weight, and, when well fed, make excellent pork; but the small
Chinese breed abounds most, and feeds from eight to ten stones,
imperial weight. Those who keep a stock of hogs generally keep
them in good condition, and feed them highly.
	Every species of corn grown in the parish is less or more ex-
posed to the depredations of insects. Wheat suffers from slugs;
but the greatest enemy that has yet assailed it, is a fly that was
introducer in 1826, and that m`de its appearance in 1827. This
insect inserts into the ear its ova, which, soon becoming small
worms, injure it very much. In consequence of the rapid and ex-
tensive depredations of this insect, wheat has been almost banished
from the parish for the last six years. Fortunately, however, the
last crop has suffered but little from its ravages, and hopes are en-
tertained that it will soon disappear from this quarter.

		   II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The ancient history of this parish appears to be involved in great
obscurity. Although the old church and tower, which stood in the
present churchyard, and which were taken down in 1812, exhi-
bited strong presumptive, evidence of their having been erected in
the twelfth century, yet no authentic account of the parish can be
traced beyond the era of the Reformation. At that period, and
for about 200 years after, its extent was much less than it is at
present; then, the Bishop of Dunkeld was proprietor of about
200 Scotch acres of land, which, though locally situated in the
parish of Caputh, lay conterminous with the southern extremity of
the parish, and were held on lease by a tenant called Alexander
Pyott. From his principles and practices, Pyott appears to have
been a discerning, selfish, staunch, papist. Alarmed at the pro-
gress of the Reformation, he repaired to Dunkeld, in order tn hold
an interview with his bishop concerning the state of public affairs.
The bishop received him most cordially: and on Pyott's assuring
him that he would strain every nerve to resist the progress of the
Reformation, he immediately wrote out a disposition of the said
lands in Pyott's favour. On receiving this document, Pyott, exult-
ing at the success of his visit, returned home with his new acquisi-
tion; and, without loss of time, he repaired to his holiness at Rome,
and got the deed of conveyance confirmed by a Popish bull,--in
virtue of which it is held at the present day. The last Popish pro-
prietor of the lands in question, sinking into poverty, sold them in


