
8                            STIRLINGSHIRE.

success terminated. Amongst the slain in the Royal army were
Sir Robert Munro of Foulis, Baronet, and his brother Dr Munro,
to wbose memory a splendid monument was erected near the cen-
tre of the church-yard. Many incidents in regard to this eventful
day have been handed down. One of these may be mentioned.
On the day following, a son of the chief of Glengarry, who had
been enga ed in the conflict, was accidentall shot from a window
in the principal street of the town. He was carried to his lodg-
ings in the near neighbourhood, in a house then possessed by an
ancestor of the writer of this article, where be lingered for several
days, and, after every attention paid to him, he expired, and was
interred in the churchyard.*
  During the revolutionary excitement which pervaded the lower
orders in the year 1820, a skirmish took place on a rising ground
four miles westward of the town, which has been called the battle
of Bonnymuir. On Wednesday, the 25th of April, a party of
armed Radicals, chiefly from Glasgow, were overtaken near to
the scene of action by Lieutenant Hodgson of the 10th Hussars,
and Lieutenant Davidson of the Stirlingshire Yeomanry Cavalry,
with a detachment of their respective corps. On observing this
force the Radicals cheered, and advanced to a wall, over which
Oey commenced firing, at the military. They were soon, how-
ever, overpowered, and nineteen of them were taken prisoners
and lodged in Stirling Castle. In the encounter Lieutenant
Hodgson received a pike wound through the right band, and a
sergeant in the Hussars was severely wounded by a shot in the
side and by a pike. Several of the Radicals were also wound-
ed, and three horses. In this affair, five muskets, two pistols,
and about one hundred round of ball cartridge were taken by the
military . The result showed the hopelessness of any attempt on
the part of the Radicals to cope with regular troops, and the dis-
turbances of that period speedily subsided.
  Eminent Characters.-The family of Livingstone has been long
distinguished in this quarter. It is supposed to have bad its ori-
gin about the year 1075, and to be of Hungarian extraction. In
course of time, it branched out into the three families of Lin-
lithgow, Callendar, and Kilsyth. At the period of the Rebellion

<FOOTNOTE>The house from which the shot came was several years ago taken down and re-
built by the writer of this account. The death of this young officer was occasioned
by one of hisown men whose gun bad missed fire during the engagement; and
while cleaning his piece, the shot went off at the expense of a life he would have
done much to save."


