
			PARISH OF AIRLIE.

	   PRESBYTERY OF MEIGLE, SYNOD OF ANGUS AND MEARNS.

                    THE REV. DAVID WHITE, MINISTER. *

		  I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--THE name of this parish occurs in ancient documents
in the various forms of Errolly, Eroly, Iroly, Airlie, the last of
which has been revived by thd present Earl, in preference to the
modern spelling, Airly. The etymology is uncertain. It has been
suggested that the name may have been originally Airdly, from
the Gaelic Aird, which is used to denote the extremity of a ridge,
particularly where it terminates abruptly, and which is exactly de-
scriptive of the locality of Airlie Castle. The ancient milntown
of the barony is called Dillavaird or Dalnavaird, which is inter-
prefered, " a flat piece of ground by the side of a river, at or near
the Aird."
	Boundaries and extent.--The parish of Airlie is situated in the
western part of the county, and borders upon Perthshire. It is
bounded on the north by the parishes of Lintrathen and Kingold-
nim; on the east, by Kirriemuir and Glammiss; on the south, by
Essie and Meigle; and on the west, by Alyth and Ruthven. Part
of the line of boundary is formed by the river Isla, and its tributa-
ries, the Melgum and Dean. The extreme length of the parish
from east to west is six miles, and its breadth varies from half a
mile to four miles, making a surface of 8600 acres, or between
thirteen and fourteen square miles.
	General Description.--The southern part of the parish lies in
the bottom or "howe" of Strathmore, from which it gradually rises
in a series of undulating parallel ridges, forming a portion of the
braes of Angus. These ridges, descending from higher shoulders
on the east, sink towards the west into comparatively low grounds;
with the exception of the principal one, which stretches along the

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up at the request of a gentleman to whom the conductor applied, by Mr
William Ramsay, Student of Divinity, Alyth, with the valuable assistance of Mr
Blackadder, Civil-engineer, Glammiss, by whom the substance of great part of the
Account has been contributed.
                                             4


