
                          KINTORE.                            659

   The. Rev. George Adams, in his Statistical Account of this pa-
rish, mentions the remains of three stone circles between Kintore.
and Inverury and a fourth in another place.  He notices, too, a
tradition that prevailed in his day of a battle having been fought
at Camiestane, near Thainston, where a general or chief of the
name of Camus or Cambus is said to have been slain and buried,
He also states that there was, in the same neigbourbood, a long
and apparently artificial hollow or trench, about eight feet deep,
called Bruce's How, in which it is probable that Robert Bruce,
during his stay in this district, had concealed a part of his army
for some partibular object.
   On the moor between Kintore and Kinellar, numerous tuinuli,
of various sizes, occur-a circumstance which gives ground for
supposing that it had at some time been the scene of great car-
nage either in battle or in flight; though no record or tradition
now exists on the subject.  One of the larger of these barrows
was opened many years ago by Mr John Lumsden, then farmer in
Bogheads.  In removing the stones for the purpose of buildin
fences, there were found several pieces of a black substance, very
light, marked with dots of a different colour, and perforated, as if
with the view of their being strung together.  And from about the
centre of the cairn, a stone-coffin was dug up, in or near which
were discovered an urn containing human hair, and a large ring
capable of admitting two or three fidgers, and composed of a sub-
stance resembling finely-veined marble.  These relics, which seem-
ed to all who examined them to be of very high antiquity, were
sent to the late Earl of Buchan.  Another cairn was more recent-
ly opened, and found to contain, among some other things, a rude
urn, which was put into the hands of Mr Wilson, at that time pro-
prietor of Glasgowego.  On the east side of the town of Kintore,
near the Don, stands a mound of earth, to appearance artificial,
called the Castle Hill, which probably at first served the purpose
of a Law; but, it is supposed, was afterwards used as a watch-tower,
where beacon-fires were lighted upon any sudden invasion of the
country, or other public, alarm.  And this last conjecture is the
more likely, because Kintore, in former times, was a place of very
general resort, being the point at which the great northern road

<FOOTNOTE>Bruce, for a hunting hall.  It consisted of four stories, having battlements, besides
what is called a Capehouse, with a moveable ladder, by which those who ocasion: 1-
ly lodged in it entered to he first floor.  Marischal, having acquired a
right to it from the crown, presented it to his son the first Earl of Kintore."--Ken-
nedy, Vol. ii. p. 323.


