
514			LANARKSHIRE.

in one place; and for whose maintenance and salary they contribute
in proportion to the number of pupils. There is little likelihood
of these thinly inhabited districts being ever provided with endow-
ed schools.
     Library and Friendly Society.--More attempts than one have
been made, to get a parish library permanently established; but lo-
cal circumstances have always proved unpropitious, and, after a
few years, the books collected have come to be divided among the
subscribers. A Friendly Society existed from 1799 till 1833,--
when it was thought prudent to dissolve it
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--A most pernicious change has
been going on in the habits and views of the poor; the full conse-
quences of which may be anticipated, though as yet they are very
imperfectly developed. In 1817, only 7 were on the roll, and during
the subsequent fifteen years, the average number was 9 /13, whose
maintenance was derived from the collections, the interest of money
lodged in the bank, and a part of the principal. Now, there are
15 families and individuals on the roll, to whom the highest sum
given is 12s. and the lowest 3s. a month; and, the lying money
having been all expended, the heritors have voluntarily assessed
themselves for three years in L. 25, L. 40, and L. 50 respectively.
In the beginning of 1832, the session found it necessary to decline
taking any farther management of the poor; and satisfy them-
selves with distributing half of the collections, &c. to such as are not
on the roll, or require any extraordinary aid. No discovery hav-
ing been made of any means of giving employment to aged wo-
men, who formerly gained a sustenance by spinning, it must una-
voidably happen that applications for parochial assistance will en-
crease in number every year; and it is quite obvious, that, when-
ever the management is left solely with the heritors, there will both
be a gradual diminution of the collections, and a more unhesitating
determination, on the part of the poor, to extort from their grasp
every farthing that it is possible to obtain.
	Fairs.--No fair is held for the transaction of business; but on
26th July there is an assemblage of all the inhabitants, who sub-
scribe for horse and foot races, indulge in social intercourse, and
treat their children with toys and sweetmeats.
	Inns, &c.--In this parish, there are no fewer than 8 houses in which
spirituous or malt liquors are sold. In 1819, the Justices of the
upper ward issued most excellent regulations, requiring all appli-
cants for licenses to have certificates from their parish ministers.

				   4


