
722			FIFESHIRE.

" The place in the rock," says this accurate observer, " which
these curious relies occupied was towards the base, and immedi-
ately under the argillaceous marly beds mentioned above. Ex-
ternally they have undergone but little change in their form, co-
lour, or scaly covering; being still as perfect in their organic de-
velopement, even to the minute silken fin, as when they sported
in the waters of a distant primeval age. The substance of the
body, however, and every trace or vestige of internal organization,
have entirely disappeared, and the material of the rock has been
substituted in their place,-the enamel of the scales being less
soluble than the more calcareous matter of which the bones are
composed."
   A vein of greenstone separates the sandstone now described
from the beds which belong to the coal formation, throwing them
up to an angle of 26\1d. The junction is extremely well defined;
the sandstones are contorted in every possible form, as well as
highly indurated, by the infusion of the volcanic rock. Two thin
seams of coal may be observed at this locality. The ironstone
and shaly matter occur about a quarter of a mile to the south,
where they have assumed a nearly horizontal position. " The ga-
lena," says Dr Anderson, " occurs on the farm of Myretown of
Blebo, and was noticed so early as the year 1722, when large out-
liers or masses of ore were found on the surface of the ground.
The papers in the possession of the present proprietor, General
Bethune, describe these as weighing from ten to twenty-four stones
in weight. A vein was opened about two feet thick, but would
seem to have been speedily abandoned in consequence of the
bardness of the rock, which required to be blasted with gun-pow-
der. Subsequently, and a little to the north, another vein was
discovered, (probably a continuation only of the first,) which is
described as containing a " rib " of metal of three inches, and
gradually increasing to seven inches in thickness. Various at-
tempts were made from time to time to work the mines, but the
disturbed and ruptured state of the strata, and frequent intrusion
of the trap, prevented the operations from being successfully car-
ried on.The vein bears in a north-east by south-west direction."

               II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Remains of tumuli may be traced in one or two places, and re-
lics have at different times been discovered, both of Roman ori-
gin, and of feudal times, but not of any peculiar interest. There
are in the grounds of Kemback, the remains of an old burying-
                                4


