
			ST. BOSWELL'S.                           109

occupier, the former system requiring the application of more dung
than can be readily procured: and lime, from its great distance, en-
tails always a heavy and sometimes a ruinous expense on the tenant.
These reasons have led, for the two last seasons, to the application
of bone-manure to turnips, and this substitute has been found on
the whole to be attended by a very favourable result, although it is
alleged that it does not succeed so well on wet soils when the
season is damp. The use of this manure, if it shall be found ul-
timately to realize the expectations which are now entertained of
its eflicacy, will be of great advantage to agriculture in this part of
the country, from the comparatively trifling expense at which it can
be laid down on the land, (22s. 6d. a quarter,) and the small quan-
tity required per acre, (two quarters being the usual allowance to
the Imperial acre). As a great proportion of the land in the
parish is a stiff clay on a retentive bottom, draining is an improve-
ment of the first importance. Much has already been done in
this way, and more would be dlone if proprietors were a little more
liberal in their encouragement to the skilful and industrious tenant.
    Little has been done in the way of embanking. Two embank-
ments, however, of considerable extent, along the Tweed, have
been constructed during the last season; the one on Mr White's
farm of Fens, laid the other on Mr Ramsay's farm of St Boswell's.
The general duration of leases is for nineteen years.
    The  farmhouses and steadings on the larger farms are in ge-
neral good and commodious; on the smaller, both are very indiffe-
rent, and no way suitable to the farms. The fences in the parish
(which is all enclosed) consist of thorn hedges, in general well
kept.
    The chief obstacle to the improvement of land here is, the
great  distance from lime,-not less than twenty-six miles. A
single horse cartful, containing twelve bushels, costs, when laid
down on the land, 13s. which, at the rate of eight cartfuls, the
quantity usually applied to the acre, occasions an expense of
L. 5, 4s. This heavy expense can only be alleviated by in-
creased facilities for land-carriage. A rail-road either from Dal-
keith to Galashiels, or from Berwick to St Boswell's Green, both
of which lines have been surveyed and favourably reported of,
would greatly tend to the improvement of land, the increase of
manufactures, and the rise of rents. Another obstacle to the im-
provement of land, greatly, and, we believe, justly, complained of
is, the practice but too common of advertising and letting land to


