
678                              ABERDEENSHIRE.

him by his royal brother.  Prior to this time, a castle existed at
Inverury, for, in 1180, Norman, Son of Malcolm, Constable
of the Castle of Inverurin, witnesses a charter, preserved in the
Advocates' Library.  It was situated near where the Bass now
stands, and is the first fortified place in Aberdeenshire on re-
cord,-the Castles of Aberdeen and Kildrummy dating no higher
than the thirteenth century.  In the Advocates' Library, Edin-
burgh, there is an MS. entitled, A View of the Diocese of Aber-
deen, by an unknown author.  It appears to have been written
about the year 1726.  In reference to Inverury the author says,
"The families here are reckoned about 80, (so, if allowing six to a
family), the inhabitants cannot be above 480."  The Edinburgh
Magazine for 1760 contains a notice of Inverury and the country
of the Garioch, written by a Rev. Mr Forbes about 1738.  In-
verury was not improbably the head burgh of the Garioch as early
as the days of William the Lyon.  Its original charter appears to
have been lost, for it is, by a novodamus, created anew by Queen
Mary, June 22, 1558; and, on the 17th September 1663, on the
petition of John Earl of Marr, it was appointed to be the head
burgh of his Lordship's regality of the Garioch.  "The Parlia-
ment appoints the burgh of Innerauray to be the place where all
courts of justice and all executions belonging to the regalitie of
Garioch, as hornings, inhibitions, &c. shall sit and be used."  (Acts
of Parl. of Scotl. Vol. vii. App. 97.)  Its representative at that time
was Mr William Ferguson of Badifurrow, the ancestor of the Fer-
gusons of Pitfour in 1669.  It was represented by Mr James El-
phinstone.
   The Bruce lay at Stonehouse, in the south end of Inverury, be-
fore his great battle with the Cummings.  He had been carried
in a litter from Sliach in Strathbogie in a very sickly condition,
and was thought to be at the point of death.  Hearing, however,
of the insolent daring of his adversaries, who, relying on his weak-
ness, had approached his very camp, he suddenly roused himself,
called for his sword, and, riding out at the head of his troops, now
inspirited beyond measure by the sight of their beloved leader,
whom the looked on as almost miraculously restored to them, he
pursued the Cummings across the Ury, and encountered their
main body between Barra and Old Meldrum, where he gained his
great and decisive victory.  This is happily alluded to by Arthur
Johns one, who, though born on the other side of the Ury, being


