
                          LAURENCEKIRK.                    133

part of the country, has upwards of 4000 acres in this parish;
Alexander Gibbon, Esq. of Johnston, has under 700 acres; Red-
myre, extending to about 230 acres, belongs to Mr Allardyce in
Aberdeen; and the small property of Mill of Conveth, consisting
of about 25 acres, belongs to Dr Alexander Crombie, chief pro-
prietor in the adjoining parish of Fordoun, the distinguished au-
thor of the "Gymnasium," and of other well-known works, on
"Philosophical Necessitx," "Natural Theology," &c.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers have been, on
the whole, regularly kept, and contain tolerably minute records of
the proceedings of the kirk-session, of the management of the
poor funds, and of baptisms and marriages. The earliest entry is
April 3, 1702.

	Modern Buildings.--There are no remarkable edifices in
the parish. The church--to which the Episcopalian Chapel on
a smaller scale is not dissimilar--has too much the character
of most Scotch churches, more remarkable for plainness than
for elegance or ornament. Johnston Lodge, the seat of the pro-
prietor of Johnston, is a neat modern structure, and stands on a
site commanding an extensive and happily chosen view of the
Valley of Strathmore, and the Grampian Hills. It was built
partly of stones quarried on the estate; * but the materials usually
employed in the parish are driven from Lauriston quarry, in the
parish of St Cyrus, distant about six miles,--of which the stone
is of a brownish colour, and sufficiently durable.

                         III.--POPULATION.
	According to Dr Webster's calculation,--the earliest on record,
--the population of the parish amounted, in 1755, to 757 squls. If
the accuracy of the registers of births and marriages could be depend-
ed on, an estimate might be formed of the population in earlier tiler.
The registers are very imperfect from 1707 to 1716, partly in con-
sequence of a vacancy in the ministry of the parish for three years
previous to 1711, from the parties concerned repeatedly disagree-
ing as to the person who should receive a call, and partly in con-
sequence of the seizure of documents from the schoolmaster, dur-
ing the Rebellion in 1715. + The following is an abstract, of the
entries from 1716 to 1732.

<FOOTNOTE>Quarries were at one time opened on two different parts of the estate, but they
have been found of little values, and have been discontinued.
          The following entries relative to the Rebellion are somewhat curious:
	The register of Baptisms and marriages since my entries to this place was taken
away, and torn by the Highlanders in time of the late Rebellion, which was in the


