
                    CLOSEBURN.                                     81

of the paroch kirks and parochins of Kirkbryd, Durisdeir, Glen-
cairn, Penpont, Mortoun, and Dalgarnok;" but the grant was thus
qualified "Provyding alwayes that the said Sir James sall re-
signe and renunce the advocatioun and donatioun of the said paroch
kirk of Dalgarnok, to Thomas Kirkpatrik of Cloisburne, his aris and
assignayes,"* &c.
	In the year 1606, these churches were united by the General
Assembly held at Linlithgrow.+ They continued so till the year
1648, when the Presbytery of Penpont, after examining the ren-
tals of both parishes, which were produced to them, and after hear-
ing the "information anent the condition of the united kirkis of
Dalgarno and Closeburn, wherther is two standing kirkis with ther
several manses and gleebs,"++ recommended them to be disjoined

<FOOTNOTE> Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland, iv. 90.
        + On this subject we find in the register quoted above the following entries:-
"1608. Dalgarno Cloisburne, Mr David Rodger, minister, his stipend, iiij. xx lib.
money, to be payit out of the lordship of Kelso, or ony part therof, be the Lord of
Kelso, his airis and successouris, &c. and mair viij xx, xvij lib. xvijs. for the service at
the kirk of Dalgarno, be Sir Thomas Kirkpatrik of Cloisburne, Knicht, takisman of
Dalgarno.
	"1615, Cloisburne and Dalgarno, Alexander Flerayng, minister, his stipend, iiij xx
lib. money, to be payit out of the lordship of Kelso, or onie part therof, be the Lord
of Kelso, his airis and successouris, &c. and viij xx, xvij lib. xvijs. for the servic6 at the
kirk of Dalgarno, be Sir Thomas Kirkpatrik of Cloisburne, Knicht, takisman of Dal-
garno, with xxxij lib. out of the prebendaries of Lincluden, to be payit be the takis*4&n
and parochinaris of Carlaverock."
	++ From this information the following is an extract: --"Dalgarno is a pendicle of
Halyroodhouse. The teinds whereof (the minister being payed) did belong to the
Bishop of Edinburch; hot efter abolitioun of episcopacie wer disponed for mantainans
of the Castle of Edinburgh. The worth of the lands of this parochin, in stok and teind
personage and vicarage, is about 9000 merkis."
	"Closburne is a pendicle of Kelso, the teinds whereof wer a part of the rent of
the Bishop of Galloway's, bot Episcopacie being now abolished, is assigned to the - Col-
ledge of Glasgow. The worth of this parochin stock and teind personage and vicar-
age, is about 3000 merkis.--"Inde 12000 merkis."--"The two parochins upon the
supplication of the heritors to the Assemblie at Linlithgow, in anno 1606, wer judged
fit to be one congregatioun, and the union ratified by Parliament."
	The following, among other reasons, are given by the Presbytery for the division
of these kirks: "1. That the said two kirks wer united in the dayes of corruption
and Episcopacie, to the great detriment and hurt, of the church. 2. That the two
kirks being in rent of stock and teind seventeen thousand merks and upward, may
verie convenientlie affoord maintainance to two ministers for serving the cure at the
saids kirks. 3. The number of communicants being seven hundreth or thereabout;
may be two flocks, sufficient for. two ministers. 4. That the heritours being c!ted to
compeir befor the Presbytrie, most part of them compeired, and could not object any
relevant reason, (in our judgment,) quherfor they might not be disjoyned. 5. That
if they fabrickes of both churches are now in a gud frame, quhilk will not long continue
if they should rername in the present condition," &c.
	DUMFRIES.                              F



