
     of Kincardine.

   The number of burials, at an average of seven years, is 12
yearly.-The number of heritors is 22; of these 9 reside.
   Norriestown and Thornhill are the only villages in the pa-
rish; they are now joined, and stand along the summit of a rising
ground, on both sides of the road from Stirling to the sort of
Innersnaid.  The inhabitants of both amount to 626.  The
greater part of these, and a few cottagers in other parts
of the parish, are labourers or handycraftsmen.-Tanning
is the only trade of any consequence carried on in Thornhill;
it does not employ above 20 hands.-There are also a few of
the parishioners employed at the Adelphi cotton work, which
lies in that part of Kilmadock that intersects this parish, and
employs about 900 people.  At this work, it is said, the finest
cotton yarn made in Scotland is spun.-There are 66
tenants, and 126 moss tenants within the parish*.

   Ecclesiastical State, etc.-There are two clergymen, viz. the
minister of the parish, and the minister of the chapel of Ease
at Norriestown.
   The stipend of the former is L. 45 in money, 16 bolls of bear,
and 64 of meal.  The glebe consists of 5 1/2 acres.-The fund
for the maintenance of the minister of the Chapel of Ease was
formed partly of contributions by the people of the district,

     3 P 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The number of students, particularly in divinity, was formerly very con-
siderable.  About 18 years ago there were 18 clergymen (including every de-
nomination) who were natives of this parish.  They are now reduced to 4;
and there are only two students.-The great increase of the expence of e-
ducation, and the emoluments in that profession being nearly stationary, while,
in almost every other line of life, they are encreasing with astonishing rapi-
dity, are evidently the causes of this alteration.-A cotton spinner, in the se-
cond year after leaving the plough, gains annually a sum equal to the average
of the stipends of the church of Scotland, which are the recompence held forth
for an expensive education of fifteen years at least, and for many more perhaps
of expectation.


