
                              PERTH.                              1030

    of 130 tons to pass at the latter tide.  The greatest difficulty in
    the way of this enlarged improvement vas the risk to the salmon-
    fishings from the operation.  The report of these gentlemen then re-
    commends the formation,of a tide-harbour commencing at the
    Friartown ; an entrance lock to a canal leading from thence to a ca-
    pacious wet-dock, to be excavated about 200 yards to the westward
    of the present quay.  The total estimated expense of these works
    is as under:

<TABLE>        Improvement of the navigation,                       L. 5600 14  3
               Tide harbour,                                           9169 18  0
               Entrance lock,                                         10343  8  8
               Ship canal,                                             6464 12 11
               Wet dock,                                              22737  4  4
                                                                   L 54,314 l8  2

       It was recommended that these extensive operations should be
    proceeded with progressively, the benefit of the first branches
    being available bv themselves, without reference to the remaining
    parts.
       The suggestions of the Messrs Stevenson were substantially ap-
    proved of by the town-council, and at a public meeting of the inha-
    bitants; and an act of Parliament was applied for, and obtained on
    the 27th June 1834, for carrvinlr these operations into effect under
    the direction of a board of commissioners, thirty in number, of
    whom the Member of Parliament for the city is one, fourteen are
    members of the town -council, six are justices of the peace in the
    county, three are ship-owners, and six are burgesses of Perth.  By
    the act, ample compensation is provided for the salmon-fishing
    proprietors for any damage arising to the fishing, from the opera-
    tions.  The time allowed by the act for the completion nf these.
    works is twenty years from its passing, 27th June 1834; five years
    for deepening and improving the navigation of the river, and the
    remainder for the execution of the other works.
       Since the passing of the act, the commissioners have been
    actively engaged in carrying its provisions into effect.  And al-
    though they have met with some difficulties and obstructions in the
    formation of the tide harbour, it is likely that they have now over-
    come the greatest of these, and that the work will proceed with ra-

<FOOTNOTE> In 1682, the town-council passed an actfifhranting allowances to the then "late
    Provost, (Mr John Glass) as tacksman of the fishings, to take out great stone in the
    that time, been very injurious to the fishings.  It was this year, 1836, taken out by
    Mr. Turnbull, employed to deepen the river, and lies on the contiguos abore.  It is
    above four tons weight.


