

  342                        PERTHSHIRE.

  long be put upon a level with the neighbouring parishes.  There
  is one Dissenting chapel, in connection with the United Associate
  Synod, in this parish.  The first was built almost immediately
  after the Secession took place, and the present about 1790.  The
  present minister (Mr Forrester) came with the understanding that
  he was to have L. 65 a-year; but the very utmost the congrega-
  tion can accomplish for him is to pay the rent (L. 39) of the farm
  upon which he resides, and to give L. 5 a-year, raised by two col-
  lections, to defray the sacramental expenses.  The congregation, ga-
  thered from the surrounding parishes, consists, I am informed, of
  about 100 hearers, and 84 members.  The chapel is seated for 800,
  but might contain 1000, and in former days was crowded every
  Sabbath, people coming from distances of twelve and sixteen miles.
  The number of families in connection with the Established Church
  is 50, and the average number of persons attending the parish
  church about 150;-many of the church people, except at the
  sacrament, attending the Established Church nearest them ;
  those at the east end going to Gask,-at the west, to Muthill,-
  and at the south, to Auehterarder.  The number of cominuni-
  cants, last two years, was 183.
    The number of families connected with dissenting chapels in
  Kinkell, Auchterarder, and Dunning is 36.
    The average amount of collections in the church is L. 18; pro-
  clamation of banns, 10s. 6d. ; mortcloth, fines, &c.  L. 1, 11s. 6d.
    Education.-The parochial school is the only one in the parish;
  and the branches of education taught are, reading, writing, arith-
  metic, elements of practical mathematics, English grammar, geo-
  graphy, and Latin.  The present schoolmaster is also qualified to
  teach Greek and French; but these are not demanded by the
  heritors.  His salary amounts to L. 35, 9s. 4d.  He is also
  precentor, and session-clerk, with a salary of L. 2, 10s., and
  his school fees will make his income fully L. 50 a-year.  He
  has a good house and garden.  I have not yet met with any of
  my parishioners betwixt six and fifteen who cannot read and
  write.  There are 50 upwards of fifteen who cannot write,-none,
  I hope, who cannot read.  The people are deeply sensible of the
  infinite importance of education, and are willing to make many
  sacrifices to secure it for their children.  The great distance of
  the west and south ends of the parish must make it inconvenient
  for young children to attend the parish school at any season of the
  year, and for all in those quarters durin the winter.  They there-


