
544                        FORFARSHIRE.

solenizatio of his mariag, under ye pane of v mark, and ye coande-
ments before ye minystratio of ye Lord's Supper, under ye pane
of uther v mark." A similar qualification was always required of
sponsors before baptism; and the Lord's prayer was sometimes
added to the task! "8 Apryll 0583, the qlk day, it was statit
and ordynit and also derectit before ye sessione, yat all disobedy-
ents yat obeyis not the fryst warning suld be put in ye stypyll, and
thair remine the space ane day at the decryt of ye assemblie."
From 1570, down through at least a century, such entries as the
following are rather common: "Robt Leis compeirit and wes ac-
cusit for not communicating-wes ordesnit to mak his repentans,
and pay fourtie sh. of penaltie." The minute of 22d January
1615 ordains the elders and deacons "day about, twa of yem to-
gedder," to visit the alehouses in time of public worship, and to
report those ho sold liquor. This custom was observed for more
than a century; many of the old entries beginning "elders fand
non drinking in change-houses;" while sometimes the following is
recorded: "ye haill browters quha sellit aill are summonit to
compeir, &c." About 1630, several women were excommunicated
and banished the parish for "charmyng and witchcrafte." The
soldiers of the Covenant seem to have been compelled to their
duty by the judicators of the church, e. g. "2d June 1639,
Alexander Davidsone being come home fro ye border fro ye
Scottis armie, under ye regiment of Sir Wm. Blair of Balgillo,
hes promissit to returne himself thair again, under ye pane of
banishment of himself and his wyf out of ye parois, and to
txnd his aiker land yt is sawen, becauas he purchasit not Balgillo
his testimoniall to our sessione to testifye yat he is contented
of his returning to him again." The next is rather myste-
rions:-"17th Septr. 1648, Robt. Scott, ye beddell, ressavit
v sh. to buy ane pynt of tarr, to put upon the weomen that
holds the playds about thair head in the church." * But the
next is plain enough, whatever may have been the propriety of a
weekly calling of the parochial muster roll, viz. "28th Septr.
1645, Efter sermone, ye minr. maid intimatione to ye congrega-

<FOOTNOTE>This extraordinary discipline may have been intended as a correction of somuo-
tency. The following passage from an old poem will perhaps elucidate the sab-
ject.-
          "But, as for me,
			Sick unco sights I never see;
			For, soon as out the text I read,
			I draw my roquelay round my head,
      And, fast asleep, if under fa' ewer,
			It's better than thro' the kirk to glower."


