
                        GLADSMUIR.                         193

taken notice of here. The gross produce of all the gardens may
amount to about L. 200.
   The two coal-pits now wrought on the Penston property pro-
duce from 12,000 to 15,000 tons a-year.

                 V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   The nearest market-town is Haddington, which is about four
miles distant from the church. It was long the principal, grain
market in Scotland; but most of the farmers in the western parts
of the county carry the greater part of their grain to Dalkeith and
Edinburgh, to both of which places Haddington is now inferior as
a grain market.
   Villages.-There are three villages in the parish,-Samuelston,
Longniddry, and Penston. Of these, Samuelston contains a po-
pulation of 187. It is an irregular scattered village, situate on
the north bank of the Tyne, running north-east by south-west. In
former times, it carried on a considerable trade in meal, but though
there are still two corn mills, the trade has very much dwindled
away. There is also a saw-mill attached to one of the corn-mills,
which is of great use in cutting out paling and pieces of wood, for
various purposes. There are three farms connected with it, East-
mains, Backbrae, and Templehouse, * besides two smaller pieces of
land given to the villagers for their accommodation.
   Longniddry is situated about half a mile from the Frith, and is
also an irregular straggling village. It is completely changed from
what it once was. In former times, four tenants lived in it,-one in
Cooper's Close, one in Burnfoot Close, and one on each side of the
road, about the middle of the village,-who had reach a considera-
ble farm. The property has been very much diminished, and the
whole has been thrown into one farm, with the exception of a few
fields rented by some labourers in the village, who employ horses
for carrying on their business. The present farm-house, which is
commodious and of good appearance, stands about 200 yards to
the south of the road, running through the village. Betwixt that
house and the road, there were formerly a considerable number of
cot-houses, not a vestige of which now remains, and the place
where they stood is under crop, and very productive. The pre-
sent mansion-house, which is let, stands about a gun-shot to the
west of Cooper's Close. The garden if, immediately in front, the

<FOOTNOTE>Besides Templehouse in Samuelston, there was in former times in the parish
another place of this name, situate in a field betwixt Hoprig Mains and the public
road. Some of the old people remember having seen the house.


