
                      NEW KILPATRICK.                         39

In the clay, numerous boulders occur, varying from the size of a
pigeon's egg to many tons in weight. These boulders consist
chiefly of the different kind of trap; but many, even of the largest,
are of granite, gneiss, and mica-slate rocks, which are not found in
situ at distancesof less, some of them than 25 and others 70. miless
in a north-westerly direction. Blocks of limestone occur in like
manner, the surface of which frequently presents a considerable
degree of polish, with occasional deep irregular scratches, as if a
heavy body had been forcibly moved over it.
   The organic remains, though almost exclusively confined to the
vegetable kingdom, are numerous and interesting. They consist
chiefly of plants, which are now found only in insular situations, and
in climates approaching to tropical beat; such as tree-ferns gigan-
tic equiseta, calamites and palmaceae.
    Various strata of clay-iron ore occur, alternating with sand-
stone and blaize. One of these, which crops out on the banks of tbe
Kelvin at Garscube, was wrought some years ago, for the purpose of
smelting: but,the ore was not found in sufficient quantity, or suffi-
ciently rich to render the working of it profitable.
    Mineralogy;-The Kilpatrick hills present a fertile field for the
researches, of the mineralogist, containing a great variety of the
zeolite family. A splendid collection of these minerals has been
presented to the Hunterian Museum by Dr Couper, Professor of
Natural History in the University of Glasgow. They consist of
prehnite, stilbite, Heulanite, Thomsonite, Laumonite; cross-stone
both single and crossed; analcime, mesotype, and Eddingtonite.
The student will nowhere find a more favourable opportunity of
becoming acquainted with this beautiful family of minerals, than
this collection presents. Many years ago, a veia of sulphate of
barytes was wrought in these hills, in the, expectation lead
might be extracted from it; and a mine had been driven 3o yards
into the hill-side, before those engaged in the undertaking were con-
vinced of its futility.
   Soil.-The prevailing soil is clay, over a bottom of hard and
impracticable till. The stratum of fertile clay is generally, no
deeper than the plough goes; and the retentive subsoil, prevent-
ing the escape of the surface water, renders tbe land wet and clag-
gy. Along the course of the Kelvin, the Allander, and some other,
streams there are several hundred acres of deep rich loan; and
some knolls of sand and gravel are covered with a light dry soil.


