
144                      ROXBURGHSHIRE.

may amount to L. 28 or L. 30 a-year. Besides the parish school,
there is a school at the farm-house of Sandyknow, which is sup-
ported by the tenant of that farm, who gives board and lodging to
the teacher for educating his own children, and also by the school
fees of his other pupils. There, the same branches are taught
as at the parish school, and the quarterly fees are the same. All
the young persons in the parish, between six and fifteen years of
age, can read and write, or are learning to do so; and it is not
known that there is any person upwards of fifteen who cannot read
or write. The total number of scholars attending both schools is
about 100.
    Savings Bank.-A savings bank was established some years ago
in the parish, but was discontinued at Whitsunday 1830, as the di-
rectors did not think it was answering the purpose for which it
was established.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.-There are twelve enrolled poor
in the parish; who have at an average about 2s. per week, with oc-
casional supplies of coal, meal, &c. from the session funds. The
annual amount of the church collections is about L. 12, and the
half-yearly assessment about L. 35. There seems to be no dispo-
sition among the poor, when reduced by necessity, to refrain from
seeking parochial relief, neither do they in general appear then to
consider it as degrading.
    Inns, &c.-There are an inn and an alehouse in the village. Their
effect on the morals of the people is decidedly unfavourable.
    The fuel consists of wood and coal; the wood is procured from
the neighbourbood; and the coals cost from 14d. to 16d. per cwt.
when brought from Lothian, and 10d. to 11d. from Northumber-
land.
			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
    Since the time of the last Statistical Account, four shops have
been established, where almost every necessary article of either soft
or hardware may be obtained, and there has been for a considerable
time a baker in the village.
    The parish is not susceptible of much greater improvement, as
the system of husbandry now practised by an intelligent and re-
spectable tenantry is of the most approved kind.

    Revised November 1834.


