
92                      HADDINGTONSHIRE.

tors and tenants of the landward district. This agreement was not
renewed,-but different rules were adopted till the year 1774, for
which and the subsequent years, the town of Dunbar has paid only
one-sixth of the assessment. The attention of the heritors was at
length directed to the subject by certain extraordinary claims which
were made on the part of the burgh. The chief magistrate claim-
ed a right ex officio to give orders upon the funds;* and if two or
more bailies attended the meetings, each claimed a right to vote.
   The heritors being thus called upon to look to their interest,
were advised to institute an action of declarator, to have it found
" that the management and maintenance of the poor of the land-
ward district and of the burgh are separate and distinct, and that
the pursuers, as heritors of the landward district, with their tenants
and other inhabitants thereof, are not liable for the support of the
poor of the burgh, but for that of the poor resident within the
landward district allenarly, and the provost, magistrates, and coun-
cil, as representing the community of the said burgh of Dunbar,
ought and should be decerned and ordained, by decree foresaid, to
sustain and manage the poor of the said burgh according to law:
Or otherwise, in the event of the pursuers failing in the above con-
clusion of their action, then and in that ease it ought and should
be found and declared, by decree foresaid, that the power of taking
up the lists of the aggregate poor, determining the assessments, and
managing the funds, belongs to the meeting of heritors, provost,
minister, and elders, and that the assessment to be imposed for
the support of the aggregate poor shall be laid on the whole in-
habitants of the parish equally, whether in burgh or landward, ac-
cording to the estimation of their substance, without exception of
persons." The action came before their Lordships of the Second
Division, who ordered the opinions of the other Judges to be taken
thereon. Three of the Consulted Judges having returned opinions
for a separation, and six of them against it, their Lordships of the

<FOOTNOTE> The writer conceives it to be of importance that the terms of the letter written on
this occasion by the Provdost to the Clerk of the Poors' Funds should be here inserted.
                                                        Dunbar, 1st November 1825.
   Sir,-I gave an order upon you yesterday, to pay a woman twenty shillings to ac-
count of the maintenance of three poor children she has had the charge of, belonging
to the parish, and which order I understand you have refused to pay, nor will you as-
sign your reason in writing for your refusal, but have sent me a message that you
have not time to, write. I now again demand of you either to pay the order, or to
state your reason why you withhold the money, as I consider a refusal a dereliction
of your duty as clerk of the poors' funds, and I shall hold you personally responsible,
and shall accordingly take the necessary steps to obligue you to account for your con-
duct; and in the meantime the town of Dunbar will withhold their share of the
money they have been in the practise of paying towards the itinerant poors' allow-
ance, as well as the cess allocated upon the town at the last meeting of heritors.-I
am, Sir, yor most obedient servant.


