1142                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

ten years, attempts have been made in different quarters effect
a union of the two colleges.  The advocates of this measure were
few in number, and in general interested parties, the public hav-
ing on all occasions expressed a determined hostility to every
scheme of union.
   Our space will not permit us to enter into a detailed account of
the various changes to which the university was subjected during
the troubled period from the Reformation to the Revolution.  We
must here observe, however, that King's College, since its foun-
dation, has never ceased actively to perform its proper functions,
whether in the education of youth or in the conferring of degrees;
and that it har generally been in a flourishing condition, a proof of
the necessity of the institution, and of the wisdom of its founder.
It can boast, moreover, of a very large number of distinguished
names both among its office-bearers and its alumni at all periods
of its existence.
   We shall now briefly describe the present constitution of the
University, the nature of its offices, and the system of education
pursued in it; and we shall conclude by mentioning those bene-
factors who have so greatly contributed to its usefulness, and those
alumni who have distinguished themselves.
   Office-Bearers.-The office-bearers of King's College are, the
Chancellor, the Rector, with four Assessors, ten Masters, including
the Principal and Sub-Principal, and the factor or Procurator.
The Chancellor is the supreme authority in the University, and
an appeal lies to him from the Rectoral Court.
   During the Roman Catholic and Episcopal periods, the Bishop
of Aberdeen was, ex officio, chancellor.  Bishop Elphinston was the
first chancellor, and among his successors may be named Bishop Ga-
vin Dunbar and Bishop Patrick Forbes, the former of whom may be
called the second founder of the University, and the latter of whom
was one of its greatest benefactors ; also, Bishop Scougall, and
George, Marquis of Huntly, who was Chancellor of the Caroline
or United University.  The present Chancellor is the Right Ho-
nourable George Earl of Aberdeen, who succeeded the late Alex-
ander Duke of Gordon.  The Chancellor is elected by the Sena-
tus, and retains his office for life.  He admits to certain offices in the
College, and if any vacancy be not filled up within a month, he
presents to the vacant office, jure devoluto.
   The Rector is next in authority to the Chancellor.  He is elected


