
                             GOVAN.                               669

nexed to the sheriffdom of Renfrew, " for the convenience of Sir
George Maxwell who died in 1677.  But the original charter
granted to John Maxwell of Pollok by the Archbishop of Glas-
gow, dated 8th June 1581, describes the lands in question (terras
de Haggis, terras de Govan-Schiellis, terras de Titwood,) to be in
the barony and regality of Glasgow, and in the county of Renfrew.
Part of Crosshill, and nearly the whole of Polmadie, are likewise
comprehended in the county of Renfrew.
   Topographical Appearances.--The figure of the parish, if we in-
clude along with it the "parish of Gorbalr, which was formerly
connected with Govan, is not unlike that of England.  In the one
case, as well as in the other, when looking at their respective maps,
a fanciful person will at once recognize the dolphin's head and tail.
In the centre of the parish, there is a richly cultivated plain, which
is skirted on both sides by ground slightly elevated, and present-
ing a soft undulating apperance.  The parish is studded with the
villas of the opulent merchants of Glasgow, and the fields are in
general divided, as in the most beautiful parts of England, by
hedge-rows, which, with their "verdant screeen," *  add both to the
warmth and to the picturesque beauty of the country.
   Meteorology and Hydrography.--The prevalent winds are from
the south-west.  This fact is very evident from the general incli-
nation of the trees to the north-east, and from the longest and
strongest roots bein sent out in an opposite direction to support
them.  This is one of the many wise provisions of nature.  It has
been noticed, therefore, that, though the centre of gravity is thrown
towards the north-east, more trees are torn up  by violent winds,
when these blow from that point than when they blow from any
other. +  The temperature of the lower districts of the parish, in
consequence of their sheltered situation, and the dryness of the
soil, is comparatively mild and genial.  Invalids and strangers
have often remarked this,  The Clyde, joined by the Kelvin, di-
vides the parish near its centre.  Before the waters of these two
rivers meet, the Clyde, for about three miles, proceeds along the
north side of the parish, sepating it from Glasgow, while the
Kelvin, for more that two miles, winds its way along the eastern
boudary.  It would seem that the Kelvin formerly joined the
Clyde above the present ferry-house, which stands on the east
bank of the Kelvin; or perhaps the ground, on which the ferry-

<FOOTNOTE>Scott's Marmion        Naismith's Agriculture of Clydesdale, p. 3.


