
540                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

same. But as, in the intervening period, various small farms
have been joined, and several are now held by persons resident in
the adjoining parishes, these numbers do not convey a correct idea
of the increased cultivation. The sheep were then 144 score, and
their number at present is only 130 score; while the number of
black cattle then was l77, and is now about 3l2. Wool then pro-
duced from 7s. to 11s. per stone, now from 10s. to 15s.
   Wages.-Male servants employed in husbandry then earned
from L. 6 to L. 9 per annum, exclusive of board and lodgings,
now they receive from L. 9 to L. 11. Female servants then re-
ceived from L. 3 to L. 4, now usually they get L. 7. Day la-
bourers then earned from 1s. to 1s. 6d. per day, now from 1s. 3d.
to 2s.
                   V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Poor.-Of a rural population so industrious and intelligent, very
few are in the class of actual paupers, and none except the aged
and infirm. These receive from 4s. to 8s. a-month, levied by a
parochial assessment; while occasional relief is also afforded from
collections at the parish church and other contributions. But, as
all the heritors are non-resident, there is a deficiency of the sources
from which such means of relief might be derived. If the price
of labour and provisions must remain as at present, barely sufficient
to enable the peasantry to subsist and educate their children, with-
out enabling them to accumulate any considerable savings, or raise
themselves in the scale of society, it is highly desirable that they
should enjoy a surer prospect of being provided for in their declin-
ing years.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is conveniently situate for the
population. The date of its erection is not known. Externally, it
is one of the most humble and unpretending of our sacred edifices,
but interesting for its venerable proportions; its narrow, length-
ened form, its high peaked roof, its hoary surrounding monumental
stones and columns, its rude, battered, churchyard wall, and its
aged umbrageous trees. It is capable of containing 250. The
number of communicants at the last and the previous celebration
of the Holy Supper was 117.
   Within a few hundred yards, is erected a commodious church
of the United Secession, to which a large congregation from this
and the adjoining parishes resorts. At the distance fo two miles,
though beyond the bounds of this parish, is also reared a taber-
nacle of the Free Church, to which several families now repair.
                                   4

