
			COYLTON.                                 655

	Parochial Registers.--The session records extant commenced on
6th February 1723. Baptisms and marriages have been registered
for upwards of a century. The earliest registration of births is
dated 15th February 1725; and of marriages, 29th May 1725.
Since that time, these registers have, with few exceptions, been re-
gularly kept. The present session-clerk has kept, with great ac-
curacy, a register of the deaths for the last fourteen years.
	Antiquities.--The parish can boast of few reliques of antiquity.
Some fragments of the Old Church may perhaps be noticed un-
der this head. The building was taken down, ten or eleven years
ago. The date of its erection is not known. It was built prior to
the Reformation, but exhibited nothing of that fine architecture
which distinguished many of the religious fabricks of the Roman
Catholic Church. On Cloquhernan, Drumsuy estate, there is a
well called the chapel, or Carnell well, near to which, it is said, a
church or chapel stood, which existed at the time of the Reforma-
tion. This is supposed by some to have been the place in which
John Knox officiated, to which reference is made by Dr M'Crie in
his Life of the Reformer, where he says, that "Knox preached in
the houses of Bar, Kincancleuch, Carnell, Ochiltree, Gadgirth,
and in the town of Ayr." There is also a well on the farm of Raith-
hill, the property of the Marquis of Ailsa, called the Chapel-well,
beside which appear the foundations of a building, which is said to
have been a chapel, from which the spring had its name.
	If uncertain authority is to be followed, this district seems to
have had great attractions for the Church. We have seen a state-
ment from an old writing, which bears that the island in Lochfergus
was the seat of a monastery. There are certainly stones and
other appearances in the place, from which imagination might
easily conclude that, at some distant time, there was such a build-
ing on this interesting spot. Till lately, this islet, now cover-
ed with alder bushes, young larch, Scotch fir, &c. was the site
of some fine old trees, and the resort of herons. But these
successors of the monks have long since deserted their haunt, and
their memory, like that of their predecessors, has almost passed
into oblivion. * Tradition says that this lake derived its name from
Fergus, one of the Scottish kings, who defeated Coilus, king of

<FOOTNOTE>In a small work entitled "A Summary of the Chronicles of Scotland," publish-
ed in 1624, there is a brief description of Ayrshire. Among many other places of
importance enumerated, mention is made of "the loch of Martnam with a strong
Tower," and of "Loch Fergus, with an isle with many growing trees, where great
plenty of herons resort with the loch-seal. There is decayed monastery in it."


