
50                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

money, without any one attending, either to what they have or what
they have not.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--We have 14 individuals upon our
poors' roll, who regularly receive parochial, relief; but of these
there is only one entirely dependent upon the parish, and for his
board L.4 per annum is paid. The others receive from L. 1 to
L. 2 yearly, according to their necessities. There are about 6 or 8
more who require a little occasional assistance.
	The annual amount of contributions for support of the poor are,
our church collections, which average about L. 26 in the year, and
the interest of L.300, mortified by various charitable persons.
Besides these, the Duke of Quensberry allows six free cottages to
poor old women; and the late Mr Douglas of Craigs was a regular
benefactor of the poor, as well as a very generous landlord.
	The poor in general are at first very averse to seek parochial
relief; and there are individuals in the parish who, I believe, would
almost rather starve than have recourse to it. This noble spirit
of independence I do all in my power to encourage. But when
once individuals are fairly upon the roll, they soon lose all feeling
of delicacy, take their allowance as their right, and in some in-
stances, instead of being thankful for the portion they receive,
upbraid the members of the session with partiality in the distribu-
tion.
	For the last four years, (the period during which I have had the
management of the poors' funds,) not a single name has been ad-
ded to the public list. I find from experience that 8s. or 10s. given
privately (when the people can rely upon the discretion of the
donor) will excite more gratitude, and afford more true comfort,
than a pound given otherwise.
	Alehouses.--There are at present two small dram-shops in the
parish which we have the prospect of soon getting rid of. They
have the worst possible effect upon the morals of the people: and
there is scarcely a crime brought before a court that has not origi-
nated in, or been somehow connected with, one of these nests of ini-
quity. All our toll-keepers have houses of this description, and our
country roads are to a considerable extent maintained by the gains
of intemperance. We are highly indebted to the Circuit Judges
for the severe terms in which they occasionally reprobate the tole-
rance of such places. Their reproofs have had a good effect.
	Fuel,--The common fuel used is peat, a great part of which is
procured in lochar Moss, in the parish of Dumfries. In cases


