
     of Avendale or Strathaven.

is 6 chalders of victual, L. 600 Scots in money, and 90,
merks for communion-elements; all of which has hitherto
been paid by one hand.  The glebe was originally 4 acres,
but has been twice cut up with turnpike roads in the course
of the last 7 years; so that it is now rendered of little va-
lue to possess, but might be turned to account by feuing it
for house steadings and gardens.  The manse is large and
commodious, but having been ill built at first, is frequently
standing in need of repairs.  Besides the minister, there is a
catechist or assistant preacher, who enjoys a benefice of 500
merks a-year, mortified by Ann Duchess of Hamilton in
1710.  The late Mr William Gilmour, above mentioned,
left money for raising it to L. 40 Sterling; but, like his
ether benefactions, it has not yet taken effect.

   Schools, Poor, etc.-The parish schoolmaster has a salary
of 200 merks, a school-room, a dwelling-house, and a small
garden.  He teaches English, Latin, Greek, arithmetic,
and writing.  The wages are, for English 1 s. 2 d. a-quarter,
and for the other branches of education, 1 s. 8 d.  The
average number of scholars for the whole year is 60.
There is a private school in the town equally numerous.
The parish schoolmaster is commonly precentor, session-
clerk, and clerk to the parish-meetings.  There are always
2, sometimes 3 schools in remote parts of the parish.-Most
of the poverty to be found here may be traced to the use
of tea, tobacco, and whisky.  These luxuries are not only
too expensive for people in narrow circumstances, but the
constant use of them begets habits very unfavourable to
health and industry.  In this part of the country, the price
of labour always bears such a proportion to the necessaries of
life, as that the sober and industrious may not only earn
present subsistence, but may lay up something against the
evil day.  There are some indeed born in poverty, with
such weak and sickly constitutions as to be unable to work,


