
                                      CLYNE.                     151

       the appearance of three lakes when seen from a short distance.
       Extensive fir plantations on each side, with the bold precipitous
       Carrol rock, and the mansion-house and offices of Kilcalmkill, form
       a beautiful and interesting scene in fine weather.
          There is a small island near the lower end of Loch Brora, of
       which Sir Robert Gordon says, in his History of the Earldom of
       Sutherland, that "the Erle of Southerland hes a delectable ha-
       bitation, and pleasant for hunting of red-deer and roes in the
       woods on both sides of the loch.  This island is distant thrie or four
       myles from dii- burgh of Broray."
          Among the smaller lakes, Loch Tubernach, north of Clyne
       church, and the source of the Clyne Milton Burn, was, at one
       time, famous for large trout of superior flavour; but they have fallen
       off in quality, of late years.
          The river Brora has its source in the forest of Ben Clibrig, and,
       passing through a part of Rogart, it enters this parish about two
       miles above Sciberscross, and joins the Black Water a mile below
       that place.  This latter river rises in Ben Ormin, and runs through
       a long extent of deep moors, which give a dark tinge to the water,
       and from which it no doubt derives its name.  It receives several
       tributaries in its course, and runs down a deep rocky channel for
       about five miles before its junction with the Brora, when the
       united streams flow through rich meadows for half-a-mile, and
       fall into Loch, Brora.
          There is a Cascade on the Black Water, near BaInakyle, very
       magnificent when the river is in flood; and another still more strik-
       ing and romantic at Kilcalmkill, which is visited by most tourists;
       also a cascade well worthy of notice on a small burn near the
       manse of Clyne, where the water falls into a Jeep ravine over a
       rock sixty feet high.
          Geology and Mineralogy.-Sir Humpbry Davy, when he visit-
       ed this county in 1812, left a manuscript at Dunrobin Castle, de-
       scribing the mineral productions of part of Sutherland, wherein he
       stated, with reference to this parish, "that the secondary rocks
       occupy but a small space, and are probably incumbent on the red
       sandstone or breccia; that they occur in regular strata but their,
       arrangement is very much disturbed.  They appear to have been
       originally deposited or formed parallel to the horizon; but in most
       places. this parallelism has been, disturbed either by the subsidence
       or elevation of parts of the strata, so that there are frequent faults
       or abruptions of the different rocks, which have given to the diffe-
       rent parts of the strata different inclinations.


