
  166            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

  in any country.  He does not arrive at perfection, till eight or nine
  years of age; seldom stands higher than 44 inches, for the
  most part about 38.  The general colour is a dark mouse gray,
  and be is covered with long woolly hair, till three or four years
  old.   He is singularly free from vice, but is not so docile or sa-
  gacious, as high bred horses.  His attachment to the locality where
  be has been born is obstinate, often pining for years of maladie
  de pays, and this instinct, when strongly marked in the lower ani-
  mals, is not usually accompanied with great sagacity.  However,
  education and chivalry may have ennobled the horse, his title to the
  brute patrician order seems not an inherent one.  The poneys range
  in berds over the common, in an almost wild state, and have little
  care or food bestowed on them, unless when engaged in labour,
  or during long snows; a handful of food is, in this latter case, oc-
  casionally given to tbem, as a condiment to season the sea-weed
  drifted on the beach, and freshened by snow water, on which they
  must then sustain themselves. Yet, under these circumstances,
  continuing sometimes for months together, they preserve their
  health and plight.  If they were stabled, they would lose their
  hardihood, and the babit of catering for themselves, and their keep
  would be far more expensive than the actual farming economy of
  the country could afford.   When old, they are never killed, but
  allowed to live as long as they can.
    The sheep is small; not often horned; ears pointed and erect;
  face, back, and tail short; fine-boned; legs long ; naturally wild,
  active, and hardy, and little liable to disease; the colour generally
  white; sometimes ferruginous, gray, black, and piebald; the wool
  very soft and often fine.  The more damp and mossy the pasture,
  the sorter is the wool; one of the causes of which probably is,
  deficient strength and nourishment; another, the astringent na-
  ture of the food.  Sheep-farming, as a separate object, is now at-
  tracting some attention, although it is not likely to be carried
  on to so much advantage a's in the Scottish Higbiands.  There,
  the sbeep-walks are mountainous- and inland, naturally dry, and
  contain a greater variety of pasture plants congenial to the breeds
  of sheep suitable foi such situations, than can be afforded by the
  comparatively level and damp moors of Shetland, producing chief-
  ly mat-grass and rushes.  A serious casualty affecting the value
  of a Shetland flock, arises from the constant vicinity of precipices
  facing the sea, to which sheep are attracted by the tender grass
  growing amongst them, and great losses, by their failing over the
                                  4


