
                    PARISH OF ECKFORD.

        PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

              THE REV. JOSEPH YAIR, A. M. MINISTER.

                I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
    Name.--THE name of this parish is compounded of aec, an oak,
and ford, a passage over a river,--referring to the oaks which an-
ciently prevailed in the district, and to a ford in the Teviot, with-
in a short distance of the village, which bears the name of the
parish. *  It is probable that to this village the appellation Eck-
ford was primarily confined; but that in process of time it came to
be applied to the whole parish.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The parish is nearly of a triangular
form, with its base towards the east: and is about 6 miles at its
greatest length, and 4 1/2 at its greatest breadth.  It is bounded, on
the north, by Roxburgh and projecting portions of Kelso and
Sprouston; on the east by Linton, Morebattle, and Hounam; on
the south, by Jedburgh; and on the west, by Crailing.
    Topoqraphical Appearances.--This parish presents throughout
an undulating appearance, gradually rising as it extends towards
the south, and occasionally swelling into elevations, which com-
mand an extensive view of the circumjacent country.  There are
no remarkable heights in the parish, but the chief eminences are
Woodenhill and Cavertonhill.  From Woodenhill, the spectator
looking towards the west, may survey, for the space of many miles,
the vale of the Teviot, with the tortuous course of that classic
stream,--the neatly enclosed and highly fertile fields which stretch
along its banks--the well kept and thriving plantations which here
and there extend to the river's edge, and which, together with Peniel-
heugh, Minto-hill, Minto-crag, and Ruberslaw in the distance,

<FOOTNOTE>This ford was anciently called the ford at the aecs.  In the bed of the river near
the ford, oaks of considerable dimensions have occasionally been seen.  Within
these thirty years, a tree of this kind, about 2 1/2 feet in diameter, was dragged
out by Mr Mather of Kalemouth, and immediately on its removal he perceived
another lying directly under it.  About three miles farther up the river, in a deep pool,
an oak is said to have been seen, so very large that its trunk in some places amount-
ed to about 4 feet 4 inches in diameter.


