
268                 HADDINGTONSHIRE.

Account to have been about L. 800. In 1816, when the average
rent of the land per acre was so high as L. 2, the gross rental was
more than triple that sum, viz. L. 2916. And taking the present
average of rent per acre at L. 1, 8s., the gross rental amounts to
L. 2041, 4s. Sterling. There with therefore have been some
egregious error in the former statement. The valued rent is
L. 1614, 9s. 7d. The sum assessed for the parish roads is
L. 46, 10s., the product of 23 1/4 ploughgates at L. 2 each.
   The leases are all of nineteen years duration. In one recent in-
stance, the choice of a money or grain rent, to be made and become
final at the end of the first year, was given. In another instance,
the rent is wholly grain, viz. a boll of wheat. In a third instance
the rent is one-half money, and one-half corn of the three sorts.
The rents are understood to be in general advantageous to the
farmer.
   Wages.-The rate of labourers' wages has for some years been
stationary at 1s. 6d. per day summer and winter. Females receive
10d. per day. Hynds, who are generally married, are paid in
greater part in kind, and receive 12 bolls of oats, 3 bolls of bar-
ley, 8 bushels of peas, L. 1 in lieu of lint, a cow's grass and win-
ter keep, 800 or 1000 yards of ground for potatoes, or in some
cases 1 bolls of potatoes instead, five weeks' meat during harvest, and
their coals driven free. Those who can stack and sow receive half
a boll of wheat additional. They pay the rout of their house and
garden by reaping during harvest, which is usually done by the
wife or some other member of the family, and, failing this, by a
hired reaper. In some instances they are obliged to keep a worker
for field-work, called a bondager (a vexatious appellation, now very
properly passing out of use.) all the year.-Cottars have their
house and garden from the farmer, on the conditions of working
during harvest, and keeping always a bondager, who receives 10d.
a-day when employed, and must be at call. Providing a bondager,
they are not themselves astricted to labour on the farm, and when
employed, receive the current daily wages of labourers. They are
allowed 800 yards of ground for potatoes, and have their coals
driven free.
   The houses both of hynds and cotters are here, as elsewhere,
miserably deficient in accommodation. They have usually only
one apartment, and that but small. And in that one room, often
ill-aired, worse lighted, and damp, are to be fouud crowded together
sometimes a family of eight or ten persons. The extreme inconveni-


