
<APPENDIX>

that one of the chimney pieces in the house made from it,
has a polish equal to any foreign marble.  Between the third
parallel glen and the last one, is a very extensive field of coal
now working behind that rock, called the Harbour Craig
coal; and in the last glen is a stratum of freestone, different
from those of Mairfield, and Monk's Burn, of a good quality.
In the second glen, a crumbling freestone rock, the whole
depth of the bank, produces a face of pure white land, upon
which nothing will grow.  Between and the Rumbling Well,
as also on the north side of the house, was found a large piece
of diamond spar, and above the limestone, south of the well,
is a thick bed of clay marl.  In digging gravel, with which
the little eminences are commonly filled, have been got, par-.
ticularly on the east side of Monk's Burn, and between and
the Spittal Hills, pebbles and bloodstones, some of which
have been cut into very beautiful seals.  Immediately above
the chalybeate spring, or Monk's Burn, is a thin stratum of
lime, with a bed of blue till over it, in which have been
found the entire petrified shells mentioned elsewhere, most of
which are in the proprietor's possession.  Beyond the Spittal
Hills, and on the side of the Esk at the foot of them, below
the junction of two rivulets, is a small valley, with some little
green mounts rising out of it; and at the extremity of the
grounds to the north, on an eminence commanding the whole
track of the Forth, from Inch Keith upwards, is a grey stone
appearing above the heath, called the Boar Stane.  On this
side of the hills, though the shooting is much hurt by its
proximity to the capital, there are a considerable number of
grouse, as also on the Harleymuir to the south.  In the Esk
there is good fishing, though most of the trouts are small;
but in the Mairfield Loch are some large fish, and the perches
are in such abundance, that two rods have been known to
catch 24 dozen in a couple of hours.  The partridges are

     VOL. XVII. 4 K


