
74			ARYRSHIRE.

own on a fixed rate of aliment, and every inmate in the house
costs on an average 2s. 6d. per week, which, exceeds the average
allowance to out-door pensioners. There is a master and mistress,
who have apartments provided for them in the institution, besides
a fixed salary of L. 30 to the former, who acts also as clerk to
the directors; and L. 20 to the latter, yearly. And a large un-
occupied room, not now required for the poor, is used as a school
at present, for the instruction of the children attending Smith's
Institution, where the children of paupers are taught gratis.
	Management of the Poor.--The directors of this establishment
(the poor's house) having now become the managers of the poor
generally of the town and parish, it may be proper to explain brief-
ly the nature of the constituency, and its mode of working, in or-
der to enable strangers to form some idea as to how the poor are
regulated and provided for in Ayr. At the time when the poor's
house was built, and for a long time after, its directors, and the
kirk-session, formed two separate bodies, each having a list of poor
to provide for from different funds. Those of the session were de-
rived from the weekly church collections, the rent of the farm of
Session-field, and the emoluments arising from some mortifications.
Those of the poor's house managers consisted of an annual con-
tribution from the different corporate bodies which they represent-
ed, and a small yearly assessment on the inhabitants. This mode
of providing for the poor, by the agency of two distinct parties,
came to be exceedingly inconvenient and liable to abuses, as it
often happened that paupers received aliment from both, without
the knowledge of either. Accordingly, about twenty years ago,
in making some necessary reforms on the poor's house establish-
ment, it was deemed expedient to unite both bodies, with their re-
spective funds, under one common interest and system of manage-
ment; which was done by constituting the whole members of the
kirk-session poor's house directors, and appointing a joint treasur-
er to receive their united funds. The session, in addition to the
two ministers, consists of upwards twenty elder, who have each
a district of the town allotted to his superintendence. The di-
rectors of the poor's house, before the junction, consisted of nine
from the town-council, eight from the incorporated trades, the
sailors, merchants, and writers, sending three each, making in all
twenty-six. To this number have been added, besides the session,
all the landed proprietors of the parish whose rental yearly amounts
to L. 50 and upwards, of whom there are about twelve,--thus form-


