
                            BRESSAY.                           9

  the Isles of House and Burra, and the small Isles of Hevern and
  Papa.
    House (or the East Isle of Burra) lies about half a mile from
  Quarff; and Burra, or the West Isle, the same distance from
  House.  In their appearance, there is nothing very remarkable ;
  but they are mostly two hill ridges, irregular in shape, the one
  about six,and the East Isle about five miles in length and from
  half a mile to a mile in breadth. The south part of the Isle of
  House is a peninsula, a mile in length, the greatest part of it
  consisting of pasture ground. The coast of both is rocky, espe-
  cially on the south and particularly that of Burral on the west,
  At one point the two islands approach so near to each other, as to
  be joined by a bridge composed of some loose timbers resting on
  two rude piles of stones.  The Isle of Papa, a mile north from
  Burra, is a small spot inhabited by two families.
    Hevera, two miles south from Burra, has the appearance of a
  high rock, having only one proper access by aromantic sort of
  creek, inter scopulos pendentes. It accommodates five families,
  whose houses are frightfully situated on the brink of the preci-
  pice.  An islet is attached on the south to this, called Little He-
  vera.
    Noss Sound is not a quarter of a mile broad, about twenty
  feet deep, having a strong tide, and is often impassable with east-
  erly winds. 
    Bressay Sound is well known as a harbour.  In the middle, op-
  posite Lerwick, it is hardly a mile broad, and perhaps fifteen fa-
  thoms deep, the tide falling in it about eight feet ; narrowing
  very much to the north entrance ; but its breadth and depth in-
  creasing towards Quarff, on the south, where it opens into the
  ocean.
    Cliff Sound, nearly half a mile broad, is, like Bressay, a
  difficult sound in stormy weather, owing to its situation between,
  high grounds on both sides.  It is said to be eight or ten fathoms
  deep.
    Stream Sound is the junction between the Cliff and Burra.
  Sound, said to be six fathoms deep, running east and west be-
  tween the north point of House, and south of Trondra ; its
  breadth, about a quarter of a mile, between these points ; its cur-
  rent as visible as that of a river.

<FOOTNOTE>Since this account was written, some improvements have been here made,
      The statements here given of the depth of these arms of the sea, are given from
  the opinions of fishermen in the neighbourhood, and cannot, therefore, be warranted
  as correct.  An accurate survey has since been made by Captain Thomas.


