
598                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

connected by birth or otherwise with this parish, we way parti-
cularize the following:-
   Sir James Elphinston of Barnton was a distinguished man in
the reign of James VI. He was successively a member of the
Bar, a Senator of the College of Justice, one of the Commission-
ers of the Treasury, Secretary of State, and was raised to the
peerage in 1604, under the title of Lord Balmerinoch.
   His son John, second Lord Balmerinoch, signalized himself by
a strenuous resistance to the attempts of Charles I. to uproot
Presbyterianism in Scotland, and at the hazard of his life this
nobleman was the steadfast patron and friend of the Covenanters.
He was chosen one of the assessors to the moderator of the Gene-
ral Assembly of 1643.
   Sir Thomas Hope of Granton, one of the ancestors of the
noble family of Hopetoun, was called to the bar at an early age,
and became first distinguished in 1606, by his defence of the mi-
nisters of the Church of Scotland, who were tried for high trea-
son, for acting in opposition to the arbitrary measures of King
James in his attempts to introduce Episcopacy into Scotland.
By this he obtained the first professional practice, and in a few
years acquired one of the largest fortunes ever made at the Scot-
tish bar. He was appointed his Majesty's Advocate, created a
baronet, and subsequently nominated Lord High Commissioner
to the General Assembly, which met at Edinburgh, 2d August
1643.*  Two years after, he was made one of the Commissioners.
for managing the Exchequer, and died in the following year,
1646.+  Two of his sons, Sir Alexander Hope of Granton, cup-
bearer to Charles I., and Sir James Hope of Hopetoun, Governor
of the Mint, and a Lord of Session, are both buried in the
church-yard of Cramond.++

<FOOTNOTE>See Douglas Peerage by Wood. The Commissioners from the Westminster As-
sembly of Divines sent to this Assembly to consult about religion, and church go-
vernment arrived at Edinburgh on 7th August 1643.-Cruikshanks' History of
Church of Scotland, Vol. i. Along with these were also Commissioners from the
English Parliament.-See Acts of General Assembly for 1643.
         His character is thus drawn by Artbur Johnson in his Epigram Ad Thomam
Hopaeum Advocatum regium.
              "Lyncea mens, lingua est tibi nectare dulcior omni,
                 Labe carens pectus, candidiusque nive,
               In vultu Charites, Spez eat in nomine, dotes
                Quas alii sparsas, tu simul unus habes."
   He is author of, (1.) Carmen Seculare in Serenissimu Carolum 1. Britanniarum
Monarcham. Edin. 1626. (2.) Psalmi Davidis et Canticum Solomonis Latino,
carmine redditum. (3.) Major Practicks. (4.) Minor Practicks. (5.) Parati-
tillo ex Universo, Juris Corpore. (6.) A Genealogrie of the Earls of Marr.
         A well-executed bust of Sir James is still on the wall of the church, with this
inscription: Sperando superavi-Vera effigics Dni. Jac. Hopaei Hoptoniae militis ce-
leberrimi, setat. sun 47. AD. MDCLXI.


