
                            ABERCROMBIE.                        343

Registers. - The earliest entry in our parochial registers is 16th
April 1597. It is very brief, and not very legible. It appears to re-
cord the settling of an account. Matters of discipline are often be-
fore the session, and the discipline extends to all manner of delin-
quencies. The first volume, commencing as just stated, ends in
1638; the second begins 1641, and ends 1660; the third begins
1664, and goes on to 1681. There is then a blank till 2d No-
vember 1689, when volume fourth begins with the ordination of
Mr Walter Wilson. From that time to the present day, the mi-
nutes of session have been kept regularly, and the cash-book carried
on along with them occasionally. This has been the case, indeed,
from August 1689, to August 27th 1789. From that date the
minutes have been kept distinct from cash concerns, there being a
current book for each. The first trace that I can perceive of a
marriage register is in 1684. There are only three entries of births
and baptisms before 1707. From that period there is a more
regular register of marriages and baptisms, and also of burials.
There is an beritors' book besides those strictly sessional, and all of
them during the late and present incumbency of session-clerk have
been kept with commendable accuracy.
Antiquities.-Our most noted antiquity is the church, which
will be afterwards adverted to. As to other antiquities, our report
must be almost wholly negative. The old ruinous maDsion-bouse
of Newark is an interesting object, but there is nothing peculiar in
its structure.
The situation is striking : Standing directly south.and north, its
southern gable has closely opposed to it a precipitous rock, which
rises high above the level of the sea, so that there is no passing
betwixt the wall and the precipice. The northern half has a roof
in tolerable repair. The ground storey is occupied by dark vaults.
The middle and upper storeys afford comfortable dwelling-houses
to the servants upon the farm of Newark. They did so at least
till of late. In the opposite extremity of the parish, nearly a mile
and a-half from the house of Newark, there is still to be seen the
old and ruined parish church of Abercrombie, abandoned as a
place of worship for 190 years. It stands in a sequestered and
romantic situation, nearly in the centre of the original burying-
ground, and close upon Sir Ralph Anstruther's enclosures and plan-
tations. It is the burying-place of the family of Balcaskie, and of
the minister of Abercrombie and family. A few families of the


