
     Statistical Account

The rivers Isla and Ericht, mentioned before, have their 
sources within a few miles of each other in the Grampian 
mountains, are well stored with trout of each other in the Grampian
some seasons a considerable quantity of salmon are found in
them.-The burn of Alyth originates among the mosses in the
upper part of the parish; it is soon increased by the addition
of some small streams.  Besides the advantage of it to the vil-
lage through part of which it runs, there are four corn and
two lint mills on it, tolerably well supplied with water in all
seasons.

<FOOTNOTE>

a temporary retreat in time of war, and well adapted for that purpose; as it
must in antient times have been reckoned almost impregnable.  The account
handed down that Bary-hill was the place where was confined Queen Vanora
or Guineva, the wise of the British king Arthur, who was taken prisoner in a
battle between the forces of that monarch and those of the Scots and Picts,
has so much the air of fiction, that it hardly deserves any credit
   In a ploughed field, on the S. side of Loyal, an artificial cavity has been
lately discovered.  It is the form of a ditch, about six foot deep, and four
broad, faced up on both sides with stone, and covered with large broad stones
on the top.  The tenant who occupies the ground uncovered part of it which
he found full of ashes.  Whether these are the ashes of sacrifices offered by our
ancestors to their deities, on of those warriors who may have fallen in the de-
sence or attack of the fortification on Barry-hill, to which it is contigious, is
matter of conjecture.  The extremities of this cavern have not yet been ex-
plored.
   On the N.side of the hill fo Alyth is the farm of Bahwhyme, which was
the living of a church-man before the reformation.  It was exchanged for the
lands of St. Ninians in the lower part of the parish, which belonged to a late.
The approbation of the Pope, and his charter of confirmation were thought
necessary to give validity to the exchange of a mailing which within these few
years did not produce above 100 Scotch in yearly rent.  A strong proof of
the very great influence has Holiness had at that time in the disposal of
church beaches.


