
830                      LANARKSHIRE.

ter is much prized in the Edinburgh market, and the butter and
cheese of this parish are not inferior to what are produced in any
part of Scotland, not excepting Cuninghame in Ayrshire, long so
famous for these necessary articles of food.  Dairy produce in a
wholesale way is generally sent to Edinburgh at the Hallow Fair
in November.
   Live-Stock.-The favourite breed of sheep here still continues
to the the black-faced.  Of the Cheviot, or white-faced, there are
82 scores upon Woodend in Wandell, and Beatlaws, in Lamming-
toune, nearly in equal proportions.  The black-faced are still es-
teemed as the most delicate mutton; but the white-faced lambs
come earlier into the shambles than those of the black-faced.  The
farm horses are generally of the powerful Clydesdale breed.  Ayr-
shire cows are almost the only ones sought after,  and due atten-
tion is paid to improving the stock.  ln some few instances we find
a cross between them and the Teeswater breed; -which are much
valued by some.
   Draining.-Though the general character of the land in this
parish is dry and kindly, still there are considerable tracts of it
that stand greatly in need of surface and other draining, such as a
large portion of the farms of Otterburns and Callands in Lam-
mingtoune; and of Wandell-Mill and Birnock, in the barony of
Wandell.  A good deal has of late been done to carry off the
water from the low-level holms on the Lammingtoune estate.
   Leases.-The leases of the larger farms in both baronies are ge-
verally for nineteen years.  The crofts, or plans, as they are term-
ed, let to the villagers, are only on leases of nine years; a term
much too short to encourage anything like improvement.  The
old terms of Whitsunday, the 26th of May, and of Martinmas, the
22d November, are still universally observed here, whether for
tenants entering upon leases, or for servants entering to, or leaving
their service in families.
   Fences.-Enclosures to any extent, or good purpose, were till
very, lately, but very partially known in this parish; and much in
many places has yet to be done in this respect, ere it can be said
generally to have fairly lost its naked and deserted appearance.
Such fences as are, consist almost exclusively of what are termed
Galloway stone dikes, which, however useful, are still exceeding-
ly ugly compared to thorn-hedges which give a soft and clothed
aspects to a country, especially when diversified by a due sprink-
ling of ash or elm, as in the hedgerows, along the high-roads and


