
          ISLAND OF SKYE-KILMUIR.                         271

ty years, the population has rapidly increased, although at various
times considerable numbers have emigrated to foreign lands.
Within that period, the country has frequently been visited with
scarcity; but it was so at four different times to such a degree of
severity' as to call forth public sympathy and aid. The general
scarcity of Bli...dhna na peasrach, or the pease-meal year of
1782, is not yet forgotten.  In the same manner, the hardships of
want were severely felt in  the years 1807 and 1817; but tb6 dis-
tress of those seasons was  trifling in comparison with that of 1836
and 1837, which will ever  be memorable in the annals of this and
other parishes. *
  It is impossible by any description to give an adequate idea of
the calamities of the late destitution. The spring of 1835 was
cold and inclement. Sowing was of necessity late, and, owing to
the moist state of the soil, a large portion of the seed never Vege-
tated.  Potatoes were planted, but, from an unaccountable disease
in that prolific and alimentary root, as well as from the coldness
of the soil, the greater part decayed in the ground. In harv est
the unripe fields were deluged with rain. The straw lost its sub-
stance. The grain remained unfilled, and the hopes of the bus-
bandman for the support of his family and cattle were simulta-.
neously blasted. For the spring of 1836 the people were ill pre-
pared. Their oats were damaged and scanty. Their potatoes
were few, and of the worst quality. The fields were with difficul-
ty tilled for the reception of seed, which gave but feeble hopes of
vegetation. In many places, tracts of lands were cultivated which
remained unsown. The cattle became emaciated on the sapless
straw. The season advanced with every appearance of fearful ro-
sults' The natives, so justly characterized by their sense of pride
and patience under the hardships of indigence,, were forced to ac-
knowledge their want of the.necessaries of life. Already the re-
sidence of the clergyman was daily frequented by groups of the,
helpless, as if he could procure immediate relieL The shores
were ransacked late and early, and at all hours, for sea-weed and
shell-fish, to afford a scanty repast. The fields were of unpro-
mising appearance, and, before they arrived at any thing like ma-
turity, October came in with its piercing frost, and destructive
storm of snow. Sad and distressing were the scenes of hardship

<FOOTNOTE>An essay by thewriter of this Account may be seen in No. 42 of Blackwood's
Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, in which the-causes which led to the destitution
of 1836 and 1837 are discussed at some length.


