
     Statistical Account

Its height, from the bottom of the ditch, may be 60 feet;
the depth of the ditch, below the surface of the adjacent 
ground, about 16 feet; and its breadth at the bottom 20
feet.  There is no history or tradition respecting this rem-
nant of antiquity*.  The most ancient building in the parish
still entire is the castle of Curgarff.  It is supposed to have
been built by some of the Earls of Marr for a hunting feat.
During the feuds between the Gordons and Forbesles, it
was burnt in 1571 by Adam Gordon of Auchindoun, or
some of his officers, and in it Alexander Forbes of Towie's
lady, Margaret Campbell, daughter to Campbell of Cal-
der, then big with child, together with her children and
servants, 27 in number, were cruelly burnt to death.  Ha-
ving been afterward rebuilt, it was purchased by Govern-
ment in 1746, from Mr Forbes of Skellater, and for seve-
ral years thereafter, 15 or 20 men were stationed in it; for
some years past, the garrison has consisted of 2 or 3 invalids.

   Miscellaneous Observations.- The women in this parish,
20 or 30 years ago, were chiefly employed in kniting
stockings; that species of manufactures has now given place
to spinning coarse lint, which is mostly brought for that pur-
pose, by our country shopkeepers, from manufactures in
Aberdeen and other places; for there is not much flax rai-

<FOOTNOTE>

*In some neighbouring parishes, there are eminences something like
this, but it is largest and most complete of any thing of the kind in
this country.  It is neighbourhood are to be seen, some inconsiderable
ruins of houses close by one another; at the same place, and also in another 
part of the parish, are what the country people call eird bouses.  These
are below ground, and some of them said to extend a great way.  The
sides of these subterraneous mansions are faced up with dry stones, to the
height of about 3 feet, they are between 3 and 4 feet wide, and covered a-
bove with large stones laid across.  They may have been, either receptacles
for plunder, or places of shelter from the inclemency of the weather, before
houses were built, or of concealment from an enemy.
  
   ,


