
                          FALKIRK.                            35

  There is at present no general Society for religious purposes.
The Established and the Dissenting churches, however, contribute
liberally for these objects, in connection with their own congre-
gations, or with the ecclesiastical bodies to which they respectively
belong.
  Education.--There are 25 schools in the parish, exclusive
of Grangemouth. They are attended by about 1200 children.
Two of these schools are parochial. In the one are taught
Latin, Greek, and French. The salary is L.17, with a dwelling-
house and garden; the school fees 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. per quar-
ter. In the other, are taught English, at 3s. 6d. per quarter;
writing and arithmetic, at 4s.; botany, geography, and animal
physiology, at 5s. 6d. Salary, L.34. In this departments, there
is great want of school accommodation; the room being only
eighteen feet square for 110 scholars. Some of the other schools
have small endowments. At Bonnybridge, the teacher has L.4
per annum, arising from L.100 left by a Mr Scott for that pur-
pose, about sixty years ago. He has also a school, dwelling-house,
and garden, rent free. At Craigburn, the teacher has L.10 an-
nually from Mr Forbes, besides a school and dwelling-house, rent
free. At Laurieston, the teacher has a school and dwellings
house, besides. L. 5, 5s. of yearly salary from the Earl of Zetland.
For the common branches of education, the fees are from 2s. 6d.
to 4s. per quarter. Where the higher branches, such as geography,
navigation, land-surveying, and mensuration are taught, the fees
are 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. per quarter. One of the schools in Fal-
kirk is for poor children exclusively., being usually attended by
eighty, who are educated gratis. On Sabbath evenings, the chil-
dren assemble for religious instruction. The teacher receives a
salary of L.40 per annum, which is made up of an annual evening
collection at the parish church; on which occasion, service is con-
ducted by a Churchman and a Dissenter alternately, and any de-
ficiency is supplied by private donations. It has existed since the
year 1812, and has been of great benefit to the place. The people,
in general, appear to be alive to the advantages of education; and
there are no parts of the parish so distant as to prevent attendance
at one or other of the schools.
   Literature.--There are in the town of Falkirk several public
libraries. The principal one, instituted in 1792, contains about
3000 volumes; a circulating library, 1200 volumes; and a, Relief
church library, 1000 volumes. A School of Arts commenced in
1827, in which there are weekly lectures during rho winter season.


