
     Statistical Account

manse was built much about the same time, and has often
been repaired at a great expence.  The Crown and the Marquis
of Lothian both gave presentations to each of the 4 last mini-
sters.  The living consists of 30 bolls of barley, 21 bolls 1 firlot
1 1/4 stone of oatmeal, Tiviotdale measure+, and 30 l. 2 s. 2 4/12 d.
Sterling in money*.  The glebe, measuring 12 English acres,
is worth about 14 l.  There are 2 church-yards, one at the
kirk, and one at Plenderleith, about 4 miles S. of it; where,
in all probability, there has been a residing vicar.  The mini-
ster has also the privilege of turf, alternately, from 3 stock
farms belonging to the Marquis of Lothian.  A considerable
proportion of the inhabitants of this parish are connected
with the dissenting meetings in Jedburgh.

   School-The schoolmaster's salary is 5 l. 11 s. 1 1/3 d., and he
has 4 l. 3 s. 4 d., interest of money mortified by Lady Yester,
for teaching poor children; 4 l. 15 s. for collecting poor's rates;
and, being clerk to the session and heritors, 4 d. for every re-
gistration and extract, and 1 s. 6 d. for each proclamation.  The
school is in general well attended.  The wages are, 1 s. per.
quarter for English, 1 s. 6 d. for English and writing, and 2 s.
6 d. for arithmetic.  The higher branches are taught by agree-
ment.  The above is the minimum legal salary of Scotland,
and the school wages are still the original appointment.  As
the value of money is now so much sunk, and as the wages of
all the other classes are greatly increased, an augmentation of the

<FOOTNOTE>

*The Tiviotdale boll of barley is 5 firlots, and of meal 16 stone.
+Besides the above stipend, the former ministers let in lease to the Duke
Ruxburgh, during their respective incumbencies, the vicarage tithes of three
flock farms, now let at 1000 l., for a grassum of 1000 l. Scotch, and an yearly
seu-duty of 100 l. Scotch.  His Grace, wishing to convert the grassum and rent
into an- yearly stipend, took no lease from the present incumbent; and, it being
a point of law, it is now depending before the Court of Session.


