
618
                               ARGYLESHIRE.

frequently shipped at Dunoon for Liverpool, where they arrive in
fiteen or eighteen hours.
   There are no manufactures of any kind conducted in the parish
   Navigation.-- Neither Dunoon nor Kilmun has hither to been
knows as a sbipping port. As an instance of parochial ,enterprise,
and  the first of its kind locally on record, it is not unworthy of
notice that this year a schooner of upwards.of 80 tons burthen
was built, rigged, and lauached at Dunoon, by Messrs Dugald,
Malcolm, and Daniel M'Larty of this place, and is now employed
in foreign trade, ranking as a first-class vessel at LIoyd's, appro-
priately named the Spokesman, the English signification of her
builders' surname. Under this bead top, though not strictly be-
longing to it way be noticed, that to obviate the inconvenience
of landing from steamers in open boats, a private joint-stock Com-
pany was entered into in the year 1835, for the object of erect-
ing a pier or jetty, at which steamers might touch at all states
of the tide. The object has thoroughly succeeded. The jetty
extends 130 yards from the shore into about 4 1/2 fathoms water,
and has seven feet water at its extremity at the lowest tide. A
pontage of one penny is levied on every passenger landing or
embarking, and proportional rates upon goods, furniture, &c.
Though requiring pretty extensive repairs annually, it is under-
stood to yield a good return for the capital invested. It is an im-
mense accommodation and benefit to the village and parish. A
more substantial quay, of solid masonry, has been erected by Mr
Napier at Kilmun, rendering the landing there easy and comfort-
able at every state of the tide.
  Associations.- There is an Association for the encouragement of
cottage gardening, established for the last five or six years.  It
is countenanced and encouraged by the landed gentlemen of
the neighbourhood,-annual exhibitions of flowers and veget-
ables are held; and the same Association also contemplates the
improvement of dairy produce and system of management. It has
bad already very beneficial effects, in promoting the neat appearance
of cottages in the village and neighbourhood. A Farmers' Society
has been also established for many years past, in the district of the
parish of Dunoon commonly termed, Nether Cowal, and embracing
a, portion of the neighbouring parish of Inverchaolain. Its object
is the relief of members fallen into indigent circumstances; and
with limited funds, it has been, on many occasions, found benefi-


