
252                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

and 1600 pints of butter-milk at Id.=L.6,13s.4d.-- L.16,13s.4d.
First-rate cows occasionally yield more than the above. The
produce of ordinary cows, with ordinary feeding, may be stated at
about L.12. The wives and daughters of our farmers are very
famous for their industry and skilful management of this depart-
ment: and on its success a great part of the rent depends.
     Hill Farms.--The cattle grazed on the Fells are almost all
West Highlanders; the sheep generally the black-faced breed
from Tweeddale. On the largest grazing farm in the parish the
usual number of livestock is, 700 sheep, 100 Highland cattle,
12 Ayrshire milk-cows, and 12 young beasts of the same breed,
and 12 horses, old and young. The extent of arable land in this
farm is 8O acres ; the pasturage has not been measured. On
another grazing farm of inferior quality, containing 815 acres,
whereof 28 are arable, the stock is usually 300 owes and lambs,
60 black cattle, 8 milk cows, 6 calves and queys, and 3 horses.
In some seasons the stock is greater. The rent charged for graz.
ing a cow is from L.2, 10s. to L.5, and a sheep from 7s. to 10s.
     Horses.-There are some good draught horses of the Clydes-
dale breed iii the district. of from L.30 to L.40 value; but by far
the greater number are of inferior mixed breeds, which sell at about
L.20 to L.25 a head.
     Farm Buildings and Enelosures.-The class of tenantry in this
district being what is styled working farmers, the size of the
farm and the capital -employed in them moderate, and the coin-
petition in consequence of the dense population and ready mar-
kets considerable, extreme personal activity is indispensable, and
the famer is contented with moderate accommodation. The
dwelling-houses commonly contain only the kitchen and two small
rooms, each having fixed beds, and these often so placed as not to
be. easily kept free from damp. There are a few instances of a
better and more comfortable description.
     The enclosures are chiefly thorn hedges, which thrive exceed-
ingly well when duly cleaned, cut and preserved, but they are by
no means well attended to and encouraged, except in a very few
instances. Many of the "cirickle dikes," which Mr Lapslie, in 1793,
censured as " totally incapable of keeping the soil warm," and as
giving " the parish a cold and., uncomfortable look," still remain,
or at least others in their stead do.
     Rate of Wages, &c.--These are the same as stated in the ac-
counts already published of other parishes near Glasgow.


