
                 URQUHART AND LOGGIE-WESTER.                 373

He was succeeded by Mr Alexander Falconer, admitted in 1729.
In character like was like his predecessor. After him was Mr
Donald Fraser, inducted in 1757.  He has been  represented as
a man of a vigorous and comprehensive mind, and of extensive
attainments. As a theologian he was reputed profound; and in
expounding the Scriptures few were considered his equals. The
late eminent Dr Fraser of Kirkhill, known in the theological
world by his " Key to the Prophecies, and Commentary on Isaiah,"
was a son of this clergyman. Mr Fraser died in  1773.  His suc-
cessor was Mr Charles Calder, who finished his ministry in 1812.
Of this eminent servant of Christ, it may be said, that perhaps
no minister ever reigned more in the hearts of his people.  As a
preacher he was solemn, earnest, and affectionate.  His discourses
were fraught with the theme of redeeming love, and were composed
in chaste and elegant language, evincing, in a high degree, a polish-
ed mind, and a classical taste. His ministrations were consequently
peculiarly attractive, and were attended with abundant success.
The heavenliness of his deportment rendered him an object of
reverence,-while his liberality to the poor,-his sympathy with the
distressed,-his kindness to the young,-and the fatherly interest
he took in the welfare of all, endeared him to his parishioners.
His name is fragrant among the religious community of these
bounds, and is embalmed in the memory of such of them as en
joyed his ministry, who still delight in repeating many a striking
passage of his sermons, which remain as it were stereotyped on
the tablets of their hearts.
   Land-owners.-The land-owners are, Mr Forbes of Culloden;
Sir James Wemyss Mackenzie of Scatwell; and Sir Francis A.
Mackenzie of Gairloch.
   The estate of Findon, forming the eastern portion of the parish,
is theproperty of Sir James. According to a survey made in 1835,
it consists of 4214 imperial acres, as follows:-
<TABLE>
                                  A.    R.   P.
         Arable,    -     -      1533   1   12
         Pasture,   -     -      2351   0   20
         Waste,       -     -     284   1   15
         Wood,        -     -      46   0    9
                       Total,    4214   3   16

The yearly rent is L.1766, Os. 9d. Sterling.  It id proper to ob-
serve, that considerable improvements are in progress on this pro-
perty-such as adding to tho arable, enclosing farms, and laying
out ground for planting.



