
292                    BANFFSHIRE.

surrounding waste land was let out in small portions to the feuars,
the whole in that neighbourhood has been reclaimed, and is now
in a state of cultivation. The locality has, therefore, more the cha-
racter and appearance of a colony of small crofters reLrularly set
down, than of a village.
   Means of Communication.-A stage-coach, which used to carry
the mail, passes from Banff to Peterbead daily, through the south
district of the parish, for upwards of seven miles. A foot post
goes on alternate days on the old coast road, the whole length of
the parish from Banff to Fraserburgh, through Aberdour and Pit-
sligo, going nne day and returning the other. A carrier also goes
regularly twice a week from Gardenstown to Banff, and another
carrier goes weekly between Aberdeen and Gardenstown.
    The Fraserburgh postman has no house for the delivery of his
letters in the parish, except at Maeduff.  An application is about
to be made for a post-office at Dubford, which the postman passes,
and where cross roads branch off in all directions ; and as there
is a considerable amount of correspondence connected with the
trade, fishing, and shipping in Gardenstown, as well as from the
interior, it is hoped the application will be successful, as the want
of a post-office is the greatest privation in the wayof communica-
tion that the parish has to endure.
   Ecclesiastical State.-It wppld be impossible for one church to
accommodate the whole of this parish, on account of its length and
population. To remedy this, a very neat and commodious church
was built at Macduff, by the late James Earl of Fife, and allow-
ed a small salary for the. minister.  It has been used as a Chapel
of Ease for many years, with the half of the parish attached to it,
as to population, and about one-third in regard to extent.
   The parish church now stands about the centre of the eastern
or Gamrie district, and is as convenient for the parishioners
as the very uneven natiire of the land and roads admits of. It was
btilt in the year 1830, is a very neat and comfortable place of
worship, and abundantly commodious for the congregation, being
seated for 1000 sitters, and copablˆ of holding considerably more.
Au excellent manse was built in the vicinity of the church for the
minister, with a suitable steading of offices.  The extent of the
glebe is about 13 acres, of wh icb about 10 or 11 are arable. The
value, is about L.13.  The amount of stipend is 16 1/2 chalders of
victual, Linlithgow measure, half barley and half oatmeal calcu-


