
                      ON THE COUNTY OF LANARK.                    949

   A still more important part of the mineral treasures of Clydes-
dale than its ironstone, is its coal, from which, indeed, the ironstone
principally derives its value.  The great coal-field which crosses
Scotland from Fife to Ayrshire passes through this county, hav-
ing a stretch of nearly thirty miles from Strathingo, near Glasgow,
in the north, to the parish of Douglas in the south.  Of this va-
luable mineral there is a considerable variety of kinds.  These and
their geological position are so distinctly and accurately described
by Naismith in his Agricultural Survey of Clydesdale, that I
need make no apology for borrowing his account of them : " A
number of these strata or seams lie above that which is generally
called, around the city of Glasgow, the upper coal, because it is
the first that is found worth digging to any extent.  This stratum
is composed entirely of what is called rough coal in Scotland, ex-
cept a small part near the middle of it, of the kind called splint.
2. About sixteen or seventeen fathoms under that lies the ell coal,
so called because it was first found of this thickness, but it is fre-
quently from four to six feet thick.  It is composed of two kinds,
called yolk and cherry coal, with sometimes a parting of splint and
sometimes not.  This is a fine caking coal, or what is called in
England a close-burning coal, and is much esteemed for the
blacksmith's forge.  3. At from ten to seventeen fathoms below the
last lies the seam called the main coal, from its possessing all the
good qualities found in any of the other strata.  It contains rough
coal, splint and parrot, or jet coal, and is preferred to all the others
as the most profitable.  Its thickness is from 3 1/2 to 9 feet.  Some-
times a thin bed of stone is found about the middle of the seam,
and the thickness is 10 feet.  4. About 13 or 14 fathoms lower
lies the humph coal.  It consists of yolk and rough coal, with a
thin parting of splint.  In some places it is without the splint and
unworkable, being much interlaced with these laminae of stone and
a kind of petrified black clay called blaise, black bituminous shale,
and slate clay.  5. Below the humpb coal lies the hard coal,
sometimes at fourteen fathoms distant.  It consists solely of splint
and parrot coal, and is found to be the best in the county for the
smelting of iron.  It is also very good for family use. 6. At a
fathom and a half lower is found the soft coal, from 30 inches to
6 feet thick.  It is composed of the rough, yolk, and cherry coal,
cakes much in burning, and is esteemed a good coal for the black-
smith's forge.  7. About 13 or 14 fathoms below this lies a coal,
called about Glasgow the sour-milk coal. As it burns slowly, and


