
             COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS,                        293

in the course of our experience, is it a precursor of turbulent stor-
my weather. A remarkably fine display of this meteor took place
in the month of October 1833. The whole heavens were covered
with its splendour, and a gale very shortly followed of unusual vio-
lence. The height in the atmosphere of this meteor has been
variously estimated, and it has been much controverted whether or
not sound has ever been heard to proceed from it. On this oc-
casion it may be worth remarking, that many respectable indivi-
duals in this neighbourhood are satisfied that they did hear such
sound, and we have heard the same from others in other districts.
   Hydrography.-The streams in the parish are numerous but
small, the largest being the river Eye, which flows through the
wilder part of the parish. Its banks are generally bare and unin-
teresting till it reaches the neighbourhood of Renton, in the pa-
rish of Coldingham, where it becomes both a larger and more or-
namental stream.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The geological features of the pa-
rish are in many respects highly interesting, principally from the
opportunities afforded in various places, but especially along the
coasts, of observing the succession and position of the different
strata and rock formations. Of these last there are two great
classes, the transition and secondary,-the former composing the
whole of the hilly part of the parish,-the latter being confined to
the lower division towards the west and north. The transition
rocks, so far as we have observed, are entirely the greywacke and
its accompaniment the greywacke slate; no trap or other suborn-
dinate rocks presenting themselves, and, so far as we have seen,
(and we have examined this part of our subject with some minute-
ness,) no vein, dike, or other extraneous mass occurring to derange
the strata. The greywacke is very distinctly stratified, the gene-
ral direction of the strata being from west to east; although in this
respect, as well as in the dip and inclination, there are great ir-
regularities. Of all the stratified rocks, indeed, there are none
more varied and irregular in these respects than the greywacke.
This is a remark which applies to all the transition districts of the
island, but to none, we believe, more than to the district now de-
scribed. Very frequently, perhaps we should say most frequently,
the strata are vertical or nearly so. * This position continues
for a considerable extent, when, all at once, they change to hori-

<FOOTNOTE>Such is their position at the Siccar Point, in the bed of the Pease Burn, in the
bed of the Tower Burn, in quarries on Ewieside, and other places.


