
162                    BERWICKSHIRE.

masonry stands on the Scots side, through which carriages enter up
on the platform of the bridge, which is made of wood plated with
iron, and which is connected with the principal chains by upright iron
rods. It is to be regretted that the nature of the ground on the Eng-
lish side did not admit of a similar arch being there erected, which
would have communicated to the whole structure greater symme-
try and beauty. The structure, however, is extremely light an
elegant, and highly creditable to the ingenuity and taste of Cap-
tain Brown. The whole expense was from L. 7000 to L. 8000.
As all the coals and lime used in this and the adjoining pa-
rishes are brought from the south of the Tweed, the passage of
carts by the bridge is considerable. In the summer season it is
much visited by strangers and generally admired. The most
commanding view of it is obtained from the English side, about
halfway up the hill on the road which leads from the bridge to
the village of Horncliffe. There, on a summer evening, the still
and pellucid waters of the silver Tweed, which assume here the
quietude and smoothness of a lake; the light and fragile form of
the bridge floating in the air, with its shadow reflected from the
stream beneath; the tasteful clumps of planting which adorn the
banks; the trees and woods of Paxton and Tweedhill, in all the
pride of vegetative luxuriance; and the fishermen in their boats
plying at their vocation on the unruffled waters,-present a scene
highly beautiful and imposing.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated on the north side
of the village of Hutton, and about a quarter of a mile south of the
Whitadder, which forms the northern boundary of the parish.
It has been placed rather too near the extremity of the parish.
The church was built in 1765. Originally it must have been
a mean structure, and, from the effects of time, it is now al-
most in a state of ruin. It is so damp that persons of delicate
health are prevented from attending it. It affords accommoda-
tion for 400 sitters. As there is now, however, the prospect of a
new church being built, larger accommodation will be provided,
and there is little doubt that the heritors will erect a structure of
some taste and beauty,-qualities much wanted in the parish
churches of this county,-most of them, with the exception of
Ladykirk, being very poor and shabby erections.
   The manse was built about forty years ago; and in 1822 con-
siderable repairs and an addition were made to it.-There are two
glebes, one in Hutton, the other in Fishwick parish. They amount
to about thirteen acres, and are worth about L. 30 per annum.


