
78                        FORFARSHIRE.

north to south, and in breadth 706 feet at the north, and 484 at
the south end. At the north-west corner there is a tower, still
entire, 24 feet square and 70 feet high, formerly used as the Re-
gality prison.  The ground-flat is now converted into a butchees
shop.  Another tower, somewhat smaller, stood at the south-west
corner of the inclosure; which, with the addition of a slated spire,
served for many years as a steeple to the present parish church.
Having become ruinous, it was taken down in 1830, and a remark-
ably handsome spire, 152 feet in height, has been erected in its
place. The main entry to the area was by a stately porch on the
north side. If it had not been that, a few years ago, the vaulting
was taken down under an apprehension of insecurity, this would
have been entire. For defence it appears to have been furnished
with a portcullis, which now forms the armorial bearings of the
town of Arbroath. There was another entry, but far inferior in
architectural display, at the south-east corner, known by the name
of the Darngate. A considerable portion of the north side of the
inclosure was occupied by the abbey church. The dimensions of
this building were,--legnth, 270 feet; length of transept, 132
feet; of the nave, 148 feet; and of the choir, 76 1/2 feet; breadth
of transept, 45 1/2 feet; of the central aisle, 35 feet; and of each
of the side aisles, 16 1/2 feet. From marks, visible on the walls, the
height from the pavement to the roof appears to have been 67
feet. The building is now in a state of ruin. All that remains
is the south wall, with part of the east and west ends. A por-
tion of the two western towers still exists in a very mutilated
condition. The great entrance at the west end of the church is
entire, with indications of a circular window above. A similar
window, on a smaller scale, is to be seen in the upper part of the
wall of the south transept. The other windows which remain are
in the early-pointed or lancet-shaped style. The pillars which
supported the roof of the church are all demolished; but their
foundations may be traced without difficulty. Adjoining to the
south transept, on the east, is a building, said to have been the
charter-house of the abbey. It consists of two vaulted apart-
ments, the one above the other, in a state of good repair. Imme-
diately in front of this, and of the south transept, appear to have
been the cloisters; and at a short distance from the south wall of
the nave, are the remains of the abbot's house, which is still inha-
bited as a private mansion. On the whole, the buildings, although,
                              4


