
                        BANCHORY-TERNAN.                         327

strongly, especially in summer, with the green and shady banks,
along which the Dee, bright as silver, is seen to glide.
  Meteorology.-The greater part of this parish having a south-
ern aspect, and being well protected on the north by the Hill of
Fare, and in other directions by lesser ridges, as well as generally
sheltered with abundance of wood, possesses a mild, and, on the
whole, salubrious climate. The mean height of the barometer for
1832 was 29.521 inches, and the mean temperature by the ther-
mometer 47.77&deg;. The hottest day was the 30th of June, 79&deg;,
wind so uth. The coldest the 28th of December, 20&deg;, wind north-
west. The temperature of springs and deep wells in the district
is 47&deg;.
  Hydrography.-In a few situations, springs are not abundant,
and many fail during summer, but in general they are both nume-
rous and sufficiently permanent. Good water may almost always
be found on digging to the rock. Two or three springs are slight-
ly chalybeate, but their temperature does not appear to differ
from the rest, nor is there any thing remarkable in their composi-
tion so far as known.
   Lakds.-The only loch in the parish is that already mentioned,
the loch of Leys. In a charter granted 1324, it is denominated
the loch of Banchory, and is described as having a ferry, an island,
and fishings; but at present the public road from the church to
Raemoir passes through the middle of the hollow in which it lies,
and probably in the direction of the ancient ferry. On descend-
ing to its basin, the greater extent of its former banks becomes ap-
parent. It must evidently have once formed a prominent,-and
while the ancient forest surrounded it, an itteresting-feature in
the landscape. In winter and wet seasons, the water sometimes
fills partially the whole bottom on both sides of the road; but in
summer, a small spot at the eastern extremity, scarcely 400 yards
square, and surrounded by a broad margin of tall aquatic plants-
(Phragmites communis, Scirpus lacustris, Equisetum limosum, &ce.)
-is all that is visible. Its banks are low, and mostly barren. The
soil occasionally covered by it is mossy, presenting tufts of bog-
myrtle and stunted willows. There still exists a small island near
its southern shore, which is said to be "artificial, founded on oak
piles," with the ruins of "ancient buildings and an oven" upon it
and to have "no traditions or notices which throw light on its
history." The artificial nature of this isl`nd seems questionable,
but the foundations, and even the plan of the buildings may be


