
   18				BANFFSHIRE.

   der Winchester, one of the baillies, 700 merks, whilk he bad as
   one of the collectors of the taxations and loan-silver of Banff; and
   siklike took frae him 400 merks of his own gear; and frae -----
   Shand in Down, they plundered some monies.  They caused their
   baillies (for Dr Douglas, their provost, had fled,) and townsmen,
   subscribe and swear the band, denying the last covenant, and ob-
   liging them to follow the king and his deputies in his service, as
   ye have before.  They took also frae George Geddes, another of
   the said four collectors, 500 merks of taxation and loan-silver ; and
   Gight keeped all the monies."
      The upshot of this transaction, so far as "Gight" was concern-
   ed, is told in the following words: from which we gather that the
   good laird's purposes had been sorely misinterpreted by a censo-
   rious world.  It is to be feared that even Baillie Winchester him-
   self may have been vexed with some ungenerous suspicions.
      "Now the parliament goes on against Sir George Gordon of
   Gight, and John Gordon, his brother, who was also had over with
   him to Edinburgh.  He is accused upon divers matters, but de-
   nies all; he is accused upon the plundering of Banff, whilk he de-
   nied, except some monies he received in borrowing upon promise of
   restitution.  It is referred to his oath; he depones conform, and
   subscribes his deposition ; they craftily summoned over witnesses
   out of Banff, to prove him perjured, and thereby guilty of death ;
   at last his process is continued to the 8th of January 1645, that
   the parliament should sit down, through whilk delay he escaped
   prison."
      In 1645 the Marquis of Montrose seems to have bethought
   himself of negotiating a loan among the capitalists of Banff--
   doubtless on the same sort of terms, as to interest and security, as
   erewhile in use with that eminent financier the laird of Gight.
      " Thereafter he marches to Banff, plunders the same pitifully,
   no merchant's goods nor gear left; they saw no man on the street
   but was stripped naked to the skin.  Some two or three worthless
   houses were burnt, but no blood shed, and so they left Banff."\f*
      The visitation of the laird of Gight and the other "brave gen-
   tlemen" seems to have been mere child's play to this.  There
   is yet extant a " humble supplication of the distresst burgh of
   Banff," made " Unto the Honourable and High Court of Parlia-
   ment," in 1647, and which " Humbly sheweth-- That for our zea-
   lous affection, adherence, and concurrence to the covenant, and

<FOOTNOTE>Spalding.


