
       136                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

       letting of large tracts of land to single individuals caused the ori-
       ginal banishment of the hardy and numerous race, who had for so
       many generations possessed the soil.  This class of emigrants did
       not quit their native shores empty-handed.  On the contrary, they
       carried with them the means of procuring a comfortable home be-
       yond the Atlantic.  The population which remained consisted of
       those who were too poor to follow, and of a few others, who, wil-
       ling to forego some advantages for the privilege of residing in their
       much loved native land, tried to content themselves with sadly re-
       duced possessions, until, finding that thus they were losing their all,
       and induced by the flattering tidings which reached them from the
       western continent, they too, though in different circumstances from
       their predecessors, bade farewell to a country, to which they had
       clung till they could do so no longer.  Of this description of in-
       habitants few (that is, not more than a dozen families,) are left be-
       hind; and of those, as they are able to effect their object, occa-
       sional families take their flight to what they consider a happier
       shore.  Besides the tacksmen of the large possessions into which
       the country has been divided,--four of whom possess Glenelg Pro-
       per, and about as many more the other districts,--besides them and
       the shepherds and servants whom they require, the population con-
       sists of those who dwell in villages near the sea;--divided into two
       classes,--such as possess from one acre, to perhaps six of arable
       ground, and the grazing of from one to three cows, and others who
       have nothing but the cottage that shelters them, who depend on
       the kindness of neighbours for patches of ground for potatoes, and
       supply all their other wants by fishing, and such work as they
       may obtain at home or abroad.  It is but fair to remark, that the
       banishment of the original population, and the throwing of the
       country into a few large possessions, took place long before the
       time of the present race of proprietors, so that, whether matter of
       regret or satisfaction, to them belongs neither the blame nor praise.
       Whatever the views of political economists on this interesting topic,
       as to the nation's loss or gain, it is impossible not to contemplate
       it in reference to those exiles themselves, and, in doing this, not
       to lament, especially, over the injury sustained by them in a
       moral point of view.  Amidst the plenty for their bodily support
       which they enjoy in America, they dwell there in a barren wil-
       derness as to provision for their souls.  Deprived of the ordinances
       of religion, or but scantily and occasionally supplied, deprived also
       of the means of instruction for their children, the many careless


