
                            CUPAR.                             19

mitments before trial were 91. The prison is sufficiently secure,
having been built upon the most secure plan within the last thirty
years; but the accommodation that it affords is uniformly con-
demned as most unwortby of the town and county. The lodging
is bad, and reckoned unhealthy,-there is no room for the classifica-
tion of criminals,-there is no chapel or place of worship attach-
ed; and consequently, any attempt to reclaim or improve those
that are once committed to it, becomes absolutely hopeless. The
most unpractised being lodged in the same cells with the most
hardened; instead of a penitentiary, the prison may be said to be
actually a school for confirming the one and ruining the other.
Though the government and superintendence by a jailor acting
under the Sheriff of the county and the Magistrates of the burgh
be good, yet the construction and the defective accommodation
destroy all their endeavours to soften or to reclaim its unhappy in-
mates.
   Fairs.-These are numerous, as already stated.
   Inns.-Inns and alehouses within the burgh amount to 49; the
number of alehouses in the country part of the parish amount to
4,-making a total of 53, besides several licenses granted to deal-
ers in spirits, who do not keep public-houses.
   Fuel.-The fuel uniformly used is coal, which is to be had in
great abundance from the southern and western parts of the county.
The distance being six or ten miles, it is, however, not remarkably
cheap. A railway would be of great service to the town, in furnish-
ing the means of having this very essential necessary brought and
laid down at a more reasonable rate. And as it is now in contem-
plation to open a railway through Fife, it is to be hoped that the
public will soon have the benefit. Cupar being nearly in the direct
line of communication between Edinburgh and Dundee, it is hoped
that the Royal Mail will be established to run by Cupar as soon as
some water piers are formed on each side of the Frith of Forth, and
which are now in contemplation.

               MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

   When Buchanan wrote his history, he described St Andrews
as "Fanum Andreae oppidulum memorabile propter bonarum ar-
tium studia," and Cupar as the town or oppidulurn "quo reliquis
Fifani ad jus accipiendum conveniunt." The characters thus given
to these towns they still retain. St Andrews is still the seat of
learning; and, the local courts, and the public records of the county
being all kept in Cupar, it is still the seat of the law and equity


