
<APPENDIX>

   1st, The only foul or rocky ground in the entrance of the Frith, lies to
the eastward of the Skerries.  A stranger, running for the Skerry light,
if it should happen to be obscured by mist or otherwise, may be a ground
on the rocks before he is aware of his danger.  2d, If the master of a ship,
with a clear night, should run to maket he Skerry light, and makes the
light, bearing W. N. W. by the compass 3 leagues or 9 miles distant, and
the tide of ebb running, if the ship should happen to be becalmed, she runs
a great risk of being carried on the Skerry, or the rocky ground adjacent.
by the velocity of the tide, which runs 9 knots or 9 miles an hour in spring-
tides.  3d. Amitting that the above mentioned ship should get clean of the
rocky ground with the tide of ebb, and is carried by it as far as the N. E.
point of the island of Swinna, if she happens to meet the tide of stood, the
calm continuing, she must inevitably be hawled on the Skerries, as the tide
runs exactly in that direction.
   More objections might be pointed out against placing a light house on
the Skerry.  But as I have been already tedious, I shall now go on to make
my remarks on the great advantages that shipping must derive, by having a
light house on Duncansbay Head, as follows:
   1st, Noss Head, on the coast of Carthness, has such a near resemblance of
Duncansbay Head, that shipmasters, standing in for the land, particularly in
evenings, or in foggy weather, have been so fatally deceived, that after pas-
sing Noss Head, they have altered their course, and, supposing themselves
to be in the Pentland Frith, have never discovered their mistake, until they
have found themselves imbayed or fast a-ground in the Bay of Keess, call-
ed by sailors Sinclair's Bay.  This capital mistake would be effectually re-
moved, by a light on Duncansbay Head, which bears by the compass
N. E. by N from Noss Head about 11 miles distant.  2d, Duncansbay
Head is hold and clean.  No out-lying rocks on the coast.  If the light
should be obscured by fog or otherwise, if a shipmaster should be within a
cable's length of the light before he perceives it, he is in no danger if it
should prove little wind and an ebb tide, it will carry the ship in the proper
fair way betwixt Stroma and Swinna; and if the ship be caught with the
tide of stood, while becalmed, there will be no danger of the ship being
carried by the velocity of the tide on the Skerries, or any rocky ground
whatever.  3d, A shipmaster, making the light on Duncansbay Head with
a clear night, 10, 6, or 4 miles distant, but finds the tide of ebb running,
and is unwilling to be carried through the Pentland Frith in the night-
time, he has it in his power to keep the ship in slack tide, by standing into
the shore, until he brings the light to hear N. N. E. and off, till it bears
N. N. W.  The wind must be supposed to be from the south and west


