
   214                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

   former times much frequented by great shoals of herrings but it's
   lochs are now almost entirely deserted by that useful fish.
      Produce.--The average amount of raw produce raised in this
   parish cannot with any degree of accuracy be asceertained as the
   most part of the lands (as already stated) is let in small lots to
   tenants who require the whole crop they raise for their own con-
   sumption.
      Kelp.--The only manufacture now carried on in this parish
   is that of kelp, in which all hands, young and old, are employed
   for about eight or nine weeks, at L.1, 15s. or L.2 per ton, but for
   which they formerly received L. 4, 4s. per ton. Kelp, which on
   former occasions, sold at from L.16 to L.20 per ton, is now re-
   duced to L.2, 10s. or L.4 per ton at market, from barilla and
   salt being used as substitutes for it.
      There are only four vessels belonging to this place, there being
   little or no trade to employ more.
	              V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Market-Town.--Tere is no market-town in the parish. The
   nearest to this is Tobermory, in the county of Argyle, distant fifty
   miles by sea.
      Means of Communication.--The only means of communication
   by post with Barray is by Dunvegan, in the Isle of Skye, where
   the nearest post-office is established. There is, however, a re-
   ceiving-house at Lochmaddy, from whence the packet sails to
   Dunvegan once or twice a week. A letter from this must of
   course pass by the ferry from Barray to South Uist, through the
   whole length of South and North Uist to Lochmaddy receiving-
   house, and from thence by the packet to Dunvegan Post- Office, a
   distance by sea and land, including ferries, of not less than 100 miles.
   The Commissioners for Lights employ a small vessel from Barray-
   Head Lighthouse, to sail to Tobermory once a month with the
   monthly returns, as a quicker conveyance than by Dunvegan.
   The country boats, too; ply at all seasons of the year to Glasgow
   with fish and such other articles as the country produces; so that
   the communication with the mainland is pretty frequent.
      The harbours in Barray (as already stated are extremely oom-
   modious and safe which should be a great inducement to the
   prosecution of the fishing upon a more extensive scale than has
   been hitherto attempted.
      Ecclesiastical State.--The parochial church, which was built
   only a few years ago, is situated in the very centre of the parish,


