
4                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

called Theodosia.  This has been disputed, and the mouth of Loch-
lomond, and Dunglass, in the parish of West Kilpatrick, about two
miles higher up the river than Dumbarton, have both been thought
to be the situation.  It is said that, about two hundred and forty
years ago, several remains were found, which evidently showed that
the Romans had been masters of the place.  On the western peak
of the castle rock, there stands a circular heap of stones strongly
built together, which is supposed to have been the base of a pharos
or watch-tower.
   The parish, generally, occupies no great space in the page of
history; but the castle, from its great strength in former times,
and from the strennous efforts always made to obtain possession of
it, is sometimes made mention of.  It became a royal fortress at
an early period.  In 1238, Alexander II. granted a charter to
the Earl of Lennox, confirming him in the possession of his earl-
dom; but excepting the castle and certain lands, &c. in the neigh-
bourhood, which had been possessed by his father. The castle
was delivered over to Edward I. at the commencement of the com-
petition for the crown, and was shortly afterwards put into the
hands of John Baliol.  Sir John de Menteith, the betrayer of
Wallace, was made governor by Edward.  Sir John governed the
fort till 1309, when Robert Bruce obtained possession of it by
stratagem. We are not informed of the way in which it was taken;
but Mr Chalmers mentions that one "Oliver, a carpenter," con-
trived the affair, and that he was afterwards rewarded by a grant
of some lands.  For a long series of years after, the castle fell
into many different hands.
   The castle was formally annexed to the crown in 1485 by the
act of Parliament, II James II. cap. 41. The statute bears, "Item,
the Castell of Dumbertane, with the landes of Cardrosse, Ros-
neth,"&c.
   The history of the castle is of little importance till the time of
Queen Mary.  In the early part of her reign, the fort was possessed
by the rebel Earl of Lennox; but afterwards possession was ob-
tained by the Royalists.  After the unfortunate Queen was de-
throned, the castle was still held for her by a faithful adherent-
Lord Fleming.  It soon however fell into the power oft he Regent.
In the month of May 1571, on a dark and stormy night, one Cap-
tain Thomas Crawford, with a few soldiers under his command,
succeeded in taking it by scaling the walls, Hamilton, the Arch-

<FOOTNOTE>Chart. Lennox.     Caledonia, Vol. iii. page 873.
                                      3


