
126                        ELGINSHIRE.

it falls into the Spey at Belentomb of Inverallan. Though in ge-
neral but a small stream, it frequently happens that, when swollen
with heavy rains, or the melting of the snow on the adjacent hills,
it does considerable damage to the corn and grass fields near its
banks.
   It is evident, that the whole surface of this country, at some re-
mote period, had been covered with a dense forest, In cutting
peats, or in digging for the roots of fir trees in the deep mosses, it
is no unusual thing to meet with two or three roots piled one above
another, as if, phoenix-like, the one grow out of the ashes of its
predecessors. It is equally evident, from the many remains of
wolf-traps that are to be met vith in the different passes through-
out the hills, that wolves had been at one time numerous. So dar-
ing were they, when impelled by hunger, that there are instances
on record, of their having left their natives haunts, to levy black-
mail from among the live-stock of the inhabitants.
   A short time previous to their extirpation from this district, a
woman that resided on the farm of Lochanhully (about a mile to
the westward of the church), and had been returning from a neigh-
bour's house with a gridiron or girdle in her hand, was met by a
huge animal of this kind in a narrow lane near her own house. To
return would have been inevitable destruction, and to proceed, her
ferocious enemy signified, by his growling accents, that she dare not.
They thus, for a few moments, stood gazing at one another, when the
animal sprung upon its prey; but, as he was in the act of seizing her,
she, by a well-directed stroke of the edge of the gridiron, cleft his
head in two, and laid him lifeless at her feet. In commemoration
of this feat, the lane is called Clais a Mhadidh-the cur's hollow
or lane.
   About the beginning of the last century, the forest of Dut-
hil or Dulnanside was destroyed by fire. The few wolves that
escaped the dreadful conflagration, found a miserable shelter
among a small clump of trees that by some means escaped the ge-
neral conflagration. In this last covert, they were not long permitted
to remain unmolested. The people rose en masse and destroyed
them, with the exception of an overgrown animal that escap-
ed the general carnage, by fleeing across the hills to the east-
ern part of the parish of Moy. It had not been long in that
district, when the inhabitants had a fearful warning of its be-
ing among them, by its killing a woman and her infant child. As
soon as the laird of Mackintosh heard of this melancholy even, he


