
                            FLISK.                         597

1833, is 1 1/4 mile in breadth. At Flisk-point, three miles far
ther down, and just below the church, it is 2 miles broad; and at
the eastern extremity, 2 1/2., At low-water, extensive sand-banks
are left dry the Perthshire side; and the freshwater current,
which here keeps by this side of the estuary, then confines itself
to a channel of about one-third of a mile. The beach is clayey,
and it is fenced with a bed of shingle left by the tide. Several
dikes have been projected into the river, that the intermediate
spaces might silt up; but bitherto without effect.
   There are many excellent springs in the parish. In several, in
different localities, Fahrenheit's thermometer stood at 43&deg; on the
15th of May; and at 46&deg;, 47&deg; on,the 30th of June 1837.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The upper series of rocks consists
chiefly of secondary trap. It is cut by a vein of clinkstone por-
phyry. Old red sandstone appears by the river, under Flisk Wood.
The greenstone dike, known by the name of the Flisk-dike, passes
through Glenduckie Hill, in its course from Newburgh to Norman's
Law. Agates and also pieces of bloodstone are found in consider-
able numbers. Diluvium covers the rocky substratum between
the river and the hilly range.
   A submarine forest of ton miles in length, and similar to those
of Skaill in Orkney, of Lincolnshire, and of Mount's Bay in Corn-
wall, lies along the margin of the Tay, stretching from Flisk-point
under the manse, about three miles upwards and seven down
the river. It is covered at full tide with four or five feet of water.
It consists of a bed of peat-moss, and has no alluvial stratum su-
perinduced. Many stumps of trees with their roots attached, and
manifestly in the place and position in which they originally, whose
have been observed. It rests on a bed of gray coloured clay whose
surface, with slight variations, is horizontal, and on a level with
low water-mark.
   It seems pretty certain that this moss must be at least ten feet
below its original level. In explanation of the phenomenon D#
Fleming, in his paper on the subject in the Transactions of the
Royal Society of Edinburgh for 1822, supposes the former exist-
ence of a lake in this locality-that it gradually filled up, and-be-
came covered with vegetable matter, till it suffices for the growth
of tress-that the seaward barrier was then removed-and that,
the moisture now freely escaping, subsidence in consequence took
place, and reduced it to its present level.
   Soils.-The soil is, in general, a clayey loam. On the lower



