
     Statistical Account

useful an office.  School fees 1 s. 6 d. a quarter for reading,
2 s. for writing, 2 s. 6 d. for arithmetic, 3 s. for Latin, which
is seldom taught here*.

   Character.-The people, a few excepted, are sober, indus-
trious, sensible, discreet, and peaceable, of as little supersti-
tion and as much religion as their neighbours.  They have
been long distinguished for their regular and decent atten-
dance on public worship, and have not yet forfeited the praise

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are no antiquities in the parish, unless the remains
of two old towers and some cairns on the tops of hills, may be
reckoned such.  One of the towers called Killerny, part of
which is yet standing, seems to have been pretty large.  It con-
sisted of two parts, called the N. and S. built at different times.
The date of the S. or newest part, which consisted chiefly of
one large room, all arched and very high, was 1592.  That of
the other, which probably was a cell or hermitage, is unknown.
The estate on which it stands is said to have belonged formerly
to one Scot of Balneiry; and some fabulous stories are told about
the murder of his lady and child, by the undertaker whom the
employed to build the S. part for a summer-house, but did not
pay according to paction.  As a punishment for his crime, he is
said to have been confined in a part of the tower called the pri-
son, and fed on his own flesh till he died.  Some of the inhabi-
tants have a song which celebrates these supposed tragical events,
but its merit is not such as to entitle it to a place in the Statis-
tical Account of Scotland.  There is neither record nor oral tra-
dition as to the date or founder of the other tower called the Kirk-
land tower, part of which still remains.  It stands very near the
church, on part of the lands formerly belonging to the bishop
at Dunkeld, which still bear the name of the Kirklands, now be-
longing to Sir William Erskine of Torrie.  It can hardly be
doubted, were the matter to be investigated, but the glebe,
which is said to be less than the law allows, would be entitled
to an addition from these lands.  The remains of two camps, as
they are called, are still to be seen, one on Saline hill, another
on the low grounds; the last is said to have been Roman.  They
are both of a circular figure, and probably were originally sheep
or cattle folds, built with some strength and art, in times when
rapine and plunder were the means of subsistance.


