
     of Clyne.

many years, which was of unspeakable advantage to all the
inhabitants of that district of the parish.  And the parish now
wants a benefit, that the people stand much in need of, va-
lue much, and would do any thing in their power to obtain.

   Appearance of the Country, etc.-Loch Brora is a beautiful
sheet of water, extending in length 4 measured miles, and
near a mile in breadth.  At two different places it is so contrac-
ted as to exhibit the appearance of three lochs.  It abounds
with salmon, jar, and other trout of different kinds, Near
it on both sides are losty mountains, at the feet of which are
some beautiful villages, and several kinds of natural wood,
chiefly belonging to Gordon of Carrall.  The woods make a
very picturesque appearance both in summer and winter*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Antiquities.-There is a super-structure of dry stone work,
which bears the resemblance of an ancient work, and forms an
island in the middle of the loch, at a considerable distance from
the shore, surrounded by deep water.  Tradition relates, that the
island is artificially constructed, on an immense collection of
stones brought there, so well selected and wrought, that it must
have been a place of great security before the invention of fire
arms.  The figure of the island is an oblong square, consisting
of two inferior squares of 70 feet diameter.  It was divided into
two parts; one half appropriated for lodgings in time of war;
the other half laid out for the advantage of a garden.  The walls
are still pretty high, and ascend perpendicularly from the sur-
face of the water, without a vestige of the island behind them,
and are only accessible by two stairs which fronted the S. and E.;
so that with plenty of stores and the fishing of the loch, abound-
ing with salmon, trout, and eel, the place was rendered impregna-
ble when properly defended.  Among many reports of the good
purposes of this island, there is one traditionary story repeated
with pleasure by the inhabitants to this day.  They tell that, on
a certain occasion, the neighbourhood was suddenly invaded by
a numerous army of Caithness men, which they were not pre-
pared to resist.  Upon this occasion they sled to the island for an
asylum, where they were secure from the assaults of the enemy.
Upon this, the invaders were so enraged, that they attempted
daming up the narrow mouth of the loch, at which the river


