
                         CUMBRAY.                             79

carried on to a very considerable extent, and with considerable va-
riety, both in plain and in fancy work.  Upwards of 60 hands are
employed in this branch of manufacture.
   Means of Communication.--We have no regular post-office, only
a receiving-house connected with the post-office at Largs, which is
the nearest post-town.  There is no regularly constructed road in
the parish, excepting one which extends from where the old church
once stood, to the ferry, opposite to Largs, a distance of nearly three
miles.  This road passes through the village of Milport, and is
kept in good repair.  Formerly, the only regular communication
between this and the mainland was carried on solely by this road,
which was both inconvenient and precarious, but now, in conse-
quence of the more easy and more safe conveyance by steam-boats,
the communication is direct from the village, which saves all the
trouble and expense of carting for upwards of two miles.
  Ecclesiastical State.--For several hundred years, the parish church
was situated at a place called Kirktown, the only village of note
then in the islands, and about one-half mile from the place where
the present town of Milport now stands, and where the great body
of inhabitants reside.  Kirktown, however, has long age entirely
disappeared, excepting one single farm-house, which still bears its
name.  The parish church was rebuilt there in 1802, and contain-
ed 380 sittings, which, although sufficiently large at the time of
its erection, was latterly found to be by far too small for tbe in-
creased population of the parish; accordingly, a petition was pre-
sented to the heritors; praying them to enlarge the church accom-
modation.  To this request, the heritors, very much to their
honour, at once acceded; and in 1837, they built a more
commodious and elegant church, containing upwards of 750  sit-
tings, and ornamented in front with a very handsome tower.  In
compliance with the wishes of the people, they have placed it on
the rising ground immediately behind the town, where it serves at
once to ornament the place, and accommodate the people.  Thus,
in somewhat less than forty years, the heritors of Cumbray have,
of their own accord, twice rebuilt the parish church, thereby ma-
nifesting, in the clearest manner, their attachment to the church,
and their friendly regard for the best interests of the people.
   Most of the seats in the present church are lot, but at very
small sums, averaging only from in 1s. to 2s. each sitting.  The
manse was built in 1832, and is of the best order.  The glebe con-
sists of about 6 acres, is fit only for pasture, and may be worth


