
310                           AYRSHIRE.

	Meteorology.--Nothing can be said, in the absence of all regular
and registered observations, of the positive temperature and pressure
of the atmosphere. Without doubt it partakes of the greater cold-
ness of elevated regions, and is more variable than in lower districts,
but no peculiar influence of it can be discovered in the distempers,
that occur. The inhabitants are hardy, healthy, and long-lived.
It is now but a tradition that the climate was once very unhealthy,
especially to children. This was charged upon a piece of marshy
ground in the neighbourhood of the village. Whether the cause
of this traditionary unhealthiness may bave been to be found in
the marsh, and its removal in the partial draining of it, I shall
not take it upon me to determine, but certain it is the diseases
of children are now very rare. Croup, that enemy said to have
scourged them, is seldom seen. There is not a single distemper
peculiar to the district, or referable to the climate. There is
occasionally a case of rheumatism, but even rheumatism, notwith-
standing of the elevated situation, and the almost constant expo-
sure of many of the inhabitants, is not at all prevalent. The visits
of epidemics are few and short. The estimated time of the return
of measles, small-pox, &c. is from seven to ten years.
	Hydrography.--The springs in the parish are all perennial.
Their temperature varies little from that of the atmosphere. They
flow chiefly from beds of sand and gravel, and are pure. There
are a few chalybeate springs in the neighbourhood.
	There is a small loch, named Loch Muck, scarce a mile from
the south-east boundary of the parish. Its waters are dark, and
of considerable depth. Its form is that of a crescent, and its ex-
tent between twenty and thirty acres. It lies in the middle of a
heathy muir, and abounds in black trout. Another sheet of
water, about double the extent, has received the name of the
Bogton Loch. It is formed by the spreading out of the Doon,
over a piece of low land, about two miles below its source. It is
fertile in reeds, and forms a favourite haunt of the water-fowl.
	The only river worth notice is the far-famed Doon,--all others
are but little streams, although ocasionally in winter they ap-
proach the river size. The Doon, which separates the dis-
tricts of Kyle and Carrick, flows out of the loch of the same
name. Its exit from the loch is by two tunnels cut out of the
solid rock, and protected by sluices, by which the discharge of
water is regulated. Its direction during its course along the
bounds of this parish is north-west. Its whole length may be 18


