
			RICCARTON.			    607

drying of grain, malt, and for similar purposes. Its geological
position is the lowest of all the coal strata, at least so far as has
yet been ascertained; for though coal has been searched fort in
the neighbourhood fully 45 fathoms below it, yet none has been
found, though appearances are favourable. The direction of
the dip of the coal strata is towards the south or south-east. The
depth here varies from 40 fathoms till it crops out at the surface.
The blind coal is employed in the neighbourhood, but only in
small quantities, for the burning of lime. It is chiefly exported to
Ireland, and that in very large quantities for the uses above spe-
cified. It is carried for exportation to Tronn from the Ca-
prington coal-works by a railway, and from the other works by carts
either to Ayr or Irvine. Being scarce, it is much higher in price
than the common fire coal, selling at present at the pit mouth for
7s. 6d. per imperial ton. Were it in this quarter employed, in the
smelting of metals, for which it is so well adapted, by its contain-
ing so little volatile matter, and for which it is so much, and, so
sucessfully, used in different parts of England and Wales,--its
value would be much increased. Its beating properties have been
found by experiment to be fully more than double those of the com-
mon bituminous coal. From an idea that it contains much sulphu-
rous matter in its composition, it is not used as ordinary fuel.--The
freestone found in the parish is very good, and is both of a red and
of a yellowish colour. The limestone worked in the parish is, rec-
koned of superior quality, and is sold in great quantities, both for
the purposes of building and agriculture. There are only two lime-
works in the parish. In the limestone quarry, on the estate of
Knockmarloch, are to be found many interesting petrifactions, both
of vegetable and animal productions, as ferns, branches of trees,
shells both univalve and bivalve. The quarry is situated on the
north side of the Craigie hills, at an elevation of nearly 500 feet.
From the excellent quality of the clay met with on different estates,
the bricks and tiles made in the parish are in much repute. No
ironstone has as yet been wrought here, but there can be no doubt
of its existence. The rocks are all of the secondary and alluvial
classes.
			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Village of Riccarton.--The village is of considerable antiquity;
but it is not above seventy years since it became of any size,--
when the greatest part was feued  from the Earl of Marchmont, hus-
band of the hieree of Cessnock, to whom the adjoining lands ho-


