
     542            GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

junction, the newer strata are much inclined, but they ap.
proach nearer to the horizontal position as they recede from
the red sandstone." This is a precious disclosure, and such
as very seldom occurs to gratify the inquisitive researches of the
geological inquirer.  In connexion with this district, but com-
pletely at the opposite side of its coal measures, in the south-east,
we find the independent coal formation lying often in the hollows
of what the Wernerians term the transition rocks, as at Sanquhar
and Chapel-hill near Moffat, and in various places besides. Ad-
hering still in our inquiries to the foundation rocks in Lanark-
shire, we may state that the old red sandstone is cut off from im-
mediate apparent contact with the coal fields, by immense ridges
of porphyry, which run from the Clyde at Carfin through Lesma-
hagow to Auchrobert.  This porphyry and the old red sandstone
often come into contact and even alternate.  This renders it ex-
tremely difficult to observe the point of contact between the lower
members of the coal measures and the old red sandstone.  In
Renfrewshire, there is an immense interval between the bottom of
the coal measures and the old red sandstone, and this interval is
entirely filled up by igneous rocks of various sorts.  The porphyry
here chiefly forms the highest hills, such as Misty Law, Hill of
Staike, and Queenside Hill.  The outskirt of the porphyry here
is much intersected by dikes of greenstone, and is occasionally
also intersected by veins of the sulphate of barytet, as in Lanark-
shire.  The porphyry and whin, as connected with and cutting off
the coal measures from the old red sandstone here, have their
counterparts very strikingly developed in the county of Lanark.
These preliminaries being settled and set aside, we now come to
the coal measures.  With regard to the coalfield of Renfrewshire,
there can be no doubt but that it forms the lowest member or mem-
bers of the great coal field stretching between the old red sandstone
at Lanark and Douglas, and the old red sandstone with its barrier
of porphyry along the Fritb of the Clyde in Renfrew. In this wide
compass there are two distinct coal fields, the one lying on the top of
the other. The higher coalfields has for its basis tbe first band of lime-
stone rock.  The lower coal is that which alternates with numerous
bands of limestone, till both limestone and coal are found lying on
the transition or older rocks.  The upper coal is confined entire-
ly to Lanarkshire, or if it enters Renfrewshire at all, it is for a
short distance about Cathcart and Langside, or with an apex near
to Strabungd.  The Lanarkshire coal-field to the south, and that


