
66                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

poor." If absent heritors do not contribute their parts in aiding
the parish funds, and if voluntary contributions are not generally
and liberally supported, some legal assessment, it is feared, must
soon become more general.
        Alehouses.-We have four alehouses, where spirits are sold.
The half of the number would be sufficient; but it is right to ad-
mit, that the houses are kept in an orderly manner.
        Fuel.-The fuel generally used is pent and coals; the latter
are brought from the collieries at Sanquhar, Kirkconnel, and Mans-
field, and also more frequently from the coal-vessels at Dumfries,
which import them in large quantities froin the coast of Cumber-
land.

                     MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	A very general change has taken place in the condition and
aspect of this parish within these last forty years. Property has
been much divided, and the purchasers of the divisions have been
emulously diligent in improving them. New and neat villas have
arisen on every side; polished farms and thriving plantations adorn
the prospect; and the eye is delighted with the most tasteful forms
of sylvan decoration, and with all the signs of a highly improved
style of rural economy.
	 A survey was made by Mr Smeaton, as far back as 1754, for a
canal to commence at the Frith of Solway, and to terminate at the
lower end of this parish; and a railway was projected by an able
engineer, to stretch from Sanquhar to the middle, at least, of KirK-
mahoe. These and such like plans, if executed, no doubt would
be attended with great advantage not only to this, but also to the
neighbouring parishes. A distillery on a judicious and loderate
scale has lately been erected at Glencarrick in this parish, above.
Duncow, and near Whitehall, on the banks of the romantic rivu-
let, already noticed as remarkable for its rocky recesses and tiny
Niagaras, and is in full and prosperous operation. It furnishes
a convenient market for our farm produce and that of the neigh-
bourhood, and also generates a very nutritive and agreeable kind
of food for fattening cattle.

	January 1834


