
     of Spynie.

lake; and near to it, where the water is deepest, a small ar-
tificial island emerged, upon clearing out the canal, of an
oval form, about 60 by 16 paces, appearing to be composed
of stones from the quarry, bound together by crooked branches
of oak, and as if the earth, with which it was completed,
had been wholly washed off during its submersion.  The
palace itself was a magnificent and spacious building, round
a square court, having the gate on the east side, and fortified
by towers at the corners, and a dry ditch on the west and
south, containing lofty halls, deep vaults, a chapel, stables,
and other offices*.  The remains of paintings, on a part of

     VOL. X. 4 R

<FOOTNOTE>

*Spynie Palace has been so often described by antiquarians,
that it would be useless to recapitulate the subject at large.  It may,
however, be observed, that although there is no certainty when
the palace was first founded, yet the bishopric was erected by
MALCOLM CANMORE, anno 1057: and we are authorised to say,
that GREGORY was appointed bishop here, in the year 1107, by
the Cartulary of Drumserling, when King WILLIAM confirmed to
that monastery the cell of Urquhart, in this neighbourhood, and
renewed the privileges and gifts to this abbacy, made by MAL-
COLM, and the worthy ST. MARGARET his wife.  King JAMES
II. anno 1450, by his charter in the public records, refers also to
the gifts made by that King's successors, DUNCAN, EDGAR, ETHEL-
RED his brother, ALEXANDER, and SYBILLA his Queen, DAVID,
MALCOLM, WILLIAM, and ROBERT BRUCE, successively.  Hence
we may infer, that the same King Malcolm Canmore erected this
diocese, at this period, and the bishops occupied the church as a ca-
thedral; and made their residence here, as well as at Birnie and
King-edward, where they lived in Castles, which are still remain-
ing in ruins.  This church continued to be the domicil of the
bishop till the Revolution: It stood where the cathedral was esta-
blished, till the year 1224; when King ALEXANDER II's man-
date authorised its translation to Elgin.  It is dated the 10th year of
his reign, and the deed is granted, Apud Muskylir quinto die
Fulii  The cathedral of Elgin was founded by ANDREW MUR-
RAY, son of William Murray of Duffus.  The Murrays of
Duffus had the lands of Kintrae and Leggat, in this parish, from
King DAVID I. along with the great estate of Duffus and Og-
ston.  Of this great family are descended the Sutherlands,
the Douglases, and the Murrays, in the south.


