
                                  CRIEFF.                              499

       tion and the new addition, and the whole is, as nearly as possible,
       a fac-simile of the old.
         The superiority of the town is now vested in the three proprie-
       tors, the Right Honourable Lord; Willoughby de Eresby; Anthony
       Murray, Esq. of Crieff and Dollerie; and Alexander M'Laurin,
       Esq. of the Broich, who hold of the Brown, and who respectively
       appoint baron bailies to exercise all that remains of the ancient
       feudal jurisdiction.
          From time immemorial, previous to the year 1770, Crieff was
       the great mart for the sale of black-cattle in the north of Scotland
       The dealers from all parts of Britain were regularly accustomed to
       attend it.  And it is stated in the former Statistical Account, that
       the "old people used then to speak with deep regret of the glo-
       rious scene which was displayed to view, when 30,000 black cat-
       tle overspread the whole adjacent country." But at the period above
       mentioned, the great annual trysts were removed to Falkirk; and
       Pennant informs us, that, in 1771, 24,000, heads of black cattle
       were sold there.
          Eminent Characters, &c.-James Drummond, fifth Laird of-
       Milnab, was fqrtv years steward-depute of Strathearn.  A mar.
       ble bust, with the following inscription, was erected to his            memory
       in the church of Crieff, from which it appears that he had made
       some figure both as a judge and as a poet.*
                   "Juridici, nullo sateli data crimine pessum,
                   Obruta quite senio, busta verenda vides.
                   Hune juvenem aipplexw Muwe ebaritesque, senectm
                   Sed fuerat gravitas consiliumque decrus.
                   Quantus adest heros! Viridi ipse pavesco juventa.
                   Ut cineres tanti ceperat urna viri!"
              "Obiit anno M.DC.LXIV. Kal.  Decembris xvii. wtatis sum lxxxiii.'
          Patrick Graeme of Inchbrakie, Colonel of the Posse Comitatus
       of Perthshire, and cousin-german to the celebrated James, Mar-
       quis of Montrose, was distuinguished by the part which he took in
       that nobleman's fortunes.  He held conspicuous place during
       all his wars, and appears to have enjoyed a very considerable share
       of his master's confidence.  He said to have defeated the Duke

        <FOOTNOTE>Milnab-or Mill of the Abbot, is now greatly reduced both in size and conse
        quence from what it was in former days.  We read, in Macolm's Memoirs, of a royal
        charter of the lands and mill of Milnab being granted in 1521 by James V. to John                  nmno-.
        Drummond, grandson of one of the stewards of Strathearn.  In the year 1677, men-
        tion is made of the lands and barony, which constained the town, mill and mill lands
	of Millnab.  There was a religious house, connected with Inchaffray, near the mill
        and the last generation but one remembered the ruins of it.  The family of Millnab

        was a branch of the house of Drummond, and maintained a distuinguished rank in
        the country for many generations.  The line is now believed to be to be estinet, and the
        estate is the property of the Right Honourable Lord and Lady Willoughby De Ereby,


