
412                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE

description of road in the parish. We have a bridge of two arches
over the White Esk, near the kirk, and a bridge of one arch over
the Black Esk. On the road to Lockerbie, Lochmaben, Dumfries,
and Moffat, a third is to be erected over the Black Esk, immedi-
ately above its junction with the White Esk. This will open a
communication with the lime-works in the parish of Middlebie, and
be of great use to this parish. Should the line surveyed lately by
Mr Welsh, under the superintendence of Mr Telford, of a coach-
road from Carlisle by Gariston Bridge, Middlebie, Eskdalemuir,
Ettrick, Yarrow, Innerleithen, and Middleton to Edinburgh,be
carried into effect, it will be shorter than the present road by Lang-
holm, Hawick, Selkirk, &c. by about twelve miles. It is in ge-
neral level, and has throughout a southern exposures, which is of
consequence, in times of snow.
	The ring fences around the enclosed lands of farms are com-
monly of stone; the subdivisions, of thorn; and the march dikes be-
tween farms, always of stone.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The parish church is nearly in the centre
of the parish, on the banks of the White Esk. It was built in
1826, and is not only commodious but elegant. It is seated for
the accommodation of 393 persons, allowing 18 inches to each
sitter. The manse was built in 1783, and has not only been se-
veral times repaired, but considerably enlarged. The extent of
the glebe is 24 English acres, including manse, offices, and gar-
den; the latter of which, when the present incumbent entered, was
quite open to the sheep and cattle of the neighbouring farmer.
It is now surrounded and subdivided, partly with stone and partly
with hedge-rows; and a number of trees have been planted round
the manse. The stipend is 15 chalders, half meal half barley,
with L. 8, 6s. 8d. for communion elements.
	There is in the parish no Dissenting place of worship, properly so
called. The only Dissenters are Cameronians, 17 in number, who
are occasionally visited by preachers; and annually, or every two
years, have the sacrament dispensed to them at Upper Dumfedfing,
when all those of the same denomination from neighbouring parishes
usually attend. They are a moral and religious people, with whom
I have always lived on the most friendly habits. Although staunch
to their principles, their children generally attend the Established
church.
	The distance from the parish church is great to many; but
it is in general well attended. In good weather, they come to


