
                            EDINBURGH.                    619

ing in a direction from west to east. The waving and progressive
movements of modern volcanic eruptions afford an analogy to this.
   When, the foundation of the present High School was dug out,
copper ore in small quantities was discovered, and a few fragments
of native copper. The rock now almost levelled and removed im-
mediately to the west of this seminary,-called the Miller's
Knowe,-was a curious compound of greenstone and calcareous spar
with a mixture of a steatitic mineral which gave it a soapy feel; the
latter intersecting the trap in numerous veins, crossing each other in
all directions. Iron pyrites is also found in small crystals; barytes
in masses; and quartz crystals of various hues and forms. Par-
ticles of glance coal from the sandstone beds are also of frequent
occurrence.
   Bunker's Hill, although at one time it formed a conspicuous
eminence, has been levelled for many years. It, as well as the
rocks on which the new town is built, is a greenstone nearly simi-
lar to that of Salisbury Crags. A portion of the same rock may
still be seen in a quarry at the back of Albany Street.
   The section at the Dean Bridge displays the sandstone and
shale strata elevated and inclined at a considerable angle to the
north, while the same sandstone in the bed of the water of Leith,
being less elevated and disturbed, has an inclination to the east-
ward; which is the prevalent one of the district.
   Lochend also presents an elevation of greenstone similar to that
which forms the basis of the New Town. A quarry in this
neighbourhood illustrates the effects of the igneous rocks on the
sandstone immediately in contact with them. At this point of
junction the sandstone is formed into a silicious mass, exactly re-
sembling quartz rock or fine grained gneiss.
   Salisbury Crags and Arthur's Seat are composed of a series of
elevated terraces commencing at St Leonards, and extending to
the eastern base of Arthur's Seat. The best point for viewing
this connected series is from the eastward. The sloping base of
Salisbury Crags is composed of a red sandstone and layers of a
reddish shale. Above this is a mass of greenstone fifty feet in
height. On the north-east corner this mass is surmounted by
sandstone, evidently broken off from the corresponding sandstone
strata below. About the centre of the Crags, at a fissure called
the Cat's Nick, the strata seem to divide and to incline in opposite
directions, the portion to the right dipping to the south-east, while
that to the left has a north-easterly dip. Between the Crags and
Arthur's Seat is a hollow called the Hunter's Bog. On the left


