
                       STIRLING.                        415

nence, terminates on the Mote hill or Hurly-Haaky. From its
gradually increasing elevation, the magnificent landscape by degrees
discloses itself to the eye,.and is beheld to very great advantage.
There is only one point from which it can be seen to greater;
that is in the governor's garden, on the north-western verge of the
castle grounds, where the whole may be viewed as one glorious
panorama.
   Stirling is the county town of Stirlingshire.  The sheriff-sub-
stitute for the western district resides here; and, as well as the
sheriff of the county, holds courts for civil and criminal causes.
The circuit court of justiciary holds its meetings here in April and
September for the counties of Stirling, Clackmannan, and Kinross.
It is the seat of a presbytery, and, along with Perth, is also the
alternate place of meeting of the synod of Perth and Stirling,
which convenes here on the third Tuesday of April, and at Perth
on the third Tuesday of October.
   There are no maps, plans, or surveys of the parish.  Plans of
the town have been made for various purposes, but throw very
little light on its ancient history.  There are no letters, papers,
pictures, or other documents, so far as I have been able to disco-
ver, in the possession of any resident individual, tending to illus-
trate the biography, history, or antiquities of the parish, with the
exception of one ancient painting, and three engravings probably
of the reign of William Ill., in the possession of J. Lucas, Esq.
  Eminent Persons connected with the Parish by birth or otherwise.
--Of these the most remarkable was the celebrated George Bu-
chanan, one of the best classical scholars in modern timew; as his
History of Scotland, whatever may be the weight which it is entitled
to as an authority, his translation or rather paraphrases of the
Psalms, and several other poetical works, all of which are composed
in Latin, distinguished for purity and elegance, abundantly demon-
strate.  He was the third son of Thomas Buchanan of Moss, on
the western bank of the Blane in Stirlingshire, where he was born
near the beginning of February 1506. His father died early, leav-
ing his wife and eight children in indigence.  He was enabled,
however, by the assistance of a maternal uncle, to go to study at
Paris about 1520.  He afterwards served in an expedition against
England. At eighteen, he went to the University of St Andrews.
Returning to France he studied at the Scots College, where in
1528 he obtained the degree of Master of Arts.  About this time,
he embraced the doctrines of Luther; notwithstanding of which,


