
			BORTHWICK.                       171

   By his first wife Elizabeth, daughter of Robert Watson, Esq.
of Muirhouse, be left a son who became one of the most distin-
guished Presidents this country has ever had--and of his second
marriage sprung the Right Honourable Henry Dundas, afterwards
Lord Melville--than whom Scotland has seldom had a better
friend, or Great Britain an abler counsellor.
   The last President Dundas was succeeded in his estate by his
son Robert, ultimately became Chief Baron--and whose rare
excellencies of understanding and of character rendered him an ob-
ject both of admiration and of love to all classes of the community.
   Antiquities.--The Castle of Borthwick is remarkable for the
beauty of its proportions--the excellence of its masonry--and the
impressive effect which it produces on all beholders.  It has been
pronounced by the best judges to be by far the finest specimen of
that very numerous class of Scottish Castles, which consist of a
single Donjon or tower surrounded by an embattled wall.  The
proportions are 74 by 68 feet without the walls--and about 110
feet from the adjacent area to the highest part of the roof.  The
walls, which are of hewn stone, are 13 feet thick near the bottom
of the building--and gradually contract towards the top to about
6 feet.
   The entrance was formerly by an outer stair and drawbridge--
which are now in ruins;--they formed what in ancient times was
called a perron or ramp.  Besides the sunk story--the build-
ing consists of two large halls, the one above the other--and of
two flights of bed-rooms, occupying two projecting portions of the
building, as viewed from the west. The lower ball is one of the
most elegant and finely proportioned of all those that can still be
seen in any, of the numerous ruins that give interest to the scenery of
Scotland.  "It is," says Nisbet, "so large and high in the roof,
that a man on horseback might turn a spear in it with all the ease
imaginable."  The roof has been painted with such devices as oc-
cur in old illuminations, over one part of which is still legible, in
Gothic characters,  Ye Temple Honor. "Stately and magni-
ficent as the Hall of Borthwick is in itself, it is no less rich in as-
sociations.  Here," it has been justly said, "we may suppose the
Abbot of Unreason to have exercised his frolics.  Here
	     "The stern Protector of the conquered land"
received the keys of the castle into which his cannon had forced
an entrance. But, above all, the image of Queen Mary, feasting
with her unworthy Bothwell, started from revelry by the voice of


