
190                     FIFESHIRE.

lets for L.240. This estate has also been much improved and
sheltered by extensive thriving plantations. There are about 40
acres of moss and swampy ground in the northern division of the
parish, a part of which is grazed during the summer months.
   The number of acres in the parish which are either cultivated
or occasionally in tillage is about 1005. There are about 240
acres of wood. The average rent of land is from L.2 to L.3 per
acre, and in the northern division from L.1, 10s. to L.2.
   Produce.-The average value of raw produce raised in the
parish is the following:

<TABLE>
            White crop,                             L.4930
            Pasture,                                  1030
             Hay,                                      690
             Potatoes,                                1465
            Turnips,                                   340
            Salt-works,                               1600
             Sales at Fordel colliery,               28000
                                                   _______
            Total yearly value of raw produce,     L.38055

                      V._PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Towns.-The nearest market-town is Inverkeithing.
There are no villages in the parish except the small shipping port
of St David's.
   Ecclesiastical State.-A very handsome parish church was erect-
ed in the year 1830. The style of the building is Gothic. It is
seated to accommodate 500 individuals. It does great honour to
the liberality and taste of the heritors, being one of the most hand-
some small country churches in Scotland; and furnishes a proof
of the great improvement which has lately taken place in the style
of ecclesiastical architecture. It is more conveniently situated for
some of the parishioners than the old church, which stood close
to the sea side, while the most populous part of the parish is about
four miles distant. The site of the new church is about a mile to
the north of the former one, close to the public road, which lies be-
twixt Aberdour and Inverkeithing. It is still, however, about three
miles from the great body of the parishioners.
   There.are a number of individuals really attached to the Esta-,
blishment, who are thus unwillingly necessitated to become dissen-
ters, on account of the inconvenient distance at which they are
placed from the parish church.
   The old church is a very ancient building. It was for many years
in a great state of disrepair, and was never wall adapted, from its
uncentrical situation, to be a place of worsbip for the parish. It
stands about two miles from Donibristle House, close to the sea


