
			KIRKMAHOE.                         57

them to the late, enterprising Patrick Miller, Esq. who made many
expensive improvements on it. This fine estate, which contains
5132 imperial acres, and is about a third part of the parish, is now
the property of James Macalpine Leny, Esq. whose excellent qua-
lities of character have raised him high in public esteem, and se-
cured him the affection of all who have the honour of being ac-
quainted with him. He has tastefully improved upon some of Mr
Miller's arrangements,--rendered the approach to the mansion-
house much more convenient,--and adorned its precincts with
some exquisitely rich and beautiful decorations.
	2. Duncow or Duncol, so called from the round hill or doon at
the village, and signifying the same thing with cow or colhill. This
barony also belonged once to the Cumins. It was forfeited (as
well as Dalswinton) on the accession of Bruce, and was bestowed
on Robert Boyd. In August 1550, Robert Lord Maxwell was re-
turned to the 20 pound land of Dunkow, in right of his father,
of the same name and title. From that time it remained in the
possession of the Nithsdale family till about forty years ago, when
it was sold to various purchasers, some of whom bought their own
farms. So indulgent to their tenantry were the Maxwells of Niths-
dale! It was in this village that King James V. spent the night,
and were he left his attendants before he paid his angry visit to
Sir John Charteris of Amisfield, as related by Grose. Until about
thirty years ago, a large stone marked the site of the cottage where
the king slept, near the small doon called the Chapel-hill.
	3. Milkhead or Millhead. In May 1700, Bertha, spouse of
Robert Brown of Bishopton, and heiress of Homer Maxwell of
Kilbean, was returned as possessing certain lands, specified in
the document, with the 4s. land of Milnhead. This estate was
possessed by the family of Brown till, some twenty years ago,
the late Miss Winefred Brown left it to Frederick Maxwell,
Esg. and other heirs of entail. It, contains 1061 acres, and is
now in the possession of Henry Maxwell, Esq. one of these heirs,
and third son of the late Marmaduke Constable Maxwell, Esq, of
Nithsdale, who was one of the best of landlords, and whose sons,
three of whom are extensive proprietors, inherit the liberal views
of their father.
	4. Carnsallock, the "cairn of the willows," as some have supposed,
or rather "the cairn of the shallow."  In 1550, as  appears  from a
return, August 5th of that year, it was in the possession of Robert
Lord Maxwell. He gave it to Homer Maxwell, a younger son;


