
	272 		ROSS AND CROMARTY.


<TABLE=Ill.-POPULATION.>

	The population of the parish, as returned to Dr Webster in 1755, was 1958 souls.
	The population in					   1801	     2074
								   1811	     2390
						                   1821	     2581
 								   1831	     2916

	     According to an accurate private census taken a few years ago,
	the population was 3010. The difference between this and the
	Government census is easily accounted for by the fact, that the
	latter included those only Who were on the spot, whilst the former
	included all who belonged to the parish, whether present or ab-
	sent, and many of the parishioners go during the summdr months
	to other places for work. In the country part of the parish, the
	population has decreased, while in the villages there has been a
	corresponding increase. This is to be attributed to the doing away
	of the middle class of tenants, and merging their small into large
	farms.

	<TABLE>

           Number of the population residing in the village of Invergordon,	1000
							       Bridgend,	 276
						               Saltburn,	 300
                                                                                ______
                                 	     Total residing in villages,	1576
	   The yearly average of births for the last seven years was	          67
				 marriages,	                          	  18
	   No accurate account of deaths can be given.
	 There are at present in the parish, insane 1, fatuous, 10 ; blind, 2; deaf and
       dumb. 1.
	     Claus-The principal clans in this parish are, the Rosses and
	Munroes. The number of John Rosses and Donald Munroes
	is quite astonishing, and might prove at first not a little, perplex-
	ing to a stranger, until be became acquainted with the bynames or
	patronymicks which serve to distinguish them from each other.
	     The language generally spoken is the Gaelic, but it has decid-
	edly lost ground within the last forty years. In the villages, es-
	pecially, the English is making rapid progress.
	     H`bits, Customs, 6-c. of the People- The people seem to be
	very little addicted to games or amusements of any kind. For-
	merly there used to be a great turn out on new-year's-day, old
	style,'for playing at shinty; but the practice has now almost totally
        died away. *

	<FOOTNOTE>Connected with this great Highland game, we may relate the following tradi-
	tional story: Rather more than a century ago, it was the practice for the people to
	meet at Andross, in the heights of the parish, on Sunday, to play at shinty.  When
	Mr Bethune was settled as minister of the parish in 1717, this practice was one of
	the first things which caught his attention, and which he determined to put a stop
	to.  The way he managed to do so, was this: There was a certain man noted for
 	activity and strenght, who was the chief and leader of the shinty players. Mr Be-
	thune sent for this man, and proposed to make him art elder. The man was at first,
	naturally, not a little surprised at this proposition, but after some persuasion con-


