
     Statistical Account

   Poor, and Schools.-The poor naturally belonging to the pa-
rish, who receive occasional supplies, are not very numerous
in proportion to the inhabitants.  The number on the roll is
35.  There has as yet been no occasion for a legal assessment
to support them.  They are maintained by the public collec-
tions at the church, by the interest of a small fund saved out of
the former contributions, by an annual gratuity from the Duke
of Queensberry, by money arising from penalties, mort-cloths,
etc.  The people willingly contribute to the relief of their
own poor, and are by no means deficient in charity.  But there
is no particular district of the country more infested than this
with shoals of foreign beggars.  And as there is no certain
oriterion by which to distinguish the seeming from the real
object of charity, it often happens that those belonging to the
former tribe, by fly address, and by telling some strange tale
of woe, impose upon the simple, and obtain that which ought
to be applied to the relief of the native poor, and having ob-
tained it, riot in the spoils.  It would be worthy of the wisdom
of those who sit at the helm, and direct the police of the coun-
try, to adopt some effectual regulations for the suppression of
this growing evil.-There is an established public school in the
town of Sanquhar, and, which is a singular felicity, furnish-
ed with an excellent teacher, well qualified in every respect,
to instruct the youth in the art of penmanship, arithmetic and
all the necessary branches of classical education.  The salary
and other emoluments amount to amount to about L. 4o per annum.
Writing and arithmetic are taught at 2 s. and Latin and Greek
at 2 s. 6 d. per quarter.  The character and abilities of Greek
teacher render Sanquhar an eligible spot for the education of-
those who are destined to fill the higher ranks of life.  Be-
sides the public, there is also in Sanquhar a private school,
in which reading, writing and arithmetic are taught, but
it has no fixed salary.  There are at a medium, about 60 scho-


