
204                      KINCARDINESHIRE.

means so frequent among female servants, who, wben of good cha-
racter, are here highly valued for their services in the work of the
dairy.
	The people in general enjoy a tolerable degree of comfort, and
the advantages of society, and appear contented with their situa-
tion. They are, on the whole, intelligent, decent, sober, indus-
trious, and well-behaved.
	Poaching in game, particularly in partridges and hares, prevails
very much in this parish: and smuggling, which prevailed in former
times to a great degree, has now been discontinued, through the
vigilance of the Preventive Service, who are, in general, sober, quiet,
and well-behaved, and set a good example to the parishioners.
			    IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Aqriculture.--There are 1885 acres, imperial mdasure, in the
parish, arable and in cultivation, and 1652 moss and moor, waste
and uncultivated. A great part of the hills, particularly where
granite quarries abound and have been opened, it would be im-
possible ever to improve into cultivated land; but the greater part
of the presently unimproveD ground may, at considerable expense
of labour and money, be turned to good account.
	About thirty years ago, Mr Menzies portioned out a waste hill on
his property, in different parts of five or six acres to different te-
nants, on two-nineteen years leases. The first nineteen years, they
were to pay a small rent, which was to rise during the other nineteen,
a small sum (L.10) being allowed them, to enable them to build a
house and offices. The greater part of the hill, which was formerly
waste, and worth little or nothing, is now in cultivation, and a village
called Charlestown, containing nearly 200 inhabitants, is formed
on the property. The people in general are poor, and not able
to lay out much in improving their ground, otherwise it might
be made more productive than it is. A considerable number of
small farms of different sizes have been lately let on similar
forms and are now in progress of improvement. More than a
hundred acres, which, a few years ago, were worth nothing, are
now in cultivation, and bearing good crops.
Mr Lewis Crombie, on a farm of North Loirston, belonging to
Dr Alexander Crombie, has improved, by trenching, draining, en-
closing, and manuring, at a very great expense, thirty acres of the
most barren untowardly ground that can well be supposed, and
brought it to produce rich and abundant crops of grain, turnips,
potatoes, and carrots, &c.


