
436                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

burgh in 1719, and was interred in the Abbey church of Holyrood
House.
  Mr Colquhoun Grant, of the Burnside family, in this parish,
and uncle to Captain Gregory Grant, R. N., now at Burnside,
when a young man, greatly signalized himself in the army of
Prince Charles Edward Stuart.  He was present at the battle of
Prestonpans, where be evinced great bravery.- He, in particular,
displayed the utmost boldness and courage in chasing a band of
dragoons, from the field of battler up to the very gates of Edinburgh
Castle; and showed great dexterity subsequently in making
his escape from the town. Colquhoun Grant was the intimate
friend and companion of the celebrated John Roy Stuart, and frequently
shared the same fate with him in the dangers of the field.
On the downfal of the Stuart cause, they  were alike compelled to
seek concealment; and, with blasted hopes, spent many a wearisome
day and night, amongst the hills of Cromdale.  Mr Grant
afterwards settled in Edinburgh as a Writer to the Signet, and
realized a very handsome fortune. He died in the year 1790.
  The late Sir William Grant, Master of the Rolls, if not a native
of this parish, came to reside in it, while very young.  His
father, James Grant, was tenant of the farm of Delchroy, on the
north side of the Spey, directly opposite the Old Kirk of Advie.
There are several second and third cousins, and one first cousin
of Sir William's still in the parish. * It is well known that Sir
William Grant distinguished himself in the House of Commons
as an able debater and coadjutor of Pitt.  After filling several
high appointments connected with the law department, he was
made Master of the Rolls in. 1801, the functions  of which office
he continued to discharge for a period of sixteen years with great
credit to himself and advantage to the public.  Mr Charles Butler,
in his Reminiscences, speaks of him in the following terms:
" The most perfect model of judicial eloquence which has come
under the observation of the reminiscent, is that of Sir William
Grant.  In hearing him, it was impossible net to think of the
character given of Menelaus by Homer, or rather by Pope, that
he spoke no more than just the thing, he ought.'" Sir William
retired from  public life in 1817, and died on the 25th of May 1832.
it must be added Under this head, that Sir James M'Grigor,
Bart., who has, for a period of twent-six or twenty-seven years,
so ably presided over the medical department of the army, is a

<FOOTNOTE>
               He was descended of the Craigchrochkan Grants.


