
                        TRANENT.                            283

not now well wooded, the fine trees which formerly existed
at the Palace of Seton, the towers of Elphingstone and Falside,
and the Heugh of Tranent, having in a great measure fallen to
decay, or been cut down. The trees of St Germans are now in
the best preservation of any in the parish, and some of them of
considerable age. The extent of coast little exceeds 2 miles; at
Cockenzie, it is guarded by a dike of greenstone, running nearly
east and west, and the sea recedes but a short distance from the
rocks. To the east of Portseton, there is another whinstone dike,
more to the north, running nearly in the same direction, and
within it, there is a considerable extent of flat sand, dry at low water,
while the beach contains a beautiful mixture of fine sand and sea
shells.
   Hydrography.-There is no river in this parish, and only two or
three trifling rivulets; the greatest discharge of water into the sea
is from the coal level, commenced by the Earls of Winton in the
seventeenth century, and subsequently carried forward, nearly two
miles further, into the basin of the Tranent coal-field, by the Messrs
Cadells; but its extension does not seem to have materially in-
creased the quantity of water. Several mills are thus driven,
which have the peculiar advantage that no drought during summer
makes any perceptible difference in the volume of the water, and
frorn its high temperature, it is not subject to be frozen in winter.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-The parish of Tranent, through its
whole extent, contains the usual coal measures, or the ordinary
strata connected with the coal formation, but the regularity of the
stratification is dislocated and intersected by trap or whinstone
dikes, by clay dikes, and other disturbing causes, denominated
"troubles" by the colliers.
   As in many other places, the strata seem to have been origi-
nally deposited in the form of a basin, and afterwards to have been
altered by the unexplained convulsions which have taken place in
our globe. The principal basin at present existing has its lowest
point or trough a little to the west of the farm-house of Carla-
verock, nearly a mile south of the village of Tranent; from this
the coal seams rise in all directions, and with a much more rapid
inclination as they approach towards the verge of the basin, which
may be about half a mile in some places, and in others a mile from
the centre point, in regard to the uppermost seam, and at greater
distances as to the others. Beyond this basin, to the west, north,
and east, there are other seams of coal found, but whether they


