
342                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

per wall, there is a similar row of windows.  On the ground wall
are seven buttresses, with curious canopied niches, and bracket
pedestals, apparently intended for the reception of small statues.
The buttresses are surmounted by richly ornamented conical and
square pinnacles, embellished with crockets; and the niches are
all varied in their decorations, but with a tasteful uniformity in
their arrangements.  The pinnacles of the five westmost but-
tresses are joined to a corresponding number of smaller ones
behind, by flying arches.  One of these has a double pinnacle,
richly adorned with bands, and displaying a triple crown.  The
pinnacle behind it is connected by a flying abutment with the up-
per wall of the chapel, at the angle of which is seen a third pin-
nacle, having ornaments resembling those seen in Grecian archi-
tecture.
   The north door, by which visitors are admitted to the chapel,
is approached under an arched porch, which has two crouching
human figures inserted into the buttresses on both sides for its
abutments, one of these figures having a key, and supposed to be
St Peter.  Its mouldings are richly carved, forming small paterae
of foliage.  The two buttresses which flank this door are deserv-
ing of attention; that on the east is enriched by a canopied niche,
the pinnacle of which is highly ornamented with crochets and
tracery, and is supported by a column pedestal. The west but-
tress has a canopy equal in the beauty of its sculpture to the other,
but without a pinnacle, and supported by a bracket pedestal, un-
der which is a small figure in the act of doing penance.  Above
the door is a small window, in the form of a circular triangle,
which lights part of the north aisle, both sides of which are boldly
sculptured with foliage.  On the east side of the door, at the
bottom of the architrave of the lower window, is the representa-
tion of a fox carrying off a goose, and a farmer delivering the un-
fortunate bird from the jaws of the plunderer; and, in the oppo-
site corner of the same window, is a cherub playing on a musical
instrument.
   The south front is similar to the north, with the exception of
the door, which is composed of receding arches richly ornamented.
In front is an arched porch, having, for an abutment on each side,
a cherub waving a scroll.  The mouldings of the arch are orna-
mented at regular distances with foliage.  Above the door is a
small window, of the form of an equilateral spherical triangle pre-


