
			    FENWICK.                        777

he distinguished himself by his heroism, and so deeply impres-
sed General Dalzell with admiration of his courage, that long
afterwards, when Paton bad been condemned, he applied to the
king, for his pardon. At Bothwell, it is said he acted as colonel,
though he did not retain the title. After the defeat of Bothwell,
he was declared a rebel, and a price offered for his head. His
escapes were numerous and romantic. He afforded shelter in his
house at Meadowhead to several of the persecuted ministers; and
it is said, that Mr Cargill baptized at one time twenty-two children
in his barn. He was at last taken at Floak, in the parish of
Mearns. On his way to Kilmarnock, he was accidentally met by
General Dalzell, who affectionately embraced him, and assured
him that he would apply to the king for his pardon. The Gene-
ral kept his word, and solicited and obtained, the pardon; but
Bishop Paterson inhumanly detained the order till after the exe-
cution. His Bible, which he handed to his wife on the scaffold,
along with his sword, are still preserve as heir-looms among his
descendant. The people of Fenwick, in gratitude for his services,
have erected a tombstone to his memory.
	John Howie of Lochgoin deserves notice as the author of the
Scots Worthies, a work of great interest. "His ancestors," we
are informed by Mr M'Gavin, "had occupied the same farm for
ages; and some of them suffered much in the persecuting period,
particularly his great-grandfather,whose house was robbed and
died in peace three years after the Revolution. John, the author of
this work, died in 1793, aged fifty-seven." His descendants possess
ample material for an account of his life, and it is much to be desir-
ed that the memory of a man, so devout and otherwise so meritori-
ous, should be rescued from the comparative oblivion in which it
is at present involved. The Howies of Lochgoin, though a hum-
ble, are a very ancient family. They are supposed to have ori-
ginally sprung front a family of Waldenses, who fled to Scotland
in order to escape the persecution which, at the time, was raging
in their own country. The period of their emigration cannot, per-
haps, be distinct ascertained. They selected one of the most
inaccessible places in the whole country for their residence. The
house is altogether inaccessible on the east to horsemen, and an
active man could not, even though acquainted with the locali-
ty, at night cross the moss, by which it is defended, but at the
risk of his life; and no stranger could venture across it with safety,


