
270                        ROXBURGHSHIRE.

expense of which cost more than L. 400.  One of these marl mos
ses, called Stonyford, measures about 40 acres, with peat above,
and under which there is a seam of excellent marl, from 10 to 11
feet deep.  Besides the lakes which have been drained for the ob-
jects just mentioned, there must have been formerly a very large
one on the farm of Whitslade, the property of George Pott, Esq.
of Todrig, as a rocky barrier crosses the river Ale, a little to the
east of that farm, which has been worn down by the action of the
water, in the course of ages, to the depth of more than 100 feet, and
is now called the Leap Linns.  Above these linns, on the banks of
the river, the large meadow, and other lands, that had formed the
lowest portions of the bottom of the lake, are still remarkable for
their richness and fertility.
     Rivers.--The only river is the Ale, which takes its rise from the
lakes of Alemoor and Shaws, and runs nearly through the centre
of the parish from west to east.  This river abounds with excel-
lent trout.  But in summer it is in general too small for angling.
A few sea trout and small salmon occasionally reach this length,
at certain seasons of the year, after the river has been flooded.
     Geology and Mineralogy.--The general direction of the strati-
fication of this parish lies from south-west to north-east.  The
rocks belong to the transition series, and consist almost entire-
ly of greywacke with a basis of clay-slate.  The general dip
may be stated at 45&deg;, though it varies in different places from the
perpendicular to the horizontal.  The stratification of the Leap
Linns, already mentioned, the rocks cut through by the action of
the water, seems to be nearly in a horizontal position.  No lime-
stone has yet been discovered in the parish.
     The skulls of various species of animals not now to be found,
have been dug from the marl mosses.  The writer of these pages
has seen a large and beautiful specimen of the horns of the stag,
in the possession of John C. Scott, Esq. of Synton, which was
found imbedded in a marl moss, the property of the same gentle-
man, The soil is in general light, from the decomposition of the
rocks of which it is formed,'but in some places the soil is of a clayey
description mixed with gravel, and some of the haughs on the banks
of the Ale are alluvial.  Though there are good crops of various
kinds, both green and white, raised in the parish; yet, from the cha-
racter of the soil, and the nature of the climate neither can be re-
garded as of the best quality.  The pasture lands rear excellent
Cheviot sheep which yield wool of a fine quality.  But the stock


