
422                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

some time educated at the grammar school of Stirling.  He was
born in 1718, in the parish of St Ninians.  He became minister
of a Presbyterian congregation at Carlisle in 1748; was translated
to a similar congregation at Berwick in 1760; and in 1768 to
Edinburgh.  He was moderator of the General Assembly in 1774;
and died in 1790.
  Dr David Doig, rector of the grammar-school, who acquired great
celebrity as a classical scholar, and raised the character of the se-
minary, over which he presided for forty years, to a height of fame,
which attracted many families to settle in Stirling, that their chil-
dren might have the benefit of his instructions, died here in April
1800, at the age of 82.
  Dr John Moore, an eminent physician, well known as the au-
thor of several successful works in various departments of literature,
and father of Sir John Moore, who fell gallantly at Corunna, was
born 1730.  He was the son of the Rev. Charles Moore, one of the
ministers of Stirling; he was educated in Glasgow; and there, after
serving with the army in Flanders, and studying in London and
Paris, he was settled as partner to an eminent medical practitioner.
He afterwards visited different parts of the Continent; and spent
the latter part of his life in London, where he died in 1802.
   Land-owners.--There being but a small part of the parish land-
ward, the properties in land are inconsiderable.  The Crown, the
Corporation of Stirling, Cowan's Allan's, and Spittal's Hospitals;
Robert Bruce, Esq. of Kennet; Mrs Burd of Forthside; Mrs Smith
of Randolphfield; and William Turnbull, Esq. of Forthbank;
own nearly the whole land in the parish.
  Parochial Registers.--The whole number of volumes is twenty-
four; of which eight are session-records, and sixteen registers
for proclamations, baptisms, &c. &c.  The date of the earliest en-
try in the session records, is November 7, 1597.  The earliest
volume of the register of proclamations, baptisms. and marriages
commences in 1585.  The register of burials begins in 1727.  Of
the above-mentioned volumes, three of session records, embracing
the period from November 7, 1597, to December 3, 1649, and
one of proclamations, &c. from 1585 to 1594, are in the Register
House in Edinburgh.  How they came to be there, no one can tell.
It is said they had been in the possession of a shopkeeper in that
city.  Whether they can be recovered by the kirk-session has not
yet been ascertained.
   The presbytery of Stirling's records commence with the erection


