
256                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

looms and lint, and their necessary concomitant, the domestic
wheel, have totally disappeared. In all this there may be good,
on the whole, but partial inconvenience is the result, as much want
of female employment is experienced during the winter months.
Within the same period, too, three corn-mills were at work in the
parish, but the progress of improvement has swept them, in like
manner, away; and the oatmeal now used is ground at a distance.
   Husbandry.-The husbandry of the parish is that improved sys-
tem of agriculture which prevails in the district and county, and
which is too well known to require to be again described. It seems
to be enough to say, that the farmers here are as skilful as their
neighbours, and the system of management quite as good; that
much attention is paid to draining; that the light manures are
largely and successfully applied; that vast quantities of turnips are
raised, and fed off partly with sheep; and that, though naked fal-
lows are still resorted to on the heavier soils, the breadth is becom-
ing gradually less from the effect of superior culture. Carrots and
turnip meed have been raised of late years, to a greater extent than
is common in the neighbourhood, but with what advantage remains
to lot proved. The light soil along the coast is favourable to the
production of the former crop, which, in a propitious season, is of
very considerable value; the excellence of our climate, to that of
the latter; but the cultivation of both seems to be attended with
more than usual risk.
   Live-stock has hitherto, in this parish and district, been less at-
tended to than in some other parts of the kingdom; but the eyes
of the farmer appear to be now fully open to the growing import-
ance of this branch of his profession, and the next few years will
probably witness in this respect no small improvement.
   Produce.-It is in the last degree difficult to attain anything like
an accurate acquaintance with the "average gross amount of raw
produce" raised in this parish, and rather than deal in loose con-
jectures, it seems to be better not to conjcture all.
                    V.-PAROCRIAL ECONOMY.
   Market towns.-Haddington is the nearest market-town, and
distant from the centre of the parish about four miles. Much of
the grain raised here, however, is taken to Dalkeith and Edinburgh,
where a priceis generally obtained more than suficient to compen-
sate for the extra carriage. In the village of Aberlady, however,
most of the articles more immediately connected with comfort and


