
                         TURRIFF.                             995

gant. The lawn in front of the castle is here and there adorned with
trees and clumps tastefully arranged. The grounds, shrubberies,
and garden are well laid out, and contain a variety of such plants
and shrubs, native and exotic, as are hardy enough to withstand
the severity of the winter. Two approaches, which meet at a
well chosen point, with two stately constructed lodges and arti-
ficial lakes, in which the stately swans and cygnets are seen
moving majestically on the surface of the water, happily unite in
giving to this domain much to please the eye and gratify the taste.
It may be here remarked, that, if the etymology of the ancient
name "Balqubolly" be correct, viz. "the house in the wood,"
Hatton Castle has a just claim to its former appellation, being
embosomed in wood of rich variety, and sheltered, in a great mea-
sure, from every wind that blows.
   Muiresk.-On the south bank of the Doveron, and about a
mile to the west of Turriff, stands the mansion-house of Muiresk,
which, though not large, is, from natural situation, and the recent
improvements of the present proprietor, in and out of doors, a most
desirable residence.
   Scobbach House, which is erected on a commanding situation
about a mile farther up the river from Muiresk, is a modern build-
ing, but in a style of ancient architecture. At present, it has ra-
ther a bare and dingy appearance; but when the wood gets up,
(and it is very thriving,) from the splendid view which it presents on
all sides, the richly cultivated fields with which it is surrounded,
and the taste of its judicious owner, this place will, at no distant
period, vie with any of the same extent on the run of the Dove-
ron.
   Gask.-This romantic seat was long an object of admiration to
the traveller when the high road, before the introduction of turn-
pikes, passed through "the den," and now forms a delightful re-
treat, for a few of the winter months, to the Earl of Kintore, who,
while he pursues with spirit his favourite amusement of fox-hunt-
ing, keeps the house and place in excellent order.
   Near to Gask, and taking advantage of its picturesque scenery,
is set down Mr Donald's beautiful little cottage of Maryfield.
The only other mansion-house in this parish, deserving special
notice, is that of
   Towie Barclay, which was, for generations, the residence of a
distinguished family, whose descendants still exist in this district,


