
8			   FORFARSHIRE.

the population; and Dundee is considered, in regard to this kind
of manufacture, the first town in Great Britain.
	With the increase of the trade and wealth of the place, there
has been, especially during the last twenty years, an immense ad-
dition to its size. It has produced many enterprising merchants
and adventurers. There have been introduced many improvements
and inventions, which were unknown to our forefathers, and are the,
boast of later times, and which tend at once to give employment
to the industrious, to facilitate the intercourse of commerce, and
to contribute to the sum of human enjoyment. Among these the
first in the order of time, and perhaps not the least worthy of being
noticed in any point of view, is the Steam-boat which plies on the
Tay between Dundee and Newport, on the opposite coast of Fife;
of which an account will be found in the sequel under the branch
of Industry.
	Police Establishment.--In consequence of the rapid increase
of the population of Dundee and surrounding district, and the
ordinary provision of the law for preserving the public peace hav-
ing become inadequate for the purpose, in 1824, the magistrates,
with the concurrence of the inhabitants at large, applied to Par-
liament for an act to provide for the better paving, lighting, watch-
ing, and cleansing, the burgh, and for building and maintaining a
Bridewell there. The bounds comprehended within the Act, which
was readily obtained, were extended considerably beyond the an-
cient royalty; including Blackness toll upon the west, Clepington
Šupon the north, Mayfield upon the east, the southern boundary
being the river Tay. The town, by this Act, is divided into ele-
ven wards; each ward yearly elects two general and two resident
commissioners. The resident ones, who are all head constables
of their wards, have a general superintendence, and have also a
charge of the measures necessary for promoting the peace of the in-
habitants. To the general commissioners, again, is committed the
general execution of the act. Besides the officers annually elect-
ed from the different wards, the following are general commis-
sioners ex officio, viz. the provost, the four bailies, the dean of
guild and councillor, the convener of the town trades, the sheriff-
depute and his substitute, residing within the bounds of the police.
The general commissioners elect a superintendent, who is respon-
sible for all the inferior officers, and vested with discretionary powers
of dismissing or appointing them at his pleasure. The electors
of these commissioners are those who porsess dwelling-houses or


