
436                     STIRLINGSHIRE.

cal affairs.  He was moderator of the Assembly which met in
August 1574.  He may have discharged the duties of parochial
minister, but does not appear to have held the office.
  The notorious Robert Montgomery was minister of Stirling as
early as August 1581.  By the General Assembly, which met at
Glasgow in April that year, he was appointed a commissioner with
two other ministers to erect Presbyteries at Stirling and Linlith-
gow; and, accordingly, on the 8th of August, assisted at the erec-
tion of the presbytery of Stirling, of which place, as appears from
the records, he was then minister.  Two months after, the process
against him for unsound doctrine, dissolute life, and contumacy,
was commenced, which terminated in his deposition and excom-
munication in April 1582.  He appears to have been as early as
1564 minister of Cupar in Fife.
  The minister of Catnbuskenneth sat in the Presbytery in 1581.
  James Anderson succeeded to Montgomery in 1582.
  Patrick Simpson was settled in 1591.  In 1607, by an order of
Council, an attempt was made to have him created perpetual mode-
rator of the presbytery; but the presbytery answered, "that he had
not been able, on account of sickness, to discharge his own calling in
preaching; much less was he able to discharge the office of constant
moderator; and therefore they could not burden him with an im-
possibility."
  Robert Mure was admitted coadjutor to Patrick Simpson the
same year.  This was the earliest appointment of a second minis-
ter.  In 1610 it was ordained, by the Presbytery, that the second
minister was not to take the first charge without consent of the
presbytery.
  Henry Guthrie was admitted to the first charge in May 1632.
In 1638 he was desired to apply to the magistrates for a fellow-
labourer.  It does not appear what was the result at that time;
but John Allan was appointed to the second charge in 1645; and
Guthrie and he were put out by the commission of the General
Assembly for malignancy in 1648.
  James Guthrie succeeded Henry in the first charge in 1649;
and was executed in Edinburgh in 1661.
  ----- Bernet was appointed to the second charge in 1650.
  Mr Guthrie, with the concurrence of his two elders, the provost,
and two bailies, appointed Robert Rule to fill the second charge
on its becoming vacant.  But this not being sanctioned by the
town-council, they appointed Matthias Simpson, who was admitted


