
258                      BANFFSHIRE.

tartan scarfs.  Both men and women dress well on holidays, and,
with very few exceptions, are seldom absent from public worship.

                     IV.-INDUSTRY.
  Agricultural and Rural Economy.-This parish, as already stat-
ed, contains 27,000 Scotch acres, or 33,750 imperial.

<TABLE>

    Number cultivated or occasionally in tillage,   	  .      8,433
					 meadow and pasture,   .   437
           capable of improvement,	      . 	   .       560
           incapable of improvement,	                  .     12,748
    Under wood, natural and planted,	        .             .   4822

  Rent of Land.-In an extensive parish like this, consisting of
such a variety of soil, the rent must vary.  The best low-lying
arable ground lots from L.3 to L.2, 15s. per acre, and that of
a light sandy soil along the shore at L.! per acre.  The higher
grounds, when improved, from 12s. to 16s.
  Live-stoch.-Much attention has been paid of late years to
the breeding and rearing of stock in this district.  Bulls of
the most improved kind have been introduced, which have ef-
fected a most striking change for the better, both in the size
and the symmetry of that animal.  The Aberdeenshire breed
is still the prevailing cattle in the district, and much prized.
With proper attention paid to this kind of stock during winter-
keeping, and when at their full size, they will weigh from 50
to 60 stones.  Besides, they are hardy, and more kindly in feed-
ing than any other which has hitherto been introduced.  When
the bullocks are not kept for agricultural purposes, the stock
is generally sold off at the age of three years, and if in good
condition, will bring from L.9 to L.10 per head.  The dealers
who purchase these cattle for the south, are somewhat particular
with regard to what they call "points of form and colour." These
points are, short legs. a fair-proportioned round body, straight
along the back; and in their third year, a long slender white
horn, tipped towards the point with black.  The favorite colour
is pure black.  The brindled ranks next in esteem, and the dun
is not disliked.  Pure white or streaked are accounted infe-
rior.  One farmer lately introduced the Teeswater breed, but he
very soon found that he had neither a sufficient quantity of grass,
nor requisite shelter for such heavy stock.
  The sheep is of a mixed kind, and the whole number kept in the
parish only amounts to a few hundreds.  No attention, therefore,
is paid to their breeding.
                             3



