
                          SORBIE.                          33

and sail manufactory are used both for shipping, and for the diffe-
rent purposes of rural economy. Both branches of manufacture
afford a fair remuneration and support to those engaged in them,
and produce no bad effects on health and morals.
   Navigation.-Garlieston is the only shipping-port in the parish
which vessels usually frequent. The harbour was very much en-
larged and otherwise improved some years ago and is now ca-
pable of affording shelter for thirty vessels. At high tides it con-
tains about eighteen or twenty feet of water. There are fifteen
vessels belonging to the port. Four of these carry l00 tons each;
and the remaining eleven averagd 48 tons each. Besides these,
two or three foreign vessels occasionally trade to the port. Ship-
building has been carried on rather, actively at Garlieston during
the last fifteen years. We may state, that, in the course of that
time fourteen vessels have been built, some of which carry 100
tons.

                      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Market-Town.-Sorbie contains no market-town; and there are
no fairs of any kind held in the parish. The nearest market-
town is Whithorn, which is about four and a-half niles distant.
   Villages.-There are two villages in the parish; Sorbie, Which
is about two miles from the sea; and Garlieston, which is beauti-
fully situated on a bay of the same name.  The former contains
170, and the latter 587 inhabitants.  In these two villages there
are thirteen public-houses; and the effects of these on the morals
of the people are uniformly injurious.
   Means of Communication.-The parish enjoys ample means of
communication, both by sea and Land.  There is a penny-post
established at Garlieston.  Sorbie village has daily communica-
tion with the post-office of Wigton.  Good roads traverse the
country in every, direction; and Garlieston harbour opens up an
important avenue to the markets of Liverpool, Whitehaven, and
other places on the western coast of England.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated at village
of Sorbie, and is about four miles distant from the extremity of the
parish.  Its situation may be said to be convenient for the greater
number of the inhabitants, the populous, village of Garlieston be-
in only two and a-half miles distant.  It was rebuilt about the
year 1750, and thoroughly repaired in 1826.  It affords accom-
modation for nearly 500 persons.  Most of the seats in the lower

   WIGTON.                               C



