
     of Fraserburgh.

   Proprietors, Rental, and Agriculture.-There are four he-
ritors, one of whom resides, in the parish, besides many feuars
in the town of Fraserburgh.  The valued rent is L. 3000
Scoth.  It is difficult to ascertain the real rent, great part be-
ing paid in meal and bear, which vary in price; and some
services are performed, though this custom is wearing out.-
The farms are very different in size, from the rent of L. 5 to
upwards of L. 100.  In the neighbourhood of Fraserburgh,
land rents so high as two guineas per acre.-Agriculture
has advanced considerably, more particularly within these few
years; and the face of the parish is much improved.  Oats,
barley, beans, and peace, are the most common species of
grain.  Green crops of potatoes, turnips, and cabbages, are
introduced; also clover, rye-grass, and fallow.  A little
wheat and flax is raised.  All the lands to the west and south
of Fraserburgh, to the distance of a mile and a half, are in-
closed and well cultivated.  New inclosures, drains, and o-
ther improvements, are making every year.  In some other
parts the land is in the same state, and managed, in the same

<FOOTNOTE>

lue of labour for the 6 days, which are appointed to be annually wrought
upon the roads; and that the whole should be levied in money only, and
not, according to the present statutes, in personal labour at the pleasure of the
individual.-That an assessment on the valued rent should take place for the
support of bridges over the country:-That every one should contribute in
proportion to the use he made of the roads;-and that none should be ex-
empted from the amount of the six days commutation, (say 8 d. 10 d. or 1 s.
sterling, per day), whether landholder, commissioner, etc.-That the horses,
carriades, carts etc. of the proprietors, farmers, etc. should pay a certain
sum yearly;-and that the fund be managed as at present, by the commis-
sioners within each district, and shall be laid out in the different parishes, ac-
cording to the sum they pay respectively.  This plan contains hints well en-
titled to the consideration of landholders, in the northern, and, perhaps,
even in the southern parts of Scotland.


