
     of St. Fergus.

on the East by the German Ocean, and on the South, by
the small river of Ugie, which separates it from the parish of
Peterhead: The extent is as under:

<FOOTNOTE>

noch, who in her right became Earl of Buchan, about the beginning of the
13th Century.  The parish of St Fergus, and some other small estates, seem to
have been given off by the ancient Earls, but there still remained an im-
mense estate, situated in Banff and Aberdeen shires, to which Walliam Cum-
ine succeeded by his marriage.

   The Cumines continued to enjoy their vast fortune until the year 1308.
This name, then one of the most powerful in Scotland, violently opposed the
succession of King ROBERT BRUCE to the Crown, but were completely over
thrown by him at Inverury.  The king, according to FORDUN, pursued the
Cumines as far as byvie, where, having dispersed them, he encamped for
for some time, until the parties which he sent out had burnt the Earl of Bu-
chan's estate.  In the Parliament holden at Perth, anno 1320, the King di-
vided the Earl's lands among his own friends.  To the family of DOUGLAS
he gave the greatest part of the parishes of Crimond and Longmay, and a
part of the parishes of Tyrie and Aberdour.  This appears from a charter,
which ARCHIBALD the 10th Lord DOUGLAS obtained from King Robert,
"Dilecto et fideli nostre, ARCHIBALDO DE DOUGLAS, pro bomigio et servitio
"suo" of the lands of Rothsay, Crimond and Caienglass, etc. in Buchan.
Upon the family of CRAWFORD he bestowed the barony of Kelly, com-
prehending part of the parishes of Tarves, New-Deer, Old-Deer and Long.
side.  Those lands reverted to the Crown by the forseiture of ALEXANDER
Earl of CRAWFORD, and a considerable part of them was bestowed by King
JAMES II. on JAMES GORDON of Methlic, Ancestor of the Earl of Aberdeen,
(Charta in pub.arcbiv.) King ROBERT gave to the family of ERROL the
parishes of Crudon, Slains, and part of the parishes of Logic, Ellon, and
Udney To the MARISCHAL family he gave the parish of Peterhead, part of
Longside and Old-Deer, the lands of Auchines in the parish of Rathen, Pit-
tendrum in Pitsligo parish, and Troup, in the parish of Gamrie.  JOHN
CUMINE, the fourth Earl of Buchan of that name, had, before his forfeiture
and out-lawry by King Robert, given the barony of Philorth in portion
with his daughter MARGARET, who was married to Sir JOHN ROSS, second
son of the Earl of Ross, who disponed these lands to Hugh Earl of Ross, his
brother, by a charter, dated at Inverness 1316.  This barony was then of great
extent, comprehending the parish of Fraseraburgh, most part of Tyrie, Aber-


