
360				BOXBURGHSHIRE.


trap rocks, as already existing,as peaks and irregualar masses in
the colletion of waters from which the sandstone subsided, and
at the time of subsidence to suppose this sea moved by sub-
marine current, so as to cause the chief deposite 0f sand to take
place on the east side of these elevated sunnits, where, accord-
igly, it isnow found; forming a long ridge, sloping off as it re-
eades.  Argeebly to this suppostion, no the south side of the
Teviot, the grandstone is most abundant to the east of the trap
hills of Ruberslaw, the Dunion and lanton, inclining gradually
from them.  While on the north side also, it is to the east of the
Minto hills, Craigs and Standhill, that the strata occur in greatest
quantity with same apperancce and inclination; and still far-
ther down the country, this also takes place, have-beugh.  But
whether we suppose the current to have existed while the strati-
fied rocks were only settling, or subsequent to thier assumhng a
solid from, it is necessary farther to admit the agency of water at
a much more recent period, rushing in the same direction, from
the great quantity of boulders of greenstone scattered over the
surface of the ground, and uniformly to the east of those places
where the rock id found in situ.
	It ia a question of much difficulty to what member of the series
these granstone belong.-So far as is known, no fossil remains
have hitherto been observed to aid in the determination, and,
though occupying the place of the old red sandstone when it oc-
curs, yet, judging from the grain of the rock, the small inclination
of the beds, nowhere exceeding an angle 8&deg; or 9&deg;, the circum-
stance also of the upper strata being usually white, and the lower
red, along with their apparent connection with those which are so
extensively developed in Berwickshire, and there obsevered over-
lapping the coal measures, it may be held in the meantime as the
most probable view, that they belong to the new red sandstone
formation, the gris rouge, and roth-todte-liegende of continental
geologists.
	Zoology.-Few of the animals can be considered as rare. The
Caprimulgus Europeus, however, which has of late once or twice
been shot, is not common in this part of the country. The kings-
fashet is occassionally to be seen on the banks of the smaller rivulet,
and in the same haunts the water-rail and solitary snipe are met.

<FOOTNOTE>See the Geological Survey of Berwickshire, by David Miles, Esq. Advocate, in
the 82d Number of the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture.


