
<APPENDIX>

xcii

he stated in a note.-The number of those districts have hitherto been very
few, and it is hoped they will not be suffered to increase.
   Col. 14. In this column will be stated the Total Annual Income of the
Poor, resulting from the interest of their capital stock, the annual voluntary
collections, the profit derived from the use of the pall or mort-cloth, which
goes to the poor's fund, and the legal assessments, where any have taken
place.  In all the parishes there are voluntary collections, but in many in-
stances, the returns made by the Clergy, state merely the total income, with-
out discriminating the particulars.
   This concludes the great mass of information, which it is thought necessa-
ry to put into the shape of Parochial Tables.

     II. COUNTY COMPUTATIONS.

   There are several particulars which it is thought better to endeavour to
ascertain, by County, instead of Parochial Computations.-These relate,
1. To the state of the landed property in the county-2. To the manner in
which it is employed.-3. To the number and value of the live-stock which
it maintains.-4. To the amount of its agricultural productions, including
timber.-5. To the productions of its manufactures and commerce.-6. To
the value of its mines, fisheries, and kelp.-And, lastly, To the general state
of the district.

   1. State of Property.-It is of the utmost importance in every county,
to ascertain the manner in which its territories is possessed, whether by great
or by small proprietors, in what proportion by each, what is the total num-
ber of proprietors of land, what portion of the kingdom is held by cor-
porations, and other points of a similar nature.  With that view, it is pro-
posed to give some account of the State of Property in each county, in re-
gard to these particulars.

   2. Mode of Occupation.-In many of the parochial returns, an account
is given of the manner in which the territory of the district is employed.-
But without accurate surveys of each, the information could not be com-
plete, and it is impossible to attempt this parochially.  There are sufficient
data, however, for making calculations, regarding the state of each county,
in this important respect.

   3. Live Stock.-The number and value of the domestic animals main-
tained in a country, is another object which it is desirable to ascertain.  It
could not be expected, that an account of live stock would be made from


