
			ESKDALEMUIR.			   413

church from a distance of four, five, or six miles. The average
number of communicants for the last ten years is 159.
	Societies.--The only society for religious purposes in the parish,
is the Eskdalemuir Bible and Missionary Association. It has exist-
ed sixteen years, and in that time subscriptions and collections at
the annual sermon have been made to the amount of L. 294, 7s. 10d.,
or L. 18, 7s. 10d. yearly. The contributions were sent to the Bri-
tish and Foreign Bible Society, till 1823, when the contributors,
being dissatisfied with their conduct respecting the Apocrypha, and
in employing infidel agents, resolved to send them to the Edin-
burgh Bible and Scottish Missionary Societies.
	Education.--There are two schools in the parish,-the parochial
and a private one. The parochial schoolmaster's salary is the
maximum, L. 34, 4s. 5d., and the school fees and Candlemas pre-
sent about L. 10. Besides the ordinary branches, Latin, Greek,
and French are taught. It is but justice to say, that the merits
of a teacher far exceed his emoluments. He has even more than
the legal accommodation, as to house and garden. The private
school is entirely supported by school wages; and the teacher goes
from house to house with his scholars. In general, the parents
are anxious to have their children educated; but the distance
from the school not unfrequently induces several families to unite
in hiring a teacher for the winter half year,--dividing the salary
according to the number of scholars; and it is pleasing for me to
remark, that, at the usual diets for parochial examination, which
are uncommonly well attended, there appears no deficiency as to
reading, and an acquaintance with the principles of religion,-the
parents making up by private tuition what they cannot procure by
public instruction. I state this from accurate knowledge; for, at
each diet, the children bring their Bibles to read a portion, on
which they are examined after Gall's method, repeat their cate-
chisms, psalms, and paraphrases, commonly with great accuracy;
and at two diets held where the schools are situated, after the
older people have been examined, the teachers go through the dif-
ferent English branches taught in their schools in the hearing of
the parents.
	Libraries.--Till lately, those fond of reading were subscribers to
the Westerkirk parish library. But we have now one of our own
which is increasing fast, and the terms of admission are very mo-
derate.
	Poor.--The number of persons at present on the poors' list is


