
     Statistical Account

   Agriculture.-About one half of the Carse is still covered by
the mosses of Kincardine and Flanders before described.-The

<FOOTNOTE>

different proprietors.  The most common method is to let a portion, com-
monly from 6 to 8 ages, to a moss tenant or land, as, m contempt, he is
generally stiled, for 36 years-In money and timber for building his but he
receives from the proprietor to the amount of L. 3 or L. 4 sterling-No rent
is exacted for the first 7 years.  On the eighth he pays a merk Scotch, ad-
vancing a merk each year, until the 20th year ; For this, and the remaining
18 years, he pays at the rate of L 25 yearly for each acre cleared, and 25. 6 d.
per acre for what is not cleared-This last obligation is considered merely
as a spur to the tenant to reclaim the ground; for the mofs, in its original
rate, is not worth 3 d per acre.
   At the end of the lease, all buildings that have been erected upon the pos-
sesion belong to the proprietor; and the tenant is not entitled to any com-
pensation for them, or his improvements-Some proprietors, of more liberal
and enlarged views, pay to the tenant from L. 3 to L. 12 for each acre re-
claimed, according to the depth of the moss, or bog-earth removed from it 
-In some cases, this is paid when the work is executed; in others, it is
paid at the end of the lease.  In the first case, the tenant pays from 12 s. to
16 s. of rent per acre, in the second case he pays no rent.-At whatever of
these periods payment is made to the tenant, much more encouragement and
ability is afforded to him, to persevere in reclaiming the ground, than is done
by the terms of the leases first described-For as a great part of the moss
tenants depend upon their labour for the maintenance of themselves and their
families; during the first years of their lease, when they have little ground
cleared, and have their house to build, they can afford to bestow only a 
small part of labour towards improving their possessions, But about the 12th
year of the lease, when commonly the tenant has got from two to three acres
cleared the produce thereof maintains his family, and, by the sale of his
peats, be procures money for purchasing cloaths and manure, he can then be-
stow all his labour, not required for the culture of these three acres, in pre-
paring his peats, and other methods of removing the moss.
   Now, at his period, the ardour of the tenant, upon a least of tenor first
described, to reclaim the high moss is greatly checked.-It costs him labour
worth L. 10 or L. 12 or from 17 to 20 years purchase, to clear it, and he is
to posseses it, free of rent, only for 6 years: Whatever part of this sum is
not recovered before the end of these six years, may be considered as lost to


