
				KINNETTLES.                     223

to let it lie in the ploughed state till the swardy furrows have rot-
ted, next to cross plough it, and then to finish the process by break-
ing and pulverizing it by the action of the harrow.--Irrigation,
which in many cases meliorates the soil, is not attempted in the
parish, because there is not a sufficiency of water convenient for
the purpose, and because, though there were a sufficiency, the wa-
ter, owing to the intersected state of the fields by covered drains,
would not extend, as was found by experiment in 1826, but sink
down into the first intersection.--The only specimens of embank-
ing in the parish are those raised on the banks of the Kerbit, to
protect the adjacent flat fields from the violence of its destructive
inundations; and they have the desired effect.
	In former times, when the land in the parish was far behind in
cultivation, and when it required a considerable outlay on the part
of the occupant to bring it into a proper productive state, the pro-
prietors were accustomed to grant long leases, generally thirty-nine
years, with the lifetime of the occupant after the years specified in
his lease had expired. But as soon as the cultivation of their pro-
perties had attained to a considerable degree of perfection, they, from
a desire of regulating the progressive rise of rent by the progres-
sive improvement of the times, abandoned this system of leases,
first, by lopping off the lifetime period after the stipulated number
of years, and then by abridging the length of the lease to twenty-one
years. At the last general letting in the parish, the period was re-
duced to nineteen years, which is now the duration of almost every
lease in the parish, there being no liferenter in it since 1831.
	The complaint brought by many farmers in other districts of the
county, against the backwardness of their landlords in affording
them the necessary accommodations in respect of dwelling-houses
and steadings, cannot with propriety be brought against the pro-
prietors of this parish. On all their farms, exceeding ten imperial
acres, commodious and substantial dwelling-houses and steadings
have been erected. But although all the farm-steadings may be
thus reported to be in a good state of repair, the same favourable
report cannot be made of the farm-enclosures. The great bulk of
the parish, indeed, is well enclosed with substantial stone-dikes;
but there are about 400 imperial acres on which there is hardly the,
shadow of an enclosure.
	Quarries.--The various kinds of quarries discovered and opened
in the parish are of whinstone, sandstone, and greywacke flag, and
slate. The whinstone, wwich appears unddr three varieties, is work-
	FORFAR.                           P


