
                         ST ANDREWS.                             185

and even three nineteens of years. But leases of more than a
single year are now seldom obtained.
Farm buildings are constructed of stones and clay, aud covered
with thatch. They are seldom so high as conveniently to serve the
purposes for which they are intended, and not rebuilt till they are
actually falling down. The few existing enclosures, excepting
those on the minister's grebe, and one other farm, are mostly in-
sufficient turf walls.
Improvement of any kind in agriculture cannot be said to have
yet generally commenced. One is animated by the anticipation,
rather than by the appearance of its first dawn, and all obstacles
combine to retard its progress,-want of lengthened leases, want of
capital, of enclosures, of winter herding, and want of the separa-
tion of the lands of different farms. It is common for the arable
lands belonging to several farmers to be so intermixed, that the
breadth of 100 yards can scarcely be found in the possession of
one tenant. Lands so distributed are called run-rig. and far-
mers who hold their lands only for a single year, such are
styled tenants at will. Now, where there are few or no en-
closures, and the disproportion between the extent and the pro-
ductiveness of the ground, is very great-where a farmer has often
not half a dozen ridges lying together, without some of those of
his neighbours, intervening, and winding their serpentine course
along them,-and where leases are seldom granted by the land-
lords to excite a spirit of improvement among their tenantry, the
wretchedness of the husbandry cannot be altogether charged
against the listlessness of the peasantry. And till these obstacles
be removed, it is impossible that improvement can proceed to any
extent, or the industrious powers and spirit of the lower ranks be
manifested. In the same way, while one tenant cannot improve
without the consent and co-operation, riot only of all his neigh-
bours, but also of the proprietor himself, or while improvement is
altogether impracticable from the manner in which the lands are
parthtioned; while there is no encouragement, at least on the part
of the tenant, to inclose, as be' holds his farm only from year to
year; and while, consequently, the crops which are sown halve not
a fair trial.-it is difficult to say what is the productive power of the
soil, or what are tbe'improvemeDtS that would reward enterprise and
industry. But, from a few specimens of superior management, it is
evident that the lands are capable of yielding a.much greater return
than they at present make. Whether, however, they would repay the


