
214                     ROSS AND CROMARTY.

frequent, nor are those diseases distinguished here by any particu-
lar virulence. The only complaint peculiar to this parish and dis-
trict is not a little singular, and is deserving of notice, on account
of the mode of cure, which is illustrative of the simplicity of the
people, and worthy of being classed with the celebrated system which
rendered Mesmer and Deslon so famous at Paris towards the close
of last century. This notable disease, which is coiifined exclusive-
ly to the lower orders, among whom it is of frequent occurrence,
is supposed to consist in such a derangement of the bones of the
chest, as impedes the action of the vital organs, accompanied by a
variety of sylptoms, such as slight pains about the breast and
shoulders, difficulty of respiration, disinclination to labour, &C.
(probably caused by a slight rheumatic affection.) When any of
these is felt, the person affected has immediate recourse to a man
in the neighbourhood, distinguished for his skill in curing the dis-
order, who, on seating the patient, proceeds to draw some hiero.
glyphical figures on the ground, and to mutter a spell, in the course
of which the fingers are carefully Counted over, and the parts af-
fected gently pressed and rubbed,-and thus, on receiving a few
shillings for his trouble, generally succeeds in dislodging a disor-
der whose seat is chiefly the imagination.
   Hydrography.-A considerable part of the parish to the south
and east is washed by the Cromarty Frith, which, from this quar-
ter, presents the appearance of a long narrow inland lake, its open-
ing to the ocean being concealed by an intervening headland. The
tide formerly advanced quite close to the town, but a canal, which
was cut some years ago, has served the additional purpose of an
embankment, by means of which a good deal of wet carse land, over
which the sea formerly flowed, has been converted into fields. Ow-
ing to the distance to which the tide recedes at ebb, the muddy na-
ture of the bottom, and the freshness of the water from the influx of
the Conan, and the other streams which discharge themselves into
it here, the frith in this parish is very unproductive,-affording
no fish, with the exception of a few flounders and some salmon,
the latter of which are taken in yairs during the summer months.
  Perennial springs of clear wholesome water abound throughout
the parish, from one or two of which, in the neighbourhood, a
plentiful supply has lately been introduced into the town. Along
the south side of the hill to the north of the town, there are mine-
ral springs strongly impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen, issu-
ing from a dark-looking schistose rock, one of which, at a place


