
     of Edderachylis.

<UNREADABLE>

constitutes the whole stipend of Edderachylis at this
or L. 43: 10 in all, communion elements included; be-
ing not only below the minimum of the law, but once of the
smallest in the church.-And what precludes the prospect of
any augmentation of the stipend, out of Lord Reay's estate, is a 
special provision he made in his contract with the church, that
his estate should, in all future time, reamin unaffected by any
further augmentation of the stipends, though a great part of
that estate consists of church lands.  But he and his successors
have given the several ministers of this parish a small farm, ad-
joining to the glebe, at the old rent, which is of considerable 
benefit for grazing.-The glebe, which lies upon the coast,
and near the church, is of some extent; and has been valued
at L. 40 Scotch*.

</UNREADABLE>

   Population and Character of the People.-Upon a late survey
of this parish, the number of souls contained in it were found
to be 1024; but, about 12 years ago, they exceeded this num-
ber considerably.  One of the causes of this decrease has been
the rise that has happened in the price of black-cattle, which

     VOL. VI. N n

<FOOTNOTE>

*Upon the shore of the glebe, which extends about 3/4 of a mile, grows a
prosusion of fea-weed, of the sort sittest for kept: to this the  present
incumbent thought he had a right; and that he might convert this sea-weed
to his own benefit, as a small addition to his small stipend; but in this he
inexpectedly found himself opposed by the family of Reay, who tought fit
to dispose of this very sea-weed, as well as the rest on their estate by lease
to a Peterhead company; and upon his giving interruption to them, he was o-
bliged to defend himself in a process for damages before the Court of Ses-
sion, who, after considerble expence and trouble to the incumbent, thought
sit to decide the affair against him.  He is thus deprived of the bene-
fit of the whole sea weed growing on his glebe, which was useful to him
for other purposes, as manure to his land, and  pasture to his cattle in the
cold season of the year.


