
                      KIRRIEMUIR.                           163

Johnston,--levelling eminences, and filling up excavations; and
in the course of three years, he found that the whole moss had
subsided about three feet, and, in consequence, had become more
compact and dry. Having divided the moss into fields, he began
at the lower end by trenching the ground; the peats he laid aside
for sale; but that part of the moss which was of no value he
levell,--covering the whole with a tramp of clay taken from the
bottom, so that the whole of what has been treated in this way
presents a regular surface. For the last seventeen years, the
value of peats sold has amounted annually to a sum from L.100 to
L.150 Sterling; and the ground from which the peats are dug,
amounting now to twenty or thirty acres, formerly of no use, has
already produced good crops of grass; and corn. Such moss lands
should be allowed to lie long in grass; and, before being broken
up, they should be pared and burned, a small quantity of lime,
if possible, being added.
	The moss of the Balloch is of considerable extent. It is in some
places twenty-two feet in depth. The average depth is sixteen
feet. The first layer, consisting of unconsolidated moss, is five
feet. There is then an average layer of eleven feet of moss fit for
peats; and at the bottom is a laxer of white sandy clay. There
is no marl.
	Beds of MarL--Shell-marl is well known to, be the remains of
myriads of small testaceous animals which commonly inhabit pools
of water, and which have lived and died in this situation. There
are two beds of marl of considerable extent in the parish; the one
the Loch of Kinnordy, the other the meadows of Logie. In the up-
per bed of marl there was lately found the skeleton of a stag, Cer-
vus elephas, of large dimensions. The horns had nine branches,
and weighed when dry nearly eighteen pound. The skeleton was
in a vertical position, the tips of the horns nearly reaching to the
surface ok the marl, and the feet nearly two yards below. The
marl was immediately covered by peat, in which also the skeletons
of stags are occasionally discovered.
	The meadows of Logie were drained under the able direction
of Mr Abercrombie. The water which falls into the loch is con-
veyed through the contiguous property by an arched under-ground
tunnel; while an embankment around the north side keeps off the
land floods, and collects a sufficient quantity of water to serve the
purpose of a mill-pond. An immense drain is led from the tunnel


