
                            APPLECROSS.                            103

     rigs.  The crooked spade is still used, where there is but little
     pasture for horses, and where the ground is too rough and rocky
     for the plough.  Something has been done in the draining and
     improving of land.  There are plenty of quarries for building,
     but none regularly worked.
        There is very little commerce, except in small shop-keeping and
     fishing.  No manufactures.
        There are about 21 vessels of from eighteen to fifty tons bur-
     den, employed in the fishing and coasting trade.
        There are salmon fishings at Torridnn and Balgie, which rent
     at about L. 15 or L. 16.  As to the herring-fishing, the tenants
     have all a little concern in it.
         Wages.-The wages of men-servants, ploughmen, and such, are
     L. 8 a-year, with their maintenance; of women servants, from
     L. 2, 10s. to L. 3 a-year; herd boys get much the same sum;
     labourers charge 1s. a-day, and often 1s. 6d. ; carpenters, masons,
     and other tradesmen charge generally by the piece.  When employ -
     ed at day's wages, wrights and boat-carpenters charge 2s. 6d.;
     masons, 3s. 6d.  Weavers get from 4d. to 8d. per yard.; tailors
     for a suit of clothes, from 10s. to 15s.; a great-coat, 5s.; a cloak, 5s.
        Produce.-Average gross amount of raw produce raised in the
     parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

    <TABLE>
             Oats and barley way be worth about                L. 3000   0 0
             Potatoes and turnip, about                           1500   0 0
             Pasturage, black-cattle, and sheep,                  3000   0 0
             Fisbings,                                             500   0 0
                                                               L. 8000   0 0

        Deducting L.3000 for rent, price of seed, expense of labour,
     and, other incidents, very little will remain for the support of a po-
     pulation of 3000 souls.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         Market-Towns.-There is no market-town in the parish, nor
     within many miles of it.
         Villages.-There is a fishing village at Shieldag, containing a
     population of 200 souls, with as many more in its environs.
         Means of Communication.-There are good Parliamentary roads
     from Lochcarron to Applecross, and Shieldag.  The nearest post-
     office is that of Lochcarron, about twenty miles from Applecross,
     and fifteen from Shieldag. Letter-carriers are employed from both
     these places; a serious expense to the few contributors who furnish
     their salary.  There are many bye-roads and footpaths across the
     hills, but they are only fit for foot-travellers. There are many


