
540                           FIFESHIRE.

in the minutes of session, was not popular as a minister, principally,
I believe, from non-residence in the parish. A number of parish-
ioners seceded from the church, and built the meetinghouse at
Rathillet, which continues to this day. He was soon presented to
the church of Uphall, by the Earl of Buchan, and was succeeded
in May the 10th 1764, by Mr John Adamson. He was most popu-
lar, not more from the eloquence of his preaching than the excel-
lance of his private character, and the kindness of his heart. Mr
Adamson was called to a much wider field of usefulness, to the
second charge of St Andrews, in October 1772. He died in
1808, first minister of that city, and Professor of Civil History in
the United College. He was succeeded by Mr Andrew Hutton,
from Cults, an amiable man, a conscientious minister, and a con-
siderable antiquary,- who died at Kilmany 1792. He was succeed-
ed by my late brother, Mr John Cook, of whose talents and ac-
quirements, and virtues, it would be indelicate for me, who loved
and revered him from my infancy, to speak. He left the parish
in 1802, for the Hebrew Chair at St Andrews, and died in 1824,
after having filled the divinity chair of St Mary's from 1808. He
published in 1821 his " Inquiry into the Books of the New Tes-
tament," which contains the substance of a very small part of his
course of lectures on theology. He was succeeded in May 13th
1803, by even then the brilliant and accomplished Mr Thomas
Chalmers, and now the well-known and justly celebrated Professor
of Divinity in Edinburgh. This distinguished clergyman, who was
beloved and admired by all classes of the community, and who was
is still dear to every one who sat under his ministry, discharged the
duties of thi's sequestered parish until July 1815. His first works
were written and published while be was minister of Kilmany. The
present incumbent has enjoyed this benefice, since September 28th
1815. It would be unfair in this place, to pass in silence the late
Rev. Johm Tindal, Minister at Rathillet. By nature, he was a
man of a sound and vigorous mind, and of the most amiable and
generous dispositions. He Assiduously cultivated the talents with
which he was gifted, and had acquired a great store of varied and
extensive information. He died in September 15th 1836.
   Land-owners.-The landed proprietors, according to their va-
lued rent, are the following gentlemen:-David Gillespie, Esq.
of Kirkton and Mountquhanie, the prmcipal heritor; John A.
Thompson, Esq. of Charleton and Kilmany, &c.;  Charles Kinnear,
Esq. of Kinnear and Kinloch; Robert Rusell, Esq. of Hill-Cairnie:


