
238			KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

by means of which, at his death, his relations have been comfort-
ably provided. For several years previous to his death, he was
stone blind; but such was his strength of mind, that his cheerful-
ness continued unimpaired, and he continued his course of lec-
tures with great success till his last illness. He died in 1833,
aged forty-seven. Dr Milligan is a striking instance, among
many, of what can be achieved by a decided determination to
literary and scientific pursuits, in the face of much discouragement
and difficulty.
	Land-owners.--The only land-owners are, James Oswald, Esq.
M. P., of Auchencruive; D. H. Craik, Esq. of Arbigland; and
Mark Stewart, Esq. of Southwick. Of these, Mr Craik is the
only resident heritor.
	Parochial Registers.--The parish registers do not extend far-
ther back than 1714; and, till 1824, have been very irregularly
kept.
	Antiquities.--As to antiquities, Kirkbean has little to boast.
There are the remains of a castle, or rather a castellated house,
at Wreaths; and till of late, there was a similar edifice at Cavens,
which was once the property of the Regent Morton, and inha-
bited occasionally by him. At Borrow Point, there are the re-
mains of a moat and ditch, called M'Culloch's Castle, overlook-
ing the Solway, the former use of which does not appear to be
understood; and at Preston, formerly the property of Lady Glen-
orchy, distinguished for her piety, there is a stone cross, showing
where a considerable village once stood. Some time ago, this vil-
lage is said to have been inhabited by twenty-four tenants; now
it is occupied by only one.
	Modern Buildings.--The church was built according to a plan
of William Craik, Esq., then of Arbigland, in 1776, and is ele-
gant, convenient, and sufficient. The area has lately been fitted
up neatly with pews, at the expense of the minister, for the ac-
commodation of such villagers as had no claim otherwise. A
very, handsome tower, crowned by a dome, has been recently
erected by subscription of those interested in the parish, and a
clock presented by Mr Craik of Arbigland. The entire building,
inside and outside, may be regarded as a model for a country
parish. Arbigland is one of the handsomest mansion-houses in
the county, and kept in the best possible repair, as well as the
grounds, by its present amiable and much respected owner. Ca-
vens, a seat of Mr Oswald, though much less imposing in ap-


