
222                    ARGYLESHIRE.

been the means of increasing the evil.  It is no uncommon
practice with such tenants to subdivide their lots of land among
their families, when they grow up; and thus a croft originally
designed for the maintenance of one family, and perhaps
scarcely sufficient for that purpose, is frequently portioned
among two or three, and the whole are reduced to poverty.  It
would be cruel and unjust to debar a man, when disabled by
age and infirmities, from employing the services and aid of his fa-
mily ; but some salutary and restrictive regulations might be en-
forced.  A further cause of the increase of numbers and destitu-
tion is, the great swarm of cottars' families, or persons without
any regular holding.  I need only mention that this island con-
tains about 300 such families, who are a dead burden on the te-
nantry.
   Any permanent means of relief from such evils as these must
he left chiefly to the discretion and humanity of proprietors them-
selves.
   Emigration seems to be the great resource ; and the pro-
prietors must either assist them to accomplish this measure,
or apply to the Legislature to hold out encouragement and aid.
   It is somewhat singular, that this parish should have been almost
always destitute of a medical practitioner.  This may be reckoned
another of our disadvantages; and it is a melancholy consideration,
that many useful lives may be lost, as undoubtedly they are at
times, through the want of timely medical aid.  Even when such
aid is called from other countries, at an expense which few can
think of incurring, the state of the weather may prevent its arriving
in time to be of service.  Several young medical men have, from
time to time, tried the experiment of practising here, in the expec-
tation of a certain salary; but have found the remuneration so un-
certain and ill. paid, that in a short time they have thrown up the
situation in disgust.  And yet, between the two islands, it might be
supposed that a respectable salary could be made up for such a
person without much difficulty, and without being a burden on any
one, provided it could be duly proportioned among the families
interested, and collected by the factors along with the rents.  This
seems to be the only practicable plan.

   Drawn up March 1840.
   Revised August 1843.


