
382 			FORFARSHIRE.

parish, with the exception of four or five individuals, adhere to the
establishment. Divine service at the Established Church is well
attended. The average number of communicants is about 450.
	The average amount of church collections yearly for religious and
charitable objects, is about L. 50.
	Education.--There are 5 schools in the parish, namely, 1 pa-
rochial school, and 4 schools in detached situations, for compara-
tively young children. The parochial schoolmaster has the maxi-
mum salary, and his house and the school-room are in good con-
dition.
	The general expense of education per month or year is so rea-
sonable as to place it within the reach of almost all. The very
few children whose parents cannot afford, to pay for their educa-
tion, have their school fees paid from those funds which are un-
der the control of the session. All the inhabitants above six or
eight years of age can read, and a great majority of them are qualifi-
ed to write. The people in general are adequately alive to the
benefits of education. There is one parochial library, which is re-
garded by the inhabitants with a lively interest, and is flourishing
accordingly.
	Poor.--The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
is 10, and the average sum allotted to each per month is 5s. or 6s. ;
but, besides those persons who receive statedly parochial aid, there
are some to whom money, according to their circumstances, is oc-
casionally given; and a considerable sum is annually expended on
fuel and clothing.
	The ordinary collections made in the church for the support of
the poor, amount to about L. 30 per annum. The other sources
of revenue are the interest of money, mortcloth dues, &c. There
has not been remarked any tendency in individuals to throw them-
selves unwarrantably on the parochial funds, nor has there on the
other hand been observed any particular delicacy in accepting aid
from these funds, when it has been actually needed. There are
in the parish one inn and two ale-houses, but they do not appear
to have produced to any considerable extent, a deteriorating effect
on the morals of the people.
	Fuel.--Coals (chiefly English) brought from Dundee are in
common use; but in certain districts of the parish, the quantities
of broom and furze, which may be easily procured, tend to lessen
cosiderably the annual expenditure of the people for fuel.
	September, 1836.


