
     General Appendix to [Vol. vi.

the more at liberty to make choice of any spot of ground he
thought proper to build upon.  The place he selected has ma-
ny natural advantages, though it must, I think, be owned
that it has its inconveniencies.  It lies at the foot of a steep
hill, which bends at that place in form of a crescent.  By
this hill, it is screened from the northerly and easterly pier-
cing blast and storms, and from the high westerly winds,
and receives the advantage of the reflection of the sun's rays.
It has plenty of good water.  The prospect to the south is
open and considerably extended; it takes in the most of his
own farms, the lands of Craigmile, etc. and is only bounded
by the Grampian Hills, which lie at the distance of 6 com-
puted miles.-The house now built is large, substantial and
beautiful.  The office-houses are numerous, well contrived,
and at a proper distance from the mansion house.  The gar-
den on the south is on a sloping ground; consists of about
3 acres; is well laid out, stocked, and kept in good order.  A
pond of water below the garden, westward, adds to the agree-
able prospect from the large south windows.  But the farm
was what I chiefly intended to take notice of-besides the
yet barren ground and planting, it consists of 100 acres at
least, well cleaned, inclosed with stone walls, regularly divid-
ed, most of it well watered and adorned with planting on the
sides of the dykes, and some clumps of firs on the south end
westward.  It may be observed, that the farm lying on a slop-
ing ground, the waters when brought into the inclosures
naturally sink off to the rivulet that runs at the foot of it,
and do not stagnate on the lands.  How pleasant is it to
compare the place with what it formerly was, when the most
of the ground was covered with heath and stones, and only
L. 12 of yearly rent with great difficulty paid by the tenant!
At present, the farm, besides the house, garden and planta-
tions, and what the crofters on the east and weft possess, for


