
138                          CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

ed over with a thick coating of earth. Various articles were found
among the rubbish; such as a wooden distaff, which soon crumb.
led into dust; a freestone basin; and three bullets about the size
of musket-balls, of a substance like marbles streaked with blue.
The skeleton of a -tall man, who had been buried in a coffin made
of flags,,was dug up from the mould which bad been heaped lip
against the outside of the fabric. In most of the Pechtish houses
which have been opened, there were found little recesses in the
inner walls, which had evidently been -used as dormitories for the
inhabitants.
  There can be little doubt that these remarkable structures were
the dwellings of the Peebtish ebiefs, who we re in a-11 likelihood
both the leaders and priests of their people.  The power and in -
fluence with which, by force and fraud, they ruled over and oppres-
sed the Celts who formed the bulk of the population, have invested
even to this day, the places of their abode with dread and terror. It
is still deemed no cannie to dig up a Peebt's house.  Scarcely will
a peasant profane their verdant sward with a spade.  He stands
in dread of the fairies, who yet are believed to baunt such places,
or of some other unknown and revengeful power.
.  A ruin bn the Links of Keiss, called Toft-Ferry, is pointed out
by tradition as the remains of the first house built of stone in Keiss,'
and, one of the first three built in the parish of Wick.  The other
two were, one at Harland and one at Hauster.
On the Links of Kiess, and about balf-a-mile to the south of
Toft- Ferry, there are near the beach other two ruins covered with
sand, called the Birkle Hills.  These are more conspicuous than
Toft-Ferry, being of a conical form, and elevated about thi            rty-
five feet from their base, and about sixty-6ve yards asunder.  They
are said to be the ruins of two castles, i called Castles Linglass.
Tradition reports that the castles were burned down ; and the re-
port'is confirmed by, the calcined state of such stones as have been
duc, from the ruins.  It is said that a village was-connected with,.
them, of which, however, there are now no remains.
An apparently monumental stone at Ulbster, on which are en-
graved some untraceable sculptures.) is said to mark the grave of
a Danish princess, whom Gun, the progenitor of the clan Gun,
married in Denmark. , The vessel in which the Great Gun of
 Ulbster returned home with his bride was wrecked on the iron-
bound shores of Caithness, and the Danish princess was drowned.
 Elsiler's Cairn, between Wick and Papigoe, marks the spot.


