
500                      INVERNESS-SHIRE.

foundation as the former church, which- was erected in 1763, and,
being on a rising ground in the midst of a clump of tall trees, its
position is much admired. The surrounding ground has not been
long in use as a place of sepulture,-the late incumbent, Dr Bayne,
having been the first who was interred in it. The number of sit-
tings in the church is about 800.
   The late Chisholm of Chisholm, who represented this county
in Parliament for several years, and who was likewise much and
deservedly esteemed, not only for his exemplary piety, but for his
consistent and zealous support of the cause of Protestanism, short-
ly before his death built at Erchless a very neat church in con-
nection with the Establishment. In this church, which is capable
of accommodating about 400 people, there is preaching regularly,
the services of a clergyman being secured and paid for by The Chis-
holm, whose liberality in this as well as in many other respects, is
worthy of much commendation. The sittings in these churches are
all free. The parishioners are decidedly a church-going people,
and the several places of worship are respectably attended.
   The manse is very large and commodious, and was built in
1838. The glebe is also extensive, being nearly equal to 50 acres,
but it is not valuable, the soil being very thin and poor. Upwards
of the half of it is arable, and the annual value of the whole may
be nearly L. 30.
   The stipend is L. 204, 1Os. 8 3/4d. in money; 17 bolls, 1 firlot,
and three pecks of oatmeal; and 19 bolls, 1 peck, and 1 lippy,
of barley, including allowance for communion elements. The value
of the victual part varies according to the fiars prices; but the sti-
pend may be estimated at about L. 240, and it is wholly derivable
from parsonage-teinds. The only privilege which the incumbent
has, is that of cutting peats.
The mission of Strathglass, to which reference is made above,
comprehends not only the upper portion of the parish of Kiltarli-
ty, but also that of Kilmorack, and the missionary preaches at
three different stations. His income is about L. 80, of which he
receives L. 60 from the Committee on the Royal Bounty, and the
other L. 20 are contributed by his hearers. Nearly one-half of
the population of the mission district belongs to the Roman
Catholic faith.
   A Roman Catholic congregation has been established in the
parish, for about fifteen or sixteen years, and consists of from 700


