
     Statistical Account

bout L. 350, and of the other to about L. 230 Sterling.
The town, from mortified money, distributes yearly a-
bout L.18 Sterling, which is under their management.
They have also four beidmen, established on the pre-
ceptory of Messindew, in their gift.  Provost Cumming
also mortified lands, with houses, for four decayed guild-
brethren, to which his their, and the magistrates of Elgyn,
present alternately.  Each of those, so presented, have L. 2
Sterling, quarterly, with a house and a small garden.  Here
also, it may be mentioned, among the other sources of cha-
ritable donations, that there are two mason-lodges, one of
which is opulent.  The Sunday collections amount to about
L. 45 a-year, and the interest of the money, under the manage-
ment of the kirk-session, is L. 8 11 s. Sterling.  Altogether,
what is set apart for charitable purposes, in this town and
parish, amounts to no contemptible sum.
   Schools.-In consequence of some Royal grants*, the magis-
trates have been enabled to build two school-houses, which are

<FOOTNOTE>

*Andrew, Bishop of Moray, between the years 1225, and 1237, founded
a Domus Dei, near the brook Taok, and Leper-house at Elgyn, and esta-
blished some brothers and sisters in it, for charitable and pious purposes, and
endowed it, for that design; as did also King Alexander II.  On the Re-
formation, the Crown seized it; and 22d March 1594, King James, by a
grant, gave the magistrates of Elgyn the lands and superiorities, belonging
to this hospital, or Domus Dei, vulg Messindew, for supporting some poor,
agreeable to the design of the original foundation.  The magistrates were
appointed patrons.  This was confirmed by a royal charter, 5th December
1599.  On the last day of February, 1620, the magistrates obtained another
charter, under the great seal, confirming the original grant, and appointing
them; not only to maintain a few poor out of these lands and superiorities,
but, to support a schoolmaster, "ad docendum musicam, alrasque liberales
"artes, intra dictum nostrum burgum in posterum."  The original charters
are in the archieves of the town.  Agreeable to this, the magistrates have
built, and kept in repair, a house for lodging four beidmen; and give each
of them four bolls of bear yearly, with a gown and a small piece of garden
ground.  The rest of the fund is applied to the maintenamce of schools.


