
                             CLACKMANNAN.       	       129


closed by a very high wall. There are byres for the feeding of
700 cattle; and about 850 acres of land	have been cultivated in
connection with the distillery. The business of distilling has been
here carried on for the London market. The Clackmannan dis
tillery, which is adjacent to the town, is a work of much less ex-
tent. Whisky has been here made for the home or Scotch mar-
ket.
  There is also a very extensive brick and tile work in the pa-
rish; and there are three saw-mills driven by the water of the
Black or South Devon.

<TABLE=POPULATION>

                           III.--POPULATION.
              The population in 1755,	 .       1913
                                1791,	 .       2598
                                1831,	 .       4266
                                1841,	 .       5159

  The increase which has taken place in the population of the
parish of Clackmannan is to be ascribed chiefly to the great exten-
sion of mining operations, particularly in that department of min-
ing which relates to the working of coal.
  About four-fifths of the population reside in the town of Clack-
mannan, and in villages, and in the rows and squares of houses
adjacent to tbem.
  There are two or three families of independent fortune resident
in the parish. There are six proprietors of land of the yearly
value of L. 50 and upwards. There are about 1200 families in
the parish, and the average number of children in each family
is five. The people are not characterized by any distinctive pe-
culiarity as to strength, size, complexion, or any other personal
qualities. There are three insane, three fatuous three blind and
two deaf and dumb persons connected with the parish,

                     IV.--INDUSTRY.
    A decided majority of the population derive a subsistence from
the different collieries in the parish, and more than three-fourths
of the inhabitants are connected with them and with the other
works,wbich have been mentioned. There is also a considerable
part of the population employed in agrirulture, several act in the
capacity of carters, shopkeepers, and, public-house, keepers; and
some are engaged in the weaving of woollen fabrics for the manu-
facturers of Alva and Tillicoultry. During considerable part of
the year, some of the women in the parish continue to sew for the
Glasgow manufacturers, but the earnings from this source are
now most lamentably small. Most of the females to which the
CLACKMANNAN.			    1


