
88                        PERTHSHIRE.


of the people do not in any respect differ from those of the inha-
bitants of the country generally.  Their style and manner of dress

boy,/f* when he came to the age ofthirteen, was obliged at stated times to practise archery
at certain bow marks. There is a piece of ground without the north port, on the
left hand of the road leading to Hunting Tower, called the Bow Butt, where this exer-
cise was practised, but the strong and expert archers had their bow marks on the
South Inch. Near the south end of this Inch stands yet a stone which tradition says
was the southern mark. The northern is near to the north-west side of the ditch that
surrounds the mound, (Cromwell's citadel.) It was fixed on a raising ground called
the " Scholars Knoul." The stone was but lately carried off. The distance between
these marks is about five hundred fathoms. They must have been very strong and ex-
pert archers who could shoot an arrow betwixt these marks.
   From the city records, it appears that the weaponshaw was from an early period
observed in Perth according to statute. The magistrates, by beat of drum and pro-
clamation, called out the weaponsh`wers to exercise on the North Inch at the fixed
periods, and sometimes oftener.  They appointed them a captain and other officers;
they gave them an ensign, which was called the hanzgenzier, and the bearer was de-
signated the hanzgenzier bearer. At particular times, the flag, having upon it the
holy lamb en pazsant carrying the banner of St Andrew, was produced.  Absentees
were fined in 40 shillings each. In 1604, a " Mr Brown, surgeon, and deacon, of
the wrights, produced a letter of exemption under the privy seal, dated 2d February
1507, of divers contents, whereupon the council granted him exemption, from all as-
sizes, and weaponshawings, and others, during his life."
   There is on record an account of a weaponsbawing on the North Inch, 27th July
1614.-" The performers were assembled by beat of drum; Alexander Peebles was
nominated ' banzsengier bearer.' Persons were appointed to be ' gydaris and setting
the pepill rank for ordour, and disobediencents to be warded,' (imprisoned.) The
seven officers (town sergeants) got for the occasion a stand of new red Fleming.
' Patrick Brosone is ordained to deliver and lay the pledges, whilk ar in his bandis,
of the browsteris, in gardie for officeris clathis to this weaponshawing." A riot took
place, occasioned by the disorderly conduct of some of the skinnermen and hammer-
men crafts. The Lord Scone, who was Provost of the burgh, was sent for to 'take
ordour with the riot.' An investigation took place ; the rioters were required to     ap-
pear next day, and say whether they would refer themselves to the town-council or
the secret council. The deacons obliged their craft to abide by the decision of the
town-council. The skinner rioters were fined in 500 merks, to be laid out on the
east pillar of the bridge, and they paid the penalty. It does not appear what judg-
ment was passed on the hammermen rioters.
   After the year 1620, there is no account of weaponshawing in Perth.
   Horse racing appears to have existed in Perth from an early period. The place
appropriated to it was the South lnch; the course was marked by six stakes. The
first account which I find of a prize having been run for is in 1613; it was a silver
bell, presented by Ninian Graham of Garvock, in name of John Graham of Bogside.
In 1631, there were three prize silver bells, but they were declared to be unsuitable,
and a cup was substituted in their place, which it appears weighed no more than eight
ounces. The race on that year was run on the day after Palm Sunday, and the prize
was awarded to Thomas Tyrie of Drumkilbo; his horse was called Kildair. The
Palm Sunday race in 1633 was for a piece of plate, value L.40. In 1637, the cup
was won by Francis Story, servant to Lord Fenton. Till 1688 the race was called
" the bell race." By authority of the magistrates it was thereafter called, " race for
a cup and other prizes."
   The course was transferred from the South to the North Inch in many years ago,
being in several important respects preferable. By an excambion which the town
effected with the Earl of Kinnoul in 1785; the Inch has been very much enlarged;
the coarse is 2220 yards.  For fleet horses it is unrivalled, as throughout the plain
there is not a single rising; it is almost a dead level. It may be proper to mention,
that, before the excambion took place, the course was nearly the same as at present,
the Earl permitting it to go through his park, and the division wall to be for the
time taken down.

<FOOTNOTE>There is an act of the town-council in 1624, " as to children going about weekly
with their bows and arrows, as use and wont."


