
     Of Pettinain.

tains 26 families, and 110 persons, it is about 4 1/4:  In the 
country parish, which includes 276 persons, who reside in 51 
separate houses, it is nearly 5 1/2.  This difference arises from 
the numerous families of some of the farmers, who live in 
the country part of the parish.  The number of married per-
sons is 84; that of widowers and windows 18. 
   The great part of the people are employed in farming, or
in occupations relative to it.  At present, the number of pro-
sessed farmers, or of such as may be said to live by this busi-
riefs, is only 14; and of these some posses but small farms. 
The servants which they usually employ, are about 60.  But 
besides these, there is a considerable number of persons who 
have small possessions of land, and who follow, at the same 
time, some other employment.  There are, likewise, a few 
tradesmen, such as are usually employed in the country; 
wrights, masons, weavers, and shoemakers.  Of these the 
weavers are the most numerous, amounting, with journey- 
men and apprentices, to 11 or 12.  Some of them are em- 
ployed in the cotton manufacture, and use he fly-shuttle. 
The inhabitants are generally healthy; and many attain to a 
great age.  Very lately there were 5, and still there are 4 per-
sons above 80 years; 2 of them near to 87.  A few years ago, 
a man died about the age of 92, who has been bred a mason, 
and had resided in this parish till a short time before his death. 
He was so stout and healthy, at the age of 86, that he was 
able to work, for some time, at his particular occupation. 
The health and longevity of the people may be owing, in 
some degree, to their being much employed in the open air. 
Stomach complaints, however, rheumatism, and consumptions, 
are not unfrequent; and the small-pox and measles carry off 
a number of the young.  Inoculation for the small-pox has 
not yet become general, though it has been very successful 
wherever it was tried.  The houses in the village, and over 


