
			TORBOLTON.	                  759

farms is about 60 acres. Much ryegrass seed is sold to seeds-
men; and the ryegrass is often allowed to stand for seed in land
which is not in a proper state for a crop so very exhausting. Very
little wheat is grown, though there are some good wheat lands in
the parish. The climate is such that the sample is not very fine,
and the crop is not more profitable than one of oats, taking the
state in which it leaves the land into consideration. Turnips are
raised in every farm. Mangel Wurzel, little cultivated, and not
m`ny carrots are raised.
	As every occupier of land is engaged in tile-draining; as subsoil-
ing is coming into use, and as a spirit of improvement is general
among the farmers, it may be anticipated that the system of hus-
bandry in this parish will speedily undergo great change.
	There are in the parish four corn-mills, one flour-mill, and three
tile-works. Most of the farms have thrashing-mills, some of them
being driven by water power.
	Raw Produce.--The amount of raw produce cannot be accu
rately given. By inference from precise information as to several
farms, the value of the gross produce appears to be as follows:-

<TABLE>
         Produce of grain of all kinds,	    L.8965   0  0
         Pasture,                                  7634   0  0
         Hay, meadow and cultivated,               3758   0  0
         Potatoes, turnips, &c.,                   3162   0  0
         Gardens and orchards,                      200   0  0
         Coal and other minerals,                  3847   0  0
					 ________________
                                              L. 27,566   0  0
	Manufactures.--The weaving of muslin was i ntroduced into
Torbolton about the year 1794, and increased very rapidly, the
number of looms in 1813 amounting to more than 120. The
work, till 1825, was chiefly fine muslins, such as jaconets and
lawns. At that period many commencend silk-weaving. At first
Persians, afterwards, in succession, sarsanets, bandanas, satins, and
velvets, but for three or four years past, new fabrics of mixed ma-
terials have been more generally required as challes, (silk and
wool,) Victorias, (silk and cotton,) mousselin de laines (cotton
and wool,) &c.
	At present the number of occupied looms is 140. The work
is all got from Glasgow. It gives a considerable circulation of
money to the place. At the same time, it is to be lamented, that
the hand-loom weavers are often unable to earn adequate-wages.
There are only a very few looms employed at customer or house-
holdwork. Domestic manufacture,to a great extent, is disconti-
nued, and a large proportion of the females, both of the village


