
420                       FORFARSHIRE.

the memory of some of his family, after a somewhat brief epitaph,
concludes by informing the reader, that "the other half of this
stone stands in the churchyard of Guthrie."

	Education.--The salary of the parochial teacher is L.30; his
school fees amount to about L.15 per annum. He is also session-
clerk and preceptor, for which be receives a salary of L.4. There
is occasionally a private school, in the summer evenings, for the
benefit of the young people at the mills; and, during eight months
of the year, a Sabbath school is held in the church, under the
superintendence of the minister. At present, there are about 50
young people attending this school, including the children of pa-
rents of every denomination. In connection with the Sunday
school, there is a collection of small religious publications, which
are kept in constant circulation, and are eagerly read by the young
people in the parish.

	Poor.--There are few regular paupers, but a good many who
receive occasional supply. There is a sum of L.80 in the heritor's
hands, for which he pays the highest interest. The average
amount of collections for the last twelve years for behoof of the
poor is L.28 per annum. This flourishing state of the poor's
funds is chiefly to be attributed to the circumstance of there being
only one heritor, and that heritor residing almost constantly in the
parish.
	Ale-house.--The only ale-house in the parish was put down by
the heritors some years ago; and it is probably as much owing to
this circumstance, as to the institution of a Total Abstinence Socie-
ty, that cases of drunkenness seldom occur in the parish.

	Fuel.--A good deal of wood is used in the parish; but coals,
brought from the railway depot at Newtyle, five miles distant, are
the common fuel.

		MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	The labouring classes may be said to be in a prosperous state,
and enjoy comforts unknown to their fathers. But if they are
better fed, better clothed, and have more comfortable houses than
their fathers had, they are unfortunately less provident. Following
the fashion of the present time, they are too apt to live up to their
incomes. They are, however, very charitable, and, when cases
of poverty and distress occtr, are always ready to give accord-
ing to their ability. In general, they are intelligent and indus-
trious, exemplary in their moral conduct, and regular in their at-
tendance on the ordinances of religion.
	August 1842.


