
				RATTRAY.                            245

	make what they call a drumuck, resembling thin wrought mortar,
	which they throw into the pool to disturb the clearness of the wa-
	ters.  The fishers stand on the point of the rock with long poles,
	and nets upon the ends of them, with which they rake the pool,
	and take up the fish." Besides this particular station, fishers and
	sportsmen, who occasionally visit the Ericht in summer, take trout
	and salmon by the rod, at various places along the river, as far
	as it skirts the parish of Rattray.
	   Manufactures.-Under the name of manufactures may be com-
	orehended spinning-mills, of which there are seven in the parish
	of Rattray.  The river Ericht, affording abundance of water, and
	numerous falls for driving machinery, has induced persons in
	the neighbourhood and even some from towns, to feu ground,
	and erect these structures.  The mills vary in size from six to
	twenty horse power.  The work about which they are employed,
	is manufacturing flax and tow into yarn; the former from one to
	three hanks, the latter from four to eight hanks per spindle.  The
	number of persons necessary for these operations may be stated in
	round numbers at 250.  They work all the six days of the week,
	commencing their labour at half an hour before six in the morn-
	ing, and, excepting an hour allowed for each diet, continuing till
	seven o'clock in the evening.  Few are admitted to the mills be-
	fore twelve years of age, the wages of whom are 2s. per week; and
	the average amount of all classes, young and old, beginners and
	experienced labourers, may be 6s. 6d. a week.  I am not able to
	say how far the regulations in the late Factory Bill have been
	adopted, or what effects they have produced in this part of the
	country.
	   It is evident, that, in a pecuniary view, these establishments are
	highly beneficial.  They furnish the young with an income, and
	parents with the means of supporting their families, to an extent
	which could not otherwise be procured.  But I am afraid that here
	their praises must terminate.  Their effects on health must be
	deemed injurious, from the long confinement the labourers endure,
	and the thick atmosphere they are constrained to breathe.  Their
	influence on morals cannot be favourable, unless a rigid superinten-
	dence be maintained by proprietors and guardians; as we never
	fail to observe, that when large bodies of people are assembled,
	human passions ferment and disorders ensue, except strict vigilance
	be preserved.  A very laudable attempt to correct or prevent these
	evils, was made by the Legislature in their late enactment.


