
338               ROSS AND CROMARTY.

		   II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   There does not appear to have been any account of this parish
drawn up, either printed or in manuscript, if we except the former
Statistical Account, written by the Rev. Angus Bethune, one of
its ministers. The session records are, perhaps, the only written
source from which information can be expected, as to the former
state of Highland parishes; but even these, in the present case,
are wanting, till within a comparatively recent period. The re-
cords are said to have been regularly kept in former times, but
seem to have disappeared at or soon after the death of Mr Fraser,
one of the ministers of this parish, who died in October 1769.
The documents in question were most probably carried away
among the papers of that individual. The minutes of session
have since that period been regularly entered and preserved; but,
not having even the claims of antiquity to recommend them to no-
tice, they contain nothing interesting or important to the general
reader.
   The traditional history of the parish appears to have been more
considerable, if we may judge from the fragments which can still
be gathered. It is now, however, fast dying away with the language
originally spoken. One or two circumstances, it may be, proper to
state, which, though they possess no higher authority than that of
oral tradition, are, nevertheless, founded in fact, and are therefore
worthy of notice.
   It is said that, soon after the accession of William III., the pa-
rish was visited by a famine of such severity, that in one district,
extensive as well as populous, the number of the inhabitants was
reduced to three. On that occasion, if the accounts of tradition
can be believed, the people were under the necessity of forming
common coffins, into which the dead, being thrown promiscuously,
were committed to the earth, without even the ordinary solemni-
ties of funeral.
   Connected with another period, equally interesting in the his-
tory of Scotland, some incidents occurred, which are worthy of no-
tice. The period to which we allude is that which succeeded the
restoration of Charles, when an attempt was made to do away with
the Presbyterian form of worship in Scotland, and to introduce
Prelacy in its room. The minister of Alness at this time was a
Mr Mackilligen, who, from his conduct, appears to have been a
man of no ordinary strength of mind. In the year 1662, Paterson
was ordained Bishop of Ross, and all the clergy throughout the
                                 4


