
     Statistical Account

wood cocks, plovers, solon geese, curlews, widgeons,
etc.

   Population.-The return to Dr. Webster in 1755 was
1685 souls*.  There was a partial list taken of the in-
habitants by the incumbent in March 1782.  This list
was only exact as to the island of I, in which there were
then 277 souls.  The increase of population in that
small island, from the period mentioned to February

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are no certain data by which a comparison can be drawn
between the ancient and present state of the population of the parish.
Tradition is uncertain, and there was no register of any kind kept un-
til the present incumbent was settled in the year 1780.  Some would
conclude, that the population in ancient times was greater, because
some spots in tillage are now covered with heath; and some would draw
a contrary conclusion, from lands being brought to tillage now that never
were so before.  But both conclusions are fallacious.  These circum-
stances depended entirely upon the possessors of the farms.  When a
gentleman possesses large tracts, he allows lands formerly in tillage to lie
lee for pasture, which is soon covered with heath; and small tenants, if
they are straitened for arable ground, bring into tillage ground that ne-
ver was so before.  To confirm the great population of ancient times,
it is said, that 7 score men, from the districts of Ross and I alone, were
at the battle of Inverkeithing; but these 2 districts would furnish such
a number to-day without materially hurting agriculture.  The only  
reason for thinking that the parish was more populous in former times is,
the small spots of farms into which the country was divided.  But what-
ever might be the population of these times, it is certain, that there is
a great increase of inhabitants since the commencement of this century.
The destructive rage with which the civil wars were carried on in the 
time of Charles the First, and a famine and pestilence, in the time of
King William, almost depopulated the whole parish.  In the reign of
the latter Prince, people were dying for want upon the high road, and
buried where they breathed their last, as the few surviving relations had
neither strength nor means to carry them to the common burying places.
Upon the whole coast of Brolass, it is said, 2 families only survived, and
very many parts of the other districts were waste.  King William's days
are still remembered with horror.


