
378           GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

trader alone. *  Whiskey was then scarcely known, the farmers
and working classes generally using malt liquors, and who, for the
trifling duty then levied on the article, were ever ready and eager to
undergo the trouble, and incur the risk of cheating the gauger.
But the exciseman and the union with England were considered part
and parcel of the same concern, and were consequently alike hateful
for a long time to the people of all classes; and although that feeling
had gradually softened, it was not altogether subdued till about the
time of the American war, which interrupted the communication
with France, and at the same time, furnished a new topic of in-
terest of the most deeply exciting description, to almost every fa-
mily in the country. At the present day, and for a considerable
time pass smuggling is little more than known merely by name,
and there is probably no corner in the kingdom where the people
in general are more disposed to respect the magistrate, and obey
the laws, than the rural population of this county.
   Ecclesiastical State.-Christianity is understood to have been
introduced into the county, at least so early as the sixth century,
and ample provision made for its support, according to the notions
of the times, at a very early period. History notices particularly
the endowment of different extensive religious establishments; and
the names of places, and the massive ruins still to be met with,
testify to the piety of its ancient population. Since the Reforma-
tion, the county has been divided into twenty-four parishes. Had-
dington alone is a collegiate charge.
   Parish ministers, besides their spiritual duties, have also, with
the assistance of their sessions, the important interests of the poor
of their respective parishes to look after; and from the chairman
of the session, viz. the ministers being alike independent of those
who contribute, and those who receive parochial aid, and the ser-
Vices of the session as a body, being entirely gratuitous, they are
peculiarly well fitted for the discharge of the duty intrusted to
them.  It is to be understood at the same time, that, wherever
legal assessments are raised for the poor, it is more peculiarly the
duty of the session to say who are fitting objects to be put on the
roll, when the horitors of the Respective parishes attend to the rais-
ing of the money.
   Poor.-The table to be appended hereto will show the extent of

<FOOTNOTE>The above facts, stated as having occured since the middle of the last century,
were communicated to the writer by individuals who had, in their earlier years, been
personally engaged in what they narrated.


