
			CREICH.				635

of Edinburgh, had mortifyd for the encoragement of a schoolmaster
in the parish. The said Mr Alexander being born in the toun of
Luthrie." After having been educated at the University of St
Andrews, where bb acquired considerable literary reputation and
where he became a Professor and also Questor of the Faculty of
Arts, he was presented by Archbishop Gladstanes, about the year
1612, to the church and parish of Leuchars, of which he continued
the minister for many years. Though at the period of his induction
he was attached to Episcopacy, be soon embraced and steadily
maintained Presbyterian principles.
   From his great talents, learning, piety, prudence, and integrity,
he obtained a leading part in the management of ecclesiastical af-
fairs, and was elected Moderator of the General Assembly on
three different trying occasions, as being the best qualified for the
office. In the memorable Assembly at Glasgow, in 1638, he was
Moderator when Episcopacy was abjured, and Presbyterianism re-
stored to its original purity. Presbyteries were then directed by
that Court to erect a school in every landward parish, and the
plan of the parish school, which combines education with religious
instruction, and which has been productive of the most important
advantages to Scotland, is said to have been devised by Hender-
son. He was ever desirous to promote education, and, as a proof
of the encouragement he gave to it, he was made a burgess of
Dundee, in 1632, for his good services to the schools in that town
and he bequeathed not only 2000 merks for the maintenance ofa
school in this parish, but also mortified a house, garden, croft, two
acres of land, and L. 4, 1 Os. 6d. Sterling for the benefit of a school-
master in the parish of Leuchars. At the Glasgow Assembly it
was agreed to translate him from Leuchars to Edinburgh. When
one of the ministers of that city, being a great encourager of learn-
ing, he had the honour of being chosen the first Rector of the
Edinburg University, in January 1640 and of bein annually re-
elected Rector till the time of his deth. He had, moreover, the
share of being the first in proposing, and of having a considerable
share in framing, our Confession of Faith our Larger anct Short-
or Catechisms, our Directory of Church Government and Wor-
ship, and also-of improving the metrical version of the Psalms
which is still used in our Churches. In all matters of public im-
portance he was consulted by the most influential statesmen ; and
even King Charles I., who had a great respect for his character


