
     Of Kirkmichael.

   Wood, Shrubs, Herbs, etc.-At a period perhaps not very
remote, this country was covered with wood.  In the hills
and mosses by which it is bordered, fir-root is found in such
abundance, that it supplies the inhabitants with a warm and
luminous light during the tedious nights of winter.  Fre-
quently large trunks of the fir are found at a considerable
depth below the surface.  Occupied in this employment, many
of the poorer people drive the root to the low country, from
which they bring meal, iron, salt, and other articles in ex-
change; and by this mode of industry, earn a precarious sub-
sistence for themselves and families during the summer sea-
sons.  No fir-wood, however, at present exists, except a few
scattered trees in the southern extremity, upon the banks of
the Avon.  The only woods to be seen, are birch and alder,
and these covering but a small extent of ground.  Till of late,
groves of alder, in which were trees of pretty large dimen-
sions, grew, in several places along the banks of the river,
but now they are almost cut down, and will soon be totally
consumed.  These, with a little hazel, thorns, haw-thorns,
holly, willows, and mountain-ash, are the only species of
wood that still remain.  Indigenous shrubs of different kinds
grow wild in the hills, that carry fruit, such as wild straw-

     3 L 2

<FOOTNOTE>

coille] hirsutis pedibus, palpebris rubricantibus; nostri gailum nigrum tesquo-
rum appellitant."  The caper-coille, once a native here, is now totally extinct,
and known only by name.  He continued in Strathspey till the year 1745.  The
last seen in Scotland, was in the woods of Strathglas, about 32 years ago.
   If the swallow may be excepted, the cuckoo and lapwing.  "tiring its echoes
with unvaried cries," are the only migratory birds that pay their annual visits
to this country; and after a short stay, wing their flight to more genial cli-
mates.  The former seldom appears before the beginning of May, and often its
arrival is announced by cold blasts from the N., and showers of snow, which
are considered as an auspicious omen of the approaching summer.  This tem-
porary rigour of the weather is called by the people, glas-shiontachd na cuach,
or the heavy storm of the cuckoo.


