
           BROUGHTON, GLENHOLM, AND KILBUCHO.
1s. and their meat; reapers' wages vary exceedingly, according to the
season, from 1s. to 2s., with victuals; hay-makers, men 1s., women
6d., with food; potatoe and turnip hoers, generally females, may be
had for 6d. per day, with victtals, sometimes 10d.
  Husbandry.-The system of husbandry carried on is agreeable
to modern improvements. A rotation of crop is almost universally
adopted. In breaking up the lea or pasture ground, which has lain
turnips or potatoes; third, barley, amont which rye-grass and clo-
ver seeds are sown fourth, hay. Then it either remains in pas-
ture for a few years, or a fresh rotation commences. When wheat
is intended to be raised, previous summer fallowing is essential.
The iron plough has in a great measure supersede the use of the
old Scotch plough. The hurkle is used in strong foul land sel-
dom more than two horses are employed, and oxen are generally
disused. The ploughmen display great skill, and make beautiful
work. Robert Welsh, Esq. of Mossfennan, has recently improved
thirty-six acres of moorland, which befor yielded nothing but coarse
heath, but now produces the most ltxurian crops under an approved
course of rotation.
  Thomas Tweedie, Esq. of Quarter, is giving a new face to his
steward. He is renewing the fences, manuring with lime, putting
down a number of additional plantations, and otherwise improving
that portion of his estate, which in a few years will render it an or-
nament to this part of the country.
  On the estate of Rachan, the Tweed, for about a mile, ha been
substantially embanked by William Loch, Esq. the proprietor; a
considerable quantity of fine haugh or holm land is thus protected
from the encroachments of the river. Other improvements of im-
portance have been made on the estate of Kilbucho, more espe
ciallay on that of Kilbucho Place, and on the glebe.
  Neither the Fiorin grass nor the Lucerne has been cultivated to
any extent. The mangel-wurzel has been raised on a very limited
scale, and the Swedish turnip has fallen into disrepute. The globe
turnip arrives at the greatest size, the yellow stands the winter best,
and the red-topped holds a middle rank in the estimation of the
farmer. By allowing these different varieties to grow to seed in
the same field, some curious hybirds have been produced, surpas-
sing any of the parents as esculents. A crss betwixt the yellow
and globe has been tried with success.


