
290			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	Topographical Appearances.--In point of scenery, it far surpasses
most of the neighbouring parishes. Surrounded by gently swel-
ling hills on all sides, it forms an extensive plain, for the most part
in the highest state of cultivation, intersected by numerous thriving
hedges, and interspersed with clumps of trees.
	In the parish itself, there are no hills worthy of mention but that
which is called Burnswark, in the north of the plain. This remark-
able eminence, 740 feet above the level of the sea, being consider-
ably higher than any other within many miles, commands one of
the most beautiful, and, at the same time, one of the most extensive,
views in Britain. From its summit, on a clear day, may be seen
the Isle of Man, the whole of the northern coast of Cumberland,
with its noble range of mountains, part of Westmoreland, of North-
umberland, and even sometimes the mountainous part of Yorkshire.
The greater portion of this parish is exceedingly well sheltered by
the hills of Woodcockair and Repentance, Brownmuir, Clinthill,
Burnswark, and some others. The parish may be regarded on the
whole as remarkably healthy.
	Hydrography.--The rivers connected with this parish are the
Annan, the Milk, and the Mein. The first of these, in its
course along the western boundary of Hoddam, is in general about
100 feet broad, and abounds in pools, some of Which are 15 or 16
feet deep. The Milk, which is one of the tributaries of the An-
nan, washes only a small corner on the north-west of the parish.
Its direction is from the north-east, and the extent of its course
is about fourteen miles. The Mein, which is scarcely large enough
to deserve the name of a river, runs directly from the east, and,
after a course of five or six miles, joins the Annan nearly at right
angles. This stream sometimes changes its channel, and frequent-
ly overflows its banks, thus causing considerable annoyance to those
through whose farms it directs its course. Embankments are found
to be very precarious, owing to the gravelly nature of the soil.
	Geology and Lineralogy.--The minerals in which this parish
chiefly abounds are slate-clay, clay-ironstone, sandstone, limestone,
amygdaloid. Of the first of these there occur in the neighbourhood
of Ecclefechan several varieties, containing numerous impressions of
shells, and sometimes also of ferns. Its general colour is grayish-
black and ash-gray, and it is in some instances so compact that
the slaty texture is with difficulty to be discerned. Some beds of
clay-ironstone, which occur along a stream a little above Eccle-
fechan, alternate with greenish-gray and reddish-brown coloured


