
180                    STIRLINGSHIRE.

Johnstone, Esq. present proprietor of this barony. From these re-
gisters, it appears there are not fewer than fourteen or fifteen veins
among the Alva hills, which, from the trials made, contain ores
of silver, lead, copper, iron, and cobalt.
   Coal, &c.-On the south bank of tbe Devon, immediately oppo-
site the lands of Alva, it is well known that the finest coal in this
country is procured, belonging to the Earls of Mar and Mansfield.
The same seams of coal, extending to the north bank of the De-
von, on the estate of Alva, were worked about a century ago, by
Sir John Erskine, with considerable advantage, and the pits and
other vestiges of this work are still to be seen. With a noble spi-
rit of enterprize, that gentleman projected a canal to run along the
banks of the Devon, and convey his coal to the Forth, from thence
to be exported to a proper market. About sixty years since, ac-
curate surveys of the Devon were made, as high as the parish of
Dollar, with a view to facilitate the transporting of coal belonging
to the different proprietors on either bank of the river, by means
of a canal; but this intention was not carried forward. It is evi-
dent, from the smooth and gentle current of the stream in many
places, that one entire canal might be unnecessary. It was generally
believed that the coal seam here extended from one extremity of
the parish to the other, but recent attempts in the west and south-
west parts, carried on under the superintendence of a scientific
gentleman, proved unsuccessful. Still, there can be little doubt of
the existence of coal, where it was sought for, although it dips far
below the surface. Indeed, this parish is part of the great coal field
of Scotland, which crosses the island diagonally from east to west.
Bounded on the north by the river Eden, near St Andrews, it
goes to the south parts of Kinross-shire, and from thence sweeps
towards the Ochils at Dollar, and stretches westward along the
foot of the hills, till it arrives at Craigleith, the westmost of the
Alva range. Here it makes a sudden turn southward, crossing
the river Forth, below Stirling, and may now be traced by Kilsyth,
Campsie, and Kilpatrick, till it falls into the Clyde above Dunbar-
ton.
   Zoology.-The most rare animal found in this parish, is that spe-
cies of hawk (Falco peregrinus) used in ancient times for the di-
version of hunting. From time immemorial, this bird has had its
residence in a very high perpendicular rock, called Craigleith, pro-
jecting from the brow of the Westhill of Alva. Only one pair, it


