
174                        FIFESHIRE.

labourer is under the hardship of providing safes for the graves of his
friends.-Forty years ago, thrashing machines were unknown to us;
now, they are become general and so beneficial that it is difficult to
believe how farming could be carried successfully on without them.
-Forty years ago, the different ranks in society were distinguished
from each other by their dress; at present there is little distinction
in dress.-Forty-nine years ago, I was the youngest minister of the
presbytery, now I am the oldest.


     Revised May 1836.


                              PARISH OF BEATH.

  		 PRESBYTERY OF DUNFERMLINE, SYNOD OF FIFE.

     		   THE REV. JAMES FERGUSSON, MINISTER.

         I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of the parish was anciently spelt Baith, and
signifies, in Gaelic, birchwood,-of which there is not a vestige now
to justify the etymology.
   Extent and Boundaries.- The parish is about 4 miles long, and
3 broad, and is of an irregular figure. It is bounded on the west
by the parish of Dunfennline; on the south by Dunfermline and
Aberdour; on the south-cast and east by Aberdour and Auchter-
tool; on the north-east by Auchterderran ; on the north and north-
west by Ballingry and Cleish.
   Topoqraphical Appearances.-Its surface is rugged and hilly;
but there are no mountains The beautiful hill of Beath, in re-
gard to the excellence of its pasture, and the fine and extensive
view it affords, is well entitled to the description given of it in the
last Statistical Account. The Saxifraga granulata is found on it
in abundance.
   Owing to the elevation of the parish, and to the quantity of wet
land in and around it, the climate, during the greater part of the
year, is cold and humid. The only lake in the parish is Loch
Fitty (not Tilly, as, by mistake, in the last account.) It is about
three miles in circumference, rather shallow, adorned with little
scenery, and contains pike, perch, and muscle.
                    		3


