
294                 STIRLINGSHIRE.

ample, in 1792, there were in what is termed a "pass," four men,
each having two piecers, that is to say, twelve persons in all.  Now,
one woman spins in one pass with the assistance of three piecers,
that is four persons in all what the twelve originally did.  In point
of numbers, the reduction will be still greater, if the self-acting
jennies are as successful as they promise in the meantime to be.
One woman by herself, with one of these, is able to spin as much
as four with the jennies in common use; and for this inven-
tion is the cotton trade indebted, if we are not misinformed, to
James Smith, Esq. of Deanston, so well known as the ingenious
author of many important discoveries in various branches of science.
It ought to be stated, that the workers here are in general healthy;
they are clean and "tidy" in their appearance, which, may no
doubt, contribute to this. In point of morality, the mill population
may bear comparison with any of the same rank in any of the pa-
rishes adjoining; and to several of the mill girls, is the writer of this,
indebted for kind and efficient assistance in teaching a Sabbath
school.
  In the year 1792, Messrs John Monteith and Company, of
Glasgow, established and carried on for several years an extensive
printing-work; but it was found to be too distant from coal to be
conducted with advantage. It was therefore abandoned. The site
and property were purchased by the proprietors of the cotton works,
Messrs James Finlay and Company, and have not been again turned
by them to any manufacturing purpose. The great proportion of our
village population are occupied with, and dependent upon, hand-
loom weaving; there being in Balfron village between 300 and 400
looms. The character of the work done here is what is known by
light jaconets and lawns, in numbers varying from 900 to 1600, and
harnesses, by which are meant fancy dresses and shawl patterns of
all sorts. Our hand-loom weavers are, like the others throughout
the kingdom, a sadly depressed class of artisans. There may be
no doubt amongst them, here as elsewhere, the idle and the worth-
less; but, taking them as a body, they are an industrious hard-
working class. They toil at what is termed long hours, and long
enough these are, being from 6 A.M., or even earlier, to 8 P.M.,
and even later; and yet they are only able to earn a miserable
pittance; the average of their wages, after deducting expense
of carriage, light, shop rent, and agency, not being 6s. per week.
What becomes of the family in times of sickness? and to what a
state of misery it may frequently be reduced, may be conceived.


