
			COYLTON.                            661

Kilmarnock fourteen, and Irvine fifteen, miles from Coylton, are
occasionally resorted to for the same purpose. Till lately, a con-
siderable traffic was carried on with the Glasgow add Paisley
markets. Cheese, butter, pork, eggs, poultry, meal, &c. were
bought up over the country and conveyed to these marts. Al-
though no one in Coylton is now employed in this trade, it is car-
ried on by others, who make their weekly rounds in the district; and
in this way, there is a regular communication with Glasgow, which
is thirty-five miles distant. Edinburgh, Cumnock, and Ochiltree
carriers pass through the parish weekly; and there is a stage-coach
from New and Old Cumnock to Ayr, that goes and returns by
Coylton, every lawful day. There is also daily communication
with Ayr by means of carters employed in the coal trade. Still
some inconvenience is felt from the want of a post, or regular daily
carrier.
	The great line of road from  Ayr to Dumfries passes through
the centre of the parish; and from the same point, roads branch
of in all directions to the adjoining towns and villages in the
county. There are fourteen miles of turnpike roads in the parish,
and five turnpike gates, at Crosshill, Dykneuk, Broadhead, Pot-
terhill, and Dalmacow. It may give an idea of the thoroughfare
in the parish, and serve other purposes, to mention their rental.
The Dykneuk bar on the Dalrymple road, which is not much
travelled, is let along with the Crosshill gate, which is the chief
one; and their rent for the present year is L. 239; Broadhead for
same term, L. 145; Potterhill, L. 30; and Dalmacow gate, L 37.
	The chief lines of road are repaired by a blue whinstone from
Cloquherrnan quarry, which costs 4s. 6d. per cubic yard. The
annual expense of upholding that part of the Ayr and Dumfries
road which is in Coylton, is about L. 30 per mile. The Dal-
rymple turnpike, L, 6; and the road on which the Broadhead toll-
bar is placed, L. 8 per mile.
	The extent of parish roads upheld by the conversion-money is
11 miles 2 furlongs, 177 yards. The amount of conversion-
money from land is L. 49, 8s. 6d.; that from householders is
variable and uncertain. The sum realised from land and
householders last year, and applied to the parish roads, was L. 52,
14s. 2d.
	Considerable attention is now paid to the keeping of these
roads. They are under the care of the surveyors for the Ayr and
Mauchline districts. They still admit of being greatly improved;


