
                           KILCHOMAN.                      647

ing in the mossy flat below Sunderland House. This tract, ex-
tending twelve miles, has a south-eastern aspect, with a gentle
slope, and being in a great measure sheltered by the rising ground
to the west, is very fertile and safe for any kind of crop. In many
parts it has been partially drained; but, being chiefly in the hands
of tenants, who do not possess skill enough to avail themselves of
their facilities, the land, from exhaustion, and the non-observance
of rotation in cropping, is comparatively unproductive. The west-
ern side presents a less favourable aspect, and a less productive
soil. The arable land is generally at a higher elevation, forming a
sort of table land on the top of a high rocky coast. From the
frequent, and heavy gales, crops raised here are more uncertain;
but the land is well adapted for pasture.
  State of a good colour and quality are made at Kilchiaran. The
quarry is now wrought to a great extent.
  The parish is divided into two unequal parts by a flat, which
consists of several hundred acres, narrow in the middle, but ex-
panding at each end. At the east end, it extends to the head of
Lochgruinard in one direction, and to Lochindaal in another, at
an elevation little above the high-water mark. At the west end it
communicates with the Atlantic in the bays of Kilchoman, Saligo,
aud Sanaig, having the high lands of Coull, Smaal, and Sanaig
between them. Through this valley the sea must have made a
full sweep, at some period beyond the era of authentic history. It
is now covered with moss, varying in depth from three to nine feet.
Below this is a bed of gravel and sand, containing such marine shells
as are still to be found on the shores of the adjacent bays. Un-
derneath this stratum lies a bed of strong blue clay, in which no
animal remains have been discovered. Where the bed of gravel
is of moderate thickness, and partially mixed with clay, large trees
are exposed to view, lying in various directions; and where the
moss has been removed, many roots may be seen in situ, giving
rise to the supposition, that the trees were broken over at the for-
mer surface of the ground.
  To the north of this valley the land is less elevated. It undu-
lates without rising high, or forming valleys, until it terminates
at the point of Ardnave. The west side of this point is compa-
ratively unproductive, front want of drainage. Nevertheless, the
soil in certain localities is good, consisting of a thin bed of moss,
interspersed with clay and sand, lying on a bed of claystone rock.
The east side of this point is well adapted for cultivation or pas-


