
414                        FIFESHIRE.

commendater of Dunfermling, and Archdeacon of St Andrews, to
Robert Durie of that Ilk, of our lands of Nether Grhnge of KiDg-
horn Wester, called Le Mains; together with the keeping of the
place or fort of the same ; I and for the preserving and custody
thereof, we dispone heritably our lands of Grefland and CuniDger-
land, now called Brunt-Island, within our shire of Kinghorn, rega-
lity of DUTIferniling, and sheriffdom of Fife ;' dated anno 1538."
After the Reformation, according to the same authority, the cas-
tle was given first to Kirkealdy of Grange, then to Sir Robert
Melville of Carnie. Since that period, it is understood to have
passed through the hands of many differentproprietors. It served
as bead quarters to the detachment of the Covenanters' troops
that was raised in this part of the country.. In modern times, con-
siderable additions have been made to it. It is surrounded by
plantations and garden ground ; and forms a fine object in the
foreground of the rich and extensive view commanded by the en-
virons of the town.
At the villaoe of Kirktoun, are the ruins of the original parish
church, surrounded by a small burying-ground. The date of its
erection is unknown ; but it bears the marks of great antiquity.
On a small eminence at Stenbouse, in the north-west part of the
parish, stand the ruins of a small fort or castle, called Knockda-
vie. It belonged anciently to an individual of the name of Dou-
glas, of whom sorne notice is taken in 11 The Judgments of God
on Persecutors," appended to some of the old editions of the
Scots Worthies. At Balbee, a mile and a half eastward, there
existed a structure somewhat similar. It was taken down about
Sixty or seventy years ago, and portions of the fine bewn freestone
of which it was built may still be seen in some of the walls in the
neighbourbood. Near the same place, a barrow or tumulus was
opened fifty years ago, when some square stones were -found, ar.-
ran-ed in the form of a coffin, but containing no particular relics.
There appears to have been a number of tumuli in the same neigh-
bourhood.

<TABLE=III.-POPULATION.>

Population in 1811, (seamen included,) 2000
              1821,                    2180
              1831,                    2399


