
        144                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	ters, and that those who require aid come notto their neighbours
	who are able to give, as common beggars, to receive from day to
	day, or from week to week, a miserable pittance; but on some few
	occasions, in course of the year, when they know it will be both
	convenient and agreeable to bestow the required bood. It follows
	that the poor among us are comparatively well provided for, upon
	the whole, without the aid of any public assessment, and purely
	from the inexhaustible and grateful source of private benevolence.
	The truly parental leniency of the proprietor produces in a great
	degree this happy result.
	   Fairs.-In this parish are held three fairs; to correspond with
	the great fairs in the south; in the months of May, July, and Sep-
	tember respectively.
	   Inns.-The number of inns is three.
	   Fuel- The only fuel is peat or turf, excepting that a few of the
	more wealthy sheep-farmers burn a proportion of coals imported,
	at considerable expense, from Clyde, and sometimes from Liverpool.
        		  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The most striking variation betwixt the present state of the pa-
	rish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Ac-
	count, consists in its being opened up by the road which runs
	through it; and by the hebdomadal visits of a steam-boat, regu-
	larly paid, save during the stormy months of winter. By these
	means we have learned that there is a world beyond Glenelg. The
	Chinese-like self-preference which once existed, accompanied by a
	contempt of those, who, less fortunate than we, had been ordained
	to draw breath first in some other district, is passing. away, and giving
	place to a more enlightened, a more rational, and Christian feeling.
	Since the period alluded to, also, the large farm system has come
	more fully into operation, and its evils have been developed. By
	it the country has been bereaved of her worthiest children, and,
	in the exaltation of a few individuals, thousands are doomed to po-
	verty. The ease to the land-owner in securing the returns of his
	property can be no compensation for this evil; and, difficult though
	the reestablishment of another order of things may now be, the gra-
	dual breaking up of the present system, and engaging the energies
	of the population who now live without an object, in that line of
	industry to which they have been accustomed, which they under-
	stand and love, seems to be the improvement that religion, patri-
	otism, and sound policy demand in behalf of so large, so valuable
	and important a portion of the community.

	January 1836.


