				KINFAUNS.			1223

	reading; 2s. 6d. for writing; and 3s. for arithmetic; it being under-
	stood that those who pay the higher rate, get the lower branches
	for nothing.  Thus, for instance, children paying for writtng, get
	reading for nothing ; and those paying for arithmetic, get both
	reading and writing for nothing.  English grammar, and  geography
	are always taught gratis, as it is not the parents, but the teacher,
	who wishes the children to learn these branches.  At the other
	school, the fees are a little higher.  At both schools, the prin-
	ciples of the Christian religion are daily taught.
	   The people in general are fully alive to the benefits of educa-
	tion ; and there are scarcely any children above six years who are
	not taught to read, and very few above nine who cannot write.
	   Poor.-The average number of persons receiving parochial aid
	for the last seven years was 12; that is to say, the average num-
	ber of names on the permanent roll, for these years, was 12 ; but
	as some of those persons had others depending on them, the total,
	number relieved was considerably more.  Those persons had
	each an allowance in money advanced to them every twenty-eight
	days, varying from 3s. to L. 1, according to their necessities; about
	half the number received each 12 cwt. of English coals annually;
	and a still smaller number had their house-rents paid.  So that
	the average sum allotted to each person on the pdrmanent roll for
	those years, including money, coal, and house-rents, was L. 5, Os.
	7 1/2d. annually.
	   Besides the paupers on the permanent roll, there are always
	a number, more or fewer, receiving occasional relief; and the
	average annual sum distributed among these for the period above-
	mentioned was L. 4, 16s. 3d.  It may be mentioned also that,
	within the same period, the kirk-session expended considerably up-
	wards of L. I00 on the board, medical treatment, &c. of paupers
	in the Lunatic Asylum.
	   The average annual amount of funds which have passed through
	the hands of the kirk-session for the purpose of relief to the poor-
	during the last seven year, has been L. 90. 19s. 2 1/2d. This has,
	been made up of church collections, averaging annually L. 34 8s.
	I 1/2d. ; and of mortcloth and proclamation dues, averaging annually
	L.4, 4s. 6 1/2.; together with an additional sum, amounting, on an
	average, to L. 52, 6s. 6 1/2d. annually, consisting of the interest of
	capital, and of part of capital itself lifted.  It ought to be observed,
	however, that, out of these L.90, &c., there are paid the salaries
	of the synod, presbytery, and session clerks,--synod, presbytery,


