
     Statistical Account

meal and money among the poor on his own lands; and
that the same beneficent custom may obtain in other cor-
ners of the parish, I have no reason to doubt.

   Population.-According to the return made to Dr Web-
ster, the number of souls, in 1755, was 2898.  By a mi-
nute of a visitation in the presbytery records, dated at the
kirk of Rathven, 30th August 1720, the population is
stated at 1700 catechisable persons; and 600 Papists, by a
modest computation of those above 10 years of age, by
Mr Robert Gordon, the minister, in presence of the heri-
tors, and in answer to the queries, How many catechisa-
ble persons in the parish?  Whereof, How many Papists?
Before stating the population, it may be observed that part
of the east and of the parish is annexed to Cullen quoad sa-
cra. The date of the annexation I have enquired after in

<FOOTNOTE>

130 children under 10 years of age.  And by including a mile round
the town, their number is increased to 190. The Society's school was
removed from another station in the parish to Buckie in 1750; and has
ever been on a bad footing, the schoolamster having never been possessed
of accommodation to the same extent with his brethren on that establish-
ment.  And this inconveniency has occasioned loss to the master,and a
considerable advance out of the poor's fund.  At present the school is
held on so precarious a tenure, as to endanger its being entirely lost, to
the great prejudice of the place.  It is true, that Dr Kemp, whose spi-
rited exertions, as secretary to the Honourable Society have done so
much credit to himself, and good to the cause of virtue and religion, has
explained the situation of this school to a gentlemen of fortune, and of 
polite literature, in an eminent station, who has a natural interest in the
place.  And, as it is pretty generally understood, that a promise of ac-
commodation had been granted; those who patronised the former school,
have withdrawn their support, and seem resolved not to renew it.  Hence,
the cause of its present precarious state.  At Findochtie, a schoolmasters
receives a guinea annually from Lord Findlater, as an encouragement 
to teach the reading of English, knitting and sewing.  She is a decent
woman, bestows her time on her scholars, and gives satisfaction to the
town and neighbourhood.

     I


