
                        AYR.                                      55

ing of muslin is carried on to a great extent, by agents commission-
ed from Glasgow, and has proved a great blessing to many fe-
males in this community. About 300 in this parish are thus em-
ployed, who earn from 4d. to 2s. per day. There are nine incor-
porated trades in Ayr, but, with the exception of those above no-
ticed, the produce of their mechanical labour is chiefly confined
to the consumption of our own population. *
	Ayr Harbour.-,The harbour of Ayr appears to have been a port
for shipping, of as old standing as the town itself. At a very early pe-
riod of Scotch history, mention is made of ships having been built
here, by several of the Kings of Scotland; and in the time of Buch-
anan, it is described in his history, as "Emporium non ignobile". A
serious drawback, however, to its position as a port is formed by a bar
at its mouth, occasioned by the deposit of alluvial matter brought
down by the river during floods, as has been already noticed. Much
has been done, and a great deal of money expanded, to lessen this
obstruction, for its entire removal is probably impracticable. Some
years ago, a wall of from 20 to 25 feet in height, 8 or 9 feet
broad at the top, and probably three times as much at the base,
was carried out into the sea, to the extent of upwards of 300 yards
on the south side, and more recently anotber new wall or pier, pa-
rallel to the other, was constructed on the north side at consider-
able expense. And it is intended, we understand, to erect a break-
water still further out than either of these, at the mouth of the en-
trance into the harbour, according to a plan furnished by an en-
gineer of competent skill in such matters. + This, if finished, as pro-
jected, will, it is said, cost about L. 4000. Ordinary spring-tides
are from 13 to 14 feet of water, and within the, bar there is space
to contain 80 sail. The number of vessels belonging to the port
is 18, and the amount of tonnage is 2459. The following is a
state of the income and expenditure for 1836:

<TABLE>
         Tonnage dues on vessels,            L. 688     5 7
                      on goods,                 193     9 8
         Crane dues, fines, &c.                  19     18 2
                                             L. 901     13 5
         EXpenditure,                         1577      13 0
        Excess of expenditure,               L. 675     19 7

<FOOTNOTE>We had prepared for this head a short Account of the patent slip in the wood-
yard of Messrs Cowan and Sloan; but it is omitted in consequence of our being re
minded, that as being placed on the other side of the river, though the proprietors
and many of the workmen reside here, it more properly belongs to the parish of New-
ton-upon. Ayr.
        Since the above was written, the work has been begun.





