
                      SELKIRK

A pastoral society was some years ago formed, chiefly through
the exertoins of Lords Napier, fpr the improvement of the breed
of sheep and cattle in the district, and from the emulation excited
amongst farmers, has been of the  utmost benefit.


               V-Parochaial Economy.

  Market.-Selkirk is it self a market-town, and the capital of the
county.  Formerly it was famed for the making of shoes, in which it
fallen to a level with all others,- there being little encouragement
given to trade or enterprise from the severe burgh restrictions in
force. Little business is transacted on the market-day.   The 
standard of bread is regulated by Haddington and Kelso.  The an-
nu`l revenue of the town of Selkirk is about L.1000.
 
  Means of Communication.-The means of communication are
excellent, and in no part of Scotland can better roads be found.
This has been the result of improvements within the last twenty
years.  The mail-road from Edinbugh to Carlisle passes through
the town, in which there is a post-office, and a regular delivery
of letters twice a-day, expcept on Sundays, and then only once.
There is a stage-coach also daily to and from Edinburgh.  The 
mail-road at present runs along the north bank of the Ettrick,
which it crosses about half a mile from the town; but a new one
is now making,  which, leading round by Galashiels, will cross the
Ettrick a little above its junction with the Tweed, and sweep along
the south side of the river.  The are four bridges in the parish,
one over the Ettrick, and three others over the Yarrow, all in good
repair.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situate in the town of
Selkirk, rather incoveniently for the country part of the population,
being within a mile from the eastern, and between five or six from the
other extremities of the parish, making it impossible for the peasantry
to be so regular in attendance on public worship as they otherwise
would be.  It was built in 1748, and has since been repaired more
than once.  The last time of its being repaired was in 1829, when it
was newly roofed and painted; and among other improvements,
stoves were introduced, adding much to the comfort of the congrega-
tion in winter.  It is calculated to contain about 1200 persons.  The
manse is very good, and was erected in 1806 .  The extent  of the
glebe is seven acres, and its annual value L.21.  The amount of
the stipend is 19 chalders, or 221 quarters, 2 bushels, 3 pecks, 1/2
 





