
     Statistical Account

   The value of the stipend of this district, in 1633, was for-
merly stated, the particular articles then paid, continue yet
to be paid, with the exceptions of some vicarage and parson-

<FOOTNOTE>

"the arch-deacon, Mr John Tayrie, the arch-deacon's ancient rights, the
"minister of Birsay and chaplainry of St. Ollay within the cathedral kirk,
"with holding up the kirk of Harry.  3d, To the chantor, Mr Nicol Ha-
"lero, the prebendary of Orpher and vicarage of Stenhouse 4th, To the
"chancellor, Mr Alexander Scott, the prebendary of St. Mary of Sandy and
"vicarage of Sandy.  5th, To the treasurer, Sir Steven Culross, the parson-
"age of St. Nicholas of Stronsay and vicarage of Stronsay.  6th, To the sub-
"dean, Mr Peter Howston, the parsonage of Hoy and vicarage of Walls.
"7th, To the sub-chantor, Sir Magnus Strange, the prebendary of St. Colme.
"8th, To the first probender, Sir Thomas Richardson, the parsonage of Cross
"kirk in Sandy.  9th, To Sir Hugh Halero, the prebendary of St. Magnus.
"10th, To Mr Henry Barton, the chaplainry of St. John the Evangelist, in
"the said cathedral kirk.  11th, To Mr Walter Thomson, the chaplainry
"of St Mary and vicarage of St. Mary.  12th, To Mr John Maxwell, the
"chaplainry of St Laurence.  13th, To Sir David Christson, the prebendary
"of St. Catharine.  14th, To Mr Robert Malcolmson, the prebendary of St
"Duthas. Chaplains,-The 1st, of St. Peter, shall be master of the grammar
"school.  2d, Of St Augustine, shall be master of the song school.  Which
"two masters shall be found to teach freely all the boys of the quire and the
"poor willing to be present.  3d, The bishop's quirister.  4th, The provost's.
"5th, The arch-dean's.  6th, The precentor's.  7th, The chancellor's.  8th,
"The treasurer's.  9th, The sub dean's 10th, The prebendary of Holy
"Cross.  11th, The prebendary of St Mary 12th, The chaplain of St.
"Cathraine.  13th, The chaplain of Holy Cross.  And every one of the
"quiristers shall have one last of victual and also ten merks Scots money for
"their stipend in the year, besides the daily distributions which shall be from
"the rents of vicarage of the cathedral kirk, and from the foundation of un-
"cle Thomas, bishop of Orkney and Zetland; and twelve pounds from the
"foundation of the most illustrious late Kings of Scotland, James III. and
"James IV. paid by the bishop for the daily masses of St. Mary, the masses
"of the holy blood in first holy day, and the regimen of the second holy day
"though the whole year.  An inferior servant, (sacrista,) about holy things,
"shall ring the bells, light the lamps, carry the water and fire to the kirk,
"who ought to have the accustomed revenue, and forty, shillings from the


