
252                      RENFREWSHIRE.

   The young, on public days, give evidence of their taste for dress.
On ordinary days, the girls employed in factories, or in sewing
manufactured goods, generally wear a large cloak or mantle of cloth
or of tartan with a hood, which may be noticed as the only peculi-
arity in the dress of our town.
   When trade is flourishing, the people, on the whole, enjoy, in
a considerable degree, domestic comfort: but there are so many
vicissitudes in the trade of the place, and reverses are so frequent,
that after one unfavourable period, numbers have scarcely risen
above their difficulties, when they are again obliged to encounter
fresh ones.  The circumstances of those in the country part of
the parish are, in general, not so fluctuating.  At the same time,
of late years, the farmers have, from their high rents, and the low
prices of grain, scarcely made that progress with the manufacturers,
in improving their circumstances, which, from their industry, we
might naturally have been led to expect.
   About forty years ago, our people were reckoned among the
most intelligent, moral and religious inhabitants of Scotland : and
still a great many may be so considered.  But various circumstan-
ces having concurred in causing a deterioration in thesd respects,
particularly since the era of the French revolution ; and our popu-
lation having greatly outstripped the means of moral and religious
education, many have been left to, grow up in ignorance of the
first principles of Christianity; and too many, alas ! have had their
minds sadly imbued with prejudices against its sacred truths and
institutions.
   Distinguished Men.-Of natives or inhabitants of Paisley, many
have distinguished themselves in the different walks of life.  Some
of these we have already noticed, and others will fall to be men-
tioned in the sequel of this account.  Others, perhaps, not less
distinguished, but whose modesty prevented them from taking an
active share in the more public scenes of life, now live only in the
grateful recollection of their own townsmen, while we cannot but
believe, that many of our greatest benefactors are no longer re-
membered.
   Among persons of eminence, we may notice the following:
Andrew Knox, a relation of the illustrious Reformer, minister of
Paisley, and afterwards Bishop of Raphoe; Patrick Adamson, after-
wards Archbishop of St Andrews; Thomas Smeton, afterwards
Principal of the College of Glasgow; Robert Boyd of Trochrig,


