
314                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

greatest growth was in the year 1760, when it increased precisely two
inches. During all the other years, its increase in circumference was
from one inch to one and a-half inch annually. This fine tree, how-
ever, is now upon the decay. It is ascertained from other instances
that the age of the silver fir is limited in this country to within a
century. It is in its greatest perfection when about 80 years old;
and if placed in a proper situation, it is capable, during all that
period, of increasing upon an average, about a cubic foot of wood
annually." About 35 years ago, a liberal coating of fresh earth
was applied all round the trunk, and to the extremity of the bran-
ches, which raised the surface next the stem, upwards of a foot,
and which has very much revived this noble tree. In January
1838, it measured at three feet from the ground, (to allow for the
new coating of earth,) 13 feet 4 inches in circumference; having
increased since 1793, or during the last forty-five years, about 2
feet 1 inch, being at the rate of nearly 4 1/2 eighths of an inch an-
nually. It still appears to be in a healthy state, producing new
and healthy growths annually, though some of the branches near
the ground are partially decayed.
   The plantations, which are very extensive, are in a thriving con-
dition. The trees are of every variety, both of soft and hard-wood,
and seem all well adapted for the soil. On the estate of Glen-
corse, there are a number of very fine old larches, not much, if at
all, inferior to those on the Duke of Atholl's property at Dunkeld.*

                   II.-CIVIL HTSTORY.
   Chalmers in his Caledonia mentions, "that this parish was
formed in 1616, from the old parishes of Pentland and Penicuik."
After the Reformation, according to the same author, the old pa-
rish of Pentland was suppressed and annexed to that of Lasswade.
This explains why, in the former Statistical Account, the pa-
rish is said to have been separated from that of Lasswade and
Penicuik. I do not know on what authority Chalmers makes
this assertion, but I find in the Presbytery Records repeated men-
tion made of, the parish of Glencross, so early as 1589, when Mr
Andrew Forrester was minister. The most likely explanation of
this seeming discrepancy is, that, previous to that date, it had been
a parish quoad sacra.
   Historical Notices.-Tbis parish is connected with events that
are calculated to give to it, considerable historical interest. Wood-
houselee, now Old Woodhouselee, the ruins of which still remain,

<FOOTNOTE>Since writing the above, these fine trees have been cut down.


