
                             INVERURY.                          681

customs of the Picts, "a burrow of earth, in proportion to the
rank, was thrown up.  That of a beloved king was sometimes like
a little hill." (Vol. i. 392.)  Chalmers (Cal. i. 381), describing
the short reign of King Aodh, Hugh, or Eth (surnamed of the
swift foot,) says, "It was his misfortune to reign while Grig was
Maormor (ruler or earl) of the extensive country between the Don
and the Spey.  This artful chieftain found no great difficulty to
raise up a competitor, with a faction, to oppose the King.  The
contending parties met at Strathalan, in a bloody field, where
Aodh was wounded; and, being carried to Inverurin, died two
months after this fatal conflict, and one year after his sad acces-
sion, during wretched times in 881."  The Chronicon Pictorum,
a good authority, also assigns his death to Inverury in the follow-
ing words: "Edus tenuit idem (regnum) uno anno, ejus autem
brevitas nit historta memoriae commendavit, sed in civitate Inruriu
occisus est." (Antiqu. Celto Normannicae, 141).  Another MS.
has indeed Ururine (Innes's Critic. Essay), and Pinkerton makes
it Uturin; but this last I should hold an error of the copyist.  On
the whole, looking to the sepulchral character of the Bass, and to
the high probability that Eth finished his days here, I am inclined
to believe that this burrow holds the remains of that unfortunate
Pictish monarch.  There is a prophetic popular rhyme concern-
ing the Bass, of which the most ancient version on record is in the
MS. of Sir James Balfour, Lord Lyon King at Arms, who flou-
rished about 1660.  He says, "Ye river Ury springs from the
hills of Faudlane, near Gartlie Castle, hard by Strathbogie, and
falls in ye river Done, a little below ye church of Inverury, near
the old fort or mount esLIled ye Basse.  Ye inhabitants here have
this foulishe ald ryme always in their mouthe,

		When Dee and Don runs both in one,
		And Tweed shall run in Tay,
		The little river of Inverury,
		Shall bear ye Basse away."-MS. Adv, Library.

   The Conin Hillock.-The popular belief gives this mound as
the burial-place of the King.  The mound is undoubtedly artifi-
cial; but whether raised for sepulchre or a seat of judgment, it is
impossible to decide.  If we should hold it for the former, it seems
of far too insignificant dimensions for marking the resting-place of
a Pictish king.
   Landholders.-The landholders, with their valued rent Scots,
are,


