
                        ST VIGEANS.                      503

strated Arbroath, the latter has been distinguished by a modera-
tion which has enabled its merchants and manufacturers to bear
up against a series of bad trade, unparalleled in point of duration
since the application of steam to manufactures.
   At the present time (January 1842), there are in that portion
of Arbroath comprehended within the parish of St Vigeans, fifteen
mills or factories for spinning flax and tow into various sizes of
yarns, from 1 1/2 lb. per spindle upwards. These are driven by 20
steam-engines of 250 horsepower, and give employment direct to
1240 persons. Of these, 275 males are employed in the hackling
or dressing of the raw material, about four-fifths of whom are
adults, the remainder being apprentices of from fourteen to eigh-
teen years of age. The persons who constitute the remaining
number of workers are employed exclusively within the factories,
properly so called, in the proportion of 250 males to 715 females.
Of these about 110 are men employed as millwrights, foremen,
overseers, &c.; about 250 are women twenty-one years of age and
upwards, and the remainder young persons of both sexes from
thirteen to twenty-one.
   The quantity of flax consumed in these mills may be estimated
at 5500 tons per annum, of the average aggregate value of about
L. 200,000. The value of the yarns spun therefrom, and from the
tow which is thrown off in the process of hackling, may be calculated
at about L. 264,000. The largest proportion of the flax thus con-
sumed is imported direct from Russia, the port of Riga furnishing the
greatest quantity and the kind held in the highest estimation, both
on account of its quality and colour. From St Petersburg there
are also considerable supplies occasionally derived, but the quality
of late years has been falling off, and the article is consequently
in less repute. Some of the Prussian ports, chiefly Memel and
Pillau, furnish a certain portion. A small quantity is also import-
ed from Ireland, but the flax of that country is in general too high-
priced for this market.
   With regard to the morals of the persons employed in these
works, we have no hesitation in pronouncing it as our decided
conviction, that they are not only not more lax than any other
numerous body placed in similar circumstances of unavoidable
juxtaposition, but we have reason to believe that they are, upon
the whole, more circumspect in their general walk and conversa-
tion than those in any other place of equal extent within the ma-
nufacturing districts. The health of the people thus employed is


