
                           CALLANDER.                             351

necessary.  It was for the first time brought to public notice in the
Statistical Account of the parish written by the minister in 1791, and
since then by Sir Walter Scott's beautiful poem, the "Lady of the
Lake." The tourist ought to approach it from the eastward, whence
he is introduced to it, as it were, step by step.   He ought to walk
as far as the Wooded Island, about two miles from the inn, where
it is presumed he has secured a couple of men to row his boat.
Opposite to the island, he will direct the men to wait him with
the boat at a well known peninsular promontory, from which
he will pass to the island,-where Lord Willoughby has erect-
ed a hut corresponding exactly to the description of the rustic
bower, given in the first Canto of the Lady of the Lake.  He will
then row to a bluff rock, called the Drumbeg, upon the north shore,
and follow the pathway to the top of it; after which, he will cross the
lake to what was formerly called Coir-nan-uriskin, or the goblin's
cave, but which is now dismantled of its shading wood; and then
return to the boat-house, visiting by the way a lovely little bay,
from which the river takes its departure.
   Rivers.-The river which flows out of Loch Venachoir on the
south side of Benledi, called in Gaelic, Eas-gobhain, (the waterfall
or cataract of the Smith,) and that which comes from Loch Lub-
naig on the north side, called also in Gaelic, Garbh-uisge, the rough
or rugged river, together with a variety of mountain streams which
flow into tbem,-unite about half a mile above the bridge of Callan-
der, and form the river which is called the Teath or warm river,
probably from the circumstance of its having mountains on each
side, and its banks fringed with wood.  Standing upon the bridge
of Callander, you have one of the finest views that can well be ima-
gined.  Upon the north, is the village with the church in its centre,
immediately behind which, is the bold projecting Crag of Callan-
der.  In the north-west, you see the Pass of Leney, covered with the
wood natural to the country.  Immediately in front, is the majestic
Benledi, and the river Teath sweeping along through a rich and
extensive meadow,-while on the south stand hills of various alti-
tudes.  The scene is truly grand, particularly in time of hay-
making, when the people are scattered over the meadow, and when
many human voices are heard chanting some national air.  Besides
the river Teath, which runs through the centre of the vale, there
is another river of considerable size, at the eastern boundary of the
parish, which rises at the base of Stuic-a-chroin, and after run-
ning several miles among the hills, and receiving additional strength


