
                              MINTO.                      353

commanding eminence of Minto Craigs gave a designation to the
parish. Agreeably to this view, as Meynn is said to be the Cam-
bro-British, and Meen the Scoto-Irish word for a kid, the Celtic
etymologist have concluded the name to signify kid's hill, the
more readily, it has been thought, from considering that kids de-
light in craggy heights; unfortunately, however, for this explana-
tion, nothing has been found in these languages resembling to or
tow, which bears the signification of a hill or craig. Another at-
tempt has been made to derive the name from the British Mynta,
which means an aggregate, or Myntai, what is aggregated, both of
these words being applicable to an assemblage of rocks, which
certainly present the appearance of being piled or heaped to-
gether. In the Welsh dictionaries, Mynxdh is translated mons,
and in Cornish Mynnen signifies the Alps, so that the name may
be connected with the ancient British dialects, in which the ety-
mologies of leading objects, such as hills and rivers, are generally
to be found; but, at the same time, showing the room there is for
conjecture, a derivation might also be obtained in the Saxon lan-
guage, it being well known that the names of several places which
end in ov or ow, such as Grenehow, Stanehowe, Kalchov, (Kelso),
are formed from how, the origin of the Scotch heugh, and of the old
English kow, a hill, and which in the lexicons is rendered mons
praerupta,-a term peculiarly appropriate to the locality referred to.
It must be allowed, that the first syllable cannot be so satisfactorily
accounted for, though room for conjecture might be afforded by
the Saxon Mynta, Mint, or Mintan translated statuere, disponere.
   Extent, Boundaries.-The parish of Minto was formerly con-
fined to the barony; it now comprehends a considerable part of the
suppressed parish of Hassendean, and extends about 3 1/2 or 4 miles
in length, 2 1/8 in breadth, and may contain about 8 3/4 of square miles.
It presents somewhat of an oblong figure, and is bounded on the
west by the parish of Wilton; on the north by Lilliesleaf; on the
east by Ancrum; and on the south by Cavers, which in some
places stretches across the Teviot, so that the river is only partial-
ly the boundary. A stripe of haugh along the southern extremity
forms the only level ground. The surface in other places rises in
frequent undulations, with a blunt outline presenting considerable
variety. But the general appearance of the country is chiefly di-
versified by two green hills, the highest of which reaches an eleva-
tion of 877 feet, and to the east of them by the Minto Craigs, a

<FOOTNOTE>The heights in this neighbourhood are usually very inaccurately stated, and
made to exceed the truth, from the calculations being based on a defective survey by


