
     of Strathdon.

tempted, it is said, to be smothered with a wet canvas, on
an evening when at family prayers; but, being a man of 
considerable bodily strength, be extricated himself from
the toil; and some others met not always with the respect 
due to their character and function.  The manners of the
present generation here, however, are, in these respects,
changed greatly to the better.  The gentlemen are well
bred, social, hospitable, and humane.  The country people
are industrious, civil, and obliging.  The last minister, who
served the cure upwards of 40 years, was respected and be-
loved by his people of all ranks; and the present incum-
bent, though unfortunately engaged for years in law-suits
with the heritors, about his manse and stipend, has always
met with the greatest civility from his parishioners of every
denomination.-The roads are not in the best order.  The
statute-labour is commonly performed in kind; it is com-
muted with any person who inclines, at the rate of 15. 6 d.
a-year.  There are in the parish two stone bridges on Don,
the one, half an English mile to the westward of the church,
the other at the castle of Curgarff, on the King's road from
Edinburgh to Fort George.-There is not a decent inn or
public house in the whole parish, where any person above
the common rank could get a bed, or a comfortable meal.
There are only two licensed alehouses; in these whisky
only is for the most part to be got, which is also fold occa-
sionally in several other houses throughout the parish *.

   VOL.XIII  A a

<FOOTNOTE>

*Prices, etc.-The prices of provisions are generally 15s. the boll of meal
at 9 stone; sometimes about the term of Martinmas, it is sold lower by
tenants, who cannot otherwise raise money to pay their rents; but at other
times of the year, it very often feches more.  From 16 s. to L. 1 the boll
of bear; butter from 10 s. to 12 s. ; cheese from 5 s. to 6 s. the stone, of
28 pound averdupoise; a hen 6d.; a dozen of eggs 1 1/3 d.  There is no mar-
ket for butcher meat within our reach.  A man servant's wages are from
  

