
           370                          BANFFSHIRE.

              Servants.-Servants are engaged universally for the half year,
           from 26th May to 22d November, and from 22d November to
           26th May, except what additional troops are required in harvest,
           who are, engaged for whatever time the harvest may last.  The
           men servants, whether married or single, as well as the women
           servants, always live in the families of their employers, those that
           are married renting houses either in the neighbourhood, or in the
           nearest village for their wives and families. It would perhaps be
           a considerable improvement, if there were more married men ser-
           vants, and these placed in cottages upon the farms. One great
           evil of the present system is the constant recurrence of trouble
           and expense to the masters, and the danger of dissipation to the
           servants, in making new engagements at the feeing markets at the
           end of every half year.
             Labourers.-Much farm-work, cutting and filling drains, clear-
           ing ditches, turning dung, &c. is done by contract with labourers.
           Sometimes hay is cut by contract per acre, and more rarely grain.
           The labourers have generally abundance of employment.
             Harvesting.-Comparatively little of the cutting in harvest is
           now done by the sickle, the use of which has been for the most
           part superseded by the scythe.  Each mode has its advantages.
           The shearing is the neatest work, and more conservative of the
           grain, but the scytbing is cheaper as to work, speedier as to time,
           and more bountiful of fodder. It also admits of earlier stacking,
           a point of great consequence in such a climate, and if the people
           are tolerably expert in the use of the instrument, and in the ope-
           ration of gathering the sheaf after it, it makes much neater work
           than any one would imagine who has not seen it in employment.
           The difference of expense per Scotch acre, between cutting by
           the sickle and by the scythe, may be reckoned as between 10s.
           and 5s. 6d.  An evil consequence of the general employment of
           the scythe is, that it has interfered most materially with the har-
           vest gains of the aged and infirm, who are now almost wholly ba-
           nished from the fields. It may be here mentioned, that Mr
           Stewart of Auchlunkart baving lately introduced the short-handled
           scythe for cutting the grass in his plantations, the servants and
           labourers all around have already universally adopted it, and a
           long-handled scythe is now nowhere to be seen in this quarter.
           The workmen say, that, with the short-handled instrument, they
           can cut about one-sixth more per day, and this with less fatigue
           to themselves.


