
                           LEOCHEL AND CUSHNIE.                      1111

the Earl of Huntly, who, in 1554, sold it to George Gordon of
Beldornie; his son Alexander, in 1607, sold it to Abraham For-
bes of Blacktoun; his grandson Walter, in 1659, sold it to John
Robertson of Clunie;* and he, in 1675, sold it to Sir John Forbes
of Craigievar, to which property it is still attached. It held of
the priory of Monymusk, and the feu-duty of it is now paid to the
Deans of the Chapel-Royal, in consequence of the priory having
been annexed to the bishoprick of Dunblane by James VI. in
1617, the bishop of that see being made Dean of the Chapel-Royal
by the same king.+
    Lynturk.-This is the only other property in the old parish of
Leochel, and belonged, at an early period, to a family of the name
of Strachan. In 1407, the Regent Albany confirmed a charter
by Alexander de Strathechine de Ledynturk to David Barclay de
Durna of an annuity of five merks from the lands of Pitgerwy, in
the Mearns.++ The famliy kept possession of this property for
about 200 years, but the crimes of John Strachan, younger of Len-
turk, seem at length to have caused its downfal. In 1526, he was
art and part with John Master of Forbes in the "cruel slaughter"
of Alexander Setoun of Meldrum, for which, and for "hereschip
and spuilzie of goods and slaughter," committed at the siege of Kil-
drummy with John King, younger of Bourty, he obtained re-
mission from the king in 1531; but, in 1537, he was again accus-
ed of participating in the alleged conspiracy of the Master of
Forbes against the King's life, for which the Master was condemned
and executed while Strachan "came in the King's will, and was
warded beyond the water of Dee."SS The whole History of this
matter is singularly obscure; and there are not wanting writers
who affirm, that the conspiracy was the invention of Strachan, in
concert with the Earl of Huntly, in order to destroy the rival house
of Forbes, with which his own had been so long at feud. Strachan
is said to have gone afterwards abroad, and to have led at Paris a
most abandoned life. He was dead before 1588, in which year
his son Alexander succeeded him. But the part which he had act-
ed drew down upon him the hostility of the Forbeses. In 1544,
they invaded his lands, and slew his allies, Duguid of Auchinhive
and Ross of Auchlossan; and about the end of the century, the
lands of Lynturk became the property of the eldest cadet of the

<FOOTNOTE>* He presented two silver communion cups to the church, bearing the inscription
DEDICAT FOR THE CHVRCH OF LEOCHEL, 1659.
    + Charters at Fintray House. ++ Reg. Mag. Sigilli, p. 245.
    SS Pitcairn's Criminal Trial, Vol. i pp. 200, * 246.*  Buchanan, Losley.


