
74                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

and their heavy baskets up stairs.  On the whole, their houses are,
generally speaking, as clean and comfortable as the nature of their
occupation will admit of.
   From the circumstance of most of these fishers being employed
as pilots, and from their immediate connection with the harbour,
and constant intercourse with the inhabitants of Aberdeen, there
is in them a greater degree of civilization than is observable in
most of the other fishing communities.  At the same time, their
double employment as fishers and pilots is by no means favourable
to their religious, moral, and domestic habits.
   The unavoidable want of regularity in their hours, the general
practice Of ghving allowances in drink for any particular service,
and their custom of dividing the pilotage money among the boat's
crews generally on Saturday evening, all tend to lead them to the
public house, where sometimes a large portion of their earnings is
spent.  Yet drunkenness, though prevalent among them, is by no
means universal, and the number of exceptions seems to be increas-
ing of late.
   A fisherman who is a pilot will earn as much as L.1, l0s. or
even L.2 per week during summer, but not half so much during
winter.  On an average, however, they can make fully as much as
any other labourers in the same class of society, and of this money
the husband has the possession and command, while the wife re-
tains possession of all the money arising from the sale of fish.  It
is not often that either party manages these gains to the best ad-
vantage.
   The fishers are a hard-working people and extremely honest,
and they deem it the greatest possible reproach to cast a doubt on
their honesty, which they are the more easily enabled to maintain
unimpeachable, because all their bargains and transactions are for
ready money.
   They seldom marry with persons not of their own community,
except in a few instances where the daughters of fishers have mar-
ried with seamen rand ship-carpenters.  This may arise not so
much from any dislike to form connections out of their own craft,
as from the fact that, on the one hand, a fisherman would find a
woman of any other class wholl incapable of giving him any as-
sistance in this occupaition, and unable to perform the hard work
devolving on the fisherwomen; and, on the other hand, a fisher-
woman, from the irregularity of her occupations, and want of leisure
and opportunity to attend to her daughters, unless when they fol-


