
	32			INVERNESS-SHIRE.

	   By an estimate of the state of education in this parish made in
	1826, and published in the "Moral Statistics" of the Inverness
	Society for Educating the Poor in the Highlands, it appeared that
	at that time there were in this parish of persons from eight to
	twenty years of age who could not read, 1007, and above twenty
	years of age unable to read 1444.  It is believed these numbers are
	now greatly reduced.
	   The total number of scholars attending school in the parish in
	the course of a year is about 1800.
	   Infirmary.-In the year 1804, the large and handsome Infir-
        mary, already mentioned, was opened here, with a Lunatic Asylum
	attached to it, for the use of the northern counties of Scotland.  Its
	accommodations are extensive and elegant: the rooms and wards
	are large, well-ventilated, and clean, and, from the recent addition
	of hot and cold baths, and several new rooms, and the entire se-
	paration of the maniac department from the rest of the establish-
	ment, this institution is surpassed by none of the same description
	in Scotland.  The buildings were completed by subscription pro-
	cured chiefly through the exertions of the magistrates of Inverness,
	and more especially of William Inglis, Esq., many years provost
	of the town, and a man of uncommon activity, enterprise, and zeal
	for the public good.  The institution is now under the manage-
	ment of the body just mentioned, joined to the Established minis-
	ters of the parish; the moderator of the presbytery; the sheriff
	of Inverness-shire; five commissioners of supply chosen annually;
	donors of L. 50, and upwards; annual subscribers of L. 5; certain
	medical gentlemen; and five persons annually elected at a gene-
	ral meeting of the whole managers.  This hospital has a small in-
	vestment in money, but is chiefly dependent for support on private
	subscriptions and parochial collections throughout the Highlands.
	The annual expenditure was at one time about L. 700.  Now it
	is considerably below that sum, and, while it would appear that the
	cost of each patient until his cure or dismissal was at first on an
	average L. 4, 14s. 1 3/4d. it has since the year 1820 been reduced
	to the average of L. 2, 19s. 3d., and in some years did not exceed
	the very small sum of L. 2;-an expenditure clearly establishing
	the beneficial effects of union, economy, and co-operation, in af-
	fording relief to the diseased poor.  From the institution of the
	hospital in 1804 up to the 20th December 1833, the number of
	patients (including those in ihe town of Inverness, who received
	advice and medicines in their own houses, and manaics,) amounted
					3


