
                             WALLS.                                 21

     crops produced are oats, bear, potatoes, cabbages, and a very few
     turnip.  There are only three ploughs in the parish, and they all
     belong to proprietors.
        The industrious and careful are, in general, well provided with
     wearing apparel and bed-clothes, manufactured by themselves from
     their own wool.  Their Sunday dresses are imported.  Their
     houses are warm ; but very little attention is paid to either order
     or cleanliness by most.  Indeed, it is the general practice to place
     the byre in front of the dwelling-house; through which, therefore,
     you must pass on entering ; and inside, you meet with calves, sheep,
     and young pigs, besides dogs and fowls.
        Fishing.-The principal fishing is that of the ling.  It is carried
     on in open boats many miles from land.  A considerable quantity
     of the cod fish is caught nearer the shore by old men and boys, in
     smaller boats than those used in catching the ling.  The herring
     fishing has been introduced of late years to a great extent, and is-
     likely to prove very beneficial.  It commences after the ling fishing
     is coneltided,-generally about the middle of August, and continues
     for a month or six weeks.
        The rents of the ferns are paid from the profits of the fishing,
     and from the sale of cattle and butter.

                         IV.-PAROCCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Ecclesiastical State.-There are four, parish churches,-being
     one to each of the four districts of which the parish is composed.
     They are all conveniently situated, (except the church of Walls,
     which is only one mile from one end of the district to which it be-
     longs, and four miles from the other end), and they contain the
     legal amount of accommodation.  Each congregation has its own
     elders, session-clerk, and poor's fund, and the Lord's Supper is
     dispensed annually to each.  As there is only one minister, Di-
     vine service is performed in the different churches in rotation; in
     Walls once every fortnight, and in Sandness and Papa once in
     four weeks, and in summer occasionally once a-fortnight,-both
     places being attended to on the same day. Foula is visited only once
     a-year, on which occasion the minister remains in the island two
     Sabbaths, preaching frequently during the interval.  If there was
     a minister for Sandness and Papa,  the minister of Walls might
     visit Foula twice a-year; but at present, while be attends to it be-
     leaves behind him three churches vacant.  In each church, how-
     ever, there is a reader, (generally the schoolmaster of the district),


