
86      			WIGTONSHIRE.

bly the rude military implements of the ancient Norvantes--the pri-
mitive inhabitants of Galloway.
   Sepulchral stone cairns abound in the parish. They are com-
monly called "the Auld Grey Cairns." Some of them are in a
situation where the stones must have been brought from a consi-
derable distance, there being no stones in the neighbourhood.
They consist of a circular heap of stones, from 50 to 70 feet in
diameter, and from 6 to 8 feet high in the centre. In the interior
there is a cavity formed with large flat stones, 4, 5, or 6 feet in
length, and 2 or 3 feet in breadth. In this cavity, is generally
found an urn, with fragments of bone, burned wood, and ashes;
but sometimes the fragments of bone, burned wood, and ashes, oc-
cur without an urn. At Cairnyaran, a moorland farm in this pa-
rish, there are nine of these cairns within extent of a Scots
mile.
   These cairns occur in the high part of the parish. In the
lower district, burrows or tumuli of earth occur, having the same
sort of cavity, and generally containing an urn with fragments of
bone, burned wood, and ashes. Whether the age, or the locality,
or whether the rank of the individual interred, made the difference
between the stone cairn and the earthen tumulus, I cannot say.
Both are no doubt the monuments of the ancient Novantes.
   At Innermessan, a farm in this parish, is a large circular mound
called the Moat. Its circumference at the base is 336 feet, and
from the foundation to the top 78 feet. It appears to have been
surrounded by a fosse. Such erections may have served various
purposes. The name Moat, a Saxon word, would seem to indicate
that it was place of judicial assembly. The Fosse would lead
us to believe that it had been used as a forlet or place of defence.
But whatever other purposes it may have served, I have no doubt
that it was used as a place for burning the dead, or depositing the
ashes to dead. On the 24th November 1834, I caused a
hole, three feet deep, to be dug in the centre of the plain on the
top. After passing through a fine rich mould, we came to a
stratum consisting of ashes, charred wood, and fragments of bone.
In the days of the ancient Novantes, this was probably the public
cemetery of the adjacent town Rerigonium. May not this mound
have been used also for such religious observances as "the kindling
of lights on hills," the Beltan or Baltien, which, according to Ja-
mieson's Scottish Dictionary, signifies Bel's Fire.
   This Innermessan was the site of the ancient Rerigonium, a


