
212                         RENFREWSHIRE.

and, three days thereafter, was ignominiously hanged on a gibbet,
in, the town of Stirling.  This abbot erected, at immense expense,
a handsome tower to the Abbe Church. *
   Commendators.-John Hamilton, about four years after his ap-
pointment to the Archbishoprick of St Andrews, resigned the ab-
bacy, as already mentioned, + in favour of his nephew, Lord Claud
Hamilton.  But while the archbishop resigned his place as abbot,
he still continued, as commendator, in possession of the rule and re-
venues of this valuable benefice.  After his death, Lord Claud
having also adhered to Queen Mary,
   Robert, son to William Lord Sempil, heritable baillie of Pais-
ley, was appointed commendator of the monastery, by the treaty
of Perth in February 1572-3.
   Lord Claud was afterwards restored to his rights, when he ex-
pelled Lord Sempil from the monastery, and took possession of it
himself as commendator.  He was in 1579 obliged to fly into Eng-
land; ++ but returning from it, in 1585, he was again restored to his
property and rights; and on the 29th ofJuly 1587, the whole pro-
perty of the monastery, which he held for life, as commendator,
was erected into a temporal lordship, and granted to him and his
heirs in fee. S
   Church.-The church of the monastery when entire appears to
have consisted of a nave, a northern transept, and a choir, with the
chapel commonly called " the Sounding Aile," partly on what
would have formed the site of the southern transept.  The edifice
has been 265 feet in length, measured over the walls.  The in-
ternal measurement of the nave is 9 feet 3 inches in length, and
59 feet 6 iDebes in breadth, including the width of the ailes, the
northern of which is 13 1/2 feet, and the southern 12 3/4f wide, leaving
33 feet 5 inches as the width of the nave proper.  The transept
measures internally 92 1/2 feet by 35, and the choir, which has been
without ailes, 123 1/2 by 32 feet.  The measurement of the transept
is carried across the church, to the wall of what is called St
Mirren's chapel, or the sounding-aile.
   Externally, the walls of the side ailes of the nave are sur-
mounted by a plain-parapet, at about 27 feet from the ground:

<FOOTNOTE>Lealaeus de Origine, &c. Scotorum, p. 10.           P. 176.
          "The twa breider, Lord John and Claud Hamiltouns, fled in Ingland, and their
landis at the King's gift."  " Ane cronickill of the Kingis of Scotland," 133, print-
ed for Mait. Club.
          Acta Parl. iii, 595, 432, 587. as referred to by Chalmers.  See Caledon. Vol. iii. p.
827.


