
     Statistical Account

places, besides plenty of outlayers in the hill of Grandhome.
The present rent of these amounts to about L. 80 Sterling
annually, and about 100 men are constantly employed in
working them; sometimes more, and sometimes fewer
hands are employed, in proportion to the demand for the
stones.  Many of these stones are used for building in Aber-
deen and its neighbourhood; but by far the greater part
are sent to London, and there used for paving the streets.
Nor is this trade likely to fail; for notwithstanding the un-
common durability and hardness of these stones, such is the
prodigious intercourse of carriages in that immense metro-
polis, that a street paved with them, will in a few years be
so broken as to require great quantities of new pave-
ment.  Some houses in and about London have also been
built of Aberdeen granite.  Our granite is much harder to
work than freestone, and is capable by much labour of re-
ceiving a very fine polish.  It is generally of a grey colour,
and is mixed with shining talky particles, which give it,
when well dressed, a considerable degree of lustre.  About
12,000 tons of stone are annually exported from Aberdeen,
and are valued at 14 s. per ton, amounting to L. 8400.
Sometimes, however, the exportation is considerably greater.
   Besides the granite, our land abounds with a coarse hard
stone, which, though it may be broken by the hammer,
cannot be wrought by the pick or the chissel, and is there-
fore little used in building, Collected in immense quanti-
ties from the barren fields, which are trenched or drained in
the course of improving the land, it is chiefly employed in
filling the drains, or in raising dry stone fences for inclosing
and subdividing these fields.  Sometimes the quantities of
these whinstones (as they are called) are so great, that
they cannot be exhausted by fencing or draining.  In these
cases they are collected in Cairns, or the fences are made
immoderately thick.  In some grounds they are so nume-

     2


