
362                       ARGYLESHIRE.

contents abundantly on all the adjacent country. Rains corne
most frequently with a south or southwest wind. A wei;t wind
sometimes bringc- heavy and -frequent showers, but seldom conti.
nued rain. The weather is. usually zold and dry with a wind froin
the north or east; and if rain commences from the east, it gene.
rally continues for five or six hours without intermission. Changes
of the wind are frequent, particularly from south to west and
northwest; and these are usually accompanied with changes of
weather. The prevailing wind is from the south, as are also thd
severest g-ales which are experienced in this part of the country;
but sometimes, very high and hurtful winds come both from the
west and east.
Hydrography.-Tbere are two small fresh water lochs or lakes
of nearly equal size in the inland part of the parish. They are
tinder half a mile in length, by 200 or 300 yards in breadth. The
one is three and the other six miles south from Kilfinan. In both of
them, there is abundance of common yellow trout of moderate size.
There are four streams or burns, besides several smaller rivulets.
The largest is that which runs from cast to west into Lochfine, at
Kilfinan Bay. In dry- weather, there is but little water in it; but
with heavy rains, it swells to a considerable height, and rushes
from the hills with great rapidity. This is also the character of
all the other streams, one of which joins the loch about four miles
above Kilfinan, towards the north. The remaining two are south
from the church, and enter Lochfine at the bays formerly mentioned.
Geology.-The rocks throughout the parish are almost all of
one character. They consist chiefly of the mica-slate rock, in-
termixed with white quartz, regular veins of which are to be met
with in the rocks along the coast. The wbin or trap rock is scarcer
being only found in two or three places; but limestone rocks
of secondary formation abound in the north end of the parish.
The lime is of good quality, and is suitable both for laud and for
building, though hitherto it has been but little used for either I ur-
pose, execpt by Mr Campbell of Ballimore, and one or two of
the: farmers in his neighbourbood. It is to be hoped, however,
that, it will soon be more generally used for both purposes, as new
and comfortable houses for the tenants are much required, and
without these there cannot be much improvement made in the
ouliivation of the land.


