
126                        SUTHERLAND.

some period covered with wood, in the remains of trees, principally
fir,which are found in the mosses. The natural wood now stan-
ing is limited to about 600 acres, almost birch, along the banks of
Loch-Moir, Loch-Stac, and at Badna bay. Wood has not been
planted, with the exception of a very small portion round the fac-
tor's house at Scourie, and has given way owing to its proximity
to the ocean. There can be no doubt, that all kinds indigenous
to the British Isles would grow in the interior, if they were on a
large scale, and properly attended to. Apple, also pear trees,
and small fruit bushes, as also culinary vegetables, thrive well in
the garden at Scourie.

                         II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
     Nothing is known of Edderachillis as a parish, earlier than
1726, the date of its erection,- except that, before that time, it
formed part of the parish of Durness, and was disjoined on an ap-
placation to the General Assembly by the heritor, Lord Reay, and
Mr John Mackay, minister of. Durness, and endowed by a fund
arising from the teinds, and general subscription over Scotland.
The district, however, occupies rather a conspicuous place in the
annals of the Mackay's country. A branch of the Mdekays, at so
early a period as 1550, took possession of the territory of Eddera-
chillis by displacing the Macleods, and planted themselves at
Scourie, under the title of "Mackays of Scourie." The unjusti-
fiable means to which they had recourse to procure this settle-
ment, is defined in the last Statistical Account by the Rev.  Mr
Falconer. A repetition of it here is unnecessary.
     Amongst the descendants of the Mackays of Scourie, were men
eminent for piety and chivalry. The history of one of them in
particular claims attention, whose character merits admiration
for its many virtues. This was Lieutenant-General Hugh Mac-
kay of Scourie, the famous Commander-in-Chief of the time of
King William and Mary. He was born in 1640; the account of,
his life, published by his descendant, Mr John Mackay of Rock-
field, is well worthy of a perusal. He fought against Dundee at
the battle of Killicrankie; and althongh the fortunes of that day
proved adverse,he showed great military skill in his retreat, and
fully regained any character it might have been supposed he had
lost, by his great success in Ireland, particularly at the battle of
the Shannon, where he displayed much militarys skill and bravery.
Many other great exploits could be mentioned. He was to have
been rewarded by a peerage, under the title of "Earl of Scourie;"


