
658                     ABERDEENSHIRE.

        "Jugers Kintorii si spectes, uber Eleusis,
          Fertilis et dici Trinacris ora nequit.
        Dona, Caledonios inter pulcherrimus amnes,
          Hoc rigat, et pingui ditior unda solo est.
                   *     *     *     *     *
        Hic ego sum, memini, Musarum factus alumnus
          Et tiro didici verba Latina loqui
        Carmine Maeonio veteres tollantur Athenae
          Urbs haec versiculis est celebranda meis."
                                      Poemata Varia-Kintorium.

   Sir Andrew Mitchell, who acted with so much spirit and ability
as British Ambassador to the Court of Prussia, in the reign of
Frederick the Great, was proprietor of the lands of Thainston, and,
though not born in this parish, often resided on his estate within it.
  Land-owners.-The two great proprietors nf land in the parish
are the Earl of Kintore, and Duncan Forbes Mitchell, Esq. of
Thainston.  But there are, besides, a few small heritors owning
from two to six acres each, in the vicinity of the town.
  Parochial Registers.-The existing parochial registers are not vo-
luminous.  They extend only to 1713, the date of their earliest
entry.  For the last ninety years they have been kept with the
greatest apparent exactness and regularity.
  Antiquities.-The Castle of Hall-Forest is the only ancient
building within the parish.  It stands about a mile to the west of
the Aberdeen road, from which it may be seen at various points,
a little to the southward of Kintore.  The date of its erection is
unknown.  It is now in ruins, and presents a most impressive
picture of loneliness and decay.  All that remains is a rectan-
gular structure, nearly square, and of considerable height, con-
taining two very lofty arched apartments, one above the other.
The second arch is surmounted by an area of some extent, full of
rubbish, in which several shrubs are shooting up amid long grass and
weeds.  Traces of much larger dimensions are still discernible,
though the plough has evidently made encroachments on every
side.  At an early period, this castle was a hunting-seat of the
Scottish kings, who often resorted to it, in order to enjoy the ex-
ercise and pleasures of the chase in the adjacent royal forest.  In
later timer, it became a residence of the Noble family of Keith,
having been granted, together with the surrounding domain, to
their illustrious ancestor, Robert de Keith, Great Marischal of
Scotland, after the battle of Inverury according to some, but ac-
cording to others, after that of Bannockburn, in which also he ren-
dered essential service to the cause of Bruce. *

<FOOTNOTE>" Hall Forest, (a royal castle,) according to tradition, was built by King Robert.

