
			ISLAND OF SKYE-STRATH.                             307

	a person to stand in it erect.  It was evidently. the burying-place
	of some renowned character of old, and within it was found a rude
	buckle, probably belonging to the shroud of the person consigned
	to the dust; and also a dark-green stone, about four inches long
	by two and a half in breadth, a quarter of an inch in thickness, and
	beautifully polished.  It had a hole perforated in each corner,
	with one side partially concave, and the other convex.  It appear-
	ed like an ornament belonging to the Highland belt.  This stone
	and buckle were given to the late Donald Gregory, Esq., Secretary
	to the Antiquarian Society, Edinburgh.
	  Eminent Men.-I am not aware that this parish ever gave birth
	to any person eminently distinguished in any walk of life.  Some,
	however, were born in it, who have by their own merits attained a
	high and honourable rank in the army.  Sir John Macdonald, the
	present Adjutant-General of Her Majesty's Forces, is son to the
	late Mr Macdonald, tacksman of Scalpay, an island belonging to
	this parish; as was also Colonel Archibald Macdonald, who held
	the same situation in India; and a third and no less distinguished
	member of the same family, Colonel Alexander Macdonald of the
	Horse Artillery, whose devotion to his profession, as well as his
	bravery at the taking of Monte Video, the Cape of Good Hope,
	the whole of the peninsular war, and the battle of Waterloo, re-
	peatedly gained for him the approbation of the Duke of Welling-
	ton and Lord Hill.  Colonel Macdonald is now Governor of Hon-
	duras.
	  Modern Buildings.-The houses of the tacksmen are comfort-
	able and commodious, yielding in this respect to none of the same
	class in the Highlands.
	  A village was commenced at Kyleakin, under the auspices of
	the late Lord Macdonald, but, from the want of capital in the
	country, it has made little or no progress.  There are, however,
	about a	dozen of good slated houses at this place, including some
	shops, and a very comfortable well-kept inn.  At Broadford, there
	are likewise a good inn, two shops, a mill, and a smithy.

				III.-POPULATION.

			Population in 1801,	   1748
			              1811,        2107
	                 	      1821,	   2619
			              1831,	   2962

	  Within the last forty years, the population of this parish has been
	more than doubled. In 1837, it amounted to 3450 souls; but since
	that period, about 200 have emigrated to Australia.


