
164                 EDINBURGHSHIRE.

dress which was common at that period, and as exhibiting, which
we have no doubt that it does, a pretty correct likeness of the fea-
tures which actually belonged to the persons represented.
  The second Lord Borthwick was one of the hostages, long be-
fore the death of his father, for King James's ransom. He was
afterwards sent as ambassador to the Court of Rome, and, latter-
ly, he was sent not fewer than three times as ambassador to the
Court of England. He seems to have been, like his father, a
man of superior talents, and much trusted by his superiors.
  William, the third Lord, was also employed in a similar man-
ner. He was slain, with many of his brave countrymen and their
royal leader, James IV., at the Battle of Flodden. The proprie-
tor of the neighbouring Castle of Crichton also fell on that disas-
trous day.
  William, the fourth Lord, married Margaret Hay, daughter of
John Lord Yester, by whom he had a son, from whom all the sub-
sequent Lords descended.
  John, the fifth Lord, was "a great loyalist-a steady friend of
Queen Mary, and never deserted her interest in her greatest dis-
tress, on which account he suffered many hardships." He died
before the year 1572, and was succeeded by
  William, the sixth Lord, who married Grizel, daughter of Sir
Walter Scott, ancestor of the Duke of Buccleuch, by whom he
had a son,
  James, the seventh Lord Borthwick, who married Margaret
Hay, daughter of William Lord Hay of Yester, ancestor of the
Marquis of Tweeddale. He was succeeded by his grandson,
  John, the eighth Lord Borthwick. He is described as having
been a man of great honour and loyalty. He adhered firmly to
the cause of the royal family, during all the time of the civil war.
After the murder of the King, he held out his Castle of Borthwick
against Cromwell; and, at last, when forced to surrender, obtained
very honourable terms, viz. liberty to march out with his lady and
family unmolested, having been allowed fifteen days time to remove
their effects.
He was succeeded by his son, John, the ninth Lord Borthwick,
who married the daughter of Robert Earl of Lothian, and died
without issue in 1672.

  After the death of this ninth Lord, the castle and barony be-
came the property of John Dundas of Harviestone, nephew of the
deceased Lord Borthwick, and grandson of Sir James Dundas, of


