
			       KILMORIE.                      59

swearing and intemperance are become much more prevalent than
they were twenty years ago.
	In dwellings, dress, and diet, the people have of late years be-
come very much assimilated to the peasantry of the low country
adjoining. The only striking difference is in the head-dress of
the married females, many of whom still continue to wear the high
cap, or mutch, instead of bonnets. They, in general enjoy as
many of the comforts, and feel as few of the privations of life, as
others in the same station in more central parts of the kingdom.
Absolute destitution is a thing unknown among; the very poorest,
and the great majority of those who are above pauperism, enjoy a
competency of the necessaries of life.
	Poaching is rare. Illicit distillation prevailed till a very recent
period, to a very considerable extent, but within the last ten years,
very decided measures were taken for its suppression, and it is now
almost entirely done away. Its demoralising effects were not de-
veloped here so prominently, as in other place from the circum-
stance of its not being considered a disreputable pursuit, and there
being few, if any, in the parish, who, at some period of their lives,
were not engaged in some department of smuggling. To the
smuggleror no stigma, was attached on account of his employment
on the contrary, it was considered rather an honourable, occupa-
tion, as exhibiting an intrepidity and art that acquired for thier
possessor a distinction in the minds of his companions. It was in
the darkest night, and in the most tempestuos weather; when no
cruiser would stand the gale, that, in, his little skiff, the smuggler
transported his cargo to the opposite shores of Ayrshire.
	Language.--The language universally spoken is the Gaelic. A
few families from the Lowlands have of late years settled in the
parish and this, together with the increased facilities of communi-
cation with the low country, has diffused a more general knowledge
of the English than there was thirty years ago. There are few,
if any, under thirty years of age, of either sex, who do not under-
stand it, but still the Gaelic continues the language of common
extent, through there is a little doubt but in the course of time
it will have this effect.

			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--The parish contain about 6650 Seot acres of
arable land, about 68,350 waste and in pasture. How much


