
                  FALKIRK.                                    5

Sauchie-burn, near Stirling, where the conflict took place, which
terminated in his defeat and death.
   While Queen Mary was yet an infant, Henry VIII. cherished
the hope of subjugating Scotland by her union in marriage with
his son Edward. The Earl of Arran, then Regent, favoured the
scheme; but Cardinal Beaton and the Earl of Murray were its
determined opponents. These personages agreed to have a meet-
ing at Falkirk on 4th September 1543 ; and at Callendar House
a treaty was signed, which put an end to the proposal.
   This celebrated but unfortunate sovereign appears to have been
on an intimate footing with the family of Callendar. On the 12th
of August 1562, she dined there with a part of her train on her
way to the north; and on Ist July J 565, she stood godmother to
the infant Baron of Callendar, son of William, sixth Lord Living-
stone.  She slept at Callendar with the infant Prince James, on
the night of the 13th January 1567, and again on the 24th of the
same month, when on her way to visit her husband Darnley, then-
ill of the small-pox at Glasgow; with whom she returned to Fal-
kirk on the 28th, and proceeded to Edinburgh on the following
day. Soon after this, Mary was a captive at Lochleven. After
her escape from thence, Lord Livingstone was one of those who
welcomed her on her, arrival at Niddry Castle ; and on the field of
Langside, distinguished himself by his gallant conduct at the head
of his vassals, composed of inhabitants of Falkirk. He rode with
the Queen from that fatal field, and, along with her, was confined,
in different prisons by Elizabeth. At Bolton they were joined by
Lady Livingstone, who, with her husband, were for several years
the principal attendants, or rather companions, of the captive
Queen. In 1573, they were both released from their sufferings
by death, and their remains were conveyed to Falkirk for inter-
ment.
   In.the nonage of James VI., Scotland was for some time go-
verned by the Earl of Morton, a function which, from the unpo.
pularity of his measures, he was induced to resign. Having, how-
ever, obtained possession of the King's person, and of the Castle
of Stirling, his friends came to his assistance, and the Earl pitched
his camp at Falkirk. Thither the army of his enemies soon re-
sorted. When ready to engag‚e, a truce was agreed to, followed
by a treaty, which was published at the market-crosses of Stirling
and Falkirk, on 14th August 1578.
   The year 1638 was remarkable as the period in which the


