                                                      
                        CHANNELKIRK.                           91

with dry stone walls, but most of it is without any enclosure. The
farm-buildings which have been recently erected are in good condition
tion, covered with slates, but most of them are old, thatched, and
almost ruinous.
   Improvements.-The principal improvements of a general kind
lately effected are in the roads. The Edinburgh and Newcastle
road through the parish has just been finished on a new line, at great
expense. The bye-roads also, supported by assessments on the pro-
prietors of horses, have lately been kept in good condition. The
improvements made by individuals consist chiefly of the general
draining and enclosing of the land, and of the plantations on the
estates of the Marquis of Tweeddale, Airhouse, Kirktonhill, and
Collielaw.
   Quarries.-There are no quarries in the parish but those of
whinstone, used for building and for making roads. The materials
they supply are abundant, and of the best description.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Means of Communication.-The nearest post-office is at Lauder,
five miles from the centre of the parish. Only one turnpike road
passes through the parish: its length within the parish is about
six miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church is situated at the hamlet of
Channelkirk, nearly in the middle of the parish, but not in the most
central place for the population; and, being on the top of a hill of
considerable height, its situation is by many found to be very in-
convenient. It was built in 1817, and is in good repair. It affords
accommodation to 300 persons. The manse was built forty-five,
and repaired two Years ago. The glebe consists of nine acres, and
may be worth L. 18 yearly.
   The stipend was fixed by the last decree of the Court of Teinds
at 59 1/2 bolls of barley, 138 of oats, and L. 32 money; but, on ac-
count of a deficiency of teinds, the whole has not been obtained
hitherto.
The Established church is the only place of worship in the pa-
rish, and is well attended. The average number of communicants
is 250. There is a considerable number of Dissenters,-about 34
families, who attend chapels in the neighbourhood. The collec-
tions yearly may amount to L. 8.
   Education.-There is only one school, and that the parochial.
The schoolmasters salary is L. 30, and the amount of fees probably
L. 40. He has the legal accommodations. The general expense


