
     Statistical Account

of it in the inclosures near Saltcoasts.  As to the levelling.-
These Saltcoats inclosures were feued out, 15 years ago, in a
state perfectly useless to the eye, full of large hills or mounds
of sand.  These the feuers annihilated in a few weeks, with-
out almost either labour or expence.  After any heavy rain,
they led the scattered water, which drilled over from the
higher grounds into a single very small stream.  This they
directed against the middle of one of the sand hills, which
was gradually and soon undermined, of whatever height or
bulk it might be.  Thus reducing them one after another,
they brought the whole inclosure to a dead level.  The land
hills, indeed, at a greater distance from the higher grounds,
cannot be so easily subjected to this operation; but there are
acres and hundreds of acres which would need little levelling
or smoothing*.

   Enlargement of the Harbour of Saltcoats.-The last thing de-

<FOOTNOTE>

*As there is scarcely any sea-weed on the shore, the great
difficulty would be to find manure sufficient to raise one single
good grass crop, to bind the surface by the net-work of its
roots, after which the ground would be gained.  Lime, tho'
beneficial, does not answer so well as dung, especially cow-
dung.  A village of manufacturers, enticed by cheap fuel, and
a very low rent or seu-duty, each family set down by itself, (as
all manufacturers ought to be), with small inclosures of three
or four acres behind the houses, would soon, by means of their
cows and potatoes, make their small inclosures as valuable as
the Saltcoats ones.  The rest, and by much the greatest part of
the track, could not be brought into culture without much
expence.  But, as it is already inclosed in part, by the canal
and its various branches, it might be planted with trees of dif-
ferent kinds best suited to the soil, especially the pine or fir
kinds; and, though the sea air and storms would undoubtedly-
destroy a small part of the young trees most exposed to this dan-
ger, yet the rest would soon rise under the shelter of one an-
other, favoured by the great inequality of that part of the
ground, and, in proper time, turn this dreary, bare, barren
waste, into a comfortable, extensive, and valuable plantation.


