
4                           ELGINSHIRE.

picturesque.  On the south side of the parish, Blackhills, the pro-
perty of Lachlan Cuming, Esq. is also well wooded.  All these
plantations are very thriving, and consist of larch and Scotch firs
interspersed with oak, beech, ash, &c.  Where the soil gives any
promise of sufficient depth and richness for the nourishment of
hard timber.  The larch here, as in most other parts of the coun-
try, is much infested with the insect peculiar to it; and, at one pe-
riod, the planters were much alarmed at the ravages of the Chermes
pini, as it has been called, but their fears are subsiding, as experi-
ence has shown that it rarely kills, though it no doubt retards the
growth of the tree.
  Remarhable Beech.-There is a very beautiful and perfectly
healthy beech tree in the college garden, the property of George
Duff, Esq. of Milton.  The stem rises almost perpendicular to the
height of 16 feet, and then bursts out into a forest of limbs in every
direction, and with every possible variety of curve and angle, form-
ing an object truly picturesque.  The girth of the bole near the
ground is 13 feet, and at 8 feet high it is 12 feet.  As nearly as
can be ascertained, the fine head rises to 70 feet, and the boughs
extend over a cirele of 80 feet in diameter.  Eight of such trees
would cover an imperial acre.

			II-CIVIL HISTORY.
  The Rev.  Dr Lachlan Shaw, one of the ministers of Elgin, pub-
lished a history of the province of Moray in the year 1775, and
the writer of this has abridged from it much of what is stated re-
lative to the antiquities of the town and parish. The book hav-
ing become scarce, was reprinted with notes at the Courier print-
ing-office Elgin, in 1827, and is now in general circulation.
  Historical Notices.-Elgin is the county town,-the seat of the
presbytery,-of the law and county courts.  About the beginning
of the eleventh century it appears to have been a considerable town,
with a royal fort. The earliest charter of guildry was granted by
Alexander II. in 1234. This charter was subsequently confhrm-
ed; and various local taxes remitted at different dates by the Earls
of Moray, to whom the town  was subject as Constables of the
King's fort, Grants of land and other concessions by Alexander,
Robert, James I, II and VI. were ratified by Charles I. in a char-
ter dated the 8th of October 1633. The gross revenue of the burgh
at present is about L.600 per annum.  The town's arms represent
St Giles in a pastoral habit, holding a book in the right hand and
a pastoral staff in the left, with this motto, "SIC ICTUR AD ASTRA"


