
          154                      ROSS AND CROMARTY.
      
          cleanliness, morals, and religion. The population is on the in-
          crease,-which may be accounted for by the fact, that the people
          marry young, are in general much attached to their native island,
          and not disposed to leave their native country. They live to a
          great, age, and are in general higher in stature, and of a fresher
          complexion, than the people of the other parishes in this island.
          The Gaelic language is the mother tongue, and is as generally
          and purely spoken now, as it was forty years ago. The people
          have hardly any public games or amusements of any kind. Their
          improvement, of late years, in religious knowledge, has been very
          perceptible, and has taught them to be contented with their 
          circumstances and situation in life, and to enjoy and value the
          invaluable Privileges of the Gospel dispensation.

          <TABLE>                         
                                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
           Agriculture.- 

  		                                               Scots Acres.
	    Arable and intersected pasture,                     2840 1 11
	    Fine pasture,                                       1733 3 30
	    Moorish pasture,                                   89885 0 37
	    Water,	                                        3804 2 17
                                                               ___________
 		                                               98264 0 15

            The Common Breeds, &c.-The small country breeds of sheep,
          horses, and cattle, are still the prevailing breeds of the country.
          Little or nothing is doing for the improvement of lands,-principal-
          ly, I believe, for want of capital. Still the capabilities of the Lewis
          for cultivation are very great. Husbandry is done by the common
          and the crooked spade; the ground is turned into lazy beds, but
          might easily be cultivated with the plough, in many parts of the
          country.
            Fisheries.-Ever since the failure of the herring fishing in Loch
          Roag, the cod and ling fishing is that to which the inhabitants have
          turned their attention. In this, they engage with commendable in- 
          dustry, and are frequently very successful. They cure the fish in
          shore-houses, and sell itat 4d.percod, and 7d.per ling. About thirty
          tons of cod and ling are taken annually: and about 100,000 lobsters
          are annually exported to the London market. They receive no
          bounty or any other encouragement, except the price. 
            There are about 80 open boats in the parish, and one decked
          vessel.
            Manufactures.-Kelp is the only manufacture carried on in the
          parish: 226 tons are annually manufactured. The people ma-
          nufacture their home woollen and clothing.
                                     3

