
     of Strathdon

   Heritors and Rent.-The heritors of this parish, are the
Earl of Fife, Messrs Forbesles of Bellabeg, Skellater, Inve-
tearnan, and Achernach, Mr Leith of Glenkindy, Mr An-

<FOOTNOTE>

lies never enter in the parish register; and the Protestants in Ccurgaff, who
are generally married, and their children baptized by the missionary minister
in that district have shewn equal backwardness to this useful measure,
especially since the trisling tax was imposed on these registration.  From
the best information I can obtain on this subject, I suppose that the ave-
rage of births for several years past, has been about 40; of marriages, 10.
This parish, I imagine, has been greatly more populous in the last century
than it is now.  The register both of births and marriages, from 1674 to
1710, are still pretty entire, and appear to have been very exactly kept.
And in most years, during that space, both births and marriages were
double their present number.

   Part of the parish of Tarland.-There is situated in Strathdon, a de
tached corner of the parish of Tarland, quite unconnected with the rest
of that parish, being separated from it by part of the parish of Coldstone,
the parish of Migvic, now anhexed to Tarland, and the parish of Strathdon;
and some parts are 15 English miles distant from its parish-church.
This district begins about an English mile above the parish of Strathdon,
and extends five or six to the westward, on the north side of the river Don.
There are in it 188 people, old and young, of whom about 20 are Roman
Catholics, the rest of the established Church,-72 horses, 277 black cattle,
1186 sheep.  It is the property of 4 gentlemen, who reside either con-
stantly or occasionally; all of whom however, (except Mr Houston of
Edinglaslie), are heritors in this parish, as will be after mentioned.  I do
not know the valued rent of that corner, nor can I speak with certainty of
the real rent, as the greater part of it is farmed by the propietors, but I
suppose it to be worth from L. 250 to L. 300 sterling.  the people in that
quarter were formerly under the inspection of the minister of Strathdon,
for which he had a small allowance from the minister of Tarland.  Since
a missionary minister has been stationed in Curgarff, they make part 0f his
charge, but they all communicate at Strathdon, and the greater part of
them attend public worship there, as they are nearer to this kirk than to
the place of worship in Curgarff.  Thus much I thought proper to ob-
serve, with regard to this part of Tarland parish, as it lies in the country
of Strathdon; and though not locally in this parish, is closely connected
with it.

     VOL. III.  Z
               

