
150                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

ago. From the parish record, it appears that the schools of Or-
miston and Paiston were both in a flourishing state about the be-
ginning of the last century; that great attention was paid to the in-
struction of the young; and great care taken that parents should
have their children educated. From the record, it also appears that,
in 1683, there was a library belonging to the parochial school, con-
sisting of 60 books in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, as well as Eng-
lish. It was then taught by Mr James Grierson, who was after-
wards ejected from his office. About that time, Principal Carstairs
received his education in the house of Mr Sinclair, then minister
of the parish.
   Libraries.-For some years the parish has been supplied with
itinerating libraries from Haddington. One is stationed at Ormis-
ton, another at Paiston. They continue in their stations two years.
They are then returned, and new ones are sent in their places. The
great advantage of these libraries has hitherto been, that the books
are lent out gratis, and the libraries are frequently shifted. A re-
gulation however, has just been made, that, during the first year of
their station, payment shall be taken for the reading of the books.
This circumstance has produced a desire among some of the people
to have a parochial subscription library, which, if once begun and
well supported, may become in a few years a great acquisition to
the place.
   There is a library belonging to the Friendly Association or Rogue
Money Club, instituted for the protection of property,-which is kept
in the school-house under the charge of the master. This society
originated in 1784, with some respectable persons residing in Or-
miston and the vicinity, who formed themselves into a society for
the purpose of preventing depredations and disturbances, and pro-
moting the police and good order of the place. The Earl and
Countess of Hopetoun were among the original subscribers. It
has, however, very much degenerated from what it originally was,
and is confined in its operations to the carrying on of prosecutions
against those who have committed depredations upon the property
of the members. Apart of the funds has been laid out in the purchase
of books, and in 1817 a portion of the subscription money was set
apart for that purpose alone. The library now consists of about
100 volumes, which are lent out to the subscribers.
   Savings Bank.-An attempt was made eighteen years ago to
establish a savings bank in the parish. Every thing was arranged



