
         	                  MUIRKIRK.			  157

book-keeping. The other schoolmasters teach English, writing,
arithmetic, and book-keeping, and are supported by the scholars.
	Libraries.--There are two circulating libraries supported by
subscription. The members are numerous, and the collection of
books large and well selected.
	Friendly Societies.--There are three friendly societies; the
Muirkirk Friendly Society commenced on the 3d of July 1790; the
St Thomas Mason Lodge Friendly Society has existed about thirty
years, and the St Andrew's Mason Lodge Friendly Society about
twenty years. All these societies have been productive of much
good, by promoting industry, and exciting a spirit of independence.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
that receive parochial relief in one year is 40, and the sum allot-
ted to each varies from 5s. to 6s. per man. This sum is procured
from the weekly collections at church, and by an assessment on
the heritors half-yearly when needed. The poor inhabitants are
not by any means backward in applying to this fund for relief.
There are few beggars, however, belonging to the parish; but
being a thoroughfare from the coast to England, whole families
of poor Irish are usually to be found begging. Strangers, and
starving, they must be assisted; but it turns the supply for the poor
at home into a different channel, and imposes a heavy burden upon
the charitable and humane.
	Fairs.--There are three fairs in the year held for agricultural
purposes. They are of little importance, and but thinly attended.
	Inns.--In this, as in almost every other part of the country,
there are by far too many houses of public entertainment. There
are ten inns and alehouses, and their effects upon the morals of
the people decidedly bad.
	Fuel.--Coal is used for fuel in the village, which can be pro-
cured at the rate of 2s. 6d. for 14 cwt., and the country part of
the population use peat and coal indifferently.
	                  GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.
	Agricultural improvement has made rapid progress in the west
of Scotland within the last fifty years; and in no place has its be-
neficial effects been productive of greater good than in this parish.
Since the date of the last Statistical Account much has been ef-
fected in meliorating the climate, by relieving the surface of its
stagnant water. Many field have been brought under cultivation
which were formerly covered with heathers. The plantations then
in their infancy have arrived at maturity, and prove, small as they


