

            230                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

            this canal must be obvious, for by means of it, vessels of con-
            siderable burden are brought into the immediate vicinity of the
            town, which, without it, owing to the shallowness of the frith, must
            have remained at a distance; and, from the muddy nature of the
            shore, almost inaccessible.
               Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is situated on the north
            side of the town, and is exceedingly convenient to the whole po-
            pulation, being almost in the centre of the parish. It was built
            in 1801. Although plain in its exterior, within it is remarkably
            neat and commodious and is in excellent repair. It affords seat-
            room for about 800. From the circumstance, that the Gaelic and
            English portions of the population form two almost distinct con-
            gregations nearly equally numerous, this apparently deficient ac-
            commodation is ample. For the same cause also the poorer clas-
            ses, who belong to the Gaelic congregation, enjoy the privilege of
            church accommodation free of expense; for the wealthier part of
            the community, by whom seats are rented, attend, with few excep-
            tions, the English service only, and thus all the seats are open to
            the unrestricted access of any who may choose to occupy them
            during the Gaelic service.
               The manse was built in the year 1791,-and had an addition
            made to it in 1825. It is sufficiently commodious, and is at pre-
            sent in good repair. The grebe, which is a mile distant from town,
            consists of about ten acres,-all arable, and of superior quality.
               The stipend is 16 chalders, paid one-half in meal, and the other
            in barley.
               There is a catechist employed in the parish, who receives about
            L.15 per annum for his services. This sum is paid partly by the
            inhabitants, who subscribe for the purpose, and partly by the
            kirk-session, who allow him L.5 for visiting the poor.
               There are no Dissenting or Secession places of worship in the
            parish, but there is an Episcopalian chapel, in which service is per-
            formed every alternate Sabbath.
               The whole population of the parish are members of the Esta-
            blished Church, with the exception of from 40 to 50 Episcopa-
            lians, and about a dozen Wesleyian Methodists,-strangers con-
            nected with the staff of the Ross-shire militia, which is stationed
            here.
               The people are regular in their attendance on divine worship.
            The average number of communicants is 140.
               The only religious or charitable society established in the pa-


