
60     			     ORKNEY.

which I believe to be nearly L.1600, but which I shall at present
calculate at L.1500; and I have pleasure in acknowledging the
politeness of Mr Graham, the Crown Chamberlain, and the sur-
veyor, in procuring most of the documents. The valuation of
the parisb, more than twenty years ago, is far below the present
values some tenants paying more than double of the rent then
stated.
No. of imperial acres-cultivated, or occasionally in tillage,                   2294
                      which never have been cultivated, and which remain con-
                      stantly waste, or in pasture, is                        3224
                      in a state of undivided common, or water,                 5202
                      under planted wood, about
                                                          1
   What portion of this might, with a profitable application of ca-
pital, be added to the cultivated land, is a matter on which there
must be a great variety of opinions; but the practicability of doing
so is yearly proved, by the cultivation of some part of it.
   Rent of Land.-The average rent of arable land per acre is
10s., and the average rent of pasture land about 2s. per acre.
   Rate of Wages.-The following is the rate of wages. A plough-
man per year, L. 7, or more if he acts as grieve, with board, or
equivalent in meal, &c.; a male day labourer gets 1s. and a fe-
male 6d. without fare; female servants in gentlemen's families
have L. 3 a-year. For harvest, men get L. 1, 10s. and females
L. 1. Masons may be got to build dikes at 1s. 3d. a-day, and
11d. a fathom for building and quarrying a dry stone dike, 3 1\2 feet
high, with coping. More perfect masons obtain 2s. a-day for the
best kind of work ; carpenters get 2s. a-day and food.
   Prices.-Tbe prices of different articles of raw produce, or
country manufacture, are, fowls, 8d. each; eggs, 3d. per dozen
beef and mutton, about Martinmas, 2d. per lb., but dearer at
other seasons; butter, 6d. per lb.; potatoes, the dearest, 3s. per
barrel; an iron plough, L.2; a wooden one, L. 1, 10s.; a cart,
L. 4, 4s. ; a pair of harrows, 14s. or 15s. The common breeds
of cattle are the small ones of the county, and little attention has
been paid to their improvement The general character of the
husbandry is still exceedingly defective, most of the ground having
been alternately in oats and bear for generations, without the be-
nefitof green crop, grass, or fallow, except a rig or two on each
farm, for the potatoes. The soil is, in consequence, full of a great
variety of weeds, and exhausted; and I deem it of the utmost im-
portance, that a regular rotation of crops should be introduced,
suiting the course and kind of crop, to the soil and climate; but


