

                     PARISH OF KIRKTOUN

    PRESBYTERY OF JEDBURGH, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TEVIOTDALE

            THE REV. WILLIAM S. MARTIN, MINISTER


         L.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.

  Extent and Boundaries.-THE parish of Kirktoun extends from
east to west about 8 miles, and from north to south about 2 miles,
It is bounded on all sides the parish of Cavers: on the west
it is partly bounded also the parish of Hawick; and on the
north-east, by that of Hobkirk.
   Topography Appearances.-Its general appearance to the east
of the river Slitrig, which intersects it, presents an undulating sur-
face of little green hills, partly adapted to  pasturage, but inter-
spersed also with a good deal of arable land cultivated according
to the modern rovemeats in agriculture; and had it-also been di-
versified with plantations of which it is nearly destitute, these would
not only have rendered it much more beautiful and interesting,but
would likewise have been of immense benefit, by affording,shelter
to the flocks. On the west of Slitrig, the surface rises immediate-
ly from the banks of the river to a considerable height, and the
elevation continues to increase to the extremity of the western
boundary.
  Geology and Mineralogy.-the only remarkable thing under
this head, is a vein of rock, which is supposed by some to extend
in a line fron east to west, from Northumberland to the lower dis-
tricts Of Lanarkshire. There is a quarry of this rock in the vici-
nity of the church, and metal better suited for making and repair-
ing roads cannot easily  be found. It is of a very dark blackish
bue, hard and compact, and of a considerable specific gravity.

                    II.-CIVIL HISTORY
  Land owners.-There are four land-owners or propreitors, none
of whom are resident in the parish, viz. Sir William Francis El-
liot, Bart. of Stobs and Wells; James Douglas Esq. of Cavers;
Archibald Douglas, Esq of Adderstone and Andres Dickson
Esq. of Tofts.
  Eminent Men.-The celebrated orientalist, Dr. Leyden, receiv-
ed part of the rediments of his education at Kirktoun school.  His
parents at that time, occupied a cottage on th farm of Nephew
Tofts, called Henlawahiel; of which scarcely any trace can now be
  ROXBURGH.                               x b



