
384                        FNFARSHIRE.

Hydrography.--At the junction of the parishes of Kirkden and
Dunnichen, is a perennial well of a chalybeate nature, to which
there seems to have been assigned extraordinary virtues in the
curing of swellings and ulcers, even " after the applications of se-
veral physicians had proved ineffectual."  The small river Vinny,
rising in the marsh or mire of Lower, in the parish and neigbbour-
bood of Forfar, washes the northern boundary of this parish for
more than four miles; it then enters the parish, and is shortly af-
terwards joined by the Lunan, when they form together a consider-
able stream called Lunan Water, which falls into the bay of that
name near, Redhead.  From the marshy nature of the Vinny's
origin and course, an immense body of water is accumulated in
rainy weather, and poured down like a mountain torrent, inundat-
ing the, lower lands through which it flows.  Both the Vinny and
Lunan are excellent trouting, streams, and the latter contains pike,
owing to the circumstance of its rising out of the loch of Resten-
net, and communicating with the lakes of Rescobie and Balgavies,
which abound with that species of fish; a few salmon ascend it in
the spawning season, which commences in the middle of Septem-
ber, and ends about a month thereafter.
	Geology and Mineralogy.*--The greater part of this parish rdstr
upon a hard grey sandstone formation, similar to that which stretches
through, the valley of Strathmore.  It seldom, however, presents
itself in this neighbourbood, unless where artificial excavations or
ravines formed by the action of water, have laid it open.  Hard
masses of indurated clay are found to alternate; but I am not
aware that any remains of the animal or vegetable kingdoms have
been discovered in these strata, although several indistinct impres-
sions of the latter kind are occasionally manifested. Trap rocks
exist in the southern extremity of the parish, which are evidently
a continuationl of the Sidlaw Hills; and, as the plains of the ad-
jacent sandstone strata possess a coinciding direction, so it seems
highly probable that both received their present dip and position
from the same internal convulsion.  These strata vary in their
dip from 10&deg; to 20&deg;, inclining to the east and south-east.
	Boulders.--Irregular masses of Primitive rocks of large dimen-
sions are frequently met witb in the recently cultivated portions of
the parish.  These chiefly consist of mica-slates greenstone, gra-

        *For &,complete account on this head, see the report of the neighbouring parish
of Dunnicben, drawn up by the Rev.  James Headrick, whose acquaintance With this
branch of science is universally known.


