
                         STIRLING.                              425

other part of the town; it presents to a spectator, looking towards
the pulpit westward, an imposing aspect.  There was in the East
Church, till it was removed on the introduction of gas a brazen
chandelier, said to have been the gift of John Cowan.  At the west
end of the whole building rises a massy tower, 22 feet square, and
90 feet in height.  In this there are four bells of considerable
size, and of different depths of tone; so that they might be rung
in a regular chime.  This has lately been attempted; buth hither-
to, without the desired success.--A still more ancient building, but
which has long been a ruin, is the Abbey of Cambuskenneth; situ-
ated in the immediate vicinity of the little village named front it, on
the northern side of the Forth, and in the county of Clackmannan,
although within the parish of Stirling.  The name signifies the
field of Kenneth; the adjacent grounds having been, it Would seem,
the scene of some transaction, in which one of the princes of that
name was concerned.  It was founded in 1147 by David I.; and
was endowed by himself, and some of his successors, with many privi-
leges, and vast possessions in different parts of the kingdom.  It was
often called the Monastery of Stirling, and its abbots styled Abbots
of Stirling.  The church belonging to it was called St Mary's;
and hence the street leading to it from Stirling was called by the
name it still bears, St Mary's Wynd. It was frequently, in its palmy
days, the scene of transactions of national importance.  From the
middle of the fifteenth century, it began to decline.  At the time
of the Reformation; it was spoiled, and great part of the fa-
bric demolished.  It is understood to have furnished materials
for the older houses of the adjoining village.  The buildings ap-
pear to have been of vast extent.  One tower alone now remains.
A large old building in St Mary's Wynd, on the west side, close
to which was the North Port, enjoys a traditional importance, as
being of great antiquity, and having been the residence of one
of the king's household when the court was kept in the castle
This however is plainly fabulous.  The date 1633; the style of
architecture, the bastard Gothic, similar to that of Argyle House;
the initials, J. C. and A. C., which may have been those of John
Cowan and hi wife; the arms, which are those of the merchants,
to which class belonged; and other circumstances;--make it
next to certain that it was erected by that individual, and proba-
bly the house in which he dwelt.  There is a large and handsome
apartment in  w used as a carpenter's workshop.  The rest
of the building is occupied at dwelling-houses.  In this street, also


