
     Statistical Account

Christian æra.  Of this battle there are traces at Mause or,
Maws, on the road from the church of Bendothy to the
chapel at Persy.

<FOOTNOTE>

Boethius, which came to my hand and knowledge, after I had formerly
transmitted to the editor here of the substance of what follows.

<UNREADABLE>

   Tacitus, in the Life of Agricola, says, that Agricola "ad montem-
"pervenit, quem jam hostes insederant;" arrived at Mount Gra,
where the Britons had already fat down; which must be some place on the
side of the Grampian mountains, where they use from Strathmore.  That is
was beyond the estuary of the Tay, may be meant by the words of Agricola
on the occasion, "transisse ‘stuaria."  It was within the province of the Ho-
reth, the boundary or "finis" of which extended to the shore and the fleet,
("deduxit exercitum in fines Horestorum,") from which he returned again
through the territory of the newly conquered people: this cannot accord
with any other place than Angus, and past of Perthshire castward of the
Tay.

</UNREADABLE>

   The Buzzart Dikes on Garrydrums, in the parish of Kinloch, (being
earthen dikes of 8 or 10 feet high, inclosing great part of a square mile),
we take to be the place of Mount Grampius where the Britons had already
fat down, "quem jam hostes insederant," and which contained the "l‘ta
"pr‘da victoribus."  This place is near the tumuli, and the appearances of
the field of action, and it is four miles N. from the Roman camp at Mickle-
hour.  As the camp stood on the grounds of the Horesti, the latter part of
the word Micklehour is the word aimed at by Tacitus The Roman camp
of Micklehour is formed by the confluence of Tay and Isla; it stretches
two miles along the Tay, two miles along the Isla, and two miles and a
half along the dike that incloses it.  It contains a pr‘torium on the side
next the Isla.  The above mentioned dike is called Cleaven Dike, (that is,
the dike of the fork or confluence); a mile and a half of it is still standing
towards the Tay.  There is a draught of it in Stobie's map of Perthshue;
but it cannot be traced within half a mile of the pr‘torium; the map
stretches it out too far on the end next the pr‘torium.  The Tay had for-
merly run nearer the W. end of the dike than it does at present.  Cleaved
Dike is 20 feet broad at present, and about 5 feet high, and has been made
out of two parallel trenches that are 20 yards from the dike on the opposite
sides of it.  Cleaven Dike has openings at the W. end, and the middle, for
the egress and ingress of an army.  The camp has a small exploratory for-
tification within it, on the top of an eminence.  It lies in the parish of Ca-
puth.  Cleaven Dike is the "valium" of Tactus.  His expression would
not be accurate, but in a care like this, where there is only one line of dike


