
358 	                           AYRSHIRE.

luce; and he only waited a proper opportunity to attach Cross-
raguel, lying in his vicinity, to his estates. Allan Stewart, the
abbot, who lived under the protection of the Laird of Bargany,
was at length, under hospitable pretences, enticed to leave his
safeguard, and to pass some days in Maybole with Thomas Ken-
nedy, brother of the Earl, from wbence he, was taken to the Castle
of Dunure, the original seat of the family, and the ruins of which
still stand gloomily nn a rock, whose base is washed by the sea on
the western boundary of the parish. But we give the words of the
original, account :
        "Efter the which the said Mr Allane passed with quyet com-
pany to visie the place and boundes of Croceraguall, whairof the
said Erie being surelie advertised, determined to put in practeis the
tyrany which long before he bad conceaved. And so, as king of
the countries apprehendit the said Mr Allane, and carridd him to
the house of Dunure, where for a seasone he was honourablie en-
treated (gif a prisoner can think ony interteanment pleasing:) but
after that certaine dayis were spent, and that the Erie culd not ob-
tene the fewis of Croceraguall according to his awin appetite, he
determined to prove gif a collatione could work that, which neather
dennor nor supper could doe of a long tyme. And so, the said Mr
Allane was carried to a secret charmer; with him passed the ho-
nourable Erle, his worschepful brother, and sic as was appointed
to be servantis at that banquet. In the chalmer there was a grit
iron chimlay, under it a fyre: other grit provesione was not sene.
The first cours was, 'my Lord Abbot (said the Erle) it will pleis
you confess heir, that with your awin consent ye remane in my
company, becaus ye darre not comitt you to the bandis of utheris.'
The Abbote answerit, 'Wald ye, my Lord, that I should mak a ma-
nifert leising, for your pleasour? The treuth is, my Lord, it is
against my will  that I am heir; neither yet have I ony pleasour in
your company.--Bot ye sall remane with me at this tyme', said
the Erle.--'I am notable to resist your will and pleasour, said the
Abbote,' I in this place.'--' Ye man then obey me said the Erle.
And with that were presented unto him certane letteris to subscryve,
amonges  which there was a fyve yeare tack and a 19 yeare
tack, and a charter of feu of all landis of Croceraguall, with, all the
clausses necessaire for the Erie to haist him to hell! For gif adul-
terie, sacriledge, oppressions, barbarous creweltis, and thift heap-
ed upon thift diserve hell, the great King of Carrick can no more


