
                          HAMILTON.                        253

lating liquors. Small-pox, which, in the year 1787, carried off se-
venty-five children in this parish, was for many years almost un-
known. Of late it has reappeared, but in a less fatal form. Among
the list of new diseases, we may mention dysentery, which was
little known here till the spring of 1818. It appeared in that year
in the months of March and April, and in the end of June, and
in July, August, and September. Thermometer, in the first pe-
riod, greatest height 67; least height 29. The last days of March,
and the first six of April, were foggy and calm; from the 8th to
the 12th snow and rain fell; from that to the end of the month,
windy, with a few calm days. Wind, N. E. and E. A year or two
after, this disease made its appearance among the cavalry in the
barracks, and as their surgeon had never seen it before, he very
prudently called in medical assistance from the town. It rages
fearfully for some time; but the terror it excited has of late almost
entirely given place to that of its more formidable successor, ebolem.
From July to November 1832, sixty-three individuals, mostly fe-
males, and many of them in the poorest circumstances, fell victims,
to this new and appalling scourge. The hospital near the barracks,
and other incidental expenses, cost the parish upwards of L. 600.
It has not since appeared in this place. The slow nervous or re-
mittent fever, above alluded to, is a variety of the gastric fever of
some authors, and is by many of our ablest physicians considered
as being, perhaps, peculiar to Hamilton. It seems to have its
source in the irritation of the digestive organs. *
	Frosts of long continuance are now of rare occurrence. The
most remarkable were in the winters of 1708, 1715, 1739, (called
the hard frost,) 1742, 1754, 1776, 1788, 1796, and 1813. The
heaviest snows of late have been in March and April,--as in 1820
and 1827. In 1809, a heavy fall of snow, on the 31st of May,
and again on the 5th of June, did great damage in the orchards
and woodlands, by breaking down the branchds of the trees then
in full verdure. On the 5th February 1831, several persons in
this neighbourhood were lost in the snow.
	Hydrography.--The river Clyde and the other waters in the
district are occasionally subject to great inundations. In 738,

<FOOTNOTE>The symptoms, according to an amiable and much lamented individual, the late
DrJohn Hume of Hamilton, are, "Headach often very severe; pain in the back and,
loins, and sometimes in the chest; sometimes delirium, but transient; never stupor, ex-
cept immediately before death; variable pulse, but in general quick; frequent cough
heat and dryness of skin, alternating with chilliness nausea, vomiting of bilious
matters, pain in the epigastrium and bowels generally, want of appetite, white
tongue, either pure or mixed with red points, generally costiveness, and turbid urine.


