
322                         FIFESHIRE.

entrance of the quarry a vein of greenstone occurs, a continuation
in all probability of the mass noticed above.
Balearres Coal-field ranges westward from the Craig, dipping
partly under it, as well as the Kilbrachmont ridge on the north.
It consists of four seams, two of which are splint, the one 6, and
the other 2 feet thick. The third seam, which is 3 feet thick,
consists of common coal. The fourth is called 11 marl-coal," from
the circumstance of its being split up, or separated into two seams
by an interposed bed of that substance. A trap dike of 60 yards
thick traverses this field from east to west, doing considerable in-
jury to the minerals. ' The dip varies from I 11 to an angle of 20Q.
Reres coal is nearly in the same line of elevation with that of
Baleaffes; and has been compressed into a trough-like form,
stretching to about 800 yards across the edges of outcrop. This
curious figure into which the strata have been thrown, terrni-
nating in a semicircular end, has unquestionably been occasioned
by the action of the trap rocks, by which it is almost surrounded.
It also consists of four seams of coal of variable thickness.
The upper division of the parish presents coal at Lathallan,
Largoward, and Falfield. Dunikier-Law, the highest point in this
range,, is composed of fine grained basalt, arranged in large pen-
tagonal jointed columns, and seems to be the centre from whence
the innumerable dikes diverge, which have broken up into so many
sectional patches the coal- metals of this interesting and disturbed
district. In many places the coals are thrown upon their edges,
dip in every direction, and at various degrees of inclination. Along
with the varieties mentioned above, a bed, of cannel or parrot-coal,
of 2 feet thick, occurs in this quarter. * All the seams are more
or less injured in the vicinity of the dikes ; and by the shifting and
upheaving of the beds, much trouble and expense are occasioned
to their respective owners. Is their gratitude to the bountifl,
Giver and Architect of the whole rendered the'less ? Let them re-
flect' that by these very means, through the agency of these- very
faults and baubles, the useful mineral has been lifted from the
bowels of the earth, and broiikht within their reach. Besides,
when veins are filled, as is often the case here, with stiff clay, nu-.
merous springs are clammed up, and brought to the surface, there-

<FOOTNOTE>Faltield coal must have been worked for a considerable length of time, an ac-
count is to be seen at Largo House, of so M-Y loads ot parrot-coal, driven yearly
from Falfield to Falkland, for the use of King James VI. in his own chamber.


