
     Of Kilfinan

   The parochial school is taught at the church.  The
salary is 4 L. 6 s. 3 d.  There is besides 4 L. 15 s. 6 1/3 d. in-
terest of money mortified for the benefit of the school of
Kilfinan, partly by the Mr. Lamont who left the mor-
tification for the poor of the parish, as already mention-
ed, and partly by a lady whose name is unknown*.

   Population.-The return to Dr. Webster in 1755 was

     I i 2

<FOOTNOTE>

to the various necessities of the indigent.  In case of sickness or acci-
dental misfortunes happening to any of them, that might disable them
from going about in quest of subsistence, they are considered of from time 
to time, the treasurer being appointed to give them such small donations,
as will be a temporary relief; and the expenses of their funeral, to a
certain extent, are always defrayed out of the funds, when they happen
to die without leaving a subject of their own adequate to the purpose.
The present incumbent, soon after his admission, observing there was
very little cash in the treasury, and considering, that 10 s., with any
collections, etc. that could be expected, was too precarious a fund fo
such a number of poor as the roll exhibited, suggested to the session a
plan of augmenting the trifling sum which they then had in the trea-
sury by such yearly savings as might be found convenient, until the
capital should amount to 100 L.  The session having readily adopted this plan,
the object is now nearly accomplished; and, after the first general meeting
of the session, the poor may receive near double the sum they were in 
use of getting.  These savings were made only in good and plentiful
seasons; and when there happens a scarcity, or when the price of meal
is very high, as it is this present year, there is a meeting extraordinary
held to distribute among the poor according to their need

<FOOTNOTE>

*The average number of scholars, for ten years past, reckoning from
1783, inclusive, is,

<TABLE>

For the winter quarter,   55 scholars.
For the spring ditto,     43 ditto.
For the summer ditto,     28 ditto.

</TABLE>

In summer last, viz. in 1793, there have been only 4 scholars.
There is another school that has been planted in the parish several
years ago, by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge; but as
the schoolmatter does not receive the accommodation and perquisites re-
quired by the Society, and in consideration that the number of scholars
is but small, the Society are now talking of taking it away. 


