
     46                        PEEBLES-SHIRE.

the only noble persons residing in the parish. Besides the heri-
tors, Robert Nutter Campbell of Kailzie, Esq., William Allan of
the Glen, and Captain James Ker of the Honourable East India
Company's Service, hier-apparent to Cardona, there are no other
individuals or families in independent circumstances resident
among us.
   Character and Habits of the People.--On this point we have no
peculiarity to notice, except, perhaps, that our people have scarce-
ly yet learned to accommodate themselves to the great change of
the times since the close of the late war. There are riot awant-
ing families among us, however, whose tables are covered with a
plentiful though homely fare, and whose children are never so ill
clad as to make their parents ashamed of bringing them up to
the house of God. It must be admitted that all this requires an
industry and an economy on the part of both parents, which must
never be relaxed, and perhaps, too, a little saving before marriage
to set the parties up without debt, which is but far too seldom the
case in these days of luxury and of vanity. The late war, with
all its expensds and bloodshed, was, perhaps, not so disastrous to
the country by its loss of treasure and of life, as by the habits of
living its fictitious prosperity has entailed upon all, both rich and
poor. To the boundless prosperitv of the late war, followed by
the reduction of income after the peace, may be ascribed much of
the distress, immorality, and irreligion of the present day. No
doubt these changes have been felt less among a rural population
than among the manufacturing classes, but still even among us
their effects are obvious.  Wages are not now so high in propor-
tion to the mode of living, as they were duriny that war; employ-
ment is not so steady; and neither proprietors nor farmers in ge-
neral so able to afford either as formerly. At the same time, the
old thrifty habits of domestic industrv and economy in farnilie
have been forgotten; by many, every thing is now bought with
money,-the wheel being almost altogether laid aside, and nearly
every article of raiment being now purchased instead of being made
at home.  The expensive articles of tea, coffee, and sugar, they
can neither easily want nor easily procure. They become, there-
fore, liable to feelings of discontent, which have, it may be fear-
ed, injured the cause of true and vital godliness, and of brotherly
kindness and charity in the hearts of many; for while justice de-
mands the admission that our people are generally intelligent, ge-
nerous, and respectable in their station, it is doubtful if we can



