
246                     RENFREWSHIRE.

er, at this day, consists of merely a school-house, dwelling-house,
and about L. 17 per annum, with the wages of the scholars. *
   There are other three schools which may be called town schools,
two in which the English language is taught, and one in which
writing, arithmetic, and practical mathematics are the branches of
instruction.  The teacher of each of these schools is furnished with
a school-room; one of the English teachers has in addition a dwel-
ling-house, and the other, as also the commercial teacher, a salary
of L. 8, 6s. 8d. per annum, from the funds of the town.
   The only other teacher within the burgh who, when the report
was given in, had any thing like an endowment, was the one in
Seed-bill, who, in addition to a school-room and dwelling-house,
enjoyed, as he still enjoys, an annuity of L. 5, left for the purpose
of education about fifty years ago, by a person of the name of Park.
   Such was the state of education in Paisley within these two
years.  But it is refreshing to think, that active exertions have
been set on foot for the purpose of remedying the evil of so great
a want of education as then existed among us: and, from the libe-
rality of the friends of education, there is great reason to hope,
that these exertions will, ere long, be crowned with success.  The
heritors of the Abbey parish have resolved to assess themselves, in
the legal sum of three chalders, for the support of three parochial
teachers, each of whom to be localled in one of the three dis-
tricts of the parish, viz. one in the east, one in the west, and one
in the central or middle district.  A school has also been recently
erected in the New Town, from funds left for this purpose, by the
late Mr and Mrs Corse of Greenlaw.  From all these sources, it is
expected that a great addition will be made to the means of educa-
tion, and, from the additional encouragement to teachers, an im-
provement in its quality.
   To the parishes within the burgh of Paisley, a grant from Go-
vernment of L. 700, for the purpose of building schools, was lately
obtained, which has been so increased, by the liberality of the in-
habitants, as to have afforded them the means of erecting three new
school-rooms; and of increasing the accommodation of an existing
one.  The general session, who had previously built a school-house
by means of funds at their disposal, have, along with a certain
number of subscribers, the superintendence of these schools, and
they have guaranteed to each teacher a salary of L. 15 per an-

<FOOTNOTE>When the school is well attended, the teacher possesses a very competent in-
come.
                                              4


