
                   WANDELL AND LAMMINGTOUNE                    807

line, and at another point of view a more peaked and conical form;
with here and there a gray rock peering above the grassy turf.
Many of the hills in the parish are of considerable height, and
from their summits afford beautiful and extensive views.  Hill-
house in Wandell, a short way from the kirk, and Lammingtoune
hill to the east of the village, rise about 500 or 600 feet above the
level ground around the manse ; and when we consider that
these are not the highest hills in the parish, that Tinto on
the opposite side of the river, and not more than a mile and a
half in a straight line north-west from the village of Lamming-
toune, is 2306 feet above the level of the sea, we may safely state
the highest point in the parish to be not less than 1400 feet above
the tide at Greenock.
   Soil.-The soil, as may he supposed, varies considerably in dif-
ferent parts.  In the holms or low grounds by the river, where the
Clyde in the lapse of successive generations has evidently varied
greatly in its course, freaking from one confining boundary to an-
other, as if in derision of the power and comforts of man, the
prevailing soil is a deep rich loam or clay, and in some instan-
ces where the deposition has been more scanty, it is sharp, light,
and gravelly.  The remainder of the cultivated lands, partly inter-
spersed as knolls amid the holms, and partly rising in gradual as-
cent to the bases of the hills, and of sufficient elevation to be at
all times safe from the sudden swellings of the Clyde, are gene-
rally of a free, rather light, but yet kindly soil; and the same re-
mark holds good of the greater proportion of those breaks of land
upon the hill sides that have been subjected to the operations of
the plough.  The crofts about the village of Lammingtoune, con-
sisting of about 70 acres, are considered the best land in the pa-
rish, although from the circumstance of their being held by so
many small tenants, they cannot well be permitted to rest for any
length of time in pasture.  The subsoil of the arable land, with
the exception of the very lowest of the holm lands, is generally
of a porous gravelly nature, and hence frequent showers in the end
of spring and beginning of summer are essential to insure any
thing like heavy crops.  Peat moss occurs among the hills, but
not to so great an extent, as in many of the surrounding parishes.
There are also a few bogs, or spouty marshy spots, occuring in
the same localities, but none of a description not to be pasturable
by the woolly race.
   Climate and Seasons.-In a district of such, general altitude,


