
92                          ROSS AND CROMARTY.

volent deeds are, to this day, recounted by the people of this and
the surrounding parishes. *
   There is only one river worthy of particular notice in this pa-
rish, viz. the " Ewe," which issues from Lochmaree, and is only
one mile long from its source to its CODfluence with the arm of the
sea, called 11 Lochewe." This beautiful stream abounds with sal-
MOD of the very best description. It is surpassed by no river on the
west coast forangling; and hence it is, during the summermonths, fre-
qu,ented by gentlemen from all parts of the kingdom, for this healthy
and delightful exercise. An English military gedtlernan killed One
hundred salmon and grilse, in the course of a few weekr, during the
summer of 1834; and I am credibly informed that th--, late proprie-
tor, Sir Hector Mackenzie of Gairloch, Bart. frequently killed
twenty salmon in one day.-.Besides Gairlocti, Lochewe is the only
other salt water loch in the parish. This loeb, into which the waters
of Locbmaree fall, is from 8 to 10 miles long. Near the mouth
of it, is a fertile and well cultivated islan d, called Isle Ewe. Much
attention and expense were bestowed upon the improvement of this
island, by the present proprietor, Sir Francis Alexander M,Ken-
zie of Gairloch, Bart., before he came into the full possession of the
Gairloeb estate. 7f he two principal headlands jutting out on each
side of Loc-hewe, are R-u Bea. on the south, and Green StODe Poiijt
on the north side.
   Climate.  The climate is mild, although extremely rainy. This
may be accounted for, partly by the mountainous character of
the country, and partly by other causes. The prevailing winds
are the west and south ; and at whatever season of the year it blows
from these quarters, we are almost certain of torrents of rain.
Easterly winds invariably bring us dry weather, and hence they are
welcome visitants, although they warn us to wear additional cover-
ings. The easterly winds are more prevalent in the month of
March and first half of April, than at any other season of the year.
But there has been a marked change in the climate, for some years

<FOOTNOTE> On the centre of this island is a deep well, consecrated by the said Sai-Yit Maree
to the following purpos,- To this saxne well are dragged, vokno, nolnar, all who are
insane in this or any of the surrounding parishes, and after they have been made to
drink of it, these poor victims of superstitious cruelty are towed round the island after
" bmt, bytheir tenderhearted attendant& It is considered a hopeful sign, if the
well is full at the time of dragging the patient to the scene, In justice to the people
of this parish, it may be stated, that they have not such an unbounded belief in the
bailing virtues of tire well, and the other parts of the transaction, as their most distant
neighbours appear to entertain. The belief in such absurdities is daily losing ground
in the -Highlands - and'there is little doubt that, in course of a few years more, the
clouds of superstition that overhang' the moral horizon of our Iliglilands will be di$-
si-pated by the better education of the peasantry.


