

360                          FIFESHIRE.

of L. I I Scotch, or 18s. 4d. Sterling, for the first offence of break-
tug into a dovecot or shooting a pigeon, and double that sum for
every subsequent offence, the race bad been extinct. Complaints
have been made against the acts of Parliament supporting dove-
cots; but it is with the complaints against pigeons as against
crows, people think of the grain devoured, without reckoning on the
bedefit received. Pigeons pick up much grain that would be lost,
mav destroy insects in the soil, and certainly feed on wild mustard
see that deteriorates the crop. Sixty-eight pairs, besides keeping
up the stock, may furnish yearly an hundred pairs Of YoUng to be
disposed of at 5d. or 6d. a pair; and pigeon dung is a most valuable
manure. It is sown in Persia with the hand over the corn-fields,
to great advantage.For the last seven years, the minister of tile
parish has manuredhis garden with it not sparingly, but as co-
piously as with theusual animal or vegetable difng; and not only
what is sown or planted prospers generally, but duringthat space, no
instance has occurred of the insect touching the gooseberries.
Amidst the modern improvements of conveying speedy intelligence
by telegraph, by steam navigation and railroads, it is singular that
the plan of letter-carryidg by pigeons has not been attempted in
Britain, so common at the present day in oriental countries. It is
well known that a pigeon when YOUDG can easily be domesticated.
The Turks of Aleppo, in Syria, carry OD a correspondence with
the city of Alexandria in Egypt, with our common domestic pigeons
of bluish plumage. They are conveyed in cages to show thern
the route; the letter is rolled up under their wing, and in an hour,
barring accidents, the pigeoi courier arrives at his home destina-
tion, over a space which would reqiiire four days travel to a human
express.
From experiments made by the writer of these pages, he has
reason to believe, that hares never go far from their native spot.
The sat-no observation applies to blackbirds, and perhaps to game
of every kind. The redbreast, stpposed by some to migrate dur-
ing the warm months, lives in the minister's garden all the sum-
mer over.
IL-'CiviL HISTORY.
:All the Scottish historians assert, that, on the land-side of St
A ridrews, was a large district, called , Cursus Apri," or the Boar's
chace, and there is a considerable village, three miles east of that
town, still called Boarhills. One of the old names of St Andrew.%
too, :was Mueross, the promontory of the BoRrs. John Major re-


