
     Statistical Account

agriculture were made in this parish before the year 1782*.
From that period, farmers from different parts of the coun-
try, but especially from the Carseof Gowrie, have settled in
the parish, and now mostly possess all the lower part of it.
A different mode of culture is introduced; a regular rotation
of crops is established.  Fallow, wheat, green crop; (pease
beans, sometimes drilled turnip and potatoes), barley, grass,
and oats, is the general practice.  Fallow is prepared by 5
plowings; 1 in winter and 4 in summer, dunged and limed
according to the quality of the soil.  The wheat is sown from
the middle of Septemder to the end of October, and the re-
turn is from 10 to 15 bolls an acre.  Pease and beans are
sown as early in March as the season will permit; the ground
is prepared by 1 plowing in the spring; sometimes by 1
plowing in the winter and another in the spring.  The returns
however are precarious; from 2 to 12 bolls an acre.-Barley
is sown in May; the ground is prepared as fine as garden
mould, by 1 plowing in autumn and 2 or more in spring;
20 lib. weight avordupois of red clover seed, if the grass is
intended for green seeding, (and, if intended for hay, the ad-

<FOOTNOTE>

*Some particular fields, and even farms, both in the hills and low ground
had been limed, but by continual cropping, and unskilful management, the
light land had been run almost to a caput mortuum, and the clay reduced to a
state worse than that of nature.  The farms in general, both in the hills and
low ground, were divided into infield and outfield.  In the hills, barley and oats
alternately, with sometimes a few pease, was the mode of cropping on the in-
field; 3 years oats, and 3, 4, and sometimes 5 years in natural grass, was the
mode of managing the outfield.  The dung made through the year was laid on
as a preparation for bear.  The sheep and cattle, during summer, folded at
night on that part of the outfield pasture that was intended for oats next year,
sometimes enriched it sufficiently for 3 succeeding crops.  The culture of the
low ground differed little from that of the hill, only a few more pease and beans
were sown, and here and there a few acres of fallow, which was followed by
wheat, but little or no sown grass.  No regular rotation of crops.


