
     			    CAMBUSLANG.                      417

rish of Rutherglen, in the north-west corner. According to an au-
thentic and very accurate survey, it contains 8.50 square miles, and
4325 statute acres; Lying at the northwest extremity of the great
trough of the Clyde, near the western boundary of the district of
Clydesdale, the greater part of the parish exhibits a low undulating
surface, and forms part of the great vale on which the city of Glas-
gow stands. The high grounds at Turnlaw and Dechmont, towards
the south-west, which form a ridge about half a mile broad, and
extending nearly two miles from east to west, are a continuation
of the same range of whin hills which separate Douglas and Les-
mahago frnm Ayrshire, and running through Avondale, Stonehouse,
Hamilton, Blantyre, and Cambuslang, terminate in the county of
Renfrew. Dechmont is about 600 feet above the level of the sea;
but as it lies in a comparatively level country, the view from it is
very extensive. Towards the south-east, Tinto the Tweeddale, and
Pentland hills are distinctly seen; and to the north-west, the "lof-
ty Benlomond," and many of the hills of Cowal and Breadalbane.
Among these last, the conical summit of Ben Loe, which is part-
ly covered with snow from the end of October to the beginning of
July, makes a conspicuous figure. But (as the writer of the last
account of this parish justly remarks) "the beauties of this pros-
pect lie nearer at hand and more immediately in view, comprehend-
ing the strath of Clyde, from Lanark on the one hand, to Dum-
barton on the other." Amidst the amazing variety of objects which
here present themselves to the eye of the spectator, the most striking
are the windings of the river, and its banks adorned with villages,
towns, and gentlemen's seats; the extensive woods and plantations
about Hamilton; the magnificent ruins of Bothwell Castle; but
above all, the large and populous city of Glasgow, with its nume-
rous spires and beautiful cathedral.
	Meteorology.--The air, as in other places in the neighbourhood,
varies considerably according to elevation and the nature of the soil.
In the low dry sheltered lands near the Clyde and Calder, it is gene-
rally mild and temperate; but towards the west and south-west, espe-
cially about Dechmont and Turnlaw, it is sharper and more incle-
ment. No diseases are peculiar to the climate; but small-pox,
which was scarcely heard of for many years is again beginning to
make its appearance, and often in an aggravated form. The cli-
mate is so mild that snow seldom lies in the lower parts of the pa-
rish towards the Clyde; but in the high grounds towards the south
west, Dechmont often assumes a wintry shroud. Almost every fa-


