
       186                   SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

       In the meantime, the lamented death of the proprietor put a stop
       to improvements, and many of the people were, by the building of
       these very houses, More deeply than before plunged into debt.
       From this cause, from the failure of the fishing, and from a series
       of adverse seasons, arrears again accumulated to a great amount.
         Upon the accession of the present Duke of Sutherland, his at-
       tention was arrested by this evil; and, persuaded that, to reclaim
       these arrears, was impossible, without ruining his people, he deter-
       mined to cancel the whole. In this parish, the arrears for rent
       alone amounted to L. 1582. This deed of princely generosity has
       not failed to make a suitable impression upon a people strongly
       susceptible of gratitude, and deserves to have a  prominent place
       assigned it in any public account of the parish. After such con-
       duct, every one must feel that his Grace has the interest of his
       people deeply at heart. That their interest, however, may be
       really secured, it is absolutely necessary to open up for them sources
       of industry, to encourage such as are desirous to improve, and to
       introduce a different system of agriculture from the present among
       the small tenants.
         Some of the large farms are susceptible of being extensively
       and profitably cultivated; but the farmers, from the amount of
       capital they have already at stake, and from the shortness of their
       leases, in which there are no extensive improving conditions, are
       prevented from cultivating as they might, and as some feel in-
       clined; and the people are deprived of much work which they
       might otherwise have. And certainly it would be more satisfac-
       tory to see our labourers thus employed at home, than going to
       the south, where their morals are endangered; where their ex-
       penses eat up a great proportion of their earnings; and where,
       very frequently, they are disabled for a length of time by diseases
       caught in the wretched lodging-houses, to which they must have
       recourse, and whence they often carry infection to their native
       country.
         As to the agrhculture of the small tenants, wretched as it is at
       present, it is capable of great improvement. The foundation of
       the evils now attending both it and them, is not the amount of
       rent, but the smallness of the crofts. This it is which debars a
       proper rotation, and which causes rents to be ill paid. And
       though, by the  concurrence of favourable circumstances, and a
       powerful stimulus to the feelings, calling forth uncommon exer-
       tion on the part of the tenants, the rents may be defrayed once


