
     Statistical Account

draws to a close, but you may survive me long.  To you 
I commit the charge of my children, teach them above all
things to love and fear God; and whenever you fee any 
of them attain to the height of earthly grandeur, Oh!
then, in an especial manner be to them as a father and a
guide.  Admonish, and if need be, reprove them, left they 
be swelled with the pride of momentary glory, through
avarice offend God, or by reason of the prosperity of this
world, become careless of eternal life.  This in the pre-
sence of Him, who is now our only witness, I beseech you 
to promise and to perform*."

<FOOTNOTE>

*By a tedious and painful indisposition, endured with exemplary pa-
tience, she was brought very low.  During a short interval of ease, she
devoutl, received the communion; soon after her anguish of body re-
turned with redoubled violence, she stretched herself on her couch, and
calmly waited for the moment of her dissolution.  Cold and in the ago-
nies of death, she ceased not to put up her supplications to heaven.
These were some of her words:  Have mercy upon me, O God; accord-
ing to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my iniquities, make
me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may
rejoice Caft me not away from thy presence, and take not thy holy Spirit
from me restore unto me the joy of thy salvation.  The sacrifices of God
are a broken spirit; a broken and a contrite spirit, O God, thou wilt
not despite.  Do good, in thy good pleasure, unto Zion, build the walls
of Jerusalem." At that moment, her son Edgar, returning from the
army, approached her couch.  "How fares it with the King and my
Edward?  "The youth stood silent, "I know all," cried she, I know
all:  By this holy cross, by your silial affection, I adjure you, tell me the
truth.  "He answered, your husband and your son are both slain."
Lifting her eyes and bands towards heaven, she said, "Praise and bles-
sing be to thee, Almighty God, that thou hast been pleased to make me
endure so bitter anguish in the hour of my departure, thereby, as I trust
to purify me in some measure from the corruption of my sins; and thou
Lord Jesus Christ, who, through the will of the Father, hast enlivened


