
                                        GLENSHEIL.                              191

          fruit trees from the depredations of insects.  A beautiful caterpiL-
          lar, resembling a green leaf bent into a tube, with its nerves and
          foot-stalk, was observed two years ago upon the Lombardy poplar.
             The only kinds of shell-fish which abound on the shores Of
          Lochduich are whelks, limpets, and mussels, all of which are used
          as bait for fish, and in times of scarcity are resorted to by the poor
          people as food. Clams and other bivalves are rare. The lobster
          is scarcely known, but the green crab is very common.  An ani-
          mal bearing a close resemblance to a leech was discovered by the
          writer, two years ago, under a stone at low water mark, of the ex-
          traordinary length of four yards.
            Botany.--The Flora of this parish does not seem to contain any
          plants but such as are common in similar situations in the High-           
          lands, unless the Epilobium angustifolium a large plot of which
          occurs near the church, be considered worthy of notice.  Of the
          native plants applied to economical purposes, may be mentioned
          the common heath, the green tops of which dye a good yellow,
          and with indigo a tolerable green; the bark of the alder, which,
          with the addition of copperas, forms a good black - the Lecanora
          tartarea, which dyes a purple, and the Parmelia omphalodes, a
          reddish-brown.  The twigs of tbi sallow are twisted into ropes, as
          a substitute for hemp, as are also the shavings of fir root, rushes
          and heath laid with the hand.  In domestic practical, the leaves of
          the spearwort (Ranunculus lingua) are used as a blister; the red
          crane's-bill (Geranium robertianum,) to abate the inflammation in
          eraysipelas ;a cataplasm of hemlock (Cicuta virosa) is a favourite ap-
          placation to indolent tumours ; and a decoction of the sundew (Dro-
          sera rotundifolia and loagifiolia), is used to cure urinary disorders
          of cattle.
             The native fruits found in the parish are brambles, Rubus frutti-
          cosus and corylifol.;) roebuck berries . (R- sazatilis;) raspberries
          (R. idaus;) of which the white variety occurs; eloudberries,
          (R. chamamorus;) strawberries (Fragaria vesca;) whortleberries
          (Vaccinum myrtillus and v. vitis idaa;) bear-berries, (Arbutus uva-
          ursi;) crow-berries, (Empetrum nigrum;) roan-berries. (Pyrus
          aucuparia ;) and hazel nuts.
            The native trees are the alder and the. ash, the former occu-
          pying the swampy hollows, the latter the steep banks and rocky
          eminences.  Both these kinds of timber 'cover a considerable ex-
          tent of the lower slopes of the hill of Letterfearn, growing quite
          down to the high water mark.  These Woods are, of some importance


