
			BANCHORY-TERNAN.                      351

at L.6. Of all these kinds of agricultural labourers and assistants,
there are at present 156 men, 115 women, 100 boys, and 66 girls;
the hire and maintenance of whom, together with those of 240 oc-
cupiers of the soil (about one-half nf whom are permanently, and
the other occasionally, employed in tilling their own ground,) will
represent the annual average value of labour employed in agricul-
tural production; when there are added to this L.402 for addi-
tional work in harvest, and also the expense of the keep and la-
bour of 252 agricultural horses.
	Day labourers have in summer, men, 1s. 8d., and in winter,
1s. 4d.; women, 8d. to 10d. Of these, 82 men, at a yearly ave-
rage, are permanently employed by the land-holders alone, and
the amount of wages paid them is about L.1918. Artisans receive
2s. 6d. per day in summer, and 2s. 2d. in winter. More than
125 persons are employed in trade and handicraft.
        Cattle.-The number of oxen, or dry cattle kept at present in
the parish, is 793; of cows, 735; and of calves or yearlings, 714.
The oxen and cows are generally of the Aberdeenshire breed;
some of the Teeswater, lately introduced, are not found to answer
so well. The number of farm-horse is 252, and of others, 23.
There are 2108 sheep, mostly of the Highland black-faced breed,
and 266 pigs.
	Much has been done for the improvement of cattle in this dis-
triet by the Dee-side Agricultural Association,-a society composed
of the proprietors and tenantry of this and eight surrounding pa-
rishes, to the number of eighty individuals, who bold cattle shows

`t least once a-year in this place, and distribute prizes to the
amount of L.70 annually. The disease called red water or moor-
ill, proves here very injurious to the farmer's stock in some seasons,
and apparently in some localities, more than in others. It occurs
most frequently in the winter months, but is not unknown in sum-
mer. It attacks various kinds of cattle; but cows, towards the
end of pregnancy, or after calving, are more liable to it than others.
Cattle from the Highland districts are seldom seized with it, pro-
bably from their hardy nature, and are therefore said to be darn
bred. The discoloration of the urine and extreme constipation,
are its most prominent symptoms. Various causes are assigned
for its, occurrence. Some old people believe in the existence of
a mysterious plant, called the darn, which gives rise to it, but
which few of them yet profess to have seen. Most, however, agree
in thinking that acrid, or otherwise unwholesome food, is the prin-


