
                              SCONE.                        1055

     arrived in Scotland on the 5th of April 1424, and on the 21st of
     May was solemnly crowned with his queen in the usual venerated
     sanctuary, the Abbey Church of Scone." From this time the
     importance of Scone greatly diminished.  It was neither the place
     at which the immediate successors of James were crowned, nor
     where the legislative assemblies were held during their reigns.
     The abbey must have given it some importance in an ecclesiastical
     point of view, but Edinburgh had now become the seat of civil
     government, as it was the metropolis of Scotland.  Passing over
     more than sixty-four years, the next coronation which took
     place at Scone was that of James IV. After the funeral of his
     father in the Abbey of Cambuskeneth, James was overwhelmed
     with remorse for his undutiful conduct.   He immediately pro-
     ceeded to Perth, and thence to Scone Abbey, where he was
     crowned with the usual rejoicings on the 26th of June 1488, in
     his sixteenth year.  Both James V. and Mary were erowned at
     Stirling, so that the next notice of Scone occurs after the lapse
     of more than seventy years.  On the 11th of May 1559, John
     Knox preached a sermon at Perth against the mass, idolatrous
     worship, and the adoration of saints and images.  From the zeal
     of the people in the Protestant cause, and the daring opposition
     of the Roman Catholics to the doctrines delivered by Knox, the
     altar, images, and other ornaments of the church were torn down
     and destroyed.  In their subsequent destruction of the monasteries,
     the people acted in conformity with the wisdom said to have been
     inculcated by Knox, "that the best way to keep the rooks from
     returning, was to pull down their nests." On the 14th of June.
     the church at St Andrews was stripped of its images and pictures,
     and the monasteries overthrown; and on the 27th of the same
     month, it would appear, the abbey and other religious houses at
     Scone were burned to the ground by a furious mob, who had come
     from Dundee on this work of destruction.  This has been de-
     scribed as having been done "under the auspices of Knox;" but
     it is right to quote his own words from his "Historie." Having
     mentioned the provocation given to the populace by the Bishop
     of Murray and his friends, who were living there, and noticed
     what seems to have been the Bishop's palace, he adds, "So was
     that abay and plaice (palace ?) appointed to  sackage; in doing
     whereof, they tuk no lang deliberation, but committed the holle
     (whole) to the merciment of fyre, whereat no small number of us




