
                         UNITED PARISHES OF
                      URQUHART AND GLENMORISTON.
               PRESBYTERY OF ABERTARFF, SYNOD OF GLENELG.

                THE REV. JAMES DOUNE SMITH, MINISTER. *

        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE meaning of the word Urquhart is now unknown;
but as there are several parishes of that name in the Highlands,
Urquhart on Loch Ness was anciently called Urchudin Cill ma
Chrossan, as being the residence of Saint Crossan or Crostan, and
latterly as Urchudin Thiarna Ghrant, or the Laird of Grant's Ur-
qubart. Glenmoriston or Glenraore-Essan, " the glen of the great
waterfall," derives its name from the beautiful cascades on the
river which flows through it, of which those near the mouth are the
largest and most picturesque.
   Anciently, the parish of Glenmoriston was united to that of
Abertarff, and it is believed that it was when the latter was con-
nected with Boleskine that the former was joined to Urquhart.
Since the suppression of Popery, at least, the two parishes have
had but one minister, the glebe and parish church being situated
at Kilmore, on the margin of the bay of Urquhart, a portion of
Loch Ness, being thus placed at the extremity of the larger but
more populous district of Glen Urquhart.
   Extent and Boundaries.-This exquisitely beautiful parish,
which is more varied in mountain, hill, and dale, lake and stream,
the warbling wood, the pomp of groves and garniture of fields,"
than perhaps any other in the Highlands, is about 30 miles
long, and in general from 8 to 12 miles broad, though the
extreme breadth along the northern bank of Loch Ness, from
the confines of Aberiachan to Invermoriston, extends to about
15 miles. It is bounded on the north by the parishes of Inver-
ness, Kirkhill, and Kiltarlity; on the east by Loch Ness; on the
south by the united parishes of Boleskine and Abertarff, and part
of Kilmonivaig; on the south-west by the parishes of Glenshiel and

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. J.D. Smith and George Anderson, Esq. Inverness,


