
                         MONIFIETH.                        545

none, be reassone ye people keipt not the kirk on the Lord's day,
yt thair names suld be read out everie Sabboth day, that whosom-
ever was absent qn they war callit upon, suld pay twa shillings."
In 1668, the session exercised a civil power, by taking a precognition
on a case of child murder, and prosecuted the woman "befor the
bailzie of Kerrimure, the parioch of Monifuith being wtin that
regalitie, and did put a guard upon her till she was fitte to be
transported there."  In 1705, a similar authority was exercised;
entries as the ensuing are very common: "12th July 1640, He-
len Scott ordeanit and actit for her offence of sclander, to keip
may sie her; and if sho obeyis not ye samyn under ye pane that
sho sall stand in ye jowgs, and yrefter to be banissit out of ye
paroche, if ever she beis fund to sclaunder any of her nighbours
heirefter, or to flytt with thame." The following appears more
salutary, than practicable; "5th Apryll 1646, It is actit, that
whosoevir heirefter sall be fund to drink in aill-houses, bying or
selling, to remaine longer nor a pynt aill or chapin aill the hand *
sall pay twa dolorr." In 1649, we find Thomas Crawford, quar-
ter master to the General's Life-Guard, after much contumacy,
obliged to undergo a severe discipline, for challenging the Laird
of Omachie to single combat. In December 1649, an individual
was subjected to double discipline, for coming "to ye place of re-
pentance wt his sword about, and putting on his bonnett."
	Perhaps the most interesting entry of all (unfortunately much
torn) is a long account of the "subscryving" of the solemn League
and Covenant in 1648. Indeed, the whole record, and the oldest
volume in especial, is full of amusing and curious information, be-
sides throwing much valuable light on the history of the district,
the manners of the people, the state of wealth, the value of la-
bour, &c. &c.
  Antiquities.-Upon the hill of Laws, near the middle of the
parish, are the remains of an ancient vitrified fort. A low wall +
seems to have encircled the whole top of the hill, which is flat,
180 yards in length, by 66 in breath. The hill itself is a green
cone, terminating a long ridge. At the bottom of this cone,
spear-heads of iron, with bones of men and horses, have lately

<FOOTNOTE>i. e. Per man.
  People stil alive remember of old realdenters telling them, that they knew it
Eve feet high. It was destinguish so all desine.


