
316                         FORFARSHIRE.

and no special association, civil, social, or religious, which we can
call our own. The farmer, temperate and industrious in his habits,
is commonly a-stir by the, early hour of four during the summer
months, and both takes and allows a short relaxation about noon.
His board is generally served from the produce of his farm. The
cottar, if a spademan, is a day-labourer at 1s. 8d. per day, without
maintenance, and has a preference of his master's work; if a horse-
man, he is engaged by the year, on terms varying from L. 10 to
L. 12, with his house, garden, and maintenance, viz. L. 8 or two
pecks of oatmeal per week, with a liberal allowance of milk. Bo-
thies, which at one time were common, are now little known. In
winter, female industry is almost unavailable. From the commence-
ment of spring until in-gathering time is ended, all bands are at work.
That the population has decreased, within the last century, to the
extent of nearly two-thirds, is attested by a few old parishioners,
and visibly confirmed in many instances by vestiger nf ruined cot-
tages, overgrown with nettles and briers, and in others by one so-
litary plane, or by clusters of aged ash trees disposed in square or-
der, with which the corn-fields are still interspersed. The cause of
decrease cannot be matter of doubt. It is attributable only to the
progress of husbandry; and to the eye which strictly is directed to the
practical result, it must be visible that, in the transition from one
extreme, there is a dangerous tendency to the other. The extensive
farmer may be the more ostensible man abroad; but, at home, his
less, aspiring neighbour does his work with more economy, main-
tains a better feeling, and diffuses better habits throughout his
whole establishment, moves progressively on, with more personal
comfort, and in a surer path, and ultimately reaps a more solid ad-
vantage.
	The great disproportion of births to deaths is rather remark-
able, but can be very satisfactorily accounted for. Eleven per an-
num is rather an under statement for births, while the deaths are
overrated at eight. Young married men are generally preferred
for horse-work; and when deprived by age of the requisite ac-
tivity, tbey migrate with their families in quest of more suitable
employment. The proportion is also affected by the demand for
term servants being greater than the parochial population can sup-

ply.  Of marriages no average can be given.

<TABLE>

                   Population in 1801,       448
                                 1811,       419
                                 1821,       411
                                 1831,       450


