
512                                LANARKSHIRE.

reign of James V., the rectory of Crawfordjohn in the deanery of
Lanark was taxed L. 10, l3s. 4d."
	The church is situate conveniently enough for the greater part
of the population,--is only 4 miles distant from one extremity of
the parish, but between ll and 12 from the other. It was en-
larged and newly seated in 1817, is in a tolerable state of repair,
and accommodates 272, independently of the communion seat, which
accommodates 38 or 40, and may be considered free. The attend-
ance in church is, on the part of a great many, exactly what it
ought to be, viz. as regular as the return of the Sabbath. The
number of communicants is from 360 to 370; and the average of
young communicants for the last twenty years is 19, and nearly 1/3. *
137 male heads of families are entitled to exercise the veto.
	There are 20 persons who belong to the Relief, 12 to the Unit-
ed Associate, and 8 to the Reformed Presbyterian, Synods. In
1816, the same denominations in their order numbered as follows:
51, 8, 4; and the variation in the two last has been quite acciden-
tal; two strangers belonging to the latter of the two having come
into the parish, and being joined by other two who left the Relief;
and no fewer than ten having come amongst us who belonged to
the former. Some strangers, lately arrived, are not in communion
with any denomination of Christians; and all the rest belong to the
Established Church. On the day of the General Assembly's fast,

<FOOTNOTE>In the Presbytery records there are various particulars in regard to a vacancy
in Crawfordjohn. The first entry is lst March 1704, "absent John Bryce, remov-
ed by death." Then lst November 1704, it was proposed to give a call to T. Lin-
ning to succeed Mr Bryce; but, difficulties having occurred to prevent this being
done, after considerable delay, Lord Selkirk and his dependents wished to have
James Wilson, while another heritor and his adherents were desirous of having
Matthew Wood, and another party proposed to reconcile both these, by giving a call
to a third. Protests were the consequences of these unfortunate proceedings, and
the business was carried before the Synod and General Assenbly, whose decisions
were adverse to the views of all these zealous parties. At last Mr Robert Lang was
appointed to preach, at Crawfordjohn, 26th December 1708; but in a representation
by certain parishioners conveyed to the Presbytery, it is stated "how John Weir of
Newton, bailie to Lord Selkirk, James Gray, chamberlain, George Irving, clerk,
and, Robert Galloway, kirk-officer, went into the church with candles, on the Satur-
day night, and nailed such doors as wanted locks, and put the key in Gray's custody,
so that Mr Lang had to preach in the church-yard; and caused the officer to go to
several of the tenant's houses, and discharged them to hear Mr Lang preach, (albeit
little obedience was given to his commands,) &c. "After Mr Lang was ordained,
9th March 1709, (a vacancy of five years having taken place,) to a question of the
Presbytery, as to his peaceable possession of the manse, lie replied "he had none at
all, for Gray had taken off the old locks, and put on new ones, and refused to give
him the same." The Presbytery appointed a letter to be written to the Lord Advo-
cate, who replied, "he was fully satisfied that Gray was guilty of a ryot in what he
had done, and that application should be made to the Justices of the Peace to make
on doors. and repossess Mr Lang in the manse of Crawfordjohn," and the Pres-
bytery adviced him to cause it be put in execution. The kirk session was ordered
to cite the dignified chamberlain to appear before the Presbytery, to answer for his
conduct in carrying off the church key.



