
                  476                  	    ARGYLESHIRE.


                  obstacle, contribute to the facility of the, passage across.  The tide
                  continues to flow at Connell only about four hours and a half, and
                  to ebb upwards of seven hours; and it is singular, though easily
                  accounted for, that the tide begins to flow below the fall an hour,
                  or rather more, before it does so above the fall; and the strange
                  phenomenon is thus exhibited of the tide flowing in one place, and
                  ebbing strongly in another, within a few yards, at one and the
                  same time. *

                     Loch-creran, like Locb-etive, is connected with the LIhinne-
                  loeb, from which it separates at the island of Eriska.  Itslength is
                  twelve miles, and its average breadth is one mile.and a-balf, though
                  there is a strait near to Dalechulis, when it narrows to less than
                  150 yards ; and then the current becomes rapid, as it does
                  likewise at the ferry of Shean.  The average depth of Loch-cre-
                  ran is 15 fathoms ; the rise of the water at spring tides. is from

                 <FOOTNOTE>Before leaving this arm of the sea it will gratify every reader of taste to peruse
                  the account given of Loch-etive and the surrounding scenery, by an author who has
                  repeatedly trod its shores, and who is one of the most powerful writers, both in
                  poetry and in prose, of the age in which he lives.  "Loch-etive," observes Profe-
                  sor Wilson,  "between the ferries of Connel and Bunawe, has been seen by almost
                  all who have visited the Highlands but very imperfectly; to know what it is, you
                  must row or sail up it, for the banks on both sides are often richly wooded, assume
                  many fine forms, and are frequently well embayed; while the expanse of water is suf-
                  ficiently wide to allow you, from its centre, to command a view of many of the dis-
                  tant heights.  But above Bunawe it is not the same loch.  For a couple of miles it
                  is not wide, and it is so darkened by enormous shadows, that it looks even less like a
                  strait than a gulf, huge overhanging rocks on both sides ascending high, and yet felt
                  to belong but to the bases of mountains that, sloping far back, have their summits
                  among clouds of their own in another region of the Sky. Yet are they not all horrid,for
                  nowhere else is there such lofty heather,-it seems a wild sort of brush-wood; tall
                  trees flourish single or in groves, chiefly birches, and now and then an oak, and they
                  are in their youth or their prime,-and even the prodigious trunks, some of which
                  have been dead for centuries, are not all dead, but shoot from their knotted rhind,
                  symptoms of life unextinguished by time and tempest. Out of this gulf we emerge
                  into the upper loch, and its amplitude sustains the majesty of the mountains, all of
                  the highest order, and seen from their feet to their crests. Cruachan wears the crown
                  and reigns over them all,-king at once of Loch-etive and Loch Awe. But Bu-
                  achail-etive, though afar off, is still a giant; and in some lights comes forward,
                  bringing with him the Black Mount and its dependent-, so that all seem to belong
                  to this most magnificent of all Highland lochs.  I I know not,'says MacCulloch,
                  that Loch-etive.' could bear an ornament without an infringement on that aspect Of
                  solitary vastness which it presents throughout.  Nor is there one.  The rocks and
                  bays, on the shore which might elsewhere attract attention, are here swallowed up in
                  the enormous dimensions of the surrounding Mountains, and the wide and ample ex-
                  panse of the lake. A solitary house, here fearfully solitary, situated far up in Glen-
                  etive, in only visible when at the upper extremity ; and if there be a tree, as there
                  are in iL few places on the shore, it is unseen, extinguished as if it were a humble
                  mountain flower by the universal magnitude around.' To feet the full power of
                  Glen-etive, you must walk up it till it ceases to be a glen. When in the middle of
                  the moor, you see far off a solitary dwelling indeed,-perhaps the loneliest house in all
                  the Highlands,-and,tbe solitude is made profound as on ass by, by the voice of a
                  catanct, hidden in an awful chasm, bridged by two or three stems of the trees along which
                  the red deer might fear to venture,-but we have seen them and the deer-hounds
                  glids over it, followed by other fearless feet, when far and wide the forest of Dalness
                  was echoing to the hunters' horn."


