
                           LAUDER.                               11

Lauderdale Agricultural Society, having for its object the improve-
ment of the different breeds of stock, and improvements and dis-
coveries in agriculture, in regard to tillage and the management of
grass lands, as well as in all other matters connected with rural
affairs, was established in 1830. The Earl of Lauderdale is pa-
tron of the society, and its funds are supported by his Lordship's
very liberal subscription, and by the subscriptions of all the lands-
holders, and most of the tenants, in the district. The funds,
amounting to nearly L. 100, have been annually expended in pre-
miums, awarded for the best specimen of breeding stock from many
quarter. At the half-yearly meetings much excellent stock has
been exhibited. The society is obviously fitted to exert a most
beneficial influence on the improvement of the district.

                V.-PAROCHICAL ECONOMY.
   Town.-The only town in the parish is Lauder, which is also
a market-town. It has little or no trade, most of its inhabitants
being small retailers, mechanics, day-labourers, or agriculturists.
The police of the town is chiefly under the superintendence of the
magistrates, who appoint a fiscal for the burgh, and occasionally
hold bailie-courts for the determination of small debt cases, petty
offences, &c. Formerly small debt courts were held monthly by
the justices of the peace, but these are not now so regularly con-
tinued, especially since the Sheriff small debt court came into ope-
ration. In the course of last summer (1833,) several public-spi-
rited individuals combined to establish in Lauder a weekly market
for corn, in order to accommodate the people in the district, and
hitherto the scheme has met with some encouragement, but, as it
is yet in its infancy, it would be premature to speak confidently of
its ultimate success. The market-towns nearest to Lauder are,
Kelso, distant seventeen, and Dalkeith, distant nineteen miles, to
the last of which the farmers have been long accustomed to carry
their corn, and from the neighbourhood of which they bring home
lime and coal.
   Means of Communication.-Very ample means of communica-
tion are enjoyed by the parish. It has a post-office in the town,
and a daily mail, brought by the curricle which runs through Lau-
derdale between Edinburgh and London. It has two turnpike
roads; the one on the east side of Leader, (six miles long in the
parish,) leading by Whitburn Inn to Greenlaw, Dunse, and Ber-
wick, as well as to Coldstream and Kelso, and the other on the
west side of the river, (eight miles long in the parish,) leading to




