              426                      ARGYLESHIRE.

              dom's mercy and not to his, and, availing himself of this infamous
              casuistry, he caused as disgraceful, bloody, and indiscriminate a
              massacre to take place as the pen of history has ever recorded.
              The whole garrison, were put to the sword, except one young
              man of the name of M'Dugald, saved by Sir James Turner, and
              the infant son of Archibald Og Macdonald of Sanda, who was
              carried by stealth out of the fortress by his nurse, before the mas-
              sacre commenced.
                In the indiscriminate carnage, both Archibald More Macdonald
              of Sanda, and his'son, Archibald Og, a young man of great gal-
              lantry, fell, and with them the power of the Macdonalds of Kin-
              tyre and Islay, who, from this period, may be said to be no more
              a clan.  After leaving, Dunaverty, Coll Kittoeh took the command
              of the fortress at Dunniveg, in Islay; and Sir Alexander pro-
              ceeded with part of his forces to Ireland, and there joined the
              Royal army, where he was soon afterwards killed in a battle fought
              against the Earl of Carlingford.  Coll was taken prisoner at the
              siege of Dunniveg, and afterwards hanged at Dunstaffnage, Nei-
              ther Coll nor his son left issue, and Kintyre was never afterwards
              claimed by any of the descendants of the Lords of the Isles.
                Sir Alexander Macdonald's uncle, Archibald Mor Macdonald
              of Sanda, would have succeeded him ; but he, as well as his gal-
              lant son and heir, fell on that day.  This Archibald Og was suc-
              ceeded by his only son, Ronald Macdonald of Sanda, then an
              infant at the breast.  He and his nurse, Flora M'Cambridge, had
              been taken to the garrison as a place of safety on the approach
              of the enemy; and, during the shocking massacre which ensued,
              when the child's father and grandfather were slain, this faithful
              nurse made her escape with her charge naked in her arms to a
              cave in the Moil.
               This Ronald became a person of considerable consequence.
              He married Dame Anne Stewart, sister to the first Earl of Bute,
              thereby strengthened the interest of his family, and obtained char-
              ters to some of his lands from the Bishop of Whitehaven; it being
              the policy of the Argyle family to prevent the Macdonalds ob-
              taining charters from any others than themselves ; but, at this
              time, the Argyle interest was low,-tbe Marquis having suffered
              on the scaffold, A. D. 166)./f*

              <FOOTNOTE>Archibald Mor Macdonald of Sands, and his son, Archibald 0 . the father of
              Ronald abovd-mentioned, were interred in the middle of a field on the farm of  Ma-
              chribeg, not far from the shore.  The place where their remains were deposited, along


