
     Of Weem.

now greatly reduced.  Eagles, hawks of various kinds, ravens,
hooded crows, and kites, breed in great number in rocks
and woods; and destroy lambs, and a great deal of game and
poultry; and yet there has been no public, and scarce any
private encouragement given for their destruction.  While 
the game laws are so severe, that shepherds, and others, whose
occupation leads them to the places where these destructive
creatures most abound, dare not carry a gun or kill a single
moorfowl, no great effects can be expected from any plan
laid down for destroying birds of prey, though it may be 
safely averred, that one of these will destroy more game in
a season, than 10 shepherds would do, though they were at
perfect liberty to kill as many as they could*.
   There are in the parish 1236 head of black cattle, and 290
horses.  Cows are worth from 2 L. 10 s. to 5 L., according to 
the part of the country in which they are bred, these in the 
glens being of greatest value.  Horses cost from 5 L. to 15 L. 
Before the introduction of sheep-farming, a great many small
horses were reared in the hilly parts of the country; but now
most of the horses required in this parish, are bought from
Argyleshire, or from the Low Country.
   There are about 8000 sheep, besides the usual proportion
of lambs and year olds.  These are mostly of the Lammer-
moor breed.  A few of the long English kind, and also of
the Cheviot breed, have been introduced; but we have not 

<FOOTNOTE>

*There are both black and red game in the parish ptarmigans, plovers,
snipes, partridges, and dotterels.  Malards, gulls, and other water fowl come
to hatch in the lochs.  Birds of passage are, cuckoos, woodcocks, fieldfares,
bullfinches, and snowflakes.  A few of these last hatch in our highest moun-
tains.  Birds that are not reckoned game, birds of prey, or migratory birds,
are, rooks, magpies, jays, daws, woodpeckers, ring ouzels, water ouzels (very
destructive to the spawn of fish) thrushes, blackbirds, larks of several denomi-
nations, linnerts,and a great variety of small birds.


