
             166                          PERTHSHIRE.

             menclature. Its extreme northwestern position in the barony
             of Mullion is occupied by greywacke to a CODsiderable extent.
             Through the southern edge of this passes that bed of clayslate,
             which extends Dearly throughout the lower range of the Gram-
             pians from sea to sea.  Its character, adjuncts, and position are simi-
             lar to those of the slate deposit at the.great quarries near Dunkeld,
             and in the Stormont.  It dips at an angle of 45/d1 towards the north.
             It is worked as a roofing slate at Ruchummon in this parish.  To
             the south of this, chlorite slate is found, and farthersouth a coarse pe-
             culiar variety of conglomerate.  In the lower part of the parish a gray
             sandstone in thick strata prevails.   This is a continuation of the
             sandstone which is quarried to such an extent at Gelly Burn.  It
             is a first-rate building stone; and in some places abounds vith
             charry impressions of various land plants.  The southermost rocks
             along the channel of the Almond consist of argillaceous red sand-
             stone.  This is thickly marked with pale bluish spots, sometimes
             supposed to be caused by organisms, and is in many parts inter-
             sected with very thin veins of satin spar. It contains about 16 per
             cent. of carbonate of lime, and in some parts of the country is used
             as a top-dressing for pasture, under the name of rock marl.
               As this parish forms part of the angular territory, bounded on
             two sides by the rivers Tay and Almond towards their confluence,
             it is supposed to be traversed from side to side by the five or six
             trap veins which make their appearance in each of these rivers in
             the space of about two miles.  But these are nowhere else visible,
             in the parish, except where the surface has been intersected by
             ravines or water-bourses.
               Woods.-There are from 760 to 800 acres of wood on Lord
             Lynedoch's property; about 60 on that of the Duke of Athole ; and
             a few acres on that of Mr Smythe of Methven.  The woods on Lord
             Lynedoch's property were originally planted with Scotch fir, and
             larch, except some places which were thought fitter for oak, which
             is now cut as coppice.  As the Scotch fir and larch are cut down,
             their place is uniformly supplied with young plantations of which
             the principal part is oak.     His Lordship has been at great pains
             in procuring acorns for rearing plants, and, so far as I have been
             ableto ascertain, they prove to be the true Quercus robur.  This,
             however, I may remark, is not the case with some other planta-
             tions in , the  vicinity, where I have observed the Quercus sessili-
             florus to Prevail.  The latter is a tree of much softer wood, and
             greatly inferior value.  The attention of landed roprietors, in
             Making oak plantations, cannot be too strictly or earnestly direct-


