
164                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

   Savings Banks.-A bank of this description was opened here in
1825; and the stock, lodged chiefly, if not solely, by persons of
small capital, in the rank of servants or mechanics, has been gra-
dually augmenting.  The amount of funds presently, or, at the
time of the last annual meeting, under the charge of the directors,
is L.1576, 5s. 10d. belonging to 98 depositors.
   Mrs Ferguson of Pitfour, with a very praiseworthy intention, has
been mainly instrumental in organizing a Penny-a-week Clothing So-
ciety, after the model of some similar institutions that have been tried
and found beneficial in England.  The object in view is to promote a
spirit of industry and economy among the poor, by inducing them to
pay a penny every week to a collector, in the hope that some indivi-
duals in better circumstances will encourage the scheme by an
equal payment for the behoof of one or more in whom they may
feel a special interest,-so that by the accumulation of both sums
amounting to 8s. 8d. at the end of the year, means may be obtained
to purchase for them some comfortable and often much wanted
articles of wearing apparel or bedding.
   Fairs, &c.-The principal fairs are Aikey, held on the Wednes-
day after the second Tuesday of July O.S. and Dustan or St
Dustan's, on the corresponding day of December, both principally
for the sale of cattle and horses, although, not many years back,
there used to be brought to them a considerable quantity and variety
of commodities manufactured at home.  It seems to have been the
intention, if not the usage, to have a fair here every month through-
out the year; but, with the exception of the two mentioned, and three
others of inferior note, viz. on second Thursday of January O.S.
on second Thursday of March O.S, and one lately established in
September, all the rest have entirely disappeared.
   Fuel.-There is no. very extensive and deep field of peat moss re-
maining.  Yet there are several districts or spots where fuel of that
kind is still procured, Hythie, Clachriah, Greenbrae, Clochcan,
Annochie, Blackpots, Skelmuir, and Kinmundy.  The Moss of
Deer, as well as some of those just mentioned, is nearly exhausted;
but this circumstance is not much to be regretted, because, all
things considered sea-borne coals can be procured at fully as cheap
a rate in most cases, and because it is to be expected that when
these damp and soft wastes are removed, and the places where
they were, brought into tillage, the climate in the vicinity will be
greatly improved.


