CAMERON.

at Denhead, both depending on the school fees, and both having
free school-rooms; a free dwelling-house being also attached to the
latter. The branches usually taught at the parish school are, En-
glish, English grammar, writing and arithmetic. The same branches
are taught at the other schools. The school fees at the parish school
are, for English grammar, per quarter, 3s. 6d.; reading, 2s. 6d.;
writing and reading, 3s.; reading, writing, and arithmetic, 3s. 6d.
At the other schools each branch is 6d. per quarter higher.
There are very few persons in the parish beyond the age of six
years who cannot read and write. The people seem all very much
alive to the advantages of education, and are anxious to give their
children as much learning as possible. Children of paupers, and
those whose means are very circumscribed, are educated at the pa-
rish school gratuitously. Ample means of education are provided,
and none of the children are so distant as to prevent attendance
at school.
Friendly Society. - About twenty years ago, a friendly society
existed in the parish, but, from giving too large an allowance to
members and widows, before the society had accumulated sufficient
capital, it got into debt, and was dissolved by general consent.
Poor and Parochial Funds. - There are at present on the poor's
roll 12 persons. The average sum allotted to each, per week, is 9d.
There are, besides, a few who receive aid occasionally. They are
all supported by the church collections, which amounted in the year
ending 1835, to L. 17, 12s.; and the rent of 2 acres 5 poles, im-
perial of land, which was lately let by public roup at L. 7, 2.
In general the poor consider it as degrading to come upon the pa-
rish, but there are instances to the contrary, where there is no
reluctance to apply, and no degradation felt to receive a regular
support.
Inns. - There are 8 houses in the parish licensed to sell whis
ky, and two where only beer is sold, which is more than are neces-
sary for the convenience of the inhabitants.
Fuel. - Plenty of coals can be produced at Druncarro, in the
parish, and at Largoward, bordering upon the parish, but situated
in that of Kilconquhar, - which cost, on an average at both places,
1s. 6d per load of 3 cwt.

MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
The alteration in the appearance of the parish since the present
incumbent first knew it, is very striking. Then, a great quantity of
heath was to be seen from the windows of the manse, now it has
altogether disappeared; and instead of the comparatively barren

