
552                               PERTHSHIRE.

built of no other materials than earth and turf, according to the
description given of it by Blind Harry. Here Wallace, coming
from Argyle, attended by a few faithful adherents, rested with his
men for some days. And the Rannoch men, glad of such an op-
portunity, immediately joined the hero's standard, and marched to
attack the English at Dunkeld and Perth.
   King Robert the Bruce was in Rannoch on two occasions;
on one of which, he gained a victory over the English at Dal-
chosnie. On another occasion, after sustaining a defeat on the
confines of Argyle, he was obliged to conceal himself for a con-
siderable time in Rannoch, at a place, still called after him,
Seomar an-righ, the King's Hall, a sequestered and beautiful ro-
mantic spot on the side of the Tummel, below Crossmount. Gil-
bride, or Bredus of the Cave, as he is called in history, also took
shelter in Rannoch. Being defeated by the King's troops in his
attempts to recover possession of " the Isles," he for some time
concealed himself till the King's troops should retire. Hence he
was called Gilbride of the cave. The cavd or bididg-place was
no other than the north side of Loch Rannoch, where he princi-
pally took shelter; and a farm there got its name from the circum-
stance, Aulich, i. e. Uamh-fhalaich, the hiding-place or cave. There
is on the face of the hill above the farm, a remarkable well or
spring of water gushing out of the earth, the strongest I ever re-
member seeing, called Fuaran Ghille-bhride, or Bredus's well. A
few such would inundate the parish of Feadail,-of which already.
Gillebride's Cairn is not far distant; and other places in the
neighbourhood are still called after him.

                        III.-POPULATION.
   At present, no part of the parish is more populous than it was
in 1790; whereas in several districts, the population has since de-
creased fully a half; and the same will be found to have taken
place, though not perhaps in so great a proportion, in most or all
of the pastoral districts of the county.

<TABLE>
           According to census of 1801, the population was        3875
                                  1811,                           3236
                                  1821,                           3189
                                  1831,                           3067
Number of families in the pilrish,                                 621
                chiefly engaged in agriculture                     273
                in trade, manufactures or bandicrak                119

   One of the principal causes of the decrease has been emigra-
tion. Upwards of 120 families from this parish, since the former
Account was drawn up, have crossed the Atlantic, besides many


