
                                 ABERNYTE.                       223

         improved but by planting.  And some even nf that number may
         be under roads and streams of water.  Of plantations, there may
         be about 341 imperial acres, chiefly firs of various kinds, espe-
         cially larch and Scotch firs, thriving and properly attended to.
         Ash, elm, and plane trees thrive well also.
           Rent.-The average rent of land is about L. 2 per Scotch acre,
         of grazing an ox or cow L. 1, 10s., ewe 6s. for the season.  The
         real rent of the parish is about L. 2037.
           Wages.-Farm-servants come to maturity receive from L. 10
         to L. 15 per annum, and 61 bolls of meal, with a pint of sweet
         milk daily ; labourers from 8s. to 10s. weekly ; and artisans
         from Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. daily, without meat.  Female servants
         in the house have its common fare, and about L. 6 of wages per
         annum.  In summer, at day's work in the fields, when occasion re-
         quires, females receive about 9d. without victuals, and the same
         rate at threaving in harvest as in the Carse.  Carts cnst from L. 6
         to L. 12; ploughs from L. I to L. 4; rollers from L. I to L. 10;
         turnip sowing machines from L. I to L. 6, harrows from 10s. to
         L. 3 per pair; wheel-barrows, from 10s. 6d. to 16s.
           Husbandry.-There are few parts of the country better cultivatdd
         than this, considering the high rents, and the very low prices of grain,
         which are great checks to enterprise.   The proprietors, too, are
         heavily burdened themselves, and yet make great reductions of rent,
         notwithstanding the clamour even of many substantial citizens about
         cheap grain.  The land seems sufficiently drained, and, owing to
         its declivity, it does not admit of irrigation.  Very little embanking
         is here required.  The duration of the leases is from nineteen to
         twenty-one years.  The farm-buildings have been greatly improv..
         ed, and in some instances rebuilt within these few years.  But some
         are deficient, especially for feeding bought cattle, to which attention
         has been turned of late.  The principal improvements recently
         made consist chiefly in the use of bone dust, in more extensive
         and regular green cropping, in feeding cattle, and eating a certain
         proportion of the turnips on the ground with sbeep.  The improve-
         ments in farming are considerable ; but cannot be equal in magni-
         tude to those in manufactures by machinery, especially from the
         fortunate discovery of steam engines.  Hence, from the very low
         prices of the staple commodities, both proprietors `nd farmers are
         much depressed in many places.  The rents, though greatly re-
         duced, are still too high for material improvements in manuring,
         deepening, and transporting soil, &c.  Exhausted capitals, and




