
			LEGERWOOD.                              349

tive, and 5 above seventy; one of the latter is considerably above
eighty, and another has attained to the great age of ninety-four.
The people are no doubt indebted in a great degree for the bles-
sing of robust health, to comfortable accommodation, temperate
habits of life, and regular and bracing employment.
  Hydrography.-There are perennial springs of excellent water
in all parts of the parish, which appear to flow from sandstone rock,
and frequently through gravel or through sand. It is said that there
was formerly a loch of considerable extent on the lands of Cors-
bie; and that it enclosed a small wooded mount, on which the
ruins are still standing of an ancient tower, the residence of the
old possessors of the barony. The sheet of water, however, if it
did remain entire until so late a period as to encircle this seclud-
ed fortalice, has long been drained off, and its bason is now partly
unimproved moss, and chiefly meadow pasture.
   The Leader washes the western boundary of the parish on its
way to the Tweed. The Eden, a very small stream, has its source
on the farm of Boon, and after a course of about fifteen miles,
falls into the Tweed below Newton Don. Several nameless ri-
vulets convey the superfluous moisture to the Leader, or the Eden,
and in the northern parts of the parish into Boon Dreigh, a tri-
butary of the Leader.
   Geojogy,&c.-The whole eastern part of the parish, together with
the northern side of the valley of Legerwood, rests upon secon-
dary sandstone; and the bills in the northern part, excepting Boon
Hill, whichappears to consist of conglomerate, have been raised by
graywacke. This rock abounds in veins, filled, so far as I have
seen, with clay. At one place, where a quarry has been opened
for dikes, these veins appear to cut each other at right angles ;
some running almost due north, others east. Immediately above
the bridge at Dodds Mill, on the Edinburgh road, a striking effect
may be seen, produced by the action of water upon this veinous
rock, which arrested the attention of the French traveller, M. Fau-
jas St Fond. The stream has uncovered a pretty large mass, and
by washing away the soft veins which lay parallel to its course, has
caused the bard rock to present an appearance which might be
mistaken at first sight for columnar basalt. In a scientific point
of view, it does not seem to possess much interest ; but its ap-
pearance is attractive, especially if the formation be mistaken
for columnar. The end, covered with ivy, of the edifice upon
which the mill-wheel turns, and the trough that conveys the im-


