
			EASSIE AND NEVAY.		481

family in Scotland. On the death of Macbeath, in 1056, Lulach,
the great-grandson of Kenneth IV., ascended the throne of Scot-
land, and fell in battle at Eassie, in 1057, defending his claim
against Malcolm, Duncan's eldest son. But this Eassie is in
Strathbogie and the similarity of the name accounts for the tra-
dition referred to. Whether this pillar tells a national or domes-
tic tale,-whether it marks a grave or commemorates a battle,-
whether it represents a usage of the country, or a rite in religion,
are points on which different opinions will still continue to be
formed.
        Land-owners.-They are, the Right Honourable Lord Wharn-
cliffe; David Nairne, Esq. of Drumkilbo; the Trustees of the late
Lord Strathmore; James L'Amy, Esq. of Dunkenny; and Colin,
Symers, Esq. of Eassie. The two largest proprietors are Lord
Wharncliffe and Mr Nairne. His Lordship possesses the whole
parish of Nevay. The extent of cultivated land in it is upwards of
1400 imperial acres; of uncultivated, including 33 acres of
woods, there are about 540 acres. The arable land on the es-
tatd nf Mr Nairne in this parish extends to between 700 or 800
acres. The whole pasture land does not exceed 35 acres; the
plantations on both estates may measure about 235 acres, princi-
pally of larch and Scotch fir, of no great age, and as yet of little
value. There is no resident heritor.

                        III.-POPULATION.
	The extent of the population has varied little for a century past.
It was, in 1721, 657; in 1821, 664; and, according to the last
census, it was 732. The increase in 1841 is rather apparent thah
real, for the difference was owing to the strangers that happened
to be at work at be time the census was taken. The plan adopt-
ed of including in the population list of a parish all who slept
in the parish on the night preceding the day on which the names
were taken up, while it may give accurately the whole population of
the country, gives in some instances more, and in others less, than
the number of inhabitants exclusively belonging to the particular
parish.

<TABLE>

            Families employed in agriculture,                 54
                              in trades manufactures, &c.     32
            All other families,                               50

                                                    In All,  136

                                IV.-INDUSTRY.
	Almost the whole land of the united parishes is in a high state


