
			FETTERESSO.                             249

1640, and goes on, with many interruptions, till May 1672. It
contains the proceedings of the session, and an account of the col-
lections and distributions of money for the poor. Among the pro-
ceedings of the session, there is recorded a solitary case of witch-
craft, April 1659; the result of which, through the mutitilation of
the register, does not appear. The poor of the parish were divid-
ed into three classes, viz. beddels, those who were coixfined by
infirmity; gangrels, who, although receiving parish aid, were al-
lowed to beg from door to door; and considered persons, who
received aid from the kirk-session, although not placed upon the
regular poor's roll like the previous two classes.

<TABLE>
	The number of the parish poor was, in the following years,
	1656,    -   8 beddels. -    15 gangrels. -   8 considered persons.
	1661,    -   9          -    20              16
	1667,    -   5          -    18               9
In the first of these years, the sum for their support amounted to
L. 130, 17s. 4d. Scots.
   There are no registers from 1672 to 1716. During the trou-
bles in 1715, Mr Peter Rose intruded himself into the parish, dur-
ing the incumbency of Mr Burn, and, when he departed from it,
carried, it is said, the session books along with him, yea, also, the
poor's box and its contents.
   Antiquities.--At no remote period, there were many Druidical
remains in the parish, and some still exist. The vestiges of an old
camp, (by some supposed to be Roman,) on a rising ground, called
Re-dykes (Re-king), have attracted much notice. It is still almost
entire, and occupies a space of 71 acres. It was fortified with
a wall and ditch. At the distance of about three miles, and close
to Stonehaven, there were to be seen, some years ago, remains of
a camp, more distinctly Roman.
   The Romans, in their incursions to the north, seem to have
proceeded from the Tay along the great valley of Strathmore,
which runs parallel to the Grampian mountains, from Perth to
Stonehaven. In this direction, at about twelve miles distance
from each other, the stations they occupied appear to have been
Strageth, Grassywalls, Meigle, Battledykes, Keithock, Fordoun,
Stonehaven, Norman dykes, in the parish of Peterculter, a sta-
tion also somewhere near to the burgh of Inverury, and Glen-
mailen (called also Re-dykes,) in the vicinity of the source
of the Yihan. By this course, it is supposed that Agricola, hav-
ing subdued the most southern parts of Scotland, led an army
of 26,000 men, during the seventh campaign, through  the coun-
try of the Horesti (Angus,) towards the north, and fought the


