
			PORTPATRICK.                         135

to the glen formerly mentioned, with its waterfall. This water-
fall is formed by a small stream called Auchtrematane burn.
When this stream is swollen with rains, it pours a copious tor-
rent over rugged rocks into a narrow ravine, about 50 or 60 feet
deep, whence it flows with a peaceful current for a quarter of a
mile along the bottom of the glen, which opens on Port Kale Bay.
The scenery about this cascade `nd from it to the sea is exceed-
ingly fine. The rugged rocks near the waterfall are enriched with
furze and health, or overrun with ivy and honeysuckle; and the
boldly sloping sides of the glen are well covered with thriving
wood.
	The streams in this parish are all very small rapid. They
are generally named from the principal farms through which they
pass. Their whole length lies within the parish, with the excep-
tion of the Piltanton-burn, forming the eastern boundary of the
parish, and running thence for about six miles into the Bay of
Luce.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--It is impossible to say what is the ge-
neral direction nad dip of the strata of rock on the coast. In the
cliffs north of the harbour, it may be said to be most commonly
north-west, and to the south of the harbour south-east. In ge-
neral the strata are very much inclined to the plane of the hori-
zon, and in some cases almost perpendicular. All the rocks
in this parish are understood to belong to the transition class.
They become more slaty towards the southern boundary, but not
so much so as on adjoining coast of Stonykirk. On the strand of
a small bay, near the northern boundary, a stratum almost perpen-
dicular shows itself, composed of a transition rock, No. 1,* with
frequent intersecting small veins of No. 1, a, calcspar. The sub-
stance of the ordinary strata along the coast is represented by No.
2, a variety of greywacke, strata of which, varying from one to five
or six feet, frequent alternate with others of nearly the same sub-
stance, but thin and of a more slaty appearance.
	In the Morroch Bay, at the southern boundary of the parish,
the following strata, of from 20 to 30 feet in thickness, and near-
ly perpendicular, but dipping towards the south-east, succeed one
another from north to south, in the order of the numbers, and se-
perated by strata of greywacke, No. 2, about the same thickness;
No. 3, greywacke slate; No. 4, greywacke; No. 5, transition

<FOOTNOTE>The numbers refer to the collection of specimens in our possession.


