
                   FINTRY.                                      41

the foot of the rock which encircles the westerm brow of the hill,
there is a considerable extent of table-land, affording excellent
pasture for sheep and cattle, and on the descent below this,
starts out a knoll, commonly known by the name of the Dun or
Down, of a singular appearance.  Its front is a perpendicular
rock, 50 feet high.  The western extremity of this rock is one so-
lid mass.  Some fine specimens of zeolite have been found among
the rocks on the hill.  Several attempts have been made to find
coal at its base, but hitherto, we regret to say, without success.
  Zoology, &c.--Game abounds in the parish. In the lower parts of
it, in addition to the more oommon kinds, we have a plentiful
supply of pheasants.  The roe-deer is not unfrequently to be
seen bounding through the woods, and the moors are well stock-
ed with grouse or heathfowl. The rocks give shelter to the moun-
tain raven, hawks, and most of the smaller birds of prey.  Among
them also, the fox has long secured a very snug retreat.  Polecats
and other vermin of a like nature are not uncommon, and the harm-
less and beautiful squirrel has long had a residence in our woods.
Our streams supply us with no other kinds of fish than the common
burn trout, which is much esteemed, and affords excellent sport
to the angler.  It has been asserted, that salmon have been taken
as far up the Endrick as Fintry; but this wants confirmation, and,
indeed, a waterfall on the river seven miles below Fintry, upwards
of twelve feet high, seems to falsify all such assertions.  It has
been lately proved in a court of law, that the Endrick above this
fall is not a salmon river.  There is abundance of trout, known
by the name of par, (a species only found ih salmon rivers,) below
this fall; none above it. *  Badgers, wild and martin cats are now
extinct, though formerly abundant.
   Botany.--This parish affords a very inviting field for the re-

substances, thereby undermining it, and occasioning the subsidence,  In confirma-
tion of this, we observe numerous copious springs of water issuing out, farther down
the hill.  Yet it must be acknowledged, that, if this water was impregnated with
foreign substances, it has lost them all by filtration before it reache the surface, for
there can be no springs of water more pure or agreeable.
    <FOOTNOTE>The heritor, Mr Speirs, mentions, that, before he went abroad in 1810, the fish
called " par" was very numerous in Fintry waters, but that there were then no min-
nows: in 1809 or 1810, a noted fisherman took minnows from below Gartness, and put
them above the fall: since that time parphave decreased, but there are now shoalsof
minnows. Mr Napier of Ballikinrain last year killed a sea-trout close to the borders
of the Parish; which proves that the fall ai Gartness can be surmounted.  There are
plenty of eels in the waters.  Mr Speirs also mentions that, within his recollection,
great additions have been made to the birds hereabouts. Kingfishers, redstarts, cross-
beaks, golden-wren, mistletoe-thrush, and starling,.though even now not abundant,
were formerly not at all known.



