
                          DAVIOT.                         829

ticipates in the Dick Bequest. The beritors of the parish, put-
ting a just value on the services of an acceptable and successful
teacher, have, greatly to their credit, given him, in a large and
comfortable schoolhouse, much more than the legal accommoda-
tion. The annual expense of education varies, according to the
branches taught, from 8s. to L.I.
   There is no one, it is believed, in the parish, between six and
fifteen years of age, who is unable to read or write, none above fif-
teen who cannot read, and not above fifty, chiefly old women, who
cannot write. And it may be here stated, as a proof that the pa-
rishioners are quite alive to the benefits of education, that, during
last year, there were no fewer than 107 young people attended
school.
   Charitable and other Institutions.-There is no savings bank in
the parish. The nearest is that in Old Meldrum, established, in
18:34, by a few private individuals. A National Security Savings
Bank was established in Inverury in June 1837.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons receiving
parochial aid is generally about 12, and the annual allowance
given to each ranges from L.1, 1Os. to L.5, 11s.6d. The average
annual amount of collections in the church for their relief is
L.25, 11s. 4d.; of interest of money belonging to the poor, L.7,
1Os.; and of donations, &c. given and applied for their benefit,
L.11, 6s. 6d. It rarely happens that application, in the first in-
tance, is made by the individual requiring parochial assistance;
and in more cases than one, when inquiry has been made, with all
possible delicacy, if parochial aid was wanted, or would be accept-
able, the reply has been, "that their own means were not yet ex-
hausted, and till then they could not bear the thought of becoming
burdensome to the parish."
   Fairs, Inns, &c. and Fuel.-In the parish no fairs are held.
There are two inns, besides two other houses in which ale and
spirits are retailed; but these being situated on the sides of the
principal lines of road in the parish, appear to be required for the
accommodation of the public.  Almost all who occupy land in the
parish have, in terms of their leases, the privilege of cutting turf
and peat for fuel in the proprietors' mosses. There is also a con-
siderable quantity of coals brought from Inverury into the parish
for fuel, at the expense of about 5s. 6d. per boll, exclusive of
carriage.


