
              420                            RENFREWSHIRE.

              some variations.  In these surveys be made use of a new micro-
              meter, and a machine for drawing in perspective, both of his own
              inventing.  These, with other ingenious contrivances, will be found
              explained or detailed in the Supplement to the Encyclopaedia
              Britannica, (Art. Watt,) from which the facts stated in this brief
              memoir have been derived.
                In 1800, upon the expiry ofthe act of Parliament passed in his fa-
              vour, he withdrew from business, resigning his shares to his two sons.
              He continued, however, to the close of life to interest himself in
              the pursuits of his former years, and gave proofs of the undiminish-
              -ed powers of an uncommonly vigorous and active mind.  With
              faculties little impaired he reached his eighty-fourth year, when,
              after a short illness, be expired in the bosom of his family, at
              Heathfield, in the county of Stafford, on the 25th August 1819.*
                Mr Watt was elected a Member of the Royal Society, Edin-
              burgh, in 1784; of the Royal Society of London in 1785; and a
              Corresponding Member of the Batavian Society in 1787.  In 1806,
              the degree of Doctor of laws was conferred upon him by the Uni-
              versity of Glasgow; and in 1808 he was elected first a Corre-
              sponding, and afterwards a Foreign Member of the Institute of
              France.

              <FOOTNOTE>Since writing the preceding paragraphs, the compiler of this account has seen a
              translation of the life of Mr Watt, by M. Arago, Perpetual Secretary of the French
              Academy of Sciences, in which he claims for Mr Watt the honour of being the first
              to discover the composition of water. He states, that, in the month of April 1783,
              Dr Priestley had proved that the weight of water deposited on the sides of a vessel
              in which oxygen and by hydrogen have been detonated, is precisely the same as the
              weights of the two gases, and that Priestley communicated this result to Watt, who
              wrote to him in return-"What are the products of your experiment?  They are
              water, light, and heat.  Are we not thence authorized to conclude, that water is a
              compound of the two gases, oxygen and hydrogen, deprived of a portion of their latent
              or elementary heat; that oxygen is water deprived of its hydrogen, but still,united
              to its latent heat and light? If light be only a modification of heat, or a simple cir-
              cumstiance of its manifestation, or a component part of hydrogen, oxygen gas will be
              water deprived of its hydrogen, but combined with latent heat." This passage was
              taken from a letter of Watt's, dated 26th April 1783.  The letter was communibated
              by Priestley to several of the scientific men in London; and was transmitted imme-
              diately afterwards to Sir Joseph Banks, the President of the Royal Society, to be read
              at one of the meetings of that body.  M. Arago states, that circumstances retarded
              the reading of the letter for about a year; but that it appears in the seventy-fourth
              volume of the Transactions, with its true date April 26th 1783.  The memoir of
              Cavendish on the same subject was read on the 15th January 1784.  Sir Charles
              Blagden, defending the claim of Mr Cavendish in opposition to M. Lavoisier, says, that
              Mr,cavendish arrived at the conclusion contained in his memoir during the spring of
              the year 1783, and that "about the same time the news reached London that Mr Watt
              of Birmingharn had been led by some observations to a similar opinion. "The facts
              contained in this statement afford very strong reasons for assigning the honour of this
              brilliant discovery to Dr Priestley an Mr Watt.  It is a very singular circumstance
              in the history of the discovery, that a considerable time elapsed before Dr Priestley
              was persuaded of the soundness of Mr Watt's conclusion, insomuch that he (Dr
              Priestley) actually set himself to disprove it by experiments carried on expressly for
              that purpose.





