
   176                         ELGINSHIRE.

   are given out for perusal to the contributors of a small annual sum,
   It is managed by a president and small board of directors.
   	A newspaper, entitled the Forres Gazette, was established about
   six years ago, and is still published on the first Wednesday of
   each month.
	Charitable and other Institutions.-A Ladies' Charitable So-
   ciety has existed for many years, and has been productive of much
   good.  The benevolent zeal of many of its members in visiting
   and relieving the distressed objects of their charity, is most con-
   spicuous, nor are their unremitting exertions in contributing and
   collecting funds to meet their disbursements less praiseworthy.
   A cholera hospital was built in 1832, but happily it has never
   been found necessary to use it for its intended purpose. It has
   been fitted up as a temporary prison.  A dispensary was esta-
   blished a few years ago for providing medicines for the poorer
   classes; it is superintended by the medical gentlemen of the
   place in monthly rotation, who give their professional services
   gratuitously to the poor.   A saving bank has been in operation
   for a good many years, and is in a prosperous state.  There are
   also several Trades and Friendly Societies of old dates in the
   town.
   	Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
   receiving parochial aid is nearly 200, and the average sum given
   to each is L.1, 6s. 6d. annually, or 6d. weekly, which includes
   the price of two barrels of coals to each.
   	The funds at the disposal of the session for the  last year were
   derived from the following sources:

   <TABLE>
  		Collections at the parish church,            L.80 10 0
      Interest of money belonging to the poor,       12  0 0
      Dick's bequest in money,                       20  0 0
      Do.      coals,                                50  0 0
      Rent of lands for poor, called mortified fund, 20  0 0
      Bequest by the late John Hoyes, Esq.           22 10 0
      From the beritors,                             60  0 0
							     _____________
							      L.265 D  0

     It has been already stated, that the beritors also support three
   pauper lunatics, at an expense -of from L.40 to L.50 annually.
   There is little disposition on the part of the poor to refrain from
   seeking parochial relief, and the feelings of independence and
   honest shamel by which they were wont to be influenced on this
   subject, are fast giving way, and contrary dispositions taking their
   place. It may  be observed that this burgh, being in the heart of
   a rich and well cultivated district; many labourers and farm-ser-


