
              KILFINAN       				370

structing churches. On a corner of the burial aisle belongii)g to
the family of Lamont, and which is attached to the church, there
is a stone bearing date 1633. The church was repiii-ed, however,
or almos t wholly rebuilt in the year 1759. It is again in a verv
UDeomfortable state, and stands greatly in need of extensive re.
pairs.- But as no repairs can ever make it a comfortable church
it is to be hoped that, at no distant period, it will be. taken note,
and a new one erected. It affordsac'commodation for upwardsof
400 persons: and all the sittings are free. The nianse was built
about forty years ago, -and is a good substantial house. It. was re-
paired in the year 1832 on the admission of the present in-
cumbent; but it is again in want of other repairs.. The glebe,
consists of four acres of arable land, together with a servitude on
the adjoining farm, of grass for two cows and a horse in common
with the other cattle. The stipend, as localled and modified in
the year 1837, is 135 bolls, 2 stones, 5 pounds, meal; 64 quarters,
3 bushels, 3 pecks, 21 qts. bear, at the annual fiar prices of the
county ; and L. 10, 3, 1 5 d. The teinds are exhausted,-the
whole being granted by the court when the stipend was modified
as above in 1837.
Besides the parish church, the only other place of worship is
the new church, formerly alluded to as liavidg been erected lately
in the south end of the parish. It was opened in May 1839. It
is supplied at present by a missionary, who is supported by couitri-
btitions from beritors and parishioners, together with a sum of
from L. 10 to L. 1 5 granted by the synod of Argyle froryi their funds.
A missionary has, been employed in that district of the parish for
above four years ; arid, as it has hitherto been found impracticable
to raise a salary adequate to secure the whole services of said mi-s-
sionary for this parish, he has officiated on alternate weeks here
and in a similar situation, on the other weeks, in the district of
Toward, parish of Dunoon. The whole population belongs to the
Established Church. , There are no Dissenters of any denomitia-
tioi3 in the parish. When the weather is good, Divine service is
in general well attended, though the majority of the people labour
under.many disadvantages, in regard to regular attendance. The
number of'communicants is 305. There is an annual contribution
for behoof of the General Assembly's five schemes, which will
average from L. IO to L. 15. There are also occasional collections
for other charitable and religious objects.
Education.-' There are six schools in the parish, three in the


