
36                           ORKNEY.

the most convenient site for the mass of the population.  The
greatest distance from the extremity of the parish, is about five miles.
It was erected in the year 1,814. It is in a tolerable state of re-
pair; but, being much exposed to violent storms, the roof almost
every year requires repair.  It has accommodation for 1200.  There
are forty free sittings, and two long seats, which extend along
the greater part of the middle passage.  The manse was erected
in the year 1780. It underwent repair during the incumbency of
my predecessor, and before I entered it in the spring of 1833.
  The grebe, including what is occupied by house, garden, and a
Meadow, is about ten acres in extent ; if let, its rent would amount
to about L. 6 per annum.
  The stipend is the minimum, with L.8, 6s. 8d. for communion
elements.
  There is no other church in the parish, except a small Secession
chuurch. The minister receives L. 120 per annum, and L. 12 for
communion elements.
  Divine worship is well attended both in the Established Church
and in the Dissenting Chapel.
  There are 1000 persons in communion with the Established
Church.  Of that number, about 900 communicate each time at
the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, which is dispensed twice in
the year.  About 400 are in communion with the Secession.
  There is, in connection with the Established Church, a Bible
and Missionary Society; average amount of yearly contributions
about L.20. There is also  a Society of a similar nature in con-
nection with the Dissenters. Of the amount of its contributions I
am not aware.
  In general, we have three or four collections during the year for
benevolent purposes,-in behalf of Sabbath schools and the As-
sembly's schemes.  Average amount about L.14.
Education. There are five schools taught by males and five by
females in the parish.  Eight of these schools are in the burgh.
  There is a parochial school; but so situate, and so provided with
accommodations, that its benefits do, not extend to the town, nor
to other populous districts of the country.  We deeply regret to
say, that, in this parish, the grand design of this  excellent paro-
chial institution is, in a great measure, defeated, and the young
are deprived of that advantage to which they are entitled by the
law of the land.
  There are two subscription schools in the town.  The other


