
112                    CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

     There are no undivided commons in the parish. The trees
usually planted are, the oak, elm, ash, beech, and plane or sycamore,
the larch, Scotch fir, and the spruce. The hard-wooded kinds,
with the spruce and larch as nurses, have been generally planted
in the lower parts of the parish, and the larch and Scotch fir as
timber trees, on the higher grounds. In the older plantations, the
beech and the plane are found in considerable numbers; but the
timber of these trees being now less valuable, they are not so much
planted as formerly. The oak, ash, and elm, prevail in recent
plantations. The woods on the estates of the principal proprietors
h`ve been regularly attended to in thinning and pruning, from the
time of planting; and generally present a healthy and luxuriant
appearance. The few patches of trees found on the lands of the
smaller proprietors, are usually left in a state of nature, and felled
without distinction of seasons, whenever required for home use.
   The ash and gean or wild-cherry are found in abundance grow-
ing in a native state, in the woods on the estates of Castle-Camp-
bell and Harviestoun; the birch, rowan, and bird-cherry, in Castle
Campbell glen; the alder, on the banks of Devon; and the holly
and hazel, in the copse-woods on the estates of Sheardale and
Dollar-beg.
   Rent of Lands.-The average rent of arable land is about L.3
per annum. The rent of some lands of excellent quality is so
high as L. 5: of inferior lands, where the soil is not good, and
the exposure bad, about L.1. The annual rent of grazing an ox
or cow on good pasture is about L. 4, 10s. A full-grown sheep
may be pastured on the Ochills for the year at about 6s. or 7s.
The black-faced breed of sheep is the most common. Theyare
much improved by getting rams or Young ewes from the south;
this keeps them pure, and prevents them from becoming dwarf-
ish. This also preserves the quality of the wool, for when sheep-
farmers breed too long with their old stock, without a change, the
wool becomes grey. The Leicestdr breed, or a cross between Lei-
cester and black-faced, is also a good deal tried here, and found
to do well. The cattle here seem to be the old or Scots breed
crossed with the short-hord or Ayrshire breed.
  Wages.-The rate of wages for labourers in country work is from
12s. to 15s. per week in summer, and from 10s. to 12s. in winter.
The wages of a farm-servant are from L. 14 to L. 15 per annum
in money, with 6 1/2 bolls of oatmeal, L. 2, 12s. for what is called
kitchen, five or six bolls of potatoes, a free house and small gar-


