
     Statistical Account

   Drummond Castle.-The building most worthy of notice is
the old Castle of Drummond, the ancient seat of the noble
family of Perth.  It stands upon a rock, about a mile to the
westward of the military road, and was built in the year 1490.
It was unroosed, and partly demolished in 1689; yet the walls
in some places were so strong and entire, that a part of
them have been lately repaired, and fitted up for a library, by
the present proprietor.  The house, in which the family have

<FOOTNOTE>

in which there was a skeleton 7 feet long.  The cairn lay from north to
south, and the coffin was nearly in the middle of it, with the head to the east.
Most of the stones have been carried away to inclose the neighbouring farms;
but the coffin, with a few large stones around it, has, by order of Sir William
Stirling, been preserved.
   There are, in some places, the remains of Druidical temples, and there are
many single large stones that stand up on end, 10, 12, and some 14 feet in
height.  They are generally on elevated situations, and of a grey colour; pos-
sibly some of those celebrated by the Gaelic bards which mark the grave of a
chief, or the place where he fell in battle:"  These may be the stones of re-
"nown, raised to the soul that nearer melted before, but was like the steel of
"his sword*."
   There is in the parish a Roman road or causeway, a great part of which is
now covered over with heath, leading from Ardoch to a sort of observation,
called Camp's Castle, situated on the top of the Muir of Orchil, the lines of which
are still very distinct.  There is also another fort of observation, larger, but not
so entire as the one above mentioned, which is situated to the northward of the
house of Orchil.
   It is worthy of notice, that, close by Drummond Castle, there is it small
rock called Eagle's Craig, and, by the country people, Beacon Hill, from whence
a fire in the night might be seen, at the distance of 40 or 50 miles to the east-
Ward.  The top of it is flat, and covered with ashes to a considerable depth.  It is
within two miles of Strageath, and may be seen from Camp's Castle, and from
almost every part of a Roman road or causeway, running from Strageath for
miles together, eastward, in a straight line, to the parks of Gask, where there
are still the remains of a Roman station.  From which it is evident that this
rock has been a place of signals, and hence derived its name,

<FOOTNOTE>

*Timora.


