
                      PARISH OF ERSKINE.

     PRESBYTERY OF GREENOCK, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

      THE REV. ROBERT WALTER STEWART, A.M., MINISTER.

                     ______________


              I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTOY.
   Name.--The name Erskine was in earlier times written Irskyn,
and seems to claim a Celtic origin, being compounded of the
words Eris-skyne, which signifies "on a knife." Tradition tells that
the founder of the ancient family of Erskine of that Ilk, now Ers-
kine of Mar, having slain in the battle of Murthill, Enrique, one
of the Danish generals, and having presented the bleeding head
upon his dagger to King Malcolm H., with the exclamation "Eris-
skyne," was, on account of his valour, immediately sirnamed Ers-
kine by that monarch. Wheather the castle and the lands derived
their name from the surname thus imposed upon their proprietor,
or wheather, as other antiquarians seem to suppose, the proprietor
derived his surname from his estates, is a matter of little conse-
quence for the present purpose, as there  seems no doubt that the
church and parish derived their name from the Castle of Erskine,
which stood on the south margin of the river Clyde, on the same
site which the old mansion-house of Erskine now occupies.
   Extent and Boundaries.--The parish stretches from east to
west, inclining southward, in te form of an irregular oblong, the
eastern being considerably broader than the western extremity.
Its length, between the extreme points, is about 8 1/2, and its ave-
rage breadth from 2 to 3 miles; and it is believed to contain about
20 square miles of surface.
   It is bounded on the north, by the river Clyde; on the west,
by the parish of Kilmalcolm, into which, indeed, its western ex-
tremity juts so far as to reach within a mile of the parish church;
on the south, by the united parishes of Houstoun and Kilallan,
and a narrow stripe of the pairsh of Kilbarchan; and on the east,
by the parish of Inchinnan.
   Topographical Appearance.--The surface in the east end of


