
                  DUNLOP.                              289

at each end, scarcely half a mile broad. It contains about 10 1/4
square miles of surface. It is bounded on the N. by Neilston;
on the N. W. by Beith; on the S. and S. E. by Stewarton. The
greater part of it lies in the district of Cunninghame and county of
Ayr, but on the N. it extends into Renfrewshire. It has been
alleged that these lands in Renfrewsbire, extending to about 1000
imperial acres, are connected with Dunlop only quoad sacra, and
that, quoad civilia, they belong to the parish of Neilston. It has
never been clearly ascertained whether this is the case or not; but
the circumstance of their having paid all parish burdens to Dunlop
from time immemorial, seems to lead to a different conclusion.
	Topographical Appearances.--Though the whole parish is con-
siderably above the level of the sea,  * the ground nowhere rises
into any eminence that deserves the name of a hill, much less of
a mountain. Perhaps no height in the parish has an elevation of
more than 150 feet above the adjacent hollow. The surface of
the greater part of it is gently undulating. It rises with a gradual
slope from S. W. to N. E., where it attains its greatest elevation
in the small hills of Craignaught and Knockmead. In the neigh-
bourbood of the church, the surface is very uneven, a number of
low hills, or more properly knolls, being there crowded together
in a very irregular manner: and in many other places, while the
low ridges between the streamlets that intersect the parish, slope
upward on one side with a gentle ascent, they terminate abruptly
on the other, in steep grassy banks or precipitous rocks. The
aspect of the country would be much improved by additional plan-
tations. Those already existing, are chiefly on those parts of the
estates of Dunlop and Caldwell which lie on the confines of the
parish, so that in the central parts, though almost every farm-
house has some trees about it, there is not enough of wood to give
the country a sheltered appearance. From its comparatively ele-
vated situation, this parish from many points commands a very
rich and varied prospect. From Brackenheugh, about a mile to
the south of the church, the view is particularly grand. The
highly cultivated and richly wooded district, lying between Dunlop
and the sea, seems spread out like a map; the shores of the Frith
of Clyde, from Ardrossan to the Cairn of Lochryan, with its va-
rious, bays and headlands, are distinctly seen, while the mountains

<FOOTNOTE>
	* The church of Dunlop is computed to be about 350 feet above the level of the
sea, and Knockmead Hill, the highest point in the parish, about 560.

                           AYR.                              T




