
           		PARISH OF OLD CUMNOCK.

		PRESBYTERY OF AYR, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.	.

                THE REV. NINIAN BANNATYNE, A. M. MINISTER.

		I-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
    Name.-THE name Cumnock seems to be compounded of the
Celtic words com, a bosom, and conoc, a hill; thus signifying the
bosom of the hill; which is strikingly descriptive of the locality,
in which the town and church of Cumnock stand. It is now com-
monly called Old Cumnock, to distinguish it from the parish of
New Cumnock, which was disjoined from it upwards of a century
ago.
    Boundaries, Extent.--The parish is in the middle district of
Ayrshire, called Kyle, and is bounded on the west by Ochiltree ;
on the north and east by Auchinleck ; and on the south by New
Cumnock. It is of an oblong, figure; its length from east to west
being 10 miles, and its average breadth from north to south 2
miles.
    Topographical Appearances, Soil, and Climate.--The parish is
partly flat and partly hilly, so as to present to the eye a very
pleasing undulating surface, finely varied and adorned by nume-
rous belts of wood, intersecting it in all directions, and giving a
peculiarly rich and cultivated appearance to the entire landscape.
The land is lowest on the north side of the parish, and rises gra-
dually towards the west and south sides. There are no hills of
any note in the parish; the highest is called Knockdon, and stands
on the south-west boundary. There are several very fine patches
of holm land, lying along the banks of the river Lugar, some of
which are of a light sandy soil, and others of a fine deep loam;--
on which wheat of excellent quality is raised. The soil, for the
most part, is clayey, having a subsoil of strong till; and on the
higher lands, it is mossy. The parish stands at an elevation of se-
veral. hundred feet above the level of the sea, from which it is six-
teen miles distant; while, at the same time, it may be said to be
embosomed among the higher lands of the surrounding parishes.


