
                       INVERESK.                        297

   The number of communicants in the Established Church was
in 1838, 974; in 1839, 768; the decrease is owing to the erec-
tion of the quoad sacra parish.
   Since 1702 there has been an assistant, the funds for whose
support are very inadequate, and who is therefore appointed to the
joint offices of session-clerk and assistant to the minister, an ar-
rangement certainly far from desirable. A missionary has also
been employed since May last, who labours partly in Westpans,
and partly in Fisherrow.
   Education.--Musselburgh has long been celebrated for the ex-
cellence of its seminaries. Owing to the healthiness of the si-
tuation, and its vicinity to Edinburgh, whence the best masters
for modern languages, music, drawing, and other accomplishments
are easily procured, boarding establishments for young ladies and
gentlemen have met with great encouragement. A flourishing
establishment of this description has for a considerable number of
years been conducted by the Rev. T. Langhorn, Episcopal minis-
ter. There is no parish school, but it is hoped that so great a
want will ere long be supplied. The grammar school is under
the patronage of the magistrates and town-council of Musselburgh,
who give the rector a salary of L. 27, 4s. 5d., together with a
house and school-room. Under the excellent management of the
present rector, Mr Trotter, this seminary bids fair to attain to even
more than its former celebrity.* The whole of his present ac-
commodation for boarders is under requisition, and from the in-
crease of the number of scholars the school requires to be enlarged.
Unfortunately, although erected only four years ago, it was, on a
principle of unwise economy, made both deficient in size and mean
in external appearance, and instead of being rendered an ornament
to the town, it is placed in a situation where it is scarcely visible
from the main street. There are two English schools also esta-
blished by the magistrates and town-council, from whom the
teachers receive salaries; the one, in Musselburgh receives L. 12,
with a house, the other in Fisherrow, including house rent L. 17.
Sir John Hope has established two schools at Old and New Craig-

<FOOTNOTE>dained 1690; 6. Mr John Williamson, ordained 1701, died 1739; 7. Mr Frederick
Carmichael, admitted 1739, translated to Edinburgh 1747-8; Dr Alexander Carlyle,
ordained in 1748, died in 1805; 9. The present incumbent, Dr Leslie Moodie ad-
mitted 1806, to whom Mr J. G. Beveridge was appointed assistant and successor in
1836.
     Many men of eminence have received their education at the grammar school of
Mussellburgh. A club composed of such individuals have periodical social meetings
in the capital, in order to revive the recollections of school days.


