
268                  KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

	Wood.--There are some stately oaks and beautiful beeches,
Very fine specimens of both are to be found on the grebe.
		    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	This parish occupies rather a distinguished place in the history
of the memorable struggle for religious freedom which the Pres-
byterian or Covenanters maintained from 1662 to 1685. Here
many of these oppressed and devoted men found a breathing-place
and a sanctuary. On the southern side of the "Forest," there
is an extensive hollow, enclosed on the west by Cornlee, and on
the, east by Skeoch Hill, with a natural opening from the south.
About midway up Skeoch Hill, on the inner side, wherd there
is a platform of considerable extent, several of the ejected minis-
ters met tbeir scattered flocks, and dispensed the sacrament to
them. This lonely and otherwise unattractive spot is invested
with a deep interest, from being the scene, and still retaining the
memorials, of these events,--" the Communion Stones." They
consist of what may be called two tables, with a passage between
them. Each table has two rows of seats in distinct preservation.
At the head, there is a small cairn, which was obviously used as
the table for the elements. A few yards to the south, a stone of
an oval form is to be seen, with two separate circular cavities that
admit the arm to the elbow, which held, according to tradition,
the water for baptism. In front of the stones, towards the forest,
the ground rises gradually, forming a kind of natural gallery,
where the congregation could hear the sermons and addresses
that were delivered, and witness the whole solemnity. The na-
ture of the ground, and the precautions that were taken by plant-
ing watchmen on the heights, rendered the spot peculiarly secure.
Any attempt to surprise them, was almost sure to be defeated.
When this struggle commenced, John Welsh, the great grandson
of Knox, was minister of the parish. He was ejected with seven-
teen of his brethren in 1662, and acted a conspicuous part in
these troublous times. After his ejection, we find him in the city
teaching from house to house; on the mountains, preaching to
"the suffering wanderers" after sleepless nights; in the camp,
healing divisions, and taming the impetuosity of the more fiery
leaders; on the field of battle, lamenting the dire necessity that
forced him to arms, yet periling his life in the cause. Strange
to say, he escaped a violent death, having died in London on the
9th of January 1681.
	In connection with this period we may state, that two martyrs,


