
     1064                        PERTHSHIRE.

       The old churchyard, still used by those who claim the right in
     consequence of their relations having been interred there, lies at
     some distance from that part of the grounds in which these stone-
     coffins were placed.
       It is stated in the old Statistical Account, that " the Roman mi-
     litary road leading from the camp at Ardoch to the bottom of the
     Grampians, enters this parish on the west, a little above a farm-
     house on the Tay, and passes through till it leaves it on the north-
     east quarter.  On the other side of the river opposite to the place
     where the road enters the parish, stood the ancient town of Bertha,
     now a hamlet bearing, that name; and it is said that, in former
     times, there was a bridge over the river, and that several large
     beams of oak yet to be seen under the water formed a part of it."
       "About a quarter of a mile up the river from this place are the
     vestiges, it is supposed, of an encampment.  It is a spot of ground
     inclosed on the west by the Tay, and on the other sides by a fosse.
     Its figure is nearly an oblong, and its circumference about 535
     yards.  A small brook runs through it; and on the south side of
     this brook, about 30 yards up from the river, are the vestiges of a
     fortification called the Silver castle ; probably from a vulgar idea
     that money was hid in it.  This place is situated nearly about
     half-way between the Roman military road, and a place on the
     opposite side of the river, where the battle of Luncarty was fought
     between the Danes and the Scots.   But time, and the recent ope-
     rations of the plough, have now almost obliterated those monu-
     ments of ancient times."  This last remark, made about fifty years
     ago, is still more applicable now.
       What was vulgarly called the "boothill," or "omnis terra,"
     every man's land, remains to be noticed.  It is evidently a corrup-
     tion of Motehill or Moothill. "The term," says the late Dr
     Jamieson,"is evidently Gothic, denoting a place of meeting. Skene
     calls it "the Mute-hill of Scone;" verb. signifying vo.  Mote, vide
     Etymol. Dictionary of the Scottish language vo. Mote."   In the
     history of the House of Douglas and Angus, written by Mastor
     David Hume of Godscroft, Ed. 1644, it is said, "Robert Bruce
     was crowned at Scone in the year 1306 in Ap. at which Sir James
     Douglas assisted, casting hnto a heape, as others did a quantity of
     earth of his lands of Douglas, which making a little hill, is called
     yet amnis terra.  This was the custom of those times, by which ho-
     mage they that held the King of Scotland supreme under God
     were distinguished from other."   This story Dr Jamieson cha-
     racterizes as "a palpable and very silly fable."  According to the


