
		ON THE COUNTY OF BERWICK.                  377

intelligent, active, and enterprising; many of them persons of li-
beral edueation well acquainted with all the most improved pro-
eesses of agriculture, and generally respected and beloved by their
servants and dependents.  Though the times are not favourable
to them, yet most of them are cheerful and happy, and look for-
ward under the divine blessing to more prosperous days.  They
commonly live on terms of intimate and friendly intercourse with
their neighbours, possess sound religious and moral principles, at-
tend regularly on divine ordinances, and are seldom deficient in
their attention to the comforts and wants of their inferiors.
   Assailed by few temptations, and little subject to those debasing
influences which produce such fearful effects, both moral and phy-
sical, on an urbane population, the labouring classes are distin-
guished for honesty, industry, and contentment.  Education and
the ordinances of religion are within the reach of all, and are sel-
dom neglected.  Indeed, moral and religious habits are so blended
and entwined with all their feelings and associations, that they
seem in little danger of ever lapsing in any considerable degree
from the characteristics which have been so long distinctive of our
Scottish peasantry. To every sincere loyer of his country it would
be matter of deep regret, if any causes should produce a change to
the worse in this valuable and interesting class of the community.
Were there fewer public-houses, were toll-keepers prevented from
selling ardent spirits, and were some measures adopted by Govern-
ment for abolishing the temptation of smuggling whisky into Eng-
land, all of which circumstances, as they now exist, tend to the
demoralization of the lower orders, salutary and beneficial effects
would follow.
   Owing, to the contiguity of the sister kindgom, this county in the
"olden times" must have been the theatre of many a lawless foray
and hard fought encounter between the rival borderers.  Every
trace or memorial of such ages has now, however, disappeared from
this part of the country; and even those traditions which in most
parts of Scotland are so fondly cherished by the peasantry, and
handed down from generation to generation with all but religious
care, have vanished without leaving a trace behind.  The pheno-
menon is remarkable, and cannot easily be accounted for.  The early
period at which systematic agriculture commenced in this district,
and the complete change in the habits of the people that in conse-
quence ensued, is the only circumstance that seems adequately to
account for the fact.  In the labours of active industry and the exer-
   BERWICK.                      B b


