424        	                 AYRSHIRE.

mentary branches are taught in all these schools: and in some of
them, book-keeping, mensuration, geography, Latin, and Greek.
When the schools were last examined (February 1836,) there were
96 males and 47 females attending these four schools, making in
all 143, which may be pretty near the average number of scholars.
	There are none between the ages of six and fifteen who cannot
read, mord or less; there are but few at fifteen who cannot write,
and I know of only two above fifteen who cannot read. The ex-
pense of being taught reading is 1od. per month of four weeks;
reading and writing, 1s.; reading, writing, and arithmetic, 1s. 2d.;
Latin and Greek, 1s. 4d. The schools are in general well taught,
and the people seem tolerably sensible of the importance of edu-
cation.
	Library.--About a year and a-half ago, a subscription library was
commenced, to which there are now about thirty subscribers. The
books as yet are not numerous, about 100 volumes, but they are much
in request. Besides these, there are two copies of Chambers' Jour-
nal, four copies of Chambers' Information for the People, four co-
pies of Chambers' Historical Newspaper, one copy of the Penny
Magazine, and one of the Saturday Magazine, (all given by Mr
George Oliver of Manchester,) circulating through the parish in
addition to newspapers.
	Inns, &c.--There are a good inn and 5 public-bouses in the vil-
]age of Ballantrae to a population of 456. They are greatly more
numerous than is required, and are not favourable to the morals of
the people in their neighbourhood. There is but one other public
house in the parish.
	Fuel.--In the higher parts of the parish, peat is the chief fuel.
Abundance of it is found among the hills; and at one time it was
almost the sole fuel used in the parish; but now two-thirds of the
people use coal, owing to the distance that peat must be driven
and the unwillingness of proprietors to allow it to be cut. Coal is
obtained at Girvan, a distance of twelve miles and a-half from the
village. It costs 1s. 4d. per creel at Girvan. A horse draws five
of these creels; and there are two tolls to the village, three if you
pass it, so that a cart of coal at Ballantrae costs 10s. 10d. at the
very least. Such a cart contains five-eights of a ton. Sometimes
coal is brought from Girvan by sea, but farmers and others who
have bulky articles to carry to market, find it cheaper to bring back
coal with their own horses. Fuel is one of the most expensive ar-
ticles of house-keeping in this district.


