
                           ALLOA.                               63

ed by the higher classes. There are four booksellers' and station-
ers' shops in the, town, and three printing-presses. No newspa-
per or other periodical has yet been published here.
   Mechanics' Institution.-An institution of this kind was form-
ed in 1826, when it commenced with a course of lectures by
the  late Mr John Steel ; since which time different courses of lec-
tures have been given by Messrs Wylie, and Gray, Dr John Mur-
ray, and other eminent persons, some of whom gave gratuitous lec.
tures in different seasons. It was carried on with considerable
spirit for many years, but does not now receive that support from
the superior classes, which is necessary to insure its success. The
library connected with it consists of 470 volumes of valuable books
chiefly of a scientific nature.
   Shakespeare Club.-This far-famed literary Club was formed by
a native of this parish, wbo is distinguished for literary taste, in
the year 1804, and prior to that even in the poet's birth-place ; and
at the different anniversaries, it has occasionally been visited by se-
veral distinguished poets, and other literary characters, honorary
members of the club. The late Mr Hogg's beautiful Ode to the
Genius of Shakspeare was written for the anniversary of 1815.
   Friendly Societies.--The Alloa Friendly Society, instituted in
1823, has for its object the supporting of its members, when they
are unable to work, either from disease or accidenl The num-
ber of members at present is 112. The yearly expenditure ave-
rages L.30, which is raised by a small weekly contribution from the
members. A similar Society exists among the ship-carpenters,
The Alloa Friendly Society for funerals was instituted in 1814,
and gives an allowance to members and their relations, at the
death of a member, or any of his family, in the name of funeral
money. The expenditure for twenty years preceding July 1834
was L.1377, 10s. The funds are raised by each member paying
1s. when a death occurs in the Society. These Societies have ob-
viously been of advantage to the members, by supporting many,
who might otherwise have fallen into abject poverty. Some other
similar Societies formerly existed, but are now extinct.
   There is now no savings' bank in the parish, although one seems
to be very much wanted.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.--During the last fifty years, the
number of paupers on the poor's roll has considerably increased.,
The number taken on an average of fifteen years, preceding 1790,
was 111 on the regular roll, and 36 on the temporary list. The


