
410                     INVERNESS-SHIRE.

be of his composition, and to have been written in praise of the lady
whom he baptised, and who became his wife:

               1 Mo nighean dubh,tha boidheach dubh,
                 Mo, &c.
               2 Ho mo Mhari laodhach,
                 Ho, &c. *

   A schoolmaster of the name of Allan was ejected at this period,
after a tedious process before the Presbytery. His recriminations
against Mr Morrison are of an amusing nature.
   From the year 1739, the time when Mr Clark had either died,
or had ceased to act as session-clerk, till 1749, there are no session-
records, nor baptismal registers. In 1765, there is a minute of ses-
sion, complaining that previous session-clerks had taken away the
records for not being paid their fees, "and no wonder then at the
blanks to be found here." But from 1749, till the present day,
there are regular baptismal and marriage registers.
   From 1774 till October 1833, Mr William Smith, a native of
Rafford, who had acquired Gaelic, was minister of this parish. In
strength of mind, ecclesiastical knowledge, and methodical habits,
he had few equals. It is to be regretted that he did not publish,
as he at one time intended, an edition of Sbaw's History of Mo-

<FOOTNOTE>All that is related of him, indicates that he was a man of great sagacity, much
humour, and fervent piety. The manner in which he became the minister of Pettie,
may be noticed as illustrative of the times. There was a merchant in Inverness to
whom a follower of the Lovat family in the Aird was deeply in debt. As no attorney
in Inverness would undertake to recover the debt, the merchant employed a writer
in Edinburgh, Mackenzie of Delvin, who was factor to the Earl of Moray and other
proprietors in the north. Mr Mackenzie succeeded in forcing payment of the debt.
The Frasers consulted how they might best avenge this audacious interference with
the liberty of their clansman. As Mackenzie was in the habit of coming to the north
at certain periods of the year, it was resolved to waylay him in Slocmuic on the first
occasion; and to put him to death. 'A Mr Nicolson, minister of Kiltarlity, was pre-
sent at dinner when this scheme was concocted, in the house of the chief or some lead-
ing clansman. To send a letter to Mackenzie by a bearer, or by post, would at that
time scarcely have escaped discovery; and, if ever discovered, would end in the ruin
of Mr N., as a traitor to his friends. The contrivance he fell upon was to write to
Mr Morrison, to visit him on urgent business. Morrison accordingly came to the
Aird, was informed by Mr Nicolson of the intentions of the Fraser's, and was dis-
patched to Mackenzie of Delvin, to caution him never to come to the north with-
out a strong escort of friends. * On his next visit to the Highlands,a numerous body
of tenantry was requested to met him at Dalwhinnie; and the Frasers, finding him
so protected, did not venture to make their attack. Mackenzie rewarded Mr Mor-
rison for his service by procuring his appointment to the church of Pettie, on the
removal of Mr Shaw to Forres. +

<FOOTNOTE>We have been informed by a descendant of Mr Morrison's that Mackenzie was
related to Mr Morrison.
          From the session records of Mr Morrison's time, we give the following extract:
19th October 1772. It being complained, that, upon the 11th, the tenants and
herdsmen of Wester Dalyiel, gathered in a mob, and buckled together in such a tu-
multuous manner as caused the effusion of blood before they parted, which is said to
be contrary to the rules of Christianity and decency on the Lord's day. The per-
sons that singularized themselves in this tumult, as reported, were summoned to ap-
pear; and having attended accordingly, their depositions are recorded.


