
118                       RENFREWSHIRE.

time.  The plantations at Rashelee are also in a most thriving con-
dition.
                        II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Notices.-The lands of Inchinnan formed one of the
numerous grants which the Stewarts obtained from the Kings of
Scotland, before their own race became royal.  By a charter dated
at the Castle of Roxburgh, A. D. 1158, in which King Malcolm IV.
confirmed Walter (filIus Alani) the first undoubted High Stewart
of Scotland, in his office, and in the lands he had received from
King David, he bestowed upon him some new privileges and grants
of land.  Among the latter Inchinnan * is specified.  About the
middle of the thirteenth century we find Alexander, High Stew-
art, mortifying to the monks of Paisley, chalders of meal from
his lands of Inchinnan. +  During the reign of Robert I. Wal-
ter the Hioh Stewart gave some valuable ++ portions of the pro-
perty to Sir Walter Hamilton, ancestor of the Duke of Hamilton:
but it would appear that, early in the fourteenth century, all that had
been retained of the original grant was bestowed upon the Stew-
arts of Darnley, who became subsequently Earls and ultimately
Dukes of Lennox. In 1361, Sir John Stewart of Darnley, having
personally resigned all the lands of Crookisfow, Inchinnan, and Perth-
wyckscott, with their pertinents, into the hands of Robert the
High Stewart (afterwards King Robert II.), had the same granted
to im by an original charter.  To Matthew, Lord Darnley, and
second Earl of Lennox, the descendant and representative of the
above Sir John Stewart, James IV. granted in 1511 a charter of
confirmation, containing a clause by which His Majesty, from the spe-
cial favour which he bears towards his cousin the said Earl, and for
the gratuitous services rendered by him, and for the preservation
of the Castle of Crookisfow, the manor and palace of Inchinnan, and
other policies within the lordship of Darnley, from the devastation

<FOOTNOTE>Praeterea ego ipse eidem Waltero in feudo et hereditate dedi, et hac eadem carta
confirmavi pro servitio quod ipsi regi David et mihi fecit Prethe quantum rex Da-
vid, in manu sua tenui et Inchiennun, &c.-Vide Appendix to Chartulary of Paisley,
p.1, printed for the Maitland Club.
   Omnibus Cristi fidelibus, &c. Sciatis me dedisse, concessisse, et carta mea con-
firmasse Deo et Sancto Jacobo et Sancto Mirino monasterii de Passelet et monachis
ibidem deo servientibus, &c. duas celdras farine singulis annis percipiendas de fir-
ma mea de lnchynnan, &c.-Chartulary of Paisley, p. 87.
   Barnhill, Alands, Newlands, &c.-These, according to Hamilton of Wishaw,
(Description of the Shires of Lanark and Renfrew, printed for the Maitland Club,
1831, p. 87,) were commonly said to have been a god bairn gift.  They afterwards be-
longed successively to the Erskines, Hamilton of Orbiston, Graham of Dougalston,
Lord Douglas, M'Dowall of Walkinshaw, and are now the property of W. M. Alex-
der, Esq. of Southbarr, and Mrs Redfearn.


