
     26                         ELGINSHIRE.

they have risen about L. 200. The monthly transactions may
average from L. 130 to L. 150 of receipts and payments. The
investments are made generally, it may almost be said exclusively,
by the labouring class.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of poor on
the roll of the kirk-session receiving regular Parochial aid is 160.-
Of these about 30 receive a weekly allowance from 6d. to 3s. or on
an average L. 3, 5s. per annum. About L. 60 are distributed half
yearly among the remaining 130 poor, averaging 9s. annually to each.
Besides this sum, they receive each coals to the value of 2s. 2d.
and the interest of money and lands under the management of the
magistrates for behoof of the poor, amounting to L.23, 7s. 6d. The
amount of church collections 1834, L. 150; donations from one
heritor, L. 5; other persons, .L. 42; interest at four per cent. for
legacies and other funds destined for the relief of the poor under
the management of the kirk-session, L. 1365, is L. 54, 15s. The
casual supplies to the sick poor on the roll, and small salaries to
the kirk-officer and beadle, constime the balance of contributions
above what has been stated as regularly distributed.
   No regular mode of procuring funds for the poor, besides that of
church collections, has been adopted. The kirk-session, aware that
an assessment on the heritors would increase at least twofold the
applications for relief, have hitherto successfully laboured to avoid
it, by a careful inquiry into the circumstances oi the applicant, and
a timely, though small, supply. It is believed, that, generally
speaking, the poor are averse to seek relief until driven to it by
necessity, and that they consider it a degradation to be put upon
the poors roll.
   Prisons.-The number of prisoners confined in the Elgin jail
in 1834 was one for murder, one for concealment of pregnancy, and
three for assault. The jail is an old building, and the prisoners
cannot be said to be well secured or well accommodated. The ma-
gistrates have the government and superintendence of it, and, in as
far as they can, are attentive to the health, diet, and lodging of the
persons confined. A new jail, in accordance with the improvements
of the age in such buildings, will be very soon erected at the ex-
of the proprietors in the town and county.
    Fairs.-Besides the ten annual fairs held near the town the
sale of horses, cattle, &c. there are two others in the town on the
Fridays immediately preceding the terms of Martinmas and Whit-
sunday, for hiring farm-servants.


