
     of Shotts.

dung.  This mixture the experienced farmer prefers to pure
dung, as it is a much better security against worms, con-
tinues longer in the field, and encreases the soil, where the
till or gravel comes near the surface.  The industrious far-
mer here casts each season a quantity of turf, the more ben-
ty the better; this, when properly dryed, he stacks up, and
after it has been used a competent time in byre and stable, be-
low and around the cattle, it is carried to the dunghill.  When
from this it goes to the field, it is so completely rotten, that
it yields a manure much superior to the compost mixed in
the field.  By alternate strata of this turf and sheep's dung,
much excellent manure is carried from the fold to the field.
   Crops-Upon the summer sallow, or field to be broken up,
the spirited farmer lays on nearly four chalders of slacked
lime, with a hundred single carts of the compost above de-
scribed.  The 2 d, or perhaps the 3 d crop of corn, he lays
down with rye-grass.  This for the first year does very well;
but should the field be cut a second time, through the luxu-
riancy of the natural grass the sown scarce appears.  In the
lower parts of the parish, a crop of pease comes in between
the two crops of corn.  With the rye-grass also a proper
quantity of clover is here sown.  The produce the first year
(and there ought to be no more,) may be 200 stones.  The
ground, after this succession of crops, being pastured 3 years,
the same rotation again commences.  Lint is often a profi-
table crop in this parish, either after the first crop of corn,
after pease, or upon potatoe land.  A peck of seed will yield
4 stones of sheaf lint.  The bear crop through Shorts has of
late been much discontinued: for this the stiffness of the soil
in part accounts; but there is another reason which weighs
more with the farmer.  Bear requires that quantity of un-
mixed dung, which prevents him from making compost for
his outfields, a circumstance of late much attended to in this
country.

     G 2


