
                     CORSTORPHINE.                      215

estates of Ravelston and Saughton, which were united to the pa-
rish in 1633.  Clermiston formed a part of the barony of Cor-
storphine until 1771, when it was sold by Sir Alexander Dick to
William Alexander, merchant in Edinburgh, who feued four acres
of it to Walter Scott, W. S., father of the famed Sir Walter Scott,
and sold the remainder to Samuel Mitchelson, one of the Princi-
pal Clerks of Session, who built the House of Clermiston in 1792,
at the expense of L. 3000.  Mr Mitchelson afterwards acquired
the acres feued to Mr Scott, and continued proprietor until his
death.  His trustees sold the estate to George Robinson, Esq.  W. S..
in 1795, for L. 11,000 Sterling, and it was again sold in 1836 to
Francis Jeffrey, Esq. one of the Senators of the College of Jus-
stice, the present proprietor, for L. 15,250.
  The estate of Ravelston, when separated from St Cuthbert's
parish, belonged to a branch of the family of Foulis of Colinton,
who took the name of Primrose in the beginning of the eighteenth
century, on succeeding to the estate of Dunipace in Stirlingshire.
In 1726, Sir Archibald Primrose, a member of that family, sold
this estate to Alexander Keith, writer in Edinburgh, who was de-
scended from Alexander Keith of Pittendrum, the fourth son of
William third Earl Marescball.  Ravelston is now possessed by
Sir William Keith Murray of Ravelston and Ochtertyre, in right
of his wife, Lady Keith Murray, daughter and heiress of the late
Sir Alexander Keith.
  The estate of Saughton, when united to Corstorphine, was, held
by the family of Watson, who are still proprietors.  They have
not resided,in the mansion-house of the estate since 1737, when
they purchased the house and estate of Cammo, in Craniond pa-
rish, which they named New Saughton.
  Besides these properties, there are three villas on the south side
of Corstorphine Hill, viz. Belmont, formerly called Brucehill,
Beechwood and Corstorphine Hill.  Belmont, consisting of 57
acres, 3 roods, and 20 falls of ground, was originally feued by
Charles Bruce, glazier in Edinburgh,from John Dickie of Corstor-
phine Hill. It was purchased in 1793 at a judicial sale by Major
General David Dundas for L.3820.  After being held by several
intervening proprietors, it was sold in 1827 to Lord Mackenzie,
the present proprietor, for L. 7500.  His Lordship has since erect-
ed on it an elegant mansion-house.  Beechwood House was built by
Francis Scott, Esq. second son of Walter Scott of Harden in 1780.
In 1786, he sold the villa to Colonel Alexander Leslie,   for L.5073,


