
246 				ARGYLESHIRE.

	                       IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The number of acres standard imperial measure,
in the parish, which are either cultivated or occasionally in tillage,
may be stated, as nearly as it can be ascertained, at about 4000,
which, subtracted from 357,760, being the number of acres in the
parish, leaves 349,760 acres which never have been cultivated;
and it is believed that not more than 250 acres could, with a
profitable application of capital, he added to the cultivated land in
the district.  It is true, that there are in the parish large tracts of
waste land that could be brought under the plough, but the ex-
pense of doing so would be greater than the profit that could rea-
sonably be expected to arise from it.  The number of acres under
wood may be reckoned at about 4000, and these woods consist of
oak, elm, ash, birch, hazel, holly, and the different species of firs.
It is difficult to state with accuracy the average rent of the parish
per acre of arable land, but an approximation to it may be stated
at about L. 1, 2s. 6d., -bearing, however, in mind, that some lands,
particularly in Lismore, where there is no hill pasture, pay at the
rate, perhaps, of L. 1, 10s. per acre of their surface; while some
farms in Appin and Kingerloch, owing to the vast extent of waste
land they contain, do not pay more, perhaps, than Is. the acre of
their surface.  The rate of grazing in the parish is about L. 2
Sterling a-year per ox or cow grazed, and 3s, per ewe or full-
grown sheep that is pastured for the year.
   The black-faced Highland sheep are the most common in the
parish, but there are a few Cheviots now, beginning to be intro-
duced.  Mr Downie of Appin, and Mr Stuart of Bailechelish,
have considerable flocks of these; and the former of these gentle-
men is now experimenting on crossing them with the Leicester
tup, in full expectation of improving them materially.
   Various improvements have lately been made in the husbandry
of the parish by way of reclaiming waste land, draining, enclosing
and top-dressing.  Sir John Campbell of Airds has, within the
last few years been at considerable expense in reclaiming waste
land, and further operations of the same kind are in progress.
Colonel Stewart of Achnacone is also engaged in the same way,
and has introduced  tile-draining with great effect, and Mr Forbes
of Kingerloch has, like his neighbours, in Appin, added of late
a iconsiderable portion, to his cultivated lands.  Nor are the Lis-
more people altogether inactive.  Draining and enclosing are
commenced, and the rotation system is partially introduced.  But


