
                           PETERHEAD.                               349

ally entire, but more frequently only small portions of the impres-
sions of these shells are found.  Single spines frequently occur,
and are distinctly marked.  The Inoceramus, Pectens, and Tere-
bratulae are very abundant.  In the parish of St Fergus, near the
mouth of the Ugie, in the limestone, the Cornua ammonis and
mussels of a distinct variety from those now existing are found.
The same range of high ground, which commences at Stirlinghill,
passes into the parishes of Cruden, Longside, and Old Deeri, and
along the whole range, which rests upon granite, or other primitive
rock, the same kinds of flint have been found containing remains,
chiefly of shells.  The locality of these flints has attracted the
attention of geologists.  In the granite quarries there is, in the fis-
sures of the rock, gravel mixed with oxide of iron; and in situations
where the soil is gravel, or clay mixed with gravel, there is an
incrustation of iron between the soil and subsoil,-the latter is
in consequence rendered impervious to water until the incrustation
be destroyed.
   Extensive fields of granite are found in a state of decomposition.
When these fields are laid open as gravel pits, the vertical section
has much the appearance of sound granite in the quarry, exhibit-
ing the outlines of blocks of various sizes, divided from each other
by fissures filled with clay and other matters, coloured by oxide
of iron.  Upon examining some of these apparent blocks, parts
of them are found to he in an undecomposed state, while the other
parts are found from one gradation of decompostion to another,
until the decomposition is so complete as to form a mass of clay
and gravel, fit for forming a soil capable of cultivation.  In some
cases the decomposed granite. is almost white, while in others it
is of a darkish.  A considerable part of the parish of Peter-
head had been covered trees, which compose the first stratum;
the second stratum is not unfrequently composed of the coarser
grasses; the third of heath, and the upper of fog.  The remains
of wood found in the mosses are, oak, alder, birch, &c.; and there
are also masses of bog-iron ore.  At no very remote period, the
low grounds, commencing at the sea near Buchanhaven, had been
covered with moss.  This moss had nearly joined the one called
Megg's Moss, which again passed through the lands of Auchty-
gall and Collielaw, and joined the moss of Faichfield in the parish
of Longside.  Excepting in those places already mentioned which
are covered with diluvial or alluvial clay, the other parts of the parish.


