
92                           RENFREWSHIRE.

circumstances of the family, buf left it all to Mr Hamilton Collins,
who married his youngest sister. Mrs Campbell, His eldest sister,
was entirely overlooked;but her daughter married Mr Stewart, a
respectable merchant in Greenock, and hteir son, Mr Stewart, I
believe, still takes the title of Beltrees.
  Family of Glen of Barr.--The second largest property in the
parish is Barr, with regard to which I shall only say, it was pos-
sessed by the family of Glens above 300 years. John Glen, the
first  of the family, swore fealty to Edward I., King of England, in
1296, during the wars of the celebrated Sir William Wallace; and
the family become dxtinct in the person of Alexander Glen, in
1616.
  There are, however, a few families here of the name of Glen,
who are supposed to be cadets of the Glens of Barr.
  The property was next possessed by the family of Hamiltons,
who also sold it about half a century ago, and the only surviving
branch of the family is an old maiden lady residing in the village,
about eighty years of age.
  Family of McDowall of Garthland.--The present proprietor is
William McDowall of Garthland, Esq. whose progenitors bought
Castle-Semple from Lord Hew Sempill in 1727, and ever since
that period, this has been one of the most distinguished families in
the county of Renfrew. The late William McDowall of Garth-
land, Esq. was frequently Member of Parliament both for the coun-
ty and the Clyde district of burghs, and a very influential person
at court. Memory is not merely revered: in the  parish, but
he enjoyed so entirely the esteem of all the gentlemen of the coun-
ty, that after his death they erected, an  elegant monument to his
memory in the old Abbey Kirk of Paisley.
  Land-owners.--Two of the cheif land-owners in the parish have
already been mentioned, Colonel Harvey of Castle-Semlpe, and
William McDowell, Esq, of Gartland. The rest in the order of
their valuations are, Mrs Barr; Colonel Fulton of Hartfield; Lu-
dovic Houston of Johnstone, Esq.; William Cochran of Ladyland,
Esq.; and William Patrick, Esq. W.S. The first three are re-
sident, the following non-resident. The rest of the parish is
broken down amongst a multitude of small proprietors, amounting
altogether to almost 130.
  Eminent Men.--Most of the persons hitherto mentioned were
distinguished chiefly by thier property, and their political or warlike
character, but there are at least two worthy of notice on account of


