
                             PARISH OF RATHEN.

                 PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN,

                     THE REV. WILLIAM COCK, MINISTER.

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   THE parish of Rathen is said to be one of the most ancient in
the county of Aberdeen, and at one time contained within its limits
the greater part of the parish of Strichen, and a part of the parish
of Fraserburgh.  The church and teinds, it is said, were at an early
period appropriated to the Cathedral of the diocese, the incumbent
of the benefice becoming the stipendiary of that establishment, till
its dissolution at the Reformation.
   Extent, &c.-The parish is 3 miles distant from Fraserburgh, and
extends upwards of two miles along the sea-coast betwixt that town
and Peterhead; from thence it runs inland, in a southwest direc-
tion, to the extent of seven miles.  The average breadth is 2 miles.
   There is a vein of limestone on the estate of Auchirus, yielding
lime of excellent quality for building or manure, which is occupied
by an industrious tenant, who has generally a great demand for the
lime, chiefly for building.
   The few plantations in this parish have made a rapid advance
during the last fourteen or fifteen years, to which it is the opinion
of the writer of this report) the early seasons we have enjoyed since
1817, have not a little contributed, by the young shoots coming to
a degree of maturity before winter.  The north-west wind seems
to be tbe most noxious in this district,-the few trees we have, when
in exposed situations, being bended towards the south-east.

                             II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-Tbe few antiquities in this parish are, 1. a Druid
temple on the estate of Cortes, from which that property is said to
derive its name; Cortes meaning a circle in the Gaelic language.
2. The three cairns of Memsy, described in the former Statistical
Report, one of which only now remains, is composed of small round
stones; the cairn is about 60 feet in circumferenee at the base, and
about 15 or 16 feet high.  In the foundation of one of the former


