
             CROY AND DALCROSS.                                457

and arid waste, not worth 6d. per acre ;.the proceeds of which being
carefully marked from the time of thinning, till, the whole was
sold, about twelve years ago, were found to exceed the simple fee
of that part of the Cantray property, yielding now about L.1000
of rent, by nearly double the original purchase price: besides,the
moor, formerly useless, is now, by the foliage of the trees, converted
into excellent pasture. Such a remarkable fact shows the
benefit of planting waste ground. That venerable patriot, at various
periods, planted nearly 1000 acres.  Plantations were made
to much. the same extent, and much about the same time, by the
late Mrs Elizabeth Rose of Kilravock,-a lady remarkable for all
those graces and accomplishments that adorn the female character,
as well as for high literary acquirements and practical good sense.
The proprietors of Culloden, Holm, and Levs,contributed their
share in beautifying the country by planting; and lately, the proprietor
of Inches has planted upwards of 400 acres with larch, oak,
and other kinds of wood.

                V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-As formerly stated, it cannot now be determined
when the parishes of Croy and Dalcross were annexed;
it is, however, certain, that, in the year 1226, Croy was a parsonage
on which Moy, or Strathdearn depended as vicarage, and cessed
that year in L. 40 Scots for the entertainment of the Bishop of
Moray and his court at the annual visitation. In 1128, the lands
of Dalcross, with the patronage thereof, were annexed to the
priory of Urquhart, founded three years before by David I.; and
in 1343, the vicar of Dalcross, by order'of the prior, was to officiate
in the private chapel of Kilravock. The remains of Dalcross
Church are nearly gone ; not so much from the lapse of
years, as from the blind zeal and incorrigible stupidity, of the people
of that district, who considered the building a relic of Popery;
and never was the remark of the philosopher more truly verified
than by those Anti-popish dilapidators, " Nosmet ipsos noscere
est difficillimum."
   In the south of the parish, are the remains of a chapel dedicated
to St Dorothy, who is mentioned in the Romish calendar as hav-
ing suffered for the Faith, early in the fifth century. Be that as it
may, it is highly probable that this chapel was built at the very
earliest dawn of Christianity in these northern parts of the kingdom,
while the people'retained some lingering veneration for the
place where their fathers bowed over the cromleac in the Druids'


