
     Statistical Account

acre. But these are very rare: for when at any time the
crop is uncommonly luxuriant, it is generally lodged by
the heavy rains, which are frequent here in the month of
August, and thereby rendered of little value.  The aver
age produce of the whole of crop 1792, even from the
best lands, did not exceed 4 bolls the acre.  The conse-
quence was, that hardly any of the tenants were able to
pay, from this crop, above a third part of their rent;
while some had not as much as defrayed the expences of
seed and labour.  In this state of real distress to the small
tenants, some of the proprietors, with much humanity,
made a reduction of the rent, for that year, to some of 
their tenants, and lengthened out the term of payment to
others*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The farmers here have some advantages, and some disadvantages,
which perhaps are not peculiar to them.  Thirlage is forntunately abolish-
ed over the greatest  part of the parish; but where it is not, it is still a
cause of much complaint , and real loss to the farmer.  It is, indeed,
a curse of an unknown magnitude; and it is astonishing how proprietors of
land, who have in it their power; do not see their own interest in putting
an end to it altogether.  Where it does exist, nearly a tenth boll is paid
for grinding the corn.  Yet, notwithstanding this, there is not a farmer
who would not willingly make a reasonable allowance for the mill rent.
What loss then can proprietors sustain?  Let them think for a moment;
let them consider the hardships to which they expose the very persons,
whom it is their interest as well as duty to encourage and protect.  A small
farmer (we shall suppose), who pays the highest demand for his little
spot (and must pay it), soils and labours, with unremiting attention, to
make it produce what is sufficient to support his family, and to answer
the term day of his landlord.  He is surely entitled to bring the produce
of his labour to the best market.  Instead of this,however, he dare not
sell one boll of oats, without being subjected to a penalty.  He must
take them all to the mill, and intrust them, for days and nights, to the
care of persons, in whom he very often can place no confidence: while
at the same time, he exposes them to be destroyed by the numerous
swarms of vermin which usually frequent these places.  His family suffers:


