
178                GENERAL, OBSERVATIONS

    Agriculture-A pretty general impression prevails that the
plough has encroached too much on the sides of the hills, and that
much land that is now arable would have been far more advanta-
geously continued as sheep-pasture. The high price of wool and
the low price of all kinds of grain will probably induce many of
the farmers to sow out their upper grounds, and lay them down in
grass. The importation of grain from Ireland has tended of late
years to keep down the Peebles grain-market. Formerly, very
considerable quantities were sent from this county to the Upper
Ward of Lanarkshire, whereas that district is now supplied from
Ireland. To counterbalance this depreciation of one kind of pro-
duce, steam navigation promises to keep up the price of lambs and
fat sheep, which find a better market in London than in Edinburgh
or Glasgow. The houses of almost all the farmers whose rental
exceeds L. 50 are substantial buildings, affording comfortable resi-
dences for their families. The farmers are an intelligent, respect-
able class of men; sober in their habits and industrious in their cal-
ling. A bankruptcy among them is of very rare occurrence, and
when it does take place it may be ascribed to some untoward cir-
cumstances over which the bankrupt had probably very little control.
    Population.-From the annexed table it will be seen that be-
tween the years 1801 and 1811, there was an increase of popula-
tion of 15 per cent. and this is easily explained. The scarcity of
1799 and 1800 made the farmers bring more land into tillage than
had been under the plough before; more men were employed, and
as high wages were given, they were enabled to marry and bring up
families. This impulse ceased during the next ten years, and hence
there was an increase of only one percent. The increase of five
per cent. in the last ten years was owing to the influx of strangers
to make some new lines of roads.
    From several of the preceding accounts it appears that there
has been a considerable falling off in the population of certain pa-
rishes, and a general impression prevails that the county is not
nearly so populous as it was some centuries ago. By writers on
political economy the plausible question is asked, how was this al-
leged population supported, when agriculture was so imperfectly
understood and practised? One very important consideration seems
to have been forgotten when they maintain, that the population
bears a proportion to the produce of the land, and it is this,-in

gress has been made in widening the bridge across the Tweed from 8, or rattler 7 1/2,
feet to 22 feet. According to contract, the work will be complicated in October next,
at the expense of upwards of L. 1000.


