
1054                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

proved, by the evidence of the Queen, that he was that night at
Forfar.  The Chronici Scotiae even state that he was in " Castro suo
de Obeyne." He offered to assert his innocence in single com-
bat; this was declined ; and some of the Aboyne vassals having
been that night seen at Haddington, and enmity subsisting between
Athol and the Bissets, William was afraid of the power of his ad-
versaries, the Cummines, and did not stand his trial, but passed
over into Ireland, where, as stated by Buchanan, lib. vii. cap. 57,
he left noble family. This family is now extinct. In the pa-
rish of Aboyne, there is not now a single person of the name
of Bisset; and within less than a century (1335) the Earl of Athol
and other two Cummine chiefs fell in Edward's army at Culblean,
six miles from Aboyne Castle.
   The late Thomas Innes, A. M., Principal of the Scots College
at Paris, was born at Drumgask, in the parish of Aboyne. He is
well known as one of the most learned of Scottish antiquaries.
He published a Critical Essay on the Ancient Inhabitants of Scot-
land, two vols. 8vo, London, 1729. His elder brother Lewis was
his predecessor in said college; and more lately, their nephew,
the Reverend Henry Innes, was procurator of the same college.
This individual died at the advanced age of eighty-eight, and was
buried at Aboyne in 1832; and it is remarkable of him, that he
was probably the last individual in this country who corresponded
with the unfortunate Charles Stewart. Two of that Prince's let-
ters addressed to him, the one dated "Florence, 18th July 1777,"
and the other, "Florence, 13th February 1778," and signed
Charles R., are now before the writer.
   The late James Cromar, A. M., a very successful teacher of
youth, and who died rector of the grammar-school of Aberdeen
in 1826, was a native of this parish.
   Alexander Ross, author of the Fortunate Shepherdess, and of
many popular songs, was translated from the office of parochial
schoolmaster at Aboyne to that of Lochlee.
   As connected with the parish, it may be also mentioned, that
the adventurous Peter Williamson, who, about 1740, was kid-
napped at Aberdeen and carried to Virginia, and there sold for a
slave, was, as stated in his autobiography, born in the parish of
Aboyne, if not of rich, yet of reputable parents.
   Land-owners.-These are, 1. the Marquis of Huntly, whose va-
lued rent in the parish is L. 1631, 17s. Sd.; 2. John Farquharson
of Finzean, with a valued rent of L. 200, 4s. 6d.; 3. Miss Farquhar-


