
			DALRY.                                211

extremity, containing about 1500 acres, is nearly dissevered from
the rest by the parish of Largs.
	Topographical Appearances.--The principal feature of the pa-
rish is a beautiful and fertile valley, which stretches through its
middle and breadth, and varies from half a mile to a mile in width.
Its elevation does not exceed 90 feet above the sea. The river
Garnock flows through the valley in a winding course, and di-
vides the parish into two divisions. On the west, the ground
rises gradually from the valley, till it terminates on a ridge of hills
on the north-west boundary of the parish. These hills, com-
mencing at the coast at Largs, run in a south-east direction, in
two parallel ranges for several miles. The eastern, which com-
prises the hilly stripe formerly mentioned, bends to the east, and
joins the Kilbirnie hills. Its highest elevation is about 1200
feet above the sea. The western range, on its entrance into this
parish, bends to the south-west, and terminates at the extremity
of the parish. Baidland Hill, its highiest point, is 946 feet above
the sea. A small ridge of hilly ground runs to the south of this,
the highest eminence of which, Caerwinning Hill, is 634 feet in
height.
	Cave.--On the estate of Blair, in the romantic and beautifully
wooded glen of the Dusk, there is a natural cave in a precipitous
bank of limestone. It is about 40 feet above the bed of the stream,
and is covered by about 30 feet of rock and earth. It has two
entrances. The western or main entrance is situated below a vast
overhanging rock, 30 feet long by 27 in breadth, the brow of which
is covered by the mountain-ash, hazel, and two large plane trees,
which give it a picturesque appearance. Its interior resembles
Gothic arched work. Part of the roof is supported by two massy
columns. Its length is about 183 feet, and breadth from 5 to 12.
Near the middle, it expands into a spacious chamber, 35 feet long
by 12 broad, and 12 high. Its internal surface is covered by cal-
careous incrustations, and numerous crevices branch off from its
sides. In former times, popular belief peopled it with elves. It
consequently acquired the name of Elf-House. In later days,
during the tyrannical reign of Charles II., it afforded a hiding-place
to the Covenanters of this parish from the violence of their infu-
riated persecutors.
	Climate.--The prevailing winds are from the W. and  S. W.,
from which point it blows for nearly three-fourths of the year.
These winds are sometimes strong and violent. During a few


