
150                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

Bart. of Balmain. It is only the later of these deeds that is act-
ed on, according to which there are four bursars. The Rev. John
Charles, minister of Garvock, from a benevolent regard to the pa-
rochial school at which he received the rudiments of education,
presented to the kirk-session in 1825, the sum of L.50, of which
the interest should, in all time coming, be paid to the parish school-
master; ar the fees for his teaching two or more poor children to
be named by the kirk-session.
	Libraries.--Tbere are three libraries in the parish, more or
less of a public kind. One belongs to the Episcopal clergy of the
diocese of Brechin, and is deposited in the Episcopal chapel. It
is indebted for its origin, and for most of its contents, to the late
Bishop Abernethy Drummond, and now consists of upwards of
1000 volumes, of which the greater number are theological, and
some are of considerable value.  Persons of literary education or
pursuits in the neighbourhood have always experienced much li-
berality in obtaining access to the library. Lord Gardenstone
founded what he calls, "The Public Library of Laurencekirk," and
from various quarters he obtained donations of books for it. In
the small but neat building, which was erected to contain the li-
brary, a few rare shells, minerals, and stuffed birds were deposited,
as the commencement of a sort of museum. His designs, however,
were not prosecuted after his death, and the books and other con-
tents have in various ways been greatly diminished. There has also
been for several years a parochial library, consisting of about 300
volumes chiefly for the use of the young, many of whom make fre-
quent, application for them.
	Friendly Societies.--There are four Friendly Societies in the

parish, which survived the unfortunate and ill-founded panic, pro-
duced by the late act of Parliament, for the regulation of these
valuable institutions. Since 1830 a species of Friendly Society has
existed here which is dissolved and renewed at the term of Whit-
sunday yearly, each member depositing weekly a fixed sum, and
also a small sum additional, to form a benefit fund for allowances,
in case of sickness or death of members. At the annual dissolution,
each member receives back the whole amount, with interest, of his
fixed weekly deposits, and also his share of the remainder of the
benefit fund, after payment of allowances and necessary expenses.
The plan of the society is well fitted for those who receive their
earnings from time to time, by enabling them to meet large term-


