
528                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

woods and plantations, moors, and waste ground, &c. A large
tract of ground in the vicinity of the burgh to the north-east, and
extending at one time to nearly 2000 acres, was formerly a com-
mon bleak moor, but was divided about tbirty-five years ago among
the burghers and adjoining heritors. Before this took place, it
afforded, only a scanty pasturage for cattle and horses belonging
to the burghers, and was greatly impoverished by the practice of
cutting feal or divot for the common behoof. It is now divided
and subdivided by hedge and ditch, afid a considerable portion of
the most elevated parts are covered with, thriving plantations.
The fields are well cultivated and improved, with neat cottages
interspersed, built with stone and lime, and roofed or covered with
slate. To accommodate these cottages, or small farms, cross
roads are formed from the public roads leading from the burgh to
Langholm and Cannobie, by Kirtlebridge and Kilpatrick Church.
It is calculated that there are now in the'parisb about 10,087
acres under cultivation, or laid down in permanent pasture. The
average of which being taken at from los. to L. 4 per acre, may
be calculated at L. 1, 14s. 4d., giving nearly L. 17,232, 13s. 8d. in
whole. The arable land where not laid down in pasture is kept
under a regular course of cropping, according to the most approv-
ed practice of the neiglibouring parishes.
	The kind of stock generally reared here is the common Gal-
loway or polled breed, with occasionally a few of the short-horned
and Ayrshire breeds. The number of sheep kept within the pa-
rish is small, as there are no ranges of any extent for sheep pas-
tures. The rates charged for grazing of cattle vary from the
quality of the pasture, and their proximity to the burgh. The
rearing and feeding of hogs is a part of rural economy now univer-
sally pursued throughout Annandale by the farmers and cottagers,
and has become a source of no small profit to the country, and of
ample remuneration to those by whom it has been adopted.
	Manufactures.--A cotton manufactory for spinning of yarn was
established here in the year 1785, and the building and machi-
nery have been considerably enlarged since. The number of per-
sons at present engaged in the work may vary from 120 to 140
hands, and the quantity of manufactured goods produced weekly
is 4000 pounds on an average, or upwards of 92 tons weight of
mule jenny yarn. The work is carried on by Mr Douglas, from,
Manchester.
	Fisheries.--There are two fisheries carried on here, one of them


