
                         EDINBURGH.                         687

patients, granted them an exemption from serving on juries, and
from watching and warding within the city.  In 1657, by an act
of Parliament, the surgeons and apothecaries were, by their own
desire, united into one corporation; and they now laid aside en-
tirely their business of barbers. In 1778 they obtained a new
charter, under the title of the Royal College of Surgeons.  This
charter includes a widows' scheme.  Each member pays L.5
yearly, and after four payments, if he dies, his widow is entitled to
an annuity.  If he dies a widower a certain sum is paid at once to
his surviving children.
   The Hall, formerly occupied by the surgeons in Surgeons'
Square. has now been converted into a fever hospital, and the
meetings of the college are held in their hall, Nicolson Street.
Here there is an excellent pathological museum, and a museum
of anatomy and comparative anatomy, the latter bequeathed to the
college by the late Dr Barclay.
   The College grants diplomas in surgery to students of four
years' standing, who have gone through the regular prescribed course
of study, and have undergone a strict examination on the various
departments of the art.  The order of the course of study is as
follows:-First year, anatomy, chemistry, mechanical philosophy,
Second year, anatomy, practical anatomy, physiology, surgery,
material medical.  Third year, practice of physic, clinical surgery,
practical chemistry, hospital.  Fourth year, surgery or military
surgery, midwifery, clinical medicine, hospital.  Fellows of the
College are licensed to teach any of the above branches.  The
class fees are generally L. 3, 3s.  The fee for a diploma is L. 7, 5s,
   Royal Society.-Previous to the establishment of the Royal
ciety of Edinburgh in 1782, there had existed various associations
of literary and scientific men, for the discussion and encouraged-
ment of various departments of knowledge.  The first of these, as-
sociations was formed in 1718 by the masters of the High School,
and the celebrated grammarian Thomas Ruddiman; to these were
afterwards joined Lord Kames, the Rev. Mr Wishart, and Messrs
Murray and Cochrane, advocates.  The object of this society was
the cultivation of Greek and Roman literature.  The next was a
medical association formed under the auspices of Dr Monro Pri-
mus, in 1731; which was afterwards extended to embrace other
sciences, and called the Philosophical Society.  Of this Society
the celebrated mathematician Colin Maclaurin was a zealous pro-
moter.  In 1754, Allan Ramsay, the son of the poet, founded the
Select Society, which rapidly, rose to eminence, and included


