
                             PERTH.                           55

1536, and educated at the grammar-school of Perth. He was the
author of a tragedy-"Herod Agrippa, who slew James with the
sword," and of a poetic paraphrase on the Lamentations of Jere-
miah, published in the Musae Sacra Poetarum Scotorum, and of
various other works. With him originated the reproachful term,
a Tulchan Bishop. In a sermon which he preached against the
order of bishops, he told his audience that there were three kinds
of bishops; the Lord's Bishop, my Lord Bishop, and my Lord's
Bishop; the first a mhnister of Christ; the second a Lord who sits
and votes in Parliament, and rules over his brethren; the third
one who is the receiver-general of some court nobleman's rent;
giving leases for his lordship's behoof, but without the means or
power of a bishop. This one he called a Tulchan Bishop, be-
cause, as the Tulchan, which is a calf's skin stuffed with straw
set up before the cow to cause her give milk, so such bishops
are invested with the office that their patrons may by them milk
the bishoprics  He was, by Regent Morton, advanced to the
Archbishoprick of St Andrews. Thus he himself became a Tul-
chan Bishop. For this conduct he was summoned before the sy-
nod of the bounds (Fife,) and upon his refusing to recognize the
synod's jurisdiction, he was excommunicated. Their sentence was
by the assembly removed, in consequence of his giving some ex-
planations, or making certain concessions. In 1590 he formally
recanted these opinions concerning church government, which had
given offence to his brethren, and died in the year following.
   James Crichton.-This gentleman is known by the name of the
Admirable Crichton, a name given him on account of his extra-
ordinary endowments of both body and mind. It is believed by
many, that he was in early life a pupil in the grammar-school of
Perth. For that reason I have here introduced hhs name. But I
can find no authority for such a belief. His father was Robert
Crichton, Esq. of Eliock, in the parish of Sanqubar, in the county
of Dumfries. He was born in the mansion-house of Eliock, on the
9th of August 1560. After his birth his father sold that property
to a member of thd family of Dalzell, afterwards Carnwath, and
took up his residence on an estate of which he was proprietor in
the parish of Clunie, in Perthshire.  What authorizes the belief
that he was born in the mansion-house of Eliock is, that the spart-
ment there, in which his birth took place, has been preserved in
its original state by the successive proprietors. (Vid. Stat. Acct. San-
quhar.) It may have been imagined that, the grammar-school of


