
130                     DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

on the public mind. It paralyses industry, derages improvement,
withdraws capital, and renders experience and skill of little use.
	Modern Improvements.--The use of bone manure for turnip land,
and the feeding off of turnips with sheep, are two capital improve-
ments on dryland; and the culture of peat-mosses to be laid down
to meadow, and irrigated if possible, is another. Industry is ne-
cessary to keep up the fertility even of rich lands, along with capi-
tal and skill. All these, and the most productive modes of indus-
try, together with the subsistence and independence of the nation,
would be endagered by relaxing the agriculture of thdse kingdoms.
	Produce.--The gross produce of the whole parish from sheep
and cattle, as well as corn lands, has computed at about
L. 13,000, and the rent being L. 5000, is above the usual propor-
tion, but abatements of rent have been allowed.--the returns of
course vary according to seasons and prices, and they have altered
much in the present year, grain having risen. The following
table can only be considered as approximating to the average re-
turns, viz.:

<TABLE>
	From sheep and wool at 7s. 6d. each, of 9000,		L. 3350
	From fat and young cattle yearly sales, about 		   4250
	From swine, dairy produce, and poultry, about		   2650
	From corn and hay sold off the lands,			   2300

							       L. 12500
	From timber, potatoes, &c. say 			            450

		The total returns coming to about	       L. 13000

	There have been so many abatements of land allowed, as
to show the necessity of lowering those lands not recently taken.
These abatements have run at an average to about 20 per cent;
and on this computation the net rental extends only to L. 4000 a-
year. Most of the land rents of this parish being carried out of it
and spent elsewhere, it stands greatly in need of such fostering at-
tentions and improvements as landholders can give to its growing
agriculture, by roads, fences, manures, building, and encouraging
leases.
	Multures.--Relidf may be had for servient lands under the sta-
tute; but landholder commonly relieve tenants of multures to
their own raills, leaving them at liberty to go any mill. Still,
the tacksmen of the mills have some understanding with one an-
other as to the charges of grinding as well as kiln-drying; of which


