

                        KIRKINTILLOCH.                          205

situated in the centre of the town, which, being near to the western
angle of the parish, is not more than a quarter of a mile distant
from one extremity, while it is fully five miles distant from the op-
posite extremity. It is situated conveniently, however, for the
major part of the population. As already stated, the present pa-
rish church was formerly the Chapel of the Virgin Mary, and,
from a stone above one of its windows, it appears to have been
built in 1644, or about fifteen years before the separation of this
parish from the parish of Cumbernauld. The ruins of the old pa-
rish church is near to Oxgang, where there is still a burying-
ground. The present church is in a very miserable state of dis-
repair. The walls are time-worn and ungainly; the timbers, in
general, fragile and insufficient; the galleries inconvenient and
crazy, one of them having been lately taken down in case of the
danger of its coming down at an inconvenient season; the seating
is fast crumbling into ruins; the walls outside filled up with dust
of former generations to the height of four or five feet from the
spring of the roofing, and with the walls and flooring, of course,
intolerably damp. Under these circumstances, the Presbytery of
Glasgow, some years ago, gave a deliverance enjoining the heri-
tors to provide the parish with a new parish church; but a few of
the heritors objecting, carried the matter to the Court of Session,
where the decree of the Presbytery was reversed. In this case
the architect reported, that the existing fabric might be repaired
so as to be a serviceable church for from twenty-five to thirty-five
years, at an expense of L.660, while a new church of the same
size would cost L.1280. Mr Dunlop, advocate, is of opinion,
that the same decision would have been given here as in the case

the faithful in olden times. The narrative of the above reverend fathers informs us,
that, about April 1742, "sixteen children or thereby, in the town of Kirkintilloch.
were observed to meet together in a barn for prayer; the occasion of which was, that
one of them said to the rest, What need is there that we should always play; had we
not better go and pray? Wherewith the rest complied. The minister at that time.
the. Rev. Mr Burnside, who was succeeded immediately after by Mr M'Larren, as
soon as be heard of it, carefully inquired after them, and met friquently with them
for their direction and instruction. And as I am informed, (says Mr Robe), they
make progress and continue in a hopeful way. This made much noise in the coun-
try side, and deep impressions both upon young and old." On Sunday, 20th May
following, Messrs Robe and McLaren preached at Kirkintilloch. Mr Robe says,
"There we saw Zion's mighty King appearing in his glory and majesty, and his
arrows sharp in the heart of his enemies. Many were awakened there, and brought
under great spiritual distress." Some time after we are told, that, in the parish of
Kirkintilloch, there were known to be minister to be about 120 under a more than
ordinary concern about their salvation, including the praying young, who were now
increased to a greater number than formerly mentioned. Mr Whitefield preached
about this time both here and at Cumbernauld and Kilsyth. In the latter of these
parishes there were at least 300 awakened, in the parish of Cumbernauld, 14 or
15.


