
376                          DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

chalders,--four of oats and four of barley, with L. 58 6s. of money
stipend.
	Education.--There is only one parochial school, and the
branches taught are, Latin, Greek, English, arithmetic, geography,
mensuration, and algebra. The salary of the schoolmaster is
L. 34, 4s. 3d. and the amount of school wages about L. 20. He has
the legal accommodation.
	Poor.--The number of persons receiving parochial aid is 12,
and the average sum allotted to each per week is from 1s. 6d. to
2s.;--besides that many have their house rents paid at L. 1, 10s.
per annum. It is to be feared that a disposition among the poor
to refrain from seeking parochial relief is fast wearing out. The
annual amount of contributions for their relief, arising from church
collections, is about L. 25 per year, and what more has been re-
quired, the heritors have willingly given it.
	Inns, &c.--There are two inns in the parish, but the effects of
which upon the morals of the people are of the most degrading nature.
	Fuel.--The fuel chiefly consumed consists of peat, which will
soon be exhausted; but calls exported from England to the port of
Annan are purchased at a moderate rate.

			MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	The more striking variations in the parish since the former
Statistical Account was written, consist not only in an increase
of population, but in the extent of cultivation, which the late war
prices produced. There is also a great increase of black-cattle,
horses, and particularly swine, which are reared in great numbers, and
are what the farmer chiefly depends upon for hit winter's rent. Of
late years, they have not been so profitable, and like all other stock,
fluctuating in prices. The parishs is susceptible of great improve.
ments in respect of husbandry. The soil in general being light and
dry, is particularly adapted to the use of turnips, which might be
eaten off with sheep to great advantage. Draining and proper at-
tention to the fences, which are in a ruinous state, and the use of
lime, which is to be obtained in the immediate neigbbourhood,
would make a mighty improvement on the face of the parish. The
farms in general are over-rented, and for want of capital the far-
mer is unable to make improvements. The constant change of te-
nants since the peace in 1815, owing to the fluctuating state of the
markets, has been the principal cause in general of the slowness
of improvement, which can only be effected by a thriving and in-
dustrious people and by a steady state of things.
	October 1835.


