
   134                           ELGINSHIRE.

   lime, and introduced a regular rotation of cropping. From the
   year 1827 to 1834* inclusive, the crops were so abundant, that a
   very considerable quantity of grain was exported; and of such
   quality as to secure the highest market price.
      The system most generally practised is a five-shift course; 1st,
   green crops, viz. potatoes and turnips; 2d, barley, or oats laid down
   with  clover and rye-grass seeds; 3d, a crop of hay: 4th, pasture;
   and last oats. The only objection to this system is, that the soil has
   not sufficient time to rest. Bone dust has been of late years used
   by some of the tenants, with all the success which generally re-
   sults from the, use of that stimulant. In the aggregate, a consider-
   able quantity of waste ground has been brought into culture. The
   turf-built farm huts of former years are fast disappearing, and suc-
   ceeded by stone and lime cottages, whose white-washed walls, and
   straw-thatched roofs, afford a pleasing contrast with their dingy
   predecessors.
      The general duration of leases is nineteen years; and so indul-
   gent is the proprietor, that no industrious tenant entertains any fear
   of being removed at the-termination of his lease.

                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
         Market-Towns.-The nearest market-towns are those of Inver-
   ness, Nairn, and Forres, all which may be said to be equidistant
   (twenty-six miles,) from the centre of the parish.  In the village
   of Grantown, (distant about eight miles,) there are feeing-markets
   for servants, held in the months of November and May; also cat-
   tle markets to suit the great southern markets.
      Means of Communication.-No Highland district is better ac-
   commodated with means of communication.  The great Highland
   road between Perth and Inverness passes through the parish for fif-
   teen miles.  In the hamlet at Carr Bridge, a post-office was esta-
   blished in July 1836.  From Carr Bridge, a road branches off to
   Grantown, on which a mail-gig runs daily.  This road is joined at
   Carr Bridge, near the confluence of the Spey and Dulnan. by an-
   other road that passes through the-southern district of the parish.
   In the parish, there are two bridges over the  Dulnan.  The one
   at Sluggan, was built soon after 1745, on the line of road formed
   under the superintendence of General Wade. Since the desolat-
   ing floood of 1829, it is scarcely passable. The other is at the ham-

   <FOOTNOTE>Since the above mentioned year, the crops have been so much injured by early
   frosts and mildew, (especially the crops of 1836 and 1837,) that the little meal the
   grain yields is of a bad quality, and along the banks of the Dulhan, so great was the
   damage, that the tenants could not depend on any of their own frowth for seed.


