
                         FARR.                                 67

the south-west extremity, and not far from the Parliamentary
road from Bonar Bridge to Tongue. Its height is 3200 feet
above the level of the sea. Its form is conical, especially towards
the summit, which is called " Meall'a'neuion," that is, the summit
of the Bird, probably from its being the chief residence of ptar-
migan in the parish. Towards the sea-coast, to the north-east,
on each side of Strathnaver, there are several hills, of various
dimensions; but they are all far below the elevation of Chli-
brig, and have nothing in their form or relative position deserving
of notice. Near the coast, the low hills exhibit a greater quan-
tity of bare rock, and are in general more precipitous.
   The greatest quantity and extent of low flat land is in Strath-
naver and Strathrathy in the interior; and in Armidale and Mains
of Strathy on the sea-coast. There are several farms along the
shore, in all of which there is a considerable extent of arable land;
but the surface is uneven.
   Straths.-The largest valleys are Strathnaver and Strathrathy.
Strathnaver, a place from which the Noble family of Sutherland
have one of their titles, is a beautiful valley, extending from the
sea-coast, in a south-west direction,- distance of about twenty-
eight miles, including the ground along the river, the loch, and
the Water of Mudale, beyond Lochnaver. Considering the ex-
tent of this strath, the beauty and variety of the scenery, which
almost invariably attract the notice of the traveller of taste, and
the richness of the pasture it everywhere produces, this valley is
undoubtedly the finest and most interesting Highland strath in the
whole county of Sutherland. Strathrathy stretches directly south
from the sea-coast, a distance of twelve miles; it is about ten miles
north-east of Strathnaver. Between these, along the sea-coast,
are situated the valleys of Clachan, where the parish church and
manse are built, Swordly, Kirtomy, and Armidale; but these are
quite diminutive compared to those already described.
   Caves, &c.-There are several caves, natural arches, and fissures,
along the sea-coast, and a few caverns in the interior. The most
interesting of the caves are in the Aird of Kirtomy, Strathy, and
Strathy-point. The finest natural arch is near Farr. It is de-
scribed in Pennant's Tour, and referred to in the former Statistical
Account of this parish. The largest cavern in the interior is in
Carn a' Mhadi, in Bein Chlibrig, noted in the traditional history
of the parish as the retreat of a robber named Chisholm from In-


