			KILWINNING.                            825

other places in Scotland, it has been practised here as an elegant
and manly amusement, almost without any interruption, to the pre-
sent day. At the same time, the laws and usages of the Company
(the term used for the society), are known, and that too very im-
perfectly, only by tradition, prior to the year 1488. This date is
acknowledged and rendered authentic by a minute in the records,
dated September 1688. This minute is signed by a number of
gentlemen of the most respectable characters. From this time,
archery has been practised annually, at a certain stated time of the
year, generally in the month of June. The species of archery in
use here hs of two kinds. The one is a perpendicular mark, cal-
led a papingoe. The papingoe is a bird known in heraldry. It is
on this occasion, cut in wood, fixed in the end of a pole, and placed
about 120 feet high, on the steeple of the monastery. The archer
who shoots down this mark is honoured with the title of Captain
of the Papingoe. He is master of the ceremonies of the succeed-
ing year, sends cards of invitation to the ladies, gives them a ball
and supper, and transmits his honours to posterity by a medal, with
suitable devices, appended to a silver arrow. The prize from 1488
to 1688 was a sash, or as it was called a benn. This was a piece
of taffeta or Persian, of different colours, chiefly red, green, white,
and blue, and not less in value than L.20 Scotch. This honour-
able badge was worn by the captain, which he kept, and produced
another of equal value the following year. At the revival of arch-
ery in 1688, there was substituted a piece of plate, which conti-
nued to be given by every captain till 1723. The other kind of
shooting is for prizes at butts, point-blank distance, (about twenty-
six yards). The prize at butts is some useful or ornamental piece
of plate, given annually to the Society by the senior surviving
archer.
	Tournament.--In the month of August 1839, a celebrated tour-
nament was held at Eglinton castle by the present Earl of Eglin-
ton and Wintoun. Accounts of it have been published, with picto-
rial illustrations of the armour and costume worn on the occasion.
This romantic attempt to revive the sports and pageantry of ancient
times was made on a magnificent scale, and it is supposed that
50,000 or 60,000 persons, of all the varied ranks of society were
assembled to witness the gorgeous spectacle. Though the park
was thrown open to this promiscuous multitude, no wanton mis-
chief was done to a single object, nor was an intoxicated individual
seen within the gates. The tournament was held during two days:


