
                          EAST KILBRIDE.                   883

works of Kilbride, in Mr Ure's History of Rutherglen and Kil-
bride.
   The igneous rocks are mostly varieties of trap, with that vol-
canic-looking rock the Osmond stone, which abounds on the west
side of the parish.  It is seen in great perfection about the head
of the Cart, particularly in a rock at Craigend facing the west, in
great amorphous masses; some pieces like a compact whin.  The
burn forming the west branch of the head of Cart rests entirely
on the Osmond stone.  It is of a speckled greenish colour at the
bottom of the water, but where exposed to the air chiefly of a
grayish hue.  In this locality it abounds with rolled balls of por-
pliyritic trap.  Down the water about a hundred yards, a blue trap
occurs much water-worn, which seems to be the rock on which the
Osmond is lying.  The rocks about Millhouse are all of a coarse
trap conglomerate, or of the roughest sort of Osmond, and near
the mill a dike of pure trap runs through the Osmond, a pretty
plain proof that the trap is of a more modern date.  The head of
Cart, formed by the junction- of Torburn and Thriepland burn,
for a mile or two, is chiefly of Osmond.  The dip, if it has any
true dip, appears generally at angle of 30&deg; north.  At Craigen-
flech, the rocks of this formation are very high, perhaps forty or
fifty feet.  The coarsest and roundest aggregate is always upper-
most, and the finest and most compacted below.  It is from these
lowest portions of the accumulated mass that the stones for ba-
kers' ovens, and other purposes where the resistance to heat is re-
quired, are chiefly found.  This mass of accumulated igneous
matter bears many marks of a volcanic origin.  The heaviest and
densest portions of the aggregate are found below, and often bear
the marks of accumulated pressure, whereas the roundest and
lightest of the mass is above, and seems to have floated on the
other.  Its pores or crevices are often filled with steatites, and
sulphate of barytes, and not unfrequently with calcareous spar, and
occasionally with zeolite.  To the north this great mass of vol-
tanic matter lies on limestone and slate-clay, and in the south
chiefly on blue trap.  Its chief component part seems to be clay.
Acids do not affect it.  It is harsh to the touch, and breaks with
uneven surfaces in all directions.  It stands a great heat without
being rent or melted, and hence its use for baker's ovens, &c.
   This parish abounds with excellent freestone, who is interstra-
tified between the limestone and coals.  There is an excellent quarry


