
                SANDSTING AND AITHSTING.                     123

pended on for twenty-four hours together, and the latter is very
damp, unsheltered, and, in many places, liable to be blasted both by
mildew and sea-spray; so that the most promising crops, in one
hour, may be destroyed for both man and beast.
   Woods.-There is a tradition that this country was, at one time,
covered with wood; and this tradition is supported by the cir-
cumstance, that pieces of wood are found imbedded very deep
in the moss. I have found some branches of the birch, from
six to eight feet long, about ten feet under the surface to the
northward of the glebe. In different parts of the parish, there are
to be found the creeping willow, the honeysuckle, the mountain-
ash or rowan-tree, and the hip brier. The crawberry on the hills
is very common, and in ordinary seasons comes to perfection.
There are a few plants of the blaeberry which, in some seasons,
blossom, but seldom carry fruit. Gooseberries and currants (red,
white, and black,) in favourable seasons, ripen well in the gardens.
   Cows.-An occupier of three merks of land will keep four milk
cows, and in some cases six; and in some very favourable situa-
tions, from twelve to sixteen. The young cattle pasture on the
hills or common scathold from the end of May till the beginning
of November.  On the hills or common scathold, an unlimited
privilege of pasture is allowed; and a tenant who, during the sum-
mer months, can keep from four to six milk cows, will, during the
winter, fodder from twelve to fifteen head of cattle, young and old.
The milk cows pasture on the grass inside of the town in summer
till twelve o'clock, when they are milked and driven to the hill;
and in the evening, are again taken inside of the town, where they
feed a few hours, are milked, and put into the byre during the night.
The young cattle, when they are driven to the hill in the end of
May, are never allowed to enter within the town dikes till about
the month of November, when they are taken in and set to the
band for the winter. It is a practice too prevalent, indeed I may say,
general, to lay on more cattle than can be well supported; and the
consequence is, that part of the stock is frequently lost for want
of food, and part of it is barely able to walk. It is evident that, by
laying on too much stock, the people are great losers, as they can
neither bring an adequate price for their cattle, if sold at Whitsun-
day, owing to the miserable condition in which they are, nor does
the milk yielded repay even the expense of their half-starved keep-
ing; the summer being well spent before the cattle have thrown off
their winter coat, and assumed any thing like a decent appearance.


