
96                       PEEBLES-SHIRE.

  The yearly contributions to religious or charitable purposes do
not average above L.2 per annum, exclusive of the subscriptions
to the Biggar Bible Society.
  Education.--Notwithstanding the annexation of the parishes,
the three parochial schools continued on the former footing, sub-
ject to such alterations as the heritors and presbytery might judge
proper.  The branches professed, besides the ordinary, are Latin,
geography, and pratical mathematics.  But Latin is getting out
of fashion here.  There is not a Latin scholar, that is a pupil, in the
district.
  The salary of each of the schoolmasters is L.32, with a house
and garden.
  The school-fees at Broughton may amount to L.20; at Glen-
holm to little more than L.12; and at Kilbucho to about L.15.
The school of Kilbucho, owing to a most unhappy misunderstand-
ing, is at present vacant, but well taught by an interim-teacher,
who receives the emoluments.
  The school wages are fixed at 2s. a quarter, for reading Eng-
lish; 2s. 6d. for reading, writting, and arithmetic; and 3s. for the
higher branches.
  A new school and schoolmaster's house have been recently built,
but on a niggardly plan, in the parish of Kilbucho.  Had the he-
ritors at the time the annexation was completed, instead of demo-
lishing the old manses, converted them into schools and school-
masters' houses, they might have, at a small expense, provided
ample accomodation to masters and scholars.
  Few have attained to the age of fifteen who cannot both read
and write.  Access to education is granted to all.  If the parentr
are unable to pay the fees they are paid by the public, or the
children are taught gratis.  Some of the old cannot write, but
they can all read.
  Friendly Society.---A friendly society was established in the year
1800, and is still in existence.  Its stock amounts to about L.200.
Sick members are allowed 3s. 6d. a-week; superannuated mem-
bers, L.2, 12s. per annum; and windows, L.1.
  Savings Bank.---A savings bank was instituted here in 1815,
and has prospered.  The deposits have averaged more than L.100
a-year; but, as many of the sums exceed the legal amount, the
greater part has been withdrawn and deposited elsewhere.  The
great proportion of depositors are servants, especially females.


