
   492                    INVERNESS SHIRE.

   old red sandstone, which compose the great basin of, the Moray
   Frith, and which here rests unconformably on the primary strata.
   Spurs of the gneiss and granite frequently cut across the sand-
   stone, thus rendering the scenery more rough and picturesque than
   it would otherwise be while the softer ro kgives rise to exceedingly
   beautiful and fertile valleys between them. The sandstone also
   appears at one time to have ris en high above the older rocks, for,
   in the south-western parts of the parish, bordering on that of
   Urquhart, there are very high detached rounded caps and sum-
   mits, as well as extensive ridges of the old red conglomerate,
   which, on passing through Glenconvinth, show themselves to have
   been at one time united both to the Moray Frith basin, and also to
   the great central deposit of sandstone at Mealfourvonie near Loch-
   Ness. Indications of extensive denudation everywhere exist ;
   and, underneath the highest conglomerate summits, are a series
   of dark and deep lakes or tarns, which here, as elsewhere in this
   neigbbourbood, are most numerous. near the line of junction of
   the crystalline with the arenaccous deposits. The small forma-
   tion of serpentine behind Polmally in Glenurqubart stretches up-
   wards towards the confines of Kiltarlity, and numerous beds of
   primary granular limestone exist in the district, none of which,
   however, are extensively worked, it being a matter ofgeneral belief,
   -though whether on good grounds I know not, that foreign litne
   produces a better effect on land than that manufactured from
   stone found in the same district as the land on which it is used.
   The most thriving woods and plantations are situated on the
   sandstone ridges, or on the gravel beds and terraces which extend
   from their bases to the river Beauly.
      Specimens of asbestos and rock-crystal are often met with in
   the hills.
      There are no mines in this parish, although the taste and colour
   of many of the springs indicate the presence of iron ore. It is
   believed that a mine was once worked in the Mains of Stratbglass,
   but there is no certainty as to where it was situated or what the
   mineral found was, though it.most probably was plumbago, of the
   same quality as that found in the parish of Kilmorack, and which
   has not as yet been very productive.
     In the upper part of the district of Straffiglass, at Cugie, on
   the property of Guisacban, there is a cave of considerable dimen -
   slons; the accqss to it is very narrow, owing to the propinquity of
   two shelvillgtrocks. Another cave, in a glen called Corriedow, on
   the western extremity of the parish, is said to have afforded refuge


