
538                        LANARKSHIRE.

village, and in various other parts, a rich loam is found to prevail;
while other portions display, some a sharp gravelly, and others a
sandy soil. The higher grounds are generally, covered with heath
and bent, and, having a clayey till as subsoil, are very unproduc-
tive, and not susceptible of much improvement.
	Zoology.--The parish is not distinguished by any of the rarer
species of animals, if we except pheasants, a vast number of which
have, within the last three years, been brought from England, and
are now finding their way into the neighbouring parishes. They,
along with the hares, which have been much protected of late, and
are literally swarming, have been found very destructive to the
crops, and have furnished a subject of much complaint among the
tenants.
	In the Clyde are found trout, piker, and perch, though the last is
limited only to particular places. The trout are not nearly so nume-
rons as formerly, which may be ascribed, in some measure, to the
river being more fished, and to the method practised in fishing. The
practice frequently adopted is for two persons, with short rods, to
repair to the river, each taking an opposite side, and with a line
stretched across, and to which are appended, by means of a piece of
gut, a great number of dressed fly-hooks, the river is thoroughly
fished, and the fishers in general well rewarded with a plentiful sup-
ply of trout. The decrease of trout may also be partly owing to the
increase of pike, some of which are found of an enormous size, and
are known to prey upon the trout. During last summer, one was
caught, which measured in length upwards of three feet, and weigh-
ed more than twenty pounds. It was presented to Sir Norman
Macdonald Lockhart of Lee and Carnwath, Bart. at that time re-
siding in Carnwath House.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.

	The whole parish belongs to Sir Windham Carmichael An-
struther, of Anstruther and Carmichael, Bart., with the excep-
tion of 250 or 300 acres, belonging to Hugh Smith, Esq. of
Westown, and about nine or ten acres, the property of Henry Mon-
teith, Esq. of Carstairs. This last portion, viz. Mr Monteith's, is
separated from the rest of the parish by the river Clyde, which, in
the haugh land, is frequently found to change its course; but there
is little doubt of its being formerly joined to the rest of the parish,
from the circumstance of the old course of the river being still vi-
sible, and from its always having been liable for stipend.
        Parochial Registers.-The oldest parochial register bears date

                        	3


