
864                      LANARKSHIRE.

is also an excellent garden wall, to the erection of which the pre-
sent incumbent contributed a considerable proportion, and thus
rendered it much superior to what the heritors were bound by
law to erect. *
   The extent of the grebe, inclusive of the site of the manse and
garden, is 9 acres; its,value about L. 12 per annum.  The sti-
pend amounts to L.158, 6s. 8d., and is made up of the fiar prices
of 13 bolls, 2 firlots 3 pecks 1 1/5 lippy of oatmeal, and of 3 bolls
of bear, together with L.60, 2s. 7 1/2d. payable by the family of
Lee and Carnwath, and L.83, 11s. 1 1/2d. payable by the Exche-
quer.  The minister has right to twelve days casting of peats in
the Borland Moss, and four days casting of turf on the Borland
Moor, which servitudes have not been allowed to go into desue-
tude.
   There is at Elsrickle a small chapel fast hastening to a state
of ruin.  It belonged to the Antiburghers.  They called a mi-
nister in 1760, who officiated there on a scanty subsistence till
his death in 1791.  Since that time, the congregation has joined
the Established Church: or the Dissenters at Biggar.
   The number of persons of all ages connected with the Esta-
blished Church is 313; of whom there are on an average 138 com-
municants.  Consequently, the number of persons of all ages at-
tending the chapels of Dissenters and Seceders are 173; there
being two Roman Catholics.  Of these 81 are communicants.
Divine service at the Established Church is generally well at-
tended.
   Education.-There is one parochial school, and one supported
party by fees, and partly by the contributions of heads of families.
The parochial school is at Walston ; the other at Elsrickle.
The branches generally taught are, reading, writing, and arith-
metic ; and geography, algebra, and Latin are also taught; but
the number learning the two latter do not amount to more than
three or four on an average.  The parochial teacher attended
College for two sessions.  His salary is L. 30 per annum; and

<FOOTNOTE>This is noticed here without the smallest intention of reflecting upon the heri-
tors of this parish, who have not only fulfilled their legal obligations without a mur-
mur during the writer's incumbencym though these, from the wretched state in
which the church and manse were at its commencement, amounted to a consider e
sum, but on all occasions acted towards him in the most liberal manner; but
that those who came after him ma know that he has done something to add to
their comfort, and to beautify the place, and may be led to do more for their suc-
cessors than his predecessors did for him.  At his entrance the buildings were rui-
nous, and the glebe scourged after getting a bad name.  Things are now somewhat
altered for the better.


