
                        HADDINGTON.                          11

ly allowed on which to raise flax for family use. The cottage
rent is commonly paid by the wife of the cottager giving twenty
days reaping in harvest, or paying the wages of a reaper, which
may average between L. 1, and L. 1, 10s.; for which sum, besides
his house, he has a garden attached worth 8s. or 10s., and his fuel
carried free of expense; so that what he receives with the cottage
is of more value than the shearer's wages. Women and children
receive from 6d. to 10d. a-day, according to their ability, but in
harvest their wages are regulated by the market. Oatmeal and
potatoes form a considerable proportion, of the diet of farm-ser-
vants. They also use mixed bread, and keep a pig to consume
the offal and refuse of the garden.
   Though in general acquainted with the elementary branches of
education-as reading, writing, and arithmetic-and amply provided
with the means of information in most departments of knowledge,
by having access to libraries, parochial and itinerating, they are not
much given to reading, nor remarkable for their attainments in
general information. Indeed, persons so early at work in the morn-
ing, and occupied with the labours of the field through the day,
can have little leisure or in general inclination for literary pursuits,
when they return to their cottage in the evening, exhausted and
weary. Besides, they want the excitement of conversation and discus-
sion from frequent intercourse, which give so much interest and
impulse to the working-classes in manufacturing districts. In all
their cottages, however, is commonly to be found a family Bible;
the catechetical formularies of our church, and some approved po-
pular works in Theology.
   As the farmers have as few inefficient persons on their premises
as possible, their servants when old or infirm, either pass the re-
mainder of their days with some member of their family,-for in ge-
neral they have numerous families,-or they retire to some neigh-
bouring village or town, and take such work as they may still feel
themselves equal to.
   Produce.-The average amount and value of gross produce
yearly raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as
follows:

<TABLE>
Produce of grain, being white crop grown on (say) 4800 Scots acres, L. 8 per acre
                                                                L. 38,400   0   0
Potatoes and turnips, 850 Scots acres, at L. 7 per acre,            5,950   0   0
Beans and pease, 525 do. at L. 6 per acre,                          8,150   0   0
215 Scots acres of hay, at L. 5 per acre,                           1,075   0   0
1060 Scots acres in pasture, at L. 2, 10s. per acre,                2,650   0   0
Gardens and orchards,                                               1,000   0   0
                                                                  _______________
                                                                L. 52,225   0   0




