
62				BUTESHIRE.

wood, except the coulter, sole and share, and most coarsely and
clamsily constructed. No stone, however much in the way, or
however near the surface, was ever disturbed. To break the
plough was therefore a thing of annual, or perhaps weekly occur-
rence,--a thing that they regularly calculated upon, for which
they made on prudent provision, and which caused them little delay
in their spring operations. An assortment of beams, stilts, &c.
was always on hand, and what was broken in the forenoon was
either repaired or replaced by the evening. The harrow con-
sisted of three bills, generally having iron, but sometimes only
wooden teeth, and so very light, that the harrowing was fre-
quently a more tedious operation than the ploughing. The plough
was drawn by four or six horses driven by one man, while two
others followes with spades to level down the inequalities of the
furrows and delve up what the plough did not turn. There were
no carts in the parish till about forty years ago, nor indeed were
there roads to use them on. In their stead, they employed cars or
sledges, formed of two parallel trams, about four feet asunder,
joined at the further end by the bars. The horses was yoked in
it as in a cart, but the trams, instead of being supported on wheels,
slid on the ground. On these creels were fixed, in which they put
whatever they had to carry.
	The harness was of a piece with the carriage. A thick withe
of string straw or rushes, twisted hard together, servedfor a col-
lar; two bent pieces of stick fastened at the ends with a leather
thong, or birch twig, for haimes; a hair or rush rope for halter,
and all the other parts in keeping.
	The implements and harness are now the workmanship of regu-
lar tradesmen, the latter generally imported from the low country.
Iron ploughs are common, carts universal, and farming operations
carried on the with the same ease and order, as in the more advanced
agricultural districts of Scotland. The introduction of these im-
proveness is partly owing to the younger members of families
going to service in these districts, and thus learning the system
there pursued, which on their return they continue at home.
	Rent, &c.--The average rent of the arable land is L.1 per acre;
the average grazing of a cow or full grown ox, L. 2, and of an ewe,
4s. 6d. per anuum. Labourers wages, 1s. 6d. per day; masons,
3s 6d.; wrights, 2s. 6d.; tailors, 1s. 6d. with victuals; weavers
receive 6d. per yard for linen, 5d. for harn, 4d. for plaiding; shoe.


