
     Of Northmaven

Here is a large and commodious beach for drying fish, with
good warehouses, and salt, and fish cellars, and every other
necessary accommodation.  From this creek, all the fish caught
in the parish are loaded for exportation.  A little distance
from this, is an inlet called Hammersvoe, a secure retreat for
ships in the most tempestuous weather.  The most westerly
point of this parish is Stennels, an Excellent station for fish-
ing, with an extensive beach, and a warehouse built for the 
conveniency of the fishing.  Here, there are from 40 t0 50
boats from this and the neighbouring parishes during the fith-
ing season.  A little further N. there is a small bay called
Hamnavoe, a safe harbour for small vessels, the entry into
it being narrow; and here also is another fishing station for
12 or 15 boats, with suitable conveniencies.  Still further
N. on the S. side of Rona's hill, is a bay called Rona's Voe,
running up into the land 6 miles, a large and safe harbour;
and here also is a fishing station for 4 or 5 boats.  On the N.
side of the hill, is a station for 14 boats.  It is called Uya.
The fish caught here are carried fresh to Fetheland , as there
is no beach at this place.  The reason of this station being
chosen, is its vicinity to the fishing grounds.  From this to
Sandvoe, a bay runs up 4 miles, which is a very good har-
bour.  From this Voe, 5 boats sail to the same fishing grounds
as the boats from Uya.  Fetheland, the northmost extremity,
is a chief fishing station, frequented by about 60 boats.  From
this and the parishes of Yell and Delting, is a road only for
large boats, and small sloops in summer.  A short distance
from this, on the E. side, is Burravoe, a tolerable harbour;
but in the middle of the entrance, there is a flat broad rock
only seen at low water, which makes it a pilot's fare way.
Here also is an excellent beach and storehouse.  Of late, the
proprietor has built a convenient pier for boats landing their
fish, and drained a loch at the back of the beach.  He applied


