
		         KIRKMABRECK.                         327

captain of the guard appointed for the Borders,--though not
without some difficulty, as the people attempted to rescue him out
of his bands.* He was first confined in Blackness, and thence, in
a few days, conveyed to the castle of Edinburgh. More kindness
was shown by the King to him than to his amiable and ingenious
opponent; for after having been liberally entertained, while in
confinement, at the public expense, he was permitted to leave
the kingdom; all the apparatus and insignia of Popery belonging
to him having been carefully restored before his departure. He
died in France in 1612.+
	This parish also contained, in the dayr of persecution, some who
were counted worthy and were found willing to suffer for Christ's sake.
Of these, the names of Major M'Culloch of Barholm, and the Rev.
Patrick Peacock of Kirkmabreck, ought to be held in grateful re-
membrance. Major M'Culloch, who had been fined L.800 by Mid-
dleton's Parliament in 1662, for his non-conformity, suffered mar-
tyrdom at Edinburgh on the 7th of December 1666, for being pre-
sent at the battle of Pentland, where he was taken prisoner; and the
Privy Council ordained his head and right hand to be cut off; the
former to be stuck up on the market-cross of Kirkcudbright,--the
latter, on that of Ayr or Lanark, because it was there the Cove-
nant was renewed with uplifted hands. Major M'Culloch suffered
much before the insurrection. Soldiers were quartered on him
thirty days at a time, which he had not only to keep, but to pay;
and, after his execution, his son was seized and imprisoned, for
a whole year. The Barholm estate was forfeited, and con-
tinued under forfeiture till the Revolution. In the same year,
(1666,) "some few families" in Kirkmabreck were fined in
the aggregate sum of L.563, 6s. Scots. Mr Peacock, minister of
the parish, was ejected, along with nearly a third of the Presbyte-
rian ministers, from his living, in 1662. He was afterwards or-
dered to be confined within the parish of Ochiltree in Ayrshire.
He subsequently took refuge in the north of Ireland, but return-
ed to Kirkmabreck at the Revolution in 1689, and continued mi-
nister of the parish till his death in 1691.++
	The famous Samuel Rutherford officiated frequently in this pa-
rish during his incumbency at Anwoth. He was settled in An-
woth in 1627. Till this date, Anwoth, Kirkdale, and Kirkma-
breck had been as one parish. Indeed, if the authorities I have

<FOOTNOTE>Calderwood's Hist. App. 320-496.
          Dr Murray's Literary History of Galloway, 30.
          Wodrow, i. 327, ii. 10, 39, 48.



