
72			WIGTONSHIRE.

	Character of the People.--There is nothing which respects the
personal qualities prevailing customs, or habits of the inhabitants
of this parish that deserves particular notice. The people gener-
ally are sober, honest, industrious, and attentive to religious du-
ties, contented with their situation, and hospitable and friendly.
Such, at least, is the prevailing character of the native inhabitants;
but a continual influx of Irish immigrants, who obtain settlements
in the parish, may in some degree prove unfavourable to the moral
and religious character of the gross population.

<TABLE=INDUSTRY>
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
	Agriculture.--
       Number of imperial acres in the parish, either cultivated or occasionally
       	  in tillage.                                                     	   30,000
       Number of acres which never have been cultivated, but remain con-
          stantly waste or in pasture,                                 	           10,000
       Number or acres under wood, of which 120 are under natural wood,		      350
	Perhaps some thousands of acres, in the moorland districts,
which have hitherto remained, untitled, might, be reclaimed and
profitably cultivated, if the tenants possessed sufficient capital, or
had any prospect of being remunerated for the expense incurred.
	Live-Stock.--In the moorland and pastoral parts of the parish,
the breeding of black. Galloway cattle has long been extensively
adopted, on account of their superior value. For these cattle a
higher price has always been obtained than for others of equal
age and size, their beef being considered of finer quality. A breed
of white and grey-faced sheep, with fine short wool and horns, has
been gradually exchanged, within the last twenty years, for a larger
species (black-faced, horned, with long coarse wool,) brought from
Ayrshire and the Highlands.
	Value of Land.--The average value of good arable land is
probably about L. 1, 1Os. per acre; but its value varies in differ-
ent parts, according to the depth and nature of the soil.
	Acres under Crop.--There are annually about 400 acres of
wheat under crop; 1350 of oats; 454 of ryegrass; 259 of mea-
dow hay; 60 of peas and beans; 467 of potatoes; and 160 of
turnips.
	Dairies.--In the southward part of the parish, dairies have of
late become very general, and upwards of 6000 stones of cheese
are annually produced.
	Rabbits.--On the sandy coast of the Bay of Luce rabbits ex-
ist in great numbers; and about 1500 dozen are killed yearly.
	Wages.--Male servants, capable of performing all kinds of farm-
work, receive each about L. 9 in cash, 3 bolls and 4 stones of
				3


