
     Statistical Account

off by the like conveyance.  Ships, with coals and lime from
Newcastle and sunderland, may shortly carry back cargoes
of sir-deal and slabs, for boxing the shafes of mines.  It has
probably encouraged the plantation of wood in this parish,
that the Earl of Moray has a thriving beech at Earlsmill,
that measures 14 feet 7 inches; and an ash measuring 14
feet 10 inches in the girth.  Experiments were made be-
fore the middle of the last century, of planting a few ashes
in the vicinity of great houses; but for the first judicious
and spirited exertion on a larger scale, in planting and im-
proving an estate, this parish and county has been much in-
debted to the example of a Lady, of most respectable me-
mory, Mary Slergy*, the wite of Alexander Brodie of that
Ilk, Lord Lyon.

<FOOTNOTE>

*this excellent Lady, who had full liberty to manage matters at home,
while her husband attended his duty in several different Parliaments, had ac-
quired liberal and comprehensive views of the benefit and mutual relations of
agriculture, manufactures, and commerce.  She had seen much of the world
before she came here.  When she saw the situation of the country, she pi-
tied it;  she knew the value of people on an estate, and studied to make
them industrious, by contriving work, and giving them wages and bread
for their services.  The men she employed in levelling, trenching, draining,
and raising sences; an trained the women to industry, by establishing a
school for spinning, and for dispensing premiums.  She raised quantities of
flax, encouraged her tenants to cultivate it, and built them a mill, for brus-
shing and scutching it.  She enclosed and subdivided an extensive mains sub-
stantially; trained up the hedges with uncommon care, and, further, shel-
tered the enclosures, with belts planted with great variety of trees  Her
gardens, orchards, and nurseries, surpassed every thing, but Dunkeld and
Blair, benorth Tay.  From these, she was fond of providing her neighbours
gratis, who had a mind to make experiments in planting.  She made new
roads; straightened old ones, planting them on both sides; put trees in the
gardens of every farm-stead, and raised sylvan scenes all around her.  The
profit of this has been already realized, and will endure for many years to
come.  Planting has now become a favourite object.  The Earl of Moray
is doing great things, and has improved, upon her method.  He intermixes
all kinds of trees, with pines for shelter.  His plantations about Darnaway
are uncommonly thriving.  He cuts out the firs whenever they can be


