
378                           DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

and level, with a considerable rise to the west, which scarcely can
be called hilly, as the whole of it is under the plough. The soil
accordingly varies; that which lies along the banks of the rivers
Annan, AE, Kinnel, and Dryfe, is of rich alluvial loam, and ca-
pable of bearing crops of every description. In some of these fine
holm lands, from the frequent deposits left by the overflowing of
the rivers, the soil in many places measures nine feet in depth. To
the westward, it is light, gravelly, and cold. The greater part
of it, which formerly was the commonty nf the burgh, and was di-
vided some years ago by a decreet of the Court of Session, is now
made arable, enclosed, and subdivided by bedge-rows and strips
of planting. These properties vary in extent from five to thirty
acres, and have good substantial houses, with suitable steadings
built upon each of them. The only uncultivated portions of the
parish are three separate parcels of moss, which are of great bene-
fit to the people in supplying them with peat, which is the princi-
pal fuel,--no coal as yet having been found in the vale of Annandale.
	From the situation of the greater part of the parish lying so low,
and being nearly as it were surrounded with water, the climate very
naturally may be supposed moist and unhealthy. This, however, is
not the case, as there is no parish in the county more health-
ful, or where the inhabitants attain a greater age. The soil around
the burgh is, particularly dry, with a southern exposure. Snow
lies only for a short time. The prevailing winds, which frequently
blow with great violence, particularly in the spring, are from the
north-east. The heaviest falls of rain come from the south and
south-west. The average temperature during the year may be
about 46 of Fahrenheit.
	Hydrography.--The town and parish are abundantly supplied with
water,--there being no less than nine lochs within its bounds, and
four rivers passing through it in different directions. The parish
is bounded from north to south by the Annan, and from west to
east by the water of AE, which falls into the Kinnel, near to the
lands of Templand--which runs about a mile south, then takes a
south-eastern direction, and joins the Annan, a short way beneath
Applegartb church. About three-quarters of a mile farther south,
the Dryfe, which separates a small portion of the parish from
Dryfsdale, falls into the Annan about two hundred yards below
the boat-house of Halleaths. There is one chalybeate spring, a
mile west from the burgh, called the Physic Well, which some
years ago was much resorted to by the inhabitants, on account of


