
6                     DUMBARTONSHIRE.

sufficient, for King James soon after granted a further sum of
twelve thousand merks.
   At the Union, Dumbarton was joined with Glasgow, Renfrew,
and Rutherglen, in returning a Member to Parliament. By the
Reform Act it is joined with Kilmarnock, Port-Glasgow, Ren-
frew, and Rutherglen. The parish church of Dumbarton existed
at an early period. The first notice of it appears in the Rotuli
Scotiae, in 1296. Mr Chalmers says, that the church, with all
its pertinents, was granted to the monks of Kilwinning, and that it
belonged to them till the time of the Reformation.
   A grant of the patronage of the " kirk and parochin of Dum-
bartane, parsonage and vicarage thereof, with the mans and glib,
houss, tenements, biggings, teinds, fruits, rentis," &c. " to the
Provost, Baillies, Counsell and cominunitie of the burgh of Dum-
bartane," was made in 1618. The charter is dated 10th June, and
was ratified by Parliament on 26tb June 1633. The town-coun-
cil still enjoy the right of patronage.
    Besides the parish church, there was a collegiate church in the
parish. It was founded about 1450, by Isabella the Duchess of
Albany and Countess of Lennox. A single arch, supposed to be
the remains of the church, is still in existence close to the town.
   Eminent Men.--The parish of Dumbarton has not produced
many men of eminence. The only man of historical ii-nportance,
who was a native of the parish, wa Sir James Smollett of Bon-
hill. This eminent man was born in Dumbarton, but the precise
date of his birth is unknown. He was intended for the profession
of the law, and was bred as a writer in Edinburgh. He represent-
ed the burgh of Dumbarton in the Convention of Estates in 1688;
he also represented the same burgh in several subsequent Parlia-
ments. Smollett supported the Revolution of 1688, and when Wil-
liam III. was raised to the throne be received the bonour of
knighthood, and was made a Judge in the Commissary Court of
Edinburgh. Towards the close of the seventeenth century, when
the great question of the Union of England and Scotland began
to be agitated in Parliament, he came forward as a zealous advo-
cate of the proposed union. In 1707, he was appointed one of the
commissioners for framing the Articles of Union, and was the first
member who represented the Dumbarton district of burghs in the
British Parliament.
  Sir James married Jane McAulay, a daughter of Sir Aulay

<FOOTNOTE>Aeta Parl. Vol. i. page 25.  Caledonia, Vol. iii. page 902.


