
                                    ARNGASK.                      883

      tion of gentle rounded waved-like elevations, varying in height
      from 600 to 800 feet above the level of the sea.  The grounds,
      particularly of Conland, Newfargie, Letham, Paris, and Dun-
      crivhe are laid out in a tasteful manner, substantially enclosed,
      and embellished with wood.  The general appearance of the
      parish is pleasing and varied, and the views from many parts of
      it are singularly beautiful and extensive.  The prospect from
      Cairn Geddes, a part of the lands of Fordel, is particularly
      splendid, comprehending the Frith of Tay, Carse of Gowrie, the
      Sidlaws, terminating in Moncrieff and Kinnoull hills, the upper
      part of Strathearn, and a considerable portion of the Grampian
      range.
       Hydrography.-The parish abounds with springs, which afford,
      at all seasons, a copious supply of excellent water.  These springs,
      owing to the general structure or undulating form of the parish,
      give rise to numerous rivulets, most of which are tributaries to the
      Farg,-a small stream which rises near the western extremity of
      the parish, and, for upwards of a mile, separates it from that of
      Forgandenny.   It then flows through the parish, separating, till
      it reaches Damhead, the county of Kinross from that of Perth.
      Then it begins to separate the county of Perth from that of Fife,
      and continues to form the boundary between these counties till it
      arrives at the point where it leaves the parish, about the middle of
      the romantic, and beautifully wooded glen to which it communi-
      cates its name, and which travellers so much admire. The Farg
      abounds with trout, and is much frequented by the angler.
      Geology, &c.-The parish does not present any thing of much
      interest, considered in a geological point of view.  It is composed
      of trap rocks, and, from certain appearances, it is not improbable
      that these are of igneous or volcanic origin.  The most remarkable
      vein traverses the parish from east to west: it is composed of
      greenstone, which, as it passes through the lands of Pittillock,
      Arngask, and Hilton, is of a compact and fine texture, and of a
      dark hue, in consequence of containing a great proportion of au-
      gite; but, in passing through the lands of Blair and Plains, while
      the rock is equally compact, it is of a coarser grain, consisting of
      felspar and hornblende, and, when broken, it presents a rough
      crystallized aspect. Instances of porphyritic rock are to be seen
      upon the lands of Fordel; and beds of amygdaloid, frequently
      coarse and tuffaceous, are found in several parts of the parish, and,


