
                       PARISH OF STRICHEN.

             PRESBYTERY OF DEER, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.

             THE REV. ALEXANDER SIMPSON, MINISTER.

              I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Extent, &c.-THE parish is about seven miles from east to west,
and from two to three miles from north to south.  It was erected
into a parish in 1627, one division of it having belonged to Rathen,
and the other to Fraserburgh.  It is bounded by these two pa-
rishes, and also by that of Lonmay, Deer, and New Deer.  The
small stream of water called the North Ugie runs through the pa-
risb from east to west, and joins the other branch called the South
Ugie about six miles below Strichen; and, both united, fall into
the sea about a mile north of Peterhead.
   There are throughout the parish a few spots of good land, but
in general it is not of rich quality.  There is no parish better sup-
plied with moss for fuel.  Little coal is used, and when used, the
supply is from Fraserburgh.  There is excellent granite for
building, of which Strichen House, and the houses in Mormond
village, are a fair specimen.  There was formerly limestone
worked, but it has now been given up, being of indifferent quality
Strichen House, whieh was built in 1821, and is among the largest
private dwellings in the county, is surrounded by thriving wood of
considerable value, particularly some fine old trees, which have
been planted more than one hundred years.

                         II.-CIVIL HiSTORY.
   There is no residing heritor.  With the exception of Mill of
Adziel, a small spot of about 15 acres, the whole parish is the property
of Lord Lovat, whose estate of Strichen comprehends also nearly
900 acres of the adjoining parishes of Fraserburgh and Old Deer,
and whose constant residence is Beaufort Castle, Inverness-shire.
   The most elevated part of the parish is the hill of Mormond,
800 feet above the level of the sea, and which gives name to the
village.  A considerable part of this hill is in the parish of Stri-
chen, and it afforded a station some years ago, for the gentlemen


