
2                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

angle of depression. In digging the foundation of houses or graves
in the churchyard, sea-shells are found, affording evidence that the
whole site of the town has been reclaimed from the sea.

                      II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

   There is no complete account of the parish deserving of particu-
lar notice, though there is an anonymous publication, bearing date
1726, arising out of some disputes between the magistrates and
the clergyman of the time, which contains various particulars
of interest connected with the erection of the church, provision for
the minister, &c.  Some documents also, in the hands of the
representative of the ancient family of Stewart of Craigiehall,
show, in 1689, the state of the water passage, as divided into thir-
ty-two shares, among twelve shareholders. There is likewise a
petition, printed in 1718, and presented to the Convention of Royal
Burghs, setting, forth the great distress of the town, on account of
the failure of trade, pressure of taxation, removal of sailors to New-
Halls, and the quartering of soldiers passing to the north, and in
returning from it.
   At a very early period, the spot where the town is built was
much frequented, as the most convenient place for crossing the
narrow strait which separates the county of West Lothian from
Fife. At a remote era, it was denominated Freti Transitus, as the
Romans, about the year A. D. 83, penetrated as far as the marshes,
lakes, and forests in the neighbourhood of Lochleven. Various
discoveries made of bones, funeral urns, &c. in the town and im-
mmediate neighbourhood, point it out as the scene of fierce strife
between the original inhabitants and its invaders; and as it lay
near the course of the Roman wall, built by Antoninus, A. D. 1066, va-
this may well account for the importance this place early acquired.
   On the conquest of England by the Normans, A. D. 1066, va-
rious fugitives escaped to Scotland, and among these Edgar
Atheling, heir of the Confessor's race, with his sister, Margaret,
a most beautiful and accomplished maiden. Malcolm Ill., sur-
named Cean Mohr, married this princess in 1067. To the west-
ward of the town a spot favourable for embarkation was called
Port Edgar, * and some rocks, from whence the Queen was accus-
tomed to pass to the opposite shores of Fife, in the low Latin of

<FOOTNOTE>George IV. embarked at Port Edgar on the 15th August 1822, on his return to
England. He was accompanied from Hopetoun House by General the Earl of Hope-
toun. At the same pier, on the 1st October 1828, the remains of the gallant and dis-
tinguished earl were landed from His Majesty's Sloop of War, Brisk, from France,
amidst the regrets of the whole nation.


