
98                         LANARKSHIRE.

and market-town.  As already stated, there are three villages in
the parish, Roberton, Wiston, and Newton of Wiston.
   Means of Communication.-The turnpike road from Stirling to
Carlisle runs through the whole length of the parish, and has in
various respects been of vast advantage to it.  There are no bridges
of any consequence; the fences are deficient, but such as we have
are tolerably good.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The present church is that of the old pa-
rish of Wiston.  It was enlarged after the annexation of the two
parishes, has since been repaired, and is at present in a very to-
lerable state.  It is situate within a mile and a-half of the eastern,
and fully four miles and a-half from the western, extremity of the
parish.  But though not exactly centrical, as even the private roads
in the parish are now generally good, those at a distance have no
great reason to complain; nor do they seem to feel it any incon-
venience, for few attend church with greater regularity.  It is seated
for 355, not the legal provision; but by means of forms and fold-
ing seats, accommodation has lately been provided for about thirty
more, and these newly provided sittings are free.  The manse was
built in the year 1750, and during the present incumbency, up-
wards of twenty years ago, a considerable addition was made to it.-
There are two glebes, the glebe of the old parish of Roberton, and
that of the old parish of Wiston.  The former is sixteen acres in
extent, and is let at present for L.25; the latter is about seven acres
and a-half, including the garden and site of the manse and offices,
and would let, I suppose, for about L. 20.  The glebes are more
than two miles distant from each other, and though it is strongly
recommended in the decreet of annexation "to exchange the glebe
and yard of Roberton for lands lying contiguous to the glebe of
Wiston," the recommendation has not yet been attended to.  The
teinds are exhausted, and by a decreet of modification and locality,
1816, the stipend was fixed at L.191, 11s. 8d. money, and one
chaldron meal.
   There is a Relief chapel in the village of Roberton.  It was built
about thirty-three years ago, and is seated for 377.  The minis-
ter's salary, I believe, depends entirely on the produce of the cha-
pel; what that may exactly amount to I can not tell, for, of course,
I have no official communication on the subject, but I rather think
it will not exceed L.40 per annum.  It has been in a declining
state for several years; nor is its decline to be ascribed to any cir-
cumstances of an accidental or extraordinary nature.  There are 150
families attending the Established church, and 42 families attend-


