
			DUNDONALD.                          677

the ancient mansion-house of its founders, which stood close by,
are now to be found. And the only circumstances which gives a
decided locality to the building, which at one time was disputed,
was, that when the grounds some years ago were feued out for
building, the foundation of the convent walls were discovered on
digging, about fifty yards west from the old place of Fullarton.
For a more particular detail, see Robertson's Ayrshire Families.
	Tradition says that a chapel once existed at a place called Cha-
pelhill, close by the mansion-house of Hillhouse. The ground,
which is now covered with wood, has still some traces of such an
erection. In the garden wall, which was built nearly a century
ago, the font-stone is still pointed out. Such a tradition, even
without any visible evidence, may almost be viewed as a certain-
ty, from the history of the age to which it refers; when every ba-
ron of any wealth or influence was a kirk-builder on his own ac-
count, and prided himself in having his private chapel. And the
M'Kerrells were influential enough at that time to lay claim to
such a piece of religious state.
	On the line of railroad passing through the farm of Barassie, a
part of the same property, an earthen urn was found in 1839. It
was filled with the usual complement of calcined bones, and from
the coarseness of the material, and rudeness of the workmanship,
it seems rather to have been of British than Roman manufacture.
It was unfortunately broken in the course of extraction, and the
fragments have found their way into the private museum of Colo-
nel Blair of Blair.
	At Kemplaw, on the estate of Lady Montgomerie, are the ruins
of a vitrified fort. It stands on a projecting eminence formed by
two ravines; but is in such a complete state of dilapidation, that
the form of the edifice is entirely effaced. A few weeks ago, a
piece of iron was discovered imbedded in a block of vitrified stone.
It is about four inches in length, bent at one end, and exactly in
the form of an ear-ring-drop. The position in which it was found
would indicate accident rather than design; but to what purpose,
either of ornament or utility, it could have originally been applied,
we cannot even conjecture. We believe it is intended to send it
to the Mechanic's Museum at Ayr.
	Close by the mansion-house bf Newfield, are what are said to
be the remains of a Roman bath or reservoir. As the place is
flooded with water, except during a very dry season, we have not
been able to inspect it personally, and therefore cannot indulge
the antiquarian with a description of its form.


