
     Of Northmaven.

   Name, Extent, Situation and Climate.-Northmaven lies in the
lordship and presbytery of Shetland, situated between 60o 38"
and 60o 57" N.latitude, and in W. longtitude from London 2o:
In the eleventh north climate, (according to Ricciolus, who has 
regard to the refraction), having the sun of the shortest day, 
4 hours and 3 quarters above the horizon;  though Smollet, 
in his modern history, describing the Hebrides, writes, "that 
in the most northerly isles, the sun, at the summer solftice, is 
not above an hour under the horizon, at midnight, and not 
longer above at mid-day in the depth of winter."  At present 
the variation of the compass is 2 1/2 points W.  On the west side 
of the parish, it is high water at 9 o'clock on the full and 
change of the moon, but on the east side it is an hour and 
a quarter later.  The names of most places in this parish 
are from the Norwegian language, and are expressive of their 
situation.  Some fancy Northmaven to signify North Main, 
or north part of the Mainland; others, that as the neck of 
land which is the entrance to the parish, is called Maven, and 
the whole parish lying to the N. of it, that it has thence 
its name.  This parish is a peninsula, and the isthmus which 
connects it to the Mainland or parish of Delting, is from 
high water-mark on one side, to the same on the other, near 
100 yards, and so low, that with high spring-tides, the water 
nearly covers it.  On each side of the ifthmus, the hills rise 
almost perpendicular.  The extent of this parish is 16 com- 
puted miles from S. to N., and from E. to W. 8 miles, but 
of measured miles it would be many more.  Its shores are 
very uneven, being interfected with numerous inlets of the 
sea, called here Voes.  It is washed on the east side by Yell 
sound and Sulem voe, which separates it from the island of 
Yell and parish of Delting; on the N. and W. sides by the 
Atlantic Ocean; and on the S. by St. Magnus Bay, which di-
vides it from part of Delting and Aithsting parishes, and from
     X x 2


