
                                  INVERARY.                               41

      burgh.  A second is stationed seven miles west of the burgh, with a
      salary of L.3 a-year; and a third, five miles south-west of the burgh,
      witbasalaryofL-Sa-yearfromtheDukeofArgyle.  Afourtlischool
      is placed in Glenarayq four miles north of the burghq supported by
      a salary of L. 15 a-year from the Society for Propagating Christian
      Knowledge, and by a free house, cow's grass, and money to the
      amount of L. 15 from the Duke of Argyle.  The fifth is a female
      school, four miles southwest of the burgh, supported by a salary
      of L.5 from the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge,
      and a free house from the Duke of Argyle.
       Five Sabbath schools are taught in the parish.
       Library.-A parochial library was formed in 1832, but the
      book-, are little read.  The principal Sabbath school has also a
      juvenile library attached to it.
       Savings Banh.-A savings bank was established in 1829, and
      the present amount of the sums deposited is L.232, 19s.:9d.
       Poor.-The poor of this parish are principally composed of fe-
      males, who have become unable, through years or ill health, to
      maintain themselves, with occasionally an old man, whom misfortune
      or misconduct has reduced to want.  Their numbers have ranged
      for many years from 46 to 56, according to the season of the year,
      the price of meal, or the difficulty of procuring labour.  The ma-
      jority of these are always found in the burgb, where the system of
      letting or giving a single apartment to a family is favourable to
      their settlement. In the rural district, for several  years, the num-
      ber of paupers has ranged from 10 to 16, and they are always
      more easily satisfied, and make fewer demands on the session than
      such as live in the burgb.  In addition to the collection at the
      church doors already mentioned, several sums of money have been
      at different thmes left to the poor, and placed at the disposal of
      the kirk-session.   Much of the money thus left has been distri-
      buted among the indigent in times of pressing want, or lost.  Above
      L-260 still remain, bearing interest; and above L. 100, lent out
      on personal security, bears no interest, and is either doubtful or
      lost.  The inhabit`nts are very charitable to the poor, and much
      money is given in alms, or collected by sales of work and penny-
      a-week subscriptions for their relief; but the principal source of
      their support is the Duke of Argyle, who$ as sole heritor, never
      refuses or fails to give whatever is necessary for them.  The
      amount given annually by the present Duke, whether in pensions,
      free houses, meal, coals, soup-kitchen, or in sundry other ways,


