
             CAMPBELTON.             461


                                                             Brought over, L. 906   9  8
      Mr Eachran of Oatfield, &c.                                              11  15  9
      Mackay of Eigle,                                                         10   5  4
                                                                               _________
                                              Total valuation,             L. 928  10  9
                                              which gives of real rent,  L.18,570  15  0
      The burgh is not valued in the cess books, and the whole parish being
         assessed for the poor's rates, on a real rental of L.23,000, the rental
         of the burgb will therefore be about                               4,429   5  0
                                                                          ______________
                                                                         L.23,000   0  0
         About two-thirds of the parish is under tillage, and the re-
      mainder green pasture and brown heath.  Arable land, in the
      immediate neigbbourhood of the town, lets at from L.2 to L4;
      and in the other parts of the parish, at from L.1 to L.3 per acre.
      The summer grass of a milk cow in town is about L.3, and, in the
      country, L.2 on average pasture.
         Parochial Registers.-The date of the earliest entry of pa-
      roebial register is 1682; of the cash-book, 1744; and it has
      been regularly kept since that period.
         Antiquities.-In the centre of the main street of Campbelton,
      an ancient cross forms a principal feature of attraction. It is richly
      ornamented with sculptured foliage. It has on one side this in-
      scription, "Haec: est : crux Domini : yvari : M : K : Eachyrna;
      quondam : Rectoris : de Kyregan : et : Domini : Andre : nati : ejus :
      Rectoris de Kil-coman: qui hanc crucem fieri faciebat."-" This
      is the cross of Mr Ivar M. K. Eachran, once Rector of Kyre.
      gan; and Master Andrew, his son, Rector of Kilcoman, who
      erected this cross." Gordon, in his "Itinerariurn Septentrionale,"
      mentions, that it is a Danish obelisk; but Mr Pennant, who visit-
      ed this town in 1770, and who was the first to decipher the in-
      scription, gives it as his opinion that it came from Iona. This is
      in accordance with the tradition that'has prevailed for ages in the
      place.  It is certainly a great ornament to the town, and is as old as
      the twelfth century.  Of the four parish churches, the ruins of two
      only exist.  There are several small chapels, of which a part of the
      walls are still standing, besides some others, probably of a more an-
      cient date, which having mouldered away into heaps of rubbish over-
      grown with moss, may still be traced, whilst tradition points out
      their locality, and has carefully preserved their names.  During
      the civil wars to which we have alluded, this country having suffered
      so much from the ravages of Alexander MacDonald, called Alister
      MacColl, who came over with a party of Irish to assist Montrose,
      the Earl of Antrim was expected at the same time, and a battery,


