
                   ST ANDREWS.                               179

side, but their use or form cannot be ascertained." Besides the
deer's horn already alluded to, small bone rings, shells, -and bones
of various kinds ofanimals, have been found in it. Part of it has
also the appearance of having, at one time, been a burial ground.
Another of these turnuli stands near the centre of the parish.
It is of a truncated conical form, hollowed at the top, 90 yards
around the base, and 16 feet in height. -It appears to have been
surrounded by a mound, at the distance of twenty yards from the
base, but has not been opened within the- memory of man. A
third tumulus, of larger dimensions than either of the former,
being 36 feet high, is situ`ted on the isthmus at the so ' utbern ex-
tremity of the parish, and is called Dingyis,How, or Duncan's
Height. No record or tradition remains of the age of these ac-
cumulations, nor of the objects which they were intended to serve ;
but a superstitious belief, now almost exploded, once invested
them with a sacred character, and regarded them as the residence,
or the haunts of fairies.
     Public Buildings.-The only erections of a public nature, are,
the plain parish church and school, unles's we include two small
and simple undershot water-mills for grinding corn. The summer
residence of Mr Baikie of Tankerness, and. the manse are conspi-
cuous among the humbler habitations of the peasantry.
The stone used in buildino, is sandstone flag, which is found
here in great abundance, and of very superior quality. It is ob-
tained at little expense, as it occurs almost every where, at a short
distance from the surface of the ground. Roofing slate has been'
lately discovered in one part of the' parish, though only of an in-
ferior kind, and to an inconsid. ' erable extent. The farm-houses are,
however, generally roofed with straw or heath. And it may be re-
marked, that the mode of thatching in these islands is different from
that adopted in the southern parts of Scotland. The straw or heath
is first twisted by the hand into the form of a thick rope, which,
when so prep`red, is called simmons. Parallel folds of this cordage
are passed over the joists from eave to eave, till the whole of the
building be once covered. A stratum of loose straw is then in-
terposed between this, and another layer of the same cordage;
and these are alternated until a covering be formed, which will
hold out the wind and rain. The inferiority of this method is,
however, manifest, from its requiring repair,, almost every"Year.
But this often consists of nothing more than -an additional stratum
of simmons.


