
                  WALLS AND FLOTTA.                              71

thus:--" Hoy and Valis, or Waes, which some make two and
others but one island, because about both equinoxes, at which time
the sea doth most tempestuously foam and rage , the tide fall-
ing back, and the lands being bared, they stick together, and are
joined by a very narrow neck of land, and so make one island;'
but upon the return of the tide, and the sea coming afresh between
them, they again represent the form of two."
  Hoy may be termed the highlands of Orkney; and although the
South part, where this parish is situated, does not contain hills of
equal height with those in the parish of Hoy, a great proportion' of
the island may be considered as mountainous.' The headland of the,
Berry rock is 4 magnificent promontory, corresponding in some ro-
spects to that of Dunnet-head, on the Caithness coast; and these
rocks appear like two, vast pillars forming the mouth of the Pentland
Frith, through which the waters of the Atlantic rush with awful
impetuosity. It is not improbable that, at some distant period,
these islands were torn from Scotland by some convulsion of na-
ture, and that the hills which bound the western coast of Scot-
land, and those of Hoy, formed one range. In proof of this sup-
position, it may be mentioned, that Dunnet-head and the Berry
nearly correspond in their geological properties; and that the
same position of the western hills is carried forward from the Berry
bead along the west coast of Hoy, and from thence in the same
position through Pomona. Besides the Berry, there are other
headlands which present their bold fronts to the waves of the Pent-
land Frith. The extent of coast bounded by the frith is about
twelve miles, nearly the whole of which is precipitous, and in which
havd beeo formed several caverns by the action of the waters.
  Hydrography.-There is a great extent of excelleot aochorage-
ground in the various bays or barbours of this islaod, all of which
afford a safe retreat to shipping of almost any size. The princi-
pal of these is the harbour of Longhope, which has been already
mentioned as beiog about five miles long, and which is, in some
places, one and a half broad. This harbour is land-locked by the
Island of Flotta; and perhaps, there is not io the kiogdom a better
place of safety for shipping. Dusing the last war, it was a ren-
dezvous for vessels waiting for convoy. At that time 40, 50, or
even 100 sail might be seen io the bay. In the spriog of 1840,
there were congregated betweeo 60 aod 70 vessels, the greater
number of which were of a large description, bound for various
parts of the world.

