
                        WESTERKIRK.                         431

there are a great many trees of a large size. Some of the ashes
are from 11 feet tn 12 in circumference. The oak, the elm, the
plane, the horse chestnut, and every other kind of forest trees
seem to grow with great vigour. There is a considerable quantity
of natural wood along the banks of the Esk; besides the thriving
plantations of Craigs and Westerhall. We cannot omit to men-
tion a row of thirteen beautiful trees along the west side of the
churchyard, which are highly ornamental.
	Fishes.--Salmon, sea-trout, herling, and the common burn-trout,
are very plentiful in the different streams. Salmon, in former times,
were very abundant in the Esk; but are now considerably dimi-
nished by means of a call made across the river at Netherbie, to sup-
ply water for the mills which Sir James Graham, has erected at
Longtown. Unless there is a great flood, the salmon cannot get
over this barrier. The Esk, the Megget, and the Stennis water
afford excellent sport to the angler.
	Game of all kinds is most abundant. The black-cock, grouse,
partridge, and pheasant are found in great numbers. The wood-
cock and other migratory birds are seen in their seasons. Indeed,
all the species of common birds are found in the woods around
Westerhall; and the curlew, lapwing, plover, and snipe on the hills.
The bittern, thotgh rarely, is sometimes seen.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest date of baptisms and mar-
riages is 1693; and of deaths, 1804. From the above dates to
the present time, these registers have been regularly kept.
	Land-owners.--The valuations of the principal land-owners, as
stated in the stent roll, are, in merks Scotch, as follows:--His Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch, 5863; Sir Frederick G. Johnston, Bart. of
Westerhall, 2425; Mrs Dirom, of Craigs, 700; Sir Pulteney Mal-
colm, of Dowglen, 225. The only resident heritor is Sir Pulteney
Malcolm. Sir Frederick Johnston oecasiceally resides during the
shooting season.
         Modern Buildings.--Westerhall, the ancient seat off the John-
stones, is delightfully situated, being enclosed with wood, and sur-
rounded with precipitous hill. The other buildings are Burnfoot
and Hopesrigg, the residence of Mr Borthwick, one of the most
enterprising tenants of the Duke of Buccleuch. We cannot omit
mentioning, also, the mausoleum or family vault of the Johnstones,
in the churchyard, which is a piece of excellent architecture. It
is built in a circular form, and finished with a handsome dome, sup-


