
               KILFINAN.                             369

man and his family who came from the low country, and who pro-
secutes this kind of fishing only. The nets used are said to cos
about L. IO each, and it is generally necessary to provide new ones
every season.
            V.-PAROCHIAL EcoNomy.
There is no market-town, and, strictly speaking, no village in
the parish-the only kind of villages being the clacb,ans on the se-
veml farins inhabited by the farmers and their cottars. Some-
times, however, these clacbans contain twelve or fifteen faunilies,
including a -population of fifty souls and upwards. There is a
post-office at Kilfinan, which was established about, three years
,ago. It is a sub-office to Cairndow, frnm which place it is dis-
tant about thirty miles. Two rtinners, paid by Government, are
employed to convey the mail bags from Cairndow to Kilfinan:
which they do three times a-week. In this part of the country,
and indeed throughout Argyleshire, there are no turnpike roads.
The roads are commonly called county roads, which are made and
kept tip by statute labour; but they are neither well-made nor
kept in good repair. They are much injured by the heavy rains
which fall during winter. Suitible and sufficient bridges are built
where they cross any of the streams above-mentiODed. There
are no quays nor barbours in the parish, except a small pier at
Otter Ferry. This pier seems to have been built previous to the
introduction of steam-boats for the convenience of the ferry-boats,
as this was the principal ferry for the people of the Knapdale dis.
trict of Argyleshire when going to the low country. Since the in.
troduction of steam-boats, however, travelling by the ferries has
entirely ceased.
Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is beautifully situated
at a little distance from the head of Kilfinan bay. It commands
a pretty extensive view of Lochfine which, at this place, is at least
five or six miles broad. Its situation is as convenient as it could
be for the majority of the people, though there arel but few, covr.
paratively within two miles of it. The northern or upper end of
the parish contains a population of 1000 and upwards. These are
scattered on each side of the church- to the distance of between
five and six miles. The southern or lower end contains a popu-
lation of soon and upwards. For the accommodation of tbese,
some of whom are as far as eleven miles from Kilfinan, the addi,.
tional church formerly mentioned was built. The parish church
is a long, low, narrow building, according to the old plan of con-
ARGLYE,                                     Aa


