
                                 PENPONT.                       501

the latter description is chiefly to be found upon the sides of the
rivers, or not far removed from their banks. The surface of the
more hill parts is not considers to present very interesting fea-
tures to the geologist. There are two sandstone quarries in it,--
one upon His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch's lands at Hillhead,
the other on the estate of Lauderdale Maitland, Esq. of Eccles.
In both, abundance of excellent materials might be found for build-
ing; but they are not worked. The strata in both are nearly hori-
zontal, or dip very slightly to the south-east. Detached pieces of
lead ore have frequently been found in the parish. This may be
of less consequence, however,--as, many years ago, it was brought
thither in large quantities for the purpose of being smelted. At-
tempts were at one time made to discover lead upon the Eccles
estate, and, as is said, with reasonable hopes of success. These at-
tempts, however, were interrupted by some legal proceedings re-
specting the property, and they have never again been resumed. Of
late, several pieces have been found in cutting a ditch along the
public road leading from Penpont towards Sanquhar, about a mile
from the village. One vein in particular has been discovered, of a
very promising character. It is said to resemble the veins that in-
dicate lead at Wanlockhead and Lead-Hills, and to run precisely
in the same direction, or nearly from south to north. Similar in-
dications, it is thought, would be followed out with avidity by the
miners in that quarter. And there is little doubt that here they
will be thoroughly investigated.
	It is said that coal was at one time found accidentally upon the
Eccles estate when the then proprietor was raising materials for
building a wall round his garden. Yet no scientific attempts have
ever been made with a view to ascertain to what these hopeful
symptoms might lead.
	Hydrography, &c.-- The river Scarr is one of the largest tributa-
ries to the Nith, which it joins about three miles below the church
of Penpont. It is a considerable stream, and at one time abounded
greatly in trout. Its banks for probably seven miles are beautifully
fringed with wood,--now rugged and precipitous, and again open-
ing back into fertile valleys, presenting scenes of considerable va-
riety and beauty. About half a mile from the village, toward the
west, is the site of the bridge from which the parish is alleged to have
derived its name. From its antiquity, its height, and the width of its
span, it must have been an object of considerable curiosity. It was


