
   200				BANFFSHIRE.

   Grange.  Its greatest length is from 7 to 8 miles ; its greatest
   breadth from 5 to 6.
      The northern part of this parish is inferior to the rest, both in
   fertility and beauty.  About a mile below its confluence with the
   Isla, the Doveran, running eastward, divides the parish into two
   parts, of which the northern follows the course of the river more
   than two miles, the southern near two miles farther.
      Last year a disease, which proved very fatal, broke out in one
   district of the parish, and carried off, in a very short time, the fe-
   male heads of five families.  It was confined to females, with one
   solitary exception.  The male who was seized had a tedious and
   protracted recovery.  It was a species of erysipelas, and might
   be designated a diffusive phlegmonous erysipelas, and was said
   by the attending medical gentlemen to be seldom seen, except in
   large hospitals or on board ships of war.

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.

      Parochial Registers.-- These consist of, 1. a register commenced
   1601, which contains the minutes of the kirk-session, the collec-
   tions made for the poor, and the distribution of the same.  2.
   Fragments of a register,'almost in loose leaves, without the begin-
   ning.  This comprises the transactions of the session from the 1st
   December 1644 to the 16th September 1649.  3. The Book of
   Discipline of the parish of Rothiemay, containing all that was done
   and acted, either in church or session, since the visitation of the
   kirk of Rothiemay by the Presbytery of Strathbogie, 19th Sep-
   tember 1649, Mr James Gordon being minister thereat.  4. The
   minutes of the accounts of the parish church of Rothiemay,
   resting by delinquents or paid by such, as also a note of mor-
   tifications and church taxes, laid on for upholding the church
   for several years, together with the minute book of the acts of
   the church-session of Rothiemay, beginning 16th August 1657.
   5. The acts of the session of the church of Rothiemay since the
   1st March 1662.  6. Session register of Rothiemay, beginning
   23d May 1686. -- Soli Deo glolria in aeternum.  It purports
   to be the register of acts, delinquents, and delinquencies, fines,
   absolutions, and dependencies, which concern the discipline of
   the session of Rothiemay.  7. Register of marriages and bap-
   tisms, in very bad condition, commencing 1677.  It is in loose
   and detached pieces, and wants the beginning and end.  8. The
   register of contracts of marriage and marriages within the parish
   of Rothiemay since the 3d of January 1692.  9. The register of


