
266                        DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

parish; they were generally of a square form, and were intended for
defence in feudal times. Their walls were of an immense thick-
ness, their doors of massy iron. The interior consisted usually of
often a ground floor, which contributed to the safety of their cattle,
and of two or more upper apartments, with narrow apertures ex-
ternally for windows, but rapidly enlarging towards the inside, that
the inmates, perhaps, might be the better able to annoy the enemy.
The most remarkable stood near Stonehouse, on the banks of the
Kirtle, at Old Graitney, at Westhill, and at Hirst; but the names
and the deeds of the chieftains whom they sheltered are fnrgotten
and unknown.
	From an inscription in the church-yard, it appears that a near
relation of Sir William Wallace is buried there; and the ashes of
many of the Johnstones of Annandale are said to repose within
the precincts of the ancient church. The form of some, and the
sculpture on others, of the tombstones, appear to indicate their
great antiquity; while many epitaphs, and particularly one, of two
brothers, who died at the advanced ages of 110 and 111, point out
the longevity of the parishioners.
	At Redkirk Point, near the farm of that name, once stood the
church of Redpatrick or Redkirk, which, like most others in this
vicinity, anciently belonged to the see of Glasgow. Of that church
or church-yard not a vestige now remains. The tide and river whirl-
ingviolently round that headland have swept them entirely away; but
some old people yet remember the unwelcome sight of bones and
coffins protruding from the banks, or collected from the beach in-
to a trough, which had been used as a font in the days of popery. *
A camp of a round shape is still distinctly visible near Barrasgate.
A square camp of large dimensions may also be easily traced on
the farm of Raeburnfoot. Camp-house, on the Glasgow road, which
is supposed to pursue the track of the old Roman one leading to
Middlebie and Birrenswark, in all likelihood indicates the site of
one of a strong ch`in of fortifications erected by that ambitious
and enterprising people.
	On the farm of Old Graitney, and at no great distance from

<FOOTNOTE>The two parishes were united in 1609, and there is still a Bible in the old Eng-
lish character in the possession of John Graham, Springfield, which bears on its mar-
gin that it was presented to the church of Graitney in 1611, only two years subse-
quent to the union, by Viscount Stormont, the ancestor of the Earl of Mansfield.
The print is beautiful, but the leaves are much mutilated, and many books, both of the
Old and New Testaments, have been lost.


