
290                   INVERNESS-SHIRE.

it with either windows or doors, but, leaving an aperture in its roof
to enter it by a moveable ladder, he foolishly imagined that he
could defend himself therein from the enemy's attack, and flee to
it as a place of safety, should he be pursued by his countrymen,
whom he wished to reduce to absolute subjection. Soon after
King James VI. assumed the government, a bloody feud arose
between the Macdonalds and Macleans, which became so serious
that the King's interference was loudly called for to effect a
reconciliation. It happened that Donald G•rm M•r of Sleat
set out from Skye, with a retinue befitting his rank, to visit
his kinsman, Angus Macdonald of Dunyveg, in Isla; but, in con-
sequence of a sudden storm which ensued, he was forced to take
shelter in that part of Jura belonging to Maclean of Duart. At
the same time, Huistean Mae Ghilleaspuig Chl‚irich and some
attendants, with whom Donald G•rm had lately quarrelled, were
likewise at sea, and were driven by the same storm into a neigh-
bouring harbour in Jura. Huistean and his retinue, on finding
that their chief lay so near them in a bay on Maclean's property,
secretly carried off, by night, a number of Maclean's cattle, and
took to sea, anticipating that Donald G•rm and party would be
blamed for the robbery, and would suffer accordingly. Their
wicked plot was attended with the desired success, for next day the
Macdonalds were attacked by a superior number of armed Mac-
leans. A bloody fray took place, in which sixty of the Skyemen
were killed, and their chief very narrowly escaped with life. Soon
after this, a diligent pursuit was made after Huistean. He was at
length taken, and carried to the Castle of Duntulm, his chieftain's
residence in Kilmuir. As he could not look for mercy from a kins-
man against whom be bad so frequently rebelled, he was cast into
one of the dungeons at Duntulm, where be was a long time kept
without food. At length, a quantity of salt beef, and a covered
jug, were let down into his cell. It is said that, after partaking
plentifully of the beef, he examined the jug, but, to his great
mortification, found it empty, and in this manner he died of thirst.
   In a small island, formed by the River Snizort, are the ruins of
a large cathedral, which, in all probability, was formerly the me-
tropolitan church of Skye, but is now, with the island, used as a
place of sepulture.
   Cairns of stones, under which, it is said, the ashes of renowned
chieftains are deposited, and the remains of Druidical temples,
are to be seen in many places. In the last Statistical report of


