
                            GARGUNNOCK.                        57

extremity of the parish one mile and a half, and from the western
Extremity two miles and a half. It was built in the year 1774,
and is in a state of good repair, and affords accommodation for 500
sitters. The seats of the church are free. The manse was built
about the year 1750. It was enlarged and repaired in the year
1802; and nine years ago it was again enlarged and thoroughly re-
paired, soon after the present incumbent came to the parisb, and it
is now a commnodious and comfortable house. The church and
manse are situated on a rising ground, about 50 or 60 yards from
one another. Few situations are more eligible, in point of roman-
tic and beautiful scenery. The extent of the glebe, including the
garden, is 7 acres; and the value of it is about L.20 per annum.
The amount of the stipend is 148 bolls of oatmeal, and 2 bolls of
barley, and L. 25, 11s. 33/4d. from the Court of Exchequer, to aug-
ment the stipend to L. 150. There is L. 9, Is. 1 1/2 d. for commu-
nion elements. The number of families attending the Established
Church is 195; and the total number of persons of all ages con-
nected with it, is 880. The number of Seceders is 8; of Episcopa-
lians is 9. Divine service at the Established Church is well at-
tended; and the average number of communicants is 340. The sa-
crametit is dispensed twice a-year. The winter sacrament was com-
menced by the late faithful and much respected Dr Robertson of
South Leith, when he was minister of this parish, upwards of forty
years ago. The expenses are defrayed by collections at the
church gate. Collections are made regularly for the five chemes
of the General Assembly, and occasional collections for local so-
cieties, such as the Stirlingshire Bible Society, &c.
   A Sabbath school was commenced eighteen years ago at the
Burntown, by a pious female ; and fourteen years ago, another Sab-
bath school was opened by the parish schoolmaster, and a member
of the congregation, who is now an elder. It was patronized by
some members of the kirk session and others. The Sabbath
School, so auspiciously begun, has continued to the present time;
and last summer it was attended by nearly 100 children, and the
school at the Burntown by 36.
   State of Religion.  This parish has been highly favoured with
many pious ministers and at the time of the revivals of religion
in  Kilsyth, Muthil, and other parishes, in the year 1742, this pa-
rish was also visited with the outpouring of the Spirit And it is
mentioned in Mr Robe's Narrative, that about l00 individuals
were brought to the knowledge of the truth at that time; and that


