
        KILCONQUHAR.                            335

  There are 3 families of Episcopalians in the parish, and 51
persons belonging to no religious communion, although some of
them occasionally attend the Established Church.
  We have a society for church purposes, composed of members
of the Established Church, which distributes annually about L. 30
for the support and extension of the gospel.
  Education.-There are six schools in the parish. The parochial
schoolmaster in Kilconquhar has a salary of L. 34, 2s. 4d. being
the maximum. The heritors also allow a salary of 100 merks for
a school at Largoward, where the chapel is built. The other four
schools have' no salary. There is also a female school at Kilcon-
quhar. The number of scholars attending all the schools is about
450, or a sixth part of the population.
 The branches taught in the parish school are English, writing,
arithmetic, Latin, Greek, French, book-keeping, geography, al-
gebra, Euclid's Elements, trigonometry, mensuration, navigation.
The number of scholars studying Latin in this school for the last
two years has been 28, in 1834 the number was 33. This school
is remarkably well taught, and the teacher Mr M'Laurin, having
a commodious house, has 16 boarders from different parts of the
country. An usher is kept to assist in teaching this school. In
the other schools the more ordinary branches only are taught. The
people in general are alive to the benefits of education. All the
children are within easy reach of some of the schools, and are
taught to read and write.
  Friendly Societies.-There were several friendly societies in the
parish, but, from miscalculation of the allowances to be made to
their sick and poor members, they have all been broken up.
Savings Banh.-We have a savings bank, but, fromthere being
now a branch of the Commercial Bank in Colinsburgh, few com-
paratively speakin take advantage of it.
  Poor.-The average number on the regular poor's list for the
last ten years has been 36. About two-thirds of these either are
Dissenters, or have been Dissenters. These proportions have been
nearly the same for the last twenty years. The Dissenters here
do not provide for their poor, nor do they contribute any thing to
the poor's funds of the parish. If they give any thing to the poor,
it is unknown to the kirk-session, and must be confined,, to thom of
their owzk communion. They give i nothing to any, of the poor, of
the Establishment.
  The following table will show the amount. and application of
disbursements for the poor, for the last seven years


