
                WHITSOME AND HILTON.                    169

In the same year, 1362, David II. also granted to William de
Wardlaw two carrucates of land in the manor of Hilton; which,
like many other properties in that age, had fallen to the crown by
the forfeiture of Adam de Hilton, in consequence of his adherence
to the English interest. The remaining half of the lands of Whit-
some was conferred by the same monarch on William Colville.
   In the month of July 1482, Whitsome was burned and destroyed
by the celebrated Duke of Gloucester, afterwards Richard III. of
England. The following places in Berwickshire suffered a similar
lar fate, viz. Edrington, Fishwick, Paxton, Hutton, Mordington with
its bastel, Edrom, East Nesbitt, Kellaw, Kimarghame, the two
Syntons and bastel, Simprin, Crossrig, and many others.
   To convey some idea of Whitsome as it was, it may be noticed,
that the range of land on the north side of the village was divided
into several small portions, still denominated "lands."  Hence,
the possessors or occupiers were styled "portioners."  "The ten
lands" formed the southern part of the present farm of Ravelaw;
and "the nine" and "the eight" lay east from the preceding, and
are included in the farm of Leetside. The southern side was par-
called out in like manner. The space between the two ranges, of
considerable breadth, and upwards of half a mile in length, was
enjoyed in common. The portioners were retainers of the Lord
of the Manor, to whom, according to custom, they were bound to
render military service.-The only vestiges of common, the right
of the villagers to which is undisputed, consist of two small patches,
-the one at the east end of the village, and the other on the north
side near the centre. Both are used for bleaching,-a purpose to
which they are well adapted by the plentiful supply of water on
the grounds. The water proceeds from an excellent spring in the
middle of each patch. The former spring derives its name, "The
Blind Well," from an obvious casualty which befel a blind man:
the lattdr, designated "Reed's Well," is reported to be so called
in consequence of one Reed having lost his life near the spot, in a
scuffle which arose at a fair then holding; and tradition adds, that,
owing to this tragical event, the people were deprived of the privi-
lege of holding a fair, nor has it been resumed since the fatal pe-
riod.-In connection with the origin of names, it may be recorded,
that the Blackadder plantations are vulgarly called "The Pistol
plantings," on account of a gentleman of the neighbourhood, on
his way home at an advanced hour of the night, having been fired
at from one of the thickets.


