
     Statistical Account

   Ecclesiastical State.-The church was built near the
beginning of the century, and the half of it, by the
roof giving way, obliged to be rebuilt about 40 years
ago.  A slight repair has been made upon both walls
and roof in the 1787, and is now pretty comfort
able, except upon a fall of snow, which penetrates
through several crevices in the roof.  The manse and
offices were all built anew in the 1785, and are in the
best repair.  The living, including the glebe, is about
100 L.  The Duke of Queensberry is patron.
   There are about 20 Seceders in the parish: the half
belonging to the Antiburgher, and the other half to the
Cameronian congregations.  There is one man attached
to the Relief society.

   Rent, etc.-The valued rental of Tynron, as it stands up-
on the valuation roll of the county of Dumfries, is 4110
merks, 6 s. 8 d. Scots.  The real rental may be stated at
1500 L. Sterling; but this is not given out to be an ac-
curate statement, as there is a difficulty in doing this,
from many farms being in the personal possession of the
heritors; and those belonging to the Duke of Queens-

<FOOTNOTE>

poor, is upon the best and most agreeable footing.  A very commodious house
of two storeys in height, in pursuance of the suggestions of the donor, was
raised in the 1765, in the near neighbourhood of the parish church, by the
late Duke of Queensberry, and another public-spirited heritor.  One large
apartment is used as the school-room, and the rest of the house appointed for
the accommodation of the teacher.  Besides this donation to the parish, there
have been smaller ones made by well disposed charitable persons, for the use
of those standing upon the poor's roll.  Besides the weekly collections made for
the poor, amounting to 11 L. or 12 L. annually, there is a small piece of landed
property belonging to them, yielding 7 L. of yearly rent.  The number of
poor's names on the roll is 12 or 14.  They have a pretty comfortable sub-
sistence, and not one of them is known to go beyond the bounds of the parish
as an itinerant beggar.


