
     Statistical Account

   School, Poor.-The parochial school house was renewed
in 1788, upon a large and liberal plan, at an expense of
nearly L. 100 Sterling, built of good stone and lime, cover-
ed with blue state, and finished with the best Memel wood.
A fountain of good water rises hard by, contributing much
to the health of the scholars, who have also a piece of
ground allotted them for air and exercise.  About 60 in
winter, and 30 in summer, are here instructed in the prin-
ciples of reading English, writing, and arithmetic, at the
low rate of 6 d. the month at an average.  Some time ago
it was the practice of the better sort of farmers here, to
send their sons to the school a few years to learn Latin; but
very little Latin is now taught in this part of the country;
and such as destine their sons for the learned professions,
generally send them to towns and grammar-schools.  The
schoolmaster's salary is L. 8: 17: 9 Sterling, his school-
fees amount to about L. 7, he receives L. 1 for officiating
as session-clerk, and about L. 1 more for proclamations, etc.
so that his yearly income may be reckoned nearly L. 18
Sterling.-The poor here are all supported in their own
houses, and give no trouble to the country.  The number now
on the poors list is from 8 to 10 old or infirm objects, to whom
money is distributed monthly, in proportion to their exi-
gencies.  This money arises from the use of the mort-
cloth, from the occasional donations of some of the more
wealthy and generous of the parishioners, from the interest
of a principal of L. 70 Sterling, but chiefly from the Sun-
day's collections at the church door, which amount to a-
bout L. 5 each at an average.  The management of the
poors money is in the hands of the kirk-session.  Each
elder has the inspection of the poor in his own department,
and being intimately acquainted with their situation and
circumstances, cannot be supposed liable to any misappli-
cation of the public charity.  This parish not only supports


