
240                    INVERNESS-SHIRE.

vided into three districts, that of Kilmuir, of Kilmaluag, and of
Steinscholl or East-side. The surface of each of these districts
is almost wholly seen at one view from either extremity. The
coast is bold, high, and rocky. Its extent, owing to the vast num-
ber of small bays and headlands, is supposed to be no less than
forty miles. In many places, the land is hemmed in by tracks of
lofty and perpendicular precipices, most regularly formed into
large parallel, square, round, and triangular pillars of basalt.
There are varieties of small caves to be found concealed among
these columns, In one place, there is a little spar-cave; and in
another, there is one known by the name of Ua\3mh an o\3ir,-
"the cave of the gold," respecting which several traditions are
afloat among the natives. None of these caves, however, is pos-
sessed of peculiarities worthy of iny lengthened observations.
  Headlands.-The principal headlands are, Rutha-chuirn-leith,
Rutha Bhorniskittaig, Rutha-hunish, Rutha-bheannachain, Rutha-
gbara-fada, and Rutha-nam-br ithrean. The principal bays or
lochs are those of Cammusmore, Duntulm, Kilmaluag, and Al-
tivaig or Staffin, none of which afford a safe anchorage, with the
exception of Duntulm.
  Islands.-The principal islands are, lasgair or Yesker, Fladda-
chuin, Tulm, Trodda, Altivaig, and Fladda. Of these Trodda
is the most extensive and valuable. With the exception of Flad-
da-chu...in, the second largest of the group, none of them possess
any remarkable peculiarities. They are all uninhabited, being
merely rented for grazing by tacksmen, who look upon them as
useful appendages to their farms. Fladda-chu...in is about six
miles from the nearest part of Skye, and is about three-fourths of
a mile in length, and three hundred yards in average breadth.
The quality of its grass is remarkably fine, and perhaps superior
to any in the parish for pasturing a few sheep. It is surrounded
by four lesser islands, which are capable of rearing only two or
three sheep a piece. It is a remarkable fact, that in this little
island, which is so far from any other land, and situated in the
midst of a very salt, deep, and rapid channel, there are two or
three fresh-water springs. In former ages, it was inhabited by a
family or two, who had a considerable portion of it under cultiva-
tion. Although so remote and distant from the shore, it was an-
ciently the site of a Druidical place of worship, which will be af-
terwards mentioned. It is curious phenomenon, well worthy
the attention of naturalist, that such animals as the toad.


