	of Eccles.       161 (241)

Antiquities. - From our vicinity to England, it might have
been expected, that we should have had many memorials of
those bloody contests, which formerly subsisted between the
neighbouring kingdoms. We have only, however, one of
this kind. It is a monument erected to one of the PERCIES,
who fell in a bloody engagement with one of the rival family
of DOUGLAS. It consists of a large square stone, full 9 feet
above the surface. On one side of the square appears the
greyhound, which is the Percie's crest; on another, the figure
of a naked man, in rude sculpture; and, on the other two
sides, the ancient sword and battle-ax are pourtrayed . It
stands nearly a mile to the N. E. of the village of Eccles.

Disadvantages. - Among the natural defects in the situation
of Eccles, must first be mentioned the want of running water.
In times of severe drought, our brooks and rivulets are often
entirely dried up; and our farmers are sometimes obliged to
drive their cattle to the Tweed, a distance of between 2 and
3 miles. Another disadvantage under which we labour, is
our distance from coals and lime. We are obliged to bring
both these articles from Northumberland, which is not less
remote than from 14 to 18 miles. Hence fuel becomes a most
expensive article in housekeeping; and the distress of the
lower ranks, in severe winters, is unspeakably great. Our
distance from markets is also another inconvenience. Our
farmers

 There is no inscription whatever to be traced on this stone; so that it is
impossible to ascertain its antiquity. It must, however, have been considerably
prior to the Union. The late Sir John Paterson wished to have it removed
near the mansion of Eccles, but found the thing impracticable. The monument
is fixed in a large stone basis, which it penetrates; an the workmen followed
it some feet into the earth, without being able to get to the foundation. The
place where it stands is called Dead Riggs, from the great number of the slain;
and so dreadful was the slaughter, that tradition reports, that a little streamlet
in its neighbourhood, ran with blood for 24 huors!

