
                                    GIRTHON.               305

of holding a weekly market on Saturdays, and an annual fair on
the first Monday of June.
	Mr Murray, who thus induced man English families to take
up their reidence at Gatehouse, by a deed, executed in 1797, and
registered in Kirkcudbright to l799, founded an Episcopal church
in the vicinity of the burgh, in order that these persons might en-
joy religious worship and ordinances according to the ritual of that
Church to which they belonged. With this chapel he connected
an academy for the education of their children; the erection of
which buildings cost about L.3000. These two institutions, how-
ever, were not meant for the exclusive advantage of the English
settlers, but were open to all who might choose to take advantage
of them. Nor is this all. In executing an entail of his whole
estate, Mr Murray bound his son, the present proprietor, and all
the successors in the entail, to maintain these establishments for
all time coming. He appointed the Rev. Matthew Vicars both
minister of the chapel and rector of the academy, and provided
that the person holding the living should be a member of the
Church of England, and should act both as a clergyman and as
teacher of the school connected with the chapel. He allocated
twenty-five and a-half acres of land, specially mentioned in the
deed of entail, to Mr Vicars and his successors, as a glebe and
fixed a permanent stipend of L.40 yearly. The clergyman had
also a spacious dwelling-house built for his use, possessing ample
accommodation for boarders; and the school, which was attended
by many young men from a distance, soon attained to eminence
But Mr Vicars, who is now rector of All-Hallows, in the city of
Exeter, left Gatehouse twenty-four years ago; since which time
the establishment has remained in abeyance, and the dwelling-
house and chapel have been taken down, the latter being nomi-
nally attached to the mansion-house of Cally. No assistant has
meanwhile been appointed; but upon the death of Mr. Vicars,
and if no successor be appointed within six months thereafter, then
the Lord President of the Court of Session, the Lord Chief-Ba-
ron of Exchequer, and the Lord Justice- Clerk for the time being,
shall have power to appoint a person, duly qualified, to be joint
clergyman and rector, with all the privileges and emoluments be-
longing to the office.
	The town of Gatehouse consists mainly of three streets running
nearly at right angles with the river, and parallel to each other.
The bridge over the Fleet is on a line with the main or front
	KIRKCUDBRIGHT.


