
84                      SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

the numerous lakes through the country appear like specks, and
its friths (when the view is not obstructed by adjacent hills) like
rivers.
   Valleys.-In the Parf district, though there are several deep
ravines, there are no valleys of any note. It consists chiefly of
marshy loans and deep morasses several miles in extent, and inter-
se,cted by the mountain-streams. A few green and fertile spots
may be seen on its eastern shores. With the exception of the
light-keepers at Cape Wrath, there are only four families, shep-
bepds, who reside in this extensive district. In the second district,
Strath Dinard runs up the Kyle of Durness, and by the water of
Dinard, to the south base of Fairemheall, and then takes a south-
east direction along the side of Foinnebhinn, extending a distanceof
about fourteen miles. At the upper end of Loch Eriboll is Stratb-
beo, -a narrow but fertile vale of about two miles in length, and
scarcely half a mile in breadth. The only other valley deserving
notice is Strathmore, commencing at the north base of Ben Hope,
and extending about six miles along the river. It is now inhabit-
ed by one family; whereas, formerly, it was inhabited by upwards of
twenty, by no means affluent, but virtuous and contented. To the
south, betwixt the mountains of Strathmore and Strathbeg, are
Glengollie and Corinessie, both celebrated by the muse of Rob
Donn, as the favourite haunts of the deer and the hunter. These
contain almost the only remains of birch trees in the parish, which
at one time diversified and beautified its stratlis and glens. It may
be remarked, that, with the exception of those last mentioned, the
straths are but a very few feet elevated above the level of the sea,
and give an Alpine grandeur to the contiguous mountains.
   Caves.-Smo, &c- In a country so extensive and mountainousg
and abounding in limestone, we may naturally expect to find cavesq
deep ravines, and fissures. Of these, Smo is the most remark-
able. It is about two miles east of the church, and may be App-
proached either by sea or by a pathway from the road. DirectlY
above the cave, a beautiful waterfall arrests the eye. Descending
from the road, about 100 yards to the shore, and crossing the
water', after walking twenty yards, the traveller is suddenly are
rested by the grandeur and magnificence of the cave,--wheather
he views the singular and massive construction Of its Gothic-
like and transverse arches, or its immense height and width;

  <FOOTNOTE>In "Daniells Coast Views" a front view of this cave may have be seen.


