
226                GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

many cases secure. Sir Godfrey, and a person of the name of
Gordon, claimed the estate of Cardoness, in the Stewartry of Kirk-
cudbright. The former had possession; and the latter lived at
Bushybield, in the neighbourhood. They were personal enemies
to each other; and Sir Godfrey having come to Bushybield to
assist in removing some cattle that had been poinded, and having
thus met Gordon, discharged a loaded gun at him, and inflicted
wounds which afterwards proved fatal. Sir Godfrey fled to Eng-
land, but having afterwards returned to Scotland, he was appre-
hended in a church on a Sunday in Edinburgh, while attending
public worship. At the end of the service, a gentleman from
Galloway, who was present, and who, it is said, had a pecuniary
interest in the death of M'Culloch, cried out with an air of authori-
ty, "Shut the doors.--there's a murderer in the house!" Sir God-
frey was thus apprehended; and having been tried, he was executed
on the 26th of March 1697. His " Last Speech," (printed from the
only copy known to exist, and which is in the hands of the writer of
this notice,) is given below. *  He had never been married, though

<FOOTNOTE>"The Last Speech of Sir Godfrey M'Culloch of Myreton, Knight and Baronet,
who was beheaded at the Cross of Edinburgh, the twenty six day of March 1697.
  "I am brought here, good people, to give satisfaction to justice for the slaughter of
William Gordon, designed of Cardines, and therefore I am obliged, as a dying man,
to give a faithful and true account of the matter.
  "I do declare in the sight of God I had no design against his life, nor did I ex-
pect to see him when I came where the accident happened: I came there contrair
to my inclination, being pressed by these two persons who were the principal witnesses
against me (they declaring he was not out of bed), that I might relieve their goods
he had poinded: I do freely forgive them, and I pray heartily God may forgive them,
for bringing me to that  place.
  "When I was in England, I was oft-times urged by several persons who declared
they had commission from Castle-Stewart and her Ladyl++ (now the pursuers for my
blood), that I might give up the papers of these lands of Cardines, whereupon they
promised not only a piece of money but also to concur for procuring me a Remission ;
and I have been several times since in the country, where the misfortune happened,
and where they lived, but never troubled by any of them; although now after they
had got themselves secured in these lands without me, they have been very active in
the pursuits, untill at last they have got me brought to this place.
  "I do acknowledge my sentence is just, and does not repine; for albeit it was on-
ly a single wound in the leg, bx a shot of small hail, which was neither intended nor
could be foreseen to be deadly; yet I do believe that God in his justice hath suffer-
ed me to fall in that miserable accident, for which I am now to suffer because of my
many other great and grievous unrepented for sins; I do therefore heartily forgive my
judges, accusers, witnesses, and all others who have now, or at any time injured me,
as I wish to be forgiven.
  "I recommend my wife and poor children to the protection of the Almighty God.
who doth take care of and provide for the widow and fatherless; and pr`ys that God
may stir up and enable their friends and mine to be careful of them.
  "I have been branded as being a Roman Catholick, which I altogether disown, and
declare, as the words of a dying man, who am instantly to make my appearance before
the Great Tribunal of thd Great God, that I die in the true Batholick reformed Protest-

<FOOTNOTE>The lady was Gordon's daughter, and married to William Stewart of Castle-
Stewatrt.


