
         150                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

         with those of the southern districts, and of late years have carried
         off several premiums at the Highland Society's shows.
            In 1833, there were 12,375 acres under the plough.  Very
         great additions have since been made to this amount.  Extensive
         inroads are made upon the waste lands every year.  In reclaiming
         waste land, it is ploughed and fallowed for one or more years, as
         the soil may require, in order to pulverize it.  Then lime is laid
         on the ground at the rate of from thirty to forty bolls, or marl from
         eighty to 100 bolls an acre.  The ground having been thus pre-
         pared, is sown with white crop, and afterwards with turnips, oats,
         and grass, each year in succession.  A vast extent of waste land
         has been reclaimed under this system.
            Thorough draining is indispensable to the improvement of land
         in the parish of Wick.  Furrow-draining has lately been intro-
         duced, but has not yet been extensively practised.  The most ad-
         vantageous rotation of crops is the six-shift.  This is chiefly followed
         on the larger farms.  On these, also, the fields are generally en-
         closed either with ditches, stone walls, or quickset hedges, which,
         in many places, with pains bestowed on them, thrive very well.
            The value of the whole produce from agriculture in 1833 was
         L. 37,120, of which about L. 34,418 were for grain, &c.  There
         is no account of the value of the live-stock at any period.
            Of the smaller farmers, the younger and more active follow the
         larger as closely as their limited means will allow : but still it
         must be confessed, that a considerable number lag behind, and, from
         want of skill, capital, or activity, plod on in very nearly the system
         observed by their forefathers.  It would appear, indeed, that a very
         great number of the farms are much too small.  They do not
         afford employment all the year round to the farmer and his gar-
         rons.  He thus is obliged to drive peats into Wick, or at times to
         work at day's-wages to the larger farmers, or at any other kind
         of employment that he can fall in with.  Many of them betake
         themselves to the sea in the fishing-season.  Their means are
         scanty; their education is therefore often very limited ; their
         houses are bad; and their children grow up and have their habits
         formed in total ignorance of what, in the southern parts of Scot
         land, are reckoned necessaries of life ; and this state of matters,
         without any desire of improvement, is thus, in numerous instances,
         perpetuated from father to son.  It might, perhaps, ultimately be
         well for the population of this district, if those numerous insignifi-
         cant patches of land were laid together, and formed into farms


