
312                      FIFESHIRE.

The E. and W., and about two from the N. and S., and is in as
centrical and eligible a situation as could well be fixed upon. It
was built in the year 1808, and is a very plain building, covered.
with blue slate, with a belfry on the west gable, and is at present
in a good state of repair. The old church was in a very ruinous
swe before divine service was given over in it. The present in.
tombet&t has got drenched in the pulpit when preaching, and step-
ping stones were placed along the passages, as after min they be-
c=e. a complete sheet of water. The church is very neat in the
inside, and is seated to contain 495 persons. There are none of
the seats let ; they are all apportioned to the different heritors, ac-
cordhng to, their valued rents, and they, with their tenants and ser-
vants, occupy them. The manse was built to the present incum-
bent, immediately after he wo-9 presented to the parish, in the
year 1799, aiad cost L. 355. It received an addition, and got
a repair in 1823, which cost L. 50, and is at present in good
repair. The offices are old, and have little convenience. The
glebe and garded, With the site of the manse and offices, con-
tain 5 acres, I rood, 24 falls, Scotch, and is good land. The
grass grebe contains 15 acres, and, except about an acre and a-
half, is constantly in pasture; part of it is bog, and some of it marshy
ground, from which good meadow bay is got. The value of the
whole may be about L. 10. The stipend amounts to 36 bolls, 3
firlots, 3 pecks, II lippies, barley; 28 bolls of meal; 140 bolls, 2
firlots, I peck, 2 lippies, oats; and L. 24, 1 Os. 7d.5 with L. 8, 6s.
sd. for communion elements. There is alsopayable from St An-
drews parish, L. 144, 10s. Scotch of vicarage, the collecting of
which is very troublesome, being due by a great many properties in
very small sums. There is one Burgher meeting-house situated on
the border of this parish, adjoining the parishes of Kilconquhar
and Carnbee, where there are a considerable population at a great
distance from their parish churches. The number of families of
Dissenters is computed at 12.
  Divine service is always well attended at the parish church. The
average number of communicant is 450.
  Education, There is one parochial school, the teacher of which
has the maximum salary, which amounts to L. 34, 4s. 4 1/2 d., a good
dwelling-house and school-room, and rather more than the maxi-
mum allowance of garden. ground. The school fees may amount to
L.10 per annum. He also receives L.3, 10s.,as clerk to the heritors
and kirk-treasurer, and L. 2, 10s. as session-clerk. There are like-
wise two private schools,-one situated at lawhead, and the other


