
                           INVERARY.				15

at different ages, according to circumstances.  Oaks for planting
among long herbage are taken from the nursery, at three years old
transplanted ; if the herbage be shorter, at two years transplanted.
Firs are generally taken after one year transplanted.
   Nursery plants are chosen as a cheaper and surer plan, than
raising from seeds on the timber site, on such soils as are found here.
   Slit planting is that pursued for firs, as being the most simple
and practicable on soil in its natural state.  Oaks and all hard
woods are pitted in by holing.  The holes are dug about eighteen
inches square, and the trees are set immediately while the earth is
fresh, because it has been found by experience, that when the
holes are long open, or exposed to the influence of the weather
during the winter, they fill with water, become encrusted with
clay or other earth, which retains so much moisture as to prove pre-
judicial to the tender fibres of the plants.
   The plants are set at the rate of 3500 in the acre, or four feet
apart.  After nine years, they get the first thinning, and at from
fifteen to eighteen years they are thinned out to nine feet apart or
676 in the acre.  Mixed planting is preferred as the most profit-
able as well as the most ornamental.
   Oaks are also raised by selecting the straightest and strongest
shoots of coppice stools, as are also ash, elm, and others posses-
sing a reproductive power.  These coppices are thinned at the age
of eight yeans, about which time the brushwood growing among
the plantations is also cut down.  These thinnings are all either
employed on the estate for fences or sent to market, and the pro-
duce defrays the expense of keeping the woods clean.  Owing to
the number of standards left at former cuttings, nineteen years are
considered sufficient to render the copsewood again fit for cutting,
though standards have not recentlv been kept to become timber
trees, except in situations where it was necessary to consider what
was ornamental rather than what might be useful.
   When the woods are cut and the trees barked, the bark is dried
on what is termed lofts, being forked stakes, driven into the ground
in two rows, and from two to three feet in height, and by laying
bars across on these forked bearers, floors are made on which the
bark is laid ; that of the branches and youngest wood being placed
beneath, and the broader pieces of the larger timber over them.
After remaining in this state for some time, it is stored in bark
barns, formed of the straightest and smallest of the trees, so placed


