
834                             AYRSHIRE.

increase of the population, which, since that period, has more
than doubled. There have, for a long period, been considera-
ble facilities for internal communication; but the opening of the
Glasgow and Ayr Railway, with branch lines to Ardrossan and
Kilmarnock, affords the greatest advantages for intercourse
with Glasgow, as well as the surrounding country, and must
raise the value of property. The inhabitants are, we believe,
more industrious than they were towards the end of last century;
but they are also more extravagant both in regard to their cloth-
ing and mode of living, and it is to be feared, less contented with
their circumstances. Scarcity of work, which sometimes occurs,
and constant fluctuations in the price paid for it, are unfavourable
to the interests and welfare of the manufacturing population.
The desire for luxuries is, in many instances, too prevalent, and a
want of prudence, foresight, and economy, often appears. The
inhabitants of the parish, in general, are intelligent and well in-
formed, and man of them are exemplary in the discharge of all
the duties of their station.
	April 1842.
			PARISH OF LONDON.

	PRESBYTERY OF IRVINE, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

		THE REV. NORMAN MACLEOD, MINISTER.

		I.--TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Name.--"THE name Luodoun," says the writer of the old
Statistical Account of this parish, "is probably derived from a
hill in the extremity of the parish called Loudon, from the old
word low, a fire, don or dun, a hill;" and from the extensive view
of the surrounding country which the hill commands, and from
its being in the immediate vicinity of a Roman camp, it has very
probably been a station for a signal-fire. Others have suggested
that the name Loudon is a corruption of the Gaelic word Lod-dan,
which signifies marshy ground; and as the river Irvine, now more
confined than formerly to the bed which it has hollowed for its
waters, at no distant period, flooded the low grounds of the parish,
it is not improbable that the valley rather than the hill has had
the honour of giving name to Loudoun. The banking of the


