
				DUNDEE.                       37

forty-five millions of plants of various kinds, making an average of
four and a-half millions annually.
	In gardening, as in most other things, what is necessary and pro-
fitable, rather than what is more ornamental and pleasing, is first
studied. But the one generally follows the other at its proper
distance; and while other places have, in the progress of their
improvement, exhibited these in beautiful combination, Dundee
has not been regardless of what has bedn doing elsewhere. In-
deed, the taste for the fairer and more admired productions of the
parterre and the green-house, which prevails in our neighbourhood,
has been rapidly increasing, and has been greatly encouraged and
promoted by the formation of a distric horticultural society. This
society was established in 1824, and numbers among its members
most of the nobility and gentry in the neighbourhood. It holds
its meetings at least twice a-year, and at its competitions the va-
riety, excellence, and abundance of the fruits, roots, flowers, and
vegetables exhibited, have justly called forth expressions of ad-
miration. In every department this society has been of use; in
ornamental gardening it has been eminently useful. It has awak-
ened an attachment to the loveliest objects of cultivated nature;
given a taste and elegance to minds that otherwise had been en-
grossed by very different scenes; and diffused a spirit of simplicity,
of purity, and of benevolence, inseparable from the study of na-
ture in her most lovely forms. The collections of some of the
amateur members are truly admirable, and may compare with any
in Scotland. From the garden of one of the friends of this so-
ciety originated the justly admired double varieties of the Ayrshire
rose (Rosa arvensis,) or single white rambling rose. In the space
of a few falls of ground this gentleman, who marks his attachment
to the queen of flowers by calling his dwelling-place by her name,
possesses a collection of roses and other flowers, rarely met with.
Having gathered the berries of the common Ayrshire rose, he
reared from them a number of plants, some of which have produ-
ced flowers equalling in beauty some of the dwarf garden roses.
Others have successfully followed this example, and thus has been.
propagated a new species of double climbing roses, which in a few
years may exhibit an endless series of rich and beautiful varieties.
	Tropical exotics are rare here. There are, however, some tole-
rable collections of Cape, Australasian and other green-house
plants, and also a great variety of hardy ornamental exotics. One
gentleman haas some of the finest varieties of the Auricule, Pelar-


