

         216              GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

         sailing packets go, about once a month, between Leith and each of the
         two towns.  We have now a daily post to the south, and a post-gig
         daily travels between Kirkwall and Stromness, which carries pas-
         sengers; other vehicles also go occasionally.  The public road
         between these two places is about fifteen miles long, and pretty
         good; and there is a considerable extdnt of as good road in other
         parts of the Mainland.  The principal harbours, and the most fre-
         quented by shipping, are those of Stromness and Long Hope, but
         there are many bays besides, in which vessels frequently take shel-
         ter; and at the former of these places, there is a patent slip for re-
         pairing them.
            Ecclesiasfical State.- Till 1832, there were six clergymen in each
         of the three-presbyteries in the synod of Orkney; but since that time,
         five more have been added by a disjunction of two parishes, and by
         two Government churches, one on the Royal bounty, and one aided
         by the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.  There is still,
         however, much need of several more; for in some cases, one clergy-
         man has two or three parishes under his charge, and as many
         churches, so that he can only preach in each of his parishes once
         every two or three weeks, which is an evil that cries loudly for a
         remedy.  There are sixteen Dissenting ministers of different sects,
         but most of them of the United Associate.  Schools are esta-
         blisbed in all the parishes, and all the young are taught to read,
         and many of them to write.  Sabbath schools are also in general
         operation.  There are good public librarier in each of the towns,
         both for the higher and lower classes, and similar institutions in
         most of the country parishes.  There is an evident improvement
         in the conduct of the people since they have enjoyed increased
         facilities of education.  Besides the usual religious, charitable,
         and other kinds of Societies, there is an "Orkney Natural His-
         tory Society," which has a museum in Stromness.
            The principal fairs are the Lammas fair at Kirkwall, and one be-
         ginning on the first Tuesday of September at Stromness: and there
         are numerous cattle fairs in different parishes.
            Table shewing the number of persons committed for trial or
         bailed for different offences in Orkney and Shetland in the year
         1840:

         <TABLE>

                Offences against person,                               6
                Offences against property committed with violence,    11                         Do.        -    do.        without violence, 10
                     Do.               do.          without violence, 10
                Malicious offences against property,                   4
                Other offences,                                       15
                                                                     ----
                                                                      46

