
			STEWARTON.                           729

which is level and easily wrought. It is raised and burned in com-
mon draw-kilns on the estate of Lochridge, and on the lands of
Cutstraw Corsehills, Clerkland, and Lintbrae. Coal is found in
very thin strata, and is used on the spot for burning limestone.
Seams of coal have not yet been found so thick as to be wrought
by itself, though attempts for that purpose have been made very
lately, by three proprietors, which have been attended with con-
siderable expense to one of the contractors, and disappointment to
the public. Peat for fuel is found in great abundance at each
end of the parish.
	Wood.--Though our forests have disappeared, the present nu-
merous residing proprietors are endeavouring to restore them in
the form of plantations, particularly in the lower part of the parish.
Firs of every sort and forest timber have been planted, which ap-
pear to be most congenial to the soil and climate, and thereby the
lands have a cheerful, sheltered, and improved aspect. There is
one fine arbor-vitae, a fig-tree, and a cedar of Lebanon in the gar-
den of Lainshaw, each of long standing.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	Eminent Characters.--David Dale was the son of a gro-
cer, and born, in January 1739, in a two storey thatched-house
at the Cross of Stewarton, which still remains in much the
same state as when occupied by his father; he was educated
only in the then common elementary branches. After learning
weaving in Paisley, he left it for Hamilton, and afterwards remov-
ed to Glasgow, where lie carried on business in the linen yarn
trade for many years. He afterwards, with others, erected mills
for spinning cotton at Lanark and Catrine. The directors of the
Royal Bank employed him as their agent in Glasgow, of which city
he was one of the magistrates, and where at the same time he offi-
ciated as a preacher of an Independent Church. His charity was
extensive, and there are individuals living here who still partake of
his bounty, though he died in March 1806, leaving it is said,
L. 100,000 and upwards. Mr Owen, the founder of Socialism,
is his son-in-law, propagating doctrines which would have vexed,
the heart of his upright good old father-in-law.
	John Blackwood, late kirk-officer, and another upright in-
dividual, deserves notice, as he at the same time was agent for
the Union Bank of Paisley for several years at the end of last
century. His character was so well established for accuracy and
integrity, that no security was required of him by the bank; this


