

                           MANNER.                              115

ancient camps, so considerable in extent, and of such distinct con-
figuration, that a circumstantial account of them seems to deserve
a place here, especially as the more remarkable of the two does
not appear to have been noticed in any previous publication, and
as the origin of the other, which has been alluded to by several
writers, has been, by all of them, certainly mistaken. The more
extensive camp is situated near the farm-house of Cademuir, and
must have commanded the pass which diverges from the vale of
Manner, and leads eastward in the direction of Peebles. A steep
and lofty hill rises on either side of the camp, and at a little dis-
tance from it; and a morass, existing within the memory of some
of the present inhabitants, extended from the foot of either hill
to the extremities of the circumvallations. These last, which
are semicircular mounds of earth, and which, by that form, seem
to indicate that they are of British or Danish origin, consist of an
interior semicircle, measuring about 80 paces from the one extre-
mity to the other, and of four curvilineal fortifications, about 5 paces
broad, as many high, and 106 in length. A road, 5 paces in
breadth, leads from the centre of the inner semicircle, directly
west, and bisects the exterior lines, which are 12 paces apart. If
any trenches and mounds corresponding to these and connected
with them, existed on the east, they have disappeared.
   The other camp occupies a commanding site upon Chester's
hill, a steep conical eminence, nearly a mile distant from the in-
trenchments which we have described. The fortifications consist
of loose stones piled upon each other to a breadth varying from
9 to 11 paces, and within the last twenty years, were upwards of-
5 feet high. The exterior wall is of an elliptical figure and mea-
sures 222 paces in circumference, within which there is another
wall of a circular shape, occupying nearly the whole breadth of
the circumscribing fortification, and, forming of course two cres-
cents at the extremities of the latter. Within the compass of the
circle, the ground seems to have been hollowed out artificially, the
excavation deepening towards the centre. In the last Statistical
Account of the parish, and in a Gazetteer lately published of some
celebrity, these are pronounced to be the remains of a Roman
camp: and it is also stated in these publications that an urn con-
taining a quantity of Roman coins was due out of the ruins se-
veral years ago. It is now very difficult to find any of those coins,
but one which was examined by the writer of this account proved, to
his surprise, to be an English coin, and bore the name of one of


