
                          INNERLEITHEN.                            29

the waters of neither of these rivers.  In Lothian the coal lies deep,
and does not appear in the banks of the rivers.  In Clydesdale it
often crops out, and the small fragments we speak of resemble
more what is met with in the western district.
  Peat of a sufficient depth to be dug for fuel is found in great
abundance around the sources of the Leithen, and in small extent
on the top and southern declivities of Windlestrae-Law, which rises
to the eastwards of it; but it is so distant from the village and the
fram-houses along the Tweed, that they find coal, although brought
twenty miles from Lothian, to be greatly cheaper.
  The tops of the higher mountains are covered with moss or
peat of greater or less depth.  On the ridges below the sum-
mits, its depth is often only a few inches, and of course is less
wet.  ON this there are tracts covered by Nardus stricta, Juncus
squarrosus, and Galium saxatile.  On the south-east side of Wind-
lestrae-Law, among blocks of red porphyry, these plants are sin-
gularly luxuriant, and they are mixed with a species of Agrostis and
Anthoxanthum.  Every part of the latter plant is likewise greatly
larger than on the banks of the river 1800 feet below.  These
plants always indicate the mossy soil on which they grow to be
mixed with sand.  Here it is probably derived from the porphyry.
  Zoology.--In the year 1830, on the glen heads below the tract
of sheep-pasture, we have noticed the larva of a species of the large
long-legged Tipula devouring the herbage upon the hill sides, cut-
ting the plants above the roots, and just before they assume the
green colour. The swaird adhering together by the intermingled
mosses could have been rolled up like blanket.*

<TABLE=CIVIL HISTORY>

  Land-owners.--The land-owners in the order of the valuation
of their properties are as follows:
        Sir James G. SUttie,                       L. 2575  7  5
        James Ballantyne, Hollylee,                   1300  0  0
        Thomas Horsburgh of Horsburgh,                1252  7 10
        Earl of Traquair,                              913 16  2
        R. N. Campbell of Kaillzie,                    536  8 10
        Miss Innes of Thornilee,                       467 16  8
        William Stewart of Glen Ormistone,             244  1  5
        William Eckford, Green Head of Innerleithen,     9  0  0
                                                       __________
                                                   L. 7298 18  4

<FOOTNOTE>We have been assured from good authority, that in the year 1762, the green
hills around the heads of Ettrick and Yarrow were rendered completely brown by
the ravages of a smooth light brown caterpillar with dull yellow stripes; and that
forty years after, in 1802, a similar visitation took place.  In that year countless
flocks of crows and sea-fowl were seen for many days hastening to the banquet.


