
				URR.                           349

ercise of his ministerial functions, on account of his ministerial
actings independently of the sanction and authority of the Church
courts, which had many proceedings against him. This suspen-
sion was removed by the General Assembly in the year 1699.
In the year 1696, be was tried by the Privy-Council for using
some expressions which were supposed to be treasonable, and for
which be suffered imprisonment for about three year, first in the
Tolbooth of Edinburgh, and afterwards in the Castle of Stirling.
In the year 1704, he was again suspended, and that by the com-
mission of the General Asselbly, for not appearing to answer the
charges brought against him by libel, for certain expressions he
bad used against the oath of allegiance and assurance; and, in
the year 1705, be was, by the General Assembly, deposed, as
being guilty of teaching seditious doctrines, and following scbis-
matic courses; but partly in consequence of a protest by the he-
ritors, elders, and the other inhabitants of the parish of Urr
against the said sentence, and partly by his conciliating declara-
tions, be was reponed by the commission of the General Assem-
bly in the vear 1707. In some of the proceedings against him,
he was accused of never having administered the ordinance of the
Lord's Supper in the parish of Urr, for which omission be pleaded
his peculiar circumstances, in regard to his brethren in the
ministry, and the danger of corrupt Communion; but be was
desirous that these hindrances might be removed. Remark-
able effects, however, wore sometimes produced by his minis-
try, and especially by his preaching, some crying out "What
shall we do to be saved?" and others falling into a swoon.
These effects were salutary to many but only temporary to
others, who soon returned to their sinful courses. Mr Hep-
burn and his adherents in the south and west of Scotland
were much opposed to the union of the two kingdoms of England
and Scotland, to the Act of Toleration, the ambiguous nature of
the oath of abjuration and supremacy, and some other public mat-
ters, all of which tbey thought fraught with danger to Presby-
terian government and true religious liberty in Scotland, and
contrary to the Solemn League and Covenant; and upon these
subjects, they drew up a memorial, to be presented to the General
Assembly in the year 1712, praying the Assembly to cause a re-
ligious fast to be held throughout the church, on account of these
sins in Church and State. This memorial, though considered in
the committees both of bills and overtures, was not read in the


