
708                           ABERDEENSHIRE.

Esq. of Logie and Crimondmogate; and John James Laing, Esq.
of Haddo.
   Parochial Registers.-The earliest date of there is 1718, from
which time till now the session records, containing cases of disci-
pline, and disbursements to the poor, have been regularly kept.  The
register of baptisms commences in 1743.  At the present date,
there is much culpable negligence in regard to the registering of
births.  Until very lately, no regular registry of marriages and
deaths was kept.
   Antiquities.-At the east end of the Loch of Strathbeg, and
close by the present farm-house of Rattray, "there is a small hill
of a circular form, whose top," according to the former Statistical
Account, "is exactly half a Scotch acre in extent, called the Cas-
tle Hill.  It rises 38 feet above a small plain on the north- east
but is only 12 or 14 feet above the higher ground on the opposite
side."  The famous Cummine, Earl of Buchan, had a seat here;
but after his defeat at the battle of Inverury, by King Robert
Bruce, this castle fell into ruins.  By the blowing of the light sand
in the neighbourhood, which happens during every gale of wind,
it is now covered with a deep soil, and produces crops of grain and
grass.  In Fordoun's chronicle, after mention of his defeat, it is
narrated that "Bruce pursued Cummine to Turriff, and afterwards
destroyed by fire his whole Earldom of Buchan," which may, in
some measure, account for the marks of fire frequently discernible
on the large trees dug out of the moss.  About a quarter of a mile
south-west of the castle hill, are the walls of chapel, (surround-
ed by a burying-ground), still in excellent preservation.  It is sup-
posed to have been a private chapel for the use of the Earl's fa-
mily.  The lenght within the walls is 45 feet, the breadth 18 feet,
the thickness of the walls 3 feet, and the height of the glebes 32
feet.  In the east end of the chapel are three arched windows.
The walls are built of very small stones, firmly cemented together
with lime.  Around this chapel formerly stood the burgh of Rat-
tray.  It is said to have had the same priveleges as a royal burgh,
except that of sending members to Parliament.  The burgage lands
were of considerable extent.  There is now only one feu remaining.
It measures about three acres imperial, and is possessed by Robert
Sellar, who is thus an heritor in the parish.  "The oldest charter
upon this feu, extant," to quote the last Statiatical Account, "was
granted in 1627.  In that year, in a burgh court holden at Rat-
tray by the Honourable John Hay of Crimondmogate, William
                             6


