
                        DOLPHINTON.                           61

                   V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	Markets--Means of Communication.--In 1693 an act of Par-
liament was obtained for holding a weekly market and two annual
fairs in Dolphinton; and formerly there were corn, lint, and waulk-
mills, with an inn at both ends of the parish; but now there is no
markets, fairs, village, post-office, public-house, mill, or manufac-
tory of any kind. There maybe two and a-half miles of turnpike-
road, and five miles of parish-roads. The communication between
Glasgow and Berwick might be much facilitated by avoiding the
ridges of Ellsrighill and Corsoncone, and by bringing the road up
the Tairth and down the Medwin.
	Ecclesiastical State.--The church is too small for the congrega-
tion, and of a homely but it is comfortable within. Our
records bear that, prior to 1650, the glebe was far from the church
and "the gate to it foul," and that there was no manse for the mi-
nister, who had flitted five times in the memory of man. A manse
and glebe of eight acres were then designed at the kirk style. Soon
after they were moved to Bankhead, and in 1718 to the present
site. The present manse was built in 1770, and repaired and en-
larged in 1814, and again in 1828, so that it is now one of the
best in the country.
  The glebe contains fourteen imperial acres. * In 1275, the whole
spiritual revenues of Dolphinton were estimated at L. 3, 6s. 8d.
Sterling. In 1561, they were let at L. 4, 3s. 4d. At this, the pe-
riod of the Reformation, the stipend paid to the officiating minister
amounted to L. 1, 3s. 0 5/4d. Sterling. Prior to 1729, it was about
L 30; but it was soon after augmented to L. 47, 4s. 5d.; and by
the Government it is now raised to L. 150, and L. 8, 6s. 8d. for
communion elements.
	The parish seems from the earliest period to have been sup-
plied with a church and priesthood, conformable to the existing
establishment. John de Saint Andrews, rector of this church, wit-
nessed two charters, granted by Allan Bishop of Argyle at Paisley
in September 1253. John Silvester, parson of Dolphinton, La-
narkshire, swore fealty to Edward I. at Berwick, in August 1296.
At the reformation from popery, John Cockburn, brother of Sir
James Cockburn of Skirling, was rector, and had been presented
to the living by the well known Earl of Bothwell. In February
1561-2, Cockburn reported that the revenues of the parsonage

<FOOTNOTE>In Bagemont's roll, Dolphinton is taxed L. 4, being a tenth of the estimated
value of its spiritual revenues.


