
494                           PERTHSHIRE.

called rare in Scotlaud, and those that are common in simihti dis-
tricts are also comwn here.  The only species of: foreign ani-
mala are the pheasant, the woodcock, and the squirrel; and it is
not supposed that any which formerly existed have disappeared.
  The principal singing birds are, the blackbird, the thrush, the
starling, the bullfinch, the goldfinch, the linnet, and the lark,
The crested-wren is also known here.
The Game are, the black-cock, the pheasant, the partridge, the
woodcock, the snipe, the landrail, the green and grey, plovers
the curlew, the heron, the roe-deer, and the hare.  Tha wild
goose is often seen, but is rarely got at.  To these may be ad-
ded the wood-pigeon, wild ducks of different tribes, and rabbits
in great abundance.
   The vermin the badger, the fox, the otter, the marten and
polecat, the stoat, the weasel, the mole, the rat, and the mouse.
   The birds of prey are, the sparrowhawk, the harrier, the mer-
lin, the, salmon-tailed glede, the buzzard, the night-hawk, the grey,
white, and horned-owls, the raven, the carrion crow, the magpie,
and the jay.  The eagle is occasionally seen in the Cnoe in severe
winters.
  Since the establishnaent of the Agricultural Society, the best
breeds of horses, black-cattle, and rheep are reared.-the sheep
is very limited numbers.  There does not appear to be any thing
peculiar about the bread swine; but great number of them are
and fed for the Glasgow market. *
   The rivers all swound with, the common trouts; and, in addi-
to this the Earn contain salmon generallx comes up the
the perch and the pike.  The salmon generally comes, up the
Each during the months of August and September, spawns
in November and December,and returns again to the sea in Fe-
brussy and March.  THe sea troat usually comes up the river
earlier than the salmon, and spawns during the month of Sep-
tember and October. And the loch and river trouts appear to
seek that breaks with a view to spawn at the same time.
  Wood- There are two small coppices of oak and bireh, amount-
ing te about ten acres ; and, if we except those on the Ferntower
property , the plantations are nowhere else of any great extent.
The forest trees, which are planted, and which all appear to thrive,

<FOOTNOTE>"The Right Honourable Lord Willougbby D'Ereaby has lately sent down a
and turns pigs-the later as gifts to seeral of his tenants, with a view to in-
cruduce the beat English Breed into Strathearn.


