
52                         SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

land districts; and the degree of information they possess is
more than could be expected from the advantages enjoyed by them.
The young, in general, read Gaelic and English; and some of them
write and understand arithmetic.   Such of those advanced in years
as have been taught to read, delight much in the Holy Scriptures,
and in some of the popular works of the early divines of the church
of Scotland,-which, having been read and talked of for genera-
tions, have acquired a sacredness of character.  They are all Pres-
byterians, and firmly attached to the religion and modes of worship
of their forefathers.  They have hitherto been respectful to per-
sons in stations superior to their own, peaceable and orderly in their
intercourse with one another, and have seldom ornever been charged
with the commission of crime.   Smuggling, happily for their cha-
racter and circumstances, has been checked.   Poaching in game,
or in the salmon fisheries, is not attempted by them.
   There have been three illegitimate births in the parish during
the last three years.

                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   A great part of the population of this parish is employed as
day-labourers for more than half the year. The men find employ-
ment in the making or repairing of roads; or from the tacksmen in
parishes along the coast as extra labourers in spring and harvest-
time; or, during the season of the herring fishing, in curing fish at
the fishing stations. The women find employment with the farmers
in weeding, hoeing, and cutting down crops, and with the fish-curers
at the proper season.   A certain portion of time is, of course, oc-
cupied in the cultivation of their own lots, and in Securing the
crops which these produce.  Some elderly persons of both sexes,
helped by children not attending schools, are always occupied at
home in herding cattle.
   Agriculture and Sheep-Farming.-The proportion of land in
culture and yielding crops is small, and must always be so, while
naked rock forms a considerable part of the surface of the pa-
rish.  It has, however, for several years back, been increasing;
and it is likely, that, in the course of some years, what is now
occupied by lotters, if left in their occupation, may become culti-
vated where practicable.   The quantity of land cultivated, or oc-
casionally in tillage, does not at present exceed 1200 acres.
   Nearly the halt of the parish in value, and more than the half in
extent, is laid under sheep of the Cheviot breed. It is no less than


