
	   PARISH OF ORMISTON.

PRESBYTERY OF DALKEITH, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

        THE REV. JAMES BANNERMAN, MINISTER. *

	   I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Boundaries, Extent.-THE parish of Ormiston is bounded by
Pencaitland on the east; Humbie on the south; Cranston on the
west; and Tranent on. the north. It is about 5 miles in length,
and very irregular in breadth, varying from 11/2 to about 1/2 mile;
its narrowest part being on the eastern extremity; and its broad-
est at the centre. It contains an area of 5 square miles English,
and has some resemblance to a horse-shoe winding about Pencait-
land on the north, west, and south.
   Name.-It was originally possessed by a family of the name of
Orme; hence the name of the parish. In 1648 the barony of Peaston,
or Paiston, as it is uniformly written in the old records, was dis-
joined from Pencaitland and annexed to Ormiston.
   Topographical Appearances.-The general appearance of the
parish is flat and low. The extensive woods about Ormiston Hall,
blended with those of the adjoining estate of Fountain hall, the
patches of wood in different places, and the hedge-row trees over its
whole extent, give it a very rich and beautiftl appearance. These
circumstances, however, prevent that free circulation of air which
is so favourable to the crops.
   Meteorology.-It appears, from observations regularly made by
the gardener at Ormiston Hall in 1821-22, at 10 P.M. that the ther-
mometer in December and January twice reached 31&deg; each month,
and was not lower in the course of the season. Its greatest height,
that year, was in the beginning of June, when the thermometer stood
for some days at 68 and 681/2. It reached the same height about the
end of July. Its range during the months of June and July, was
from 49&deg;, to 681/2&deg;. In 1822-23, the thermometer ranged for several
days in the end of December from 24&deg; to 29&deg;, and from 12th to
28th January, from 22&deg; to 30&deg;. In June and July that year it ranged
from 44&deg; to 63&deg;. Its greatest elevation was on l2th August, when it rose

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the former incumbent, the Rev. John Ramsay.


