
168                       LANARKSHIRE.

duce the Board of Trustees for the Encouragement of Arts and Ma-
nufactures in Scotland to offer a premium of L. 300 Sterling to the
first person who should establish the spinning of Cashmere wool
upon the French principle in this country. Up to that time the
French had exclusively enjoyed the advantages of that trade; and
all Cashmere yarns used in this country in the manufacture of shawls
and other fabrics had to be imported from France. The offer of
this handsome premium, together with the other advantages which
the carrying on of the trade held out, induced Captain Charles
Stuart Cochrane, of the Royal Navy, to attempt, whilst in Paris, to
find out the secret of this manufacture, which, after many difficul-
ties and much delay, he at last accomplished; and, in 1831, he
took out patents for the introduction of this kind of spinning to the
three kingdoms. In the autumn of that year, he prevailed on Messrs
Henry Houldsworth and Sons, of Glascow, to purchase his patents,
and they accordingly commenced the spinning of Cashmere yarn.
After many difficulties, they succeeded, in 1832, in making better
yarn than the French, and in the following year received from the
Board of Trustees the L. 300 Sterling as the premium due for the
establishing of the spinning of Cashmere yarn in this country.
Since then, the manufacture has gone on but slowly, though gra-
dually increasing in extent, and the day is not far distant when it
may be hoped that the beauty of the goods made from Cashmere
yarn will be duly appreciated by our ladies. One thing is grati-
fying, that, notwithstanding the cheapness of labour in France, and
the long experience the French have bad in this manufacture, we
are quite capable at this moment of successfully competing with
them in the market, although the French yarns can be admitted
free of duty.
	Establishment of Merino Yarn Spinning in Scotland.--At the
same time that the late Captain C. S. Cochrane was engaged in
Paris in finding out the manufacture of Cashmere yarn, his atten-
tion was attracted by the superiority of French merino dresses over
those made in this country; and on inquiry he found that the peculiar
manner in which the French spun the merino yarn was the prin-
cipal cause of this difference. Captain Cochrane, accordingly, got
all the information he could possibly obtain respecting this manu-
facture, and in 1333 established in Glasgow this peculiar mode of
spining merino yarn on the French principle. The Board of Trus-
tees offered a premium of L. 300 Sterling to the introducer and
establisher of this manufacture; which premium Captain Cochrane
accordingly received in 1834,--his merino yarn being pronounced


