
	458                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

	lic, and of those who were at first against him. Mr Munro died
	on the 30th October 1820, in the thirty-sixth year of his ministry.
	   Mr Alexander Cameron, A. M., Rector of Tain Academy,
	was licensed by the Presbytery of Tain 12th August 1818, and
	ordained and admitted to Eddertoun, 13th September 1821. The
	patroness of the parish, Mrs Hay Mackenzie of Cromartie, in this
	instance, as in the general exercise of her patronage, consulted
        the interests and wishes of the people. Mr Cameron, accordingly,
        received a unanimous call, (dated 21st July 1821,) which contributed
        to his usefulness during an efficient ministry of fourteen
	years. He died at the early age of forty-two, 5th September 1835.
	   Mr Donald Gordon, M. A., a licentiate of the presbytery of
	Tongue in Sutherland, was ordained assistant-minister of the
	parish of Edderachillis, 20th November 1822; admitted to the
	Parliamentary church of Store, in Assynt, 2d September 1829;
	and translated and admitted to Eddertoun, 7th April 1836;-and
	though then a stranger to the patroness, he was presented, (the
	date of presentation being 5th December 1835,) in compliance
        with the unanimous petition of the heads of families, communicants,
        in the parish. Mr Gordon is the ninth minister of Eddertoun
        since the Reformation.
           There is no catechist regularly employed in this parish at present,
        but arrangements are being made for procuring one, who will
	reside permanently.
	   There are two individuals belonging to the United Associate
	Synod, a remnant of the secession in Nigg, occasioned by a forced
	settlement there in 1756: they generally attend at a Dissenting
        meeting-house, which was recently erected in Tain. With the exception
        of these, the whole of the parishioners are connected with
	the Established Church, and are very regular church-going people.
	   The average number of communicants is 60, of whom 22 are
	male heads of families.
	   The probable average amount of church collections yearly for
	religious and charitable purposes is L.30.
	   Education.-There are three schools in the parish, a parochial,
	Gaelic, and female school, on the second patent of the Society for
	Propagating Christian Knowledge.
           The parochial school has been established for upwards of a century,
        and the salary has been the maximum since 1836. There
        are at pnesent two scboolmasters,-Mr Finlay Matheson, appointed
        in the year 1790, who was superannuated in 1836, with a por-


