
     Statistical Account

provement.  It is observable here, equally as in many
other places of Scotland, that when the moors are pared or
cut for turf, they naturally produce abundant crops of 
guild, (chrysanthemum segetum), and a few other plants,
which are not, until the sward is cut away, found growing
in the place.  This is especially the cafe in these moors
that had anciently been in tillage.  It is believed that the
seeds of the quild will, when buried in the ground, retain
their vegetative power for a great length of time, but
when exposed to the influence of the weather, will readily
vegetate.  This is certainly true, not only with respect to
the feeds of this, but of many other plants.  Too much care, 
therefore, cannot be taken to cut down these weeds which
are hurtful to agriculture before the seeds arrive to matu-
rity.  It is grossly absurd in farmers to allow thistles, etc.
to grow without molestation on way-fides, or other uncul-
tivated places.  The feeds are mostly carried into the ad-
jacent fields, and occasion much trouble.  Many of them
perish, but millions are buried in the earth by the plough,
and afterwards vegetate with great luxuriancy when raised
up, even at the distance of many years, to the influence of
heat, light, and rain.  Farmers in this, and all the neigh-
bouring parishes, are reprehensible for not checking more
than they do, the progress of these plants, which, whatever
their medicinal virtues may be, are very hurtful to agri-
culture. - Although much of the soil in Kinclaven is fit for
the turnip husbandry, yet a very small portion of it is laid
out for the cultivation of that useful root.  The grains com-
monly cultivated are oats, barley, wheat beans, and peace.
Thee produce is generally good; barley frequently yields
eight returns, that commonly gives meal for grain.  In
some places the old, but absurd custom of sowing peace, to-
gether with oats, in the same field, is, by some slovenly far-
mers, still continue.  It generally happens that the one


