
            COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.             301

most beautiful which can be imagined. On its western side
stands the elegant mansion of Dunglass, (Sir John Hall, Bart.) a
residence of uncommon beauty. Occurring in this station, we
have to notice, among a host of others, the following plants,
which we mention, because many of them are rare in other dis-
tricts: Veronica montana, Vicia sylvatica, Chrysosplenium alter-
nifolium, Pyrola media, Anchusa sempervirens, Epilobium angus-
tifolium, Eupatorium cannabinum, Circaea lutetiana, Allium ursi-
num, Thalictrum flavum, Cardamine amara, Hypericum humifu-
sum, Lepidium campestre, Epipactis nidus avis, Melica caerulea, M.
uniflora, &c. Belonging to the Cryptogamous class, we notice in
the same situation the following interesting and beautiful indivi-
duals belonging to the order Filices: Scolopendrum vulgare, in
great abundance, and exceedingly ornamental; Asplenium adian-
tum nigrum, A. Trichomanes, Aspidium lobatum, A. aculeatum,
A. dilatatum, Polypodium dryopteris, &c. Among the mosses
may be mentioned the following, as occurring in very great pro-
fusion, as well as in very fine fruit; Bryum punctatum, B. ros-
tratum, Hypnum undulatum, H. proliferum, H. alopecurum, Bryum
hornum, Hookeria lucens, &c. On the shore, we meet with the
Thalictrum minus, Glaucium luteum, Erythraea Centaurium, Cakile
maritima, Ligusticum Scoticum, Silene maritima, Statice armeria,
and the beautiful Pulmonaria maritima, first noticed on these
shores by the great Ray (1661), and lately rediscovered in the
same situation. In various situations in the parish, we meet with
the beautiful Dianthus deltoides. In the Pease Dean and Tower
Dean the Campanula latifolia is abundant, and highly ornamen-
tal. In the latter dean, we also meet with the Euonymus Euro-
paeus, Saxifraga umbrosa, and the Aspidium, angulare, being the
first Scottish station, so far as we are aware, for this very hand-
some fern. On the sides of the hills, we meet with the Juniperus
communis in abundance; Genista Anglica, Gnaphalium dioicum,
Tormentilla reptans, &c. while, in other parts of the parish, we
have noted the following plants, as being worthy of a place in
this sketch of the natural history of the parish,-Trollius Euro-
paeus, Drosera rotundifolia, Fumaria claviculata, Staskys arvensis,
Peplis portula, Menyanthes trifoliata, Sedum Anglicum, Scutellaria
galericulata, Cichorium intybus, Hyoscyamus niger, Rhodiola rosea,
Symphytum tuberosum, Anemone nemorosa, Cistus Helianthemum,
Trifolium scabrum, T. arvense, Rhamnus catharticus, &c. &c.
   We cannot conclude this imperfect sketch of the botany of the


