
484			  ABERDEENSHIRE.

		   MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
Since the time that the last Statistical Account was written,
the whole appearance of the parish has been much improved, and
the quantity and value of its produce greatly augmented, by the
superior system of farming which has been adopted.  A regular
rotation of cropping, suited; to the nature of the soil, has been in-
troduced, one indispensable part of which is the meliorating crop
of turnips.  For it, the soil is carefully prepared and properly
manured, and the operations of thinning and hoeing are well at-
tended to, as this crop is considered of great value in a district,
where the rearing of a superior quality of live-stock is one of the
most important object which the farmer has in view.  Bone ma-
nure has been extensively and successfully employed in this parish
for raising turnips.  In deep clay soils it does not answer well;
but in those of a less tenacious nature, the produce after its em-
ployment is very great.  Every effort has been made to reclaim
waste lands. and to bring, them into a proper state of cultivation.
The old system of mill-multures has been discontinued, which
will have a favourable effect upon agriculture.  Another most im-
portant improvement has taken place in regard to the state of the
roads.  About thirty-six years ago, the turnpike road from Aberdeen
to the north was carried through this parish, and at once establish-
ed a regular and excellent communication, by which farm produce
can be carried for sale to Aberdeen at every season of the year.
The increased facility of every other communication by this road
is equally obvious, both for the comfort of the inhabitants and of
Travelers, and a far greater intercourse is also enjoyed with the
neighbouring districts.  Hence, a general stimulus has been given
to industry, and improvements of an extensive nature have been
undertaken and completed, to which the former bad state of the
roads would have presented an insurmountable obstacle.  There
is also a manifest improvement in the style of agricultural build-
ings.  In some instances, this improvement has extended itself to
new houses in Old Meldrum ; and there seems to be a growing
desire for it which is worthy of every encouragernent.  The extent
of new plantations has already been taken notice of.  A new line
of communication with Old Meldrum by a turnpike road has
lately been opened from the upper part of the Garioch on ibe one
hand, and from the sea, coast on the other.  A new station for the
disposal of grain and for the purchase of lime, will thus be obtain-
ed, by that district of country.  The peculiar advantage to Old


