
346		     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

the supply of atmospheric air must be very defective. This speedi-
ly impairs the healthy action of perspiration. Vigorous men, after
a short employment in such work, are sometimes permanently af-
fected with difficulty of breathing, and frequent cough, accompa-
nied by an expectoration of an inky fluid, which increases in quan-
tity as the disease advances. This fluid resembles finely ground
black paint, and seems to be produced by breathing an atmosphere
heavily charged with carbonic acid gas. At an advanced stage
of the disease, the expectoration is sometimes very considerable,
amounting even to twelve ounces in twenty-four hours. This dis.
ease, after it has established itself, is seldom removed. It main.
tains its existence, and spreads its influence till death closes the
scene, by putting a period to the patient's sufferings. It is to be
hoped that, ere long, this remarkable disease, connected with the
operations of coal-mining, will engage the serious attention of phy-
siologists, and that the Giver of all good may be pleased to guide
to the discovery of means which may serve to prevent its occurrence,
or to effect its cure.
   Geology and Mineralogy.-Coal and lime are the prevailing mine-
rals in this parish. There are also several quarries of excellent free-
stone. The great coal range of the Lothians appears to terminate
here. There are two seams wrought at present. The tipper or chew
coal seam is of a rich but soft quality, lying about 60 feet from the
surface, and from 3 to 4 feet 8 inches in thickness. It lies im-
bedded between a stratum of fine clay and grey sandstone. The
under or splint coal, which varies from 14 to 3 feet in thickness,
is generally found between fine clay and a freestone pavement, and
at the depth of from 60 to 70 feet below the upper seam. When
a shaft is put down, and the pit completely formed, main roads are
broken off in two or three directions, from which rooms (as they
are termed) or places about 6 yards wide, are formed for the col-
liers to work in. When they have cut or quarried the coal, it is
transported to the pit-bottom in carts or hurleys, propelled upon
iron-railways, by young persons of from eight to fourteen years of
age. From the nature of their employment these are called put-
ters. The coal is then raised to the mouth of the pit by a steam-
engine. There are at present employed in the different coal-works
in this parish about 90 men, and the same number of women, be-
sides 30 or 40 children. The colliers work on an average about eight
hours per day, and five days in the week. There is a large breadth
                            4


