
                           HOUNAM.                         197

it bends its course towards the Lothians. Vestiges of enecamp-
ments and semicircular entrenchments may still be traced on some
of the rising grounds in the line of this old Roman way. The
most conspicuous of these encampments is discovered on the sum-
mit of Wooden-law. The largest and most complete camp is
upon Hounam-law. * There are also visible remains of some other
smaller encampments on several of the lesser hills.
   There is nothing in the shape of a ruin worthy of notice in this
parish, with the exception of a vaulted building, the only existing
remains of the original structure, which, in all probability, was
one of those fortresses or border keeps, erected by the border chief-
tains for the defence of the country from the incursions of the Eng-
lish borderers; or it may indicate the site of one of the strong chain
of fortifications erected by the Romans. It occupies a situation on
a rising ground, which overlooks a beautiful bend of the water, at
short distance north from the village, and gives the name of Ches-
ter House to the property on which it stands. It is bounded on the
north by a deep narrow ravine. Tradition gives no account of it,
but it was certainly built as a place of security in the days of vio-
lence.-Another ruin, in some respects similar to the one above-
mentioned, is to be seen at Heatherlands, towards the north-west
extremity of the parish.
   On the farm of Hounam-mains, south-eastward from Hounam,
are distinct traces of a very extensive fortification called, probably
from its figure, the Rings. In this parish and neighbourhood,
there are the remains of several cairns or barrows, the tombs of
ancient warriors. Two eminences, called moats, exist in this parish.
Situated on elevated ground to the eastward of, and at no great dis-
tance from, the village, is a semicircle composed of a number of up-
right stones. There is a tradition which bears that these stones were,
at a remote period, human beings, who, for reaping on the Sabbath,
were metamorphosed into so many stones. They are to this day cal-
led the eleven shearers. There is every probability that they indi-
cate the site of a Druidical circle or oratory. There are many single
stones of large dimensions scattered over the parish, said to be of
Druidical origin.+

<FOOTNOTE>Within these few years a large iron gate, taken down from the top of Hounam-
law, was to be seen at Cessford Castle, belonging to the Duke of Roxburghe.-Vide
former Stat. Report.
    In the MS. are noticed some other of the minor antiquities of the parish, coins,
querns, tombstones, &c.


