
                          HOLME AND PAPLAY.                           225

     has been laid out here a site for a fishing village, and due encour-
     agement held out to settlers.   The situation is at the ferry side,
     close by the harbour of Holme Sound Bay, and is peculiarly conve-
     nient for prosecuting the cod and ling fisheries.  It is within a few
     miles of the German ocean on the one hand, and the Atlantic ocean
     on the otber. All along the neigbbouring coasts, and at no great dis-
     tance from the land, there are banks where cod are found in plenty.
     In proof of this, it may be mentioned that in the island of Waas, the
     small farmers on the shores of the Pentland Frith, have sometimes
     employed the time they could spare from their ordinary labour in
     fishing, and, with a few boats indifferently fitted out, have been
     known to catch from fifty to sixty thousand cod in one season.
     But had the attention of these men been solely directed to the
     occupation of fishing, and had they been provided with boats of a
     proper size and construction, they might no doubt have caught
     ten times that number in a season.
        A proof of what capital can effect on the fisbing banks of Ork-
     ney, is the success of a wealthy English company who, for more
     than half a century, have employed, and still employ, about a
     dozen of welled smacks at an expense of L. 60 or L. 70 per month,
     to supply the London market with live cod and lobsters.

			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Holme Sound is a thoroughfare betwixt the eastern and western
     coasts of the kingdom, by which vessels can pass from the one to
     the other with greater dispatch, and with greater security than
     either by the Caledonian Canal when in its best state, or the Pent-
     land Frith.
        Holme has great advantages for navigation over the Pentland
     Frith and Caledonian Canal.  In passing through, Holme Sound,
     all that is necessary to be considered is the time of flood or ebb tide
     suitable to the course in view to be steered; and when this is observ-
     ed, vessels, on entering the Sound are sure of falling in with a regu-
     lar current, moving during spring tides at the rate of nine miles an
     hour; and should any mistake occur as to the proper time of tide,
     there is safe anchorage in several parts of the channel, in which
     to await the proper tide.  The lights, too, erected for the direction
     of vessels entering either end of the Pentland Frith are equally
     serviceable for directing vessels to either end of Holme Sound; a
     light-house, erected forty years ago on a skerry at the eastern
     opening of the Frith, is a plain guide to the eastern opening of
     Holme Sound, which is but twelve miles farther north, betwixt the


