
538         GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE

considerable note and importance, has its sources in the moors and
high lands situated between Kilmalcolm. and the Largs. It receives
the chief body of its waters by a combination of various streams at
Duchal House.  At first, its course is rapid, sprightly, and impe-
tuous, rushing heedlessly over precipices, or hastening on in foam-
ing rapids.  In other places, it appears as a clear and picturesque
stream, flowing between lofty banks and stately enclosures.  It
receives the Black Cart at Moss Walkinshaw, and as it winds
through the rich and highly cultivated vale of Renfrewshire, it
seems only anxious bow to prolong its journey by its numerous and
fantastic windings, and at length sweeping past the church of
Inchinnan, it reaches what may be termed the " spout of Ren-
frewshire" at Inchinnan Bridge, and under the name of Cart
quietly falls into the Clyde.  The Calder rises on the borders of
Ayrshire. and, pursuing a winding circuitous route in a south-eastern
direction, falls into Castlesemple Loch, keeping up, it is asserted,
" a constant current through it, and maintaining its salubrity."
Its name, however, is lost in the lake, and when it again issues
from it, the new stream becomes the Black Cart, dividing the
sbire nearly into two halves. It of course hastens on, (like most
lake streams,) in a dark, level, slow-running current, to Inchinnan
Bridge. The Dubbs is the slow meadow-stream flowing from Kil-
birnie Loch to Lochwinnoch or Castlesemple Loch. The Auld-
house-burn and Brockburn are feeders of the White Cart. The
latter flows from the Brother Loch in Mearns. The Levern is
also a feeder of the White Cart.  It has its source in the Long
Loch, in Neilston parish.  Its direction is first north, then north-
east, and finally from Crofthead to the east.  It enters the
Abbey parish, after leaving Neilston, a little west of Hurlet, and
finally falls, as before stated, into White Cart. The Levern is a
rivulet of considerable breadth and flow, and in many parts of its
course from the south-east, exhibits scenes of " sequestered and
even romantic beauty." In the lower and mercantile districts, like
all the principal waters in Renfrewsbire, it becomes the drudge of
machinery.  Dovecotball, and a host of auxiliaries, which may all
be termed Levernani, such as Gateside, Broadlie, Arthurlie, and
Crofthead Mills are dependent on its waters.  The Gryfe
hasits Gryfe Grove-Mill, Gryfe-Mill, and Crosslie-Mill, with
several other works on the Houston-burn. Johnstone is iden-
tified with the Black Cart, and Paisley with the White Cart,
Variuos streams, such as Espedair and Alt-Patrick, proceed
from the braes south of Paisley, and lose themselves in the lar-


