
60                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

gustus, to which there is a post from Fort-William thrice in the
week, and a daily one from Inverness, which travels alternate days
by the south and north side of Loch Ness, and passes within a mile
of the manse.
   At present, there are no turnpike roads but the old Military road.
It runs through the parish on the south side for about twenty-two
miles; it is under the management of the Parlimentary Commis-
sioners for Highland roads and bridges, and is kept in good re-
pair. The county have lately come to the resolution of placing toll-
bars on this road; but it is not supposed that the proceeds will suffice
to defray the necessary expense of erecting the bars, &c. With this
road a branch of one of the Parliamentary roads on the west side of
the parish unites at Fort-Augustus. A branch of a county dis-
trict road, extending about three miles, commencing at the east
boundary of the parish, passes by the manse, and joins the main
road half a mile to the west of it. There are other two district roads
across the country: these are not kept in such good repair.
    With one exception, the bridges on the great lines of road on
both sides of the lake are kept in good condition. There has been,
time immemorial, a wooden bridge on the river Tarff, close to the
walls of Fort-Augustus, kept in constant repair and rebuilt when
requisite by government; but a few years ago, it was greatly dama-
ged, and is now in a most ruinous state, so that it has become ha-
zardous even to foot-passengers.
    The Caledonian Canal runs through the parish. When the ca-
nal was opened, a certain rate was paid by every vessel navigating it,ac-
cording to its tonnage. A good many vessels then frequented it. The
rate was soon doubled, and fewer ships resorted to it. The commis-
sioners, finding that while they grasped the shadow, the substance
slipped through their fingers, reverted to the original rate; but this
has not yet restored the shipping. It affords means of communica-
tion by steam packets and other vessels; but it is not likely ever to
increase the national revenue, nor to improve the bordering districts,
which, except a few specks here and there, are mountainous and in-
capable of cultivation. The commissioners' 27th Report, states
the total sum received in the previous year from tonnage rates at
L. 2144, 17s. II d. ; and a sum of.L. 169, 19s. 7d. arising from mis-
cellaneous sources, increases the amount of receipts to L. 2314,
17s. 6d. The expenditure was L. 3635, 9s. 3d., leaving a balance
against the canal of L. 1320, 1 Is. 9d.
   Ecclesiastical State.- The parish church is inconveniently situated
                            4

