
22                                FORFARSHIRE.

but towards Broughty Ferry the clay disappears, and is succeeded
by sand. The best land in the parish is in the middle of the estate
of Craigie, part of Logie and Blackness, and that between Dud-
hope and Dundee. The worst is on the north side of the Law,
and on the north side of Duntrune. In general, all the arable
land is in a high state of cultivation, and is very valuable from
its vicinity to a large manufacturing town, where any quantity
of manure can be got at moderate prices, and where there is
always a ready market for every kind of produce, especially green
crops.
	The kinds of trees raised are Scotch fir, larch, and a few elms,
asb, plane, and beech. None of these trees are old, nor is the
wood in the parish valuable, otherwise than as it is generally orna-
mental.
	Rent of Land.--The highest rent given for land under the
plough is L.5, 7s. 6d. an acre per annum; the lowest about L. 1.
The average rent of the whole parish is about L. 3, 15s. per acre. Hn
1791, the highest rent does not seem to have exceeded L. 2 per acre;
and perhaps the farmer found more difficulty in paying that amount
than the present occupier does, who pays more than twice the for-
mer sum. Grass land, in enclosures from ten to fifteen acres each,
lets for pasturage at about L. 3 per acre. The ground for pota-
toes is generally let from L. IO to L. 11 per acre to the labouring
classes, who furnish and plant the seed, and who hand-hoe and
clean the ground,--the farmer furnishing the dung and the horse
labour.
	Rate Of Wages.--The common wages of men-servants employed
in agriculture are from L. IO to L. 14 a-year, with two pecks of oat-
meal per week, and a Scotch pint of sweet milk daily for the win-
ter half year, and one and a-half Scotch points for the summer half
year. The yearly wages of female servants so employed are from
L. 5 to L. 6, besides victuals. Masons' daily wages are from ls. 8d.
to 2s. 6d.; carpenters from 1s. 8d. to 2s. 2d.; common labourers
1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d., excepting in harvest, when their wages are from
2s. to 2s. 6d. The sum paid for a rood of mason work of thirty-
six yards is 36s. Much of the work both of the mason and car-
penter is performed by contract.
	Prices.--A double-horse cart costs L. 12; a plough, L. 3; and
a pair of harrows, L.-1. The average price of beef and mutton is
5s. per stone of 14 lb. imperial weight; of pork, 4s. Hens, 1s. 6d.


