
74                             RENFREWSHIRE.

                        MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

 Perhaps there is no town in the kingdom of equal magnitude
which has undergone less change in its character and circumstan-
ces since the former Statistical Account of Scotland appeared
than that of Port-Glasgow. Had the improvements now going
on upon the harbour been effected twenty years ago, the place
would undoubtedly have advanced much more rapidly than it has
done, in extent and importance. What shall be the effect of these
improvements, whether, as may reasonably be anticipated, they
shall attract a larger portion of foreign trade, and at the same time
give `n additional impulse to the spirit of domestic enterprise,
time alone will determine.
  January 1836.

                         PARISH OF LOCHWINNOCH.

            PRESBYTERY OF PAISLEY, SYNOD OF GLASGOW AND AYR.

                     THE REV. ROBERT SMITH, MINISTER.

     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
Name.-THE name seems to refer to the large loch in the neigh-
bourhood of the village, and to the principal island which it con-
tains,-Innich being the genitive case of the Celtic word Innis,
which signifies a small island. This etymology is confirmed by the
fact, that a number of names of places in the parish are of Celtic
derivation; and it agrees nearly with the manner in which its name
is pronounced by its present inhabitants, as well as with some of
the ways in which it was anciently spelled. *
  Extent, Boundaries. 'This parish is said by Robertson to be
12 miles long from east to west, and where broadest about 6 miles
from north to south,-which is very near the truth. It contains
about 19250 English acres. Its figure, though irregular, is not un-
like the head section of a fish or serpent. It is bounded on the
south by Beith; on the west by Kilbirnie and Kilmalcolm; on the

<FOOTNOTE>I have seen alsmost forty different ways of spelling Lochwinnoch taken by Dr
A. Crawfurd, a native of the parish, from books and LSS. from 1504 down to the
present day, of which the following are a few examples, Lochvinyoch, Lochquhin-
yoch, Lochwhinoch, Lochinesch, Lochwinioch,ochwinnoch.

          Description of the shire of Renfrew, &c.p. 348.


