
                    PARISH OF WHITBURN.

 PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN & TWEEDDALE,

        THE REV. GRAHAM MITCHELL, A.M., MINISTER.

            I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Extent, &c.-WHITBURN, formerly written Whiteburn,
seems to have received its name in contradistinction to Blackburn,
which lies to the east of the parish. In extent it is about six miles
long, and two and a-half broad. It is bounded on the east, by Living-
ston; on the west, by Shotts and part of Cambusnethan; on the
south, by West Calder; and on the north, by Bathgate and part
of Shotts. + The Almond runs through the north of the parish,
and the Breich along the south of it.
   There are several springs, and a good deal of mineral water
strongly impregnated with iron.
   Mineralogy.-A most valuable seam of coal has been wrought
here for more than a century. A drop falls from the top of

<FOOTNOTE>Besides what was formerly stated in the text the importance of Blackness may
be inferred from the following words found in a charter granted in 1642, to Thomas
Dalzell de Binnes,-" Duobus marinis molendinis granariis lie sea-cornmylnis cum
multturis omnium terrarum de Blacknes et Bonytoun, infra dominium de Linlithgow,
cum viridario--piscationibus et piscaralis lie cruves de Blacknet infra mare, cum
carbonibus, et salinae patellis, de dominio et balliatu predicto." In another charter
to George Earl of Linlithgow in 1690, the tenor is--" officio constabularise et custodia
castri de Blackness--terris, et carbonibus et carbonarlis dictarum terrarium de
Blackness tam infra quam extra fluxum maris ; --piscibus, piscarilia et lie cruives de
Blackness infra mare, &c."
   + The first branch of the Briech water commances at a place called Darmid Lin,
or Meas, on the lands of Climpy, --it is sometimes called Darmed Kirk, as sermons
were often preached in that retired place in times of persecution. The second branch
commences at a place called Linqure, between Knowton and Headless cross Mains,
and Causeway hill. The Almond water commences at the foot of the Hirst bill, in
the parish of Shotts, and from Blairmackhole moss, about a mile farther north, in
the same parish.


