
			YESTER.				155

Soil, &.-The greater portion of the county abounds in lime-
stone and marl.  At Kidlaw, in the south-western corner of this
parish, there is a lime quarry; but, owing to its distance from
coal, the working of it is rather expensive.  There is no stone for
building in the parish, no coal, nor gravel, except what is taken
from the bed of the river.  Formerly there were quarries of hard
red freestone of excellent quality at Barra, which is two miles
cast from Gifford; but they have not been wrought for many
years.  The soil of this parish, in common with that of East Lo-
thian generally, furnishes a striking instance of the great benefit
which results from well directed industry.  It is by no means so
highly favoured by nature as many other districts which have been
less improved.  It presents the aspect of an inclined plain, de-
scending northward from Lammermoor towards the sea, and may
therefore be considered as in some measure averted from the
sun's rays, and exposed to the chilling northern blasts.  The
soil, too, is generally of that kind in which clay greatly predo-
minates, although in several parishes on the sea coast, and in
some of the higher parts of this parish (at Long Yester and Long
Newton) a light loam is sometimes met with.  A clay bottom, how-
ever, forms the principal characteristic of the soil, which is about
four-fifths clay, and one-fifth light and gravelly; but a skilful
agriculture has in a great measure overcome these disadvantages,
and rendered the soil very productive.  It ought to be remarked,
however, that, notwithstanding the northerly exposure of this pa-
rish, the climate is on the whole favourable to the growth of corn;
and it has been very much improved of late by draining.
   Climate.-As might be expected from our proximity to the Lam-
mermoors, a greater quantity of rain probably falls in this parish
than in almost any other in the county.  But the heavy falls of rain
brought from the Atlantic Ocean by the westerly winds, and which
so frequently deluge the West of Scotland, are little known here.
The greater part of the clouds brought from the west are attracted
and broken by the high grounds between Clydesdale and West Lo-
thian.  The few that scape this attraction are broken and divided
by the Pentland hills.  One part of these proceeds northward by
Arthur's Seat, and is wasted in the Frith of Forth; and another
is attracted by the Moorfoot hills, and proceeds along that range
by South hill and Lammermoor.  Some of these clouds, however,
from their height, occasionally escape both attractions, and travel
eastward by Dalkeith towards the vale of Tyne and the higher


