
                            BALMAGHIE.                   181

oaks have been planted in considerable number, and are found
to thrive well.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The most remarkable antiquhty which the parish contains is that
of the Castle of Threave, which is still standing. It is situated
upon an island, several acres in extent, formed by the river Dee.
The walls are very thick and strong, and bear the marks of great
antiquity. It was formerly the residence of the Douglases, and is
said to have been built by one of that family upon the site of a
more ancient castle which belonged to the ancient lords or petty
kings of Galloway. The remains consist of a great square tower,
which has been surrounded at a small distance by a wall with three
round towers. Part of the wall, with one of the towers, is still
standing, and the ruins of the other two may be seen lying upon
the ground. Upon the fall of the house of Douglas, and the an-
nexation of Galloway to the Crown of Scotland in 1455, this cas-
tle came into the hands of the King; but it was afterwards trans-
ferred to the family or Maxwell. The Lords Maxwell, afterwards
Earls of Nithsdale, possessed the heritable office of Stewards of
the Stewartry of Kirkcudbright and keepers of the Castle of
Threave until the year 1747, when all the heritable jurisdictions
in Scotland were annexed to the Crown.
	The keeper of the Castle of Threave received from each of the
parishes of the Stewartry of Kirkeudbright what was called "a
lardner mart cow," that is, a cow in such condition as to be fit for
killing and salting at Martinmas for winter provisions. These
cows were regularly paid to the Earls of Nithsdale till the forfeiture
of the last Earl in 1715, when the practice went into disuse; but
formerly, so attentive were the family to that right, that when, in
the year 1704, they sold the estate on which the Castle of Threave
stood, they reserved the island and castle, that it might afford them
a title to the cattle; and they regularly, by a written commission,
appointed a captain of the Castle of Threave.
	During the troubles under Charles I., the Earl of Nithsdale
held this castle for the King, and armed, paid, and victualled a
garrison of eighty men, besides officers, all at his own expense;
till at length His Majesty, unable to send him an assistance, di-
rected him to make the best conditions he could for himself and
his garrison.
	The same Castle of Threave was, A. D. 1451-2, the scene of
an outrageous and, cruel insult upon the royal authority. The


