
776                           FIFESHIRE.

   Soil.-The soil on the south is light, and rests on red sandstone;
it is not remarkable for fertility, though in some farms good bar-
ley is raised. On the north of the Miglo, the soil rests on a whin-
stone bed, and consists of a rich friable loam, which yields abun-
dant crops. There is thus no want of good materials, both free-
stone and whin, adapted for building and enclosures. From the
side off the Lomond hill, white freestone has also been quarried,
which is said to be durable and susceptible of a fine polish. It is
surprising that the latter has been so little used instead of the
dingy brick-red, which offends the eye in most of the mansions in
the neighbourbood.
                              II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   At a remote period, the lands of Strathmiglo appear to have
belonged to the Crown, whence they passed into the hands ofthe
Scotts of Balwearie, an ancient and powerful family. In the be-
ginning of the sixteenth century, a royal charter was granted, con-
stituting these lands into a barony, with power to form the feuars
into a burgh of barony, and vesting the nomination of its magis-
trates in the superior. The superiority afterwards was obtained by
the family of Balfour of Burleigh, noted in Scottish history, whose
arms are carved on the front of the town-house. After the Re-
bellion in 1745 was quelled, hereditary jurisdictions, the barbaric
remnant of feudalism, were annulled; and Strathmiglo was, in con-
sequence, deprived of the usual baronial privileges. The feuars,
however, still retain the management of some property pertaining
to the original burgh, and use it in a very creditable and beneficial
manner.
   The ecclesiastical history of this parish is not destitute of inte-
rest. The church was originally collegiate, and connected with
the bishopric of Dunkeld. When the Papal hierarchy was assail-
ed, and overturned, this, in common, with many other districts in
Fife, took a lively interest in the Reformed religion, and steadily
adhered to the Presbyterian worship and government through its
checquered and eventful history. A sequestered spot, called Glen-
vale, stilf pointed out as a place of resort in troubled times.
In point of romantic scenery, it may bear comparison with the
wild recess in Carland Crags, where the Covenanters of the
west met for the same purpose. When the secession took
place early in last century, we find a notarial protest taken
by the kirk-session of this parish against the Seceders ordain-
ing elders here, charging them with "intrusion," and threaten-



