
     Of Olrick.

modation.  The stipend principally consists of victual, and 
may be reckoned worth 68 L.  Sterling, besides a glebe of 8
acres land of tolerably good soil.  Miss Scott of Scotstarvet
is patroness.-There is a parochial school in the place, with 
a salary of 9 L.  Sterling, besides clerk fees, school dues, and pa-
rish emoluments.  There are some private schools in the re-
mote corners of the parish, supported by the people, whole 
children are unable to travel to the parish school.  There are 
no society schools in the place.-There are no session funds for 
the support of the poor, excepting the Sunday's collections, 
which may amount to 8 L.  Sterling a-year; yet from the cha-
ritable disposition of the people, the poor, though sometimes 
numerous, are not left a prey to the hardships of their lot.

   Maritime History of the Parish.-The line of coast belong-
ing to this parish, beginning at Strangergel, and ending a lit-
tle beyond the house of Murkle, is not more than 2 English
miles from E. to W.  The coast is rugged and shelvy' but 
not bold.  At the extremities of this line are the Bays of 
Dunnet and Murkle (the latter of which belongs wholly to
this parish), and are the receptacles of the greatest abundance 
of sea-ware in the winter and spring months.  From 15 to 20 
tons of kelp are made yearly.  Considerable quantities of fish 
are caught in these bays.  In some years 10,000 cod and ling 
have been dried in the course of one summer at Murkle; and 
between 70 and 80 barrels of mud-fish have been caught in the 
winter season.  Every other species of fish peculiar to the
country, abounds there.  The bay of Murkle merits a parti-
cular description in the maritime account of this parish.  It
is believed, that, were it better known, it would be in higher
estimation, and more frequented by seafaring people, from the 
shelter it can now afford, and the additional shelter it might,
at no great expense be made to afford to vessels in distress, or 

     VOL. XII. X


