
                      CRAIL.                              947

ceived a shock which no human contrivance was able to remove.
For it was at this spot, near Crellia Crofta, and in this very house,
of which a remnant now is seen, that he captivated the affections
of Miss Cunningham, the daughter of the principal heroine of the
Polemo, and engaged her for his wife. The marriage day was
fixed-the friends were invited-the feast was in preparation, and
the parson engaged to do the solemii duty, when the beautiful and
youthful bride was seized with fever and expired. Drummond's
grief on this occasion he has expressed in poems which have
gained him the name of the Scottish Petrarcli. In the hope of
relieving his burdened spirit, he forsook his patrimonial estate and
country for foreign climes. Eight years he spent abroad. At
length returning, be was united to Miss Logan, grand-daughter
of Sir Robert Logan of Restairig.
   In process of time the estate of Barns passed into another
family, and is now the property of Robert Anstruther, Esq. of
Caipley.
   A small summer-house on the rock projecting into the sea at
Castlehaven points out the spot where Sir Neil Cunningham-an
elder branch of the house of Barns--entertained his followers, and
whence he defied the assaults of his deadly foes. The ruins of
the castle were pulled down in 1839.
   Newhall tower is now completely gone, so that only some old
persons can point to tile spot where once it stood.
Balcomie Castle, once reckoned amongst the finest buildings in
Fife, and in which a late owner is reported to have said he could
accommodate a troop of dragoons, and give every man a bed and
every horse a stall,. is now reduced to one wing, which, however,
affords genteel and ample accommodation for the tenant. The
ancient lofty tower still remains, though much mutilated, and,
while it forms an excellent land-mark to marinrers, shows what the
building must have been. Some of the houses which enclose tile
court-yard are evidently of far more recent date iban the castle;
for, over the arched gateway into the eourt, there are two stones,
on one of which are the arms of Learmonth, as depicted on the
seating in the parish church, with the initials J. L. at the bottom,
and on the other the arms of Myrton, with the initials E. M.
Between these stones there is a vacant space, as if a third had
dropped out; and fortunately, Mr,Todd, the tenant, discovered.
it lately as one of the paving stones of his barn--floor. On this
there at the top, hands joined as if by the ties of wedlock,and

