
516                     EDINBURGHSHIRE.

same in breadth, an addition having been apparently made to it on
the north-west side. The privilege of a burying-ground is acquired
by a grant from the kirk-session on payment of a donation to the
poor. The area is crowded with graves, and the surface is con-
siderably higher than either the level of the church floor or the
street on the outside. There are no epitaphs of public interest.
Most of the tombstones being of sandstone, the inscriptions of any
antiquity are nearly illegible. The oldest tombstone in the
churchyard is of limestone, and contains the following inscription:
"Here lies ane worthie man callit rober Portus, and his wyfe
Euphan Wauchope, quha departit in anno 1609. Here lyes his
son Robert Portus, and his spouse Jene, and his son, quha depar-
tit in-." The monument of the Rev. John Veitch, of West-
struther, mentioned in Monteith's Theatre of Mortality, is not now to
be found. The monument of the Rev. William Mein on the north
wall of the churchyard is nearly altogether illegible; and the
monument of the Rev. William Calderwood on the south wall
within the church, and near the door, though perfectly entire and
legible, is covered with a thick black crust, which would require
to be removed. It is given in Monteith's Theatre of Mortality,
and is as follows:-
                Veritas premitur sed non opprimitur.
   Memories Gulielmi Calderwood, pastoris Dalkethensis, Patris
sui, qui obiit A. D. 1680, mensis vero Martii die 4to. Ac etiam
memoriae Margaritae Craig, filiae de Riccarton, suae matris, quae
decessit anno Dom. MDCLXXXII., mensis Septembris die 30.
Necnon memoriae M. Ludovici Calderwood, sui fratris, caetero-
romque puerorum, qui hie cum patre et matre requescunt:-Hoc
quicquid est monumenti poni curavit Thomas Calderwood, filius
primogenitus.
   In obitum D. Gulielmi Calderwood, pastoris Dalkethensis, an-
nos supra vicenos.

              Non to deflemus coelo, vir magne, receptum,
                Ploramus nostram, nec sine jure, vicem;
              Dotibus eximiis patris, pastoris, amici,
                Vix magis ornatum protulit ulla dies.
              Dum fluit Esca duplex, silvamque amplectitur ulnis,
                Calderwode tibi fama perennis erit.

   Such is the language of the epitaph. But if no monument ex-
ists of more durable material than that on which these las words
have been inscribed, the prophecy they contain can scarcely ex-
pect a fulfilment.
   The dark aisle on the north of the choir attached to the church


