
			GLASGOW.			    107

William Wallace, who was then at Ayr, determined on ridding his
country of the English usurpers and, accompanied by Wallace of
Richardtown, the Laird of Auchinleck, his friend James Cleland,
and others, gave battle to the usurper in the High Street, nearly
where the college now stands, when Sir William cleft, the head of
Earl Percy with one stroke of his sword, on which the route of the
English became general. On 28th August in the following year,
King Edward offered ablations at the shrine of St Mungo, in the
cathedral church of Glasgow, for the good news of Sir Malcolm
de Drummond, a Scottish knight, being taken prisoner by Sir John
Seagreave.
	It appears from the Bishop's Cartulary that the plague raged
furiously here in the years 1330, 1350, 1380, 1381, 1600, 1602,
1604, and in 1649.
	In 1387, the great wooden spire of the Cathedral of Glasgow,
which was covered with lead, was destroyed by lightning. In
1392, a mint-house was erected in the Drygate, where coins were
struck with the motto, " Robertus Dei Gratia Rex Scotorum, vil-
la de Glasgow, Dominus Protector."
	In 1420, there was a convent for Grayfriars somewhere about
the west end of the Grayfriars' Wynd. The friars were patroniz-
ed by the celebrated but unfortunate Isobel Duchess of Albany,
cousin to James, afterwards I. of Scotland, who, on 18th May
1431, at Inchmurran, mortified the lands of Ballagan to the con-
vent of the Grayfriars at Glasgow, for the express purpose of "the
salvation of our souls, and that of Murdoch, Duke of Albany, of
worthy memory, our dear husband; and also of Duncan Earl of
Lennox, our father, and of Walter, James, and Alexander, our
sons." It is worthy of remark, that this pious lady received from
the King, her cousin, as a present, the heads of her husband, her
father, and her sons, Walter and Alexander; James having fled
into Ireland.
	In 1426, Bishop Cameron, soon after his induction, established
the Commissariat Court, and increased the number of the prebenda-
ries of the cathedral to thirty-two. In 1441, St Enoch's Church
was built within St Enoch's gate, and dedicated to the blessed Vir-
gin and St Michael. It had a principal, eight prebendaries, and
a large burying-ground. There is no vestige of the burying-
ground, and there seems to be no record when the church was

than 500 years, the magnificent mansion and extensive manor of Carstairs is possess-
ed by a citizen of Glasgow, Mr. Henry Monteith, alike distinguished for public spi-
rit and active benevolence, whether engaged in merchantile enterprise, in the state,
or in honourable retirement.



