
     Statistical Account

   Cultivation.-When the present incumbent became mi-
nister of the parish in the 1745, the state of agriculture was
most wretched.  The rent of arable land, even in the low
part of the parish, at an average, did not exceed from 2 s.
6 d. to 7 s. 6 d. an acre.  The distinction of outfield and
infield, or croft land, universally prevailed.  There
were few or no enclosures, and the tenants were miserably
accommodated with houses.  The croft land, though every
year ploughed, produced little crop.  There were no carts in
the parish.  The difference is now wonderful.  In few
parts of the country are the farmers in a more prosperous
situation, the rents better paid, or the best mode of cultiva-
ting the soil better understood.  In general, the tenants ob-
serve strictly the following method:  They never have above
a third of their farm in tillage at a time.  They take but
two crops of grain and one of hay from that third, and it is
never broke up again till it remains in pasture grass 3 or 4
years.  To this is to be ascribed the flourishing state of the
tenants*.  Their grounds being thus treated, and well

<FOOTNOTE>

*This change took place about 20 years ago.  The example was set
by some of the pricipal heritors, who were at great pains and expence to
introduce it, and it is now becoming general ever the parish.  The method
pursued with so much effect by the heritors, was either to summer-sallow
and improve their estates themselves, and then let them out in lease; or,
where they were so large as not to admit of this, to let out the parts
which they had not summer-sallowed, allowing the tenant a deduction of
a year's rent for each enclosure he should summer-sallow, till the whole
farm was once gone over, at the average rent of the farm per acre, provi-
ded he gave the enclosure 4 ploughings, and as many harrowings, laid on
a certain quantity of manure, and made and formed new streight ridges
of a proper breadth.  By these means, the tenants were induced to alter
their former system of cultivation, and they continue in the new course,
the beneficial consequences of which are abudantly felt.  They bring
dung from Port-Glasgow and Greenock by water carriage, and they cart
their lime from a lime-work near the east boundary of the parish.  They
generally use two horse ploughs, though, in some places, where the soil.


