
                     COUNTY OF RENFREW.                      539

ger currents.  The lakes are of two sorts, natural and artificial.
Castlesemple Loch or Lochwinnoch is a fine sheet of water,
beautifully situated and ornately embellished by the extensive and
tasteful scenery, natural and artificial, connected with the gardens
and pleasure-grounds of Castlesemple.  The Bar Loch is now
nearly drained, and in dry warm summers bears excellent crops of
oats and hay.  In moist wet seasons, and after heavy rains, it is,
however, still apt to be flooded.  Long Loch, in Neilston, besides
giving birth to the celebrated Levern, is the feeder also of the re-
servoirs at Comare and Hairlaw. Cawpla Loch depends as much
upon the accidental supplies it receives from the clouds, as from
its native springs and other external resources--overflowing in
winter and wet seasons, but shrinking in its dimensions in the
droughts of summer.  Loch Libo is a small sheet of water, of an
oval form, encompassed with lofty hills, with ancient forests nod-
ding to the water's edge.  The lakes in Mearns are by no means
picturesque.  The artificial sheets of water in this county form a
striking and peculiar feature.  The most remarkable of these is
the Sbaws Water-works, so fully described in the account of the pa-
rish of Greenock.  The source of this great reservoir is the Shaws
Water, a small streamlet, eschewing Inchinnan Bridge, uniting
with other streams used to fall into the sea between Ardgowan
House and the town of Innerkip.  For a complete account of
this great and difficult undertaking, resulting in converting a tiny
stream pursuing an idle and useless career into an enormous water.
power, we again refer to the very full and satisfactory account fur-
nisbed in this work by Dr Macfarlane. The following are some of
the principal artificial reservoirs in Renfrewshire, with the num-
ber of acres covered by eac:--

<TABLE>

         Shaws Water,     Great reserveoir,       295 imperial acres.
                          Compensation do.         40
                          Hairlaw do,              72
         Neilston,        Comare do,               16
                          Kirkton, Walton, &c.     40
                          Picketlaw and Kirkton,   26
                          Dunwan, Greenfiel1d, &c, 64
         Eagiesham.       Dunwan, Blackwood, &c.   96
                          Binend Loch,             50
                                                -------
                                                  699
   Besides the above, several large dams, leads, and smaller re-
servoirs, &c. cover about 200 acres more, The country almost
everywhere abounds with excellent springs of water, except in
some places towards the sea shore, where it is brackish.  The
"Aboon the Brae," in Neilston, is a remarkable spring, yielding


