
384                      DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

place is pointed out where these stones were laid down, and carried
across a portion of the loch to the present castle. This castle, in-
cluding the out-works, covers nearly sixteen acres. It contains
three courts strongly built with hewn stone. The walls in the few
places where they are entire, measure twelve feet in thickness. It
was surrounded by three deep fosses running from east to west,
within which there was a bason built of stone of superior workman-
ship for holding the boats, and protecting them from the attacks
of their enemies and the weather. In those days the principal en-
trance was by water, and from the ground being marshy around the
castle for more than a mile, with a narrow neck of land leading to
the outer fosse, must have rendered it not only a place of great
strength, but also very difficult of access. It was preserved as a
border fence till the union of the crowns. Before that time a gar-
rison of 200 men was constantly kept in this castle, and the gover-
nor was maintained by very liberal provisions till the reign of James
VI., when border hostilities ceased. Among the titles of the Mar-
quis of Annandale, he assumed that of Constable or Hereditary
Keeper of Lochmaben Castle. A salary of L. 300 Scots, with the
exclusive fishings in the castle and mill lochs, with boats and nets,
was given to the keeper. James VI., in 1612, granted to the cor-
poration of Lochmaben the fishings of the six lakes near the town;
but the present proprietor of Castlemains tried the legality of this
grant before the Court of Session, and obtained a decreet in ab-
sence, and now claims the exclusive right of the whole fishings in
the Castle loch around which his property lies. The governor of
the castle had also for the maintenance of the garrison what was
called " a Lairdna Mairt," or " Lairdner Mairt cow," which was
one of the best fat cows out of every parish in Annandale, and
thirty-nine meadow geese and fastin e'ens hens. These were claim-
ed by the Marquis of Annandale about a hundred years ago. The
conversion of this claim was L. 20 Scots, which was uplifted out of
thirty-three parishes, now reduced, by annexations at the Refor-
mation, to twenty-one. Since that period, no demand for payment
has been made. The castle was allowed to fall into ruins during
the seventeenth century, and the only remaining part is the heart
of the walls, from which the ashler work has been almost stripped
off, and there are few houses in the neighbourhood in which some
of the stones are not seen. The hewn stones were of red sand-
stone, and in all probability procured from the red stone quarry of
Corncocklemoor, in the upper district of the parish. The lime


