
     Statistical Account

   Antiquities.-The remains of a Druidical temple are still
to be seen on the farm of Graitney Mains.  It is of an o-
val. form, and incloses about half an acre of ground, It is
formed of large rough whin or moorstones, which must
have been brought from a considerable distance, there be-
ing no stones of this kind within 10 or 12 miles of this
place.  One of the largest of these stones, which is com-
monly called Lochmaben stone, measures 118 cubical feet,
the total weight of which, supposing each cubical foot to
weigh 12 stone, must be 20 tons and upwards.  The rest
are considerably smaller.  The site of this temple is said
to be famous for having been the place where alliances
were anciently formed between the two nations.  The re-
mains of two or three square towers are still to be seen in
different parts of the parish.  They seem to have been
places of defence against the incursions of the English bor-
derers.  There are in the possession of James Graham, for-
merly of this parish, but now in the parish of Dornoch,
29 small silver coins, which were found inclosed in a small
wooden box, in a moss near the Hirst; 25 of them are
about the size of sixpences, and the remaining four some-
what smaller.  A few of them seem to have been struck
at Canterbury, but the greatest part of them at London,
apparently in the reign of one of the King Edward's, but
there is no legible date on any of them.

<FOOTNOTE>

years ago, and is composed chiefly of labourers and mechanics.  Several of
the principal farmers in both parishes also have become members of this
society, merely with a view to encourage it, from a conviction, that it is
an excellent institution, and, if properly conducted, may be productive
of much advantage to a very deserving description of men.  Each mem-
ber contributes a small sum quarterly, which is gradually accumulating
into a fund; from which every member in distress draws a stated allow-
ance-weekly, according to the regulations of the society.  Several of the
members have already derived much advantage from this institution.


