
334			LANARKSHIRE.

the south-east is overlooked by a lofty heather ridge, rising to the
height of 2450 feet above the sea, and from the summit of which
the view is truly grand and extensive. To the south the view is
bounded by the Solway Frith, the mountains of Skiddaw and Hel-
vellyn in Cumberland, and the Isle of Man; to the west by Aisla
Craig, Isle of Arran, Benlomond, and the Paps of Jura; and on
the north, by the range of the Pentlands.
	The appearance of the village is peculiar from the detached man-
ner in which the cottages are placed on the eminences or in hol-
lows of the valley, according as the fancy or caprice of miners sug-
gested. The principal houses are a large and somewhat ancient
mansion called the Ha', belonging to the Earl of Hopetoun, and
from which the noble family take their title. One of its wings is
converted into a chapel, in which divine service is regularly perform-
ed by a chaplain, principally supported by the Earl of Hopetoun.
The villa appropriated for the agent of the Scotch Mines Com-
pany is neat, and the garden laid out with considerable taste, pro-
ducing strawberries, gooseberries, black and red currants, &c. and
the usual culinary vegetables. In favourable years a few apples
are also obtained. The house and grounds are surrounded by a
thriving plantation of beech, larch, common and mountain ash,
plane and elm trees.
	The library was instituted by the miners in the year 1741, and
consists of 1600 or 1700 volumes. The terms of admission and
annual subscription are extremely moderate, and consequently af-
ford every facility for intellectual instruction, thus, in some mea-
sure accounting for the character which the workmen have long
had of possessing a more than usual share of intelligence for men
in their situation.
	The soil is indifferent, and in a natural state would only afford
pasture for sheep; still, under every disadvantage, the miners by their
industry, aided by the kindness of the noble proprietors, who give
land to improve, rent free,--have by spade labour alone brought
into cultivation somewhat more than a mile square, yielding one
year with another not less than 10,000 stones of hay, and a con-
siderable quantity of grass for summer use. The potatoe crop ave-
rages 8000 or 10,000 stones, and to these may be added a small
quantity of oats. The two last occasionally suffer from wet or frost.
In the year 1731, little cultivation had been attempted, and only two
cows were kept in the village; in 1773, twenty cows were maintained,
and at present there are upwards of ninety,--the produce of which


