
                               AYR.                                 47

currence. The use of ardent spirits is still indulged in, among the
working-classes to a greater extent than is beneficial to their
health and morals; but they are not in this respect worse than those
of the same class in other places. A wish to maintain public de-
cency seems to be felt by all, and the influence of public opinion
is fully as operative here as elsewhere for the repression of vice, and
the encouragement of social and personal virtue. Except among
a few of the low Irish, a general desire prevails among parents to
have their children educated, and they enjoy opportunities for this
purpose more ample than in most other towns, which put this
blessing easily within the reach of the very poorest of the popula-
tion. We confine these remarks chiefly to the lower orders of so-
ciety, and we wish them to be understood as applicable in a very
general way.
   Speaking of the inhabitants at large, we would say that they are
rather of a gay and social temperament. They are much given to
hospitality and kindly fellowship with one another, and among the
higher and middle ranks iii particular, social intercourse is con-
ducted with urbanity and easy politeness. Every thing like gross
intemperance has been discarded. From the highest to the low-
est, there is a natural propensity to press upwards; this distin-
guishes all sections of society; it may appear a little more ridicu-
lous in a provincial town than in the elite of the west end of Lon-
don, or the fashionable saloons of Paris; but still it emanates from
the same all-pervading principle. The society in Ayr, taking it all
in all, is as agreeable and well-regulated and as fashionable as can
be met with, in any other county town.
   Races, &c.--Races are held yearly, generally on the first week
of September, by the Western Meeting, for which there is an ex-
cellent course in the vicinity of the town; and the Caledonian
Hunt assembles here once every five years. There are two packs
of fox-hounds and one of harriers kept in the neighbourhood, for
the amusement of those who are fond of such sport; and angling
and shooting may be easily practised by such as feel so inclined.
These and other amusements, enable the inhabitants to pass their
hours of relaxation very agreeably, and help to maintain a steady
cheerfulness of temperament, a dignified sociability of characters
and a pleasant and frank demeanour towards one another.
			IV.--INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.--Aynhire stands eminently distinguished among
the other counties of Scotland, for agricultural improvements.


