
     Statistical Account

half a mile broad, runs through a part of the parish of Kil-
ninver towards the east, and thence, taking its course south-
wards for 4 miles, falls into the head of Lochmelsort.  These
rivers are stored with salmon, white and muir trout, and
eels. And upon Lochmelfort itself, where the Oude forms
its junction with the sea, there is a salmon fishing.  There
are a great number of other, but smaller, rivers, lakes, and
rivulets, in these parishes, well supplied with trout, and some
of them admit salmon into their mouth at spawning time*.

   Population.-These parishes have, within these few years,
greatly increased in population, owing to the young men's
continuing at home, and fertling in the parish in time of
peace, for war always drain off the youth.

<FOOTNOTE>

The climate here, as indeed on all the west coast, is ex-
cessively rainy and moist.  The S. W. and westerly winds,
driving the clouds and exhalations from the great Atlantic O-
cean, are constantly accompanied with rain, as the E. and N. E.
winds, passing over a great track of continent, are generally dry.
Hence our rainy summers and harvests, though commonly fa-
vourable to pasturage, are very unfriendly to agriculture.  From
our vicinity to the Atlantic, the winters are open and tempe-
rate; snow seldom lies deep, or above two days together; on
the low grounds of the west coast.  Notwithstanding the mois-
ture of the climate, the people of those parishes are healthy, and
live to a good old age; many till 90, a few to 100 years.
The most common diseases are rheumatic complaints, colds, and
cholics, the constant attendants upon moist and rainy climates,
bring often along with them consumptions, and other lingering,
but deadly, disorders.  Formerly the small pox made great ra-
vages among the children, especially upon the sea-coast, where
the inhabitants seed much upon fish.  But inoculation is now
practised with great success, and the lower class of people have
quite got the better of the prejudices which they once enter-
tained against it, and which nothing but a conviction from ex-
perience of its salutary effects, could have overcome.


