
286                  HADDINGTONSHIRE.

they made a dam or bank, rising above the level of the orifice, or
of a ditch cut from it; and by laving the water over this bank, it
gradually escaped from the mouth of the working. A series of
these dams could be made one after another, and thus the work-
ings, with considerable labour, freed from water; but this mode must
have been very hazardous, as any injury to a dam would allow the
water to flow back on the lower workings, while no considerable
growth of water could be overcome.
   In the course of time, a much more efficient mode of draining
coal-works by day-levels was introduced; but we are ignorant of the
precise date at which they were commenced. The day-level is a
mine carried forward from the bed of a stream, or the lowest ground
that can be found, directly into the heart of the strata, without fol-
lowing the seams of coal. This mine, of course, can be made the
means of draining all the coal strata lying above it, and if the
"level" or water-course be kept clear, effectually relieves the
workings from water.
   The family of Seyton having obtained a grant of the lands of
Trainent from Robert the Bruce, for their attachment to his cause,
seem to have devoted much attention to their coal-workings; and
from the preface to "Satan's Invisible World," by Sinclair, we
learn, that the Earl of Winton of that day had run free levels, for
several miles below ground, to drain his coal-works, and had ex-
cited the admiration of the writer, by "cutting impregnable rocks
with more difficuIty than Hannibal cutted the Alps," by "deep pits
and air-holes" and "floods of water running through the labyrinths
for several miles."
   This level, commenced probably about the middle of the seven-
teenth century, still assists in draining the coal, but it has been
extended nearly two miles further than the Earls of Winton car-
ried it, and now reaches the heart of the coal-field. Since the ap-
plication of the power of steam, this mode of draining coal-works
has of course been rendered less essential; but still, where the in-
clination of the surface admits, it is the most convenient mode of
relieving the strata above it, and for those below, it is only required
to raise the water to the mine in place of to the surface. In ad-
dition to the main level, which runs in a southerly direction, there
were two other levels made in former times, the Heugh level, a branch
of the main level, and the Bankton level, which discharges, at the
surface, near the mansion-house of Bankton.
   The only other improvement in regard to coal-works which it is




    ]





