
540                           AYRSHIRE.

during the day, and after much exertion, and unroofing several of
the houses, the fire was got under, but not until it had rendered a
number of families houseless and homeless. Their losses, how-
ever, were speedily covered, by a liberal subscription among the
other inhabitants, and by natives of the town, who had removed
to England and foreign countries; and their houses were ultimate-
ly even improved, by being covered with slated roofs.
	On the 18th October 1801, being the Sabbath, the town was
visited by another calamity still more memorable and disastrous.
At tbat time the High Church happened to be vacant, and the con-
gregation had no sermon on the above day. In consequence of
this, the Low Church was much crowded; nothing, however, occur-
red to create any alarm during Divine service in the forenoon. But
in the afternoon, while the congregation were in the act of assem-
bling, a fragment of plaster fell from the ceiling of the church.
This produced in the minds of those who were already seated in
the galleries, an apprehension that the roof was about to fall in.
A rush towards the stairs instantly ensued, when those who were
in the act of ascending were encountered by the descending co-
lumn, and in a moment precipitated to the bottom. A heart-
rending scene was now exhibited. Such a mass of human bodies
were head on one another, that it was impossible, from the su-
perincumbent weight, to render immediate assistance to those who
were in the greatest danger. One layer of bodies after another
was removed, until the passages were cleared; but alas, it was too
late, for it was found that twenty-nine of the sufferers had already
expired. A number of them died from suffocation; and others
who survived were so severely bruised, that they never recovered
their former health. This mournful event was altogether the ef-
fect of a sudden panic, for the church was neither very old nor in
a ruinous condition. The heritors, however, desirous to remove
all apprehension from the public mind, immediately resolved to
rebuild it, which accordingly was done in the following year.
	Land-owners.--The chief landowners are, His Grace the Duke
of Portland; the Marchioness of Hastings and Moira; William
Blane of Grougar, Esq; the Heirs of the late Mr James Porteous
of Monkland; William H. Crawford of Crawfurdland, Esq.; John
Parker of Aisloss, Esq.; James Dunlop of Annanhill, Esq.
	Parochial Registers.--Register of baptisms. The earliest entry
is dated 6th February 1644; but little seems to have been entered
till January 1663. From that period, almost nothing is entered


