
               80                          PERTHSHIRE.


               fourth Monday of each month; and occasionally at other times
               when business requires.  Independently of its judicial functions,
               its business consists principally in admitting burgesses.  The form
               of admission was fixed in 1786. *  The fees of admission consist
               of entry money, and of certain small dues, viz. 10 merks as up-
               set, and L.4 Scots as "foot-ball." The entry money varies ac-
               cording to the ground upon which the application for the right of
               burfess ship is rested, and, likewise according as the applicant
               wishes to be a merchant or trade's burgess.   There are three de-
               grees of rates 1. those of sons and sons-in-law; 2. those of ap-
               prentices; and 3. those of strangers, applicable to both merchant
               and trade's burgesses.  The rate varies according to the age of
               the applicant.  A certain portion of the entry money is paid in-
               to the common good, and the remainder to the guildry.  The real
               property of the guildry is valued at L. 28,1000.  Their average
               income was in 1833 stated to be between L. 1300 and L. 1400.
               It has an eleemosynary roll to the extent of L. 800.
                 The corporation of trades or "Incorporated Trades," are seven,
               the hammermen, bakers, glovers, wrights, tailors, fleshers, and
               shoemakers.  Tbey have acourt, termed the Convener Court, com-
               posed of the trade's members of the town-council, and the deacon
               of the weavers.  The court has no fund.  The Hammermen Cor-
               poration consists of ten sciences, viz. blacksmiths, farriers, gun-
               smiths, watchmakers, saddle, cap, and harness-makers, brass and
               iron-founders, jewellers and foldsmiths, coachmakers, cutler,
               tinsmiths and plumbers.  The Baker Corporation consists of one
               science only; + the Glover corporation consist of two sciences,

               <FOOTNOTE>In 1608, there was an act as to the admission of guild brethren, that every per-
               son before his entry shall be presented before the council in his armour.
               t St Obert was the patron saint of this corporation or calling,-whether a real
               or an imaginary being, is uncertain.  But believing him to have been a real being,
               they were accustomed to honour him by holding an annual festival, at which a play
               was performed, known by the name of "Saint Obert's Play."  On the loth Decem-
               ber, a number of people assembled at even, called "Saint Obert's Eve." They at-
               tired themselves in disguise dresses, and passed through the city piping and dancing,
               and striking drums, and carrying in their hands burning torches.  One of the actors
               was clad in a particular kind of coat, Which they designated the Devil's Coat, and
               another rode upon a horse, having on its feet men's shoes.  There is no account ex-
               tant of its minute particulars, but, from the manner in which the kirk,session and
               the corporation officials dealt with the performers, it appears to have been idolstrous,
               profane, and immoral in its tendency.  In December 25, 1581, the Session issued an
               "act against idolatrous and superstitious pastimes, especially against the Sanct
               Obert's play."  "In January 7, 1587-8, the Deacon of the baxters of the burgh of
               Perth, with the haill brethren of their said craft, being convened for the time to take
               order for amendment of the blasphemous and heathenish plays of Sanct Oberti's pas-
               time, and express their *  * * * of such as shall hereafter play or mint or do the
               like; and finding that the playing of the game this year has ingenderate throughout
               the haill toun great slander of the Gospel, evil report of the toun, and defame of the



