
26                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

convicA ofdrinking on the Sabbathe, andhaveing masking plays
in Ws house for the Jnglishemen, he was ordained to mak publick
confession of his fault the next Sabbath.,,
; As this old register contains some curious entries, I shall quote
a few of them. 11 December 27, 1652, Ordained yt for mending
ye people, ye better to keepe the kirk, a roll of ye names of the
families be taken up, and Sabbathlie, yt they be called upon by
name, and who bees notted absent sall pay 40d. tones quoties."
Again same day and date, 11 Item, Ordained yt if ane elder
ror other paroshiner be fund drinking in ane ailhoirse on the
Sabbath day, or extraordinarly on the week-day, who bees not-
ted to faill sall pay 40d. for the first falt, and mak publick
confession before the congregation, with certification if any be
fund to fall therein againe, they sall undergoe higher censure,
especially an elder.' Again, 11 March 4, 1654, For mending
the people of Stroma, to keepe the kirk better, - it was ordained
yt no passenger coming over to the kirk sall pay any fraught,
and if any yt heve boats stay away t6y sall pay 3 p. 4d. and
others 40d." This is a most salutary regulation, and, I am
sorry to say, as necessary now, if it could be carried into effect as it
was nearly 200 years ago.  I shall only add one other extract.  It is
regarding the appointment of a schoolmaster in this parish in      the
year-1660, and furnishes a remarkable contrast even with the present
very inadequate remuneration of parochial teachers: 11 Oct. 2f,
-1 660.  So few elders remaining as no session culd be bolden, yet
the minister with them yt were present haveing the consent -of the
rest, condescended and agreed with Donald Reid Skinner to be
schoolmaster at Cannisbey, for -teaching the young children that
suld be sent to him, and for his paines 5 bolls victuall was pro-
mised him in the yeir, whilk he thinking too little yet accepted to
undertake tbeeharge, and,to enter with all convenient diligence
providellig the said 5 bolls victuall be duelie payed, and that he
may have furniture of peats to supplie his present need."
About a mile and a half to the west of the beautiful promon-
tory of Dancansbay Head stood the celebrated John o' Groat's
House.  Nothing but the site where this once famous building is
said to have stood, is now- to be discerned.  The traditionary story
respecting Malcolm, Gavin, and John de Groat having arrived
here fiom Holland in the reign of James IV. of Scotland; their
having. purchhsed th.ei lands of Duncansbay; their commemorating
-their arrival by an annual festive meeting, and the ingenious plait
which John de Groat adopted of buildingan octagonal house with,


