
      244                      ROSS AND CROMARTY.

      striking. In some cases, a larger rent is now paid for the privi-
      lege of shooting alone than was paid forty-five years ago for the
      right of pasturing.
        It is gratifying to observd, that the march of intellect has
      dispelled many of those superstitions that were formerly so com-
      mon in the Highlands ; and there is reason to believe, that, in a
      few years, such as remain shall disappear.

        September 1837.

                             PARISH OF FODDERTY.

                   PRESBEYTERY OF DINGWALL, SYNOD OF ROSS.

                        THE REV. JOHN NOBLE, MINISTER.

           I.-ToPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
      Name.-THE name of this parish is supposed to be derived from
      two Gaelic words, Foigh and Ritaobh, which signify "a meadow
      along the side of a hill." These terms are descriptive of the val-
      ley of Strathpeffer, which forms the principal part of the parish,
      and stretches westward from Dingwall to the distance of four miles.
        Extent, &c.-The parish has been greatly diminished in extent,
      quoad sacra, since the localities attached to the Parliamentary
      churches were disjoined from it. It measures, at presentl from
      east to west 9 miles, and from north to south II miles ; and is
      bounded by Dingwall on the east; Urray on the south ; Contin
      and Kinlochluichart on the west; and Kincardine and Kiltearn
      on the north.
        Topographical Appearances, &c.-The parish is one of the most
      hilly and mountainous in Scotland. This is its general character,
      with the exception of the valley of Strathpeffer.
        Ben-Wyves or Ben-Uaish rises to the height of 3426 feet, and
      in respect of lateral bulk is the principal bill in the north.  It was
      never known to be so free of snow as in the singularly hot summer
      of 1826. Its top is covered with a green soft sward, and when the
      sky is cloudless the extent and grandeur of the view from it amply
      compensate for the labour and fatigue of climbing. The principal
      proprietor, it is said, holds big right of possession from his Majesty,
      on condition of presenting a snow-ball at the court of St James', on
                                     3


