
			FILBRIDE.			35

with the exception of a few patches, one uncultivated waste. It
has since been drained, limed, and subdivided, at an expense which
the writer is ashamed to mention, as the soil is too light to reme-
nerate him for his outlay. It would at present let at a rent of L.20
per annum. The atipend consists of 17 chalders, in equal pro-
portions of barley and oatmeal, and payable according to the flans
of the county. The allowence for communion elements is L.8,
6s. 8d.
	The whole of the parishioners belong to the Established
Church, with the exception of about forty individuals connected
with the Congregational Union of Scotland. The last have a
chapel at Sannox, containing about 269 sittings. Their minister,
having acarcely any conggregation of his own, draws his audiences,
principally from among those members of the Establishement who
are unable to attend their parish church. On the evening of every
third Sabbath, he preaches at the school-house at Brodick; and
one Sabbath in the three the whole day at Lochranza. He is prin-
cipally supported out of the funds of the Congregational Union,
and by religious societies, by which he is employed in itinerating
through the Highlands for a few months every summer. He has
a good house attached to his chapel. Both the house and the
chapel were built by subscription about twenty years ago.
	Education.--There are at present 6 schools in the parish, be-
longing exclusively to itself, and a sevent at Lochranza, common
to Khlbride and Kilmorie. The maximum salary for parnchial
school is distributed in unequal portions among four of these
Lamlash receiving L.19; Brodick, L.16; Corrie, L.4; and
Lochranza, L.6, with nearly an equal sum from Kilmorie pa-
rish. The other schools are, as Assembly school at Whiting
Ray; and a private school at Lamlash. At all the schools,
the fees for teaching are the same as in the parochial schools
of rural districts in the low country. The people, however;
being generally poor, the amount of school fees in the best At-
tended of them does not excend L.14 per annum; in some, at
is as low as L.5. All the parochial teachers have schoolhouses
without rent, from the Duke of Hamilton; and the Assembly
teacher, the accommodations required by the rules of the Assembly
Committee on schools. The salary of the Assembly teacher is
L.25. Whiting, Bay has been singulary fortunate, in ??
cession of excellent teacher, appointed by the ??
Assembly. The branches usually taught in the ??


