
258                   HADDINGTONSHIRE.

erected the whole into a free barony, by the name of Aberlady.
From the "Douglases" this barony, with the patronage of the
church, passed to the "Fletchers;" from them to the noble fa-
mily of "Portmore;" and, about forty years ago, into the hands of
the Earl of Wemyss, in whose family they remain. The church
of Aberlady was built in 1773. It is conveniently situated for the
parish, and is on the whole as comfortable as any in the county.
It is seated for 525, considerably more than half the population.
The number of communicaiits is about 400, and that of the
dissenting families does not exceed 12. The manse was built
probably about 150 years ago, and seems for that period to have
been a remarkably good one, perhaps the best in the district. It
cannot be called so now. The grebe extends to about 8 acres
Scotch measure; and the stipend consists of 16 chalders of vic-
tual, with the usual allowance for communion elements.
   Education.-There are two schools in the parish, one of them
parochial with the maximum salary. The school fees amount
to about L. 20 a-year. The people are fully alive to the be-
nefits of education, and send their children to school, general-
ly, at a very early age. The number of scholars at both schools
in winter is about 150; but in spring and summer, for obvious
reasons, the attendance is less numerous. In both schools, too
during the winter months, there are evening classes for instruction
in writing and arithmetic; and throughout the year, two respecta-
ble females occupy a portion of their time in giving lessons in nee-
dle-work. There are also two Sunday schools. About a sixth
part of the population is thus receiving the benefit of instruction,
and laying, it is to be hoped, a good foundation for future useful-
ness and respectability.
   Friendly Societies.-There are two such institutions in the pa-
risht one of which has existed upwards of seventy years,-the other
more than forty. They have between them more than L. 400 of
capital; and, though not in so flourishing a condition as is to be
desired, have been unquestionably in a high degree beneficial, and
promise to be useful for many years to come. Friendly societies
may be considered as perhaps the best contrivances which have yet
been fallen upon for supporting the independence, and promoting
the comfort of the working-classes; and they seem to be deserving
of more countenance and support from the higher and the middle
ranks, than on the whole they have hitherto received. Compared
with "saving banks," their superiority can hardly fail to be ad-


