
228                                 FORFARSHIRE.

L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d. As the school is always well attended, the school-
fees amount, on an average, to L. 50 a-year, which, with the salary
and perquisites, realize an income of about L. 84, 4s. 4 1/2d. per an-
num, and, of course, afford a pretty fair remuneration for the ar-
duous labour of teaching a parochial school. The income of the
schoolmistress, however, is disproportionate. She has, indeed, a
free house and garden, but no salary. With the exception of her
house and garden, which she holds by grant from the benevolent
family of Kinnettles, she is left entirely to depend on her preca-
rious school-fees.  But, by her attention and accomplishments,
she has hitherto been enabled to earn a tolerably comfortable live-
lihood.
	The parochial teacher has the legal accommodations.  He has
a well-finished two-story dwelling-house, an excellent school-room,
and two bolls of oatmeal in lieu of a garden.
	The four rates of school-fees, fixed about thirty years ago by
the competent judges, are, per quarter, 2s. 6d. for beginners; 3s.
for reading and writing; 4s. for arithmetic; and 5s. for the learned
languages; but, as teachers in general have the practice of mul-
tiplying books in the hands of their scholars, the quarter fees sel-
dom amount to much more than one-half of the total expense of
education per quarter.
	All young persons in the parish betwixt six and fifteen years of
age can read, and nearly all write also; and the number of per-
sons in the parish, upwards of fifteen years of age, who can neither
read nor write, is only 1. The people, in general, are alive to the
benefits of education; and parents, in particular, make great ex-
ertions to have their children well educated. The total number
of scholars at school in the parish is 112.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--Public begging is unknown in the
parish. Its paupers are all supported by the parish funds; and
the average number of persons receiving parochial aid is 6. The
average sum allotted to the first is 3s. per month; to the second,
3s. 6d.; to the third, 4s.; to the fourth, 5s.; to the fifth, 10s.;
to the sixth, L. 1, 1s. 8d. The whole monthly expenditure, L. 2,
7s. 2d.; yearly, L.28, 6s. The contributions to the parochial funds
arise from various sources; as follows: The annual average amount
of church collections, L.22, 7s. 3d.; mortcloth dues, L. 1, 7s. 10 1/4d.;
civil penalties, L. 1, 5s. 8 1/2d.; marriage proclamations, 6s. 2d.;--
amount of annual income, L.25, 6s. 11 3/4d. But, as the expenditure


