
                          GLADSMUIR.                            177

It was wrought for some time, but afterwards the working was given
up, for what cause I have not been able to learn. But now that
there is so great a demand for iron, it is in contemplation again to
begin the work. The property belongs to the Earl of Wemyss,
who, in all probability, will not lose sight of a mineral of so much
importance at the present time.
   Freestone rock for building is found, everywhere in the parish.
An old quarry on the road from Gladsmuir to Penston, from which
stones were procured for building the church and school-house, is
still open, but filled with water to a considerable depth. A quarry
was also opened last year at Westbank, for supplying stones for the
buildings upon the estate. Quarries of a similar kind are to be
met with in different parts of the parish.
   There is a remarkable dike of whinstone running through the
parish, from east to west. It passes betwixt the house of Redcoll
and Longniddry, and being quarried in different places, has fur-
nished an abundant supply of excellent stones for making and re-
pairing the roads. It has been traced through East Lothian all the
way to Borrowstownness.
   In the fields about Greendykes, Southfield, and Adniston, great
quantities of boulders and detached pieces of rock have been found
and removed. They were struck by the plough, and the cultiva-
tion of the fields could not be effected till they were raised and care
ried off.
   The soil in the middle tract, upon the western, extremity, and
all upon the south of the great road, is clayey, with the exception of
a small tract upon the banks of the Tyne, which is loamy; near the
Trith, on the north, it is sandy, and as you advance southward towards
Longniddry, it becomes a rich loam. There is a field lying to the
south-west of Chesterhall, which is mossy. That field, forty years
ago, was a bog, out of which the old people remember peats being
dug. All vestiges of what it once was are now done away, and it
is in a state of high cultivation.
   Plantations.-Belts of wood are to be found in different parts of
the parish, composed of oak, beech, lime, birch, elm, ash, chestnut,
hazel, and some others. The plantations of Penston, Hodges,
and Samuelston, being contiguous to each other, form a tract of
wood betwixt 100 and 200 acres, lying on the south of the great
road, and are composed of the different kinds of fir, but chiefly the
Scotch. The Penston wood, consisting of 30 acres, was planted
about forty years ago by Lady Ross Baillie. The wood at Hodges


