
788                     AYRSHIRE.

	The warbling woodland, the resounding shore,
	The pomp of groves, and garniture of fields.

         Climate and Diseases. *--The quantity of rain which falls at
Largs has never been ascertained, but there is no doubt that it is
considerable. A rain-gauge was kept for some time at the Bris-
bane Observatory, two miles from Largs, from which it appeared
that the quantity which fell at Brisbane was very great. There
is reason to believe, however, from the situation of the observatory,
that showers frequently fall there, which do not reach the plain of
Largs. The town of Largs is pretty much exposed to wind from
all points, but it suffers only from the east and north-west. The
former comes down the Brisbane and Gogo glens, frequently with
great violence, yet it is not found that these winds produce those
pernicious effects on the health which are ascribed to them on the
east coast of Scotland, the wind being dry and clear. Largs is,
generally speaking, a very healtly place, the mortality in ordinary
years varying from 1 in 50, to 1 in 65 of the whole population,
exclusive of strangers. To this rule there have been some excep-
tions. In 1828, an epidemic dysentery prevailed throughout the
whole of the west of Scotland, and added ten or twelve to our bill
of mortality for that year; and also in 1836 and 1837, an
epidemic erysipelas, of a peculiarly intractable character, prevail-
ed, and proved fatal in a considerable number of cases.	In 1832,
cholera appeared in three houses; the number of deaths was five.
To two of the houses it was brought by persons arriving from
Glasgow, in the third instance it appeared spontaneously. In no
case did it spread to the neighbouring houses. Typhus fever ap-
pears in Largs occasionally, seldom spreading to any great extent,
and for the most part confined to the poorer and worst lodged part
of our population. Poverty, filth, and intemperance, will produce
their usual effects on the physical and moral health in the healtbi-
est locality. The writer has long been impressed with the neces-
sity of having a separate building for the reception and treatment
of contagious diseases in Largs, and in all considerable towns and
villages, where the patients would enjoy the benefit of thorough
cleanliness and ventilation, and where the sick would  be separat-
ed from the healthy. In this way, he thinks, many valuable lives
might be saved, and much misery prevented.
	The agricultural portion of the inhabitants are remarkably

<FOOTNOTE>This department has been furnished by Dr John Campbell, Largs.

					3


