
                          ORMISTON.                            139

pose of discussing some appropriate question in rural or political
Economy. It subsisted above ten years. *
   About this time, 1732, he made great improvements in the vil-
lage, and laid out the fields contiguous to it upon a plan furnished
by Mr Lewis Gordon, a land-surveyor, whom he brought from
England for that purpose. They were all divided into small por-
tions and enclosed with thorn hedges and hedge-row trees. This
plan was extended over the whole barony of Ormiston, by which
it was and still is distinguished from all other parishes in the neigh-
bourhood.
   Among his other improvements, Mr Cockburn did not overlook
the public roads. By his exertions in making them and keeping
them in a state of repair, he set an example which has contribut-
ed as much as anything else to the prosperity of the country.
   About 1741, Mr Cockburn seems to have retired from public
life, and to have employed himself in superintending and carrying
on those improvements which he had so laudably begun. He died at
his son's house at the Navy Office in the year 1747, leaving behind
him a name which will be handed down with respect in the pa-
rish of Ormiston from father to son for many generations.
   His son George, who succeeded him, is no farther deserving of
notice than as being the last of that distinguished family. He was
appointed a captain of the navy in 1741, and one of the commis-
sioners of the navy in 1756. He died at Brighton in 1770.
   Family of Hopetoun.-The family of Hopetoun succeeded the
family of Cockburn, in the lands and house of Ormiston. John
second Earl of Hopetoun having acquired possession of three
farms north of the Tyne some years before, purchased the whole
property in 1747. The barony of Paiston had already come into
the possession of the family, having been purchased by the tutors
of Charles first Earl of Hopetoun, from Robert Hepburn, after-
wards Sir Robert Hepburn of Keith, in 1696; so that in 1747
the Earl of Hopetoun became the sole proprietor of the parish.
   John second Earl of Hopetoun, who acquired the property of
Ormiston, was one of the most eminent men of his time. A sound
understanding and a benevolent disposition, united with a very
ample fortune, rendered him, during the course of a long life an or-
nament and a blessing to his country. Though qualified by his
abilities and knowledge to fill the first offices of the State, he con-

<FOOTNOTE>See particular account of this Society in the fifth volume of Farmers' Magazine.


