
STROMNESS.                                                    27

of Hoy, with the greet] island of Graemsay., which Tim to the south,
imparts a beaut to the scene, which, in clear weather, is often
y
enhanced by the lofty mountains of Sutherland, which appear in
the distance.
Extent, *c.-The lenc,,tb of the parish is about 5 miles: its
breadth, 31 : and the square miles it contains, 12J.      The south-.
most point is in 58' 561 50' north latitude; northmost point,
59' I' 10' north latitude.      It is of an irregular figure, and is
bounded by the Sound of Hoy on the south ; by the parish
of Sandwick, on the north ; by the lake of Stenness and an
arm of the sea, on the east; and by the Atlantic, on the west.
The bills are situated on the north-west; are naked and barren,
being destitute of plantations.  Still, they have their beauty.  They
rise above the level of the sea, to the height of from 100 to 400
or 500 feet,-forMiDg, at some places, a bold and elevated coast,
on which the winds beat with tremendous fury, and often dash frail,
barks to pieces.   There are various valleys, well cultivated; and,
being interspersed with meadow, they furnish hay for cattle in win-
ter, and often compensate the deficiency of a scanty crop.' -
There are no caves of any consequence, except one; which'has
been rendered memorable from being the place where a ship-
wrecked seaman was wonderfully preserved, during four days in
the spring of 1834.  This cave lies at the western extrernit op-
y
posite to Hoy Head, and is often visited by strangers since that
event.  It is called Johnson's cave, from the name of the seaman,
who was saved in it.  Adjoining to it, and on the same line of coast
towards Sandwick, the rock scenery is bold and romantic, afford-
ing shelter and a safe brooding place for the numerous sea fowl
which abound here.  The only headland, called the Black Craig,
is directH opposite to Hoy head, and is of great use to seamen in
y
directing them to the sound of Hoy, which'lies between them-the:
only approach to the harbour of Stromness from the west. . As thi&
Soundisof great importance tovessels, affording them a safeapproach
from' the Atlantic to the harbour, to which, in stress of weather,
they are frequently compelled to. have recourse for shelter,-it may
be proper to give a brief description of it.  This cannot be more
correctly done, than in the language employed by my predecessor,
in his minute and interesting Statistical Account of  this parish
Along the west coast of -Stromness, at- one, league"s distance from,
the shore, there is 40 or 50 fathoms depth of water.  There!-are
no shoals in the channel of Hoy sound,,on the side next this P-w%


