
230                          RENFREWSHIRE.

as well of the attachment of the inhabitants to the church of
their fathers.  The other churches are, generally speaking, well
attended.
   Ministers.-After the period of the Reformation, the first indi--
vidual whom we find on record, as minister of Paisley, is
   Patrick Adamson, * who was afterwards promoted to the arch-
bishoprick of St Andrews, and is particularly noticed in the his-
tory of the church.  He is mentioned as minister of Paisley in
1573.  He was made archbishop in 1576, and after a life of many
singular reverses, died in 1591.  His successor seems to have been
   Andrew Polwart, afterwards subdean of Glasgow.
   Thomas Smeaton is mentioned as next in succession, in 1578.
He succeeded Andrew Melville as Principal of the College of
Glasgow in 1580, and died on the 13th December 1583, in the
forty-seventh year of his age.  He was a man of prodigious learn-
ing, and admired for the virtues of his private life, as well as the
elegance of his scholarship. +
   Andrew Knox, of the family of Ramfurlie (Ranfurlie), from which
the celebrated John Knox is also descended, is next on the list.
Ho seems to have been translated from the church of Lochwin-
noch, to that of Paisley, about the year 1585, in which he conti-
nued till the year 1606, when King James, having restored the es-
rates of the bishops, Mr Knox was promoted to the bishoprick of
the Isles.  He was again translated by the King, in 1622, to the
Episcopal see of Raphoe in Ireland; when his son Mr Thomas
Knox,  was advanced to the bishoprick of the Isles.  Andrew Knox
is the supposed ancestor of the Viscounts Northland, lately created
Barons of Ransfurlie.  He seems to have been esteemed a man
of learning, free off bigotry, and, averse from all manner of  perse-
cution on account of matters of church-government.  So liberal

<FOOTNOTE>Mr Patrike Adamson, minister, vj. xx lb to be payit of the thryddis of Pas-
lay, November 1572.  Register of ministers, 1567, page 35, printed for the Maitland
Club in 1830.
          The following is the account which honest James Melville in his " Diary" has
given of Mr Smeaton.  " Mr Thomas was verie wacriff and peanfull, and skarslie tuk
tym to refresh nature.  I haiff seen him oft find fault with lang denners and suppers
at general assemblies; and when uther wer therat, he wald abstain, and be shut the
penning of things (wherein he excellit, bathe in langage and form of letter) and yit
was necht rustic, nor auster but sweit and affable in companie, with a modest and
naive graivite; verie frugale in fude and reyment; and, walked maist on fut; whom
I was verie glad to accompanie, whylis to Sterling, and now and then to his kirk, for
my instruction and comfort.  He lovit me exceeding well, and wald at parting thrust
my head into his bosom and kiss me." pp 56, 58.  He was chosen to succeed Mel-
ville as Principal of Glasgow College in 1580, where he was sole Professor of Di-
vinity, and was also minister of Govan.  He was Moderator of Assembly 1583; and
he died on the 13th December of the same year.


