
     of Bedrule.

gether, may contain an area of near three times that quan-
tity; it is now of greater value, and might be rendered still
more so, were it compleatly cleared of earthfast stones, and
properly drained and inclosed.
   The minister has neither his* soums grass, as some of his
predecessors appear to have had, nor any allowance for them,
that he knows of.
   There was formerly a large common in the parish, on
which, by use and wont, he had right to pasture, etc.  It

<FOOTNOTE>

by Lord Drumore, Ordinary on the bills.  In consequence of which, the mi-
nister is in the practice, as he has always been, of disposing of the wood on
his glebe like any other crop, according as he judges proper, without any
molestation or interference whatever.

*In ancient times, when it was necessary to unite the people as close as
possible by a common interest for their common defence, and in defence of
their country, it was customary for the land called infield or arable, to be held
and occupied by proprietors and tenants, in what was called run rig, each, as
his property was small or great, having been thereby able to roum and sod-
der in winter, a number of cattle in proportion to the quantity of his arable
land.  And, for the same reason, it seems probable, that the land outfield, in
many places, was occupied in common, each proprietor or tenant, in a cer-
tain d strict, parish, or estate, having been thereby entitled to foum or pasture
on the outfield land in summer, in proportion to the number and kinds of
cattle he was thus able to roum or fodder in winter, by means of his share of
infield-land.
   A foum is said to have consisted of about ten sheep or one cow, a horse hav-
ing been considered as equal to two foums.
   The minister of every landward parish, has, by law, Act 24 Parl. 1. Cha.
II 1663, besides what is usually called his arable glebe, as above mentioned,
also right to grass or grazing for one horse and two cows; or to have a suffi-
cient quantity of suitable land, near the church, laid off for that purpose; or to
have 20 L. Scots paid him annually in lieu thereof, a sum, at that time, fully
equivalent thereto, or temporal land designed:  For though Act 31 Parl. 1644,
respecting an arable glebe; and Act 45. Parl. 1649, respecting grass, were
repealed by Act rescissory; yet the above mentioned Act 24. Parl. 1. Cha. II.
1663, was certainly meant to serve all the purposes of said acts, favour
of the established clergy.


