
     Statistical Account

was brought.  Saddlery is carried on to some extent.  There is al-
so a great manufacture for shoes, and 120 shoemakers are em-
ployed in it; who, besides making that article for the people
in the neighbourhood, manufacture different kinds for expor-
tation.  The candles made here, have long had a great charac-
ter; and one family in particular, has carried on that business
with reputation and success, for four successive generations.
   -But the principal manufacture is weaving, which has
long been followed here to some extent, and has of late greatly
increased.  Besides the looms above mentioned, there are 24
stocking frames; chiefly employed by the Glasgow manufac-
turers.  A small manufacture of thread lace has long been car-
ried on here.  At an early period, it was the occupation
of a good many women; but, from the fluctuation of fashion,
it had fallen greatly into disuse.  Fashion again revived the
demand, and the late Duchess of Hamilton, afterwards of
Argyle, found still some lace-workers remaining, to whom
her own demand, and that of those who followed her example,
gave employment.  To these, her Grace added 12 orphan
girls, who were cloathed, maintained, and taught at her ex-
pence.  Others learned the art; and, while the demand laft-
ed, the manufacture employed a good many hands.  Though
the number is again diminished, there are still above 40 at the
business, who make handsome laces of different patterns, be-
sides those who work occasionally for themselves, or their
friends.  Perhaps, under the patronage of the present respec-
table Duchess, the manufacture of Hamilton lace may again
become as flourishing as ever.  But the principal employment
of the women of this parish has long been the spinning of
linen yarn; packs of which were collected and sent to England,
about the beginning of this century, besides what was made into
cloth at home.  So late as the year 1750, large parcels of yarn
were sent from Hamilton to the north of Ireland:  but the Irith


