
                                PARISH OF ARNGASK.

                   PRESBYTERY OF PERTH, SYNOD OF PERTH AND STIRLHNG.

                        THE REV.  ALEXANDER BURT, MINISTER.



                           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
                  Name.-ARNGASK, sometimes erroneously written Arngosk, is
                 the ancient as well as modern name of this parish. It has been
                 supposed to be compounded of the Gaelic words, Ard-nan- gaisg
                 the hill or height of heroism. Though we are unable to point to
                 any authentic account of a battle having been fought, or to the
                 performance of any extraordinary feat of valour, to entitle the lo-
                 cality to be regarded as a scene of bravery, yet it is not impro-
                 bable that Cairn Geddes, referred to under a subsequent bead,
                 may be connected with some event which would justify the appli-
                 cation of the name.
                  Extent and Boundaries.-The parish extends about four miles
                 from east to west, and nearly three from south to north. Its su-
                 perficial extent forms an area of fully 9 1/2 square miles.  its figure
                 is somewhat of a circular form.  But the boundary line is irregu-
                 lar, in consequence of slight indentations produced by some of the
                 contiguous parishes. It hs bounded on the east, by the parish of
                 Abernethy; on the south and south-east, by the parishes of Or-
                 well and Stratbmiglo; on the west, by those of Forteviot and
                 Forgande: and on the north, by that of Dron.
                   The climate is on the whole favourable both for vegetation and
                 health.  There is no distemper peculiar to the parish.
                    Topographical Appearances.-The counties of Perth, Fife, and
                 Kinross meet Damhead, and the parish is almost equally situ-
                 ated in these counties.  It embraces a portion of the Ochil Hills,
                 which stretch from the Forth, in the north east of Stirling-
                 shire, to the immediate vicinity of Ferry-Port-on-Craig, on the
                 southern bank of the Tay, and may therefore, in its general as-
                 pect, be denominated hilly, consisting, as it were, of a combina-


