

			KIRKPATRICK-JUXTA.                   129

from 15 to 21 years; and for sheep farms,13 years.--The farm-
buildings and fences are in a constant state of progressive im-
provement.
	Obstacles to Improvement.--The obstacles to improvement have
chiefly arisen out of the fall in all the prices of land produce, which
has been about one-third; while rents, paid in money at old rates,
continued the same, and abatements were not always given fully to
compensate for this deficiency in the returns. There seems also
to be an increasing deficiency in the  circulating medium to answer
the purpose of an augmented commerce and population. The
most threatening obstacle to agriculture in Britain is the dange-
rous and erroneous idea, that poor soils ought not to be cultivated.
Now, about three-fourths of the corn lands of Britain were poor
soils at one time; and some of these have become rich by manures
and culture; and  to what subject is it possible to apply capital
and industry to more advantage than in the improvement of bar-
ren moor and moss, turning the former into cultivated fields, and
the latter into meadow? The most useful employment is here
conjoined with the means of obtaining subsistence for the labour-
ers, as well as for the community; and the permanent returns
from and value of the land are steadily advanced.
	The last corn law, by admitting grain at all times, and letting
it out when the prices are high, has prevented all cause of alarm,
and has also preserved the prices at a moderate and rather equal
rate, allowing them even to fall too low. The rash project of abo-
lishing this law, trusting to foreign supplies, and throwing the poor
lands out of cultivation, is fraught with ruin to the capital, the in-
dustry, and the resources of the kingdom.
	Let the currency be made safe, but allowed to circulate in suffi-
cient abundance; let the land produce as well as manufacturing
produce be duly protected; and let the corn laws encourage a libe-
ral and extended cultivation; and in the nature of things all clas-
ses will find the benefit. Then give a preference to home produce
in the granaries and markets of the kingdom, and it will become
plentiful and cheap also; but let foreign produce pay duty when
imported, and the merchants will purchase home-grown as well as
foreign corn. The dread of constant and speculative interfe-
rence with that industry which it requires long time to establish--
indeed the very proposal of interference made by men in public
office or station, and not discouraged, has a most pernicious effect
	DUMFRIES.			I



