
256                     ROXBURGHSHIRE.

   Soil.--The soil exhibits widely different qualities in different
places. The most predominating kinds are of a loamy, clayey, and
gravelly nature; but of these many intermediate varieties and com-
binations present themselves. The soil is deposited upon gravel
in many parts; it is found, in others, resting upon rock of the kinds
specified above: while, in some rather elevated situations, the sub-
stratum consists of bluish clay, so very tenacious and retentive as
to be completely impervious to water. It may also be stated, that,
a substance, vulgary called moorband, occurs occasionally imbed-
ded in the subsoil. Where the soil itself is scanty, and consists of
dark-coloured vegetable matter, it often assumes the real form and
appearance of bog-iron ore, is found in detached portions, and is
of an exceedingly hard texture. But when met with in clayey
ground- it is of a reddish or light-brown-colour, shows a thinner and
more extended stratum, and more readily suffers decomposition by
exposure to the influence of the sun and air. The iron it contains
becoming oxidized, causes it gradually to dissolve into an earthy
powder. It varies from one to six inches in thickness, proves fre-
quently injurious to vegetation, and being impenetrable by the roots
of trees, forces them to push outward in a radial direction along its
surface. There is great abundance of moss, which is scarcely used
for fuel, except in the upland farms, and never as manure. By
means of thorough draining, levelling, and top-dressing, Scraes-
burgh moss, which was formerly a watery waste, has been reclaim-
ed, and now produces luxuriant crops of grass.
   Zoology.--No rare species of birds is found here. We have the
woodcock, fieldfare, curlew, plover, and kingfisher. The grounds
are amply replenished with black-cock and grouse, as well as other
kinds of game. For some seasons, the quantities were considera-
bly diminished, chiefly in consequence of the depredations com-
mitted by English poachers. But they were lately checked in their
lawless practices by the spirited exertions of the Border Associa-
tion for the protection of game; for a banded number of about
twenty of these bold sporting adventurers were unexpectedly ap-
prehended, and subjected to punishment.
   Not a few animals, such as the hind, wild boar, and others, have
entirely disappeared, with the once extensive forests which afford-
ed them subsistence and shelter. Here sheep of the Cheviot breed
are reared with peculiar care. They are highly prized on account
of their size, symmetry, wool, and other qualities, for which they
are remarkable. In proof of this, it may be stated, that the best


