
                                 GREENOCK.                        451
                                                                                                           re
    ers, and manufacturers residing in Greenock and, its vicinity are
    eligible as members.  There are twelve directors, three of whom
    go out of office annually by rotation.  Like other institutions of a
    similar kind, it has for its leading objects the redrew of grievances
    afTecting any particular branch of trade or manufactures, the re-
    Moval of all obstructions to trade, and the pointing out of new
    sources of wealth and industry and commercial enterprise. With
    these views,,the directors maintain a friendly intercourse and cor-
    respondence with the Members of Parliament for the distrietT and
    the various Government boards, and with the other chambers of
    commerce and manufactures throughout the kingdom.  It is also
    part of the duty of the directors to as arbiters in disputes aris-
    ing among members of the chamber, and to watch over the pro-
    ceedings in Parliament in all-questions affecting the interests of
    trade and commerce.
      The proceedings of the chamber appear to have been charac-
    terized by great judgment and energy, and to have been producl-
    tive of the best effects.

                        V.-PAROCRIAL ECONOMY.
      Market-Town.-Greenock is the market-town not only to the
    surrounding country within the parish, but also to the neighbour-
    ing parishes of Inv&kip and Kilmacolm.  Part of the produce of
    the last of these parishes is disposed of 1 .n Port-Glasgow' which is
    the nearest market-town to the eastern portion of the. parish of
    Kilmacolm, and to which there is the readiest access by turnpike
    and parish roads.  The communication between the middle and
    western portion of that parish and Greenock is by roads made and
    upheld by the respective parishes, in one part of thern not yet
    completed
      Police,The police establishment of Greeqock has long been
    felt to be altogether inadequate to the extent and.  Population of
    the town.  Assaults and street robbery are of comparatively rare
    oocurrence, and are ins tly made the subjects or judicial investi-
    gation.  But theft and house-breaking, and depredations on pro.
    perty of variouskinds, are often practised with impunity in the towil
    as well as in the suburbs, not from any want of Vizilance and
    tiVity in the public Prosecutor, but from, the insufficiency of the
    police force at the disposal of the Sheriff and magistrates. The
    subject is at present (in 1889) under consideration; and it is hoped
    that the truly liberal and enlightened portion of the community
    will unite with the public authorities in the adoption of mesures,

