
                                     SOUTH UIST.                   197

         Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, which, for this
         cause, is very ill attended, although the district contains a popula-
         tion of 756 persons.  It is really grievous to see now ill all the
         schools in the parish are attended, Owing to the causes above stat-
         ed, with the exception of the Assembly's school at Bailivanich.
            Inns.-There are four inns in the parish, which, with the ex-
         ception of one, are ill kept.

                         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
           Forty years ago, the rental of the parish was L.2200; it is now
         L. 5600.   The produce has been more than tripled since 1796.
         This increase is owing to the improvements in agriculture, and the
         necessity of rearing more cattle, and raising more crop, for a Po-
         pulation nearly doubled since that time.
           The crofts are too small to enable the tenantry to rear good
         cattle ; and the number of horses kept by them (by far too many)
         renders it impossible for them to do justice to their cows.  If the
         crofts were enlarged, by joining every two or three of them together,
         cattle of a superior description might be reared, and a better sys-
         tem of busbandry followed.   But it is impossible to adopt such a
         plan, while the parish is overstocked with people; and matters
         must remain in a miserable state, unless the surplus population
         emigrate, whicb they cannot do, owing to their poverty, unless Go-
         vernment send them to some of the colonies, free of expense.   In-
         closures and drains are very much required; and, good roads to
         the moorland, through the different farms in the parish, would be
         one of the most essential improvements of which'it is suseeptible
         A great deal might also be done, as already stated, by'draining
         some of the lakes; by which, an extensive surface of excellent soil
         might be brought into cultivation.

            1837.

            N. B.-Since this Account was drawn up,  the praperty of
         Ranald G. Macdonald, Esq. of Clanvanald, lying in the islands
         Of Benbecula and South Uist, his been purchased by Celonel
         Gordon of Cluny.-Jan. 1841.


