
366               GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

ed in the fisheries-and more vigorous measures on the part of pro-
prietors-will contribute to check this evil, and to restore the river
to its former state of productiveness.

   The Tweed, so celebrated in song, and so renowned in history, and
associated in the breast of every Scotsman with such interesting
recollections, is, in the parts of it connected with this county, a
magnificent and imposing stream,-maintaining through all its
course its characteristic transparency---minding and tortuous in its
career, and presenting on its banks a variety of interesting scenery.
The road from Berwick to Kelso by Ladykirk and Coldstream, a
great part of which passes close by the Tweed, is one of the most
delightful in point of scenery in the south-east of Scotland. There
is excellent salmon-fishing with the rod in this section of the Tweed,
and in the autumn it is resorted to by amateurs of this interesting
sport.  A clause in the late act of Parliament renders it lawful to
fish with the rod for a month after the usual fishing with nets has
closed.
  The other rivers in the county also abound with trout, and in
the spring and summer seasons afford good sport to the angler.
The Whitadder takes its rise in the hilly part of East Lothian, and
is remarkable for the rapidity of its current, the steepness of its
banks, and its numerous and circuitous windings. After receiving
several considerable contributions from vazious, nameless rivulets,
and being joined bythe Blackadder at Allanton, it unites with the
Tweed about three miles above Berwick. The Blackadder rises in
the parish of Westruther, passes Greenlaw, the county town, and
after permeating the Morse, and imparting its charms to several
gentlemen's seats which skirt it, joins the Whitadder. It is dis-
tinguished for the quality of its trout, which somewhat resemble those
of Loch Leven, and are esteemed for their flavour. The Leader
winds through Lauderdale, to which it gives its name, and from
the upper part of which it issues, and runs into the Tweed, near
old Melrose, at the point where it becomes the boundary of Ber.-
wickshire. The Loot, originating in the How of the Merse, unites
with the same river at Coldstream, and the Eye, which rises in
East Lothian, and flows in an easterly direction, falls into the sea
at Eyemouth.
   Coldingham Loch is the only natural piece of water of any ex-
tent in Berwickshire. It covers about thirty acres,-is remarkable
for its high situation and its proximity to the sea-abounds with


