
     Of Dysart.

Lochty, which there forms the boundary, is wet and very
stony.  In the spring, E. winds prevail, and bring mists from
the sea, which are unfavourable to pulmonic complaints:  at
other times, the climate is not unhealthy*.  The sea coast
extends about 2 miles.  It is high and rocky:  but the rocks
do not project far into the sea; and in some places there is a
sandy beach below them.  Sea-ware thrown ashore by storms,
is occasionally used as manure with success.  The ware upon
the rocks is cut once in 3 years, and produces a few tons of
kelp.  The course of the tides is regular, high-water being
two hours after the moon comes to the meridian.  But in
shore, the current sets down the Frith 2 hours before high-
water, and up the Frith, 2 hours before low-water.  The
harbour is much exposed to storms from the E., which, in
winter are sometimes very violent.  It may contain 12 large
vessels at a time.  The depth at a stream, 12 1/2 feet.

   Minerals.-There is plenty of good freestone at no great
distance from the surface.  Limestone has been found of an
inferior quality, and is not quarried, as there is plenty of
good limestone in the neighbourhood.  The mines are coal
and ironstone.  There are 14 beds of coal in the Sinclair

<FOOTNOTE>

*Epidemics are not frequent when they come, they prove most fatal in
Pathhead, not from the situation of the town, which is high, on rock or sand;
but from the houses being crowded with inhabitants, and from want of suffi-
cient attention to cleanliness.  More attention is paid to this than formerly;
but there is still room for improvement, in this respect, throughout the parish.
It is a pity, that what tends so materially to promote health and comfort, should
not be considered of great importance.  There are two mineral springs.  The
one, impregnated with vitriol, had once some reputation for its medicinal qua-
lities; but has for many years been entirely neglected.  The other, impregnat-
ed with iron, was much resorted to about 12 years ago; but is now generally
abandoned.  Both are from coal mines, and come to the surface on the sea-
shore.


