
                           CULSAMOND.                  729

though there be now and then found a few almost perpendicular
to the horizon.  The broken pieces have corresponding juttings
out, and openings, evidently shewing that they had been originally
united.  The spaces between are often filled with gravelly matter,
which had originally been lower than the slate.  Sometimes other
earthy matter crosses the slate.  Blocks of slate are sometimes
found at considerable distances from the masses to which they origi-
nally belonged.
   The slate in both the hills of Culsamond and Foudland, at a
certain depth, is of a fine blue colour, but the Culsamond slate
is considered heavier and more durable.  Great quantities are
taken from both hills annually, and sent to considerable distances.
No good slate has hitherto been found in Culmeaddin Hill.  It
is a serious circumstances, that none of these cubical, pale, brassy-
coloured, crystallized pyrites, so plentiful in the Easdale slate,
and in the slate in the west side of Foudland, have as yet been
found either in the slate on the east side of Foudland, or in the
Culsamond slate.  In the Melross slate they are found.  Those
on thewest side of foudland are in a rotten slate, being composed
mostly of iron, which rots sooner than copper.
   it may be observed here, that of the beds of rock which run
through Culsamond, the slate-rock is the first on the north, and
that it comes as far south as the northmost part of the Kirktown
Farm.  This is succeded by the Waukmill bluestone Quarry,
without any split, as the masons call it.  There is then, still going
south, a small bed of limestone, which is workable, and has been
burned above Largie, to the west, in the parish of Insch, and,
what is remarkable, at the same distance from the slate-rock as
it is found on the sea-coast south of Troup, near the Melross
slate-quarry.  South of this limestone bed, the ironstone begins
at a place called the Lady's Causeway, and extends to the south
of the farm of Meikle Ledingham, in this parish.  This is the
ironstone direction, north and south.  On the west, it extends
beyond Dunnideer, in Insch, and east, through Culsamond, Rayne,
and Daviot.  Between this ironstone rock and the granite of
Benochee the southern boundary of the GArioch, is another bed
of limestone, which was worked near Likelyhead, in the parish of
Premnay.  It is obsevable that these beds have been damaged
in many places, so that they do not always appear in the same di-
rection, the dislocated parts being filled up with stones of a dif-


