
     of Leuchars.

have entertained a fear, that she would in some future storm,
return and occupy those parts she had been accustomed to
travel over.  They did not at first therefore build houses, but
erected tents on those parts that swelled a little above the
surrounding flats; and to make the situation of their tents
more comfortable and dry, they dug a sheugh or ditch, laying
the sod, and casting the earth inwards; hence seems to be
derived the name Sheughy-dyke.  The tent erected in the
middle gave rise to the other name Tents-moors.
   When these moors have been opened by digging, there has
been found in several places, a greater variety of shells, and
fish-bones, than could be reasonably supposed to fall from the
tables of those tent-dwelling inhabitants; and seem to lead
the mind to conclude, that the aged and storm-struck inhabi-
tants of the ocean being washed to the shore, obtained a grave
by the next tide covering them with sand.  There are like-
wise in these moors 4 long beautiful canals.  Those who
espouse the idea of peopling this part of the district with ship-
wrecked Danes, say, that these canals were formed by those
foreigners, to defend themselves from the inhabitants of the
surrounding country.  I shall not say, how improbable this
account appears.  These canals seem to give no countenance
to such an assertion.  The molt extended of them is not 2 miles
long; and there is a great space of flat ground between the
north end of them and the river Tay: the south end of them
and the river Eden, consequently could form no defence.
But, supposing they could have done so, would it not have
been easy for the Scots, to sail from the Forth and Tay, dis-
embark on their rear, while their land forces attacked them
in front?  These canals do not possess depth of water to ren-
der them the least defence.  They seem to have been formed
by the retiring ocean.  There are 4 long, broad, beautiful,
and almost parallel canals; called Canal-loch, White-myre,

     4 F 2


