
888                        LANARKSHIRE.

   The lands of Busby were detached from the parish of Kil-
bride, and annexed to Carmunnock, quoad sacra, in 1642, and
again in 1725.
   In Popish times, the rector of East Kilbride was chantor to the
Cathedral of Glasgow.  Wodrow in his history observes, that,
about the middle of the seventeenth century, the people of this
parish were greatly divided in their religious opinions.  The Rev.
John Burnet was the Presbyterian minister at the Restoration,
and had then laboured for many years, with much popularity and
success.  He was outed from his charge, and deprived of his liv-
ing, by the Act 1662.  He was not offered the indulgence in 1673,
not long before his death.  He was not so strongly opposed to this
measure as many of his brethren.  But be felt it to be his duty to
decline the offer; and his reasons for not accepting of it, along with
his letter to the Duke of Lauderdale, are to be found among the
Testimonies of the Scots Worthies, as published at Glasgow in
1829.  Wodrow says of him, that, "though he had no freedom
to fall in with the indulgence himself, yet lie was very opposite to
division upon that score, and both heard the indulged minis-
ters, and pressed his people in Kilbride to do so; that he bad
been singularly useful in that parish, where there were a great
many Quakers and Separatists; and that, by the excellence of his
preacbing and other labours, he had reclaimed the greater part of
them.  From his death to that of Mr David Connell, in 1790,
the people were united in religion.  But, when a presentation from
the Crown, to Supply the vacancy which that event occasioned,
was procured for Mr James French, then minister of Carmunnock,
a division took place, and a meeting-house was immediately built
in the village of Kilbride, in connection with the Relief body.
   The name of Flakefield took its rise from a place called Flake-
field, in the southern division of this parish.  A young man of the
name of Wilson went from Flakefield to Glasgow, and commen-
ced business as a merchant, about the middle of the seventeenth
century.  To distinguish himself from another Wilson, who had
come with the same views from the same neighbourhood, he as-
sumed the name of Flakefield, which he ever afterwards retained.
This person's son was the means of giving rise to a very lucrative
and useful branch of business, by which the prosperity of Glasgow
was greatly advanced.  A particular account of the circumstances
connected with the origin of that business is to be found in Mr
Ure's History.


