
                             INVERKEITHING.                237

treasurer, and nine councillors. The costituency of the burgh
for parliamentary elections is about 57; for the election of
town-councillors, about 26. It sends a Member to Parliament
along with Culross, Queensferry, Stirling, and Dunfermline.
  By a grant from Queen Mary and Henry Darnley, the ancient
family of Henderson of Fordel, having a part of their estate within
the parish, held the office of hereditary provost and sheriff; but
this right was never exercised. In the ridings of the Scottish
Parliament, the provost was entitled to ride next to the provost of
Edinburgh. The Magistrates had the power of pit and gallows
within their jurisdiction, that is, of inflicting the punishment of
drowning or hanging,--in testimony of which, a rising ground fac-
ing the town, still bears the name of the Gallow-bank, and there is
still in it a Gallow-tower. The court of four burghs, authorized
by James III. to draw up a set of mercantile regulations, bad their
sittings here; and before the convention of burghs was appointed
to be held at Edinburgh, Inverkeithing was the usual place of its
meeting.  The last assemblage of the Culdees took place in the
church.
  Some battles have been fought here, the last in 1651, by Crom-
well's troops against the Scots.  There is a tradition that, in the
reign of Alexander III. the Jews proposed to establish a fortified
commercial city on the Ferry hills, but the design somehow mis-
gave. A document confirmatory of this is said to exist in one of
the libraries or public offices in Edinburgh. St Margaret's Hope
is so called, b6cause it was the place where Margaret, who after-
wards became Queen of Malcolm III., landed during a storm in
her flight from England.  The adjacent ferry is also named from
her, (Buchanan calls it Margaritae Portus,) supposed to be from
her frequently using it in her passage to or from the palace at
Dunfermline.
  Ferry.--At this ferry, is a flourishing village inhabited by the boat-
men, principally, and much resorted to in summer, as sea-batbing
quarters. The piers are unrivalled, and there is an elegant and com-
modious inn, lately built. In old times, this ferry was subject to
the Abbots of Dunfermline, who drew the fortieth penny of pas-
sage money to repair their Quair, and also one-fourth to supply
boats. The present superior of whom the ground of the Village
is feued, is the Marquis of Tweeddale. Of later years, the right
of ferry belonged to neighbouring proprietors, the Earl of Rose-


