
272                        RENFREWSHIRE.

of carpets the use of a draw-man or draw-boy; and his machines
have been adopted to a considerable extent, particularly in Eng-
land.
   Between the years 1826 and 1828, several unsuccessful at-
tempts were made, both in Edinburgh and Paisley, to introduce
Thibet shawls.  About the latter period, Mr Robert Kerr, now
a most extensive manufacturer, turned his attention to that article,
and after a deal of trouble and expense succeeded; and in two or
three years after, it became the staple article of the trade.  One
great objection at first was, the very high prices of woollen yarns
necessary for such a fine fabric; and it is a curious fact, that when
Mr Kerr was in England pursuing the subject, he bought the same
yarns on the same day, in three different houses in Bradford, at
L. 1, 9s., L. 1, 2s., and 12s. per lb.  In supplying himself with
this last, however, he took care to ask for fine worsted.
   Mr Kerr has lately introduced an important change in the
manufacture of Cheneille shawls.  These shawls were manufac-
ture d wholly of Brutia silk, which last year rose to such a price as
completely paralysed this branch of trade.  In this emergency,
he thought of applying spun silk of a peculiar kind, which he got
made for the purpose, and which is termed roving or floss silk.  It
succeeded so well, that even the best judges could not discern any
difference; and it may be said to have given this branch a new
impulse by bringing out the shawls intrinsically as good in quality
and appearance, and at a price that will tend to make the con-
sumpt more general and thereby make it a more permanent article
of trade.
   Messrs John Roxburgh and Son have lately introduced several
improvements in the manufacture of the richest description of
shawls in imitation of India, the most recent of which is the use of
fine wool for warp. This is named the Cabille shawl, and is the
first successful application,  in this country of the harness to an
entirely woollen fabric.  One of the finest of these Cabille shawls
was presented to Queen Adelaide, October 1836, which met with
Her Majesty's gracious approbation.  A premium of L. 25 was
given for the same shawls (November 1836) by the Trustees for
th6 Encouragement of Manufactures in Scotland.
   Messrs Scroggie and Gilchrist have been of singular benefit to
the manufactures of this place, by the improvements they have in-
troduced into all the departments of dyeing.  Formerly all colour-


