
456                         FORFARSHIRE.

and is bounded on the north by the Sidlaw hills, which divide it
from Kettins and Newtyle; on the east, by Auchterhouse; and
on the south and west by Fowlis. It is about 3 miles in length,
and 2 in breadth. On the west, north, and east, it is encompas-
sed by hills, and the boundary line runs along the ridge, except
the farm of Ledcrieff, the property of Lord D. G. Hallyburton,
which lies to the north, and runs down to the valley of Strath-
more. The centre of the parish, however, is not hilly, though it
swells out into beautiful undulations; and it is diversified by se-
veral lakes. There is still a want of wood, and were this sup-
plied, the natural features of the district, which are excellent,
would appear to much more advantage. The cultivated part of
the parish averages 550 feet above the sea, from which it is distant
sixteen miles, and from the Frith of Tay seven miles. The Sid-
law hills rise about 300 feet higher, and at their base is,a chain
of four lakes, still of considerable extent, though much lessened by
draining, from which the Dighty water takes its rise in two streams,
which unite in the parish of Auchterhouse, three miles below. The
whole of the parish is arable, except the sides of the Sidlaw hills,
which are healthy pasture. The climate is still moist, though
very much improved of late by draining. The quantity of rain is
rather above the average from the proximity of the hills which at-
tract the clouds, from the large valley that lies beyond. The heat
is comparatively great in summer in reference to the elevation, in
consequence of reflection from the higher ground, which also
serves to defend the valley from the currents of air. The winter
is necessarily cold, but the air is pure, and generally free from
hoar frost, and the inhabitants are healthy, and several instances
occur of their attaining great age.
	The four lochs above-mentioned abound in perch, pike, and
eels. Lundie loch formerly covered at least 100 acres, but it
was to a great extent drained about thirty years ago, by a tun-
nel of 417 yards in length, and it now cnvers only eight acres.
A considerable quantity of marl was found, and the land reclaim-
ed is valuable. The Long Loch is about half-a-mile long, and a
quarter of a mile broad. Pitlyal Loch and the Loch of Balshan-
die are of much smaller extent. The Balshandie and Lundie
lochs give rise to the western, and the Long and Pitlyal lochs to
the eastern branch of the Dighty water, already mentioned, which,
of course, is here but a small streamlet.
	The soil, from the variety of surface in the parish, is necessarily


