

			KIRKPATRICK-JUXTA.			125

from the west. The climate at Moffat is so nearly the same as in this
parish, that one set of observations may suit both. Snow lies long
at times, (the distance from the sea being above 20 miles,) though
the bottom of the vale is not much elevated,--only about 350
feet. Peat-bogs never produce ague, as clay bogs do; and being
mostly drained, they do not send out so great masses of vapour as
formerly.
	Diseases.--Vaccination ir generally practised, and yet vagrants
carry about their children when ill of small-pox, or just recovered.
Rheumatism is not unfrequent, There was no instance of spasmo-
dic cholera last year in this parish, though many premonitory symp-
toms occurredm, and one case of British cholera proved fatal.
	Many of the people attain the age of 80 years, and some have
exceeded 90,--one or two arriving at 96 in the course of the
last 30 years. The climate is considered very healthy, like that
of the neighbouring parish of Moffat.
	Hydrography--The springs, issuing commonly from gravelly
soils, are very pure; but near the bases of the high mountains,
where there is a soil impregnated with iron, and also in some other
places, the springs are chalybeate. Near Garpel Water there is
a very strong chalybeate, not issuing from the earth as a spring, but
formed in pools by solution in warm weather, when the rain water
imbibes and dissolves iron and alum from the clay. The village of
Moffat was lately accommodated with pipes conveying to it abund-
ance of water of the purest quality from the farm of Chapel in this
parish, and carried below the bed of Annan. The rives are not
considerable; the Kinnell passes from north to south. The Evan
runs between two low hill ranges, both of which may be cultivated
or planted. The Annan enters the parish from that of Moffat,
forming a boundary. The Garpel forms a cascade near the old
castle of Achincass, and falls into the Evan. The Annan, Evan,
and Moffat Waters, unite their streams, and running on a gravel-
ly bottom, with a current of moderate velocitx. The river Annan;
after leaving the confines of this parish, increases considerably,
receiving other streams on both sides, and falling into the Solway
Firth, near the royal burgh of Annan, after a course of about 30
miles.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--A survey was published of the mi-
neralogical structure of Dumfries-shire by Professor Jameson; and
observations were made thereon, in the Edinburgh Review, a con-



