
     Statistical Account

to be the same with the Lindum mentioned by Ptolemy;
and the Romans are supposed to have had a military sta-
tion on the spot, where the palace was afterwards e-
erected*.

   Description of the Town, etc.-The town consists of one
street, about three quarters of a mile in length, with se-
veral lanes, and a range of gardens on the N. and S.
Opposite to the town-house is a vacant space, where
the cross formerly stood, and the principal well still
is.  The street, towards the E., is broad and airy; a-
bout the middle, contracted anti gloomy: as one goes
westward, it again enlarges itself.  Many of the houses
have, it must be owned, a mean aspect, and exhibit strik-
ing symptoms of decay.  Several, howevers have lately
been rebuilt, and other operations of a similar kind are
now going forward; so thats in process of times the whole
may be expected to assume a modern and more elegant
appearance.  Linlithgow abounds with excellent springs:

<FOOTNOTE>

*This opinion is favoured by the natural advantages of the place,
especially its plentiful supplies of water, and its vicinity to the frith of
Forth, from which stores of every kind could easily be conveyed.  As sin
signifies a loch, and that, on the side of which the town stands, forms a
striking object, the reference of the first part of the name may be easily
discerned.  The etymology of the latter is doubtful.  It has been chiefly
traced to the Erse language, in which gow epresses a dog, and lith a
twig; and supposed to allude to a black bitch, which, according to tra-
dition, was found fastened to a tree in the small island on the E. side of
the loch.  This conjecture derives plausibility from the well known fi-
gure on the town's seal, though no satisfactory account can be given
how that animal came there, or should be so far dignified as to form a
part of its armorial bearing.  A gentleman of ingenuity and research,
has lately deduced the name of Linlithgow from the Saxon, in which
lith signifies snug, close, and grow, a vale or hollow.  According to this
interpretation, the name precisely marks the place as situated on the side
of a loch, in a well sheltered vale.


