
     Statistical Account

   Forty years ago, 1 L. 5 s. or 1 L. 10 s. was the price of a cow
that will now bring from 3 L. to 5 L; but as they are poorly fed,
they are of a small size, and will not give above 4 or 5 Scotch
pints of milk per day, even in the best the grass.  A far-
mer's dairy, therefore, is barely sufficient for family consump-
tion, and as the milk is used sweet, little butter or cheese is
made, and that little is rarely sent to market, but laid up for
winter use, when milk cannot be had.  The cows calve in
the beginning of March or end of April, which is an addi-
tional reason for their giving little milk; but, on the other
hand, early calving is thought, by the country people, to be
advantageous to the calf, by giving it more time to acquire
strength, before the approach of winter.  For the same rea-
son, calves are universally permitted to go at large through the
fields, during summer, and pick up the grass at the roots of
the corn.  This practice is occasioned by the want of proper
food and inclosures; as the calves would be much injured by
feeding or being confined with the large cattle in the folds, or
in houses, during the summer season; and it is attended with
much damage to the corns by their lying upon, and treading
it down; and the calves get a restless habit, so that ever after
it is impossible to confine them but by the strongest and most
impenetrable fences.  In winter, the calves and all other cattle,
are housed, during the night, and fed with straw, which,
when the land is overrun with weeds, is not a great deal in-
ferior to coarse hay.  After the first winter, they accompa-
ny the other cattle, till they are cows or oxen; for it is not
usual to sell very young cattle in this country.  In the spring
season, all cattle in this country are in very low condition,
the straw being by that time not only scarce, but dried, sapless,
and less nourishing: and by want of shelter, and on account
of the poor state of the land laid out for grass, it is very late
in rising.


