
			BANCHORY TERNAN.                     357

surplus tenantry of others, and by the inhabitants of the village,
for whose accommodation it has hitherto been let. The present
manse was built in 1798. It received a small addition about 1803,
and twelve years ago still farther additions and repairs. The
glebe wants more than a fourth of an acre of itr legal size, and is
of the ordinary value of the fields in its neighbourhood,-L.2 per
acre. In 1835, the Court of Teinds modified the stipend at 136
bolIs of meal, and the same number of barley; but the teinds of
the parish were found to be exhausted by 126 bolls of each.
	There is here a chapel of Independents, or Congregational
Dissenters, attended by about nine families within, and five with-
out the parish, and having in all fifteen to twenty communicants,
who on ordinary occasions constitute nearly the whole congrega-
tion. Five families belong to the Episcopalian, one to the Ro-
man Catholic, and one to the United Secession Church. Divine
service in the parish church is remarkably well attended in the
forenoon. The number of communicants averages 1000. The
annual amount of collections for missionary and educational pur-
poses is about L.12, and nearly as much is collected for the Aber-
deen Infirmary and other charities. A strong movement took
place in this parish about three years ago in favour of temperance,
which led to the formation of two associations, the Total Absti-
nence Society, and the Rechabite Tent. There can be little
doubt that these societies have, on the whole, exerted here a be-
neficial effect on formerly existing opinions and practices respecting
the use of liquors, and have spread their salutary infltence into
some of the surrounding districts. The association for the dis-
tribution of religious tracts circulates 400 monthly.
        Education.-The total number of permanent schools is 10. Of
these 3 are parochial, 2 are endowed, 1 supported partly by sub-
scriptions, and the others depend entirely on their teachers' own
exertions. The three parochial schoolmasters, besides their fees,
have the maximum salary of L.51, 6s. 6 3/4d. divided among them,
with houses, and gardens, &c. rent-free. One of them, who is
also teacher of the boys' school endowed by Sir Thomas Burnett
and Dr Reid, receives thereby in addition L.16. The fund mor-
tified by the same individuals for the maintenance of a girls' school
yields the schoolmistress about L.4, 10s. a-year. Another girls'
school, lately established in the new village, has hitherto been
supported by subscriptions to the extent of L.18 a year; but it is
understood that, after two years, all support additional to the


