
		                  FORGLEN.                        87

	with another presbytery which could count more members than the
	above-mentioned number.  This injunction was complied with in
	this parish till 1801, when the practice ceased.  The sum contri-
	buted was 5s. yearly.
	   Public appearances before the congregation in cases of disci-
	pline seem to have been given up about the year 1775.  The fol-
	lowing persons are known to have been ministers here: 1. Alex-
	ander Scroggie, 1642;* 2. Robert Brown, 1659; 3. William
	Blair, 1667; 4. John Dunbar, 1676; 5. James Bannerman, 1717,
	translated from Inveraven, 6. David Bannerman, 1741, translated
	to St Martins; 7. James Milne, 1759, translated to Ellon; 8. Ro-
	bert Ballingal, 1775; 9. Laurence Moyes, 1796; 10. Present
	incumbent, 1831, translated from Aberdeen.
	   Antiquities.-There are the remains of a religious house where
	the rivulet falls into the Deveron; but nothing more is known con-
	cerning it than what has been already mentioned,-that tradition
	assigns it to St Eunon.-There are two barrows unopened, about
	600 yards from the church.-In making a road in 1827, an urn
	was dug up containing a quantity of ashes.  Another urn with
	similar contents was found in the hill of greywacke before men.-
	tioned, about twenty years ago.-A silver coin of the size of a crown
	piece, of the date of 1670, was lately found in the wall of an old
	house.  It seems from the inscription to have been current in the
	Electorate and Archiepiscopate of Cologn.-Over the entry to
	the house of Forglen are placed the arms of Scotland.  Below
	these, are the arms of the owner of the house at the time that part
	of it was erected,-which, we learn from one of the stones, was the
	year 1577.  Above the royal arms, we find written, HOIP OF RE-
	VAIRN CAVSES GVID SERVICE; and under the arms of the family is
	the following inscription:

			DO VEIL AND DOVPT NOCHT
			ALTHOCH THOV BE SPYIT;
			HE IS LYTIL GVID VORTH
			THAT IS NOCHT ENVYIT;
<FOOTNOTE>
	    He seems to have been the first incumbent in the newly erected parish, and was
	at one time Regent in King's College, Aberdeen, from which office he had been depos-
	ed on account of his opposition to the covenant.  His father at the same time was
	deposed from his charge as minister of Old Machar.  The circumstance of the eject-
	ed regent finding refuge in Forglen is easily accounted for.  The proprietor of the
	estate and patron of the parish was at the time George Ogilvie, a staunch adherent
	Of Charles I.,  who, on account of his loyalty, was created first a baronet, and after-
	wards apeer with the title of Lord Banff.  He, along with Aboyne, commanded the
	King's forces at the bridge of Dee in 1639.  His title, before this, was Sir George
	Ogilvie of Dunlugas.  He became proprietor of Forglen, by marrying the daughter
	of Irvin of Drum.


