
     Statistical Account

   Orchards.-There are five orchards in the parish, all in
a thriving condition, particularly at Monorgan, which is
reckoned the belt in the Carse of Gowrie, and has been
famous these many years for yielding fine fruit.

   Horticulture.-The only gardens in this parish worthy of
notice are at Castle-Huntly.  There are above 300 feet of 
glass, a melon-pit, of 20 feet by 12, worked by steam 
alone, without dung, and plenty of peaches, nectarins, apri-
cors, figs, almonds, and other fruits, which ripen on the
open wall.

<UNREADABLE>

   Steam Melon-pit.-As the steam melon-pit is rather new,
it may be an useful information to say, that the pit is 20

</UNREADABLE>

<FOOTNOTE>

parish, but without success; and although he planted many acres, a very
small spot only, upon the westernmost point of the estate has produced any
thing like a crop.  To make reed thrive, two things are necessary; 1ft, A
certain depth of that king of soil which rivers deposit; and , 2d, a sufficient
fence, to protect both the soil itself, and the new planted reeds, from the
violence of the flux and reflux of the tide.  Mr Crawford thought it would 
be sufficient to carry out into the river fences made of the weedings of 
young firs, cut into stakes, and driven deep into soil, (or fleet, as it is 
called herd), and wattered with the smaller wood, which answers very well 
for some time; the soil increased in bulk; the weeds were planted, and ap-
peared to thrive; but the violence of the tide from carried fences, reeds,
and foil before it; and now, scarce a vestige of any things remains.  Some
mound however, a considerable way within water-mark, are forming of
themselves, and in several places throwing a kind of sower grass; and where-
ever it gathers such a farmers, reeds, if planted, will probably thrive.  If
once fairly established, they propagate themselves without trouble, and give
a crop every year.  The same kind of reed thews itself in considerable quan-
tities, in several fields next river, and through the Came, which it is im-
possible to get rid of, as they rise from roots exceedingly deep, some of
which have been traces 8 feet below the surface.  Hence they cannot be
supposed to rob the prolific feature of any nourishment; but as they ripen
and grow strong, especially amongst wheat, it is probable they are not quite
harmless in thanking words.


