
    102	                      PEEBLES-SIIIRE.

    not only thus connected with Queen Mary's party, but even had
    the honourable station assigned to him of holding the castle of
    Edinburgh in her name,* and was appointed one of her commis-
    sioners at the conference at York. The downfal of her power was
    accordingly ruinous to him, and being deeply involved in the efforts
    made in behalf of the imprudent and unfortunate queen, lie was pe-
    culiarly obnoxious to the triumphant party and, by the command
    of the Regent Murray, his castle was demolished by a strong mili-
    tary force on the 12th of June 1568; and being thus overthrown
    it was never afterwards rebuilt and reinhabited, but was left to the
    destructive energies of time, and the unsparing hand of the spoiler
    till its desolation was completed. Though the property afterwards
    belonged to the Cockburns, they returned not to dwell in the an-
    cient home of their fathers, but inhabited, as did likewise some of
    the succeeding proprietors, a house in the village, which, like its
    more venerable predecessor, has now also entirely disappeared.
	Eminent Men.-Mr Howe, son to the late clergyman of this pa-
    rish, has attained to high eminence in his profession as a painter.
    His panoramic representation of the Battle of Waterloo command-
    ed general admiration at the time of its exhibition; and in the
    department of animal painting he stood for many years without a
    rival.-Nor must we pass over one who, though he was born,
    and continued in a humble sphere of life, is entitled to all honour-
    able remembrance. In the disastrous days of the persecution un-
    der the cold-blooded Stuarts, Peter Gillies, of the Wauk Mill,
    Skirling, was one of those who were devoted unto death in the sa-
    cred cause. Having had a presbyterian minister preaching in his
    house, he was, in 1674, hunted from his home by Sir James Mur-
    ray, the laird, and Mr James Buchan, the curate. For several
    years he wandered about from place to place. At last he was ap-
    prehended in the month of April 1685, at Muiravonside, was car-
    ried by the lawless soldiery to the west country, and, after endur-

    <Footnote>
	*The castle of Edinburgh was surrendered to Cockburn of Skirling for the queen.
    The same day the wind blew away the weathercock of the steeple of St Giles. This
    saith Birrel in his Diary, fulfilled an old prophecy,
				Quhen Skirling sall be captain,
				The cock sall lose his tail.
	In the Life of Queen Mary, by H. G. Bell, Vol. ii. page 168, when reference is
    made to Anderson, Vol. iv. Part ii. page 33, Sir James Cockburn of Stirling is
    named among the commissioners: but this is a mistake, arising from the similarity
    of the orthography, the difficulty of deciphering old records, and from the prominency
    of the one place in our national history, while the other is almost unknown. Upon
    examining the original manuscript with this key, and comparing it with collateral
    facts, it will be found that it was Sir James Cockburn of Skirling.-The present ce-
    lebrated Solicitor General is, we believe, one of the descendants of that family.


