
                     STRAITON.                              335

nel. The glen of Berbeth, in which its bed is buried in this part
of its course, is perhaps the grandest of all the natural objects to
be seen in Ayrshire, and may vie with any of the most celebrated
Highland scenes. A walk has been formed along the very brink
of the river, from which the glen is seen to great advantage, espe-
cially in autumn after a flood. The river pent up in a channel of
not more than four or five yards, is chafing and fretting among the
rocks at your feet, the craigs of Ness rises perpendicularly before
you on the other side, to the height of 230 feet, and the cliffs on
both sides are seen clothed with trees of richest foliage, of which
the branches overhang the river, and often kiss the foaming stream.
From the glen the Doon flows in great beauty through the
grounds of Berbeth, and then expands into a loch much frequent-
ed by water-fowl. From this loch to Patna it runs sluggishly
for five miles through meadows, without the ornament of a single
tree.
	The river Girvan has its source above Loch Braden, about twelve
miles from Straiton, and falls into the sea at Girvan. From Tare-
law fall, three miles from Straiton, it flows to the village through
a highly cultivated valley surrounded by hills, which are in some
parts covered with natural wood, and rise in others in bold preci-
pitous cliffs. From Straiton it winds for three miles through the
richly wooded grounds of Blairquhan, and then enters Kirkmichael
parish. The river Stinchar bounds this parish for a mile or two,
near its source among the lochs in Barr parish.
	There are two waterfalls in the parish. Dalkairney Linn, which
is formed by a small stream near Berbeth, is a perpendicular jet of
forty feet, and is noticed in old books for tourists. Tarelaw Linn
is upon the Girvan above Straiton. The stream rushes down se-
veral successive falls, forming together a descent of more than sixty
feet, and then opens into a deep and wooded dell.
	Geology and Mineralogy.--The parish offers an extensive field
of study to the geologist. The hills above Loch Doon and the
island in the loch are granite. Adjoining this formation are grey-
wacke and greywacke slate. Along the Girvan the rocks are of
the trap species, interspersed with mountain limestone; and in the
lower part of the parish the red sandstone is common. Granite
in the form of boulders is found scattered over every part of the
parish. Limestone has been quarried in seven different places,
of which Threethorns once yielded the largest quantity, though the


