
     of Alloa.

Their possessions in this, and the adjoining parishes, descended
to the late Lord Cathcart from his grandmother Lady SHAW;
whose husband had purchased them, in the beginning of this
century, at a judicial sale, from the Bruces of Clackmannan.
   Neither can the ERSKINES be said to be originally of this
parish, although they got the lands, which they are now possessed
of, in the reign of King Robert Bruce. they were originally
settled in Renfrewshire.  They succeeded by a female, in 1461,
to the earldom of Marr; but it was not until the year 1561
that they got possession of it.  It was at that time declared it
parliament, that, in justice, the earldom of Marr belonged to
JOHN LORD ERSKINE, who, in the year 1571, was elected re-
gent or Scotland, on the death of the Earl of Lennox.  How
honourably he filled that troublesome station, is recorded by
all our historians*.  Unfortunately he was cut off by a sudden
death.  The famous GEORGE BUCHANAN has celebrated his
virtues in an elegant epitaph.
   There matters, however, belong rather to bisiory than to a
statistical account; but it would be improper to omit men-
tioning the last EARL of MARR, who had a great turn for em-
bellishing the country.  LORD HADINGTON, in his Treatise

<FOOTNOTE>

*The family of ERSKINE have often been honoured with having their infant
sovereigns instructed to their care, (particularly King JAMES V. the unfortunate
Queen MARY, JAMES VI. and his son Prince HENRY), which sacred trust they most
faithfully discharged They have some curious papers relative to those trans-
actions.-The regent's son was brought up with King James Vl He was ap-
pointed ambassador to England a short time before Elizabeth's death.  The am-
bassador's present is still preferred in the family; It is a baron and ewer, re-
markable for its workmanship, and the elegance of its shape.  Lord Marr, in his
embassy, is supposed to have contributed towards the peaceable accession of King
James to the throne of England.  The Duke of SULLY mentions him in his
memoirs, and calls him his friend.  On the Duke's return to France, the famous
HENRY IV. wrote a letter to Lord Marr, which is still preferred in the archives
of the family.


