
                      PRESTONPANS.                         307

Fishes of the Forth. Of other species there is none known to, the
compiler of these notes to be deserving of any particular notice.
   Botany.-For the study of botany, the parish of Prestonpans
affords but a limited field. In the season of flowers, however, we
have our own share of that rich store which nature yields. The
Salicornia herbacea (jointed glassworth) grows on the salt flat near
Morrison's Haven. The Phleum arenarium (sea-side cat's-tail
grass) is found among loose-blowing sand near the sea. The com-
mon cowslip, bright as sun-light, occurs in sandy pastures and
broken grounds. The common henbane (Hyoscyamus niger) of
dull sepulchral hue, is found in solitary plants amongst rubbish of
sandstone near the eastern boundary of the parish. The follow-
ing are also to be met with: the knotted hedge-parsley (Caucalis
nodosa), between Ravensheugh toll-bar and Preston village; the
sea-side purple sandworth by the sea to the west of the Cuthill;
tetandrous chickweed near the village of Prestonpans; and yellow
stone-crop (Sedurn reflexum) in the village of Preston.

                       II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Historical Events.-The only transaction of note connected with
the history of this parish, is the battle of Preston, which occurred
in 1745, and in which Sir John Cope and the King's forces were
ignominiously routed by the Highlanders following the Popish
Pretender in his daring attempt upon the British throne. The
action is reported to have commenced in the morning twilight of
the 21st September, in the narrow road leading from the village
of Preston towards Bankton and Tranent. The day was chiefly
decided in the neighbouring parish. Whatever glory or disgrace,
accordingly, may be associated in the minds of any of the present
generation with an event, the remembrance of which has not al-
together perished in this district, the parish of Tranent is entitled
to the entire and undivided inheritance.
   The only memorial deserving of notice in this account is a tomb-
stone in the eastern wall of the new church-yard, erected to the
memory of Mr Stewart of Physgill, an officer in the royal army,
who is described as having been inhumanly and barbarously mur-
dered by the Highlanders.
   Ancient Family of Preston.- In several works illustrative of the
earlier periods of our national history, the Hamiltons of Preston
are honourably mentioned in connection with events of imperish-
able interest and renown. Possessing considerable influence at
court and with the country, more than one member of their family


