
212                         FORFARSHIRE.

ground. A few of them, indeed, are still to be met with in the
ground; but when they are found, they are either blasted, or sunk
into the earth beyond the reach of the plough. Being frequently
of great magnitude, some of them of two or three tons weight, the
removing of them was often a task of Herculean labour. As some
of them are granites, some mica-schists, some porphyries, and some
globular masses of quartz or silicious spar, they appear to demon-
strate that they are not natives of the place,--and that, by means
of attrition, they have been rounded and diminished in size, in pro-
portion to the distance they have travelled.
	The following is a vidw of the plants and animals most fre-
quently and peculiarly attached to the soils, and to the banks of
the Kerbit:

<TABLE>
      Soil                         Plants.                            Animals.

Clayey,             Spear-thistle, milk-thistle, dock, smear-   Plover, wild-goose,
                        dock, restharrow, redshank, mush-        grub, slug, worm.
                        room, daffodil, wild-hyacinth.
Loamy,              Ragwort, crowfoot, dandelion, wild vio-     Hare, partridge, corn-
                        let, mountain. daisy, sorrel, spearmint.  craik, hedgehog.
Sandy and gravelly, Knot-grass, couch-grass, whin, broom,       Lark, mole, centi-
                        wild raspberry.                             pede, beetle, toad,
                                                                  ant, lizard.
Mossy,              Rush, flag, horsetail, colts-foot, cotton-  Lapwing, snipe, wild-
                        grass, marsh-marigold.                      duck, frog.
Banks of Kerbit,   Willow, elder, queen of the mead, water-     Water-rat, otter, he-
                        cress, fungi.                              ron, kingsfisher

	Although-several springs in the parish strongly indicate the
presence of iron and copper ores, there is not a mine of any de-
scription worked. In an inclined plane, on the north-west base of
the hill of Kinnettles, coal was, long ago, supposed to exist. About
seventy years ago, the supposition became generally so strong, that
the proprietor of Brigton employed some practical miners to make
a search. This they did by boring to a considerable depth; and
tradition says, that, in conducting the search, a stratum of coal
was actually found, but that the miners were bribed. There is
still an idea that coal might be extracted from the place referred to.
	Zooloqy.--The only species of animals among our native qua-
drupeds, which are seldom to be found in some neighbouring pa-
rishes, are, the fox, badger, polecat, squirrel, weasel, hedgehog, and
otter. The migratory birds are, the lapwing, plover, swallow,
cuckoo, landrail, kingsfisher, woodcock, wild-goose, and heron.
With the exception of the woodcock and wild-goose, which generally
appear in the beginning of winter, these birds make their appear-
ance about the beginning of May, for the purpose of breeding, and


