
420                    ROSS AND CROMARTY.

there are two Gaelic discourses and one English every Sunday,
and the Catechumens are always examined in that language. The
parish is well supplied with Gaelic Bibles and Psalm-books, every
family in it being possessed of at least-one copy.
   Character, &c.-The people here are generally moral in their
lives, and, when occasion requires, of unremitting industry. In
common with most Highlanders, they are hospitable, of quick parts,
great agility, inquisitive and fond of information, and extremely
patient under hunger, cold, and other distresses from which their
southern neighbours would shrink. They still retain a sacred re-
gard for the clan or family they are sprung from; but it must be al-
lowed that this feeling is on the decline. The tale, the song, and
the dance do not, as in days of yore, entertain the dreary winter
nights. They are regular in their attendance on Divine worship;
and in many instances, think nothing of coming ten or twelve miles
to the parish church every Sabbath.
   Poaching, &c.-Poaching and smuggling may be said to be ex-
tinct in this district; though these crimes were once very preva-
lent, and had so corrupted by their influence the moral character
of the people, that it was almost impossible to persuade them of
their guilt.

                        IV.-INDVSTRY.
   Fisheries.-There are considerable salmon-fisheries carried on,
chiefly with the coble and net, on the rivers Oidkell and Carron.
They belong-to the Duke of Sutherland, who purchased all the
fishings in this quarter, a few years ago. The Carron is an excel-
lent river for angling. The smaller streams and lochs, of which
last there are a great number in the parish, supply beautiful trout;
one in particular-Loch Chorrh, in a sequestered situation-con-
tainstrouts of six pounds weight. Flounders are caught in abundance
below the church of Kincardine at ebb-tide. In the former Statis-
tical Account, it is related that, during the great scarcity of 1783,
great shoals of that species of fish, known in England by the name
of white bait, came up; and in such astonishing quantities, as
to contribute very much to the support of many families in this
and the neighbouring county, in that season of distress. There
was formerly a yair or stake-net, belonging to Balnag¢wn, in
which prawns, small rock and ware cod, gurnard, turbot, and
paddles were caught, and occasionally sturgeon; of which last there
was one of the enormous size of 131/2 feet, taken some years ago.
The country people think sturgeon of service to their cattle, in


