
508                        ARGYLESHIRE.

children in "the Mission of the Glens.", This money I could
not be laid out in the manner specified by that excellent man,
in a codicil to his latter will, and the amount, after deducting
legacy duty and other charges, is, meanwhile, vested in berita-
ble security. The end contemplated by Dr M' Intyre will pro-
bably be best attained by setting up an ambulatory school in the
district.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The number of persons on the
poor's roll at present is 49, who receive at the half-yearly distribu-
tion of the funds from 10s. to L.1, 5s. per annum,-a sum now very
inadequate to their necessities, even though aid is given occasionally
to the more necessitous during the intervals between each distri-
bution. Till within the last eight or ten years, when five out of
seven heritors might be regarded as resident, the church collec-
tions were not only sufficient, but more than sufficient, for the
supply of the wants of the parish poor. This arose, not so much
from the amount of the church collections, though that was com-
paratively liberal, as from the kindly attentions of the landholders
and their families to the poor on their properties, with whose cir-
cumstances they made themselves minutely acquainted, and whose
necessities they failed not to relieve. The in`dequacy of the
church collections has rendered voluntary contributions on the part
of the heritors more than ever necessary of late years; and, how-
ever much to be deprecated, will, in all probability, soon render
compulsory assessments indispensable. This presents a greatly
altered state of affairs from what recently existed, when, besides
supplying the wants of the indigent, a sum amounting to L.120
was accumulated under the management of the kirk-session, and
which is now laid out at interest for the payment of the parish
beadle and precentor, that the parish collections inicrht, without
these deductions, be divided among the poor.
   Inns.-There are five inns, or houses for the retail of ardent
spirits in the parish. With one exception, all these are ferry-
houses ; and, on this ground, it has been alleged that spirits
should be sold in them. The distance between two of these fer-
ries, Connell and Shean, is less than Ave miles; and, on each
side of these ferries, there are inns; yet, a house where whisky
is retailed invites the traveller and the neighbouring population
about midway. The effects of all this on the morals and the
means of thb community are the reverse of beneficial.


