
324                       RENFREWSHIRE.

the modern history of an event, the results of which should afford
a lesson of useful and awful import to those who fear not God, nor
honour the King, but nieddle with them who are given to change.
The Ist day of April -1819 was on a Sunday. Associations for
reform had, on that and the preceding years, been frequent in
England, and Ireland, and Scotland. A regular system was form-
ed, and an active correspondence carried. on amongst them all.
The wildest theories about libert and equality were broached and
promulgated, with ardour and unwearied dili-ence. The different
Associations had their times and places of meeting regularly fixed.
In these, the Spencea7-i doctrines found willing, and resolute advo-
cates.This Spencean plan was to divide the whole lands in the
iiationamong the people; perfect equality in the division being the
rule ofdistribution, so that no one should have more than another.
In the meantime, ru niours ofa general rising of the people through-
put the empire to obtain this end, were circulated with great indus-
try by the radical reformers. Whether the director of the move-
ment intended only a hoax, according to the custom of foolery on
this day of the year, is best known to himself; but this is certain,
that during the night, or early on the Sunday morning, a flaming
proclamation, announcing the rising, was placarded upon all the
church doors in town and country, statirig that the insurrection was
to begin that day in London, and in the chief towns of En-land
and Ireland, and calling upon the reformers here to be ready to
join them, threatening instant death to all who, opposed them.
On that Sunday niorning, the writer of this could not understand
what attraction was about the church gate. He saw the chiefs of
reform in motion, basteniDg'tO the gate, and looking mighty big
when turning away from,it. Understanding that the cause ofthis
excitement was the proclamation referred to, the minister preach-
ed a sermon from the following text: 11 Put them in mind to be
sub . ect to principalities and powers, to obey magirtrates, to be
ready to every good work, to speak' evil of no man, to be no
brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness unto all men." This
producedtbebappies,tconsequencesin-theparish. Exceptbythe
musical band, and a few wrong-beaded men like themrelves, the
operatives resolved to attend their work as usual. To their-ho-
nour and credit be it told, they did so; and it was very remark -
able, that whilst the whole works of the same kind in Lanarkshire,
Dumbartonshire ., Renfrewshire, and Ayrshire stood"Still that week,
not one of all the twenty-two large public works stood idle for a
                              3


