
                               DALKEITH.                 479
the cover of law, his coffers were enriched by forfeitures, confisca-
tion, and extortion.  He was loose in his habits; arrogant and
tyrannical in the exercise of his power; haught and inaccessible
towards his fellow-subjects; and of implacable enmity towards
such as had incurred his displeasure,--so that he soon lost the fa-
vour and confidence of the nobility, and became completely de-
tested by all classes.  Prince, and the influence of the Regent's
enemies who were about the King's person, soon conspired to ac-
complsih the downfal of morton. He felt himself obliged to
make a show of resigning the Regency, after having held that office
for five years and three months,* though the King was still
only in his eleventh year, while, by the arrangements made at the
Queen's demission in the 1567, he was not allowed to enter upon the
government till he had reached the age of seventeen years com-
plete.  On demitting the Regency, Morton retired for safety
to Lochleven Castle.  Here, brooding over the means of regain-
ing his former influence, he left Lochleven Castle with a few at-
tendants,--arrived Striling Castle about midnight,--made him-
self master of the place,--and, with his usual address, soon re-
gained his influence at Court. His success, however, was but of
short duration. Aubigny, afterwards, Duke of Lannox, and James
Stewart, afterwards Earl of Arran, had gained possession of the
royal favour; and when they found the convenient opportunity,
they accussed Morton of being accessary to the murder of Darnley,
the King's father.  Upon tihs he was immediately arrested (1580,)
and sent prisoner to Edinburgh Castle, and afterwards to Dum-
barton.  He received little sympathy or assistance from his political
friends.  EVen England, to whose interest he had always been so
devoted, made but a feeble an ineffectual attempt to obtain his
rescue.  Being carried back to Edinburgh, he was brought to trial
on the 1st June 1581, and condemned to be executed. His last
hours were spent in company with some of the reformed clergy and
other friends. Top them his mind appeared to have undergone a
vital change;--exhibit6ed all the symptoms of a deep-seated
Chrtistian repentance;--and his agonized conscience found relief
only in the promises of the Gospel and the exercises of devotion. In
his confessions, which have been recorded at length by Bannatyne

<FOOTNOTE>* Even his magnificent castle, sharing along with him in the popular odium, came
to be vulgary designated "The Lion's Den"
            Calderwood, Vol. ii. p. 376.  Wod. ed.
            Godscroft, Vol. ii. p. 258.  Edinn. 1742.
            His indictment, verdict, and sentence, are given at length in Pitcairn's Criminal
Trials, Vol. i. Part 2, p. 114-116.



