
464                     PERTHSHIRE.

related that, "throch his valiant actis and manheid he was maid
knicht in the Isle of Rhodes, quhilk standeth in the Carpathian
sea near to Caria, and contrie of Asia the less, and he was three
sandrie tymes in Rome." Descending along the series, we find
Colin, the sixth in succession, represented as having been " ane
great justiciar all his tyme, throch the quhilk he sustenit the deidly
feid of the Clangregor, ane lang space; and besides that he causit
execute to the death  meny; notable lymarris, he behiddit the laird
of M'Gregor himself at Kandmoir, in presence of the Erle of
Athol, the Justice-Clerk, and sundrie other nobilmen." Dun-
can, the seventh in the list, was the first, it is said, who attempted
the civilizing the inhabitants of the estate; for before, they were,
like their neighbours, more given to arms than to any kind of in-
dustry, and living pretty much at large, without distinguishing
precisely between "meum and tuum." He set them the example
of planting timber trees, fencing pieces of ground for gardens, and
manuring their lands; at the same time assisting and encouraging
them. One of his regulations of police for the estate was, " that
no man shall in any public-house drink more than a chopin of ale
with his neighbour's wife, in the absence of her husband, upon the
penalty of L. 10, and sitting twenty-four hours in the stocks, toties
quoties." But the most interesting statement of all, perhaps, is
that which we have in connection with Robert, the ninth name in
the list. "In the year of God 1644 and 1645, the laird of
Glenurquhay his whole landis and esteat, betwixt the foord of
Lyon, and point of Lismoir, were burnt and   destroyit be James
Graham, sometime Erle of Montrose, and Alex.  M'Donald,
son to Col.  M'Donald in Colesne, with their associattis.  The
tenants their whole cattle were taken away be their enemies; and
their cornes, houses, plenishing, and whole insight weir burnt;
and the said Sir  Robert pressing to get the inhabitants repairit,
wairit L.48 Scots upon the bigging of every cuple in his landis,
and als warit seed cornes, upon his own charges, to the most of
his inhabitants. The occasion of this malice against Sir Robert,
and his friends and countrie people, was, because the said Sir Ro-
bert joinit in Covenant with the Kirk and kingdom of. Scotland, in
maintaning the trew religion, the King's majestie, his authoritie,
and Taws, and libertie of the kingdom of Scotland; and because
the said Sir Robert altogether refusit to assist the said James
Graham and Alex. M'Donald, their malicious doings in the king-
dom of Scotland. So that laird of Gelnurquhay and his



