
246    			DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

in the parish to generate infection; nor is there a glen or ravine
of any extent to prevent the wind from having a free and full sweep
over nearly the whole parish, from the sea.
	Hydrography.--The Solway Frith that bounds Cummertrees
on the south is, in width from shore to shore, opposite this parish,
fully seven miles, when it is full tide; but when it is ebb-tide, the
only water in the Frith is that of the rivers Esk, Eden, and Annan;
the Esk and Eden unite several miles to the east of Cummertrees,
and after their junction with the Annan, they run for upwards of
a mile in one large and deep navigable channel. The stream then
suddenly separates, one part running along the English coast, and
another along the Scotch, forming what is commonly called the
English and Scotch channels. From the vast plain of sand over
which the Solway tide flows, the water near to the shore is gene-
rally muddy; for the same reason, the temperature is higher than
common. In dry seasons, when there is but little fresh water flow-
ing into the Solway, its saltness is nearly equal to that of the Frith
of Forth a few miles to the N. E. of Newhaven. The tide in the
Solway ebbs very far, and flows again sometimes at the rate of
eight or ten miles an hour, when the wind blows hard from the S.
and S. W. When the tide is coming in these angry moods, its
loud roaring is heard by the people along the shore for upwards of
twenty miles before it reaches them. In such seasons, before the
first wave is discernible from the shore, there is seen a cloud of
spray whirling and dashing forward; then a long curved white and
flowing surf, and on a sudden, the large wave itself appears throw-
ing forward its speckled body three feet abreast, with awful im-
petuosity.
	The only mineral springs in Cummertrees are chalybeates.
One near Cummertrees mill is sometimes recommended by the
neighbouring physicians, and, were any care taken to keep it free
of common water, its healing properties would no doubt much
increase.
	Geology and Mineraloqy.--The nnly two kids of rocks as yet
found in Cummertrees are limestone and sandstone; the direc-
tion is to the N. E. The sandstone along the south of the parish
is of a very soft quality, and lies generally below a covering of sand,
gravel, or moss; towards the middle of the parish it becomes
harder, and lies either under, or parallel with the limestone. In
the north of the parish, the sandstone rises to the surface, and is
of so hard a quality that it is very difficult to be wrought.  The


