
<APPENDIX>

lxxxix

could not have been attained. It is certain, that the same pains were not
then taken by the Clergy, as at the present period.  A much longer space
of time was also employed in carrying on the inquiry, for it was begun in
1743, and not ended till 1755, a period of about twelve years; whereas the
present inquiry has been completed in less than eight years.  At the same
time, had it not been for Dr Webster's report, it would have been impos-
sible to have convinced many, that the population had not materially de-
creased.  Indeed, so prevalent is the inclination to praise the times past,
and undervalue the present, that in the course of these Statistical Inquiries.
I have found the Clergy, in guessing the population in 1755, have in every
instance exceeded the number stated by Dr Webster, and have almost uni-
formly gone below the truth, if they made a rough guess of the number of
their parishioners at this time, which evidently appeared, when afterwards
they were prevailed upon, tot ake the trouble of making a special enumera-
tion.  Dr Webster, however, and the Clergy at that time, had every pos-
sible inducement, to make the population of Scotland as considerable as
they could.  The Doctor was drawing up a paper for the consideration of
Government, in whose eyes he would naturally be inclined to place his na-
tive country, in as favourable and respectable a light as possible; and the
Clergy were to make a return of facts, on the accuracy of which, the future
comfort of their wives and families, and the augmentation of their own li-
vings, a point at that time in discussion, depended.  It is impossible, there-
fore, to suppose, that the population of Scotland, could, in such circumstan-
ces, be undervalued.
   Col. 3d. This column contains the Population as returned to the Au-
thor of this Work, in the course of his Inquiry, which has occupied the
space of about eight years.  There is reason to believe, that the population
of such an extent of country, was never before so accurately taken.  Not
only the number of the inhabitants, but also very satisfactory information
respecting their ages, the place of their birth, their religious persuasions,
their occupations and situations in life, their residence, whether in towns, in
villages, or in the country, together with Tables of the number of Births,
Deaths, and Marriages, in each District, have been given.  These are parti-
culars, however, the consideration of which it is proposed to reserve, for
those general computations which will be drawn up, to explain the in-
ternal structure of society in Scotland, and the general state of the king-
dom.  This column, therefore, will only contain the present state of our
population.
   Col. 4th and 5th. The Population in 1755, and its present state, being
thus ascertained, it is next proposed, to give a general view of the increase
or decrease in each parish, for the purpose of grounding an Inquiry, the re-
sult of which must be extremely important, as in consequence of it, those

     VOL. XX.


