
                                 PAISLEY.                         243

John Richmond in Greenock, Thomas Watin Carsdycke, John Semple in Houstoun,
Mongo Mitchell in Innerkip, which list ye said Bailie has promised to give into the
shiref depute, for officiating contrary to law.
   " Also Mr Gadderer giving in a list of some obstinat persons wtin his parioch who
refused to join wt him as elders in discipline.  The Moderator and brethren do like-
wise give in ye sd list to Bayly Paterson, who he promised to give it up to the sbiref
depute."
   " March 24th 1697.  The Presb. considering the great rage of Satan in this cor-
ner of the land, and particularly the continued trouble of Bargarren's daur. which is
a great evidence of the Lord's displeasure being provoked by the sins of the land,
(exprast as the causes of our former publike fasts) so to let Satan loose amongst us,
Therefore the presb. judges it very necessary to set apart a day of solemne humilia-
ene and fasting, that we may humble ourselves under God's hand, and wrestle with
God in prayer, that he may restrain Satan's rage and relieve that poor afflicted dam-
sill and that family from their present distress, and that the Lord would break in
upon the hearts of these poor obdured that are Indicted for witchcraft, that they may
freely confess to the Glory of God and the rescuing of their own souls out of the
hands of Satan, and that the Lord would conduct and clear their way that are to lie upon
yr tryell, In order to the giving of Satan's Kingdom ane effectuall stroak.  Therefor
the presb. appoints Thursday come eight days to be religiously and solemnly observed
upon the accounts fors'd, in all the congregations within their bounds, and the same
to be intimate the Sabbath preceding.
   "The presb. also appoints the whole members to deal with those who are indited,
as they shall have occasion, in order unto their being brought to a confession."
   "Aprile 14, 1697.-The meeting considering this day that the revising of the nar-
rative of Christine Shaw's trouble was recommended unto them by the synod, there-
fore they appoint Mr Turner to cause transcribe four copies, and send one to prin-
cipal Dunlop, and Mr Ja. Brown, another to Mr Ballantine, another to Mr Wylie,
and another to Mr Wilson, allowing them to advise with any of the brethren of yr
respective presbitrys in the revising yrof, appointing them, ere they leave this place, to
meet and appoint the time and place of their next meeting, that they may compare
their animadversions, and put the qll relations in a suitable dress."
   " May 19, 1697.-Sed. The members of the presb. with the rest of the brethren
that were in town.
   " After prayer, Mrs M'Dowall, Da Brown, Ja Stirling are appointed, as frequently
as possibly they can, to converse with the seven persons that are condemned to die
for witchcraft."
   " Mr Pa. Sympson and Mr Da Brown are appointed to have each of them a Lecture
in the tolbuth to those that are condemned upon June 9, the day preceding their
Execution."
   " At Pasley, June 9, 1697.  Mr Sympson preacht this day in the tolbuth to the
condemned persons, on 2 Tim. 2. 25, 26, and also Mr Brown on 1 Tim. 1, 16, ac-
cording to appointment."
   " The presb. did appoint the whole members to spend sometime this night with
the condemned persons who are to dy to-morrow, and did allot to each one or two
of the Brethren one of the sentenced persons, to be dealt with by them, and waited
upon to the fire."
   " January 11th 1699.  The Presb. appoints their Commissioners to the Assembly
to plead that this presbytery he exeem'd from supplying the North at this time, upon
the account of the sad condition of the Country through diabolicall molestations, &c."
From the minutes, it appears that the Presbytery took a very strong interest in
the question of the Union of the Kingdoms in 1707, appointing a Committee of their
number to wait on the proceedings of the Parliament and Commissioners at Edin-
burgh, for the purpose of stopping what was then considered a dangerous and degra-
ding proposal.  The tumults of the times are matter of history with which we have
nothing to do; but we may remark, that the Presbytery of Paisley did, in this in-
stance, only echo the universal feeling of the more decided part of the Presbyterian
body, that the Union would prove highly prejudicial to the Church, by leasening her
influence with the legislature, and by merging her interests in those of a legislative
body, in which Episcopacy could not fail to have an immense preponderance.

   Parochial Missions.-About ten years ago there was a town
mission established in Paisley, which employed two agents.  This


