
     Statistical Account

be equal to 2 looms constantly occupied throughout the year;
and supposing the 36 looms, thus made up, to weave only, at
an average 7 yards raw cloth, which is equal to 4 2/3 yards, dress-
ed cloth, each day, for 300 days in the year, they would thus
weave several thousand yards of more cloth, than can be made
out of the above number of packs.  Now, as many weavers 
are known not to be a week idle throughout the year, and
some of them, for a course of weeks in temperate weather,
work 12 and even 15 yards per day, the above computation is
abundantly moderate.  Again, every slip of yarn is allowed,
by the manufacturers, to make, at an average, a yard of cloth,
consequently, from the 243 packs, containing 2916 stone, and
each stone yielding 16 slips of yarn, there should be pro-
duced 46,656 yards of cloth; yet, from the most accurate en-
quiry, the actual number cannot be found to exceed 43,740
yards.  To reconcile these seemingly inconsistent circumstan-
ces, let the following observations be attended to:  1 ft, Many
neighbouring farmers reserve some part of their wool, and
many families in the village purchase small quantities, which
are spun at home during winter, or given out to be spun at
the ordinary rate.  The yarn is sent to the water, the web
to the dyer, or perharps the wool, from the beginning, is com-
mitted to a clothier, to be manufactured into cloth.  A great
part of the cloth, thus made, is intended for the market,
though most of it is generally for private use.  Nor is it unu-
sual, for the manufacturers themselves, to buy woollen yarn,
and webs from the loom, to bring forward into cloth for sale.
In this manner, about 30 packs of wool may annually be spun
and woven, besides the quantity purchased by the manufac-
turers.  2dly, The manufacturers do not employ all their
wool in making cloth.  A considerable quantity of blankets,
flannels, and worked stuffs for womens gowns, and childrens
frocks, are made both by them and private families.  And


