
796                         LANARKSHIRE.

corn or attendance.  The ox is as much fatigued with seven hours
work in the day, as the horse is with eight.  After the ox has filled
his belly, be must have time to ruminate, and therefore cannot be
baited and put to work a second time the same day like the horse,
without being greatly injured."
   The village of Uddingstone has been long famous for the manufacture
of Wilkie's plough, which is now generally used in all the
well cultivated districts of Scotland, and in many parts of England;
and is to be found in almost every quarter of the globe.  It was
first made by the late Mr John Wilkie in 1800.  From 1800 till
1810, it was mounted with a wooden frame-work.  Since 1810 it
has been wholly constructed of iron.  It is lighter, more manageable,
and forms a more acute angle than any plough at present
known.  The common two-horse plough weighs about 1 1 3/4 cwt.
and costs L. 4.  Some of superior workmanship and materials are
charged as high as eight guineas.  Cast iron socks were introduced in
1829, and are now generally used, especially in the west of Scotland.
  The demand for Wilkie's plough in the West Indies has
greatly increased since the emancipation of the slaves.  Last year
it amounted to 150.  It is there drawn by oxen, and is highly recommended
by George Richardson Porter in his late work on the Sugarcane.
 Upwards of lO,000 ploughs have been made by Mr Wilkie
and his son since the year 1800.  Mr Wilkie also invented an
adjusting brake or cultivator, used chiefly as a grubber, auxiliary
to the plough, in working fallows and cleaning land; and his son
and successor, Mr James Wilkie, has invented the horse-hoe, and
a drill barrow of great utility to the farmer. *   Agricultural implements
of all kinds, and on the most improved construction, are
made at his works.
   Quarries and Mines.-There are several quarries of excellent
freestone, towards the Clyde, of a red colour, and white in the upper
parts of the parish.  There is also abundance of coal.  The
ell coal, the nine feet coal, and the splint coal are all wrought at
Chapelhall.  At Woodneuck, there is a seam of splint coal
wrought, seven fathoms below the ironstone.  The iron-works are
supplied with ironstone chiefly from Airdrie hill, Meadow hill,
Calderbrae, and Dalmacauther.  The Monkland Iron and Steel
Company, who have works at Chapelball, make from three fur

<FOOTNOTE>He has likewise invented a new turn-wrest plough, for which he last year received
a premium from the Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland.
				4


