
70                       ARGYLESHIRE.

                    V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

The nearest market-town is Oba\n1, which is about eight miles
distant from Kilninver.
   The length of the public road through the parish is about
fifteen miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.-There are churches at Kilninver and Kil-
melfort about eight miles distant from each other, where the mi-
nister preaches alternately. The church at Kilninver was built
about fifty years ago, and affords accommodation to 450.  That at
Kilmelfort is seated for 250.  Both are kept in excellent repair.
   There is no manse in the parish. The sum of L.50 is allowed
for manse money. The glebe (except about an acre at Kilninver)
is at Kilmelfort, and is let for L.18. The stipend is the minimum.
   The Duke of Argyle is patron of Kilmelfort, and the Marquis
of Breadalbane is patron of Kilninver; they present per vices.
   There is no chapel of ease nor Dissenting chapel in the pa-
risb.  There are only a few families of Dissenters in the parish.
The number of communicants is about 250. The collections for
the poor amount on an average to L. 12, and the average collec-
tion for religious purposes is L. 10 per annum.
   Education.-There are 4 schools, viz. 2 parochial schools, I As-
sembly school, and one supported by the tenants, with some assist-
ance by the Marquis of Breadalbane. The schoolmaster at Kil-
ninver has L.34 of salary, with an allowance of L.6, 8s. in lieu of
dwelling house and garden.  The salary at Kilmelfort is L.25,
with L.4 for house and garden. The Assembly -teacher has L.25,
with an additional allowance for accommodation. There is also a
sewing, spinning, and knitting-school at Clachanseil, supported by
the Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge.
   Poor's Fund.-The average number of poor is 40. The he-
ritors give an annual donation, which, with church collections,
forms the only fund for their maintenance.  For several years
past, wealthy people connected with the parish have given libe-
rally, and consequently the poor have been well supplied Inde-
pendently of this source, which may be considered as temporary,
the most necessitous receive about L. 4 a-year, with a free house
and garden, and some potato ground.
   Fair.-There is a fair held in May and November for the pur-
pose of hiring servants.
   Inns, &c.-There are two inns and two public houses or dram-
shops in the parish. One inn is indispensable, the others are a
nuisance.


