
   				ALVAH.                         171

   sure to thrive on such possessions.  Hand-loom weavers from ma-
   nufacturing towns might also be tried, and if they succeeded, it
   would be a valuable experiment.  The expense of carriage is
   the only obstacle, but with our present facilities of conveyance,
   that expense could not be great.  In letting waste land, in the man-
   ner suggested, the appearance of the country would be greatly im-
   proved, and the comfort of the crofters, at the same time, in-
   creased, if they were bound to build their houses after some uni-
   form and regular plan, to thatch and harl them when necessary,
   and to attend to such other cheap and tasteful improvements as
   their landlords might suggest.
      Breeds of Cattle.-- The breed of cattle in the parish seems to
   be the same with, or at least very little different from, the Aber-
   deenshire breed.  The only remarkable alteration that has taken
   place, for some years back, is the great increase of hummel- cattle
   compared with the number of horned.  By the graziers and best
   judges, this alteration is considered an improvement.  About
   twenty years ago, a different opinion prevailed, and a good show
   of horns was a point much valued.  As to systematic breeding in
   the way practised in the south, very little has been done in the
   parish, except that, in choosing bulls and cows, the best and hand-
   somest in the stock are generally selected and reared.  The good
   or bad qualities of the former, however, are not always so much
   attended to as they ought.  If the animal is once reared, he is
   seldom rejected, however indifferent his qualities may be.  Most
   of the farmers consider systematic breeding as a scheme of too
   distant and uncertain remuneration, and, leaving this part of their
   economy to persons of larger means, they are content to avail
   themselves of the advantages resulting from the experience of
   others.  But although the farmers here are not much given to
   expepsive experiments, yet so greatly do they profit by the expe.
   rience of others, that they cannot be said to be behind their neigh-
   bours in skill and judgment in the management of their stock.
   The practice generally followed on farms of a moderate size is
   this : the stock consists of four sets, viz. cows, one year olds,
   two year olds, and three year olds, of each nearly an equal num-
   ber.  The three year olds are sold off in the spring, or before
   Whitsunday (generally fat), by which time the calves are ready
   to take their place, so that about the same number is always kept
   up.  Some sell off their three year olds before winter, and substi.
   tute four year olds in their room.  Others speculate a little on


