
               		  SANQUHAR.                                 299

size, having heads, tails, fins and scales, lying in all different ways
When broken they were discovered to be, in substance, sandstone.
They lay at the distance of about eleven or twelve fathoms below
the bed of the river, which consists of regularly stratified sandstone,
Impressions of shells and of several vegetable substances continue
to be met with, both in the coal and in the metals lying above it.
Coal continues to be wrought near this place, but has been found
to be much intersected with whin dikes. It is the public proper-
ty of the burgh of Sanquhar. A steam-engine has been found ne-
cessary to clear the workings of water. About twenty men are em-
ployed in them. Coal has been discovered also in several small
properties near the town of Saiiquhar, but at present is not wrought
in any of them. In the whole of the basin of Sanquhar, the coal
is generally of a good quality, but improves as it lies farther from
the surface. At all the pits now mentioned it is sold at 5s. per ton.
It may be stated also that C.G. Stuart Menteath, Esq. of Close-
burn, has in the town of Sanquhar a depot for coal, which he brings
in considerable quantity from his pits at Mansfield, in the parish of
New Cumnock, a distance of about eleven miles. Including this,
about 16000 tons may be considered the average of the quantity
sold yearly at Sanquhar.
	Lead Mines of Wanlockhead.--At the east end of the parish,
about nine miles from the town'of Sanquhar, are situated the lead
mines of Wanlockhead, the property of the Duke of Buccleuch
and Queensberry. They join the mines of Leadhills, belonging
to the Earl of Hopetoun, in the parish of Crawfurd and county of
Lanark. The workings of both include a circle of about two and
a-half miles. The surface is bleak and mountainous, and about
1500 feet above the level of the sea. The rocks which generally
prevail are greywacke and greywacke slate, often of a yellowish
colour at the surface, but black toward the centre. They are some-
times so hard as to strike fire with steel, but easily exfoliate when
exposed to the weather. When exposure is continued for a few
years they fall to powder.
	Wanlockhead has long been famous for its lead mines. They
are said to have been discovered by Cornelius Hardskins, a Ger-
man, in the minority of James VI., when the Germans were em-
ployed in searching for gold in that place. Sir Bevis Bulmer, mas-
ter of the mint under Queen Elizabeth, with concurrence of the
Scottish monarch, is said to have employed 300 men in that work
in the neighbourhood of Wanlockhead and Leadhills several years


