
                         CARNWATH.                               83

required is here brought together; and in such quantities too, that
I find it reported by a person employed in 1797 to examine the
state of the minerals, that, "from what he had explored, 40,000
tons of iron might be made annually for the space of ninety years!
that the supply of ironstone is inexhaustible," & c. *

                       II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
   Antiquities.-There are few antiquities in the parish worthy of
notice.  The cairn or moat at the west end of the village, to which
reference has been already made, is evidently artificial, but at
what time it was raised, or for what purpose, I have been unable
to ascertain.  It is of a form somewhat elliptical, the diameter
from east to west being longer than from north to south.  There
is a hollow on the top, where, it is said, there was the entrance to a
rude stair that reached to the bottom.  This has suggested the idea,
that, the moat was intended as a burying-place, though tradition
speaks of it as a place of concealment for the plate, &c. belong-
ing to the family of Carnwath, in the troublous times of Bruce
and Baliol.  It has evidently been a place of strength, as it is sur-
rounded by a deep ditch, and large mound, + though for what pur-
pose it was raised must remain unknown.  The present proprietor,
Sir N. Macdonald Lockhart, Bart., has, during the last season,
encircled it with a ditch and hedge, and planted it with hard wood,
the Scotch fir never having thriven well upon it.  These trees a
colony of crows has now taken possession of, and seems determined
to destroy, by the load of nests,-having, it is worthy of remark,
returned only lately, after an absence of forty or fifty years.
   North and west from the cairn, on the other side of the moss,
are the ruins of Couthalley Castle, formerly the residence of the

<FOOTNOTE>The above was communicated t o me, in so far as the minerals of Wilsontown
are concerned, by Mr James Meason, formerly a clerk at the works, and now teach-
ing a small school in the village of Forth.
   The distance of Wilsontown from the sea is no doubt a great drawback on the
works,-the iron having to be conveyed to Borrowstounness, a distance of eighteen
miles.  This the Union Canal will, perhaps, in some measure remedy.
          The Sommerville papers mention this mound as a memorial of the first Baron
Somerville's firm adherence to the "Brucean interest", in opposition to the "Bal-
liol faction."  Thus, after stating, that "during all the days & his life he was a con-
stant followers of King Robert Bruce, and ane adherer to his sone King David's in-
terest when it was in the most desperate condition," they thus proceed: "Witness
his casting up a quantities of earth, of his lands upon the south-west of Carnwath
toune, which making a little hill, 'tis called yet, omnis terra.  This was the cus-
tome of these tymes, by which homage they had held the King of Scotland supreme
under God wer distinguished from the Balliol party, or such as owed any homage to
the King of England."
   Of such a custom we have no trace, so far as I know, in Scottish history-and the
name omnis terra. I never heard applied to the mound in question-and perhaps af-
ter all, it may be regarded only as look-out station, connected with Couthalley castle,
as it commands an extensive view of the country around, and is disdinctly seen from
the opposite side of the moss, where the remains of the castle stand.


