
               COCKBURNSPATH AND OLD CAMBUS.                   305

minions, set sail with some friends and domestics in a small ves-
sel bound for some port in the Frith of Forth,  A contrary wind,
however, having sprung up, they could not weather St Abb's Head,
but were obliged to land in some part near it. On landing, they
were hospitably entertained by the Bishop or Prior of Colding-
ham; and, out of gratitude to the respective saints, through whose
intercession, as they imagined, their lives had been preserved, they
erected severally a chapel at their own expense, viz. St Abb's, on
the summit of "the Head;" St Helen's, in the parish of Old Cam-
bus; and St Bee's, on the shore of Dunbar; which last, however,
has long since disappeared. Near this remarkable old ruin a con-
siderable number of coins were found about three years ago, to-
gether with an ancient rosary. Many of the coins were much de-
faced, but others were exceedingly perfect. They were of silver,
and of Athelstan or Edelstan the Great, grandson of Alfred the
Great.
   Eminent Men.-With the exception of the late Sir James Hall,
Bart. of Dunglass, we are not aware of any eminent departed cha-
racters with whom the parish can claim any connection. Even he,
indeed, can hardly be said to have any immediate connection with
the parish, since neither his birth-place nor his residence were in
it. Dunglass, however, being so very contiguous, to which the
greater part of the parish belongs, we cannot omit his name,
which will be respected as long as natural science is cultivated, to
the advancement of which he so materially contributed.
  Land-owners.-The land-owners, according to the value and ex-
tent of their respective properties, are, 1. Sir John Hall, Bart. of
Dunglass, who possesses nearly three-fourths of the parish; 2.
James Hunter of Thurston, Esq.; 3. Sir J. G. Suttie, Bart. of
Balgone; 4. W. W. Hay, Esq. of Blackburn; 5. Thomas Broad-
wood, Esq. of Fulfordlees; and 6. James Balfour, Esq. of Whit-
tingliam, M. P.
   Parochial Registers.-The parochial registers consist of three
folio volumes, containing an account of the births and marriages
which have happened in the parish from December 18, 1642, to
the present time. They appear to have been very regularly kept,
particularly that of marriages; but within the last thirty years pa-
rents have become very negligent in getting the names of their
children entered in the baptismal register.

                   III.-POPULATION.>
   There does not seem to be any authentic account of the popu-
                   BERWICK.                        U


