
690                    LANARKSHIRE.

chapel itself.  M'Ure says, that the friends of Sir George El-
phinstone buried him privately inhis own chapel, " adjoining to
his house."  The tower which is connected with the building in
question, he also says, was erected by Robert Douglas, Viscount
Belhaven.  We know not on what authority Mr Brown states, in
his History of Glasgow, (Vol. ii. p. 117,) that the chapel was re-
built by Sir George Elphinston.  As it could not be a very old
structure in his time, it was probably repaired only by him, after
" the hail images-altares-and all kynd of monuments of idiola-
trie" had been removed by the Duke of Chatelraut, * when he
came to Glasgow in 1559, or by others, in conformity with the
act of council passed in 1560.
   Doomster Hill.-This was the name which was formerly given
to a small circular hill on the south side of the Clyde, and imme-
diately opposite the ferry-house.  It is supposed to have been one
of the law hills of the country.  The utilitarian and the antiquary
will be different affected when they learn that a reservoir for the
use of an adjoining dye-work has been formed on the top of this
tumulus, or hillock, as it is called, in the oldest titles of the pro-
perty.  The depth of the reservoir is about 12 feet.  The perpen-
dicular height of the hill itself is about 17 feet, and the diameter
of its base about 150 feet.  When the reservoir was deepened a
few years ago, three or four rudely formed planks of black oak
were dug out of it.  Some small fragments of bones were likewise
discovered, and a bed of what seemed to be decayed bulrushes.
This proved the mound to be, at all events, an artificial one.  And
nothing forbids us to suppose that it may cover the ashes of some
ancient hero, who now sleeps there unknown to fame. +
   Ancient Urns.-In 1832, seven of these were found by some
workmen, when baring the surface of a quarry near Partick, on the
property of Mr Bogle of Gilmorehill.  One was broken by the
workmen before they knew what it was.  The other six were found
on the two succeeding days.  They were not more than three feet

<FOOTNOTE>Spotswood Hist. p.140.
          One of two barrows, in the parishof Thornborough, in Buckinghamshire,was late-
ly cut through, under the direction of the Duke of Buckingham and Chandos.  It was
above 20 feet high, and nearly 40 across.  In the course of digging some coins of Con-
stantine, and several bronze vases, much corroded, but perfect in shape, were discovered.
Some glass vessels were also found, which were "covered over with a thick piece of
oaken planking," and which had been deposited the ashes and fragments of the
bones of the person in honour of whose memory the tumuli had been raised.  Lon-
don Standard, November 30th 1839.
             "Ergo instauramus Polydoro funus, et ingens
             Aggeritur tumulo tellus."  AEneid, Lib. iii. v. 62.
					3


