
426			LANARKSHIRE.

sent day,) the minister in favourable weather frequently conduct-
ed the public devotional services of the parish in the open fields,
The place chosen was peculiarly well adapted for the purpose. It
is a green brae on the east side of a deep ravine near the church,
scooped out by nature in the form of an amphitheatre. At present
it is sprinkled over with broom, furze, and sloe-bushes, and two
aged thorns in twin embrace are seen growing side by side near the
borders of the meandering rivulet which murmurs below. In this
retired and romantic spot Mr M'Culloch,* for about a year before
the "work" began, preached to crowded congregations, and on the
Sabbath evenings after sermon, detailed to the listening multitudes,
the astonishing effects produced by the ministrations of Mr White-
field in England and America, and urged with great energy the doc-
trines of regeneration and newness of life. The effects of his zeal
soon began to evidence themselves in a striking manner among the
multitudes who waited on his ministry. Towards the end of January
1742, two persons, Ingram More, a shoemaker, and Robert Bow-
man, a weaver, went through the parish, and got about ninety
heads of families to subscribe a petition, which was presented to the
minister, desiring that he would give them a weekly lecture. This
request was immediately complied with, and Thursday was fixed
upon as the most convenient day of the week for that purpose.
These meetings were crowded with multitudes of hearers, and at
length from weekly were extended to daily exhortations, which were
carried on without interruption for seven or eight months. Many
people came to the minister's house under strong convictions of sin,
calling themselves "enemies to God, despisers of precious Christ,"
and saying "what shall we do to be saved?" The first prominent
symptoms of the extraordinary effects produced by these multiplied
services were on the 8th February. Soon after, the sacrament was
given twice in the space of five weeks; on 11th July and on 15th
August. Mr Whitefield had arrived from England in June, and
many of the most popular preachers of the day hastened to join him
at Cambuslang, such as Messrs Willison of Dundee, Webster of

<FOOTNOTE>Mr M'Culloch, much and justly as he was esteemed by his own parishioners, was
never a popular preacher in the district in which he resided. So much was this
the case, that up to the time of the Revival at Cambuslang, when assisting at neigh-
bouring communions, he was usually called "the Ale Minister," the meaning of which
was, that his appearance in the tent was considered by the great majority as the sig-
nal for their retiring for a refreshment. He is said to have been most diligent and
faithful in catechising his parishioners of all ages, and evinced and often expres-
sed great uneasiness, when any of them betrayed ignorance of the doctrines of the
gospel. All bore witness, that while he was severe in manners and of a warm temper,
he was a man of a noble generous nature.


