
                            ST FERGUS.                        209

session is composed of five members and a session-clerk.  Each of
the elders has a separate district assigned to him, and reports, as oc-
casion may require, on the moral and religious state of the people,
and on the condition of the poor under his inspections.
   Education.-The parochial is the only endowed school in the pa-
risb.  For several years past an individual, who had received an
education sufficient to qualify him for being a clerk, but who has
been prevented by disease from prosecuting his original intentions,
has opened a school in his own house for reading, writing, and
arithmetic.  The average number of his scholars is 15 per quar-
ter.  He is a member of the Established Church.  The salary
of the parochial teacber is L.34, 4s. 4 1/2d.; and his school fees
may amount to L.20 per annum.  There are several small
schools in different parts of the parish, taught by females, at which
children learn the elements of reading, and in two of these knitting
and sewing are taught.  It is much to be wished that the heritors
would grant a house and garden, or some such encouragement, to
induce a competent female teacher to settle in the parish.  The
average number of children attending the parish school is 32 in
summer, and 54 in winter.  The branches taught are, English
reading, English grammar, writing, arithmetic, book-keepiDg, La-
tin, geography, and mathematics.  The books used are the Bible,
M'Culloch's Lessons, first and second series; Lennie and Rae's
English Grammars; Stewart's Geography; Gray, Joyce, and In-
gram's Arithmetic; Hutton's Mathematics; Morrison's Book-keep-
ing; Butter's Etymological Spelling-Book, and Wood's Etymolo-
gical Guide.  Poor people find it difficult to furnish their children
with the requisite school-books, and there is no common fund out
of which this deficiency can be supplied.  The teacher endeavours,
as far as possible, to meet this exigency; but it is still matter of re-
gret that some provision sbould not be made for supplying poor
children with the requisite apparatus for prosecuting their educa-
tion.  The intellectual method of teaching is pursued in the pa-
rish school.  The Bible is daily read as a devotional exercise, and
the scholars examined on the passage read; and Monday forenoon
of every week is exclusively devoted to religious instruction, of
which exercises on the Shorter Catechism form a principal part.
The schoolmaster, who for thirty years faithfully discharged the
duties of his office, entered into an arrangement with "Dick's
Trustees," about two years ago, to employ an assistant, upon whom
ABERDEEN                                      O


