
                          DALKEITH.                        475

of Dalkeith Castle, had shown themselves devotedly attached to the
views of the King of England, the governor resolved either to cut
them off, or drive them from the country. With that view, he laid
siege to Pinkie and Dalkeith, and quickly succeeded in taking
them both. The Master of Morton, however, supported by his
two friends, James Douglas of Parkedge and Alexander Drum-
mond, seized upon one of the dungeons of the castle of Dalkeith,
and for some days resolutely  held out against the governor. They
might have been able to set him at complete defiance; but be-
ing destitute of artillery and victuals, and receiving no assistance
from their friends, they were obliged to surrender, on condition of
being allowed to depart in safety with their property.*
   On the disastrous defeat of the Scottish army, at the battle of
Pinkie, in 1547, a large proportion of the fugitives fled in the di-
rection of Dalkeith.+  Vast multitudes were slain in the interven-
ing fields; but some, among whom was the Master of Morton,
were so fortunate as to reach the castle. Being quite unprepared
for a siege, it must have immediately surrendered to the English.
But their unaccountable departure from Scotland, within a very
few days after the battle, prevented them from deriving almost
any advantage from the universal consternation into which the
country had been thrown by the defeat.+
   Early in the following year, however, (February 1547-8,)
the English again entered Scotland with a formidable army under
Lord Grey. Passing through the Merse and Lothian, they laid
waste the country, plundered and burnt the towns, and shortly
after returned home. Among other places, the Castle of Dalkeith
had been marked out for special vengeance. The deceitful part
that had been acted by Sir George Douglas for some time past,
excited the great displeasure of the English; and, moreover, the
wealth of the neighbourhood had been deposited there for security
from the depredations to which the country was at that time exposed.
A force, therefore, of 600 foot and 100 horse, suddenly appeared
before the castle, and summoned it to surrender. An obstinate
resistance was for some time made by the garrison, under the com-
mand of Sir George Douglas, who was then lying in the cattle;
but they were at last obliged to yield themselves up to the plea-
sure of the enemy. Sir George himself escaped; but his wife,

<FOOTNOTE> Saddler's Letters, 7th November 1543, et seq.
     See page 508, infra.
     Hume of Godscroft, Vol. ii, p. 128. Edin. 1743. See also Patten's Expedition,
in Dalyell's Fragments of Scottish History. 4to.


