
     of Strachur and Stralachlan.

to one of the windows is the hill above described.  The
is a particular hill opposite to each of the other windows,
not altogether of such a remarkable shape, but sufficient to
attract particular notice.  The General's tradesmen, his la-
bourers, and even his crosters, have their houses built of
stone and lime with slated roofs; these, an excellent inn,
and the minister's house and offices, which are close to the
General's house, contribute much to enliven the appearance
of the place.  Every thing about it has a new, neat, and
finished look.

   Stipend, School, and Poor.-  Sir Alexander Campbell of
Ardkinglass, Bart. and Donald Maclachlan, Esq; of Mac-
lachlan, are patrons of the parish.  They present to the 
living alternately.  The stipends, by an interlocutor of the 
Court of Teinds, 8th  December 1790, were appointed to 
be 7 chalders 1/2 boll of meal, and L. 231:8: Scots money,
and that both for stipend and for furnishing the commu-
nion0-elements.  The glebe cosists of 15 acres of very bad
soil.  The manse was built in 1780, and is rather above 
the size of the generality of clergymens houses.  There are 
2 churches in the parish, in which the minister officiates al-
ternately.  Once of them is in Strachur, close to the manse;
the other is in Stralachlan, 6 miles distant.-  There are 2 
parochial scholls, I at each of the parish churches.  The 
salary for both the schools is only L.8:6:4 Sterling.
90 scholars, at an average, attend the schools during the 
winter and spring quarters.  From 40 t0 50, in summer 
and autumn.  Reading, writing, arithmetic, and the prin-
ciples of religion, are taught.  There are other 2 schools in 
the parish, in districtss discontigous to the churches.  The 
inhabitants of 2 or more farms join and employ a young 
man for teaching their children.  They give him board
and lodging alternately in their houses, and such wages as 
and lodging alternately in their houses, and such wages as 

     Vol. IV. 4 C


