
                             KIPPEN.                         265

Lochleggan, about a mile in circumference, and mostly surrounded
with wood. A considerable stream issues from it which, increas-
ing as it proceeds, forms the burn of Broich, the waters of which,
after passing through a beautiful glen close by the House of
Broich, are chiefly employed in floating away the patch of moss in
the plain below.
   The burn of Boquhan, which forms the boundary between the
parishes of Kippen and Gargunnock, "descending from the rock
of Ballochleam, meets with the red sandstone," (says the late Ge-
neral Campbell in notes quoted in the last Statistical Account),
"through which it has opened a passage, and wrought its soft ma-
terials into a number of curious shapes, such as the wells and cal-
drons of the Devon." After running through a beautiful and
well-wooded glen, along which the proprietor of Boquhan has
formed extensive and delightful walks, it empties itself into the
Forth at the Bridge of Frew.
  In several places the parish is intersected with glens and rivu-
lets, in which there are some beautiful cascades.
   Geology and Mineralogy.--The moor of Kippen abounds with
red sandstone, which is much used in building, and is occa-
sionally conveyed to a considerable distance for that purpose.
It is soft and easily wrought, and becomes hard and durable, on
being exposed to the weather. On the southern boundary of the
parish, limestone is found; but, owing to the distance from coal,
it has seldom been wrought. It is supposed that coal may be
obtained in the immediate neighbourhood; but any attempts
which have been made to obtain it, have as yet been unsuccessful.
  In respect of soil, this parish is divided into what is commonly
called carse and dry-field. The former consists of the low ground
which lies on the south side of the Forth, between that river and
the rising ground. It is of unequal breadth,--from half a mile to
a mile, and in some places more, and forms a part of that exten-
sive plain which reaches from the neighbourbood of Gartmore, on
both sides of the river, to Stirling. In three diffierent places in
this parish, there are patches of moss still covering not less than
300 acres of rich.carse ground; and, there is reason to believe,
that the whole plain was at one time under moss. Indeed, from
substances found in the soil, and from the aspect of this higher
grounds by which it is bounded, it seems probable that, at some for-
mer period, it was covered by the sea. And after the waters had
receded, the plain appears to have been occupied with trees and


