
50                           ORKNEY.

is formed of the same strata as the precipice from which it is dis-
joined; and as this is nearly 1000 feet perpendicular, it affords a
magnificent exhibition of the strata. The top is red sandstone,
and the base on which it rests amygdaloid. In this precipice, I
found, about twenty years ago, a fine vein of manganese ore, from
which beautiful specimens may be procured, and in the other side
of the island, that species of iron ore called brown hematite, is
found in such quantity, that it was at one time worked.
  IV. Trap Rocks.-These occur as greenstone, basalt, porphyry,
and amygdaloid. All the rocks formerly noticed are frequently inter-
sected with wbin dikes, from one to ten feet thick, which are some-
times shifted and contorted, but generally run directly west by com-
pass, (the flag having a seam in that direction), till they disappear
under the bed of the ocean. In the space of eight miles along
the precipices on the west coast of Stromness and this parish, I
have counted eighteen separate dikes of this kind, and, including
Birsay, I have no doubt there are more than two dozen. The
strata of the slate in contact with these dikes-are generally con-
torted and pulverized, and easily washed away, leaving narrow
inlets or "geoes" One of these, nine feet thick, cuts through
the north-west extremity of the granite, and another bounds on its
south-east side a mass of amygdaloid, containing zeolite, calcare-
ous spar, green earth, &e. in Walls. The only place where I
know of its overflowing the secondary rocks is one which I disco-
vered about twelve years ago in the west side of Hoy, where there
is a bed of it fully 100 feet thick, and, I believe, several miles in
extent, in the middle of the sandstone. Near the same bed, on
the sea shore of Rackwick, I also found a fine vein of fibrous gyp-
sum, an inch and a-half thick. Porphyry also occurs; and Dr Hib-
bert observed an interesting spot of it near the granite in Cairston.
  V. Alluvial Rocks.-The alluvial formation of Orkney is not par-
ticularly interesting; but we have plenty of clay, in most places abun-
dance of peat, though there is little in Sandwick, and, in many dis-
tricts, marl. Bog-iron ore is very common on some of our hills; and
along our sandy bays, nature frequently erects a barrier of a sort of
indurated sand, apparently formed by the mixture of siliceous parti-
cles with fragments of shells, which serve for cement. In our peat-
mosses, roots of large trees are often dug up, and they have also
been found in Sandwiek Bay, where they are generally covered by
the ocean. "Hazel-nuts, deers' horns, &c. have likewise repeatedly
been found imbedded in our peat,-and this makes it probable


