
			     INCH.				 91

which prevail among sheep in this district are the braxy, a kind of
flatulent distemper, which speedily proves fatal; the sturdy, or
water in the head, and grupping, a kind of palsy. The latter is
sometimes cured by putting the sheep into a clover or turnip-
field. Sheep are clipped in the month of June, and smeared in
November.
  Live-Stock.--The breed of cattle long common in this district is
the well known Galloway breed. They feed well, and are preferred
in the English market to any other cattle of the same weight.
Much attention has been paid by our farmers to the improvement
of this kind of stock. Of late years, however, the purity of the
breed has been much contaminated by the introduction of Irish
cattle. In consequence of the low price of Galloways in the Eng-
lish market, many of our farmers have introduced the Ayrshire
cow, and turned their attention to cheese-making.
  Turnips were introduced into the parish more than a century
ago by Marshal Stair, but their cultivation, did not become general
till lately. Turnip cultivation, and feeding off with sheep are ex-
tremely suitable to our light soils, and are now generally adopted.
There is a bone-mill in the parish, and bone manure is in great
demand.
  Reclaiming Waste Land, &c.--There are several considerable
bogs or mosses in the lower district of the parish, which might
be reclaimed and improved; but as the price of coal is high,
(being all imported) these are required for a supply of fuel.
George Guthrie, Esq. factor to the Earl of Stair, the most spirit-
ed agriculturist in the district, has reclaimed many acres of bog
land; and splendid crops of corn are now raised on what was be-
fore " a possession for the bittern and pools of water." The ex-
ample of Mr Guthrie has given a stimulus to agricultural improve-
ment in the parish.
  Leases.--The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
  Farm-Buildings, &c.--The farm-houses about fifty years ago
were very miserable, but they are now very comfortable dwellings.
  The general fence in the lowland part of the parish is the turf-
dike sown with whins. The thorn hedge is not very common,
and does not thrive well in all situations. In the highland district
the common fence is the Galloway dike, built of dry stones. It
is built 5 feet 2 inches high for sheep, and 4 feet 2 inches for cat-
tle. The first can be built for 1s. 4d. per rood, and the latter
for 1s.


