
     Statistical Account

mentioned, provided there be no mistake about the date,
viz. that the whole laigh of Moray had been covered by 
the sea in the year 1010.  A transposition of the two mid-
dle figures, (which would be no surprising slip of memory),
would bring the year 1010, mentioned by my informer, to
correspond exactly with Trussler's date of the origin of the 
Goodwin Sands, in 1100.  Such as have access, may have 
recourse to that book.
   Many of the best lands in this parish, which, from their
situation, could not escape being overflowed in the 11th cen-
tury, still continue in safety and great fertility.
   The effects of the lodgement of sand then made, have
spread considerably during the last 700 years, and over-
whelmed, with a deep cover of dry sand, many grounds
which the sea had, at its reflux, left tolerably clear.  The 
north corner of this parish, in which was comprehended,
with other lands, the large and populous barony of Culbin, 
was, in the last century, called the Granary of Moray; but 
the deposited sand, which had been piled up by the winds 
into three enormous hills, and especially below Maviston in 
Auldearn parish, has long continued to affect the nearest cul-
tivated lands.  From this great reservoir, the sand has been 
in a constant progress, from the south-west to the north-east;
and a very large proportion of the three Maviston hills, 
have, in my remembrance, been blown away, and lodged in 
the north extremity of this parish.  The barony of Culbin, 
lying nearest to the Maviston hills, and most in the tract of 
the strongest winds, was most exposed, and for many years 
suffered gradual encroachments, and diminutions of rent and 
population.  It was only in the end of the last century, that 
the mansion-house and gardens were overwhelmed, by an 
uncommonly violent drifting of the sand, and the messuage-
house removed to Ern-hill, a remaining corner of that estate, 
quite out of the tract of the winds.  Yet, since that time,


