
     Statistical Account

   Disadvantages and Proposed Improvements.-This parish is
too narrow a field for industry in its present situation.  Hence
the people are idle for a considerable part of the year, espe-
cially in winter.  The proprietors are sensible of the various
disadvantages arising from this source, and that the establish-
ment of a manufacture would be the only remedy.  But no
person has as yet been hardy enough to engage in such an
enterprise.  It is, indeed, an object only for a Company, en-
dowed with the spirit of adventure, who would lay their ac-
count with loss for some time, till the people had learned the
business, and become sensible of its benefit.  But, if local
situation, and numbers of hands, would induce such a Com-
pany to establish a manufacture, perhaps there is no station
in Scotland more inviting for a settlement of that kind.
There are 9 or 10 parishes, among which this occupies a
central position round the heads of the Friths of Dingwall
and Beauly, within sight of each other, containing, at a mo-
derate computation, 15,000 inhabitants, with a well peopled
country for upwards of 20 miles eastward, towards Cromarty
and Tain.  The borough of Dingwall, and village of Beauly,
at the head of their respective friths, are at the distance of 9
miles only from each other, either of which, or both, would
be convenient stations.  The communication is easy, and the
roads good in every direction.  The rich corn country of
Moray and East Ross are within a few hours sailing by either
Frith.  Were such a manufacture established, numbers of
poor people from the Highlands and Western Isles would
slock to it, rather than attempt crossing the Atlantic.  This
is not a matter of conjecture or mere probability.  There is
a daily intercourse between this country and the west coast.
Severals from that quarter come down annually to settle on
the waste grounds.  They feel themselves within reach of
their relations and the sepulchres of their fathers.  But they


