
     of Alloa.

important purposes, for which the large reservoir was origin-
ally made, the same water is again collected into a smaller
dam, and from thence conveyed in a lade, to a fine let of mills
in the town of Alloa, for grinding wheat, oats, and malt, and
making pearl barley.  There are two large wheels, of 19 feet
diameter, in the centre of the house, which drive the whole
machinery in both ends of the mills.  Though all the mills are
seldom employed at the same time, they can be wrought, on a 2
great exertion, and are capable of grinding 400 bolls, about
equal to 250 quarters, in a day*.-From these mills the wa-
ter falls into a rivulet, that runs through the town, and drives a
snuff and fulling mill; it then passes through Mr. Erskine's plea-
sure grounds, till it comes near the harbour; where it is again
confined by a strong dam of earth; and a large sluice is built
in it, of hewn Stone, with a long trough of stone, which gives
the water a prodigious velocity, for clearing the harbour of
the mud: so that this little water, originally a small branch
Of the Black Devon, (fed only by a few springs, and the sur-
face water), is made to serve the most important purposes, by
driving 7 mills, within this parish, besides cleaning the har-
bour.

   Agriculture.-About 20 years ago, the husbandry of this
parish was uncommonly bad, particularly in the barony of
Alloa+.  On the expiration of the tacks (leases), a great

     4 G 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*These mills have been erewed within these 10 years.  The building is 93
feet lops, over walls, 31 feet broad, and 32 high.  The machinery alone cost
500 L. and is uncommonly well executed.  From the time the foundation stone
was laid, it was not quite 12 months before the mills began to work; and, not-
withstanding the great stress upon such new wails, they were so well built, that
there is not the smallest crack to be observed.

   +The farms were small, and the miserable steadings (the old phrase for a farm
house and offices), denoted the poverty of the tenants, who relied solely on the


