
     of Kincardine.

   The Forth ceases to be navigable at the cruives of Craigforth,
about 300 yards below its junction with the Teath, in conse-
quence of a rock stretching across the channel, and a wall raised
upon it to prevent salmon from passing the cruives.  Below
them the tide rises five feet at high spring tides, but does not
surmount the wall*.

   Population.-The population of this parish has undergone
considerable variations in the course of this century, but, upon
the whole, it has increased considerably.-It is said to have
increased greatly from 1730 to 1750.  From that period, to
1772, it seems to have decreased; since the last date it has ac-
quired more than it lost in the former periods.  The increase
of population betwixt 1730 to 1750 is attributed partly to the
additions made to the villages of Thornhill and Norriestown
and partly to increasing the number of the farms, by making
new ones on the out-fields, or those parts of the farms that
were too remote from the farm houses for dung being carried
to them, and which therefore formerly were alternately in lea,
or under oats.-The decrease from 1750 to 1772, is imputed
to the demolition of several farm houses and cottages, in con-
sequence of 500 acres having been inclosed, and either kept in
grass, or in the natural possession of the proprietor.  The in-
crease of the third period, is owing partly to the additions made
to the villages already mentioned but chiefly to the estalblish-
ment of the moss tenants (or lairds as they are called) in the
mosses of Kincardine and Flanders.
   By a very accurate list, taken in 1746, of the men from 14

     VOL. VI. 3 P

<FOOTNOTE>

*The following migratory birds appear here in winter; wild geese, and
sometimes swans, woodcocks, field-fares, hooded crows, some few of these
breed in the low country.-Before, or during, high east winds in the spring,
gulls sometimes visit the place for a few days.  The number of wild geese is
greatly diminished since the moss came to be inhabited.


