
216                         FIFESHIRE.

equitable to give a considerable extension to the period of a lease.
It is on every account desirable that the tenant should enjoy at
least three, or perhaps four, returns of his rotation. But if by al-
lowing the fields to lie in grass-for two or three years, he extend his
rotation from five or six, to seven or eight years, he cannot re-
ceive this advantage unless his lease befor twenty-four years, instead
of nineteen. No sound objection, as far as we can judge, can be
offered to this proposed alteration on the part of landlords,-be-
cause rents being now very generally paid according to the fiars,
the landlords will always share in any rise that takes place in
the value of farm produce, and because the land, under the new
system of resting for three years out of eight, would always be kept
in the highest order.

   The average amount of raw produce.
<TABLE>
The gross amount of all descriptions of grain raised annually in the parish
  may be estimated at 8336 bolls, which will average                         L.8336
Potatoes and tarnips grown in the fields, at                                   2765
Grass at                                                                        606
                                                                              _____
                                                                    TotaL L. 11,707
   The gross rental of the parish will average nearly L. 3000.

                      V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Newburgh is the nearest market and post-town, being distant,
about four miles.
   Ecclesiastical State.--The church is situated in the centre of the
parish, and at a convenient distance from the remotest houses. It was
built in 1803 and is in excellent repair. It is seated for 200, allowing
eighteen inches to a seat. The sittings are all free. The manse was
built in 1792. A considerable addition was made to it fourteen years
ago. It is both comfortable and commodious. The glebe consists of
about 5 acres imperial of good land. The stipend is 14 chal-
ders of barley, bear, meal, and oats; but nearly L. 70 of it is paid
in money. There is not a dissenting family in the parish. The
farm-servants, with very few exceptions, all belong to the Establish-
ed church. They change every year, yet there is never above one
or two individuals among them that are members of any other de-
nomination, which may be received as a decided proof that the
whole body of the agricultural population are still attached to the
Establishment.
   The average number of communicants is 135, which number
comprehends a good many from the adjoining parishes of Flisk and
Abdie, who always attend on ordinances in the church of Dunbog.
The annual amount of collections for the poor do not exceed


