
               		FINTRY.                                45

There are only twelve farmers in the whole parish, and, with the
exception of two they all possess, extensive sheep-farms.  The
stock of the whole parish consists of 4000 sheep, 900 cattle, and
200 milk cows. The cows ar‚ generally of the Ayrshire breed.
One farmer keeps 25 cows; another 15; most of them 12.
They make excellent butter and common cheese, for which they get
a ready sale in the villages or towns in the neighbourhood. They
rear a good many calves also. But they depend chiefly for their
supply of cattle stock on the markets in the neighbourhood. In ear-
ly summers, they purchase, at these markets, what stock they think
will be sufficient for their summer's pasture. These, together with
their winterers, (cattle laid on, in the end of the season, to consume
their sprits and bog-hay, of which, in general, their farms yield a
good supply, *) they take to one or other of, the Falkirk harvest-
trysts; and, if they succeed in securing L.1, I Os. a piece for their
summer's grass, they do not complain. It frequently hap-
pens, however, that they do not obtain nearly that sum. The
cattle-market has been, for years back, quite a game of chance.
Sheep are a more steady and a more sure stock. Our bills raise
excellent lambs, for which a ready sale is got from the butchers in
Glasgow. The wool, too, of late years, has yielded a high price;
and altogether, from such stocks the farmer has a better prospect
of a fair remuneration. Open drains are now cut very commonly
along the sides of our hills, which have very much, improved the
sheep pasture, by carrying off the superfluous moisture.
   Manufactures.--Allusion has been made to a large cotton
factory in this parish. It was erected by the late Mr Speirs,
upwards of forty-five years ago. It occasioned a very great change
in the aspect of the parish. In some respects, it may have
been an advantage to the parish. It has perhaps occasioned
the improvement of our roads, and it promotes a readier sale for
much of our farm produce. But it is much to be feared, it has hither-
to been of no benefit to the proprietors. It is at a great distance
from coals. It is eighteen miles, from Glasgow; and cotton and
yarn are carried, by a very hilly road, from and to it, at a very great

   <FOOTNOTE>The most abundant source of meadow bay is the Carron Bog, an immense track
of meadow land on, the banks of the river Carron, commencing in Fintry, and thence
passing into Kilsyth and St Ninians.  This meadow extends in length fully three
miles, and averages in breadth about 400 yards; though in some places its breadth is
little short of mile. It contains 358 acres. The bay it produces is excellent, and
so abundant, that it supplies not only the farms to which it is attached, but much of
it is sold to farmers not so well  supplied, at the rate of from L.2 per
acre. When sold in the prepared state, it brings from 4d. to 6d. per stone, according
to the state of the rye-grass crop.


