
     of Ruthwell.

   Valuation and Real Rent.-The lands in this parish stand va-
lued in the cess books, at 2905 merks Scotch.  The real rents
amount to about 1600 L. Sterling, and have been greatly ad-
vanced within these few years, by the opening of the lime-
stone quarry at Comlongan, and the inclosures and improve-
ments made by Lord Stormont and the other proprietors.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The division of the numerous
commons in Annandale, the discovery and application of lime
as a manure, and the system of inclosing, begun in this and
other parishes, have produced the very extraordinary rise of
rents, which have taken place within the last twenty years;
and which, so far from injuring or impoverishing the tenan-

<FOOTNOTE>

Our Saviour is represented in different attitudes, and at the bot-
tom of one of the sides, his crucifixon is discernible; the borders
of each of the sides are inscribed with runick characters, much
more ancient perhaps than the figures sculptured upon the stone.
Tradition says, that this obelisk, in remote times, was set up at
a place called Priestwoodside near the sea, in order to assist the
vulgar, by sensible images, to form some notions of religion, but
was drawn from thence by a teem of oxen belonging to a wi-
dow, and placed in the church-yard, where it remained till the
reformation, when, by an act of the General Assembly, it was
ordered to be thrown down and broken, as a remnant of idola-
try.  This piece of antiquity has been often visited, and exa-
mined by travellers and antiquarians, and a description and
draught of it is given by Mr Pennant in his tour, and by Gor-
don in his Itinerarium Septentrionale, where sundry other par-
ticulars relating to it may be found.
   At a place called Kirkstyle in this parish, ancient records set
forth, that there was very long ago a preceptory belonging to
the knights of St. John, where they had a place of worship and
a burying ground, and that they were also possessed of property
to a great extent in the neighbourhood, which, upon the extinc-
tion of that order, came into the possession of the Murrays of
Cockpool; but we have no certain accounts either from tradi-
tion, history, or writings, when this happened.  Some tomb stones
are still to be seen in the parish church-yard, on which the in-
signia and arms of the order are cut.


