
			APPLEGARTH AND SIBBALDBIE.

are to a considerable extent in this parish, even to the amount
of 30 per cent.--operated injuriously here. At the same time,
however, landlords hold out every other encouragement, by pre-
ferring, judicious and liberal tenants, assisting such to some ex-
tent, admitting no unfair restrictions in leases, and, in short, by
every indulgence and accommodation that can be devised, short of
heavy outlay. The late Sir Alexander Jardine expended, with
great judgment, lore money than any other proprietor of the day,
in building farm-steadidgs, and inclosing and subdividing his estate.
When he succeeded to this fine property in 1806, the farm-houses
were comfortless, ill-thatched huts, and the inclosures few, and of
the most useless description. He instantly applied himself to re-
medy these deficiences, and in a very few years produced in the
property the most marked and beneficial change. About thirty
farms, constituting nearly the whole of his estate in this parish, re-
ceived new steadidgs of the most convenient and substantial kind.
And though the increase of produce may, in a few instances, have
rendered additional offices necessary, the commodious and liberal
scale of the farm-buildings in general, mark him the foremost man of
his day and district as an enlightened improver of landed property;
and his character as the kindest of landlords is stamped on the
hearts of the Applegarth tenantry by the memory of countless acts
of beneficence.
	Produce.--Average gross amount of raw produce raised in the
parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows:

<TABLE>
Produce of grain of all kinds, whether cultivated for the food of man or domes-
  tic animals, including straw,                                  L. 11331 13 10
Of potatoes, turnips, cabbages, beet, and other plants cultivated in
  the fields for food,                                               3318  8  9
Of hay, whether meadow or cultivated,                                2170  5  0
Of flax,                                                               55  0  0
Of land in pasture, rating it at L. 3 per cow, or full-grown ox, graz-
  ed for the season,--at 15s. per ewe, or full-grown sheep, postured
  for the year,                                                      4305 13  0
Of gardens and orchards,                                               30  0  0
Of the annual thinning and periodical felling of woods, plantations,
  and copse,                                                           80  0  0
              Total yearly value of raw produce raised,          L. 21291  0  7

	Societies.--There are two associations in Annandale for the im-
provement of husbandry, particularly of the breed of cattle, one in
the upper, and the other in the lower district. Of this last district


