
70                      DUMBARTONSHIRE.

lightning, and the sky, in the earlier part of the winter particularly,
is very frequently illuminated by vivid and beautiful streaks of
variously-coloured  aurora borealis.
    Hydrography.--There is no stream that deserves the name of
a river in the parish of Row. Indeed, with the exception of the
small stream Fruin, which runs through the glen of that name, and
falls into Loch Lomond, about 7 miles from its source, there are
only a few brooks from the hills, which are almost all nearly dry in
summer. The Clyde, however, skirts its southern boundary, and
the Gareloch and loch-Long lie along its western extremity.
The Gareloch is 6 miles long, and at an average somewhat less
than a mile in breadth. Its greatest depth is said to be about 23
fathoms, and its bottom is in general covered with a very fine
stiff bluish, clay, affording excellent anchorage for vessels. The
extreme beauty of its banks, rather than the virtue of its salt water,
has long bad sufficient attraction to draw many visitors for sea-
bathing, and of late its shore has become studded with many beau -
tiful villas, the property ih general of the respectable families who
come to make them their summer residence. And assuredly, few
places can boast of so much to attract and fascinate with its beau-
tiful scenery. Loch-Long is very much deeper than the Gareloch ;
it is also considerably broader in that part of it which bounds this
parish, and, as its name imports, it is much longer, the Gareloch
having probably received its name of Gare or " short" Loch
from its being so much shorter than Loch Long. If the Gareloch
nmy be vain of the beauty of its banks, Loch Long may be proud
of its deep black waters, and the majesty of its high and rugged
mountains.
  Although there are many springs along the sides of the hills,
there are none of any consequence, or with any mineral virtues
that have been turned to any use. The temperature of one or two of
these has been found to be about 45/dic both in summer and winter.
   Mineralogy.--In the northern or hilly part of the parish, the
rocks consist of greywacke, clay slate, and transition limestone.
Towards the south, are beds of red sandstone, and coarse con-
glomemte. The connection of these rocks with the coal forma-
tion has not been well made out. From the circumstance of their
resting upon the greywacke series, they have generally been sup-
posed to belong to the old red sandstone. Dr Thomson, however,
is disposed to consider them as belonging to the new red sandstone.
Attempts have been made in two places to find coal, but unsuccess-


