
   948                           FIFESHIRE.
                        
   underneath, the arms of Learmontb and Myrton quartered, with
   the letters J. M. and date 1602 at the base. We must therefore
   Conclude that the initials J. L. and E. M. mean Sir John Lear.
   month and Elizabeth Myrton, the proprietors of the estate at the
   time, and husband and wife when that portion of the building was
   erected. Now, Sibbald states that from Malcolm IV. to James
   II. the castle belonged to the Hays; that since, the Leslies have
   bad it; and that afterwards it came to the Learmontbs; which
   would lead down to nearly the above date. Sir James Learmonth,
   eldest son of Sir John, became a Lord of Session in 1627, as Lord
   Balcomie. He was a member of several Parliamentary Commis.
   sions, and died in Edinburgh while presiding as Lord President of
   the Court, Lamont says, in June 1657. Lord Balcomie had a
   son, John, who became a regent in the Old College of St An-
   drews, but he must have died young, as his Lordship was succeeded
   in the castle and estate by a daughter, as heiress. This daughter
   married Sir William Gordon of Listnore, and the property con-
   tinued in the Gordon family till 1705, when it was purchased by
   Sir William Hope, son of Sir James Hope of Hopetown. Sir
   William was a soldier who bad seen much foreign service, and
   gained the renown of being the raost. expert swordsman and the
   finest rider of his day. He published a work called "The Com-
   plete Fencing Master," in which he described the whole art, and
   gave directions how to act in single combat or on horseback. Ac-
   cording to a tradition in the country, the fame of Sir William and
   his book induced a foreign cavalier to take a far journey to try his
   skill. Havino, arrived at Crail with this intent, he challenged Sir
   William to meet him on horseback in the open field. The parties
   met within a mile of the Castle of Balcomie, at the spot where the
   standing stone of Sauebope still remains, and which the road from
   Crail to Balcomie then passed. The onset was dreadful-but at
   length Sir William's sword, with deadly force penetrated the body
   of his antagonist. The wounded cavalier fell, and with his dying
   breath declared his name and title, and requested his victorious
   antagonist to become the protector of his widowed lady. 
      Sir William died-. in 1724, and was succeeded by his son Sir:
   George, who enjoved the property for a very few years. Sir Wil-
   liam, son of Sir George, was an officer in the East India Com-
   pany's service, and was killed in India. Thereafter the property
   was old to.Mr Scott of, Scotatarvit, and left him to his se-
   cond son, General Scott, who rebuilt the part now occupied by 

