
                 DUNOON AND KILMUN.                        609

mun had not then any separate ecclesiastical standing.  Another
session record of the united parishes of Dunoon and Kilmun com-
mences anno Domini l695.  This appears to be regularly kept till
1699.  A hiatus then occurs from that period down to 1753, from
which last date these records have been regularly kept. The register
of births commences with the date of 1754, and appears during the
earlier years after that date to be but irregularly kept, and is consi-
derably mutilated.  The register of marriages commences in 1742,
and appears kept but imperfectly till 1754, and pretty regularly
from that date till 1800, from which date both these registers are
kept whth perfect regularity.  Interesting local notices occur in
the earlier minutes of the kirk-session, and of the meetings of that
body and the heritors jointly.  Among other notices,. there is one
of the proposed endowment of a grammar school at Dunoon so early
as the year 1697.  The endowment is stated to be made up of a cer-
tain stent upon the bishop's rents in several parishes of Argyleshire,
not confined to the district of Cowal.  The minute does not bear
upon what authority this arrangement had been made; and, what
is of greater moment, it does not appear to have taken effect, while
it demonstrates, at the same time, the necessity felt of having one
of the schole illustres established in Dunoon, as the leading place
of the district of Cowal.
   Land-owner.-The principal land-owners in the united parish,
and in the order of their respective valued rents, are, Alexander
S. Finlay Esq. of Castle Toward; James Hunter Esq. of Haf-
ton; John Campbell Esq. of Dunoon; Archibald Douglas Esq.
of Glenfinart; John MacArthur Moir Esq. of Milton; Alexan-
der Campbell Esq. of Monzie; William R. Campbell Esq. of
Ballocbyle; Alexander Lamont. Esq. of- Knockdow; Donald
Fletcher Esq. of Bernice; and Geo  R. Wilsone Esq. or Ben-
more. The valued rent of the united parish is L.420, Is. 10d.;
and the real rent at present is above L.9000, exclusive of feu-
duties.
  Modern Buildings.- Of these, all classes united, there is no
inconsiderable number.  In the class of mansion-houses may be
ranked first Castle Toward, built by the late Kirkman Finlay
Esq. It is considered by competent judges that there are few
specimens of the moderm Gothic more happily conceived, and
more adapted to the circumstances of situation. If, when criti-
cally examined, it be judged deficient in massive grandeur, its
lighter and more ornate features harmonize with  the surrounding
   ARGYLE.


