
                        DUNIPACE.                         387

diate predecessor. The number that cannot read, is not great;
but many, particularly of the female part of the rising generation,
read so imperfectly, that they can reap little practical benefit from
it. This arises chiefly form the preavailing but reprehensible prac-
tice of putting mere infants to work, in the several manufactorfes
in this district.
  Ecclesiastical History.--This parish was originally a chapel of the
parish of Egglis, now St Ninians, and was conveyed, along with the
other chapels and oratories of that parish (i. e. the said abbey was
founded very lately before the said annexations) to the newly founded
Abbey of Cambuskennetb, by Robert the sixteenth Bishop of St An-
drews, about tbe year II30. An uncle of the renowned Sir William
Wallace was parson or officiating priest of Dunipace, in the latter
part of the thirteenth century. Sir William frequently made his
uncle's house his home. The following lines, said to be composed
by his uncle in the fashionable style of that period, were often re-
peated by that hero:
               Dico tibi verurn, libertas est optima rerum
               Nunquam servili sub nexu vivito fili.
Which may be translated,-
               I tell you truth, of all things liberty's the best,
               O never be my son with slavery opprest.
  At the period of the Reformation, Dunipace and Larbert were
erected into separate parishes. Dunipace was then more popu-
lous, and by far more wealthy than Larbert, so much so, that the
latter parish could not maintain a minister. A union, therefore,
with Dunipace was desired, and accomplished under the authority
of two acts of the Scottish Parliament 1617 and 1624. From va-
rious documents, and from immemorial usage, it appears that the
terms of union were, "That there should be one minister only for
the two parishes; that each parish should retain and maintain its
own church, and its own school; that each parish should have its
own kirk-session, and maintain its own poor separately; that the
celebration of Divine service, and the pastoral labours of the mi-
nister should be equally divided between the parishes." It appears
also, in consequence of the above terms of union, that Divine ser-
vice was uniformly celebrated alternately in both churches. The
sacrament of our Lord's supper was also uniformly dispensed alter-
nately, the Fast-day services ' preceding each scrament being per-
formed in the church of the other parish. On other occasional
fasts, public worship was observed alternately. This union seems
to have given satisfaction to all concerned, till after the induction.


