
408                         FIFESHIRE.

with debris. The north side of Diinearn Hill presents the same
appearances on a grander scale.
  We may now briefly trace the line of coast. The eastern part
presents a succession of smail sandhills, onwards to the Links.
The chief part of these is a fine smooth plain, which is said to have
extended at one time to a small rock, now about half a mile from the
shore. In this quarter, the sea has obviously made Lrreat encroach-
ments. The current sweeping round the rock already mentioned,
has gradually gained on the land, and worn away the softer por-
tions of the opposite rocks at Lamberlaws. From - the Links to
the harbour, is the ridge of greenstone formerly noticed. Along
half of this space, the rocks are very rugged and precipitous, and
at high water are covered in some places to the depth of 12 or 14
feet. From the harbour westward, along the rest of the peninsula,
the coast presents limestone alternating with sandstone, and is very
rugged from the large quantities of debris. The same rocks pre-
dominate along the remainder of the coast. At Starly-burn, the
rocks are incrusted with deposits of calc tuff and cale sinter, from
springs which come through the large beds of limestone, in the
southwest. part of the parish. The veins of calcareous spar, so
abundant in amygdaloidal and trap rocks, have been filled up
with similar deposits, crystallization taking place after the depos'
tion.
  Fossils of the vegetable kind are found, but not in great abun-
dance, at the quarries at Newbigging, and at the old sandstone
quarries near the coast, at the eastern boundary' of the parish.
Charred wood occurs in the masses of trap tuffa, scattered along
the eastern shore.
  The chief alluvial deposits are, loam, gravel, sand, clay, and
moss. The soil between the town and the Bin is mostly a rich
deep loam of great fertility, and is probably as good land as can
be found in the county. To the northward, the soil is lighter; but,
being for the most part well cultivated, yields good crops. A
strip of mossy ground runs along the northern boundary of the
parish.
  Quarries.-Besides the quarries already noticed, there is one of
excellent sandstone or freestone at Grange. At Newbigging, the
limestone rock has been extensively excavated. The western quarry
extends from the front of the rock backwards above a hundred yards.
The roof ii sandstone,-to support which, masses of limestone four
feet square are left standing. The rooms between these supports are

