
700                          ABERDEENSHIRE.

are built of stone and lime, two storeys high, covered with slates.
They are neatly finished, and comfortably fitted up.
   As an instance of the progress of improvement in the parish, it
is worthy of notice, that, since the year 1824, in the Cultercullen
district, 250 acres of barren land have been improved; about
16,200 ells of ditches for fences, and about 10,000 ells of drains,
have been cut; about 4900 ells of stone dikes have been built.
   About  twenty fat cattle per week, on an average, have been
shipped from this parish for the London market during the last
six years.
   Navigation.-The number of ships belonging to the port is
eight.  Tonnage, 646.  These vessels are employed in the coasting
and foreign trade, and import coal and lime, timber and bones.
Grain is the only export.  There are a pilot-boat and two fishing-
boats belonging to the village.  The fish caught in the sea are,
haddocks, cod, skate, flounders, &c.  There is a ferry-boat on
the Ythan, about three-quarters of a mile above the village, which
gives at present a rent of L.16 per annum.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Village.-The village of Newburgh,a small but thriving sea-port,
is pleasantly situated on the banks of the burn of Foveran, near its
junction with the river Ythan.  There are now several substantial
and commodious houses in the village, and its general appearance
is much improved.  In former times, Newburgh was too much
famed for smuggling, but, happily for the morals of the peoples,
the appointment of the coast-guard, this has been entirely sup-
pressed.  The land at Newburgh is a fine strong black soil, and
produces, abundantly, bear, turnips, and potatoes, with a few oats.
The average rent of the land about the village is L.4 per acre.  The
village contains 450 inhabitants, and 120 houses.  There are no
less than seven ale-houses, the same number as when the last Sta-
tistical Account was written.  There are in the village a baker,
shoemakers, wrights, blacksmiths, and fleshers.  There are like-
wise four merchants, who deal in all kind of groceries and ha-
berdashery goods.  A tide-waiter resides in the villige.  There
is one Society, called the Newburgh Shipmasters' Friendly Society.
A branch of the National Savings' Bank has been established
in connection with the Ellon District National Savings' Bank.
A bone-mill, belonging to Messrs Black, of six or eight horse
power, is in constant employment at the proper seasons.  There
are eight granaries, large and substantial buildings, belong-
ing to Messrs Black, Falconer, Gray, and Mitchell.  A consi-

