
                           COUNTY OF SHETLAND.                       159

      climate, must necessarily often occur, at once brings him to indi-
      gence.  If he could be induced to provide three times the quan-
      tity of manure which he usually does, and which, in most cases, he
      could do with perfect ease, this alone would make him compa-
      ratively independent.    His farm is usually taken for three or five
      years, occasionally by the year,; but it is a point of honour and habit
      with most landlords, (which public opinion properly and vigiLantly
      protects), not to raise his rent or disturb him in his possession, un-
      less for obvious crime or wilful insolvency; and many examples
      exist, of,the same family remaining for several generations on the
      same farm.  He has thus almost all the benefit of a lease, while he
      himself is perfectly free to remove at short intervals; and this free-
      dom is a real one, from the number of 11 "ley" farms and landlords
      in competition ; so that, while he obeys the laws, and retains his
      solvency, no subject of Great Britain can enjoy more unrestrained
      liberty.
        His attachment to country is not very strong, an effect which
      may, in some. measure, arise from the love of a wandering life, in-
      duced by sailor habits, and which so many of the young men im-
      bibe, by going annually in the whalers to Greenland.  This prac-
      tice has always been reprobated by the more sagacious proprietors
      and most justly.  It is contaminating to the morals of the unsophis-
      treated youth; it dissatisfies them with the regular and simple modes
      of living in their native country; it employs the period of life, when
      Wey should he acquiring the habits and knowledge of fishermen
      and farmers, in making them only half-sailors, and accustoms them
      to expenses which their ordinary industry at home cannot support;
      yet the attempts at salutary restraint here have been stigmatized
      as arbitrary oppression.  This is only one instance, however, amongst
      many, in which Shetland proprietors have been cruelly traduced
      as the tyrants of their tenants, unable to appreciate either their
      rights or their capabilities, or the interests and duties of their
      own position.  It was formerly a common practice, which is
      still followed in some districts, for the tenant to give his land-
      lord a few. days' work every year; this was mutually beneficial,
      and in a icountry where regular daily labourers, as a class, are
      hardly to be found, was necessary.  These days' work eventually
      formed part of the rent, and thus in reality were hired labour.  Yet
      this, too, has been often railed against ws unjust exactions, as if a
      Shetland cottar were above the sphere of day labour, or as if he
      might practise it for the benefit of an one except, lis landlord.



