
     Statistical Account

   Town of Fraserburgh.-This town, situated on the south
side of the point of Kinnaird's head, is nearly of a square si-
gure, most of the street crossing each other at right angles.
The houses are neatly built, and covered with slates or tyles.
Many new houses have been erected within these few years,
and several of them finished in an elegant manner.  There
are about 100 tenements, each of which contains 22 falls;
the original price of each lot was L. 16:13:4 sterling, or
L. 1666: 13:4 in whole, besides an annual seu-duty of 4 s. 5 1/2 d.
each.  The old public buildings and works, viz. the tolbooth
and town-house, the cross, and the harbour, were erected by
Sir Alexander Fraser, the superior, and disponed to the feuars
by the charter of erection; which is dated in October 1613.
The cross is reckoned a fine structure.  It is a hexagon, with
three equidistant angular abutments; the area of the base is
500 feet; by 9 intrenchings the top is contracted to 23 feet,
on the middle of which is raised a stone pillar 12 feet high.
The British arms, surmounting the armorial coat of Fraser of
Philorth, adorn the summit.  Under the cross is a jail.

<FOOTNOTE>

"In emplissims forma, et mode debite, in connibus respectibus, ut conceditur et datur
"cuicunque collegio et universitati intro regnum nostrums erecto sue erigendo."
In 1597, the general assembly recommended Mr Charles Farme, minister
here, to be principal; but it appears nothing further was done.-On the
point of Kinnaird's-head, stands another old tower, called the Wine Tower,
similar in form, built on a rock ever-hanging the sea.  There is no commu-
nieation between the lowest and the second storey; an outer door opens into
the third, from which there is a passage, through the floor, down to the se-
cond; no vestige of a stair, within without, is visible.  Under this tower
is a cave, penetrating into the rock more than 100 feet.-In this parish
-are some ruins of Danish, of Parich houses, as they are called, by the coun-
try people.  These are about 10 feet square with a door, and hearthstone
evidently marked with fire; and, though insignificant in themselves, serve
to demonstrate that the inabitants of Buchan were, at one time, of Scandi-
navain origin.


