
                              MOCHRUM.                        63

rum was raised to the baronetage in 1694, and is now represented
by Sir William Rowe Dunbar, Bart. (Murray's Literary Hist. of
Galloway, 2d edit. 1832, p. 14-17.) The Maxwell, Baronets
of Monreith, have been settled in the parish for about two centuries.
John Maxwell, younger of Monreith, having joined the Covenan-
ters, and having been present at the battle of pentland, in 1666,
was exposed to much suffering and persecution. Though not in
custody, he with many others were tried for treason and rebellion,
and were condemned "to be apprehended." (Wodrow's Church
Hist. Vol. ii. p. 73-5.) But Maxwell, though he made several
narrow escapes, never fell into the hands of his enemies. He was
pronounced by the famous Colonel Wallace" the greatest Chris-
tian that he knew in his station;" and his name is honourably con-
nected with the ecclesiastical history of his times. (Memoirs of
Veitch and Brysson, p. 381.) The Maxwells of Monreith can
also boast of having given birth to a family, several of whom have
distinguished themselves. We refer to the family of Captain
James Maxwell, youngest son of Sir William Maxwell of Mon-
reith. Captain Maxwell had eight sons, of whom the following
attained to dintinction; Major Stewart Maxwell, author of an ex-
cellent poem, entitled "The Battle of the Bride, or Pisa De-
fended, in ten cantos," who died in 1824; Captains Keith and
John Maxwells, who both distinguished themselves in the naval
service, (James's Naval Hist, Vol. iii. p.214); and Sir Murray
Maxwell, the commander of the Alceste which conveyed Lord
Amherst as Ambassador to China. The Chinese having insulted
the officers and crew of the Alceste, Captain Maxwell resolved to
chatise them for their temerity. He chastised them accordingly,
having himself fired the first gun, thus rendering himself personal-
ly responsible for the consequences of the attack. The Alceste
was wrecked by striking on a sunken rock on her return home;
a misfortune from which Captain Maxwell's character received
even an additional brilliancy. The naratives of Captain Basil
Hall and Mr M'Leod, surgeon of the Alceste, descriptive of this
calamity, as well as illustrative of the expedition generally, form
about the most interesting works of the kind known to us. On
the accession of his late Majesty William IV. Sir Murray was
nominated one of his naval aide-de-camps; and in 1831 he was
appointed Governor of Prince Edward's Island. On receiving no-
tice of this appointment, he left Scotland in a vessel for London;



