
           68                         PERTHSHIRE.

           deposited in the Dominican monastery of Perth, were destroyed or
           abstracted at the time of the Reformation.  But the following do-
           cuments are extant in the archives of the church or hospital.-
           The chartulary of the Dominican monastery, viz. the book in-
           to which the charterr of the monastery, 162 in number were
           transcribed.   Also the account book, or book of the receipts of
           rents which was kept by the prior of the convent, from the 20th
           June 1557, to May 6, 1559, and 162 loose charters or writs which
           belonged to the raid monastery; 20 charters which belonged to the
           Carmelites or Whitefriars ; 92 which belonged to the Carthusians;
           207 which belonged to the chapels and altars :-all these chapels,
           monasteries, and religious houses lying without the walls of the city.
             The other buildings of note were, 1st, the Castle, which stood
           without the walls, immediately at the end of the Skinner-gate.  It
           was the usual residence of the kings previous to the erection of the
           Blackfriars' monastery.  Not a vestige of it remains.
             2. The Old Cross.  It was not inferior to Mary Magdalene's
           Chapel.  The time of its erection is unknown.  But it must have
           been long before the year 1578, for in the session record of that
           year there is the following entry:-" The assembly (session) re-
           quests the bailies to clear the cross, that the door may open and
           steik, and that they get a lock and key to the door, and likewise
           the master of the hospital to buy three locks for the three irons
           (jugs) where delinquents do penance at the cross."  It stood in
           the middle of the High Street, between the Kirkgate and the
           Skinnergate, and, as in other towns, it was the place from which
           all proclamations were issued.  What entitles it to special notice
           here is the following narrative, which I shall give as I find it in
           Cant's History.  " In the guildry register is to be seen ' A. D. 1601.
           Parcere subjectis et debellare superbos,' and under this motto,
           JAMES R." all written with the King's own hand.  Upon the
           next page of the register we see " Nemo me impune lacessit, July
           24,1650. CHARLES R."  Written by Charles's own hand.  There
           are blank leaves both before and after these royal subscriptions.
           Chatles II. was crowned on the 1st of January thereafter.  In the
           miscellaneous manuscript in my custody, before-mentioned, Mr.
           Dundee, who was on the spot, writes thus:-" Item, on the xv.
           Apprill in anno a thousand vi hundred ane yeir, the King's Majes-
           tie cam to Perth, and that sam day he was made Provest, with ane
           great scerlane of the courteours, and the bancait was made at the
           Croir, and the King's Maiistie was set downe thereat, and six
					      3


