
22                           FIFESHIRE.

may be described as the best part of the parish as to depth and fer-
tility of soil, there are some fields of good ground both for tillage and
pasturage, besides what have been mentioned, upon the properties
of Rossie and Kinloch. Upon the estates of Rankeilour, Ramor-
nie, and Pitlair, too, as well as belonging to the farms of Drumten-
nant upon the banks of the Eden, and the Bowhouse apd Shields
of Lathrisk in the eastern and southern districts, there are some
parts scarcely inferior in soil and cultivation.
  Towards the centre and southern district of the parish, however,
the soil for the most part becomes light and sandy. It is occupied
to the extent of some miles by fir plantations. Much of the ground
here does not seem capable of being turned to better account.
Some recent attempts, at least, to clear and cultivate it have prov-
ed unsuccessful. The wood, however, is of considerable value.
Besides the country purposes to which it is applicable in fencing,
and even roofing and flooring, large quantities of it are shipped
from the port of Newburgh to Newcastle and other parts of Eng-
land for planks and coal-props. When full grown it may bring
from L. 40 to L. 50; when cut down at half-growth, it may be
worth at the rate of about L. 20 per Scotch acre.
  The climate, which, in consequence of extensive draining and
enclosure, and an advancing state of cultivation, has of late years
been greatly improved, is dry and healthful. There are no dis-
tempers or epidemics peculiar to the parish. Many instances of
great acre having been attained by the parishioners might be ad-
duced in evidence of the salubrity of our atmosphere. There is
at present an elder in the parish, who is in church every Sabbath,
and who was born in the year 1745. Cases of no remote date are
upon record, of parishioners having lived above a hundred years.
  Hydrography.--Since the draining Of Rossie Loch, which was
partially done in 1740, and more perfectly accomplished at a sub-
sequent period, there is no lake worthy of notice in the parish.
That was once, indeed, thd largest sheet of water in the county,
abounding in perch and pike. There are several rivulets that di-
versify and enliven the landscape; among which, one of the most
considerable is the water of Keilour, which forms the eastern
boundary of the parish, dividing it from Monimail. The only
stream we have, entitled to the name of a river, is the Eden, which
gives its designation to the strath, and glides with noiseless current
through the central vale or How of Fife. This river runs about
three Miles along the southern boundary of the parish, dividing it


