
                                 RHYND.                           365

           The most prudent and judicious means have, of late, bden em-
         ployed by the Earl of Wemyss and March, for extending the
         boundaries of the parish, as well as increasing the value of his own
         already valuable domains.  A small island in the Tay, contiguous
         to his Lordship's farm of Easter Rhynd, was with much labnur,
         joined to the mainland, by a narrow road.  Reeds and osiers were
         planted along its margin, in order to consolidate the fresh mould,
         and to detain the mud and the other "debris" which might be left
         at every high tide.  At length, when the earth was sufficiently con-
         solidated, and a sufficient accumulation had been made, by carrying
         out the embankment, upwards of sixty acres of the finest land have
         been procured, which require no manure, and will require none
         for a considerable time to come, and which produce, more espe-
         cially in dry seasons, the most abundant and luxuriant crops.
             By joining to the mainland another island contiguous to his
         Lordship's farm of Balhepburn, and by adopting a similar mode
         of procedure, a process, which is at present, going forward, it is be-
         lieved, that upwards of 200 acres of land of a similar quality will
         be obtained, in a short period; besides deepening the channel of the
         river, and rendering it more adapted for the purposes of navi-
         gation,-an important circumstance in this large and extensive
         county.
             The noble proprietor of these lands may, therefore, in some re-
         spects, be considered as a benefactor to his countrx.  If the indi-
         vidual, who causes two stalks of corn to grow where only one grew
         before be regarded as a patriot or a friend to his species in what
         light, ought that individual to be regarded, who causes the richest
         fields to arise where none were before, or where were only fens
         and morasses sending forth noxious exhalations, and who is the
         means of producing provisions for many of his brethren of man-
         kind.
             From these and many other circumstances which might be men-
         tioned, the rental of the parish has of late years very considarably
         increased.  At the period of the former Statistical Account, it was
         L. 1600. It now amounts to upwards of L. 6000, varying, how-
         ever, according to the county fiars, by which a large proportion of
         the rent of the farms is paid.  The salmon fisheries also, which at
         the above-mentioned period, were let for L. 300, are now let  for
         L. 600.
             The number of acres, at present, under cultivation, is about 1700.
         There are 100 acres in plantation,  and 50 acres behind Moncrieff


