
                                 KETTINS                              643

Trollius Europaeus         Trientalis Europaea          Gymnadenia conopsea
Listera cordata            Hippuris vulgaris            Vinca minor
Botrychium lunaria         Potamogeton lucens           Anemone nemorosa
Drosera rotundifolia                   gramineus        Saxifraga granulata
Pilularia globulifera                  heterophyllus    Geranium pratense
Lobelia Dortmanna          Utricularia vulfaris         Teucrium Chamadrys
Isoetes lacustris          Parnassia palustris           Hypericum humifusum
Geranium sanguineum

                                    II. - CIVIL HISTORY.
   The family of Haliburton were very active in bringing about
the Reformation of the Church of Scotland, and had an extensive
property in this county. The castle of Pitcur, a mile south of
the church, and now in ruins, gave title to the ancient and ho-
nourable family of Haliburton, the chief of that name.
   The church of Kettins prior to the Reformation belonged to
the ministry of the Red Friars at Peebles; and it appears, from
a charter dated 24th May 1585, confirming one dated 15th No-
vember 1558, granted at Holyrood the eighteenth year of the
reign of James VI., that the kirk lands of Kettins, now called
Newhall, were disponed by Friar Gilbert Brown, minister of the
church of the Holy Cross of Peebles, to James Small of Kettins
and Elizabeth Bair, his wife. The church of Kettins anciently
had six chapels dependent on it, viz. one at a village called Peatie,
another at South Corston, a third at Pitcur, a fourth at Muiry-
faulds, a fifth at Denhead, and a sixth on the south side of the
village of Kettins. Most of these were within small enclosures
used as burying places. None of them now remain.
   Antiquities.-Some tumuli were found in this parish about fifty
years ago. One at Pitcur contained at least 1000 loads of stones.
In the centre of this cairn, a few flat unwrought stones, and with-
out date or characters, contained some human bones. A cairn of
a very small size was found a mile farther south. In the centre,
an urn was found foll of bones. At Camp-muir, there are still
visible the outlines of a camp, supposed to be Roman. At Bal-
dowrie there is an erect Danish monument, six feet high. It
contains some figures, but they are almost entirely defaced.-The
Castle of Dores stood on the summit of the hill, south from Pit-
cur. Tradition reports it to have been for some time the resi-
dence of Macbeth.
   A cave or weem, about 50 feet in length, was discovered about
three years ago on the highest part of a field east of Lintrose.
The breadth at the inner end was about seven or eight feet, and
the height five feet: it gradually narrowed to three feet at the en-
trance, which winded half around. The floor was paved, and the


