
12                          LANARKSHIRE.

At the time of the union, a new set of weights was sent from Lon-
don to the burgh. They are of very handsome workmanship, and
are thus dated, " Primo Maii Anno Dom. 1707--A. R.--An. Regni
vi." But by the act of 1826, these have been superseded by the in-
troduction of the imperial standard, and the ancient prerogative of
the town disannulled; every burgh and county having been enjoin-
ed to procure and keep a set of standard weights.
	Eminent Men.--Sir William Wallace was connected with this
parish, having resided in the town after his marriage with the co-
heiress of Lamington.--James Birnie, secretary to John Cassimir,
King of Poland, was the son of Mr William Birnie, who was ap-
pointed minister of Lanark in 1597.--Sir William Lockhart of
Lee, a great statesman and general under the Protector, and after-
wards Lord Justice-Clerk, was born in the parish, and received the
first rudiments of education at the school of Lanark.--The estate
of Jerviswood was the family property of Robert Baillie the martyr.
In the mansion-house, which is now fallen into decay, be found con-
cealment from the pursuit of his enemies, and is said to have owed
nis life upon one occasion, to a spider, which spun its web over the
door of the oven in which be was lurking, thus averting the sus-
picions of the soldiers.--Lithgow, the traveller, was born in this
parish, and lies buried in the churchyard; but the site of his grave
is unknown.--Dr William Smellie, the celebrated accoucheux;
and the learned and ingenious General Roy, were both educated
at lanark school, to which the former left as a memorial his va-
luable library, with L. 200 to build a room for its accommodation.
--Robert macqueen, Lord Justice-Clerk for Scotland, was born
in the parish, and educated at the schools of Lanark.--Sir John
Lockhart Ross, so renowned in the naval chronicles of Great
Britain, as captain of the Tartar, although born in the adjacent
parish of Carstairs, acquired by his marriage with the late Lady
Ross Baillie, the beautiful property of Bonington in lanark parish,
where he built the present mansion-house, and occasionally resided.
--Among other celebrated men, we must not omit the excellent
and pious Mr David Dale, founder of the village and manufactory
of New-lanark; nor his son-in-law,, Robert Owen, who here exco-
gitated and made an abortive attempt to reduce to practice his.
wild theories for the renovation of society.
	Land-owners.--The principal land-owners are Sir Norman
Macdonald-Lockhart, Bart. of Lee; Lady Mary Ross of Boning-
ton; Mrs Elliot Lockhart of Cleghorn; George Baillie Esq. of
				3


