
				STRAITON.      	            347

greater number are natives of Straiton.	There are indeed only a
few Irish families in the parish.
	Inns.-There are usually four houses licensed in Straiton, and
one in Patna,--fewer than were when last Account was written, but
more than are required, and than are either profitable to the per-
sons licensed, or useful to the parish.
	Fuel--The fuel used in the lower part of the parish is coal,
which is brought from Patna, Dalmellington, and Dailly. Peat is
used to some extent in the more distant farm-houses, and exclu-
sively in the houses that have no good access to the public roads.
The average price of coal at Patna and Dalmellington is 3s. 6d.
delivered in Straiton village, 8s. per imperial ton.

                  MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	The parish has undergone great changes since 1792, when the
former Accnunt was written. The population has risen from 934
to 1417. The rental has increased from L.3000 to nearly
L.9000, and is at present larger and almost as promptly paid as
at any period during the war. The village of Patna has been
built, the mansion of Blairquhan erected, and almost all the lar-
ger farmers furnished with excellent new houses and offices. The
land under tillage has been rendered more productive, and several
hundred acres reclaimed. Carts were then the only conveyances.
There are now eight taxable carriages among the farmers, besides
those of the resident proprietors. A new road, which runs for ten
miles through the parish, has been made from Ayr to Newton-
Stewart, and has been executed with taste and skill. The road
to Dalmellington has been improved. The old road to Patna has
been abandoned, and a better but more circuitous one formed. The
physical improvements chiefly required are still such as would
render the different parts of the parish more accessible, particular-
ly an improved line of road to Dalmellington, a shorter road to
Patna, and two roads from Glenacchy on the Girvan, to connect
that part of the parish with Dalmellington, on the one side, and
the foot of Loch Doon on the other. As the resident proprietors,
Sir David Hunter Blair, Bart. and the Honourable Colonel Ma-
cadam Cathcart, have shewn a desire to promote the improvements
of the parish, it is hoped these changes will gradually be made.
A neater style of building cottages, such as has already been in-
troduced near Blairquhan and Berbeth, may also be expected to
prevail.
	April 1837.--Revised October 1837.


