
                        INCHINNAN.                            121

Mr Maxwell Alexander of Southbarr, (nephew of the late pro-
prietor) is second son of the deceased Claud Alexander, Esq. of
Ballochmyle, of the family of Newton, cadets of Blackhouse.
   Mr Maxwell of Dargavel is male representative of the Halls of
Fulbar, who obtained their estate from King Robert II., and as-
sumed the name of Maxwell at the beginning of last century, when
they succeeded through a female to the family of Dargavel, cadets of
the Maxwells of Newark, who sprung from the family of Calder-
wood in Lanarkshire.
   Miss Balfour of House of Hill, now called Northbarr, is mater-
nally descended from Donald M'Gilchrist, who purchased North-
barr proper in 1671, and claimed descent from Donaldus M'Gil-
christ Lord of Tarbart, who lived in the time of Robert the Bruce,
and was a benefactor to the monastery of Paisley.
   Eminent Men.-Of these there are several at this moment re-
sident, but their merits must be left to the statistical pen of some
future incumbent.  Looking to former times, Mr Robert Law, au-
thor of the Memorials of Scotland, appears to have been born here.
He was the son of the Rev. Thomas Law, minister of Inchinnan
in the early part of the seventeenth century, and the grandson of
James Law, Archbishop of Glasgow.  This parish also produced
a gentleman of the name of Maxwell, the younger of Southbarr,
who wrote verses, and died in early life in the beginning of the
seventeenth century.  The late lamented Mr Motherwell possessed
a MS. volume of verses which he attributed to Maxwell's pen, and
published some extracts in the Paisley Magazine.  If we may judge
from the specimen appended, the muse of the Inchinnan poet did
not soar to the sublime. *
   Parochial Registers.-These, although consisting of several vo-
lumes, do not extend farther back than to the year 1722.  The lists

<FOOTNOTE>Glen.  Bayth fals and greedie et nunquam leal
               Post haud nedie, bayth fals and greedie,
               And ower speedie to flatter and steil,
               Bayth fals and greedie et nunquam leal.
        Bisch. Barachagrie is my castellum, gif ya it seik
               With clay wallis, for bellum Barschagrie is my castellum,
               Courit wt smeik and smelling wt suete schairne and reik,
               Barschagrie is my castellum gif ye it seik.
     Abo. Pas. The ministeris intendis to get the teind beir,
               The abote miskendis that the ministeris intendis;
               The granter defendis and garis them sing perqueir,
               The minister intendis to meet the teind beir.
     Mor. Max. I hazarde my guid name, my lyfe and my land,
               To bring the Douglas hame I hazarde my guid name,
               And now to bring me to schame yai do yat thai can,
               Causs I hazard my guid name, my life and my land.
                                                         P. M. p. 385


