
               PAISLEY.                                      305

sacred truths of the gospel of peace are preached in purity.  No
place can boast of a more pains-taking and efficient eldership.
where have more commendable efforts been made in aid of church
extension, and her becoming ally, Christian education.  On the
whole, the hopes of her best friends are high ; and they are so,
mainly because based on the assured triumphs of truth, rather
than on the anticipated growth of commercial greatness.

  From the following passage in " Bannatyne's Memoriales," late-
ly printed by the Bannatyne Club, it appears that the Abbey and
Place of Paisley was at one time a kind of fort of considerable
strength.
  " In the meantyle (Jan. 1570-1,) Paisley was taken from the
Lord Semple's servandis be the Hammiltounes, and be thame keipit
till that the Regent (Lennox) with his forces tuike it and delyver-
ed the place in keiping to the Lord Cathcart.  Great moyen was
made to raise the seidge, and so to frustrat the poure Regent of
that enterpryse; but God assisted him then so that he gat the
Place of Paisley randerit without promeis or compositioune, uther
than the Regentis will, undeclared." P. 82.  A more full account
of this affair is given by the Regent Lennox in his " Letter of In-
structions to Robert Pitcairn, Commendator of Dumfermling, Se-
cretary of State, &c." printed in the Appendix to this very valuable
work of the Bannatyne Club, 1836. " Upone Weddinsday the
xvii. of Januar instant, Claud Hamilton, accompaneit with Johnne
Hammiltoun of Drumry, sonne to the Bischope of Sandandrois,
Arthour Hammiltoun of Myrretoun, and utheris of that name, with
a nowmer of souldiouris, come and be force enterit in the Abbay
and Place of Paisley, pertening to the Lord Sempill, now being pri-
soner and captive in thair handis; and hes takin sum of his freindis
and servandis presoneris, and reft, spoilzeit, and away takin, his
horsis and utheris guidis being thair, and put a garrysoun in the
samin Place and Abbay, intending to retene and keip it be force;
the same being and continewing in the pnssession of the said Lord
Sempill, sen the dispositioune maid to him thairof, efter the foir-
faltore orderlie led, als weill aganis the said Bischope of Sandan-
drois, usufructuar and lyfrentar of the benefice, as aganis the said
Claud Hammiltoun, nominat successor to the same; and sensyn,
the said Bischope in persoun hes cum to the said Abbay, and thair
fensit and haldin courtis in name of the quene, the Kingis moder,
minassing the tenentis that he will be payit of thrie zeirs rentis bi-


