
262                      STIRLINGSHIRE.

ing twenty years, commencing 1828, or L.17, 2s 21/4d. per chal-
der. The interest of a sum of L.270, bequeathed by Robert
Blair, Esq: of Glasgow-has been enjoyed by the parish school-
master at Clachan since the year 1825. The schoolmasterat Craig-
head also is in possession of the interest of the sum of L.50, begueath-
ed by Mr James Young, of the parish of St John in Bedwardine,
in the county of Worcester, Chapman, in the year 1729.
  The school-house at Craighead having fallen into disrepair, has
been rebuilt on a much enlarged scale, according to a very neat
plan, furnished by Mr Galloway, factor to Mr Lennox. To this
important object the chief subscribers were Mr Lennox and Messrs
David and Henry Inglis.
  The Messrs Inglis, with a laudable anxiety for the education of
the young persons employed in their priotfield, and residing in its
neighbourbood, also allow L.20 per annum to the master of
Craighead school, on condition of his teaching a Sunday school.
  In Lennoxtown, the want of a large and superior school has
long been felt; and this want has now been supplied by the erec-
tion of a splendid school-house, containing two very large rooms,
with all accompanying accommodations. The plan of this school-
house, like that at Craighead, was furnished by Mr Galloway, to
whose taste it is highly creditable, and who kindly superintended
the erection of both these buildings.* The chief contributors to
this important undertaking were Mr Lennox and the Messrs Dal-
glish, both of which parties have expended a large sum of money
upon it; Mr Macintosh; Mr Stirling, Craigbarnet; Mr M,Far-
lan, Banclerocbe; and many of the other inhabitants have also
assisted in a work which all felt to be important. At present the
one room is used as a juvenile school, and is attended by upwards
of 100 pupils. In the other an infant school has been tried dur-
ing the past year with very encouraging success.
  Besides these, there are two or three schools on the teachers'
own adventure, and two or three small female schools. The whole
number of children attending day-scbools, at present, in the pa-
rish, including the infant school, is about 520, exclusive of the
children who are taught during work hours in Lennox Mill, and
those taught in evening-schools and Sunday-scbools.
  In all the schools the common branches are taught, with gram-
mar, geography, &c. A few are learning Latin, Greek, and

  <FOOTNOTE>It is right to acknowledge that I have received large assistance from this gen-
tleman in drawing up this account of the parish of Campsie.


