
	192                           ORKNEY.

	   The rents in the rocks can be traced nearly in a straight line
	from south-west to north-east, over Pentland Skerry ;. and it de-
	serves notice, that where they come in sight, on the other islands,
	they run in the same direction. This is easily explained by the
	general direction of all strata, as they become indurated, from the
	universal principles of their cohesion and shrinking. Shrinking
	chiefly explains the direction of the rents in all rocks, and the
	strange appearances of some within flood-mark, where the surface
	of the rocks is like street paving, with round stones from two inches
	and upwards. In the deeper strata of sandstone, are many fragments
	of blue slate, quite solid, proving that they had been broken down
	from a bed or stratum, and then tossed about on the shore, and left
	in small parcels of a few inches in extent, and at other places in
	strata of two inches and upwards, between deep beds of hardest sand-
	stone. In the small rents of this rock, under and about a-quarter
	of an inch, the iron and sulphur make a crust of hardest texture,
	which withstands the waste of time for thousands of years.
	   Some other appearances in this rock deserve notice. The rents,
	in some places, have formerly been of more extent than those now
	seen, as is proved by the large pieces of basaltic rock everywhere
	on the surface of moors and arable land, and on the shores, from
	2 to 9 inches in diameter.  But, on the north corner of the parish
	of Birsay, within flood-mark, this is seen to perfection;-the rent
	to twenty inches wide is filled in solid form, and projects above
	the surface of the rock washed by the tide. Till I saw this, I
	never could conceive how this substance was formed, nor whence
	it came. It seems to prove that all basaltic formation is, by heat long
	continued. That which we now see cold and solid was certainly
	laid down by water; and beat from the central part of our globe
	produced crystallizations of every form, from the diamond to the
	particles of sandstone. Quartz of different sizes, from that of the
	pea to three inches in diameter, are found, of various colours, per-
	fectly smooth, on the highest land in Orkney; and in this
	parish, they are found in the clay where the mountain has been
	bared by storms ; and I have teen sixty such in a piece of stone
	about a foot in diameter.
	   There is evidence to an attentive observer that these islands
	came gradually into their present form and appearance. I have seen
	the roots of the giant grass in sandstone, (a specimen of which I
	lodged in the College Museum of Edinburgh,) and have traced
	it I for several feet.  This proves that the stratum of sandstone



