
			AYR.        			        27

of the columns, the capitals, the cornices, and the ornamental de-
corations of fruits, flowers, and foliage, the highest taste in archi-
tectural science has been displayed, and the ingenious architect
has evidently drawn largely from some of the best models of
his profession both of Greece and Rome. The workmanship is
the most elegant and masterly that can be conceived. It resem-
bles more the monumental works of antiquity, than any speci-
mens of modern art. Its height is upwards of 60 feet, and
its erection cost about L. 2000, raised chiefly by subscriptions.
There is a circular apartment within the base, 18 feet in diameter,
and about 16 in height, lighted from above by a cupola of stained
glass, opposite the entrance to which there is a semicircular recess,
supported by Doric columns, intended for a statue of the poet. In
this apartment, there is a copy by Stevens of Naysmith's portrait
of him, said to be a good likeness. It contains, besides, an elegant
edition of his works, and illustrative sketches of scenes and charac-
ters in his poems, also by Mr Stevens, an artist belonging to Ayr,
who has attained to considerable eminence as a portrait-painter.
	Around the monument, there is an inclosed piece of ground
of nearly two acres, ornamented with fine gravel-walks, and the
best collection of thriving ornamental shrubbery that can any where
be met with. The shrubs were mostly supplied and planted gra-
tuitously by the different gardeners and nurserymen in the county,
who vied with one another in furnishing the finest specimens in
their possession, from respect to the memory of the Ayrshire Bard.
The back-ground of the enclosure has been planted with forest
trees, which in a short time will screen in a great measure the
base of the monument, and add to its picturesque appearance.
In a low secluded corner, at the south side of this plot, a small ro-
mantic-looking erection has been formed, in which are placed
the far-famed figures of Tam o'Shanter and Souter Johnny, where
they are hereafter to be allowed to quaff their ale, and crack
their jokes in quietness and retirement, after having travelled
through the most populous towns of Great Britain, exciting the
admiration and merriment of many thousand spectators. No per-
son can behold these figures without being struck with the expres-
sion of comic humour that is capable of being communicated to
blocks of rough-grained stone. This is a power in the art of sta-
tuary, which, we presume, was unknown to the ancients, and
never was exhibited before with so striking an effect in modern
times. The costume, too, is in excellent keeping with our con-


