	
             		TANNADICE.                               199
 
from their situation called Noranside. The former of these arises
from Loch Esk, in the parish of Clova, about twenty miles above
the kirk of Tannadice; within which parish the latter also arises;
and both unite at the south-east angle of the parish. The course
and quantity of water of the former are treble that of the latter.
Both afford excellent amusement to anglers; but it is only in the
Esk that salmon is found, and that in quantities so inconsiderable
that no one has appropriated them. Mussels may be found in the
Esk; but neither so numerous nor valuable as they are reported
to have formerly been, when many of them were annually collect-
ed for sake of the pearls of uncommon size which they contained.
	Geology.--A dike of whinstone rock runs from east to west the
whole breadth of the parish. No other stone appears on the south
of this dike; but close to it, and on the north, there lies a reddish
coarse sandstone, which is quarried at various places, and fit for
different purposes, particularly for building dikes. This stone gra-
dually grows darker in the colour, till it reaches nearly the summit
of the lower Grampian ridge, where blue slates are found; but
these are rm`ll, and considerably warped,--circumstances which,
together with the ease and abundance with which gray slates can
be got, prevent the blue from being much quarried. This vein
appears to be a continuation of that which originates at Johnshaven,
in the Mearns, and terminates at Easdale, in Argyleshire, and is
advantageously quarried in the neighbourhood of Dunkeld, New-
tyle, and other places.
			II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	Antiquities.--Three conical tumuli called Laws have in this pa-
rish been levelled, and the ground on which they stood cultivated
within these few years. In these tumuli, coarse earthen pots or
urns were found, protected and surrounded by six flat square
stones, and containing a quantity of black ashes, probably the re-
mains of the illustrious dead; while the remains of the less eminent
seem to have been deposited in, and covered by the same number of
stones, called coffins, but without any urns or ashes, or accumula-
tions of earth. Perhaps the bodies of the former were burned,
while those of the latter were not so honoured.
	Modern Building.--Downiepark is a splendid mansion, and ele-
gantly furnished. It was erected by the late Lieutenant-Colonel
Rattray of the Bengal artillery, and is occasionally inhabited by
his widow, the liferentrix of this and his other property. This
house has, on the north, a near viev nf the towering summits of the


