
                                           BOHARM.                      377

               There is no chapel of ease, Government church, or Dissenting
             meeting-house of any description. All the parishioners, except
             about 20, belong to the Established Church, and the Episcopa-
             lian part of the exception, amounting to one-half of it, attend wor-
             ship generally in the parish church. The other half of the excep-
             tion consists of one family of Roman Catholics, 5 in number, and
             5 Seceders, who worship at Fochabers or Keith.
               Divine service in the church is generally well attended, always
             so when the state of the weather and roads allows the more distant
             parishioners to walk so far. The average number of communi-
             cants is 510.
               The annual average amount for the past five years of the whole
             collections in church is L.35, of which one collection, averaging
             L.2, is given to some of the Assembly's four Schemes, and one,
             amounting to L.5, is appropriated to a fund for procuring medical
             attendance to the poor at home, or conveying them to that most
             useful charity, Gray's Hospital at Elgin. About L.5, 1Os. is re-
             quired to pay the salaries of session-clerk, precentor, and kirk-
             officer, and incidental expenses, and the whole of the rest is paid
             over to the poor's box.
               Education.-There are three schools, besides two sewing schools
             for girls, and two or three dame schools for infants. The parish
             school is situated close to the church in the centre of the parish,
             and one of the other two in each extremity. One of the sewing
             schools is in the upper division, the other in the lower.
               The parish schoolmaster has the maximum salary, the le-
             legal accommodations, and a share of the Dick Bequest. His
             average amount of fees p`id is L.17 per annum. The teacher of
             the school in the lower end has a salary of L.5 from the Earl of
             Seafield. The teacher in the upper end has, from Arndilly, the
             accommodation of a comfortable house and a good garden, but has
             no salary. The sewing school in the lower end is altogether on
             the teacher's own account. The one in the upper end is support-
             ed by a salary of L.5 from the Society for Propagating Christian
             Knowledge, and by an endowment of five bolls of oatmeal, with a
             free house and garden from the family of Arndilly. The fees in
             these subsidiary schools are so much more paid in other articles of
             value than in money, that it is impossible to state their amount.
             The people in general are full alive to the advantages of educa-
             tion. There are only a few, chiefly aged, persons that cannot write,
             and the instances are rare, indeed, of inability to read. The sub-


