
		 		LETHENDY AND KINLOCH.			1003

				V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
		Ecclesiastical State.- Number of families in the parish belonging
	to the Established Church, 65; Dissenting or Seceding families,
	4. Amount of stipend, in all about L.78. Glebe, 8 acres
	imperial in extent, and may be worth about L.2, 5s. per acre.
		Education.-The only school in the parish is the parochial
	The salary is the maximum. Probable yearly amount of fees actually
	paid to schoolmaster, L.12; other emoluments, L.2.
		Poor.-Average number of persons receiving parochial aid, two
	permanently. We have also some occasionally needy. Average
	sum allotted to permanent paupers, from L.2, 10s. to L.3 per annum:
	it being presumed that they provide a little for themselves, or
	are partly supported by relations. Average annual amount contributions
	for relief of the poor, L.9, 10s. Church collections and
	morhcloths are almost the only sources of support for our poor;
	from church collections, about L.8, 10s.

				PARISH OF KINLOCH.
			I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
		Boundaries.-Kinloch is bounded on the east and north by the
	parish of Blairgowrie; on the south by Clunie and Caputh; and
	on the west by Cluie.
		Lakes, Brooks, &c.-There are two large brooks in the parish,
        viz, Lornty Burn, and Lunan Burn. There are three lakes
	or lochs in this parish, viz. the Loch of Drumelie, the Rae
	Loch, and the Fenzie Loch, all the property of Mr. Farquharson
	of Invercauld. Drumelie Loch is situated a little to the westward
	of the house of Marlee; the Rae Loch about a quarter of a
	mile to the eastward of it; and the Fenzied Loch about a mile to
	the south-east of the house.

				II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
		Parochial Registers.-The first register extand of the kirk-session
	of Kinloch commences at the ordination of Mr James Gray,
	1697; the second in 1726; the third in 1741; the fourth 1762;
        the fifth in 1783; the sixth in 1803; and the seventh in 1823.
	The first of these registers is much decayed, and in many places
        illegible. Upon the whole, they seem to have been well kept,
	but, as the same book has been devoted to differend purposes, (although
	a separate place has been assigned to each,) such as acts
	of discipline, collections, and disbursements for the poor, &c.
	the same remark applied here that was made as to the Lethendy
	books.


