
                    SOUTHEND.			415

      fers to its ancient importance as the station of the Scandinavian
      fleets in their excursions to these coasts, aud during their contests
      for the possession of Kintyre and the neighbouring islands.
       At the time it was the rendezvous of the Danish fleet, it was
      called Avona Porticosa; and is still called Aven by the High-
      landers.  Sanda, however, is the more ancient name, as appears
      from the life of St Columba, written by Adomnan, Abbot of Iona,
      in the year 680.  The auchorage is still much frequented by the
      smaller classes of vessels that navigate the Frith of Clyde.
       Paterson's Rock.-This is a large flat rock about one-sixth of a
      mile in length, which lies to the east-south-east of Sanda, and,
      from not having been correctly laid down in some of the charts,
      as well as from the rapidity or current of the tide, which flows di-
      rectly over the rock, and thereby causes vessels to deviate from
      their course,-it has occasioned many shipwrecks during the last
      twenty years, attended with the loss of not a few lives. This very
      dangerous rock is always covered at high water; but at spring-
      tides, when there are, of course, low ebbs, the top of it is per-
      fectly dry.  During neap-tides, it is covered with water to the
      depth of four feet.
        Meteorology.-The medium height of the thermometer, taken
      from daily observations, amounts, on an average, to 48 degrees;
      and the pressure of the atmosphere, as ascertained by daily ob-
      servation by the barometer, is 29.54 inches. The following is
      the quantity of rain which fell in this district in the year 1831;
      but it may be mentioned, that the rain-gage by which it was mea-
      sured is situated on the western extremity of the parish, and on
      rather a high level, for which reason it way indicate a greater fall
      than in some other parts of the parish.  That year, 1831, may be
      considered as giving an average fall of rain.


<TABLE>
                 January,           1-74          August,           2-93
                 February,          2-63          September,        3-34
                 March,             5-46          October,          6-19
                 April,             0-93          November,         6-61
                 May,               1-40          December,         4-76
                 June,              2-53                            ____
                 July,              2-54             Total inches, 41-06

        Hydrography.-The Frith of Clyde bounds the parish to the
     extent of above fifteen miles. The depth is variable in several
     places. At the distance of three miles from the shore, twelve
     fathoms of water are sometimes found. The tides along the
     coast run, at spring-tides, at six miles an hour, but at neap-tides
     at the rate of three. Off the Mull of Kintyre, there is a very



