
     Statistical Account

and others, whom age or disease, or calamity, has reduced
to want; these no doubt are peculiarly entitled to relief.
But the provision for such as become poor through sloth, or
drunkenness or sensuality, or vain expense, ought to be very
scanty.  The average number of poor upon the parish roll,
for the last 10 years, has been from 50 to 60.  The funds
for their support, are, the interest of L. 500 Sterling of stock,
at 4 1/2 per cent. the mortcloth money, which usually amounts
to about L. 14 a-year, a small sum arising from the pro-
clamation of marriages, and ringing of the church bell at
funerals, and an assessment upon the parish.  The heritors
and kirk-session meet half-yearly, at Candlemas and Lam-
mas, and proportion the assessment.  It is laid, the one half
upon the heritors, according to their valued rent, and the
other half upon householders, according to their supposed
circumstances.  For some years past it has amounted to
L. 100 Sterling a-year.  The pensioners are paid month-
ly by the collector, who has a small salary for his trou-
ble*.

   Antiquities, Names of Places, etc.-A Roman road or
causeway, can be traced for several miles on the south side

<FOOTNOTE>

*Perhaps it would be better to pay them oftener, and to give them
part of their allowance in meal.  Before they can be admitted, they must
apply by petition at one of the half yearly meetings, and make an assigna-
tion of all their effects to the parish.  Of there an inventory is taken,
and they are sold after their death.-The collections made in the parish
church are allowed for exigencies.-There are two small mortifications
for paying school-wages, and purchasing Bibles and catechisms, for the
children of the poor.  Besides these funds, the incorporated trades, (of
which there are four in the town,) have each of them a box as it is
called, out of which they make distributions among their indigent and
distressed members.  The calamity which arose from the failure of crop
1782, was greatly alleviated, by their laying out part of their stock in
the purchase of grain, which they sold at (and in some cases under) prime
cost.


