
406                       LANARKSHIRE.

queen; Adam Cubie of Auchenloch; John Scott of Auchenloch;
David Dobie of Gartferry; the heirs of John Gibson, late proprie-
tor of Johnston; the heirs of the late James Hill of Busby, pro-
prietor of Gartcosh; James Campbell of Auchenairn; James Gray
of Auchengeich; Patrick Scot of Auchenairn,--are all commission-
ers in the parish, possessed of at least L. 100 Scots valuation.
	Dr James Jeffray, Professor of Anatomy in the College of Glas-
gow, proprietor of Baads; Hugh Robertson of Gartloch; John
Muir of Gartferry; James Millar of Millersneuck; Charles A.
King, Woodneuck; Jaihes Tennent, Croftfoot; Robert Bogle,
Auchinloch; David Scales Cleland, Springfield; John Drew,
Burnbrae; William Dick, Lumloch; James Jarvie, Woodhill;
James Watson, Holms; James Johnston, Wester Muckcroft;
Mr Cater, Auldyards; William Scott, Mirymailing; Mark Ste-
venson, Boghead; John Macdougal, Glenbank; Mr Perston,
Auldyards; John Carss, Lochbank; Misses Calders, Daviston;
William Davison, Auchenairn; Henry Glen, Cladding; Alexan-
der Galloway, Huntershill; are all possessed of properties in the
parish, above, and most of them much above L. 50 Sterling, per an-
num.
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial register for births and
baptisms, commences 28th September 1662; proclamations, 1st
March 1663. There are rules at the beginning of the volume for
the regulation of kirk-sessions, dated "apud Glasgow, 8th April
1672." This volume is in an excellent state of preservation.
Births and baptisms begin at the one end of the volume, and pro-
clamations commence at the other. There are two more vo-
lumes, one finished, and the other in progress. The records
of the kirk-session commence September 14, 1688. The first
and part of the second volume are also in an excellent state of pre-
servation. There have been no minutes of the session recorded
during the whole of Mr Alexander Dun's incumbency, a period of
more than forty years; and nine years of the incumbency of Mr
Warden are also lost. There is a blank in the records of session
from May 8, 1737, till 27th MarGh 1791.
	Antiquities.--The Bishops-mill may be reckoned among the an-
tiquities of this parish. Every heritor in the Bishops-land (called
anciently the Baldermonocks Ward or Monks-town, and compre-
bending ten townships, each of which contained eight ploughgates
of land, and which comprehends the whole of the parish except the
ancient entiled estate of Cadder, which was not more than half
                                 3


