
                        NEWBURGH.                                    71

    The various tumuli around the cross seen by a former genera-
tion, and said to contain the earthly remains of those who failed
to establish the claims of kindred, have given way to the level-
ling operations of the ploughshare, and the nightly traveller is no
longer haunted, even in imagination, by the shrieks of the ghosts
that were heard at no very remote period, by the superstitious of
the neigbbourhood. There is, however, about 200 yards to the
westward, a cairn of stones which is called Sir Robert's Prap, and
which is said to contain the body of Sir Robert Balfour, laird of
Denmile, who was slain in a duel there, by some neighbouring
proprietor, about the beginning of last century.
    Modern Buildings.-Under this head, may be included a very
considerable portion of the town of Newburgh, which, within these
fifty years, may be said to have been entirely rebuilt. Its suburbs
are all of modern and of very recent origin. A town-house with
a spire was erected in 1808, and there has lately been attached
to it a building of considerable dimensions, for the accommodation
of those engaged in the stock-market. The parish church was
erected in 1833; it is a handsome and elegant structure, designed
by William Burn, architect, and of the Gothic style. The manse,
built about fifty years ago, has undergone a thorough repair since
the admission of the present incumbent, and, though not an ele-
gant, is certainly a very convenient, house : it stands on the slop-

<FOOTNOTE>ing a charter from Malcolm Canmore to Macduff, "with the benefits he enjoyed by vir-
tue thereof, or the immunities, freedoms, and pardons indulged by, and conferred upon,
that girth," The cross is the oldest regality in this country, whence we have the phrase,
The Kingdom of Fife, an epithet certainly given to no other shire, "as if Mackduff
had enjoyed his estate much after the way of Hugh Lupus in his earldom of Chester,
of whom, it is said, he enjoyed that earldom from his uncle the Conqueror, 'adeo li-
bere ad gladium, sicut ipse rex tenebat totam. Anglism ad coronam.'" The last who
claimed the privilege of the sanctuary as being within the degrees of kindred, was,
according to Skeen, de Verb. Signif. voce clan-Makduff, one Spence of Wormeston,
upon his killing an individual of the name of Kinninmonth. Sir W. Scott has
made it the subject of a poem, from which we transcribe these lines, as they contain
at once an accurate description of its locality, and of nearly all that is otherwise
known of it:
                             Mark that fragment,
                I mean that rough-hewn block of massive stone,
                Placed on the summit of this mountain-pass,
                Commanding prospect wide o'er field and fell,
                And peopled village and extended moorland,
                And the wide ocean and majestic Tay,
                To the far distant Grampians. Do not deem it
                A loosen'd portion of the neighbouring rock
                Detached by storm and thunder-'twas the pedestal
                On which in ancient times, a cross was reared,
                Carved with words which foil'd philologists;
                And the events it did commemorate
                Were dark, remote, and undistinguishable,
                As were the mystic characters it bore.


