
     Statistical Account

so weighty a crop of wool as he had that year.  On calculat-
ing, he found that he had 1/12 more than ever he had any year
before, or than he had last year when he again smeared with
the butter.  The wool, he assures me, was also more open,
and of better quality.  This year, a number of the farmers
have purchased grease instead of butter.  The disease to which
the sheep here are most subject, is the rot; which is owing,
partly, as was said, to the mixture of black cattle, but chiefly
to the wetness of the seasons and the softness of the grounds*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Since I have mentioned this as the principal calamity to which this parish
is subject, perhaps it may not be improper, were I to add a short statement of
bad years, which I had from persons of veracity and experience.  In 1674, there
were 13 drifty days in the end of February and beginning of March, O. S.,
which proved fatal to most of the sheep in this parish.  The whole sheep on
Black Esk were destroyed, except 40 dinmonts on the farm of Westside.  In
1739, the summer and harvest were very wet.  This was followed by severe
frost and snow, which came on about New Year's day 1740, and lay without
intermission till it was melted by the sun.  On the 20th of May, the frost was
so intense, that the people were unable to cast their peats.  Before harvest 1741,
oat-meal sold at 3 s 3 d. a-stone; but after harvest it fell to 1 s.  Years were ra-
ther better, though far from being good, till 1745, When another wet summer
and harvest, succeeded by another storm of frost and snow (which began 25th
January 1746, and lay for 6 weeks), destroyed almost the whole stocks of Esk-
dalemuir.  All the farmers, excepting 6, were ruined by this shock.  Sheep-
hogs sold then from 4 s. 6 d. to 5 s., long wool was 5 s., and short wool from 20 d.
to 2 s. The summer of 1747, was so wet, that no hay could be preserved; but
not so lasting as to do much hurt to the sheep.  Years were good till 1751,
when another run of bad years commenced, which lasted till 1755.  During
this period, the farmers suffered the most dreadful calamities; their old sheep
were destroyed by the inclement seasons, and their lambs killed by frost and
snow.  To this day, they are looked back upon with horror.  From 1755 till
1762, years were good; in which year, the black cattle, which were then far
more numerous than they are now, were in great want from an excessive drought.
Stirks were bought that year by the Laird of Davington at Lockerbie, for 4 s.
6 d. and 5 s.  The years 1763 and 1764, were very good.  In 1765, both sheep
and black cattle suffered greatly from another drought, accompanied with a
species of worms which destroyed the grass, by cutting its roots, They were of


