
                                       CRIEFF.                        497

       thane giving way to that of Steulardof Scotland, and that of Thane
       td Steward of a district. *
          The spot is still pointed out where the Steward of the King's
       estate of Strathearn was in the habit of holding his court, after the
       earldom was forfeited to the Crown, in the year 1320, by the trea-
       son ofits heiress, Joanna, daughterof Malise, the last Earl.  This
       lady married the means of inducing her pretensions as the represen-        'the alli-
       tance was the means of inducing her to violate her aillegiance to
       Robert L, it proved fatal to all her pretensions as the represen-
       tative of a noble line of ancestor. She was deprived of her titles,
       and the forfeiture of her patrimonial possessions gave occasion to
       the appointment of a steward of Strathearn ;-an office which was
       vested in the house of Drummond; which in course of time became
       hereditary in the family; and which they continued to enjoy till
       the abolition of heritable jurisdictions in the year 1748t  The
       spot referred to is a circle of about 12 yards diameters, which is
       situated in a field belonging to Mr M'Laurin, of the Broich about
       half a mile south -east of Crieff, and which, in comparatively lo-
       dern times, was surrounded with a low wall of earth and stone which
       is now hardly discernible.  It is marked out by a blasted tree,
       which stands in the middle of it, and many are the tales of those
       who were arraigned, and tried, and condemned at this dread tribunal.
          The Gallow-Hill, a rising ground where criminals were exe
       cuted, is a little to thd west of Crieff, adjacent to a street which
       bears the same name. A stunted tree of no great age is now
       growing where the fatal beam was wont to stand in the memory
       of a former generation.  And the timber of the identical gallows
       itself is still in good preservation.  It is now, the property of it
       lady in Edinburgh.
          It would be a very hopeless undertaking to attempt giving any
       account of the numerous traditional stories which are related con                                                           ,are
       cerning the administration of the Stewards of Strathearn.  Suf-
       fice it to say, that the number of convictions must have been con                                                       Mik.
       siderable; that the justice which was awarded was always sum-

       <FOOTNOTE>Vide Buchanan, Hist. Scot. Lib. vii.
               The house of Drummond has long held a nost distinftised place among
          ancient families of Scotland.  Its representative are descended from the Kings of
          Hungary, and they have flourished in this country since the days of Malcolm II.
          They have been repeatedly connected by the marriage with the royal house of Stuart;
          and, as they were uniformly admitted to the closest courtly confidence, and enso
          bled with the highest honours which a king could bestow, it is not to be wondered
          if they were found to cling to the cause of their benefactors with an answering
          fidelity, and to share along with them many of those disasters which were consequently
          upon their fall.
            PERTH.                                        Ii


