
            132                        SUTHERLAND.

             It is to be regretted that the cod and ling fisheries are not more
          prosecuted; the natives are excellent herring fishers, but too lax
          as to the other: indeed, as yet, little or nothing has been done,
          in applying skill or capital towards the advancement of this im-
          portant branch of industry.
             The island of Handa is tenanted by twelve families. Besides
          fishing, they have recourse to other employment of a very ha-
          zardous character, by resorting to the daring enterprise of going a-
          fowling among the precipitous rocks round the island, from whence
          they bring, at the imminent risk of their lives, a vast quantity of
          sea fowls and eggs, to be used by them for food, and the feathers
          to be disposed of to their mainland neighbours. In this perilous
          avocation, some have fallen over the rocks, and been instantly kill-
          ed. It is curious enough, that they have established nothing less
          than Royalty amongst them, in the person of the eldest widow on
          the island, who is designed Queen; and her prerogative is recog-
          nized not only by the islanders, but by visitors from the mainland.
                             V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
              Ecclesiastical State.-The whole population is of the Church
          of Scotland, and there are no Dissenting or Seceding families in
          the parish. There are two churches; one at Badcall, and another at
          Keanlochbervie, both commodious, and in excellent repair.
              The stipend is the minimum, L. 150, whereof L. 103, 6s. 8d is
          paid by the Exchequer, and the balance, L.46, 13s. 4d., by the he-
          ritor. The extent of the glebe is about 320 acres, and its yearly
          value L.30, or thereby. The manses and offices at Badcall and
          Keanlochbervie respectively are recent  erections, the former built
          by the heritor in 1835, and the latter by Government in 1828.
              Education.-The schools are the parochial school at Scourie,
          and a school at Ashare, from the Society for Propagating Christ-
          ian Knowledge. There is no regular Sabbath school kept. The
          attendance at both schools is considerable. It is believed that a
          Parochial school in connection with Keanlochbervie church will be
          soon established.  In some of the remote hamlets, there is private
          tuition in winter. The yearly amount of the parochial schoolmas-
          ter's salary is L. 35, 17s, 9d.: the school fees and other emolu-
          ments are trifling.  A reading club has been recently established
          at Scourie.
              Savings Bank.-There is one Savings bank at Scourie. The
          whole amount invested is L. 443, 9s, 6d., and the operations are
	  very limited.


