
     of Montquhitter.

the efforts of industry, and a variety of local advantages. A-
mong the local advantages, a distinguished place must be given
to abundance of moss and water; by the sensible application
of which, the value of land has rapidly encreased,-population
is doubled,-a thriving village has been estblished,-and the
sphere of manufacture is daily enlarged.
   Considering the scanty stocks which the farmers enjoy, a-
griculture has made, and is still making, rapid advances, Ma-
ny fields display rich crops and grass.  Potatoes, cabbage, and
turnip, sufficient for the kitchens and the cattle, are raised;
and almost every family sows a certain quantity of lint-seed,
the produce of which is prepared for use at the rate of 2 s. per
stone, at a lint mill, erected by the late Auchry.  Bear, oats,
and pease, are the only kinds of grain which the farmer culti-
vates; and the harvests, which vary with the season, common-
ly conclude about the 16th of October.  Though not 1 acre
in 10 admits of tillage, yet, in favourable seasons, both meal
and grain are exported.  In indifferent seasons, the parish ful-
ly supplies itself; but in bad years, the wants of the inhabi-
tants must be relieved by the produce of more early and fertile
soils*.

     R 2

<FOOTNOTE>

   *Prior to the year 1775, corn long of ripening was liable to be frosted.-
Since that period the parish has been more or less distressed by the effects of
the mildew. ,About the beginning or middle of August, the oat plant (for
the barley suffers not) assumes a firey red colour; black spots then burst forth
towards the root, and, according to the season, gradually or rapidly ascend, till
they reach these fibres that support the ear.  From that moment the circula-
tion in the plant ceases; the grain ripens no more, and in proportion to the
virulence of the disease, yields a smaller or greater quantity of meal, or becomes
a heap of desperate sorrow.  Various theories have been advanced to account
for this phenomenon,-by the operation of insects,-by mineral exhalations,
by the caustic quality of lime used in manure,-and by a situation too confined.
Certain it is, that some inclosures, comprehending from 6 to 10 acres each,


