
				LADY.                                145

	more properly speaking, to the portion of Orkney termed the North
	Isles.  One very large farm, the people are divided into three classes ;
	first, house-servants dwelling with the farmer, and having a monied
	fee; second, boll-men; third, cottagers or cottars.  Both the second
	and third classes are scattered through the farm, in situations most
	convenient for the farmer.  In winter and spring, the boll-man has a
	monthly allowance of grain and oatmeal, both for wages and food.
	He is a daily servant till the end of May, when he works in the
	kelp at a stipulated price per ton, the profit depending on his own
	industry.  Both cottagers and boll-men shear in harvest, and are
	paid by a portion of land termed a harvest fee.  Through the
	whole parish, each cottager and boll-man can maintain, summer and
	winter, a milking cow and a horse ; and there are instances of se-
	veral keeping four cows and two horses.
	   The one-stilted plough was in general use, in my recollection:
	and, though a fertile subject of ridicule, was the ancient plough of
	Rome, Egypt, and even England.  Though it did the work with
	sufficient accuracy, still it was an inconvenient instrument, as it
	required four horses and a driver.  The rise of fees, and the horse-
	tax in the Revolutionary war with France, rendered economy an
	object of imperious necessity with every farmer ; and, therefore,
	the improved mode of ploughing with two horses, without a driver,
	was introduced in an early period of the war, and soon became ge-
	neral.
	   Sea-ware or weed, from its abundance, and the ease with which
	it can be carried to the land, is used as manure, in preference to
	compost dung hills.  No manure acts more speedily on the soil,
	or gives a cleaner and more abundant crop.  It has been said, that
	compost dung hills would give bear of a superior quality,-but if
	the quantity was not also greater, we would gain no compensation
	for the additional expense of time and labour.	Our crops of bear
	are as clean as those in any county of Scotland.  The wild mustard
	prevails in our oats, for it seems to be a hardy weed, which has
	hitherto set the skill of the farmer at defiance, and abounds in
	every county of Scotland and England, and in, every province of
	France.  Careful cleaning of the seed, and extending the drill
	husbandry to bear and oats, might probably extirpate this and other
	noxiotis weeds.
	   The drill husbandry in potatoes and turnips, prevails in every
	soil adapted to these useful vegetables.  The manure generally
	used for both, is horse or cow dung; but in light sandy soils, rot-
	   ORKNEY.			      K


