
98                    EDINBURGHSHIRE.

have the advantage of a post-office, from which there are two de-
liveries of letters every lawful day.  The village being off the line
of the mail-coaches, the bag is carried by a runner to the turnpike,
and then delivered to the mail.  The salary of the postmaster is
L,10 a-year.  Individuals travelling to the cast or west may have
the benefit of all the Edinburgh and Glasgow stage-coaches, which
run upon the Uphall and Calder roads.  The former of these,
which is the chief thoroughfare between the two capitals of Scot-
land, touches the parish on the north for about a quarter of a mile;
the latter divides it for a mile and a half from Addiston Bridge
to Burnwynd.
   The Union Canal, however, from its vicinity to the village, is
of the greatest advantage to the people.  The conception of this
undertaking was first suggested by the successful completion of
the Forth and Clyde Canal, and was executed as a means at once
of facilitating the transport of heavy goods between Glasgow and
Edinburgh, and of opening up the coal districts to the west for the
benefit of the capital.  It was begun in 1818 and finished in 1822,
at an expense of nearly L.400,000.
   This work, originating in a laudable spirit of enterprise, has not
realized the sanguine hopes of its projectors, and, like many other
improvements, it has hitherto been beneficial chiefly to the public.
At present, besides the conveyance of manufactures, it serves as
a channel for the transport of manure from Edinburgh to the
grounds upon its banks, and of coal in return from the pits in Lin-
lithgow and Stirlingshire.  In these respects it has contributed
materially to the improved cultivation of the country, and to the
comfort in winter of the inhabitants of Edinburgh.  For four
years past, a class of swift boats has been established upon it for
the special conveyance of passengers, which travel at the rate of
eight or nine miles an hour.  Of these there are three each day
in summer, leaving Port Hopetoun and Port Dundas, at the hours
of six, nine, and twelve.  Three of the many bridges over this
line of water are in this parish; and there are two over the Gogar
Burn, one at Addiston, the other at Burnwynd.
   Railway.-The line of the proposed railway between Edinburgh
and Glasgow intersects the north-east side of the parish, and when
formed, will afford an additional means of communication.  The
parish roads are about fourteen miles in length, and are maintained
by an assessment upon the land of so much per ploughgate.  They
have been for many years in a remarkably good state.  The pa-
rish is indebted for their superiority to the late Sir R. Liston,


