
     Statistical Account

of a house and garden at Preston*; and perquisites for mort-
cloths.  From these funds, a sum of nearly 30 L. per annum
is appropriated for the stated poor.  The residue is left in
the hands of the kirk-session, to be distributed, as an interim
supply, to those who are suddenly reduced to want by mis-
fortune or disease.  Out of it, likewise, are paid small salaries
to the session-clerk, precentor, and beadle; school wages for
the education of a few poor scholars; sums occasionally for
clothes to the poor; and the funeral expences of the pen-
sioned poor.  In addition to the 30 L. above mentioned, the
heritors and feuers are assessed to the amount of what more
is necessary for the maintenance of the stated poor.  The he-
ritors are assessed in proportion to their valued rents; the
feuers in proportion to the value of their subjects.  The pro-
portion paid by the latter is to that paid by the former, as 1
to 6; corresponding to the supposed value of their different
properties.  Houses belonging to heritors, for which they
draw rent, (their family seats excepted,) are assessed after the

<FOOTNOTE>

of every parish in which he had property.  In the bequest, a
right of presenting the poor person, or persons, to whom the
interest of it is to be given, is reserved to the heir of entail.

*A.D. 1753, the heritors, and some of the feuers, applied
to Parliament, and obtained an act for imposing a duty of two
pennies Scotch on each Scotch pint of ale brewed, brought in-
to, and rended in the parish; the money arising from which was
to be applied for repayment of a sum,to be advanced for pur-
chasing a charity work house, for conveying lost water to the
town of Preston-pans, and for repairing Morison's Haven.  For
the first mentioned purpose a house was purchased at Preston,
with a small garden; but, after a trial of a few years, the scheme
not answering, it was given up.  Besides the utter aversion which
many in actual want had against entering into the house, the
expence was found to be greater than when the pensioners had
a stated allowance given to them, and were permitted to spend
it after their own way.  Since that time, the rent of the house
and garden have made a part of the poor's fund.


