
                        AUCHTERGAVEN.                       441

ridges nor roads suited for the conveyance of such weighty masses,
they were rolled on their edges from the quarry to their destina-
tion, With a round beam or " wand," through the centre, having
a number of men supporting at each end, and horses dragging in
front.
   Not long ago there were four distilleries in the parish.  At pre-
sent there are only two in a state of activity.  Malt is made at one
other place besides at the distilleries.  There are, as has been al-
ready stated, five corn-mills in the parish.* There are also two
lint-mills in it.  Many obtain employment by weaving for the ma-
nufacturers of Blairgowrie, Dundee, Arbroath, and Newburgh.
White linens and dowlas are the stuffs chiefly sent here to agents
to be given out to the weavers, male and female.  There are, two
manufacturers in the village of Bankfoot, who employ a number of
weavers; and two others in the parish of Little Dunkeld, who
give work to ten individuals resident in it, in weaving linen, sheet-
ing, and shirting for the home market. There are about 300 of
the inhabitants of the parish employed in the different branches of
the weaving craft, many of whom are young women; many of them
also are labourers, masons, wrights in summer, and almost all of
them turn out to the shearing in harvest.
   The following table will afford an idea of the division of labour,
and the different branches of industry carried on in the parish, ex-
elusive of those already described:-Tailors 8, who employ 18;
shoemakers, 26, who employ 40; masons, 8, who employ 14;
wrights, 14, who employ 20 ; blacksmiths, 7, who employ 12;
surgeons, 5; coopers, 3; quarriers 12; fishers, 10; seedsmen, 3;
slaters, 3; woodmen, 5; gardeners, 4; shopkeepers, 15; tinplate-
smith, 1; watchmaker, 1 ; turner, 1 ; sawyers, 6; bakers, 3.
   Work is carried on six days in the week, from six o'clock in the
morning till the same hour in the evening, with the intermission
of two hours for meals.  Work at the cotton-mills begins at half,
past five in the morning, and ends at seven in the evening, with
the intermission of an hour and half for meals.  On Saturday,
work ends at three o'clock in the afternoon.  Children begin their
work at the mills a quarter of an hour to ten A. M., and end it at
three P. M., that they may attend school.  All in health when well
employed can earn an adequate livelihood.
                  V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Villages.-There is no market-town in the parish, although all
the necessaries and even many of the luxuries, of lifd are to be


