
                       TONGLAND.                            85

the fresh water, and thus to acquire certain properties, and to
present certain appearances, in common with those fish which re-
main longer in either element. This supposition is strengthened
by another consideration, that the bull-trout, in so far as I have
heard or observed, is taken most frequently near the mouths of
rivers; in the Dee, almost invariably within high water mark.
To anglers, it will be no slight confirmation of the truth of these
remarks, that, notwithstanding its size and beauty, it is a sluggish
fish, seldom taking the fly, and when hooked, affording very little
amusement.
   On the sea-trout and the herling, both of which are very nu-
merous, especially the latter, in the summer and autumn months,
it is needless to make any observations.
   I will take this opportunity of correcting a prevalent mistake
respecting the manner in which salmon overcome waterfalls,--a
mistake to which Goldsmith has given currency, and Captain
Brown countenance in a late edition of that author's Animated
Nature. Goldsmith observes (and his annotator has almost ver-
bally copied the observation in a different part of the work,) that
"salmon spring up cataracts as high as a house. As soon as they
come to the bottom of the torrent, they seem disappointed to meet
the obstruction, and swim some paces back; they then take a
view of the danger that lies before them, survey it motionless for
some minutes, advance, and again retreat; till at last, summoning
up all their force, they take a leap from the bottom, their body
straight and strongly in motion, and thus most frequently clear
every obstruction." Captain Brown adds," On the river Liffy,
in Ireland, there is a cataract above nineteen feet high. Here, in
the salmon season, many of the inhabitants amuse themselves by
observing the fish leap up the torrent. They frequently fall back
many times before they surmount it." It is evident that some of
these statements are entirely fabulous. In both passages an er-
roneous account is given of a very interesting fact in the habits
of the salmon, whose power in ascending cataracts, although very
great, has nothing of that miraculous character which such ex-
tracts as the foregoing would lead us to ascribe to it. The truth
is, that they overcome waterfalls, not by leaping, but by swimming.
The great muscular power of their fins and tail enables them to
repeat the blows on the water more rapidly than it descends, the
effect of which is, of course, to raise the body of the fish. But
this power can be exerted only for a short time, and through an


