
	                         ABERDEEN.                          47

ed to competent and even affluent circumstances, only two small
donations have been made to it by those who in early life had ex-
perienced its benefit.
   The boys are under the care of the master and two teachers,
by whom they are instructed in English reading, grammar, and
elocution, writing, arithmetic, geometry, geography, book-keeping,
French and Latin.  They are also taught drawing and music by
masters not resident in the house.  By an agreement between the
Governors and the Professors of Marischal College, four boys
from the hospital may be recommended by the former to the ma-
thematical and natural philosophy classes, to which they are ad-
mitted without payment of fees.  The religious and moral train-
ing of the boys is superintended by the master, and a portion of
one of the galleries in the West Church is rented by the hospital
for their accommodation, and that of the master and teachers.
   Mechanics' Institution.-This institution was commenced in
1824, soon after similar institutions had been established in seve-
ral of the manufacturing towns of England and Scotland.  At first,
the plan adopted was to communicate instructions to mechanics by
means of courses of lectures at a cheap rate, on natural philosophy
chemistry, &c. and the attendance on these lectures was for a
time numerous; but after a year or two it fell off so considerably
that it was found necessary, in 1830, to discontinue the lectures,
and if the projectors of the institution had not wisely vested a
considerable part of the subscriptions originally obtained in the
purchase of books, by which means (with the help of numerous do-
nations obtained,) a valuable library was formed, the institution
would have been extinguished.
   The library, however, which consists of about 1100 volumes on
practical and scientific subjects, (being the best selected, and the
richest, perhaps, of the collections possessed by similar institutions
in Scotland,) proved a rallying point, and a few subscribers, who
were sensible of the advantages to be derived from having ready
access to the best writers on the subjects in which they were inte-
rested, continued to supply the funds necessary for keeping it up.
In this dormant state, the institution continued till 1835, when an
attempt was made to remodel it after the pattern of the School of
Arts in Edinburgh, by the establishment of classes at low rates in
various branches of science and literature.  These have been since
continued, and with a considerable degree of success.  In order to
give regularity to the studies of the members, these classes were


