
			   KIRKMABRECK.                        321

lings, soles, flounders, (plaice and dab,) gray and red gurnard, tur-
bot, mackerel, sturgeon, chad, blockan brain, John Dorey, skate,
conger, sea devil, jackalator or ink fish, lamprey eel, silver or
horn eel, whiting, mullet, porpoises, hen or lump fish, shrimps,
lobsters, crabs, oysters, mussels, cockles, periwinkles, sprats, lim-
pets. There was even a young whale killed opposite Sutor Croft
with an axe, about thirty years ago.
   The fresh water fish are trout, par, and eel. Some of the fish
mentioned in this list are scarce in the bay; fortunately, however,
those most useful are in greatest abundance; such as salmon, sea
trout, rpurring, flounders, &c. These abound in the bay and in
the Cree, and are caught in great quantities in their proper sea.
sons; and a great proportion of the salmon and spurling are sent
to Carlisle, Liverpool, and Manchester. The spurling is so
highly prized in Liverpool and Manchester that the fishermen now
receive 1s. per pound for all they can send, instead of 4d., the
price formerly obtained in this district. This must now be a con-
siderable source of gain to the fishermen, as spurlings can be ob-
tained almost at any season of the year, although they are in ge-
neral most abundant in March. The salmon fishing season opens
here on the 1st January and closes on the 25th September.
	Conchology.--There is a great abundance, and a considerable
variety of shells upon the coast. Upon the beach from Creetown
to Carsluth, there is an immense number of univalves and bi-
valves. From Carsluth to Ravenshall there is found among the
rugged rocks another description of shells, principally of the class
univalves, but of different orders and families. What is perhaps
of greater practical importance to notice under this head, is the
vast quantities of shells that have been found upon the shore and
neighbouring fields. The holms of Cassenearrie, the low lands of
the glebe, and Kirkbride and Kirkdale, were at one time covered
with shells from four to ten feet deep; and as these must have been
thrown out and left by the tide, it is evident that the tide must at
one time have risen, at least fifteen feet higher upon this coast
than it has done for many years.
	The old Statistical Account takes particular notice of these
shell banks for agricultural purposes, in the following terms: The
principal manure used for improving land is sea-shells, of which
there is an almost inexhaustible quantity, not only within the high
water mark on this side of Wigton Bay, but also in the dry land,
several hundred yards from the shore, particularly in the holms of
	KIRKCUDBRIGHT.                              X


