
  356                         RENFREWSHIRE.

     The grounds which rise to the westward of the village, and at
no very great distance, command some most extensive prospects;
owing less to their elevation,, which is inconsiderable, than to
penings in different directions. While Beniomond towers majes-
tically to northward, with other kindred summits of the Grampian
thain in Argyle and Perthshire, the eye, wbi b has just ranged
round to Ailsa-Craig, quite distinctly seen, now glances east-ward
to rest on a rich panoramic prospect, where the spires of Glasgow,
piercing the sky, and its bright squares and crescents opening to
the west, under a bright evening sun, occupy the centre of the
Picture, while the back-groudd is formed by the Shotts Hills;
and, in very favourable circumstances, even Arthur's Seat is to be
distinguished in the eastern horizon.*
     I Meteorology.-The climate, like that of the west of Scotland in ge-
neral, is humid. The quantity of rain evaporated front the Atlantic,
and swept along by the cloud-compelling force of our prevailing
westerly and south-westerly winds, is more equally diffused over
the whole course of the year. The extremel heavy rains, ex-
perienced on the east coast at particular times, are here unknown.
Of this a memorable instance may be noticed in the frightful
floods of 1829 in the east and north, to which nothing in these
parts presented even the faintest resemblance. It would be ut-
terly superfluous to repeat, in this place, what is stated in the ad-
joining parish of Lochwinnoch in reference to the observations
furnished by the rain-guages, the barometer and thermometer,
with the course of winds, &c. in Castle sample gardens, which are
on the border of the two parishes, and equally applicable to both.
In regard to the state. of health of the population generally, epi-
demics, such as fever of typhus or other types, are experienced to
no great extent, and endemics not at all. Consumptive com-
plaints are the most prevalent, in addition to the ordinary diseases
of the ' inflammatory class, so often fatal to infancy and early years.
A more general use of flannel worn under linen is a precaution of
the utmost importance. The sedentary employment at the handi..
loom of fan incomparably greater proportion of the population of this
village than that of Paisley itself; and that not unfrequently in a
86P soinewhatdamp, as.beiiig more adapted to the work; is frequent-
Of this, the writer had.his doubts, though seriously averred by more competent
observers, till in August IW22. when, on the auspicious visit of G IV., the
babim on that hill weredistinedy seen eren in this emaral district :me barony
of Renfrew.


