
     32                    SUTHERLANDSHIRE.

     major-general, and appointed commander-in-chief at Madras.  He
     soon took the French settlement of Pondicherry, and, for this ser-
     vice, was invested with the order of the Bath.  At Negapatam,
     also, he behaved with equal gallantry.  Having soon afterwards
     returned to England, he was appointed Colonel of the 42d Regi-
     ment of Infantry, and was subsequently promoted to the rank of
     Lieutenant-General, on the North British Staff.  Sir Hector's
     father, Hugh Munro, by the death of an elder brother, succeeded
     to the estate of Novar, in Ross-shire, and, on the father's death,
     Sir Hector himself.  Sir Hector was twice in India, and in the in-
     terval spent at home he represented in Parliament the Inverness
     district of burglis, and on his finally quitting India was re-elected.
     Sir Hector died in 1802.  He was a brave officer; in private life
     a good friend; and a remarkable instance of filial piety, towards
     a venerable and worthy mother, to whose prayers he was wont to
     ascribe his success in life.
       Sir Hector Munro's brother, Alexander, who was for sometime
     Consul General at Madrid, and afterwards a Commissioner of Cus-
     toms, was also knighted.  H. A. J. Munro, Esq. the present pro-
     prietor of Novar, an intelligent and accomplished gentleman, is
     the son of Sir Alexander.
       It must be added under this head, that Dr H Ugh Macpherson,
     the present Professor of Greek in the University and King's Col-
     lege, Aberdeen'and who has taught that language there, for thirty-
     five years, with great success and approbation, is a native of this
     parish; and is the son of the late Rev.  Martin Macpherson, who
     was minister of the parish.
       Land-owners.-The Duke and Duchess Countess of Sutherland
     are the sole owners of the land in this parish; and, by the late purchase
     of the Reay country, they have become owners of nearly the whole
     county.  Their property has also been further enlarged by the recent
     purchase of several estates in the county of Ross; so that the whole,
     in conjunction with the Staffordshire and other estates, the Bridge-
     water canal, and other possessions in England, constitutes a proper-
     ty which may with propriety be called immense, yielding a revenue
     more than princely.
       Manuscripts.  It is proper to observe, that there is a manuscript
     at Dunrobin Castle, entitled "the Genealogy of the Earls and
     family of Sutherland." But though this be the title the work is

<FOOTNOTE>Sir H. Munro's conduct in India did not wholly escape censure; but, whatever
     Cause there may have been for it, it is evident that his general conduct and services
     must have made ample amends.


