
90                     RENFREWSHIRE.

of Rome, to which the members Of this family were long and zeal-
ously attached. Hew Lord Sempill was a Colonel in the army,
and commanded the left wing of the King's forces in the battle of
Culloden in 1746. He had sold Castle-Semple to Colonel Mac-
dowall in 1727, and bought North Barr in 1741. His grandson
Lord Hew Sempill was the last of the fAmily. He had four child-
ren, of whom two are still alive; the Honourable Maria Janet
Sempill, and the Honourable Sarah Sempill.
  This family was the head of the clan of Sempills, and at one
time possessed an extent of property, which at the present day
would have produced an annual income of from L.20,000 to
L.25,000, and therefore were properly styled "a potent and
powerful family." Now the whole of that property has passed in-
to other hands.
   The Sempills of Beltrees, were, in an intellectual and literary
point of view, more celebrated than the great Sempill family, from
which they were descended. John, the first of this family and
son of the great Lord Sempill, married Mary, sister. of Lord Li-
vingstone, who was one of the maids of honour to Mary Queen of
Scots. Both she and her husband were great favourites with the
beautiful Qeen, which was the means of promoting their wealth
and worldly prosperity. His highest honour, however, was that
he was the father of Sir James, Sempill his successor. Sir James
was an intimate and faithful friend of Mr  Andrew Melville, and
therefore various important circumstances are mentioned con-
cerning him in Dr McCries Life of that celebrated individual.
This intimacy is said to have occasioned the publication of the fa-
mous Basilicon Doron by James VI. Sir James Sempill, who was
friend and favourite L of the King, being employed to transcribe
this treatise, sent it to Mr Andrew Melville to peruse. Melville
taking offence at some passages which it contained, brought the
subject before the synod of St Andrews, which obliged the King
in self-defence, as he thought, to publish, the whole, work; and this
step answered the Ptrpose at, least of prucuring for him much ad-
miration in England. After Melville had been decoyed to Lon-
don, and cruelly and unjustly committed to the Tower by his faith-
less sovereign, Sir James was enable to render him important ser-
vices. He first produced for him a relaxation of his confinement
and regerous streatments and then permission to retire to France,
where he became a professor of divinity in the Protestant College
of Sedan, Daniel Tilesius, a man of Talent, but of Arminian prin-


