
     Statistical Account

several islands belonging to this parish; but only 2 of them
are any thing considerable; with some bays or creeks, safe
harbours for coasting vessels.-The lower end of this parish*,
upon the Bay of Crinan, and contiguous to the place of the
proposed canal, is considered by many as a proper situation
for a village, there being some arable land, with a great ex.
tent of low flat moss coming to the shore, which might not
only furnish convenient fuel, but could be easily improved
by draining, and with the advantage of shell sand, which is in

<FOOTNOTE>

the people of this part of the kingdom.  It will not only enable the inhabitants,
to avoid entirely the very dangerous passage round the Mull of Kintyre, but,
by affording a ready market for all the productions of the Western Isles, it will
invite the people to pursue a variety of kinds of industry, to which they have
hitherto been strangers.  Above all, it will enable them to supply themselves
with salt and coals; and if the duty were taken off the last, and rock salt allow-
ed to be imported, the people in there countries would be as happy as they are
now miserable, and they would be under no temptation of leaving their native
soil, to try their fortunes in America-A subscription is set on foot for this im-
portant purpose; and there is little doubt, that, from the spirited exertions now
making, a sufficient sum will be raised.  And, when the great magnitude of the
trade is considered, there is reason to believe, that it will repay the subscribers
very liberally for the sums they may advance.  If that should take place, a
communication for boats, could be made from thence to Lochow, which is only
5 miles distant, and would open an extensive and fertile country of near 32 miles,
and be of great advantage, to the landed property, of that part of the county of
Argyll.

*There are no monuments of antiquity, but some cairns or heaps of stones.
Though these are to be met with in many parts of the country, yet they are
more frequent in the lower end of this parish, which, being near a safe harbour,
and considered as a good spot of land, is supposed to have given occasion to
many disputes and quarrels; and tradition points out these cairns, as the burial
places of those of the lower class, who fell in such conflicts.  Near some of these
cairns, there are a number of great stones, standing upon end, from 6 to 8, or 10
feet above the surface, placed in a line, though rather irregular.  They are also
marked, by the same source, as the places where those of greater note have been
laid, but without any figure or character.


