
324                  IN'VERNESS-SHIRE.

completely tabular in their forms than any other mountains of
equal size in Scotland. From the Larger Helvel, a range of
elevated hilly ground extends to the north, and terminates ' in
Dunvegan or Galtrigil Head, a singularly bold and precipitous
headland, wbicii-is upwards of 300 feet in perpendicular height;
while, from the Lesser Helvel, a similar range strikes off to the
south, eiidiiig in the Points of ldrigil and WatersteiD, the cliffs
of the former of which rise abruptlv from the sea to the height of
400 feet ; those of the latter -to near 600. With the exception
of the headland of Tallisker in the neighbouring parish of Bra-
eadale, these two are by far the highest and granddst in the coun-
try. A few hundred yards from the Point of ldrigil are to be
seen three very remarkable basaltic pillars, rising perpendicularly
out of the sea ; the highest of which is about 200 feet in height,
the other two about 100. These pillars are generally known as
Macleod's Maidens; but the country people designate them as a
mother and her two daughters, calling the matron Nic Cleos .qeir
Mhor. There was at one time a fourth pillar, but it yielded to
the action of the storrns and waves, and has now disappeared in
the deep.They certainly present at a distance no indistinct re-
semblanceto gigantic females clad in cloaks and hoods, while
the superior size of one of them entitles her at least to the honour
of being thought the eldest. Sir Walter Scott compares them
to the Norwegian Riders of the storm, or chusers of the slain
the tradition which says that the mother is constantly engaoed
in weaving a web of cloth which one of the daughters is occupied
in fulling or thickening, is probably of Scandinavian origin. I
have not learned what is the 'office of the third, nor, with the ex-
ception of the above, could I gather any legend connected with
them.
   There are two other series of hills in the parish ; but as they
neither rise to any considerable height, nor have anything pecu-
liar in their formation, they do not merit a particular description.
   The surface of the ground is generally sloping, and the few
tracts of level land which are to be met with consist almost wholly
of deep peat moss.
   There is one valley, called Glendale, about two miles in length,
which stretches from the head of Loch Poltiel in a southerly di-
rection, until it reaches near the base,of the Smaller Helvel. Its
breadth is from half a mile to three-quarters of a mile ; its sides
sloping gradually, and covered with very rich pasture., It is di-


