
                         DALMELLINGTON.                           317

that belong to their everlasting peace, and who fear God, "speaking
often one to another." Such a cause cannot but operate, to some
extent at least, for good. Accordingly the attendance on religious
ordinances is for the most part regular and decent. There is much
propriety of conduct, and a growing disposition to discountenance
the profligate and unprincipled.

	                 IV.--INDUSTRY.

<TABLE=Agriculture.>

 Number of acres cultivated or occasionally in tillage,        1,304
                 that never have been cultivated,             17,896
                 that might profitably be cultivated,          1,150
                 in a state of undivided common,                 277
                 under wood, about                               750

	The plantations are chiefly larch and Scotch fir, which appear
to suit the climate well. There are a few ashes, birches, and
saughs, indigenous. So far, the plantations seem to be under good
management.
	Rent.--The rent of arable land cannot be correctly given. The
arable land is but a small portion of the parish, and is chiefly made
up of a few fields in the lower and more sheltered parts of the va-
rious stock-farms,--but if let together, it might be worth 15s. per
acre. The average rent of grazing is L. 3 per full-grown cow, and
3s. per ewe or full-grown sheep.
	Prices.--A one-horse box-cart and wheels, with iron axle, is
bought for from L. 8 to L. 9; a cart and plough harness, L. 3 to
L. 4 per set; an iron plough from L. 3, 10s. to L. 4, 10s; a wood
plough, L. 2; harrows mounted from L. 1, 10s. to L. 2 per pair.
	Live-Stock.--The common breed of sheep is the black-faced. A
few Cheviot and Leicester have lately been introduced. The cows
are Ayrshire. These form the chief stock of the parish, with some
Galloway and Highland stots and heifers. The management of them
is well understood. Of late years a considerable deal more land
has been brought under cultivation than formerly, for the im-
provement of the pasture. Lime is abundant, and near at hand,
which enables this system to be ptrsued profitably; and with it
has considerably increased the amouth of dairy stock. One en-
terprising tenant (Captain Walker in Bellsbank) has in this way
improved, or has in process of improvement, 400 acres, and lately
furrow-drained about forty acres. Encroachments have also been
made upon the moss-land successfully, by spade husbandry, be-
ginning with potatoes in lazy beds.
	The general duration of leases of late has been seven years.


