
36           			BUTESHIRE.

are, English and Gaelic reading writing, English grammar,
arithmetic, book-keeping, and navigation. Sabbath schools are
established in all the district of the parish. The majority
of them are taught by the teachers of the week-day schools;
a few of them by these, in conjuction with other pious and
well-disposed individuals. These schools are conferring inesti-
mable benefits, in rearing up the rising generation in right view
of Divine thruth, and correct rules of moral conduct. But they
would be much more extensively beneficial, both to teachers and
taught, did the circumtances of the people admit to their provid-
ing thir children with those admirable tdxt-books which are now
in general use in well-conducted Sunday schools in the low coun-
try. In winter and spring, the number of children who attend
school in the parish average about 450. In the summer, many of
them are employed in herding and field labour; and therefore the
attendance is much less. The advantages of education, however,
are very generally appreciated; and there are few, if any,above
the age of six, who are not in the way of being taught to read.
Still, it is a general complaint among the teachers, that children,
during the time with them, are not obliged to give more
punctual attendance at school; snd that they are allowed to quit
school altogether, and considering their education as finished, at
too early an age for retaining permanently what they have been
taught.
	Libraries.--In the year 1824, a few public-sprited individuals
established a small library in the parish; and to make it easily ac-
ceasible to all, the amount of the subscription was fixed at 1s. per
saum. There are, at present, about 80 subscribers, the majority
of them young men of the working classes who enliven their long
winter evening by the perusal of its volumes. The subcriptions
are collected once a year at a general meeting, at which the new-
books to be added to the collection are proposed and voted for.
The collection, from the low amount of the subscriptions, conrirts
as yet of only 800 volumes; but these are well selected, and sup-
ply so vocal excellent works in history, biography, popular science
geography, and practical divinity. Most of the religious books,
either originally composed in Gaelic, or translated into Gaelic
from the English language, we found in the collection, and have
always regret circulation among the more aged of the subscribers
The more wealthy of the parishioners occasionally make donations
of the books to the library.


