
     Statistical Account

but, in a great measure, the town of Huntly*, which is
distant about 6 miles.  From this plain is a gentle declivi-
ty of more than half a mile, on the W. and S. W. to the
Isla, and, on the S. to the Devoran; a river adorned with
plantations and natural woods on its banks, and abounding
with common trout, eel, and salmon.  About a mile be-
low its confluence with the Isla, the Devoran, running east-
ward, divides the parish into two parts, of which the north-
ern follows the course of the river more than two miles,
the southern near two miles farther.  At this point, where
the Devoran begins to divide the parish, and on its north-
ern bank, are the Milltown, a small village containing
about an hundred souls; the house of Rothiemay+; the
church and manse; and a happy mixture of well-inclosed

<FOOTNOTE>

<UNREADABLE>

*When the parishioners carry peats out of the parish, they do so clan-
, of merely by indulgence of their landlords,-not by stipulation
and right.  It is much to be wished, that both they, and others whom they
supply with peats, would use fewer peats, and more coal and wood, not
only because, in wet seasons, peats are a very uncertain fuel, but because
the preparation of them consumes much of their time, which might be
more profitably devoted to various agricultural improvements.

</UNREADABLE>

<UNREADABLE>

+There is a tradition here, that the unfortunate Mary, Queen of Scots,
a night in this house, and her bed-room is still pointed out.  This
tradition is continued by the authority of Buchanan, who, describing
Mary's journey to Inverses, says, " Proxima nox ad Rothimanum, Abre-
" neth num villam, satis tanquille transecta est:"  Hift. Rer. Scot.
Lib 17 cap. 36.  The Abernethies here mentioned were Lords Aber-
nethies, afterwards of Salton.  The tragical fate of one of them is cel-
brated in a popular ballad, called Frennet-hall.  Next to the Abernethies,
a family of Gordons were proprietors of Rothiemay till the end of last or
the beginning of this century, when it was purchased by Ogilvie, whose
for (afterwards of Inchmartin in Perthshue) sold it to William Lord
Braco, father of the present Earl of Fife.  The most ancient part of the
 , which was going fast to run, his Lordship has lately taken down,
and   and furnished the rest in a manner which does honour to
hesitate.

</UNREADABLE>


