
    1188                           PERTHSHIRE.

    tisfaction for his daughter's resiling from purpose of marriage with
    one A. B., after the publication of the banns." An assault, in 1721,
    of a very extraordinary nature, having been committed on the
    person of a servant by his master, the case was taken up by the
    civil magistrate.  The master, however, was cited before the ses-
    sion.  He appeared and gave in a paper, which he called "a de-
    clinator," having in company with him Mr Charles Hay, writer in
    Cupar.  The declining their jurisdiction seems greatly to have
    provoked the session, and, "having considered the whole matter,
    the insolent carriage of the said W. R., in presuming to decline
    this judicatory, his bringing in a public notar on the Lord's day,"
    &c., " they did and hereby do refer the samen to the reverend
    presbytery of Miggle to determine therein, in such a way as may
    either make the said W. R. obsequious to discipline, or bring him
    under ecclesiastical censure," &c.  It is not recorded whether the
    presbytery rendered the said W. R. " obsequious." "There is no-
    thing new," saith the wise man, "under the sun."
      Antiquities.-Very nearly the whole of this parish was abbey
    lands, and the property of the ecclesiastics belonging to the ab-
    bacy at Coupar-Angus.  The fact is well known, and the names
    of many places indicate to this day, the connection betwixt this
    parish and the religious house at Coupar-Angus.  Thus we have
    Monk Mire, Monk Callie, the Abbey Mill of Blacklaw, to which
    the adjacent lands were thirled, after a most grinding fashion, and
    to be relieved from which bondage the proprietors have lately paid
    large sums.  There was anciently a chapel at St Phink, dedicated
    to that saint, a small part of the foundation of which still remains.
    It had been-Surrounded with a burying-ground, out of which the
    present proprietor's father dug some human skulls, inclosed be-
    tween four square stones.  Below a cairn he found human bones
    partially burned, and below these again two rudely sculptured urns
    inverted, with human bones in a state of perfect preservation.
    Very lately, near the chapel, there were discovered some singular
    looking bottles, nearly globular, likewise inverted.  On the neigh-
    property of Blacklaw at Pictfield, there were also cairns;
    and not far off, a bronzed battle-axe and spear-head were found.
    At Monk Callie, it is understood that there was a small religious
    establishment attached to the abbey at Coupar-Angus.  There is
    a small burying-ground there, and it is still used as such.  Tra-
    dition says that the soil of this burying-ground had been at one
    time sifted, and freed from stones.  There is no trace of the sub-
				3


