
			    KIRKMAIDEN.		  	       211

jected to a proper rotation of crops, might, at least, in the form of
meadow or permanent pasture, be made to assume a more seemly
aspect. There was at one time a small common attached to the
churchyard; but it has long ago merged into the surrounding pro-
perty. The woods are under the management of a judicious and
experienced forester. The yearly thinnings are very useful for
many farming purposes. They consist principally of ash, beecb,
and larch.
	Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land maybe about
14s. per acre. The farmers are not in the practice of grazing
cattle and sheep, except what belong to themselves.
	Rate of Wages--Prices.--The wages of ploughmen are at the rate
of L.9 per annum; of maid-servants, L.2, 5s. for the half-year, with
board. Married men servants, or benefit men, get L.9 of money;
5 Galloway bolls of potatoes, and two bushels planted; 42 stones
of 17 1/2 lbs. oatmeal; 2 tons or 48 cwt. coals, with house and gar-
den. A day labourer's wages in summer are 1s. 2d.--in winter 1s.
Females employed at out-door work receive 6d. or 7d. per day.
Reapers' wages are 1s. 6d. per day without victuals; men are fre-
quently hired for the harvest season, and receive L.2 with board.
Masons' wages are 2s. or 2s. 6d.; joiners 2s. per day, without victuals.
A rood of mason work, furnishing all materials, will cost at an ave-
rage about L.3, for labour only L.1, 10s. A good box-cart costs
about L.7, 10s.; an iron plough from L.3, 10s. to L.4; an iron
drill plough about L.3.
	Live-Stock.--The few sheep-walks in the parish are stocked
with the black-faced breed of sheep. The farmers generally keep
a few of the Leicester breed for their domestic use. The cattle
reared are principally of the Galloway breed, and more attention
seems to have been lately given to its purity. There are in the
parish several large dairies, in which the Ayrshire breed are kept
and reared, or a cross between that and the Galloway bull, whose
progeny generally take his likeness.
	Husbandry.--Although the agriculture of the parish cannot be
said to be behind that of the neighbouring districts, it has made
little progress, except on a few farms, during the last twenty years,
and is susceptible of great improvement. What the land chiefly
requires, is thorough draining, followed up with the subsoil plough.
A great proportion of the soil, resting on a stiff retentive till, is
soaked, or, as the farmers express it, soured, with stagnant water
during winter; and in dry summers, where clayey, it becomes un-


