
790                     AYRSHIRE.

to the north of Gogo.\p*  Both of these rivers are noticed by Pont.
Of the former he says, " Gogo fluvius, a small river running by
the church of the Largs," and of the other he merely says, " Nodle
fluvius."
   The water of Rye takes its origin in this parish, near the source
of the Gogo, but runs to the south through the parish of Dalry,
and joins the Garnock at Ryesholm.  A small streamlet runs to
the west through the grounds at Kelburn, from which it takes its
name, and on the south boundary of the parish another stream,
called Fairlyburn, rises in the high grounds, and runs for about a
mile, when it joins its waters to the Frith of Clyde, forming the
boundary of the parishes of Largs and West Kilbride.  To the
north of Fairly, is a small stream called Kepping burn.
   The north-east of the parish is bounded by Routenburn, which
rises at the Hill of Stake, and runs to the north.  It is called by
Pont " Rottin burne."  Some fanciful etymologists have derived
its name from the routing or defeating of the Danes, as if it had
been written rout-Dane burn, but this is not deserving of any seri-
ous consideration.  It is obvious that the name is descriptive of
the noise which the water makes, when roaring through its rocky
bed, especially after heavy rains.  The northern boundary of the
parish is Kellyburn, which takes its rise in what was of old called
"the Forret of Kyith," and which was latterly called "the back
of the world."  It runs for near two miles, and falls into the sea
at Kelly bridge, to the north of the grounds of Skelmorlie.
   There was formerly a small island opposite the harbour of Fair-
lie.  It is laid down in Bleau's map of Cunninghame; but, owing
to the receding of the water, the island is no more visible.  At low
water, there is a large extent of the channel laid bare between
Fairlie and Hunterstone, and it has been thought that this land
could, by a strong embankment, be entirely gained from the sea;
but, as this would not be a productive enterprise to the undertak-
ers, it is not likely to be attempted.
   Geology.--The geology of this parish is not interesting.  The
lowest rock, visible in situ, is old red sandstone, or old red sand-
stone conglomerate, visible about Quarter on the one hand, and
Fairly on the other.  Upon this old red sandstone, or sandstone
conglomerate, is superimposed secondary trap, which forms the
summit of the highest hills towards the sources of the Greeto, the

<FOOTNOTE>
    * The bridge over Noddle being narrow, and high in the arch, was taken down,
widened, lowered, and rebuilt in 1824.


