
     Of West Kilbride.

   The next object of attention in this quarter, is the preci-
pice called Ardneel Bank,  which lies a little to the north-

     VOL. XII. 3 G

<FOOTNOTE>

of Portus and Crucis; because, from this port, was the nearest and most direct
passage over to the royal cemetery, and from it too, the pious travellers took
their departure to do pennace, or make their offerings at the sacred place.
What corroborates this conjecture somewhat, is, that at Lochransa in the N.
end of Arran, there is an old castle, where, tradition reports, the companies
passing to the western isles, (whether these funeral and pilgrimage processions, is
uncertain), were wont to stop and refresh; and then, as may be concluded, cros-
sing over the narrow Isthmus of Cantire, and again taking boat, after sailing
through the found between Islay and Jura, were immediately at Jona, the ob-
ject of their destination.  This port and castle have become still more remark-
able, from an occurrence that happened near them, and which deserves to be
taken notice of here. namely, the loss of one of the Spanish ships, that com-
posed the famous Armada, intended for the conquest of England, in the year
1588, in consequence of their dispersion by a storm, after the action with the
English fleet.  She sunk is about 10 fathom water, at no great distance from
the shore.  It is difficult to assign a reason for the accident; the probability is,
that coming up the Frith, with easy weather, and all sail up, and ports open,
a sudden gust from the land, which often happens in narrow seas, had overset
her.  An attempt was made, some more than 50 years ago, by means of a
diving machine, to examine her situation, and whether it was possible to weigh
her up, or to recover what was most valuable belonging to her.  The diver re-
ported, that from the size of her guns, she appeared to have been a capital ship;
and a very large chest was perceived fixed upon deck.  The operation succeed-
ed so far, that some fine brass guns were brought up, and a smaller iron one,
which still lies upon the beach.  This piece of ordnance, has undergone many
inspections, and various opinions have been formed about the weight of its shot.
To judge from the caliber of it, in its present comoded state, it seems to have
been a 14 or 16 pounder.  A second attempt was to have been made, with a
new and more complete apparatus, when, it is probable, much more of the
wreck would have been recovered, but the death of one of the undertakers
unfortunately put an end to the scheme.
   Within the very same place where the Spanish ship went down, a fine vessel
belonging to Glasgow, the richest that ever was fitted out from this country,
and the property of Glasford and Company; was also lost, in the spring of the
year 1770.  This disaster was  occasioned, not by stress of weather, but through
the inadvertency of the ship's company, in allowing the vessel to drift too far
in during night, ere the light-house was perceived, and in endeavouring to put
her about, she missed stays, and went upon the rocks.


