
				PERTH.                                 127

	"The Assembly," (i. e. the session or managers,) "think it good
	that the minister and some of the elders propose to the council,
	when they converse towards the advising of an hospital in which
	the poor may remain, either the Grayfriars or St Paul's Chapel."
	And again: on 9th April 1595, the ministers and elders conde-
	scendand agree that an hospital-house shall be erected for the main-
	tenance and entertainment of such aged and honest persons as are
	impoverished, and have not to maintain themselves, &c.  And again,
	in the following year, "the Session with one voice think it expe-
	dient that an hospital-house for the entertainment of the poor
	within our own congregation be erected and builded-the place
	to be in the chapel called our Lady's chapel at the shore, and for
	this effect, ordains James Anderson, master of the hospital, with
	all diligence, to buy timber and other materials for the furtherance
	of this work."  That it was finished and occupied in 1599, appears
	from an entry of that year: "The session ordains the masterr of
	the hospital to cause outred the timber work of the nether house
	of the hospital with all diligence, that some honest failed men may
	be put therein and maintained."
	   Cromwell, in 1652, having taken the city, demolished the hos-
	pital, with other public buildings, and applied the materials to as-
	sist in raising his citadel in the South Inch.  With a reference to
	that catastrophe, the following report was given in by the ministers
	of Perth to the presbytery, at a presbyterial visitation in 1676.-
	" They had no hospital-house, it having been pulled down by the
	Englishers, and never yet rebuilt."
	   The present hospital-house was erected near the site of the
	Carthusian monastery, which had been destroyed at the commence-
	ment of the Reformation in 1559.  To defray the expense of its
	erection, money was raised by subscription, collections were made
	at the churches within the bounds of the synod, and the city con-
	tributed 2000 merks Scots.  Mr Cree, provost of the city, laid the
	foundation. It was finished in 1750.  It is a large and well ar-
	ranged building, three stories high.
	   The foundation charter expressly limits the application of the
	funds to the "poor members of Christ's body, residing" not in the
	parish, but "in our burgh of Perth." And accordingly, the poor

<FOOTNOTE>  At the time when James granted the charter, which was a short time after the
	Reformation, there were only two denominations of professing Christians in the
	country,--those of the Protestant Established Church, and those of the Roman
	Catholic Church.  The Established Church was designated, in different sets of Par-
	liament, particularly in that which ratified its form 1592, " the trew and hally kirk ;"


