
636                        ABERDEENSHIRE.

use, as was done about eighteen years ago, for the docks at
Sheerness, from quarries on the south side of Benochee.  It is
also seen in great rocks above ground, as in the tops or crags
above referred to, of which the seams or fissures are oblique; and
likewise in numberless outlayers or blocks of various dimensions,
from two to ten cubic feet, lying over the whole surface of the
hill, and which are much used for building through the neigh-
bouring districts, being easily formed and transported.  Rock
crystals of considerable size, and having a yellowish tint, are found
imbedded in some of these outlayers; and specimens of Scots to-
paz, felspar, shorl, and jasper, are got in the same mountain.  But
on descending to its northern base, these, with the granite, disap-
pear,-and whinstone alone prevails, of a deep blue colour,
and hard  texture, but much used for building field dikes, and or-
dinary walls.
   The chief alluvial deposit is peat-moss, found on the ridge of
the mountain in long flats between the crags, and covering the
granite rocks to a considerable depth.  From this moss the inha-
bitants of Oyne, and several neigbbouring parishes, are chiefly
supplied with peat fuel, of durable quality, but which is prepared
and carried at an expense above its real value.  The soil in ge-
neral is open and fertile ; the lands near the church, and along the
banks of the Gady, having much of the freeness and other quali-
ties of garden ground, are particularly rich and early, and bring
the crops to maturity about ten days sooner than in several adjoin-
ing parishes.  On the sides of the mountain, the ground is more
or less mixed with granite sand, but it is likewise productive and
not late.
   Wood.-There are several valuable plantations of wood on the re-
spective properties ; as those of Tillyfour, on the south side of Beno-
chee, consisting of coppices of oak, birch, &c. covering a large ex-
tent of hill, and yielding a considerable annual revenue for bark, and
plantations of Scotch fir of good quality, and size, fit for all ordinary
purposes; the woods of Pittodrie on the east side of the same hill,
containing Scotch fir of the finest grain, and almost equal to oak
in durability, with larch and various kinds of hard wood; and in,
the northern section of the parish, the woods of Westhall, con-
sisting of fine old trees of beech, ash, elm, plane, lime, geen and
holly, planted, in the seventeenth century, and many of them of
large dimensions.  These, with sundry plantations of Scotch fir


