
			DUNDONALD.       		  673

mouldering walls of the castle, with the mount which it stands,
extending to about six or eight acres of land.
	Heritors.--It is rather a singular fact, that, of all the heritors
who signed the Solemn League and Covenant in 1638, scarce-
ly one descendant has now an acre of land in the parish. The
M'Kerrells of Hillhouse are the only family who have retained pos-
session of their patrimonial estate in any thing like an entire shape.
The date of the original grant or purchase is unknown, but it is
supposed to have descended in regular succession for 500 years.
The Fullartons, the Wallaces, the Cunninghams, and the Coch-
ranes, once all dominant, have long since given place to others,
but, for the consolation of heraldry, to families not less old and
honourable than themseves; as will be seen from the following
list, which we give in the order of their valued rental: Lady Mary
Montgomery, lady of Sir Charles Lamb, Bart. (Auchans); His
Grace the Duke of Portland, (Fullarton); Sir John C. Fairlie,
Bart. (Fairlie); the Right Honourable David Boyle, Lord Pres-
sident of the Court of Session, (Shewalton;) Henry M'Kerrell,
Esq. of (Hillhouse); Colonel Crawfurd, (Newfield); Miss Mor-
rice of Craig, (Holms); J. Deans camphell, Esq. of (Curreath);
Colonel M'Gregor of (Caprington); Colonel Fullarton of Bar-
tonholm, (town of Fullarton); James Campbell, Esq. of Craigie,
(Broadhirst); Mr Dickie, (Loans): Colonel Kelso of Dankeith,
Burgh of Irvine, (Friar's Croft) All the principal heritors have
residences either in or adjoining the parish.
	Parochial Registers.--These, as in most other parishes in Scot-
land, from the accidents of time, but more especially from the slo-
venly way in which they have been originally kept, are in a very
imperfect state. The oldest volume, containing the records of ses-
sion, and bearing date 1602, is tolerably entire; nay, strange
to say, much more so than any of the succeeding ones. It extends
over a period of forty years, comprising a silent interval of six-
teen years, and contains a great deal of parochial information that
is curious and interesting. Among other entries of this kind,
are minutes of the trial of Patrick Lowrie, Warlock, and Cathrine
M'Teir, demit of witchcraft. These seem to have been cases of
peculiar interest, and considerable judicial difficulty, from the mi-
nute detail of evidence adduced, and the lenght of time they ap-
pear to have been under trial. The attention of the session was
more or less occupied by them for nearly five years,--a term which
would now-a-days do no small honour to a chancery law-suit. Not-
	AYR.			     U u




