
488                    FIFESHIRE.

increase to the extent of the university, by the erection of St
Leoiuard's College, which he endowed with the revenues of the
hospital at St Andrews, which had formerly been appropriated to
the reception of pilgrims, who repaired to this city for the pious
purpose of viewing the relies of its tutelary saint. Twenty-five
persons were to be supported by this new foundation, viz. a prin-
cipal, four chaplains, two of them being regents, and twenty scho-
lars. This erection. was soon afterwards confirmed by the arch-
bisop, and by the monarch of the country, James IV.
   St Mary s 'Colleqe.--At the period of the erection of St Leon-
ard's College, the buildings which had been appropriated to the
use of the university after its first establishment, and which were
denominated the Pedagogy, having fallen into great disrepair, and
the slenderness of the funds connected with this part of the insti-
tution having rendered it a matter of difficulty to procure the ser-
vices of men properly qualified for conducting the education of the
students, the archbishop, with the consent and concurrence of the
prior and convent, formed the design of repairing or of rebuilding
them, and of erecting them into a college with a suitable endow-
ment; but for reason; which have not been ascertained, the inten-
tion was not then carried into execution. In 1537, however,
James Beaton, the archbishop, resolved to prosecute the plan which
had been devised by his predecessor in office, and obtained the
sanction of the Pope for the erection of a college on the site of
the pedagogy, to be denominated St Mary's College. He was
proceeding in the execution of the work, when its fartber progress
was arrested by his death. Cardinal Beaton, his successor in of-
fice, continued the work, which, however, was far from being com-
plete at the period of his murder. Archbishop Hamilton, who
succeeded him, greatly enlarged the plan of the new erection, and
completed the work. He assumed to himself a so the title of
founder of the college, to which, however, he continued the desig-
nation which had been assigned to it by his predecessors. He in-
tended it to be on a much larger scale than either of the other
two colleges connected with the University, and that there should
be tneintained within its precincts a principal, eight professors, and
twenty-four bursars in thetheology and philosophy, besides menial at-
tendants.  And for the maintenance of the establishment, he ap-
proriated the tithes of the parishes of Tannadice, Tynningbam,
Laurencedrick, Pert, Tarvet, and Craig. This erection was also


