
                           STEWARTON.                          739

   It is proper to add, that a number of individuals from the sur-
rounding parishes attend the four congregations named above.
   The church belonging to the Associate congregation was taken
possession of by a great majority of its members, when the join-
ed the Church of Scotland; but upon a summons of declarator in
March 1841, at the instance of a very few members of the said
congregation, who would not unite with the Church of Scotland,
the majority were induced, rather than run the risk of a law-suit,
to give up the church. It is now, therefore, unoccupied. It was
built in 1828.
   The foundation-stone of John Knox's Church, built by the late
members of the Associate congregation, was laid by Mr Collins
of Glasgow, 10th September 1841.
   The four congregations here have each libraries superintended
by their respective ministers.
   Education.--There is but one parochial school in the parish.
The schoolmaster, elected on the 3d January 1788, has had an as-
sistant since May 1837. Besides the ordinary branches, Latin,
Greek, French, geography, mathematics, theoretical and practical,
&c. are taught. His salary is the maximum, with the legal allow-
ance for a garden. The wages are, for reading English per
quarter, 2s. 6d.; for do. and writing, 3s.; for do. and arithmetic,
Latin, &c. &c. 5s. The sum of fees received does not amount to
L. 30; all given to the assistant, who teaches gratis ten poor chil-
dren recommended by a majority of the session, on account of a
mortification to L.5 per annum, left by the late Mr William Smith
of Cutstraw. There are at present four private schools in town,
and three inthe country part of the parish. There is no library
belonging to any of the schools.
   Library.--There is a library, commenced in 1810, consisting
of an excellent collection and selection of books on all subjects,
besides some of the leading periodicals of the day. There is also
a reading-room in town, not attached to the library.
   Friendly Societies.--There are a number of these in town. They
give liberally to the sick and indigent, and are understood to pros-
per. There is also a savings bank.
   Bank.--Branches of the Union Bank of Glasgow, since the be-
ginning of 1836, and of Messrs Hunters and Co. of Ayr, since
1841, have been established here.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-- That spirit of independence, which
formerly characterized the people of Scotland, is rapidly disappear-


