
        1056                       PERTHSHIRE.

	were offendit."  About this period, all the rights and possessions
	of the Abbey of Scone passed into the hands of the family of
	Gowrie.  Such was the siate of affairs until 1600, when the
	whole was forfeited to the Crown, in consequence of the myste-
	rious conspiracy, as it is called, of John Earl of Gowrie and his
	brother Alexander, the sons of William, Earl of Gowrie, who had
	been beheaded in 1584, for his share in the Raid of Ruthven.
	   This affair occurred in August 1600, and soon after an act of
	annexation was passed by the legislature, by which the lands, lord-
	ships, baronies, &c. which pertained to the abbacy and monastery
	of Scone, were annexed and incorporated to the Crown.  In 1605
	or 1606, a considerable portion of the Gowrie estates was taken
	from the Crown's patrimony, and erected into a temporal lordship
	in favour of David Lord Scone.  He had been Sir David Murray
	of Gospertie, a descendant of Sir William Murray of Tullibar-
	dine, also ancestor of the Dukes of Athol.  Previous to this, he
	had received various marks of distinction, having enjoyed, besides
	his other honours, the office of Ranger of the Lowlands and Fo-
	rester of the Woods.  He was Master of the Horse, Captain of the
	Guards, and cup-bearer to James VI., and was created Lord Scone
	in 1604 or 1605, and Viscount Stormont 1621.  In a charter,
	of date 1616, he is styled David Lord Scone.  The represen-
	tative of the family is William David Murray, Earl of Mansfield,
	lineal descendant of Sir David Murray, and through him, enjoy-
	ing all the Scottish titles and property, to which large additions
	have been made, together with the English honours of his great-
	grand-uncle, thd ChiefJustice.  There seems to be no authority,
	by charter or otherwise, for the title of Hereditary Keeper of the
	Palace of Scone, commonly assigned to the representative of the
	family.  The property was erected into a temporal lordship in fa-
	vour of Sir David Murray, but neither in this, nor in any subsequent
	charter, is there any reference to this office, the whole property, with
	all rights and privileges appertaining, having been entirely severed
	from the Crown, with the following reservation in the rtatute of
	1606 : "Reservaud and exceptand allways furth of this present
	act and erection all regalities, and all privileges thereof, possessed
	by the abbots and titlers of Scone of before, to remain with our
	Sovereign Lord and his Highness successors, and their Crown, in-
	separable in all time hereafter."
	   Subsequently to the period, Scone was not marked by the oc-


