
1066                      ABERDEENSHIRE.

         Means of Communication.-The turnpike road from Aberdeen,
(which is joined by one from Stonehaven at Banchory Ter-
nan), terminates at Aboyne; but the communication is continued
by excellent commutation roads, on both sides of the Dee, to
Ballater and Braemar. The Parliamentary road to Alford com-
mences in the parish; and there are also, leading from Aboyne,
good commutation roads in the direction of Tarland, of the
Cairnamonth and to Inchmarnoch, by either side of Bellrory.
Over the Tanner, there are two stone-bridges, and five over other
tributary streams of the Dee, all arched, besides several other
smaller bridges, either of wood or of stone, but not arched. At
the place where the ferry-boat now passes the Dee, between Kin-
cardin, O'Neil and the lands of Balnacraig, in the parish of
Aboyne, a wooden bridge was erected, by Durward of Coull, in
the fourteenth century, but of which all traces have long since
disappeared. Two miles further east, on the verge of the parish,
there is now the elegant stone-bridge of Potarch, of three arches,
and each pier founded on rock. At Aboyne, and nearly opposite
the church, the much admired * chain or suspension bridge, was
erected by the Earl of Aboyne in 1831, and solely at his
Lordship's expense. A previous one, on the same site, and
nearly on the same design, had been constructed in 1828, but
which was unfortunately carried away by the great flood of 4th
August 1829. The two bridges cost his Lordship from L. 6000
to L. 7000, and there is no pontage. The stability of this
bridge being now tested, and there being an excellent road, either
turnpike or Parliamentary, from Huntly to Aboyne, a continu-
ation of the line southward, through the Grampians, is natu-
rally indicated, and a very inviting line as to levels and facility of
formation has been surveyed, from Aboyne, through the top of fo-
rest of Birse, lower part of Glenesk, Clash of Wurren, and parish
of Menmuir, to join the great Strathmore road at a point near
the bridge of Finhaven, distant about twenty-five miles from
Aboyne. Were this projected road formed, (and the estimated
expense is less than what the bridge al Aboyne cost), the saving
which would be gained in travelling from many of the northern
counties is not only obvious, but property along its tract would be
greatly enhanced, and a spur given, in a negldcted district, to

<FOOTNOTE>Length of suspension portion, 230 feet; do. of two iron trussed arches, 60 and
50 do.; and length of two stone arches, 30 and 20 feet; depth of the foundation of
the two principal piets under the level of the, river, 11 feet.


