
68                           ORKNEY.

   Mansion-House.-The only one in the parish is the house of
Burness, belonging to Mrs Stewart.
   Antiquities.-In the parish of Stenness, are several large erect
stones, some standing single, but the greater number arranged in
a circular form and surrounded with a pretty wide and deep ditch,
of considerable circumference.
Close by a circle of stones, are several tumuli, evidently
artificial, some of them raised pretty high, of a conical form, and
somewhat hollow upon the top. About half a mile from the semi-
circular range of stones, is another beautiful tumulus, considerably
larger than the former, around which has been a large ditch.
This last is distinguished by the name of Mesow or Mese-howe.
   "In the neighbourbood of Garmiston, in the parish of Stenness,
in the side of a peat moss, are several heaps of earth, said to be
the graves of those who fell in a skirmish, at what is called the
battle of Summersdale, or Bigswell. The following is reported
to have been the occasion of this action. Upon the 18th of May
1529, in the reign of James V. John Earl of Caithness, pretend-
ing some right to Orkney, came over with troops to seize it, land-
ed at Howton, and proceeded to Summersdale in Steniiess, where
they were beat back by the Orkney and Shetland people into a
place called the Moss of Bigswald, where the Earl and most of the
people were killed, at the rest taken prisoners. Numbers of their
bones, and part of their clothing have been dug up, which was black
when first got, but soon fell into dust. The Orkney men were com-
manded by a Sir James Sinclair, natural son to Robert, Earl of
Orkney."

                     III.-POPULATION.
   The population of Firth amounts to 584; and that of Sten-
ness to 583.
   During the last three years, there have been two illegitimate
births in the parish.

                      IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The average rent of land per acre is L. 1, 10s.
   The real rental of the parish is L. 1305. With the exception of
the glebe and farm, in Firth, called Scarth, the improvements in
this parish, for many years have been very trifling.
   Manufactures.-Straw-plaiting is performed b young girls, in

<FOOTNOTE>Vide Old Statistical Account.
    In this country, howe is of the same import with knoll, or knowe, in other parts of
Scotland, and is applied to elevated hillocks, whether attificial or natural.
    Vide old Statistical Account.


