
                           RICCARTON.                      613

of their dairy, can bear comparison with any in the county. To
the making of cheese the utmost attention seem to be paid, both
as it regards the mode of its manufacture and the materials of
which it is made. Cheese of the best quality is selling at present
about 12s. per stone, Dutch weight. The price is regarded as high.
	Husbandry.--Very great improvements are every year making in
this province of industry, both from tile-draining, ditching,-liming,
enclosing, &c. and should they continue to go forward for a series of
years, the beneficial results both to landlord and tenant will be very
considerable; for while they will secure higher rents to the former,
they will enable the latter, with much less difficulty and risk, from the
improved quality of the crops and their greater certainty, notwith-
standing the variableness of climate and other uncontrollable contin-
gencies, to pay them. By the furrow-draining, which is decidedly the
greatest improvement, the land may be said to increase in value fully
at an average about L, 1 per acre, of annual rental. The value of
this improvement depends in individual cases upon several circum-
stances, such as the nature of the ground drained, the width be-
tween the drains, the size of the tiles used, &c. However, almost in
every case, the improvement is more or less felt. The amount of
land drained in the parish annually, is upwards of 200 acres. The
cost of draining an acre is about L. 6. If the roprietor does the
whole which sometimes happens then the tenant pays in conside-
ration 5s. per acre additional rent during his lease. This latter
practice is not frequent with the landholders in this part, except
whith the Duke of Portland, who drains the most extensively; but
it is thought by men of much experience that they overlook their
own interest in not adopting it.
	The crops raised are oats, wheat, barley, potatoes, turnips. The
usual rotation is, two or three years tillage, one hay, and five pasture.
This order, however, is sometimes deviated from, according to the
nature of the soil, &c.
	The rental of the parish is supposed to amount to between
L. 9000 and L. 10,000 annually, and the gross, rental arising
from lands, coal and tile-works, may be stated at about L. 15,000.
The average size of farms is eighty acres. The enclosures in the
parish are good, formed almost solely of hedge-rows, and these
very thriving. The farm-steadings on most of the  properties are
in good condition; many of them have double steried dwelling-
houses, with extensive and substantial office. The houses are chief-
ly thatched, but the larger and newer ones are almost all slated.


