
     of Closeburn.

entirely subdue them.  Hence the use of premiums.  Men
must sometimes be bribed to pursue their own interest.
They cannot, without some powerful inducements, be pre-
vailed upon to give up their old customs, and to adopt
those improvements which, after a fair trial, sufficiently re-
commend themselves.  In the present case, the proprietor
of Closeburn found it necessary to oblige his tenants in their
leases to lime a certain quantity of their landy yearly, he
furnishing the lime, and even paying for the carriage of it;
and they, on their parts, being bound to pay 5 s. additional
rent for every 80 measures, which were considered as suffi-
cient for an acre.  To men of a small capital, who could
not afford to be at the expense of liming their ground
themselves, this scheme was evidently beneficial.  In place
of advancing the money out of their own pockets, they had
to pay little more than the interest of it; at the same time,
the proprietor improving his estate, and receiving good in-
terest for his money, was, upon the whole, no loser, though
greatly in advance.  But even in this way, so favourable
to the tenant, the greatest quantitiy any of them would
agree to lime was two acres in the year; some of them
would lime no more than half an acre; and others could
hardly be prevailed upon at all to make the experiment.
Such was the aversion of the people in this country to the
use of lime as a manure for land, when the lime-works of
Closeburn were first begun in the years 1772, 1773, and
1774; but experience has conquered their prejudices, and
neither compulsion nor arguments are any longer necessary.
The lime costs 9 d. the measure at the lime-works, each
measure containing two Dumfries pecks heaped, or about
2 1/8 Winchester bushels.  The reason of this high price is,
the deep cover, and the distance from coal.  The coal is all
brought from Sanquhar, which is 14 miles from Closeburn.
It is sold at 7 d. the measure when laid down at the lime-
     VOL. XIII. H h


