
                           PERTH.                            87

    There are no resident nobility in the parish, and, with respect
to families or individuals or private fortune residing in it, I have
not the means of ascertaining with accuracy their number.  Of
proprietors of land of the yearly value of L. 50 and upwards, there
are not more in number than 10.  In 1831, the number of inha-
bited houses was 2049; of uninhabited houses, 182; of houses
building, 11; of families, 4956. The average number in each fa-
mily may be 4 nearly.  The people are not remarkable for either
strength, or size, or complexion, or any other personal qualities.
The number of insane and fatuous people is 40; of blind, 7; of
deaf and dumb, 12.
  Lanuage, &c. of the People.-The language generally spoken
is English.  There are some Highlanders in the parish who cannot
speak any language but the Gaelic, and there is a considerable
number who can speak Gaelic and English with equal facility.
There are no popular customs, games, and amusements in the
parish that are peculiar to this part of the country. * The habits

<FOOTNOTE>of March, 15; of April, 26; of May, 4 ; of June, 9; of August, 11; of September'
15; of October, 31 ; of November, 25; of December, 11 ; total, 147.
          The games which at present are most common are, foot-ball, casting quoits, crick-
et, and golf.  Within these few years, a number of gentlemen have formed them-
selves into a society under the designation of " Royal Perth Golfing Society."
The golf and foot-ball were, in ancient times, favourite games in Scotland, but the
Government, in the reigns of the James's, consulting more the security of the realm
than the amusement of the lieges, discouraged these games, and, by legislative enact-
ments, couraged the more athletic and warlike exercises of weaponshawing and of
archery.  It was enacted in the reign of James 1. that weaponshaws be made in
ilk shire, and sicklike in burroughs:-In the reign ofjames II., that the foot-ball and
golf be cried down, and bow marks erected in each parish : -In the reign of James
III., that sheriffs and bailies of regalities hold weaponshawing, and amerciat them
that are absent or not well albuilzied : - In the reign of James IV. that neither foot-
ball nor golf, nor unprofitable sport for the defence of the realm be used :-In the
reign of fames V., that weaponshawing be made twice in the year, in the months
of June and October, at days `nd places as shall please the sheriff, and bailies, and
burgesses of the land. The harness of the weaponshaw was as follows:- "For every
nobleman-, sic as earle, lorde, knicht, and baroune, and everic greate landed man,
havend ane hundredth pounde of zerlie rent, bee an armed in quhite harnesses licht
or heavie, as the please, and weaponed effeir, and to his honor.  And that all uthers
of lower rent and degree in the low-land, have jacks of plaite, halksikes or brigitanes,
gorget or pesane, with splents pause of mailzie, with gloves of plate or mailzie; that
gentlemen, unlanded and zeamen, have jacks of plate, halksikes, splents, salcate or
steil bonet, with pesane or gorget, and everie with sworde;-and na maner of wea-
pon be admitted in weaponshawing, bot speares, pikes stacke and lang, of six elnes
of length, Leith exes, halbardes, hand bowes and arrowes, crose bowes, culverings, twa-
handed swordes, and every man to be art armed as said is, under the peine of five
pounde to be tune of everia landed man, fiftie shillings of everie gentleman, and twen-
tie shillings of everie zeaman, alsaft as they be founden faltous in the premisses."
    Adamson, in his Muses Threnodie, laments that in his day archery was neglected
in Perth.  Mr Cant, in his notes on the Muses comments on the lamentation  in the,
following terms:- " Archery, of which the gentlemen of Perth were great masters,
was made an indispensable part of education from  the days of James I-. This most
accomplished and wise prince passed an act forbidding the favourite diversion of
foot-ball, substituting in its place that of shooting with bows and arrows.  Every


