
680			AYRSHIRE.

previous points, will be more than a twice-told tale; for Ayrshire
is "cows and dairy produce" all over; and the parish, in this
respect, may considered as a thrifty cadet of the dairy-house
of Dunlop. The greater part of the land is under cultivation, and
comprises almost every variety of soil which is anywhere to be
found. In these circumstances, the system of tillage is by no means
uniform. On the loamy and light soils, which are adapted for
green crop, the modern rotation is generally followed; but on the
stiff clayey land, where this is impracticable, the usual rotation is,
two white crops after six years pasture, with a top-dressing when
the soil is broken up. Wheat has been grown for some time in
considerable quantities; but, from the badness of the seasons, of
late years, it has been greatly given up, and it is questionable if, from
the incurable dampness of the climate, it will ever become a pro-
fitable crop. Stall-feeding, in one or two instances, has lately
been introduced; but it is not likely to be generally adopted, and
one proprietor, at least, has set the example of flaking sheep upon
turnips, elsewhere found so beneficial, and for which much of the
agricultural land in this parish is particularly adapted.
	Produce.--To give this with any approximation to exactness, is
nearly impossible; for it is seldom known even to the farmers
themselves. It can only be inferred from the rent paid, and what-
ever may be the system of agriculture followed, they will ge-
nerally be found in nearly the same proportion. The valued rent
is L. 6411, 10s. 9d. Scots. The real rent, as given in the former
Statistical Account, L.6100 Sterling, and at present, it is fully
double this sum. The highest rent of land is L. 4 per acre; but
this is far above the average rate. The produce of a cow may be
estimated at L.8, 10s. and from the dairy, it is considered that
the entire rent should be raised to give the farmer a fair return for
his capital and labour.
	Farm and Farm-Buildings.--All the land under regular culti-
vation is well subdivided with hedges-rows, and in some places with
drystone dikes. The farm-steadings in general are comfortable
and commodious, many of them having been either rebuilt or re-
paired of late years. The only defect seems to be in neatness of
arrangement, which is little attended to even in modern erections.
But it is not easy to change old tastes; as is well illustrated by
the invention of bone dust. On being requested by his factor to
have his dung-hill removed a little farther from his door-step, he an-


