
86                      BERWICKSHIRE.

the last century, when, by accident, the gallery took fire and was
destroyed. This was the first occasion of the erection of a school-
house in Westruther. The present school-house is a spacious
apartment, well-ventilated, and heated by a stove recently erected
at the expense-of the heritors.  The teacher, who has been qua-
lified by the most liberal education, has the legal accommodations,
but the minimum salary. The amount of school-fees he receives
may be about L. 10 a-year; he has also L. a-year for collecting
poors' rate. Besides the parish school there are three private
schools, which are supported by individual subscription. The
branches taught at all of these are the same; and the rate of
school-fees is per quarter, 2s. 6d. for English reading; 3s. 6d. for
reading and writing; 4s. 6d. for arithmetic; 7s. 6d. for Latin.
There are no persons in the parish between six and fifteen years
of age who cannot read or write. It may be added, that a Sabbath-
school, which the writer instituted a few years ago, is well attended.
   Library-The people are fond of reading, the means of indulg-
ing in which are liberally afforded to the inhabitants of the west
end of the parish, from a stock of small and popular works pur-
chased, and furnished to them gratuitously, by the family of Spot-
tiswoode. A library is on the eve of being established for the be-
nefit of the parish at large. The family library at Spottiswoode
is a valuable and extensive collection, containing a variety of works
on law, history, and general literature,-many of them such as are
not commonly to be met with. There are also some rare editions
of well-known books.
   Savings Bank.-A savings bank was established in 1815. From
its commencement to November last, there was deposited the sum
of L. 1286, and withdrawn L. 1077. The investments are chiefly
made by servants and labourers. The average amount of deposits
yearly for the last eighteen years, is L. 72; of withdrawals, L. 60.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of persons
on the poors' roll is 24, and the average expense L. 4, 13s. 4d. per
annum. The assessment was L. 91, 16s. 1d. The collections,
L-20, 5s. 4d. The total amount L. 112, 1s. 5d. in the year 1832
The assessment fluctuates between L. 70 and L. 90 per annum.
This legal provision, though it is not without its attendant evils,
has not produced such injurious effects here as in some other places,
-the poor being in general satisfied with the allowance made to
them, as well as reluctant to come upon the roll. There are no
benevolent societies for supplying the wants of the poor. Fortu-
nately there is no occasion for these, since, in addition to the as-


