
                                  MUTHILL.                         323

          Of the four gates which belonged to the Roman station, three
       only can now be distinguished, the fourth being scarcely traceable.
       Fronting the Praectorium is the Praetorian Gate, crossing the north
       lines in an oblique direction. Opposite to that gate, and behind
       the Praetorium where the Decuman gate should be, is a road lead-
       ing out of the camp, which may have been the Decuman; and
       onwards to the right and left of the Praetorium, are to be seen the
       two, which were called principal gates, as being at the ends of
       the principal street which crossed the camp in front of the Prae-
       torium.  Upon the Polybean system of castrametation, this fort
       would accommodate 1200 men.
         Immediately adjacent to the north side of the station, is the
       Procestrium or pro castrum (for a camp,) or an addition to the
       other, as probably used by Agricola for containing his men and
       baggage, when he thought of dividing his army into three parts, in
       order to watch thd movements of Galgacus, and fight him from the
       neighbouring hills.  This procestrium seems to have been strong-
       ly fortified, and a subsequent work to the other, for part of the
       area of the great camp was included in it; but its entrenchments
       are levelled by the plough, while the corner of the former is yet
       visible.   Its south gate is also to be seen, as connecting it
       with the station, and this again with the fragments of another gate
       on the north side.  It was of an oblong shape, consisting of 1060
       feet by 900, and is capable of accommodating 4000 men.
          North-west of the procestrium is the great camp,-so styled

       <FOOTNOTE>Lord, upon obtaining a pardon, agreed to be let down by a rope.  He, at first, brought
       up from a great depth, Roman spears, helmets, fragments of bridles, &c.; but on be-
       ing let down a second time was killed by foul air. A gentleman, who lived at the
       House of Ardoch, anno 1720, ordered the mouth of the hole to be covered with a
       mill stone, to prevent hares running into it when pursued by his dogs: but as there
       was earth to a considerable depth laid over the mill-stone, it cannot now be found,
       although diligent search bas been made for it. Should it ever be discovered, it will
       probably lead to a tank which was formed by the Romans, in order to receive water
       filtered from the river Knaik.  Sir William Stirling, a former proprietor, inclosed
       the whole camp with a stone wall, so as to protect the interesting remains from injury
       by the ploughshare, or in any othdr way by the hand of man; and we have little
       doubt that his successors will be equally careful, in all respects, of these Roman ves-
       tigis.
                 Many stone coffins have been found at different times, in digging about the camps
       or near them; and the skeletons contained in them have been of an uncommon size.
       About a mile west from the camps, a stone coffin     was found, containing a skeleton
       seven feet long.  A mile and a half distant in the muir of Orchill, another was found
       of the same length, in Cairn Woehil.  These have generally been in cairns or heaps
       of stones, which may be accounted for, from a practice in former days of throwing
       a stone upon the respected dead,or upon any place remarkable, in passing by. So
       among the Highlanders there is still a saying, that if one shall do a favour to another,
       and a stone shall be added to his cairn;"-that is, his grave shall be remembered and
       respected.


