
                      TONGLAND.                           89

1804, the foundation stone of a new bridge across the Dee was
laid by Sir Alexander Gordon, Provincial Grand Master, and at
that time sheriff of the county. The plan of the bridge was given
by Mr Telford. The contractors were country masons, and the
contract price was L. 2420, of which part was raised by private
subscriptions, amounting to L.1150, and the remainder by a county
grant. On the 15th of August, the centres and the whole of the
building, so far as it had proceeded, were swept away by a high
tide, combining with a prodigious rise of the river. On the 28th
of March following, the work was recommenced, but in July the
county finding that they had expended upwards of L.3000, and
that the contractors were utterly incompetent to carry on a work
of such difficulty and magnitude, determined to release them from
their contract, to obtain the services of an experienced engineer,
and to finish the bridge themselves. It was finished, accordingly
in May 1808, upwards of four years after its commencement, and
including embankments, cost the county and the subscribers
L.7710! It is a strong and elegant building. The arch is circu-
lar, and the span is 110 feet. The distance from Kirkcudbright
is less than two miles. The old bridge is a quarter of a mile
higher. It consists of two arches, and is still in good repair. It
would not have been so convenient for the public, but the ground
of its condemnation was its insecure and tottering condition,--an
allegations which its present appearance, after a reprieve of forty
years, sufficiently refutes. It was built in 1737, in which year it
is remarkable that three bridges were thrown across the Dee at
different points. The contracts were all granted on the same day,
and amounted to L.1000. In 1832, a bridge with an elliptical
arch was thrown across the Tarff, about twenty yards from an old
one, which is still passable and strong! The foundation is upon
wooden piles 18 feet in depth. Notwithstanding this it has sunk
considerably in the centre, as appears from the depression of the
ledges. There are, in all, five bridges in the parish, three across
the Tarff, and two across the Dee,--one of two arches, and the
rest of one. Argrennan House, formerly called from its situation,
Deebank, the residence of Robert Ker, Esq. is a spacious build-
ing, very pleasantly placed en the Dee. The public rooms are the
largest in the county, and handsomely proportioned. The greater
part of the house was built twenty-five years ago.
   Historical Events.--An estate and a knoll called Queenshill
derive their name from Mary Queen of Scots, who, on her flight
from the battle of Langside, is said to have rested in the neigh-


