
754                            AYRSHIRE.

	This horn, so minutely described in Bleau's great work and by
De Foe, is carefully preserved at Caprington Castle. It corresponds
exactly with the description given of it, and it retains its shrill
sound. There is no tradition in the family as to when or where
the trumpet was found, and nothing was known of its history when
the writer made inquiry concerning it.
	The detail given in the subjoined metrical extract seems im-
portant, as it reconciles the historical narratives in regard to Coyl
with the traditionary account and the monumental testimony.
The early historians speak of the battle having been fought in
Carrick, near the Doon, while the tomb and names of a variety
of places, and also tradition, go to fix Coilsfield as the place of
the King's death. According to Bonnar, Coil's troops were sur-
prised and routed on the Doon, but the King and the remnant
of his army proceeded northwards, and were overtaken and slain
at a moor.
		"The country people fra thenceforth does it call
		Coylsfield in Kyle as ever more it shall."

It perhaps deserves to be remarked that the name of the gardener's
house at Coilsfield is Middle-muir.
	Taliesin, who flourished in the sixth century, in his poem on
the battle of Argoed Llwyfain, speaks of "Cheneu, son of Coel." *
	Roman Camp and Sepulchral Urns.-At Park-Moor there is a
place called the Roman Camp, where trenches are to be seen.
Sepulchral urns were found under cairns near the camp. An urn
was also found under a cairn of stones on the farm of Law. It
is highly ornamented with markings, made apparently with the
thumb-nail, and is in excellent preservation. Sepulchral urns
were recently discovered about a quarter of a mile northwards from
Fail Monastery. When levelling a piece of ground a large flat
stone was found five feet below the surface. Under the stone
was a small pit, or grave, in which were two urns containing burnt
bones. The urns fell to pieces soon after being exposed to the
atmosphere. Two other flat stones have been, met with, each
covering a small pit. There was an urn in one of these pits.
The other had no urn, but contained a considerable quantity of
burnt bones. This very ancient depository for the dead exhibits
evidence of scrupulous attention having been paid to order. The
pits, which are rudely lined with stones, resemble each other in

<FOOTNOTE>Sharon Turner's Vindication of the Ancient British Poems, p. 248.


