
     of Alloa.

which takes notice of the improvements of the metropolis,
that have been since carried into execution, and which deserves
to be more generally known.

<FOOTNOTE>

"Potter-Row, and from thence to Bristo Street, and by the back of the wall
"at Herriot's Hospital, there are fine situations for houses and gardens.  There
"would be fine avenues to the town, and outlets from it for airing, walking,
"etc. etc. by there bridges; and Edinburgh, from being a bad incommodious
"situation, would become a very beneficial and convenient one:  And, to make
"it still more so, a branch of that river, called the Water of Leith, might, it is
"thought, be brought from somewhere about the Colt Bridge, to fill and run
"through the North Loch, which would be of great advantage to the conveni-
"ence, beauty, cleanliness and healthfulness of the town.
"The making a canal betwixt the rivers of Forth and Clyde would be a
"great improvement to Scotland, as well as of great service to the trade of the
"whole island, especially the India trade, by saving a dangerous long passage
"round Britain, since, by that canal the west and east sea would be joined-
"The way for leading of this canal is from near Glasgow, by Kilsyth, to the
"mouth of the river Carron below Falkirk.  It is practicable, as Mr. Adair,
"Mr. Smith, Mr. M'Gill, and Mr. Sorocold judged, who travelled twice over
"the ground, with a view to this work.  From the hills of Campsie, and the
"river Carron they thought there would be water sufficient got for filling the
"canal; and that, by the assistance of several fluices near to Glasgow and tome
"in other parts, the canal would be made practicable for flat bottomed boats of
"a very considerable burden.  They computed that 30,000 L.  Sterling might do
"the work; but, should it cost the double, it would be well bestowed, and be
"soon repaid by the profit arising from the canal."
   Having said so much of this unfortunate nobleman, it is no more than justice
to the inhabitants of this and the neighbouring parishes, to mention their
behaviour to him during his exile, while the estate continued render the direction
of the commissioners of the forfeited estates.  They contributed considerably
towards assisting him under his misfortunes.  Nor should an instance of gratitude
pats unnoticed:  The Earl, whose taste for architecture was generally known,
introduced the celebrated Mr. GIBBS into business, the beginning of this century.
Mr. Gibbs dying without children, left the greatest part of the fortune he had
acquired to LORD ERSKINE, the fort of his first patron.

     VOL. VIII. 4 N


