
     Statistical Account

land is divided among them into small lots.  Two of their
number have each a pair of horses.  With there they labour
the land for the community at a reasonable hire, and drive
coals and other carriages that are necessary for the village.
With the produce of this land the inhabitants supply them-
selves with meal and potatoes, and many of them have it in
their power to keep a cow.  In this manner they are enabled
to live comfortably, to clothe and educate their children de-
cently and to assist in setting them out in the world.  There
is no village in this country where the inhabitants have im-
proved more of late years in comfort and convenience than
in the village of Athelstaneford.  Formerly, their dwellings
were no better than small, dirty, dark hovels; now they are
all neat, commodious houses, generally with two apartments,
and well lighted.  The expence of building one of these hou-
ses is from 15 l. to 20 l.; and some, that are larger and bet-
ter finished, cost considerably more.  In point of situation,
the village is truly beautiful.  It stands open and elevated,
and commands the most delightful and extensive prospects.
The Frith of Forth, with the whole coast of Fife, from King-
horn to Crail.  South of the Forth is a rich variety of beau-
tiful objects, both natural and artificial, immediately under
the eye, such as North Berwick Law, the Bass, Tantallan,
Tropeine Law, part of Lammermuir, Garleton Hills, Kill-
duff, five or six gentlemens seats, with the extensive planta-
tions of Gilmerton, Newbyth, and Tyninghame.  A situation
thus beautiful and eligible, with the advantages formerly
mentioned have had no small influence in alluring such a
number of inhabitants, of different professions in life, to set-
tle in it; and, while many villages in Scotland are deserted,
and permitted to go to ruins, the worthy proprietor of Athel-
staneford has the pleasure of seeing a flourishing village rise
on his estate the numerous inhabitants of which look up to


