
PORTMOAK.                                  31

The west division is a sharp sandy soil; the eastern, rather strong
clay or heavy loam.
	Hydrography.-Opposite to where the Bishop's hill winds to-
wards the north, there are several exuberant springs. Within about
400 yards, are three, of excellent water, which by the aid of a mo-
derate fall would drive a mill. The eastmost one surprises strang-
ers. It is said that Oliver Cromwell called them fontes Scoti&, and
the adjoining village is called Scotland-well. Lochleven is about
thirteen miles in circumference. The part of it which is in this
parish is said to cover 1730 acres of land, and contains the island
of St Servanus, which extends, since the draining of the lake, to
about 70 acres. Till within these twenty-five years, there were
no plantations in the vicinity of the loch, except on the south and
west. Since that time, above 300 acres have been planted.
	Geology and Mineraloqy.-In the low grounds, there is not
much rock of any kind. The north side of Benartie is whin-rock;
and as the land rises to the Bishop's bill on the opposite side, free-
stone is found, very soft, and, in general, unfit for use. But, on
the top of the hill there is a great variety of stone, some very hard
and some fit for hewing and building. The difficulty of bringing
stones down renders them expensive. The fissures in all these
rocks are from south to north,- and west to east, at a great variety
of distances. There is also some workable whin-rock, and an in-
exhaustible lime rock. The seam at present worked is from
eight to twenty feet thick, and backed at the distance of from four
to ten feet. Its dip is to the north-east. Above it, is one foot of
moss, and in some places fourteen feet of culm and red earth; and
below, a bed of whin so hard that irons have not been found suffi-
cient to bore it. In the fissures, which vary in size, are found a
great variety of petrifactions, and a substance resembling ice, which
the quarriers were accustomed to throw away, but latterly have
burnt, finding it io be the purest lime. When wet, it assumes the
consistence of butter, and whitens nearly as well as English whit-
ing. About 4000 tons of limestone are annually sold at 1s. 8d. per
ton. And were it not for the high price, the demand would be
much greater. But the expense of preparing it is so great, that
there is little hope of the price being reduced.

<TABLE>

A kiln that sells at L. 12 costs at the quarry, 	L. 2  10  4
Driving at the top of the hill,	                           0  10  4
Rolling                                                    0   5  6
Breaking Stones	                                           0   5  6
Dragging at, the bottom of the hill,	                   0  10  4


