                               FIFESHIRE.
     From his family it subsequently passed into that of the Marquis
     of Tweeddale.
        In the year 1780, the last renewal of the crown-lease in favour
     of the Tweeddale family having come to an end, the Marquis of
     Tweeddale again applied for it, but without success, in consequence
     of a- counter application having been made for it by the vassals of
     the lordship. A new lease was accordingly granted to the Coun- 
     tess of Rotbes, the Earl of Elgin, and others, as trustees for them-
     selves and the rest of their vassals, to endure for *eteen years,
     commencing with crop 1780, at the yearly rent of L.100.
        In 1748, the heritable jurisdictions of Scotland were all abo-
     lisbed; but compensations were given to the respective parties
     concerned, according to the opinion of the Court of Session, as to
     the amount of loss during life sustained by them. The whole
     sum, voted by Parliament for this purpose, was about L.150,000,
     out of which the Marquis of Tweeddale received L 2672, 7s. as
     the value of the bailiary of the regality of Dunfermline, and Mr
     William Black L.500, as that of his office, as clerk to the re-
     gality.
        Besides the office of bailie of the regality, there was also that
     of Constable, or Keeper of the Palace, and other royal edifices, and
     of the adjoining yards and pleasure-grounds, for the maintenance
     of which office, the teinds of Masterton and Pitliver were paid.
        There was also the heritable office of Mayor, or Serjeant, af-
     terwards named Provost, or Head officer of the regality, institut-
     ed in 1579, a year before that of heritable bailie. He was imme-
     diately below the depute-bailie, and, on some occasions which are
     specified, he was empowered to exercise a certain measure of
     civil and criminal jurisdiction.
        There was lastly the office of Heritable Admiral of the whole
     lordship of Dunfermline, except Musselburgh, once held by Lu-
     dovick, Duke of Lennox, Great Admiral of Scotland, but resign-
     ed by him on the 24th December 1612, to Queen Anne of Den'
     mark. The duties of this office would have reference to the
     shipping, fishing, &c. on the water adjoining to the lands of the
     regality, and there were certain perquisites attached to it.
        All these offices came into the possession of the Earl of Dun-
     fermline, and subsequently of the Marquis of Tweeddale. Al-



