
                          BANFF.                            3

   of the Spey, which is 22 miles west of Banff-thus making the ge-
   neral course of the Doveran to be nearly north-east, and the dis.
   tance from its source to its mouth 35 miles. But its course is far
   from a straight one. Thus, from Rothiernay to where it approaches
   Turriff, a distance of eleven miles,, its course is, though with many
   meanderings, from west to east. From that point to Banff (9 miles)
   its course is from south to north. Nearly amile above the point
   where, passing from between the parishes of Alva and King Edward,
   the Doveran first touches- the -parish of Banff, it enters, with a sud-
   den turn, into a rocky gorge, whose precipitous sides crowned with
   wood are here joined by a semicircular stone arch. From this, the
   view stretches, above, into the open country, bounded by the hill
   of Alva; below, it is closed by a -succession of naked rocks an&
   steep wooded banks, among which the stream is seen to lose itself.
   The grounds on the margin of the river continue abrupt and pres
   cipitous, for nearly a mile farther down, when they gradually re.
   cede, opening out into a fine valley, round the eastern side of which
   the river takes a wide sweep, enclosing the plain on which Dtiff
   House is situated. Opposite to this plain, on the eastern side of
   the river, the ground is cut by the rivulet alread entio , issu-
   ing from a woody ravine. Above, is a fine declivity, crowned on the
   top, and fringed along the water's edge, with wood; its surface diver.
   sified with breaks and swellings, and adornedwith patches and rows of
   trees. Below, rises a green hill, presenting to the river and sea shore,-
   a face of considerable height and steepness. The road from Edin-
   burgh and Aberdeen winds round the verge of its southern inclins
   tion; and brings the traveller arrivmg in that direction, upon a pror,-
   pect of rather uncommon attraction. On the extremity of these award
   slope of the hill, where it stretches out into a point skirting the bayp
   stands the town of Maeduff. Just where the bend of the river com-
   mences, rises, on the western side, a high abrupt bank; on the sum-
   mit of which, emerging from the gloom of a thicket, is a  Gothio
   mausoleum, (the burying place of the Fife family)-nearth which
   on the verge of the bank I stands a funereal urn, containing bones
   dug up on the' spot, Of old the;cemetery of a Carmelite monaste-
   ry. A little above, on the same side, is a remarkable round b III
   which tradition represents as being artificild and the work of pe-
   nance, and which. now, crowned with a small summerhouse or term
   ple, forms a striking accessory to the beauty  of the scene. In one
   or two places, small islands,covered with wood, separate the stream
   of the river into branches; and its whole course between the two


