                     MINTO.                              365

he was appointed clerk to the privy-coucil, which office he held
in 1692. He was subsequebtly created a Baronet in 1700, and
recieved from King William a charter of the lands of Headshaw
and Dryden, which was ratified by Queen Anne in 1705, though
mention in also made of an earlier charter of these lands, dated
1696. On the 28th June 1705, he took his seat in the Court of
Session by the title of Lord Minto, and, as it appears, he becamd
also a Lord of Justiciary. A portrait of him is still preserved in
took place probably in 1718, in the sixty-seventh year of his age.
The preceding account, though minute, may have some general in-
terest, not only from his being the founder of a family which has
risen to distinction, but from the part he filled in an eventful pe-
riod of national history, and the high character he maintained
for talent and intergrity. He is mentioned by Wodrow in his-
tory, in these very honourable terms: "Mr Elliot, since Lord
Minto, is lately dead, and filled one room in the Bench of Justficati-
ary, where an unjust sentence was given forth against him, as well
as a place in the College of Justice he so well deserved, by his
unshaken probity and boldness against all unrighteousness and
vice." The following amusing anecdote is taken from Dr M'Crie's
Memories of Mr William Veitch: "When Lord Minto visited
Dumfries, of which Mr Veitch was minister, after the Revolution,
he always spent some time with his old friend, when their conver-
sation often turned on the perils of their former life. On these
occasions his Lordship was accustomed facetiously to say, 'Ah!
Willie, Willie, hasd it no been for me, the pyets had been pyking
your pate on the Nether Bow port; to which Veitch replied,
'Ah! Gibbie, Gibbie, ghad it no been for me ye would ha'e been
yet writing papers for a plack the page.'"
     The second Sir Gilbert was born in 1693 or 1694, became a
Lord of Session on the 21st June 1726, a Lord Justiciary 20th
August 1733, and was afterwards appointed Justice-Clerk. He
likewise sat in Parliament in 1725, concuring in his politics with
John Duke of Argyke, whose confidence he enjoyed, and whom he
assisted in the management began to be laid out and improved. A
pond head was thrown acrodd the glen in 1735, and considerable
alterations and additions made to the house in 1744-45. Before

<FOOTNOTE>It is said that in this year, 17276, the German flute was first brought into Scot-
land by Sir Gilbert Elliot, who, to his other accomplishements, added a taste for music.


