
   			  DUNBAR.                             81

   The census, of 1831 does not include the seafaring persons be-
longing to the parish; and there were then in it 2174 males, and
2561 females. The great increase in 1821 was occasioned by an
attempt to establish a cotton factory at Belhaven, which introdu-
ced about 500 persons, chiefly from Ireland; and by an influx of
discharged soldiers and sailors. The decrease in 1831 was occa-
sioned by the failure of the factory.

<TABLE>
   In a census taken by the minister in 1834, the population was, 4536

                         Resident within the royalty                 3217
                         Do do landward district                     1319

     The yearly average for the last seven years of marriages is      31
                                                    births,           34
						    burials,          89
   It should be noticed, however, that many parents do not register
the births of their children; and that the period which the average
embraces includes two years when the mortality was unusually
great. There are 1109 families in the parish, and the average
number of persons in each family is 4 1/2.
   There are 30 proprietors of land in the parish of the yearly
value of L. 50 and upwards.
   Character of the People.-They are quiet, peaceable, and indus-
trious, remarkably civil and obliging in their disposition, generally
well-educated, and have less peculiarity in their dialect than is to be
found in most other districts. They are at all times well dressed,
and their houses are clean and comfortable. The inhabitants of
the town have an abundant and cheap supply of fish; and the hinds
command milk and meal, pork and potatoes. The latter class
being paid in kind have but one interest with the farmer and land-
lord; and they have borne the present depression without a mur-
mur. When the Reform Bill agitated the country, their voice was
unheard. Both the burgh and landward inhabitants are loyal and
well affected to church and state, and are regular in their attendance
on public worship. They enjoy in a great degree the comforts
and advantages of society, and are perfectly satisfied with their con-
dition and circumstances. The heritors, most cheerfully concur in
every measure beneficial to the parish.
                        IV.-INDUSTRY.
   Agriculture.-The parish is all arable, and contains 7197 acres.
There is no evidence that Dunbar was ever wooded.
   It is known that agriculture flounished in this district during
the twelfth and thirteen centuries. Kings, nobles, and churchmen,
then amused themselves with rural pursuits ; but the monks were
the most skilful cultivators. The Union in 1706 was the grand

    HADDINGTON.


