
                            CULLEN.                      315

   the back ground, the woods and plantations of the ancient barony
   of Rannes, in the parish of Rathven, meet the eye; and in  the
   distance, the bleak mountains of Inverness-shire shut up the view.
     Meteorology.-From it's proximity to the sea, and the quality
   of its soil, the climate of this parish is cool and bracing. In winter,
   when the inland districts are covered with frosts and snow, it
   stands comparatively free from either, particularly the latter.
   This is to be attributed to the strong influence of the sea breezes,
   and the thorough draining which a great portion of the land has
   recently undergone.  The season of spring is proverbially early,
   especially in the grounds around Cullen House, where the cultivation
   is so high, and the shelter afforded by wood so complete,
   that the growth of trees and plants may almost be said to be uninterrupted
   during the whole year. In this parish, no disease is
   endemick; its inhabitants are, on the whole, more healthy than
   those in the inland districts; and it is frequently resorted to by invalids,
   on account of the salubrity of its climate. There are probably
   few places in Scotland more conducive to health and longevity.
   The people are not liable to any prevailing distemper.
   Epidemicks are of very rare occurrence; and when they do visit
   the district, are generally of a mild character. Many of the inhabitants
   live to the age of eighty-five and ninety ; and lately,
   two persons, natives of the parish, died, each at the patriarchal
   age of one hundred years and upwards.  The Bin Hill, in the immediate
   vicinity, and the most prominent object in the district,
   acts as a never-erring barometer, its summit being invariably covered
   with mist, previous to rain or moist weather.  The prevailing
   winds are, the north, north-east, and north-west. These are
   cold, but comparatively harmless to vegetation, except that from
   the north-west blowing violently, in the end of July and beginning
   of August, before the white crops have attained maturity; its
   blighting effects sometimes occasioning considerable loss to the
   farmer.  There is no thermometrical or barometrical table kept
   in the parish.  The average annual fall of rain is 22 1/2 inches.
    Hydrography.-The parish is bounded on the west and south
   by the water of Cullen, which rises in, the heights of Deskford,
   and, proceeding in a northerly direction for a distance of about
   six miles, enters Cullen parish at its south-eastern boundary,
   By draining in its course the hollows of Deskfotrd, it receives a
   considerable accession to its Strength, and by the time it has


