
                        GENERAL OBSERVATIONS, &c.		935

Lanark, Hamilton, Biggar, (with the exception of Skirling, the
united parishes of Broughton, Glenholm, and Kilbucho, in Peebles-
shire,) and the greater part of the presbytery of Glasgow.  In the
mountainous and moorland district of the Upper Ward, the parishes
are very extensive ; and the manses are at such distances from
each other, as almost to preclude that frequent intercourse of the
clergy, which is at once so conducive to their social enjoyment,
and so useful in affording them the opportunity of mutual consul-
tation, in regard to the ecclesiastical interests of their individual
parishes, or of the church in general.
   Topography.--In a county so extensive as Lanarkshire, the as-
pect is necessarily much diversified.  A large district of it towards
Dumfries-shire is bleak and mountainous.  Seen from a distance,
especially from an eminence, it presents an appearance equally
confused and uninviting.  Hills of various elevation appear so
crowded together as hardly to leave an opening for the approach
of man, and so bleak and barren as to bid defiance to all the efforts
of man to improve them.  Their inhospitable aspect is relieved by
no features of grandeur; for they have neither the loftiness, nor
the rugged sternness, which give such sublimity to the mountain
scenery in the Highlands.  As we draw nearer them, however, their
forbidding features relax, and scenes of pastoral beauty and even
richness here and there open upon us, the more charming the less
they are expected.  On the sides of the least promising hills are
numbers of well-fed sheep ; while, in the valleys below, these are
in some instances mingled with equally thriving herds of black-
cattle.  And in the highest and wildest part of the Upper Ward,
holms of considerable beauty stretch on both sides of the Clyde
and its tributaries.  Even where these are bare of wood, they pre-
sent, in the richer verdure of their pastures, or in their varied crops,
a pleasing contrast to the dark and comparatively barren appear-
ance of the adjacent hills.  But when they are adorned, as they
generally are from Lamington downwards, with old or more re-
cent plantations, they combine with the river and mountain features
of the scenery in presenting a sweetness and even richness of
landscape rarely surpassed.  As we proceed northward, the hills
themselves assume a more softened aspect, covered with grass to
their summits; while the straths which they enclose, particularly
Douglasdale, vie in beauty with the valleys on the Clyde.  These
hills are gradually softened down to those undulations, for which
Lanark and some of the lower parishes are remarkable; and which


