
306                       KINCARDINESHIRE.

for the last six months that several of the best hands employed
have scarcely earned 3s, 6d. a-week.

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

        Matket-Town.-There is no market-town in this parish. The
nearest is Montrose, distant about six miles from the village of
Marykirk, where every necessary of life can be procured at a rea-
sonable rate.
        Means of Communication.-The means of communication en-
joyed by the parish are, on the whole, good. There is a post-of-
fice in the village of Marykirk, where letters are posted for, and
received through Montrose every day. The turnpike road from
Aberdeen to Perth passes through the parish, and the Defiance
coach goes and returns from Edinburgh every lawful day. The
commutation roads in the parish lead through it in various direc-
tions, and are generally good and well kept. The bridges on all
the roads are in good repair. At Mill of Barns, a bridge is much
wanted over the Luther.
        Ecclesiastical State.-The parish church is very inconveniently
situated. Its distance from the south boundary of the parish is
only about 300 yards, and from the opposite extremity from five
to six miles. It was built in 1806, and is at present in good re-
pair. The number of sittings is 638, all unlet, and all allocated
to the heritors.
	The manse was repaired in 1838, at considerable expense to
the heritors, and is now comfortable and commodious.
	The glebe is four acres in extent, good land, and may be worth
L. 10 yearly. There is no grass glebe, nor any remuneration for
it. The stipend amounts to 150 bolls of meal and 126 bolls of
bear, which, on an average, amount to L.200. The allowance
for communion elements is L.8, 6s. 8d. The surplus teinds be-
long to King's College, Aberdeen. There is no chapel of ease
attached to the Established Church, nor any Government church
or missionary in the parish. There are two Dissenting Chapels;
one belongs to the Congregational Union, the other to the United
Associate Synod.
	The communicants belonging to the Established Church
amount to 957. The communicants belonging to other sects, who
reside in the parish, are, to the Congregational Union, 30; Unit-
ed Associate Synod, 63; Bereans, 9; Episcopalians, 12.
	Divine service at the Established Church, and at the other two
chapels, is generally well attended. The only collection for cha


