
      			    ROTHESAY. 			    117

rents. It is believed there are few places of a like population
where the poor are more carefully attended to, and their wants
better supplied. Indeed, this parish furnishes a most convincing
proof of the efficiency of the Scottish system of managing the
poor. The extension of the Church to meet the increase of the
population has here demonstrated its power over pauperism, both
in keeping many from fallin into that distressing state, and in
supplying the necessary means of support to those who are in it.
There is sufficient accommodation in the Established Church for
the whole population; and, the churches being endowed, the col-
lections all go into the poor's funds.
  Prison.-The total number of prisoners confined in the county
prison during the last year, ending 30th September 1839, was 32,
of whom there remained at the last date 4. The average number
through the year was 6. Of the whole prisoners admitted during
the year, 20 were criminals, committed chiefly for petty thefts,
and for defrauding the revenue. The prison is in excellent con-
dition and well kept. Much attention is given to the health, com-
fort, and moral improvement of the prisoners.
  Fairs.-There are three fairs held in Rothesay annually, on
the first Wednesday of May, third Wednesday of July, and
last Wednesday and following Thursday of October. They are
but ill attended, and of little importance. There is an annual
show of cattle, and another of seeds, roots, and dairy produce;
on both which occasions, prizes are awarded for the best speci-
mens. These excite much attention, and are productive of great
benefit to agriculture.
  Inns and Alehouses.-There are in the parish 51 houses licensed to
sell spirits, and 4 to sell porter and ale alone. The number of them is
unquestionably injurious to public morals, as it tends to lower the
character of the houses themselves; and lultiplies the allurements
to drinking and excess. It would be a great benefit were a much
higher rate of license fixed by the Legislature, for the express pur-
pose of reducing the number of public houses throughout the coun-
try, and consequently of elevating their character.
	Fuel.--Almost the only fuel used in the parish is coal, which
is imported, for the most part, from Glasgow; sometimes also from
Ardossan, Salcoats, and Ayr. The general price paid at the
quay of Rothesay is about 10s. 6d. per ton. Peats are also some-
times used towards the northern extremity of the parish.
	June 1840.


