
     of Peterculter.

   Extent, etc.-From the east point, this parish stretches
S. W. and W. 8 miles.  Towards the intermediate point,

<FOOTNOTE>

united several roads, which lead from different points, and here is the
chief passage across the river, next to the bridge of Dee, from which it
bears west about 6 measured miles.-Gaelic had certainly been the lan-
guage of the inhabitants at a very early period; and when they travelled
from the north into the south, or from the south into the north, they
would naturally say, they were going to cul tir, the back or extremity of
the country.-When Popery became the established religion, chapels had
been built on the opposite sides of the river, and dedicated to their re-
spective saints, Mary and Peter; and to the names of these saints, the an-
cient name of the place had been added.  To them were consecrated, not
only the chapels, but the nearest wells; the one called the Lady's, and
the other Peter's well.  A few paces from the church there is a high
and steep bank, called Peter's heugh.  I am inclined to think that the
name of the parish is Gaelic, because several places in it, and around it,
do evidently derive their names from that language.  For instance, south-
west from the church is the barony of Kenaity, or Kean-arde; so called
from the ancient seat of the barons, which was situated on the top of a
small eminence, at the extremity of higher ground.  As we go eastward
to Aberdeen, next to the estate of Culter, by the lands of Murtle, so call-
ed from mur (or muir) til, "the turn or reflux of the sea."  The tides,
when they rise highest, do not now reach within two or three miles of
these lands; but it is probable that some centuries back, they had flowed
that far.  In several places the sea has receded, and a recess of it has been
observed at Aberdeen.  Besides, the progress of the tides might be ob-
structed by the Dee shifting its bed; or by the great quantity of mud-
sand and stones, carried down with its rapid streams.-As we proceed
towards Aberdeen, the next estate is called Cults, or Cultis, from cul.
"the back," and seas or deis, "south;" it having a warm exposure to
the south, and a hill behind it, to shelter it from the north and north-east.
Its situation answers to the situation of a place called Sunnyside.  In the
north corner of the parish there is a farm called Leuchar, which signifies
a place where rushes grow.  On that farm they abound.  In the north
side of the parish there is a farm called Auchlee, in Gaelic Auch-laodh, i. e.
"Calf-field."  It had been noted for fearing calves.-Many more instan-
ces could be given.  In proceeding to the westward, I find the names of
places, except those which are modern, to be Gaelic, or translations
from it.


