
690			AYRSHIRE.

half. The area is computed to be equal to seventeen square miles,
or 8,576 Scotch acres. *
	Topographical Appearance.--The surface of the parish presents
in general a pleasingly varied, if not a strikingly diversified, appear-
ance. It may be described as consisting of two naturally well-,
defined sections, viz. a lower and altogether an arable division,
and a more elevated and extensive one, combining with a consi-
derable portion of arable land a great extent of green hill-pasture,
bog, and moorland. The lower section, lying in the position of
north-east and south-west, along the boundaries of the parishes of
Beith and Dairy, is partly flat, especially towards the south-west,
but more generally its surface is varied with gently-marked swells
and depressions. This division, which is nearly four miles in
length, and about the medium breadth of a mile and a-half, does
not, therefore, possess any striking features, unless it be the
bright expanse of Kilbirnie Loch, extending along two miles
of its eastern confines, and the winding course of the water of
Garnock, which flows through its upper part from north to south,
but which, after passing within a quarter of a mile of the south-
west extremity of the loch, forms the eastern boundary of the
lower part. West and north-west of this fertile and highly-culti-
vated division, the ground assumes a much greater variety of posi-
tion and form; in addition to which, it rises somewhat rapidly, un-
til it swells into airy upland pastures considerably beyond the reach
of cultivation. These verdant uplands are succeeded by dreary
tracts of moss and heath, and irregular ranges of dusky hills, of
an extent equal to fully one-third of the superficies of the parish,
and taken, altogether, compose a region, doomed alike by climate,
inaccessibility, and soil, to hopeless sterility. The lowest land in
the parish is about ninety-three feet above the level of the sea,
and the highest, which is the Hill of Staik, situated on its north-
west boundary, has an altitude above the same level of 1691 feet.
From the, summit of this hill, the most elevated in the district of
Cuninghame, as well as from several of the adjacent heights,
panoromic prospects of an extent, variety, and magnificence, may
be enjoyed, unsurpassed by any thing in the west of Scotland.
	Climate and Diseases.--That the climate of this district is not
insalubrious is sufficiently evidenced by the generally healthy con-
dition of the natives, and the advanced age which many of them
attain. The prevailing winds being from the west and south-west,

<FOOTNOTE>Scotch measure is invariably alluded to in this Account.


