
	               CAMPSIE.                            235

north; by Baldernock and Strathblane on the west; by Cadder
and Kirkintilloch on the south; and on the east by Kilsyth.
Campsie conists of two bills, namely, the Fells on the North and
the South Brae, and of the strath lying between them, and of
which the general direction is east and west.
  Topographical Appearances.--In the western extremity of the
parish, where it joins Strathblane, this strath does not exceed
half a mile in width, but it gradually unfolds itself in its course
eastwards, till it expands into the open country on the south
and south-east. The surface is so undulating, that, with the
exception of that across the Haugh of the Kelvin, near Kir-
kintilloch, I do not think 200 yards together of level road can be
found in the parish. The South Brae is about 700 feet, and the
Fells, are said to be, at the highest point of the range, 1500 feet
above the level of the sea. These last mentioned hills, shooting
boldly up from the valley, like a prodigious rampart, present at
all times a striking and imposing appearance, especially when clad
in snow, and during rains in summer, when their summits are
enveloped in clouds, and the white streaks of foam, marking the
track of those numerous water-courses that pour down their sides,
contrast finely with the deep rich verdure with which the Fells
are then clothed to their tops.
  Glens.--The Campsie Glens are celebrated for their beauty, and
attract great numbers of visitors during the summer months. They
are deep gorges cut down in the south face of the Fells, by the long-
continued action of water, aided, perhaps, by other causes, through
the solid rock, fragments of which, some of them of enormous di-
mensions, are strown along the bed of the torrent. The rocky
and precipitous sides of the glens, along which terraces have been
cut by the proprietors for the accommodation of visitors, are or-
namented with an abundance of wood, as well as a considerable
variety of ferns, lichens, and mosses, and with wild flowers innu-
merable. That which is most frequented, and which alone
strangers commonly visit, is the Kirkton Glen, so called from its
proximity to the situation of the Old Kirk. The Finglen, a mile
to the westward, though in some respects less striking than the
other, has a larger volume of water, and two very beautiful wa-
terfalls, and is, in the opinion of many persons, on the whole, not
inferior to its more popular neighbour. These glens, I am sorry
to add, prove the occasion of a considerable evil; for, on Sundays,
during the,whole summer, great numbers of persons resort to the
Clachan of Campsie, from all parts of the surrounding Country,


