
     of Tarbat.

   Cattle, Horses, and Sheep.-There are in the parish 1176
black cattle, including milch cows, etc. 573 horses, 2080 sheep.
Only a few of the black cattle are reared here, the greatest
part being purchased at the different fairs held in this county,
and in Sutherland, in October and November.  After some
years work, when they begin to fail in their strength, they are
sold to the drover, orbutcher, sometimes at a higher price than
that for which they were first bought.  The horses bred in the
country are mostly of a small size, but hardy and fit for the
drudgery to which they are first put.  Many of the farmers
in this and other parishes of the low country, now repair to
the markets in Moray and buy larger horses, which cost from
L. 6 to L. 13-The sheep are also of a diminutive kind, but
by being pastured on the shore-grounds become fat, and fetch
a good price.  A larger breed has been lately introduced into
the Highlands, and a few of them are brought down to this and
other parts of the low country*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*The expence of a married servant, including meal for maintenance, his
fees and other allowances, may be fairly estimated at L. 10 per annum.  The un-
married servants are commonly maintained in the farmer's house, and the sta-
ted fees and other perquisites may be rated at L. 4 yearly for a man, and half
that sum for a female servant.
In this and other parts of the country, the harvest is generally cut down
by a fixed number of reapers, in proportion to the extent of the farm.  They
are hired for the season, and paid either in corn, or money, as they chuse.
A man has 20 s. or the value of it, 15 s. is the common allowance given to a
woman reaper.  They are either maintained in the family by their employ-
ers, or have some additional allowances for their maintenance.  It has now be-
come more frequently the practice to call a number of reapers as the corn ri-
pens, to dispatch the work and prevent loss by the weather.  They are paid
at the rate of 6 d. or 8 d. per day.
The ordinary hire of a labourer for farmer work is 8 d. per day, and for garden
work, cutting peats and mowing grass, 1 s.-Ditches, dykes and trenching
are paid by measurement, and cost as follows; ditches 2 d. single stones dykes
2 d. doubled do.  3 1/4 d. mud fences 3 1/4 d. the yard; trenching L. 4 sterling the
acre.


