
     of Muthil.

resided for a century bygone, and in which it now resides, is on the
same rock with the Castle, a little to the eastward.  It is
plain building, that had originally been intended as only a tem-
porary lodging, but is now enlarged, and made very conveni-
ent; and although an old house modernized, (like many other
seats in the parish), yet its pleasant situation, and its beautiful
and unbounded prospect to the eastward, attract the notice
and the admiration of every stranger.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-There are in the parish 5 or
6 stills, of 40 gallons each, for making whisky.  There are 8
meal mills of old standing, and 4 flax mills, three of which have
been erected but lately.  Besides these, since 1770, there have
been built in the parish, 5 mills for threshing corn, 2 of which
are driven by water.  There is also an oil mill, and a cotton
work upon a small scale.-There is 1 coach; 6 four wheeled
chaises, and 1 single horse chaise, in the parish.-Since the pe-
riod above mentioned, the prices of labour and provisions, have
increased more in proportion, than they have done in most other
places; owing partly to the number of gentlemen, that now
reside in the country, and partly to the thriving state of the
tenantry.  At that time, the highest wages the farmers gave
to an able bodied man servant, did not exceed 4 L. or at most
5 L. Sterling; and female servants had from 25 s. to 35 s. per
annum:  whereas now, the men's wages are from 7 L. to 10 L.,
and the women's wages from 2 L. 10 s. to 3 L. 10.  A day la-
bourer can now earn 1 s. per day in the summer, and in autumn
us much, besides his victuals, whose wages formerly never ex-
ceeded the half of that sum.  Butcher meat, which could then
be bought for 2 d., is now 4 d. per pound.  Hens, chickens, and
eggs are more than double the price they were formerly; and
ten times the quantity of all those articles is now used.-The
strongest winds blow from the S. W., and the coldest from the

     VOL. VIII. 3 R


