
116                           WIGTONSHIRE.

the lands already in tillage.  There is no land in a state of undi-
vided common.
     Plantations.--There are two old and neglected plantations in
the western part of the parish.  On the east side nf it, Mr Car-
rick Moore has, within the last fifteen years, planted nearly 70
acres.  The sycamore and ash are the most hardy trees in re-
sisting strong winds.  The pinaster is by far the most hardy of
the fir tribe.  It was first planted in this county about seventy
years ago by the Earl of Galloway, who recommended it as re-
sisting the sea breeze better than any other tree; and experience
has justified his recommendation.  The prevailing error in this
country respecting the management of trees is the idea that the
exposure renders it necessary to keep them very close.  This
plan is equally fatal to their beauty and health.  From the exclu-
sion of light and air, no lateral branches can grow, and the plan-
tation assumes the appearance of a clump of leafless poles.
Whereas, if the plantations were regularly thinned in time, each
tree would expand its branches laterally, and the excess of upward
growth would be discouraged.  There are young plantations,
which show with what facility trees will grow here, when sheltered
from the immediate blast.
     Rent of Land.--The average rent of arable land per acre is
about 17s. 4d.  There are no grazing farms, nor sheep farms.
     Wages.--The general rates of labour are as follows:  A plough-
man receives in money L. 8, 65 stones of meal, 5 bolls of potatoes,
and a house and yard: a day-labourer 1s. 2d. in summer, and 1s.
in winter: a mason 2s. 6d. in summer, and 2s. in winter: a joiner
2s. per day.
     Live-Stock.--The native cattle are the well known Galloways,
an excellent breed, almost entirely black, and without horns.
They are usually reared to two or three years old, and then sold
to be fed for the London market.  The purest and best Gallo-
ways in the Rhins district are bred in this parish.
     The introduction of the Ayrshire dairy system into this parish
above thirty years ago, by Mr James Ralston of Fineview, and the
details of the management of his dairy, consisting of sixty Kyle
cows, may be found in the Rev. Mr Smith's General View of the
Agriculture of Galloway, and in other similar publications.  That
dairy has long ceased, and no dairy so large exists here now; but
the low price of Galloway stock has led to the adoption of the
dairy system in many farms.  There are at present thirteen dairies


