
                                 GOVAN.                      715

of the salary of the missionary at Srathbungo.  In the course of
the last year, L. 44, 11s. 6d. were collected at the door of the pa-
rish church for the four schemes of the General Assembly.  And
for the use of the poor, the sum collected, including extraordinary
collections for their benefit, wa L.64, 15s. 9 1/2d.  Before the pa-
rish was assesed for the maintenance of the poor, the weekly col-
lections of the church door were nearly double what they have been
since, though the congregation is larger now than it was at that
time.  The heritors have never interfered with the disposal of the
weejly collections of the new churches.  Any attempt, indeed, to
lay hold of these would, it is believed, proved futile.  It if were
once made known to those who resort to the new churches, that
their collections were to be applied to a different purpose from
what they intended, what they are now accustomed to give when
entering their churches, would immediately be withheld.  It is
conceived, besides, that it wpuld be rather a hard case to take pos-
session of the collections of a place of worship, which has been
built by private individuals, simply because that place of worship
is within the pale of the Establishments, and to hold those sacred,
should the building be owned by Dissenters.  This would be vir-
tually holding out a premium to schism.
   Education.-Many children belonging to this parish receive their
education from its very commencement in the schools of Glasgow.
The schools in the parish in which the ordinary branches of edu-
cation are taught amount to about 40, of which three are in the
village of govan, three in Patrick, one at Strathbungo, and one
at the Three-Mile House.  The others ae situated in the Barony
of Gorbals.  These do not include schools for sewing, &c, super-
intended by female teachers.  In addition to his school-fees and an
excellent school-house and dwelling-house, his emoluments average
upwards of L.80 annually.  These consist of the maximum salary al-
lowed by the Parochial Schoolmaster's Act; L.1, 13s. 4d. received
from the College of Glasgow; L.5 from the Trustees of the late
Mrs. Thom, as librarian of Thom's Library; the interest of 1000
merk Scots, bequeathed to the kirk-session by George Hutcheson
of Lambhill, one of the founders of Hutchesou's Hospital; and the
rent of ten acres of land, in which the Trustees of Abraham Hill,
a native of Govan, invested in mortmain, a sum of money given
by him in his lifetime for the purpose of educating ten poor child-
ren.  The following schools are in the Barony of Gorbals:-


