
                       CRANSTON.                        195

Cakemuir. A mildew infects the banks of the Tyne, and some-
times does considerable damage to wheat and oats. There are
about 250 acres under wood. The trees generally planted are
larch, beech, fir, and elm, which are managed with great care.
   The average rent of arable land is from L. 2, 10s. to L. 3 per
acre. A cow's grass costs L. 6.
   Wages.--Masons and wrights have about 15s. a week in sum-
mer, and 12s. in winter. Hinds and labourers have about 10s. in
summer, and 9s. in winter.
   Leases.--The general duration of leases is nineteen years.
The farm buildings and enclosures are in very good condition.
The mode of farming in general has been very much improved of
late. The average gross amount of raw produce raised in the
parish may be stated, as nearly as can be ascertained, as follows:

<TABLE>
     3000 imperial bolls of potatoes at 7s. per boll.
      150 acres of turnips, say at L. 5 per acre, consumed on the ground.
   23,000 stones of hay.
      600 acres of arable land in pasture, at L.6, per cow, and 11s. per sheep.
     1800 bolls of wheat, old measure.
     2400 imperial quarters of oats.
      700 imperial quarters of barley.
      350 imperial quarters of pease and beans.
    The produce of gardens and orchards may be about L. 800.
    The annual thinning of wood is about L. 2 per acre.

                 V.--PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Town, &c.--The nearest market-town is Dalkeith, which
is distant about three miles and three-quarters. The villages in
the parish are Cousland, Chesterhill, and Preston. The means of
communication by turnpike roads are very good. There are two
excellent turnpike roads which run through the parish, the one
about a mile and a-half, the other a mile and three-quarters. Four
public carriages travel daily on the high road, besides waggons.
The fences are in a very good state of repair.
   Within the last three years, two new bridges have been erected
in this parish, by the trustees of the Dalkeith district of roads, for
the purpose of shortening and improving the line of the London
road by Cranston church, and the village of Pathhead. Cranston
Dean Bridge is 46 feet in, height, and consists of three semicircu-
lar arches of 17 feet span; the whole building is of ashler, and
the piers being only 3 feet in thickness, the bridge has a very light
appearance.
   Lothian Bridge, erected over the Tyne on the south boundary
of the parish, is 82 feet in height, and consists of five semicircular
arches of 50 feet span, surmounted by, ten segment arches of 54


