
218                      EDINBURGHSHIRE.

Newbridge.  Their shape was as nearly that of a modern wooden
coffin as the inflexible nature of the materials would admit. Both
ends of the coffin were of single stones, and the sides were some-
times also of single stones, in which case, the one end of the coffin
was broader than the other; but more frequently the sides were
formed of four separate stones, and then the coffin bulged out in the
middle. The bodies seem generally to have been laid on the bare
gravel or on a thin plate of clay-slate, and the tops or covers were
all of this substance, except one or two, where both the bottom
and cover were formed of flag-stones.
   From the nature of the soil, which is a loose gravel, and from
the slightness of the covers, few of the coffins were in a perfect
state when laid open. The gravel had found its way through the
crevices, or the lid had been broken by the plough from its proxi-
mity to the surface, and the bones were mixed with gravel. In
some, however, the entire skeletons reinaiDed in a state of good
preservation. The length of the coffins was from 5 to 6 feet, and
the breadth from 1 foot to 9 inches.
   A little to the east of the first excavation, in digging pits to
plant evergreens, several additional coffins of the same construction
were exposed, the distance between each being about 6 feet.  Ano-
ther space of about 120 feet by 60, was excavated in the park,
about fifty yards to the north of the first excavation, and in it many
similar remains were discovered. Some of the workmen said that
here fourteen coffins were laid open in one day, and reckoned the
whole number taken out of this space at about four dozen, but
others stated it at about two dozen.  All agreed that, besides the
coffins in this space, there was found a great number of bones
huddled together, as if buried in a pit without any coffin. One
coffin was said to have contained two skeletons, or at least more
than two thigh bones, and was of a much larger construction than
the rest; while another was only 2 1/2 feet in length.  In some
places the coffins were close together; indeed, a workman described
three as so close, that the side stones of the middle one formed
part of the two others.  From this it would appear that three
bodies, at least were buried at the same time.
   Towards the end of October 1835 another excavation was made
at Hanley, behind the garden, about 100 yards to the west of the
first excavation.  The space here laid open was 50 feet in length
and in it six coffins were found four lying together at one corner.
   The whole space over which these coffins are found may extend


