
                      KINCARDINE.                         421

certain diseases, and were used to carry it home, and preserve
it in their houses. But there are no yairs allowed in the Frith
now. As a proof of the antiquity of salmon-fishing in this pa-
rish, the following is deserving of record : There is a Charter
granted by "William, Earl of Ross, Lord of Skie, to his well-be-
loved brother, Hugh Ross of Rarichies,"  (who was afterwards
styled of Balnagown, being the first laird thereof of that name,)
"of the lands of Kilmachalmack in Strathockell), and Carbisdile in
Strathcarron, reserving the salmon-fisbing of the Kyl of Ockell
to the said Erle and his aires," dated before witnesses "Att Ding-
wel, 4 of Febrie 1370."-(Ancient Charter), and Sir Donald Ilis
of Lochalsh, "disponed on 3 Novemr 1515, to Hector Munro,
of Foulis, the salmon-fishing of,the Kyle of Ockell."
   Sheep-farming.-Sheep-farming was introduced into this parish,
and the neigbbouring one of Creich, by Sir John Lockhart Ross
of Balnagown, in order to employ his Highland tenants; and he
had the erection of a village in contemplation., But being called
to stand forth as a defender of his country's rights, and his sheep
falling under bad management, he sold off his stock; and at his
return home, finding himself in the decline of life, he dropped his
favourite idea. Since that period, however, sheep have been intro-
duced in large numbers, and there are at present nearly 30,000
fleeces of wool shorn annually; but the system of turning whole
straths, where formerly peaceful cottages were to be seen, into
sheep-walks, is becoming too prevalent; and is productive of
the worst consequences, for every succeeding summer sends the
finest of our peasantry to a foreign shore, there to seek those
means of subsistence which are denied them in their fatherland.
These evil consequences have not as yet, we are happy to say,
been much felt in this parish.
   Advantages.-There are few places. better adapted for a manu-
facturing village than Kincardine. Situated in the near neighbour-
bood of two great corn counties, it has the advantage of water-
carriage, and a choice of safe harbours for vessels of fifty tons bur-
then. It lies open to several very populous districts, and were,
manufactures, once established it would be resorted to by many.
The Highland boys and girls are in the summer and harvest sea-
sons, employed in herding cattle ; and as the range, of pasture is
generally extensive, while tending their cattle, they might earn as
much by knitting stockings as their parents, and full-grown sisters
at home, by the constant turning of the lint-wheel.


