
  1068                      PERTHSHIRE.

	died March 16, 1766.  He married second in 1776, Louisa, dauhgter
	of Charles ninth Lord Cathcart, and sister to William, the present
	venerable Earl of Cathcart.  She still survives, Countess of Mans-
	field in her own right, as already mentioned.
	   Among the individuals deserving remembrance connected with
	the parish, may be mentioned the Rev. John Honey of Blairhall,
	and at his death minister of Bendocby, in the presbytery of Meigle.
	He is well remembered by many of the parishioners of Scone, not
	merely for his piety and professional attainments, but also for
	his active exertions in the cause of humanity.  His name in St
	Andrews continues to be associated with the danfers and the
	preservations experienced on that coast, in several instances of which
	his intrepid humanity was displayed.  He married, on September
 	20, 1809, a daughter of the Rev. D. Adamson, one of the minis-
	ters of St Andrews, and Professor of Civil History in the Univer-
	sity.  He was ordained minister of Bendochy in 1812, but was cut
	off by fever in the prime of life on the 14th October 1814, being
	then only in his thirty-sixth year.
	   The celebrated bonanist and traveller, Mr David Douglas, was
	a native of Scone.  He was born in this parish in 1798.  His fa-
	ther, John Douglas, was a working mason.  David was chiefly edu-
	cated at the parochial school of Kinnoul, and at an early period
	became apprenticed as gardener in the garden of the Earl of Mans-
	field, where his activity and obliging disposition were soon per-
	ceived.  He was afterwards employed in the garden of Sir Robert
	Preston of Valleyfield, whence, in about eighteen months, be re-
	moved to the botanic garden of Glasgow.  Having here attracted
	the notice of Dr (now Sir W. J.) Hooker, Professor of Botany,
	and accompanied him in his excursions through the Western
	Highlands, assisting in collecting materials for the Flora Scotica,
	Douglas was recommended, through Dr Hooker, to Joseph Sa-
	bine, Esq. the late Secretary of the Horticultural Socidty, as a
	botanical collector.  In consequence of this, he was despatched
	to the United States in 1823, where he procured many fine plants,
 	and greatly increased the Society's collection of fruit-trees.  He
	returned in the autumn of that year, and again, in July 1824, he
	sailed for the purpose of exploring the botanical rihes of the
	country adjoining the Columbia River, and southwards towards
	California.  He collected many rare orchideous plants, when the
	vessel touched at Rio de Janeiro; shot many curious birds in his
	voyage round Cape Horn; visited and sowed a collection of gar-
                                      3

