
104                         AYRSHIRE.

to be feared that the effect of doing so would be to diminish pro-
portionably the church collections. The assessment is not pro-
ductive, nor is it very willingly paid. It would be extremely de-
sirable if it were possible to dispense with it altogether. But to
this it is objected, that Dissenters, who do nothing voluntarily for
the support of the poor, would then be entirely relieved. Even
this grievance, however, might be submitted to, if the amount
raised by voluntary contributions were adequate to meet the ne-
cessary expenditure. It is to be regretted, that there seems to be
little indisposition among the poor to seek parochial relief. Some
there are, indeed, who willingly submit to privations rather than ap-
ply for it; but much greater is the number of those who feel no
reluctance in making such applications.
	Inns, Alehouses, &c.--There are 30 public-houses or places
where spirituous liquors are sold, which is in the proportion of one
to every twenty-nine families--a number unnecessarily large.
	Fuel.--Almost the only fuel made use of is coal, which is pro-
cured in abundance from the mines in the parish of St Quivox,
which are little more than a mile distant from the town. A cart-
load of 14 cwt. costs 6s. 9d. But many prefer the coal brought
from pits at several miles distance, which is higher in price but su-
perior in quality.
                    MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
	Some of the variations betwixt tbe present state of the parish
and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical Account
have been referred to under former heads. The population has
in the interval increased from 1689 to upwards of 4000. The
style of building is much superior, and a new and excellent road
has been opened, affording a fine approach to the town. Still
more marked have been the improvements in the rural economy of
the parish. Formerly a considerable tract of ground belonging to
the freemen remained in common; their fields were generally open,
and were kept constantly in tillage. Now the system of rotation
of crops is duly attended to; the cultivated fields are well enclos-
ed; the soil has been improved in a high degree; and no land re-
mains undivided. At the period to which we refer the whole pro-
perty was not worth more than L. 4000. At the present time--
although the coal is exhausted, from which so much revenue was
derived--its value cannot be less than L. 14,000 or L. 15,000.
"Each freedom." says the last Statistical Account, "is valued at
L.25, though, none have given so much for it." Freedoms may


