
                          HAWICK.                                389

any attempt, from whatever quarter, to interfere with their ancient
or established privileges is sure to be strongly and almost univer-
sally resisted.  There are, moreover, few places where less atten-
tion is paid to the ordinary distinctions of rank, or where all classes
are more disposed to associate together on the footing of equality.
And with respect to the ordinary business of life, they exhibit a
spirit of activity, and enterprise, and intelligence, which, setting
every difficulty at defiance, is productive of the most important
results.  In short, there are elements of character amongst them,
which, if subject to the influence of religious principle and properly
directed, might raise them to a very high point in the scale of
moral and intellectual improvement, but which otherwise are not
unlikely to carry them, as they have sometimes done in seasons of
political excitement, into excesses, Which no right-minded man
can contemplate with any other than a feeling of unqualified con-
demnation.
   Eminent Men.-Gavin Douglas, no less celebrated for his poe-
tical genius than for the nobleness of his birth, was admitted rec-
tor of Hawick in 1496.  Of the works which entitle him to a high
place in the ranks of our Scottish poets the most valuable now ex-
tant are the Palice of Honour, King Hart, and a translation of
the (AE)neid of Virgil ; and these, it is believed, were produced dur-
ing his incumbency in this parish.  From his superior talents as;
well as the great influence of the family with which he was con-
nected, being son of Archibald, the celebrated Earl of Angus, he
was eventually promoted to some of the most important situations
in the church, being appointed, at different periods, Provost of the
Collegiate Church of St Giler in Edinburgh, Abbot of Aberbro-
thock, and Bishop of Dunkeld.  He was likewise nominated Arch-
bishop of St Andrews, but was prevented, by the violent ambition
of other ecclesiastics, from entering on the duties of this high office.
From the various persecutions to which he was subjected in those
unsettled times he was under the necessity of seeking an asylum
in London,  where he died of the plague in 1522, about the forty-
eighth year of his age, and was buried in the Savoy Church.
   For profound learning, independence of character, and extensive
charity, the Rev. Alexander Orrock deserves also to be held in
grateful remembrance.  Whilst holding the rank of a probationer,
he signalised himself by his stedfast adherence to Presbyterian
principles, in consequence of which he  was at one time subjected
to imprisonment, and at another interdicted from the discharge of

