
     Statistical Account

   The ministers successively since the Reformation were first, Thomas
Strachan, a son of the Laird of Thorntoun's in the Mearns, chief of that 
name, who before had been a monk in the Abbacy of Scone, and after 
became minister of the saids paroches, and preached per vices in the saids 
churches, and died minister there. 
   To him succeeded Mr John Strachan his son, who was famous for his
skill in physick, and who died minister there. 
   After him succeeded Mr Thomas Strachan his son, who after his return
from his travels, when he had waited upon the Earl of Kinnowel, his 
son as his governor for the space of three yeares, became conjunct with 
his father, and died minister there, in the year 1671. 
   After him succeeded Mr Patrick Strachan prosessor of Philosophy, first
in the old town College of Aberdeen, and afterwards in the old College 
of St Andrew's, a man very famous for his learning; he died there mini- 
ster also.  Afterwards succeeded Mr James Inglis, who after he had 
served sometime there, was deposed by the bishop of Dunkelden for erro- 
neous doctrine, and immoralities in his life.  To him succeeded Mr 
Thomas Strachan, son to the above-named Mr Thomas Strachan, who had 
been minister there, where he continued till the Revolution, and was 
deprived by the Scots council, in the year 1688, when the Episcopal 
church was overturned and destroyed.  After this, the foresaid Mr James 
Inglis, notwithstanding of his deposition, without any call, turned Presbyte- 
rians themselves.  And then to him succeeded Mr George Jamison, who 
was deposed for adultery, by the Syned of Stirling, in the year 1710. 
   There are no mortifications in the saids paroches, and the schoolmaster
has only one hundred merks by a voluntary condescention of the heretors 
settled on him. 
   The most considerable heretors are, the Viscount of Stormonth, Sir
Lawrence Mercer of Ady, Mr John Balnaves of Friartown, Mr James 
Murray of Inchmurray, John Mitchel of Byres, who have all good 
mannor houses, especially Ady, Inchmurray, and Byres, who have 
likeways their burial places in the said two churches. 
   The house of Inchmurry, formerly called Kirkland, was built of old by
the Abbot of Halyroodhouse for his accommodation when he came to that 
countrie, and was formerly the minister's manss, till afterwards, that
house and a gleeb be had adjacent thereto, were exchanged for a gleeb and 
a piece of ground to build a manns upon, by an excambion made betwixt 
James Hay of Kirkland, and Mr John Strachan, formerly mentioned, mi- 
nister there.


