

                            ABERFOYLE.                          1153

     it makes little appearance, except after aheavy fall of rain. When
     a flood occurs, however, which is frequently the case during autumn
     and winter, there is a splendid fall of at least ninety feet.  The
     sides of this cascade are also covered with natural wood, oak,
     birch, and hazel.
       Geology and Mineraloqy.--The valley of Aberfoyle is inclosed
     on the south, south-east, and east, by that celebrated range of
     mountains called the Grampians, which traverse the whole breadth
     of Scotland from south-west to north-east.
       In the line of these mountains, and uniformly on the west side,
     limestone of a superior quality is found.  It is traced from
     Leny, in Callander parish, through Aberfoyle to Auchmar,
     and some of the islands on Lochlomond in Buchanan parish, a
     course of near thirty miles; and it is probable that the same
     rock formation ma be traced much farther in the same direc-
     tion.  The limestone in Aberfoyle is blue, with veins of white, is
     hard, and admits of a fine polisb.  It is wrought near the
     eastern extremity of the parish, and is considered equal to the
     best Irish limestone for the purposes of building and plastering.
     As a manure, the use of it is principally confined to the tenants
     of the proprietor, the Duke of Montrose.
       To the west of this range, there is an extensive mountain, con-
     sisting almost entirely of slate.  It lies in regular strata, is of ex-
     cellent quality, and regularly wrought, giving employment to about
     twenty men.  The want of water carriage, however, and the dis-
     tance of a market, are serious drawbacks.  Conglomerate, and
     trap, or whinstone, are the prevailing rocks in this neighbourhood.
       Zoology.--It cannot be said that any of the rare species of ani-
     mals now exist in this parish.   Several names of places indicate,
     that at one period, the wolf and wild boar were not unfrequent in
     the district; but the native quadrupeds are now of a less ferocious
     and destructive kind, viz. roe-deer, hares, foxes, badgers, martins,
     polecats, wildcats, otterss, weasels, hedgehogs,&c.  It is stated in the
     former report of the parish, that the black eagle built in some of the
     more inaccessible rocks.  It is now, however unknown, in this quar-
     ter.  The osprey or water, eagle has also departed.  Kites, hawks,
     and ravens, are at all times seen hovering around the cliffs.   The
     falcon, too, is occasionally seen and during winter, some of the
     rarer species of Colymbi or divers; and flocks of swans, have been
     observed.  The ptarmigan (Tetrao lagopus, Limm,) is now rarely
     to be found, even on our highest mountains; but the moors Still
       PERTH.                         4D


