
146                BERWICKSHIRE.

   There is a small auxiliary to the county Bible Society in this
parish, consisting of individuals belonging to the Established church
and Dissenters. The average of their yearly contributions is about
L.6 or L.7.
   Education.-There is one parish school,-the teacher of which
has the maximum allowance, and an excellent dwelling-house and
garden. There are likewise five private schools, depending on
school fees, and one supported by an allowance from the lady of the
chief landed proprietor. The branches generally taught are Eng-
lish, reading, writing, and arithmetic. But some in the parish school
are taught the higher branches, as Latin, French, geography, &c.
Every branch in the parish school is well taught, as indicated by
the recent enlargement of the school-room, and a great accession
to the number of scholars, rendering it needful to have an assistant.
There are a few boarders residing in the schoolmaster's house, and a
likelihood of more, when the superior qualifications of the teacher,
the fitness of the house, and the healthiness of the situation are bet-
ter known. The school fees are much on a par with those of other
parishes, varying according to the nature of the branches taught.
On an average of the last three years they amount to L. 84 a-year.
The teacher has also L. 30 a-year as clerk to the heritors and session.
In the private schools, the fees are generally somewhat lower than
in the parochial. There are very few in the parish, either old or
young, who cannot read and write; and as the children are kept
pretty regularly at school, and the fees, with few exceptions, readily
paid, it may be inferred that the people in general are alive to the
benefits of education.
   Literature.-There are two small subscription libraries in Ay-
ton, which commenced within these ten or twelve years. One
consists of 500 volumes, which, although suited to general read-
ers, is not very extensively resorted to, but would be more so, if
it had not excluded religious books. The other consists of more
than 300 volumes, and is calculated to supply the defect of the
former, being better adapted to the entertainment and instruction
of the labouring classes and rising generation. It was founded
somewhat later than the former, by a benevolent gentleman in the
neighbourhood, and assisted by the donations of others: it is
thus more accessible to the poor, and although intended as an iti-
nerating library with others founded in neighbouring parishes by
the same gentleman, no interchange of books has as yet taken place
amongst them.
   Friendly Society, &c.-There is a friendly society in Ayton,


