
608                           PERTHSHIRE.

named was Madoch or Modoch, who is said * to have been a
Bishop in Scotland in the third or fourth century. The tradition
existing in this neighbourbood is, that on coming from France to
Scotland, he landed on the banks of the Tay, and that having
made converts to Christianity, a church was by them built and de-
dicated to him, where the present church of St Madoes stands, from
which, at a subsequent period, the neighbouring district, when
erected into a parish, received its name. Whether there be any-
thing of truth in this tradition, we have no means ofjudging beyond
its common reception; but that Madoch, of whom Eccelesiasti-
cal History makes mention as a Gallic Missionary to Scotland in
the early times of Christianity, was the person from whom this parish
originally derived its name, is much confirmed by the fact, that
there is another parish, also within the bounds of the county of
Perth, which, from being the place of his usual residence, or from
his being buried there, acknowledges him as the origin of its name:
I mean Kilmadock, in the presbytery of Dunblane. The likeli-
hood therefore is, that the name of this parish originally was St
Madoch or Madox, which would easily be corrupted into Madois,
and that as easily into Madoes.
   Extent and Boundaries, &c.-The parish of St Madoes is situ-
ated in that division of the county of Perth called the Carse of
Gowrie. In point of extent, it is among the smallest in Scotland,
containing only 1152 imperial acres.  From the irregularity of
its form, it is diffictilt to convey any idea of it in writing. Bound-
ed on the soutb, by the river Tay; on the east, by the parish of
Errol; on the north, by Kinfauns; and on the west, by Kinnoul,
it lies about six miles from the city of Perth, and sixteen from Dun-
dee, and therefore forms the western portion of that district so famed
for its fertility-the Carse of Gowrie.  Strictly speaking indeed, the
Carse of Gowrie may be regarded as commencing about four miles
westward of this parish, or with the level land which skirts the Tay at
the bottom of Kinnoul Hill; but it is when approaching St Madoes
that the Carse Erst begins to be fully disclosed to the view of the tra-
veller from the west, and that suddenly he finds himself, from the
narrow, though fruitful and picturesque limits by which he has
been confined since he entered on carse-land, two miles eastward
from the city of Perth,-ushered into the breadth and the beauty,
the riches and the luxuriance, of that expanded and variegated ter-

<FOOTNOTE>Keith's History of Scottish Bishops.


