
     of Criech.

grounds, now occupied by people, tour be reserved for the
food and shelter of the stock in winter; and this circumstance
seems to form the chief incompatibility, between sheep and
people.  This argument will have the greater weight, with
those, whose observation or inquiries may have led them, to
compare the mountainous parts of Spain, appropriated to
sheep, walks, with the mountains of Switzerland and Wales,
occupied by free and industrious inhabitants.  The compa-
rison is not to be made by units or decimals; for the advan-
tage of men instead of sheep, are as thousands to one.  As the
understanding, industry and ingenuity of man, in a state of
freedom, are superior to those of the brute creation, so is the va-
lue of an crate inhabited by mankind, to one occupied by sheep.
   It is true, the people need not be driven out of the
country, because sheep are introduced into it.  Villages
may be built for them, where they might be employed
in manufactures.  Let me ask, has that been the care?  and
let me doubt a little of the suceess of village by compul-
sion.  It is one thing to build a village, to which people may
resort if they choose it, and another to drive them from the
country into villages, where they must starve, unless they
change at once their manners, their habits, and their occupations.
How much better would it be, gradually to introduce spin-
ning wheels and looms into their houses, than to drive them
from their houses, their gardens, and their little fields?  Besides,
are men as advantageously placed in villages, for cultivating
the soil, as when dispersed over every coiner of the estate?
Towns are said to thrive in proportion to the populous-
ness of the country around them.  It is by a mutual exchange
of commodities, that both towns, and the country around, mu-
tually support one another.  To conclude, it is neither by
feeding black cattle nor sheep, in the Highlands, that that
country can be improved, but by the introduction of arts and


