
     Statistical Account

farm in the parish of Kinellar, in that line, called Glas-
gow forest, and the forester is said to have had his dwelling 
at a place called Tilliriach, in the parish of Dyce.  This
place had very early been made a Royal borough.  Its be-
ing Royal lands, accounts for this.  It is said to have been
made by one of the Kenneths, and prior to that of A-
berdeen:  If it was so, and Aberdeen, (as is said), was
made a borough by Gregory, Kintore must have had its
privileges from Kenneth Maccalpin.  There are several
traditions among the people as to its antiquity; for exam-
ple, that several priveleges, which it once had, were trans-
ferred to Aberdeen ; and there is a causeway at the east 
end of the freedom of Kintore, near Kinellar, on the
way to Aberdeen, still called the Wine Causeway; to
which it is said, in old times people came from the harbour
to pay custom*.  Till lately, there were few houses better
than country houses, none but the manse and a house built
for Lord Kintore's factor, the church, and a very neat town-
house and prison, built about 50 years ago.  Two good
houses, one of them elegant, were built last year.  The pri-
son is seldom used, owing to the good morals and peace-

<FOOTNOTE>

*It is not to be expected, that charters nearly of that age should be 
found; and it is said, that the charters and papers relating to this bugh,
which reached the last century, were destroyed by a Provost Fraser, only
one having escaped his hands, which is a charter of confirmation of this
burgh, by James the V. still extant.  The town-council who elects the
delegate for choosing thier representative in parliament, consists of 13
members, among whom is a provost, 2 bailes,  a dean of guild, and a trea-
surer.  The Earls of Kintore, and the late Earl Marischall, white he held
the estate of Kintore, have been provosts for about a century past.  The set of
the burgh, does not oblige them to change a councillor nor an office-bearer.
The bounds of the freedom of the burgh, are pretty large, particularly to the
east, the freedom extends to near the church of Kinellal, above a Eng-
lish miles.  The revenue is said to have been once considerable, but is
how much diminished.


