
	30			CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

	proprietors do not attempt it, and the people are deterred by the
	immediate imposition of rent.  Some of the tenants are beginning
	to see the advantage of sowing turnips and grass; but the want of
	all enclosures, and the common practice of turning at large horses
	and cattle, whenever the harvest is gathered. to find provender
	wherever they can, have hitherto prevented improvement, and till
	the proprietors enforce a different system, will continue to keep
	this parish behind the rest of Scotland in agriculture.
	   The tenants have the houses on their possessions valued at their
	entry; are obliged to keep them in repair; and at their removal
	they used to get allowance for any improvement in their value
	during the time of their occupancy, and to pay for any depreciation
	in value; but of late this allowance or comprisement, as it is here
	called, has been in many instances refused by the proprietors or
	their agents.  No wonder, then, considering all these unfavour-
	able circumstances, that husbandry is in no very flourishing con-
	dition, and that the Awelling-houses of the tenantry are far from
	commodious or comfortable.
	   Fisheries.-There are several boats employed yearly in fishing
	lobsters for the London market.  The crew of each boat consists
	of two men, andr the price received for each lobster is commonly
	threepence.  The whole sum brought into the parish from this
	source may be estimated at about L. 50 Sterling.  There are also
	about thirty large boats of ten tons each, used only for fishing
	herrings.  The crew of each consists of five men.  They leave this
	for Wick and the neighbouring stations in the middle of July, and
	commonly continue absent from seven to eight weeks.  The her-
 	rings caught by them are sold fresh to the different curers.  The
	value of one of these boats, with a full drift of nets, falls little short
	of L. 100, and the annual average returns to each crew may be
	stated at from L.50 to L.60 Sterling.
	   Produce.--The average gross amount and value of raw produce
	raised in the parish for the food of man and the domestic animals,
	as nearly as can be ascertained, may be stated as follows:-

	<TABLE>
		Grain of all kinds, say      	-	-       L.6000
                  Potatoes, turnips, hay, and pasture, say -      1600
		Fisheries, say	-	-	-	-         1650
								-------
		      Total yearly value of raw produce raised, L.9250
	   Manufactures.-- The shores of Canisbay used to yieId annually,
	above 100 tons of kelp; but now,- from its depreciation in value,
	scarcely any is made.
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
	   Market-towns,&c.--There is no market-town in the parish. Wick


