
                          JEDBURGH.                              21

the books averages at 215 annually.  Several members of a family,
however, receive medicine and attendance on the same letter of re-
commendation.
  There are two widows' schemes, and three friendly societies.
The general impression respecting them seems to be, that they are
productive of little advantage.
  Savings Bank.--The savings bank for the district of Jedburgh,
consisting of the above-mentioned parishes, was established in 1815,
chiefly by the exertions of Mr Rutherfurd of Edgerston.  An auxi-
liary fund for defraying the expense of management was raised by
subscription.  In the first year, the number of depositors was 123,
and the sum deposited, L. 1440, and up to July 1832, the number
of depositors has increased to 400, and the sum deposited to
L. 6290, three-fourths of the depositors being females.  The in-
stitution has proved of signal advantage to the working classes, and
is in a most flourishing condition.
    Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid in the country part of the parish is 82.  From
Whitsunday 1831, to the same period 1832, the number is stated at
92, and the sum required for their maintenance is L. 466 per an-
num, allowing to each individual L. 5, 1s. 3d.  The poor of the
borough are maintained distinct from those in the country.  The
average number is 80, and the sum allotted to their maintenance,
is L. 350, 15s. 8d. allowing to each L. 4, 7s. 8d.  In the year
1741, the annual sum was L. 148, 14s. 10d. and in 1801, L. 130.
The former was a period of great scarcity.  Of the 82 paupers at
present on the roll in Jedburgh, 27 are above seventy years of age.
   The annual amount of collections at the church is about L. 40.
The town of Jedburgh holds upon bond to the session, a sum aris-
ing from the accumulation of various legacies, and chiefly of the
Lady Yester, who was a daughter of Ker of Fernihirst, which pro-
duces interest to the amount of L 23 per annum.  Some of this,
according to the will of the donors, is appropriated to the educa-
tion of poor children, some to the relief of the poor in the town,
and some to the poor of the parish generally.  But the poor are
chiefly maintained by assessments, whiten were first levied in 1741,
when voluntary contributions were found inadequate to their sup-
port.  The heritors meet at the terms of Candlemas, Whitsunday,
Lammas, and Martinmas, and having ascertained the number of
the poor, assess themselves for their maintenance during the en-
suing quarter, in a sum proportioned to the valued rent of each.
The persons whose names are on the roll are obliged to subscribe
a bond, making over all their effects to the heritors, in order to


