
                            YARROW.                               51

Some waste land has lately been reclaimed, but little more could be
done in this way with any profitable application of capital, owing to
the dampness of the climate, and distance from lime.  Indeed, in the
higher district, much at present tinder crop might be better laid out
in permanent pasture, were it not that the farmer must keep a pair
of horses to drive his fuel and ha.  The turnip husbandry is pur-
sued; the rotation being the four or five shift.  Though in late sea-
sons there is a greater luxuriance of straw than grain, the crops in
general are sufficiently ripened; and winter wheat, which is occa-
sionally sown, seldom fails to be productive, and of excellent quality.
The turnips are often nearly destroyed by the disease called finger-
and-toe, aoainst which bone dust seems to be the best preventive.
   Draining has been much practised in our bogs, and perhaps car-
ried too far, especially on clay soils.  At first, no doubt, it has a
considerable effect in improving them, but if the drains are kept
open, the ground will, in eight or ten years, be overrun with Aira
???, and Agrostida.  It is a common observation, that during
the last twety years the pastures have become much coarser.  Va-
rious remedies have been resorted to;--in some cases the drains
being stopped altogether, and in others allowede to fill tip a little
before a second, but particularly before a third or fourth cleaning.
For real improvement, it accords with the experience of practical
farmers to drain closelv on mossy bogs, more sparingly on stiff clay,
and merely to take off the surface water on thin ground covered with
bent or coarse grass.  Irrigation, so much in vogue about the begin-
ning, of this century, has, like all experiments begun without attend-
ing to local circumstances, been nearly laid aside.  The Yarrow is
too pure for this purpose, leaving the richer particles in the loch
whence it flows.  The water, when first applied to a meadow, tends
greatly to eradicate the fog, and decompose the half-decayed roots
and leaves, and will, therefore, for some time, act as a stimulus with
seeming advantage.  But when the meadow is annually mowed
withnut  an occasional top-dressing or where there is no extraneous
matter in the irrigating stream, the system will in the end pro-
duce, as it has done here, comparative or complete exhaustion.
Substantial farm-houses with suitable offices are built almost every-
where, and the farnm-servants accommodated with comfortable cot-
tages.  Pretty good slate may be obtained in various parts, but no
quarries have been regularly wrought.  All the arable land, and
some of the sheep walks, are enclosed.
   The duration o the leases on the Duke of Buccleuch's estate is


