
2                              PEIEBLES-SHIRE.

   Meteorology.-From the land being almost all of a light gravelly
soil, from the absence of stagnant water or marshy ground, and
from the elevated situation of the parish, the air is healthy,
though keen. The medium height of the barometer at Peebles,
535 feet above the sea, is 29.2 in summer, and 29 in win-
ter. The medium depth of rain yearly, on an average of seven
years, is about 26.75 inches. The prevailing wind is the south-
west, which blows at least nine months in the year. The eastern
fogs, which overspread the Lothians, scarcely ever reach Peebles.
   Hydrography.-The Tweed runs here a course of about 5 1/2
miles, dividing the parish nearly into two equal parts. The whole
course of this beautiful and fair-famed river, the fourth in mag-
nitude in Scotland, is about 90 miles, with a fall of 1500 feet;
and it is calculated to drain about 1870 square miles of coun-
try. Thou at Peebles it has run only about one-third of its
course, it has fallen no less than 1000 feet, i. e. 33 1/3 feet per mile;
and in the remainder of its course to Berwick, about 60 miles, it
falls 500 feet, or 8 1/3 feet per mile. * On entering the parish of
Peebles, and onwards, the Tweed is confined within narrow banks;
but immediately below the bridge, a beautiful and extensive vale
opens, resembling more an Italian than a Scottish landscape. On
reaching the parish of Peebles, it receives the Lyne water; which,
in the opinion of some writers, is entitled to be regarded is "the
head of Tweed," and not a tributary. The Lyne, however, has
nothing of the character of a great river, and does not contain
a sixth part of the waters of the Tweed. A mile lower down,
the Tweed receives the Manor water from the south, the Eddle-
stone water at Peeble, and the Haystone burn two miles farther
down. All these streams abound in trout; and anglers may be seen
on their banks almost all the year. The quantity of trout caught
from April to October, is immense, and far exceeds belief. Salmon
are sometimes taken in considerable numbers, but, owing to the dis-
tance from the sea, they are much inferior in quality to those caught
near the mouth of the river. The system of drainage has proved
unfavotirable to the run of salmon, for the heaviest rains are soon
carried off, and a flood seldom lasts more than a few hours; whereas

<FOOTNOTE>The Rhone at Geneva is only 1154 feet above the level of the Mediteirrancan,
according to Sir G. Shuckburgh, and yet the rapidity of its course seems infinitely
greater than that of the Tweed. This can be accounted for, only by the fact, that
"the arrowy Rhone," with its great mass of water, runs almost in a straight line,
whereas the Tweed's current is impeded by innumerable windings, which add to the
beauties of this pastoral river.


