
764			EDINBURGHSHIRE.

on this association. Hitherto it had been for charitable purposes
only, but now they were authorised to examine and license "pilots
for the better and more safely piloting and navigating the ships of
His Majesty," and his liege subjects, in, through, and along the
adjoining seas, friths, and coasts. While the shipmasters alone
possess the power of regulating the affairs of the corporation, and
of licensing pilots,-mates and sailors are deemed to have a right
to certain benefits upon paying entry money. The corporation,
therefore, consists of three classes: shipmasters, mates, and sail-
ors, all of whom, as well as their wives, widows, and children, are
entitled to pecuniary aid. These payments are now calculated
according to the most approved principles of the assurance com-
panies.
   In 1820, the Corporation obtained a statute confirming and add-
ing to their former regulations. The primage or prime gilt con-
sists of one penny per too of all goods, foreign or coastwise, im-
ported into Leith, whether in British or foreign vessels. The
fees chargeable for licensing pilots were fixed by a bye-law, and
consist of one guinea for granting license, with 7s. for fees to
clerk, and one guinea annually for its continuance.
   The old building appears to have been erected in the year 1555,
as is shown from an inscription on a tablet still preserved in the
new building to this effect, "In the name of the Lord ve masteris
ond mareineris bylis this hoos to the pour 1555." A new building
in the Grecian style was erected in 1817, at an expense of
L. 2500,
   The valued property of the corporation amounts to L. 17,761.
The revenue derived, from the prime gilt was, in 1833, L. 756;
but it varies with the state of trade. The total annual income
for 1833 was L. 2159, and the expenditure L. 2335.
   Traffickers or Merchant Company-This corporation originally
possessed a charter conferring upon it exclusive privileges; but the
charter having been lost, they have never been able to enforce those
privileges, so that they are merely a Benefit Society without the
power of compelling entries. Formerly, all members of the Cor-
poration of trades were excluded, but this bye-law was abrogated
in 1834. Members are admitted by ballot, and thus there is the
power of exclusion without cause assigned. The valued property
of the Association is L. 7000 in houses, besides seats in the church.
The funds are chiefly expended in pensions to widows, granted on
petition to those with incomes under L. 100. The annuity is L. 20.



