
504			    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

	This castle is said to have been in the possession of the Eng-
lish at the time of Sir William Wallace. It is said, Likewise, that,
having heard of the depredations which the garrison committed
in the neighbourhood, Wallace was desirous to avenge the wrongs
of his countrymen, And that, to accomplish his purpose, he prac-
tised the following stratagem. Having observed a kiln smoking
at Mallyford, a place in the immediate neighbourhood, and seen
from the garrison, be hied thither in the morning, in the tattered
garb of a mendicant, bent down with infirmities, and leaning upon a
trusty staff. With the curiosity characteristic, of his vocation, and
on that account the more readily excused, he soon ascertained from
the, unsuspecting kilnman the strength of the garrison, and that he
was, engaged in drying grain for their use. Thereupon, he asks
and obtains leave to prepare his breakfast, or to "roast a herring"
at the kiln fire. And in return for this accommodation, he agreed
to take charge of the kiln while the keeper was away for a similar
purpose. As soon as he had gone, Wallace seized the moment, set
the kiln on fire, and returned unperceived to a party of his men who
lay in ambush in the Keely Cleugh, a woody dell near the castle.
The flames in the meantime soon burst thorugh the roof, and the
garrison flew to save their grain. While they were engaged in ex-
tinguishing the flames, Wallace and his party rushed to the gate,
secured the drawbridege, and set the castle on fire. Whether this
story be true or not, it is generally believed; but, unfortunately,
the means of verifying, or of refuting it, are not at present with-
in reach.*
	Legent of the Dowloch.--The was a small loch in the parish,
from about 70 yards in breadth to about 120 in length, near the
summit of the hilly ridge about a mile to the south of Drumlanrig;
but which, by draining, has been somewhat shorn of its fair pro-
portion. It was called the Dow-Dhu or black Loch, as the word
signifies in Gaelic, and was reputed to posses extraordinary virtue

<FOOTNOTE>Though the parish may not be distinguished by any extraordinary individuals
now living within its bounds, yet the inhabitants still cherish the remembrance of
one remarkable for srtength, and who died near the beginning of last century. This
was the celebrated John M'Caul, or Strong Glenmannow, who occupied a farm of
this name about a mile from Glenquhargan, upon the banks of the Scarr. This indi-
vidual is stated to have been tall and stoutly built, as, indeed, was evinced by the size
of the bones brought to light on the opening of his grave. The late schoolmaster,
who has deemed the feats of Glenmannow worthy of a plave in the parochial register,
remembered the opening of the grave, and his being stucks with the size of the strong
man's remains, particulary the skull. Whether all the anecdotes current are to be
implicity believed may perhaps admit of some doubt. He died in 1705, at the age
of eighty-four.
                            3


