
42			  WIGTONSHIRE.

gulated by the fiars price of grain, of course these rents vary more or
less every year, and some of the lands being possessed by the proprie-
tors themselves can only be reported at an estimated value; in many
cases, also, there is considerable, difference betwixt what is promised
and what is really paid. Some of the lands I was under the neces-
sity of stating at rents, promised in the original contracts, whilst
from other tenants I obtained a statement of the reductions of rent
which had been allowed for some time past, and which were ex-
pected to be continued. The following is nearly the value and
measurement of the properties separately,--

<TABLE>
         Monrieth estate.              5308 acres,  L.3500
         Glasserton and Physgill,      2700           3000
         Earl of Galloway's,            740            800
         Castlestswart.                1440            920
         Craigdow,                      500            350

	Agriculture has been much improved in this parish during
the last twenty or thirty years. Both landlords and tenants are
on the alert to carry into practice every improvement which
promises beneficial results. Those improvements suggested by
Sir John Sinclair have been carried much farther than he could
have anticipated at that time; and many new plans have been
adopted, and experiments made which Sir John did not think of, but
which he would have highly approved, had he been consulted as
to their propriety. The system of green cropping which he recom-
mended has become quite general.
	The moors have thoroughly been brought into cultivation, if
ever there was much land of that description in the parish. They
have all vanished at the touch of cultivation, and those lands
which were, forty years ago, covered with heath, now wave
with barley, or are covered with rye-grass and clover; they are
now cultivated fields, shorn with the scythe, and levelled with the
roller. But still it must be observed that, unless a fac-simile of the
land in its original state could be preserved, it is impossible after-
wards to estimate either the extentof the improvement, or the la-
bour and expenses which it required. This remark is particular-
ly applicable to draining, which is one of our greatest improve-
ments.
	All the lands in this parish are now well enclosed and divided,
and the rotation of crops strictly adhered to. Bone manure has
lately been introduced and applied to raising turnip, which are fed
off with sheep. This Promises to be the greatest improvement
which has been discovered for many years, and will probably be


