
                        PARISH OF LINTON.

         PRESBYTERY OF KELSO, SYNOD OF MERSE AND TIVIOTDALE.

               THE REV. WILLIAM FAICHNEY, MINISTER. *

                  I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE name of the parish is derived from Lynn, which in
the British language signifies a pool, or lake, as well as a cataract,
and from the Saxon word ton or toun, which denotes a dwelling-
place. Linton thus means the dwelling at the lake. The ancient
village of Linton, of which there are now scarcely any vestiges, was
situated near the borders of a lake still called Linton Loch,-which
lies in a south-eastern direction from the parish church.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The length of this parish, extending
west to east as far as the English border, is 6 miles: its breadth,
2 miles. It is bounded on the north and north-west by the pa-
rishes of Sprouston and Eckford; on the west by Eckford; on
the south and south-west by Morbattle and Yetholm; and on
the east by Northumberland. Its western extremity forms part of
a beautiful valley watered by the Kale, a stream which descends
from the Cheviot range.
   Topographical Appearances.-From this valley the land rises in
a somewhat undulating ascent, till it reaches its highest elevation on
the summit of Linton hill. Its surface eastward is varied and uneven,
and sometimes intersected by small hills, which connect those of
the Cheviot with the fertile plain which extends along the southern
bank of the Tweed, in the parishes of Kelso and Sprouston. If, in
former times, the inhabitants of Britain chose the summits of hills
as the places for judicial proceedings, or the purposes of legislation,
the small hills in this parish appear, from their names, Kiplaw,
Hoselaw, Blakelaw, to have been the scene of such proceedings.
The hills now mentioned extend along the northern boundary.
Between these and Linton, and the Graden hills, which skirt the
southern extremity, a considerable tract of low land intervenes,
which again is sometimes indented into valleys. The greater part

<FOOTNOTE>Drawn up by the Rev. James Brotherston, Assistant to the Minister of the parish.
     ROXBURGH.                     K


