
584                            ABERDEENSHIRE.

times spelt Kinnethmont, derived from two Gaelic words signify-
ing head and moss; which, from the natural shape of the emi-
nence on which the old church is placed, and its proximity to
mossy ground, is by no means an unlikely derivation of the name.
   Extent, Boundaries, &c.-Kennethmont or Kinnethmont is the
most westerly parish in that fertile district of country known by the
name of the Garioch.  The Bogie, a good trouting stream, sepa-
rates it from the parish of Rhynie on the west; the Melshach
bill (in which there is a medicinal spring, long in much repute
among the country people,) separates it on the north from Gartly;
oil, the east, it is bounded by the parishes of Insch and Leslie;
and on the south, by Clatt.  Its shape is almost a regular rectan-
gular oblong, about 6 miles in length from east to west, and 3 in
breadth from north to south.
   Topographical Appearance.-The surface is much diversified
by high and low-lying ground; but, with the exception of two or
three eminences, the high ground can scarcely be called hilly.
   Climate.-The climate is variable.  In consequence, however,
of the great improvement which has taken place within the last
thirty years, in draining marshy grounds, and planting the more
elevated parts of the surface, it is less changeable in general, and
less severe in winter than formerly.

                     II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
   Land-owners.-There are four heritors in the parish, viz. Sir An-
drew Leith Hay of Rannes, who has upwards of one-half of the valued
rent; Mr Gordon of Wardhouse, who has nearly one-third; His
Grace the Duke of Richmond, who, has rather more than one-
fifteenth; and Mr Grant of Druminner, who lately purchased the
lands of Craighall, the remainder.  Sir Andrew Leith Hay is the only
heritor who, at present, resides in the parish.  The late Mr Gordon
of Wardhouse (who died about seven years ago) resided about
twenty years of the latter part of his life at Wardhouse, in this
parish, and devoted the whole of his time to the improving and
beautifying of his estate.
   Eminent Men.-The late Lieutenant-General Sir James Leith

<FOOTNOTE>on it to trace it back to the days of Kenneth;-the date being 1685.  A shield, on
one quarter of which is a boar's head, is visible, and under the shield the initials "H.
G."  As this stone is now placed in the burial-ground of a family of the name of
Gordon, the date, the shield, and the initials evidently refer to that family, and it
would appear that either there is no foundation for the tradition, or that there incrip-
tions had been engraven, when the stone had been removed from its original site to
the place where it now is laid.
                                           3


