
     of Alloa.

have been purchased by the family.  Molt of the streets arc
narrow and irregular*.

   Harbour, Dock, and Ferry.-At the end of this walk,
is the harbour of Alloa, where, at neap tides, the water rises
from 12 to 15 feet, and at spring tides from 17 to 22.  The
quay is built of rough hewn stone, in a substantial manner;
and runs within the land, and forms a pow, or small creek,
where the rivulet, that runs through the N. E. end of the
town, falls into the river.  There is an act of parliament, that
lays a small duty on the anchorage, for support and improve-
ment of the harbour; and this last year, the trustees of this
fund have considerably widened the pow.-A little above the
harbour, there is an excellent dry dock, capable of receiving
vessels of great burthen; both from the depth of the water,
which is 16 feet at spring tides, and the width of the gates,
which is 34 1/2, free of all obstructions.  Opposite to the dock,
there is a great depth of water, with excellent anchorage,
and full room to swing the largest vessel.  As the dock has
no connection with the harbour, nor is situated near any
buildings, the crews of the vessels that are repairing can
cook on board.-Above the dry dock there is a ferry, which
is sometimes called the Craig Ward, and sometimes the King's
Ferry, where two very complete piers have been built, one
on each side of the river; which renders it an easy, safe, and

     4 F 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*The late Earl seems to have been particularly attentive to the healthiness
of the town, and to have endeavoured to make the streets broader, and as
straight as the irregularity of the former ones would admit of, so as to unite
them.  He built one street on a regular plan.  It runs in a line parallel to the
gardens.  It is called John's Street, and leads to the harbour.  It is between
76 and 80 feet broad, and terminates in a beautiful gravel walk.  A row of
lime trees, on every side, affords an agreeabe shade in summer, and a comfort-
able shelter in winter.


