
                               BANFF.                                37

  ficiency of even the necessaries of existence, can properly be said
  to enjoy a reasonable portion of the comforts of life.  Even among
  these, however, discontent with their lot is not a remarkable fea-
  ture-though (and particularly in the town) the want of the whole-
  some excitement which a prosperous course of industry creates, is
  often sought to be supplied by that which is to be derived from
  the use of spirituous liquors.  Nor is it probably too favourable a
  judgment to pass on human conduct, to say, that habits of in-
  ebriety are, at least, as often the effect as the cause-they are un-
  doubtedly both-of depressed worldly circumstances.
    It is supposed that from 40 to 45 cases of illegitimate birth
  have occurred within the last three years.
    Amusements.-It can scarcely be said that the people of the
  middle or lower classes now devote any but a mere insignificant
  part of their time to what could properly be called amusement.  It
  would almost seem as if men bad now outgrown the relish for
  amusement, or find amusement in what was once the business of
  life.  Even children seem indifferent to the sports and pursuits with
  which the children of former days appeared to be absorbed.  There
  is now a harder competition for the means of livelihood-anxieties
  inconsistent with the pursuit of amusement have taken hold of men's
  minds.  An improved state of the practical arts makes every pro-
  fession more difficult of acquisition, furnishes new occupation for
  ingenuity, new aims for mental activity, new subjects of emulation,-
  the diffusion of knowledge has created new desires, new ideas, new
  sources of excitement.  From the increased diffusion of newspapers
  and cheap popular prints, a taste for reading has sprung up to a
  considerable extent.  Such works as Chambers's Journal are fre-
  quently bought by farm-servants and artisans.  Newspapers are
  circulated as long as the texture of the paper holds together, or
  its colour can be distinguished from that of the printer's ink.  The
  recent political excitements, indeed, whatever may be their good
  or evil tendencies otherwise, have doubtless tended to increase or
  create an appetite for knowledge: there being few political ques-
  tions that do not, at least indirectly, excite a curiosity, and lead to
  inquiries, touching a variety of extrinsic subjects in history, geo-
  graphy, statistics, arts, commerce, &c.  A man who sets up for a
  politician finds occasion to learn a great many things besides politics.
                             IV.-INDUSTRY.
    Agriculture.-The extent of cultivated land in the parish is
  3778 imperial acres; of uncultivated and pasture lands, 1161


