
			    GLASGOW.                            113

	It would appear that the letter of guildry had only removed
the burghal discontent, as on ]9th May 1609, the provost inform-
ed the council, that the Earl of Glencairn, and the Lord Sempil,
with their friends, were to be in this town on Monday next, conform
to the ordinance of the secret council, for the purpose of compro-
mising their deadly feuds; " therefore for eschewing of all incon-
veniences of trouble which may happen, (which God forbid,) the
council directed that the Dumber of forty persons, with one of the
bailies, and the whole council, should attend upon the provost,
and that one of the other two bailies, and threescore men, should
attend at the lodgings of the said noblemen, all the foresaid per-
sons to have long weapons, and swords, and to be in readiness to
accompany and convoy the said noblemen, with their friends,
in and out, in making their reconciliation, conform to the ordinance
of the secret council, and the drum to pass through the town, to
advertise and warn all the inhabitants, to be in readiness with
their arms foresaid, and to meet the provost and the bailies on
Monday next, at seven hours on the green, that the foresaid num-
ber of persons may be chosen, and that under the penalty of L. 5."
on 19th August following, the council granted a warrant to John
Bernit, master of works, for 41 punds, 1Os. as the expenses of wine
and confection spent at the cross, upon the 5th day of July, the
King's day, my Lord Bishop of Glasgow being present, with sun-
dry other honourable men.
	On 6th October 1610, the town-council enacted, that there
should be no middings (dunghills) on the fore streets, nor in the
flesh-market, meal-market, or other market of this burgh, under
the penalty of 13s. 4d. and that no timber lie on the  High Street,
above year and day, nor any turf, turf stakes, or lint, be dried upon
the High Street, under the penalty of 13s. 4d, and that the fruit,
kail, and onion crammies, stand betwixt the gutter and the house,
and that each stand and flake be an ell in length and breadth.
	The council at the same time ordained, that the lepers of the
hospital should go only upon the causewayside, near the gutter,
and should have " clapperis," and a cloth upon their mouth and
face, and should stand afar off while they receive alms, under the
penalty of being banished from the town and hospital.
	On 22d December 1613, mortality bills were directed to be
made in the city for the first time.
	In 1635, the magistrates purchased from the Earl of Glencairn,
the manse of the Prebendary of Cambuslang in the Drygate, which
they fitted up as a house of correction for dissolute women, and


