
     Statistical Account

Hens at 6 d.  There is little butter and cheese sold here.  These
articles are bought at the neighbouring markets at 10 s. 6 d.
the stone of butter, and from 4 s. to 5 s. the stone of cheese*.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-One great advantage which
this parish enjoys, arises from its being in the near neighbour-
hood of the Inverness, from which it is only divided by a nar-
row kyle of the sea, over which there is a regular ferry-boat
renting 128 L. Sterling.  There the inhabitants get a ready-mo-
ney market for any commodity they have to offer for sale,
and get to purchase, any article they with for, with little trou-
ble, and as little loss of time.  Another, arises from the close
neighbourhood of Fairntosh, from whence there is a constant
demand for their barley for making whisky.  Another advan-
tage is, that there is great plenty of freestone quarries in the
parish, and great abundance of clay for building comfortable
houses and fencing their fields.  Mr. M'Kenzie of Kilcoy has
been making brick of some of this clay for 2 years past for
his own use.  They have answered exceedingly well; and a ma-
nufacture of this kind could be established to a large extent
on his estate, within a quarter of a mile of the sea.  Another
is, that the inhabitants have water-carriage for any heavy ar-
ticles they may need, either by Kessock or Munlochy bay.
And the last I shall mention is, that the parish every where
abounds with great plenty of fresh water, sufficient not only
for the use of the inhabitants, but for carrying on any manu-
facture that might be established among them, that required
such an aid.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Day-labourers get 8 d. in summer and harvest, and 7 d. in winter, a-day;
an out-servant gets 6 bolls of meal of 9 stones to the boll, and from 4 L. to 5 L.
wages, with some potatoe ground, a house and some fuel.  House servants get
from 4 L. to 4 L. 10 s., and the common servants who work at the farm get from
20 s. to 30 s. in the year.


