
			 GLASGOW.                             1l9

in the fields, or hiring horses to ride on the Sabbath, except in
cases of necessity, of which the magistrates are to be made ac-
quainted. The ancient and laudable custom of elders visiting the
families once a quarter was revived.
	On 12th March 1698, the magistrates of Glasgow granted an
allowance to the jailor for keeping warlocks and witches imprison.
ed in the tolbooth, by order of the Lords Commissioners of Jus-
ticiary. The elders and deacons, two and two, were enjoined to
search the change-houses in their proportions on the Saturday
nights at ten o'clock, and to delate the drinkers and houses to the
magistrates.
	In 1707, the union with England was effected. This measure
was so inimical to the citizens of Glasgow, that the magistrates
found it necessary to prohibit more than three persons from as-
sembling, together on the streets after sunset.
	In 1715, when the Rebellion broke out under the Earl of Marr,
the city of Glasgow raised a regiment of 600 men at their own ex-
pense, who marched to Stirling under the command of Colonel
Aird, the late provost, and joined the King's forces.
	In 1717, the Convention of Royal Burghs passed an act pro-
hibiting persons from trading in Glasgow, unless they resided eight
months of the year within it.
	On IIth November 1725, the kirk-session enacted, that the
elders and deacons should through their proportions, and take
notice of all young women who keep chambers alone, especially
those suspected of lightness, and warn them that they will be taken
notice of, and advise them to get honest men, or take themselves
to service.
	In 1736, the foundation stone of the Town-ball, and the first
Assembly Rooms, was laid by Provost Coulter. The hall and As-
sembly Rooms were opened in 1740. Although Deacon Corse
was the master mason, his foreman, the celebrated Mungo Nai-
smith, carried on the work, and carved the caricature heads on the
key stones of the arches of the arcade, so justly admired. Till the
Assembly Rooms were opened in 1740, the Glasgow assemblies
were held in the Merchant's Hall, Bridgegate. These assemblies
were usually well attended. The Duchess of Douglas, for several
yeas, patronized them.
	The Rebellion of 1745 afforded the citizens of Glasgow an op-
portunity of showing their loyalty to the Government, by raising
two regiments of 600 men each, at their own  expense. On the
news of the American war reaching Glasgow, the magistrates cal-


