
                             INVERNESS.                         9

bell, broom, and braken, afforded them ample space and seclusion-
for their elvisb orgies.
   All the alluvial deposits now enumerated consist of rounded frag-
ments of rocks, chiefly from the neighbouring primary district, and
varying in size from the minutest particles of sand to that of large
boulders several feet in circumference. They are -,ometimes dis-
posed in alternate layers of fine and coarse sand and g ravel, but
most frequently in thick horizontal beds of gravel, having the boul-
der stones confusedly mixed throughout them. In some instances
the layers repose on one another in beautifully curved lines, show-
ing that they were in motion when firrt brought in contact. The
direction also of the currents from which they were deposited ap-
pears generally to have been from south-west to north-east, as the
writer has recognized among the gravel beds at Inverness fragments
of the peculiar and well known porphyries of Glencoe and Ben-
Nevis, and of the very hard semi-crystalline conglomerate occur-
ring near the Fall of Foyers.  *
   It is remarkable that no peculiar siml)le minerals or gerns have
hitherto been found in these gravel beds, nor any organic remains
or petrifactions, or even recent marine deposits. No human bones,
nor bones of deer or other animals, have been met with at any con-
siderable depth beneath the surface; and in the excavations for
the Caledonian Canal, the foreign substances found in the gravel
were a few roots and sterns of very large oak trees, some of which
measured 24 feet in circumference. From these facts, we appear
to be warranted in assigning a very high antiquity to the gravel beds
of this neighbourhood, and to the belief that they were deposited
from fresh, and not from -alt water.
   Soil.-Finally, as might be expected from the foregoing geolo-
gical details, the superior soil of this parish is light and sandy, with
a subsoil of hard gravel. In the vicinity of the town of Inverness,
however, it is enriched with a fine loam of clav deposited from the
river, or cast up by the watdrs of the adjoining frith. The collee-
tions of water which anciently covered the district appear also to
have left a lio,,ht clayish sediment even on the higher grounds, which
has greatly improved their otherwise gritty and unproductive soil.
   Botany.- The writer has remarked that the indigenous Flom of

<FOOTNOTE>The conclusion here alluded to is further supported by the fact, that a pecuh&r
flesh-coloured granit,,, composing some of the hills- between the rivers Findhorn an4
Nairn, is found in small masses strewed over all the plains of Worayshire, but no-
where to the westward of Culloden; aid that an uncommon variety of gneiss, of a
very large grain, occurring in the ,entral districts f Ross-sbire, has been carried to
the shores of the Dornoch Frith, but not to the esterti Sea.


