
44                       CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

tem of alternate husbandry introduced there ore good stocks of
cattle of the Teeswater breed, reaching at three years old, from 45
to 56 stones beef, and bringing in the London market from L.15
to L.18.
   The general breed of sheep is the Leicester, with those before-
mentioned, on Dunnet-Head, and a few Cheviots kept by tenants.
The Leicesters have hitherto thriven very well, produce wool
equal to any in the kingdom, and get to a good weight at 15
months old. Wedders of that age bring from L.1, 8s. to L.1, 10s.
each, and best ewes nearly the same.
   The breed of horses is of all descriptions, from the pony to the
first-rate Clydesdale. Mr Gunn of Ratter imported a stallion
twelve months ago from Lanarkshire, of an excellent figure, and
at a high price (L.200). The size of cattle, horses, and other
stock, as well as the quality of grain and green crops, is regulated
by the size of the farms-where larger things in general are good,
where small, bad in the extreme. The breed of swine has been
much improved of late, by importations of the best English va-
rieties.
   Improvements.-On the farms in the parish, where improve-
ments have been made, or are making, the mode of reclaiming
waste land is, to lay it out in suitable fields with ditches and thorn
hedges, protected either with flag, which makes an excellent fence,
or stone dikes 20 inches high with a Galloway cope, then under-
drain with drains from 3 to 5 feet deep, as is necessary; plough
and allow it to lie for two years, then fallow and lime or marl, and
if dry soil, make turnips with bone dust, which are fed off with
sheep,-then a crop and grass seeds, if sufficiently reduced, if not
two crops,-then fallow and dung, and a crop with grass seeds,-
then pasture for three or four years.
   Substantial farm buildings have been erected and are erecting
where improvements are going on. Mr Traill has expended a
large sum in buildings, fences, drains, roads, and every thing else
connected with the improvement of his estate. Freswick is also
improving of late years. The links, moss, and waste ground,
where under sheep, have been pasture-drained, which has improv-
ed the surface much. The parish, with a trifling exception be-
twixt Dunnet and Brough, is well provided with roads, and is ra-
pidly improving, and there is little doubt of its continuing to do
so, till its whole resources are called out; and however the occu-
pations of the population may be changed, capital is only wanted
                                4



