
88                     LINLITHGOWSHIRE.

years, and is progressing. The general character of the husban-
dry practised is skilful and in accordance with the modern im-
provements of the day. The soil has been greatly by
the application of an extra supply of manure, brought from Edin-
burgh by the Union Canal.
   The soil consists generally of clay, and, to a certain extent, its
character is a loamy clay, incumbent on a close subsoil, impervi-
ous to moisture. The whole cultivated lands are divided into
fields, enclosed with ditches and thorn hedges.
   The general rotation of crops is, after hay or pasture, one
crop of oats next, fallow or fallow crop; then wheat succeeded
by barley or grass seed for a hay crop. In the higher parts of
the parish, little wheat is sown, but the fallow crop is succeeded
by barley or oats, and then hay or pasture.
   The dairy produce is excellent. Considerable attention has
been paid of late years to the breed of cows. The Teeswater
or short-horned and Ayrshire are preferred, and crosses from
these. Butter and milk, also poultry and eggs, are sent to the
Edinburgh market. The breed of horses for agricultural purposes
has been of late much attended to, and a rapid improvement has
taken place from the cultivation of the Clydesdale breed. There
are not many sheep in the parish, but recently a few of the Lei-
cester breed have been introduced; and so far as trial has been
made, they have proved profitable.
   This parish cannot yet boast of any manufactures. Coals have
been wrought in it for a long period. The colliery at present in
operation is on the estate of Houstoun. It employs about twenty
individuals. The parish abounds with other minerals, ironstone
and freestone. The ironstone has never been wrought. But the
freestone has been wrought to a great extent. It is of an excellent
quality, much celebrated; and of late years, by means of the ca-
nal, a great quantity of freestone has been conveyed from this
parish to Edinburgh, and used in erecting some of the principal
buildings in that city.

                     V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Ecclesiastical State.-The church bears all the marks of one
erected before the Reformation. It is far from being commodious,
and is too small for the population. The bell still in use is that
brought from the steeple of the old church, and bears date 1441.
The inscription on the bell is "Campanurm Sancti Nicholai de
Strathbroke." The church was a rectory in early times. The
                           3

