

                           YARROW.                               37

number of streams to tile lochs, of which the principal are Meggat,
and what is sometimes called Little Yarrow. After leaving these
beautiful sheets of water, and running for fourteen miles over a
gravelly and rocky channel, the river joins the Ettrick.  The length
from its sources is about twenty-five miles.  From the country be-
ing now drained, it swells more quick than formerly, but not to
any height till the loch first overflow; and, on the other hand, a
strong south-west wind, by acting on St. Mary's as reservior,
often makes it rise without rain.  The strath traversed by this
stream has long been classic ground.  It is, indeed, singular how
many men o genius have at once felt and deepedthe charm.
"The sang of the outlaw Murray," and "the Douglas Tragedie,"
both belong to these scenes; and the oldest verses to "the Yel-
low-Hair'd Laddie," are also localized by certain allussions which
they contain.  But the best known of the ancient ballads (similar
in subject and style to another fragment, "Willie's drown'd in
Yarrow,") is, "The Dowie Dens o Yarrow," commemmorative of
a melaneholy event that had made a deep impression on the popu-
lar mind.  It is supposed to have suggested to Mr Hamilton of
Bangour, the more modern song beginnning, "Busk ye, busk ye,
my bonnie bonnie bride," Hence, also, the plaintive strain of
Logan, "Thy braes were bonny, Yarrow stream, &c.;" and
Wordsworth's fine effusions, " Yarrow unvisited," and "Yarrow
visited," to which, it is hoped, an unpublished piece, entitled "Yar-
row revisited, "will soon be added.  In celebration of a female beau-
ty, the two songs of "Mary Scott," and The Rose in Yarrow,"
are preserved.  We might refer, besides, to "Yarrow Vale" by Mr
M'Donnald; "The Braes of Yarrow," by Allan Ramsay; another
set by Miss Thomson, and many of a similar kind; while the inci-
dental allusions to this little stream are without number.
   Geology amd Mineralogy.-The rocks thoughout the parish
belong to the transition class, and consist almost entirely of grey-
wacke, with a basis of clay-slate.  The general direction of the
the dip is generally 45&deg;, though it ranges from the perpendicular
to the horizontal.  At Newhouse Lynns the river Ettick has cut
through the barrier of an ancient lake for three-fourths of a mile,
and to the depth of a hundred feet. Its course is almost straight
for a considerable way, when it suddenly, diverges; and in one
place, the thin strata which laid bare are bent to a curve of
more than 220&deg;&deg;.  Flinty state, and loose fragmnts of porphyry,


