
4                    PEEBLES-SHIRE.

favour of Pope Alexander the Third, that lie was consecrated by
him Bishop of Glasgow, notwithstanding the opposition made bv
the agents of the Archbishop of York. *
  From a very early perind, Peebles was the favourite residence of
many of the Scottish kings, and particularly of Alexander III. who
seems to have been much atticbed to it, and who gave a substan-
tial proof of his munificence by building and endowining the Cross
Kirk, and a monastery for Red Friars.  The place was chosen
from its vicinity to the extensive forests, in which these princes
might enjoy the amusements of the chase.  During the usurpation of
Edward I. "the baillyf, several burgesses, and tote la comunate de
Pebles," swore fealty to him at Berwick in 1296.  In 1304, the
same king granted to Aymer de Valence " burgum nostrum de
Pebbles cum modendinis."    It does not appear, however, to have
been created a Royal Burgh till the year 1367, however, to have
granted it a charter, which was confirmed by charters from James
IL., James IV., and James VI. in 1621.   The charter granter by
David 11. was probably given in reward for the loyalty of the inhabi-
tants in having sent two representatives to the Scottish Parliament in
1357, to provide a raiisom for their sovereign, who had been taken
prisoner ten years before by the English at Neville's Cross.  The
town not being a royal burgh, must have been distinguished for its
wealth and influence; othervise it had not been entitled to join
with sixteen of the principal towns in Scotland in sending repre-
sentatives to Parliament.
   The charter of James VI. confirming former grants and privi-
leges, affords a strong proof of the liberality of former monarchs, and
of the extensive possessions belonging to the burgh.  "Our royal
muir of Cademuir, Hamildean, Venlaw, Glentras, the Castle-hill,
with the mill-granary, called the Ruid Mill, and Wauk Mill, built
upon the side of the said Castle-hill, and with the mill-granary,
called the Auld mill, upon the water of Peebles, the mill and gra-
nary of Innerleithen," + attest the wealth of the burgh in former
times.  Cademuir was afterwards divided into "soums" by the
burgesses, and these soums are now sold like any other transfer-
able property.   The land is let as a sheep-farm, and the soum-
holders receive rent according to the number of their shares.  Of
all the rest of the extensive possessions, little else now remains than
the farm of Shielgreen, acquired by purchase, and a few fields
near the town.  "Large tracts of land," says the author of the Agri-

<FOOTNOTE>Gibson's History of Glasgow, p. 11.    + Charter of James VI.


