
164                      FIFESHIRE.

been for a considerable time established both in the town and
country part of the parish ; institutions that have become the more
necessary since the introduction of spinning mills, which engage
children before they have been properly educated, and which con-
stantly occupy their time throughout the week. The people in ge-
neral are alive to the benefits of education, and, with a few excep-
tions, give their children an education according to their respective
circumstances. It may be remarked, that amongst all classes here,
as well, indeed, as in the whole of this neighbourhood, classical edu-
cation is much less an object of attention than formerly. This evi-
dently arises from the mercantile spirit of the people, which leads
them too little to value any acquisition, but as it connects itself im-
mediately with pounds, shillings, and pence. The consequence is,
that from this community there are comparatively very few young
men sent to the university, or destined for any of the learned pro-
fessions. Last winter there was only one young man from this pa-
rish attending a university, and seldom at any time is there more
than two or three.
  Literature.-There are no public libraries in this parish, except
one of an inferior description. At Kirkaldy, however, there is a
good suscription library, a circulating library, and mechanics' libra-
ry, all of which are open to the inhabitants of Abbotshall on the
same terms as to the inhabitants of Kirkaldy. To Kirkaldy the
inhabitants of this parish are likewise indebted for a public reading
room, which is well supplied with the newspapers of the day, to-
gether with the army, navy, and commercial lists, &C. &C.
  Inns.-The number of licensed alehouses in the parish is nearly
30, a number by far too large, and which certainly ought to be
reduced. Restraint, too, ought to be put upon them as to the
hours during which they ought to be kept open. The justices have
power to do both. The steady exertion of these powers is what is
wanting.

ceive a sum between L.2 and L.5, or whatever more the fund will afford, the better
to enable them to begin the world. Of the advantages to be derived by the different
parishes from this large and benevolent bequest, it is impossible yet to speak with any
precision. The schools have been established little more than a year, and all that can
be said is, that the funds are managed with fidelity and economy-that zealous and
efficient teachers have been appointed, and that the children are well taught in those
branches which they are allowed by the will of the donor to learn. A few years more
will probably tell whether these institutions have not been the means of introducing
into the different parishes in which they are established a number of poor families, who
will soon obtain a legal claim to be supported by other funds besides those appro-
priated for educating and clothing their starving children. " Where the carcase is,
there will the eagles be gathered together."


