
94                   CLACKMANNANSHIRE.

Epistles and Gospels of the day, and desired to forbear seeino,
his diligence that way brought him in suspicion of heresies If be
could find a good Gospel or a good Epistle that made for the li-
berty of the holy Church, the Bishop willed him to preach thatto
his people, and let the rest be. The honest man replying, That
be bad read- both the New Testament and the Old, and that lie
bad never found an ill Epistle or an ill Gospel in any of them,
the Bishop said, I thank God I have lived well these many years,
and never knew either the old or new. I content me with my por-
tuis and pontificall; and if you, Dean Thomas, leave not these
fantasies, you will repent when you cannot mend it. Dean Tbo-
mas answered, That he believed it was his duty to do what lie did,
and that he bad laid his accompt with any danger that might fol-
low.So at this time being brought in question with the other
fourpersons, they'were all tQgether condemned, and burnt in the
fireupon the Castlehill of Edinburgh."
John Macnab.-Dollar Institution.-There is another persop,
a native of this parish, whom we must not pass over with a sum-
mary notice, as lie was the endower of what now forms the nwst
remarkable feature in the parish, viz. the Dollar Institution. We
mean John Macnab. He was not distinguished by his parentage
or learning, but eminently so by the munificent bequest which he
made to his native parish. His parents were poor. It -appears
from the session records that John Macnab was baptized in the
church or Dollar, on 14th May 1732. He attended occasion-
ally the parish school: and it is said he herded cattle, even
after lie became a grown ]ad; but, beitio, tired of this occupation,
lie set off one day to Kincardine, the nearest sea-port, aDd engag-
ed himself with a coasting trader. Afterwards, he went, to sea
again, and determined to try his fortune on the deep. We a re
told upon very good authority, that when be set out for Lelth to
get on board a ship there, be had not a farthing in his pocket ;
and that when be came to the Queensferry, lie was unable to pay
his passage across, tbotigh the demand was only three half-
pence. Out of this difficulty lie was relieved by the kindness of
a person who lived in Dollar, and who knew him. After crossing
the ferry, they both walked together to Edinburgh. They
separated at Edinburgh, and at parting hi ' s kind acquaintance
gave him a sixpence to enable him to make his way to Leitb ;
where he engaged himself with the master of a ship. While
at sea lie saved some money, and afterwards became what is


