
				PARISH OF URRAY.

		PRESBYTERY OF DINGWALL, SYNOD OF ROSS.

               THE REV. JAMES MACDONALD, MINISTER. *


	I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Situation, and Extent.-URRAY is composed of the unit-
ed parishes of Urray and Kilchrist. The former sdems to derive
its name from its local situation. The church and burying-ground
lie on a large plain, on the banks of the rapid river Orrin, near its
conflux with the Connon. The Orrin has, in the course of ages,
evidently shifted its bed, and its passable fords, through every part
of that plain, and would repeat its ravages almost every reason,
were it not restrained by the annual exertions of the surrounding
proprietors. Hence it is probable t e name is derived from Ur-a,
the newford. Kilchrist is evidently  Celia Christi, a burying-
ground consecrated to Christ.-It is situated chiefly in the county
of Ross: A small part of it lies in Inverness-sbire. It extends from
the Frith of Beauly on the south, to the north side of the river
Connon, about 7 English miles in a straight line, nearly from
south to north. Its breadth on the banks of the Connon, from
east to west, is about 6 English miles, but does not exceed 3 to-
wards the southern boundar , along the Frith of Beauly. The
intermediate space lines the foot of the great chain of mountains
which extends from thence to the west coast of Scotland. There
is a davoch of land belonging to this parish in the valley of Strath-
connon, in the bosom of the western mountains, at the distance of
10 computed, or 18 English miles. It is surrounded by the pa-
rish of Contin, and forms a part of the mission in that parish.
   Surface, Soil, and Climate.-The general face of the parish pre-
sents a picturesque view of corn-fields, intermixed with  barren
moor, clumps of natural wood, rapid streams, largeplantations
around gentlemen's seats with different views of the two beautiful.
Friths of Dingwall and Beauly, which, as canals formed by tbe

<FOOTNOTE> * Drawn up from notes, furnished by Mr Charles Mackenzie, Parochial Schoolmas-
ter of Urray.


