
316			BERWICKSHIRE.

tion. There is also a small village library, and one or two Sab-
bath school collections of books.
   Friendly Society, &c.-A Friendly Society was in existence about
fifteen years ago, but, from some mismanagement of the funds, or
some other reason, it became unpopular, and was broken up. No
attempt has since been made to revive it. No savings bank exists
in the parish. The establishment of one, however, is in contem-
plation. The nearest, or at least the one which might be render-
ed most available, is that of Dunse.
   Poor and Parochial Funds.-Until the author of this account
was settled in the parish, about three years and a-half ago, there
was no legal assessment for the support of the poor; what was re-
quired for this purpose in addition to the collections, &c. being de-
frayed by Sir James Hall, Bart. principal heritor in the parish.
This he preferred to a legal assessment levied upon the heritors
according to their respective valued rents; his reason being, that,
if such an assessment were established, his proportion of it would
speedily amount to more than what he formerly paid for the sup-
port of the whole poor of the parish. A few months, however,
after the settlement of the officiating minister, a troublesome case
occurred, which required an extraordinary expenditure, and, as it
was unreasonable that the Dunglass family should be charged with
this expense, when the pauper had never been on their property,
and as the other heritors were unwilling to contribute voluntarily,
there was no course left but to call an heritors' meeting, and to get
an assessment established on a just and legal footing.
   Since that time the heritors' books have every day been confirm-
ing the correctness of Sir James Hall's prediction,-though still the
amount is by no means great.
   The average annual number of paupers who have received pa-
rochial aid for the three years ending at Lammas 1834 is 30.
The average sum allotted to each per quarter is L. 1, making an ave-
rage yearly assessment of L. 120 for the ordinary aliment of the
poor. Extraordinary cases of distress, however, at times occur,
demanding an additional help from the heritors. The average
annual collection at the church doors amounts to L. 13, more than
one-half of which goes to pay the church officers, leaving the re-
mainder in the bands of the kirk-session for the relief of the occa-
sional poor and distressed. The only other fund for the support
of the poor arises from the letting of the mortcloth, and from the
interest of 500 merks, for which the session has a bond on one of


