
			LEITH. 				  763

from the walk to the shore. With this central street numerous
narrow closes or wynds communicate. On the east, and Parallel
to this central street, is Constitution Street, of a more modern and
uniform structure, which also leads to the sea-shore. The Links,
a green meadow, bordered by modern streets and villas, extend to
the south and east of Constitution Street. The harbour and docks
lie on each side of the Water of Leith; and two drawbridges form
a means of communication between the opposite sides. That por-
tion of the burgh called North Leith extends to the north and
west of the docks, where there is a third bridge across the river,
until a junction is almost formed with the village of Newhaven.
   Burgh Corporations.-The Trinity House was founded about
the middle of the sixteenth century, for the purpose of affording
relief to indigent shipmasters and mariners. Of old it was occa-
sionally styled the Mariners' Hospital.
   From the earliest times the shipmasters and mariners of Leith
had been in the practice of receiving certain duties and stipends,
called Prime Gilt, of all Scotch ships loaded within Leith as well
as of "Dundee, St Andrews, Torryburn, Queensferry, Kinghorn,
and others coming and going from the said port, as well as front
the said town of Leith, and especially of ships of inhabitants of
the north shore of the same." These duties seem to have been
applied in giving pecuniary aid to poor mariners, but they became
of difficult collection.
   In 1566 Henry and Mary gave to the shipmasters and mariners
of Leith, a grant confirming a legal right to the prime gilt, and
empowering them to sue for payment of it, for the purpose of
building and maintaining an hospital or alms house, and to sustain
"poor, old, infirm, and weak mariners."
   In 1797 a royal charter was granted to certain persons named
being all shipmasters in Leith, creating them into a body corpo-
rate, "under the name and denomination of the masters and as-
sistants of the Trinity House at Leith, in the county of Edin-
burgh," conferring the usual powers of holding property, and
making bye-laws, and appointing as office-bearers, a master, as-
sistant-master, deputy master managers treasurer and clerk. The
funds are to be applied to the support of indigent members, their
wives, widows, and children, as also for the relief of such other
poor seafaring men, or their widows, or children as shall be the
fit and proper objects of the charity.
   In 1797 new and important powers were conferred by charter


