
                            PARISH OF
                   WHITEKIRK AND TYNNINGHAME.

          PRESBYTERY OF DUNBAR, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN AND TWEEDDALE.

              THE REV. JAMES WALLACE, D.D., MINISTER.


        I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name.-THE parish of Whitekirk, as now constituted, compre-
hends the ancient parishes of Tynninghame, Hamer, and Aldham.
Tynninghame is understood to signify the hamlet on the meadow
by the river Tyne; Hamer signifies the larger village, in contra-
distinction perhaps to Aldham, the ancient village, at two miles
distance, but of which hardly a vestige now remains. The church
of Hamer, from the whiteness of its appearance, had been long
known by the name of Whitekirk, and under that name are com-
monly included the three parishes as now united.
   Extent and Boundaries.-The parish approaches to the figure of
a square. It is situated at the mouth of the Firth of Forth, and
in the best district of East Lothian. It stretches between 3 and
4 miles along the sea shore, and between 4 and 5 miles into
the country, being about an equal distance from Dunbar and
North Berwick, and having these parishes and the parish of Pres-
tonkirk for its boundaries.
   Topographical Appearances.-The general aspect of the parish
is beautiful. The point of greatest altitude above the medium
level of the sea is 243 feet, yet it possesses a sufficient variety of
surface, and when viewed either from Whitekirk hill, or from Law-
head, (the two most considerable eminences in the parish) it pre-
sents a rich and varied landscape of land in the highest state of
cultivation, and of woods of great extent and beauty. The Bass,
the castles of Tantallon, and Dunbar, in the immediate vicinity,
and other objects of prominence and celebrity, both on the land
and in the sea may be favourably seen from these points. From
the above eminences, which are cultivated to the top, and more re-
markable for their extensive and diversified prospects than for their
elevation above the sea, the land slopes with, gentle declivity.


