
                           	PARISH OF ESKDALEMUIR.

		     PRESBYTERY OF LANGHOLM, SYNOD OF DUMFRIES AND

                           	      GALLOWAY.

			   THE REV. WILLIAM BROWN, D. D. MINISTER.

		I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
	Boundaries, Topographical Appearance, &c.--THE parish of
Eskdalemuir, as its name imports, consists of the lands lying at
the head of Eskdale. It is the largest parish in the county of
Dumfries, and contains, according to Mr Crawford's map, 33,595
Scots acres, 42,250 English acres, and 66 square miles. The
range of mountains that crosses the head of the parish is part of
that chain which extends from the source of the Clyde and Annan
on the west, to the source of the Tyne in Northumberland on
the east, and divides the course of the rivers in this part of Scot-
land; those to the north running towards Berwick, and those to
the south emptying themselves in the Solway Frith. The high-
est hills in the parish are Lochfell and Etterick, or rather, as it
ought to be called, Eskdalemuir Pen; for it is scarcely seen in
Etterick, but makes a prominent feature in the scenery of Eskdale-
muir. Its height, according to Stobie in his Map of Selkirkshire,
is 2200 feet above the level of the sea. The White and Black
Esks, so named from the sandy and mossy soils over which they
run, take their rise in the parish, and, uniting at the foot of it,
form that beautiful river which, after receiving many tributary
streams, loses itself in the Solway at Longtown in Cumberland.
Although styled a muir, heather is scarcely to be seen in the pa-
rish. The hills in sight of the river are green, and the more re-
tired parts are moss, covered with bent (Carices) and other water
plants. The soil, owing to the flatness of the grounds, is in many
places wet; but it has been much improved during the last forty
years by draining.
	Hydrography.--There are two cascades worthy of notice;--the
one at the back of Fingland-hill, called Wellsburnspout, of about,
fifty-six feet, and which, during a heavy rain, covers the rock near


