
     of Currie.

order produces to society, would, in many places in Scot-
land, seem to require the interference of the Legislature,
to prevent, if possible, its increase.

   Population.-The population of this parish is not equal
to its extent, or even to what it was about 60 to 70 years
ago.  In the year 1720, it is said to have contained about
1800, though that number is merely conjectural.  Since
that time, it is supposed to have decreased considerably*.
Its present amount is 1300, of whom 200 have been add-
ed, only within these 4 or 5 years, by the introduction of
the paper manufacture.  The return to Dr Webster in
1755 was only 1227 souls.  The proportion of married
people, and single persons, is at present, pretty nearly e-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The decrease of population here may be ascribed to several causes.

1. The first and leading one here, as well as elsewhere, has been the
extention of farms, by which several small ones have been swallowed up
in one large one.  This cause has operated very powerfully in thinning
the inhabitants in the upper parts of the parish, where there is now much
pasture ground.  At present there are only three villages in the parish,
Currie, Balerno and Hermiston; but formerly there were a great many
more, though of lesser note; and many different places, where, in the
beginning of this century, from 20 to 30 families resided, are now with-
out an inhabitant.

2. A second cause of depopulation has been the erection of toll-bais
and improvement of roads.  About 40 years ago, so bad were the roads
in this parish, that every thing was conveyed on horseback.  In carrying
hay, for example, to Edinburgh, each horse load was 10 stones, and one
man had the care of two horses; so that transport 150 stones that far,
required then the assistance of 15 horses and 7 men, which is performed
now by a common cart, with a pair of horses and one man.

3. The modern improvements in husbandry have been attended with
the same effect.  Formerly four horses were requisite for one plough,
with a man to drive them.  Now two are deemed sufficient, and they are


