
			   KIRKBEAN.      	        235

heights to be the highest mountain south of the Lowther and
Queensberry range, though there is good reason to suspect some
of the mountains towards the source of Loch Doon, in the pa-
rishes of Kells and Minnigaff, to be considerably more elevated,
as also the Cairnsmuir motntains.
	In various directions, thd view from the summit of Criffell is
very extensive. Annan, Carlisle, Dumfries, and Castle-Douglas
are distinctly visible, and also the Isle of Man. In very clear
weather, Goatfoll in Arran may be discerned, rearing its conical
head over Carsphairn church, and it is affirmed that the moun-
tains in North Wales and the north of Ireland are also visible in
very favourable circumstances.
	From the Criffell ridge of hills, the parish inclines gradually to-
wards the shnre, presenting a rich, beautiful, and extensive pro-
spect, fields well enclosed, and in a high state of cultivation, with
several clumps and belts of planting. Beyond the Frith, which is
here about ten miles broad, are seen the mountains of Northum-
berland, with the rugged peaks of Cumberland and Westmore-
land, terminating the scend in that direction, and exhibiting an
outline of bold and fantastic magnificence which cannot fail to
be highly interesting to all who have a taste for sublime scenery.
	The coast in this parish is generally low and sandy, though it
is varied by precipices of a considerable height at Arbigland,
where some singular rocks are to be seen, among which the natu-
ral Gothic arch, called the Thirl Stane, is the most conspicuous.
Tbe bay of Carse is the only one of importance. The sands un-
covered at ebb-tide are very extensive, and render the navigation
particularly dangerous. The principal headlands are Borrow Point
and Saturness.
	Climate, &c.--The climate is considered very salubrious. Ow-
ing to the Nith, the water is by no means very salt above the
mansion-house of Arbigland; but, below that, the saltness is
greatly increased, and at Saturness it is considered admirably
adapted for sea-batbing. The depth of the channel along the
coast varies from three to five fathoms in ordinary tides. The
tides flow very rapidly, insomuch that vessels getting aground upon
the banks are frequently upset and wrecked. The flood-tide has
been knovn to tumble a ship's anchor over and over. The chan-
nel of the Nith is liable to very frequent changes, by some of
which, enormously large trunks of oak trees are occasionally ex-
posed, which, though they must have lain prostrate for many cen-


