
404                           FORFARSHIRE.

pect to accomplish their object only through the benevolent aid of
Sir James Carnegie.*
	Of late years, bothies have been provided for unmarried female
servants also; for the farmers, finding it difficult to induce women
to leave the loom for the working of the green crop, have been con-
strained to bring workers from the northern counties. The en-
gagement of these workers is generally for a certain period, at
about 8d. or 9d. a day till harvest, when higher wages are neces-
sarily given.
	About thirty years ago, smuggling in gin and brandy and other
articles prevailed to a considerable extent at various points of the
adjacent coast; and, till a later period, the whisky, which was
generally used, was chiefly from illicit distillation in the north.
But a subsequent alteration of the law, by improving the spirits of
the larger distilleries, and reducing the price, almost suppressed
illegal distillation; and, if an increase of drunkenness was the im-
mediate result of the reduction of price, in that evil also there has
been a great abatement. It must be added, however, that there
is still a coast guard for the prevention of foreign smuggling.

				IV.--INDUSTRY.
	The surface of the parish, exclusive of portions of an undivided
commonty, and of a large forest in Monthrewmont moor, is about
4014 Scotch acres, whereof about 3492 are arable, about 49 are
wood, and about 513 are waste, moor pasture, and roads. In the
last item are included about 306 acres in Monthrewmont moor,
belonging to the estates of West Braky, East Braky, and Rin-
mure. That part of the moor, which, at the division about fifty
years ago, fell to the estate of Bolshan, has been either planted or
brought into cultivation. The three acres which were allotted to
the glebe in place of the minister's right to feal and divot, were
under crop for the first time in 1834.
	Rossy moor, the undivided commonty, extends to about 600
acres, and belongs to the parishes of Kinnell, Farndll, Marytowny
and Craig.
	Such of the lands of the parish as are still waste, unculti-
vated seem to have been intended by nature rather for the bear-
ing of wood than of corn. A few acres of moor in the south-west
corner of the parish are perhaps destined, by their locality, for
cultivation; and, if the increasing population of the neighbouring,

<FOOTNOTE>The two boys are still in the Edinburgh Deaf and Dumb Institution, at the
expense of Sir James Carnegie.


