
                    GIGHA AND CARA.                   395

   Extent.-The extreme length of Gigha from north-east to
south-west nearly is seven miles, and its extreme breadth two and
a half miles.  Its coast is very irregular, being much indented by
the sea.  Its contents do not exceed five and a half square miles.
   South of Gigha, at the distance of a mile and a half, lies the
island of Cara, which is nearly a mile in length, and half a mile
in breadth.  Cara and the neighbouring islet Gigulum contain
nearly a square mile.
   Topographical Appearances.-Gigha and Cam are both low
islands, the highest point in the former, which is called " Creag
bhon," or the white rock, not exceeding 400 feet above the level
of the sea.
   The coast on the west side is bold and rocky.  Near the mid-
dle of it, there are two caves, called the Great Cave and the Pi-
geon'r Cave.  The latter has a coating of calcareous spar, and
derives its name from the circumstance of its being much frequented
by wild pigeons.
   On the farm of Leim, at the south-west end of Gigha, there is
a subterraneous passage, 133 feet long, into which the sea flows.
About the middle of it, there is an aperture 8 feet long and 2
broad, and near the end, there is another 20 feet long and 4 broad.
When there is a surf, a perpetual mist issues from these apertures,
accompanied with a great noise, caused by the rolling of large stones,
which are carried backward and forward by the agitation of the wa-
ter.  A storm from the west causes the sea to rush in with such vio-
lence, as to discharge itself with a thundering noise, in the form
of intermitting jets.  Hence its name, " Sloc an leim," the squirt-
ing cave, or literally, the jumping or springing pit.  It gives its
name to the farm on which it is.
   The shore of Cara is high and rocky, except at the north-east
end.  At the south end is a perpendicular rock, 117 feet in height,
called the Maoil or Mull of Cara, which is much frequented by
sea fowl; and the real game hawk is said to nestle here.
   Coast.-The coast 6f Gigha is not less than 25 miles in ex-
tent, there being many points running out into the sea, and nu-
merous bays of various extent, which cause the coast to be of a
very winding character.  The greater part of the coast, and espe-
cially on the west side, is rocky ; but at the two ends, and on the
east side, there are various sandy bays, which are most favourable
for sea-bathing.  The sand is of a very pure white colour, and at


