
120                      BANFFSHIRE.

the people in general appear sensible of the benefits of education,
the poorest of the parish contriving to keep their children some
time, more or less, at school,-in which and similar cases, education
is given gratis.
  Poor and Parochial Funds.-The average number of the poor
upon the roll may be stated at 30, who receive pecuniary assist-
ance now and then, according to their respective necessities, and
as far as the funds will admit.  The weekly collections at the
church here average about 7s., and at the chapel of Glenrinnes
about 2s., one-third of which last falls to Aberlour, and, in conse-
quence, the poor of Glenrinnes have an equal claim with the rest
of the parish upon the session funds.  Besides the weekly collec-
tions, the poor derive assistance from a mortification of 3 1/2 bolls
of meal, payable yearly, off a small farm belonging to the Earl
of Fife.  The sums thus realized from time to time, along with
the interest on two bequeathments of 100 merks each, as also that
arising from small sums occasionally put to interest in times of
plenty, and penalties for immoralities, form a supply scarcely
adequate to meet the wants of the poor, even without taking into
account the burden of two pauper lunatics, who, though mainly
supported by the heritors, have, for many years, been receiving aid
from the funds. Application is seldom made for relief, without ne-
cessity on the part of the applicant; but, on the other hand, it fre-
quently happens that unobtrusive individuals of delicate feelings are
disposed to suffer considerable destitution, before making their case
known; but the members of session endeavour, as far as in their
power, to find out such cases, and give assistance in a manner the
least offensive.
  Distillery.-In concluding this account of parochial economy, it
may be stated, that there is one whisky distillery, on a large scale,
in the parish, situated at Aberlour, which is considered an accom-
modation to the surrounding farmers, in affording a ready and conve-
nient market for their barley.  There are two or thred houses of
entertainment in the parish, for which spirit licenses are annually
granted, besides two, principal inns, namely, the New Inn, situated
in Charlestown, and the Cottage Inn, only separated from the vil-
lage by the burn of Aberlour.
  Fuel-In the southern and weatern parts of the parish, there
is a good and convenient supply of peat for fuel, but the village
and parts to the eastward are farther removed from the moss. In


