
352                     HADDINGTONSHIRE.

lately built upon her Ladyship's estate, is provided with three
apartments, one for a kitchen and place of sleeping, another exclu-
sively for a sleeping apartment, and the third for the produce of the
dairy and household necessaries. These apartments are all plaster-
ed on the walls and ceiling, and, in other respects, very comfort-
able. This increase of accommodation must have a very beneficial
effect not only on the health and comforts of the peasantry, but also
on the delicacy and propriety of their domestic intercourse.
  The lands are judiciously subdivided and inclosed forthe mostpart
with thorn hedges, which, upon the whole, are kept in good order.
  Live-Stock.-Owing to the high price of live-stock for some
years back, the attention of the farmer has been more directed to
this branch of rural economy. A considerable number of cattle
are now reared and fattened. The sheep stock in general are not
reared in the parish, but bought in at the spring and autumn fairs.
The total number (besides lambs) may amount to 70 or 80 scores.
They are principally sent to the Edinburgh market.
  Husbandry.-A considerable portion of the soil here is un-
favourable to the cultivation of turnips and other green crops.
Fallowing is therefore an indispensable part of the course of crop-
ping. The rotation generally followed is, what is called, the six-
shift course. The application of lime to the soil has greatly fal-
len off for a number of years back. The favourite mode of im-
provement at present is by tile-draining. This operation is carried
on vigorously in this parish, and the beneficial effects of it are very
manifest Steam-engines are coming into use for the thrashing of
corn, which relieves the horses of the severest part of their labour,
and at the same time proves a considerable saving to the farmer.
  Produce.-The gross amount of raw produce may be estimated
as follows:-

<TABLE>
	  Wheat,		  	      L. 6360
	  Barley,			         1850
	  Oats,				         5750
	  Pease and beans,		         1100
	  Turnips and potatoes,
	  Hay, (cultivated)			  500
          Pasture grass,		         1150
	  Do. permanent,			  300
	  Thinnings ofwoods and felling of timber,700
   	  Coal mines,	    			 7000
	  Lime quarries,			  700
	  Gardens,				  230
					    --------- L. 26,790

		      V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.

   Market-Towns.-The market-towns chiefly resorted to are
Haddington and Dalkeith. But grain and cattle are also fre-
quently sent to the Grassmarket of Edinburgh.


