200                          KINCARDINESHIRE.

rocks, round the ness and bay of Nigg; and every three years, is fit
for being cut, dried, and burned for kelp. But this manufacture,
which gave employment to a great many young fisherwomen in this
parish, under the direction of an overseer, has been given up for
some years past.
	Several fisherwomen, in the spring and summer, go to the rocks
atlow tide and gather dulse (Fucus palmatus), bladderlock (Fucus
esculentus) and pepper dulse (Fucus pinnatifidus), which many in
this country are fond of, and which they sell in Aberdeen.
			  II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
	The Bay of Nigg was formerly called San Fittick's (Sanctus
Fitticus,) and the church St Fittick's Church. He was perhaps
some reputed saint or hermit, who had fixed his solitary retreat
in a retired place, in the neighbourhood of the bay, the probable
site of which is still to be traced.
	The whole of this parish, before the Reformation, belonged to
the abbacy of Arbroath. After the Reformation, one-half of it
came to a prodecessor of Mr Menzies of Pitfoddels, the pre-
sent possessor, the town of Aberdeen holding the other half.
By the arbitration of two gentlemen, the parish was divided into
two parts in the year 1786, the town of Aberdeen obtaining the
half along the lower part of the harbour, and round the coast, and
Mr Menzies the other part, which went up the river and into the
interior. Mr Menzies divided his grounds into small farms, which
he let in lease for nineteen years and a lifetime, after the expiry of
the nineteen years. Three or four of the liferenters still survive.
The Town-Council of Aberdeen, soon after, feued out their share
into nine moderate lots, at from L.30 to L.90 a year each.  A
spur has thus been given to industry and improvement, by which the
lands in this parish have been rendered very valuable. Some of
the lots since that period have had different proprietors.
	Land-owners.--The chief landholders at present are, John
Menzies, Esq., Pitfoddels; Alexander Davidson, Esq. of Balnagask
and North and South Kirkhill;-John Morice, Esq. of Tullos and
Middleton; Alexander Crombie, Esq. of North Loirston; James
Ferguson, Esq. of Altens; Alexander Muir, Esq. of South Loirs-
ton, and the treasurer and master of wortifications of Aberdeen;
none of whom are resident.
	Parochial Registers.--The oldest register belonging to this pa-
rish is a quarto register of baptisms, kept in tolerable order, the
earliest entry of which is dated August 10, 1675. There are also


