

                      ADDITION TO THE ACCOUNT OF HOLME AND

                                     PAPLAY.

                      BY THE REV. ANDREW SMITH, MINISTER.



                        1.- TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
              "The parish of Holm," says Mr Vedder in his Orcadian Sket-
           ches, "is perhaps One of the most beautiful in the Orcadian archi-
           pelago.  It slopes gently to the 'sweet south,' and is protected
           from the influence of the northern blast by a range of heath-clad
           hills, sufficiently high for this purpose, without being high enough
           to retain their snowy coverings on the return of spring.  A consi-
           derable number of limpid rivulets meander from the heights to the
           shore, giving an air of fertility and freshness to the scene,-while
           the shore itself is laved by one of the noblest friths that can
           be conceived-rusbing to and from the German Ocean with tre-
           mendous velocity, and with a noise, should the wind blow in an ad-
           verse direction, ten thousand times louder than the fall of Lodore,
           so admirably described by Southey.  Where, indeed, can there be
           a greater difference than between the surplus water of a puny
           mountain-lake falling from an elevation of some forty or fift feet,
           and the illimitable unfathomable Atlantic urging its restless course
           through a narrow strait, chafed and maddened at intervals by rock,
           islet, and headland; while the fierce east wind sweeps o'er its agi-
           tated surface, making the white billows take even a vertical direc-
           tion, as if they would brave the very heavens."

                                II.-CIVIL HISTORY.
              Eminent Persons.-Under this head, the family of Graema, de-
           scendants of Bishop Graeme, who occupied the see of Orkney from
           1615 to 1638, may be mentioned as having been uniformly kind and
           indulgent landlords to the people of this parish.  It is stated in the
           old Account, that they had resided at their family seat of Graemes-
           ball, for a hundred years, and cherished a spirit of industry among
           their tenantry; that the ancient rents of the farms had never been
           raised; and that, though no leases were given, many of the tenants
           Iiving at the time that the Account was drawn up, held the same farms
           that had been, occupied by their forefathers for several generations.
           Mr Patrick Graeme; wbo was sheriff-depute of the county about the




