
54                    CAITHNESS-SHIRE.

smaller tenants, whose farms are, in general, adjoining to the
above-mentioned moss ground.
  By a calculation, as accurate as circumstances admit of, it ap-
pears that there are upwards of 5000 acres presently waste that
might be added to the cultivated land of the parish; and from the
apparent quality of the soil, as well as the result of experiments
already made, there is no doubt of their affording in time a fair
return for the capital employed in bringing them into a productive
state.
   The commons are all divided, or in process of division, except
one of no great extent (Kilminster), on the east side of the parish.
  It can scarcely be said there is wood in the parish, except a few
trees at the old garden of Achingale, which have attained a pretty
good size. Sir Ralph Anstruther has planted about an acre at
Watten; it was trenched and well drained, has been now planted
abouttwelveyears,atidappearstbriving. Tliereseemslittledoubtof
raising wood by the above process, if it is protected. Hard-wood
seems to thrive. There are about 10 acres of natural copse at
Scouthil, composed chiefly of dwarf birch, hazel, and quaking-
ash, but its height is trifling.
   Rent ofLand.-The average rent of arable land per acre is not
easily ascertained. EDclosed land may be valued at 16s. per acre,
and the general rent paid by tenants for their whole land, both
arable and pasture, is at the rate of from 12s. to L.1 per arable
acre. The pasture is often four times the extent of the arable,
and there are some tenants Dot possessing more than 20 acres.of
arable and meadow ground who have 800 acres of i-noor pasture.
A cow's keep throughout the year may be taken at L. 4 on arable,
and L. 2 on waste land. Leicester sheep, of which there are
some large flocks in this parish, pay about L. I a-head; the sheep
kept on the moors by small tenants are of little value, and may
be reckoned at 2s. per head yearly.
   Wages.-Farm-servants' wages are, for men L. 8 yearly, 6 1/2 bolls
oatmeal, 2 bolls potatoes, 'one chopin of milk daily, with house and fire;
for boys less in proportion. Out-door women for the half-year, L.1,
15s., 2 bolls meal, milk and potatoes. House servants, L.1, 10s. to
L.1, 15s. Shearers in harvest, men L.1, 10s. with a'stone of
meal a few potatoes, and a chopin of milk daily; women,
L.1 1s. 13 lbs. oatmeal weekly, potatoes, and half a chopin of
milk daily, house room and fire. The above for six weeks, or the
duration of harvest and raising the potatoes. Of ordinary la-


