
                  		GREENOCK.			487

immense increase on this class of poor, namely, that the assessment
has created a host of mendicants who would be on the permanent
roll, if they could, and whom good natured elders and deacons
imagine it is necessary to appease with a crust of the large loaf
which they are employed in dividing among their more, needy
brethren.
   The next observation on the comparative statement now made
respects the singular fact, that the assessment in 1826 amounted
to no more than L. 1630--in other words, to less than one-half of
the assessment in 1822. The reduction was occasioned by the
murmurings of the heritors and other rate-payers at the increase
of the assessment; and the consequent reduction of the number
of pensioners, and the amount of their allowances. About twenty
years ago, a similar murmuring took place in Glasgow from the
same cause, and an inspector was appointed, with almost absolute
power, to diminish the pension-roll and restrain the expenditure.
But there is nothing in nature so elastic as the assessment princi-
ple. Press down an assessment as you may, whom the pressure
is removed, it instantly starts back to it former magnitude.  In
two years from 1826, the assessment for Greenock rose nearly
L.600, and since that time it has risen gradually to L. 3500.
   The most mournful faet recorded in the preceding statements
is the immense increase in the number of orphans. If the increase
had been in proportion to that of the populations, the number of
orphans ought to have been in 1837, about 30, where as it was
178. The writer of this account has acertained that of that number
50 were deserted children, namely, 22 deserted by their fathers;
22 by mothers;* and 6 by both parents. Of the total excess in 1837
98 remain to be acecounted for; and it cannot be doubted that
these were orphans, who, if there had been no assessment, would
h`ve been adopted by relatives, or taken up and provided for by
the charitable and humane.
   Shnee the year 1837 the number of deserted children in the
parish, of which the writer of this account is minister, and, he
believes, in all the parishes of Greenock, has increased to a most
alarming extent.  It is impossible to escape from the inference
which has so often been drawn from this and similar facts in the
history of other parishes in Scotland, namely, that assessments
have the effect, we do not say, of destroying natural affection in
parents, for that principle cannot previously be strong in these

    	     *	Widows or wives of absent or runaway seamen.


