
                      DOLLAR.                               95

called a sbip-liusband. In this business, he was very success-
ful, and amassed a considerable fortune. He came to London,
and settled in the neigbbourbood. It was there that be added
considerably to his former fortune, by several fortunate specu-
lations in buying stock. At his death, it was found that be had
amassed a Very considerable fortune, invested in ships, and in the
funds and other Government securities. By his will, be ordered
the whole to be collected into one surn, the half of which be be-
queatbed to his cousin, John AlFacnab. The other half of his for-
tune he ordered to be laid out in the public funds, or some such
security, to bring an annual income for the benefit of a charity or
school for the poor of the parish of Dollar, his Dative parish. The
half of his property thus bequeathed to Dollar was of a conside-
rable amount, being no less than L. 90,000 three per cents, be-
sides certain small legacies. The stock set apart to pay these an-
nuities was at the death of the annuitants to be added to the Dollar
charity or school fund, and which has now been actually done. ,
  His, will is dated Sth of May 1800, a few months after be had
paid a visit to his native parish, in Scotland, with the view of as-
certaining to what purposes, and under what management, the le-
gacy which he was then meditating could be best applied. He
added a codicil on 12th January 1802, bequeathing to his house-
keeper an additional L.50. The will, though oddly woriled, from
his defective scholarship, Ivas sustained as a legal deed in Doctors
Commons. But, in consequence of his executors refusing to act,
the money was thrown into Chancery, which led to a lono-pro-
tracted litigation. The Court of Chancery admitted that the mi-
nister and elders of the parish were the trustees of the fund accord-
ing to the will; but, before handing over to them the money, it
was at first insisted that the kirk-session should exhibit, for the
approbation of the Court, a scheme of the way in which they
meant to dispose of the legacy. In compliance with this request,
on the part of the Court of Chancery, the kirk session of Dollar
laid before it d plan for erecting a great hospital or poor house,
(misinterpreting, as we think, the meaning of the word charity in
the will). When this intended scheme came to the earso.f the
beritors, they became naturally alarmed for their properties,-see-
ing at once the injury it might eventually do them, if poor were,
collected from all quarters, and the whole parish converted into a
great lazar-house. Accordingly theyl and especially Mr Tait -of
Harviestoun, the principal heritor, who was most anxious for the es-


