
                      TIREE AND COLL.                         197

eggs,-a perilous kind of occupation now happily discontinued, or
only practised occasionally by a few thoughtless boys.
   Though the island of Tiree lies so low, yet when the atmo-
sphere is clear, the prospect, even from most of the level ground,
is very comprehensive, and includes an extent of probably 100
miles' diameter.  To the north and north-west are seen Skye and
other smaller isles, Uist, and Barra, with its lighthouse sometimes
distinctly visible at night; to the south appear the islands of Jura,
Islay, &c.; and, to the east, the mountains of Ardnamurchan,
Sunart, Appin, and Lorn.  On the west, the view is bounded by
the Atlantic Ocean and horizon.
   The extent of coast, including the bays and other curvatures, I
should presume to be near forty miles.  It is for the most part
flat and sandy, though in some places rocky and precipitous.
There are several open bays along this coast, some of which, on
the south-east side, are occasionally used as anchorages.  The
principal of them is the bay of Kirkapol, not far from the eastern
extremity of the island, which is about a couple of miles across, and
rtins the same distance inland.  It contains several rocks, which,
however, are rather out of the usual tract of vessels or boats, and
niay he easily avoided.  The water deepens very gradually, and the
bottom is considered excellent, or what seamen term good holding-
ground.  The next is the bay of Heinish, protected on one side
by the southern headland of the island, where a pier has lately been
partly built by the Commissioners for Northern Lights, to facili-
tate the landing and shipping of materials for the proposed light-
house on Sceir-mhor.  Both these bays, however, especially the
latter, are rather exposed to the south and south-east; and when
the wind blows strong from that quarter, it occasions a heavy rol-
ling sea, which renders them uncomfortable and insecure.  They
are but little frequented by shipping, though vessels with good
tackling might ride securely enough during the summer half year,
especially in the bay of Kirkapol, which is reckoned the safest and
best protected.
   The only island of any consideration connected with Tiree is
called Soay, which partly forms the east side of the bay of Kirkapol.
It is separated from the main island by a strait or narrow channel,
generally passable at half-tide, and was chiefy valuable for the
quantity of kelp which it produced, while that article was in esti-
mation.
   There are several fine sandy beaches lying along the coast, of


