
                                    DUNDEE.                     9

other places of L. 5 of yearly rent. The qualification for a ge-
neral commissioner is, that he possesses property within the ward
of L. 10 yearly rent; and of a resident one, property of L. 5.
	The expense of the establishment is defrayed by an assessment,
levied according to the rental of all shops, warehouses, and dwel-
ling.-houses, situate within the limits of the act. The rate of as-
sessment is fixed by the general commissioners, but cannot exceed
one shilling and threepence per pound of the rent; and it has been
declared that the total sum collected in any one year shall not ex-
ceed L. 4000.
	The Judges of the Police Court, which sits every morning at
ten o'clock, are declared to be the provost, the magistrates, and
dean, of guild, the sheriff and his substitute, who are empowered
to take cognizance of, and to punish crimes committed within the
bounds of police, and also of all offences against the regulation of
the act; but in no case can they fine to a greater amount than
L. 5, nor imprison for a longer period than sixty days. The
amount of the assessment levied under the act has never been suf-
ficient to enable the general commissioners to erect a bridewell,--
an institution for which there seems to be great need; and at this
present time an application is about to be made to Parliament for
a new act, having for its object, among others, the erection of this
necessary establishment.
	The police establishment has been of essential service to the in-
habitants, with respect to the protection of their persons and pro-
perty; although it cannot be denied that the streets are not much
improved. The number of watchmen is too limited for the extent
of the bounds, and the suburbs, which are generally haunts of
the disorderly, are but poorly lighted.
        But as the facilities for lighting the town have been greatly in-
creased by a late establishment, it is hoped, that, along With the
provision, the commissioners will ere long be furnished with the
means of carrying their wishes into effect. For, in the year 1825,
an event took place of no small importance in the history of the
town; this was the establishment of a Gas Company.
	Gas Company.--The proposal originated with some spirited in-
dividuals. Several attempts had been made, upwards of twenty
years before the period reffered to, in the way of lighting separate
shops by means of gas; but as the scale according to which these
were constructed was too limited, and as the expense was found to ex-
ceed the profit, the plan had long been abandoned. By means of our


