
			   KIRKMICHAEL.			    305

                     V.- PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
      Village.-Tomintoul is the only village in the parish. It is
   situated about five miles south of the parish church. It was commenced
   in the year 1750, and now contains a population of 530.
   It has five markets held annually in it. There is no system of police
   established.  The villagers subsist chiefly on the produce of
   their tenements and the small lots of land which they rent from
   the heritor. The average quantity of land attached to dach tenement
   is abotit two acres. There are 120 tenements, an4 143 families,
   56 of the families occupy all the land. The tenure is
   a 114 years' lease of the tenement, consisting of 36 falls. The
   lease commenced in 1825. There is no branch of trade or manufacture
   established in the village, and the lots of land are too
   small for the comfortable maintenance of those who occupy them.
   There are 87 families depending on handicrafts trade, or on their
   industry as common labourers, or on charity for their maintenance.
   The site of the village was a bleak and barren moor previous to
   its erection in 1750, and still from its exposed situation, and having
   no wood near it, it presents a bleak and barren aspect. It is
   the highest in elevation above the sea, and probably the farthest
   distant from the sea of any village in Scotland of the same extent
   and population. *
      Means of Communication.-The parish presents the greatest facilities
   and inducements for being made one of the most public
   thoroughfares of any Highland parish in Scotland, yet it is curious,
   if not extraordinary, fact, that it is shut out from all communication
   with the surrounding countries, and remains at this moment
   nearly as unapproachable as it was a hundred years ago.
   Whilst the improvements of late years have brought turnphke roads;

   <FOOTNOTE>Tomintoul, or tom-an-t'stabhail, signifies the barn hillock.  There was a small
   farm near where the site ofthe village now is, having the barn on a gentle eminence,
   at a little distance from the dwelling-house.  This eminence or hillock took its name
   from the circumstance of having the barn placed on it, and hence the name of the
   village. Previous to the erection of the village, and many years thereafter, this little
   farm and all the ground now occupied by the village and attached to it, did not
   produce L.30 of yearly rent to the proprietor. It now produces nearly L.800. More
   than three-fourths of the, land has been improve by the villagers within the last
   forty  years, from barren moor and bog, with a wet, gravelly, impervious subsoil,
   The' rent now charged for this ground is about L.1 per acre, which seems altogether
   out of proportion to its quality and produce.  From minute.calculation of the produce
   of the crop of 1838, in the whole village, it,was ascertained that the land rent
   for every boll of meal produced was L.4, 18s. 2d., and taking the three 'Opi 4WW
   rents of 1836, 1837, and 1838 togther, the land rent paid per. boll of produce, was
   L.2 5s. 2d. ; but these years, together with 1839 and 1040, formed A sknies of
   unpiecedentedly badyears--tha crop of each of them in accersion being nearly all destroy,
   ed by froit in thee month of August.


