
			BLANTYRE.	                   319

	Zoology.--About three years ago a new fly appeared in this and
some neighbouring parishes, which has become the terror of eques-
trians, and of the groom and hostler, on account of the severe wounds
it inflicts on the horse, making him plunge and start, and often fly
off af full gallop in spite of all the exertions of the rider to restrain
him. It is of the dipterous order, and very much resembles the
common house-fly. The wings are marked with iridescent spots,
and the back of the abdomen is of a light brownish colour. It is ex-
tremely vivacious, and when caught is always full of blood. It is
probably the Stomoxys calcitrans of Fabricius. In this district it
is called the cholera or new horse-fly, having first appeared in
the year when the above disease began to commit its frightful
ravages.*
	Botany.--In the Clyde, that rare and elegant plant Senecio
Saracenicus, may be seen growing in great profusion along with
Convolvulus sepium, Tanacetum vulgare, &c. Melica uniflora
and Gagea lutea are found in the woods on the Clyde; Verbascum
thapsus at Calderwood; Vinca major et minor, Geranium phoeum,
Aquilegia vulgaris, Veronica montana, Helleborus viridis, Draba
hirsutum, and Ophrys ovata, at Blantyre priory. Paris quadri-
folia has been found on the banks a little above Calderwood, and
Malva sylvestris is common in the woods about Crossbasket.

			II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	The barony of Blantyre belonged anciently to the Dunbars of
Enteckin. At the time of the Reformation, the Priory of Blan-
tyre, like other religious establishments, was suppressed, and the
benefice, which was but small, given by James, VI. to Walter Stew-
art, son to the Laird of Minto, one of his servants, and treasurer of
Scotland. He was first commendator of the priory, and in 1606
was created Lord Blantyre. The barony itself was purchased by
the first Lord Blantyre, and was almost all feued out in small par-
cels, which still hold of his descendants. The land in this parish
is now distributed among forty-six heritors. The rental of the
highest is L. 300, and of the lowest L. 5 per annum.
	Eminent Men.--The late John Miller, Esq., Professor of Law
in the University of Glasgow, had his residence at Millheugh in
this parish, and is buried in the churchyard at Blantyre. James
Hutton of Calderbank, Thomas M'Call of Craighead and R. D.
Alston of Auchinraith, have also handsome country seats.

<FOOTNOTE>For a catalogue Of the birds and other animals in this parish, see the account of
the parish of Hamilton.


