
     		          GLASGOW.                            143

	The foregoing application merely assisted the spinner in push-
ing in the carriage. To meet the more nice and difficult operations of
winding the thread upon the spindle, and forming it into the proper
shape of a cop, still devolved upon the spinner, and required per-
sons of superior skill and dexterity. The wages of that class of
workmen have been maintained at a higher range than in the ge-
nerality of manufacturing employments. This high rate of wages
has led to the contrivance of many expedients to lessen the cost
of production in this process of the manufacture. About the year
1795, Mr Archibald Buchanan of Catrine, now one of the oldest
practical spinners in Britain, and one of the earliest pupils of Ark-
wright, became connected with Messrs James Finlay and Com-
pany, of Glasgow, and engaged in refitting their works at Ballin-
dalloch in Stirlingshire. Having constructed very light mule jen-
nies, he dispensed altogether with the employment of men as spin-
ners, and trained young women to the work. These he found
more easily directed than the men, more steady in attendance to
their work, and more cleanly and tidy in the keeping of their ma-
chines, and contented with much smaller wages. That work has
ever since been wrought by women, and they have always been
remarkable for their stout healthy appearance, as well as for good
looks, and extreme neatness of dress. Mr Buchanan having, in
1802, removed to the Catrine works, in the parish of Sorn, Ayr-
shire, then purchased by James Finlay and Company, carried some
female spinners with him, and there introduced most successfully
the same system as at Ballindalloch. This system has from time
to time been partially adopted at other works in Scotland and Eng-
land; but men are still most generally employed.
	The men having formed a union for the protection of their trade,
as they supposed, have from time to time annoyed their employers
with vexatious interferences and restrictions, which have induced a
great desire on the part of the masters to be able to dispense with
their employment; and this has led to several, attempts to invent a
set of mechanism to perform all the operations hitherto performed
by men or women, thereby forming a, self-acting mule. Mr William
Kelly was the first to patent a machine of this description in the
year 1792, as has already been stated. About the same time, Mr
Archibald Buchanan of Catrine Works, then at Deanston Works.
in Perthshire, made an attempt to perfect a self-acting mule, but
was not that time succesfull. The next attempt was made by
Mr Eaton of Derby, who took out a patient in 1815, and fitted up


