
			     DUNSCORE.                          347

exclusively of the ordinary collections for the parish poor, may be
about L. 15.
	Education.--There are three parochial schools in this parish,
in which all the ordinary branches of instruction, including Latin
and Greek, are well taught. Prior to the year 1828 there was no
assessed salary paid by the heritors, but the maximum is now given,
and is divided into nearly three equal portions. But besides the
assessed salary, L. 300 was mortified abott a century ago by a Mr
Grierson of Edinburgh, of which the interest is equally divided
among the three parochial teachers. In 1807, a farther sum of
L. 50 was bequeathed to the centre school at the church by Mrs
Janet Dobie. And in 1829, Robert M'Kinnel, Esq. of M'Nur-
doston, left L. 200 for behoof of the school in the lower district of
the parish, and L. 50 for that at the church also. The interest of
Mr Grierson's L. 300 was all the salary which the teachers enjoy-
ed previous to 1828, except Janet Dobie's legacy after the year
1807. The teachers have no dwelling-houses; but two good
school-rooms were lately erected by subscription, and the third was
at the same time thoroughly repaired. All the schools, therefore,
are at present in good condition. There are few, if any, children
above six years of age, who have not been entered at school; and
none above fifteen are known to be without the elements of com-
mon education, to the value of which the people are fully alive.
The school in the upper district is nearly four miles from the west-
ern extremity of the parish, at which several families reside. These
families, however, are nearer to one ot the parish schools of Bal-
maclellan, in the stewartry of Kirkcudbright.
	Literature.--There is no general library in the parish, but ju-
venile libraries for the children attending the Sabbath schools have
existed for some years, and have been productive of benefit among
the youth, many of whom have acquired a taste for reading. Nor
does the habit of reading prevail among this class only, for the pa-
rishioners generally are substantially educated, and fond of books.
	Poor and Parochial Funds.--The average number of persons
receiving parochial aid is about 25. The sums each receive vary
from L. 1 to L. 3 a-year, or from 5s. to 1Os. every second month.
But, besides these allowances in money, there are always some
distributions of meal, fuel, and clothing in the winter season both
from the ordinary funds, and from the benefactions of one or more
leading heritors.
	The  annual receipts for the relief of the poor are from L. 60 to


