
374                        KIRKCUDBRIGHTSHIRE.

west by the parish of Kirkmabreck. It is about six and a-half miles
long from north-east to south-west, and three and a-half broad
from east to west. The number of acres in the parish according
to Ainslie's map of the Stewartry, is 9023. The ancient parish
of Kirkdale, which lay between those of Anwoth and Kirkmabreck,
was suppressed in 1635, and apportioned between these two pa-
rishes, Kirkmabreck receiving the larger share.
	Topographical Appearances.--The sea-board is generally flat,
with the exception of one place on the south at Kirkclauch; but
though often rocky, it has no bold headlands. In the interior of
the parish, the surface is uneven, broken, and billy. The most
remarkable hill is Cairnharrow, lying partly in Anwoth and partly
in Kirkmabreck, the height of which is 1100 feet. The soil on
it is of a mossy kind, covered with heath intermixed with grass,
and not much encumbered with rock. Cairnharrow is the highest
eminence within twenty miles, with the exception of Cairnsmore
in the parish of Minnigaff; and its summit commands one of the
most interesting and extensive views imaginable,--not merely the
adjacent country and bays of Wigton and Fleet, but the Isle of Man,
part of Cumberland, and the high land on the coast of Ireland.
There are two natural caves in the parish, one on the farm of Kirk-
clauch, the other on that of Auchenlarie, both on the sea shore,
but neither of them of great extent.
	Climate.--The parish maybe regarded as salubrious; but, while
the air is mild and balmy on the sea coast, it is comparatively
chilly and sharp on the west and north; and snow remains on
the tops of the hills, while it is unknown throughout the other por-
tions of the parish.
	Hydrography.--Of the river Fleet, which bounds the parish on
the east, a description has been already given under the article
Girtbon. The only other stream in Anwoth is Skyreburn (a
Saxon term signifying clear burn,) which rises in the farm of Ark-
land, and, after a course of about four miles, falls into the bay of
Fleet. Being a mountain stream, its waters rise with unusual ra-
pidity, and swell to an extent that would do honour to a river of
greater pretensions. "Skyreburs," sayr Symson, "having its
rise from Cairnsmore and the adjacent northern mountains, will,
even in the summer time, and in a moment almost, by reason of
the mists and vapours in those hills, be so great, that it will be
hardly fordable, which occasioned the proverb of Shyreburn's warn-
ing, applicable to any trouble that comes suddenly and unexpect-


