
		               DOLPHINTON.                  57

the dead man's horse, he made good his retreat in spite of the
other three. After this unfortunate affairs the major's life and for-
tunes were both forfeited in absence. The Laird of Wishaw, his
brother-in-law, by paying a composition, obtained the property for
the interest of Learmont's family. * Notwithstanding the share
he had in these civil wars, he survived the revolution, and died at
Newholm in 1693, in the 88th year of his age. Near the door of
our church, under a restic flat stone, without even the initials of his
name, the mortal remains of the pious soldier now sleep in the
still and peaceful bed where the weary are at rest, and where the
prisoner hears no more the voice of his oppressor. +
	Parochial Registers.--The parochial registers commence in 1693,
and have been but indifferently kept. A poem, in Latin, by Drum-
mond of Hawthornden, is the only ancient paper relating to the
parish.
	Antiquities.--The remains of a camp are yet in a tolerable state of
preservation, on the top of Keir-hill; and there are others a few hun-
dred yards above the church, at Chesterlees, and also at Ash-hill,
and on the farm of Newmill. The British words caer and chesters,
both signifying camp, show by whom these stations were occupied.--
A tumulus of stones, to the height of four or five feet, with a regular
ring of larger stones, nearly sixty paces in circumference, on the
height, about three quarters of a mile south-west of the Manse,
points out either a place of sacrifice under the Druids, or an en-
closure of the summer residence of the native Britons.--A short
way east from this station, an ornament of fine gold, resembling the

<FOOTNOTE>For sixteen years every endeavour was made to secure the major's person,--but
he had a vault dug under ground, which long proved the means of safety to him. It
entered from a small dark cellar which was used as a pantry, at the foot of the inside
stair of the old mansion-house, descended below the foundation of the building, and
issued at an abrupt bank of the Medwin, forty yards distant from the house, where
a feal dike screened it from view. When the noise of the cavalry reached the major's
attentive car, the blade of the tongs was applied to a small aperture fitted for the pur-
pose of raising a flat stone, which neatly covered the entrance to the vault; and be-
fore a door was opened, the Covenanter was safe. Tradition says that the man-ser-
vant was three times led out blindfolded to be shot, because he would not betray the
secret. Learmont having again taken the field at Bothwell Bridge, exposed himself
anew to the fury of the persecutors. By the treachery of a maid-servant, he was at
last apprehended, and ordered for execution; but the sentence of death was commut-
ed into imprisonment on the Bass.
	+ As these accounts; handed down for a century and a-half, had become confised,
this detail was submitted to an intelligent lady, who was born at Newholm upwards of
ninety years ago. She states, that the stones of the vault were, at an early period,
taken to build the garden wall; therefore no trace of the retreat was found when New-
holm house was last rebuilt.


