
     of Glasserton.

maining four-fifths, or two thirds, preserved for grass.  The
tillage of every year is usually commenced in October and
November.  The chain plough has been tried; but the com-
mon old Scottish plough is generally preferred to every other
model, as being the best adapted to the nature of the country.
The plough is usually drawn by two horses and the plough-
men are, to a reasonable degree, alert and skilful.  Oats and
bear, or barley, are the grains chiefly cultivated Sred-time
is from about the beginning of March to the beginning of
May.  Potatoes have long been skilfully and successfully cul-
tivated here.  The culture of turnips, being recommended
by the example and success of some of the principal land-
holders, begins to enter every year more and more into the
ordinary agriculture of this parish.  Corn, for seed, has been
occasionally imported hither, from the most distant parts of
Scotland, and even England; and it has been found highly ad-
vantageous, to make very frequent changes of corn for seed;
still bringing the new seed corn from a soil as opposite as pos-
sible in its nature, to the soil on which the seed is to be sown.
The season for cutting down and gathering in the corn, is
usually from the 20th day of August, to the 15th of October.
Instances have occurred, in which barley has yielded, of in-
crease, 12 times the quantity of the seed; bear, an increase
equal to 10 times the quantity of seed; and oats, 8 seeds.
Tartarian oats having been tried here, has been known to
yield an increase equal to fourteen times the quantity of the
seed employed.  The ordinary rotation of crops is, upon a field
newly broken up, three successive white crops; with the last
of these, grass seeds, to afford a sufficient sward for hay or
pasture, on the fourth and subsequent years; and then the
field is left to rest for 6, 7, or 9 years, undisturbed by the
plough.  Both corn and barley arc carefully weeded in sum-
mer.  The corn cut down in harvest is put up to dry for

     VOL. XVII. 4 E


